ROLEPLAYING GAME 


CAMPAIGN SU tb =e 


CLONE WAR SS 


Tarts E 


ROONEY THOMPSON PATRICK STUTZMAN JOD WIKER 


STAR.WARS 


RO bvE«P iL AY IN G GAME 


a — -— —- 


THE CLONE WARS" 
CAMPAIGN GUIDE 


ROONEY THOMPSON, PATRICK STUTZMAN, JD WIKER 


SAP 


pt oe ee 


peel 


Ss 


Rodney Thompson, Patrick 
Stutzman, JD Wiker 


Gary Astleford, T. Rob Brown Soe Hermmi 
lf td 
Rodney Thompson 
a lefferson Dunlap 
lh 
Blake Beasley 
4) A Christopher Tardilf 
“th 
Gary M. Sarli, Bradley Will 
: Gonzala Flores 
= ‘Ai 
Frank Parisi Steve Argyle, Drew Baker, Zoltan Boros & 
ff Gabor Szikszai, Miguel Coimbra, Michael 


Dubisch, Steve Ellis, Gonzalo Flores, Randy 

Gallegos, Jonathan Hill, Jason Juta, Lucasfilm 
Ltd., Ron Lemen, Warren Mahy, Walter O'Neil, 
Paul Shipper, 8rian Snoddy, Mark Tedin, Chris 
Trevas, Francis Tsai, Ben Wootten 


Christopher Perkins 


Christopher Perkins 


Carmen Cheung 


Christopher West 


Adam Colby, Jeff Cain, Oscar S, Cisneros, Andrew Finch, 


Elisa Jaeger, Matt Sernett, Stephen Radney-Mactarland alias 


“/f 


Some rules mechanics are based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Gume Saga Edition Core Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Qwen K.C. Stephens, and Rodacy Thompson, the original Dungeons & Dragons® rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Oave 
Arneson, and the 3" Edition Dungeons & Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Mante Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. 


‘This Wizards af the Coast’ game sroduct contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without writen permission. To learn more about the Open Gaming License and the 120 System™ License, please 
visit wew.wizards.com{d20. 


US..Canada, Asia, GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE TSCAS 
Pacific, & Latin America Basivo UK Ltd Wizards of the Coast, Belgium caw 
Wazards of the Coast, lnc. Caswell Way “UHolveld 6D 
P.O. Box 707 Mewport, Gwent NPS OYH 1702 Groot-Biigaarden rSYSTEM- 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRITAIN Belgium WWW WIZARDS.COM WWW. STARWARS.COM 
Questions? 1-800-324-6496 Please keep this address for your records +32 2 467 3360 ISBN: 978-0-7869-4999-{ 

20-21891720-001-EN 

987654321 


First Printing: January 2009 
©2008 LUCASFILM LTO. & @ OR WHERE INOICATIED. ALL RIGHTS RESEAVED 
USED UNDER AISTHORIZATION. 


. 
Dungeons 4 Dragons, d20 System, Wizards of the Coast. and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards af the Coast inthe U.S.A. and other countries. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any repiaduction or unauthorized use 
of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written Decmission of Wirards of the Coast, ine. This product is a wark of fiction. Any simitarity (0 actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. 


CONTENTS 


S40K Phoenix Howk-class 
Light Pinnace........... 44 
Scurrg H-6 Prototype 


CWIRK: TrHe deo). . 120 


The Jedi Order .........0..05 
Influential Figures........... 126 
Jedi Vehicles and Starships. ...137 


Tre FoRcE...38 


The Force during 
the Clone Wars ........-.. 49 


CHAPTER CLONE Ware 


Gaeeeeee. Force Powers................50 Came APA ieee TS Tai 
a Free Talents ono 53 |__SAMEAIONO a cure 3 
a. Se De aa Force Techniques..........+- 54 Decline of the Jedi NAC Rey THe Remuavic. 140 
Kaminoans ......0...00eecees 13 Force Secrets...........2-005 55 pena Siac = Organization ........-....5. 
re yaar Spe See Maar Force-Using Traditions ........55 Variss SU OU AGI ae The Republic High Command. .145 
Nautolans...........0...2...15 The Bando Gora ........ ».55 allt hla Personnel......... 200000005 147 
Sa eeiae Shee The Believers...............56 Pepe ge a ok Influential Figqures...........155 
B.S ceed The Korunmai...............5i creme Republic Droids ..........+..160 
ae ae Republic Vehicles............ 162 | 


CHAPTER: fquirmentT 
AND OrROIDa ..8e 


CHAPTER I: eta acne Republic Starships.,......... 


TRAITS...... 18 


Melee Weapons.............. 


eee. eee Ranged Weapons............. 50 
Pea te kis on AMER aR AIMON nase ---seyecea seine SN Organization . . ne 
Poe stal Wet rocueeer © is gene an ta oS The Separatist Droid Army... 178 
i GOONGSIS: ove croc at ee stat 
Scouts. ........... BT | A OS eee Personnel Swi eewcrss i595 is 181 
. Glee Anselm ae 
Soldiers Iktotch Influential Figures. .......... 183 
Seb kus ap setae enM aca Kalee Si ae Confederacy Droids..........188 
escent uae tan abet a's Space Transports..........00- a oe Confederacy Vehicles ........198 
Bins Sit tino asia 1 Barfoz-class Freighter.......75 Kerkoidia....... Confederacy Starships .......2 
; G9 Rigger ..........-.....5 76 Malastare. .. z 
CHIR II; PResrioe GS-100 Salvage Ship........ 78 fistareanee CHAPTER: Foor con 
_ Crassesa.....38 KR-TB Doomtreader......... 78 Muunilinst FaCTIONS ... 
New Talents............0005 39 Pursuer-class Nelvaan Mercenary Factions.......... 
Prestige Classes..............42 Enforcement Ship ....... 79 Polis Massa... 4.0.0.0. eee Influential Figures......-.... 214 
Droid Commander .......... 42 Seltiss-2 Caravel ........25 80 Sembla Vehicles and Starships ....... 219 
Military Engineer........... 44 Starfighters ...... Venere sens 81 Skakoieeen gk «ethene bey Beasts, saghee vec.cachir Ns 2 221 
Vanguard. ....-......csees 46 Dogger-class Starfighter. ....B1 Tetras etabe 
Dionoge-class Toydaria ... APPENDIX ....222 
Assault Starfighter ...... 42 Utapau 
Freefall-class Starfighter .. ..82 Planetary Updates...........115 
MorningStar Assault 
Starfighter ............. B3 


sc ae 7 


INTRODUCTION 


a i as am a 


_ Jedi Knights—are stretched beyond their capabilities in their role as leaders 


The Clone Wars polarize the galaxy, from Coruscant to Geonosis. The 
Separatists' movement to create their own government, separate from the 
Republic, spirals out of control into a full galactic-scale conflict. Villains rise 
to prominence, heroes fall in battle, and the galaxy teeters on the edge of 
total chaos. In a Clone Wars campaign, war has come to the galaxy far, far 
away, and the actions of your heroes can tip the balance toward the Republic 
or the Confederacy of Independent Systems. 

A Clone Wars campaign takes place against the backdrop of a devastating 
galactic conflict which stretches from the Deep Core to the fringes of the 
Outer Rim. Everywhere the heroes go they are confronted with the realities 
of galactic war. Nearly every world has a Republic or Separatist presence, and 
even remote and out-of-the-way planets are drawn into the war. Except for 
the Unknown Regions, nowhere in the galaxy offers escape from the Clone 
Wars. Previously peaceful planets are swept up in increased militarization, 
and worlds that have been free of conflict for centuries are now the site of 
devastating clashes. No organization is safe from the effects of the war, as 
corporations, criminal empires, and mercenary armies struggle to find a way 
to survive the expanding conflict, and turn a profit at the same time. 

Meanwhile the defenders of peace and justice in the Old Republic—the 


in the Clone Wars. With even newly knighted Jedi being placed at the heads 
of entire armies, the Jedi are simultaneously more prominent in the galaxy 
and yet on the brink of extinction. Many worlds see a greater Jedi presence 
than they have in millennia, yet the Jedi themselves fall one by one on the 
field of battle. Meanwhile, the Confederacy recruits more villainous mem- 
bers, and soen the likes of Count Dooku, General Grievous, Asajj Ventress, 
and General Loathsom are facing off against Yoda, Mace Windu, Obi-Wan 
Kenobi, and Anakin Skywalker. As the Jedi go into decline, sinister villains are 
on the rise. Meanwhile, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine oversees the entire 
conflict, secretly playing each side against the other in his guise as the Sith 
Lord, Darth Sidious. 


SYVM SNO 10D SH. . NOIMLSNOOMAN 
- 


“TWICE THE PRIDE, 
DOUBLE THE FALL.” - 


- COUNT DOOKU 


A GALAXY AT WAR 

The Clone Wars might be the greatest, most far-reaching conflict the galaxy 
has seen—at least in recorded history. Even during the Jedi Civil War, many 
worlds escape the conflict entirely. However, when the Separatists withdraw 
from the Republic, they create a schism that divides the galaxy into two fac- 
tions. As a result, worlds that would have remained neutral are forced into 
either the Republic camp or the Separatist camp because of the imperative 
to declare allegiance to one of the two competing governments. In the Clone 
Wars, any world that attempts to maintain neutrality is crushed between the 
Republic and the Confederacy as they compete for that world’s resources. 

Whether aligned with the Republic or the Confederacy, many planets— 
especially those with significant manufacturing resources—become vital to 
the war effort simply by being able to produce ships, weapons, and equip- 
ment. On some worlds, militarization is harsher than on others. For example, 
the shipbuilding facilities of Utapau, which had previously manufactured 
domestic planetary defender Starfighters, are forced to produce Mank- 
vim-814 light interceptors and Porax-38 starfighters for the Confederacy. 
Other worlds are practically enslaved to meet the demands of their military 
masters, and the natural resources of entire planets are consumed in a matter 
of months to keep the fight going. 

Even remote worlds feel the sting of the Clone Wars. Remate Tatooine— 
where the Republic has had no presence—is embroiled in the war as the 
Confederacy attempts to trick Jabba the Hutt into influencing the other Hutt 
clans to allow the Separatists to use the their shipping lanes. The Techno 
Union sets up a top-secret research facility on snow-covered Nelvaan, where 
the natives have lived in isolated peace for most of their history. No matter 
how far out on the Outer Rim or how deep in the Deep Core the planet is, 
the Clone Wars affect it. 


CHOOSING SIDES 

The heroes of a Clone Wars campaign can have options regarding their alle- 
giance and are far more likely to side with one faction or another, at least 
tangentially, giving them a stake in the Clone Wars as a whole. For example, 
the heroes might choose to support the Republic as official members cf the 
Republic military or other Republic agency, such as the Judicial Department or 
the Jedi Order. Or they might be citizens doing their part to ensure the Repub- 
lic’s success. The heroes might be mercenaries, privateers, or free traders who 
volunteer to help transport undercover Republic agents behind Confederacy 
lines. Heroes might even be clone troopers or members of the Republic Navy, 
putting them right in the middle of the galaxy-spanning conflict. 

Conversely, the heroes might choose to ally themselves with the Sepa- 
ratists, seeing the Republic 2s the faction in the wrong. These heroes might 
be mercenaries, smugglers, or even Jedi who have left the Order, convinced 
that the Confederacy represents the galaxy’s best chance for freedom. Alter- 
natively, the heroes might ally with one of the various trade organizations, 
working as corporate troubleshooters or freelance agents hired by the Trade 
Federation, the Techno Unien, or the Retail Caucus to deal with Republic 
disruptions of supply lines or seditious elements on Confederate worlds. The 
heroes might not support questionable Confederacy tacti¢s (such 2s those 
employed by the sinister military leaders, like General Grievous and General 
Loathsom), but they might vet believe that even with such leadership the 
Confederacy is a better alternative than the Republic. 

The heroes might be on the fringes of society, trying to get along in the 
galaxy despite the raging Clone Wars. Even neutral heroes are likely unable to 
avoid the conflict of the war, and their allegiance might hinge on who atzacks 
ther first. These heroes can try to play both sides of the conflict against 
each other, but this is a precarious path to walk, After all, one faction might 
get word that the heroes are working with the other, and when this hap- 
pens, the situation can quickly go bad. Fringe heroes with the best intentions 
might find themselves staring down the full military might of the Republic 
if they misplay their cards. By the same token, heroes who attempt to stay 
neutral also have the opportunity to experience life on both sides of the war, 
opening options for a Gamemaster who wants to have the heroes work with 
the Confederacy in one adventure and the Republic in the next. 


THE CLONE WARS 

The Clone Wars encompass a complicated series of battles and skirmishes 
with a complex history covering approximately three years. Below are some 
major events in the Clone Wars. Gamemasters can use these events as quide- 
posts when creating Clone Wars adventures. They serve as good markers for 
the major events during this turbulent time. 


THE BATTLE OF NABOO 

Though the Battle of Nabao is litt!e more than a skirmish between the Trade 
Federation and the planetary defense forces of the planet Naboo, it is the 
precursor to the Clone Wars, which begin ten years later. The repercussions 
of this battle echo through the Clone Wars and beyond. After the Battle of 
Naboo, Palpatine is elected to the post of Supreme Chancellor, allowing him 
to manipulate the Republic into the Clone Wars. Meanwhile, the Trade Fed- 
eration is rebuffed and joins with the other trade organizations to form the 
alliance that eventually becomes the Confederacy of Independent Systems. 
Lastly, the Battle of Naboo leads te Anakin Skywalker becoming the Padawan 
of Obi-Wan Kenobi, a course of events that shakes the entire galaxy. 


THE BATTLE OF GEONOGSIS 

The first true battle of the Clone Wars, the Battle of Geonosis introduces 
the Grand Army of the Republic and unleashes the clone troopers upon the 
galaxy. On this desolate planet the first shots of the galactic conflict are 
fired, and the full extent of Count Dooku's betrayal becomes evident to the 
Jedi. Many Jedi die on Geonosis, but just as many are thrust into the com- 
mand of clone forces, setting a precedent that draws the Jedi out into the 
galaxy as military leaders. 


CORUSCANT AND UTAPAU 

After three years of struggling against the Confederacy, the Jedi strike a 
major blow against the Separatists with the death of Count Dooku. In the 
process of rescuing Supreme Chancellor Palpatine from the flagship of the 
Separatist fleet, Anakin Skywalker dispatches the Sith apprentice, and the 
Republic wins a significant victory. A short time later, Obi-Wan Kenabi ends 
General Grievous’s retgn of terror during the siege of Utapau. In a short time, 
the Jedi eliminate two of the Confederacy’s powerful leaders, and the tide 
shifts heavily in favor of the Republic. 


ORDER 66 

Without strong military leadership, the Confederacy is on the brink of col- 
lapse. The Jedi suspect that Palpatine has no intention of giving up his power 
after the Clone Wars end. After a confrontation leaves Mace Windu dead 
and Anakin Skywalker as the new apprentice of Darth Sidious, clone forces 
throughout the galaxy respond to Order 66, turning on their Jedi generals 
and slaughtering the noble defenders of the Republic. With the Jedi Order 
wiped out, Skywalker, now named Darth Vader travels to Mustafar, murders 
the remaining leaders of the Confederacy, and brings the Clane Wars to rts 
true end. 


*THE SHROUD OF 
THE DARK SIDE HAS 
FALLEN. BEGUN, 
THIS CLONE WAR 
HAS!” 


- YODA 


nea 


= 
o 
i 
W 
: 
@ 


CHAPTER | 
SPECIES 


owe 


The Clone Wars are a time of turmoil and strife throughout the galaxy. The 
number of alien species affected by the war number in the thousands. In 
addition to those systems and species that side with either the Republic or 
the Confederacy, a number of neutral species, such as the Nelvaanians, are 
unwittingly drawn into the war. 

This chapter presents several new species that can be played as heroes 
in any Star Wars campaign, althougn they are particularly appropriate for 
Clone Wars campaigns. 


SPECIES 
CHARACTERISTICS 


Your character's species determines some of his or her qualities 


ABILITY ADUUSTMENTS 

Find your character's species on Table 1-1: Species Ability Adjustments, 
and apply the adjustments listed there to your character's ability scores. 
Use Tables 1-2 and 1-3 on the next page to help determine age, height, 
and weight. 


TABLE )i-t: SPECIES 
ABILITY ADUUSTMENTS 


~ SPECIES ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 
Gen'Dai +4 Con, -2 Wis, -2 Cha 
\ktotchi +2 Con, -2 Cha 
Kaleesh -2 Dex, +2 Con, -2 Int, +2 Cha 
Kaminoan +2 Int, -2 Wis 
Kerkoiden -2 Con, +2 Wis 
Nautolan +2 Con, -2 Int, -2 Wis 
Nelvaanian -2 Int, +2 Wis 


Vurk =2 Dex, +2 Con, +2 Cha 


i 


SsainsadsS 


TABLE 1-2: AGE BY SPECIES £=YDUSS 


YOUNG MIDDLE Dugs are an arboreal species from the Republic world of Matastare. They are 
SPECIES CHILD ADULT ADULT AGE OLD VENERABLE strong and agile for their size, and climb and jump exceptionalty well. Dugs 
Dug 1-9 10-14. 18-44 45-59 60-74 75+ unwillingly share their hameworld with the Gran, who establish trade colonies 


on Malastare in 8,000 BBY. The Dugs fight a tong, intense war against the 


Gen'Dai 1-3 10-200 201-999 1,000- 2,000-  4,000+ Gran. Eventually the Republic intervenes and sides with the Gran, negotiating 
1,999 3,999 a truce that essentially demilitarizes the Dugs. 
Iktotchi 1-18 14-38 19-44 45-70 71-89 90+ In response to their marginalization, the Dugs develop a culture based, in 
Kaleesh 1-3 10-24 25-40 41-55 56-79 804 large part, on self-pity. They are self-congratulatory to a fault, and every Dug 
claims at least one celebrated hero or martyr in his family tree. Beads, worn on 
Xaminoan 1-6 710 11-39 40-59 60-79 80+ their ear fins, represent these purported patriots and their stories of heroism. 
Kerkoiden 1-11 12-18 19-45 46-70 71-30 91+ Yo question the legitimacy of a Dug's collection of martyr beads is ¢ grave 
Nautolan 1-9 10-14 15-40 41-54 —-5S-69 70+ insult that can be retracted only by the death of the offending party. 
ity: : jon fi iol ing ts - 
Nelvasnian 17 8-20 21-30 31-45 46-64 654 Personality: The Dugs’ reputation for violence and bullying is well 


. deserved. As a species, they are adversarial, preferring to solve problems 
Vurk 1-6 714 15-30 31-49. 50-69 70+ through intimidation and hostile acts. They consider themselves ta be 
. beleaquered warriors, underdogs who must fight against the rest of the 


universe for what is rightfully theirs. Despite their best efforts, the Dugs 
Peiana wenn hal are continually mired in de*eat. They tend to be xenophobic, and this fear of 
outsiders often manifests as blatant bigotry. 


SPECIES HEIGHT WEIGHT Physical Description: Cugs are vaquely humanoid, in that they possess a 
torso, two legs, and two arms. The positions of their limbs are reversed, how- 


Dug, male 1m 35 kg : 
ever, so that they use their upper limbs for walking and their lower limbs to 
Dug, female Mu 30 ka manipulate objects. They have brown skin, floppy ear flaps, and large mouths 
Gen'Dai, male or femate 2.5m 145 kg filled with broad, flat teeth. Male dugs possess a flap of skin 
Iktotchi, male or female 1.8m 80 kg on their throats that can be inflated and used to produce 
Kaleesh, male 18m 80 kg mating calls during the appropriate season. 
Homeworld: Malastare. 

Kaleesh, female 1.6m 75 kq Languages: Dug. 
Kaminoan, male 2.7m 70 kg Example Names: Drodwa, Flugello, Flugo, 
Kaminoan, female 21m 65 ka Gorlok, Langro Dis, Luvagwa, Pugwis, Rewulga, 
Kerkotden, male or female 14m 55 kg SeOEIO MEET : 

. Adventurers: Dugs are drawn to occupations 
Nautolan, male or female em 75 kg that involve skullduggery and violence, and they 
Nelvaanian, male 2m 130 kg make exceptional scoundrels, scouts, and 
Nelvaanian, female 1.5m 50 kg soldiers. Dug nobles are rare, and the typical 
yeRanale 21m 90 kg Dug does not possess the mental acuity or 


patience required to becorre a Jedi. 
Vurk, female 1.9m 85 kg 


DUB SPECIES TRAITS 
Dugs share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Charisma. Dugs possess excelent 
reflexes and hand-cye coordination, but they rarely think before they act 
and are known for their crude Gemeanor. 

Small Size: As Small creatures, Dugs gain a +1 size bonus to their Reflex 
Defense and a +5 size bonus on Stealth checks. However, their lifting and 
carrying limits are three-quarters of thase of Medium characters. 

Speed: Dug base speed Is 6 squares. 

Athletic: A Dug can reroll any Clirnb or Jump check, but the result of the 
reroll must be accepted, even if it is worse. In addition, a Dug can take 10 on 
Climb and Jump checks even when distracted or threatened. 

Automatic Languages: Dug, 


GEN'DAI 

The Gen'Dai benefit from extremely long life spans. Accounts of Gen'Dai living 
jo be over four thousand standard years old are common. They are a hardy spe- 
cies, thanks in part to their unique physiology. The Gen'Dai have na centralized 
vital argans, and their elaborate nervous and vascular systems allow them to 
act quickly and withstand wounds that would kill nearly any other creature, 

The Gen'Dai are intergalactic nomads, constantly traversing the galaxy. 
The location of their homeworld has been lost to time. Even those Gen'Dai 
who claim to have lived for several millennia cannot, or do not, reveal its 
location. 

Personality: With few exceptions, the Gen'Dai are an introspective and 
peaceful species. Because of their extraordinarily long life spans, they are 
slow in their Gecision-making processes, 
They consider the long-term conse- 
quences of their actions, and do 
not jump to conclusions with- 
out adequate evidence. 

As they age, they begin 
to lose their grip on their 
mental faculties. Their per- 
sonalities become increas~ 
ingly disjointed, and their 
penchant for introspection 
causes them to suffer from 
depression, psychosis, and 
other forms of insanity. 


Physical Description: Superficia ly, Gen'Dai appear to be a humanoid 
race. Their skin color ranges from light red to deep purple, and their eyes 
vary from bright red to dull yellow-orange. A mandiblelike protrusion extends 
from each of their cheekbones. The Gen’Dai are large, typically standing over 
two meters tall. 

Homeworld: Unknown. 

Languages: Gen'Dai, 

Example Names: Durge, Grozm, Kranth, Lu‘urn. 

Adventurers: The most common character class for Gen'Dal heroes is 
the scout, foliowed by the soldier. A few Gen’Dai use their veritable immor- 
tality to amass wealth and influence as nodles, and only a handful become 
scoundrels. No Gen'Dai are known to have become Jedi. 


GEN'DAI SPECIES TRAITS 
Gen’‘Dai share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +4 Constitution, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. Gen’Dai 
are incredibly resistant to damage, but their long life spans cause them to 
be mentally unstable. 

Large Size: As Large creatures, Gen'Dai take a -1 size penalty to their 
Reflex Defense, a -5 size penalty on Stealth checks, and gain a +5 size bonus 
to their damage threshold. Their lifting and carrying limits are double those 
of Medium characters. 

Speed: Gen'Dai base speed is 8 squares. 

Gen’Dai Surge: Whenever a Gen'Dai takes ts second wind, it regains 5 
hit points every round at the end of its turn unti! killed, until the end of the 
encounter, or until reaching one-half hit points (whichever comes first). 

Hibernation: A Gen’Dai can enter 2 state similar to a hibernation trance. 
A Gen'Dai can use the Force Trance application of the Use the Force skill 
untrained (and even if not Force-sensitive) and can remain in the trance 
indefinitety. A Gen'Dai in such a state ceases to age, and needs no food, 
water, or air until it emerges from hibernation. 

Mental Instability: As they age, Gen'Dai begin to los¢ touch with reality. 
For each age category a Gen'Dai advances past Adult, it takes an additional 
loss of -1 Wisdom, Gen'Dai characters never gain increased Wisdom due to 
age, though they can increase their Wisdom scores as their character level 
increases. 

Regeneration: A Gen'Dai can regrow lost body parts—inctuding signifi- 
cant portions of its physical structure and individual limbs—in 110 minutes. 
At the end of that time, all persistent penalties associated with the loss of 
one or more limbs are removed. 

Resilient Physiology: Because of their unique physiology, the Gen’Dai 
can shrug aff the effect of wounds that would be fatal to any other spe- 
cies. Because of this, a Gen'Dai's damage threshold is doubled after adding 
bonuses for feats or size when determining whether the Ger'Dai is killed by 
an attack (out riot for any other purpose). 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Gen’Dai 


1 SSBidgwHa 


IK TOTCHI 
Hailing from the Expansion region 
world af lktotchon and its 
moon, Iktotch, the Iktotchi 
are a race of precog- 
nitive humanoids. All 
Iktotchi possess this 
orecognitive ability, 
which manifests as 
vivid dreams, visions, 
or waking dreams. Few 
Iktotchi have contral of 
how or when their precog- 
nition manifests or of what 
it reveals to them. As a spe- 
cies, they know of the Republic's 
coming long before their world is 
visited, and they are prepared to 
welcome the quests that would 
usher them into a vast galactic 
society. |ktoichi are famed for their prowess as pilots, and attribute their 
success at the heim to nearly imperceptible precognitive inclinations. 

Because of their visicns, Iktotchi are aware of the bloodshed that heralds 
the coming of the Clone Wars. Many of the era's prominent diplomats are 
Iktotchi who seek 10 avert the impending violence. 

Personality: |ktotchi are a deeply emotional species. Despite their sensi- 
tive qualities, their culture dictates that they must hide their feelings behind 
a veneer of quiet stoicism. Though they respect the nature of diversity in 
the galaxy, the Iktotchi have @ hard time forming lasting friendships with 
members of other species because of the |ktotchi's occasional impatience 
with species who lack their precognitive gifts and because of other species’ 
overt suspicion of the Iktotchi's precognition. 

Physical Description: The Iktotchi are a humanoid species with laroe, 
downward-curving horns. Females have smaller horns than the maies. Their 
skin is thick, tan, and hairless, weather beaten by !ktotchon’s fierce winds. 
Their eye color ranges from yellow to orange. 

Homeworld: Iktotchan. 

Languages: Iktotchese. 

Example Names: Arctan Meeso, Daedar Xiese, Liiren Baelar, Niira Xorl, 
Saesee Tlin, Seer Varree. 

Adventurers: lktotchi who journcy aut into the galaxy become nobles, 
scouts, or soldiers. A small number excel as scoundrels by using their spe- 
cies’ reputation for clairvoyance to run scams and rackets, despite a strong 
cultural prohibition against using their visions to generate a profit. Because 
of their precognitive talents, there have been severa! notable lktctchi Jedi, 
such as Sacsee Tiin. 


IKTOTCH! SPECIES TRAITS 
Iktotchi share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Charisma. Though they are a 
hardy species, the Iktotchi are a quiet and introspective people and have 
trouble forming friendships. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Iktotchi have no special bonuses or 
penalties duc to their size. 

Speed: Iktotchi base speed is 6 squares. 

Natural Armor: |ktotchi have tough skin that provides a +1 natural 
armor bonus to their Reflex Defense. A natural armor bonus stacks with an 
armor bonus. 

Limited Precognition: Iktotchi are gifted with limited precognition and 
are subjected to prophetic dreams. Once per encounter, as a reaction, an 
Iktotchi can grant itself or any vehicle the Iktotchi pilots a +2 species bonus 
to Reflex Defense against any single attack. 

Expert Pilot: An Iktotchi can reroll any Pitot check, but the result of the 
reroli must be accepted, even if it is worse. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Iktotchese. 


KALEESH 


The Kaleesh are a nomadic species with a tribal culture. They are spiritual 
beings who worship their ancestors as deities, and they consider their ances- 
tral burial grounds to be sacred lands. The Kaleesh believe that anyone who 
dies in honorable service to his peaple becames a god upon death. 

The Kaleesh come to momentary prominence in the galaxy when they 
fight off an invasion by an alien species known as the Huk. Having already 
subjugated and exploited the natural resources of 
several worlds, the Huk capture millions 
of Kaleesh and sel! them into slavery. 
However, the Huk invasion of Kalee is 
shart lived. Under the leadership of a 
hero who eventually comes to be known 
as Grievous, the Kaleesh repel the Huk. 
They doggediy pursue their enemies 
into space, and the Huk are completely 
overcome oy the Kaleesh. The hunters 
become the hunted. The Huk request 
assistance from the Republic, and 
through a number of underhanded 
dealings, they receive it. As a 
result, the Republic subjects 
the Kaleesh to severe eco- 
nomic sanctions, and the 
Kaleesh are marginalized by 
galactic society. 


Personality: Kaleesh are a warlike species, but they reserve their ire for 
those who provoke them, They are protective of their territory—especially 
their ancient burial grounds. Kaleesh hold their families and tribes in high 
esteem, and do anything to protect them, These sentiments sometimes extend 
to non-Kaleesh who prove themselves to be trustworthy companions, but 
such a distinction is rare. Honor and sacrifice at the expense of oneseif are 
highly valued qualities in their society. 

Physical Description: The Kaleesh are tall, reptilian humanoids. Their 
scaly skin varies from deep red to dull yellow. Their black hair is worn in long 
braids or tied up in a queue or topnot. 

The long faces of the Kaleesh are framed on either side by two sharp 
tusks that extend outward from tacir jawbones, and their nostrils are two 
long slits that stretch toward their yellow eyes. However, few nan-Kaleesh 
have seen the fates of these enigmatic aliens, for they wear masks made 
from the skulls of some of Kalee’s most vicious predators. The Kaleesh are 
also distinguished by their hands, which cach feature four long Fingers, two 
of which are fully opposable. 

Homeworld: Kalee. 

Languages: Kaleesh. 

Example Names: Qymaen jai Sheelal, Ronderu jij Kummar, Bentilais san 
Sk'ar. 

Adventurers: The Kaleesh excel in the roles of scout and soldier. Given 
they inherent sense of honar and dignity, they also make excellent nooles 
but rarely take on the role of a scoundrel, Aithough no Keleesh tedi are 
known, Kaleesh spiritual traditions view Foree sensitivity as a boon granted 
by their ancestors. 


KALEESH SPECIES TRAITS 
Kaivesh share the fallowing species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Dexterity, +2 Constitution, -2 Intelligence, +2 
Charisma. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Kaleesh have po special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Kaleesh base speed is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Kaleesh arc a nomadic people who have learned 
to live off tae land. A Kaleesh with Survival as a trained skill gains Skill Focus 
(Survival) as a bonus feat. 

Darkvision: Because of the thermoreceptor glands next to their eyes, 
Kaleesh ignore concealment (including total concealment) from darkness. 
However, they Cannot perceive colors in total darkness, 

Driven: Kaleesh are focused individuals who maintain sight of their goals 
even under adverse conditions. Because of this single-minded drive, they gain 
a +5 species bonus to Will Defense against mind-affecting effects. 

Persistent: A Kaleesh can reroll any Endurance check, but the result of 
the reroll must be accepted, even if it is worse. 

Automatic Languages: Basi¢ and Kaleesh. 


KAMINOANS 

The watery planet of Kamino is home to a species of cloners known as 
Kaminoans. These tall aliens are the result of generations of selective 
breeding and genetic modification that began when their world suffered 2 
drastic change in climate. These restrictive breeding programs have made 
Kaminoans an extremely adaptable soecies. Apart from gender, Kaminoans 
have little variation, and to the untrained eye they all look the same, Subtle 
variations have been introduced into their genetic codes, however, allowing 
for diversity within a strict set of parameters. 

The economy of Kamino is based on cloning for profit, out not every 
Kaminoan is a cloner by trade. The majority of Kaminoans support their com- 
munities with various skills and specialized abilities. They strive to perform 
their work flawlessly, and seek perfection. Because Kaminoans are moderately 
xenophobic and rarely venture away from their homeworld, they are a rare 
sight in ather parts of the galaxy. 

Personality: Kaminoans see themselves as superior to other forms of life, 
They harbor a private intolerance for itnperfection, but they are, nonetheless, 
polite to outsiders. To a Kaminoan, any species that seeks self improvement is 
worthy of respect, but those who do not are obviously inferior and deserve their 
inevitable decline. This attitude is refiected in their cloning processes, where 
entire crops of clones might be eliminated duc to 4 single, subtle flaw. 

Physical Description: Kaminoans are talt and gaunt, with pate skin, 
three-fingered hands, and long necks. Their faces are small and dominated 
by a pair of large, black eyes. Every male Kaminoan has a finlike crest on the 
top of his head, but female Kaminoans have none. 

Homeworld: Kamino. 
Languages: Kaminoan. 
Example Names: Aya Lim, Lama Su, 
Maru Lan, Tau Shei, Taga Sai, Seva Ke, 
Taun We. 

Adventurers: Because they are 
genetically designed, Kaminoans 
are bred to fulfill a specific role 
or niche. They make excellent 
nobles, scouts, and soldiers, 
Scoundre?s, though rare, are 
not unheard of. Kaminoans are 
not bred with Force sensitivity, 
though anomalies are possible. 
Kaminoan Jedi are essentially 
NONEXIsStent, 


| YSaLcdvHa 


Ssoeelds 


~) 


| dealavno 


SHlesdS 


KAMINOAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Kaminoans share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, -2 Wisdom. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Kaminoans have no special bonuses 
cor penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Kaminoan base speed is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Kaminoans are expert cloners and possess 
remarkably knowledge zlbout the physiologies of species across the gisiaxy. 
A Kaminoan with Treat Injury as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Treat tjury) 
as a bonus feat. 

Resistant: Scientific refinements to their genetic code make Kaminoans 
resistant to poisons, disease, radiation, and other hazards that target their 
physiology. Kaminoans gain a +2 species bonus to Fortitude Defense. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Kaminoan. 


KERKOIDENS 

A-smalier species from the Expansion Region, the Kerkoidens are aggressive 
and cunning beings who often have something to prove. Excellent traders, 
skilled politicians, and creative military commanders, Kerkoidens are known 
as formidable opponents, a reputation they prove is well-earned curing the 
Clone Wars. 

Xenobiologists from the University of Sanbra believe that the Kerkoiden 
species descended from quadruped predators that hunt on the savannahs 
and in the jungles of Kerkoidia. Much of the Kerkoiden physiology seems to 
support this claim, including their hunched posture, iang snout, claws, and 
jutting teeth, Additionally, Kerkoiden aggression seems to be consistent with 
the predatory instincts of their ancestors, lending credence to this theory 
of Kerkoiden evolution. 

The Kerkoiden species as a whole has fought to evolve beyond their 
predatory ancestry and prove to the galaxy that they are sophisticated and 
civilized. Many Kerkoiden nobles pride themselves on superior breeding 
env also on being refined anc sophisticated enough to rub elbows with the 
galaxy’'s elite on Coruscant. Of course, this also leads to elitism among the 
Kerkoidens, which does the species no favors on the galactic scere. 


CAL 


“UNLESS YoU 


OFF YOUR TROOP 
RIGHT NOw, |! 


WHORM 


rrHisoMmM 


Personality: The 
Kerkaidens have shifted 
many of their cunning 
predatory instincts over to 
the social arena, becom- 
ing ssvvy politicians on 
a galactic scale. Most 
Kerkoidens are pushy if 
not outright aggressive. 
They are regard every- 
one with suspicion, and 
expect deception from 
their political and social 
rivals. Additionally, many 
Kerkoidens would like to 
believe that their pcople 
are more evolved and 
sophisticated than their 
heritage suggests, leading 
them to be both elitist and 
arrogant at times. 

Physica) Description: 
Kerkoidens are hunched beings with rough skin that ranges in hue from green 
to dark blue. Their bodies st ll show signs of predator physidiogy, namely their 
long ciaws and jutting teeth. Kerkxoidens have tall, slender heads with long 
snouts and narrow eyes. 

Homeworld: The Kerkoiden species hails from Kerkoidiz, a world covered 
in tall, grassy savannahs and thick swamps in the Expansion Region, specifi- 
cally in the Kira Sector just off of the Harrin Trade Corridor. 

Languages: Kerkoidens speak Kerkoidese and Basic. 

Example Names: Dram Bothren, Var Cashral, Pheel Hoshar, Whorm 
Loathsom. 

Adventurers: Kerkoiden adventurers gravitate toward ciasses where 
they can freely exhibit their aggressiveness or demonstrate their sophisti- 
cation. Soldiers are common. Kerkoidens also make excellent nobles, using 
their wisdom and cunning to talk circles around their opponents. Kerkoiden 
scoundrels take pleasure in throwing a proverbial hydrospanner into their 
opponents’ plans, sowing discord and shattering enemy organization. 
Kerkoidens who learn to temper their aggression with wisdom might also 
become Jedi. 


KERKOIDEN SPECIES TRAITS 
Kerkoidens share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Constitution, +2 Wisdom. Though fess hardy than 
other species, Kerkoidens are devious and cunning. 

Medium Size: As Medium crez tures, Kerkoidens have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Kerkoiden base speed is 6 squares. 

Predators Heritage: Despite their stature, Kerkoidens are descended 
from predatory beings. Kerkoidens gain a +2 species bonus on damage 
rolls against a target that has been damaged since the beginning of the 
Kerkaiden's last turn, 

Social Cunning: Kerkoidens may use their Wisdom modifier in the place 
of their Charisma modifier for determining their skill bonus on Deception 
and Persuasion, 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Kerkoidese. 


NAUTOLANS 


Nautolans are one of the sentient species native to the pianet Glee Anseim. 
Their language, Nautila, evolved underwater and is heavily tied to pheromones. 
Out of water, Nautila loses much of its meaning. As a result, Nautolans learn 
another language, typically either Basic or Anse!mian, the language of the 
Anselmi peaple, who are native to Glee Anselm's land masses. 

Even though they are aquatic, Nautolans have little difficulty living in 
climates that would be uncomfortabie for other amphibians. They are a 
hardy species, due in part to the extra cartilage that supports their skeletal 
structures. Given their aquatic origins, they are excellent swimmers. 

Personality: Nautolans arc loyal and steadfast companions, They wear 
their moods on their proverbial sleeves, expressing both joy and despair with 
equal zeal. Though polite and civilized under mast circumstances, Nautolans 
tend to reflect the moods of others around them. The tendrils on their heads 
sense the pheromones released by others. This can inadvertently affect a 
Nautolan’s disposition—for better or for worse. Despite their peaceful nature, 
Nautolans are not above defending themselves. 

Physical Description: Nautolans have thick green skin that is covered 
in dark, mottied spots. Their large, black eyes allow them to see well in dim 
light. Each Nautolan's head is crowned by tong, tentaclelike tendrils, which 
the Nautolan decorates with leather bands, metal rings, or beaded ties. 

Homeworld: Glee Anselm. 

Languages: Nautila. 

Example Names: Hiskar Dorset, Kit Fisto, Ploss Niklos, Renko Losa, 
Rin Mako, Setel Yast. 


Adventurers: Nautolans 
cravt adventure and are 
as likely to be nobles or 
scoundrels as they are to 
be scouts or soldiers. There 
have also been several 
notable Nautolan Jedi. 


NAUTOLAN 
SPECIES 
TRAITS 
Nautolans share the follow- 
ing species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 
Canstitution, -2 Intelli- 
gence, -2 Wisdom. 

Medium Size: As 
Medium creatures, Nau- 
tolans have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to 
their size. 

Speed: Nautolan base speed is 6 squares. They have a swim speed of 4 
squares. 

Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Nautolans cannot drown 
in water. 

Expert Swimmer: A Nautolan can reroll any Swim check, but the result 
of the reroll must be accepted, even if it is worse. In addition, a Nautolan can 
take 10 on Swim checks even when distracted or threatened. 

Low-Light Vision: Neutolans ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Natural Damage Reduction: The rubbery hide of 2 Nautolan provides 
DR 2. 

Pheromonal Sensor: A Nautolan can reroll any Perception check made 
to sense deception or sense influence, but the result of the rerall must be 
accepted, even if it is worse. If underwater, the Nautolan can take the better 
of the two rolls instead. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Nautila. 


saeeas 


i eaiavHS 


| SaLavVHO ) 


Seioses 


NELVAANIANS 


Nelvaanians, also referred to as Nelvaans, 
are a species of tribal humanoids from 
the planet Nelvaan. They ere a primitive 
species, using only crude technology. 
Male Nelvaanians are responsible for 
hunting game and protecting the tribe, 
while females are responsibie for the day- 
to-day affairs of their tribe, which includes 
raising cubs. 

At the top of the Ne/vaanian tribe 
is the chief, who rules with the helo 
of his mate and a sheman. A tribal 
chief is mot chosen by trial, nor is he 
elected 10 his position. Instead, the 
chief's ascension is determined by the 
grace of the “Great Mother" and is 
established through a show of mutual 
admiration and respect among the 
entire tribe. Religion and spirituality 
are the center of Neivaanian society. 
Elders are revered, as are mothers of 
all ages. 

During the Clone Wars, male Nel- 
vaanians aré abducted by the Techno 
Union and subjected to extensive physiological and genetic manipulation in 
an attempt to create a race of mutant warriors, The experiments are partially 
successful, turning the males of the species into monstrous versions of their 
former selves. However, the experiments are stopped by Anakin Skywalker, 
and the modified Nelvaanians reunite with their tribes. 

Personality: Nelvaanians are closely tied by the bonds of family and 
kinship. They are superstitious, attriouting magical powers to most technol- 
ogy, which they distrust. Nevertheless, they are honorable and faithful once 
their trust is earned, Genetically modified male Nelvaanians are somewhat 
less astute than their female counterparts, and tinis extends to thei social 
graces, as well. 


Physical Description: The Nelvaanians are a humanoid species with 


pronounced canine characteristics. They have blue-green fur, large teeth in 


a pronounced muzzle, and two pointy, independently movable tars. A thick 
mane of black hair on their heads extends down the napes of their necks, 
and this tends to whiten with age. 
After the experiments af the Techno Union, nearly all Nelvaanian 
males are transformed into hulking monstrosities due to intensive genetic 
manipulation. This genetic trait persists In males born after the Clone Wars, 
though females are not subject to the mutation. 
Homeworld: Nelvaan. 
Languages: Nelvaanese. 
Example Names: Harvos, Orvos, Tuzes-Adaz. 
Adventurers; Nelvaanians are rarely encountered away from Nel- 
vaan, but those who are become soldiers and scouts. 


NELVAANIAN SPECIES 

TRAITS 

Nelvaanians share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Inteliigence, +2 Wisdom. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Nelvaanians have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Neivaanian base speed is 6 squares. 

Low-Light Vision: Nelvaanians ignore concealment (but net total 
concealment) from darkness. 

Primitive: Nelvaanians do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
or heavy weapons) as starting feats at ist level, even if their class normally 
grants them. 

Scent: Nelvaanians have a keen sense of smell. At close range (within 
10 squares), Nelvaanians ignore concealment and cover for the purposes 
of Perception checks, and they take no penalty fram poor visibility when 
tracking. 

Shadow Swiftness: If a Nelvaanian begins its turn with concealment from 
a target or with the target unaware of it, the Neivaanian does not provoke 
attacks of opportunity when moving through the target's threatenec space 
until the erid of the Nelvaanian’s turn. 
utomatic Languages: Nelvaanese. 


VURKS 
Vurks are an amphibious 
species from the planet 
Sembla. Their way of life 
is hased on a nomadic life- 
style, as large family units 
move en masse across Sem- 
bla's watery surface. They 
transition easily frorm the 
depths of Sembla’s warm 
seas to the heights of its 
rocky, volcanic archipelagos. 
Vurk families rarely stop in 
any ene spot for more than 
a fortnight at a time. 

When two or more Vurk 
clans meet during their 
constant migration, the 
families of these cians stop 
and hold a mutua! feast, 
Tests of strength, speed, 
and wits are commonplace, 
aS are arranged marriages 
and commerce. Young males 
are married off by their parents and leave to be with their wives and their 
new families. Male Vurks who fail to marry before reaching adulthood remain 
bachelors far the rest of their lives. 

Griginally considered a primitive species by galactic survey \eams, Vurks 
are intelligent and philosophicaily advanced. From birth, they are taught to 
honor personal integrity, individual freedom, and honesty. Because of these 
tenets, Vurks make excellent diplomats aind negotiators. 

Personality: Known for their even lempers, compassion, and personal 
integrity, Vurks abhor lying. They take their duties, whether to family, friends, 
or nation, seriously. Because of this, others consider them somewhat blunt 
and stern. 


*“THE JEDI 


PEACE AND JUSTICE. 


ARE GUARDIANS 


Physical Description: Vurks are tall, reptilian ampnibians with leathery 
gray-qreen skin. Their eyes are dark and set deep in their faces. A long crest 
extends up and back from a Vurk's skull. A Vurk has two long, thick fingers 
and an apposable thumb on each hand. 

Homeworld: Sembia. 

Languages: Semblan. 

Example Names: Coleman Trebor, Sweitt Concorkill. 

Adventurers: Vurks who leave their homeworld tend toward the path 
of the scout or soldier. A handful af Vurk nables make their way to the 
stars a3 diplornats, but given the species’ ingrained integrity, few Vurk are 
scoundrels. 


VURK SPECIES TRAITS 
Vurks share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Dexterity, +2 Constitution, +2 Charisma. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Vurks have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Vurk base speed is 6 squares. Vurk have a swim Speed of 4 
squares. 

Breathe Underwater: As amphipious creatures, Vurks cannot drown 
in water, 

Expert Swimmer: A Vurk can reroll any Swim check, but the result of 
the rerall must be accepted, even if it is worse. In addition, a Vurk can take 
10 on Swim checks even when distracted or threatened. 

Placid: Vurks are renowned for their ability to remain calm and collected, 
even in the face of danger. Once per encounter, as a free action, a Vurk can 
remove one fear effect currently affecting it. 

Nomads: As nomads, Vurks are accustomed to moving around, even 
through dangerous places. A Vurk can reroil any Survival check, but the 
result of the rcroil must be accepted, even if it is worse, 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Semblan. 


OF 
WE ARE 


SERVANTS, NOT CELEBRITIES.” 


-WJED! 


MASTER COLEMAN TREBOR 


Seis) 


Seals} Gi ) 


sd 


i CHAPTER II 
RO) HEROIC TRAITS 
adh Dah so hh aol 


-. 


; SNS 
During the Clone Wars, few worlds are untouched by the tide of battle. From 
these affected worlds rise heroes whose actions shake the foundations of the 
galaxy. These are your heroes, and your actions can affect how systems, sec- 
tors, and even the ertire galaxy endures the hardships of the Clone Wars. 
Creating heroes for a Clone Wars campaign is just like creating characters 
for any campaign. However, this book provides new talents, feats, and skill 
uses to help tailor your hero to best fit a Clone Wars campaign. Heroes who 
come to prominence against the background of the Clone Wars likely have 
strong ties to the Separatists or to the Republic, and most have at least 
@ passing familiarity with the Jedi and their powers. Even in the farthest 
reaches of the galaxy, the Clone Wars disturb and destroy the lives of beings 
that otherwise have no interest in—or knowledge of—the politics and events 
of the center of the galaxy. Many heroes are thrust into their role by war 
coming to their homes, and unlikely heroes can be created in the fire fights 
on distant Outer Rim planets. The mechanics in this chapter help you build 
heroes who reflect the unique environment and themes of the Clone Wars, 
but you can use mechanics from other supplements as well. 
When you create your character, consider not only how the Clone Wars 
: have shaped his or her life but also where your character is going in the 
future. Your callous smuggler who has become wealthy running weapons for 
the Separatists behind Republic lines will not be a neutral third party forever. 
\ As your hero becomes entangled in the conflicts and plots that surround 
: the Clone Wars, the hero's station in life, capabilities, and even personality 
might change accordingly. You might begin your career running weapons 
with little interest in which side emerges victorious, but when your Clone 
Wars campaign begirs, you join other heroes and engage in adventures of 
your own. Think not only about how the Clone Wars affect your character 
“at the time of creation but also how it may affect your character five, ten, 
ar even twenty levels into the campaign. 


RMEROES OF THE 
CLONE WARS 


When creating your hero for a Clone Wars campaign, consider how unique 
aspects of the era and the overarching conflict give your character an 
interesting history and personality. Ask yourself how these themes impact 
your hero, and create a rich and interesting character who contributes to 
the story throughout the entire campaign. Of course, you can ignore these 
themes. and create a character whose history is of your own devising, but 
if you want to create a character who interacts with the larger themes of a 
Clone Wars campaign, consider some of the following facets of campaigns 
set in this time. 


i) ¥SLavHD 


Sl1ivyel DOYXSH 


li eSBlLoevHa 


SAIVYMA, SSVEHY) 


LARGE-SCALE CONFLICT 

A hero in a Clone \Wars campaign can come from almost any world in the Stor 
Wars saga, and chances are his or her life has been affected by the war in 
some way. Few worlds escape the galactic conflict, so even primitive planets 
can become critical battlefields in the Clone Wars. Your hero might be from an 
obscure, out-of-the-way planet like Nelvaan, drawn into the war after Anakin 
Skywalker and Ob -Wan Kenobi liberate the Nelvaanians from the oppression 
of the Techno Union. Or your hero might be a noble from Commenor, run- 
ning away from a life of wealth and luxury to join in tae war effort for the 
Separatists. With special permission from your Gamemaster, you might even 
be able to play a member of a species that has not yet entered the galaxy at 
large, such as Ewoks or the Chiss, if your hero's unique history includes an 
explanation of how the conflicts of the Clone Wars cause you to leave your 
home planet well before the rest of the galaxy even knows it exists. In a Clone 
Wars campaign, planet of origin is rarely a hindrance for a character becoming 
highly involved in the conflict, as the battles of the Clone Wars stretch from 
the densely populated Core Worlds all the way to the-Outer Rim. 


DECLINE OF THE JED) 

The Clone Wars are waning years for the Jedi Order. Not only do their 
numbers shrink leading up to the conflict, but many Jedi Generals are killed 
in skirmishes on distant battlefields. Ultimately, the Jedi Order is nearly 
completely wiped out by Order 66, but even before that point, many Jedi 
sense that their organization is on the decline. This affects not only the 
Jedi themselves but also those who rely on the Jedi for peace and justice. 
With the Jedi drawn away to fight in the Clone Wars, planets that rely on 
the Jedi to settle disputes and protect them from predatory neighbors are 
now exposed to danger and unrest. Your hero might be a native of an Outer 
Rim world that relies on local Jedi for protection from pirates; with the Jedi 
engaged in the Clone Wars, the pirates ravage your homeworld, leaving you 
to find your way in the galaxy with no home to return to, Likewise, your 
hero could be a mercenary who serves alongside a Jedi general who, like 
Jedi Master Kota, prefers not to work with clone troops; when the Jedi falls 
in battle, your hero suddenly finds himself without an employer. These are 
the kinds of heroes that might arise as a result of the changing status of the 
Jedi during the Clone Wars. 


RAMPANT CDRRUPTION 

A key facet of galactic culture that leads to the eruption of the Clone Wars 
is rampant corruption. Politicians, nobles, businessmen, and other wealthy 
and powerful beings disregard their responsibility to those less fortunate 
and put their own desires and greed above the needs of those who rely on 
them. Corruption in the Senate allows Senator Palpatine to maneuver his 
way into the position of Supreme Chancellor, and the greed of the member 
organizations of the Confederacy allows Darth Sidious and Count Dooku to 
manipulate them into starting a galaxy-spanring war. Heroes of this era 
have likely been exposed to corruption. Jedi witness the fall of Count Dooku, 
nobles have brushes with power-hungry peers, and soldiers aré thrown into 
chaos by the carelessness with which politicians commit lives to battle. Many 
heroes in 2 Clane Wars campaign have been put on their path as a result of 
the corruption of others. 


HIGH-PROFILE VILLAINS 

The Clone Wars allow for the ascension of powerful villains into the limelight. 
The Separatists, denounced by the Republic as greed-driven traitors, have 
some of the most visible and eclectic villains in the entire Star Wars saga. 
Count Dooku is a well-known Jedi traitor; General Grievous is a reputedly bril- 
liant military leader whose visage intimidates his enemies; Generai Loathsom 
is a vicious brute, Asajj Ventress an aspiring Sith, and Durge an immortal 
bounty huater. Even Darth Maul, whose involvement in the lead-up to the 
Clone Wars ends nearly ten years before the outbreak of war, works closely 
alongside \eaders of the Trade Federation. Your hero might have a history 
involving one of these high-profile Separatists, even if the Gamemaster 
chooses not to integrate that villain into your campaign. Your hero might be 
a Kaleesh who fought alongside General Grievous on Kalee, but now your 
hero resents Grievous for his role in the devastation of your planet. Similarly, 
your world might have been blasted from orbit by Separatist vessels under 
the command of General Loathsom, or the bounty hunter Durge might have 
killed or captured a member of your immediate family. Tying your hero's 
history to one of these highly visible villains is an excellent way to help your 
hero feel more like a part of the Clone Wars campaign. 


MILITARIZATION 

A necessity of warfare is the increased militarization of the galaxy. The best 
example is the Republic government, which has no standing military prior to 
the Clane Wars. To stand against the forces af the Confederacy, the Republic 
militarizes quickly (with the help of the Kaminoan cloners and tne military 
hardware provided by Rothana Heavy Engineering}. Individual worlds that 
pledge their support to the Republic find themselves the beneficiaries of this 
militarization, but many also have their infrastructure commandeered for 
the increased production requirements of the war effort. Separatist worlds 
spend large amounts of credits pumping out new starships, walkers, tanks, 
and battle droids, buying them from other member worlds or mass-producing 
materie! for their own use. As a result, even once-peaceful worlds have their 
industries converted to military use, including agriculture (clone troopers 
must be fed), medical {injured soldiers need healing to keep fighting), and 
manufacturing (producing the weapons and vehicles of war}. Your scoundrel 
hero might have established herself as a smuggler of fine antiquities, but 
finds that her services are required for legally shipping supplies.to the front 
lines. Or your scout hera might have been a vig game hunter who traveled the 
Outer Rirn in search of the next big hunt, but thanks to a massive increase 
in military influence, finds herself recruited as a guide for Republic troops 
through the deep jungles of Felucia. 


wWwEDI 

During the Clone Wars, the Jedi are not just the defenders of peace and jus- 
tice but also the military leaders of the Republic. The Jedi are placed at the 
head of clone armies, and they wade into battle on distant worlds alongside 
the rest of the Grand Army cf the Republic. For Jedi neroes in a Clone Wars 
campaign, this means being sent on military assignments, even for Padawans, 
Your Jedi here might be out in the galaxy on a dangerous mission entrusted 
to you by the Jedi Council, or you might be accompanying your Master to an 
important planet to defend it against Separatist attacks. Though the Jedi are 
allied with the Republic, same Jedi, such as Quinlan Vos, go undercover to 
infiltrate the Confederacy; such Jedi viouls likely keeo their allegiances and 
powers a secret, as the powerful Force-users among the Separatists would 
be able to detect both their deception and, likely, their subterfuge. 


PLO KDSON OIBPATCHES A COLD ASBAULT BATTLE DROID. 


Establishing your Jedi hero’s vole in the Clone Wars is an important part 
of creating your character. Jedi who follow the Guardian path, and any Jedi 
that use their powers to enhance their combat prowess, ave likely to seek out 
an active role in the war effort. This might mean leading clone troopers into 
battie, working with elite Republic commandos, or leading a starfighter corps 
into Separatist space. Jedi who follow the Consular path join the Republic 
as healers and diplomats. Some Jedi join up with Republic Mobile Surgical 
Units (RMSUs), providing Force-assisted healing for those injured in battle. 
Other Jedi act as liaisons between the Repuolte and the civilian populations 
of disputed worlds, providing humanitarian assistance or merely serving in a 
diplomatic capacity. Jedi whe follow the path of the Sentinel put their skills 
in stealth, subterfuge, and investigation to qood vse as undercover agents, 
spies, and saboteurs. These Jedi act behind enemy lines, infiltrating Separatist 
forces or causing chaos and havoc for the Confederacy. 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
D 
2 


BNVSL HIGHS) 


WW Haier HS 


SBHVEL HoMeX) 


NEw JEeO! TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the Jedi class. 


New Jedi Consular Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Consular talent tree (see page 
39 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the 
Jedi class. Any character who can normally choose talents from the Jedi 
Consular talent tree can choose from these talents as well. 

Consular’s Vitality: Jedi during the Clone Wars learn to call upon the 
Force not only for their own strength but also to aid the clone troopers and 
other allies under their command. Once per round as a swift action, you grant 
one ally within 12 squares of you (and in your line of sight) bonus hit points 
equal to 5 + your Charisma modifier. These bonus hit points last until the 
beginning of your next turn {at which point any remaining bonus hit points 
are lost), and any damage dealt to that ally comes out of bonus hit points 
first. You take a -5 penalty on all Use the Force checks until the beginning 
of your next turn. ; 

Improved Consular's Vitality: Whenever you damage a target with a 
successful lightsaber attack, you may use the Consular’s Vitality talent as 
a free action instead of a swift action until the start of your next turn. 


New Jedi Guardian Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Guardian talent tree (see page 
40 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the 
Jedi class. Any character who can normally choose talents from the Jedi 
Guardian talent tree can choose from these talents as well. 

Exposing Strike: When you use a lightsaber to deal damage to a target, 
you can spend a Force Point to make that target flat-footed until the end 
of your next turn. 

Guardian Strike: Whenever you use a lightsaber to deal damage to a 
target, that target takes a -2 penalty on attack rolls against any target other 
than you until the beginning of your next turn. 


New Jedi Sentinel Talents 

The following new talents belang to the Jedi Sentinel talent tree (see page 
40 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the 
Jedi class. Any character who can normally choose talents from the Jedi 
Sentinel talent tree can choose from these talents a5 well. 

Sentinel’s Observation: If you have concealment against a target, you 
gain a +2 circumstance bonus on attack rolls against that target. 

Unseen Eyes; Whenever you use the Force Haze talent, allies hidden by 
the haze can reroll any Perception check, keeping the better result. Addition- 
ally, allies hidden by the haze gain +2 on all damage rolls against foes that 
are unaware of them. 

Prerequisites: Clear Mind, Force Haze. 


NOBLES 

The Clone Wars can be difficult for nobles. Those nobles who are members of 
noble houses or corporations on disputed worlds might find their resources 
drained by one faction or another, and others’ homes and livelinoods are 
completely destroyed when conflict comes to their home planet. Though 
nobles can fill their traditional role, the Clone Wars provide opportunities for 
nobles to see what life is like for most citizens of the galaxy. When a battle 
between the Separatists and the Republic literally destroys everything they 
know and love, many nobles turn to a life among the stars, using their skills 
and knowledge to their advantage. With nothing left to lose, some nobles 
flee their homeworlds, seeking a haven safer and farther from the war, only 
to find themselves drawn back in. 

By the same token, many nobles find their own place in the war. Those 
nobles whose wealth ties them to the various commercial institutions that 
make up the Confederacy find it in their best interests to contribute to the 
war effort. Nobles serve as officers aboard Separatist starships ar lead 
ground troops into battle. Other nobles are not so eager to throw their sup- 
port in with the Separatists, despite their financial ties, and instead turn 
their back on the Confederacy to support the Republic. Those nobles who do 
not become military officers (on one side of the conflict or the other) might 
fight to protect their interests or to expand their influence and profit from 
the chaos of war. Many nobles find themselves on worlds occupied by the 
factions they do not support, and to survive they put on a friendly face for 
their new masters while secretly working against them from within. Even 
though these nobles might be branded as traitors or collaborators, they know 
in their hearts where their true loyalties lie. 


NEw NOBLE TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the noble class. 


Collaborator Talent Tree 
Some nobies learn to work both sides of the conflict in war and can manipu- 
late their enemies into believing they are allies. 

Double Agent: When you roll Initiative at the beginning of combat, 
also roll a Deception check, comparing the result to the Will Defense of all 
enemies in line of sight. If your Deception check is successful, that target 
cannot attack you and does not believe you to be an enemy (though they do 
not consider vou an ally) while this effect is active. If you attack or otherwise 
obviously harm or hinder a target under the effeet of this talent, or one of 
that target’s allies, this effect ends. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. 


Enemy Tactics: Whenever an enemy within 12 squares of you and in 
your iine of sight receives an insight or morale bonus from any source, you 
can also gain that bonus, subject to all the same limitations as the bonus 
provided to that enemy. 

Feed Informatian: As a swift action, you can grant one enemy a +? 
bonus on its next attack roll made before the beginning of your next turn, 
Additionally, until the beginning of your next turn, you can designate one 
ally who receives a 42 bonus on its next attack roll. 

Friendly Fire: If you are engaged in melee combat with an adjacent 
enemy and are the target of a ranged attack that misses you, compare the 
attack roll to the Reflex Defense of one adjacent enemy; if the attack equals 
or exceeds the target's Reflex Defense, that enemy becomes the new target 
of the attack, which is resolved as normal. 

Prerequisite: Enemy Tactics. 

Protection: As a standard action, you can designate onc ally and make 
a Persuasion check, comparing the result against the Will Defense of all 
enemies in your line of sight who can hear and understand you. If your check 
result equals or exceeds a target's Will Defense, that target cannat attack 
the ally you designated until the beginning of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Double Agent. 


Loyal Protector Talent Tree 
Asa result of your station, occupat on, or even just your natura! Charisma, you 
can attract one or more faithful followers who protect you from harm. 

Inspire Loyalty: You gain a single follower. Choose either the aggres- 
sive, defensive, or utility follower template for your follower, generating the 
follower’s statistics based on the rules on page 32. This follower gains one 
Armar Proficiency feat of your choice and becomes trained in the Perception 
skill. The follower must meet the prerequisites for the Armor Proficiency 
feat you select. 

You can seleet this talent multiple times. Each time you do, you gain one 
additional follower (maximum of 3 followers). 

Undying Loyalty: Each of your followers gains the Toughness feat. 

Prerequisite: Inspire Loyalty. 

Punishing Protection: As a reaction to you being damaged by an attack 
or a Force power, one of your followers can make an immediate melee or 
ranged attack against the target that attacked you. Until the beginning 
of your next turn, any time you are damaged by an attack or Force power, 
another one of your followers can attack that attacking target. This ability 
can be used once per encounter. 

Prerequisites: Inspire Loyalty, base attack bonus +5. 


Protector Actions: You and your follawers have learned tw work together 
to great cffect, ensuring that you remain safe while allowing them to do their 
duty. You can use any of the following actions on your turn. 

© Bodyguard: As a standard action, you can make a melee or ranged attack 
against a target within range. Until the end of your next turn, if that 
target damages you with an atteck or a Force power, as a reaction you 
can choose to redirect the attack or Force power to an adjacent follower; 
the attack or Farce power is resolved against tha¢ ally a8 normal. 

* Diversian Attock: As a standard action, you can make a melee or ranged 
attack against a target within range. I{ that target attacks you or one of 
your allies before the beginning of your next turn, you can move one of 
your followers up to its speed directly toward that target. 

¢ The Best Defense: As a standard action, you can make a melee or ranged 
attack against a target within range. For each of your followers armed 
with a ranged weapon and having line of sight to the target, that target 
takes a -1 penalty on attack rolls until the beginning of your next turn. 
Prerequisite: Inspire Loyalty. 


SCOUNDRELS 


The scoundrel flourishes during the C ane Wars, because the shifting lines of 
battle and utter chaos create an environment in which she can thrive. With 
both the Republic and the Separatists engaged in a long, drawn-out war, 
resources used to keep the peace and enforce the law are instead diverted 
to enhance military assets. Though planetary police forces and the Sector 
Rangers continue to enforce the law, they find themselves without the ships, 
personnel, and credits necessary ta Go their jobs, letting scoundrels get away 
with more than before. Smugglers, pirates, and black marketcers take the 
opportunity to expand their influence during the Clone Wars, extending their 
operations into new systems and sectors where they previously had little 
influence. A scoundrel character can seek to take advantage of the havoc 
wreaked upon the galaxy by war, looking to make credits while the attention 
of the Republic is elsewhere. 

Alternatively, many scoundrels find themselves drawn into the Clone Wars, 
finding more legitimate employment as a result of increased need. Many 
smugglers cease to transport contraband and instead become iegitimate 
Shippers of weapons and suppties, giving up a life of crime thanks to the 
generous contracts handed out to independent traders by both the Republic 
and the Confederacy. Both sides of the conflict seek out pirates, offering 
them commissions to act as privateers that prey only on the members of the 
opposing faction. Though mostly the domain of the Separatists, bounty hunt- 
ers and assassins find themselves on the payrolls of factions involved in the 
war, serving as mercenaries, bodyguards, and leaders. Any scoundrels whose 
skills allow them to work well with others can surely find a place alongside 
one of the factions in the Clane Wars, because both sides of the conflict 
engage in tactics far outside the realm of proper military protocol. 


a 
I 
> 
|v 
\4 
fs] 
2 


SMVHL SIGESF) 


SLIVEL MOWAT) 


18] 
iI 
|> 

v 

4 

a 

2 


NEw SCOUNDREL TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the scoundrel class. 


New Misfortune Talent 

The following new talent belongs to the Misfortune talent tree (see page 
46 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available 10 members of the 
scoundre! class. Any character who can normally choose talents from the 
Misfortune talent tree can choose this taient as weil. 

Stymie: Once per round, a a swift action, you can designate a target 
within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight as the target of this talent. 
Until the beginning of your turn, you can cause that target to take a -5 
penalty on all checks made with a single skill. You must have line of sight 
to your target to make use of this talent, and declare which skill is to be 
penalized at the time this talent is activated. 

This is a mind-affect ng effect 


Opportunist Talent Tree ; 

Profiteers, gunrunners, and privateers can use the chads of war to make a 
tidy profit, and you are no exception, Your talents allow you ta make the 
best of a bad situation, keep your pockets filled with credits, and keep you 
alive long cnough to spend them. 

Advantageous Opening: When an enemy or ally in your line of sight rolls 
a natural 1 on an attack roll, you can make a melee or ranged attack against 
a single target within range. 

Retribution: When a target moves one of your allies in your line of sight 
down the condition track by any means, you gain a +2 insight bonus to your 
attack roils against that target until the end of your next turn. 

Slip By: When you damage a target, until the beginning of your next turn, 
you can move through that target's space. Moving through the target's space 
might still provoke attacks of opportunity as normal, and you must end your 
movement in a legal space. 

Thrive on Chaos: When an enemy or ally within 20 squares of you Is 
reduced to 6 hit points, you gain bonus hit points equal to 5 + one-half 
your character level. Damage is subtracted from banus hit points First, and 
any bonus hit points remaining at the end of the encounter go away. Bonus 
hit points do mot stack. 

Prerequisite: Advantagtous Opening. 

Vindication: When an enemy you have damaged Is reduced to Ohit points 
of moved to the bottom ef the condition track, your next attack made before 
the end of the encounter deals +1 die of damage. 

Prerequisite: Retribution. 


scours 

The Clone Wars send agents of both the Republic and the Confederacy 
to far-flung worlds in search of resources to exploit. Many rely on local 
guides to keep them from getting lost in the unfamiliar wilderness, and 
scout heroes become entangled in the conflict in such a way. The Republic 
and the Confederacy hire scout heroes either as guides or trackers, but also 
sometimes as advanced scouts, bounty hunters, and even assassins. Thanks 
to the expansive nature of the Clone Wars, major conflicts take place on 
undeveloped, wild worlds where the skills of a scout are extremely valuadle. 
Without scouts, both the Republic aind the Separatists would have a mare 
difficult time finding their way across planets like Felucia and Saleucami, 
both of which see significant activity during the Clone Wars. 

Moreover, scouts find themselves thrust inta the Clone Wars against 
their will simpiy by living on out-of-the-way worlds that become hot spots 
for military activity. Though actual conscriptions are rare, many scouts are 
scooped up by occupying forces and pressed into service. Though the occu- 
piers pay these scouts, they have little choite in accepting the job. Other 


scouts willingly join one faction or the other, and many of the Republic's 
and Separatists’ best scouts do not officially jain either faction until the war 
comes to their home planets. Regardless of how the hero is drawn into the 
conflict, scouts have skills that are hot commodities during the Clone Wars. 
Asa result, scouts see working fer one faction or another during the Clone 
Wars as a way to make some easy credits and also improve their standing 
with the winning faction. 


NMWEw Scout TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the scout class. 


Reconnaissance Talent Tree 
You have learned to work in concert with a team to provide the best recon- 
naissance and cover as much ground as possible. 

Reconnaissance Team Leader: You gain a single foflower. Choose either 
the aggressive, defensive, or utility follower template for your follower, 
generating the follower's statistics using the rules on page 32. This follower 
gains the Skill Training feat for the Perception and Stealth skills, Additionally, 
whenever you use the Stealtih skill, all your followers can also make Stealth 
checks as a part of the same action if they are able to. 

You can select this talent mult ple times. Each time you do, you gain one 
additional follower (maximum of three followers). 

Close-Combat Assault: Each of your followers gains the Point Blank 
Shot feat. 

Prerequisite: Reconnaissance Team leader. 

Get Inta Position: As a move action, you can cause one of your followers 
to move up to his or her speed +2 squares. 

Prerequisites: Reconnaissance Team Leader, base attack bonus +5. 

Reconnaissance Actions: You and your reconnaissance team have 
learned to work together as a cehicsive unit and have an established set 
of tactics, which you have practiced to perfection. You can use any of the 
following actions on your turn. 

© Forward Scouting. AS a standard action, you can make a melee or ranged 
attack against 2 target in range. For each of your followers armed with 

a ranged weapon who has line of sight to your target, you can grant 

one ally 2 +2 insight bonus on attack rolls against your target until the 

beginning of your next turn. Trus, if you have multiple armed followers 
with line of sight to the target, you can grant the +2 bonus to multiple 
allies. 

® (Group Sniping: As a standard action, you can make a melee or ranged 
attack against a target in range. For cach of your followers armed with 

a ranged weapon who has line of sight to your target, you and each of 

your followers gains a +1 circumstance bonus to Stealth checks until 

the end of your next turn. 


® Sweep the Area: As a standard action, you can make a melee or ranged 
attack against a target in range. For each of your followers armed with 
a ranged weapon who has line of sight to your target, you and each of 
your followers gains a4 +1 circurrstance on Perception checks until the 
eng of your next turn. 
Prerequisite: Reconnaissance Team Leader. 


Surveillance Talent Tree 
You have mastered the art of surveillance, transforming the information you 
gather with scouting into a distinct advantage on the battlefield. 

Advanced Intel: if you are not surprised at the beginning of combat, 
you can use the Spotter talent as a free action on your first turn, including 
curing the surprise round. 

Prerequisite: Spotter. 

Hidden Eyes: If you have concealment from a taroct, you gain a +5 
circumstance bonus on all Perception checks made against that target. 

Hunt the Hunter: When you use a standard action to actively look for 
hidden enemies (as per the Notice Targets application of the Perception skill), 
you can make a single meice or ranoed attack against any one enemy you 
notice with your Perception check. 

Seek and Destroy: If you make a charge attack against a target that 
iS unaware of you, that target cannot make a Pereeption check to notice 
you until after the attack is resolved, even if you move away from cover or 
concealment 

Prerequisite: Hidden Eyes, 

Spotter: As a move action, you can make a Perception check with a DC 
equal to 10 + the CL of a single target enemy in your line of sight. If you 
suceted on the check, you and all your allies that can hear and understand 
you gain a +1 insight bonus on attack rolls against that target until the end 
of your mext turn. 


SOLDIERS 


The Clone Wars are a soldier's dream. With two major factions struggling 
for control of the galaxy, soldiers find themselves in high demand on both 
sides of the battlefield. Professional soldiers, including members of planetary 
militias, lend their expertise to the Republic or the Separatists. Some become 
mercenaries, acting as blasters-for-hire for the highest bidder. Others fight 
out of idealism, standing by their principles as they support the Republic 
or secede with the Confederacy. The Clone Wars present a straightforward 
conflict between two forces of relatively equal power, and the toughness 
and cunning of soldiers can tip the scales of any given battle. 

Soldiers are everywhere during the Clone Wars. The clones and droids 
fighting on either side have soldiers among them (and players might choose 
to create heroic clone or droid characters). Pilots and vehicle operators in 
the Clone Wars are soldiers, as are gunners manning artillery stations. Most 


i eaBaLawHo 


| 
| 


SBLHIVeL AQUSr) 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
@ 
2 


BLVD D@ve) 


soldiers specialize in a particular field during the Clone Wars, providing a 
specific service as a member of infantry units, Starfighter corps, or armor 
units, Heroic soldiers are usually more than rank-and-file troopers during the 
Clone Wars; many are officers (even low-level captains and lieutenants) com- 
manding larger groups 0” soldiers, and some are elite special forces soldiers— 
expected to be more talented and more deadly than other soldiers. 


NEw SOLDIER TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the soldier class. 


New Brawler Talent 

The following new talents belong to the Brawler talent tree (see page $2 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the soldier 
class, Any character who can normally choose talents from the Brawler talent 
tree can choose from these talents as well, 

Bayonet Master: Winen you take a full attack actron, you can treat a 
ranged weapon with a bayonet as a double melee weapon. You can attack 
with the bayonet and club a target with your ranged weapon (as with the 
Gun Club talent}, ignaring the normal penalties for attacking with both ends 
of a double weapon. 

Prerequisite: Gun Club, 

Unrelenting Assault: You launch yourself at your foe, attacking with 
weapons, limbs, and anything else available. Whenever you miss with a melee 
attack or the attack is negated, you still deal your Strength bonus in damage 
to the target (minimum 1) or 2 x your Strength bonus if you attack with a 
weapon you are weilding two-handed. 

Prerequisite: Melee Smash. 


New Commando Talent 

The following new talent belongs to the Commando talent tree (see page 
52 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of 
the soldier class. Any character who can normally choose talents from the 
Commande talent tree can choose this talent as weil. 

Keep Them at Bay: When you use the aid another action to suppress 
an enemy, that enemy takes a -5 penalty on its next attack instead of the 
normal -2 penalty. Only 1 character may gain the benefits of this talent 
against a given target at a time. 


Trooper Talent Tree 
in war, soldiers stand side by side against deadly foes, and you have learned 
how to keep yourself and your comrades alive in battle. 

Comrades in Arms: Whenever you are within 3 squares of ain ally, you 
gain a +1 circurmstance Sonus On all melee and ranged attack rolls. 

Focused Targeting: When you damage a target with a melee or ranged 
attack, all allies within 3 squares gain a +2 bonus on damage rolis against 
that target until the beginning of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Comrades in Arms. 


Phalanx: Whenever you provide soft caver to an ally within 3 squares, 
you are considered ta be providing improved cover. 

Prerequisite: Watch Your Back. 

Stick Together: You can spend a move action to activate this talent. 
Until the beginning of your next turn, if an ally moves you can immediately 
move up to your speed as a move action, provided you end your movement 
within 3 squares of that ally, 

Prerequisite: Comrades n Arms, 

Watch Your Back: If ycu are adjacent to at least one ally, enemies gain 
no benefit from flanking you or any adjacent allies. 


Squad Leader Talent Tree 
You are a capable military leader who can issue orders to a Squad of soldiers 
with poise and efficiency. 

Commanding Officer: You gain a single follower. Choose either the 
aggressive, defensive, or utility follower template for your follower, generat- 
ing the foilower's statistics using the rubes on page 32. This follower gains 
one Armor Proficiency feat of your choice and Weapon Proficiency (rifles), 
in addition to those provided by the follower templates. The follower must 
meet the prerequisites for the Armor Proficiency feat you select. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do, you gain one 
additional follower (maximum of three followers). 

Coordinated Tactics: Each of your followers gains the Coordinated Attack 
feat (see page 83 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), provided he meets the 
prerequisite. lf your follower later meets the prerequisite for the feat, he 
gains the feat at that time. 

Prerequisite: Commanding Officer. 

Fire at Wilt: As a full-round action, you and one of your followers can 
make a ranged attack against one target (each) in line of sight. You each 
take a -5 penalty to your attack rolls. 

Prerequisites; Commanding Officer, base attack bonus +5. 

Squad Actions: You and your squad have learned to work together as 
a team, and have an established set of tactics that you have practiced to 
perfection. You ¢an use any of the following actions on your turn. 

@ Autofire Barrage: As a standard action, you can make an autofire attack 
against legal target spaces. For each of your followers who is armed 
with a ranged weapon set on autofire and has line of sight to the area 
targeted by your autofire, you can designate one additional square as 
targeted by your autofire (that square must be adjacent to your original 
target area). 

© Open Fire: As a standard action, make a ranged attack against a single 
target. For cach of your followers who is armed with a ranged weapon 
and has line of sight to the target, add +2 to your damage roll on a 
successful hit. 


e Painted Target: As a standard action, make a ranged attack against a 
single target. You gain a competence bonus on your attack roll equal to 
the number of your followers who are armed with a ranged weapon and 
have line of sight to the target. Thus, if you have three armed followers 
with line of sight to the target, you gain a +3 competence bonus on 
your attack roll. 

Prerequisite: Commanding Officer. 


SKILLS 

Skills in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition cover a broad range af 
uses under their general titles. Below are new specific uses for some of the 
skills in the game. However, a skill could apply in situations even when specific 
rules are not provided in the skill description. It is up to the Gamemaster to 
determine when a skill is applicao’¢, or if an ability check is more suitabie. 


KNOWLEDGE (TACTICS) 

Heroes in a Clone Wars campaign often find themselves on the field of 
battle, and only the quick minds of military leaders can ensure that the 
heroes survive or even emerge victorious. The following new applications 
of the Knowledge (tactics) skill can be used in any era but are particularly 
relevant to the Clone Wars. 

Anticipate Enemy Strategy (Trained Only): A good tactician can antici- 
pate her enemy's movements and strategies, and then plan accordingly. As 
a mave action, a character trained in Knowledge (tactics) can designate a 
target in her line of sight and make a Knowledge (tactics) check to anticipate 
the enemy's next move. The DC for the check is equal to the target’s Will 
Defense, or 10 + the target's CL if the target does not have a Will Defense 
(as is the case for vehicles without unique pilots). 

If successful, you gain special insight into the target's strategy and 
can anticipate its next move. You learn what actions the target is likely to 
take on its next turn based on the current circumstances; if circumstances 
enange, the target's actions might change as well, though typically unless 
the situation changes drastically you should have a good idea of the target's 
likely next action. The Gamemaster is the final arbiter of just how much 
information you gain through the use of this skill. Typically this does not 
include information on the use of talents or feats, but it should provide 
information on whether the target is going to attack, who the target intends 
to attack, where the target might move to, or any other special strategies 
the target might employ. 

Battlefield Tactics (Trained Only): If you are the commander in a unit 
during mass combat, you can use your tactical knowledge to grant extra 
standaré actions to other characters in your unit (see “Mass Combat” on page 
95). The base check DC for this application of the skill is 20, and it requires 
three swift actions made on consecutive rounds to activate. 


PERCEPTION 

The vattieficids of the Clone Wars are confusing, hazardous places where 
danger can rise from anywhere to strike without warning. Scouts and other 
forward units are critical to the success of a faction during 2 battle. The 
following new application of the Perception skil! can be used in any era but 
is particularly relevant to the Clone Wars. 

Long-Range Spotter (Trained Only; requires electrobinoculars): 
Though anyone can use electrobinoculars to see objects at a distance, those 
trained in the Perception skill can g ean particularly useful insights from 
their long-range observation. You can aid another on an altack roll (see 
page 151 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) made by an ally or allied vehicle 
by making a DC 10 Perception check instead of an attack roll. You must be 
able to see the target of the attack through the electrobinoculars, and your 
target must be at least 50 squares (character scaie) from both you and the 
ally you aid. Your ally must be able to hear and understand you to use this 
application of the Perception skill. 


| 
| 
| 


i esiedvHoa 


jl BH@LagVvHo 


{ 
{ 
{ 
{ 


SHveL oerver) 


SURVIVAL 

Since many of the battles of the Clone Wars take place on worlds hostile to 
Humans and other species, it should come as no Surprise that the Survival 
skill is used extensively during this era. The foliowing new application of 
the Survival skiil can be used in any era but is particularly relevant to the 
Clone Wars. 

Create Defensive Position (Trained Only): A character trained in the 
Survival skill can make camp in a defensible position, digging trenches or 
otherwise preparing the excampment to defend against an attack. When 
you stop to rest [even in urban or otherwise civilized environments), you can 
take 10 minutes to prepare the place where you and your allies are resting 
as a defensive position. At the end of the 10 minutes, if you succeed on 2 
OC 20 Survival check, you prepare an area no bigger than 20x20 squares 
as a defensive position, While you and your allies sleep within that area, 
you take no penalty to Perception checks to notice targets. Furthermore, all 
creatures take a ~5 penalty on Stealth checks made within the prepared area. 
Lastly, you and ali allies qain a +2 circumstance bonus’ to Reflex Defense 
while within the area. If you and your allies abandon the defensive position, 
the effect ends. 

Special: Sleeping or unconscious characters take a -10 penalty on 
Perception checks. 


USE THE FORCE 

The Jedi generals of the Clane Wars do not all lead clones into battle; many 
serve in auxiliary capacity, such as the Jedi healers wha serve in Republic 
Mobile Surgical Units. The faliowing new application of the Use the Force skill 
can be used in any era but is particularly relevant to the Clone Wars. 

Move Light Object (Trained Only): You can use this application of the 
skill to catch and move a thrown weapon, such as grenades, that lands within 
your reach. The object can weigh no more than 5 ka. You must ready an action 
ta catch the object on your turn, before the object is thrown. Moving the 
object requires a Use the Force check, with a DC equal to the attack roll of 
the thrawn weapon. If you succeed on this check, you catch the object with 
the Force and can immediately move the object up to 6 squares away from 
you; otherwise, resolve the attack as normal. If the object you caught is an 
explosive, such a3 a grenade, it explodes at the end of its movement. You 
can use the object caught as a projectile weapon, as normal, 

Place Other in Force Trance (Trained Only); As a full-round action, you 
can place an adjacent willing ally that you touch into a Force trance with 
a DC 15 Use the Force check, In this state, the target ally rests as though 
in a deep coma and is considered helpless. Each hour the target remains in 
the trance, the target regains a number of hit points equal to its character 
level. You can bring an adjacent atly you touch out of a Force trarce as a 
swift action, but the target cannot otherwise come out of the Force trance 
on his or her own, If the target remains in the Force trance for 4 consecutive 
hours, the target emerges from the trance fully rested (as though the target 
had rested for 8 hours). 


While the target ally is in a Force trance, it can go ten times as long as 
normal without air, food, or water (sce the Endurance skill on page 66 of 
the Saga Edition core rutebook). Unwilling targets cannot be placed in a 
Force trance. 


FEATS 


The mew feats presented here are available in any era. Some feats are 
especially appropriate for Clane Wars campaigns and should contribute to 
character concepts commonly found in this time. 


ANOINTED HUNTER 
You have been anginted as a hunter for your tribe and possess skills Few 
other Nelvaanians do 

Prerequisite: Nelvaanian species. 

Benefit: If you end your move at least 2 squares from where you started, 
you gain a +1 competence bonus on attacks made with thrown weapons 
until the end of your turn 


ARTILLERY SHOT 
You have learned to usé the angle and distance between you and your target 
to devastating effect. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon used. 

Benefit: When you make an attack with a burst or splash weapon against 
a target at greater than point blank range, you can affect two additional 
squares adjacent to the normal burst or splash area. 


COORDINATED BARRAGE 
When you combine fice with an ally, your barrage can have devastating 
results on the attacker. 

Prerequisites: Coordinated Attack, base attack bonus +5. 

Benefit: When you aid an ally's attack, for every 3 points that the ally's 
attack roll beats the target's Reflex Defense, the attack deals +1 die of 
damage. The maximum number of bonus damage cice the attack reecives is 
equal to the number of allies with this feat that aided on the attack roll or 
+5 dice, whichever is lower. 


DROIDCRAFT 
You can repair droids quickly. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Benefit: You can perform repairs on a droid in 10 minutes. 

Normal: Repairing a droid typically takes 1 hour (see the Mechanics skill, 
page 70 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


DROID HUNTER 
You have learned to target the delicate parts of your droid opponents, taking 
advantage of their mechanical frailties. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon used. 

Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on damage roils against droid enemies, or 
+4 if you are using a weapon that deals ion damage. 


EXPERIENCED MEDIC 
You have spent so much time on the battlefield that patching up wounded 
allies has become second nature to you. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Treat Injury. 

Benefit: You can perform surgery (see page 74 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook) on a number of creatures equal to your Intelligence bonus (mini- 
mum 2) simultaneously. You make Treat Injury checks for each individual 
creature as normal. 


ANDUINTRD AuNTER 


BONUS FEATS ’ 
Some of the feats in this chapter may be selected as bonus feats by 
certain classes. Each class may ade the following feats to their relevant 
bonus feat list. 


Class Bonus Feats 


Jedi Unstoppable Force, Unwavering Resolve, Wary Defender 

Noble Experienced Medic, Leader of Droids, Unwavering Resolve, 
Wary Defender 

Scoundrel Droid Hunter, Droidcraft, Expert Droid Repair, 
Overwhelming Attack 

Scout Oroid Hunter, Droidcraft, Expert Droid Repair, 
Flash and Clear 

Soldier Artillery Shot, Coordinated Barrage, Droid Hunter, 


Experienced Medic, Flash and Clear, Flood of Fire, Grand Army 
of the Republic Training, Gunnery Specialist, Overwhelming 
Attack, Separatist Military Training, Trench Warrior, 
Unstoppable Force, Wary Defender 


ExPERT DROID REPAIR 
You can repair multiple droids simultaneously. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Benefit: You can repair a number o* droids equal to your Intelligence banus 
simultaneously, You make Mechanics checks for each droid as normal. 


FLASH AND CLBAR 
You can use the smoke, noise, light, and confusion caused by your grenade 
attacks to move unseen near your focs. 

Benefit: When you damage a target with a burst or splash weapon, you 
gain concealment against that target until the beginning of your next turn, 


FLOOO OF FIRE 
You fill the air with weapon fire, keeping your opponents (rom escaping 
the barrage. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon used. 

Benefit: When you make an area attack with a weapon set on aulofire, 
all targets in the area tase all dodge or deflection bonuses to Reflex Defense 
against the autofire attack, 


 eBtlevng 


FEAT NAME 
Anointed Runter 


Artillery Shot 
Coordinated Barrage 


Droideraft 

Droid Hunter 
Experienced Medic 
Expert Droid Repair 
Flash and Clear 
Flood of Fire 


Grand Army of the 

Republic Training 
Gunnery Specialist 
Jedi Familiarity 


Leader of Droids 
Overwhelming Attack 


Palt of the Dark Side 
Separatist Military Training 
Spray Shot 

Trench Warrior 


Unstoppable Force 


Unwavering Resolve 
Wary Defender 


PREREQUISITES 
Nelvaanian species 


Proficient with weapon used 


Coordinated Attack, 

base attack bonus +5 
Trained in Mechanics 
Proficient with weapon used 
Trained in Treat Injury 
Trained in Mechanics 


Proficient with weapon used 
Proficient with armar worn 


Base attack bonus +1 


Dark Side Score 1+ 


Trained in Perception 


BENEFIT 

Move 2 or more squares and gain a +1 bonus on attacks with thrown 
weapons until the end of your turn. 

You increase the efficacy of your burst and splash weapon attacks. 
Allow an ally to deal more damage when you aid his attack. 


Repair a droid in 10 minutes insteac of 1 hour 

Deal +2 damage to droid enemies, cr +4 when using an ion weapon. 

Perform surgery on multiple creatures simultaneously. 

Repair multiple droids simultaneously 

Gain concealment against a target you damage with a burst or splash weapon. 
Ignore enemies’ dodge and deflection bonuses to Reflex Defense when making 
area attacks with a weapon set on autofire. 

Apply your armor's equipment bonus to your Will Defense. 


Rerall an attack made with a vehicle weapon. 

Gain one temporary Force Point when targeted by an ally’s Force power 

or Force talent. 

Allied droids benefit from your beneficial mind-affecting effects. 

Any attempt to negate your attack takes a -5 penalty on the attack roll 

or skill check. 

Add half your Dark Side Score to Use the Farce checks to resist detection. 
Gain a +1 bonus on an attack roll while adjacent to an ally. 

When using a weapon Set on autofire, you can reduce the area to 1 square. 
When you have cover against a enemy's ranged attacks, gain a +1 bonus 
on attack rolls against that enemy. 

Gain a +5 bonus to Fortitude Defense and Will Defense against any effect 
requiring a Use the Force check. 

Gain a +5 bonus to Will Defense against Deception and Persuasion checks. 
Gain a +2 bonus to Fortitude Defense and Will Defense while fighting defensively. 


GRAND ARMY OF THE 
REPUBLIC TRAINING 
You have received basic training from the Grand Army of the Republic and 
know how to turn even bulky armor into an asset. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with ermor worn. 

Benefit: If you wear armor that provides an equipment bonus to your 
Fortitude Defense, you also apply the armor's equipment bonus to your Will 
Defense. 


GUNNERY SPECIALIST 
You are right at home in the gunrer's seat and use heavy artillery to great 
effect. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: While you are the qunner of a vehicle, you are considered 
proficient with vehicle weapons. Additionally, once per encounter, yau can 
reroll an attack roll made with a vehicle weapon, though you must keep the 
second result, even if it is worse. You can declare this reroll after you learn 
the result of the attack roll, but before damage is resolved. 

Special: Taking this feat satisfies the prerequisites for the Starship Tactics 
feat (page 20 of Starships of the Galaxy); however, unless you are trained in 
the Pilot skill and have the Vehicular Combat feat, you may only take [gunner] 
maneuvers when you select starship maneuvers for Starship Tactics. 


YUEDI FAMILIARITY 
You have worked alongside Jedi or other Force-users and have developed 
an excellent rapport. 

Benefit: Once per encounter, when you are targeted or affected by a 
Force power or Force talent originating from an ally, you gain one temporary 
Force Point, which must be spent tefore the end of the encounter or it goes 
away. If the Force power or Farce talent damages you or moves you down 
the condition track, you do not gain the benefit of this feat. 


LEADER OF DROIDS 
You are experienced in !eading droids, and you know how to direct them 
tactically. 

Benefit: Whenever you provide 2 beneficial, mind-affecting effect to 
your allies, you may select from among these allies a number of droids equal 
to your Intelligence moaifier (minimum 1). The droids you designate ignore 
their mind-affecting immunity with regards to this effect, provided they are 
willing to ignore this immunity. 


OVERWHELMING ATTACK 
You know how to get your attacks past enemy defenses, making sure they 
strike true, 

Benefit: You must spend two swift actions in the same round to activate 
this feat. If your target attempts to use a talent, feat, or other ability to 
negate your attack (such as Block, Deflect, or Vehicular Combat), the target 
takes a -S penalty to any attack rolls or skill checks it makes to negate the 
attack. This effect applies to the next attack you make before the end of 
the same round. 


PALL OF THE DARK SIDE 
You are adept at hiding yourself from Force-users, thanks to the haze of 
the dark side. 

Prerequisite: Dark Side Score 1+. 

Benefit: You can add one-half your Dark Side Scare (minimum 1} to any 
Use the Force checks made to resist attempts to detect you with the Sense 
Force application of the Use the Force skill. 


SEPARATIST MILITARY TRAINING 
You have received extensive training from the military of the Confederacy 
of Independent Systems and are familiar with its practices. 

Benefit: While you are adjacent to at least one of your allies, gain a +1 
circumstance bonus on any one attack roll you make on your turn. 


SPRAY SHOT 
You can fire a short burst at an enemy while protecting nearby allies from 
errant shots 

Benefit: When you have a weapon set on autofire, you can reduce the 
area targeted by your autofire attack to | square. 


TRENCH WARRIOR 
You have experience fighting in the trenches, and you know how ta use cover 
to your attack advantage. 

Benefit: When you are adjacent to a wall of object that provides you 
with cover from your target's ranged attacks, you gain a +1 circumstance 
bonus on your attack ralis against that target. 


UNSTOPPABLE FORCE 
Your constant exposure to Force-users has taught you methods of physically 
resisting their effect on you in battle. 

Benefit: You gain a +5 insight bonus to Fortitude Defense and Will 
Defense against any attack or effect requiring a Use the Force check. 


il BaldvHO 


BL aoeover) 


8 


i aaleavHD 


0 


SLVEL Hove) 


TRENCH WARRIOR 


UNWAVERING RESOLVE 
You are not easily swayed by the words of others, and can see through 
deceptions thanks to your keen mind. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Perception. 

Benefit: You gain a +5 insight bonus to Will Defense against Deception 
ang Persuasion checks. 


WARY DEFENDER 
Even in the heat of battle you can bulster yourseif against nearly anything 
that Comes your way. 

Benefit: When you use the fight defensively action (see page 152 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook), you gain a +2 competence bonus to your 
Fortitude Defense and Will Defense until the beginning of your next turn. 


FOLLOWERS 


Foliowers are nonheroie characters that act as your allies and agents during 
adventures. Unlike other NPC allies, fellowers are obtained through talents 
and augmented by abilitins of your chaosing. A player that selects follower- 
granting talents can chaose the sale, function, and abilities of those followers 
through further talent selection. Unlike a crime lord’s minions, follayers do 
not gain skills or feats as they advance in level, and many of their statistics 


are tied directly to the hero who spent talents and feats to gain them. How- 
ever, followers go on adventures with you and provide assistance, bath in 
comoat and In noncombat encounters, and otherwise function as members 
of your party. Followers are considered your allies, as well as the allies of 
your party members. 

In a Clone Wars campaign, foliowers give the heroes an opportunity to 
lead troops into battle, command a crack squad of Republic Cormmandos, 
control a group of mercenaries hired to do reconnaissance, or retain a retinue 
of guards fitting for a noble of stature. Though they serve the same functions 
as nonheroic allies, they ave different in that their actions are typically under 
the direct control of one of the herves. A Jedi hero might lead clone trooper 
followers into battle, while a noble might have a team of loyal protectors 
and decoys accompanying her as she traves the galaxy. These followers are 
not just mindless, faceless drones who obty the hera’s every bidding, Sut 
they do represent the many dackqround characters that assist heroes in one 
way or snother throughout the Star Wars saga. 

For an individual hero, the presence of failowers renresents a significant 
part of that character's development: icadership. When a hero takes a talent 
that grants followers, that nero has become a leader to a single follawer 
or small group of NPCs. Gamemasters that allow heroes to take fallower- 
granting talents should encourage these heroes to act as good leaders should, 
taking care of tneir followers, ensuring they sre healthy and prepare, and 
watching out for their emotional and physical welfare. 

Each individual Gamemaster can determine how much or how litti¢ time 
they devote to fleshing out the personalities and mannerisms of a hero's 
foilowers. For same, assigning a name to the follower is enough, out some 
Gamemasters might wish to flesh out the followers as thoroughly 2s they 
would major NPCs for a campaign. Gamemasters should aiso consult with 
their players to determine how much detail they would like for their follow- 
ers. For example, a hero leading a squad of clone troopers as followers might 
not care about his followers’ thoughts and motivations, and Gamemasters 
shauid be aware of how much attention their players want paid to faliowers’ 
personality details. 


HUMAN FOLLOWERS 

Since Human species traits grant a bonus feat and a bonus trained skill, 
Human followers gain no species bonus from the standard follower 
generation system. Instead, Human followers can choose one item from 
any template (other than their own follower template) and apply that to 
the follower's statistics instead. For example, a Human follower with the 
aggressive template could choose to gain the bonus to Reflex Defense 
from the defensive follower template, or a Human utility follower could 
choose the +2 bonus to Constitution from the aggressive follower. 


FOLLOWER STATISTICS 

A follower’s statistics are determined by your heroic level, so when you 
jake a talent that grants you a follower, you need not worry about building 
a character completely from scratch. Similarly, as you gain levels, the fol- 
lower's statistics improve, helping your followers stay active as your Campaign 
progresses. When you gain a foliower, you can build a full stat block for that 
follower by using the guidelines presented below. 

Level: Your followers are considered to be the same level as your hero. 
Followers are considered nonheroic characters but gain none of the benefits 
of the nonheroic class (see page 277 wf the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Species: When you receive a follower, you can select the fallower's 
species, applying that species’ traits to the statistics of the follower. Your 
followers never gain bonus feats from their species traits. 

Initiative: Followers do not meke Initiative checks. They act on the hero's 
turn, as the hero must spend actions to activate them. 

Destiny and Force Points: Fallawers do not receive Destiny Points or 
Force Points, nor do they have destinies. Any effect that would give a fol- 
lower a Force Point, use a follower’s Force Point, or otherwise interact with 
the follower’s Farce Points and Destiny Points have no effect. 

Dark Side Score: Followers have Dark Side Scores (though they begin 
with no score), which increase as they commit acts that would warrant an 
increase normally. 

Languages: A follower speaks its native languages, plus it has at least 
one language in common with you (usually Basic), 

Defenses: A follower has a Reflex Defense, Fortitude Defense, and Will 
Defense equal 10 10 + the relevant ability score modifier + your heroic level. 
Some talents and effects aflow you ta increase these defenses, and the basic 
follower templates can also include bonuses for individual defenses. Any bonus 
to Reflex Defense from armor does not stack with the bonus from your heroic 
level. If the follower is wearing armor, use the higher of the two bonuses. 

Hit Points: A follower has a number of hit points equal to 10 + your 
heroic level. 

Damage Threshold: A follower's damage threshold is calculated as normal 
(see page 146 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Base Attack Bonus: A follower's template determines its base attack 
bonus. Aggressive followers use the soldier base attack progression (see 
page 51 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), while defensive and utility fol- 
lowers use the scoundrel base attack progression (see page 45 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). 

Grapple: A follower's grapple Sonus is calculated as normal (see page 
153 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Ability Scores: A follower’s ability scores are all equal to 10, except as 
noted under each template. 

Talents and Feats: Followers do not gain talents or feats unless specified 
by the follower's template or talents ¢aken by your hero. This means they do 
not gain bonus feats from their species, even if they normally would gain one. 
Exception: All followers gain the Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) feat. 


Skills: Followers do not gain trained skills, though their untrained skill 
modifiers are calcufated as normal (one-half level + the relevant ability score 
modifier), Some templates and talents allow followers to become trained 
in certain skills. Followers do not gain bonus trained skills for having a high 
Intelligence. 

Possessions: All followers have starting credits equal te the starting 
credits for your first class, 


DROID FOLLOWERS 

Unlike the various alien species of the Star Wars universe, droids do not 
share a basic set of traits that can be used to quickly build a character. 
Heroes in a Clone Wars campaign with droid followers are likely to be mem- 
bers of the Confederacy (or at least working with the Separatists). Rather 
that restrict droid followers to a single model of droid, all droid followers 
use some of the same basic rules to cover their game mechanics, leaving 
the specifics of droid model and appearance up to the Gamemaster. The 
droids might be super battle droids, droid commandos, or IG-100 bodyquard 
droids depending on the needs and desires of the individual hero. 

However, droid followers come with some pitfalls that nondroid fol- 
lowers do not. It is much easier to upgrade the combat capabilities of a 
droid follower simply by purchasing equipment for it, such as hardened 
systems or personal shields. Gamemasters should be careful when 
allowing PCs to take droid followers, as they can quickly become more 
powerful than their nondroid counterparts. Gamemasters must carefully 
consider the repercussions of giving heroes too free a hand in modifying 
their droid followers. 

Use the following species traits when creating a droid follower: 

Ability Scores: Droid followers may choose to apply a +2 bonus to 
any ability score of their choice (except Constitution). 

Size: Droid followers should be Medium size. Gamemasters that wish to 
allow droid followers of different sizes can do so, but must make adjustments 
to statistics and locomotion speed based on the size of the follower. 

Speed: Droid followers can begin with walking locomotion or tracked 
locomotion, each of which confers a speed of 6 squares. 

Droid Traits: Droid followers have all of the droid traits and droid 
immunities. They follow all of the same rules as droids, as outlined on 
pages 187-188 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. All droid followers are 
considered to be fourth-degree droids, though Gamemasters are free to 
allow a different droid degree. Gamemasters should keep in mind, how- 
ever, that droids of other degrees typically have limitations placed on the 
actions they can take (specifically with regards to combat). 

Starting Equipment: Droid followers begin with a heuristic processor, 
2 arm appendages, and a locomotion system. They gain normal start- 
ing credits as per the follower rules, but these credits must be spent on 
nondroid equipment or the following droid accessories: appendages, 
communications devices, internal storage, sensors, or translator units. 


lf SaiavHo 


SBLVaL Sievert) 


SAIVEL AevVet-) 


ll eS@teavHaD 


FOLLOWER TEMPLATES 
When you gain a follower, you must choose one of three templates for your 
follower: the aggressive follower, the defensive follower, or the utility follower, 
These follower templates provide unique skills and other mechanical benefits 
for yaur follawers that rot only increase their usefulness but also prevent 
all your followers from having identical statistics (if you choose different 
templates for each fallower]. 

Nhen you gain a follower, chouse one template and apply the mechanical 
modifications indicated in that template to the statistics of your follower. 
Once chosen, a follower's template cannot be changed. 


The Aggressive Follower 
Aggressive followers are focused on attacks and depleting enemy resources. 
They are somewhat tougter than other foliowers because they put themselves 
in harm's way more often and are more fixely to attack an enemy target. 

Defenses: An aggressive follower gains a +2 bonus to Fortitude 
Defense. ; 

Base Attack Bonus: An agaressive follower uses the soidier class's base 
attack bonus progression (see page 51 of the Saga Edition core ru ebook}. 

Ability Scores: An aygressive follower gains a +2 bonus to Strength or 
Constitution {your choice). 

Trained Skills: Aggressive followers are trained in Endurance. 

Feats: Aggressive followers gain the Weapon Proficiency (pistals} feat. 


The Defensive Follower 
Defensive followers specialize in protecting themselves from damage and, 
similarly, holding a defensive position. Defensive follawers make excellent 
sunport fighters, laying down suppression fire or helping to hold a corridar 
against an invading force. 

Defenses: A defensive follower gains a +2 bonus to Reflex Defense. 

Base Attack Bonus: A defensive foliawer uses the scoundrel class's base 
attack bonus progression [see page 45 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Ability Scores: A defensive follower gains 2 +2 bonus to Dexterity or 
Wisdom (your cnoice}. 

Trained Skills: Defensive followers are trained in Endurance. 

Feats: Defensive followers gain the Armor Proficiency [light] feat. 


The Utility Follower 
Utility followers are typically skilled in several areas, allowing them to 
contribute to a variety of situations where skill checks are called for. Utility 
followers might be demolitians experts, slicers, saboteurs, ar any number of 
other professions that rely an skills to excel. 

Defenses: A utility fallower gains a +2 bonus te Will Defense. 

Base Attack Bonus: A utility foliower uses the scoundrel class's base 
attack bonus progression (see page 45 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Ability Scores: A utility follower gains a +2 bonus t% intetligence or 
Charisma (your choice). 

Skills: Utility followers are trained in one skill of your choice (except 
Ust the Force). 

Feats: Utility followers gain either the Armor Proficiency (light) feat 
or the Weapon Proficiency (pistols) feat (your choice at time of follawer 
creation). 


SAMPLE FOLLOWER: 
GAMMA-383 *TRENCH” 

The following stat block represents a sample follower fora level 7 soldier who 
has taken the Commanding Officer talent. Since the soldier is a member a° 
the Repubfic, he decides that his foltower is a special clone trooper assigned 
to follow his orders in preparation for life as a member of a commando squad. 
Wanting his follower to be more survivable, the hero cnooses the defensive 
follower template. Since the clone trooper is Human, the soldier also decides 
that his follower should take the Weapon Proficiency (pistols) feat from the 
aggressive follower template’s feats section. The clone trooper, designatec 
Gamma-383 by the Grand Army of the Republic, is nicknamed “Trench” due 
to fis penchant for hunkering down and holding a threatened position for 
long periods of time. 


Gamma-383 “Trench” CL 2 

Medium Human defensive follower 7 

Init acts on hero’s Initiative; Senses low-light vision, Perception +5 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 20 {flat-footed 19), Fort 19, Will 17 

hp 17; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (704) 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6) or 

Ranged frag grenade +6 (4d6} 

Base Atk +5; Grp +5 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifte) 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 00 

Special Qualities follower qualities 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +8 

Possessions clone trooper armor, blaster rifle, blaster pistol, 2 frag 
grenades 


FOLLOWER ACTIONS 
Unlike normal NPCs, followers have a limited array of actions that they can 
perform on any given round. They depend on you, the hevo, to direct them. 
Followers act on your initiative count and take actions based on the 
actions you choose to give them. Below is 2 summary of actions your fol- 
lowers can take (along with the action cost to you), both in character-scale 
combat and in vehicle and starship combat, 
You must have line of sight to your follower or be in communications with 
your follower ta be able to use any of the actions below. Other talents related 
to Foliowers might have their own action or range requirements, as well, 


Standard Actions 

You can give up your standard action to let one of your followers take a stan- 
dard action of its own. On any round in which an individual follower does not 
take a standard action (that is, if you do not grant that follower a standard 
action from the fist below or from a taient-granted ability), that follower rs 
considered to be fighting defensively as their standard action. 

As a standard action, you can cause one of your followers to take one of 
the following actions: 

Attack: The follower makes a melee or ranged attack against a legal 
target. Followers can use weapons set on different settings—such as autofire 
or stun—as normal. 

Aid Another: The follower uses the aid another action as normal. 

Charge: The follower makes a charge attack against a legal target. 

Fight Defensively: The follower takes the fight defensively action as 
normal (it can still make attacks of epportunity). 

Retrieve a Concealed Item: The follower retrieves an item conceared 
with the Stealth skill from his persor. 

Use Special Ability: If you have a talent that allows one of your followers 
to use a special ability as a standard action, it can do so. 


Move Actions 
As a move action, you can allow your followers to take one of the following 
actions: 

Draw or Holster a Weapon: When you use a move action to draw or 
holster a weapon, each of your followers can do the same. You can also use 
the action to jet one or more of your followers draw or holster a weapon, 
even if you do not. 

Manipulate an Item: Each of your fallowers can pick up an item, load a 
weapon, open or close a door, or move a heavy object. 

Move With You: When you take a move action to move, stand up, or 
withdraw, each of your follawers can move up to their speed, stand up, or 
withdraw as normal. Yau can also use the action to let one or more of your 
followers perform these actions, even if you do not. 


il eBLevHyD 


——) 


SHUVSL HOV 


WW HYesegvHgD 


Ses) 


es 


SHV, Sie 


Swift Actions 
As a swift action, you can allow your followers to take one of the following 
actions: 

Activate an Item: When you use a swift action to activate an item, tach 
of your followers can do the same. You can use the action to let one or more 
of your followers activate an item, even if you do not. 

Drop an Item: Wher you use a swift action to drop an item, each of your 
followers can do the same. You can use the action to let one or more of your 
followers drop an item, even if you do not. 

Fall Prone: When you use a swift action to fall prone, each of your fol- 
lowers can do the same. You can use the action to let one or move of your 
followers fall prone, even if you do not. 

Recover: When you use three swift actions to recover in the same 
round or on consecutive rounds, ¢ach of your followers can do the same. 
You can use the actions to lét one or more of your followers recover, even 
if you do not. 

Switch Weapon Mode: When you use a swift action to switch weapon 
made, each of your followers can da the Same. You cain use the action to let 
one or more of your followers switch weapon mode, even if you do not. 


Full-Round Actions 
As a full-round action, you can allow your followers to take the following 
action: 

Run: When you take a full-round action to run, each of your followers 
can run up to their normal run spéed. You can also use the action to iet one 
or more of your follawers perform this action, even if you do not. 


FOLLOWERS IN VEHICLES 

Followers can pilot or act as gunaers in vehicles just like any other NPC 
ally, However, they operate under the same action restrictions as they do 
in character-scale combat. A follower can take on any role on a Starship, 
including pilot, but the follower must abide by the same restrictions of that 
role that any other character wauld have. For example, follower pilots must 
still spend a move action piloting their ships. 


Standard Actions 

You can give up your standard actions to let one of your followers take a 
standard action of its own. On any round in which an individual follower in 
the pilot's role does not take a standard action (that is, if you do noz grant 
that follower a standard action from the list below or from a talent-granted 
ability), that follower is considered to be fighting defensively as their standard 
action, though normal penalties to the attacks of gunners still apply 

As a Standard action, you Can cause one of your followers to take one of 
the following actions: 

Attack: The follower makes a melee or ranged attack against a legal 
target, including an attack with a vehicle weapon. 

Aid Another: The follower uses the aid another action as normal, The 
normal rules for the aid another vehicle action still apply. 

Attack Run: The follower can make an attack run against a legal target, 
provided that follower is the pilot of the vehicle. Followers acting as gunners 
cannot coordinate their attacks with this attack run, since they require a 
standard action to ready or make attacks. 

Dogfight: The follower initiates or participates in a dogfight. When 
engaged in a doofight, your follower can attack or disengage as normal, 
Follow all the normai rules for dogfighting. Followers can initiate a dogfight 
as an attack of opportunity as normal, but this counts as your one attack of 
opportunity for the round (see “Attacks of Opportunity” below). 

Fight Defensively: The follower takes the fight defensively action as 
normal; it can still make attacks of opportunity. Your follower must be the 
pilot of the vehicle to take this action. 

Use Special Ability: If you have a talent that ailows one of your fo lowers 
to use a Special ability as 2 standard action, the follower can do so. 


Move Actions 
As a move action, you can cause your followers to take one of the follow- 
ing actions: 

Move Vehicle With You: When you take a move action to move your 
vehicle, each of your followers can move a vehicle they pilot up to their 
vehicle's speed. You can also use the action (0 let one or more of your fal- 
lowers perform this action, even if you do not. 


Swift Actions 
As a swift action, you can allow your followers to take ane of the following 
actions: 

Full Stop: When you take a swift action to bring a vehicle to a full stop, 
one or more af your followers pilotiag 2 vehicle can take the full stop action 
as well. You can also use the action to let one or more of your followers 
perform this action, even if yau do not. 

Increase Vehicle Speed: Whea you take a swift action to increase vehicle 
speed, one or more of your followers piloting a vehicle can take the increase 
vehicle speed action as well. You can also use the action to let one or more 
of your followers perform this action, even if you do not. 

Raise or Lower Shields: When you take a swift action to raise or lower 
shields, one or more of your followers acting as system operator can raise or 
lower shields on their vehicles as well. You can also use the action to lec one 
or more of your followers perform this action, even if you do not. 

Recharge Shields: When you spend 3 swift actions in the same round or 
‘on consecutive rounds ta recharge shields, you can also Jet one or more of 
your followers acting as system operator make a DC 20 Mechanics check to 
increase their vehicles’ shicld rating by 5, up to the vehicle's normal maximum. 
You can also use the action to tet one of more of your fallowers perform this 
action, even if you do not, 

Reroute Power: Whenever you spend 3 swift actions in the same round 
or on consecutive rounds to reroute power, you can also let one or more of 
your followers acting as enginger make a DC 20 Mechanics check to move 
their vehicles +1 step on ithe condition track. You can also use the action to 
{et one or mare of your followers perform this action, even if you do not. 


Full-Round Actions 
As a full-round action, you can allow your fallawers to take the follawing 
action: 

All-Out Movement: When you take a full-round action to move your 
vehicle using the all-out movement action, each of your followers can take 
the all-out movement action for vehicles they pilot as well. You can also use 
the action to let one or more of your followers perform this action, even if 
you do nal. 


ATTACKS OF OPPORTUNITY 

Like a normal hero, followers that threaten can make attacks of opportunity 
as normal, However, any attack of opportunity made by a follawer counts as 
an attack of opportunity made dy you. 


EQUIPPING A FOLLOWER 

Followers gain starting credits and can use (hose credits to purchase equip- 
meat. A hero can provide equipment to his followers, though their limited 
number of armor and weapon proficiencies keeps fallawers from becoming 
walking arsenals. Followers must abide by the normal rules for carrying 
capacity and encumbrance, though they are otherwise uarestricted in the 
kinds or amounts of equipment they can use. 


FOLLOWER DBATH 

When a follower is reduced to O hit poimis by an attack that exceeds its 
damage threshold, it dies. However, you can spend a Force Point to prevent 
the follower from dying just as you would prevent yourself from dying from 
@ similar wound. An attack that reduces a follower to O hit points but does 
not exceed the follower’s damage threshold causes the follower to go uncon- 
scious (apply the normal rules for unconsciousness, death, and dying). 

(fa follower dies, you do aat lose the benefils of the talent that granted 
you the follower. You caa recruit another follower to replace a dead one, 
abiding by the normal rules for gaining a follower at that point. Recruiting a 
new follower usually requires 8 hours of searching and recruitment, though 
Gamemasters can shorten or lengthen this amount of time dased on the 
circumstances. However, Gamemasters should be careful aot to delay this 
recruitmeat far too long, because until the hero gains a replacement follower, 
that hero is a1 a disadvantage. 


il eSBsagvHga 


Svat sever 


CHAPTER III 


RESTIGE CLASSES 


°? 


~ 


e classes offer more options for heroes and GM characters than 
ould normally be available to them. They allow characters to spe- 
| particular areas, and they sometimes allow characters to be more 


ter cannot start as a member of a prestige class. Abilities 

prestige classes can be granted only by meeting the stated 
's, which usually require the character to be at least mid level. 
, the prestige class might also have requirements that are not 
e rules but must be met in game, such as having membership 
lar organization. 


jore appropriate for GM characters and might be considered off-limits to 
eroic characters. You should consult your GM before steering your character 
toward a particular prestige class. 


New TALENTS 


The following new talents have proven useful to those characters in a Clone 
Wars campaign. 


ACE PILOT TALENT : 
The following new talent is intended for use with the Ace Pilot prestige class 
(see page 206 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


New Expert Pilot Talent 

The following talent expands the Expert Pilot talent tree (see page 207 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Renowned Pilot: Your reputation as a skilled pilot precedes you and 
bolsters the resolve of your allies. All allies within 6 squares of a vehicle 
you pilot can reroll one Pilot check, keeping the better result. Once an ally 
has used this ability, that same ally cannot gain this talent’s benefit during 
the same encounter. 


EvItTe TROOPER TALENTS 
The following new talent trees are intended for use with the Elite Trooper 
prestige class (see page 211 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Melee Specialist Talent Tree 

Your skill with hand-to-hand combat is unmatched, and you can wield melee 
weapons with lethal accuracy and power. 

Accurate Blow: Choose one exotic melee weapon or one of the following 
weapon groups in which you are proficient: advanced melee weapons, light- 
sabers, or simple weapons. When you make a melee attack with a weapon 
from the chosen group and the attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense 
by 5 or more, you deal +1 die of damage with the attack. 


v 
0 
0 
0 
4 
0 
t) 
0 
r 
> 
0 
r) 
0 
) 


| | 


Nl ¥8ievHs 


Close-Quarters Fighter: Wrenever you occupy the same square as your 
targtt or are adjacent 10 your target, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to 
your melee attack rolls against that target 

Ignore Armor: Once per encounter, when you make a melee attack, 
you Can ignore any armror or equipment bonuses granted by your target's 
armor. 

Improved Stunning Strike: When you Jamage an opponent with a melee 
attack that maves the target down the condition track, the target cannot take 
any action requiring a standard or full-round action on its next tum, 

Prerequisite: Stunning Strike. 

Whirling Death: You twirl your weapon around you in a blur, creating a 
circit of death around you. Any tnemy target that begins its turn adjacent 
to you takes damage equal to your Strength bonus. You must be wielding 3 
melee weapon to use this talent. 

Prerequisites. Melee Smash, Unrelenting Assauit. 


Republic Commando Talent Tree 
You have demonstrated that you are a highly skilled and capable soldier for 
the Republic and work well in a commando squad. 

Ambush: When you successfully hit an opponent that has not yet acted 
in combat, you deal +2 dice of damage with the attack. 

Higher Yield: Once cer encounter, you can choose to deal +1 die of 
damage with a single grenade or other explosive. 

Prerequisite: Trained im the Demolitions skill. 


REPUBLIC. COMMANDOS ATTACK « MOMING SPIDER ORO'C, 


Rapid Reload: You can retrieve a stored energy cell and reload your 
weapon asa single swift action. 

Shoulder to Shoulder: Whenever you begin your turn adjacent to an ally, 
you gain a number of bonus hit points equal to your heroic level. Damage is 
subtracted fram the bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining 
at the end of the encounter go away. Bonus hit points from various sources 
do not stack. 

Strength in Numbers: If yau are within 10 squares of an ally, you can 
add +2 to your DR. 

Weapon Shift: If you us¢ a ranged weapon as a melee weapon (as 
with the Gun Club talent), you gain a +2 bonus to melee attack rolls with 
that weapon. 

Prerequisite: Gun Club. 


FORCE ADEPT TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the Force Acept prestige 
class (ste page 212 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


New Force Item Talents 
The following talents expand the Force Item talent tree (see page 214 af the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Focused Force Talisman: When you create a Force talisrnan (see page 
214 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), you can select a single Force power 
from your Force suite. Whenever you are wearing this talisman and activate 
the selected Farce power, you can spend a Force Point to immediately regain 
that spent power, adding it to your Force suite. 

Preregissite: Force Talisman. 

Greater Focused Force Talisman: As Focused Force Talisman [see above), 
except that a Force Point spent to immediately recover the selected power does 
nat count against the “one per turn” restriction on spending Force Points. 

Prerequisites: Force Talisman, Focused Force Talisman. 


GUNSLINGER TALENT 
The following new talent is intended for use with the Gunslinger prestige 
class (see page 216 of the Saga Edition care rulebook). 


New Gunslinger Talents 
The following talent expands the Gunslinger talent tree (see page 216 of the 
Saga Edition core ruleboox). 

Blind Shot: You ignare the penalties on your ranged attack rolls when 3 
target has concealment or tatal concealment. 


JEDI KNIGHT TALENTS 
The faliowing new talents and talent trees are intended for use with the Jedi 
Knight prestige elass (see page 217 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Jedi Archivist Talent Tree 
You have dedicated your life as a Jedi 10 preserving knowledge and applying 
it in times when it is needed. ; 

Direct: As @ standard action, you can return one spent Foret power to 
the Force suite of any ally within 6 squares of you and in your line of sight. 
The Force pawer must nave been spent by the ally you designate. 

(mpart Knowledge: You can aid another on the Knowledge checks of 
any ally within 6 squares of you as a reaction for Knowledge skills you are 
trained in. 

Prerequisite: Skilled Advisor. 

Insight of the Force: You can make a Use the Force check in place of a 
Knowledge check for any Knowledge skill you are not trained in. You are con- 
sidered trained in that Knowledge skill for the purposes of using this talent. 
If you are entitied to a Knowledge check reroll, you can reroll your Use the 
Force check instead (subject ta the same circumstances and limitations). 

Master Advisor: When you use the Skilled Advisor talent (ste page 40 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook), the ally you aid gains one temporary Force 
Point at the end of her next turn. If the Force Point is not spent before the 
end of the encounter, if is lost. 

Prerequisite: Skiiled Advisor. 

Scholarly Knowledge: As a swift action, you can rerall s Knowledge check 
and keep the better of the two results. This can be used with any Knowledge 
skill you are trained in. 


Jedi Healer Talent Tree 
You have facused your natural ability with the Force to heal the sick and 
injured. 

Force Treatment: You can make a Use the Force check in the place of a 
Treat Injury check. You are considered trained in the Treat Injury skill. If you 
are entitled to @ Treat Injury check reroll, you can reroll your Use the Farce 
check instead (subject to the same circumstances and limitations). 

Healing Boost: When healing somebody through vital transfer, the 
amount of damage healed increases oy 1 point per your class level. 

Prerequisite: Vital tronsfer. 

Improved Healing Boost: When healing somebody through vitol transfer, 
the amount of damage healed increases by 2 points per your class level. 

Prerequisites: Healing Boost, vital transfer. 

Soothe: When using vital transfer to heal somebody, you can move the 
target +1 step on the condition track instead of healing damage. When doing 
$0, you Move -1 step on the condition track in exchange. 

Prerequisite: Vital transfer, 


THE MON CALAMARI! JEDI HEALER NAHOAR Veer 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
8 
2 


| 


Sessevi® selLeeallic) 


Ml SSatLavHDa 


Sasser ie) seolLsdec) 


OrrFiceER TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the officer prestige class 
(see page 20 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


New Military Tactics Talents 
The following new talents expand the Military Tactics talent tree [see page 
221 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Exploit Weakness: When you use the Assault Tactics talent (see page 221 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook) on an enemy, the target takes a Cumulative 
=1 penalty to Reflex Defense each time it is damaged by one of your allies 
{maximum -5). This penalty applies until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Assault Tactics. 

Grand Leader: As a swift action, once per encounter, you can grant bonus 
hit points equal to 5 + one-half your character level to all allies within 20 
squares of you and in your line of sight. Damage is subtracted from the bonus 
hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining at the end of the encounter 
go away. Bonus hit points from multiple sources do nat stack. 

Uncanny Defense: Cnice per day, you can add one-half your officer class 
level ta all your defenses for one round. You must declare that you are using 
this talent at the beginning of your turn. The benefits last until the begin- 
ning of your next turn. 


PRESTIGE CLASSES 


The following new prestige classes are available during the Rise of the Empire 
¢€ra, particularly during the Clone Wars. 


PRESTIGE CLASS BASIC DESCRIPTION 

Droid commander Leader specializing in droid troops 

Military engineer Tech specialist focusing on military hardware 
Vanguard Advanced scout who pinpoints enemy forces 


DROID COMMANDER 

AN armies meed an established hierarchy to ensure that objectives are 
achieved successfully. Even battle droids, with their network connection to 
a central command computer, must Sometimes have specific mavements 
dictated to them by a Separate droid designated as a ficld commander. The 
droid eommander, through the course of its career as a soldier for its orga- 
nization, proves itself through its actions and is promoted to lead others of 
its kind to support the unit's mission and the organization's cause 


Droid commanders are easy to spot on the battlefield. They bear command 
colors and are positioned within the ranks to receive maximum protection 
fram the enemy. Although they might be easy to find, they are rarely easy 
to eliminate. Because these droids are prized by their superiors, they are 
augmented and improved to increase the likelihood of their survival and 
continued service to their masters. Better weapons, armor, and equipment 
in addition to upgraded systems make the droid commander a formidable 
foe on its own. Its ability to effectively lead troops on the battlefield make 
the droid commander and its squad a force 10 be reckoned with. 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
Ist +1 Defense bonuses, talent 
2nd +2 Networked mind (1 droid ally) 
3rd 43 Talent 
4th +4 Networked mind (2 droid allies) 
Sth +5 Tatent 
6th +6 Networked mind (3 droid allies) 
7th +7 Talent 
8th +8 Networked mind (4 droid allies) 
Sth +9 Talent 
10th +10 Networked mind (5 droid allies) 


EXAMPLES OF DROID 
COMMANDERS IN STAR WARS 
OLR-4, OOM-9, COM-14, 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a droid commandey, a character must fulfill the fol- 
lowing criteria. 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Trained Skills: Knowledge (tactics), Use Computer. 

Talents: At least one talent from the Leadership talent tree (see page 44 
of the Saga Edition care rulebook) or the Commando talent tree (see page 
52 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Special: Droids only. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Droid commanders have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At cach level, droid commanders gain 1410 hit points. 


Force Points 
Droid commanders gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their 
character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the draid commander prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense, Fortitude 
Defense, and Will Defense. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so onj, the droid commander 
selects a talent. The talent can be selected from the Droid Commander talent 
tree (presented below), the Inspiration talent tree (see page 43 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook), or the Leadership talent tree (see page 44 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). The droid commander must meet the prerequisites (if 
any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once unless 
expressly indicated 


DROID COMMANDER TALENT TREE 
You have learned the quirks and intricacies of commanding droids, end you 
can get the most out of even the least sophisticated basic programming. 

Automated Strike: As a swift action, you can make a DC 15 Knowledge 
tactics) check. If successful, all droid allies able to hear and understand 
you gain the benefits of the Double Attack feat for one weapon group with 
which you are proficient until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Double Attack with the chosen weapon, 

Droid Defense: As a standard action, you can transmit tactical infor- 
mation to all droid allies that cea hear and understand you, granting them 
a bonus equal to your Intelligence modifier to one of their defenses (your 
choice) until the beginning of your next turn. 

Droid Mettle: As a Swift action once per turn, you can designate a single 
droid ally within your line of sight. That droid ally gains bonus hit points equal 
to 10 + your class level. 

Prerequisites: Droid Defense. 

Expanded Sensors: If you or any of your droid allies has line of sight to 
and is awart: of a target, all droid allies that can hear and understand you 
are also considered to have line of sight (but not necessarily line of effect] 
ta that target. 


=) itt HBLevwHOS } 


Sesevseg 2seL..s 


il eatavHg 


Inspire Competence: As a swift action once per turn, you can grant one 
droid ally within your tine of sight a competence bonus on its next attack 
roll made before the start of your next turn equal to half your class level. 
Additionally, any droid designated as the target of your Networked Mind class 
feature is considered to have a heuristic processor whenever it is beneficial, 
even if it does not actually have a heuristic processor. 

Prerequisite: Expanded Sensors. 

Maintain Focus: As a swift action once per turn, you can grant ali 
droid allies within your line of sight the ability to take the Recover action 
as two swift actions [instead of as three swift actions) until the start of 
your next turn. 

Overclocked Troops: You push the limits of the droids under your com- 
mand. You can spend a swift action once per turn to allow each of your net- 
worked allies [see the Networked Mind class feature below) to immediately 
move up to their speed. 

Prerequisite: Droid Defense. 

Reinforced Commands: When you use an ability that grants a droid ally 
a morale or insight bonvs, increase the value of that bonus by 1. 

Prerequisite: Droid Defense. 


Networked Mind 

You can designate a number of your droid allies equal ta one-half your class 
level a5 being networked with you. A networked droid ally can receive ben- 
eficial mind-affecting effects from you. Once you designate a droid ally as 
the recipient of this benefit, you cannot change the droid beneficiary until 
after the end of the encounter, and designating a droid to benefit from this 
class feature is a free action. Additionally, you are considered to have tine 
of sight to a networked droid ally as long as both you and the ally have an 
active comlink (if the comlinks are subject to communications jamming, you 
lose this benefit). 


MILITARY ENGINEER 

The platoon's transport has broken down, The radio is not working. Two of 
the soldiers’ rifles have jammed. The enemy is closing in. Who 1s going to fix 
everything in time? This is when the military engineer steps in, The military 
engineer is a tech specialist who focuses her energy on making repairs in 
the field and keeping the group's hardware running until they make it back 
to base. 

Although the military engineer is likely to be part of a combat unit, she 
feels more comfortable with tools in her hands while lying under a vehicle or 
digging through a droid's internal components than firing a blaster. Her skills 
are honed so that she can rapidly perform repairs and adjustments during 
highly stressful stuations—evem while under fire. In fact, military engineers 
thrive on stress and look for such opportunities. 


The military engineer can be deployed virtually anywhere within the 
military organization, but is often found near the front lines as part of a 
squad requiring technical support. 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
{st +0 Defense bonuses, talent 
2nd +4 Field-created weapon +1 
3rd +2 Talent 
4th +3 Field-created weapon +2 
Sth +3 Talent 
6th +4 Field-created weapon +3 
7th +5 Talent 
8th +6 Field-created weapon +4 
Sth +6 Talent 
10th +7 Field-created weapon +5 


EXAMPLES OF MILITARY 
ENGINEBRS IN STAR WARS 
Bao-Dur, Raith Sienar, Wat Tambor 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a military engineer, a character must fulfill the fol- 
lowing errheria. 

Base Attack Bonus: +7. 

Trained Skills: Mechanics, Use Computer. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Military engineers have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, military engineers gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution 
modifier. 


Force Points 

Military engineers gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half 
their character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in 
this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the military engineer prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude, and Wil 


Defenses. 


Talents 
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on}, you select a talent 


The talent can be selected from the Military Engineer talent tree (presented 
below) or the Outlaw Tech talent tree (see page 16 of Starships of the Galaxy) 
You must meet the prerequisites [if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can 
be selected more than once unless expressty indicated. 


MILITARY ENGINEER TALENT TREE 

You have become skilled at using and manipulating technology on the 
battlefield. In fact, your fellow soldiers rely on your technical expertise in 
the heat of battle. 

Breach Cover: When you fire or throw a weapon with a burst o7 splash 
radius at a target with cover, you ignore that cover. 

Breaching Explosive: You ignore the damage threshold of doors and 
walls when using mines and fixed (non-grenade) explosives. 

Droid Expert: When you repair a droid, you repair 1 additional hit point 
for each point by which your Mechanics check beats the base DC of 20. 

Prerequisite: Repairs on the Fly. 

Prepared Explosive: When you use a mine or other fixed (non-grenade) 
explosive, you can choose to have the blast radius of the explosive become 
difficult terrain after the explosive has detonated. Alternately, if you plant 
a mine or fixed explosive in an area of difficult terrain, you can have 
the explosive deal no damage and instead turn the difficult terrain into 
normal terrain. 

Problem Solver: As a swift action once per turn, you can designate a 
single vehicle within your line of sight whose pilot can hear and understand 
you. That pilot's vehicle ignores difficult terrain until the start of your next 
turn, and the pilot gains a +5 insight bonus on all Pilot checks made to avoid 
hazards and collisions until the start of your next turn. 

Quick Modifications: When you create a field-created weapon (as per 
the class feature}, you can choose one weapon modification from the Tech 
Specialist feat (see page 21 of Starshigs of the Galaxy) to apply to the created 
weapon at the time of creation. 

Prerequisites: Repairs on the Fly, Tech Specialist feat. 

Repairs on the Fly: You can use the Repair application of the Mechanics 
skill to repair a droid or object as a standard action. You can gain the benefits 
of this talent only once per day per droid, object, or vehicle repaired. 


v 
2 
a 
| 
o 
fy 
Q 


ayy 


Boas 


¢ 


i BaLtadvHa 


S6V979 Ss@Liesc) 


Ss 


Sabotage Device: As a swift action, you can sabotage any object or 
weapon that is powered by an energy cell so that it becomes a grenade. The 
object or weapon is then considered to be a fragmentation grenade in all ways, 
but it can be turned back into its origina! form with another swift action. 

Tech Savant: As a standard action, you can increase the speed of one 
adjacent droid or vehicie you occupy by 1 square (applied to any method of 
locomotion) until the erd of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Knowledge (technology) skill. 

Vehicular Boost: As a Standard action, you can make a DC 15 Mechanics 
check to grant one vehicle you occupy a number of bonus hit points equal to 
5 x your class level. Damage is subtracted from the bonus his points first, 
and any bonus hit points remaining at the end of the encounter go away. 
Bonus hit points from rrultiple sources do not stack. 


Field-Created Weapon 

You are able to scavenge parts from other technological objects and use 
them to build a limited-use personal-sized weapon. The item you create 
has only a limited life span, and the parts used to build it are rendered 
useless afterward. 

AS a Standard action, you make a Mechanics check (DC 20) ta create a 
melee or ranged weapon of your choice. The base value of the weapon can 
be no more than 600 credits x your class level. Additionally, the weapon 
grants you (and only you) an equipment bonus on attack rolls equal to 
one-half your class level. You car. use this ability only once per encounter, 
and at the cnd of tne encounter the weapon is destroyed. If the weapon 
requires an energy cell to operate, you create one {at no additional cost) 
for the weapon at the time you create the weapon. You may orly create 
weapons you are proficient with. 


VANGUARD 

Fighting an effective war and taking out the enemy is necessary if your army 
is to live to fight another day. But you must find the enemy first, and those 
sensor results can be a little deceptive at times. Send out the vanguard to 
track them down. 

The vanquard, simply put, is an advance scout who specializes in locating 
the enemy and relaying its position to his allies. With the stealth and sharp 
senses required to achieve his goal, he specializes in Jacating and abserving 
the enemy's movements, all the while obscuring his presence from them. If 
the situation arises, ne night try to take a few of the enemy down before 
retreating back to friendly territory, but his primary purpose is to serve as 
his group's eyes and ears. 

Vanguards are typically attached to military units near the front lines. 
They operate best in small groups as individuals. In either case, the vanguard 
excels at sneaking in clase to hostile forces, stealing away the knowledge of 
their location, and watering them fall to the might of his allies. 


BASE ATTACK 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
Ist +1 Defense bonuses, talent 
2nd +2 Surprise attack +1 
3rd +3 Talent 

4th +4 Surprise attack +2 
Sth +5 Talent 

6th +6 Surprise attack +3 
7th +7 Talent 

ath +8 Surprise attack +4 
Sth +9 Talent 

tOth +10 Surprise attack +5 


EXAMPLES OF VANGUARDS 

IN STAR WARS 

91st Reconnaissance Corps clone troopers, Aleenan scouts, Antarian Rangers, 
Neyo (CC-826), Rebel Plex Troopers. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a vanguard, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria, 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Trained Skills: Perception, Stealth. 

Talents: Any two talents from the Camouflage talent tree (see page 49 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook) or the Commando talent tree (see page 
52 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Vanguards have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, vanguards gain 1410 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


Force Points 
Vanguards gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their cheracter 
level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the Vanguard prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At fst level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Fortitude Defense and a +2 
class bonus to your Reflex Defense. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (Ist, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you select a talent, 
The talent can be selected from the Awareness talent tree (see page 49 of 
the Saga Edition core rulevook), the Survivor talent tree (see page 50 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook), or the Vanguard talent tree (presented below). 
You must mect the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent, No talent can 
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


VANGUARD TALENT TREE 

Asan expert in the art af scouting enemy formations, you are a valuable asset 
to any military force. Your ability to see what lies ahead on the battiefield 
is uncanny. 

Enhanced Vision: When actively looking for hidden enemics, you can 
make a Perception check as 2 Swift action instead of a standard action. 

Impenetrable Cover: Whenever you have cover against a target, you gain 
DR equal to your class level against that target until the start of your next turn, 
provided you still have caver from the target at the time the attack is made. 

Prerequisites: Maximize Cover. 

Invisible Attacker: If your target is unaware of you, your ranged attacks 
deal +1 die of damage aaainst that target. 

Prerequisite: Maximize Cover. 

Mark the Target: Whenever you camage a target with a non-area ranged 
attack, you may designate one ally within your line of sight as a swift action. 
Your target is considered flat-footed against that ally's first attack made 
before the start of your next turn, 

Maximize Cover: When an opponent uses the aim action to negate your 
cover, you can make a Stealth check opposed by the attacker's Initiative 
check. If successful, you retain your cover bonus. 

Shellshock: Whenever you damage a target that is unaware of you with 
an area attack, inat target is considered flat-footed until the start of your 
next turn, 

Prerequisite: Soften the Target. 

Soften the Target: Whenever you damage 4 target with a ranged attack, 
you may designate one aily within your line of sight as.a swift action. The ally 
you designate ignores the target's damage reduction and SR (if any) unti) 
the start af your next turn, 

Triangulate: If you and at least cne other ally have line of sight to and 
are aware of a target, you and allies that can hear and understand you can 
reroll ane ranged attack rall against that target, accepting the second result 
even if it is worse. You and your allies can only gain the benefit of this talent 
once per encounter, 

Prerequisite: Enhanced Vision. 


Surprise Attack 

Whenever you attack a target that is unaware of you or otherwise denied its 
Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense, you gain a bonus on your first attack roll 
in 4 round against that target ¢qual to one-half your class level. 


if} 
I 
> 
v 
4 
8 
2 


Soe) 


SeSeewrns Se 


“ CHAPTER IV 
THE FORCE 


Lf SS 

The field of energy created by all living things gives all Force-users their 
power, According to Jedi belief, which side of the Force is used depends 
| largely upon the person's emotional state of mind when the Force is tapped. 
} Being calm and at peace allows the light side to flow through your being, 
” while anger, hatred, and thoughts of destruction bring forth the dark side 
‘ of the Force. 

Most beings have never seen a Force-user, let alone met one. Accounts of 
their deeds stretch far and wide, though, and people form their own opinions 
about the Force. As Jedi take prominent positions in the Grand Army of the 
Republic, news of their exploits reaches more ears, and their actions are 
witnessed firsthand by those following the war, giving the galaxy a better 
idea of what the Force can do. 

This chapter presents new Force powers, secrets, talents, and techniques 
that are specifically used during this era. Some of these powers might be 
available to other Force-users in other eras at the Gamemaster’s discretion. 
This chapter also presents other Force-using traditions that are active during 
this time. Although some of them are isolated to certain planets or galactic 
regions, they can be highly influential in those areas. 


THE FORCE DURING 
THE CLONE WARS 


The Clone Wars represent not only a conflict between the Republic and the 
Confederacy of Independent Systems but also the beginning of a dark period 
in which the Jedi begin to lose prominence in the galaxy. With their numbers 
dwindling and most of the galaxy's resources devoted to the war, some Jedi 
become desperate and resort to tactics they would not normally consider in 
a time of peace—including unintentionally tapping into the dark side of the 
Force through fear or aggression. 

In the heat of battle, giving in to feelings of hatred and aggressive 
behavior can be tempting. As younger, less experienced Jedi are promoted 
and take command of the Republic's clone troopers, tempers flare, fear of 
death or failure consumes, and those Jedi—once promising Knights—fall to 
the dark side before they know it. Even though they fight against droids and 
do not have to worry about any repercussions for using the Force against 
living targets, their feelings at the time they draw upon the Force can drive 
even the best of the Jedi over the edge into darkness. 

Some Jedi, despite the temptation, manage to adhere to their beliefs and 
remain clean of the dark side's influence. These Jedi stay level-headed even 
during the most chaotic times of battle and effectively lead their troops to 
victory. These are the Jedi who earn the respect of their troops as well as 
the respect of the Jedi Council and the rest of the Order. 


39404 SHL ¥ IAL eBLaWwHOS 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
5 
3 
< 


Although the Jedi must struggle with the temptation of the dark side 
during the war, other Force-users who Go not rely solely on the light side of 
the Force—such as the Jensaarai or the Korunnai—are not affected so much 
by their feelings during combat and might inadvertently take a Dark Side 
Point in the midst of battle. Typically, these users of the Force have rituals 
that help them cope with and accept a brush with the dark side, or they have 
practices that help cleanse them of its influence. 


FORCE POWERS 
The following Force powers are available to any character with the Force 
Sensitivity feat (see page 85 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). These Force 
powers expand the range of powers available to the Jedi and other Force- 
using traditions. 

Telekinetic Powers: Force powers with the /tefekinetic} descriptor are 
added to the list of powers affected by talents such a Telekinetic Power and 
Telekinetic Savant (sce page 100 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


CLOAK 
You can bend light arourd your body, rendering yourself invisible to anyone 
looking in your direction. Time: Standard action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any: 

DC 18: You are considered to have total concealment against a! targets 
until the beginning of your next turn, 

DC 20: As DC 15, and you gain a +2 Force bonus to Stealth checks until 
the beginning of your next turn. 

DC 25:As DC 15, except you gain a +3 Force bonus to Stealth checks until 
the beginning of your next turn. 

DC 30.As DC 15, except you gain a +5 Force bonus to Stealth checks until 
the beginning of your next turn. 

Special: You can maintain the cloak power from round to round, extending 
the normal duration. Maintaining the clook power is 3 standard action, and 
you must make a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage 
while maintaining this power, you must succeed on a Use the Force check 
(DC = 15 + damage taken) to maintain the power. 

You can spend a Force Point to increase the bonus to your Stealth checks 
by 5. 


LEVITATE [TELEKINETICI 
You can float up or down without anything or anyone to assist you. Time: 
Move action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any: 

DC 15: You gain a fly speed of 2 squares but cap only move vertically. 
You may move up to your fly speed as part of this action, and if you end this 
movement adjacent to a horizontal surface, you can move 1 square onto 
that surface as a free action. At the start of your next turn, if you are not 
standing oF holding onto a solid surface, you fall to the ground. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the fly speed increases to 4 squares. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the fly speed increases to 6 squares. 

Special: You can sptnd 2 Force Point. as a reaction to activate this power 
when falling. You can reduce your fall distance by a number of squares equal 
ro the fly speed provitled by this power. If you reduce the fall distance to 0 
squares, you land safely on your feet. 

You can maintain the Jevitate power from round to round, extending the 
normal duration. Maintaining /evitote is a move action, znd whenever you 
maintain this power you car move vertically up to your fly speed. If you take 
damage while maintaining Jevitete, you must succeed on a Use the Force 
check (DC 15 + damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. !f you 
fail this Use the Force check, you immediately fall. 


Oerwan KENOB! IBBUBG ORDERS PROM ATOP 
aA MAPPA CLASES SHUTTLE. 


MALACIA [CLIGHT SIDEI 

You create dizziness and nausea by disrupting your enemy's equilibrium. 
Time: Standard action. Target: One living creature within 6 squares of you 
and in your line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to your target's Farti- 
tude Defense. If your check equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, 
the target moves -1 step down the condition track. Additionally, until the end 
of its next turn, the target takes a —5 penalty to its damage threshold. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the penalty to damage 
threshold to -10. 

You can maintain the malacia power from round to round, extending the 
duration of the damage threshold enalty. Maintaining the malacia power is 
a standard action, and you must make a new Use the Farce check each round. 
if vou take damage while maintaining maj/ecia, you must succeed on a Use 
the Foree check {DC = 15 + damage taken) to continue concentrating. 


MORICHRO 

You slow the vital functions of a tarcet, causing her to stip into a deep sleep 
or even die. Time: Standard action. Target: One Jiving creature you have 
grabbed or grappled. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result te the target's Fortitude 
Defense. If you succeed, the target moves -1 step Gown the condition track. 
Each round you maintain this power, if your Use the Force check excceds the 
target's Fortitude Defense, the target moves another step down the condi- 
tion track. If you move a target to the bottom of the condition track with 
this power, you can choose to kill the target or place it into a Force trance 
even if it is unwilling (set page 28). Additionally, if you use this power on 
an already unconscious target, you can consider the target willing for the 
purposes of placing them in a Force trance. 

Special: You can maintain the morichro power from round to round, 
extending the normal duration, Maintaining this power is a standard 
action, and you must make a new Use the Force check cach round. If you 
take damage while maintaining morichro, you must succeed on a Use the 
Force check (DC = 15 + damage taken) to maintain the power. If the target 
escapes your grab or the grab ends for any reason, you cannot maintain this 
power on your inext turn. 


PHASE 
You can pass through solid objects, such as walls and doors. Time: Move 
action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any: 

DC 25: You gain a phasing speed of 2 squares; your phasing speed can 
never ¢xceed your own base speed. When moving using your phasing speed, 
you can move through the spaces ef your enemies, as well as through walls, 
vehicles, large objects, and other obstructions but must end your movement 
in a legal, unoccupied space. You retain this phasino speed until the begin- 
ning of your next turn. You may move up to your phasing speed asa part of 
the activation of this power. 

DOC 30: As DC 25, except your phasing speed is 4 squares. 

OC 35; As DC 25, except your phasing speed is 6 squares. 

DC 40: As DC 25, except your phasing speed is 8 squares. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase your phasing speed by 2 
squares. You Can maintain the phase power from round to round, extending 
the normal duration. Maintaining this power is a move action, and whenever 
you maintain the phase power you can move up to your phasing speed. If you 
take damage while maintaining this power, you must succeed on a Use the 
Force check (DC = 15 + damage taken) to maintain the power, 


THE DARK WOMAN UBES HER PHASE POWER TO GET 
YMG JUNE ON A COMBAY THI-ORGID, 


eawesc sj, 


Al HaLedvVHoD 


Al 83. 


esyed =H 


REND [DARK 8S'1pe1 

You can move a single target, whether it is a creature or obiect, in two dit- 
ferent directions simultaneously. Time: Standara action. Target: One target 
in your line of sight and within 6 squares of you. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result with the target's Reflex 
Defense. If the check equals or exceeds the target’s Reflex Defense, the target 
takes 3d6 damage. |f your Use the Farce check is a natural 20, you score the 
equivalent of a critical ht, and the target takes double damage. if you deal 
enough damage to reduce the target to 0 hit points, you rip the target into 
two separate parts (living creatures are automatically killed). 

Special: ff your Use the Farce check succeeds, you can spend a Force 
Point to deal an additional 266 damage to the target 


SHATTERPOINT 

You ¢an see the critical point of something, whether it is a person oF 
ovjetct, that would shatter if struck at the right time. Time: Swift action. 
Target: You. } 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any: 

OC 25: 1f your next attack made before the end af the encounter hits, 
treat the target's damage threshold against the attack as though it is 5 
points lower than normal. 

DC 30: As DC 25, except treat the target's damage threshold as though 
itis 10 points lower than normal. 

DC 35: As DC 25, except treat the target's damage threshold as though 
itis 15 points lower than normal. 

DC 40: As DC 25, except treat the target's damage threshold as though 
it is 20 points lower than normal. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to ignore the target’s DR in addition 
to gaining the normal ¢cffect of this power. 


TECHNOMETRY 

You can tap into and reed technological devices and, in some cases, con- 
troi them. Time: Standard action. Yarget: One droid or electronic device 
touched, 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result ta the target's Will 
Defense, If the check equels or exceeds the target's Will Defense, you discover 
ane pitce of information contained within the target's memory as determined 
by the Access Information table under the Use Computer skill description 
(see page 75 of the Saga Edition core rviebook|. For every 5 points that 
you exceed the target's Will Defense, you can learn one additional piece of 
information 


Alternatively, if you target a droid and succeed at your Use the Force 
check, you may choose one af the following effects and apply it ta the 
targeted droid: 

« The Groid’s senses are jammed, allowing you to make Stealth checks 
against the droid until the end of your next turn, even though it ig aware 
at you. 

® The droid is denied its Dexterity bonus to Refiex Defense against your 
next attack made before the end of your mext turn. 

# On its mext two turns, the droid does nothing except flee fram yau at 
tap speed. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to learn two more pieces of 
information or extend one of the droid-specific effects of this pawer by an 
additional round. 


QUINLAN VO8 USEPA PEYCHOMETAY ON A ENIPER DROIO'S RIFLE. 


FORCE TALENTS 

Force talents work just like talents found elsewhere in this book and in the 
Saga Edition core rulebook. However, they are available only to characters 
with the Force Sensitivity feat (see page 85 of the Saga Edition core rule- 
book). Any time a character with the Force Sensitivity feat can select a talent, 
he or she can select one from any of the talent trees presented below. If the 
character is also a member of a Force-using tradition, he or she can also 
select from that tradition's specific Force talent tree. 


NEW ALTER TALENT 
The following new talent expands the Alter talent trec [see page 100 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Aversion: As a swift action, you can spend a Force Point to radiate an 
invisible aura that makes other beings want to avoid you. Until the end of 
the encounter, all squares within 2 squares of you are considered difficult 
terrain for your enemies. 

This 1S a mind-affecting effect. 


NEW CONTROL TALENT 
The following new talent expands the Control talent tree (see page 101 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

The Will To Resist: Once per turn, as a reaction to being targeted by a 
Force power or other ability that targets your Will Defense, you can make 
a Use the Force check and replace your Wiil Defense with the result of the 
Usé the Foree check. After you make this check, until the end of your next 
turn, you take a -5 penalty on all Use the Force checks. 


NEW DARK SIDE TALENT 

The following new talent cxpands the Dark Side talent tree (see page 101 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). You must have a Dark Side Score of 1 
or higher to select talents from this tree: if your Dark Side Score is ever 
reduced to 0, you lose access to all talents in this talent tree unti! your Dark 
Side Seore increases. 

Consumed by Darkness: Sometimes your anger cansumes you. As a 
swift action, you can take a -5 penalty to your Will Defense to gain a +2 
Force bonus on attack rolls. The penalty and bonus last until the beginning 
of your next turn, 


LIGHT SIDE TALENT TREE 

The light side of the Force is nat the easiest course to foliow, but its promise 
of peace and harmony can help even the most weak-willed of Force-users 
on the right path. 

You must have a Dark Side Score of 0 to select talents from this tree; if 
your Dark Side Score ever increases to at least 1, you lose access to ali talents 
in this talent tree until your Dark Side Score drops dack to 0. 

At Peace: You can spend a Force Point to gain a +2 Force bonus to 
all defenses until the end of the encounter or until you attack, whichever 
comes first. 

Attuned: When you rall a natural 20 on an attack roll against a target 
with a Dark Side Score of 1 or higher, you can activate a single Force power 
with the flight side] descriptor immediately as a free action. 

Prerequisite: Focused Attack. 

Focused Attack: You can spend a Force Point to reroll an attack against 
a creature with a Dark Side Score of 1 or higher, keeping the better of the 
two rolls, 

Surge of Light: Once per encounter, as 4a swift action, you can return any 
Force power with the flight side] descriptor to your Suite withaut spending 
a Force Point. 

You can seicct this talent multiple times. Each time you select if, you can 
use this talent one additional time per encounter. 


NEW SENSE TALENTS 
The following new talents expand the Sense talent tree (see page 101 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Heightened Awareness: You can spend a Force Paint to add your Cha- 
risma bonus to your Perception check. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent, 
you add your Charisma bonus an adcitianal time. 

Psychometry: When you use the forsecing Force power, you Can choose 
to target an object you hald instead of a character or creature. You can 
look into the targeted object's past, up to a maximum of 5 years per your 
character level. Any information gained about the object’s past is based on 
the thoughts and emotions of the person holding or carrying the object at 
the time you perceive, which can skew the results of the viston. 

Prerequisites: Force Perception, farseeing. 

Shift Sense: You can spend a Force Point to gain low-light vision for 1 
minute or until the end of the encounter, whichever is longer. 


Al SaLavHo 


~MS—) was 


Al SH8idvwHa 


SoOred Shi. 


FORCE TECHNIQUES 

Force techniques represent @ deeper understanding of the Force and, like 
martial skills, are mastered after years of practice. A few gifted or devoted 
Force-users learn to master them more quickly. In general, Force techniques 
are available only to characters with levels in certain Foree-using prestige 
classes (such as Force adept, Jedi Knight, and Sith apprentice). 

When you gain access to a new Force technique, you can select it from 
among those found on peges 102-103 of the Saga Edition core rulebook or 
from the techniques described below. Once you select a Force technique, it 
cannot be changed. 


ADVANCED VITAL TRANSFER 

When you use the vital wonsfer power, you can spend a Destiny Point to 
fully heal the target of all damage and remove all of the target's debilitating 
conditions, 


IMPROVED CLOAK 
You can maintain your clook power as 3 move action instead of a standard 
action. 


IMPROVED LEVITATE 

If you are moved into a pit or off another elevated surface involuntarily, such 
as by being the target of a Force thrust or Bantha Rush, you can spenc a Force 
Point to activate this power as a reaction. If you do sa, you end your forced 
movement in the last square before the edge of the precipice. 


IMPROVED MALATIA 
You can maintain the damage threshold penalty of the malacia power as a 
swift action, 


IMPROVED PHASE 

When you use the phase power, you can end a single move action inside 
an occupied space, but you must still end your turn in a legal, unoccupied 
square. 


IMPROVED REND 

The range of your rend power increases ta 12 squares. When using this 
power on an object or character or creature, you can ignore the object's or 
creature's damage reduction. 


IMPROVED SHATTERPOINT 

When you move a target down the condition track with an attack benefit- 
ting from the shatterpoint power, you can spend a Force Point to make the 
target's condition persistent. This persistent condition can only be removed 
if the target receives surgery (for living beings) or repairs (for droids, abjects, 
and vchicies). 


IMPROVED TECHNOMETRY 

When you use the technometry power, you can change the time it takes to 
activate to 3 full-round action and target all droids in a G-square cone that 
originates from your square. 


*| SOMETIMES 
CAN SEE THE 
WEAK PLACES IN 
AN OPPONENT=— 
SHATTERPOINTS 
WHERE THE 
UNBREAKABLE CAN 
BE BROKEN. THEY 
CAN OCCUR IN 
INDIVIDUALS...AND IN 
EVENTS.” 


“MACE WINDU 


FORCE SECRETS 

Skilled Force-users can learn to manipulate their Force powers in intriguing 
ways. Force secrets represent a sublime connection to the Force and are 
available only to powerful Foree-users such as Force disciples, Jedi Masters, 
and Sith Lords, 

Activating a Force secret costs either a Force Point or a Destiny Point 
{as noted in its description), and the norma! limits on spending Force Points 
and Destiny Points during a round apply. When you learn a new Force secret, 
you can select it from among those found on page 103 of the Saga Edition 
care rulebook or from the Force secrets listed below. Once you select a Force 
secret, it cannot be changed. 


EXTEND POWER 

When using a Force power that allows you to maintain your concentration 
isuch as Force grip), you can spend a Force Point to sustain the power as a 
swift action instead of 2 standard action for a number of rounds equal to 
your Charisma modifier. ; 


LINKED POWER 

You can spend a Force Point to link a Force power to the power you use in the 
current round so that it goes off in the following round, You must choose two 
powers—one for the current round and one for the next round. Both selected 
pewers cannot be altered in any wey, such as through Force techniques, Force 
secrets, or the use of Force Points. However, the second power gocs off in 
the following round as a free action at the start of your turn. 


UNCONDITIONAL POWER 
When you activate 2 power that targets only you, you ignore all condition 
track penalties to your Use the Force check to activate that power. 


FORCE-USING 
TRADITIONS 


Even though the Jedi are the most prominent and well-known users of the 
Force in the galaxy during the Clene Wars, they are not the only ones who 
know how to manipulate the Force. Other Force-using traditions exist and 
ascribe the source of their powers to other sources, such as magic ora deity, 
but they all use the same source of energy to accomplish the desired effect 
when they call upon that power. Basically, anyone with the Force Sensitivity 
feat has the capability to utilize the Use the Force skill and learn Force 
powers, even though they might not follow the path of a Force-user. 


During the Clone Wars, other traditions that use the Foree include dark 
side sects such as the Sith as well as little known factions such as the Koru- 
nnai. Others know the Force as it is but approach its use from a different 
direction and purpose than the Jedi, Still others call the Force by a totally 
different name. Regardless of the approach, the Force remains the same and 
is the one constant that ties these organizations together. 


THE BANDO GORA 

Tucked away in the Inner Rim, near the Hydian Way, is an ancient burial moon 
named Khalma, located in the Bogden system. Its presence in the galaxy would 
have gone unnoticed for the most part, if not for the emergence of a band of 
ruthless, Force-sensitive criminals calling themselves the Bando Gora. 

Shortly after the Battle of Galidraan, the Bando Gora gains the attention 
of the Galactic Republic, which swiftly requests Jedi intervention against 
the criminal faction. Even the mighty Jedi Order underestimates the sect’s 
power and loses nearly every member they send against the Bando Gora. 
The only known survivor is Komari Vosa, who abandons her Jedi teachings 
and succumbs to the dark side of the Force to escape her bonds, eventually 
becoming the new leader of the Bando Gora. 

As the Trade Federation invades Naboo, the Bando Gora stretches its dark 
influence to many worlds and organizations, subjugating them and enslaving 
countless people. Those that do not surrender to Bando Gora rule are killed 
or captured and brutally tortured. Companies that refuse to foliow the cult’s 
iead find their leaders assassinated. 

In addition to conquering uncivilized worlds and driving companies under 
their heel, the Bando Gora supplements its income through the production 
and sale of a highly potent strain of death stick that is sometimes used as a 
brainwashing agent. The narcotic sells all across the galaxy and is particularly 
popular with those who have ties to the underworld. 

After joining the cult, members of the Bando Gora must undergo a ritual 
that transforms their appearance, giving them dark, mottled skin and glowing 
eyes. Leaders of the organization are known to don frightening masks and 
carry staffs that shoot green balls of fire. 

Membership: Anyone with the Force Sensitivity feat and a Dark Side 
Score of 1 or higher can become a member of the Bando Gora. 


BANDO GORA CAPTAIN TALENT TREE 
The cultists of the Bando Gora have a reputation for being merciless, and 
you are no exception. 

Bando Gora Surge: Whenever you move up the condition track by any 
means, you gain bonus hit points equal to 5 + your heroic level. Bonus hit 
points are consumed before normal hit points, and unused bonus hit points 
go away at the end of the encounter. Bonus hit points from multiple sources 
do not stack. 


AI eBiLdvHa 


eeHead Sh 


0 
I 
> 
i 
4 
2 
2 
< 


Force Fighter: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to an attack 
roll, you heal a number of hit points equal to the Force Point result if the 
attack hits. 

Resist Enervation: Whenever an effect would move you down the con- 
dition track, you cain spend a Force Point to negate that movernent down 
the condition track. 

Victorious Force Mastery: Whenever an enemy you have damaged in 
this encounter is reduced to 0 hit points, you may automaticaily return one 
spent Force power to your Force suite as a free action. 


THE BELIEVERS 

Rising to prominence shortly after the Battle of Naboo, the Believers, based 
in the Cularin system, are a cult of Force-sensitive beings. Members devote 
their energies to studying and embracing the dark stde of the Force, with 
the intent of following the doctrines and customs of the ancient Sith that 
existed before Darth Bane. Rejecting Bane's Rule of Two, the Believers seek 
to expand their numbers to eventually challenge the Jedi directly and usher 
in a new age for the Sith. All Believers can be recognized by a distinctive 
tattoo, a shape that resembles the spire of the Sith fortress on Almas with 
a broken lightsaber at its base. 

At first, the existence of the Believers is thought to be nothing more than 
rumor, Since their presence cannot be confirmed by even the Jedi. During 
the Clone Wars, however, Jedi stationed in the Cularin system slowly begin 
turning to the dark side and joining the Believers, confirming the existence of 
the dark side cult and increasing its size. As their numbers swell, the Believers 
create a plague virus to eradicate the Caarite race and the Metatheran Cartel. 
Initially, the virus is successful, but it is stopped by a counteragent created 
from samples of the virus recovered from early victims of the plague. With 
their plans foiled, the Believers abandon the Sith Temple on Almas and go 
underground for a short time, 

The Believers return later, when the Darkstaff, a Sith artifact, attempts 
to protect itself from a group of agents that discover its connection to the 
shadow lurkers and the Oblee. Found by Len Markus ia the Cularin asteroid 
belt, the artifact possesses him and rises to become the new Icader of the 
Believers. The Darkstaff calls on the Believers to destroy the freelance 
agents that hunted it, However, the agents manage to thwart the Believers 
and free the Oblee. 

Membership: Anyone with the Force Sensitivity feat and a Dark Side 
Score of 1 or higher is welcome to join the Believers by being accepted as an 
apprentice by a Force adept or Farce disciple member of the cult. 


BELIEVER DISCIPLE TALENT TREE 
The Believers follow the teachings of the Sith from ancient times and strive 
to extend the influence of the dark side of the Force. 

Believer Intuition: Asa reaction, when an opponent successfully attacks 
you, make a Use the Foret check and compare the result ta your opponent's 


attack roll. If the check equals or exceeds the result of the attack oll, you 
can add your Charisma mod fier to your Reflex Defense. 

Defense Boost: As a swift action, you can make a DC 15 Use the Force 
check. If the check succeeds, you gain a +1 Force bonus to your Fortitude 
Defense until the end of the encounter. Before you make your Use the Force 
check, you can increase the target number to DC 20 to gain a +1 Force bonus 
to ali your defenses, 

Hardiness: You can spend a Force Point to reduce the number of swift 
actions it takes you to move +1 step along the conditian track by ane. 

High Impact: As 2 swift action, make a DC 15 Use the Force cheek. If 
your check succecds, double your Strength bonus 10 the next melee damage 
roll you make before the end of your turn. 

Sith Reverence: You gain a +1 morale bonus on your attack rolls while 
you are within 20 squares and in line of sight of an ally with a Dark Side 
Score equal to or greater than your own. 


THE KORUNNA) 

The Korunnai are a nomadic “tribe” of Humans from the uplands of the planet 
Haruun Kal, the sole planet of the Al'Har system. Not so much a formalized 
Foree-tradition like the Jedi, the Korunnai live in the harsh jungles that 
grow above the layers of letha! gases that fill the planet's lowlands. They 
maintain their existence by following herd animals called grassers, which 
provide them with sustenance and the materials they needed to survive. In 
addition to their keen survival skills, members of the Korunnal have a strong 
connection to the Force. 

Life is not so simple for the Korunnai, as they also fight a bloody war 
against the planet's other sapient inhabitants—the Balawai, Originally 
offworlders, the Balawal invade the jungles the Korunnai call home and 
ransack the natural resources to seli in the galaxy's markets for profit, 
including spices and exotic woods, Their unsympathetic behavior quickly 
creates enmity between the two peoples that erupts into war lasting well 
into the Clone Wars. When the Separatist-backed Balawai are reinforced with 
updated weapons and technology to protect the planet's only spaceport, the 
Republic has too few troops to help in the conflict and sends only a single 
Jedi—Depa Billaba—to back the Korunnai. The conflict between the Korunna: 
and Balawal escalates to such an extent that the Jedi Master is mentally 
scarred From the experience. 

The Korunnai refer to the Force as pelekatan, interacting with wnat they 
believe to be the “jungle mind” as a way to survive the perils of their hame- 
world. They sec pelekotan as a dark force that rules the darkness of the jungies 
and challenges those that tap into its energy. Sometimes, pelckotan presents 
its challenges in ways that cause physical ailments for its usérs, and at other 
times, those challenges can cause mental impairments. Jedi believe that users 
of pelekotan equally use both the light side and the dark side of the Force, but 
the Korunnai merely believe that they are all part of the same entity. Some 
Jedi Feel that pelekotan is just another name for the Living Force, 


Membership: True members of the Korunnai are the natives of Haruun 
Kal who rroaim the world’s highlands, Others who join their tribe have the 
Force Sensitivity feat and embrace the concept of pelekotan. 


AKK DOG FOLLOWERS 
When a character gains an akk dog follower, the fallower gains the species 
traits of the akk dog described below. Akk dogs are considered beasts. 

Abilities: Akk dogs have set anility scores. They use the following 
statisties: Strength 16, Dexterity 8, Constitution 12, Wisdom 10, intel- 
ligence 2, Charisma 8. 

Large Size: Akk dogs take a -7 size penalty to Reflex Defense and 
a -5 size penalty to Stealth checks. Their lifting and carrying limits are 
double those of Medium characters. 

Speed: An akk dog's base speed is 6 squares. 


KORUNNAI ADEPT TALENT TREE 
You have tearned to use pelekotan to survive in the jungles of Haruun Kal 
and have bonded with an akk dog, which serves you faithfully. 

Akk Dog Master: You gain an akk dag follower. Choose either the 
aggressive, defensive, or utility fotlower template, and generate the akk dog 
follower’s statisties using the rules on page 32. This follower gains the akk 
dog species traits (see the “Akk Dog Followers" sidebar) and the Power Attack 


feat. Additionally, any Force power you activate that targets you can target 
your akk dog foilower instead, at your discretion. 

An akk dog counts toward the tatal number of followers you have, just 
like followers gained from other talents. 

Akk Dog Trainer’s Actions: You and your akk dog have bonded through 
the Force and can fight in concert. You caa use any of the following actions 
on your turn, 

* Attock in Concert: As a standard action, you can make a melee or ranged 
altack against a target in range. if your akk dog foliawer is adjacent to 
the target and your attack hits, the target also takes piercing damage 
equal to 1¢6 + the akk dog's Strength modifier, This additional damage 
is considered part of your attack for the purposes af resolving damaae, 
DR, SR, and overcoming damage threshold. 


A KORUNNAI WARRIDR UYEEG THE FORCE TG TAME AN AKK DOD. 


Natural Armor: Akk dogs gain a +2 natural armor bonus to Reflex 
Defense. 

Natural Weapon: When an akk dog makes an unarmed attack, it 
can use its natural weapons, dealing 146 points of slashing damage 
(plus its Strength modifier) with that attack instead of normal unarmed 
damage. 


© Fall Upon Prey: As a standard action, you can make a melee or ranged 
attack against a target in range, and your akk dog can take the charge 
action against a target within its range. However, both you and your akk 
dog take a -5 penalty on your attack rolls (this replaces the bonus to 
attack rolls granted by the charge action). 

® Paired Moul: As a standard action, you can make a melee or ranged 
attack against a target in range. If the attack hits, your akk dog fol- 
lower gains a +2 competence bonus on its next attack roll against that 
target. 

Prerequisite: Akk Dog Master. 

Akk Dog Attack Training: Your akk dog follower gains the Powerful 
Charge feat. 

Prerequisite: Akk Dog Master. 

Protective Reaction: Whenever you are targeted by an attack made 
by an enemy adjacent to your akk dog follower, that attacker provokes an 
attack of opportunity from your akk dog follower. 

Prerequisite: Akk Dog Master. 


“THE FORCE GROWS 
DARK, ANAKIN, 
AND WE'RE ALL 

AFFECTED BY IT.” 


- OBI-WAN KENOBI 


Al das vVHD 


oS 
i CHAPTER V 


hed deatah cL ANE ROIDS | 


a 
+ vA - QS 

‘| If war is good for one thing, it is the rapid advancement of weapons and 
|| technology. While warring factions assemble their top minds to create new 
|, and better weapons to support their cause, corporations step in to develop 
; and build these new designs to help support those that send new commerce 
. 1) their way. For companies such as BlasTech, Industrial Automaton and Sienar 
3 Fleet Systems, creating these new technologies proves to be a lucrative 
© business during the Clone Wars. 

This chapter presents new weapons, armor, equipment, and droids that 
are seen throughout the galaxy during the Clone Wars. The equipment found 
here is not exclusively used by any one group and can be used by paramilitary 
organizations, criminal syndicates, or well-stocked individuals. 


, 


MELEE WEAPONS 

During the Clone Wars, combatants for the Republic and the Separatists 
rarely use melee weapons. However, many others, such as mercenaries, 
criminals, and bounty hunters, are not above keeping a melee weapon 
available just in case. 


Garrote 

Exotic Weapon 

Typically fashioned from a strand of spun durasteel, a garrote is designed 
to crush the target's throat and prevent breathing. A garrote requires two 
hands to use, and any attack made with the garrote is treated as a grab 
attack (see page 152 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Bonuses granted by 
talents and feats apply to the grab attack as though it was a garrote attack; 
for example, a character with the Weapon Focus (garrote) feat gains a +1 
bonus on grab attacks made with the garrote. 

The effects of a garrote are felt on the target's turn. At the beginning of 
the grabbed target's turn, before it can take any actions, the target takes 
damage from the garrote and moves -1 step along the condition track. The 
target also suffers the normal effects of a grab. The target may attempt to 
break the grab, as normal. 


Snap Baton 

Simple Weapon 

The snap baton is a collapsible weapon that expands from its tiny handle 
to become a 1-meter-long rod. In its collapsed form, it is easily carried in 
a pocket or utility belt. Expanding or collapsing the weapon takes a swift 
action. Several models are available, including specially colored versions to 
appeal to a wide range of customers. Models that incorporate additional 
functions such as a panic alarm or a built-in glowrod sell for double the 
price. One model made by Merr-Sonn even includes an outer layer of sound 
dampening material that muffles the sound made when the baton hits its 
target. Snap batons are popular in urban areas, especially with thugs. 


saionud Anv nenanoa fl A SSLdvHo 


aS 


SBOIOYUEG G@NY ANEW 


0 


ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS cost DAMAGE 


STUN DMG 


WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Vibroknucklers 200 +3 


Restricted 


0.5 kg Slashing 


Vibrorapier 500 2d6 = 1.4 kg Slashing Restricted 

EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG = WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
ER eee ee Ge Ea ee Pe 
Garrote’ 50 16’ 0.5 kg Slashing 

SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG = WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Pa ee tae ORR Ae Sia 
Snap baton 100 A 204 Yes 1 kg Bludgeoning = 

UNARMED cOsT DAMAGE STUN DMG WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Stunning gauntlet 200 ~ 
1 See the weapan's description for special rules. 


Stunning Gauntlet 

Simple Weapon 

An insulated glove with en embedded energy cell, the stunning gauntlet 

produces an etectrifying charge when it strikes a target. A stunning gaunt- 

let changes the wearer's unarmed melee attacks to stun damage, and they 

provide a +1 bonus to stun damage on a successful unarmed attack. 
Stunning gauntlets are two sizes SmalJer than their wearer (for example, 

a pair of stunning gauntiets designed for a Human are Tiny). Because of how 

they are worn, stunning gauntlets can't be disarmed or dropped. 


Vibroknucklers 

Advanced Melee Weapon 

Little more than a casing attached to a set of finger rings, vibroknuckers are 
a tiny weapon favored by thugs and petty thieves, mainty because the weapon 
can be easily concealed or stored away. The weapon's nasty surprise—a small 
microblade that extends slightly beyond the knuckles—is an added bonus. 

Acharacter wearing vibroknucklers deals +3 points of damage on a suc- 
cessful unarmed attack. 

Like combat gloves, vibroknucklers are two sizes smaller than their wearer 
(for example, vibroknucklers designed for a Human are Tiny). Because of how 
they are worn, vibroknucklers can't be disarmed or dropped. Addit onally, 
while wearing vibroknucklers, your unarmed attacks are considered to be 


+1 0.4 kg 


Energy Restricted 


both a normal unarmed attack (treated as a simpic weapon) as well as an 
attack with an advanced melee weapon, 

Vibroknucklers require an energy celi to operate, which is stored within 
the casing. 


Vibrorapier 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
A vibrorapier is designed to have a longer, thinner blade than the standard 
vibroblade. It is well-balanced and completely silent due to a specialized 
design that diminishes the ultrasonic pitch that other vibro weapons normally 
create. Many professional fighters consider the vibrorapier an excellent 
weapon and prefer it over a Slaster or other melec weapons when stealth 
is necessary. 

A vibrorapiér requires two energy cells to operate. 


RANGED WEAPONS 

Ranged weapons, especially blasters, can be found throughout the galaxy 
and are preferred by military and security organizations, bounty hunters, 
mercenaries, and ordinary people who live away from the relative safety of 
the Core Worlds. 


EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Wrist rocket launcher 2,500 Varies - S 1kg Varies Restricted 
PISTOLS COST DAMAGE STUN OMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


1 
w 


Czerka Adjudicator 325 264 O5kg Piercing licensed 
Gee-Tech 12 Defender’ 400 3d4 = S 0.25 kg Eineray INegal 


BlasTech DH-23 560 wW6 Yes 5 1kg Energy Restricted 
BlasTech DY-122 900 406 : Yes § 2kg Energy “Military 
Merr-Sonn Model 434 650 3d8 Yes S 1.2 kg Energy Restricted 
RIFLES COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
BlasTech 500 “ESPO"* 1,000 3d8 Yes S.A 4,5 kg Energy Military 
Czerka Adventurer 360 2d10 - S 4kg Piercing Restricted 
SoroSuub Firelance 1,200 3d8 Yes (4d6) S.A 2.5 kg Energy Restricted 
BlasTech DLT-20A4* 1,300 3d10. - S.A 6.7 kg Energy Military 
SIMPLE WEAPONS COST OAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


SGtEPOG GNY ANAWEINGS) 


EMP grenade! 500 3d6 ion - S 0.5kg — Energy (ion) Restricted 
1 Area attack weapon (see page 155 of the Sago Edition core rulebook). 

2 Inaccurate weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at long range. 

3 Accurate weapon: This weapon tokes no penalty when firing ot targets at Shari ronge. 


BlasTech 500 “ESPO" Riot Gun BlasTech DH-23 “Outback” Blaster Pistol 

Rifle Pistol 

Best known as the “ESPO" gun due to its wide use by the Corporate Sector The DH-23 is designed to be a more reliable weapon when compared to 
Security Division, the BlasTech 500 is a compact blaster with a short barrel the (ypical blaster pistol, but it sacrifices range and strength to achieve 
and an open-frame stock. Designed for use against large crowds, the weapon it. The pistol incorporates an effective heat radiator and a tight body 
trades simple accuracy for the ability to hit just about anything in rts path. construction that increase «ts durability, granting it a Strength of 17 and 


Operating besi ta autofire mode, the rifle tncurs a -2 penalty when used as a Break DC of 20. 
a single-shot weapon. 


0 pacer) 


A esata vHD 


SOQISY9G) GNY JUNIE) 


IRIS) 


TOF TSO BOTTOM BLABSTEGH DOFT-12. BLASTECH DT-22, 
CZERKA ADVENTURBR, AND @LaBTECH DLT-Z20A 


Blastech DLT-20A “Longbarrel” Blaster Rifle 

Rifle 

The DLT-20A sees use primarily by mounted troops, especially Republic recon 
patrols that use local planetary wildlife as their mounts. The rifle comes 
standard with a top-mounted rangefinder and electronic sight that acts as 
a standard targeting scope. It also incorporates a new concept in weapon 
technology calied a magnatomic adhesion grip, which improves the user's 
hold on the rifle, granting a +1 equipment bonus to his Reflex Defense when 
he is the target of a disarm attack. 


BlasTech DT-12 Heavy Blaster Pistol 

Pistol 

The initial concept behind the deségn and production of the DT-12 is to cater 
to customers who do not have hands like Humans, such as Rodians with their 
longer fingers, by incorporating a larger trigger grip. The weapon gives up 
weight and long-range accuracy to provide a stronger punch, 


Czerka Adjudicator 

Pistol 

The Adjudicator remains one of the few siugthrower hold-out pistols still in 
production today. It shares a lot of the same attributes—such as its small 
size and cast of Concealment—with its hold-out blaster pistol cousins. The 


weapon is popular and usefull winen slugthrowers are more numerous than 
blasters. With its limited ammunition capacity and slow reload time, most 
owners use the Adjudicator as a backup weapon. The pistol can fire only 4 
shots before needing to be reloaded, and a fuil-round action is required to 
reload it. 


Czerka Adventurer 

Rifle 

Designed as a long-barreled slugthrower rifle, the Czerka Adventurer is used 
by bounty hunters because of its high accuracy ratings at long range. Unlike 
other siugthrower rifles, the Adventurer fills its firing chamber with a rich 
oxidizer as the bullet fires, propelling it faster to give it a longer range and a 
higher punch. Bounty hunters also prize the rifle for its ability to easily break 
down and be stashed inside a small portable container. The weapon can be 
disassembled or reassembled quickly using a move action. 


EMP Grenade 

Simple Weapon 

Often referred to by the clone troops of the Republic as “droid poppers,” 
EMP grenades are similar to ion grenades in most respects. The biggest dif- 
ference between EMP grenades and standard ion grenades is that they can 
completely shut down relatively weak droids. 

When you make an area attack with an EMP grenade, make a single 
attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target in 
the grenade's 2-square burst radius. 

Droids, vehicles, electronic devices, and cybernetically enhanced creatures 
hit by the grenade take normal ion damage, or half damage on a miss. If 
the ion damage dealt by the weapon would reduce a target to 0 hit points 
[before the ion damage is halved), the target is pushed -5 steps down the 
condition track and disabled. 

Creatures without cybernetics take half ion damage on a hit or no ion 
damage ona miss, and they suffer no other ill effects. 

A target with the Evasion talent takes half damage from a successful 
attack andé no damage if the attack misses. 


Gee-Tech 12 Defender Microblaster 

Pistol 

The designers at Gee-Tech exchanged range and damage to create the 
qalaxy's smallest Slaster. In fact, the Gee-Tech 12 is so smail that it crants 
its wielder a +5 bonus on Stealth checks to conceal it. The Defender is 
light on energy because it carries only enough power for two shots, with a 
maximum range of 3 squares. A bigger disadvantage is that the power pack 
is integrated into the weapon and cannot be recharged once its two shots 
are spent, making it a truly disposable weapon. 


Merr-Sonn Model 434 “DeathHammer” 

Pistol 

Built as a compact pistol, the Model 434 quickly carns the nickname of 
"DeathHammer" from the bounty hunters and professional kiliers who favor 
the gun because of its durability and sheer power. The weapon's durasteel 
plating increases its sturdiness, g ving it a +2 equipment bonus to its DR. 
Bounty hunters, mercenaries, and assassins who use the DeathHammer 
orately decorate the weapon, adding more detail after every killl. 


SoroSuub Firelance Blaster Rifle 

Rifle 

The Firelance stands out among other blaster rifles solely because of its highly 
effective stun setting. When sales to bounty hunters skyrocket, SoraSuub 
markets the rifle as “the most effective weapon available for freelance law 
enforcement officials.” Although the rifle’s owners come from different 
walks of life, most are bounty hunters who use the firearm to bring back 
their targets alive. In addition to its stun capability, the Firelance is also 
lighter than other blaster rifles in its class, weighing as little as a carbine 
and making it a good choice for thase law enforcement agents who need to 
travel long distances to track their quarry. 


Wrist Rocket Launcher 

Exotic Weapon 

The wrist rocket tauncher is a versatile personal weapon designed to be useful 

in various Combat Situations. |t mounts on the forearm and extends over the 

back of the wielder's hand. Bounty hunters favor the weapon, despite various 

government attempts to ban the weapons and force production to stop. 
Wrist rocket launchers are single-shot weapons that must be reloaded 

after each shot. See the “Wrist Rocket Aramunition" sidebar for more infor- 

mation on wrist rockets, 


ROCKETS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Antipersonnel rocket 400 3d8 ~ s 0.25 kag Slashing Militery 
Antivehicle rocket 500 3d10 = S$ 0.25kg Slashing Military 
Flash socket 400 Special - s 0.25 kg Energy Restricted 
Hollow-tip rocket 

Empty 200 206 - S 0.25kg Piercing Licensed 

nerve toxin 600 Special - § 0.25kg Piercing illegal 

stun gas 400 - 3d6 S 0.25kg Piercing Restricted 
Jon blast rocket 400 3d6 ion - $ 6.25kq  Eneray (ian) Restricted 


b 


GOIOUNG ONY LNEWEINGS) 


ARMOR BONUS EQUIP BONUS MAX DEX SPEED SPEED 
ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TO REF DEFENSE TO FORT DEFENSE BONUS (6S50.) (450.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 
Shadowsuit? 600 - +6 - - 3 kg Mititary 
Thinsuit? 900 - +6 - = 1 kg = 
Tracker utility vest 300 +1 45 oa = 0.5 kg - 


Camo armor 6,000 +5 


Vacuum pod 15,000 +4 


Restricted 


1 When running in heavy armar, you can only move up to three times your speed {instead of four times). 


2 Can be worn beneath clothing or other armor. 


ARMOR 


Even though blasters are the most common form of weapon in the galaxy, 
personal armor is Still im widespread use, Many factions use armor asa type 
of uniform as well as a means of protecting its members. Many types of 
armor are severely restricted or even illegal if not used within the proper 
scope of the organization's mandate. Even in areas where armor is not pro- 
hibited, wearing a suit of armor indicates to others that you are expecting 
or courting trouble. 


Camo Armor 

Medium Armor 

Camo armor protects the wearer from discovery as well as injury. in addition 
to of the usual hard metal plates woven on lop of a fabric body suit, the 
armor is also embedded with miniature photoreactive fibers that allow the 
suit to absorb light and change its color to match the wearer's surroundings. 
When attempting to hide, the wearer gains a +10 equipment bonus to Stealth 
checks, regardless of the terrain. 


Shadowsuit 

Light Armor 

A shadowsuit appears te be nothing more than an unassuming black body 
Stocking that covers every part of the wearer's body except for the eyes. 
Actually, the shadowsuit is composed of a special soft fiber called shadowsilk 
that absorbs light and sound. To further improve covert movement, the suit 
also has sound dampening pads on the hands and feet, and the wearer's eyes 
are covered by a set of goggles that come with the suit. A shadowsuit has 
no electronic systems that can reveal the wearer to sensors. Therefore, the 
person wearing a shadowsuit gains a +10 equipment bonus to all Stealth 
checks when trying to sneak, but the bonus is nullified if any other armor is 
worn with the shadowsuit. 


Thinsuit 
Light Armar 
Insulating against extreme pressure and temperature, a thinsuit isa skintight 
garment that covers the entire body except for the face, which is covered by 
a breath mask that provides 1 howr of breathable air. The thinsuit comes with 
an environmental! system of minuscule heaters and coolers that allow the 
wearer to remain comfortable in extreme heat and cold. It provides the wearer 
with a +5 bonus to Fortitude Defense when resisting extreme temperatures. 
In addition, the suit further reduces damage taken in such circumstances. IF 
an attack is successful, the character takes only half damage and does not 
move along the condition track, while a failed attack deals no damage. 

A thinsuit can be worn under other armors. 


Tracker Utility Vest 

Light Armor 

The tracker utility vest is a simple garment that allows hunters and guides 
to carry a wide assortment of small equipment without discomforting the 
wearer, Although they can be constructed fram an assortment of materials, 
tracker utility vests are commonly made froma tough, leathery hide treated 
to be watertight, stainproof, and resistant to rips and tears. 

The vest features pockets, pouches, and straps capable of carrying up to 
twenty-four small objects weighing no more than 1 kilagram each, Because 
the items are stored so that their weight is distributed evenly around the 
wearer's torso, their cumulative weight is halved for purposes of calcuiating 
the wearer's total carried weight. 


Vacuum Pod 

Heavy Armor 

The Extra-Vehicular Activity (EVA) pod, or vacuum pod, is a droid-assisted suit 
of powered armor specifically designed to allow a person to repair a Starship 
while in space. Its systems are designed in so that a wearer not proficient 
with heavy armor can use it competently in nonstressful situations. The 
suit, once donned properly, provides full life support to its wearer and also 
includes external thrusters to aliaw movement in a zero-gravity environment 
(speed fly 6). It also features motorized limbs, a complete set of integrated 
yepair tools, and an external compartment to allow the user to carry any 
extra materials needed to make repairs. The suit’s functions are controlled 
by a dedicated, low-level droid brain that handles all the complex systems 
of the suit, such as the life support monitoring system and the regulation 
of the external thrusters. 

Vacuum pod users who have the Armor Proficiency (heavy) feat can use 
the following features and receive the bonuses listed. A wearer who does not 
have the feat can still use the suit but does not receive any of the equipment 
bonuses listed below, unless otherwise noted. Regardless, the wearer has any 
armor Check penalties halved while in noncombat situations. 

Comlink: The suit’s integrated comlink has a range of 100 kilometers and 
can send and receive encrypted messages. 

Life Support: The suit provides up to 2 hours of continugus life support 
with air supply and protection against extreme enviranments, including 
hard vacuum. 

Powerlamp: The armor comes with an integrated glowrod, which emits 
a 70-square cone of light. 

Repair Kit: The tools integrated in the suit’s motorized arms give the user 
a +2 bonus on all Mechanics checks while the systems function, 

Strength Augmentation: The suit's power systems grant the wearer a 
+4 bonus to Strength while the suit is operational. 

Putting on the suit and bringing all the droid’s systems online takes 15 
minutes. Removing the suit takes enly 3 rounds. 


*THIS DELUXE 
MODEL IS THE ONLY 
THING STANDING 
BETWEEN YOU AND 
A BLOODY DEATH." 


—-CLONE COMMANDO 
RC-1198 “Boss” 


EQUIPMENT 

During the Clone Wars, technological advances allow new and better equip- 
ment to appear on the open market faster than any other time within the 
previous thousand years. The equipment presented in this chapter represent 
but a small fraction of the devices that emerge during this time. 


EQUIPMENT COST WEIGHT 
Bioscanner 3,500 0.5 kg 
Bracer computer 1,300 0.5 kg 
Camouflage netting 6,000 40 kg 
Halo lamp 30 1kg 
Visual wrist comm 1,300 0.25 kg 
Bioscanner 


The bioscanner is a low-power, handheld scanner used by doctors and medi- 
eal technicians to help diagnose medical conditions in their patients. One 
or two passes over the patient collects biological information. The scanner 
displays vital statistics and analyzes znd diagnoses any anomalies on file in 
the scanner's medical database. This device grants its user a +2 bonus on all 
Knowledge [life sciences) checks made to identify ailments. 


Bracer Computer 

The bracer computer is a datapad worn on the user's forearm. It performs 
all the same functions as the standard datapad, including the ability to read 
standard data cards in a slot on the underside of the device. The bracer 
computer also features a holographic screen that displays information as 
a two-dimensional image about three centimeters above the device. Plus, 
the keyboard is designed to accommodate one-handed typing. The bracer 
computer is popular among those who need to conserve space with their 
equipment, particularly bounty hunters. 

A bracer computer has inteiligence 12. 


Camouflage Netting 

Any camouflage netting found on the market is one of two kinds: powered 
and unpowered. Both kinds, when draped over one or more objects within a 
6-Square-by-6-square area, bestow a +5 bonus to all Stealth checks while 
under the netting, and offer partial concealment. 

Integrated into the netting of the powered version are overlapping 
sensor baffle scales that emulate the emission patterns of the surrounding 
terrain—including tight emissions. Thus, pawered camouflage netting grants 
an additional +5 bonus to al! Stealth checks while under the netting. The 
netting is carried in a small backpack and takes a full-round action and two 
people to deploy it. 


A BBidwHga 


SGIGUE ONY ANEWAINeS) 


| 


@ 
S 
> 
2 
@ 
0) 
7) 
iG 


A BBidvHoa 


0 


Sol 


Halo Lamp 

A pocket-sized dise small enough to fit in the palm of @ Hurran hand, the 
halo lamp snines a bright light in a circle around the person holding it out 
to a 3-square ravius. While lit, it remains cool to the touth, and it can easily 
be attached a8 a weapon accessory. 


Visual Wrist Comm 

The visual wrist comm is popular with smugglers and soldiers. The comm 1S 
a small, flat, rectangular pane! that easily attaches ta a glove or other flat 
surface. The comm sends and receives audio and visual signals, and it can 
display holographic information, though only as a two-dimensional image. 
It has a range of up to 75 kilometers while pianetside—sufficient to reach 
orbital range—and runs ona singie energy cel), which must be replaced after 
10 days of continuous use. In addition, the wrist comm functions as a simple 
datapad that stores and receives information from droiés, comm signals, 
direct computer links, and standard data cards. 


DROIDS 


The Clone Wars saw the rapid development of droid technology, mainly due 
to the Scparatists' heavy reliance on droid military units. The droids pre- 
sented in this chapter are some of the models found in use in nonmilitary 
capacities. You can find information on the droids used by the Repubiie in 
Chapter 10: The Republic, and those used by the Separatists in Chapter 11: 
The Confederacy. 


FIRST-DEGREE DROIDS 
First-degree droids usually hold medical, scientific, and analytical positions. 
These droids are commonly found in hospitals and laboratories. 


DD-13 Medical Assistant Droid 

Officially duobed the Model DD-13, this droid is created by Ubrikkian Frans- 
ports, a company more commenly associated with repulsorlift vehicles. 
The DO-13 gains the nickname “Galactic Chopper” from clone commanders 
who know of the model's origins and who witness the droid in action in 
the field. 

Oddly enough, Ubrikkian originally designs the droid to be used aboard 
its medlifter transports. When the transports prove less useful than origi- 
nalty anticipated, Ubrikkian redistributes the droids as medical assistants 
and battlefield medical d-oids with updated databases and medical tools 
installed within the twa upper arms. The droia’s cylindrical head, which sits 
atop its three-legged body, is equipped with specially calibrated medical 
sensors that help it perform procedures with extreme precision. Droids of 
this model do not converse much, if at all, with patients, preferring to work 
without any distractions, 

DD-13 medical assistant droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


DD-13 Medical Assistant Droid cL1 
Medium droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 4 

Init +1 ; Senses iow-light vision, Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 12 
hp 8; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +1 (144-1) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach } square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +t 


Abilities Str 9, Dex 11, Con —, lint 15, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Knowledge (life sciences), Treat 
Injury), Skill Training {Use Computer) 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +13 , Perception +10 , Treat Injury +13 , 
Use Computer +8 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 claw appendages, 
improved sensor package, internal storage (10 kq), vocabulator 

Possessions surgery kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,950 credits 


AN IM-6 MEDICAL DRGID AND A OD-18 MEDICAL AGMIBTANT OROID 
OPERATE ON A PATIENT. 


EW-3 Midwife Droid 

Designed by the Polis Massans on their homeworld years before the Clone 
Wars, the EW-3 droid mimics its creators’ appearance. That, however, is where 
the resemblance ends. Unlike its designers. the EW-3 has a vocabulatar that 
allows it to speak at frequencies audible to others. Its behavior algorithms 
cause the droid to act in a motherly fashion. Plus, repulsorlift units in the 
droid’s base permit freedom of movement. 

EW-3 midwife droids work in medical facilities all over the galaxy, tend- 
ing to children’s wards and nurseries and providing attention to its young 
patients. Some EW-3 droids serve as nurses for doctors needing an assistant 
for their private practices. 

EW-3 droids can be played as droid heroes. 
EW-3 Midwife Droid CLO 
Medium droid (1st-degree} nonheroic 2 
Init +1 ; Senses low-light vision, Perception +5 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 10 {flat-footed 10), Fort 10, Will 12 
hp 6; Threshold 10 
Immune droid traits 
Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d3) 

Fighting Space | square; Reach I square 

Base Atk +1; Grp +1 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences}, Knowledge [social sciences]) 

Skill Training (Treat Injury) 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +12 , Knowledge (social sciences) +12, 

Perception +5 Treat Injury +8 
Systems hovering locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 toal appendages, 

improved sensor package, vocabulator 
Availability Licensed; Cost 5,870 credits 


IM-6 Medical Droid 

The widely employed IM-6 from Cybat Galactica is perhaps the most versatile 
and advanced medical droid of the Clone Wars, renowned not only for its skill 
but its attention to patients’ needs and limitations. Used on the battlefield as 
well as aboard AT-TEs and a variety of military starships, the IM-6 is capable 
of dodging nimbly through enemy fire to retrieve wounded soldiers and drag 
them back to safety before commencing treatment, all {he while speaking in 
a soothing voice. Their friendly and helpful programming leads clone trooper 
platoons to adopt IM-6 droids as unofficial members of their units. 

IM-6 droids are so efficient partly because they carry their own medical 
and surgical supplies, including an internal medpac reservoir that holds the 
equivalent of five medpacs worth of pharmaceuticals. 

IM-6 medical droids can be played as droid neroes. 


IM-6 Medical Droid 

Small draid {1st-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +8; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 12 

hp 7; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee unarmed +2 (142) 

Fighting Space | square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +2; Grp -2 ra 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con =, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences], Treat 
Injury), Skill Training (Use Computer), Surgical Expertise 

Skills Initiative +8, Knowledge (tife sciences) +13, Perception +5, 
Treat Injury +13, Use Computer +8 

Systems hovering locomotion, internal eomlink, heuristic processor, 
2 hands, improved sensor package, vocabulator 

Possessions surgery kit, medpac reservoir (equivalent of 5 medpacs} 

Availability Licensed; Cost 11,800 credits 


cL 1 


“My LORD, THE CONSTRUCTION 


is FINISHED 


HE LIVES.” 


-DD-13 MEDICAL ASSISTANT DROID 


SQlOUEG GNY LMeaweIReE 


A eSLdvHS 


‘A % 


oo 


SGQIeyNg GNY LNEMWwAINAGS) 


A #aLevHo 


SP-4 Analysis Droid 

The SP-4 analysis droid from Cybot Galactica is a sophisticated droid designed 

to help in the objective ceconstruction and analysis of empirical data. SP-4 

analysis droids are often used by law enforcement agencies to analyze the 

data from crime scenes and eliminate human error. The Jedi Temple owns 

several SP-4 analysis droids, which work as a part of the Jedi Archives. 
SP-4 analysis droids can be played as droid heroes. 

SP-4 Analysis Droid cL 1 

Small droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +1; Senses darkvision, Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 12 

hp 8; Threshold 9 

Immune droid immunities 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d2-1) 

Ranged by weapon +2 

Base Atk +2; Grp -4 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con —, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Focus (Use Computer), 
Skill Training (Gather Information), Skill Training (Perception), Skill 
Training (Use Computer) 

Skills Gather Information +7, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +8, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +13, Knowledge (technology) +8, Perception +10, 
Use Computer +13 

Systems walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, heuristic processor, 
darkvision, improved sensor package, internal comlink, vocabulator 

Availability Licensed: Cost 3,100 


“MASTER JEDI, 
OUR RECORDS ARE 
VERY THOROUGH. 

THEY COVER EIGHTY 
PERCENT OF THE 
GALAXY. IF | CAN'T 
TELL YOU WHERE IT 
CAME FROM, 
NOBODY CAN." 


-SP-4 ANALYSIS DROID 


SECOND-DEGREE DROIDS 
Second-degree droids are skilled at mechanical and technical work. Repair 
facilities usually have at least one second-degree droid to assist in major 
jobs or to complete minor repairs. 


LE Series Repair Droid 
The concept behind Cybot Galactica’s LE Series repair droid is simple enough: 
Combine the repair functions of an astromech droid with the chassis and 
personality matrix of an administrative droid. With the hopes of appealing 
to a market of independent traders and space transport captains, Cybot 
Galactica advertised the LE Series droid as having extensive functionality 
concentrated into one droid, and the corporation asked a high price for them. 
The main drawback is the bipedal, humanoid chassis. Although it helps the 
droid to more easily interact with Spaceport officials and docking crews, the 
design hampers its primary function as a repair droid. Cybot Galactica insists 
that the LE Series can use the same tools as its owner and emphasizes that 
the administration skills programming allows it to handle the day-to-day 
duties that starship captains want to avoid. However, the company's efforts 
fall on deaf ears. 

LE Series droids are found on capital ships and in port 
offices, acting as administ-ative assistants, though their 
technical skills do occasionally come into play to help repair 
office equipment. 

LE Series repair droids can ve played as droid heroes. 


ANALYSIS DROID AND 4 BYQ PROTOCOL BAOID 
SYULOY @ HOLOGRAPHIC IMAGE. 


AN PA-S VALET OROID ANC 4 LE SERIES REPAIR ORGID ARGUE 
OVER HOW TO Pix A CPAMAGED CONSOLE. 


LE Series Repair Droid cL1 
Medium droid (2nd-degree) nanheroic 3 

Init +0 ; Senses low-light vision; Perception +4 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

at-footed 13), Fort 10, Will 11 


Defenses Ref 13 ( 
hp 7; Threshold 10 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +2 (103) 

Fighting Space | square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 8, Con --, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Training 
{Knowledge [technology)]}, Skill Training (Mechanics) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +7 . Knowledge (technology) +7, 
Mechanics +12 , Perception +4 , Use Computer +7 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
durasteel shell, integrated comlink, diagnostic package, improved 
sensor package, translator unit {DC 15), vocabulator 

Possessions holoprojectar, halorecorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 6,000 credits 


P2 Series Astramech Droid 

The first of Industrial Automaton's attempts to creating an astromech droid 
for commercial and consumer markets, the PZ droid is a prototype initially 
sold to the Republic for use aboard their merchant fleet vessels on a trial 
basis. 

The P2 looks, in many ways, like a larger version of the newer R2 series 
droid, but the P2 also has a nonretractable claw appendage attached to its 
dome. Another feature missing in the P2, but present in its later cousins, 
is a vocabulator. Instead, the P2 communicates with its owner through an 
integrated screen on its dome, making communication inconvenient at best. 
In spite of these drawbacks, P2 dros have the same cheerful attitude that 
their younger R2 cousins display, making them popular with their owners. 

P2 Series astramech draiis can be played as droid heroes. 


P2 Series Astromech Droid cLo 
Medium droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init -1 ; Senses darkvision; Perception +6 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 12, Will 9 

hp 5; Threshold 12 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (wheeled), 2 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d4+2) 

Fighting Space ! square; Reach i square 

Base Atk +0; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 9, Con —, Int 14, Wis 8, Cha 10 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics, Use Computer), Skill Training (Perception) 

Skills Mechanics +12 , Perception +4 , Pilot +4, Use Computer +12 

Systems wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, magnetic feet, 
heuristic processor, 6 tool appendages, 2 claw appendages, diagnostics 
package, internal storage (10 ka), improved sensor package, internal 
comlink, darkvisian 

Possessions astrogation buffer (storage device, 4 memory units}, circular 
saw, electric arc welder, fire extinguisher, holoprojecter, holorecorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,200 credits (used) 


0 
I 
\> 
\3 
14 
a 
2 
\< 


BQIeVG ONY LNAaNeAIAeS 


A BalavHo 


SQHiSYtE ONY LANEWeAIRn@|) 


Pit Droid 

Designed by Serv-O-Droid to assist docking bay mechanics with repairs, 
the pit droid is remarkably sturdy and strong for its size. Unlike other small 
droids, pit droids take no penalty to their carrying capacity for being Small. 
Additionally, pit droids fold up into a Tiny object when deactivated. allowing 
them to be stowed in a smaller space when unused. Many transport pilots 
keep a small number of pit droids in their cargo holds to assist with repairs, 
especially when they are the lone crew member. 

Pit droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Serv-O-Droid Pit Droid 

Small droid (2nd degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +3; Senses Perception +0 

Languages Basic (understand only). Binary 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 12, Will 9 

hp 5; Threshold 12 

fmmune droid immunities : 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (14242) 

Ranged by weapon +3 

Base Atk +1; Grp -2 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Can —, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 12 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Training (Mechanics), Skill Training 
(Pilot), Skill Training (Use Computer) 

Skills Knowledge (techrology) +6, Mechanies +11, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 

Systems walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, basic processor 

Availability Licensed; Cast 1,300 


CLO 


“DON'T TOUCH 
ANYTHING” 


“-QuI-GOnN JINN 


THIRD-DEGREE DrRoIDS 

Third-degree roids are used in situations where interactions between beings 
play an important role in everyday life, such as political arenas, me-chant 
services, and even domestic settings. Military forces during the Clone Wars 
sometimes send third-degree droids to soften the blow of bad news, creating 
negative feelings toward them. 


5YQ Series Protocal Droid 

Burlt as a more affordable version of their popular 3P0 series protocol droid, 
Cybot Galactica’s SYQ protocol droid is intended for the Mid Rim market, 
where expensive droids do not sell well. Only a Jimited number are produced 
before legal action forces Cybot Galactica to cancel the line. Few SYQs 
remain in service, but they are popular on the Outer Rim, where 3PO models 
are still exorbitantly expensive, 

The 5YQs are also surprisingly popular among droid “kit” enthusiasts, who 
tear out most of the internal components and replace them with custom 
upgrades. One popular conversion is disabling the SYQ's creative dampeners, 
which not only allows the normally scrupulous droid to manufacture false- 
hoods but also enables it ta form independent ideas and opinions. 

5Y0O protocol droids can be played as droid heroes. 


5YQ Protocol Droid 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 11 
hp 2; Threshold 3 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (103-1) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach | square 

Base Atk +0; Grp -1 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge 
[bureaucracy]), Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic lore]) 

Skills Initiative +0, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +6, Perception +6, Persuasion +12 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, translator unit (DC 10}, 
2 hand appendages, vocabulator, internal storage (5 kg) 

Possessions audio recorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 1,460 credits 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROIDS 

Fourth-degrec droids include models designed for combat in one form or 
another. Most fourth-degrce drolds are military and security droids, but other 
models such as assassin droids, probe droids, tracker droids, and certain non- 
combative droids used by military organizations fall in this group as well. 


BCA-11/X Lightsaber Practice Droid 

Before the Battle of Naboo, Baktcid Combat Automata produces a number o* 
training droids for the Jedi Order, but the results convince them that helping 
to train young Jedi might not be the best business decision. The 11/X's most 
unusual feature is the use of a cortasis matrix in the bonding of the droid's 
quadanium armor, designed to resist the energy of a lightsaber and make 
the 11/X harder to disable or destroy. 

BCA-11/X training droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


BCA-11/X Training Droid cL2 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3/soldier | ; 

Init +9; Senses low-light, Perception +4 

Languages Basic, Binary 


IG-86 Sentinel Droid 

Part of Holowan Mechanicals evergrawing line of IG Series combat droids, 
the |G-86 sentinel droid was designed to function as a bodyguard or home 
security system for the wealthy. Ir practice, however, most IG-86 droids 
are used for more sinister purposes. Armed with programming that ts only 
marginally more sophisticated than basic battle droids, the tG-86 comes 
standard with a heuristic processcr, making it versatile as well as more 
capable of learning new combat routines over time. 

Both Ziro the Hutt and Gna’ Nachkt use IG-86 sentinel draids as agents 
and protectors. Zira the Hutt has allowed several of his 1G-86 droids to go 
for long periods of time without memory wipes, causing them to gain sig- 
nificant experience and develop personalities. One such droid, KRONOS-327, 
is a formidable assassin droid. 

IG-86 sentinel! droids can be played as droid heroes. 


IG-86 Sentinel Droid CL1 
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 1 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 13, Will 11; +7 armar 
hp 17; DR 5 {lightsabers only); Threshold 13 
Immune droid traits 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 15, Will 12 
hp 20; Threshold 15 
Immune droid immunities 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee claw +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster carbine +6 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +5 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach | square 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine) 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con =, Int 9, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Talents Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Toughness, 
Weapon Focus {rifles], Weapon Proficiency (rifles) 

Skills Initiative +9, Perception +4 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, improved sensor package, 
internal comlink, quadanium battle armor (+7 armor, cortosis-durastee! 
alloy), vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine 

Avarlability Military; Cost 5,860 credits 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d3+2) 

Ranged blaster carbine +4 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +2 (4d8) with Rapid Shot 
Base Atk +); Grp +3 

Atk Options Rapid Shot 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 15, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents indomitable 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Rapid Shot, Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapans) 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +5, Perception +6, Use Computer +5 

Systems walking focomotion, 2 hand appendages, heuristic processor, 
vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle, durasteel shell 

Availability Restricted; Cost 7,800 


+] 
ss 
> 
v 
4 
a 
a 
< 


EQISOYNG) ONY ANMSWANAGS 


A 4sLdavVHD 


= uy 


SIOaUG GNY INeWle! 


FiF-TH-DEGREE DROIDS 

Fifth-degree droids are labor and utility droids, performing heavy lifting and 
low-level, repetitive grunt work that many beings in the galaxy prefer to 
avoid, The main difference between these and other domestic droids is that 
fifth-degree droids are not programmed to provide companionship. \nstead, 
they perform the ordered task and report back when it is compicted. 


CLL-6 Binary Load Lifter 

So cognitively slow that it barely qualifies as a droid, the binary load lifter 
serves one purpose only: to lift and stack cargo containers in industrial 
warehouses all over the galaxy. The most basic of processors keeps this droid 
moving and carrying out its orders. Only the slightest level of self-awareness 
prevents CLL-6 droids from being considered nonthinking machines. 

Tre binary load jifter is one of the oldest and simplest droid models in 
the galaxy. The boxy droid stands 3 meters tall and appears to be carrying 
two trays at the end of its arms. In fact, the droid has no manipulators at all 
and uses the “trays” to lift cargo palettes and deliver them to their destina- 
tions. Each leg is reinforced with industrial-grade durastee! and powered 
by a heavy-duty hydraulic system to support the droid’s buik as well as the 
burden of its load, 

Although the CLL-G can understand and take orders in Basic, it can speak 
only in Binary. When it takes orders, the droid takes them literally, much to 
the regret of frustrated owners who eventually decide to invest in a protocol 
droid to deliver orders for them. With the binary load lifter's low cost, those 
owners are not set back much when they do so. 

CLL-6 droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


M ¥Y ES 
NAS PROGRAMMING 


BINARY 
LIFTERS... 
SIMILAR TO 


Ve +N 


CLL-6 Binary Load Lifter CL 1 
Large droid (Sth-degrec) nonheroic 1 

Init +0 ; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary 

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 3), Fart 19, Will 10 

hp 23: Threshold 19 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (waiking) 

Melee unarmed +9 (14449) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +0; Grp +14 

Abilities Str 28, Dex 10, Con —, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 5 

Feats Skill Focus (Endurance, Perception), Skill Training (Perception) 
Skills Endurance +19 , Perception +10 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processar, 2 toal appendages 
Availability Licensed; Cost 4,200 credits (used) 


FA=5 Valet Droid 

One of the SoroSuub Corporation's most popular servant draids, the FA-5 
valet droid is used for menial tasks in hotels, spaceports, and government 
facilities. The FA-5 valet droid has little in the way of complex programming 
and is best used for basic serv ce tasks, such as carrying bags, delivering food 
and drinks, and acting as a mail Courier. All FA-5 valet droids are programmed 
with basic flight protocols, allowing them to move, park, and retrieve the 
airspeeders and starships of their owners or their owners’ clients. 

FA-5 valet droids can be played as droid heroes. 


FA-5 Valet Droid CLO 

Medium droid (Sth-degree) ronheroic 1 

Init +2; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 3; Threshold 10 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (16341) 

Ranged by weapon +2 

Base Atk +0; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 15, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Feats Skill Focus (Endurance), Skill Training (Pilot), 2 unassigned 

Skills Endurance +10, Pilot +12 

Systems walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, basic processor, 
vocabulater 

Availability Licensed; Cost 1,100 


\W-37 Pincer Loader Droid 
Marketed as "the bantha of load lifters,” the Industrial Autornaton IW-37 
pincer loader droid is designed to carry rockets, torpedoes, and other mis- 
siles, and to load them into the launch tubes of starships and other vehicles. 
\W-37s are also used on battlefields, where they are programmed to locate 
and retrieve unused munitions and other salvage from disabled vehicles. 
Although not built for combat, the IW-37 Is programmed to immobilize 
those who attempt to interfere with its werk. Clone troaper units occasion- 
ally find ('W-37s in the cargo holds of wrecked Separatists ships, clutching 
still-functioning super battle droids in their claws. 
\\W-37 pincer loader droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


IW-37 Pincer Loader Droid cL 
Large droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 4 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Binary 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 17, Will 10 

hp 11; Threshold 22 

limimune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee 2 claws +10 (1d6+7) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach | square 
Base Atk +3; Grp 415 


Abilities Str 24, Dex 11, Con —, Int @, Wis 8, Cha 6 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Damage Threshold, Pin, 
Power Attack 

Skills Initiative +7, Perception +6 

Systems walking locomation, basic processor, 2 claw appendages, 
durasteel pfating (+6 armor) 

Possessions durastecl shell 

Availability Licensed; Cost 8,000 credits 


A MHaLeavHo 


SeteeGg GNY LNEAa0IN@s) 


AN IW:37 PINCER LOADER DROID WOLOB A 
BLASTER CANNON WMILE TWO PIT DROIDSG 
PREPARE TO wWRLO (¥ TO «4 BTARGMIP. 


“CHAPTER VI 
STARSHIPS 


ih Ware 


i LSS 


n thoi ugh the Clone Wars are waged between the Republic and the Con- 
of Independent Systems, a number of unaffiliated organizations 
Dé the struggle. Among these are countless mercenary bands that 
are drawn into the war by the siren song of easy money, Both Republic and 
Separatist forces supplement their interstellar forces with mercenaries. To 
the Separatists, it is a matter of business as usual; to the Republic, especially 
| the earliest days of the conflict, the use of mercenaries is necessary to 
bolster the few available fighter craft. 
With the coming of lawlessness in the wake of the war, piracy blossoms. 
, Many late-war pirate bands are formed from disenfranchised mercenary 
companies, and their weapons include the same craft that are on the Republic 
and Separatist rolls earlier in the conflict. 
Other factions, too, possess unique vessels during the Clone Wars. 
The Mandalorians, for one, had their own ships, the majority of which are 
produced by Mandalmotors. The Seltiss line of luxury ships—expensive and 
opulent—are used by the Hutts and their ilk for centuries to come. 


SPACE TRANSPORTS 


The following space transports are prevalent or achieved notoriety during 
the Clone Wars. 


BARLOZ-CLASS FREIGHTER 

At the time of its release, the Barloz-class freighter is one of the Corel- 
lian Engineering Corporation's most lauded models, and it sets the bar for 
freighters in a number of areas. It is designed during the height of the Old 
Republic, and its features reflect the standards of the era. It is a sturdy ship 
with large cargo holds that are easily customized to accommodate different 
payloads. Barloz-class freighters can be modified to carry everything from 
bacta to foodstuffs. A small number are produced to transport passengers 
and refugees, but the living conditions aboard these models are cramped 
and provide few frills. 

One of the Barloz’'s glaring deficiencies is its stock armament. Its single 
turret-mounted laser cannon is adequate during the height of the Old Repub- 
lic, when the space lanes are relatively safe. With the Galactic Civil War and 
the chaos that follows, the Barloz becomes easy prey for pirates. In addition, 
the Barloz is not particularly comfortable—especially on long voyages. 

The focus in freighter design shifts in the later years of the Old Republic, 
giving rise to the YT series. The CEC reduces its support of the Barloz line 
in lieu of its newer entries into the marketplace. Though it is marginalized, 
the Barloz continues to see service well into the Rebellion era. The Barloz's 
inexpensive price tag allows an entire generation of traders, explorers, and 
smugglers to take to the stars at a time when only the wealthy or indebted 
can afford to do so. 


) 


TWA S3ievHo 


Sdinsyuvis 


lA MBLovYHoD 


Aseries of Barfoz gunships, known colloquially as Justifiers, are produced 
by private parties at the height of the Clone Wars. Internal cargo space is 
converted to make room for larger engines and shield generators, and a 
number of gun emplacements are added to the ventral and dorsal surfaces of 
the ship. Intended to pravide fire support for merchant shipping, the Justifier 
is expensive to maintain and is produced only in limited aumbers. 


Barloz-class Freighter CL7 
Colossal space transport 
Init -3; Senses Perception +5 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 30; +13 armor 
hp 180; DR 15; SR 15; Threshold 80 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannon +1 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 Squares (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +40 


Abilities Str 50, Dex 14, Con -, Int 12 
Skills Initiative -~3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Compuier +5 


Crew 2 (normal): Passengers 4 

Cargo 85 metric tons; Consumables 2 months: Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 120,000 (17,500 used) 


Laser Cannon (copilot) 
Atk +1, Dmg 4d10x2 


*“WE'RE TAKING THIS 
JUNKER? WE'D BE 
BETTER OFF ON 
THAT BIG BUG.” 


“AHSOKA TANO 


Qe RIGGER 
Designed by the Corellian Engineering Corporation as a budget space wrans- 
port for fledgling businesses, the G9 Rigger is a slow and unwieldy transport 
ship on the verge of obsolescence by the time af the outbreak of the Clone 
Wars. The G9 Rigger, though inexpensive, offers few of the amenities sought 
after by independent iraders. Like all Corellian Engineering Corporation 
ships, the G9 Rigger is fairly easy to customize, but the ship is too dulky 
and sluggish for most couriers and transport pilots who pride themselves 
on speed, As a result, the G9 Rigger is most often seen in the hands of local 
traders who ply the space lanes in a small area of the galaxy, and has earned 
a reputation as a low-quality vessel suitable for use only on the Outer Rim, 
interestingly, it is this reputation that leads many spice smugglers to spend 
the time and effort (o modify the G9 Rigger, as most sector authorities see 
little threat from this vessel 

The Twilight, a spice freighter owned by Ziro the Hutt and stolen from 
the planet Teth by Anakin Skywalker, is a G9 Rigger. 


G9 Rigger CL6 
Colossal space transport 
Init -5: Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +11 armor 
hp 100; DR 15; Threshold 74 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 700 ken/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged double light laser Cannons +3 {see below) and 
light laser cannons +1 {see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +5 
Atk Options autofire (double light laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 39, Dex 10, Con —, int 12 
Skills initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 2 (normal): Passengers 6 

Cargo 70 tons; Consumables + month; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x3 

Availability Licensed; Cost 85,000 (45,000 used) 


Double Light Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +3 (—2 avtofire), Dma 4d10x2 
Light Laser Cannons (copilot) 
Atk +1, Dmg 3d10x2 


Barloz-class 
Medium Freighter 


| square = 3 meters 


0 
I 
> 
y 
a 

|. Cockpit 3 

a Pilot “ 
b Co-Pilot 


c Sensors/Communicatians 
d Shields/Weapons 
. Ships Computer 
Life Support 
Ealley 

. Refresher poe eB jauitit 
. Passenger Cabins 15) Pel ish il 5 f} 
First Mate’s Cabin gas Fi Ua 
. Captain's Cabin : | 
. Common Room 

. Aoarding Ramp 

. Mochine Shop/Starage 
, Cargo Bay 

. Cargo Elevator 

. Escape Pod 

. Cargo Loading Ramp 

. Engineering Section 

| Bunwell to Turret 


2) 
| @ 
Ps 
a0} 
(0) 


SRmRE DSK Sweet Mone wes 


2) 


0 
z 
> 
v 
4 
8 
2 
: 


GOs-100 SALVAGE SHIP 
The Gallofree Yards GS-190 salvage ship is a large, bulky craft designed to 
nawigate debris fields in she wake of space battles, picking up salvageable 
parts to sell as scrap. Durable and capable of dealing with dangerous float- 
ing flotsam and debris, the GS-100 runs with a small crew complement, 
and some independent salvagers prefer to fill the other two crew slots with 
droids, allowing them to plunder the graveyards of past oatties without the 
need to split the profits with living asseciates 
Gha" Nachkt's ship, the Vulture’s Claw, is a heavily madified GS-100 
salvage ship. 
GS-100 Salvage Ship CL8 
Colossal space transport 
Init -4; Senses Perception +5 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 30; +13 armor 
hp 190; DR 15; Threshold 80 
Speed fly 12 squares (mex. velocity 400 km/h}, fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged 2 medium laser cannons +2 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x?%2 or ? square (starship scale}; Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +40 
Abilities Str 51, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +5, Perception + 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 3 (normal); Passengers 20 (droids} 
Cargo 140 tans; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x3 
Availability Licensed; Cost 190,000 (95,000 used) 


§, Pilot -4, 


Medium Laser Cannons (gunner) 
Atk +2, Dmg 4010x2 


“LOOKS LIKE A 
TRANDOSHAN 
SCAVENGER, 
PROBABLY COMBING 
THE BATTLEFIELD 
FOR SALVAGE.” 


— 


-ANAKIN SKYWALK 


> L.. 


AN B40K PHOENIX MAWK-CLAGE LIOHT PINNACE AND KR-TB 
DOONTREADER ON A LANDING PAD. 


KR-TB DOOMTREADER 

One of the Corellian Engineering Corporation's forgotten achievements is 
the KR-TB, better known as the Doomtreader, |Urepresents a radical shift in 
design for the CEC ata time when the company is searching for a product that 
resonates well with the majority of their customer base. Though the YT series 
is nearly a century away from being realized, the KR-TB is one of the earliest 
attempts at designing a freighter that would be all things to ail peapie. 

For the time, the Doomtreader’s expansive cargo holds are its ost 
lauded feature. With over 360 metric tons of capacity, a small fortune can 
be secured fer reliadit transport. Tre KR-TB is also designed with the solo 
pilot in mind. The duties of the copilat can be delegated to an astromech 
droid, necessitating only a small organie crew. Adequate passenger space Is 
provided for up te six additional organics. 

Next to its vast cargo capabilities, the Doomtreader is renowned far 
its defensive capabilities. In fact, the KR-TB earns its moniker from its 
heavy shields, durable construction, and dual laser cannons, which allow 
it to venture into situations that would doom lesser vessels te capture or 
destruction. 


Even though it seems the perfect ship for the intergalactic merchant, the 
KR-TB is only moderately successful—in part because of the ship's high price 
tag. Behind the scenes, rivalries within the Corellian Engintering Corpora- 
tion also play a substantial role in the model's marginalization. In the end, 
remaining Doomtreaders are sold at cut rates te planetary defense forces 
and law enforcement agencies. 

The most famous KR-TB Doomtreaiier is Hell's Anvil. Taken as a prize by 
Montross, a well-known Mandalorian bounty hunter and rival of Jango Fett, 
Hell's Anvil is heavily modified and converted for use as a prisoner transport 
and mobile base. The most notorious of Hell’s Anvif's modifications is a pair 
of solar ionization cannons, devastating weapons that are unaffected by 
conventional defiector shields. With Montross’s death at the hands of Jango 
Fett, the Hell's Anvil fades into obscurity. 


A PURSUER-CLASS ENFORCEMENT SHIP CHASES DOWN A 
GBARLOZ-CLASS FPREIOHTER. 


KR-TB Doomtreader cLs 
Colossal space transport 
Init —4; Senses Perception +5 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 30; +13 armor 
hp 180; DR 15; SR 30; Tareshold 80 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 900 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 20x10 or 1 squares [starsnip scale); Cover total (crew), 
total (astromech droid) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +40 
Abilities Str 50, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +5 (413°), Perception +5, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +5 (+13") 
Crew 2 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers 6 
Cargo 100 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x15) 
Availability Licensed; Cost 350,000 (70,000 used) 
* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers sastcod. 


Dual Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4, Dmg 6d10x2 


PURSUER-CLASS 

ENFORCEMENT SHIP 

The Pursuer-class enforcement ship is a patrol vessel and fast transport 
designed by MandalMotors with Mandalorians specifically in mind. The ship 
is popular with the Mandalorian Protectors during the Clone Wars, but the 
Pursuer-class also becomes a sought-after ship amona non-Mandalorian 
police forces and bounty hunters across the galaxy. 

The stock Pursuer is fast, with goad armament and adequate shields. 
Though its cargo capacity is not up to par with other interstellar transports 
and freighters, it can be easily r¢legated to a transport vole in a pinch, Pas- 
senger space is limited to five cramped cells and a couple of bunks, and the 
eargo area is adequate for securing contraband and ground vehicles. Even 
thaugh it is a capabie craft right off the assembly line, few Pursuers go long 
without aftermarket modification. 

Following the Clone Wars, the Pursuer-ciass continues to see production 
and distribution across the galaxy with few changes to its basic design. Its 
fearsome reputation, combined with its capabilities, is just as valuable to 
potential owners as its actual weapon systems are. 

With his Firespray-31, Slave J, in impound, Bobs Fett uses af a modified 
Pursuer-class, dubbing it Slave l. The ship serves him well until it is pearly 
destroyed at Byss. Fett’s madified Pursuer includes a rear-firing proton 
torpedo jauncher, an improved sensor array, and improved shield generators 
and sublight engines. 


| 


| 
al 
; 
\> 
v 
4| 
4 
2} 
$) 


SOSH VLS 
Baan a 


SS) 


iA Bsieveo 


Pursuer-class Enforcement Ship 

Colossal space transport 

Init -3; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 

hp 120; DR 15; SR 15; Threshold 76 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 krn/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged twin blaster cannons +5 (see below) or 

Ranged ion cannons +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 10x20 or 4 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +37 

Atk Options autofire (twin blaster cannons) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1; Passengers 7 (2 Passengers, 5 prisoners} 

Cargo 35 metric tons; Consumables 5 weeks 

Hyperdrive xi (backup x16) 

Availability Restricted; Cost 200,000 (40,000 used) 


Twin Blaster Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


jon Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 4d10x2 ion 


SELTISS-2 CARAVEL 

All Hutts of means seck to demonstrate their personal successes, This extends 
to the vessels they buy, and the Seltiss-2 caravel is a prime example of Hut- 
tese taste in starships. The Seltiss-2 is modest by Hutt standards, yet to other 
species its amenities seem lush. No two ships are the same, and the interiors 
are crafted to individual specifications and requirements. Externally, the 
Seltiss-2 resembles a sail barge. Inside, however, the accommodations—at 
least for the Hutt and honored guests—are spacious and opulent. 

Hutt caravels, the Seltiss-2 among them, are designed with short intra- 
system jaunts in mind. Thus, they are not equipped with hyperdrives as a 
standard feature. They move easily between the upper atmosphere of Nal 
Hutta and the smuggler's moon of Nar Shaddaa. The vessel's combat capa- 
bilities are humble and hidden from the naked eye. Any self-respecting Hutt 
prefers to kecp his weapons concealed to lull enemies into a false sense of 
superiority. 


The main cabin of the Seltiss-2 is equipped with a raised dais and a stun- 
ning view. It Serves as a Hutt’s audience chamber away from the personal 
palace. The cabin detaches from the rest of the ship, ferrying the Hutt and 
his servants to and from the planet below. 


Ubrikkian Seltiss-2 Caravel 

Colossal space transport 

Init -5; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 31; +14 armor 

hp 200; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 81 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon battery +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 10x20 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +41 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon battery) 

Abilities Str 52, Dex 10, Con =, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 4 (1 pilot, 1 copilot, 2 qunners); Passengers 12 

Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft main cabin 

Availability Licensed; Cost 800,000 (160,000 used) 


CL9 


Laser Cannon Battery (2 gunners) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 46102 


Seltiss-2 Caravel Cabin 
The Seltiss-2 caravel, like many Hutt space transports, is equipped with a 
tabin that separates from the rest of the ship. Though this is often done 
merely to accommodate suborbital transportation, the most obvious reason 
for such a feature is to allow the owner of the caravel to escape harm. Eseape 
pods are not a standard feature aboard Hutt caravels, leaving the Hutt’s 
crew and entourage in dire straights if the ship's owner decides to depart 
during an emergency. 

When detached from the primary hull, the cabin of a Seltiss-2 has the 
following statistics. 


Ubrikkian Seltiss-2 Caravel Cabin cL 3 


Huge space transport 

Init +4; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11}, Fort 21; +3 armor 

hp 50; DR 5; SR 10; Threshold 31 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 700 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square [starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0: Grp +21 : 

Abilities Str 32, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1; Passengers 6 
Cargo 5 tons; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licvased; Cost 400,000 (80,000 used) 


STARFIGHTERS 


The follawing starfighters are prevalent durisg the Clone Wars. Same achieve 
greatness, while others fly into obscurity after the wars, 


DAGGER-CLASS STARFIGHTER 

The Dagger-class space superiarity starfighter is produced in large numbers 
by Republic Sienar Systems in the waning days of the Old Republic. It is a 
formidable craft for its time: small, maneuverable, and fast, with powerful 
weaponry and a relatively cheap price tag. It even incorporates a hyper- 
drive and a limited astrogation computer that stores enough data for three 
hyperspace jurnps. 

As with later examples of Sienar’s design philosophy, the Bagger-class 
lacks shielus or extensive life support systems. Dagger pilots must don pres- 
surized flight suits to withstand the rigors of space. An absence of inertial 
and gravity controls means that Degger pilots are also exposed to extreme 
gravitational forces as they dodge, weave, and careen through space 

Thousands of Dagger-class starfighters are produced by Republic Sienar 
prior to the Clone Wars. The majarity are purchased by planetary defense 
forces, and many of the systems that take up the banner of the Confederacy 
of Independent Systems have Daggevs in their arsenals. Given its low cost 
and ubiquitous mature, the Dagger is also used by a number of mercenary 
organizations, as well as independent paramilitary contractors. The Trade 
Federation, in particular, contracts with a number af mercenary organizations 
that employ Dagger starfighters. 

With Republic Sienar’s dissalution by Emperor Palpatine, and subsequent 
incorporation into the Repubfic Navy, production of many of its starfighters 
ceases completely. This inciudes the Dagger-ciass starfighter. The design 
specifications of the Dagger are eventually brought out for review by the 
newly founded Senar Fleet Systems, and some elements of the class are 
incorporated into the initial TIE series of starfighters. 


DAGGEN-CLABS NTARPIGQHTERS ATTACK THE Twmvarnr. 
A D®@ RICGER SPICE FREIOMHTER. 


Dagger-class Starfighter 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +4; Senses Perception +5 


CL 6 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +6 armor 
hp 60: DR 10; Trireshold 42 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h], fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +2 [see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or | square (starship scale); Cover total {crew) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +27 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 10 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilat +4, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1; Passengers nane 
Cargo 55 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 35,000 (8,000 used) 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +2 (-3 autofire), Ding 6¢10x2 


lA S#SaigwvHo 


IGLS 


i 


SB 


Soirk 


lA SBLavHoD 


SHInSsEvs 


DIANOGA-CLASS ASSAULT 
STARFIGHTER 

The Dianoga-class starfighter is one of Koensayr’s most popular starfighter 
madels prior to the advent of the Y-wing. Though its armaments are con- 
sidered excessive for a civilian fighter produced during peacctirre, it is a 
popular choice of planetary defense forces, mercenary fleets, and pirate 
bands. Though effective when employed in large numbers, the Dianaga's 
relatively stow speed and tow maneuverability keep it from competing with 
faster and nimbler military-grade starfighters. 

The Dianoga’'s leading feature is its weaponry. Four fire-linked laser can- 
nons provide the fighter with a significant offensive punch, while the craft's 
heavy ion cannor allows for more controlled attacks against sensitive targets 
that need to be taken in one piece. Decent shields, a reinforced hull, and a 
mid-grade hyperdrive are also standard features of the Dionogo, providing 
it with a degree of tactical flexibility. 

During the Clone Wars, Dianogas fly in mercenary and pirate fleets. 
Koensayr eventually discontinues the line, making it a rare sight following 
the Clone Wars. Same Dianogas are still in service with pirate bends well 
into the Rebellion era, but the lack of available parts makes them difficult, 
if not impossible, to maintain. 


Dianoga-class Assault Starfighter cL? 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +2; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23: +6 armor 

hp 80; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 43 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h}, fly 3 squares 
{starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +2 (see below) or 

Ranged heavy ion cannon +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 squares (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0: Grp +28 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 14, Con =, Int 11 

Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +2, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1; Passengers none 

Cargo 90 kg; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 

Availability Restricted; Cost 45,000 (12,000 used) 


Fire-linked Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +2 (-3 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


FREEFALL-CLASS STARFIQHTER 
The Freefali-class starfighter is a barber manufactured by the Nubian Design 
Collective. Named for the unguided bombs it is designed to use, the Freefollis 
an effective craft despite its kowtech approach to ordnance delivery. It is a large 
Starfighter, possessing a wide wingspan with a large sublight engine mounted 
on each wing tip. Cargo capacity is typically limited to bombs, but the ship can 
be converted to make supply drops and troop insertions if necessary. 

A Freefall requires an extensive crew, including a dedicated pilot, gunner, 
navigator, and bombardier, Allowing a pilot to focus on maneuvers while 
providing additional crew to perform other functions is a staple of Nubian 
design philosophy. In fact, the calibration of these diverse systems is so 
exacting that as long as a crew of four operates the ship, each gains a +1 
bonus to checks and rolls related to his own duties. It is theoretically passible 
to consolidate systems, thereby reducing the ship's required crew, but this 
climinates the aforementioned bonus, 

During the Clane Wars, the Freefoll-class starfighter is employed by 
several independent mercenary units, mostly on the stde of the Republic. 
The best known of these mercenaries is the Bith engineer Jinkins, who flies 
a heavily modified Freefall-class starfighter with improved weaponry. 


Freefail-class Starfighter CL8 

Colossal starfighter 

Init -2; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 

hp 120; DR 15; SR 20; Threshold 76 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +1 (see below) and 

Ranged bomb chute +1 (see below) 

Fighting Space 30x20 or 1 square (starship scaic); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +36 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 4 [1 pilot, 1 gunner, 1 navigator, 1 bombardier); Passengers 10 
Cargo 20 metric tons; Consumables 4 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Payload 20 proton bombs 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10) 

Availability Restricted; Cost 70,000 (18,000 used) 


Laser Cannons (gunner) 
Atk +t (-4 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Heavy ton Cannon (pilot) 
Atk +2, Dmg 5d10x2 ion 


Bomb Chute (bombardier) 
Atk +1, Dmg 8010x%5 


MORNINGSTAR ASSAULT 
STARFIGHTER 

The MorningStar is 2 tri-wing starfighter used extensively in mercenary 
fleets prior 0 the invasion of Naboo. The Trade Federation employs several 
mercenary groups that use the MorningStar fighter and its variants. Of the 
starfighters available prior to the Galactic Civil War, the MorningStar is 
one of the most capasie designs available. In spite of being marketed as a 
planetary defense ship, the MorningStar finds its way into mercenary and 
pirate fleets across the galaxy. 

Kuat Systems Engineering originally praduces the MorningStar as an 
orbital fighter and picket vessel “or planetary defenses and law enforce- 
ment, With the eventual addition of a Chass-2 hyperdrive, the MorningStar 
is shoehorned into the roit of a space superiority starfighter, Though 
effective, especially en masse, the MarningStar suffers from light construc- 
tion, mediocre maneuverability, shaw specd, and an inadequate payload of 
concussion missiles. 


MORNINOSYAR ASSAULT BTARFIGRTERS MEET THEIR MAaTEH, 


Variants of the MorningStar are produced, the mast popular ef which are 
the A, B, and C models. The A model, detailed here, is the original space supe- 
riority design. The MorningStar-8 trades in its concussion missile launcher 
for three heavy laser cannans (damage 7d10x2). Asa result, it is favored as 
a dogfighting craft by the mercenaries who emptoy it. 

The MorningStar-C is born of the desire for a starfighter that is effective 
against capital ships, This design change takes the 8 model, removes the 
light las¢r canons, and includes three concussion missile launchers with 
ten missiles each in their place. 


MorningStar-A Assault Starfighter CL 8 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +2; Senses Perception +5 als 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22: +6 armor 

hp 70; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 42 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 kmJjh), fly 3 squares 
(starship seale) 

Ranged light laser cannans +3 (see below) or 

Ranged concussian missile launcher +3 (see below] 

Fighting Space 4x4 or T square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +27 

Atk Options auvtofire (light laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 35, Dex 14, Con —, {nt 12 

Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +2, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1; Passengers none 

Cargo 75 kg; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 4 missiles 

Hyperdrive x2 

Availability Restricted; Cast 43,000 (10,000 used) 


Light Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +3 (-2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Concussion Missile Launcher (pilot) 
Atk +3, Dmg 84102 


SQrnsevs.s | 


1A eBLavHo 


| 


SOorMSHVLS 


S4A40K PHOENIX HAWK-TLASS 
LIGHT PINNACE 

The S40K is one of Kuat Systems Engineering's first forays into the galactic 
starship market. Designed as an affordable space transport with minimal 
cargo capacity, good defenses, anc high utility, the Phoenix Hawk-class 
alls short in a number of areas, and these shortcomings eventually doom 
it to failure. So many corners are cut oy KSE's designers that the Phoenix 
Hawk-class is essentially ignored by wealthy pilots and merchants in favor 
of more expensive, less cramped alternatives. Externally, the Phoenix Hawk- 
class resembles a squat Firespray-31 patrol craft. Unlike the Firespray, which 
is Streamlined and elegant in appearance, the Phoenix Hawk-class appears 
ungainly and clumsy. 

The ship's starkest deficiency 15 Its cramped living conditions. Though 
marketed a5 a transport far up to six occupants, the craft's amenities are hardly 
sufficient for haif that number. Crew and passengers art pressed together into 
small quarters, and bunks must be shared if the ship is staffed to full capacity. 
Standard ceiling height within the S4OK Is capped at 1.83 meters, making the 
interiar a claustrophebe's nightmare. To make matters worse, refreshe facilities 
are uncomfortable and prone to malfunctioning at inopportune times unless 
several systems are replaced with nonstandard parts. 


Two SCURRO H-S PEOTOTY>E BOMBERS 
ATTACK THe VULYURE’S Claw, «A O8-100D GALVAGE SHIP, 


Despite its drawbacks, the S40K succeeds in the area of defensive sys- 
tems ano offensive capabilities. Though it 1s slow and plodding in flight, the 
Phoenix Hawk-class is equipped with excellent shields and powerful weap- 
onry. When flown by a skilled pilot, the S40K makes a formidatile target, sa 
it is popular with bounty hunters, mercenaries, and paramilitary units that 
are les¢ concerned with amenities and more interested in the application 
of brute force. 

Though it is an incredibly common sight on the space lanes during the days 
of the Old Republic, the Phoenix Hovek-class becomes increasingly obscure 
with each passing decade 


S40K Phoenix Hawk-class Light Pinnace CL7 

Gargantuan Starfighter 

Init +1; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor 

hp 750; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 48 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 750 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged heavy blaster canrons +3 (see below) or 

Ranged light ion cannons +3 (see beiow) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 squares (starship scale); Cover total (crew 

Base Atk +0; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster cannons) 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +1, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +1, 

Use Computer +5 
Crew 1 or 2; Passengers 4 
Cargo 20 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 
Availability Licensed; Cost 112,000 (22,500 used) 


Heavy Blaster Cannons (pilot) 

Atk +3 (-2 autofire), Omg 6d10x2 
Light Jon Cannons (pilot) 

Atk +3, Dmg 3¢10x2 ion 


ScuRRG H-6& PROTOTYPE 
BOMBER 

The Seurrg H-6 is one of the most dangerous starfighter designs in the 
galaxy. It is created five years be“ore the Battle of Naboo by the Nubian 
Design Collective, who hope to sell it to Naboo. Naboo, seeing little use for 
an expensive offensive bomber, refuses the Collective's offer. The original 
Scurrg prototype is mothballed on Nubia whille the Collective lackadaisically 
seeks another buyer. As they search, the prototype is stolen by a Feeorin pirate 
named Nym with the aid of Jinkins, one of the Collective's engineers. 

Fallawing the original prototype's theft, the Nubian Design Collective 
produces several other prototypes anticipating the impending civil war. These 
new prototypes incorporate minor improvements on the original design, 
but ave otherwise identical. The expense of the starfighter, along with its 
advanced Nubian technology, dissuades a number of buyers (including the 
Republic) from investing in the Scurrg. Given their friendly relationship with 
Naboo, the Nubians refuse to entertain offers from the Confederacy. 

The Scurrg is best classified as a heavy assault starfighter. It is equipped 
with six forward-mounted faser cannons, a laser turret, and an experimental 
bomblet generator. The energy spheres drapped by the Scurrg are produced by 
the bomblet generator, which uses the ship's primary power source to create 
them. The generator can produce ane bomblet every 10 rounds (1 minute), 
but it can hold no more than ten energy spheres at any one time. The bomblet 
generator is a modular design, allowing it to be removed and incorporated 
into other compatible starfighters. The Scurrg can easily be equipped with 
3 standard bomb chute that drops standard proton bombs. 

The original Scurrg prototype, 2 flown by Nym, is known as the Hovoc., 
In addition to an improved hyperdrive engine, the Havoc is modified to allow 
Nym to operate it without a full crew complement. While Nym takes the 
helm, the gunner and navigator positions are filled by two astromech droids, 
which have been integrated into the ship's system. 


Scurrg H-6 Prototype Bomber CL 10 
Colossal starfighter 


init -1; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +12 armor 
hp 140; DR 15; SR 25; Threshold 77 


Speed fly 16 squares (max, velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser turret +7 (see below) and 
laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged bomblet generator +7" (set below) 

Fighting Space 14x14 or 1 squares (starship scale); Cover total [crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +39 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, laser turret) 


Abilities Str 44, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanies +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 


Cargo 10 metric tons; Consumables 2 weeks Carried Craft none 
Payload 10 explosive energy spheres (see belaw) 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10) 

Availability Military; Cost 150,000 (no used models available) 

“Apply a -20 penolty on attecks ogainst targets smaller thon Colossal size. 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 8d10x2 


Laser Turret (gunner) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Bomblet Generator (pilot) 
Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 


| 


iA HSidvHo 


SAUMSOVAS 


CHAPTER 
AMPAIGN 


CLONE WARS C 


The Clone Wars embodies traditional warfare better than any other war in 
the Star Wars saga. Whereas the Galactic Civil War features guerilla warfare 
against a monolithic Empire, the Clone Wars are a struggle between two 

" More evenly matched forces using more conventional tactics and strategies. 
Battles of the Clone Wars involve two comparable military forces clashing 
on expansive and exotic battlefields in a struggle to capture and secure 
territory. The Republic and the Confederacy are vying to be the dominant 
ruling body of the galaxy, and both sides commit millions of troops—ciones 
and droids—in an effort to stop their foes. 

The Clone Wars lead millions of ground troops to fields of battle through- 
out the galaxy, and the heroes of a Clone Wars campaign quickly find them- 
selves drawn into these conflicts. Part of the excitement of a Clone Wars 
campaign is that everywhere the heroes go they find conflicts close by. Few 
places in the galaxy avoid conflict. The Jedi are fighting and dying on the 
front lines of these wars, sending the Order into decline. The corrupt leaders 
of the Confederacy use droid troops to advance their agenda, aided by the 
sinister leadership of villains like General Grievous and General Loathsom. 
The galaxy offers the heroes no sanctuary from the effects of the Clone 
Wars. Even when visiting distant, backwater worlds, they might see secret 
rendezvous points for Republic military forces or even entire populations 
toiling day and night to power the Separatist war machine. 


| waLavHD 


DECLINE OF THE JEDI 


a 


on, the heroes see the Jedi falling out of prominence, they should develop a 
greater sense of urgency and a deepening impression that their own actions 
could turn the tide, since calling on the Jedi to fix problems becomes increas- 
ingly difficult. The following suggestions offer ways that Gamemasters can 
weave the decline of the Jedi into their campaigns. 


lt 
Though the Jedi are the guardians of the Republic for millennia, during the 0 i 
Clone Wars they dwindle nearly to the point of extinction. The Jedi slowly 5 p 
decline up to the point of the Clone Wars, but the sudden deaths of dozens of Z i 
Jedi at the battle of Geonosis mark the first step in the rapid thinning of the Ls] 1 
Jedi ranks. As the Clone Wars progress, more Jedi are killed than are raised to < y 
knighthood, and the number of Jedi Knights and Jedi Masters shrinks as the > ‘4 
war rages on. By the time Order 66 is implemented, the Jedi are significantly 3) i 
fewer in number than they are at the beginning of the Clone Wars. Oo) 

Showing the decline of the Jedi in a campaign is a great way to reinforce 0 

the common themes of a Clone Wars campaign. If, as the campaign goes , 

uv 

> 

0 

Zz 

0 


Bees og ww 


NA BeBLdvwrid 


SNBIVANVSE BYVR DNV! 


THE DWINDLING UEDI 

CAMPAIGN 

When the Clone Wars campaign opens, the Gamemaster liberally sprinkles 
the Jedi throughout the early adventures. The heroes receive missions from 
Jedi Masters, encounter wandering Jedi Knights on the battiefield, and help 
Padawans escape trouble. As the heroes grow in power, gaining levels and 
completing adventures, the Gamemaster gradually reduces the number of 
Jedi that show up in the campaign. Instead of having Jeci show up every 
session, they begin to show up every other session, then every third session, 
and so forth. Major NPC Jedi die in the Clone Wars, while others are called 
away to distant star systems well beyond the heroes’ reach. Jedi neroes who 
became ane with the Force are replaced by non-Jedi heroes, so That even 
within the confines of an adventuring party of heroes the Jedi are on the 
decline. By the time the heroes reach the highest fevels, only a small number 
of Jedi—one or two, at most=are actively visible in the campaign. 

The contrast between the beginning of the campaign, when the neroes 
encountered Jedi frequently in nearly every adventure, and the end of the 
campaign, when only one or two Jedi are even interacting with the herocs 
on a regular basis, should be enough to reinforce the sense that the Jedi 
are a dying breed. 


THE MASTERLESS PADAWAN 
Jedi heroes in a Clone Wars game keep the Jedi in the heroes’ perception 
throughout the campaign. However, this does not mean that a campaign with 
a Jedi hero cannot take advantage of the diminishing Jedi Order as a theme. 
A Clone Wars campaign that starts at Ist level could begin with Jedi heroes 
as Padawans whose masters have died or otherwise deserted them. 

Left vo find their own way, Padawan heroes are confronted immediately 
by the decline of the Jedi. If that Padawan then makes cantact with the Jedi 
Council (an encounter that could even be worthy of a small quest), the Jedi 
Council informs the Padawan that no Jedi Master is available to complete 
his or her training. The Padawan can be given an assignment, or entrusted 
to the companionship of the other heroes (particularly if another hero is a 
Republic soldier or a well-known and loyal noble) until such a time when 
another Jedi Master can continue the Padawan’s training. Alternatively, a 
Padawan might be entrusted to the care of a mere Jedi Knignt—as Ansoka 
Tano is entrusted to Anakin Skywalker just a short time after his Knighting 
ceremony. This ieaves the hero under the tutelage of a Jedi who is not yet 
ready to truly train the Padawan. 


 — 


ORDER 66 
Using Order 66—the order given by Supreme Chancellor Palpatine to wipe 
out the Jedi—can be tricky because it represents a major setting shift. When 
Palpatine issues Order 66, the Clone Wars quickly come to an end, and within 
a brief time the Empire rises and the Dark Timves begin, However, using Order 
G6 in @ campaign gives the Gamemaster a chance to build up to a Single, 
climactic event that is prominent in Revenge of the Sith and can connect 
a campaign to the Star Wars films. For campaigns taking place during the 
Clone Wars, Order 66 should probably be one of the last major events in the 
campaign. Jedi heroes in the company of clone troops during Order 66 must 
deal with sudden betrayal, which can surprise players if they do not know it 
is coming. This surprise can also be enhanced if any of the heroes have clone 
trooper followers, as formerly loyal allies that have likely been through many 
adventures with the heroes suddenly, without warning, become enemies. 
Order 66 presents 2 great opportunity to surprise the heroes, and Game- 
masters planning to use Order 66 should be careful, over the course of the 
Clone Wars campaign, to resist providing too much information as to how 
close, or how far away, Order 66 is. Additionally, after the Order G6 event, 
Jedi become outlaws, and Jedi heroes quickly find themselves hunted and 
cut off from the resources =hey have come to rely on over the course of the 
campaign, radically altering the feel of the campaign. Order 66 represents the 
final biow in the collapse of the Jedi Order, and it should be treated as either 
a major shift in the campaign's tone or as one of the final events leacing to 
the climax of the campaign. 


RAMPANT CORRUPTION 
By the time the Clone Wars begin ta tear the galaxy apart, the Republic has 
already been steeped in massive corruption for decades, even centuries. in 
fact, corruption in the Republic allowed Palpatine to maneuver his way into 
becoming Supreme Chancellor a decade before the outbreak of the Clone 
Wars. Similar corruption ailowed him—in his guise as Darth Sidious—to 
manipulate the Separatists into engaging the Republic in open war, In a 
Clone Wars campaign, the heroes are likely to encounter corruption at every 
turn, and those in positions of power can never be truly trusted, for they 
might have their allegiances bought by enemy factions. Politicians sell their 
votes, corporate leaders disregard the basic rights of their employees, and 
security forces turn a blind eye to crime and violence all out of the greed 
that permeates the Republic during this time. 

The heroes are likely to encounter rampant corruption when dealing with 
their enemies and opponents. A corrupt Republic Senator, taking oribes from 
Separatist agents, might reveal the heroes’ plans to their enemies, allowing 
the Separatists to set a trap and draw the heroes into it. A civilian contrac- 
tor at a military shipyard might deactivate the automated security system 
at the shipyard, forcing the heroes to repel an invasion without the help of 
the yard’s droid defenders. 

Corruption usually means saying one thing and then doing another, 
meaning the heroes likely have no dea that they are dealing with a corrupt 
individual until proof of corruption surfaces. For exemple, a high-ranking 
military officer who has proven to be an ally and an asset for the heroes is 
suddenly revealed ta have been sending substandard weapons to the front 
lines, endangering not only the war effart but also the soldiers on the front 
lines. The heroes are then faced with a difficult decision: to continue to 
benefit from that officer's assistance and expertise, or reveal the officer's 
corrupt dealings and lose the benefit of his friendship. If they decide upon 
the latter, they make an enemy of that officer and also likely find themselves 
making enemies with whoever bribed the officer to buy the substandard 
munitions in the first place. 

Typically corruption is prablematic, out sometimes it can work in the 
heroes’ favor. Savvy heroes who use the corruption of the enemy to their 
advantage can orchestrate victories that prey upon the susceptibility of 
their enemies. Heroes who know that two enemy leaders are distrustful of 
ane another could arrange for one {or both) to be bribed into betraying the 
other, using credits and leaning on their lack of trust to create friction within 
the enemy ranks, Similarly, if the neroes discover that an enemy leader is 
particularly susceptible to one form of bribery, they cauld turn that enemy 
into aA ally by exploiting the enemy’s corruption. The heroes gain insight into 
the workings of the enemy, and gain a valuable, though untrustworthy, asset 
who can provide a significant advantage in future adventures. For example, if 
the heroes learn that a Trade Federation starship captain is willing to accept 
bribes, they can use credits to ingratiate themselves with that captain and 


then turn him to their advantage. When the heroes need to sneak behind 
enemy lines, they call in a favor with the bribed starship captain and find 
themselves moving through Confederacy space aboard a Confederate vessel. 
Gamemasters should feel free to use the corruption of the enemy to help 
heroes achieve their goals once in a while, since it keeps the heroes from 
feeling as though corruption happens only among their allies. 

Additionally, the heroes should not be considered above the temptation 
of corruption. During an adventure, a liaison from the enemy could approach 
the heroes, offering them an astronorrical sum of credits to turn over secret 
information or abandon their mission. Such situations can be interesting 
roleplaying opportunities because each hero must decide whether greed 
outweighs principles in a time when corruption is everywhere. Hf the heroes 
art smugglers, mercenaries, or bounty hunters, the corruption might serve to 
further their goals, With the promise of credits from both sides, the heroes 
tan turn corruption to their advantage, plying their trade while draining 
credits from corrupt officials on both sides of the war. 

For more advice on running Campaigns in which the heroes are confronted 
and tempted by widespread corruption, check out the Scum and Villoiny 
supplement. 


“GREED CAN BE A 
POWERFUL ALLY.” 


-QUI-GON JINN 


VILLAINS 


The Clone Wars has an abundance of high-profile villains. Count Dooku, 
General Grievous, Durge, Asajj Ventress, General Loathsom, and others make 
up a motley group of villains who share the spotlight. Though some, like Asajj 
Ventress, work behind the scenes, other villains are well-known. Count Dooku 
and General Grievous are famous names recognized throughout the galaxy, 
even among those who are not directly involved in the war. High-profile vil- 
lains are extremely important in Star Wars, but even more so in a Clone Wars 
campaign. The following aspects of the villains of the Clone Wars should give 
Gamemasters a good basis on which to build their own villains. Providing such 
notable enemies for the heroes not only provides a more genuine Stor Wors 
experience but also helps the Gamemaster create mernorable characters and 
storylines that can last throughout ar entire campaign. 


DEHUMANIZATION 

One important aspect of creating memorable, high-profile villains for a Clone 
Wars campaign is the dehumanization of those villains. Even though this need 
not apply to all villains (Count Dooku is a good example of a very Human 
villain), most of the villains of the Clone Wars are distinctly dehumanized, 


DVIWVE Sev~An DNV 


0) 


NA SeSiLevHa 


even monstrous. A villain's physical appearance has a great deal {0 do with 
how monstrous that villain seems. Some villains, like Asajj Ventress, are 
merely twisted shadows of humanity; her grey skin, dark eyes, and lack of 
hair are just different enough from Humans to maxe her seem both alien and 
terrifying. On the far end of the spectrum are villains like General Grievous 
and Durge; though vaguely humanoid in shape, ihey are so distinctly mon- 
strous in their appearance that no one confuses them with Humans. Grievous 
achieves new levels of inhumanity because he is a near-total replacement 
cyborg, truly embodying the idea of being more machine than creature, 
Durge, on the other hand, is dehumanized by his facetess armor, an effect 
iike that of Stormtroopers and clone troopers. When creating a villain for a 
Clone Wars campaign, Gamemasters should take care to describe them in a 
way that makes them seem one step away from Human—monstrous and yet 
just familiar enough that Human qualities are recognizable. These similarities 
make the differences stand out ail the stronger. 

High-profile villains need more than a frightening and monstrous appear- 
ance to sustain them. The villains of the Clone Wars have voices, mannerisms, 
and habits that augment their inhuman appearances. The metallic echo to 
General Grievous’ voice, the harsh accent, and the hacking coughs wrack- 
ing his cybernetic body combine with his physical description to create a 
complete, memorable villain package. Asajj Ventress has a hissing, smakclike 


voice, while Durge is notabie for his disturbing silence. General Laathsom’s 


boring anger complements his prysical stature and personality, producing 
a three-dimensional! villain. Not all of a villain’s mannerisms must be off- 
pulting er ¢xaggerated, ard strong contrasts can also breed good villains, 
A Human villain who speaks with 4 smooth, well-cultured accent end rich 
vocabulary can be interesting if tre Gamemaster contrasts his canventional 
gppearance with a deep, innuman cruelty. 

The above advice might tempt a Gamemaster to make one-dimensional 
villains who are little more than manstrous caricatures. However, the viilain's 
actions truly define him as an antagonist. Especially among the Confederacy, 
high-profile villains are careless with the lives (or, in the Separatists’ case, 
good repair) of their subordinates, and they are willing to cast their followers 
aside when the situation demands it. The lives of underlings mean fittic to the 
Clone Wars villain, and ruthlessness is the order of the day. A truly sinister 
and dehumanized villain kills anyone or anything that gets in the way of her 
progress, and Gamemasters should not be afraid to have their villains perform 
acts of heartiessness and cruelty te gel the peroes’ undivided attention. 


POWERFUL PERSONALITY 

A villain is more than just a collection of physical descriptions, mannerisms, 
and acts of cruelty. A key aspect of creating good villains for a Clone Wars 
campaign 1s giving the villains a strong personality that resonates throughout 
an entire campaign. For example, Caunt Dooku is an excellent and iconic 
villain of the Clone Wars because he is charismatic and bald. Likewise, he 1s 
not afraid to deive into darkness to achieve his gouls. Yet he is still very much 
the Jedi Master who left the Order after the death of one of his most beloved 
apprentices, Similarly, Asejj Ventress is more than just a pair of lightsabers 
and a frightful appearance. She strives to be the heir to the Sith legacy, 
and must prove again and again to Count Dooku that she is worthy of his 
tutelage. A good villain nas sis or her own aspirations, flaws, and personality 
traits that heroes an relate to. Many Jedi heroes, for example, begin their 
adventuring careers trying to prove to their Masters or to the Jedi Council 
that they are worthy of knighthood, much as Ventress begins her career as 
a villain trying to prove her worth to Dooku. 

When creating a personality for a Clone Wars villain, the Gamemaster 
can likely take 2 look at the histories, personalities, and aspirations of the 
heroes in the campaign for reference. Villains are often merely twisted, dark 
reflections of heroes, having walked a different path after reaching a deci- 
sive turning point. Others are simply damaged beings thoroughly corrupted 
by the injustices (real and imagined) inflicted upon them. If the heroes see 
something of themselves in the villain, that villain is not only memorable 
but also reiatable. For example, if one of the heroes in the campaign is 2 
scoundrel whose aspiration is to become the greatest smuggler in the galaxy, 
tne Gamemaster might create 2 villain who once had similar aspirations. This 
new villain might have once been a smuggler who bartered away his freedom 
for the credits to buy a starship, and as his debts to crime lords grew, the 
more horrific and dangerous acts ne had to perform te placate them. Over 


time, working for crime lords eroded any sense of right and wrong, reduc- 
ing the once-aspiring smuggler to a brutal, uncompromising pirate captain 
who has achieved the notoriety he once sought by sacrificing his humanity 
in the process. 


MILITARIZATION 

The onset of the Clone Wars necessitates that various planets of the galaxy 
leave their peaceful, prosperous, and civilized ways behind and embrace mili- 
{arization to survive. Worlds that have not seen major conflicts for thousands 
of years become central to the war. and more than just infrastructure must 
change for those worlds to survive. 

A Clone Wars campaign brings with it an aspect of growing military 
importance, and few worlds are exempt from this. Gamemasters have several 
options for highlighting this militarization in their campaigns; some methods 
are overt, such as throwing the heroes directly into a battle between the 
Republic and the Confederacy, while others are more subtle, such as having 
the heroes witness the launch of a Republic flotilla from a staging point on 
an Outer Rim world, Below, Gamemasters can find suggestions on ways to 
make militarization a small or large part of a Clone Wars campaign. 


CONVERSION OF 
CIVILIAN ASSETS 
One intrusive form of militarization is the conversion of civilian assets into 
military assets. Droid-manned factories devoted to pumping out civilian 
airspeeders or computers for homes are converted to manufacturing AT-TEs 
and fire contro! computers for droid starfighters. Research hospitals that 
once served xenobiologists as havens for study are commandeered by the 
military and transformed into research facilities for biological weapons and 
their countermeasures. Few industries escape militarization, and practically 
all those that involve manufacturing are transformed by the Clone Wars. 
For Gamemasters, including this aspect of militarization in a campaign 
entails showing how the military has invaded every aspect of life. The heroes 
might be required to go behind enemy lines and rescue engineers who are 
being forced to work on weapons against their will, or they might receive a 
mission to escort former Republic citizens who have been forcibly removed 
from a hospital to make room for Separatist mercenaries. Gamemasters 
need only refer to a facility's former role to instill a sense of militarization. 
For example, when the heroes infiltrate a Separatist weapons factory, the 
GM can include in the description of the building some offhand references 
to discarded consumer electronics or dormant machinery that once made 
speeder bike parts. The transformation of important civilian resources into 
military resources is a big part of conveying the Clane Wars’ impact on 
the galaxy, and Gamemaster should feel free to include many references 
to assets that have been confiscated or stripped by the military for use in 
the war effort. 


CLONE HEROES 

Given the prominence of clones in the story of the Clone Wars, Game- 
masters should not be surprised if players wish to play clone characters. 
Clone heroes can be interesting and present exciting story opportunities, 
especially for a Gamemaster who plans to use Order 66 in the campaign 
finale. Gamemasters should allow players to play clone heroes who stand 
out from the rank-and-file clone troopers. 

The basic clone trooper is bred for obedience and military discipline. 
This can stifle players who want more free will. Instead, the player could 
choose to play an ARC Trooper or a Republic clone commando; both unit 
types are clones based on the original Jango Fett template, but they 
have more of Fett's personality and fewer behavioral restrictions than 
standard clone troopers. They receive special training better suited to 
heroic careers, and many have destinies that stretch out beyond the Clone 
Wars. For clone heroes, use the following species template—a variant of 
the basic Human template. 


REPUBLIC CLONE SPECIES TRAITS 
The Human clones produced by the Kaminoans for the Republic share 
the following species traits: 

Ability Scores: Republic clones begin with the following ability 
score array: Str 15, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8. Additionally, 
a clone player can choose one ability score to increase by 2 at the time 
of character creation. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, clones have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Base speed is 6 squares. 

Bonus Trained Skill: Human clones are versatile and accomplished 
at many tasks. A Human clone character chooses one additional trained 
skill at Ist level. This skill must be chosen from the character's list of 
class skills. 

Bonus Feat: Human clones gain one bonus feat at 1st level. 

Automatic Languages: Basic. 


FORCES OF THE CLONE WARS 

One of the easiest ways to make militarization more visible is to make refer- 
ences to the Republic and Separatist militaries. If the heroes are working 
for—or against—the Republic, this is easy. Including clone troopers, V-19 
starfighters, and AT-XT walkers in an adventure gives the Republic an 
extremely visible presence. However, nat every reference to military presence 
requires direct interaction with military personnel or assets. For example, 
heroes who have taken no side in the Clone Wars might see Confederacy 
Recusant-class destroyers in orbit abeve a planet they are visiting, or they 
might be stopped by a Separatist security detail. Alternatively, the heroes 
might enter a cantina where a number of off-duty clone troopers are taking 


iA Saiavns ~_) 


SNEIVANYVS) SEV ONAV) 


HWA BBLaIivHo 


SIVINVS) SGYYR SNA 


ie 


some downtime. Picking out individual elements of the various militaries 
to highlight during an adventure does not require the GM to invelve them 
directly in the adventure. Gamemasters should feel free to use elements of 
the twa opposing factions as simple “window dressing” when setting the 
scene during an adventure. Every casual reference to Repudiic or Separatist 
forces helps reinforce the image of a wartorn galaxy, keeping the players in 
a mindset appropriate to a Clone Wars campaign. 


PLAYING AS SEPARATISTS 

Though adventuring heroes likely want to work for the Republic against the 
Separatists if they take sides in the war, Some might instead choose to work 
as Separatist agents against the Republic. In this case, the Gamemaster 
can choose from two styles of campaign. First, the campaign can assume 
that the heroes are, in fact, villains; they work for the Separatists willingly 
out of greed or lust for power, and Jedi in this style of campaign are likely 
to have fallen away from the Jedi Order and instead joined the Separatist 
cause. The heroes in such a campaign are probably out to see the Repudlic 
shattered so they can seize power, and adventures in this kind of campaign 
are merely the opposite of adventures run with heroes of the Republic. These 
Separatist-aligned heroes might infiltrate Republic installations, sabotage 
shipyards, or engage in large-scale battles against the clone forces of the 
Republic. Gamemasters running this style of campaign need only treat the 
relationship between the heroes and the Republic as adversarial to craft 
fulfilling adventures. 

However, the alternative campaign involving Separatist heroes is more 
complex, Instead of joining the Separatists out of greed or out of a desire to 
see the Republic destroyed, the heroes might have aligned themselves with 
the Separatists because they believe they are doing the right thing. These 
heroes might be unhappy with methods used by the Confederacy, out they 
believe that the Separatists are a more appealing faction than the Republic. 
Campaigns of this type rarely feature Jedi heroes, sinee it can be difficult to 
reconcile the heroes’ desire to protect the Republic with joining the Separat- 
ists. Gamemasters running campaigns of this type can challenge the heroes 
with a broad range of adventures and enemies, beyond the obvious “heroes 
against the Republic” scneme. For example, even though the heroes are, 
themselves, Separatists, they might come into conflict with members of the 
Confederacy; for example, Separatist heroes who discover a Techno Union 
research facility torturing the indigenous inhabitants of a remote word might 
be compelled to intervene, even violently, Gamemasters running Separatist 
campaigns of this type should inciude adventures that blur the line between 
ally and enemy, and encourage the heroes to consider whether they are on 
the right side of the Clone Wars. 


LARGE-SCALE 


CONFLICT 


Large-scale batties are common throughout the Clone Wars. Battles of the 
Clone Wars reach truly epic proportions, spanning muitiple star systems or 
covering the surface of an entire planet. Adventures in the Clone Wars should 


also include similar large-scale batt 
using the mass combat rules below 


es, cither as encounters themselves— 
=or as the backdrop for Cione Wars 


adventures. If the heroes participate—and perhaps even turned the tide—in 


the Battie of Glee Anselm, for examp 


e, the players become invested in both 


the setting as well as the cempaign. Large-scale conflicts are an important 


part of the Star Wars milieu, and the 


Clone Wars give Gamemasters ample 


opportunity to create battles that reach massive proportions, involving the 


copious resources of both the Repub 


ic and the Separatists. 


When the time comes for a large-scale conflict to take place ir your 
campaign, as the Gamemaster you should be prepared to answer certain 


questions about tnt battle end the ro 
most, you should decide whether the 


le it serves in the story, First and fore- 
battie is merely the Sackdrap for this 


section of the campaign's story, or whether it is a pivotal event. ff it is simply 


a backdrop, the actual outcome of the 


battle is likely out of the players’ Fands, 


but if it is @ pivotal event, you should take care to design the adventure so 
that the heroes’ actions can sway the outcome of the battie. Gamemasters 
using the battle as a backdrop can still allow the heroes to influence the 
battle, but more likely the battle is scripted and plays out according to the 


needs of the adventure. 


V-1@ TORRENT FIGHTERS UNSER ATTACK FROM 
CIG-ABVANCED STARFIONTERS 


Next, you should decide where the battle takes place (as determined by 
the needs of the adventure) and whether it is a land battle, a space battle, 
ora combination of both. The opposing factions are usually the Republic and 
Scparatists, but you also need to decide whether mercenaries or indigenous 
peoples are invalved. And you need to determine whether one side will have 
an advantage in the battle. From there, you should either construct the 
battle'’s sequence of events to match the needs of the adventure, or play out 
the battle using the mass combat rules below. 

Large-scale battles are complicated, and literally millions of tiny factors 
can influence the outcome of real battles, For the purposes of your adven- 
ture, you should determine the major turning points of the battle and focus 
on describing those rather than getting caught up in the little details. The 
battle should serve the needs of the adventure and the greater campaign, 
and as the Gamemaster, you should feel free ta script the battle as much as 
you néed to accomplish that. The progress of the battle should make sense, 
but fantastic occurrences can turn the tide on the battlefield. Similarly, you 
want to make your battle memorable, so make sure you choose a,locale that 
lends itself to an easily visualized and interesting series of events. 


BATTLEFIELD ADVENTURES 

When set amid large-scale conflict, adventures require extra considerations 
for their construction, Entire adventures can take place during the course of a 
single battle, or the battle can be the backdrop for just one or two encounters. 
For adventures that take place entirely on the battlefield, as Gamemaster 
you should plan the events that will happen and determine the goals of the 
heroes. The heroes’ goals should encourage them to stay involved in the 
battle, so giving them odjectives like “sabotage the shield generator” or 
“rescue captive allies from the enemy bunker” mesh well with the backdrop 
of a battlefield adventure. When designing a battlefield adventure, keep iin 
mind that though you can have encounters that are just as diverse as in other 
adventures, a battle is a dangerous place. With explosions all around them 
and troops advancing over the next hill, the heroes likely will not want to 
stop for an extended rest to allow their medic to perform surgery. Provide 
players with plenty of ways to hea! up and prepare for the next encounter, 
and plan the encounters so that they do not follow one another so closely 
that the heroes’ survival becomes impossible. 

Encounters in a battlefield adventure are usually objective-based. If the 
heroes are going to sabotage a Separatist antivehicle cannon, an encounter 
might likely involve droids trying to defend the cannon while the heroes try to 
set explosives. Battlefield encounters feature an additional degree of tension, 
and the Gamemaster can reinforce this with descriptions of troops coming 
over the horizon, droid bombers screaming in to target the heroes location, 
and explosions growing closer by the second, A battlefield encounter should 
be built just like any other combat encounter, but use the ongoing battle as 
a backdrop. Don't worry about the number of troops in the vicinity or how 
long reinforcements take to arrive any more than you would for a normal 


encounter. The battle is going on around the heroes, in the background, 
but for the purposes of the encounter, all that matters are the heroes and 
the enemies you have arrayed against them. An ongoing battle offers an 
opportunity to create exciting and challenging terrain effects. For example, if 
stray bombs fatling on the encounter area cause an explosion to go off every 
round at a random location on the map, the encounter becomes even more 
interesting and players feel like they actually are part of a larger battle. 


USING TROOPERS 

Low-CL nonheroic characters are easy to use in large numbers as background 
elements or obstacles in a battlefield adventure. By the time the heroes have 
hit middle levels, low-level opponents like basic B1-Series battle droids are 
no real threat. However, battles of tne Clone Wars feature dozens, if not 
hundreds, of basic troops engaged in the fight. Gamemasters can use non- 
threatening, low-CL enemies (hereafter referred to simply as troopers} as a 
means of highlighting this aspect of the Clone Wars. Since low-CL enemies are 
not much of a threat, the heroes and their allies can blast through them with 
relative speed without earning much (if any) XP for defeating them, However, 
Gamemasters should be wary of the threat of the natural 20 when includ- 
ing large numbers of troopers in the encounter, and therefore, should have 
traopers take the aid another action to assist a single trooper on an attack 
roll. The squad rules (described below) use this basic principle to transform 
a cluster of troopers inta a more significant threat. Gamemasters can add a 
number of troopers to an encounter to not oniy make the encounter feel more 
like it is taking place on a large battlefield but also to present a number of 
enemies that function more like obstacles than true opponents. 


SQUADS 

Squads are collections of lower-CL enemies that work tagether as a single 
creature on the battlefield. Squads are ideal for encounters in which the 
Gamemaster wants to include a large number of weaker enemies and allies, 
and can help replicate the chaos of a battlefield in a more manageable 
fashion. Similarly, squads provide the Gamemaster with ways to transform 
low-CL enemies into a more significant threat. By the time the heroes hit 
10th level, those CL 1 battle droids have ceased to be a challenge, but trans- 
forming thase droids into squads raises their CL to the point where they can 
be sufficiently dangerous. 

A squad represents a small number of creatures (usually three to four) of 
the same type that come together into a single unit. They occupy the same 
space and have only one turn's worth of actions. The squad is an abstract 
concept that allows the Gamemaster to populate an encounter with low- 
level troopers and still maintain the speed and ease of combat they need, 
Squads are by no means necessary, buz they do streamline the game experi- 
ence. For example, a Gamemaster could create an encounter with 15 battle 
droids, er the same encounter could be created using only 5 squads, which 
Is more manageable. 


SNEIVAWNVS BMV EMaVe) | 


HWA SBidvHo 


HA eeaLetvHo 


g Boe vr wo S&S & & 
YS) SEY SMES) 


sNMENIVACS 


f 


Squads follow a few special rules that differentiate them from normal 
creatures, though they are similar ta packs and swarms (see page 130 of 
Threats of the Goloxy). 


Creating a Squad 
To create a squad, make the following changes to the statistics block of 
any character: 

* Increase the charecter’s size by one category, and apply al relevant 
modifiers. 

* Double the character's hit points. 

® Increase the Character’s damage threshold by 10. 

® Add +4 to all attack ralls, as the members of the squad are considered 
to be aiding one another. 


Squad Traits 
Squads share the following special traits: 

@ All melee attacks made by a squad are considered melee arca attacks 
that affect all squares within the squad's reach (although a squad can choose 
not to affect a target with its attacks). 

* All ranged attacks made by a squad are considered to have a 1-square 
splash. If the squad's weapon already has a splasn effect, increase the splash 
radius by 1 Square, 

* A squad can choose not to affect allies with its attacks. 

© Area attacks deal +2 dice cf damage against a squad. 

* A squad cannot be grabbed or grappled 

® A squad can make attacks of opportunity against creatures that provoke 
them, though these attacks of opportunity are 
not considered area attacks. 


Sample Squad: Battle Droid Squad 
The following statistics are for a squad of Bi-Series battie 
roids. The statistics are derived by taking the basic statistics 
for the Bi (see page 199 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) ang 
applying the changes irdicated above. 


B1=Series Battle Droid Squad cL3 
Large droid (4th degree) squad nonheroic 3 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 8 (flat-footed 8), Fort 11, Will 11 


hp 20; Threshold 21 
immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d3+1) 

Ranged blaster caroine +5 (308, 1-square splash) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +8 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 9, Con —, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits, squad traits 

Feats Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, heavy weapons, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +6 

Systems waiking locomotion, remote receiver, 2 hand appendages, 
interna! comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine 


Squad Traits—The melee attack of a squad is an area attack that affects 
all squares within reach. The ranged attacks of a squad are considered 
to have 4 !-square splash. Area attacks deal an extra 2 dice of damage 

against a squad. A squad cannot be grabbed or grappled. 


DROID COMMANDO BQUAD 


.  ~.we 


MASS COMBAT 

The Clane Wars are ail about the massive battles that transfarm the galaxy 
for decades—even centuries—to come. No conflict on the scale of the Clone 
Wars is complete without sweeping battles that cover entire planets. In 
most cases, these battles serve as the backdrop for adventures, with either 
predetermined outcomes planned in advance by the Gamemaster or outcomes 
pased on the results of smaller encounters, as described in the guidelines 
above, However, sometimes the GM might want the players to act as com- 
manders and tacticians on a higher level. In these cases, Jedi generals can 
truly be generals in command of entire battalions, and all the heroes can 
participate in these large-scale battles. 

The following rules govern massive ground combat, like that seen in the 
Stor Wars movies and The Clone Wars animated series. In many ways, these 
rules mirror vehicle combat—and for good reason. Units—the basic organi- 
zational name for large numbers of troops—function like vehicles in that 
heroes can join the unit and take actions to control and manipulate that unit. 
The mass combat rules are designed to simulate the outcome of large-scale 
ground battles, and vehicle-only or space battles are likely better resolved 
using the existing vehicle combat rules (including the expanded rules from 
Starships of the Galaxy). 

These mass combat rules represent the chance to put thousands of 
soldiers into play during a single encounter. This section also includes rules 
for integrating both individual vehicles as well as groups of smaller vehicles, 
allowing Gamemasters more diversity than just having two armies firing at 
one another across an open plain. Like designing interesting character-scale 
and vehicle encounters, designing interesting mass battles is a matter of 
choosing compelling opponents, providing an engaging setting, and adding 
exciting hazards and challenges. The Clone Wars feature battles deep in 
the jungles of Felucia, on the ash-choked streets of Mygeeto, and deep in 
the sinkholes of Utapau. Picking an exciting setting for a mass battle is an 
important step—just as important as choosing the two (or more) opposing 
forces. 


SCALE 

Everything in a mass combat encounter takes place at starship scale (see 
page 165 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). As in starship scale, each square 
is abstract, representing however much terrain the Gamemaster needs it to. 
In a densely packed battle, the squares might be relatively small, forcing the 
members of each unit to crowd in together (as in the Battle of Geonosis). 
In other cases, the battle might be spread out over several kilometers. As a 
result, the actual time taken up by the combat round is also abstracted, and 
to a certain extent, $0 are the actions of each unit. 


UNITS 

A unit represents a group of combatants taking part in mass combat. For 
the most part, a unit is based on a Single creature or character representing 
the majority of the combatants in that unit. Therefore, the statistics for the 
unit are based on the statistics for this representative creature. Units are like 
vehicles in that heroes can join units, filling specific roles in the unit, just 
as heroes can serve as pilots, copilots, gunners, and system operators on a 
starship. Furthermore, a unit has statistics and actions comparable to those 
of vehicles, allowing vehicle combat and mass combat to integrate seamlessly. 
Indeed, the mass combat system is effectively also the vehicle combat system, 
allowing vehicles, mass combat units, and individual characters to take part 
in the same encounter, Like vehicles, units can be used in character-scale 
combat, but they are designed to be used primarily in mass combat. The squad 
rules in this chapter (see page 93) provide an easier method for including 
large numbers of enemies and allies in a single encounter. 

A unit represents a large group of more-or-iess identical creatures that 
work together in mass combat. Unlike a vehicle, a unit ts composed of dozens, 
or even hundreds, of individuals. Therefore, single attacks do far less damage 
t0 the unit than a spray of autofire oran exploding grenade. Though members 
of a unit do not need be exactly ident cal, the wnit’s statisttes are based on 
a single creature for simplicity and ease of play. Heroes contribute to the 
unit by their leadership and ability to affect the whole unit, not their indi- 
vidual combat prowess. A single creature or character within a unit cannot 
be targeted; all attacks target the unit, effectively providing all heroes in a 
unit with total cover from outside attacks. 

When a unit is reduced to Ohit points, or when the commander of the unit 
orders it so, the unit disbands. Any heroes ina unit that disbands are no longer 
part of the unit, and they are then considered individual targets. Two or more 
adjacent disbanding units can recombine into a single unit. The newly formed 
unit is of the same type as the lowest CL disbanding unit; thus, a CL 8 unit 
and a CL 10 unit can disband and reform as a unit of the same type as the CL 
8 unit. The hit points of the disbanding units are added together, and become 
the new hit point total of the unit (up te the unit's maximum hit points). If the 
CLs of the disbanding units have a difference of 4 or more, the Gamemaster 
can designate the new unit as an advantaged unit (see below). However, this 
is solely at the Gamemaster's discretion, and might Ibe affected by the circum- 
stances surrounding the formation of the new unit. A disbanding unit that does 
not reform with another disbanding unit leaves the battlefield. 


HA BaLadvHD 


SNSIVAWYS SEGA Sewew) 


SHEIVENVE SHEVA NEVE 


Bl 
: 
: 


COMBINING ees 

MASS COMBAT AND 
BATTLEFIELD BNCOUNTERS 
Combining mass combat with individual battlefield encounters can lead 
to exciting scenes mirroring those of the Star Wars saga. In fact, entire 
adventures can be created simply by presenting battlefield encounters 
within the framework of mass combats. 

One method of integrating battlefield encounters into mass combat 
is to use mass combats to trigger smaller encounters, This method works 
best when all the heroes are part of the same unit in a mass combat. 
Whenever the heroes’ unit moves adjacent to, or into the same square as, 
an opposing force, the heroes immediately begin a battlefield encounter. If 
the heroes emerge victorious, they gain favorable circumstances on their 
unit's attack rolls until the end of the next mass combat round. 

Alternatively, the heroes might be charged with winning several 
battlefield encounters while the mass battle takes place around them. 
In this case, the heroes are not a part of any unitbut each time they 
complete an objective, it triggers a special effect on the battlefield. For 
example, if the heroes take out a communications tower, enemy reinforce- 
ments accidentally target their own allies for one round. 

Perhaps the most challenging possibility is having the mass combat 
and battlefield encounters take place simultaneously. In this scenario, the 
players control two heroes (or one hero and one NPC); one is engaged in 
battlefield encounters while the other is a part of a unit in mass combat. 
For example, the heroes might be part of a unit in a mass battle, but the 
players of those heroes also each take control of a Republic Commando 
with a special mission to disable a shield generator. Initiative is rolled 
for both battles simultaneously, and the mass combat encounter and the 
battlefield encounter progress concurrently. 


Creating a Unit 
Ta create a unit, make the following changes to the statistics block of a base 
creature to transform it into a unit: 

Challenge Level: The unit has a CL equal to its base CL + 6. 

Size and Type: All units are considered Colossal in size. Colossal (frigate) 
and larger vehicles are typically used as terrain, not units in mass combat. 
See the "Colossal Vehicles” sidebar for more information on how to use larger 
vehicles and starships. 

Initiative and Senses: Use the Initiative and Senses of the base 
creature. 

Defenses: The unit retains the defenses of the base creature. 


Hit Points: The unit multiplies its hit points by 4. 

DR/SR: The unit uses the SR of the base creature, and gains DR 15. 

Threshold: Replace the base creature’s size bonus to damage threshold, 
if any, with a +50 size bonus to damage threshold. 

Attrition: All units have a set of 2 attrition numbers. Each time 2 unit's 
hit paints drop below one ef the steps in the attrition list, the unit moves ~1 
persistent step down the candition track. Using the example unit below, when 
a clone trooper battalion drops below 62 hit points, it moves -1 persistent 
step on the condition track. If the unit drops below 42 hit points, itis now 
~2 persistent steps on the condition track. The persistent conditian cannot 
be removed from the unit. 

To determine attrition sumbers, divide the unit's total hit points by 4 
(rounding down). Then, subtract that number from the total hit paints 3 
times, each time marking the result on the attrition line, 

Speed: For most base creatures, the unit's base speed at starship scale is 1 
square. Certain creatures with a high base speed can move faster (see “Speed,” 
below). The unit retains the movement mode of the base creature. 

Melee Attacks: Convert basic melee attacks to unit melee attacks. Attack 
bonuses remain the same, but all attacks without 4 damage multiplier gain 
a x2 damage multiplier. 

Ranged Attacks: Convert basic ranged attacks to unit ranged attacks. 
Attack bonuses remain the same, but all attacks without a damage multiplier 
gain a x2 damage multiplier. 

Fighting Space: All units have a fighting space of 1 square at starship 
scale, 

Base Attack and Grapple: The unit retains the base attack and grapple 
scores of the bas¢ creature. 

Ability Scores: The unit retains the ability scores of the base creature. 

Talents and Feats: Units have no talents or feats. However, the unit 
retains the benefit of any talents or feats of the base creature that povide 
a flat numerical benefit, such as Weapon Focus, Weapon Specialization, 
Improved Defenses, or Martial Arts I. If the unit has talents or feats that alter 
attack rolls with flat numerical values (such as Power Attack, Rapid Shot, or 
Burst Fire), those attack options can be converted as well. Units cannot use 
talents or feats that rely on other conditions or situations to activate. 

Skills: The unit retains the skill modifiers of the base creature. 

Possessions: Units have only the possessions relevant to their attacks 
and defenses, 


Sample Unit: Clone Trooper Battalion 

The following statistics are for a unit of clone troopers. The statistics are 
derived by taking the basic statistics for the clone trooper (see page 281 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook) and applying the changes indicated abave. 


Clone Trooper Battalion cLe 
Colossal ground unit (Human nonheroic 6) 

Init +9; Senses Perception +9 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 13, Will 9 

hp 82; DR 15; Threshold 63; Attrition 62/42/22 
Speed 1 square (starship scate) 

Ranged blaster rifle +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 
Special Qualities half damage from nonarea attacks 
Skills Initiative +9, Perception +9 

Possessions clone trooper armor, dlaster rifle 


Blaster Rifle 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg (3dB+3)x2 


MOUNTED UNITS 
On rare occasions, a unit can be composed of mounted combatants riding 
creatures and not vehicles, In these cases, you can create a unit stat block 
that integrates both the mounted combatant and its mount as a single 
unit. First, start with the statistics for the creature being ridden and its 
rider. Give the rider the same base speed as the mount. Next, choose 
one natural weapon possessed by the mount and transfer the attack and 
damage to the rider (keeping attack bonuses and damage intact). Now 
modify the rider’s stat block as normal for creating units, and you have a 
stat block for a mounted unit. 

if the mounts used in the creation of the unit are not trained for 
combat, the unit must make a DC 20 Ride check at the beginning of its 
turn; failure means that the unit can take no actions this turn. If the 
unit uses a two-handed weapon, increase the DC to 25. Otherwise, the 
mounted unit functions exactly as any other unit. © 

Riders on Colossal or larger mounts cannot be made into units, and 
instead function as normal on the battlefield. 


VEHICLE UNITS 

Large, Huge, and Gargantuan vehicles can also be combined into units. A 
vehicle unit typically represents four of the same vehicle. To create a vehicle 
unit, multiply the vehicle's hit points by 4 and calculate attrition numbers 
based on the new hit point total (see “Creating a Unit" above). Like ground 
units, vehicle units take half damage from all nonarea attacks, but also suffer 
persistent conditions due to attrition, as per normal unit rules. Additionally, 
if a vehicle possesses any antipersonnel weapon (weapons that do not have 
a damage multiplier), the damage for those vehicte weapons also gains the 
x2 multiplier for the vehicle unit. Otherwise, vehicles follow all the same 
rules as nonvehicle units. Additionally, vehicle units can take vehicle actions 
as though they are individual vehicles. 

Starfighters and airspeeders can also join together into fighter groups 
instead of forming a unit, fallowing the normal rules for fighter groups (see 
page 31 of Starships of the Galoxy). Colossal vehicles typically operate alone 
in mass combat. Colossal (frigate) and larger vehicles are typically used as 
terrain elements, and are usually not a part of mass combats (except when 
they fire an the battlefield from orbit}. 

Vehicle units do not have the same roles as nonvehicle units (such as 
those described below). Instead, the vehicle unit is considered to have the 
same roles as in normal vehicle combat, as determined by the base vehicle. 
Mf a unique character occupies a role in a vehicle unit, use the lower of the 
unique character's statistics and the default statistics for the unit's role. 
For example, if a hero with a base attack bonus of +40 acts as a gunner on 
a vehicle unit with an attack bonus of +4, that vehicle unit still uses the +4 
from the vehicle unit's base statistics. 


NA BaidvHs 


SNEIVENVE SYVM SNEWS 


ADVANTAGED UNITS 
Sometimes, a unit is more than just the sum of its individual members. Some 
units have exceptional training, have a small number of artillerists, or inte- 
grate a small vehicle into their ranks. Some units have more members than 
other standard units, and thus can produce a greater amount of firepower. 
These units are known as advantaged units, and they carry with them benefits 
above and beyond those provided by the standard unit creation system. 
AGamemaster who designates a unit as advantaged makes several altera= 
tions to the unit's statistics. First, the base creature's hit points are multiplied 
by 5 instead of by 4 to create the unit‘s hit points, and attrition numbers 
are calculated as usual. Second, the Gamemaster can apply one or more of 
the following special qualities to the advantaged unit, granting that unit its 
benefit. For each Special Quality selected, increase the unit's CL by 1. 


All-Terrain Unit 
This unit is specially equipped to handle rough terrain. The unit ignores 
difficult terrain. 


Antiair Unit 

This unit iis trained and equipped to deal with airspeeders and starfighters. 
Against flying units and vehicles, this unit gains a +2 competence bonus on 
attack rolls and deals +1 die of damage. 


Antiarmor Unit 

This unit is trained and equipped to dea! with tanks, walkers, and other ground 
vehicles. Against nanflying units and nonflying vehicles, this unit gains a +2 
competence bonus on attack rolls and deals +1 die af damage. 


Dedicated Officer 

This unit includes a dedicated officer who enables the unit to take extra 
actions, as though the unit had a hero in one of the unit roles. Choose one of 
the roles from the “Characters in Units” section below. The unit is considered 
to have 2 character filling that roll, and gains a full round’s worth of actions 
to use on actions for that role. You cannot select “commander” as this role. 
Use the statistics for the base creature for any attack rolls or skill checks 
required for actions made by this role. 


Mobile Unit 

This unit is exceptionally mobile and has trained to cross long stretches of 
terrain quickly. When the unit uses the hard march or all-out movement 
actions, it moves 5 times its base speed instead of 4. 


Reinforcements 

This unit is good at providing reinforcements for other units. When this unit 
disbands and reforms with another unit, the new unit starts at full hit points, 
regardless of the actual hit points of either unit. 


Superior Formation 
This unit is exceptionally good at minimizing casualties because of its forma- 
tion. This unit gains a +2 competence bonus to Reflex Defense. 


Superior Training 
This unit is trained to overcome obstacles and deal with unexpected situa- 
tions. It gains a +5 competence bonus on all skill checks. 


Superior Weapons 
This unit is outfitted with special weapons that can deal greater damage. This 
unit deals +1 die of damage with all attacks made with weapons. 


Vehicle Contingent 

This unit is composed not only of soldiers or creatures but also @ smail 
contingent of vehicles. Choose a vehicle whose CL is no more than 2 points 
higher than the CL of this unit, then select a single weapon system from that 
vehicle. Once per turn, when the unit makes an attack it can also make an 
attack with this vehicle weapon, using the same attack bonuses and damage 
as normal for this vehicle weapon. 


eer 


DISADVANTAGED UNITS 

In contrast with an advantaged unit, a disadvantaged unit is distinguished 
from other units of its type by a detrimental feature in its makeup. Typi- 
cally, this could mean inferior numbers, poor equipment, or even low morale. 
When the Gamemaster designates a unit as disadvantaged, hé makes only 
two alterations to the unit's statistics. First, the base creature's hit points 
are multiplied by 3 instead of by 4 to create the unit's hit paints, and attri- 
tion numbers are calculated as usual. Second, the Gamemaster reduces the 
unit’s CL by -2. 


ATTACKS 

All units can make melee and ranced attacks if they possess the appropri- 
ate weaponry. Apply the bonuses to the attack roll and eompare the result 
to the Reflex Defense of the target, as normal. A unit’s attack bonuses are 
listed in its Statistics blocks. 

Melee Attacks: A unit can make melee attacks against another unit 
occupying the same space. Only ground units can make melee attacks, and 
only against other ground units. 

Ranged Attacks: A unit can make ranged attacks against units within 
its weapon range. 

Vehicle Attacks: Individual vehicles can make attacks against units as 
normal. Vehicle units follow all the same restrictions a3 nonvehicle units on 
their attacks, 

Vehicles and vehicle units use the standard starship scale for determin- 
ing the range on their vehicle weapons. Character-scale weapons, such as 
those wielded by nonvehicle units, use Table 7-1 to determine their range at 
starship scale. All normal weapon range penalties stilt apply. 


STARSHIP SCALE (IN SQUARES) 


WEAPON TYPE POINTBLANK SHORT MEDIUM LONG 
Heavy weapon ty) 1 2-3 4 
Pistol’ 0 - - 1 
Rifle Q 1 2 3 
Simple weapon' (t) _ = | 
Thrown weapon? 0 = Ez o 


1 This weapon can be used only ot point blank range or long range. 
2 This weapon con be used only at point blank range. 


Area Attacks 
Since units take half damage from nonarea attacks, area attacks are a more 
efficient way to deal damage toa unit, Area attacks target only a single star- 
ship-scale square unless otherwise specified. Thus, a unit of clone troopers can 
make autofire attacks using their rifles, but only against a single square. 
Making an Area Attack: When you make an area attack in mass combat, 
you select a single square within weapon range, make an attack roll, and 
compare the result to the Reflex De‘ense of each unit and vehicle in the 
targei square. If both ground units and flying units occupy the same square, 
you must choose to make the attack against air units or ground units, but 
not both. If the attack roll is higher than a unit’s Reflex Defense, that unit 
takes full damage from the area attack. The unit takes no damage on a miss 
if the attack was made with a character-scale weapon, or half damage on a 
miss if the attack was made with a starship-scale weapon. 


Critical Hits and Automatic Misses 
lf an attacker making a nonarea attack against a unit rolls a natural 20, the 
target unit is automatically hit and takes full damage from the attack instead 
of the normal half damage. If an attacker making an area attack rolls a natural 
20, if is still an automatic hit, but the damage is the same. 

A natural 1 on an attack against a unit is always a miss. 


DAMAGE 
Units take half damage from all nonatea attacks. Area attacks deal normal 
damage to units on a hit, half damage on a miss if the attack is made with 
a Starship-scale weapon, or no damage on a miss if the attack is made with 
a character-scalé weapon. 

When you hit with a unit's attack, be sure to add in all numerical modi- 
fiers before multiplying the damage. Vehicle weapons deal damage to units 
just as character-scale weapons do. 


HiT POINTS 

Units have hit points, just like characters and vehicles. Hit points are abstract, 
meant to represent not only the amount of actual hits a unit can sustain 
before all the individuals in the unit are dead but also the unit's ability to 
keep fighting effectively given its losses. 


Damage Threshold 
Units have a damage threshold calculated as follows: 


Damage threshold = Fortitude Defense + 50 (size modifier) 


{f a unit takes damage from a single attack that equals or exceeds its 
damage threshold, the unit moves -1 persistent step down the condition 
track. This represents the unit taking a staggering blow that greatly reduces 
its efficiency. A unit pushed to the bottom of the condition track must 
disband on its next turn as its only action. 


SMEIVEAeG) SEA BVNETS 


NA S#81i8sSVvHo 


BNOVENVE SUYM ONSITE) 


Reducing a Unit to 0 Hit Points 

When a unit is reduced ta 0 hit paints, it disbands immediately. Any heroes 
in the unit appear in the square where the unit was. Additionally, if the 
attack that reduced the unit to 0 hit points also exceeds the unit’s damage 
threshold, each hero in that unit takes damage equal to the lowest attrition 
number. Thus, if the attack that reduces a clone trooper battalion (see 
above) to 0 hit points also exceeds its damage threshold, each hero in that 
unit takes 22 damage. 


SPEED 

Every unit has a speed, given in squares. A commander can move a unit up 
to its listed speed as a move action, and up to four times its speed with the 
hard march action. All speeds are listed in starship scale. For the most part, 
all ground units based on creatures or characters have a ground speed of 
1. Vehicle units and mounted units might move faster (see "Vehicle Speed” 
below). 


Vehicle Speed 

Some vehicles, particularly ground vehicles, do not have a starship-scale 
speed. Use Table 7-2 to determine the starship-scale speed of any units that 
do not have such a speed listed. 


CHARACTER-SCALE SPEED STARSHIP-SCALE SPEED 


0-11 squares 1 square 
12-15 squares 2 squares 
16+ squares 3 squares 


OCCUPYING THE SAME SQUARE 
Unlike character-scale combat, mass combat allows a unit to move into a 
square with another unit. A square can hold up to two ground units and two 
flying units at a time. There are no direct consequences for moving past, into, 
or out of a square already occupied by a unit (though occupying the same 
square might allow the enemy to target you with area attacks). 


—— 


CHARACTERS IN Units 

A character in 2 unit fills one of several possible roles, determining not only 
the actions a character can take but also how the unit behaves in mass 
combat. Mass combat allows several distinct roles, but a single character 
can fill multiple voles at the same time. You can change roles fram round to 
round, but you can fill a particular role only if no other character has filled 
that role since the end of your last turn. Characters within units cannot be 
specifically targeted by effects or attacks, just as one cannot target specific 
vehicle systems in most circumstances. 

Cormmander: The commander of a unit is the central authority and leader 
who issues most of the unit’s commands. A commander controls the unit's 
movement and can also fill every other role not currently filled by another 
character. A unit can have only one commander at a time. 

First Officer: The first officer is the unit's second-in-command, helping 
to ensure that all orders are carried out properly. A first officer can perform 
all the same actions as the commander, though only if the commander hasn't 
performed that same action since the end of the first officer's last turn. A 
unit can have only one first officer at a time. 

Attack Leader: The attack lezder coordinates all the unit’s attacks. An 
attack leader can order attacks and use special tactics. A unit can have only 
one attack leader at a time. 

Communications Officer: The communications officer is responstole for 
coordinating all the orders within the unit and coordinating with other units. 
A unit can have only one communications officer at a time. 

Medic: The medic is responsible for making sure the unit remains a 
healthy fighting force. The medic coordinates a team of combat physicians 
who oversee the general welfare of the unit. A unit can have only one medic 
at a time, 


Using Talents, Feats, and Special Abilities 

Characters filling the vartous roles in a unit might have talents, feats, Force 
powers, and other special abilities that they can use in mass combat. As a 
general rule, special abilities that function in character combat have too 
smail an effect to be noticeable in mass combat. However, some abilities, 
especially those used by officers and nobles, can give units a big advantage 
through superior leadership. Talents, feats, and special abilities can be used 
in mass combat only if they meet certain criteria. 

All Targets Who Can See, Hear, and Understand You: Abilities that 
require your targets te be able to see, hear, and understand you function 
only for targets within your same square in mass combat. 

All Targets in Line of Sight: Abilities that affect enemies, allies, or 
targets in line of sight function in mass combat. They affect all targets of 
the appropriate type within your same square. 

Single Target, Limited Number of Targets, or Nearby Targets: Abilities 
that affect a single target, a limited number of targets, or targets within a 
certain number of squares of you have no effect during mass combat. 


STARTING 
MASS BATTLES 


Unless noted otherwise, joining 4 unit is a move action. Some actions 
described below can be performed only by particular roles in a unit. In this 
case, eligible rales are indicated following the action’s name, 


INITIATIVE 
There are two options for determining initiative in mass combat. First, each 
character can make separate Initiative checks. This is probably the best 
method if most or all characters are part of the same unit, but it can result 
in excessive delayed or readied actions as atlack leaders wait for command- 
ers to Move units into position. An alternative is to make an Initiative check 
for each unit, using the unit’s Initiative check modifier. This is particularly 
appropriate when the characters are parts of different units, since it allows 
everyone in the same unit to act more or licss simultaneously. 

Special: If a unit or a unit's commander is trained in Knowledge (tactics), 
you can choose to make a Knowledge (tactics) check instead of an Initiative 
check to determine that unit’s place in the initiative order. 


STANDARD ACTIONS 
Standard actions available to units include the following: 


Aid Another 
As a Standard action, your unit can aid an attack roll or Suppress an 
enemy. 

Aiding an Attack Roll: You can aid the attack roll of another unit or 
vehicle by adding your unit's firepower to the attack. An attack leader selects 
a target within the range of his unit's weapons, and the unit makes an attack 
roll against a Reflex Defense of 10 (applying all range penalties as though 
the unit is attacking the designated target). If this attack is successful, the 
attack leader grants a single adjacent allied unit or vehicle a +2 bonus on 
its next attack roll made against that target before the beginning of the 
attack leader's next turn. 

A commander or first officer can make a DC 10 Knowledge (tactics) 
check as a standard action to grant a single adjacent allied unit or vehicle 
a 42 bonus on its next attack roll made before the beginning of the com- 
mander’s next turn, 

Suppressing an Enemy: You can suppress the attack of an enemy unit 
or vehicle by bombarding the target with fire. An attack leader can select a 
target within the range of his unit's weapons, and the unit makes an attack 
roil against a Reflex Defense of 10 (applying all range penalties as though 
the unit is attacking the designated target). If this attack is successful, the 
attack leader causes the target unit or vehicle to take a -2 penalty on its 
next attack roll, 


Attack with Melee Weapons 

Attack Leader Only 

A ground unit can make melee weapen attacks against another ground unit 
in its Square. If a unit occupies the Same space as an enemy unit or vehicle, 
it can make a single melee attack against that target 4s a standard action. 
Individual characters cannot make melee attacks against units. 


Attack with Ranged Weapons 

Attack Leader Only 

Units can make attacks using their ranged weapons. A unit can target a unit 
or vehicle within its range and attack with its ranged weapon as a standard 
action. Individual characters cannot make ranged attacks against units. 


Attack with Vehicle Weapons 

Attack Leader Only 

Vehicle units can attack with each weapon that has its own gunner. As a 
result, a vehicle unit can make more attacks per round than ground-based 
units. Vehicle weapon attacks follow all the same rules as in vehicle combat 
(see page 167 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Unlike individual creatures, 
an individual vehicle can attack units. 


SBMREIVIWYVS SHEVA SNES 


UA MBtavHo 


i 


SBNEIVERVS) S 


Charge 

Commander Only 

The commander can order the unit to charge, moving toward an enemy and 
making an attack in one action. As a standard action, the unit moves up to 
its speed and then makes a melee attack roll against a target unit or vehicle 
in the same square or a ranged attack against a unit within weapon range. 
The charging unit gains 4 +2 bonus on its attack roll but takes a -2 penalty 
to Reflex Defense until the start of its next turn, If a commander orders a 
unit to charge, the attack leader cannot order the unit to attack until the 
beginning of the commander's next turn. 


Fight Defensively 

Attack Leader Only 

An attack leader can order the unit ta fight defensively as a standard action, 
hunkering down to resist an incoming attack. The unit can make no attacks 
until the beginning of the attack leader's next turn but gains a +5 bonus 
to Reflex Defense. 


MOVE ACTIONS 
Move actions available to units include the following: 


Move 
Commander Only 
The commander can move the unit up to its speed as a move action. 


SwiFTtT ACTIONS 
Swift actions available to units include the following: 


Disband Unit 
Commander Only 
The commander can disband the unit as a swift action. 


= 


Provide Medical Assistance 

Medic Only 

By spending three swift actions, the medic can administer basic first aid to 
the unit, After spending the third swift action, make a DC 20 Treat Injury 
check, If the check succeeds, the unit heals 5 hit points. However, the unit’s 
hit points cannot exceed the next highest attrition number. For example, a 
clone trooper battalion with 60 hit points can be healed only up to 62 hit 
points, the next highest attrition number, 


Use Tactical Knowledge 

Commander Only 

By spending three swift actions, the commander can give the unit a tactical 
advantage. After spending the third swift action, make a DC 20 Knowledge 
(tactics) check. If successful, the commander can grant a Single extra stan- 
dard action to any other character filling a role in the unit. If the commander 
is the only character filling a role in the unit, this action has no effect. 


FULL-ROUND ACTIONS 
Full-round actions available to units include the following: 


Hard March 

Commander Only 

As a full-round action, the commander can move the unit up to 4 times its 
speed. The unit is flat-footed until the beginning of the commander's next 
turn. An attack leader cannot order the unit to make attacks until the end 
of the commander's next turn. 


REACTIONS 
Reactions available to units include the following: 


Disband and Reform Unit 

Commander Only 

When a unit disbands, as a reaction, the commander of an adjacent unit 
can order that unit to disband also and reform with the other unit as a new 
unit. Any heroes or unique characters must rejoin the unit as a move action 
an their next turn, except fer the commander, who automatically transfers 
his role to the new whit. 


SPECIAL Mass COMBAT RULES 
The following additional rules apply to units in mass combat. 


Cover and Concealment. 

Units can gain cover and concealment just as characters do. Determine cover 
or concealment as normal for an attacker targeting a unit in a particular 
square. 


Orbital Bombardment 
Combatants in a ground battle can be devastated by capital ships in orbit 
above the planet. As a standard action, the commander of a capital ship can 
order a single weapons system to aim at a single square on a mass combat 
battlefield. The squate is considered to be at long range for the capital ship, 
and the ship must make an attack roll against a Reflex Defense of 10 to hit 
the target square. if successful, al! units in that square take normal weapon 
damage for that weapon system, or half damage on a miss. That ship cannot 
make any other attacks until the beginning of the commander's next turn. 
Orbital bombardment should be used by the Gamemaster only as a 
means of making a mass combat encounter more dangerous. A single shot 
from a capital ship weapon is usually more than enough to destroy a unit, 
50 orbital bombardment should not be used lightly. Orbital bombardment 
should occur only if the needs of the adventure require it rather than as a 
means for resolving combats. 


WEAPON EMPLACEMENTS 
Weapon emplacements are a staple of ground warfare, They typically fall 
under two categories: antipersonnel and antivehicle. Weapon emplacements 
are treated as vehicles for statistical purposes, but they are usually immobile 
and do not require a pilot to function. Instead, gunners control all the func- 
tions of the weapon emplacement. 

Example weapon emplacements include the LRIK soni¢ antipersonnel 
cannon and the AV-? antivehicle cannon. 


LR1K Sonic Cannon 

The LRIK is a large antipersonnel Cannon manufactured for the Confederacy 
by Gordarl Weaponsmiths. This large, conical emplacement produces a con- 
cussive blast of sonic energy that damages not only its primary target but 
also other creatures nearby. The LR1IK soni¢ cannon is successfully used at 
the Battle of Geonosis, where Geonosian warriors direct the weapon against 
the invading clone troopers and Jedi. 


LR1K Sonic Antipersonnel Cannon cL4 
Large emplacement 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 15; +1 armor 

hp 30; DR 5; Threshold 20 

Speed 0 squares (immobile) 

Ranged sonic cannon +8 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover +5 

Base Atk +2; Grp +17 

Abilities Str 21, Dex 10, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Use Computer +6 
Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 

Availability Restricted; Cost 9,000 |5,000 used) 


Sonic Cannon (2 gunners) 
Atk +8, Dmg 4d10x2 sonici 

} Sonic damage cannot be deflected by lightsabers and is considered 
energy damage. 


Republic Antivehicle Cannon 
Taim & Bak manufactures this large, semimobile antivehicle emplacement 
for the Republic after the Republic's leaders realize that defending a world 
means hunkering down and enduring constant threat of assault or invasion. 
The clone forces of the Republic use several of these antivehicle cannons to 
help secure the planet Christophsis. 


AV=7 Antivehicle Cannan CL6 
Huge emplacement 

Init +4; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 18; +3 armor 

hp 80; DR 5; Threshold 28 

Speed 0 squares (immobile in firing mode), fly 4 squares {in hover mode) 
Ranged antivehicle cannon +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover +5 

Base Atk +2; Grp +6 

Abilities Str 26, Dex 10, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Availability Military; Cost 14,000 (8,000 used) 


Antivehicte Cannon (gunner) 
Atk +6, Dmg 5d10x2 


iA walaveno 


GNEIVANYVS SUVM ONE VE) 


‘CHAPTER VIII 
GALACTIC GAZETTEER 


i chapter presents several new planet entries for worlds relevant to 
be lone Wars campaign as well as planetary updates for worlds listed in 
14 Chapter 13 of the Saga Edition core rulebook, bringing them into alignment 
with their state in this era. 

~ Among the planets described here are the various homeworlds of the new 
species presented in Chapter 1, as well as worlds that figure prominently in 


The Clone Wars animated series. 


' CONTESTED WORLDS 


¢ Clone Wars draw in nearly every world from the Deep Core to the Outer 
im, embroiling these planets in the conflict one way or another. In general, 
most planets fall into one of three categories: Republic-controlled worlds, 
Confederacy-controlled worlds, and contested worlds. Though the status of 
an individual planet might-change over the course of the Clone Wars, these 
general classifications can help Gamemasters relay the general atmosphere 
on these worlds. 

Republic-controlled worlds are planets that have remained loyal to the 
Galactic Republic in this time of war, or that have been forcibly seized by 
Republic military forces. These worlds are subject to the same laws as all 
other worlds in the Galactic Republic and, with the exception of worlds that 
have seen major conflicts, most closely resemble the planets of the Republic 
from the days before the outbreak of the Clone Wars. Republic-controlled 
worlds usually have some sizable Republic military presence that is as much 
focused inward as outward; with the ever-present threat of sedition and 
defection to the Confederacy, Republic worlds see an increase in suspicion 
of treasonous activity and a steady growth of military forces. 

Confederacy-controlled worlds generally fall into two categories: those 
that join the Separatists in opposition to the Republic, and those that are 
lured to the Confederacy by greed and promises. Some worlds, such as the 
rebellious planet Jabiim, see joining the Confederacy as a way of showing the 
Republic that the planet will no longer be subject to its laws; this rejection is 
more a cry for independence from the Republic than it is loyalty to the cause 
of the Separatists, and often is the result of an antagonistic relationship 
between the Republic government and the planet's government. The second 
category usually comes about when the leaders of the Confederacy, usually 
Count Dooku, promise planetary leaders great wealth, power, and influence 
in exchange for their support for the Separatist cause. These planets are 
wooed away from the Republic in exchange for everything from monetary 
wealth to simple military protection, and usually show greater loyalty to 
the Separatist ideal. 

Contested worlds, sometimes called neutral worlds, are planets that do 
not willfully pledge their allegiance to one side or the other, but instead have 
the decision made for them militarily. These contested worlds are usually 
the sites of the fiercest battles as the two titanic factions battle over the 
planet's allegiance and resources, while giving local populations little say in 
the matter. Contested worlds usually start as worlds whose planetary leaders 
are divided on which side to join, allowing the Republic and the Confederacy 
to pounce upon this indecision and capitalize on the planet's resources to 
fuel their war machines. 


HeSSL13aZV0 JisIov V0 a HWA BSaLevHo 


MESGLASSV OILOVYIY® 


CATO NEIMOIDIA 
Region: Colonies 

Climate: Temperate and moist 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 25 standard hours 

Length of Year: 278 local days 

Sapient Species: 100% Neimoidian 
Government: Federation 

Capital: Zarra 

Major Exports: Droids, foodstuffs, technology 
Major Imports: Labor, ore 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Cato Neimoidia is one of the earliest and most prominent Neimoidian 
“purse worlds.” , 

15 The cities of Cato Neimoidia are built upon large bridges that span the 
spaces below massive arch-shaped rock formations. 

20 The Neimoidians that call Cato Neimoidia their home hide their trea- 
sures and other valuables in well-protected and cleverly concealed 
vaults. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

15 The so-called "purse worlds” of the Neimoidians act as adi imistrative 
posts that rule their own sets of colonies. 

20 Only the wealthiest Neimoidians are permitted to live on Cato 
Neimoidia. 


*THAT BUSINESS 
ON CATO NEIMOIDIA 
DOESN’'T...DOESN'T 

COUNT.” 


-OBI-WAN KENOBI! 


Re ill 


CHAIBTORHae 


CHRISTOPHSIS 
Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 
Length of Year: 369 local days 

Sapient Species: 51% Human, 49% other 
Government: Empire 

Capital; Chaleydonia 

Major Exports: Raw materials (crystal) 
Major Imports: Foodstuffs 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

OC Result 

10 Christophsis is an Outer Rim world covered in massive, green-blue 
crystal spires. 

15 The inhabitants of Christophsis have built their cities into and around 
the massive crystal spires, taking advantage of their solid structure to 
sérve as both foundation and support. 


KNOWLEDGE (PHYSICAL SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

20 The crystalline city-spires of Christophsis are merely the largest exam- 
ples of the crystals that grow all across the world. Most of the world's 
crystals grow in smaller clumps less than a meter tall. 

25 The crystals of Christophsis can sometimes be used as lightsaber 
crystals, though the Jedi prefer to obtain their crystals from more 
sacred sites. 


GEONOSIsS 
Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Arid 

Gravity: Low standard (90%) 
Moons: 15 

Length of Day: 30 standard hours 
Length of Year: 256 local days 
Sapient Species: 100% Geonosian 
Government: Feudal hives 
Capital: Stalgasin Hive 

Mayor Exports: Droids, technalocy 
Major Imports: Raw materials 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Harsh solar radiation storms are common on Geonasis, and they have 
caused occasional planetwide mass extinctions. : 

15 Geomosis’s largest moon was struck by a comet in the distant past, 
creating a dense ring system around the planet, 

20 The rocky spires prevalent in Geonosian architecture are easily mis- 
taken for naturally occurring surface features. 

25 Several droid and weapon foundries, administered by the Baktoid 
Armor Workshop, are located across and beneath Geonosis’s rocky 
landscape. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

10 The Geonosians are an insectoid species native to Geonosis. 

15 The Geonosian species is composed of two distinct varieties: wing- 
less drones that act primarily as laborers, and winged aristocrats that 
include the species’ rulers and elite warriors. 

20 Geonosians are further divided into castes, depending on the physical 
attributes with which they are born. 

25 Geonosian society exists to serve the species’ elite castes. 


*“THEY SAID 


IT WOULD BE EASY TO 


GLEE ANSELM 
Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Tropical to temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 33 standard hours 

Length of Year: 206 local days 

Sapient Species: 53% Anselmi, 45% Nautolan, 2% other 
Government: Republic council 

Capital: Anselom (Anselmi), Pieralos (Nautolan) 
Major Exports: Foodstuffs, medicine, water 
Major Imports: Technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

OC Result 

10 There are only a few large landmasses on the surface of Glee Anselm. 
The majority of its remaining islands and archipelagos are little more 
than swamps. 

15 Though the climate of Glee Anselm is mild, the planet is wracked by 
intense storms and hurricanes. 

20 Most of Glee Anselm’s aquatic fife, which survives in the high-pressure 
oceanic depths of the planet. has yet to be catalogued. 


KNOWLEDGE (LIFE SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

15 Glee Anselm is home to two naturally evolving species: the Nautolans 
and the Anselmi. 

20 The Anselmi species is land-based. Their culture is warlike, due in large 
part to the harsh competition between its members for control of Glee 
Anselm’s few land masses. 

25 Though peaceful, the Nautolans have competed militarily with the 
Anselmi for eontrol of Glee Anselm's few land masses. 


WASH AWAY THE MEMORIES OF BATTLE 


ON A WATERY WORLD. 
| GUESS THEY NEVER SAW AN ENTIRE 
OCEAN RUN RED." 


-COMMANDER RIN MAKO 


IKTOTCH KALEE 


Region: Expansion Region: Quter Rim 

Climate: Arid, rocky, and windy Climate: Arid, temperate, tropical, and arctic 
Gravity: Standard Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 Moons: | 

Length of Day: 22 standard hours Length of Day: 23 standard hours 

Length of Year: 481 local days Length of Year: 278 local days 

Sapient Species: 97% Ixtotchi, 2% Human, 1% other Sapient Species: 99% Kaleesn, 1% other 
Government: Representative democracy Government: Warring tribes 

Capital: Ankheia Capital: Kaleela 

Major Exports: Minerals, ore Major Exports: Exotic animals, mercenaries 
Major Imports: Technology Major Imports; Medicine, weapons, technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 
OC Result 
10. Iktote#s is the third moon of the planet Iktotchon, 


mr) 


? 15 The surface of Iktotch is windswept, rocky, and barren. 
uw! 20 |ktotch has very little surface water, Much of the moon's water is 
in| found deep beneath its surface in naturally occurring aquifers. 
{2| 25 Sand and gravel storms form frequently on tktotch’s surface. The most 
1$| violent of these can span hundreds of kilometers and manifest with 
je enough force to strip fiesh from the bones af unprotected surface 
dwellers. 

lg KNOWLEDGE (LIFE SCIENCES) 

i> DC Result 

| i" 15 When Republic scouts visited Iktotch for the first time, they discov- 
(i) ered the seal of the Republic carved into one of the man’s mountains. 


DOL, 


i was saon revealed that the [ktotchi, thanks to their precognitive 


1 @ abilities, had known of the Republic's coming for generations. 
@ 20 Members of the Iktatchi species are often feared or discriminated 
i against because of their inmate prescience. 
HN) 25 The Iktotchi evolved from mountain-dwelling quadrupeds thal were 
5 ance numerous Upon the mean's surface. 
: 


mM 


KALae 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE} 


ie 
10 
15 


Result 

Kalee is a harsh world with few natural resources. 

Kalee was recently inveded by the Huk, a mantislike insectoid species 
that enslaved the Kaleesh and stripped tie planet of its few natu- 
ral resources. The Huk were defeated and nearly wiped out by the 
Kaleesh. The Huk petitioned the Republic for aid, which resulted in 
economic Sanctions and war crimes trials against the Kaleesh. 

The Republic's actions against the Kaleesh on behalf of the Huk were 
the result of corruption within the Senate. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 


pe 
10 


18 


20 


Result 

The Kaleesh are 2 nomadic species that has only recently made its way 
into space. 

Though warlike, the Kaieesh rarely attack without provocation. 

The Kateesh revere ancestors who died in self-sacrifice and-with honor. 
Tney believe that these ancestors rise to the heavens upon their death 
and descend to the planet's surface again when they are needed. 
Abesmi, a large rectangular isiand within Kalee’s single acean, is con- 
sidcred the holiest piace on the pianct's surface. 


KAMINO 

Region: Wiid Space 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 3 

Length of Day: 27 standard hours 

Length of Year: 463 local days 

Sapient Species: 98% Kaminaan, 3% Kuman (clones), 19 other 
Government: Ruling council 

Capital: Tipoce City 

Major Exports: Clones, fish, military hardware, technology, weapons 
Major Imports: Droids, foodstuf?s 


KaMINnD 


KNOWLEDGE (BUREAUCRACY, GALACTIC LORE, LIFE SCIENCES) 

OC Result 

15 Kamina is one of thirteen pianets in the Kamino System, which is situ- 
ated near the dwarf galaxy known as the Rishi Maze. 

20 Because it has no surface geography, Kamina is subject to powerful 
storms that rage continuously ecross its watery landscape. 

25 Climate changes in Kamino's distant past suomerged the surface of 
the world, and water now covers 100% of the planet's surface. 


KNOWLEDGE (BUREAUCRACY, GALACTIC LORE, LIFE SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

15 The Kaminoarss are regarded as \solationist cloners who rarely interact 
with others unless it is to conduct business. 

20 Kaminoans appear to be nearly identical to one another. This is due to 
their exacting methods of selective breeding and cloning in order to 
ensure the survival of their species. 

25 The soldiers of the newly formed Grand Army of the Republic are 
clones that were created and trained on Kamina. 


ALLOLZVS HBVIVS 


MEY 


PeeLLeEsVe SLLvVIVe) 


KERKOIDIA 

Region: Expansion Region 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 3 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 

Length of Year: 324 local days 

Saptent Species: 99% Kerkoiden, 1% other 
Government: Oligarchy 

Capital: Maldinian City 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: High technology, luxury goods 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Kerkoidia is a civilized world in the Expansion Region and is the home- 
world of the Kerkoiden people. : 

15 Most of the planet is covered in savannahs. The tall grass of these 
Savannahs grows to a height of almost two meters, allowing the native 
beings on the world to hide from predators and prey alike. 

20 Kerkoidia‘s swamps, which cover nearly 30% of the planet, are home 
to vicious predators from which the Kerkoiden species is descended. 

25 The headquarters for the Retail Caucus is located on Kerkoidia, which 
has made many Kerkoidens extremely wealthy and created a fledgling 
aristocracy. 


MALASTARE 
Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Arid, temperate, and tropical 
Gravity: Heavy (156%) 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 
Length of Year: 20) local days 

Sapient Species: 51% Gran, 44% Dug, 4% Human, 196 other 
Government: Gran Protectorate 
Capital: Port Pixelito 

Major Exports: Padracing 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, luxury items 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Malasiare is 4 popular stop in the galaxy’s Podracing circuit due to the 
large variety of terrain types that make up the planet's surface. 

15 Mafastare is one of the Galactic Republic's staunchest supporters. 

20 Though Dugs are Malasiare's single indigenous species, the planet was 
colonized millennia ago by the Gran and is controlled by the Gran 
Protectorate. 

25 Dugs have suffered greatly under the rule of the Gran, and they have 
been marginalized throughout the galaxy as a result. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

10 Dugs are perceived as bullies and brutes throughout the galaxy. 

15 Though they consider themselves proud warriors, the Dugs were forc- 
ibly disarmed dy the Republic nearly a thousand years ago. 

20 Despite being technolagically advanced, many Dugs live in primitive 
arborea) villages known as tree thorps. 

25 Dug society is tribal, with a number of clans forming each trive. Mul- 
tiple tribes are ruled by a unifying monarch. 


MUSTAFAR 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Hot (volcanic) 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: None 

Length of Day: 36 standard hours 
Length of Year: 412 local days 
Sapient Species: 95% Mustafarian, 3% Skakoan, 2% other 
Government: Techno Union 

Capital; Fralideja 

Major Exports: Minerals, ore 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Mustafar is a possession of the Techno Union, and has been for almost 
300 years. 

15 It is a voleanic planet. Nearly 35% of Mustafar’s surface is molten. 
This is due to the stresses placed on the planet by the gravity fields of 
two large gas giants that affect its orbit. 

30 Many Jedi temples ance existed on Mustafar, War with the Sith 
resulted in the near-apocalyptic changes to the planetary surface, 
causing the Jedi to abandon their enclaves. 


MUUNILINGT 


KNOWLEDGE (LIFE SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

10 Mustafarians are composed of two related but distinct subspecies: 
Narthern Mustafarians, who are tall and thin, and Southern Mustafar- 
iams, who are shart and somewhat sturdier. 

20 Mustafarians use domesticated arthrapods known as lava fleas as 
mounts $0 that they can traverse the coaled and crusted-over sur- 
faces of their planet, 

25 The Mustafarians survived Mustafar's cataclysm by migrating to the 
planet's cooler regions. 

30 Though theoreticaily under the contre! of the Tecttno Union, the Mus- 
tafarians are largely neutral and unconcerned with offworld polities. 


MUUNILINST 
Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 28 standard hours 
Length of Year: 412 local days 
Sapient Species: 99% Nuun, 1% other 
Government: Clans 

Capital: Harnaidan 

Major Exports: Metais 

Major Imports: Consumer goods, foodstuffs 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
a 
> 
S 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Muunilinst is the well-developed homeworld of the Muun people, a 
race of tall, slender aliens. NELVAAN 

15 The InterGalactic Banking Clan is based on Muunilinst, and much of 
the galaxy’s money moves through banks on the planet, earning it the 
nickname “Moneyland.” 

20 Muunilinst is a minerat-rich world covered In smatl, conical, underwa- 
ter voleanoes (known as “smokers"). 

25 Several settlements on Muunilinst are actually built around rich min- 
eral deposits, which can be mined quickly to provide physica! capital 
should the planet's government need it. 


Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Cool 

Gravity: Low (85%) 

Moons: 3 

Length of Day: 24 standard hours 
Length of Year: 349 local days 
Sapient Species: 96% Nelvaanian, 3% Skakoan, 1% other 
Government: None 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: Water 

Major Imports: None 


WA MSBLavHoO 


YOOALESVS SILSVIVA 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Nelvaan is experiencing the anset of an ice age. 

15 Because of its Jow gravity, Nelvaan is home to several large animal 
species, and it features exotic cliffs and mesas that would have crum- 
bled bencath the strain of higher gravity. 

20 Bothan vessels occasionally visit Nelvaan to siphon water from its 
expansive glaciers, 

30 The cooling of Nelvaan is a direct result of a Techno Union siphon 
generator that is draining thermal energy from the planet. 


KNOWLEDGE (BUREAUCRACY, GALACTIC LORE, LIFE SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

10 The Nelvaanians are a primitive species with a tribal culture. 

15 Religion is an important aspect of Neivaanian society. 

20 Male Nelvaanians act as warriors, hunters, and scauts for their respec- 
tive tribes, while females act as builders and gatherers that manage 
the day-to-day activities of their tribes. 

25 The planct Nelvaan, known as the Great Mother, is central to 
Nelvaanian religicn. 


POLIS MASSA 
Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: None (asteroid) 

Gravity: Low (56%) 

‘Moons: None 

Length of Day: 24 standard hours 

Length of Year: 590 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Polis Massan, 1% other 
Government: Ruling Council 

Capital: Polis Massa Base 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, heavy machinery, water 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Polis Massa is a small mining colony in a remote asteroid field. 

20 The Polis Massa asteroid is the largest fragment of the planet Polis 
Massa, which was broken apart by a natural cataclysm many centuries 
ago. 

25 Polis Massa was originally home to the Eellayin civilization. The Eel- 
layins vanished following their planet's destruction. 

30 The center of Polis Massa’s mining operations is an excavation, 
where the current inhabitants search for clues to the last Eellayin 
civilization, 


KNOWLEDGE (BUREAUCRACY, GALACTIC LORE, LIFE SCIENCES) 
DC Result 


10 


20 


25 


30 


Polis Massans are known for their medical and archaeological 
expertise, 

The Polis Massans are not the original inhabitants of the planet Polis 
Massa, but are instead from another planet. 

Polis Massans emigrated from their homeworld of Kaliidah (also in the 
Subterrel Sector) to the Polis Massa asteroids in order to mine for arti- 
facts from a lost civilization. They believe that they are descendants of 
the original inhabitants of Polis Massa, the Eellayins. 

The Polis Massans learned cloning techniques from the Kaminoans, 
and they might be attempting to use these skills to bring about the 
return of the Eellayin civilization. 


SEMBLA 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 4 

Length of Day: 32 standard hours 
Length of Year: 274 local days 
Sapient Species: 100% Vurk 
Government: None (nomadic tribes) 
Capital: None 

Major Exports: Foodstuffs, water 
Major Imports: Technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 
DC Result 


10 
18 


25 


30 


Sembia is covered by shallow seas and volcanic islands. 

Vast gardens of coral and valuable crystal growths can be found in the 
hottest of Sembla’s oceans, and these are aften targcted by of f-world 
miners. 

Due to the nomadic nature of its indigenous species, there are few 
permanent settlements an Sembia, 

Ancient subaquatic ruins have been found along Sembia's equator. 
These ruins do not appear to have been created by the Vurks, nor do 
the Vurks have any memories of established permanent settlements. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 
DC Result 


10 


un 


20 


The Vurks are a nomadic and seemingly primitive species native to 
Sernbla. 

The prinvitive mature of the Vurks 1s belied by the species’ highly 
advanced philosophical traditions, which stress personal freedom, 
integrity, and honesty in all things. 

As a species, Vurks are empathetic and serene, and they make excep- 
tional diplomats. 

Despite their peaceful nature, Vurks are capable combatants who see 
self-defense as an aspect of their own personal integrity. 


SKAKO 

Region: Core Worlds 

Climate: Temperate (high-pressurc} 
Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 27 standard hours 
Length of Year: 384 local days 
Sapient Species: 100% Skakoan 
Government: Guiid 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: Technology 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, raw materials, water 


KNOWLEDGE {GALACTIC LORE) 


DC Result 

10 The surface of the planet Skako, like Coruseant, is covered by one mas- 
sive city. 

15 Skako's atmosphere is one of methane-based gasses and extremely 
heavy pressure, making it a hazardous place for species not adapted 
to its stresses. 

20 Though most of Skako is covered by urban sprawl, some examples of 


the planet's original ecasystem have been preserved in the form of 
vast fields of sprawling vines. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 


DC Result 

10 The Techno Union, while not a specifically a Skakoan organizatian, is 
largely controlled by the Skakoan species. 

15 Skakoans are unable to leave their homeworld unless they wear spe- 
cially designed pressure suits that allow them to survive in environ- 
ments with standard pressures and atmospheres. 

25 Skako’s indigenous inhabitants are similar in appearance ta sickly, 


gaunt humans. Because of the dangers of decompression away from 
their homeworld, few Skakoans willingly travel away from Skake. 


TETH 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 27 standard hours 
Length of Year: 298 local days 

Sapient Species: 94% Human, 6% other 
Government: Demacracy 

Capital: Inner Teth 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, high technology, luxury goods 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 


DC Result 

10 Teth is a remote jungle world on the Outer Rim. Its land masses are 
often shrouded in purple mist. 

15 The wildtife on Teth is relatively benign despite the huge jungles cov- 
ering the planet, making travel through the wiiderness far iess dan- 
gérous than on most worlds. 

20 Teth has lang been 2 haven for smugglers and other criminals, who use 
the world as a hiding place thanks to its remote location. 

25 Teth was one of the planets where the B’omarr Monks built manas- 


teries, but those edifices nave long since been abandoned and then 
claimed by criminals as hideouts. 


TetTH 


WA SStavHngd 


HOSALIZVD HLSVIVS) 


TOYDARIA UTAPALW 


Region: Mid Rim Region: Outer Rim 
Climate: Temperate swamps Climate: Arid and rocky sinkholes 
Gravity: Standard Gravity: Standard 
Moons: 3 Moons: 9 
Length of Day: 21 standard hours Length of Day: 27 standard hours 
Length of Year: 184 local days Length of Year: 351 local days 
Sapient Species: 79% Toydarian, 18% Hutt, 3% other Sapient Species: 70% Utai, 30% Pau'an 
Government: Hutt crime lords Government: Utapaun Committee 
Capital: Toydor Capital: Pau City 
Major Exports: Labor Major Exports: Water 
Major Imports: Foodstuffs Major Imports: Medicine, technology 
KNOWLEOGE (GALACTIC LORE) KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 
DC Result DC Result 
10 Toydaria is located in Hutt Space and is controlled by the Hutts. Most 10 The inhabitable areas of Utapau's surface are covered in grassy, wind- 
Toydarian villages are primitive by galactic standards. swept plains pockmarked with gaping sinkholes. 
Hh, 15 Speedess are illegal on Toydaria because they endanger flying Toydar- 15 While Utapau has ‘imited supplies of water on its surface, there are 
ians, and spaceship traffic is restricted to specific zones. Toydarians massive subterranean seas hidden beneath the planet's crust. 
; have incorporated a sophisticated light-rail system to make surface 20 The mineral-rich waters of Utapau are rumored to have mystical heal- 
_ h travel between settlements more convenient. ing properties, and this “healing water” fetches a high price on the 
20 The vast majority of Toydaria’s surface area is Covered in nutrient-rich galactic market. 
14 muck-lakes interspersed with fields of dense algae. 25 Extensive mineral deposits exist beneath Utapau’s subterranean seas, 
lending to the planet's vast natural resources. 
KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 
DC Result KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 
10 Toydarians are a stingy and ill-tempered flying species native to DC Result 
Toydaria. 10 Two races, the Pau'ans and the Utai (collectively known as the Uta- 
15 Toydarian government is feudal, owing allegiance to a single king who paun), share the planet in a near-symbiotic relationship. 
commands many vassals. 15 The Pau’ans are a tall species with a matural predilection for burcau- 
20 Because of their high metabolisms, Toydarians must consume more cracy and oversight, while the Utai are a short species who excel as 
food than their small frames would at first indicate. As a result, fam- laborers and animal handlers. 
ines are common on Toydaria in especially lean years. 25 An increase iin surface storms drove the Pau‘ans underground long 


ago, where they joined their civilization with that of the Utai. 


“GREETINGS, YOUNG JEDI. 
WHAT BRINGS YOU TO OUR 
REMOTE SANCTUARY?” 


-TION MEDON 


PLANETARY UPDATES 
The Cione Wars transform planets throughout the galaxy. A number of famil- 
iar worlds are reshaped by the events that unfold around and, occasionally, 
upon them. The updates in this section should provide Gamemasters with 
enough information to use these planets during this era. 


BESPIN 
While Bespin has always been an important source of Tibanna gas, its 
economic and strategic importance is only truly realized at the start of the 
Clone Wars, The Republic and the Confederacy, desiring a stake in Bespin’s 
resources, dispatch forces to secure their interests. A number of small orbital 
battles, punctuated by lengthy dogfights in Bespin’s upper atmosphere, ul ti- 
mately ¢nd with the Republic having a slight edge over its Separatist foes. 
Even though the Battle of Bespin is considered a lass for the Separatists, 
occasional skirmishes continue to occur between the two enemies throughout 
the entirety of the Clone Wars. 1 

One of the most popular tourist hubs on Bespin prior to the Clone Wars 
is Tibannopolis, Tibannopolis's only true competition is Cloud City, and the 
rivalry between the two settlements only fuels their popularity. As the Clane 
Wars intensifies and tourists are less inclined vo travel to Bespin’s resorts, 
Tibannopolis ceases to be a significant economic factor. Cloud City's ability 
to mine Tibanna gas on behalf of the Repubtic is its salvation, enough to 
keep it functioning until the official end of hostilities. 


BOTHAWUI 

Bothawiui is a longtime member of the Senate and supporter of the Republic. 
Despite this fact, Bothawui remains a neutral planet during the Clone Wars. 
The Senator from Bothawui, Polo Se'lab, consistently abstains from many 
of the Senate's more politically charged votes in the months leading up to 
the Clone Wars. He states many times that he does not want Bothawui to 
be party to the start of open warfare, and he consistently maintains this 
stance in the follawing years. 

Though Bothawui is publicly neutral, the Bothan predilection for secrecy 
and clandestine action is in full swing. While the Bothans do not specifically 
play one side off against the other during the Clone Wars, they are proud to 
serve each one ina professional, if not exciusive, manner. According to Bothan 
thought, providing the Republic and the Confederacy with useful intelligence 
is a good way to hasten the war's end. as well as make a profit. 

Bothan neutrality does little ta prevent both Separatist and Republic 
representatives from attempting to woo Bothawui to their side in the canflict. 
As the war progresses, It becomes increasingly obvious to the Bathans that 
neither side is worth supporting in full and that each faction is hiding several 
proverbial skeletons in their closet. This only reinforces the perception of 
Bothan neutrality during the Clone Wars. 


Bothawui, defended by its own small planetary defense forces, is largely 
untouched by the war. Intelligence agents from the opposing factions, 
however, are numeraus. Republic and Separatist agents rarely interact with 
one another in a hostile fashion on Bothawui, though a number of quiet 
confrontations and mysterious deaths are unavoidable. 


CEREA 

Hue 10 its isolated location and antitechnoiogical stance, Cerea garners little 
Republic attention until a few decades prior to the start of the Clone Wars, 
when the Republic seeks to tap inte the planet's vast natural resources. 
Republic representatives offer technological incentives in an attempt to 
persuade Cerea to join the Republic, but these offers are rebuffed by the 
planet's ruling council. 

When millions of refugees are displaced by the destruction of the Clone 
Wars, Cerea offers its aid to the Refugee Resettlement Coalition. As a result, 
vast numbers of refugees are brought to Cerea from across the galaxy. The 
newcomers settle, but many feel constrained by Cerea’s lack of high technol- 
ogy. The newcomers’ dissatisfaction, coupled with rebellious Cerean youths 
who wish to lift their society to the same technological level as the rest of 
the galaxy, stir up a hornet’s nest of dissent. 

Despite the Republic's diplomatic efforts to bring Cerea into the fold 
and the Confederacy’s attempts to foment unrest at the local level, Cerea 
continues to remain neutral throughout the length of the Clone Wars. 
Regardless of the planet's neutral stance, it is only a matter of time before 
the war finds its way there. A year into the conflict, the month-long Battle 
of Cerea takes place, resulting in horrible civilian casualties. Large swathes 
af the planet's virgin landscapes are reduced to ashes by the battle, and the 
reigning president becomes the target of Confederacy-sponsored assas- 
sination attempt. 


CORUSCANT 

Coruscant experiences a number of radical changes after the start of the 
Clone Wars. Large swathes of the cityscape are laid low to make room for 
military staging areas. Millions of citizens are displaced by the urban renewal, 
the vast mayority of them impoverished, members of alien species loyal to the 
Confederacy, or both. There is an initial public outcry, but with the war effort 
in full swing, such dissidence is either ignored or quickly quashed. 

Acts of terrorism are commonplace. Mast are the products of Separatist 
cells, though a few isolated incidents are of questionable origin. Bombings 
are the most common types of attacks used by Separatist terrorists. Given 
Coruseant’s large population, these indiscriminate tactics result in hundreds, 
sometimes thousands, of casualties. Terrorists also emplay toxic gasses and 
attempt to compromise the integrity of Coruscant's water and food sup- 
plies. Assassination attempts against influential Republic politicians are 
also comman. 


MEELLEIZVE DLEvIve 


iA Salevno 


YSDLLEGZVE Si.evwws 


a) 


(HA BeSLadvT 


Clone troopers patrol much of the planet in force. Ostensibly, this is to 
combat and root out terrorist threats. More often than not, itis to maintain 
order and keep public protests to a minimum. Given the clones’ military 
training, they are prone to using deadly force in situations that don't war- 
rant it, and they have little compunction about doing so. Local authorities 
are helpless to intervene, and they can do little more than stand idly by and 
watch events unfald. 

Discrimination based on species becomes more common on Ccruscant. 
Overwhelming votes in the Senate have resulted in a number of mass 
deportations targeting members of species that are loyal to the Separatist 
movement. The majority of the deported individuals are loyal citizens of the 
Republic, however, which only makes enemies of individuals who might have 
otherwise been supportive of Palpatine’s leadership, 


DORIN 

Darin, the home planet of the Kel Doz, is a staunch supporter of the Republic. 
Due to a number of factors, notably its oxygen-poor atmosphere and location 
between two black holes, Dorin is practically ignored by the Confederacy of 
Independent Systems during the war. 

The opinion of most Kel Dor is that the Separatists are disloyal and unwill- 
ing to go through proper channels to get what they want, Thus, they are 
deserving of nothing, and they should forcibly be brought back into the fold 
of the Republic. Dorin is a strong supporter of the formation of the Army of 
the Republic, even providing a handful of its own defense troops and ships 
in support of the war effort. 


DUROA 

Dure is a loyal member of the Galactic Republic at the outbreak of the Clone 
Wars, The system’s standing is further reinforced during the Battle of Duro, 
which is a pivotal point in a massive Confederacy offensive known as Opera- 
tion Durge’s Lance. The victory of the Separatists allows them to pave the 
way for a full-scale invasion of the Core Worlds, 

The planet Duro is devastated by the Separatist invasion. Bombardment of 
the planet's vast industrial holdings, ordered by General Grievous, results ina 
catastrophic release of toxic pollutants into the atmosphere. These chemicals 
are further distributed ac“oss the pianetary surface as fallout, transforming 
much of Duro into an uninhabitable wasteland. Utterly defeated, the Duros 
have little choice but to surrender to the Senaratists and be absorbed into 
the Confederacy of Independent Systems. 

In time, the Duros population learns that a number of Republic snips that 
should have been present at the Battle of Duro had been rerouted to other 
systems because of Senatorial corruption. The resulting investigation leads 
to the resignation of two Senators and a number of other officiais. 


The ultimate result of Duro’s fall is the incredible boost it gives to the 
Separatist cause. General Grievous, the invasion’s architect, is leuded 
throughout the Confederacy as a military genius. Scares of undecided Systems 
rally to the Separatist cause in the wake of Duro’s conquest. 


GAMORR 

Though ignored by the Galactic Republic during the Clone Wars due to its 
primitive inhabitants, Gamorr is given special attention by the Confederacy. 
Thousands of Gamorreans, less concerned with galactic politics and more 
interested in a good fight, are taken offworld by the Separatists and employed 
as mercenaries. The Gamorreans rarely serve the Separatists with distinction, 
and they are instead emploved for dangerous frontal assaults. As a result, 
the survival rate for Gamorrean mercenaries working for the Confederacy 
is less than 8 percent. 

The Hutts, upset with the Confederacy's claim on sa many Gamorreans, 
petition the Separatists in an attempt to preserve their own hold 07 the 
planet's natives. The Trade Federation negotiates a finder’s fee, paying a 
bounty to the Hutts for each Gamorrean that the Confederacy hires in the 
course of the conflict. Although this results in only a minima! profit for the 
Hutts, it eases their concerns over the perceived Separatist encroachment 
on a labor force that is largely considered theirs. 

Though the war never comes to Gamorr's surface, a number of smail 
space battles do occur in neighboring star systems. Separatist's establish a 
single base on Gamors's moon, but by the end of the war, it is completely 
abandoned and overtaken by pirates. 


IRIDONIA 

Although it figured prominently in past wars, lridonia plays only a small 
part in the Clane Wars. A loyal member of the Galactic Republic following 
ine Mandalorian Wars, tridonia as a whole maintains its place in the Senate 
throughout this turbulent period. Though Iridonia itself is not subject to 
Separatist invasion, a numbe’ of its colonies suffer insurrections and political 
upheavals inspired by the Confederacy. 

Several months after the start of the Clone Wars, one of the eight Ividonian 
colonies petitions to secede from the Galactic Republic and join the Confed- 
eracy. This starts what many Zabrak refer to as “The Great Debate,” which 
eventually ends with Iridonia’s continued support of the Galactic Republic, 


ITHOR 
A member of the Galactic Republic for millennia, Ithor continues to swear 
its fealty throughout the Clone Wars. The vast and well-protected natural 
resources of the forest world are never compromised by Separatist attacks. 
A number of small attacks and probing actions art attempted against ithor 
by the Confederacy early in the war, but these are determined to be littic 
more than diversions as the Seperatists taunch full-scale invasions of Dure 
and other important Republic targets. 
The closest thing to a Separatist invasion of Ithor is the Confederacy’s 
capture of the Ottegs Down, an Ithorian herdship. The Ottega Dawn is. 
subsequently placed at the fore of a Separatist assault force, where it is 
assumed that Republic ships will be less likely to fire upon it due to the large 
number of civilian passengers and crew aboard. While this tactic is initially 
successful, it backfires when the Ottega Dawn is reclaimed by a contingent 
of Ithorian mutineers. 


KASHYYYK 

Kashyyyk remains unaligned at the start of the Clone Wers. Seeking a means 
to end their troubles with neighboring Trandosha, the leaders of Kashyyyk 
initially attempt to better their position by negotiating with both the Con- 
federacy of Independent Systems and the Galactic Republic. At stake are a 
number of secret hyperspace routes known only to the Wookiees as well as 
the potential for new hyperspace rautes hat are as yet unknown. 

Despite a small number of hostile actions by Separatist forces, Kashyyyk 
maintains its neutrality for nearly a year and a half. General Grievous orders 
a number of attacks in an attempt to persuade the Wookiees to make a 
choice, but the tactic backfires when King Grakchawwaa i¢arns of his son's 
zccidental death at the hands of Separatist droids. 

in a rage, Grakchawwaa sides with the Galactic Republic. This spurs a 
massive invasion by the Confederacy, which is eventually repulsed by a 
combined Repubiic/Wookiee force during the Battle of Kashyyys. The tide 
of battte turns when Order 86 turns the Republic clone army against its Jedi 
generais. The Wookiees shelter a number af Jedi survivors, an act of mercy 
for which they suffer areatly in the years to come. 


MON CALAMARI 

In the time leading up to the Clone Wars, Senator Tikkas, the Quarren Sena- 
tor from Mon Calamari, turns a blind eye to slaver activity in the Calamari 
Sector. When his part in these activities is discovered, Tikkas is forced out 
of office, and he defects to the Confederacy of Independent Systems. As 
leader of the Quarren Isolation League, a group dedicated to reducing the 
influence of the Mon Calamari on planetary politics, Tikkas foments outright 
civil war on Mon Caiamari. 


iT revo on Mon CALAMan 


With the aid of Senaratist droids as well asa number of Mon Calamari who 
are hayal to the Confederacy, Tikkas begins his campaign. He arders attacks 
against a number of Mon Calamari cities. The Republic counterattacks oy 
sending troops, led by Kit Fista, to aid the Mon Calamari. 

It is eventually discovered that the Quarren are also being aided by a tyne 
of deepsea invertebrate known as the Moappa. While the Moappa are not 
intelligent on an individua: basis, Wey passess a sophisticated group intel- 
lect. Like the Quarren, the Moappa are disaffected by the Mon Calamari’s 
claim of planetary control. Even after the destruction of the Quarren central 
command on Mon Calamari, the Moappa cantinue 1o lead the remaining 
troops via telepathic commands. 

Until this point, the Mon Calamari had been unaware of the Moappa’s 
intelligence. Following the defeat of the Separatists, diplomatic relations 
are established between the Mon Calamari and the Moappa 50 that the two 
species can live in peace. 


WA HaiavHo 


| 
| 


J 


YIVS) 


ie 


= 
=i) 


MEGLLE 


WA ealavHo 


HESGALAZIS GQLGIYVWS 


NABOO 

Because ef Naboo’s close relationship with Chancellor Palpatine, himself 
a citizen of that planet, Naboo remains a staunch bastion of the Galactic 
Republic throughout the length of the Clone Wars. Despite Naboo's peaceful 
fature, the average citizen sees support of Palpatine’ initiatives as common 
sense. With the invasion of Theed by the Trade Federation prior to the Clone 
Wars as an example, there is little doubt to the citizenry of Naboo that the 
Separatists are a grave threat that must be dealt with in a decisive manner. 
To the majority of the Naboo, the person to bring about an end to such a 
terrible enemy is Palpatine. 

The Trade Federation never forgets its defeat during the blockade. 
Because of this, Naboo continues to suffer repeated attacks and invasions 
from Confederacy forces throughout the conflict. While none of the incur- 
sions succeeds, the most disastrous of them wipes out nearly all life on the 
Gungan lunar colony of Ohma-D'un during what is to become remembered 
as the Defense of Naboo. Quick action by the Jedi and other Republic forces 
results in victory over the Separatist invaders. : 


NAR SHADDAA 

During the Clone Wars, Nar Shaddaa remains a haven for criminals of all 
stripes, a terrible and multileveled urban playground inhabited by the worst 
that the galaxy has to offer. Wars come and go, but Nar Shaddaa always 
remains in one form or another. 

The Hutts that pull the strings on Nar Shaddaa see the conflict between 
the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems as just 
another opportunity ta make money. To this effect, they channel all manner 
of illegal products to one side or the other. Weapons, cortosis ore, assassin 
draids, spice, slaves, and any of a number of other forbidden goods pass 
through Nar Shaddaa like water through a sieve. 

The Separatists are the Hutts’ largest customer. Though backed by a 
large number of technological concerns, such as the Techno Union and the 
Trade Federation, the Confederacy is always looking for an edge, regardless 
of how underhanded or destructive it might be. This is not to say that the 
Republic's hands are completely clean, cither, especially early in the var when 
the Army of the Republic is in its embryonic stage. Weapons, especially hand 
weapons aind vehicles, pass through Nar Shaddaa on their way to Republic 
and Separatist munitions depots 

Nar Shaddaa not only offers physical goods for sale. Services are another 
of its more profitable offerings, and these include theft, assassination, and 
everything in between, Both sides in the war have agents assigned to Nar 
Shaddaa, both to contract for services as well as to monitor the movements of 
the opposition. Unlike the Republic and Separatist agents on Bothawui, wha 
are relatively quiet and secretive, those living on Nar Shaddaa are much more 
likely to come to a spectacularly violent end at the hands of their enemies. 


RODIA 

Despite the best attempts of the Separatists, Rodia remains a loyal member 
of the Galactic Republic throughout the Clone Wars. Rodis is never directly 
threatened by the Confederacy of Independent Systems, thaugh negotiators 
sent by Count Dooku are often found in Iskaayuma as they attempt to sway 
the Radians to support their cause. 

Even though Rodia remains loyal to the Republic, many individual Rodians 
seek out their fame and fortune in the employ of the Confederacy, offering 
their services as assassins and mercenaries. Many of these individuals are 
considered criminals by the galactic community, but they are otherwise 
revered as heroes on Rodia for their exploits, 

Rodia is represented in the Galactic Senate by Senator Onaconda Farr, 
a tried and true loyalist of the Republic. Farr is appointed to the Loyalist 
Commitee, gaining a great deal of influence as a result. Unfortunately for 
Rodia, Onaconda Farr is expased for bribing a fellow Senator in order to 
divert a number of naval starships to Rodia. Had the starships been sent to 
Dura, their original destination, it is quite possible that the Battle of Duro 
would not have bren a Separatist victory. 


RYLOTH 

At the start of the Clone Wars, the homeworld of the Twi'leks is a strong 
supporter of the Galactic Republic in the Senate. Despite this, the planet is 
sciztd by the Confederacy of Independent Systems, an act that is protested 
by Senator Orn Free Taa of Ryloth. Among Ryloth’s citizens, opinions remain 
so sharply divided that small-scale conflicts openly break out between dif- 
ferent Twi'lek factions. 

The Confederacy establishes a firm hold on the warld through the impo- 
sition of martial law. Distrust and betrayal among Ryloth’s citizens leads 
to further divisions, and suspected Republic sympathizers are rounded up, 
detained, and—in some cases—executed. Paranoia and suspicion run rampant, 
making the planet’s major cities dangerous places to live. 

The Separatist interest in Ryloth is twofold. A large droid reclamation 
facility is established on the planet's surface, proving to be an important 
asset as the Confederacy wages war against the Galactic Republic. Produc- 
tion and distribution of ryll is also an important Separatist consideration, 
even though vast numbers of credits from the sale of the addictive spice 
somehow find their way into Huttese coffers. 

Late in the Clone Wars, a brief but intense battle takes place on Ryloth 
as a part of the Outer Rim Sieges. Through the efforts of diplomats and Hutt 
criminal interests, the planet is left relatively unscathed. 


SuULLuUST 

Because of SoroSuub's membershig in the Commerce Guild, Sullust secedes 
from the Galactic Repubiic at the beginning of the conflict and joins forces 
with the Confederacy of Indepencent Systems. Given that nearly half of 
the Sullustan population is employed by SoroSuub, there is practically no 
public outcry at this development. From this point onward, Sullust remains 
a strong supporter of the Confederacy. The planet itself is an important 
Confederacy fortress world, acting as 3 staging point for many invasions 
into the Core Worlds. 

Less than a month after Sullust secedes, a Republic invaston of the system 
commences. Though some initial successes are reported, there are a number 
of setbacks. The military forces used by the Republic are disparate and varied, 
consisting mostly of planctary defense forees that have been pulled together 
into an impromptu assault force. Casualties are high, and battlefield gains 
are insubstantial. Treachery within the Republic ranks is the catalyst that 
leads to its ultimate defeat and withdrawal from Sullust. 

Sullust remains one of the Confederacy's imost prized holdings until the 
end of the war. Its rich mineral deposits, loyal workforce, and production 
capabilities make it an important end well-defended asset. Many Republic 
missions are sent to Sullust in an attempt to erode the Confederacy’s hold 
on the planet, but few succeed. 


TATOOINE 
Tatooine is technically held by the Galactic Republic, but it is largely con- 
trolled by the Hutts at the start of the Clone Wars, In the early days of the 
war, the Republic attempts to establish a spaceport on the planet in order to 
utilize it as a base in the Arkanis Sector. The Republic's newly realized interest 
in Tatooine is not welcomed by many of the planet’s citizens, particularly 
those who thrive wader Huttese control of the world. 

Boorka the Hutt, seeking to remove the Republic from Tatooine, negotiates 
a pact with the Confederacy in exchange for the destruction of the fledgling 
Repubtic spaceport. The Confederacy forces, led by Sev'rance Tann, destroy 
the spaceport and wipe out the smail Republic force that had occupied it. 

Jabba the Hutt, Boorka's competitor on Tatoaine, is incensed by Boorka's 
cooperation with the Separatists. He betrays Boorka ta the Jedi, who kill 
Boorka and root out the Separatist units on Tatooine. Despite his loud objec- 
tions, Jabba’s interest in seeing Boorka fall are not entirely altruistic; the 
Hutt crime lord is playing one side against the other, taking a dangerous 
competitor out of the picture while continuing to supply cortosis ore to the 
Techno Union. 


TRANDOSHA 

Due ta its position within the Kashyyyk system, Trandosha’s only representa- 
tion in the Senate is Yarua, a Wookiee. The two species have never seen eye 
to eye, and their relationship is, at best, lukewarm at the outbreak of the 
Clone Wars due to a number of factors. 

Peaceful negotiations between the two species had never been com- 
pletely successful. Shortly before the outbreak of the Clone Wars, diplo- 
macy completely breaks down when a Wookiee ship is attacked over one 
of Trandosha’s moons. in response, the Wookiees erect a blockade around 
Trandasha. Peace talks rekindle the following year, but these fail when the 
Wookiees learn that the Trandoshans are secking Senatorial backing with 
the aid of the Trade Federation. 

Though never committed to the Separatist cause in a public forum, 
a number of independent Trandoshan organizations join forces with the 
Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Clone Wars. Pirate bands, 
slavers, and pro-Trandoshan terrorist groups participate in many Separatist 
actions, particularly those that take place on the Wookiee homeworld prior 
to the Battle of Kashyyyk. In truth, many (if not most) of these groups have 
indirect financial backing from Trandosha itself, as the planetary govern- 
ment is only too happy to direct its own attacks upon the Wookiees from 
the shadows, 


‘THE DESERT 
Is MERCILESS. IT 
TAKES EVERYTHING 
FROM YOU.” 


-ANAKIN SKYWALKER 


VQ) Hirer i1v7e) 


J 


Beet 


HAPTER IX< 
HE JEDI 


ee rea, SS 

“— The fates of the Republic and the Jedi Order are entwined. For over a thousand 
generations, the Jedi serve as guardians of peace and justice for the Republic. 
These masters of the Force grow and thrive alongside the Republic through 
the ages, dealing with crises that threaten the Republic and its citizens while 
maintaining peace and harmony in the galaxy. 

The decline of the Republic heralds the decline of the Jedi Order as well. As 
more and more star systems react to the burden of heavy taxation and political 
corruption, the Jedi spread across the galaxy to keep order. However, they are 
unable to resolve every petty dispute or stem the threat of civil war. 

The formation of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and the 
Separatists’ intention to declare war against the Republic force the Jedi to 
respond and attempt to quell the warmongering immediately. The Jedi Order's 
efforts to put down the droid forces of the Separatists fail and cost the lives 
of many of Jedi Knights, but the arrival of cloned troops with Master Yoda 
turns the tide of the battle and drives the Separatist leaders into retreat. 
The Clone Wars change the role of the Jedi dramatically. Once the arbiters 
of peace, they become leaders in war. 

This. change creates other shifts within the Jedi Order as well. While 
some view the Clone Wars as an opportunity to help save the Republic 

_ from destruction, others see their involvement in the war as a perversion of 
their basic beliefs. Some Jedi splinter away to form their own groups that 
maintain their ideals without compromise. Still others feel that the Jedi 
Order approaches the war from the wrong direction, so they split off to 
create their own factions that fight the war as they see fit. The Jedi Council 
does everything in its power to hold together the crumbling Republic, but 
their faith in the Republic and their authority is undermined by the Dark 
Lords of the Sith. 


faqsar SHL .. <1 eSidgvHo 


THE JEDI ORDER 


Like any other established organization, the Jedi Order has an internal struc- 
ture that helps maintain stability and allows it to function properly. From 
the youngest infant to the Jedi Masters seated on the High Council, every 
member of the Jedi has a place and purpose. 

All younglings undergo formal education within the temple on Coruscant 
and learn what they need to be a Jedi. At the appropriate age, they are either 
selected by a Jedi Master to become a Padawan or join a branch of the Jedi 
Service Corps. While those that join the Service Corps usually live the rest 
of their lives in service there, Padawans continue their education under the 
direct tutelage of their Jedi Masters until they pass the trials to become a 
Jedi Knight. Jedi who expand their knowledge and understanding of the Force 
might reach the level of Jedi Master, and those Jedi who serve the Jedi Order 
with distinction might be offered a seat on one of the councils that oversee 
the actions and activities of their fellow Jedi Knights and Jedi Masters. 


THE JED! SERVICE CORPS 
If younglings pass the age to begin their training as a Padawan without being 
chosen by a Jedi Master, they are sent to the Jedi Service Corps. The Service 
Corps has four separate branches of service: the Agricultural Corps, the 
Educationai Corps, the Exploration Corps, and the Medical Corps. Youngiings 
are assigned to a branch that reflects their individual talents. There, they 
serve the rest of their time in the Jedi Order. 

fach branch serves the Jedi Order and the Galactic Republic accord- 
ing to its designed purpose. The Agricultural Corps (or AgriCorps) serves 
the Republic by tending to the various farms established throughout the 
Core Worlds to help feed its citizens. The Educational Corps (or EduCorps) 
dispatches its members throughout the galaxy to provide for the education 
needs of many of the Republic's underprivileged children and, in turn, learn 
about the worlds to which they travel to help expand the knowledge base of 
the Jedi Order, The Exploration Corps (or ExplorCorps) primarily travels on 
missions to explore the Unknown Regions of the galaxy, charting new star 
systems and discovering new civilizations and races, The ExplorCorps also 
works in conjunction with likeminded organizations, such as the Intergalactic 
Zoological Society. The Medical Corps (or MedCorps) tends to the mecical 
needs of Republic citizens throughout the galaxy, assisting the medical 
staff in many of the galaxy’s hospitals and medical facilities. In addition, 
they also are responsible for maintaining the infirmary located in the Jedi 
Temple on Coruscant. 


AgriCorps Worker 

The Agricultural Corps teaches its new recruits to value the nature of life and 
to maintain balance between living creatures and their environment. These 
lessons, taught from the first day of their arrival, are meant to instill an overall 
appreciation for and an understanding of the natural world. The Agricultural 
Corps also teaches their young pupils patience to wait for results, self-control 
to let other things find their own way, and ingenuity to seek other methods 
to resolve a situation without resorting to the destruction of life. 

The primary goal of the AgriCorps is to support the Republic’s Agricultural 
Administration, which oversees the production and processing of foodstuffs 
throughout the Republic. Although most members serve on or near Coruscant, 
some are sent to other worlds to help with farming operations. Use of the 
Force by these recruits is restricted to tending the crops and livestock under 
their care, primarily because they have not learned anything beyond these 
basic skills at this point. 


AgriCorps Worker CcL2 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/Jedi 1 

Force 2 

Init +3; Senses Use the Force +7 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 13, Will 12 

hp 27; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+1) or 

Ranged by weapon +5 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Special Actions Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Force Perception 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences}), Shake It 
Off", Skill Training (Endurance, Knowledge [galactic lore], Survival, 
Use the Force, Weapon Proficiency (lightsaber) 

Skills Endurance +9, Knowledge (galactic lore) +8, Knowledge (life 
sciences) +13, Mechanics +8", Survival +8, Use the Force +7 

Possessions agricultural tools, datapad 

H Bonus feot or trained skill for being Human. 


EduCorps Worker 

The Educational Corps instructs its recruits in the ways of imparting know!- 
edge, teaching them not only to be effective instructors but also to show 
patience and compassion for their pupils. Above all, they need to understand 
that one cannot always rely on the Force to reach one’s goal. The idea of 
forcing somebody to learn something through the Force violates the basic 
doctrines of the Jedi Order. 

The EduCorps provides instruction to the disadvantaged on countless 
worlds across the galaxy. Armed with the philosophy that knowledge of the 
universe and those who dwell in it increases one’s understanding of life in 
the galaxy, these EduCorps scholars strive to learn all they can within the 
first few years of membership to prepare themselves to teach that knowledge 
to their future students. 

Members of the EduCorps also study the worlds and cultures they visit, 
recording their experiences in the libraries located within the Jedi Tempie 
on Coruscant, 


EduCorps Worker cL1 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/Jedi 1 

Farce 2 

Init +2; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, High Galactic, one additional language 


ExplorCorps Worker CL 2 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/Jedi 1 
Force 2 

Init +3; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 12, Will 13 
hp 20; Threshold 12 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 13, Will 13 
hp 27; Threshold 13 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (144-1) or 

Ranged by weapon +4 

Base Atk +5; Grp +4 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 9, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 11 

Talents Skilled Advisor 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Skill Focus (Knowledge [physical sciences), 
Knowledge {social sciences]), Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy]", 
Knowledge {life sciences], Knowledge [physical sciences), Use the Force, 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsaber) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +10", Knowledge (galactic ira): +10, 
Knowledge (life sciences) +10, Knowledge (physical sciences) +15, 
Knowledge (social sciences) +15, Perception +9, Persuasion +8, 

Use the Force +8 
Possessions 5 data cards, datapad 
H Bonus feat or trained skill for being Humon. 


ExplorCorps Worker 

The Exploration Corps takes its students from other branches of the Jedi 
Service Carps. Not surprisingly, the young Jedi who are assigned to the 
ExplorCorps are considered by their peers to be “the lucky ones." They 
travel the galaxy with Jedi Masters instead of remaining planetside to train 
for their designated positions. As such, many consider the ExplorCorps a 
traveling Jedi academy. 

Service in the ExplorCorps teaches its recruits that, despite differences 
in race and culture throughout the galaxy, everyone has the same hasic 
underlying needs that they fulfill in varying ways. Understanding this concept 
teaches the student perspective, seeing that the idea of right and wrong can 
vary between different cultures. But no matter where you go and what you 
do, the Force is always there to guide you. 

The primary purpose of the ExplorCorps, however, is to seek out new 
worlds and civilizations in the galaxy. Knowledge of their discoveries is 
catalogued in the Jedi Archives for all ta learn, much in the same way that 
the members of the EduCorps transcribe their findings about the planets 
they visit. Finding new civilizations opens the possibility of first contact, 
establishing relations with new species that might have something to con- 
tribute to the Republic. 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (194) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +0 (3d6) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +5 

Special Actions Shake It Off", Equilibrium 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 8 

Talents Equilibrium 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Shake It Off", Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic 
lore], Perception, Pilot, Survival, Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers) 

Skills Endurance +9", Knowledge (galactic lore) +8, Perception +9, 
Pilot +8, Survival +9, Use Computer +8, Use the Force +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, datapad, field kit 

H Bonus feat or trained skill for being Human. 


MedCorps Worker 

Life in the Medical Corps teaches recruits that life is fragile, and they quickly 
learn that people can become sick and die for no reason other than the will of 
the Force. For some, this can be hard to fathom, but internalizing it provides 
a valuable lesson for those who have had difficulty dealing with a personal 
loss earlier in life. Those that work for the MedCarps use their talents and 
abilities to heal the sick, treat the wounded, and provide comfort for those 
less fortunate. 

Members of the MedCorps can be found at medical facilities throughout 
the galaxy, bestowing relief in times of crisis or instructing non-Force-using 
personnel in new methods to care for their patients. In addition to this basic 
task, the MedCorps is also responsible for maintaining the infirmary located 
in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, which is connected to the expansive Galactic 
City Medical Center via a dedicated underground transport tube. Thanks to 
maintaining this facility, the MedCorps has come to the aid of a large number 
of Republic citizens during emergencies in the capital. 


IiGeP S&L 


XI HSBiagvHoD 


MI BeStadtwvwHaD 


MedCorps Worker cL 1 
Medium Human nonheroic 6fJedi 1 

Force 2 

Init +3; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, one additional language 


IgGEaP SAL 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 14 

hp 13; Threshold "1 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4—-1) 

Ranged by weapon +5 

Base Atk +5; Grp +5 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 3, int 12, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Talents Skilled Advisor 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Skill Focus (Gather Information", Treat Injury), 
Skill Training (Knowledge [life sciences], Perception, Treat Injury), 
Surgical Expertise, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers) 

Skills Gather Infarmation +13", Knowledge (life sciences) +9, 
Perception +10, Treat Injury +15, Use Computer +9, Use the Force +8 

Possessions datapad, medical kit, 2 medpacs 

H Bonus feat or trained skilf for being Human. 


SPECIALIZED JED! KNIGHTS 

Jedi who achieve knighthood and have a natural talent in certain areas might 
choose to serve the Jedi Order in ways that allow them to use such talents 
to the best of their ability. Many areas are available from which one can 
choose, and the ones listed here are but a sample of the ways in which Jedi 
Knights might serve the Jedi Order. 


Jedi Archivist 

Jedi who prize knowledge over other things usually find that their under- 
standing of the Force expands with the study and retention of other subjects. 
Even more so than other Jedi, Jedi archivists delve into many areas of study, 
letting the Force guide them to their areas of specialty. By receiving and 
archiving knowledge so others might learn, a Jedi archivist increases her 
own awareness of the galaxy. 

The number of Jedi archivists flourishes during times of relative peace in 
the galaxy. Though most archivists remain close to the temple archives on 
Coruscant or Ossus, others travel to gain more information about the galaxy, 
its inhabitants, and its cultures, continually increasing their common pool of 
knowledge. Archivists also work with ExplorCorps, searching for lost civiliza- 
tions or exploring and studying newly discovered star systems. 

During the latter days of the Republic and into the Clone Wars, Jedi 
archivists become fewer in number. Older Jedi believe that the younger 
members of the Jedi Order do not have the patience to take on the role of 
an archivist, choosing other roles deemed more important to the Jedi Order 
at that time. 


Jedi Archivist 

Medium Kuman Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 3 

Destiny 2; Force 5 

Init +10; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothese, Durese, High Galactic, Huttese, two 
additional languages 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 23), Fort 24, Will 25; Deflect 

hp 89; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+5) or 

Ranged by weapon +10 

Base Atk +10; Grp +10 

Atk Options Improved Disarm 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Coordinated Attack", Lightsaber 
Defense, Melee Defense, Scholarly Knowledge, Skilled Advisor 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +12): forseeing, Force thrust, rebuke 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Farce 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con 12, lint 16, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Deflect, Force Persuasion, Lightsaber Defense, 
Scholarly Knowledge, Skilled Advisor 

Feats Coordinated Attack", Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Improved 
Defenses, Improved Disarm, Linguist, Melee Defense, Skill Focus 
{Knowledge [galactic loce]}, Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +13, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +18, Knowledge (social sciences) +13", Perception +12, Use the 
Force +12 (can substitute for Persuasion checks) 

Possessions \ightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, datapad 

H Bonus feat or trained skill for being Human. 


CL 10 


Jedi Healer 

Like many religions and Force-using traditions in the galaxy, the Jedi Order 
values life and its preservation, and life in turn creates the Force. To that end, 
the ability to channel the Force to heal is one of the most prized powers a 
Jedi can possess. Although many Jedi learn to treat wounds to some extent, 
few Jedi devote their lives to the healing arts. Those that specialize in this 
area find that their understanding of the Force increases when they heal the 
sick and tend to the wounded. 

Jedi healers are experts in the field of medicine. They spend a majority of 
their time tending to patients and expanding their understanding of the Force 
by studying its connection with all living things. Since anger and aggression 
hamper their healing abilities, Jedi healers are less likely to be tempted by 
the dark side of the Force. Many great instructors and philosophers of the 
Jedi Order throughout history were also healers. Any younglings that show 
an interest or natural ability with healing are carefully tutored to take up the 
mantle of a Jedi healer to keep their abilities from going to waste. 


Despite their devotion to the preservation of life, Jedi healers are not 
pacifists. Many of them are more than willing to use their lightsabers to 
defend the sick and helpless. Jedi healers actively seek out battlefields, 
plague-ridden worlds, and highly dangerous locales to donate their time and 
abilities to help those in need. 

During the Clane Wars, the Republic encourages Jedi healers to accom- 
pany troops onto battlefields. Citizens unfortunate enough to be caught in 
the middle of battle often benefit from Jedi healers passing through, 
Jedi Healer cL 9 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 2 
Destiny 1; Force 5 
Init +10; Senses Perception +12 
Languages Basic, one additional language 
Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 21), Fort 21, Will 24; Block, Deflect, Dodge. 

Elusive Target 
hp 74; Threshold 21 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+4) or 
Ranged by weapon +11 
Base Atk +9; Grp +10 
Atk Options Improved Disarm" 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): farseeing, Force disarm, 
Force stun, malacia, negate energy, surge, vital transfer (2) 

Force Techniques Improved Vital Transfer 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Block, Deflect, Elusive Target, Force Treatment 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved Disarm”, 

Melee Defense, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Perception), 

Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 
Skills Initiative +10, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Knowledge (life 

sciences) +10*, Perception +12, Use the Force +16 
Possessions lightsaber (se!f-built), Jedi robes, utility belt with medpac 
H Bonus feat or trained skill for being Human. 


Jedi Instructor 

Jedi instructors devote themselves to educating younger Jedi on the ways of 
the Force and the goals of the Jedi Order. Through the instruction of others, 
Jedi instructors increase their own understanding of the Force. 

Jedi instructors are most often found in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, 
teaching younglings. Others actively seek out potential Jedi recruits that 
the order might fail to notice in the Outer Rim Territories and other areas 
outside the Republic's urisdiction. In some cases, Jedi instructors take young 
students or even other Jedi Knights with them on extended tours of the 
galaxy, sometimes traveling aboard an ExplorCorps vessel. 

Particularly effective Jedi instructors are often invited to join the Jedi 
High Council. 
Jedi Instructor CL9 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 2 
Destiny 1; Force 5 
{nit +5; Senses Perception +10 
Languages Basic, High Galactic, two additional languages 
Defenses Ref 22 {flat-footed 21), Fort 21, Will 22; Deflect 
hp 74; Threshold 21 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +10 (2d8+4) 

Ranged by weapon +10 

Base Atk +9 Grp +10 

Atk Options Melee Defense 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Direct, Lightsaber Defense, 

Skilled Advisor 
Force Powers Known (Use the Force +11): farseeing, mind trick, 

move object, rebuke 
Force Techniques Force Point Recovery 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Deflect, Direct, Lightsaber Defense, 
Skilled Advisor 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Melee Defense, Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [life sciences, physical sciences, social sciences], 

Use Computer"), Skill Training (Perception), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Knowledge (life sciences) +17, 
Knowledge (physical sciences) +17, Knowledge (social sciences) +17, 
Perception +10, Pilot +10", Use the Force +11 

Possessions lightsabers (self-built), Jedi robes, datapad 

H Bonus feat or trained skill for being Human. 


MI) HSBLIVHS 


xl HSLdVHD 


IeGar eh 


THE JED! COUNCILS 

Jedi selected to lead the Jedi Order are growped into four councils: the 
Council of First Knowledge, the Council of Reassignment, the Council of 
Reconciliation, and the High Council. Each council gathers in the Jedi Temple 
on Coruscant. 


The Council of First Knowledge 
Assembling in the northwest tower of the Jedi Tempie on Coruscant, the 
Council of First Knowledge advises Jedi on matters that require access to and 
use of ancient Jedi lore. The council also oversees the reaository of holocrons 
Stored within their tower as well as certain sections of the Jedi Archives. 
The Council of First Knowledge has five members: one permanent member 
known as the Caretaker of the Tower of First Knowledge, and four rotating 
members from the Jedi High Council. The council’s permanent member at 
the time of the Clone Wars is Jedi Master Astaal Vilbuim. 


The Council of Reassignment 
The Council of Reassignment, stationed in the northeast tower of the Jedi 
Ternple on Coruscant, organizes work for the youngiings and other Jedi 
students not chosen to become Padawans. Members of the Council work 
with the Jedi Service Corps to ensure the fatr distrioution of members. In 
addition, the Council reassigns Jedi to other positions and responsibilities 
as warranted. 

The Council of Reassignment is made up of five Jedi Masters: two per- 
manent members, and three rotating members (usually members of the High 
Council} who serve five-year terms. 


The Council of Reconciliation 
The purpose of the Council of Reconciliation, which is housed in the south- 
west tower of the Jedi Temple, is to seek out peaceful resolutions to various 
conflicts—usually political disputes—throughout the Republic and to assign 
Jedi on missions to implement those solutions. 

The Council of Reconciliation has five rotating members who can be 
chosen from among any interested Jedi Masters. 


The High Council 

The primary governing body of the Jedi Order, the High Council meets in the 
southeast tower of the Jedi Temple on Coruscant and supervises all activi- 
ties undertaken by the Jedi. In addition, tne High Council also serves as an 
advising body for the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic. The High Council 
has twelve members: five permanent, four long-term, and three limited-term. 
Most members are Jedi Masters, but a few Jedi Knights have been selected 
to serve a limited term. The Hign Council selects all new members, with the 
exception of Anakin Skywalker (appointed by the Supreme Chancellor near 
the end of the Clone Wars}. 


INFLUENTIAL FIGURES 
Incerporating familiar Ster Wors characters into a campaign gives players 
opportunities to interact with them, which in turn helps the player characters 
feel like they are 2 part of the greater Star Warsstory and, by extension, part 
of galactic history. Since these named characters are expected to perform 
certain events in the universe's timeline, Gamemasters must use them judi- 
ciously and control their level of interaction with the player characters. 

Famous Jedi characters from the Star Wars saga should interact with the 
player characters in one of two ways: 

Behind the Scenes: The Jedi does not appear in person but affects events 
or communicates with the heroes through a third party. At some point the 
player characters might learn of the Jedi's involvement in the story, but that’s 
the extent of their brush with fame. 

Brief Appearance: The heroes might encounter a famous Jedi at a criti- 
cat point in the adventure. The famous Jedi might help the heroes in some 
fashion if the character is an ally, hinder them if an enemy, or merely pursue 
his own agenda whether it plays @ part in the story or not. 


ANAKIN SKYWALKER 

Believed by many to be the Chasen One and foretold by ancient prophecies 
to bring balance to the Force, Anakin Skywalker is the exception to other 
Jedi in many ways. He spends most of his childhood away from the Jedi 


ANAKIN SKYWALKER 


Temple on Tatooine with his mother. Highly stubborn and emotional, he 
shows arrogance in his abilities as a pilot, with a lightsaber, and with the 
Force. Unlike other Jedi who display overconfidence in their abilities, Anakin 
is able to back up his boasts. 

When Obi-Wan Kenobi is tasked with leading Republic troops into battle 
during the Clone Wars, Anakin serves as his assistant, leading clone star- 
fighter pilots against Separatist forces. His leadership and piloting skills help 
the clone pilots emerge victorious time and again, even though his reckless- 
ness and overconfidence frustrates Obi-Wan. 

Anakin begins to feel the true burden of leadership when he is paired with 
a strong-minded Padawan named Ahsoka Tano. Only then does he begin to 
appreciate all that Obi-Wan has tried to teach him. 
Anakin Skywalker CL 14 
Medium Human Jedi 7Jedi Knight S/ace pilot 2 
Destiny 2; Force 6, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 7 
Init +15; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic, Binary, Huttese 
Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 28), Fort 31, Will 28; Block, Deflect, 

vehicle dodge +1 
hp 141; Threshold 31 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+15) or 
Melee lightsaber +16 with Rapid Strike (3d8+15) 

Ranged by weapon +16 

Base Atk +13; Grp +16 

Atk Options Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Djem So, Redirect Shot, Vehicular Combat 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): dark rage, farseeing, Force 
disarm, Force grip, Force siam (2), move object, rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move Light Object 


OBI-WAN KENOBI 
Obi-Wan Kenobi has a long and successful career that helps to shape the 
future of the galaxy. Honorable and gallant, he speaks and acts in a manner 
that many consider the ideal of what a Jedi should strive to be. His reputation 
is well earned as he deals with many trials on the road to becoming one of 
the most highly regarded Jedi Masters. 

With the outbreak of the Clone Wars, Obi-Wan becomes a general in com- 
mand of thousands of clone troopers. His stalwart presence and leadership 
skills earn him the respect of his troops and fellow Jedi, as he proves ta be 
a highly capable and trusted strategist and commander. 


Obi-Wan Kenobi 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5jJedi Master 2 

Destiny 2; Force 7 

Init +15; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27), Fort 31, Will 29; Block, Deflect. Soresu 

hp 129; Threshold 31 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +19 (248413) or 

Melee lightsaber +14/+14 (2d8+13) with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +17 

Base Atk +14; Grp +17 

Atk Options Double Attack, Severing Strike 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Combat Reflexes, Redirect Shot, 
serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): farseeing, Force slam (2), mind 
trick, move object, rebuke, surge (2), vital transfer 

Force Secrets Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move Light Object 


CL 14 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 16, Con 17, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Armored Defense, Block, Deflect, Diem So, Force Pilot, Redirect 
Shot, Renowned Pilot, Weapon Specialization (tightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), 
Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the Force, Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Focus {lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency [lightsabers, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +15, Initiative +15, Mechanics +14, Pilot +15, 

Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink (encrypted), cybernetic 

prosthesis (1, right hand), Jedi robes, utility belt 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Armored Defense, Block, Deflect, Redirect Shot, 
Severing Strike, Soresu, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Combat Reflexes, Double Attack 
(lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Skitl Focus (Use 
the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +15, Initiative +15, Pilot +15, Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink (encrypted), Jedi robes, utility 
belt with medpac, electrobinoculars 


GaP ati, 


See RaReaan 


xi eeigvHD 


Mi SStdvHo 


Ii@ePr eA 


MASTER YODA 


YODA 

Considered by many to be the wisest of all Jedi, Yoda is a senior member 
of the High Council and highly respected by virtually the entire Jedi Order. 
Not much of his personal history is known, but the fact that ne has trained 
Jedi for eiqht hundred years is widely known even by the politicians of the 
Galactic Senate and many other high-ranking officials of the Republic. Most 
Jedi in this timeframe nave received ai least some training from Yoda, most 
often as younglings. 

Throughout the Clone Wars, Yoda leads troops on the front lines, mounted 
on his kybuck (see sidebar) with lightsaber in hand. Throughout the war, 
Master Yoda continues ta show concern for the lives of his soldiers as well 
as the state of the Republic and the Jedi Order. 


“IMPOSSIBLE TO 
SEE, THE FUTURE 


= 


Yoda CL 20 

Small Jedi @/Jedi Knight 7/Jedi Master 5 

Destiny 4; Force 8, Strong in the Force 

Init +18 (Force Point: can reroll and keep better result); Senses Improved 
Sense Surroundings, Use the Force +24 

Languages Basic, Cerean, Shyriiwook {understand only) 

Defenses Ref 37 (flat-footed 34), Fort 33, Will 38; Block, Deflect 

hp 134; Threshold 33 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +25 (2d8+16) or 

Melee lightsaber +24/+24 (2d8+16) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +19/+19/+19 (2d8+16) with Triple Attack 

Ranged by weapon +23 

Base Atk +20; Grp +18 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack, Melee Defense, Triple 
Attack, Whirlwind Attack 

Special Actions Redirect Shot, serenity, Skilled Advisor 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +24): battle strike (2), farseeing, 
Force disarm, Force slam (3), Force thrust, mind trick (2}, move object 
(2), negote energy, rebuke (2), surge (2), vital transfer 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power, 
Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force, Force Point Recovery (2) 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 21, Cha 19 

Talents Ataru, Block, Deflect, Force Perception, Foresight, Multiattack 
Proficiency (lightsabers x2), Redirect Shot, Severing Strike, Skilled 
Advisor, Visions 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack (iightsabers), Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (3), Melee Defense, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong 
in the Force, Triple Attack (lightsabers), Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons), 
Whirlwind Attack 

Skills Acrobatics +18, Initiative +18 (Force Point: can reroll and keep 
better result), Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Knowledge (tactics) +17, 
Stealth +15, Use the Force +24 (can substitute for Perception checks) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), gimer stick cane, Jedi robes 


KYBUCK 
Kybucks are swift herbivores from the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk. 
During the Clone Wars, Jeci Master Yoda receives one as a gift for heal- 
ing an ailing Wookiee princess. Yoda forms a bond of friendship with the 
riding beast. When General Grievous attacks Coruscant, Yoda rides his 
kyouck into battle but keeps it away from danger. 

Kybucks move at incredibly high speeds overland. Outside of combat, 
they have a maximum velocity of 90 kilometers per hour. 


Kybuck CL 1 

Medium beast 2 

Init +4; Senses Perception +2 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 11 

hp 7; Threshold 9 

Speed 12 squares 

Melee bite +2 (1d6+2) or 

Melee kick +2 (1d4+2 plus special) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +4 

Atk Options kybuck kick 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 8, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 12 

Feats Skill Focus (Jump) 

Skills Jump +12 

Kybuck Kick—As a standard action, a kybuck can move its speed. At 
any point during its move, it can make a kick attack against a target 
and exit that target's threatened space without provoking an attack 
of opportunity from the target. 


MACE WINDU 

Believed by many Jedi to be on par with Master Yoda in his skills with the 
lightsaber, Mace is a diplomat at heart, preferring to negotiate toward 
peaceful resolution rather than resort to combat. 

As the Clone Wars dawn on Geonosis, Mace Windu easily slips into the 
role of a military leader, leading the clone troopers against the droid forces 
of Count Dooku and the Separatists. His role as a senior member of the Jedi 
High Council and his natural talent as a negotiator help him muster the 
troops and spearhead his part in the Republic’s overall battle plan to bring 
down the Separatists. 

Throughout his time as a general, Master Windu proves himself to be an 
aggressive leader and a formidable warrior, leading his troops from the front 
and unafraid to engage the enemy personally. 


Mace Windu cL 19 
Medium Human Jedi 8/Jedi Knight 6/Jedi Master 5 

Destiny 3; Force 8 

Init +16; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings, Use the Force +23 
Languages Basic, Huttese, Mando’a, Ryl 


Defenses Ref 35 (flat-footed 32), Fort 34, Will 36; Block, Deflect 
hp 167; Threshold 34 
Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +24 (2d8417/19-20) or 

Melee lightsaber +28 (2d8+26/19-20) with Powerful Charge or 

Melee lightsaber +26 (3d8+26/19-20) with Powerful Charge and Rapid 
Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +22 (308+17/19-20) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee Jightsaber +19/+19 (3d8+17/19-20) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +17/+17 (3d8+17/19-20) with Double Attack and Rapid 
Strike 

Ranged by weapon +21 

Base Atk +19; Grp +21 

Atk Options Cleave, Double Attack, Great Cleave, Power Attack, Powerful 
Charge, Rapid Strixe, Severing Strike 

Special Actions Improved Shatterpoint, Juyo, Redirect Shot, Serenity, 
shatterpoint 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +23): battle strike (2), forseeing, 
Force grip, Force siom, mind trick, move object, surge, shatterpoint, 
technometry 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Multitarget Power, Quicken Power, 
Shaped Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, improved Sense Surroundings, 
Improved Shatterpoint 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 16, Wis 18, Cha 18 

Talents Block, Deflect, Force Perception, Greater Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Greater Weapon Specialization (lightsabers), Juyo, 
Redirect Shot, Severing Strike, Vaapad, Weapon Specialization 
(lightsabers) 

Feats Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(2), Great Cleave, Martial Arts |, Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Rapid 
Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Foree), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +16, Initiative +16, Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, 
Knowledge (tactics) +17, Perception +18, Use the Force +23 (can 
substitute for Perception checks) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink (encrypted), Jedi robes, 
utility belt 


| 
Pani 


Mi BeBidyvHoa 


I@eaP SRA 


AWMBOKA TAND 


AHSOKA TANO 

Ahsoka Tano is the young, eager Padawan of Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, 
Despite her young age, the precocious Togruta is placed under Anakin Sky- 
walker to help him learn not only how to train a Padawan but also how to 
let one go once her training is complete. 

Ahsoka Yano is & fan of unorthodox strategies and, like Anakin as a 
Padawan, sometimes lets her eagerness get in the way of good sense and 
forethought. Moreover, she seems to have little respect for the sanctity of the 
bond between a Jedi Knight and his Padawan, as she constantly makes quips 
at Anakin’s expense. Ahsoka studies the Shien form of lightsaber combat, 
choosing to hold her lightsaber in a horizontal grip to take advantage of her 
speed and agility. 


Ahsoka Tano CL4 
Medium Togruta (young adult) Jedi 4 

Destiny 1; Force 3 

Init +5; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Togruti 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 15, Lightsaber Defense 19), Fort 15, Will 16 
hp 47; Threshold 15 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +8 (2d8+1) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options Weapon Finesse 

Special Actions Lightsaber Defense, spatial awareness 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +9): Force stom, move object, 
rebuke, surge 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con 9, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Special Qualities pack hunter, sneaky, spatial awareness 

Talents Deflect, Lightsaber Defense 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +10, Stealth +5 (can reroll, must take second result), 
Use the Force +9 

Possessions lightsaber 


— 


Pack Hunter—Ahsoka Tano deals an extra 2 points of damage against an 
opponent she flanks. 

Spatial Awareness—Ahsoka Jano ignores all cover and concealment when 
making Perception checks to natice targets within 10 squares. 


KIT Fisto 

Growing up in the Jedi Temple as a young Nautalan, Kit Fisto focuses his 
training to take advantage of his aquatic abilities. Throughout his life, he 
Strives to maintain a tow profile as he struggles with a lack of self-confidence. 
He steps out of his self-imposed solitude when he accepts the Mon Calamari 
Padawan Bant Eerin as his first apprentice after the death of her master, 
Tahl. Even when instructing his Padawan, he lacks confidence in himself 
as an instructor. Only after he effectively leads units of clones into battle 
against the droid forces of the Separatists does he find faith in his abilities 
and accept a seat on the High Council. 

Kit Fisto accepts command of a unit of clone subtroopers and leads the 
campaign on Mon Calamari against the Separatist-supporting Quarren 
\solationist League. He successfully leads his forces and his Mon Calamari 
allies to victory over the Quarren, securing the planet for the Republic. Later 
campaigns on Devaron and Ord Cestus add more triumphant returns for the 
Nautolan Jedi. 


Kit Fisto 

Medium Nautolan Jedi 7/Jedi Knight S/Jedi Master 1 

Destiny 2; Force 6 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision, Use the Force +17 

Languages Anselmian, Basic, Nautila 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 26), Fort 28, Will 28; Block, Deflect, 
Shii-Cho 

hp 122; DR 2; Threshold 28 

Immune fear effects 


CL 13 


Speed 6 squares, swint 4 Squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+10) or 

Melee lightsaber +13/+13 (2d8+10) with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +15 

Base Atk +13; Grp +15 

Atk Options Cleave, Power Attack 

Special Actions Force Focus, Lightsaber Defense, Redirect Shot, serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): battle strike (2), Force slam, 
Force thrust, mind trick, move object, rebuke (2), surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Special Qualities breathe underwater 

Talents Block, Deflect, Force Focus, Force Perception, Greater Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Lightsaber Defense, Redirect Shot, Shii-Cho 

Feats Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force 
Training (3), Power Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapans) 

Skills Endurance +13, Initiative +13, Perception +8 (can reroll when 
sensing deception or influence; underwater, keep better result], Swim 
+8 (can reroll, can take 10 when distracted), Use the Force +17 (can 
substitute for Perception checks) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


NAHDAR VEBB 

Nahdar Vebb is a young Jedi who studies under Kit Fisto as a Padawan. Though 
skilled in the art of lightsaber combat, Nahdar Vebb's talents also extend to 
healing. Vebb is a master of using the Force to help a body repair itself more 
quickly and efficiently, and during his service iin the Clone Wars, Vebb uses 
his talents to keep clone troops fighting despite their grievous wounds. 


Nahdar Vebb cL8 

Medium Mon Calamari Jedi 7/Force adept 1 

Force 4 

Init +4; Senses low-light visron, Use the Force +17; Block, Deflect 

Languages Basic, Mon Calamarian 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 21), Fort 20, Will 26 

hp 73; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares, swim 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+6) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike 

Special Actions Equilibrium 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): battle strike, Force slam, 
move object, negate energy, rebuke, surge, vito) transfer (2) 


Special Qualities breathe underwater, expert swimmer, low-light vision 


Talents Block, Deflect, Equilibrium, Force Perception, Force Treatment 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (21, Improved 
Defenses, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), 
Weapon Proficiency {lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +9, Knowledge (life sciences) +10, Percestion +17, 
Treat Injury +17, Use the Force +17 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built}, comlink 


KI-ADI-MUNDI 

Discovered at the age of four by the Dark Woman, Ki-Adi-Mundi travels to 
Coruscant and join the Jedi Order. Decades later, he returns to Cerea and 
becomes his homeworld's watchman, driving out the raiders that haunted 
his people for many years and helping the planet join the Republic. Even 
during his time as Cerea's protector, Ki-Adi learns about the Force quickly, 
exemplifying the role of Jedi Knight to his people and impressing the rest of 
the Jedi Order. Eventually, he is invited to join the Jedi High Council, becoming 
one of a few Jedi to gain a permanent seat on the Council before reaching 
the level of Jedi Master. 

When the Clone Wars begin on Geonosis, Ki-Adi fights alongside the 
other Jedi, although ne and fellow Jedi Master Plo Koon are captured while 
attempting to disable the droid control ship. After the battle, he serves with 
the Grand Army of the Republic as a general, becoming one of the first to 
fight against General Grievous and survive (thanks to the timely arrival of a 
squad of ARC troopers). After his recovery, Ki-Adi-Mundi accepts command 
of the 21st Nova Corps. 


x!) HSLSAVHD 


EP SHAM 
Saag aaaeae 


Ki-Adi-Munai CL 13 

Medium Cerean Jedi 7Uedi Knight SiJedi Master 1 

Destiny 2; Force € 

Init +17; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Cerean, Ryl 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 27), Fort 29, Will 29; Block, Deflect 

hp 122: Threshold 29 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+10) or 

Melee lightsaber +15 (3d8+10) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged by weapon +14 

Base Atk +13; Grp +14 

Atk Options Improved Disarm, Melee Defense, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Combat Reflexes, Equilibriurn, Lightsaber Defense, 
Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +14): battle strike, Force slam, 
mind trick, move object, rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Talents Block, Ciear Mind, Deflect, Equilibrium, Greater Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Lightsaber Defense, Redirect Shot, Weapon Specialization 
(lightsabers) 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2}, Improved 
Defenses, Improved Disarm, Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Skill 
Focus (Initiative), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +17 (can reroll), Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, Pilot +12, 
Use the Force +14 (can reroll when opposing Force detection) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi rabes 


x! SSLAVHD 


IGeiP Shi, 


“A PERSON ALWAYS 
TAKES HIS HOME 
WITH HIM, WHEREVER 
HE GOES. WORLDS 
ARE SO VAST-YET 
THEY FIT EASILY 
INTO ONE'S HEART.” 


-KiI-ADI-MUNDI 


K'KRUHK 

Selected to be tne Padawan of Lilit Twoseas, the Whiphid named K’Kruhk 
fights alongside her as well as Micah Giiett, Qui-Gon Jinn, and Plo Koon 
during the Yinchorri Uprising. Witnessing his master’s death as she saves him 
from a Yinchorri warrior, K'Kruhk flies into a rage and slaughters countless 
Yinchorri until he recovers her body. Although he completes his training under 
another master, Twoseas's death continues to haunt his memories. 

K'Kruhk matures into a capable Jedi Knight and joins the task force sent 
to Geonosis to rescue Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and Senator Padmé 
Amidala. Entrusted with the rank of general and command of the 416th Star 
Corps, K’Kruhk leads his troops into battle on the planet Teyr. Despite his best 
efforts, his unit suffers heavy casualties and he disappears without a trace, 
distraught over the high death toll that occurred under his command. He 
later rejoins the war effort with the help of Master Mace Windu, joining a 
Jedi strike farce on the planet Hypori, where he is terribly injured and left for 
dead by General Grievous. Surviving even that, he escapes back to Coruscant 
and is reassigned to the protection of Senator Viento. 


K’Kruhk CL 13 

Medium Whiphid Jedi 7JJedi Knight S/Jedi Master 1 

Destiny 3; Force 7 

Init +8; Senses scent, Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Whiphid 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 26), Fort 27 (32 against cold), Will 28; 
Block, Deflect 

hp 122, Extra Second Wind; Threshold 32 

immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee claw +16 (1d8+39) or 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8414) or 

Melee lightsaber +13/+13 (2d8+14) with Double Attack or 

Ranged by weapon +15 

Base Atk +13; Grp +14 

Atk Options Double Attack 

Special Actions Adept Negctiator, Equilibrium, Force Fortification, 
Lightsaber Defense, serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18): battle strike, Force slam, 
move object, rebuke, sever Force, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Force Trance 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Black, Clear Mind, Deflect, Equilibrium, Force 
Fortification, Lightsaber Defense, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Extra Second Wind, Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (2), Improved Damage Threshold, Skill Focus (Use the 
Force), Toughness, Weapen Focus [lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Use the Force +18 
(can reroll when opposing Force detection) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, conical straw hat 


PLO KOON 

Plo Koon is descended from a long line of Kel Dor Jedi that includes his 
uncle and niece. He studies under the Wookiee Jedi Master Tyvokka, but his 
sarcastic wit and tendency to make quick decisions without consi¢ering the 
consequences of his actions push Tyvokka's patience to its limits many times. 
Plo Koon eventually trains several Padawans during his career with the Jedi, 
including Bultar Swan and the female Trandoshan Lissarkh. 

Following the Stark Hyperspace Wars, Pla Koan receives his promotion 
to Jedi Master and is offered a permanent seat on the Jedi High Council in 
honor of his dying master’s wish. Although he feels that many others are 
more deserving, he nevertheless accepts the honor. 


Plo Koon survives the Battle of Geonosis, although he and fellow Jedi 
Master Ki-Adi-Mundi are captured while trying to disable the droid control 
ship aind escorted to the arena to be executed with the rest. After helping lead 
the Republic to victory that day, Plo Koon is given the rank of general, direct- 
ing his troops through the Battle of Brentaal IV and the Battle of Rendili. 
Plo Koon CL 15 
Medium Kel Dor Jedi 7/Jedi Knight SjJedi Master 3 
Destiny 3; Force 7 
Init Use the Force +19; Senses low-light vision, Use the Force +19 
Languages Basic, Huttese, Kel Dor, Shyriiwook (understand only) 
Defenses Ref 32 (flat-footed 28), Fort 29, Will 30; Block, Deflect 
hp 122; Threshold 29 
Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +20 (2d8+11) or 

Melee lightsaber +78/+15 (2d8+11) with Double Attack or 

Melee unarmed +18 {1d6+8) 

Ranged by weapon +18 

Base Atk +15; Grp +18 

Atk Options Double Attack 

Special Actions Combat Reflexes, Force Intuition, Redirect Shot, 
Resilience, Shien, Telekinetic Savant 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): battle strike, forseeing, Force 
aisarm (2), Force thrust, malacia, mind trick, rebuke, surge 

Force Secrets Multitarget Power, Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Force Power Mastery 
{Force thrust) 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Block, Deflect, Force Intuition, Force Perception, Redirect 
Shot, Resilience, Shien, Telekinetic Savant, Weapon Specialization 
(lightsabers) 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (3), Martial Arts I, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon 
Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers}, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (physical sciences) +14, Mechanics +14, Pilot +14, Use 
the Force +19 (can reroll when searching feelings or sensing Force, can 
substitute for Perception checks) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, antiox breath mask and 


gaggles 


Se 


“! YSBLiaveNS 


gear et 


x) eSaLiavHo ) 


eer ahL 


AN'YA KURO (THE DARK 
WOMAN) 

The Dark Woman, originally named An'ya Kuro, has an unremarkable child- 
hood in the Jedi Temple, but she gains notice soon after achieving the rank 
of Jedi Knight. She travels the galaxy searching for Force-sensitive children 
to bring into the Jedi Order, among them Ki-Adi-Mundi. 

Kuro uses training methods considered by the High Council to be too 
harsh, despite the fact that her methods quite effective for most of her 
students. However, a few of her pupils—among them Aur’a Sing—fail under 
the pressure and leave the Jedi Order. 

After a short exile and return to the Jedi Order, Kuro accompanies the Jedi 
task force to Geonosis and helps in the starfighter battle. Later, she chooses 
to assist the war effort as a spy instead of as a military leader. 


An’ya Kuro (The Dark Woman) CL 16 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 6/Jedi Master 3 

Destiny 3; Force 7; Dark Side 2 ; 

Init +15; Senses Improved Sense Force, Use the Farce +20 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 32 (flat-footed 29), Fort 30, Will 31; Block, Deflect, Dodge, 
Mobility 

hp 134; Threshold 30 

Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +20 (2d8+10) or 

Melee lightsaber 417/417 (2d8+10) with Double Attack or 

Melee unarmed +18 (1d6+3) or 

Ranged by weapon +18 

Base Atk +16; Grp +18 

Atk Options Double Attack 

Special Actions Gauge Force Potential, Lightsaber Defense +2, serenity, 
Skilfed Advisor 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): cloak, Force slam, move 
abject, phase, rebuke, technometry 

Force Secrets Distant Power, Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Phase, Improved 
Sense Force i 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Talents Block, Clear Mind, Deflect, Force Perception, Gauge Force 
Potential, Lightsaber Defense (2), Multiattack Proficiency (lightsabers), 
Skilled Advisor 

Feats Dodge, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(2), Martial Arts |, Mobility, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), 
Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus {lightsabers}, Weapon Proficiency 
{lightsabers, simple weapons) 


Skills Initiatrve +15, Knawiedge (galactic lore) +14, Knowledge 
(tactics) +14, Use the Force +20 (can reroll when opposing Force 
detection, can substitute for Perception checks) 

Possessians lightsaber (self-built), black Jedi robes 


AAYLA SECURA 

Discovered by Jedi Master Tholme and his apprentice Quinlan Vos, Aayla 
Secura is rescued from certain death at the hands of a Hutt’s wampa guard 
on Ryloth. Quinlan, sensing her sensitivity to the Force, convinces his master 
to take her back to Coruscant for testing. Accepted into the Jedi Order, Aayla 
grows to became highly skilled with a lightsaber, mastering the Ataru style 
many years earlier than expected. After overcoming amazing challenges— 
including a period of memory loss, rescuing Vos on Ord Mantell, and freeing 
Tholme from the clutches of the Morqukai—Aayla's deeds convince the High 
Council to promote her to Jedi Knight. 

After participating in the Battle of Geonosis, Aayla becomes a general in 
the Grand Army of the Republic, taking command of the 327th Star Corps. 
She fights alongside her troops in various battles during the Clone Wars, 
including the Battle of Kamino, the Siege of Saleucami, and the Battle of 
Hypori, where she faces off against General Grievous and almost dies at the 
cyborg’s hands. 


AAYLA BSECURA 


Aayla Secura cL 

Medium Twi'lek Jedi 8/Jedi Knight 3 

Force 6; Dark Side 2 

Init +13; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings, low-light vision, 
Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Nautolan, Ry! 


Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 23), Fort 26, Will 25; Deflect, Dodge, 
Mobility 

hp 96; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +16 (2d8+11) or 

Melee lightsaber +11/+11 (2d8+11) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +6/+6 (2d8+8) with Double Attack and 
lightsaber +6 (2d8+8) or 

Ranged by weapon +14 

Base Atk +11; Grp +14 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Ataru, Double Attack, Dual Weapon 
Mastery | 

Special Actions Acrobatic Recovery, Force Haze, Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13): Force thrust, mind trick, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 17 

Talents Acrobatic Recovery, Ataru, Clear Mind, Deflect, Force Haze, 
Redirect Shot 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Dodge, Double Attack, Dual Weapon Mastery |, 
Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Mobility, Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +8 (can reroll), Initiative +13, Perception 
+12, Use the Force +13 (can reroll when opposing Force detection) 

Possessions 2 lightsabers (self-built}, Twi'lek-style Jedi uniform 


SAESEE THIN 

Saesee Tiin grows up in the Jedi Temple before Master Omo Bouri chooses 
him as a Padawan. Bouri strives to instill a strong sense of conviction in his 
pupil, succeeding to the point that many Jedi see Tiin’s skill and dedication 
to the Jedi Order as fanatical, his conviction growing even more after Bouri's 
death. In addition to his stark devotion to the Jedi Order, Master Tiin is stern 
and introspective, mostly keeping to himself. 

Saesee Tiin proves himself during the Clone Wars as 2 formidable oppo- 
nent and a highly competent pilot. His zealous demeanor easily shines through 
in the heat of battle, leading his troops into seemingly insurmountable odds 
but coming out virtually unscathed 


Saesee Tin 


x! USLavHo 


U 


ider eh 


Saesee Tiin CL 16 
Medium Iktotchi Jedi 8/Jedi Knight S/Jedi Master 3 

Destiny 2; Force 6 

Init +15; Senses Use the Force +15 

Languages Basic, Binary, Iktotchese 


Defenses Ref 32 (flat-footed 30), Fort 33, Will 30; Block, Deflect, limited 
precognition, +1 natural armor 

hp 144; Threshold 33 

Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +19 (2d8+10) or 

Melee lightsaber +17 (3d8+10) with Rapid Strike or 

Ranged by weapon +18 

Base Atk +16; Grp +18 

Atk Options Cleave, Power Attack, Severing Strike 

Special Actions Force Intuition, Lightsaber Defense +2, Redirect Shot, 
serenity, Vehicular Combat ; 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): battle strike, forseeing, 
Force thrust, move object, rebuke, surge 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Multitarget Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Telepathy 


BE HSLtd VHD } 


IG@aP SAHA 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 15 

Talents Armored Defense, Block, Deflect, Force Intuition, Force 
Perception, Lightsaber Defense (2), Redirect Shot, Severing Strike 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Cleave, Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(3), Power Attack, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Pilot), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Focus [lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +14, Pilot +20 (can reroll), Use the Force +15 (can 
substitute for Initiative and Perception checks) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink (encrypted), Jedi robes, 
electrobinocuilars, utility belt 


*WE MUST MOVE 
QUICKLY IF THE 
wED!I ORDER is TO 
SURVIVE.” 


- MACE WINDU 


QUINLAN VOS 

Quintan Vos's early life is fraught in turmoil. As the son of the leaders of his 
homeworld of Kiffar, his destiny is set in stone by his people, who expect him 
to grow and become a Guardian like his parents. His latent abilities with the 
Force and his discovery by Jedi Master Thaolme change everything: After his 
parents are killed, Quinlan is taken to Coruscant to complete his Jedi training 
against the wishes of the Kiffar people. 

After growing and passing the trials to become a Jedi Knight, Quinian 
accepts a mission that takes him to Nar Shaddaa. At the hands of his cousin, 
he loses his memories, including the knowledge of his position with the Jedi 
and his abilities with the Force. He spends the next several years fighting 
against the temptations of the dark side. 

When the Separatists rise up against the Republic, Quinlan Vos works 
undercover establishing a spy network to obtain information from the Con- 
federacy. He works his way into Count Dooku’s inner circle, loy which time 
many believe Vos to have changed his allegiance to the Separatists after 
finally succumbing to the dark side. 


Quinlan Vos CL 12 

Medium Kiffar (Near-Human) Jedi 7edi Knight 5 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 7 

Init +13; Senses Use the Force +18 

Languages Basic, Ry! 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 24), Fort 26, Will 26; Block, Deflect 

hp 114; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares; Running Attack 

Melee lightsaber +16 (2d8+10/x3) or 

Melee lightsaber +14/+14 (3d8+10/x3) with Rapid Strike or 

Ranged by weapon +13 

Base Atk +12; Grp +14 

Special Actions Combat Reflexes, Lightsaber Defense, Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18): battle strike, dark rage, 
farseeing, Force lightning, Force slam, mind trick, move object, rebuke 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Talents Block, Dark Side Sense, Deflect, Force Perception, Lightsaber 
Defense, Psychometry, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Force Sensitivity, Farce Training (3), Rapid Strike, 
Running Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Triple Crit (lightsabers), 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Initiative +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Use 
the Force +18 

Passéssions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


YJED!I VEHICLES AND 
STARSHIPS 


Many Jedi use some form of vehicle or starship to move with their troops 
and engage the enemy during the Clone Wars. As the war progresses, new 
technologies and new information from the field allow new and improved 
vehicles ta be constructed and passed along to the front lines for use and 
further testing. 


AETHERSPRITE INTERCEPTOR 
(HIGH-SPEED VARIANT) 

Although the Delta-7 starfighter is one of the fastest ships to be used by 
the Republic during the Clone Wars, certain missions undertaken by the 
Jedi require an even faster model to help avoid any possible entanglements 
with Separatist forces. 


Delta-7 Aethersprite Interceptor _ CL10 
(High-Speed Variant) 
Huge starfighter 
Init +13; Senses Perception +8 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 65; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 32 
Speed fly 18 squares (max. velocity 1,260 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +9 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), 
+5 (astromech droid) 
Base Atk +5; Grp +27 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 34, Dex 24, Con =, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +13, Mechanics +8 (413°), Perception +8, Pilot +13 (+20 
when increasing vehicle speed), Use Computer +8 (+13°) 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid {expert); Passengers none 
Cargo none; Consumables none (1 week with booster ring); 
Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (with booster ring), 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Military Uedi only); Cost 385,000 (290,000 used) 
" if the ship has on astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


AETHERSPRITE INTERCEPTOR 
(HIGH-MANEUVER VARIANT) 

Having a fast ship is good, but speed does not help when an enemy fighter 
maneuvers directly behind you and opens fire. Input from a number of Jedi 
pilots, including Plo Koan and Anakin Skywalker, leads to the develapment of 
this high-maneuver variant of the Aethersprite interceptor. Tests performed 
in closed runs and on the front lines prove the ship's ability to frustrate 
pursuing droid starfighters. 


Delta-7 Aethersprite Interceptor CL 10 

(High-Maneuver Variant) 

Huge starfighter 

Init +16; Senses Perception +8 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 65: DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fty 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +9 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), 
+5 (astromech droid) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +27 

Atk Options autofire [laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 30, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +16, Mechanics +8 (413°), Perception +8, Pilot +16, 
Use Computer +8 (+13*) 

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables none (1 week with booster ring): 
Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1 (with booster ring), 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Military (Jedi only); Cost 210,000 (160,000 used) 

" {f the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire}, Dmg 6d10x2 


IGEP oH.1, 


‘a ) 


i eSLdvHo 


AZURE ANGEL 

Not satisfied with the base madel issued by the Jedi Order, Anakin Skywalker 
puts his technical skills to use in modifying his Delta-7 starfighter to perform 
more to his liking. Although the High Council expresses their disdain for 
Skywalker claiming ownership of a fighter, Saesee Tiin’s endorsement of the 
young Jedi’s activities convinces the Council to let him continue. 

Skywalker’'s efforts result in the construction of the Azure Angel, a highly 
modified Aethersprite interceptor. Highly detailed reports of his accomplish- 
ments are delivered to Kuat Systems Engineering. This information helps in 
the development of later variants and models of starfighters for the Jedi 
and the Republic. 

The ship has been modified so much that it is hardly recognizable as an 
Aethersprite anymore. Changing the shape of the body to accommodate 
many of the new systems, the ship appears to be more of a heavily armored 
version of the Jedi starfighter instead of an interceptor. 
Azure Angel CL 12 
(Modified Delta-7 Aethersprite Interceptor) 

Ruge starfighter 

Init +19; Senses Perception +12 A 

Defenses Ref 20 [flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 71; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 18 squares (max. velocity 1,260 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +14 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +14 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), 
+5 (astromech droid) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +32 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 28, Con =, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +19, Mechanics +12 (413°), Perception +12, Pilot +19, 
Use Computer +12 (+13°) 


DAYSTAR CRAFT DODCOOSZ 
“INTERGALACTIC" SPEEDER 

Among the different vehicles available to the Jedi on Coruscant is the small 
Daystar Craft DCO052 “Intergalactic” speeder. The Jedi Order maintains a 
small fleet of sixteen of these speeders to permit travel around the planet 
without having to rely on public transportation or checking out a Starfighter 
for such a short trip. 

Daystar Craft’s main selling points for the litte speeder are its streamlined 
body and twin thrust pod system that propels the craft up to 800 kilometers 
per hour. Coupled with the vehicle’s range of 2,000 kilometers and ceiling 
height of 170 kilometers, the DC0052 allows its occupant to reach virtually 
anywhere he wants to go on the planet. 

The speeder’s resemblance to various starships in production around the 
galaxy helped it earn the nickname “Intergalactic,” despite the fact that it 
cannot achieve suborbital altitudes. Although Daystar officials never adopt 
the nickname, the moniker sticks nonetheless. 

A feature added specifically to the Jedi variant of the speeder is what 
Daystar calls a “drop-deployment” panel, which allows the pilot to drop 
out of the speeder at a second’s notice without bringing it to a halt. Once 
activated, the speeder is set to autopilot, while the hatch drops open and 
lets the occupant fall out of the vehicle. 


DC0052 “Intergalactic” Speeder Clit 
Large airspeeder 

Init +11; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 10), Fort 13;+1 armor 

hp 30: DR 5; Threshold 18 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h) 

Fighting Space 1x1; Cover total (pilot) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +8 

Atk Options if any 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 24, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +11 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (ace); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 16 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability none; Cost Not available for sale 

* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 

Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 
Proton Torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +14, Dmg 9d10x2 


Crew 1 (normal) Passengers 0 
Cargo 3 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 10,000 (2,000 used) 


ETA-Z ACTIS (INTERCEPTOR 
(HUIGH-MANEUVER VARIANT) 
Learning their lesson with the Delta-7 Aethersprite Interceptor, Kuat Systems 
Engineering began experimenting with variant models of the Eta-2 Actis 
Interceptor well before receiving any feedback from Jedi pilots using the base 
model on the front lines. Seeing the success of the high-maneuver variant of 
the Delta-7, a high-maneuver variant was created for the Eta-2 and ushered 
to the Jedi within months of the release of the baseline fighter. 
Eta-2 Actis Interceptor CL it 
(High-Maneuver Variant) 
Huge Starfighter 
Init +21; Senses Perception +12 
Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 70; DR 10; Threshold 32 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares. 

(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +14 (see below) or 
Ranged ion cannons +14 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (pilot), 

+5 [astromech droid) 
Base Atk +10; Grp +32 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons) 
Abilities Str 34, Dex 32, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +21, Mechanics +12 (+13"), Perception +12, Pilot +21, 
__Use Computer +12 (413°) 
Crew 1 plus astromech droid (ace); Passengers none 
Cargo 60 kg; Consumables 2 days (1 week with booster ring); 

Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (with booster ring), 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Military Cost 320,000 (240,000 used) 
* df the ship has an astromech drord, use these skill modifiers instead, 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 

Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
lon Cannons (pilot) 

Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 


ETA-2 ACTIS INTERCEPTOR 

(HEAVY-DEFENSE VARIANT) 

Demanded by a number of Jedi Knights, a version of the Eta-2 geared for 

heavy combat was created. After a number of revisions by Jedi Council 

member Saesee Tiin to remove unnecessary offensive systems, Kuat Systems 

Engineering devised a variant that focused on higher defense rather than a 

space superiority starfighter. Initial reactions to the final decision were not 

positive, but those opinions changed after the ship was tested during the 

Battle of Coruscant. 

Eta-2 Actis Interceptor cL 11 

(Heavy-Defenses Variant) 

Huge starfighter 

Init +18; Senses Perception +12 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 12), Fort 22; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 77; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +14 (see below) or 

Ranged ion cannons +14 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (pilot), 
+5 (astromech droid) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +32 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons) 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 26, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +18, Mechanics +12 (+13"), Perception +12, Pilot +18, 
Use Computer +12 (+13°) 

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (ace); Passengers none 

Cargo 60 kg; Consumables 2 days (1 week with booster ring); 
Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1 (with booster ring), 10-jump memory aetiriech droid) 

Availability Military Cost 310,000 (230,000 used) 

* {f the ship has on astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 

Atk +14 (4-9 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
ton Cannons (pilot) 

Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 


<I MaLavHo 


aan ww | | pet = 3 


CHAPTER 
THE REPUBLIC 


Although the Republic has weathered countless challenges over the millennia 
~ since its foundation, it has never faced as serious a threat to its existence 
as the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Worlds that had been fiercely 

proud of their membership in the Republic now slip one after another to 

the side of the Separatists. Making matters worse, extremists among them 
express their animosity toward the Republic with violence and assassinations 
aimed at its leaders and lawmakers. 

The first rumblings of war come with the Trade Federation's blockade 
of Naboo. In retaliation against what some consider to be overly restrictive 
taxes and tariffs, the Trade Federation sends dozens of battleships, led by 
Viceroy Nute Gunray, to surround the peaceful planet, cutting off all traffic. 
The blockade leads to invasion and culminates with the Battle of Naboo. 

The incident also leads to the replacement of the politically weak Supreme 
Chancellor Finis Valorum with the somewhat more influential Palpatine. 

‘Under Palpatine’s leadership, the Senate renews its commitment to coop- 
eration and compromise, and, for several years, the Galactic Republic looks 
forward to a new era of peace and prosperity for all. 

Nevertheless, there are malcontents and stirrings of secession from 
various worlds—some on the grounds of longstanding disputes with the 
Republic, others motivated by greed. Still others seem to act out of fear, as 
though some unknown agency threatens them with dire consequences if 
they continue to support the Republic. ; 

Once these secessionists gain strength and numbers, their discontent 
turns to anger, and their anger turns to violence. Attacks on Republic facili- 
ties become common. Senators are threatened or assaulted. News reports 
paint the Jedi Order as abductors of innocent children at worst, and loose 
cannons at best. Public opinion begins to split, with some arguing for the 
dissolution of the Republic and others crying out for a rational response to 
the problem. 

Those advocating separation from the Galactic Republic find a charis- 
matic and influential spokesperson: the former Jedi Master Dooku. Dooku 
leaves the Jedi Order after a failed mission on Galidraan convinces him that 
the Republic's goals are neither pure nor just—and that the Jedi are fooling 
themselves by believing differently. 

Rallying under Dooku's Separatist movement, the galaxy's malcontents 
begin fighting for their independence—figuratively, in political arenas, and 
sometimes literally, undertaking acts of sabotage and extortion to free 
themselves from the oppression of the Republic. 

The Senate and the Jedi, meanwhile, cannot stem the flow of worlds and 
systems to the side of the Separatists. Too many delegates in the Galactic 
Senate feel that the Republic bureaucracy has become too constricting, and 
that a homogenous application of galactic law across all species and cultures 
is an imprudent use of legislative power. Conversely, many of the “Loyalist” 
faction in the Senate argue that political solutions have failed to hold the 
Republic together, and that it is time for a military solution. 


3IMSends3y SHL i <x eSiavHo 


x< ¥SBLdVHD 


However, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine demurs, fearing that forming an 
army will send the wrong message to the Separatists and dash any hopes of 
ending the hostilities with a mutually agreeable compromise. Repeatedly, he 
arranges to forestall votes on the matter, striving to buy time for one more 
negotiation, one last chance to make amends. Despite the respect of key 
figures in both the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent 
Systems, it becomes clearer every day that neither side feels that the other 
is willing to arrange any kind of settlement. 

Then, the news breaks that the Separatisis are Constructing 4 massive 
drotd army on Geonosis, bringing the Republic Senate to the inescapable 
conclusion that war is inevitable. Reluctantly, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine 
accepts the Senate’s vote to cede him emergency powers, which Palpatine 
uses to mobilize an army of clones that have been created for the Republic 
on Kamino. The collision of these two great armies signals the beginning of 
the Clone Wars. 


“WE CAN'T LET A 
THOUSAND YEARS 
OF DEMOCRACY 
DISAPPEAR WITHOUT 
A FIGHT.” 


- SENATOR BAIL 
ORGANA 


ORGANIZATION 

The Galactic Republic is a democratic polity consisting of over one million 
member worlds, working together for mutual protection and econamic ben- 
efit. The Republic’s government centers around the Galactic Senate, and its 
members elect a Supreme Chancellor to act as the leader of the legislative 
body. Through most of the Republic's history, the Office of the Supreme 
Chancellor is invested with some of the Senate's executive authority, although 
these powers increase substantially under Palpatine’s administration. A 
separate judiciary is headed by the Supreme Court. 


TRE GALACTIC SENATE 

The core of the Repubiit government is ihe Galactic Senate. The primary 
duties of the Senate are to mediate any disputes between member systems, 
worlds, and cultures; to regulate trade between systems, including non- 
Republic systems; 10 protect and care for citizens in need; and to provide 
mutual defense in the face of threats to the Republic. 


Hierarchy 

In theory, the Senate is led by the Supreme Chancellor, clected by a vote of 
the Senate from among its delegates. In practice. the Supreme Chancellor 
has little formal authority in the Senate itself other than the prerogative 
to call for a special session, but the Office of the Supreme Chancellor (see 
below) acts as the executive of the Galactic Republic, managing the day-to~ 
day operation of the ministries thal make up the Republic's bureaucracy. The 
Supreme Chancellor can be removed from office by a vote of no confidence 
in the Senate. 

The Speaker of the Senate, also known as the Vice Chair, wields far more 
power within the Senate itself, being empowered to begin and enc each 
session as well as to open, close, and moderate debate on each motion, 
Thus, the Speaker effectively controls the agenda of the Senate, but as with 
the Supreme Chancellor, the Speaker is elected—and can be remaved=by 
the Senate. 

Each member state—whether it consists of one world, a corporation or 
guild, or even an entire sector—is allowed a senatorial delegation that is 
appointed, elected, or otherwise chosen by the member to represent them 
on Coruscant. Each delegation ineludes one Senator and, usually, ane or 
more associate representatives, and all of a delegation’s members serve 
on the various committees and subcommittees that oversee the Republic’s 
bureaucracy. 

Senators: Senators are voting members of the delegation, entitled ta a 
single vote on any motion in the Senate. Furthermore, a Senator can introduce 
new legislation, or call for revisions or amendments to existing legislation. 
In theory, every new issue can be put to an immediate vote, but in practice, 
it has become common for Senators to exercise their right to call for the 
legislation to be referred to a committee to study it, evaluate its impact, 
and propose amendments. 

Associate Representatives: In addition to Senators, each member's 
delegation is entitled to have associate representatives for different con- 
stituencies. Although they, like Senators, serve on committees and can be 
elected as Supreme Chancellor, they do not normaliy vole on motions in the 
Senate. However, in the event of an absence, a Senator can designate one of 
the delegate’s associate representatives to be “acting Senator,” as Senator 
Amidala did when she empowered Associate Planetary Representative Binks 
to cast her vote on the Military Creation Act. 


Senate Committees 

There are many sianding committees and subcommittees in the Senate, 
each of which is responsible for a specialized field of government (such as 
appropriations, allocations, finance, intelligence, or technology). In effect, 
each committee acts almost like a miniature legislature, handling all propos~ 
als, motions, and amendments in their areas of expertise and providing the 
final version of bills for 2 Senate vote, 


Each committee's membership and chair are technically elected by the 
Senate a3 a whole, but long before this motion ever reaches the floor, all 


decisions have already been negotiated by Senate leaders based on seniority, 


expertise, rclevance to a particular constituency, and simple favoritism. Open 

committee memberships and chairs are often used as a unit of barter, trading 

votes and support in return for being placed in a highly valued positien. 
Most proposals fall under the jurisdiction of a standing (perranent) 


committee, which can then assign i to an appropriate subcammittee. Some 


1¢5 of particularly broad or unusual scope might prompt the creation ofa 
pecial committee. Once assigned ta a committee, the chair places ion the 
agenda, though many proposals are quietly killed at this point gs they are 
pushed to the back of a long list of more pressing [and politically expedient) 
matters. As such, committees in general, and committee chairs in particular, 
act as gatekeepers that determine what-if anything—will be considered by 
the Senate on a given topic, and this fragmentation of authority can cause 
actian on a proposa! to be drawn out over weeks, MONS, of years even If 
the Senate as a whole would have vated 10 approve the proposal the moment 
i{ was introduced 


SENATE FACTIONS 

In the decades leading up to the Clone Wars, the Republic Senate is 
dominated by two groups: the Core faction and the Rim faction. Although 
these factions have no formal identity or membership, they effectively 
act as political parties that vie for majority control of the Senate. In 
practice, negotiations between the mast senior and influential members 
af each faction determine matters such as the allocation af committee 
chairs and memberships. 


Special Interests and Senate Corruption 

While many Senate member states are corporations and other traditionally 
nonpolitical entities, some organizations are too small or too weak to be 
granted a Senatorial delegation. Instead, they send representatives to the 
Senate to attempt to influence tre legislators. Officially, these special- 
interest coalitions are on Coruscant to present their viewpoints to the 
senators, and to provide Senate committees with facts and insights into 
various issues. 

Unofficially, these representatives use any meains at their disposal to 
serve their organization's needs—from distorting (he facts to outright bribery. 
Some even draft legislation favorable to their interests, then pay Senators to 
introduce the legislation to the Senate. Most anticipate which committees 
and subcommittees will be assigned a particular item, and they focus their 
efforts on persuading the appropriate comnvittee chairs and members before 
the legislation is ever introduced to the Senate for a vote 


This state of affairs is responsible for reducing tye once-honoradle Galactic 
Senate toa collection of grecuy, manipulative bureaucrats who are interested 
oniy in stuffing their pockets for as tong as they cap. Particularly gespizable 
Senators have even been known to employ delaying tactics in the assembly ta 
give them time to auction their vote to the highest didder between Sessions. 
The fact that so many Senators can beso easily manipulated by outside farces 
iS Considered a major cause of the Separatist movement 


SENATE PLATFORMS 

In the Senate rotunda, Senators sit aboard floating platforms, which 
provide public-address systems for speaking to the assembly, as well as 
translation devices that enable them to understand what other delegates 
are saying. The platforms connect to chambers assigned to specific 
delegations, which are adapted by the delegations to their physical and 
cultural needs. 


THE SUPREME COURT 

Headquartered in the Galactic Courts of the Justice Building on Coruscant, 
the Supreme Court is the highest court of the Republic. It is the fina) court 
of appeal for decisions reached in lower courts, providing the ultimate 
interpretation of the law and the constitution 

The Supreme Court has turisdiction over certain high-profile legal cases, 
such as those between member states, bttween a member state and the 
Republic; between a member state and a citizen of another member state; 
between anon-Republic litigant and a Republic citizen or member state; and 
cases involving interstellar travel or commerce. However, the Supreme Court 
does not hear a case unless it involves some issue of constitutionality, such 
as whether a planetary law violates Republic law. Even then, the Court only 
chooses to hears small fraction of those cases that are appealed to it. 

The Supreme Court consists of a dazen justices, including a Chief sustice 
nominated by the Supreme Chancellor and approved by a vote of the other 
justices. The individual justices are, in turn, nominated by the Supreme 
Chancellor and approved by the Senate. During the Separatist Crisis and 
the Clone Wars, Palpatine eventually replaces all but five of the justices, 
including the Chief Justice. 


THE SUPREME CHANCELLOR 

The Supreme Chancellor exists to officiate over the sessions of the Senate, 
and to facilitate the legislative process. it is largely a ceremonial position, but 
the Supreme Chancellor does have the power to call an extraordinary session 
which every available Senatar is required to attend. The Chancellor also has a 
“special prerogative” to bypass some aspects of the Senate's usual formal pro- 
cedures in order to ensure a swift resolution to 4 legislative decision, although 
this can only be done with the support of the Speaker of the Senate. 


xX MalavHD 


[| 


OHIGACSY SAL 


Qends}) SAL 


eae 
d 


Formally addressed as “Your Exeellency,” the Supreme Chancellor is 
something of a fiqurenead. The Supreme Chancellor is the head of state 
and the Republic's chief diplomat, but he cannot draft laws and holds no 
vote in the Senate. However, the Office of the Supreme Chancellor acts as 
the executive bady of the Republic, managing the day-to-day operation of 
the different ministries in the bureaucracy. Even so, the bureaucracy is also 
subject to oversight by the appropriate committee in the Senate 


Election and Removal 

The Supreme Chancellor is clecttd from among the nominated Senatorial 
delegates, serving a four-year term of office and eligible for reelection toa 
second four-year term, Tie Supreme Chancellor is considered the leader of 
the Republic, expected 40 fulfill the Senate's mandate and enact the will of 
the Republic's populace When failing to do so, the Chancellor can be removed 
fram office through a “vote of no confidence.” 

Any delegate to the Senate can call for such a vote, and until the issue 
is resolved, no mther issue can de brought before the Senate. The Supreme 
Chancellor does not participate in this vote, and, while he is allowed to sit 
through the vote, it is customary for him ta retire to his office until the 
vote is resolved. 

if the vote goes against him, the Supreme Chancellor is refieved of duty 
while the Senate nominates and elects a replacement, during which time 
his authority temporarily falls to the Speaker of the Senate. The Supreme 
Chancellor has this period to surrender all confidential documents relating 
to the administration of the Republic and vacate his office. 


Emergency Powers 

During times of crisis, the Senate can cede the Supreme Chancellor emer- 
gency powers, by majority vote, in order to deal with the situation. Such 
measures are deemed mecessary when the Senate body itself recognizes that 
they cannot act effectively or expeditinusly enough to resolve the matter 
through the usual voting procedure. When the Senate does result to such 
extraordinary measures, however, the precise nature of the Supreme Chan- 
cellor's emergency powers—and the circumstances under which the Senate 
can withdraw those powers—are defined scrupulausly, 

The Separatist crisis makes the position of Supreme Chancellor more 
powerful than it had been in over a thousand years. Cancerned by the news of 
the Confederacy's military buildup on Geonosis, and already deadlocked over 
the issue of whether or not to respond in kind, the Senate votes to cede the 
Supreme Chancellor limited emergency powers in order to combat the threat 
of an invasion by the Confederacy. Ideally, Palpatine would use his office's 
new powers to form a standing army to cornbat the droid army, restore peace 
and order to the Republic—perhaps even reunite the Contederacy and the 
Republic—and then return those powers to the Senate. In practice, however, 
the situation proves more fluid. 


Despite being soundly defeated at Geonosis, the Separatists are able to 
evacuate most of their droid army and equipment. With Separatist forces 
continuing to strike at Republic rargets (including the cloning facilities on 
Kamino}, the Supreme Chancellor orders additional clone troops to help 
guard vita) Republic facilities and drafts the Jedi Order into leading the 
clones in battle. 

Another emergency power exercised by the Supreme Chancellor is the 
ternporary suspension of the election process, enabling Palpatine to remain 
in office for the duration of the crisis. Although an extraordinary measure, 
even in times of war, the Senate votes in favor of retaining his leadership 
for as lang as necessary to resolve the crisis, enabling Palpatine to stay in 
office well beyond his twa legal terms. 


OFFICE OF 

THE SUPREME CHANCELLOR 

The Supreme Chancellor has a staff of advisors and ministers collectively 
referred to as the Office of the Supreme Chancellor, effectively acting as the 
executive arm of the Senate. The Chancellor's Office has only that author- 
ity ceded to its constituent ministries and departments, but the emergency 
powers vested in Palpatine greatly enhance its purview. 

Speaker of the Senate: In addition to maintaining order in the Senate, 
the Speaker also fulfills the role of Vice Chair, The Speaker stands in for the 
Supreme Chancellor in the Senate when the Supreme Chancellar is unavail- 
able. The relationship between a Chancellor and Speaker can vary consider- 
ably, ranging from cool opposition to close collaboratian. 

Aide to the Chancellor: Acting as the Chancellor’s chief deputy, the 
Aide is the head of the Office of the Supreme Chancellor. The Aide helps to 
organize the Supreme Chamncellor's scheduie, acting as secretary during the 
Chancellor's meetings, and standing in for the Chancellor during nonessential 
meetings and public addresses. Although the Aide usually resigns his post 
when tne Supreme Chancelior leaves office, itis not an elected position, and 
any Aide can retain his position for as long as he wishes to do so, provided 
the Supreme Chancellor is satisfied with his performance. 

Ministers: The Senate-appointed heads of major ministries, bureaus, 
and departments—such as the Judicial Department or the Senate Bureau of 
Intelligenee—are also a part of the Chancellor's Office. They provide advice 
and expertise to the Chancellor and execute his orders, although they are still 
subject ta the authority of the Senate's appropriate oversight committees, 

During the Clone Wars, several new agencies join the Office of the 
Supreme Chancellor, including the Republic High Command (described 
below). 

Advisors: The Supreme Chancellor has the freedom to retain advisors who 
provide advice and opinions without senatorial oversight. Advisors are often 
Senators, representatives, legal counsel, experts in relevant fields a* study 
(such as economics), or ¢ven individual members of the Jedi Order, thouah 
they rarely have any official authority as a result of the position 


Senate Advisory Council 

In addition to his staff, the Supreme Chancellor has access to the Senate 
Advisory Council (also known as the Senatorial Council), which consists 
of Senators appointed by the Supreme Chancellor to keep him updated on 
political matters beyond what occurs in the Senate chambers. Although the 
Council has no official power outside its advisory role, its members tend to 
be among the most influential delegates in the Senate. 

The advisors are generally drawn from various committees and subcom- 
mittees, reporting on proceedings within those groups (such as how their 
findings and decisions might affect legislation, schedules, and budgets). To 
a lesser extent, the council also advises the Supreme Chancellor on matters 
of concern to the Senate as a whole, giving him insights into the moods and 
attitudes of the representatives. 


THE REPUBLIC 
HIGH COMMAND 


Shortly after the Clone Wars begin, the Republic High Command is created 
to coordinate the war effort. Several existing agencies and departments are 
moved under its jurisdiction and integrated (to a greater or lesser degree) 
with the Grand Army of the Republic and the Republic Navy. 


WAR COUNCIL ADVISORY PANEL 
While the Senate Advisory Council updates the Supreme Chancellor on matters 
in the Senate, the War Council Advisory Panel works with the Chancellor to 
oversee matters relating to the war effort—from the creation and disposition 
of clone troopers to the funding and disbursement of the war budget. The 
members of this council—again, drawn from the ranks of the Senate—act as 
an oversight committee to ensure that the troops have the materiel they need 
to wage the war successfully, without bankrupting the Galactic Republic in 
the process. 

Despite their oversight role, the War Council eventually implement some 
of the most controversial measures of the Clone Wars, such as the creation of 
the HomeWorld Security Command, which blurs the lines between civilian law 
enforcement and military command. Many senators and Jedi are alarmed and 
frustrated by these developments, though few openly oppose them. 


JEDI COMMANDERS 
Though technically a part of the Judicial Department, the Jedi Order enjoys 
a substantial degree of autonomy. As a result, the Supreme Chancellor has 
never been specifically empowered to give orders to the Jedi, although 
they would freely offer advice and render aid in all but the most unusual 
circumstances. 

When Palpatine is granted emergency powers to deal with the Separat- 
ist threat and create a central military, one of the results is the creation 
of the Republic High Command and the reorganization of the bureaucracy 


© coordinate the Judicial Department with the war effort. The Jedi are 
moved out of their traditional peacekeeper role, instead becoming officers 
in the Grand Army of the Republic and the Republic Navy. As the Supreme 
Chancellor is the Commander-in-Chief, he is now in a position to command 
he Jedi directly. 

While the Jedi still have the right to refuse the Supreme Chancellor's 
orders, they must provide considerably more justification than “the will of 
the Force,” because they can be charged with insubordination, if not treason. 
This state of affairs has occasionally forced the Jedi to comply with instruc- 
tions against their better judgment—but they cannot openly question the 
Supreme Chancellor's intentions without damaging the public’s faith in the 
Jedi Order's leadership of the war effort. 

\n their new role as officers, the Jedi are assigned a rank that integrates 
them into the military's chain of command. Padawans are given the rank 
of commander, while Jedi Knights and Jedi Masters are all, at minimum, 
generals. 


THE REPUBLIC ARMY 

The Republic's army is divided into two Orders of Battle—the Grand Army, 
and the more highly trained Special Operations Brigade—both of which are 
ultimately under the command of Chancellor Palpatine. Though the clone 
troopers that comprise both orders are created from the same genetic stock, 
they are trained differently for different purposes: the Special Operations 
Brigade for infiltration, sabotage, and the occasional assassination, and the 
Grand Army to fight on the front lines and to occupy captured areas. 


The Grand Army of the Republic 
The Republic Army is largely comprised of clone troopers created from the 
genetic template of Jango Fett. 

The command structure of the Grand Army breaks down into ten levels, 
from squads of clone troopers all the way up to the Supreme Chancellor. The 
precise number of troopers varies for different units, and the following order 
of battle shows only the structure of infantry units (not including clones in 
support and command roles, usually at the company level and above). 

Squad (9 troopers): The smallest group in the Grand Army is the squad, 
including a clone sergeant leading the unit. 

Platoon (36 troopers): A platoon consists of 4 squads, led by a clone 
lieutenant and clone sergeant. 

Company (144 troopers plus support personnel): A company consists 
of 4 platoons, led by a clone captain. 

Battalion (576 troopers plus support personnel): A battalion consists 
of 4 companies, led by a clone commander. 

Regiment (2,304 troopers plus support personnel): A regiment consists 
of 4 battalions, led by a clone commander (sometimes known as a clone 
regimental commander) and a Jedi commander (usually the Padawan of a 
Jedi general in a parent unit). 


xX HSatdvHo 


enenseay aHt, 


SBSecgsee es & SS 


iS 2 waiavno 


aNMenees) SI 


Brigade (9,216 troopers plus support persannel): A brigade consists 
of 4 regiments, led by a clone commander (sometimes known as a senior 
clone commander) and a Jedi general (a Jedi Knight who has nat yet fin- 
ished training a Padawan). A brigade |s sometimes referred to as a “legion,” 
depending on the specific unit. 

Corps (36,864 troopers plus support personnel): A corps consists of 4 
brigades, led by a clone commander (sometimes known as a clone marshal 
commander) and a Jedi general. 

Sector Army (147,456 troopers plus support personnel): A sector army 
consists of 4 corps, commanded by a senior Jedi general (usually a Jedi Master 
who has trained one or more Padawans through the Jedi trials). 

Systems Army (294,912 troopers plus support personnel): A systems 
army consists of 2 sector armies, commanded by a high Jedi general (a 
member of the Jedi High Council). 

Grand Army (3,000,000+ troopers plus support personnel); The Grand 
Army consists of all 10 systems armies, led by the Commander-in-Chief 
(Supreme Chancellor Palpatine). ' 


Special Operations Brigade 

With better training and specialized equipment, the Special Operations Bri- 
gade carries out missions with objectives that cannot be achieved through 
sheer numbers alone. Special Operations includes the ARC troopers, the 
Republic commandos, end the clone assassin corps. 

The command structure of the Special Operations Brigade breaks down 
into five levels, from four-clone squads up to Jedi General Arligan Zey, who 
answers directly to the Supreme Chancellor. 

Squad (4 troopers): A squad consists of 4 clane troopers (usually Repub- 
lic commandos). While these clone troopers include a sergeant who acts as 
the designated mission commander, they are trained to wark together as a 
team and rank is not an issue (except where the Jedi are concerned). 

Troop (20 troopers): A troop consists of § squads—again, acting as a 
coordinated team, taking orders only from Jedi, 

Company (100 troopers plus support personnel): A compary consists 
of 5 troops, led by a clane commander. 

Group (500 troopers plus support personnel): A group consists of 5 
companies. (The most famous is commanded by Jedi General Bardan Jusik, 
the former Padawan of Generali Zey. Jusik eventually resigns his military 
commission and leaves the Jedi Order.) 

Special Operations Brigade (5,000 troopers plus support person- 
nel): The SO Brigade consists of 10 groups, commanded by Jedi General 
Arligan Zey. 


Army Command Structure 

The Grand Army's ground forces are structured to include six primary ranks: 
trooper, sergeant, licutenant, captain, major, and commander, Clone com- 
manders are further differentiated depending on their responsibility, and 
they report to Jedi generals. 

A separate command structure exists for the Special Operations Brigade 
(see above), Other clone specialists—such as technical support specialists, 
cryptographers, logistics specialists, so on--are also outside the ORBAT 
shown for the Grand Army of the Republic. Additionally, other clane troopers 
are not technically a part of the Grand Army of the Republic, such as the 
clone shocktroopers who eperate in a law enforcement role as a part of the 
HomeWorid Security Command. 


THE REPUBLIC Navy 

Clones fill shipboard roles as marines, starfighter pilots, and gunners. Many 
of the Republic Navy's nonclone captains come from either the navies of 
various Sector Forces or the ranks of the Judicial Fleet. 


The Republic Starfighter Corps 

The Republic's starfighter corps is divided into multiple groups, each rep- 
resenting the starfighters assigned to a particular unit, whether that is a 
Venator-class Star Destroyer or a planetary starfighter base. The specific 
starfighters in use vary widely. 

The command structure of the Republic starfighter corps breaks down 
into five levels, from sections of starfighters all tne way up to a senior Jedi 
general. From there, the starfighter corps is fully integrated with the Orders 
of Battle of either the Grand Army of the Republic or the Republic Navy. 

Section (2-4 starfighters): The smallest group of starfighters is the 
section, commanded by a lieutenant. 

Flight (4-8 starfighters, plus support crew): A flight consists of 2 
sections, led bya captain. 

Squadron (12-32 starfighters, plus support crew): A squadron consists 
of 3=4 flights, led by a major or a Jedi commander (Padawan). 

Wing (36-320 starfighters, plus support crew): A wing consists of 
3-10 squadrons, led by a clone commander or a Jedi general (Jedi Knight). 

Group (72-640 starfighters, plus support crew): A group consists of 2 
wings, led by a clone commander and a senior Jedi general (Jedi Master). 


The Republic Navy 

The Republic Navy is divided into multiple fleets, each representing the 
entirety of the naval forces in any given sector. There are several hundred 
Republic fleets, each configured for whatever purpose is most necessary in 
a given sector. The command structure of the Republic Navy breaks down 
into seven levels, from sections of vessels all the way up to the Supreme 
Chancellor. 


Element (1 vessel): A single starship in the Republic Navy is technically 
called an element, commanded by the ship’s captain or, rarely, a Jedi com- 
mander (a Padawan). 

Section (3-12 vessels): A section consists of a small number of starships, 
the exact number determined by their role, Heavier cruisers and battleships 
usually operate in groups of 3-4, but lighter craft such as corvettes or patrol 
ships might be deployed in groups of 6-12. A section is often called a line 
when it includes heavier capital ships (“ships of the line”), and a section that 
includes only very light vessels might be called a flotilla. The most senior 
ship's captain in the section acts as its commander unless a Jedi commander 
is present. 

Squadron (12-36 vessels, plus support units): A squadron consists of 
from 3-4 sections that compiement one another, such as a line of capital 
ships supported by a section of escort frigates and a flotilla of corvettes 
that act as a defensive screen. it is commanded by a commodore or Jedi 
general (a Jedi Knight). 

Battle Group (48-72 vessels, plus support units): A battle group 
consists of 2-4 squadrons, and it is considered to have sufficient strength 
to establish superiority in all but the best-fortified enemy strongholds. It is 
commanded by an admiral or Jedi general. 

Fleet (100-300 vessels, plus support units): A fleet consists of 3-6 
battle groups, led by a fleet admiral or senior Jedi general (a Jedi Master). 
Fleets vary considerably in compas tion, and they are likely to be reorganized 
into ad hoc task forces as deemed necessary for a given sector. 

Armada (1,000-5,000 vessels, plus support units): An armada is 
an organizational unit that it not meant to engage in battle but rather to 
represent the total forces assigned to a major theater of battle, such as the 
Open Circle Armada under General Kenobi during the Outer Rim Sieges. An 
armada typically includes 10-50 fleets, collectively commanded by a high 
Jedi general (a Jedi Master serving on the High Council). 

Navy: The Galactic Republic Nevy consists of all the armadas (and their 
hundreds of fleets) serving the Republic, collectively led by the Commander- 
in-Chief (Supreme Chancellor Palpatine). 


Navy Command Structure 

The structure of the Navy's space forces is similar to that of the ground 
forces—qunnery crew, gunnery officers, communication and tactical officers, 
star cruiser pilots, navigational officers, bridge officers, ship captains, and 
admirals, The command structure includes several Specialist pasitions that 
fall into the main hierarchy, but do not themselves have command: medical 
officers, who report to bridge officers; deck officers, who also report to 
bridge officers; and fighter pilots, who report to ship captains or admirals. 
Mast officers iin the Republic Navy are nonclones, particularly in the higher 
echelons. 


PERSONNEL 

In addition to the numerous Jedi, public officials, and other leaders who 
guide the Republic through the strife of the Clone Wars, the Grand Army 
of the Republic consists of over three million troops created from the basic 
genetic template provided by the Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett. 
Created by the cloners of Kamino, the clone troopers are artificially matured 
to reach peak efficiency in only ten years (from cloning creche to military 
deployment), flash-trained via computer programs, combat-trained by 
experienced contractors, mercenaries, professional soldiers, and sometimes 
even Jango Fett himself, and equipped with the finest weapons and armor 
the Republic can afford. 

Although they are mostly physically identical, clones actually have dif- 
ferent and distinct personalities, which usually emerge during training and 
are more or less fully developed by the time a clone survives his first combat 
engagement. They are also differentiated by their purpose: commandos for 
high-risk missions, marines for operation in a variety of environments and 
terrains, and basic clone troopers for general-purpose infantry. 

Below are several different types of clone troopers—a list by no means 
exclusive, but Suitable, with slight adjustments, for nearly any encounter the 
Gamemaster might design. 


ARC TROOPER 

Advanced Recon Commandos—known Lo most as “ARC troopers”—are elite 
clone troops personally trained by Jago Fett to be every bit as efficient and 
ruthless as himself. Unlike the standard infantry clone trooper or even clone 
commandos (described below), ARC troopers are genetically engineered and 
specially trained to be as self-sufficient as possible without being entirely 
independent. 


SNenea)) SAL 


a] x eatevnS 


+ 


x eSsavHa 


JOM) SHA, 


c=) Ne) 


ARC troopers see their first combat when the Separatist droid army 
assaults Kamino and Prime Minister Lama Su releases the troopers from their 
eryagenic storage to help drive off the invaders. They are famously employed 
at the Battle of Muunilinst, where they help Jedi General Obi-Wan Kenobi 
subdue the Separatist commanéer, the bounty hunter Durge, ane again at 
the Battle of Hypori, rescuing stranded Jedi from General Grievous. 


ARC Trooper CLB 

Medium Human nonheroic Gfsoldier 3/elite trooper 3 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 2 

Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Manco’a 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 22, Will 16; +3 armor 

hp 51; DR 1; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares, Running Attack 

Melee unarmed +12 (14445) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8+3) and 
heavy blaster pistol +6 (348+3) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +4 (5d8+3) with Burst Fire and 
heavy blaster pistol +4 (5d8+3) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +4 (3d8+3, 2x2 area) with autofire and 
heavy blaster pistol +4 (3d8+3, 2x2 area) with autofire or 

Ranged frag grenade +11 (40643, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged ion grenade +11 (4d6+3 ion, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +11 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +95 (5d8+3) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (3d8+3, 2x2 area) with autofire or 

Ranged missile launcher +12 (6d6+5, 2-square splash) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster pistol. blaster rifle), Burst Fire (heavy 
blaster pistol, blaster rifle), Point Biank Shot, rangefinder, targeting 
scope (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions delay damage 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Armored Defense, Controlled Burst, Improved Armored Defense, 
Weapon Specialization (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (tight), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery |, 
Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Weapon Focus 
(heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +13, Stealth +12 

Possessions ARC trooper armor, 2 heavy blaster pistols, blaster rifle, 2 
frag grenades, 2 ion grenades, 6 power packs, utility belt with medpac, 
missile launcher with 4 missiles 


CLONE ASSASSIN 
Created by a special order from Supreme Chancellor Palpatine to safequard 
against the unlikely possibility that the Jedi Order might attempt a military 
coup against the Republic Senate, clone assassins are specially trained in 
martial arts techniques involving bladed weapons. Moving with blinding 
speed, 2 squad of clone assassins is a match for any one Jedi Knight, though 
they fare somewhat ic¢ss well against a Jedi Master. 

When the Jedi do rebel against Palpatine, the Supreme Chancellor essigns 
a unit of clane assassins to guard the Communication Center in the Jedi 
Temple and to arrest any Jedi who attempt to coordinate attacks against the 
Republic from there. These unfortunate troopers are wiped out when Yoda 
and Obi-Wan Kenobi infiltrate the temple at the end of the Clone Wars. 


Clone Assassin CcLB 

Medium Human nonheraic 6/soldier 3/elite trooper 3 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side & 

Init +13: Senses low-light vision; Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 18), Fort 23, Will 16; +6 armor 

hp 63; OR 1; Threshold 23 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d845) or 

Melee vibroblade +14 (2d6+7, devastating 10) or 

Melee vibrablade +12 (3d647, devastating 10) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee vibrobiade +12 (2d6+7, devastating 10) and 
vibroblade +12 (2d6+7, devastating 10) or 

Melee vibroblade +10 (3d6+7, devastating 10) with Rapid Strike and 
vibroblade +10 {3d6+7, devastating 10) with Rapid Strike or 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Greater Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons) 

Special Actions Combat Reflexes, delay damage 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons), Greater 
Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons), Greater Weapon Focus 
(advanced melee weapons), Weapon Specialization (advanced melee 
weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Combat Reflexes, Dual Weapon Mastery 
1, Dual Weapon Mastery Il, Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Rapid Strike, 
Weapon Focus (advanced melee weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles) 

Skills Initiative +13, Perception +8, Stealth +13 

Possessions clone trooper armor, 2 wrist-mounted vibroblades, 
blaster pistol 


LEPY ta mIOHT: 
CLONE JET TROOPER. CLONE SUBTROOCPER, 
CLONES aseagsin, AND CLONE BLAZE TROOPER 


CLONE BLAZE TROOPER 

Specialized versions of the standard clone jet trooper (see page 150), blaze 
troopers wear heavier fire-resistant armor and wield wrist-mounted flame- 
throwers attached to the jet packs on their backs. They break through enemy 
lines by scattering adversaries with concentrated blasts of fire, 
Clone Blaze Trooper cL 5 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 3 

Force 3 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision, Perception +5 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 20), Fort 20, Will 12; +9 armor 

hp 43; DR 5 [fire]; Threshold 20 

Speed 4 squares (run x3), fly 4 squares, Running Attack 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+2) or 


Ranged flamethrower +10 (3d6+3, 6-square cone, devastating 5) or 
Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Attack Options Charging Fire, Devastating Attack (flamethrower) 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Talents Devastating Attack (flamethrower), Weapon Specialization 
(flamethrower) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Charging Fire, Exotic 
Weapon Proficiency (flamethrower), Running Attack, Weapon Focus 
(flamethrower), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +40, Perception +5, Pilot +10 

Possessions fire-resistant clane trooper armor, 2 flamethrowers {5 shots 
each), blaster pistol, jet pack 


SITIGnHEHSa) SAL x HaLavRD 
ee 


« uBladvHo 


Snendsey Shit 


CLONE COMMANDO 

Long before the Battle of Geonosis, Jango Fett suggests to the Kaminaan 
cloners that a special type of clone commando be created to handle infiltra- 
tion and sabotage operations. What he ¢nvisions are the ARC troopers, out 
the Kaminoans are uncomfortable with clones having that level of autonomy 
after experiencing discipline problems with a previous prototype, so they 
suggest smaller squads of more highly trained clone troopers. In the end, 
they reach a compromise: Fett gets his ARC troopers, and the Kaminoans set 
aside a battalion of clone troopers to receive additional training, 

These “clone commandos” are individually trained by a hand-selected 
team of mercenaries and Mandalorian soldiers—the Cuy’val Dar—in numerous 
specialized tasks, such as demolitions, computer slicing, infiltration, and 
sniping, until they can function in purpose-oriented four-clone squads, or, 
as needs arise, individually. 

Clone commandos are often sent into enemy territory in advance af the 
main force of clone troopers to disable enemy resistance, secure critical 
locations, or even to eliminate key enemy personnel. 


Clone Commando CL 8 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 4/elite trooper 2 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 2 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision, Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Mandc'a E 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 18), Fort 23, Will 16; +6 armor 

hp 62, Shoulder ta Shouider (6 bp); DR 2; Threshold 23 _ 

Speed 6 squares, Running Attack 

Melee unarmed +11 (1dé+4) 

Melee vibrodagger +11 (2d4+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+3) or 

Ranged light repeating blaster rifle +7 (3d8+3, 2x2 autofire) or 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actians Coardinated Attack, delay damage 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Armored Defense, Shoulder to Shoulder, and see below 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Coordinated Attack, 
Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, pistols, rifles), and see 
Speciai Training below 

Skills Initiative +13, Perception 213, and see Special Training below 

Possessions clone trooper armor, blaster pistol, light repeating blaster 
rifle, 2 fraq grenades, 2 ian grenades, 2 stun grenades, vibrodagger, 
utility belt with medpec 


Special Training—Clone commandos are individually trained in different 
and complimentary tasks, including small-unit tactics, demolitions, 
slicing, and the us¢ of heavy weapons. For tach type, adjust the clone 
commando’s game statistics as follows to reflect their different talents 
and feats: 

Command: Special Actions Battle Analysis; Talents Battle Analysis; 
Feats Skill Training (Knowledge [2actics]); Skills Knowledge (tactics) 
+11. 

Demolitians/Technical: Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 21); Talents 
Improved Armored Defense; Feats Skill Training (Mechanics): Skills 
Mechanics +11. 

Field Medicine: Special Actions Harm's Way; Talents Harm's Way; Feats 
Skill Training (Treat Injury); Skills Treat Injury +11; Possessions 4 
medpacs 

Heavy Weapons: Defenses Ref 24 (Hat-footed 2); Ranged missile 
launcher +12 (6d6+3, 2-square burst); Talents Improved Armored 
Defense; Feats Weapon Focus (heavy weapons); Possessions missile 
launcher with 4 missiles 

Infiltration: Defenses Ref 24 {flat-footed 21); Talents Improved Armored 
Defense; Feats Skill Training (Stealth); Skills Stealth +12. 


CLONE JET TROOPER 

Certain missions call for more mobility among the clone troopers, so the 
Kaminoans train a number of clones in the use of jet packs. While the aver- 
age clone can strap on a jet pack and fly a few hundred fect, jet troopers 
are vained to optimize the limited fuel capacity of jet packs by alternating 
ground movement with short “burst” flights to get them over obstacles ar 
circumvent difficult terrain. 


Clone Jet Trooper CL4 

Medium Human nonheroic G/soldier 2 

Foree 3 

Init +11; Senses low-light vision, Perception +5 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 17, Will 11; +6 armor 

hp 34; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (144+2) 

Ranged EMP grenade iauncher +8 (3d6 ion, 2-square burst, 
devastating 5) or 

Ranged EMP grenade launcher +8 {4d6 ion, 2-square burst, 
devastating 5) with Deadeye or 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+1) or 

Ranged biaster rifle +8 (4d8+1) with Deadeye 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3¢641) or 


Ranged blaster pistol +8 (4d6+1) with Deadeye 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Deadeye, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), 

Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack E 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Talents Devastating Attack (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency {light}, Coordinated Attack, Deadeye, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Proficiency {heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Pilot +11 

Possessions clone trooper armor, blaster rifle with grenade launcher 
(mounted), 6 EMP grenades, blaster pistol, jet pack 


CLONE NAVAL OFFICER 

Even among the clones of Jango Fett, there ar¢ a select number that prove 
themselves capable of understanding and executing naval strategy to a 
greater degree than their comrades. These clones are put into special train- 
ing programs where they learn the technical and tactical aspects of naval 
command. Kaminoan scientists speculate that these clones’ aptitude for 
space combat comes from Jango Fett's understanding of dogfighting tactics, 
and many of these clones eventually go on to become clone officers in the 
Republic Navy. Though mest of these officers are lower-tier commanders and 
aides 10 nonclone superior officers, some clone naval officers take command 
of small clone space units and may act as the executive officer fora squadron 
of V-18 or ARC-170 pilots, All clone naval officers are also certified to pilot 
the V-19 Torrent, the ARC-170, and the Nu-class attack shuttle. 

Most clone naval officers are stationed aboard the capital ships used by 
the Republic. Despite their training, many believe that these clones are not 
particularly suited for the role of an officer, and tensions sometimes arise 
between the clones and the nonclone members of the Republic Navy. 


Clone Naval Officer CL3 
Medium human nonheroic 6/noble 1 

Force 1 

Init +4; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic, High Galactic = 
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 13 
hp 19; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (id4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (306) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Coordinated Attack 

Special Actions Inspire Confidence 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Talents Inspire Confidence 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics}), Skill Focus 
(Persuasion), Skill Training (Pilot), Skill Training (Use Computer), 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, Knowledge (tactics) +14, 
Persuasion +12, Pilot +9, Use Computer +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, officer's uniform, code cylinder, comlink 


CLONE PILOT 

initially, clone pilots are merely clone troapers with slightly different skill sets: 
replacing some of theic small-unit tactics drills with flight training, While 
such pilots are sufficient to fly LAAT#i transports and the like, the eventual 
need for clones to pilot starfighters results in a bit more variation. 

The clone pilot presented below is typically found at the controls of trans- 
ports and cértain ground vehicles. The clone fighter pilot does not appear 
until later in the Clone Wars, and is usuaily found in the cockpit of ARC-170 
starfighters, V-wing starfighters, or occasionally Eta-2 Actis interceptors. 


Clone Pilot cL 4 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/scoundre! 2 

Force 3 

Init +11; Senses low-light vision, Perception +12 

Languages Bastc, Mando'a 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 14, Will 14; +6 armor, Vehicular 
Combat 

hp 22; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +2 (4d6+1) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Paint Blank Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Spacehound 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Skill Training 
(initiative, Mechanics), Point Blark Shot, Rapid Shot, Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +10, Perception +12, Pilot +11, 
Use Computer +10 

Possessions clone trooper armor, blaster pistol 


| 


qo 
r 
> 
v 
4 
‘J 
a 
x 


STISNses]) SAL 


x< SBidvHo 


QIGEACASY) OA, 


Clone Fighter Pilot CL6 
Medium Human nonhergic 6/scoundrel 2/ace pilot 2 

Force 4 

Init +12; Senses low-light vision, Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Mando'a 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 16, Will 16; +5 armor, vehicle 
dodge +), Vehicular Combat, Vehicular Evasion 
hp 31; Threshold 16 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistal +8 (3d6+2) 

Ranged blaster pistal +3 (4d642) with Rapid Shot 
Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 


LEFT TO @GHT: CLONE anoc«Ts00PaR, CLONE BHsoaw TROCFERA, 
SLONE PLOY, ano CLONES NAVAL OFFICER 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int #2, Wis 12, Cha 8 
Talents Spacehound, Vehicular Evasion 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Skill Focus (Pitot), 
Skill Training (Initiative, Mechanics), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons} 
Skills Initiative +12, Mechanics «11, Perception +13, Pilot +17, 
s¢ Computer +11 
Possessions armored flight suit with helmet package, blaster pistal 


CLONE Scout TROOPER 
The need for reconnaissance spurred the creation of thousands of clone 
scout troopers skilled at infiltrating enemy positions and reporting back. 
Steaith and mobility are paramount to their purpose, with Combat capzbility 
falling a cistant third. 

Scout troopers usually wear camouflaged armar. 


Clone Scout Trooper cL 2 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision, Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 11, Will 10; +4 armor 

hp 21; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (104) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (306) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +5 (348) or 

Ranged frag grenade (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Atk Options Point Blank, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Peint Blank Shot, Skill Training (Stealth), 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +10, Pilot +9, Stealth +9 : 

Possessions clone scout trooper armor (+4 armar; 38 combat jumpsuit 
with helmet package), blaster pistol, blaster rifle, frag grenade, utility 
belt with medpac, BARC speeder 


CLONE SHADOW TROOPER 
Commissioned late in the Clone Wars by Armand Isard, Director of the Senate 
Bureau of Inteliigence, to replace the rapidly diminishing numbers of ARC 
troapers, shadow troopers are envisioned as fulfilling more of an infiltration 
and espionage role than serving as “one-clone armies” like their Advanced 
Recon Commando predecessors. 

Because shadow troopers spend so much time behind enemy lines, though, 
their equipment often changes to suit the mission. Standard issue weapons 
include vibrodaggers for close kills and blaster carbines that fire virtually 
silent, invisible blaster bolts. 


Clone Shadow Trooper CL7 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 1/scout 3/bounty hunter 1 

Force 4; Dark Side 4 

Init +11 (can reroll); Senses low-light vision, Perception +8 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 19, Will 16; +6 armor 

hp 39; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +9 (2d4+3) 

Ranged blaster carbine +10 (3d8+2, devastating 5) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +11 (4d842, devastating 5) with Careful Shot and 
Deadeye or 

Ranged frag grenade +10 (4d6+2, 2-square burst) 

Rase Atk +8; Grp +9 


Atk Options Careful Shot, Deadeye, Devastating Attack (rifles), Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con 10, int 10, Wis 12, Cha B 

Talents Acute Senses, Devastating Attack (rifles), Improved Initiative, 
Nowhere to Hide 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Skill Training (Gather Information), Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons} 

Skills Deception +6 (+8 when disquised as different species), Gather 
Information +9 (can reroll when tracking an individual), Initiative +11 
(can reroll) Perception +8 (can reroll), Survival +11 

Possessions clone trooper armor, blaster carbine, vibrodagger, frag 
grenade, utility belt with medpac 


CLONE SHOCKTROOPER 

As anti-war sentiment spreads throughout the Galactic Republic, reaching the 
streets and plazas of Coruscant itself, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine recog- 
nizes that the Grand Army of the Republic is stretched too thinly to pull traops 
off the front lines. Therefore, in the late stages of the war, Palpatine calls for 
a special division of clone troopers to be created and assigned to maintain 
security on Coruscant and other critical planets of the Core Worlds. 

These new clones prove to be somewhat ruthless in their zeal to restore 
order. Authorized to perform random searches and detain citizens who fail to 
present proper identification on command, the clone shocktroopers quickly 
come to be known as “stormtroopers,” an epithet that would, after the end 
of the war, be applied to all clone trocpers. 


Clone Shocktrooper cL 1 

Medium Human nonheroic 4 

Init +8; Senses low-light vision, Perception +8 

Languages Basic 3 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 13, Will 9; +6 armor 

hp 14; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster rifle +4 (308) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +2 (4d8) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 12, Con 12, int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Rapid Shot, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +8, Perception +8 

Possessions clone trooper armor, blaster rifle 


< eSidvHo 


SNOW SHA 
rT RPRpenhnhnehaEeail 


CLONE SUBTROOPER 
Subtroopers are clone troupers trained and equipped for aquatic missions. 
Their armor and weapons are modified to function underwater. 

These clones see extensive use under Jedi General Kit Fisto, who leads 
them in action on Mon Calamari, Tibrin, and a half dozen other worlds in 
the course of the Clone Wars. 


Clone Subtrooper CL2 
Medium Human nonheroic 6 
Init +9; Senses low-light vision, Perception +9 
Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 13, Will 9; +6 armor 
hp 21; Threshold 13 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee knife +5 (1d4+1) or 
Ranged blaster rifle +5 (2d8) or 
Ranged blaster rifie +6 (2d8) with Careful Shot : 
Base Atk +4; Grp +5 
Atk Options Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot 
Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Coordinated Attack, 
Point Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 
Skills Initiative +9, Perception +9, Swim +6 
Possessions clone trooper armor, blaster rifle, knife 


GALACTIC MARINE 

The Galactic Marines are created when the 21st Nova Corps are assigned 
to the command of Jedi General Ki-Adt-Mundi, who needs a fighting force 
capable of battling in a variety of environments (including space). Ki-Adi- 
Mundi, with his clone marshal Commander Bacara, envision these all-terrain 
soldiers as the best of the best, and they routinely reassign any clone who 
cannot keep up with the others—while at the same time transferring in clanes 
from other units who perform particularly well. 


Galactic Marine CL6 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 2/scout 2 

Init +11; Senses tow-light vision, Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 19), Fort 19, Will 14; +7 armor 

hp 45, Tough as Nails: Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares, Surefooted 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+3) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (3d8+2) with Careful Shot or 

Ranged frag grenade +8 (4d6+42, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 12 (14 in spacetrooper armor), Dex 13, Can 13, Int 9, Wis 11, 
Cha 8 

Talents Surefooted, Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Careful Shot, Coordinated 
Attack, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Shake It Off, Skill Training 
(Endurance), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Initiztive +11, Perception +12 

Possessions clone spacetreoper armor, blaster rifle, frag grenade 


SENATE COMMANDO 
Part of an elite branch of the Republic’s Senate Guard, the Senate commandos 
are a special reserve unit that performs missions for both the Senate and the 
Judicial Department of the Republic. More aggressive than the defensively 
minded Senate Guard, the Senate commandos act as an elite police unit on 
Coruscant and sometimes travel to distant worlds on special missions. The 
Senate commandos are often responsible for capturing and detaining sus- 
pects wanted by the Senate for questioning, and they frequently act as elite 
bodyguards for Senators traveling to war zones throughout the galaxy. 
The Senate commandos also serve as the bodyguards for Supreme Chan- 
cellor Palpatine, prior to the creation of the red-armored Royal Guards. The 
Senate commandos wear a heavier version of the blue Senate Guard armor, 
though they do noi wear cloaks. The Senate commandos are one of the few 
nonclone units in the Republic to perform special missions for the Republic, 
and a fierce rivalry exists between the Senate commandos and elite clone 
units such as the Republic commandos. 


Senate Commando cLS 
Medium human nonheroic 6/soldier 3 

Force 2 

Init +17; Senses low-light vision, Perception +17 
Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 21, Will 15; +8 armor 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed 410 (1d643} 

Ranged blaster rifle +1) (3d8+1) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Draw Fire, Harm's Way 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Draw Fire, Harm's Way 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Defenses, Martial 
Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Initiative), Skill Focus (Perception), 
Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skits Initiative +17, Perception +17 

Possessions battic armor with helmet package, blaster rifle, comlink 


INFLUENTIAL FIGURES 


Although hundreds of thousands ef clones fight and die in the front lines 
of the Clone Wars, the outcome af the conflict is truly decided in the vast 
rotunda of the Galactic Senate, where delegates, diplomats, and paiiticians 
of every ilk discuss and debate the Supreme Chancellor's plans and Gecistans. 
The Senate is united in its desire to bring the war to a swift end, but their 
differing views on how to accomplish this goal split the delegates into two 
camps: those led by Bail Orgsna, Mon Mothma, and Padmé Amidala, who 
seek a mutual peace with the Separatists to avoid any further compromise of 
liberty, and the militarists who want to see the Confederacy of Independent 
Systems crushed and brought back into the Republic by force. 

Simifarly, the Jedi face the diiemma of the ongoing war with mixed feel- 
ings. Although they are loyal to democracy and wish to see the war resolved 
with minimal violence, they are also loyal to the Republic and so must Iead 
the clone armies into battle, The Jedi become more and mare suspicious of 
Supreme Chancellor Palpatine’s motives as the war drags an and on, with 
no ¢hd in sight, and ultimately assign young Anakin Skywalker to report on 
the Chancellor's activities—suspecting that Palpatine has hidden metives 
for prolonging the conflict. 


APMIBAL WULLE YULASEN 


ADMIRAL WULLF YULAREN 

One of the youngest menrbers af the Republic's naval officer corps to hold 
the rank of admiral, Wullf Yularen begins his career in the Senate Intelligence 
Bureau, but after years of dealing with Corrupt Senators and officials, Yularen 
retires. He comes to Supreme Chancellor Palpatine’s attention as a potentially 
dedicated and loyal Intetligence officer and is coaxed out of retirement. 
Palpatine quickly promotes Yularen to admiral in order to retain his service. 
Unable ta pass up such a promotion, the dedicated, loyal, and disciplined 
officer takes contro! of a naval task force assigned to Ob!-Wan Kenobi. During 
the Clone Wars, Admiral Yularen serves as an unflinching naval commander 
who follows his orders, no matter what doubts he might have. 


erenseax ‘OMdL 
Ban RRaaaaae 


< HBiLagvHa 


Admiral Wullf Yularen cL4 

Medium human noble 4 

Destiny 1; Force 3 

Init +3; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Boece, Durese, Gran, High Galactic, Huttese 4 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 15, Will 17 

hp 33; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d8+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Inspire Haste 2 

Abilities Str 0, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Talents Educated, Inspire Haste 

Feats Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Gather 
Information), Skill Focus (Perception), Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +14, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+9, Knowledge (galactic lore} +9, Knowledge (social sciences) +9, 
Perception +13, Persuasion +9, Pilot +8, Use Computer +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, officer's uniform, comlink, datapad, various 
personal belongings 


ARC TROOPER ALPHA-17 

One of the most respected clone trainers on Kamino, ARC trooper Alpha-17 
serves through the first year of the Clone Wars in engagements on Ohma- 
D'un, Jadiim, and=like all ARC troopers of his day—Karnino itself. Often work- 
ing alongside Jedi luminaries such as General Obi-Wan Kenobi and General 
Anakin Skywalker, Alphia-17 faces off against foes as deadly as Genera) 
Grievous, the bounty hunter Durge, and the Sith apprentice Asajj Ventress. 

After his capture and torture ay Ventress on Rattatak, and his subsequent 
eseape, Alpha-17 returns to Kamina, where he trains clone commanders such 
as CC-2224 and CC-1128—clones who, at General Skywalker's suggestion, 
are given names by Alpha-17. 

Following his stint as a trainer, Alpha-17 serves aboard the Intervention, 
escorting Senator Bail Organa on his tour of the Quter Rim Sieges. During 
this mission, Alpha-17 is gravely wounded battling General Grievous. He is 
sent back to Coruscant for treatment, out his transport vanishes ¢n route. 
The famous ARC trooper is not seen again. 


ARC TROOPER ALPRA-I7 


ARC Trooper Alpha-17 CL 10 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 3/elite wooper 5 

Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 3 

init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14 


Languages Basic, Mando'a 


Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 23), Fort 24, Will 48; +3 armor 

hp 64; DR 2; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares, Running Attack 

Melee unarmed +14 (1d4+6) or 

Ranged blaster rifie +14 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (5d8+4) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged missile launcher +14 (6d6+6, 2-square splash) or 

Ranged heavy biaster pistol +8 (3d8+4) and 
heavy blaster pisto! +8 (3dB+4) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (5d8+4) with Burst Fire and 
heavy blaster pistol +6 (5d8+4) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged heavy blaster pisto! +6 (34844, 2x2 area) with autofire and 
heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8+4, 2x2 area) with autofire or 

Ranged frag grenade +13 [4d644, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged ion grenade +13 (4d6+4 lon, 2-square burst) 


Base Atk +12: Grp +14 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster pistol, blaster rifle), Burst Fire (heavy 
blaster pistol, blaster rifle), Point Blank Shot, rangefinder, targeting 
scope (blaster rifle} 

Special Actions delay damage, indomitable 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Armored Defense, Controlled Burst, Improved Armored Defense, 
Indomitabie, Weapon Specialization (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery I, 
Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Weapon Focus (heavy 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13, Perception +74, Stealth +13 

Possessions ARC trooper armor, blaster rifle, missile launcher with 4 
missiles, 2 heavy blaster pistols, 2 frag grenades, 2 ion grenades, 6 
power packs, utility belt with medpac 


CAPTAIN ARGYUS 

Captain Argyus is the respected ieader of the Senate commandos. A veteran 
officer and a formidable combatant, Argyus also has a Gark secret: He is a 
spy For the Confederacy on the payroll of Count Dooku. 


Argyus first encounters Count Dooku several years before the Battle of 


Naboo, while Dooku is still a respected member of the Jedi Order and Argyus 


CAPTAIN ARGYUS 


is a young recruit just beginning his service as a Senate Guard. Argyus is 
assigned to quard a diplomatic envoy that includes Count Dooku among its 
members. After negotiations fail, the consular ship comes under attack, and 
during the fighting Argyus is gravely wounded. Only timely action by Count 
Dooku saves the young Senate Guard, after which Argyus and Count Dooku 
become friends and associates. 

When Count Dooku leaves the Jedi Order to join the Separatists, he 
contacts Argyus and persuades his friend—now Captain of the Senate 
commandos—to work for him in secret. Captain Argyus continues to serve 
the Republic, though he knows that the day will come when he will be forced 
to reveal his true aliegiance, 


Captain Argyus cL9 

Medium human soldier 7/elite trooper 2 

Force 4; Dark Side 4 

Init +11; Senses low-light vision, Perception +11 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 26), Fort 28, Will 20; +8 armor 

hp 94; DR 1; Threshold 28 

‘Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d8+5) 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (3d8+4/x3) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +10 (3d8+4/x3) with autofire 

Base Atk +3; Grp +10 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Controlled Burst, Martial Arts II, 
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Indomitable 


Abilities Str +2, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 19, Wis 10, Cha 16 

Special Qualities delay damage, damage reduction 1 

Talents Armored Defense, Controlled Burst, Improved Armored Defense, 
Indomitable, Juggernaut 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Defenses, Martial 
Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack, 
Triple Crit (blaster rifle), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Knowledge (tactics) +9, Perception +11. 
Use Computer +9 

Possessions battle armor with helmet package, blaster rifle, comlink 


x HeSLagvwHS 


pe waren) 


SHSnHs]) aHAL 


COMMANDER REx 
Aclone commander assigned to a detachment of clones under General Anakin 
Skywalker, Commander Rex is @ steadfast and resilient clone officer who 
is unafraid to do his duty, even if it means placing himself and his men in 
martal danger. With a reputation as one of the toughest clones in the galaxy, 
Cammander Rex spits in the face of danger, and though far from reckitss, 
his courage and willingness to tap into the fray has helped the Republic win 
numerous engagemtnts. Having developed something of a friendship with 
General Skywalker, Cammander Rex nas learned not to doubt the resolve of 
Jedi, nor their Capabilities, and when given an order he faithfully executes 
it with little concern for his own well being. 

Commander Rex is a skilled warrior who has survived many battles, He is 
known for wieiding two heavy blaster pistols a1 once—like Jango Fett—but 
is trained in a variety of tactics and fighting styles, and can iead specialty 
clone units inte battle whenever the situation cails for them. 
Commander Rex CL 10 
Medium human soldier 7/officer 3 
Force 5 
Init +13; Senses low-licht vision, Perception +12 
Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 26 [flat-footed 23), Fort 27, Will 25 
hp 90; Threshold 27 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +12 (11447) 

Ranged heavy blaster pstol +14 (3d8+5) or 

Ranged heavy biaster a stal +12 (4¢8+5) with Rapid shot or 

Ranged heavy biaster p sto! +12/+12 (3d8+5)3d8+5) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pstol +10/4+10 [4d8+5/4d845) with Rapid Shot 
Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Charging Fire, Coordinated Attack, Cover Fire, Dual Weapon 

Mastery II, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 
Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Indomitable, share talent 

{Shift Defense !), Shift Defense | 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Shift Defense |) 

Talents Armored Defense, Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Cover Fire, 
Indomitable, Shift Defense | 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Charging Fire, Coordinated 
Attack, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery Il, Impraved 
Defenses, Pout Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Weapon Focus (pistatsl, 
Weapon Proficiency |pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13, Knawledge (tactics) +10, Perception + +2, 
Treat injury +10 

Possessions clone troaper armor, 2 heavy blaster pistols 


MA® AMEODA 


MAS AMEDDA 

Mas Amedda, the Speaker af the Senate, is truly a sad case of an ambitious 
and overconfident politician being outwitted and outmaneuvered by a far 
superior strategist—in this case, a Sith Lord posing as the Supreme Chancel- 
lor of the Republic. 

Mas Amedda begins his political carcer as the Senator of Champala, 
the Chagrian homeworld. Though he thinks of himself as incorruptible, he 
quickly falls in with manipulative delegates, including Senator Orn Free Taa 
of Ryloth, who nominates Amedda to the position af Speaker shortly before 
the Trade Federation commences its blockade of Naboo, Amedda, something 
of an idealist, believes that he can use his position to restore order and 
climinate corruption in the Senate, unaware that this same corruption has 
secured his pasition. It is his obsession with orderly proceedings that make 
him such an excellent pawn. 

Although Amedda knows he does not have the political influence to 
becanie Supreme Chanceller himself, he believes that he can easily use his 
superior knowledge of the Republic bureaucracy to manipulate the Chancellor, 
and, in truth, his tactics work well with Supreme Chanccilor Valorum. After 
Palpatine succeeds Valorum, things stem té go much more smoothly, and 
Palpatine seems as easy to control as a broken down farm copie. The new 
Supreme Chancellor agrees to nearly every measure that the Speaker suggests, 
and Amedda believes that he has achitved his greatest political victory. 

However, as worlds begin seceding from the Republic to join the Con- 
federacy of Independent Systems, Mas Amedda gradually becomes aware 
that Palpatine is the true master of manipulation. Mas Amedda becomes 


increasingly suspicious of Palpatine's every move, and, when four Jedi Masters 
from the High Council come to arrest the Supreme Chancellor, the Cnagrian 
finally sees what a foo! he has been. 


Mas Amedda CL4 

Medium Chagrian nonheroit 3/neble 5 

Force 3; Dark Side 6 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision, Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Cragri, Durese, High Galactic, Huttese, Muun, 
Neimoidian 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 16 (21 against radiation), Will 18 

hp 33; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (10444) 

Ranged by weapon +4 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Special Actions Coardinate, Inspire Confidence, Presence 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 9, Con 12, int 15, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Special Qualities breathe underwater 

Talents Coordinate, Inspire Confidence, Presenee 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Gather Information, Knowledge [bureaucracy], 
Persuasion}, Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic lore], Knowledge 
{social sciences], Perception, Use Computer) 

Skills Gather Information +17, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +16, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +11, Knowledge (social sciences) +11, Perception +10, 
Persuasion+17, Use Computer +11 

Possessions encrypted comlink, datapad 


CHAGRIAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Chagrians are powerfully guilt amphibian humanoids from the watery 
world of Champala. Their skin ranges from light blue to deep indigo, and 
they have fleshy horns (“lethorns”) on their heads; females have one pair, 
and males have two. Chaarians are known to be even-tempered, stoic, 
and somewhat stubborn about following proper procedures, 

Chagrians nave the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity, 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Chagrians have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: 6 squares. 

Breathe Underveater: Chagrians can breathe normally in water. 

Radiation Resistance: Chagrians gain a +5 species bonus to their 
Fortitude Defense against radiation darnage. 

Low-Light Vision: Chagrians ignore concealment (but not total 
concealment} from darkness. 

Languages: Basic, Chagti. 


SLY Moore 


Siv MOORE 

Little is Known about the past life of Sly Moore, the Suprerne Chancellor's 
senior aide. Quiet and unassuming, Sly Moore is a familiar face in the Senate, 
and although everyone knows her title and her place in the qavernment 
hierarchy, her activities are so low-profile that no one can say exactly what 
it is that she does for the Supreme Chancelior. 

Sly Moore has actually been worxing with Palpatine since his days as 
the Senator of Naboo, although she has never set foot on that planet. She is 
introduced to Palpatine after being abducted by a tattooed Zabrak assassin 
and imprisoned for months in an ancient tomb somewhere in the Kron Drift. 
While imprisoned, she is mentally and spiritually assaulted on a daily basis 
by long-dead Sith Lords; only her natural strength of will keeps her from 
going completely mad. Palpatine rescues her, claiming that he “heard” her 
cries for heip in his mind, He praises Sly for having survived the ordeal and 
cares for her until she is ready to be on her own again, In time, they forma 
close bond, and Palpatine eventually admits to the young Umdaran that he 
has powerful mental abilities that he intends to use to bring order to the 
galaxy. Intrigued by his vision of the Republic, Moore asks Palpatine if there 
is anything she can do to heip him. 

Palpatine gradually comes to trust Moore's discretion, finally reveal- 
ing the details of his grand scheme to her, as well as his “alter ego.” After 
Palpatine becomes Supreme Chancellor of the Republic, Sly Moore finds it 


<M HSLavreid 


SIVwsnESsy) Sf. 


G 


Cc 


easier to Suppress the voice of her conscience. She watches as Darth Sidi- 
aus plots against the Jedi, aversees the creation of a secret clone army, and 
manipulates everyone around him to bring about a qalaxy-spanning war. By 
the time Palpatine issues Order 66, Sly Moore firmly believes that he has 
the galaxy’s best interests at heart, and that war is 4 necessary Step toward 
ensuring lasting peace. 

Sly Moore cL9 

Medium Umbaran noble 8/Force adept 3 

Destiny 2; Force 5, Power of the Dark Side; Dark Side 13 

init +5; Senses low-licht vision, Use the Force +17 

Languages Basic, Bothan, Durese, High Galactic, Huttese, Rodese, Ryl, 

__Umbarese, Zabrak ‘ _ 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 23), Fort 22, Will 26 

hp 45; Threshold 22 

Vulnerable light sensitivity 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (id4+4} or 

Ranged by weapon +8 

Base Atk +8; Grp +8 

Special Actions Dark Presence, Presence 

Force Powers Known |Use the Force +17): Force stun, mind wick 

Force Techniques Improved Telepathy 

Abilities Su 8, Dex 11, Con 9, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 15 

Special Qualities low-light vision 

Talents Dark Presence, Force Perception, Force Power Adept (ming trick), 
Gauge Force Potential, Power of the Dark Side, Presence 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Linguist, Skill Focus (Deception, 
Gather Information, Knowledge [bureaucracy], Knowledge (galactic 
lore], Knowledge [social sciences], Persuasion, Use the Force), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +17, Gather Information +17, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+18, Knowledge (galactic lore) +18, Knowledge (social sciences} +18, 
Perception +11, Persuasion +17 (can reroll), Use Computer +13, 

Use the Force +17 (can substitute for Perception checks) 

Possessions holo-comlink, datapad 


REPUBLIC DROIDS 


While Separatist armies rely heavily on droids, droids employed by the 
Republic tend to fill more utilitarian roles. 


FuRST-DEQGREE DROIDS 
First-degree droids have specialized scientific or medical programming. 


FX-6 Medical Assistance Droid 

Designed by “rogue” droid engineers who left Industrial Automaton to start 
their own droid company, Medtech Industries’ FX-6 "medassist” drcid was 
designed specifically to compete with the 2-1B medical droid, The FX-5 came 
factory-built with a shell of plastee! armor, making it safer to deploy the 
droid on battlefields than the more vulnerable 2-18. 

The darker side of the FX-6 is that it is programmed to ignore suffering 
and save the patient's life by any means necessary. Whereas the 2-18 is 
capable of installing cybernetics if absolutely necessary, the FX-6 is specifi- 
cally programmed to perfarm standard surgery only if eybernctics are not 
feasible or cost-effective—and it comes equipped with a vast database of 
cybernetic replacements suitable for any medical need. 

FX-6 medical assistance draids can be played as droid heroes. 


FX-6 Medical Assistance Droid cL1 
Medium droid (Ist-degree} nonheroic 3 

Init <1; Senses low-light vision, Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 9, Will 12; +2 armor 


hp 7; Threshald 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 2 squares (tracked) 

Melee instrument +1 (12-1) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach | square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 11, Con —, int 14, Wis 15, Cha 9 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Treat Injury), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [technology), Use Computer), Surgical Expertise 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +8, Knowledge (technology) +8, 
Perception +10, Treat Injury +13, Use Computer +8 

Systems tracked locomation, heuristic processor, 6 instruments, 
improved sensor package, vacabulator, plastcel shell (+2 armor) 

Possessions medical kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,300 credits 


SECOND-DEGREE DRONOS 
Technica) roids, inchusing slicer droids and astromech droids, fall into the 
second-degree category. 


FA-4 Pilot Droid 

SoroSuub’s FA line of service drolds included the popular FA-4 pilot droid, 
used throughout the galaxy as personal chauffeurs and inexpensive capilots 
for Freighters and yachts, Programmed primarily for starship travel and built 
for easy Storage when not in use, FA-45 are also frequently used as airspeeder 
pitots and even ground vehicle drivers. They are particularly popular in 
political circles because of their “orivacy duffer,” which allows the user to 
wipe the droid’s memory of destinations and overheard conversations with 
a Simple voice command. 

Despite their advanced processors, however, FA-4 droids are not pro- 
grammed for combat operations. They are wired to avoid attacks and other 
hazards, but cannot make use of snips’ weaponry to fire back. 

FA-4 pilot droids can be played as droid heroes. 

FA-4 Pilot Droid CLO 
Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +13; Senses darkvision, low-light vision, Perception +4 
Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 5, Will 11; Vehicular Combat 
hp 5; Threshold 9 

immune droid traits 

Speed 4 squares (wheeled) 

Melee hand +0 (142-1) 

Fighting Space } square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp -2 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 15, Con —, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 7 

Feats Skill Focus (Initiative, Pilot, Use Computer), Vehicular Combat 

Skills Initiative +13, Perception +4, Pilot +13, Use Computer +13 

Systems wheeled locomotion, magnetic feet, 2 hands, improved sensor 
package, darkvision, vocabulator 

Possessions astrogation buffer (storage device, 10 memory units) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,200 credits 


OTHER REPUBLIC FORCES 

The characters, droids, vehicles, and starships presented in this book 
are not the only sources of information on the forces of the Republic. 
Additional Republic characters and starships can be found in both the 
Saga Edition core rulebook and the Starships of the Galaxy supplement. 
Gamemasters should feel free to use these other sources to flesh out 
their Clone Wars campaigns. 


CHARACTERS ct SOURCE 

ARC Trooper 8 Saga Edition 282 

Clone Trooper 2 Saga Edition 281 

Clone Trooper 5 Saga Edition 282 
Commander 

STARSHIPS cL SOURCE 

Acclamator-class 18 Starships of the Galaxy 56 
Assault Ship 

ARC-170 Starfighter 12 Saga Edition 180 

Consular-class 8 Starships of the Galaxy 126 
Cruiser 

CR70 Corvette 8 Starships of the Gatoxy 75 

Delta-7 Aethersprite 10 Starships of the Galaxy 60 
Interceptor 

Dreadnaught-class 18 Starships of the Galaxy 77 
Cruiser 

Eta-2 Actis "1 Saga Edition 180 
Interceptor 

LAAT/i Gunship 12 Saga Edition 177 

Theta-class Shuttle nN Starships of the Galaxy 141 

V-wing Starfighter 8 Starships of the Galoxy 150 

V-19 Torrent 9 Storships of the Galaxy 149 

Venator-class 19 Starships of the Galaxy 148 
Star Destroyer 

Victory ll-class 18 Starships of the Galaxy 98 


Star Destroyer 


=) *) 


Slnendsay er. 


Ga 


Cc 


£ 


SBeseSe bse S 


a 


 BalevHS 


Snendas a, 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROIDS 
Most battle droids, scout droids, and combat remotes fall into the category 
of fourth-degree droids. 


Marksman-H Combat Remote 

Developed by Industria’ Automaton for use by military and security forces 
throughout the galaxy, the popular Marksman-H training remote is used by 
everyone from the Jedi Order to bounty hunters and in the training exer- 
cises of clone troopers on Kamino. Some mercenaries use them as sentries, 
although they usually prove little more than a delaying tactic meant to keep 
enemies busy while the mercenaries prepare for battle (or escape). 

The spherical Marksman-H is equipped with a low-power “stunner blaster" 
that delivers a blaster bolt that feels like a sharp sting. The default setting 
is for the Marksman-H to remain “on guard” until an opponent readies a 
weapon, then begin attacking. 

Industrial Automaton manufactures Marksman-H combat remates from 
common droid components, allowing them to keep costs down. 

Marksman-H combat remotes can't be played as droid heroes. 
Marksman-H Combat Remote cLo 
Diminutive droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 2 
Init +10; Senses Perceotion +1 
Languages Basic, Binary 
Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 15), Fort 6, Will 10 
hp 5; Threshold 6 
Immune droid traits 
Speed 1 square (hovering) 

Ranged light blaster +5 (1d4 stun) 

Fighting Space | square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp -18 

Special Actions Dodge, Point Blank Shot ms 

Abilities Str 3, Dex 18, Can —, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 6 

Feats Dodge, Point Blank Shot, Weapan Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Initiative +10 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, weapon mount (stabilized) 

Possessions light blaster 

Cost 350 credits 


REPUBLIC VEHICLES 

Many of the larger corporations represented in the Galactic Senate sup- 
port the war enthusiastically. Among them are Rothana Heavy Engineering 
and Aratech Repulsor Company, both of which see the conflict as a great 
opportunity to earn obscenely large profits. 


WEAPON SYSTEMS 
Vehicle weapons share many of the same design characteristics as star- 
ship weapon systems, and the two are often interchangeable. This 
vehicle weapons to be employed against starships—as seen at the Ba 
of Geonosis—and, of course, lets weapons factories crank out w eapons 
without the need for wholesale retooling of the assembly lines. : 

Below are a few weapons used by the Republic during the Clone Wars. 
Some of these are later discontinued but might be available as “military 
surplus” in later eras. 


Composite Beam Cannon 
The composite beam cannon uses a cycling beam generator to alter th e 
energy signal of the beam, ignoring 5 points of the target's SR. 


Mass-Driver Cannon 
Mass-driver cannons fire acceferated microprojectiles. They are | 
of punching holes in starships and reducing enemy artillery to rubble 
after one or two solid hits. 1 
Mass-driver cannons can only be mounted on vehicles of Gargantuan 
size or larger because of their intense recoil. 
4 


Proton Grenade 

Proton grenades throw out a high-energy burst of accelerated particles — 
capable of disassembling matter at a molecular level. A proton grenade i 
detonates on impact. 

When you make an area attack with a proton grenade, make a single | 
attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target 
in the grenade's 3-square burst radius. Targets you hit take full damage, 
and targets you miss take half damage. 


Rail Cannon 

Rail cannons deliver explosive warheads at super-high velocity, inflicting 

damage via both the payload and the kinetic energy of the impact. 
Like mass-driver cannons, rail cannons can only be mounted on 

vehicles of Gargantuan size or larger because of their intense recoil. 


ALL-TERRAIN 

ATTACK POD (AT-AP) 

A later addition to the Grand Army of the Republic, the All-Terrain Attack 
Pod, or AT-AP, is designed to be a lighter, faster version of the AT-TE (see 
below). The AT-AP sees extensive use on Kashyyyk, where the dense forests 
make it much more difficult for AT-TEs to be quickly deployed. 


All-Terrain Attack Pod cL 10 
Gargantuan ground vehicle (walker) 
Init +7; Senses Perception +8 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 74), Fort 23; +9 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 180; DR 15; Threshold 43 
Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 60 km/h) 
Ranged mass-driver cannon +7 (see below) and 
blaster cannon +7 {see below) and 
medium laser cannon +9 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4; Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +33 
Atk Options autofire (heavy dlaster cannon, medium laser cannon) 
Abilities Str 36, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +8 
Crew 2 (expert); Passengers none 
Cargo 200 kg; Consumables 2 davs; Carried Craft none 
Payload 50 mass-driver microprojectiles 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Mass-Driver Cannon (gunner) 

Atk +7, Dmg 6d10x2 
Heavy Blaster Cannon (qunner) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg Sd10x2 
Medium Laser Cannon (pilot) 

Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


ALL-TERRAIN EXPERIMENTAL 
TRANSPORT (AT-XT) 
An early prototype of the AT-RT, the All-Terrain Experimental Transport, or 
AT-XT, provides an armored canopy far the cockpit, protecting the driver 
from small arms fire, It also incorporates a plasma shield generator as a 
means to offset the vulnerabilities created by the addition of the weight 
of its armor. 

A large number of AT-XTs are produced before the Grand Army settles 
on the lighter and more maneuverable AT-RT, though engineers continue to 
tinker with the basic design for many years after the Clone Wars. 


Two AT-XTa AND THABE AT-RTH @XPLORE A PORESYT wWORLB. 


All-Terrain Experimenta! Transport CL6 
Large ground vehicle (walker) 
Init +8; Senses Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 18; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 80; DR 5; SR 5; Threshold 22 


Speed 4 squares (max. velocity 25 km/h) 

Ranged double laser cannon +8 (see below) or 
Ranged twin proton grenade launchers +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +12 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannon) 


Abitities Str 26, Dex 12, Con =, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +B 


Crew 1 (expert): Passengers none 

Cargo 12 kg: Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Paytoad 18 proton grenades 

Availability Restricted; Cost 14,700 (2,200 used) 


Double Laser Cannon (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dig 4010x2 
Twin Proton Grenade Launchers (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 8d6 (expends 2 grenades), 4-square burst radius 


SIIGACE GHA, 


VSS A 


are 


See) OL 


ALL-TERRAIN RECON 
TRANSPORT (AT-RT) 

The All-Terrain Becon Transport, or AT-RT, is a single-trooptr vehicie 
designed for close infantry support and long-range reconnaissance. While 
its epen cockpit provises excellent visibility for the driver, it also provides 
little cover. 

Clone commanders frequently divide their force of AT-RTs into teams of 
treet for patrals and recon. Equipped with a variety of scanners and sensors, 
AI-RYs can move quickly around the field of operations and transmit data 
back ta the commander in the forward command center. 

AI-RTs 2iso sce extensive use in the civilian sector (as police patrol 
vehicles} and are popular with clone shecktroopers for the “pacifying" 
effect their appearance has on unruly mobs. This civilian variant usually 
replaces the repeating blaster cannons with a grenade mortar and a rack 
of two dozen shells (usually stun grenades, ion grenades, or fragmentation 
grenades); its availability is Restricted and its cost is 25,000 credits (15,000 
credits used). 

All-Terrain Recon Transport CL5 
Large ground vehicle (walker) 
(nit +8; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13], Fort 18; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 69; DR 5; Threshold 21 

Speed & squares (max. velocity 70 km/h) 

Ranged repeating blaster cannon +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +2 

Base Atk +2; Grp +13 

Atk Options autofire (repeating blaster cannon) 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 

Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled) Passengers none 
Cargo 20 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 40,000 (24,000 used) 


Repeating Blaster Cannon (pilot) 
Atk +5 (40 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


AaT-TE 


ALL-TERRAIN TACTICAL 
ENFORCER (AT-TE) 

Adapted from industrial security vehicies built hy Rethana Heavy Engineering, 
the All-Terrain Tactical Enforcer, or AT-TE, is a farmidable weapons platform 
Capable of delivering an entire plateon of clone troopers to strategic points 
on the battlefield, then prov ding them with covering fire while they take up 
positions. A dorsal rai] cannon enables the AT-TE to serve as mobile artillery, 
and an array of missile payloads allow it to be custom-armed to fit whatever 
purpose is necessary on the dattieficid. 

The AT-TE's six massive walker legs and low profile provide great stability, 
but this design aiso makes the vehicle vulnerable to land mines and infantry 
equipped with explosives, as none of the AT-TE’s seven weapons covers the 
vehicle's underside. 

An unusual feature of the AT-TE is its magnetic grapplers, which enable it 
to scale even sheer cliffs, The rear passenger compartment is also equipped 
with a meaical droid for stabilizing wounded troopers until they can be safely 
transported to the nearest Republic Mobile Surgical Unit. 


All-Terrain Tactical Enforcer CL 12 
Gargantuan qround vehicle (walker) 


init +3; Senses Perception +8 


BARC Speeder CL5 
Large ground vehicle (speeder) 


Init +11; Senses Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 26; +9 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 240; DR 15, 30 against ion damage; Threshold 46 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 45; DR 5; Threshold 19 


Speed 4 squares (max. velocity 60 km/h), climb 2 squares 
Ranged rail cannon +7 (see below) and 
6 medium laser cannons +7 (see vclow) 
Fighting Space 6x4; Cover total (crew), +5 (rail cannon gunner} 
Base Atk +5; Grp +41 
Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannons} 
Abilities Str 42 Dex 10, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics «8, Perception +8, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 7 (expert); Passengers 38 

Cargo 10 tons; Consumables 15 days: Carried Craft none 
Payload 48 heavy concussion warheads 

Availability Military; Cost not avaliable for sale 


Rail Cannon (gunner) 

Atk +7, Dmg 5d10x5 (heavy concussion warhead) 
Medium Laser Cannons (qunners} 

Atk +7 {+2 autofire), Dmg 20102 


BARC SPEEDER 

The Avatech Repulsar Campany's contribution to the Grand Anmy of the 
Republic is this military-grade speeder bike, designed to replace its slightly 
alder (and poorly armed) 74-Z speeder bike. Although originally designed 
for use by ARC troopers, the BARC speeder (an acronym for Biker Advanced 
Recon Commando) swiftly becomes the Grand Army's preferred light recon 
vehicle. 

Unlike the 74~Z speeder, the BARC can perform at high altitudes, making 
it useful for escorting LAAT/i gunships and LAAT/c transports. More impor- 
tantly, the BARC comes with two sets of light blaster cannons—one mounted 
on the forward vane, and another on the rear stabilizer—to provide greater 
firepower. 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 520 km/h) 
Ranged twin light blaster cannans +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +5; Grp +14 

Atk Options autofire (twin light blaster cannons) 
Abilities Str 19, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +11, Perception +8, Pilot +11 

Crew 1 (expert); Passengers 1 

Cargo 5 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft nane 
Availability Military; Cost 8,300 (1,550 used) 


Twin Light Blaster Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +8 (43 autofire), Dmg 5d10 


x BSLavHo 


BARC GPEBDER 


CR-20 TROOP CARRIER 

The Corellian Engineering Cosporation’s CR-20 troop carrier is designed 
to carry a platoon of troops and their support gear to the battlefield, 
although it is not as well equipped to handle a hostile landing zone as LAAT 
transports. 

The majority of the Republic's CR-20s are purchased shortly after the 
Battle of Geonosis from the Corellian Defense Force's surplus. They are 
modified to meet the Grand Army's needs, including racks upon which can 
be mounted a dozen BARC speeders or 74-Z speeder bikes. 
CR-20 Troop Carrier CL 13 
Colossal space transport 
init -1; Senses Perception +8 
Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 38; +10 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 300; DR 15; SR 25; Threshold 88 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 

(starship scate) , 

Ranged medium turbolasers +10 (see below) and 

medium turbolasers 48 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +53 

Atk Options autofire (fire-linked medium turbolasers) 
Abilities Str 66, Dex 12, Con =, int 16 

Skills Initiative -1, Mechanies +8, Perception +8, Pilot -1, 

Use Computer +8 i 
Crew 6 (expert): Passengers 40 
Cargo 15 tons; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft 12 speeder bikes 
Hyperdrive x3 (backup x12) 

Availability Restricted; Cost 680,000 (265,000 used) 


Fire-linked Medium Turbolasers (pilot) 
Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 6d10x5 

Fire-linked Medium Turbolasers (co-pilot) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 6d10x5 


INFANTRY SUPPORT PLATFORM 
Built for both speed and maneuverability, the Infantry Support Platform, 
or ISP, utilizes a vectored-thrust turbofan engine that can be angled for 
maximum acceleration or maximum deceleration, particularly over “soft” 
terrain (such as the marshy swamplands on Felucia and Kashyyyk, where it 
sees the most use). 

Intended as a heavier version of the versatile BARC speeder, the ISP is 
introduced late in the Clone Wars. 


Infantry Support Speeder Platform CL7 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +8; Senses Perception +8 
Defenses Ref 123 (flat-footed 11), Fort 15; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hip 50; DR 10; Threshold 25 
Speed fly 8 squares (max. velocity 100 km/h) 
Ranged twin blaster cannons +8 (see below) and 
twin blaster cannons +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 
Base Atk +5; Grp +15 
Atk Options autofire (twin blaster cannons) 
Abilities Str 20, Dex 14, Con =, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +8, Perception +8, Pilot +8 
Crew 2 (expert); Passengers none 
Cargo $5 kg; Consumables + day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 11,600 (2,880 used) 


Twin Blaster Cannons (pilot) 
__ Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 4010«2 
Twin Blaster Cannons (gunner) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 40102 


LOW-ALTITUDE ASSAULT 
TRANSPORT/CARRIER (LAAT/C) 
Rothana Heavy Engineering’s Low Altitude Assault Transport Carrier is a 
variant of the LAAT/i gunship, built specifically to carry slow, heavy vehicles 
directly to the front lines. Crewed by a single clone troaper pilot, the LAAT/c 
is capable of delivering massive payloads planetside from orbiting starships 
and back again. 

Originally designed to carry the AT-TE specifically, the LAAT/c was later 
modified to transpart a variety of cargoes, such as forward command centers 
{see the "Forward Command Center” sidebar). Its rapid cargo-deployment 
system allows the pilot to set the transport down, release the cargo clamps 
as a move action, and lift aff again, without the time-consuming offloading 
operations of traditional transports. 


eal 


LAAT/c Carrier cL8 
Colassal air vehicle (airspeeder) 
Init -1; Senses Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 25; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 150; DR 15; SR 15; Threshold 75 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 620 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship seale) 

Ranged light laser cannons +9 {see below) 

Fighting Space 6x6 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +40 

Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 40, Dex 12, Con ~, Int 15 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics #8, Perception +8, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 1 (expert); Passengers none 

(Cargo 40 tons; Consumables 3 days: Carried Craft usually 1 AT-TE, 4 
AT-XTs, 1 Republic troop transport, 1 TX-130 Saber-class fighter tank, 
or | forward command center 

Availability Military; Cost 58,000 (42,000 used) 


Light Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


A LAAT/C DADPA AN AT-TE. 


MEDLIFTER TROOP TRANSPORT 
Designed by a variety of engineering companies to ferry wounded troops from 
the front lines to Republic Mobile Surgical Units, medlifters come in different 
styles and shapes. The most commonly used, the Ubrikkian Industries Model 
300, carries up to four passengers in enclosed duraplast “cacoons,” tended 
by a field medic, whose job is to keep the wounded alive long enough to 
reach the operating room. 


Medlifter Troop Transport cL 4 
Huge air vehicle (airspeeder) 

Init +6; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 15; +3 armor 

hp 50; DR 5; Threshold 25 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity BOO km/h) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover +5 (crew), none (passengers) 
Base Atk +2: Grp +17 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 14, Con =, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6 

Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 4 

Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 24,000 (5,100 used) 


REPUBLIC TROOP TRANSPORT 
The lightly armored Republic Troop Transport, or RTT, is used primarily to 
deliver troops into neutralized landing zones=though it comes armed with 
anti-personnel laser cannons and missile launchers to clear light resistance 
and debris. They are usually employed during missions where stealth is a 
factor, or as backup transports while the more formidable LAATs are being 
refueled or reloaded. 


SITE 


0 
I 
> 
3 
4 
Lu 
2 
x 


A TRI-DAGID ATTACKS CLONE TRODPER® ag Trev 
EMEROE PROM THEIR FOOT. 


Republic Troop Transport CL8 
Colossal air vehicke (airspeeder) 
Init +0; Senses Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 12 {flat-footed 10), Fort 22; +10 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 15; Threshold 72 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 580 km/h) 
Ranged laser cannons +!0 (sce below) and 
missile launcher +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 6x6; Cover total 
Base Atk +5: Grp +37 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 34, Dex 14, Con -, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +0 


Crew 2 (expert); Passengers 12 

Cargo 3 tons; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft nonc 
Payload 12 missiles 

Availability Restricted; Cost 42,000 (10,200 used) 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 

Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Drag 4d10 
Missile Launcher (gunner) 

Atk +8, Dmg 6d6, 2-square splash 


SELF-PROPELLED 

MFMEAVY ARTILLERY 

Too heavy to be deployed via LAAT/c carriers, the ponderous Seif-Propelled 
Heavy Artillery, or SPHA, must be éclivered to the ground directly from 
Acclamator-class assault sh ps. Although among the slowest vehicles in the 
Grand Army's arsenal, the SPHA is also the most formidable, mounting a 
heavy starship-scale weapon capable of bringing down capital ships (provided 
they are still in the atmosphere) or leveling entire cities. 

Defended from infantry assault by a dozen heavy repeating blaster 
cannons, the SPHA also includes a troop compartment that can hold three 
full squads of clone troopers. Fortunately, the range of the SPHA’s primary 
weapon usually means that it is far enough away from the main battlefield 
that attacks by ground troops rarely present a problem. 

The designation of SPHA is based on its primary gun: SPHA-T (turbolaser); 
SPHA-I (ion cannon); SPHA-V (antivehicle heavy laser); SPHA-C (concussion 
missile launcher); of SPHA-' (mass-Griver cannon). 


Self-Propelled Heavy Artillery 
Colossal ground vehicle (walker) 
Init -2; Senses Perception -8 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 18), Fort 32; +15 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 360; DR 20; Threshold 82 
Speed 4 squares (max. velocity 35 km/h) 
Ranged heavy turbolaser +7 (see below) and 

12 heavy repeating blaster cannans +2 (see below) or 
Ranged heavy ion cannon +7 (see below) and 

12 heavy repeating blaster cannans +2 (see below) or 
Ranged heavy laser cannon +7 (see below) and 

12 heavy repeating blaster cannons +2 (see below} or 


CL16 


SPHA-T 


Ranged heavy missile launcher +7 (see below) and 
12 heavy repeating blaster cannons +2 (see below) or 
Ranged heavy mass-driver cannon +7 (see below) and 
12 heavy repeating blaster cannons +2 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12; Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +47 
Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blaster cannons) 
Abilities Str $4, Dex 40, Con =, tnt 14 
Skills Initiative -2, Perception +8, Pilot -2 
Crew 25 (expert); Passengers 30 
Cargo 500 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 48 concussion missiles (SPHA-C only) 
Availability Military; Cost not avilable far sale 


SPHA-T; Heavy Turbolaser (gunner) 
Atk +7, Dmg 7d10x5 

SPHA-I: Heavy fon Cannon (gunner) > 
Atk +7, Dmg 3d10xS5 ion 

SPHA-V: Heavy Laser Cannon (gunner) 
Atk +7, Dmg 5d10«2 : 

SPHA-C: Heavy Missile Launcher (gunner) 
Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x5 

SPHA-M; Mass-Driver Cannon (gunner) 
Atk +7, Dmg 7d10x2 i\.. 

All: Heavy Repeating Blaster Cannons (gunners) 
Atk +2 (autofire only), Dmg 3410 


Tx<-1930 SABER-CLASS 

FIGHTER TANK 

The TX-130 Saber-class fighter tank was meant to serve as a counter to the 
Trade Federation's versatile AATs, but without the inherent “lowest-bidder” 
design flaws. Often piloted by Jedi in the field, the TX-130 is small enough 
to provide enemies with a difficult target while simultaneously being armed 
well enough that it can launch a devastating counterattack—and quickly get 
back out of range again. 

Although the TX-130 includes a compartment designed to carry an R2 
unit, astromech droids are generally considered more valuable as starfighter 
support; most crews use the extra space as additional cargo storage. 

A later variation added a top-mounted turret fitted with a composite 
beam cannon, 


TX-130T Saber-class Fighter Tank CL7 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 

(nit +7, Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 21; +5 armor 

hp 120; OR 5; SR 5; Threshold 31 


Speed & squares (max. velocity 200 km/h) 
Ranged laser cannons +3 (see below) and 
twin laser cannons +1 (see below) and 
missile launcher +1 (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +1 {see below) and 
twin laser cannons +1 (see below) and 
missile launcher +1 (see below) or 
composite beam cannon +1 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total (crew), +5 (astromech droid) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +21 


Abilities Str 33, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +5 (+12°), Perception «5, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +5 (+12°) 

Crew 3 plus optional astromech droié (normal); Passengers 2 

Cargo 750 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Payload 16 missiles 

Avaitability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* if the tank hos the optional ostromech droid, use these skill modifiers 
instead. 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +3, Dmg 5d10x2 +t ie 
Twin Medium Laser Cannons (copilot) 
Atk +1 (-4 autofire), Dmg 5d10 
Missile Launcher (copitot/gunner) 
Atk +1, Dmg 8d6, 4-square splash 
Composite Beam Cannon (gunner) 
Atk +1, Dmg 8010 


UNSTABLE TERRAIN ARTILLERY 
TRANSPORT (UT-AT) 
Notoriously slow and vulnerable, the Unstable Terrain Artillery Transport, 
‘or UT-AT—known by the troops as the “Trident” because of its weapon 
cortifiguration—is a heavy repulsorlift tank built by Kuat Drive Yards and the 
Mekuun Corporation to make up far the design shortfalls of walkers such 
as the AT-TE. Equipped with banks of repulsorlift “skis” that redistribute the 
vehicle's weight based on the terrain, the UT-AT is ungainly in combat and 
requires an additional full round of all-out movement to reach its top speed 
of 45 kilometers per hour, However, the repulsorlifts can be reconfigured for 
traction (rather than repulsion), allowing the UT-AT to scale sheer surfaces. 
The UT-AT’s bomblet generator allows the pilot to shunt some of the 
reactor engine's energy to an ion converter, unleashing virtual storms of ion 
“grenades” with the range of a grenade launcher. However, diverting the 
energy to the bomblet generator drains a great deal of energy; the UT-AT must 
come to a complete stop for a full round before firing the ion bomblets. 
The interior of the UT-AT can be configured either for clone troopers (half 
a platoon) or materiel, such as bridge-laying equipment. 


Unstable Terrain Artillery Transport cCL6 
Colossal ground vehicle [speeder} 
Init -2; Senses Perception +8 
Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 8), Fort 19; +10 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 200; DR 15; Threshold 69 
Speed 4 squares (max. velocity 45 km/h), climb 2 squares 
Ranged heavy laser cannon +8 (see below) and 

2 medium laser cannons +6 (see below) and 

4 heavy repeating blasters +1 (see below) or 
Ranged bomblet generator +8 (see below) and 

2 medium laser cannons +6 (see below) and 

4 heavy repeating blasters +1 (see below) or 
Fighting Space 8x12; Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +34 
Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blasters) 
Abilities Str 28, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12 
Skills \nitiative -2, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot -2 
Crew 6 (expert); Passengers 20 
Cargo 26 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Heavy Laser Cannon (pilot) 

Atk +8, Dmg 6d10x2, 2-square splash 
Medium Laser Cannons (gunners) 

Atk +6, Dmg 4d10x2 So eeG 
Heavy Repeating Blasters (gunners) 
__Atk +1 (autofire only), Dmg 310 
Bomblet Generators (pilot) 

Atk +6, Dmg 4¢6 ion 


REPUBLIC STARSHIPS 
Industrial titans such as the Corellian Engineering Corporation turn out record 
numbers of military starships, keeping assembly lines running night and day 
to produce components and replacement parts. 


CONSULAR-CLASS CRUISER 
(MODIFIED) 
At the start of the Clone Wars, when Starships and other weapons of war are 
still in short supply, Supreme Chancellor Paipatine issues an order that thou- 
sainds of government vessels be converted into warships for use against the 
Separatist fleet. At this time, much of the Republic's fleet of Consular-class 
cruisers receive a retrofit (known as the Charger ¢70 retrofit} to improve their 
combat capability. Many battle groups in the Republic Navy use retrofitted 
Consulor-class cruisers to supplement their larger capital ships and provide 
a much-needed step between starfighters and the Acclomotor-class and 
Venctor-class ships. 
Consular-ctass Cruiser (Charger c70 Retrofit) CL 16 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 14), Fort 36; 414 armor 
hp 960; DR 15; SR 120; Threshold 139 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 2 light turbolaser cannon batteries +8" (see below) and 

2 point-defense medium laser cannons +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +48 
Abilities Str 62, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 

Use Computer +6 i 
Crew 8 (skilled); Passengers 20 (troops) 
Cargo 6,000 tons: Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1.5, advanced navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost 1,650,000 (700,000 used) 
* Apply 0 -20 on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal in size. 


Light Turbolaser Cannon Battery (3 gunners) 

Atk +8 (-12 against targets smaller than Colossal), Omg 3d10x5 
Point-Defense Mediurn Laser Cannon (gunner) 

Atk +4, Dmg 4d10x2 


KAPPA-CLASS SHUTTLE 
Decades before the Clone Wars, Republic Sienar Systems designs the Koppo- 
class shuttle to serve as a troop transport for local militias and planetary 
defense forces. Equipped with two blaster cannons for space combat and two 
heavy repeating blaster cannons to provide covering fire for disembarking 
troops, the Kappa is meant to drop into hot landing zones, offload a platoon of 
troops and their support vehicles, then lift off again within half a minute. 
The troop cabin can be reconfigured for a variety of payloads, includ- 
ing extra vehicles, cargo, muniticns, or as many as two more squads of 
troopers. 
Kappa-class Shuttle cL 1? 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +8 


MEDSTAR-CLASS FRIGATE 

The exigencies of the war quickly pushed the Republic's fleet of MedStar- 
class frigates into service as mobile hospitals, where patients stabilized on 
the battlefield could receive all necessary care to restore them to fighting 
condition, 

Though outfitted for defense, MeaStar-class frigates are not well-suited 
for combat, and, if they are entering a hostile zone, are usually accompanied 
by a small number of battle-ready frigates. However, once on station, they are 
generally fairly safe from attack, Only the most ruthless Separatist captain 
would think of firing on a hospital ship. 
MedStar-class Frigate cL 15 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -3; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 26; +14 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 130; DR 15; SR 25; Threshold 76 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 34; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 680; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 134 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 820 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale) 
Ranged double blaster cannons +7 (starship scale; see below) and 
2 heavy repeating blaster cannons «#2 (character scale; see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +41 
Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blaster cannons) 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale] 

Ranged 1 turbolaser battery +13 (sec beiow) 

Ranged 2 point-defenses laser cannon batteries +13 (see helow) 
Ranged tractor beam +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +51 

Atk Options autofirc (point-defenses laser cannon batteries) 


Abilities Str 43, Dex 14, Con ~, Int 15 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +8 


Abilities Str 59, Dex 12, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 4 (expert); Passengers 40 

Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft 2 AI-RT walkers or 
2 ISP platforms 

Hyperdrive x2 (x18 backup), nav computer 

Availability Military; Cast not available for sale 


Double Blaster Cannons (co-pilot) 
Atk +7, Dg 5d10x2 AS 
Heavy Repeating Blaster Cannons (gunners) 
Atk +2 (autofire only), Dmg 3d10 


Crew 440 (skilled); Passengers 655 

Cargo 4,800 tons; Consumables 3 years; Carried Craft up to 12 Colossal 
vessels 

Hyperdrive x1 (x10 backup) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,875,000 (2,550,000 used) 


Turbolaser Battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13, Dmg 4d10x5 


Point-Defenses Laser Cannon Batteries (5 gunners) 


Atk +13 (+8 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 
Tractor Beam (pilot/copilot/gunner) 
Atk +5, Dmg — (grapple +51) 


arenes eA 


x HSLeVHS 


HYEN«-CLAGE BOMBERS ATTACK A PaLra-cLaee MEDICAL FRIGATE. 


NU-CLASS ATTACK SHUTTLE 
Designed to supplement, but not replace, the LAAT/i transport vehicles, ihe 
Nu-class attack shuttle from Cygnus Spaceworks combines much of the 
design aesthetic af the LAAT/i with contemporary shuttle design. The end 
result is a Starship that functions as both a troop transport and an infantry 
support vehicle. Capable of undertaking longer-range missions than the 
LAAT/i and faster as weil, the Nu-class attack shuttie has thicker armor 
and heavier shielding than atmospheric vessels, allowing it to survive pas- 
sage through ship-to-ship engagements and still deliver its cargo—whether 
materiel or troops—into a war zone. Many Mu-class attack shuttles alsa 
serve as the personal transports for Republic military commanders (such as 
the Jedi generals) during the Clone Wars, ferrying tiem from capital ships 
to planetary battlefields quickly and safely. 


Nu-class Attack Shuttle CL 12 
Colossal space transport 
Init +2; Senses Perception +8 


: Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 14), Fort 25; +14 armor 
be hp 110; OR 15; SR 30; Threshold 25 
: Q Speed fly 12 squares (max. velacity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
: scaic) : 
x Ranged medium laser cannans +9 [see below) and PELTA-CLASS MEDICAL 
double light laser cannons +7 (see below} FRIGATE ; 
; Fighting Space 12x12 or | square (starship scale); Caver total The Pelta-class frigate from Kuat Drive Yards is one of the newest vessels in 
H Base Atk +5; Grp +40 the Republic Fleet. Boasting a design that allows the ship to alter its shape 
: Ht Atk Options autofire (double light laser cannons) to fit its role, the Pelte-class frigate has two large auxiliary “wings” that 
i) | Abilities Str 40, Dex 18, Con —, Int 4 : 3 can fold back into the ship to present a smaller profile at the expense of 
oy Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +2, aIRCHOCSPace, A multipurpose frigate produced with modular interiors, the 
iw Use Computer +8 Pelto-class frigate can be retrofitted in a matter of haurs simely by remov- 
D wi F ing one interior module and inserting another. Though this process must be 
4 Cc Crew 2 (expert); Passengers 30 nes as Ke : ; 
D 0} r performed at a shipyard or other facility capable of servicing the ship, this 
i rae sc AR Sy hc tet eet eee EE feature allows battle groups to alter their role in a matter of days rather 
Bi Availability Military; Cost 85,000 (50,000 used) RR ee gap ee ad Ee Se a i 
. " he Pelto-class fri tens longside the Me r-ciass frige 
al Médium Laser Cannons (pilot) T € clta Class. rigate often re ongsid € foe class rigate as 
B. Atk +9, Dmg 4d10x2 a medical vessel, giving the Pelta-class ships the reputation of being medical 
= —— = frigates despite their multipurpose roi. 
B Double Light Laser Cannans (copilot) 


Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 Pelta-class Medical Frigate CL 16 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 : 
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-faoted 11), Fort 35; +11 armor 
hp 760; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 135 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scate) 
Ranges 2 light turbolaser batteries +17 (see below) and 
3 point-defense light laser cannon battery +17 (see below) and 
tractor beam battery +11 (see below) 


Ll 


Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +47 
Atk Options if any 


Abilities Str 40, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6 (+13°), Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 (+13") 


Abilities Str 60, Dex 14, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 “ 
Crew 900 (skilled); Passengers 300 (troops) 
Cargo 275 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x16) 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
* Apply a =20 penolty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Light Turbolaser Battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +17 (-3 against targets smatler than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 


Crew 2 plus astromech droid (skilied|; Passengers none 

Cargo 130 kg; Consumables | week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 10 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x2, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Military; Cost 127,000 (63,000 used) 

"Jf the ship has an astromech droid, use these ski)l modifiers instead. 


Medium Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 410«2 


Double Light ton Cannons (gunner) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 


Point-Defense Light Laser Cannon Battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +17 (+12 autofire}, Dmg 4d10x2 

Tractor Beam Battery (3 gunners) 3 
Atk +1) [-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +47) 


KDENSAYR BTL-S) Y-wina 
The first iteration of the starfighter that will continue to serve 2 military 
function for decades to come, the Koensayr BTL-S1 Y-wing starfighter is the 
multipurpose predecessor to the Y-wing fighter used by the Rebel Alliance 
ai the Battle of Yavin. The BTL-S} is aesthetically and functionally similar to 
later modeis, though a few major differences are noticeable on first glance. 
The most obvious difference can be seen in the copilot's placement in the 
ship; the copilot sits in a gunnery bubble behind the pilot, which swivels to 
provide the copilot with a greater angle of fire for the ship's ion cannons. 
Koensayr BTL-S1 Y-wing CL 10 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +3; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25; +7 armor 
hp 110; DR 700; SR 40; Threshold 45 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged medium laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
double light ion cannons +5 (see below) ar 
Ranged medium laser cannons +7 {see below) and 
proton torpedocs +5 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
{astromech droid) 
Base Atk +1; Grp +32 
Atk Options autofire (double light (on cannons) 


Proton Torpedoes (gunner) 
Atk +5, Dmg 94102, 4-square splash 


& Y-WING PURBURS A OROCH-CLABS BOARDING BrP. 


PTER XI 
THE CONFEDERACY 


— aS. 


Although the Republic prides itself on being the known galaxy’s bright center 
of civilization, it is, like all too many civilizations, beset by corruption and 
internal conflict. The erosion of principles and the failure of policy creates a 
divide between wealthy worlds and the poor worlds, between the influential 
and the ignored, between those who have and those who want. 

Too many Republic Senators succumb to the vices that are eroding the 
institution for which they stand. With so many morally bankrupt politicians, 
and so many more becoming corrupted by their post, the Senate becomes 
too weak and too greedy to do what is right. Whole systems suffer because 
their representatives face an insurmountable wall of apathy, or because their 
representatives are too busy lining their pockets to care. Senators who take 
a stand against the corruption—who risk their careers to fight inequality— 
quickly learn that the rest of the Senate has no use for them. And so they 
turn to new leadership. 

Influential outsiders such as Count Dooku convince frustrated Senators 
to abandon the Republic to join the Separatist movement, taking their worlds 
and systems with them. These Senators are easily convinced that the Republic 
is a lost cause. Drawn together by their idealism and cynicism, they forge an 
alliance apart from the Republic, devoted to restoring equality and ending 
strife on their respective worlds. 

Dooku’s words stir the hearts of many, though he thinks of himself as 
merely an advisor rather than a leader. When the “Confederacy of Inde- 
_ pendent Systems” swells to over a thousand member worlds, Count Dooku 

veals that he had once been a Jedi—and had left the Jedi Order for many 
of the same reasons that the Separatists had left the Republic. The fact 
that a Jedi Master is just as disillusioned with the Republic as they are lends 
the Separatists a great deal more conviction, and gives them the final bit 
of encouragement they need to challenge the Republic militarily as well as 
politically, 

The constituent members of the Confederacy of Independent Systems 
have no clue that Count Dooku has become Darth Tyranus, the new ally and 
apprentice of Darth Sidious. Sidious casts the Republic loyalists and the 
Separatists into war with the foreknowledge that neither side will survive the 
conflict intact—that both the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent 
Systems are to be sacrificed for the creation of a new Galactic Empire. 


ix BsievHs 


ADIVYESISANOD SHL 


De BBLarHO 


AGVEUSESINSS Sh 


ORGANIZATION 

Over ten thousand systems flock to the Separatist cause, even if not all of 
them commit to joining the Confederacy of Independent Systems. When 
they first unite around a common need to defend themselves against pirates 
and raiders (such as the Nebula Front), they share technology for building 
private armies for self-defense. When the Repubiic refuses to prov de any real 
assistance, the Separatists begin to evalve from a group of malcontents with 
similar goals to a full-blown political movement with views and expectations 
radically different from those of their parent organization—and combined 
forces numbering in the quadrillions. 


THE COMMERCE FACTIONS 
The Confederacy of Independent Systems has a strong core membership 
consisting of several associated commercial organizations: the greedy Trade 
Federation, the bureaucratic Commerce Guild, the ambitious Corporate Alli- 
ance, the enigmatic Techno Union, the opportunistic InterGalactic Banking 
Clan, the hivelike labor peal of Geonosian Industries, and the galaxy-spanning 
Retail Caucus. Each has reasons for supporting separation from tlhe Repubiic, 
which, cumulatively, provide the Confederacy with the resources it needs to 
form a political body strong enough to secede. They all know that support- 
ing the Separatist movement is an end fo their |ucrative relations with the 
Republic; they have all weighed the risks and decided that following Count 
Dooku is the best strategy for optimizing their profits. 

The level of support armong the commerce factions for the Separatists is 
mixed, however. Each has its own reasons for joining—ane its oven price. 


The Retail Caucus 

The Retail Caucus is a conglomerate of hundreds of corporations that special- 
ize in commercial goods created for public consumption. Before the outbreak 
of the Clone Wars, the Retail Caucus is largely a financial institution, manag- 
ing the money and investments of its component companies, which specialize 
in the creation and distribution of consumer goods. Prior to the Battle of 
Naboo, the Retail Caucus has very little in the way of military resources, 
relying on the Trade Federation to ship and protect its goods. 

Count Dooku first approaches the Retail Caucus primarily for financial 
backing. Seeing a chance to make an investment that could pay off in the 
future, the Retail Caucus fronts the credits to fund dozens ef clandes- 
tine battle droid and starship manufacturing plants across the galaxy. In 
exchange, the Retail Caucus receives 16% of all of the military materiel 
produced by these manufacturing facilities, resulting in a new military 
power almost overnight. 


The Trade Federation 

The Trade Federation, under the leadership of Viceroy Nute Gunray, feels 
cheated by the backlash over its occupation of Naboo—which was, technically 
speaking, perfectly legal--and they are awaiting an opportunity to recoup 
some of their considerable losses from the reparations they were forced to 
pay to the Naboo and the Gungans. 


The Commerce Guild 


“The Commerce Guild comes to the Confederacy in secret. As the most 


influential commodities broker iin the Republic, it knows all too well that 
{oo much pressure here or there can severely unbalance the market, costing 
hundreds of trillions of credits. But after a few of the more cagey prospective 
members of the Confederacy die in convenient accidents, Commerce Guild 
President Shu Mai—a Gossam, from the world of Castell—decides that she 
can play both sides of the conflict without arousing the ire of either; both 
the Republic and the Con*ederacy need ore and minerals and bulk produce, 
particularly in wartime. 


The Corporate Alliance 

The Corporate Alliance—the organization in charge of regulating sales and 
distribution throughout the galaxy~knows ail along that the Republic will 
not miss them if they leave; there will always be someone else more than 
eager to fill their seats in the Senate. But its Magistrate, Passel Argente, isa 
Koorivar—a species driven from its adopted homeworld by a Republic resolu- 
tion that ceded the planet to another species over two thousand years before 
the Battle of Naboo. The Koorivars have never forgiven the Republic for the 
grievous injury, so Magistrate Argente feels no compunctions whatsoever 
about joining the Separatist movement, pledging the Corporate Alliance 
wholeheartedly to the Confederacy of Independent Systems. 


The Techno Union 

The galaxy’s foremost developer of emerging technologies, including 
advanced engineering and microelectronics, the Techno Union is strongly 
devoted to the Separatist agenda. Represented by Wat Tambor, a Skakoan, 
the Techno Union incorporates Haor Chail Engineering, Republic Sienar Sys- 
tems, Kuat Systems Enginzering, and TaggeCo, among others. Tne combined 
technological acumen of these cutting-edge corporations is unparalleled in 
the Republic—though many of the Techno Union's best and brightest chose 
hot to commit to the Confederacy, including BlasTech Industries and the 
Corellian Engineering Coraoration. 


The InterGalactic Banking Clan 

Based on Muunilinst, the InterGalactic Banking Clan supports the Confed- 
eracy of Independent Systems—but not exclusively. The enigmatic Chairman 
of the IGBC, San Hill, feels that denying the Republic the services provided by 
the InterGalactic Banking Clan—the administration of loans and interest rates, 
and the requlation of investment market prices—will only put the Republic in 
a position where it has no choice but to fight until the bitter end. If allowed ta 
view the independent systems as friendly competitors, rather than enemies, 
the Republic will be much more willing to concede the war and let those 
systems secede, in order to preserve its own financial stability. 


Geonosian Industries 

The Geonosians have always felt slighted by the Republic’s refusal to accept 
the supremacy of their queen—despite most humanoids’ lack of wings (a clear 
sign that the galaxy’s other species are of inferior castes). The Geonosians' 
archduke, Poggle the Lesser, is impressed by Count Dooku's deference toward 
the Geonosian queen caste, so he pledges every last one of his species’ 
underground factories to the Separatist cause and offers his homeworld as 
ameeting place for the other trade faction representatives. 


WHEN 
LT OF 


| = > 
LAS : = 
FEMOCE y IN 


THE SITH 

At the top of the Separatist hierarchy—and kept carefully hidden from both 
sides—are the Sith: Darth Tyrannus and his dark master, Darth Sidious. Under 
Darth Sidious’s sinister tutelage, Darth Tyranus (Count Dooku) spends ten 
years manipulating a minor political movement into a full-blown seces- 
sionist front while Sidious maneuvers the Republic loyalists into declaring 
all-out war. 


Darth Sidious adheres to a tradition of secrecy imposed by the Sith a 
thousand years before, working his evil schemes through intermediaries 
and dupes while remaining hidden in the shadows. His organization includes 
politicians and anarchists, crime fords and corrupt law enforcement, schemers 
and dreamers, the wealthy and the impoverished—and, as the war draws to 
a close, the most powerful Jedi Knight alive: Anakin Skywalker. 

Sidious recruits the disillusioned Count Dooku shortly after the Jedi 
Master leaves the Order over an ill-fated mission to the world of Galidraan. 
A suave and charismatic speaker, Dooku makes the ideal figurehead for the 
Separatists: a dynamic orator with a strong desire to see the Republic made 
t0 serve its most influential constituents, without all the inconvenient public 
safety rules and annoying trade requiations, Much of his own philosophy 
has formed the core of Separatist views, and it is little wonder that they 
flock to his side. 

However, like all of Sidious’s apprentices, Dooku is expendable. In fact, 
tne Sith philosophy is fot an apprent ce to continually prove himself. If the 
apprentice does not survive, he can be replaced—often by whoever killed the 
apprentice. This is the case with Darth Tyranus—slain by the Jedi Anakin Sky- 
walker, who soon replaces Dooku as Sidious’s new apprentice, Darth Vader. 


THE COMBINED CONFEDERACY 
Initially, the Separatist forces are five independent armies warking toward 
a common goal but without an overall strategy, or even a unified battle 
plan. The first several battle actions, including the Battle of Geonosis, are 
basically free-for-all engagements, won (or survived) merely because the 
Separatists have the advantage of greater numbers than their Grand Army 
opponents. In time, Count Dooku convinces the various factions to combine 
their military forces, enabling the Separatist Droid Army to team Trade 
Federation B1-Series battle droids with Commerce Guild homing spider 
droids, for example, or Techno Union octuptarra tri-draids with Corporate 
Alliance Persuoder-ciass droid enforcers, making far a more effective and 
well-rounded Separatist military. 

But Dooku recognizes eariy on that he is not the best general for such an 
army, and he recruits numerous tacticians, commanders, and, in some cases, 
particularly aggressive figureheads to lead the Separatist forces into battle: 
the Chiss general Sev'rance Tann, the Sith apprentice Asajj Ventress, and 
the brutish cyborg Durge. None of these, however, combine all the qualities 
needed to ensure victory for the Confederacy, until Dooku persuades the 
Kaleesh ¢yborg Grievous to take command, General Grievous turns the war 
around for the Separatists and slowly pushes the conflict right to Supreme 
Chancellor Palpatine’s very doorstep, abducting Palpatine and nearly captur- 
ing Coruscant in the process. 


Ix HSLeVHDS 


AGVHSESEAINA® SAL 


ix BsBLavHo 


ASVVSEGONMNOGS SH 


- 


THE SEPARATIST 
DROID ARMY 


The Separatists’ military consists of organic and droid forces from all five of 
the original signatory members of the Confedtracy of Independent Systems— 
the Commerce Guild, the InterGalactic Banking Clan, the Corporate Alliance, 
the Techno Unian, and the Trade Federation—and a number of other aligned 
systems and worlds as well. Organized at first into individual forees, they 
eventually combine uncer General Grievous's leadership into a single fighting 
force of extraordinary magnitude. 


SEPARATIBT GROUND FORCES 
At its inception, the Separatists’ forces are divided into five major orders of 
battle, and numerous minor orders of battle: the Commerce Guild's “punitive 
security forces”; the Cerporate Alliance's Policy Administration D rectorate; 
the InterGalactic Banking Clan's Collections and Security Division; the Techno 
Union's droid army; the Trade Federation's droid army; and countless other 
security forces, law enforcement agencics, and private armies. 

Under General Grievous, each of these orders was reorganized into more 
efficient armies, each with specific purposes for which different combina- 
tions of forces are required. 


Commerce Guild Punitive Security Forces 

The Commerce Guild employs 4 force of security personnel and battic droids 
whose major function is to keep the Commerce Guild’s member worlds and 
systems in line. The organic personnel generally work separately from the 
droids, though most of the Commerce Guild's droid forces are commanded 
anti maintained by Gossams. 

The cornmand structure of the Commerce Guild’s organic forces Follows 
a similar command structure to the Republic's special forces. 

Squad (6 officers): A squad consists of six Gossam security officers 
{usually Gossam commandas), one of whom acts as a squad leader. 

Troop (36 officers): A troop consists of six squads, including six squad 
leaders. They are generally led by a single Gossam with the title of security 
chief. 

Division (216 officers pius support personnel): A company consists of 
6 troops, led by six security chiefs and 2 division commander. 


The Commerce Guild's droid forces are arranged by type of dreid. 

Advanced DSD Unit: This unit consists of one advanced dwarf spider 
droid and a support group of one squad of Bl-Series or B2-Series battle 
droids. 

Spelunker Probe Droid Unit: This unit includes five spelunker probe 
droids. Forces of up to 20 units are sometimes fielded to handle particularly 
tough targets. 

Dwarf Spider Droid Unit: Dwarf spider droids usually operate in groups 
of four, or in forces of 2-5 units. 

Heavy Dwarf Spider Droid Unit: Heavy dwarf spider droids usually 
operate in groups of four, or in forces of 2-5 units. 

0G~-9 Homing Spider Droid Unit: OG-9 homing spider droids are almost 
always fielded singly, though usually with an escort of faur DSDi dwarf spider 
droids (which also act as spotters). 


Corporate Alliance Policy Administration Directorate 

The Corporate Alliance maintains a small security force, the Koorivar Fusiliers, 
whose job is primarily ta guard Alliance facilities against sabotage and 
industrial espionage. Like the Commerce Guild, though, they also have a 
sizeable force of droids, composed entircly of their devastating Persuader- 
class droid enforcers. 

The Koorivar Fusiliers have a command structure similar to the Grand 
Army's, though not quite as extensive, Much of the Fusiléers' armed might 
relies on artillery emplacements, which are always crewed by two fusilier 
engineers and a crew leader. 

Squad (12 fusiliers): The Fusilier's smallest group is the squad, led by 
a sergeant. 

Platoon (36 fusiliers): A platoon consists of 3 squads, led oy a 
heutenant. 

Company (108 Fusiliers plus support personnel): A company consists 
of 3 platoons, led by a captain. 

Battalion (324 fusiliers plus support personnel): A battalion consists 
of 3 companies, led by a calonel. 

Regiment (972 fusiliers plus support personnel): A regiment consists 
of 3 battalions, led by a general. 

The Corporate Alliance's droid units consist entirely of squads of 2-4 
NR-N99 Persuader-class droid enforcers. 


Geonosian Hive Army 

While the Geonosians lack a formal military, their warrior caste is usually 
sufficient to deal with most crim na! or security issues. As part of a hive 
society, the warrior caste is tightly organized under individual members of 
the queen caste, and require no further command structure: A Geonosian 
warrior serves his queen and takes orders from no one else (though Archduke 
Poagle has considerable influence over his queen, and can usually expect his 
requests to be commuted into orders by the queen within moments). 

In battle, Geonosian warriors simply throw themselves at opponents in 
whatever numbers they have at hand; they have no concent of squads, ranks, 
or orders of battle. An encounter with Geonosian troops might be with a 
handful of Geonosian regulars, a swarm of elite warriors, {he reverse, or any 
combination in between. 


InterGalactic Banking Clan Collections and Security Division 
The IGBC’s Collections and Security Division's primary purpose prior to 
the outset of the war is to collect cverdue debts and provide security for 
IGBC facilities and the clan's officers. They are organized into two differ- 
ent groups: the organic Muun Guard and IG lancer combat droids, and the 
1G-100 MagnaGuard “elites.” The Muuin Guards and |G lancer combat droid 
units are structured exactly the same way, while |G-100 MagnaGuards are 
produced in such low numbers that they need no command structure; they 
merely follow the orders of their programmed masters. 

Squad (9 soldiers): A squad cansists of 9 soldiers (Muun guards or 
IG lancer combat droids). Either type of group is led by a Muun guard 
sergeant, 

Troop (45 soldiers): A troop consists of S squads, coordinated under a 
Muun guard lieutenant. 

Brigade (225 soldiers plus support personnel): A brigade consists of 
5 troops and a section of § Hailfire-class tank droids, led by a Muun guard 
captain. 

Division (1,125 soldiers plus support personnel): A group consists of 
5 brigades, led by a Muun guard colonel. 


Techno Union Droid Army 
Shortly before joining the Separatist movement, tne Techno Union restruc- 
tures to more closely resemble the Trade Federation, in a successful effort to 
gain membership in the Galactic Senate. As a result, most of the organization 
of the Techno Union's armed forces is modeled after the Trade Federation's 
(see below), with minor differences based on the specific units available. 

The chief differences lie in the types of units. While the main battle droid 
forces are virtuaily identical, the Techno Union utilizes a number of special- 
ized droid types in its army. 

LM-432 Crab Droid Unit (3 droids): A crab droid unit consists of 3 
LM-432 assault crab droids of the same size. 

Octuptarra Tri-Droid Unit (3 droids): An octuptarra tri-droid unit 
consists of 3 octuptarra combat tri-draids. 

Tri-Droid Unit (3 droids): This unit consists of 3 tri-droids. 

Spelunker Probe Droid Unit: This unit includes five spelunker probe 
droids. Forces of up to 12 units are sometimes fielded to handle particularly 
tough targets. 


— 


0 
T 
> 
v 
2 
a 
2 
x 


ASVMAEGEINOED SH 
Ty Feespatetrnrtinl 


Ix waLavHo 


JSSNea) aH 


ADVE 


Trade Federation Droid Army 

The Trade Federation creates its droid army initially for security purposes, 
but quickly puts if to use invading and occupying Naboo. Although they are 
ordered to disarm after their defeat by the combined Naboo-Gungan forces, 
the Trade Federation merely transfers most of its materiel to subsidiary 
corporations--only to transfer it back, years later, in time to pledge its droid 
farces to the Confederacy of Independent Systems. 

The command structure of the Trade Federation's droid army is profoundly 
simple: Battle droids report to droid officers, and droid officers report to 
their organic commanders. 

AAT Crew (4 droids}: An AAT crew consists of 4 OOM-Series battle 
droids. 

MTT Crew {4 droids): An MTT crew consists of 4 OOM-Series battle 
droids. 

Troop Carrier Crew (2 droids): A troop carrier crew consists of 2 0OM- 
Series battle droids. 

Squad (8 battle droids): A squad consists of seven battle droids. 
Because the droids are controlled by a remote processor, no squad !eader 
is required. 

Platoon (56 battle droids): A platoon consists of 7 squads. 

Company (112 battle droids plus support droids): A company consists 
of 2 platoons transported on either an MTT or a troop carrier, under the direct 
command of a battle droid officer, 

Battalion (784 battle droids plus support droids): A battalion consists 
of 7 troop carrier companies and a reinforced squadron of 24 AATs, under 
the direct command of a battle droid officer. 

Vanguard (1,232 battle droids plus support droids): Intended far break- 
ing through heavy defenses to deploy battle droids, a vanguard consists of 
11 MIT companies and a squadron of 1 AATs, under the direct command 
of a battle droid officer. 

Regiment (4,368 battle droids plus support droids): A regiment 
consists of 4 battalions and 1 vanguard, under the direct command of a 
battle droid officer. A regiment is the total force carried aboard a C-9979 
landing craft. 

Division (21,840 battle droids plus support droids): A division consists 
of a 5 regiments carried aboard a section of 5 C-9979 landing craft. 

Corps (109,200 battle droids plus support droids): A corps consists of 
a § divisions carried aboard a squadron of 25 C-9979 landing craft. 

Army (218,400 battle droids plus support droids): An army consists of 
2 corps, the total surface force carried aboard a Lucrehulk-class battieship 
under the command of a Trade Federation ship's captain. 


The Separatist Droid Army 

Once combined, the individual elernents of the commerce factions’ military 
organizations form the mighty Separatist Droid Army: over a quadrillion 
droids in total {including the vast numbers of support droids necessary to 
keep such a large force operational), all of which are ultimately answer- 
able to the cunning Kaleesh cyborg General Grievous, Reporting directly to 
Grievous are the various military leaders of the commerce factions, while 
the heads of the factions collectively act as an advisory council, with Count 
Dooku as their leader (much the way Supreme Chancellor Palpatine leads 
the Galactic Senate). 

The Separatist Droid Army has no true order of hattle due to the 
completely separate militaries that comprise it; instead, task forces are 
assembled as needed from available units, The genius of General Grievous 
is his ability to coordinate radically different force structures in a way that 
keeps the Republic off balance at the strategic level. Taetically, however, 
these incompatible command structures result in profound inefficiency and 
chain-of-command confusion, the result being that the Republic can usually 
outfight the Separatists even when badly outnumbered. 


Army Command Structure 

The Confederacy has a simple but effective command structure. Droid offi- 
cers command droid troops, and organic officers command droid officers. 
The concept of individual ranks is largely wasted on Separatist droids, who 
are simply programmed to obey their officers. Even the organic troops 
often have no more official place in the rank structure than “foot soldier” 
or “squad leader.” 

Qaly those organics whe are part of preexisting armed forces tend to 
have traditional ranks such as private, lieutenant, colonel, and so on. But 
all report to their respective superiors, and, eventually and ultimately, to 
General Grievous, Grievous, in turn, reports to Count Dooku, who does the 
bidding of Darth Sidious. 


SEPARATIST NAVAL FLEET 

The Separatists have a sizeable armada of ships well before hostilities with 
the Galactic Republic begin—from the blockade fleet of the Trade Federation 
to the war fleet of the Commerce Guild. Unlike the ground forces, trough, 
the Separatists’ ships are crewed almost entirely by living beings—though 
maintenance and astromect droids are common, and the Neimoidians and 
Skakoans rely heavily on droid crews on all their ships. 


The Separatist Admiralty 

Like their ground forces, the Confederacy Navy begins as separate corporate 
fleets of the various commerce factions, only to be later combined under 
General Grievous. The organization changes little during the transition but 
grows in size. 

The command structure of the Separatist admiralty consists of five 
groups. 

Section (2-4 vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): The 
smallest group in the Separatist admiralty is the scction, commanded by 
a captain, 

Flight (4-16 vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): A Flight 
consists af 2-4 sections, commanded by a commodore. 

Squadron (12~64 vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): A 
squadron consists of 3-4 flights, lsd by a commodore. 

Task Group (36-6460 vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): A 
task group consists of 3-10 squadrons, Iced by a rear admiral. 

Task Force (72-1,280 vessels. plus maintenance and support crew): 
A task force consists of 2 task groups, led by a vice admiral. 

Fleet (200-4,000 vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): A 
fleet consists of 3 task groups, led by an admiral. 

Admiralty: The Separatist Admiralty consists of hundreds of individual 
fleets, under the command of General Grievous. 


Admiralty Command Structure 

The admiralty's hierarchy is similar to the Separatist Droid Army’s—gunnery 
crew, guanery officers, communication and tactical af ficers, pilots (or pilot 
roids), navigational officers, oridge officers, ship captains, and group com- 
manders. In addition, the command structure inctudes positions for multiple 
noncommand specialists: medical officers; deck officers; and fighter pilots— 
or, in Many cases, droid starfighters. Officers in the Admiralty are organic, 
except for a small percentage of dait!e droid officers. 


PERSONNEL 

The Separatists' droid army is vast, out its military includes great numbers of 
organic warriors as well. The Geonesians are among the Separatists’ earliest 
and most fanatical followers, and Trandoshan mercenaries often work with 
the Confederacy (with unofficial encouragement from their leaders). 


GEONOSIAN WARRIOR 

Geonosis's hive world produces millions of new warriors each year. These 
winged fighters are trained from the moment they hatch to obey the bidding 
of their queen. Though not particulérly intelligent, they are fiercely loyal. 
Because the Geonosian warrior caste can fly, they tend to think in three 
dimensions—and because they sleep by clinging 10 walls, Geonosians make 
use of the high ceilings and uneven ‘walls of their hive chambers to spring 
devastating ambushes, 


Geonosian Warrior cL 1 
Medium Geonosian nonheroic 3 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision, Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Geonosian 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fart 10 (15 against radiation), Will 10 
hp 10; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares, fly 4 squares, climd 3 squares 

Melee electro-staff +3 (2d6+2) 

Raaged sonic blaster +2 (248 sonic!) 

Base Atk +2: Grp +3 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 11, Con 11, Ini 8, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities radiation resistance 

Feats Skill Training (Stealth), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +6, Stealth +6 

Possessions electro-staff2 or sonic blaster 

1 Sonic damage cannot be deflected by hightsabers and is considered 
energy damage. 

2 The Geonosian version of the efeciro-stoff ss nol a double weopon. 


1S ans [iyi eaters 


EI) 


Q 
I 
> 
v 
4 
8 
2 
s 


MAS) SJL 


ASVvueqe 


GEOGNOSIAN EBLITE WARRIOR 
Elite warriors are assigned to guard sensitive areas of the Geonosian hives, 
such as the nurseries and the hidden chambers of the queen caste. 


Geonosian Elite Warrior CL3 

Medium Geonosian nonheroic 3/soldier 2 

Init +7; Senses low-light vision, Perception +2 

Languages Basic, Geonosian 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-*ooted 15), Fort 15 (20 against radiation), Will 12; 
+4 armor 

hp 26; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares, climo 3 squares 

Melee clectro-staff +6 (2d6+45) 

Ranged sonic blaster pistol +4 (2d6+1 sonict, devastating 5) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (pistols) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 8! 

Special Qualities radiation resistance 

Talents Devastating Attack (pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Training (Steaith), Toughness, 
Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +7, Stealth +7 

Possessions ¢lectro-staff2 or sonic blaster pistol, warrior tunic (+4 armor; 
as combat jumpsuit) 

1 Sonic damage cannot be deflected by lightsabers and is considered 
energy damage. 

2 The Geonosian version of the electra-stoff is not a double weapon. 


TRANDOSHAN BOUNTY HUNTER 
Trandashans have hunted Waokiees for as fong as anyone can *emember, and 
many of their bounty hunters sign up with the Separatists as soon as the war 
Starts, just for an excuse to legitimize slaughtering their ancient toes. 


Trandoshan Bounty Hunter cL 6 
Mediurn Trandoshan nonheroic 3/scout 4/bounty hunter 1 

Force 4; Dark Side 5 

Init +8; Senses darkvision, Perception +4 

Languages Basic, Dosh 

Defenses Ref 18 [flat-footed 18), Fort 18, Will 15; +4 armor, +1 satural 
hp 47; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee claw +7 (1d4+3) or 

Melee bayonet +7 (10844) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +5 (3d10+2) or 


Ranged heavy blaster rifle +3 (4d10+2) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged stun grenade launcher +5 (40642 stun, 2-square burst) or 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle), Dastardly Strike, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Acute Senses, Keen Shot, Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 8, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 10 

Special Qualities limb regeneration, natural armor 

Talents Acute Senses, Dastardly Strike, Keen Shot 

Feats Armor Proficiency {light}, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill 
Training (Survival), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons 
pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +8, Survival +9 

Possessions combat jumpsuit, neavy blaster rifle with mounted bayonet, 
grenade launcher, 4 stun grenades 

Limb Regeneration—A Trandoshan regrows 2 lost limb in 1d10 days, At 
the end of that time, all persistent penalties associated with the loss of 
the limb are removed. 


TRANDOSHAN MERCENARY 

Those Trandoshans who embrace warfare—rather than slaving—as their 
profession often rise to the top of their trade: Being adle to regenerate lost 
limbs in a matter of days is a huge advantage over most soldiers-of-fortune. 
Their relative invulnerability makes them overconfident, though, and Tran- 
doshan mercenaries often pile on the heaviest armor they can afford, strap 
on the biggest, most lethal weapons they can find, and wade into battle as 
though nothing can stop them. Fortunately for them, and unfortunately for 
the Grand Army of the Republic, they are often correct. 
Trandoshan Mercenary CL 12 
Medium Trandoshan soldier 7/elite trooper 5 

Destiny 2: Force 6; Dark Side 8 

Init +11; Senses low-light, Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Dosh 

Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 30), Fort 31, Will 23; +5 armos, +1 natural 
hp 131; DR 2; Threshold 36 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee claw +14 (1d6+8} 

Ranged heavy blaster rifte +10 (3430+8, devastating 5) with autofire or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +10 (5d10+8, devastating 5) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +5/+5 (3d10+8, devastating 5) with Double 
Attack and autofire or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +5/+5 (5d?0+8, devastating 5) with Double 
Attack and Burst Fire ar 

Base Atk +12; Grp +14 


Atk Options autofire, Burst Fire, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), 
Rapid Shot 

Special Actions delay damage, Charging Fire, Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 11, Con 14, Int 11, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities |imb regeneration 

Talents Armored Defense, Controlled Burst, Devastating Attack (heavy 
weapons), Improved Armored Defense, Indomitable, Multiattack 
Proficiency (heavy weapons), Weapon Specialization (heavy weapons} 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Burst Fire, Charging Fire, 
Double Attack, Improved Damage Threshold, Martial Arts i, Point Blank 
Shot, Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons; 

Skills Endurance +13, initiative +11, Knowledge (tactics} +11 

Possessions heavy battle armor, heavy blaster rifle, helmet package 


Limb Regeneration—A Trandoshan regrows a lost limb in 1d10 days. At 
the end of that time, all persistent penalties associated with the loss of 
the limb are removed 


INFLUENTIAL FIGURES 


In every war, battles are decided by the actions of a few brave individu- 
als. But those battles are not fought except at the bidding of the army's 
commanders—and, above them, their civilian leadership. For the Republic, 
this mearts the Jedi and the Senate. For the Separatists, the leadership comes 
down to a handful of individuals: the Dark Jedi Asajj Ventress, the mad 
cyborg Burge, the merciless tactician General Grievous, and, above them, 
the charismatic Count Dooku. But even Dooku answers to an even higher 
authority: the Sith Lord Darth Sidious 

Unlike the Jedi who lead the Grand Army of the Republic, the Separatist 
commanders fight the war with venceance in their hearts; each has a reason to 
hate the enemy, and, in at least two cases, a bloodlust that almost makes them 
more effective assassins than commanders. Although Grievous sees the war as 
a tactical equation to be solved, Ventress and Durge see it as an opportunity 
to settle old scores; for them, the war cannot go on long enough. 

For Count Dooku, the end of the war means the end of his charade with 
his Sith Master. When the war is over, there will no longer be a need to 
pretend that Darth Sidious and Supreme Chancellor Palpatine are two dif- 
ferent people—neither of whom are otherwise necessary to the Confederacy 
of Independent Systems. Dooku can dispatch Sidious and become the new 
Sith Master... and the ruler of the new Sith Empire 


COUNT Doom AND WHORM LOATHSOM 


COUNT DOOKU, SEPARATIST 
LEADER AND SITH LORD 

Count Dooku is the enigmatic and competing leader of the Separatists, a 
former Jedi Master who broke with the Jedi Order. He is also Darth Tyranus, 
the new apprentice of the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. Powerful, skilled, and char- 
ismatic, Dooku leads the secessionists, slowly gathering them together into a 
Confederacy of Independent Systems. A natural leader of uncommon vision, 
Count Dooku has enticed thousands of worlds away from the Republic with his 
dream of reshaping the galaxy, of wipir'g away the greed and the bureaucracy 
and the inequities that come with them. Cif all the Separatists, Dooku alone is, 
the best suited for the task of forging a true and lasting political system—for 
of all the Separatists, Dooku alone knows the will of the Force and how it can 
guide the Separatists to a new age of ptace and prosperity. 

But Dooku has fallen under the sway of the dark side, and, sadly, cannot 
see how it clouds his judament. As a Jedi Master, Dooku is assigned to lead 
a mission to Galidraan, to repel an invasion by Mandalorians—among them, 
Jango Fett—but his forces are only hastily assembled, and he loses over half 
of the Jedi assigned to him. Only later does Dooku learn that he had been 
manipulated; Galidraan’s governor hai actually hired the Mandalorians for 
another job, wanting the Jedi to get rd of them when they became incon- 
venient. Anyone but a Jedi might have been enraged by this betrayal, but 
Dooku is more disappointed in how the Jedi Order had become dupes for 


0 
I 
> 
3 
ii 
2 
x| 


=) 


ABVOSOAOINE 


the Galactic Republic. Upon hearing the news that his former apprentice, 
Kamar Vosa, has ocen killed while on a similarly pointless missiaa, Dooku 
resigns from the Jedi Order. 

Soon after his departure, though, Count Dooku 15 visited by the Dark Lord 
of the _ Darth Sidious. The joss of Sith Lord's former apprentice, Darth 
Maul, motivates Sidious to seck out a new apprentice, a convert who already 
has the training he needs—and who can be turned to the dark side. Dooku 
fits the bill perfectly, a fully trained Jedi Master with radical phi osophies 
on galactic politics. Doeks 1s disenchanted with the Jedi way just cnough 
to hear what the Sith Lord has to say rather than immediately attack him or 
notify the Jedi High Council. Sidiaus’s words are compe;ting; ne, too, beli¢ves 
that the Republic is rapidly being crushed under its own weight, and that a 
new order is desperately needed. But he, Sidious, cannot adequately effect 
change without attracting the attention of the Jedi. Furthermore, the last 
thing the Sith Lord can afford at this puint is to be exposed: his plans to 
rescue the Republic from itself depend on hig own anonymity, 

The need for secrecy severely hinders Sidious. He. needs someone wha 
can openly ta?k to the right people, to arrange meetings between them, and 
to serve as the public voice for the secessionis! movement he proposes. In 
exchange for Dookwv becoming that person, Sidious agrees teach the former 
Jedi Master about the dark side of the Force and how Dooku can use it to 
bring about the positive changes they beth envision for the galaxy. 

So, yet again, Dooku chooses his destiny. But in doing so, he has truly 
sealed his fate. 


Count Dooku cL 18 
Medium Human Jedi 7Jedi Knight 5Uedi Master 4/Sith Lord 2 
Destiny 3; Force 7, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 14 

Init +16; Senses Use the Force +17 

Languages Basic, Geonosian, Shyriiwook = 
Defenses Ref 33 (flat-fuoted 31), Fort 32, Will 33; Block 

hp 141; Threshold 32 

Immune fear effects 


Speed 5 squares 

Melee lightsaber +22 (2d8+9) or 

Melee lightsaber +20 (248+9) with Rapid Strike 

Melee lightsaber +19/+19 (2d8+9) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +17/+17 (3d8+9) with Double Attack and Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +14/+14/+14 (2d8+9) with Triple Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +12/+12/+12 (3d8+9) with Triple Attack and Rapid 
Suike 

Base Atk +18; Grp +20 

Atk Options Double Attack, Improved Disarm, Melee Defense, Rapid 
Strike, Triple Attack 

Special Actions Lightsaber Defenses +3 (Makashi), serenity, temptation 


Force Powers Known (Use the Force 417): Force grip, Force hghtaneg, 
Farce siom, force thriist, mind trick, move obyect 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitaract Power, 
Quicken Power 


¢ Power Mastery, Img 

, Con 13, Int 15, Wis 

Special Qualities temptation 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Block, Force Deception, Foree Perception, Force 
Persuasion, Lightsaber Defense, Makash:, Multattatk Proficiency 
(ligntsabers), Severing Strike, Telekinetic Savant 

Feats Double Attack flightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(2), Improved Disarm, Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Strong in the 
Force, Tripte Attack {lightsabers), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 
{lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency [lightsabers, simple weapons), 
Whirlwind Attack 

Skills Initiative +16, Knowledge {galactic lore) +16, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +16, Perception +16, Use the Force +17 

Possessions lightsaber (sel built] 


fove Light Object 


ha 16 Seg mad 


ASAJUI VENTRESS, DARK JEDI 
Although the Sith tradition prevents Count Dooku from taking on an appren- 
tice, he dogs train several acolytes in the Sith arts, including a bitter young 
former Jedi named Asajj Ventress. Ventress was trained on her homewarld 
of Rattatak by a Jedi Knight named Ky Narec, and she knows little of the Jedi 
Order. When Ky Naree 1s killeg, Ventress is unable to control her anger, vowing 
vengeance not only on the warlords whose squabbles caused Ky Narec's death 
but also on the Jedi Order for not sending anyone to help 

As the years pass, Asajj Ventress becomes increasingly embittered toward 
the Jedi. She tries her hand at bounty hunting for a while, hoping to pit her 
skills against Jegi targets, but never nas the oppertunity. During this time, 
Asajj Ventress learns of the Sith and concludes that, since she cannot jain the 
ranks of the hated Jedi, she will became their greatest cnemy. However, it is 
not until she meets Count Cooku in the bettle arena known as the Cauldron 
that she learns what a Sith truly is. 

After proving herself worthy by defeating over a dozen opponents in the 
Cauldron, Asajj Ventress presents herself to Dooku, who awards her a pair of 
curve-hilted lightsabers (formerly belonging to Komari Vosa) and gives her 
an assignment to kill Anakin Skywalker, Although she fails, Ventress proves 
to be a resourceful and vicious assassin, Carrying out Numerous missians on 
Dooku's behalf. She clashes repeatedly with both Anakin Skywalker and his 
master Obi-Wan Kenobi, but despite capturing Kenobi at one point, she is 
unable to kill either Jedi, 


ABASI VENTRESS 


Shortly before the end of the Clone Wars, Skywalker and Kenobi defes! 
Asajj Ventress, and Kenobi believes that they have purged the hatred fram 
her, redeeming her from the dark side. Assuming her dead, the Jedi send 
her body back to Coruscant aboard a medical shuttle. However, the shuttle 
vanishes en route, and, despite a rumor that she fights in the Second Battle 
of Xagobah, she has not been seen since 
Asajj Ventress CL 13 
Metium Rattataki (near-Human) Jedi 5/scout 4/Sith apprentice 4 
Destiny 2, Force 7; Dark Side 13 
init +14; Senses Perception +7 
Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 28 (flat-tooted 25), Fart 26, Will 26; Block, Elusive Target 
hp 105; Threshold 26 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +15 (2d8+7} ar 
Melee lightsaber 215 (208 +7] and 

lightsaber 435 (2dB+7] 

Base Atk +12; Grp +15 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Dark Scourge, Running Attack 

Special Actions Dark Healing, Power of the Dark Side 

Farce Powers Known (Lise the Force +13): battle strike, dark rage, Force 
stam, move object 


Force Techniques Improved Move Light Object, Improved Sense 
Surroundings 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 17, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Block, Dark Healing, Dark Scourge, Elusive Target, Improved 
Stealth, Lightsaber Defense, Power of the Dark Side 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery 
\l, Dual Weapon Mastery Ill, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), 
Running Attack, Skill Training (Pilot, Stealth), Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Initiative +14, Pilot +14, Stealth +14, 
Use the Force +13 

Possessions 2 lightsabers 


DURGE, SEPARATIST 
COMMANDER 

Part cyborg, part ancient warrior, and almost entirely insane, Durge is little 
more than a killing machine. He is given the rank of commander in the 
Separatist army by Count Dooku and assigned the task of eliminating te last 
westiges of the Mandalorians in the galaxy: the Grand Army’s clone troapers, 
created from the genetic template of Jango Fett 

Qver 1,500 years old, Durge is the epitome of the aggressive Gen'Dai 
warrior: strong, fearless, and ruthless An early interest in bounty hunting 
leads him to apprentice with a Mandalorian named Jaing, and the two 
become friends. Eventually, they are approached by a doctor who offers 
to enhance their already formidabie skills with cybernetics—essentially, 
bonding them to their armer. Shortly after the procedure, a group of rival 
Mandalorians attack the doctor's laboratory, killing Jaing and setting Durge 
on a path of vengeance that ultimate y leads him to slay the Mandalorian 
ieader. However, he is tortured by Mandalore’s followers, which drives him 
past the brink of sanity. 

A long hibernation restores Durge to physical health, out his mind 15 
too damaged. Still thirsting far vengeance against the Mandalorians, Durge 
learns that the last of their number, Jango Fett, has been kille¢—but that he 
had left behind hundreds of thousandsaf clones, and the Separatist’s leader, 
Count Dooku, recruits Durgé to heig kill them. 

As a commander in the Separatist army, Durge leads a troop af IG lancer 
combat droids and often works alongside the equally vengeance-Griven dark 
sidt acolyte Asajj Ventress. Together, the two poison the moon of Ohma-D'un, 
killing countless Naboo and Gungans, and nearly kill Obi-Wan Kenobi and 
Anskin Skywalker. They sct up ¢ trap for the Jedi on Queyta, and square off 
against Kenobi and Skywalker again at the Battle of Muunilinst. 

Durge’s increasing mental instability troubles Count Dooku. Although 
an effective killer, he lacks the feadership skills that the Separatists require. 
ly response, Dooku recruits another cyborg, the deadly Grievous, to be his 
gencral—and to make sure that Durge is in fo position to object. Pitting 
Grievous against both Durge and Asai) ventress aboard the Trenchant Space 


x HSLavHo 


[) 


ASVHSEGSEONOS® SRL 


BARBRBaBBaaaaA 


mwZwerwe ew eS wae S&S & 
ABVESESaNGS Sah 


9 
I 
> 
J 
4 
ie 
pi 
x 


Station, Dooku is nvost pleased when his new candidate bests bath of his 
previous commanders in short order. 

Dooku stil! sees a ust for Durgé and Ventress, however, and orders his 
medics tO treat taem and restore them to Acalty. Durge soon returns to 
action, facing off against Jedi Master Kit Fisto and Pie Koon, and, later, 
battling Kenobi aad Skywalker again in the Karthakk system, where Anakin 
Skywalker maneuvers Durge into an escape pod. Trapped, Durge is helpless 
ta prevent young Skywalker from launching the snuttle into the nearest 
star—apoarentiy ending Durge’s long life once and for ail. 


Ource 


Durge CL 16 

Large Gen'Dai (cyborg) soldier BJelite trooper 2/scout 3/bounty hunter 3 

Destiny 3; Force S; Dark Side 24 

Init +12 (can rerolll; Senses low-light, garkvision; Perception +15 (can 
reroll) 


hp 190, Gen'Dai surge; DR 6; Threshold 43, resilicnt physiology 
immune atmospheric and inhaled poison hazards 


Speed 8 squares, fly 6 squares (jet pack) 

Melee spiked flail +141 (238+38) with Mighty Swing or 

Melee spiked fail +9/+91 (1d8+38] with Double Attack or 

Ranged blaster pistol +14 (3d6+8) or 

Ranged biaster pistol +9/+9 (3d6+8) with Double Attack or 

Ranged blaster pistois +12 (4d648) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster pistols +7/+7 (40648) with Double Attack and Rapic Shot 
or 

Ranged blaster rifle +14 (3d8+8) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +9/+9 (34848) with Double Attack or 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (¢d8+8) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster rific +7/+7 (4d8+8) with Double Attack and Rapid Snot or 

Ranged flechette launcher +14 (40d6+8 slashing, 2x2 area) or 

Ranged flamethrower +14 (4d6+8, G-square cone} 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach } square (4 squares with pseudopodia) 

Base Atk +15; Grp +27 

Atk Options Cleave, Double Attack, Great Cleave, Martial Arts |, Mighty 
Swing, Point Blank Shat, Power Attack, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions aid another (+4), delay damage, familiar foe +1, 
Shake It Off 


Abilities Str 24, Dex 9, Cor 19, Int 11, Wis 8, Cha $4 

Special Qualities cyborg hybrid, hibernation, regeneration 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Exotic Weapon Mastery, 
Improved Armored Deferse, Improved Initiative, Juggernaut, Second 
Skin, Uncanny Dodge |, Uncanny Dodge II 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Cleave, Double Attack, 
Extra Second Wind, Great Cleave, Martial Arts |, Mighty Swing, Pin, 
Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, Rapid Shot, Shake It Off, Weapon 
Proficiency {heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skits Endurance +17, Initiative +12 (can reroll), Perception +14 
{can reroll) 

Systems 2 hand appendages, unique armor (+10 armor, +4 equipment), 
shield generator (SR 10), improved sensor package, darkvision, 
synchronized fire circuits 

Possessions 2 blaster pistols, blaster rifle, flamethrower (5 shats), spiked 

flail, flechette launcher, jet pack (10 charges) 


Cyborg Hybrid—Durge can use any type of droid system except a 
Processor, His cyborg chassis includes a life support system, making 
him immune to atmospheric and inhaled poison hazards. 

Gen’Dai Surge-Durge heals 5 hit points per round after he takes 
his second wind. Though Durge cannot regrow lost body parts, he 
can reattach severed limbs if his dismembered extremities can be 
recovered. 

Hibernation—Durge can enter a hibernation trance. While in the trance, 
he can remove persistent conditions, such as from the effects of 
poison and disease, at a rate of one condition per hour. While in the 
trance, Durge ceases to age, and needs no food, water, or air until he 
emerges from hibernation. 

Pseudopodia—Durge has learned how to stretch his natural Gen'Dai form, 
giving him a reach of 4 squares. Durge can use this ability only when 
he is not wearing his armor. 

Resilient Physiology—Durge's Gen'Dai physiology allows him to shrug off 
the effects of wounds that would be fatal to anyone else; his damage 
threshold is doubled after adding in all bonuses for feats or size. 

1 Includes 8 points of Power Attack. 


GENERAL WHORM LOATHSOM 

The commander of the Retail Caucus's military forces, General Whorm 
Loathsom is a Kerkoider. who prides himself on his cunning and leadership 
ability. General Loathsom’s creative strategies lead the Separatists to victory 
on a number of battlefields. 

If General Loathsom has one flaw it is that his ego sometimes gets in the 
way of his strategic thinking, resulting in command decisions made more out 
of arrogance than solid strategy. This flaw allows Obi-Wan Kenobi to stall the 
Retail Caucus’s advance at the Battle of Christophsis, a blunder that shames 
General Loathsom after the Separatist defeat. 


Whorm Loathsom CL7 

Medium Kerkoiden nonheroic 6/noble 3/officer 2 

Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 6 

Init +5; Senses Perception +19 

Languages Basie, Bocce, High Galactic, Kerkoidese 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 16, Will 24 

hp 46; Threshatd 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+2) 

Ranged by weapon +8 

Base Atk +8; Grp +8 

Special Actions Assault Yactics, Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Inspire Haste, 
Leader of Droids 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 18, Cha 14 

Special Qualities command cover, predator's heritage, share talent 
(Bolster Ally), social cunning 

Talents Assault Tactics, Bolster Ally, Barn Leader, Inspire Haste 

Feats Improved Defenses, Leader of Droids, Skill Focus (Knowledge 
|tactics)), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Knowledge [tactics]}, 
Skill Training (Use Computer), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Knowledge (tactics) +17, Perception +19, 
Persuasion +14, Use Computer +12 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, various personal belongings 


OTHER SEPARATIST FORCES 
The droids, vehicles, and starships presented in this book do not represent 
the full extent of the Separatist forces. Additional Confederacy droids 
and starships can be found in the Saga Edition core rulebook and the 
Storships of the Galoxysupplement. Gamemasters should feel free to use 
these other sources to flesh out their Clone Wars campaigns. 


DROIDS cL SOURCE AND PAGE 
B1-Series battle droid 1 Saga Edition 199 
B2-Series super battle droid 2 Saga Edition 199 

Crab droid scout 4 Saga Edition 201 
Droideka 4 Saga Edition 200 

Dwarf spider droid 3 Saga Edition 200 

IG-100 MagnaGuard 6 Saga Edition 201 
STARSHIPS cL SOURCE AND PAGE 
AAT 8 Saga Edition 176 

Droid tri-fighter 9 Saga Edition 181 
Lucrehulk-class battleship 18 Starships of the Galaxy 146 
Mankvim 814 interceptor 5 Storships of the Galaxy 109 
Munificent-class frigate 18 Starships of the Galoxy 64 
Nantext-class starfighter 7 Starships of the Galaxy 86 
Porax-38 starfighter 10 Starships of the Galaxy 121 
Recusant-class destroyer 19 Starships of the Galaxy 72 
Scarab-class starfighter 6 Starships of the Galoxy 79 
"Vulture" droid starfighter 7 Saga Edition 181 


Ix HBLavHD 


c 


gee ae eee eo oo & 
ABSVEUSEGSINGS SHL 


ix #5lavHo 


CONFEDERACY DROIDS 
Armed with the materiel of the Trade Federation, the Techno Union, and 
Geonosian Industrits—and the financial resources of the InterGsiactic Bank- 
ing Clan and the Commerce Guild—the Confederacy of tndependert Systems 
is well-suited to generating vast droid armies. 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROIDS 
The category of fourth-dearee droids encompasses most of the droid army: 
battle droids, super battle droids, assassin droids, and so on. 

With the ability to manufacture new troops at 2 rate of thousands per 
day in the Geonosis factories alone, the Confederacy of Independent Systems 
has a distinct numerical advantage over the Republic’s Grand Anmy. And, in 
addition, their new experiments and prototypes can Simply be shut down if 
they prove unstabie—something that is a bit more difficult for the Kaminoan 
cioners to do with their own failures. 

The major contributors to the droid army are, of course, the Trade Federa- 
tion, with their OOM-Series battle droids, and the Geonosians, with their 
underground droid factories pumping out Bi-Series and B2-Series battle 
drotds for the Separatist cause. Meanwhile, the Techno Union suggests 
improvements upon the ather factions’ basic designs and provides a steady 
stream of new weapons and equipment to be field-tested under actual 
battle conditions. With so many different factions and species supplying 
droids for the war, the Separatists’ forces are understandably diverse; even 
the lowly battle dred comes in ali shapes and sizes, based upon the design 
goals of their creators. 


DROID COLORS 

Unlike the Grand Army's color-coded ranking system, the Separatist's 
droid army only has two rank distinctions: commanders and troops. 
However, specialized battle droids are often painted in other colors so 
nic. = personne can easily tell them apart. This practice is mainly 
confined to OOM-Series and B1-Series battle droids. Other droids—such 
as the droideka, | (G lancer, and even the B2-Series super battle droid—do 
not use the sure conventions for insignia. 


Security Droid: Red 
Pilot/Technical Droid: Blue 
Battle Droid: None 


A-DSD Advanced Dwarf Spider Droid 
The Commerce Guild's contribution to the Separatist battle droid army is the 
“dwarf” spider droid, originally built to root out miners who refused to pay 
Commerce Guild tariffs. The advanced model upgrades the blaster cannon 
and adds a pair of fire-linked missile launchers. Like the DSD-1, the A-DSD 
is capable of operating in camplete darkness. 

Amajor improvement over the DSD? is that the A-DSD has heavily armored 
leg plates that it can use to shield its body. 

The A-DS01 is available commercially for many years ocfore the Battle of 
Geonosis, and is actually used in holographic training simulations for clone 
troopers on Kamino prior to their first action, However, it is not manufactured 
in large numbers until same time after the mobilization of the droid armies, 
possibly due to cost overruns. 

Advanced dwarf spider droids can't be played as droid heroes. 
A-DSD Advanced Dwarf Spider Droid CL6 
Huge droid (ath-degree) nonheroic 9/soidier 3 
Init +10; Senses low-light vision, darkvision, Perception +7 
Languages Basic, Binary 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 31, Will 12: +7 

armor (see also Ieg shields below) 
hp 59; Threshold 46 
Immune droid traits 


CAPTAIN REX BLASTS AN A-PED aovanceD 
SPIDER OROID FROM ABOVE. 


Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee claw +12! (148414) 

Ranged blaster cannon +7 (3d12+1, 1-square splash) or 

Ranged blaster cannon +5 (4d12+1, 1-square splash) with Rapid Shot or 
Ranged fire-linked missile launchers +7 (4d12+1, 2-square burst) or 
Ranged self-destruct +5 (8d6, 4-square burst centered on droid) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +9; Grp +27 

Atk Options autofire, Burst Fire, Power Attack 

Special Actions feg shields, Point Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 26, Dex 7, Con —, lint 9, Wis 9, Cha 7 

Special Qualities stability 

Talents Armored Defense, Juggernaut 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Power Attack, Rapid Shot, Toughness, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles) 

Skills Initiative +9 : 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, claw, improved sensar 
package, darkvision sensors, self-destruct system (8d6 damage) 

Possessions blaster cannan, fire-linked missile launchers, 36 frag missiles, 
quadanium battle armor 

Availability Military; Cost 25,000 credits 

Stability—An advanced dwarf spider droid gains a +5 stability bonus on 
checks made to resist being knocked prone. 

Leg Shields—As a move action, the A-DSD can pull its legs in close to 
increase its anmor bonus to +11 until the start of its next turn. 

1 Includes 5 points of Power Attock. 


A-Series Assassin Droid 
Created long ago by an Anx scientist named Pollux Poi, A-Series assassin 
droids survive their creator and have been scattered throughout the galaxy 
ever since—some as the property of new owners, others as independent droid 
mercenaries. Count Dooku acquires a sizeable quantity of them just in time 
for deployment against the Jedi in the Battle of Jabiim, though he continues 
to assign them to various commanders throughout the course of the war. 

The assassin droids presented here are the most basic model, equipped 
with wrist-mounted blasters and retractable finger blades. However, over 
the centuries since the death of their creator, the A-Series droids have accu- 
mulated countless new weapons (and the training to use them) including 
grenade launchers, flamethrawers, Geonosian sonic blasters, vibrablades, 
and—reportedly—lightsabers. They are also able to collapse into a wheel 
shape, enabling them to move somewhat faster—an innovation usually 
associated with the droideka destroyer droid. 

A-Series assassin droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


A-Series Assassin Droid cL 11 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier G/elite trooper 3 

Force 5; Dark Side 11 

Init +14; Senses low-light vision, darkvision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 24), Fort 27, Will 19; +3 armor 

hp 67; DR 1; Threshold 27 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking), 8 squares (wheeled) 

Melee finger blades +15 (1d6+6) or 

Melee finger blades +13 (2d6+6) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee finger blades +10/410 (1d6461 with Double Attack or 

Melee finger blades +8/+8 (2d6+6) with Double Attack and Rapid Strike 
or 

Ranged wrist blaster +15 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged wrist blaster +13 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged wrist blaster +10/+10 (3d8+4) with Double Attack or 

Ranged wrist blaster +8/+8 (4d8+4)} with Double Attack and Rapid Shot 

Fighting Space | square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +13; Grp 415 

Atk Options aid another (+4), autofire {wrist blasters), Double Attack 
(finger blades or rifles), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 11 

Talents Armored Defense, Exotic Weapon Mastery, Improved Armor 
Defense, Indomitable, Multiattack Proficiency (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Double 
Attack (advanced melee weapons), Double Attack (rifles), Martial 
Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Rapid Strike, Weapon Proficiency 
{advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +14, Perception +14 

Systems walking lacomotion, heuristic processor, improved sensor 
package, darkvision, synchronized ‘ire circuits, 2 hand appendages, 

1 stabilized weapon mount, vocabulator, locked access 

Possessions wrist blasters (as blaster rifle), finger blades, quadanium 
battle armor 

Availability Illegal; Cost 14,000 credits 


B1-A Air Battle Droid 
Designed as fast-assault battle droids, B1-A Series droids are equipped with 
jet packs that let them get behind enemy positions well ahead of standard 
droid troops. Air battle droids are outfitted with small, wrist-mounted blast- 
ers and long, double-edged blades in each forearm, making the droids ideal 
for close cambat. 

Air battle droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


ABVUSGSEAIMES SHA py 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
9% 
2 
= 


ex 


B1-A Series Air Battle Droid cL 4 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3/soldier 3 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Battle Droid Assassin cL4 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheraic 3/saldier 3 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision, Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 16, Will 13 
hp 24; Threshold 16 
Immune droid traits 


Defenses Ref 15 {flat-footed 14), Fort 16, Will 13 
hp 24; Threshold 16 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (waiking), fly 6 squares (jet pack) 

Melee knife +6 (14443) or 

Melee knife +1 (1d4+3) and 
knife +4 (1d4+3) or 

Ranged wrist-blaster +6 (3d6+1) or 

Ranged wrist-blaster +4 (446+!) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged wrist-blaster +1 (3d6+1) and 
wrist-blaster +1 (3d6+1) or 

Ranged wrist-blaster -1 (4d6+1) and 
wrist-blaster -1 (44641) with Rapid Shot 

Fighting Space | square; Reach | square 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Rapid Shet, Stunning Strike 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con —, Int 9, Wis 10, Caa 10 

Talents Melee Smash, Stunning Strike 

Feats Dual Weapon Mastery |, Rapid Shot, Skill Training (Initiative), 
Running Attack, Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, 
pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Perception +8 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comllink, vocabulator 

Possessions 2 knives, 2 wrist-blasters (blaster pistols), jet pack (10 
charges) 

Availability Military; Cost 2,100 credits 


Battle Droid Assassin 

Built on the standard B1-Scries battle droid chassis, the battle droid assassin 
is loaded with gyroscop c stabilizers and detailed target-selection programs 
designed to make it a more effective sniper. Unfortunately, the high cost of 
developing the appropriate algorithms—while still keeping the droid “slaved” 
to a remote processor—means that, in the broad scope of things, very few 
battle droid assassins are produced. 

Battle droid assassirs can’t be played as droid heroes. 


Speed 6 squares (waking) 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d3+2) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +6 (3d10+1, devastating 5) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rific +6 (4d10+1, devastating 5) with Deadeye or 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +6 (3d4+9) or 

Ranged thermal detonator +6 (8d6+1, 4-square burst) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (rifles), Far Shot, Precise Shot, 
Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions aid another (+4), Battle Analysis 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Talents Battle Analysis, Devastating Attack (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Deadeye, Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons] 

Skills Perception +10 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, synchronized fire circuits, 
2 hand appendages, imoroved sensor package, internal comlink, 
vocabulator 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle with standard targeting scope, hold-out 
blaster pistol, 2 fraq grenades 

Availability Military; Cost 6,460 credits 


Cold Assault Battle Droid 

Built for use in arctic climates, cold assault battle droids—ar “snow 
droids"—are built on an enlarged B2-Series super battle droid chassis but 
with their wrist blasters cemoved to accommadate the snow droid’s greater 
grip strength. The heavy blaster that replaces the wrist blasters is a more 
dangerous weapon, but the droid is still extremely effective even when it 
foses its main armament. 

The major design flaw of the cold assault battle droid is that its large 
feet—designed to keep it stable on snowy ground—slow it down somewhat. 
When running, the coid assault battle droid can only move up to three times 
its speed, rather than four times. 

Cold assault battle droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


Cold Assault Battle Droid cL2 

Large droia (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +2; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 10 (fiat-foated 10), Fort 14, Will 10; +2 armor 

hp 31; Threshold 19 

(mmune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +8 (id3+4) 

Ranged heavy diaster rifle +3 (3010) or 

Ranged heavy biaster rifle +1 (4010) with Rapid Shat 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +4; Grp +13 

Atk Options autofire (wrist blasters), Charging Fire, Rapid Shot, 
aid another (+4) 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 9, Con —, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 7 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light). Charging Fire, Rapid Shot, Touginness, 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapans, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +8 


LET TO FIGHT: BI-A au BATTLE DAGIC, CORTOSBIS BATTLE CFalD, 
DOM-Semies @ATTLE DROID, AND A-SERIES ASBAGEIN OFGID 


Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, backup processor, 
synchronized fire circuits, 2 hand appendages, internal comlink, 
vocabulator, plasteel shell (+2 armor) 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle 

Availability Military; Cost 5,500 credits 


Cortosis Battle Droid 
Constructed specifically te counteract the Repudlic’s force of Jedi Knights— 
ang atan extraordingrily high price For droids—C-B3 battle droids are pared 
with 2 cortosis-durastee! allay that shrugs off hits from a lightsaber, in 
aildition te stopping most small-arms fire 

Their offensive capability, while lim ted to a pair af portable laser cannons 
(built on the draideka template), is still highly effective, especially when 
C-B3s appear in numbers and can concentrate their fire. Every second that 
cortesis battle droids can delay a Jedi, the more time their reinforcements 
have to join the fray, Eventually, the sheer number of incoming blast colts 
can overwhelm even a Jedi Master—especially when his attacks are nowhere 
ncay as effective as they are against standard B2-Series battic droids. 

Cartosis battle droids can't be played as droid heroes 


iaiavHo) 


Ix HBLlavHo 


ABVUEEGEANGO Sx, 


PyYVUTQETQLIQLI TD 


IX HSidvwHa 


C-B3 Cortosis Battle Droid 

Medium draid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 3 

Init +4; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 19}, Fort 17, Will 13; +8 armor 

hp 40; DR 5 (lightsabers only); Threshold 17 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +9 (1¢343) 

Ranged wrist blaster +7 (34841, devastating 5, penetrating 5) or 

Ranged wrist blaster +2 (3d8+1, devastating 5, penetrating 5) and 
wrist blaster +2 {3d8+1, devastating 5, penetrating 5) or 

Ranged wrist blaster +0 {4d8+1, devastating 5, penetrating 5} and 
wrist blaster +0 (40841, devastating 5, penetrating 5) with Rapid Shot 
or 

Ranged wrist blaster +2 (5d8+1, devastating 5, penetrating 5) with Burst 
Fire or ; 

Ranged wrist blaster -3 (5d8+1, devastating 5, penetrating 5) and 
wrist blaster -3 (54841, devastating 5, penetrating 5) with Burst Fire 

Fighting Space 1 squzre; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options autofire (wrist blasters), Burst Fire, Charging Fire, 
Devastating Attack (rifles), Penetrating Attack (rifles), Rapid Shot 

Special Actions aid another (44) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 11, Con —, Int 10, Wis 15, Cha 7 

Talents Devastating Attack (rifles), Penetrating Attack (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Charging Fire, Dual 
Weapon Mastery I, Rapid Shot, Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (rifles) 

Skills Perception +9 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, backup processor. 
synchronized fire circuits, 2 hand appendages, internal comlink, 
vocabulator, durasteel battle armor (+8 armor, cortosis-durasteel alloy) 

Possessions 2 wrist blasters (as blaster rifle) 

Availability Military; Cost 25,000 credits 


Droid Commando 

Although Separatist droid armies rely heavily on theis sheer numbers to 
overwhelm enemy forces, the Confederacy does have need for elite droid 
units that can accomplish objectives that cannot be achieved through 
overwhelming force alone. As a response ta the desire to have droid units 
capable of performing more subtle or delicate missions, the droid engineers 
at Baktoid Combat Automata produced the BX-Series droid commandos. 
With heuristic processors and memory banks loaded with complex military 
tactics and strategic information, the droid commandos act as special forces 
capable of missions invalving infiltration, stealth, and subterfuge. 


Droid commandos are specifically programmed to function in small groups 
of 3-6 droids, allowing them to effectively stage more precise strikes than 
remote-controlled battle droids. 

Droid commandos can't be played as droid heroes. 


Droid Commando CL6é 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 4 

Force 3 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision, Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 18 

hp 37; Threshold 17 

(mraune droid immunities 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (103+2) . 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (34842) 

Fighting Space | square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Coordinated Attack, Cover Fire, Paint 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Sniper 

Special Actions Battle Analysis 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con =, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid immunities 

Talents Battle Analysis, Cover Fire 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Improved Defenses, Paint Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Skill Training (Knowledge [tactics]), Sniper, Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13, Knowledge (tactics) +12, Perception +13, Stealth +13 

Systems walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, heuristic processor, 
internal comiink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rific, ciecttobinoculars 

Availability Military; Cost 17,900 


IG Lancer Combat Droid 

iG Series combat droids are originally created by the Muunitinst-based Phlut 
Design Systems, but when PDS defaults on a loan, the InterGalactic Banking 
Clan seizes all of its assets—including the IG droids, which they soon turn 
over to tne Confederacy cf independent Systems. lronicaily, the IG lancers 
see¢ their first mass deployment at the Battle of Muunilinst—practically under 
the nases of their original creators. 

The IG lancers have been adapted to fight from the back of swoop bikes, 
and they can be extraordinarily effective when deployed in larce numbers. 
If the swoop bike is equipped with a minelayer, it can drop explosives in the 
path of oncoming enemy vehicles and either bring them to a sudden halt or 
destroy them outright. 

IG lancer combat droids can’t be played as droid heroes, 


IG Lancer Combat Droid CcL2 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +11; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Binary ie 
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 10), Fort #2, Will 10 
bp 15; Threshold 12 


Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee energy lance +6 (2d8+4) 

Melee energy lance +10 (2d8+7) with Powerful Charge 

Melee energy !ance +61 (2d8+15) with Powerful Charge and Power Attack 

Fighting Space | square; Reach 1 square (2 with energy lance) 

Base Atk +4: Grp +6 

Atk Options Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike, Running Attack 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con —, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Running Attack, Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Pilot 411 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions energy lance (as force pike, +1 square reach) 

Availability Military; Cost 2,700 credits 

1 Jocludes 4 points in Power Attack. 


IG-110 Lightsaber Droid 
The IG-110 lightsaber droid from Holowan Mechanicais is one of the newest 
droids created by the Separatists to deal with the growing involvement of 
the Jedi in the Clone Wars. Based heavily on the design of the MagnaGuards, 
which prove effective in dealing with the lightsaber-wielding Jedi, the 
IG-110 lightsaber droid uses prograrnming based on thousands of hours of 
halorecordings of Jedi in combat. 

An 1IG-110 lightsaber droid witi¢s two lightsabers crafted with synthetic 
crystals; the technique for creating the lightsabers is handed down from 
Count Dooku himself, though the lightsaber droid does not share the same 
connection to its weapons that the Jedi do. 

1G-110 lightsaber draids can't be played as droid heroes. Although these 
édroids have levels in the Jedi class to simulate the fact that their combat 
programming is based on Jedi tecbaiques, they are not Jedi. 
IG-110 Lightsaber Droid CLG 
Medium droid (4th-degree] soldier 1edi 5 
Force 5 
jnit +11; Senses low-light vision, Perception +9 
Languages Basic, Binary _ 


Defenses Ref 21 (fiat-footed 18, Lightsaber Defense 23), Fort 20, Wilt 18 
hp 58; Threshold 20 
Immune droid immunities 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee tightsaber +10 (2d848) or 

Melee lightsaber +8 (3d8+8) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +8/+8 (2d8+8/2d8+8) or 

Melee lightsaber +6/+6 (3d8+8/3d8+8) with Rapid Strike 

Fighting Space | square; Reach 1} scuare 

Base Atk +6; Grp +9 

Atk Options Dual Weapon Mastery II, Rapid Strike, Weapon Finesse 

Special Actions Lightsaber Defense 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con =, lint 10, Wis 12, Cha & 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Lightsaber Defense (2), Melee Smash, Weapon Specialization 
(lightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual 
Weanan Mastery II, Rapid Strike, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +41, Mechanies +8, Perception +9 

Systems walking locomotion, magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 2 hand 
appendages, improved sensor package, locked access, secondary 
battery, vocabulator 

Possessions 2 lightsabers, quadanium armor 

Availability Military; Cost 27,000 credits 


JK-13 Security Droid 

Cestus Cybernetic’s infamous "Jedi killer” security droids are of grave concern 
to the Republic because of the threat they pose to the Jedi commanders of 
the Grand Arnmy—aind, early in the war, rumors circulate that Count Dooku 
intends to purchase thousands af them for use in the Separatist army. The 
rumor ultimately proves to be an elaborate ruse to lure the Jedi into a trap; 
the JK-13's organic processor incorporates a Force-sensitive dashta eel, 
which 15 driven mad when it is made to use lethal force—obviously making 
them all but useless on the battlefield. 

The droids themselves are 3 work of genius: a highly stable cight-legged 
platform fitted with hundreds of extendible, whiplike “probes” capable of 
delivering stunning jolts of clectricity—all safely protected behind a shield 
generator powerful enough to deflect “epeated blows from a lightsaber. The 
JK-13 is even esthetically pleasing, sheathed in god plating and articulated 
stun tentacles. 

JK-13 security droids can’t be played as droid heroes. 


| 


x HSiavHS 


iL, 


ABVUSEASSNSS 2H) 


J waiavno 
b 


JK=13 Security Droid cL 12 
Large droid (4th-degree) soldier 12 

Force 2 

Init +13; Senses low-light, Use the Force +11 


Languages Binary 


Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 29, Will 23; Dodge 
hp 120; SR 20; Threshold 44 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (walking), climb 4 squares, Runining Attack 

Melee stun tentacles +161 (1d4+9, devastating 5) or 

Melee stun tentacles +111/+11! (1d4+9, devastating 5) with Double 
Attack or 

Melee stun tentacles +141 (2d4+9, devastating 5) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee stun tentacles +31/+91 (24449, devastating 5) with Double Attack 
and Rapid Strike 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square (3 squares with stun tentacles) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +20 : 

Atk Options Devastatirg Attack (stun tentacles), Double Attack, Melee 
Defense, Pin, Rapid Strike, Trip 

Special Actions Combat Reflexes = 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 14, Con —, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 11 

Special Qualities killing rage, stability 

Talents Devastating Attack (stun tentacles), Expert Grappler, Force 
Perception, Foresight, Melee Smash, Stunning Strike 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Double 
Attack, Exotic Weapon Proficiency (stun tentacles}, Force Sensitivity, 
Melee Defense, Pin, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Trip, Weapon Focus 
(stun tentacles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Initiative +13, Use the Force +11 

Systems walking locomotion (extra legs), climbing claws, organic 
processor, 10 probes, hardened systems (x3), shield generator [SR 20), 
improved sensor package 

Possessions stun tentacles 

Availability lllega!; Cost 50,000 credits 


ADVUEHSGHANEGS) SH 


Killing Rage—If a JK-13 security droid reduces an enemy 16 O hit points, 
the droid flies into a berserk fury, gaining a +2 rage bonus on melce 
attack rolis and melee damage rolls, but losing the ability to make Use 
the Force checks, until the end of the encounter. While raging, the 
JK-13 droid attacks the nearest target (friend or foe) until the droid is 
destroyed. 

Stability—A JK-13 security droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks 
made to resist being knocked prone. 

1 Compare the attack roi! to the target’s Fortitude Defense as well as its 
Reflex Defense. if the attack hits both defenses, the target moves =1 step 
on the condition track. 


LM-432 Assault Crab Droid 

Crab droids come in a wid2 range of sizes, but perhaps the most effective 
is the massive assault crab droid, standing over 6 meters tall and armed 
with more effective weaponry than the standard, mid-sized unit: a water 
jet sprayer that gives the crab droid its “Muckraker” nickname, plus a Merr- 
Sonn blaster cannon. The assault crab droid has the same weaknesses as 
its smaller cousins, including the fact that the area directly above it is out 
of its line of fire. 

Assault crab droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


LM-432 Assault Crab Droid CL6 

Huge droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 18 

Init +5; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 21, Will 12; +10 armor 

hp 145; Threshold 71 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking), climb 3 squares 

Melee claw +141 (148421) with Power Attack 

Melee claw +181 (1d8+301 with Power Attack and Powerful Charge 

Ranged blaster cannon +11 (3d12, 2x2 area) or 

Ranged jet sprayer +11 (3c10 stun, 6-square cone) or 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +13; Grp +34 

Atk Options Power Attack 

Special Actions Cleave vit 

Abilities Str 32, Dex 7, Con =, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Special Qualities stability 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power 
Attack, Powerful Charge, Weapon Proficiency {heavy weapons, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Climb +20 (can reroll, can take 10 when threatened), 
Perception +15, Stealth -3 

Systems walking locomation (extra legs), climbing claws, heuristic 
processor, 2 claw appendages, hardened systems x5, duranium battle 
armor (+t0 armar) 

Possessions blaster cannon, jét sprayer (including 100-liter water tank) 

Availability Military; Cost 40,000 credits a 

Stability—An assault crab droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks 
made to resist being knocked prone. 

1 includes 10 points of Power Attack. 


Lerr TO monr: 
4JK-13 SECURITY OROID, SPELUNKER FROEE BAOID, 
LM-4282 ABBAULT CRAB DROID, AND LR-57 COMBAT DROID 


LR-57 Combat Droid 

A massive combat droid used by tne Retail Caucus at the Battle of Chris- 
taphsis, the LR-S7 specializes in launching surprise attacks on unsuspecting 
enemies, The LR-57 typically operates in a passive standby mode, consum- 
ing Only enough power to keep its sensors active and searching for threats. 
When the combat droid detects a threat within its range, it activates and 
goes into attack mode, sending a signa back to its remote processor and 
awaiting instructions. 

The Retail Caucus has developed a strategy of burying LR-57 combat 
droids in the ground, wsing them like droid land mines with only their amien- 
Nae protruding above the surface. 

LR-57 combat droids can't bt payed as droid heroes. 


LR-57 Combat Droid CL3 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision, Perception +18 

Languages Binary 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 17, Will 12; +6 armar 

hp 33; Threshold 22 

Immune droid immunities 


5 


iX HSBieawvwHaD 


Speed 8 squares 

Ranged double heavy blaster rifle +7 (4410) or 

Ranged double heavy blaster rifle +2 (6d10) with Burst Fire 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach | square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +18 
Atk Options Burst Fire 
Abilities Str 24, Dex 12, Con --, int 16, Wis 15, Cha 8 
Special Qualities droid traits 


& 
& 
& 
& 
& 
q 
‘= 
@ 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Skill Focus {Perception}, Skill Va 
Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Steaith}), Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, rifles) 
Skills Perception 418, Stealth +10 
Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, remote receiver, 2 tool 
mounts, improved sensor package, internal comlink, locked access, 


AQVESGss2NweD 2hL 


vocabulator 
Possessions double heavy blaster rifle, durasteel plating (+6 armor) 
Availability Military; Cost 16,000 credits 


J 


IX HELaVHO 


ASVEHSSGSINEGO aH, |, 


Octuptarra Combat Tri-Droid 

The Techno Union's combat droid of choice is the nctuptarra tri-droid, named 
after the Skakoan herbivore it resemoles in shape. Equipped with chree laser 
turrets, the octuptarra tri-droid is capable of laying down withering fields of 
fire in all directions, but it is vulnerable in hand-to-hand combat because it 
needs all three of its legs for support. 

Later variants of the octuptarra tri-droid replace the explosives in the 
self-destruct system with a potent virus. When the virus is released, make 
an attack against the Fortitude Defense of each living creature in the burst 
radius. If the attack hits, the target creature moves =1 persistent step down the 


condition track. Whether it hits or misses, the attack repeats every hour until 


the creature is treated (requiring a successful DC 15 Treat Injury check). 
Octuptarra combat tri-droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


Octuptarra Combat Tri-Droid CL3 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3 
Init +15; Senses low-light vision, Perception +5 


Languages Binary 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 9), Fort 12, Will 9 
hp 32; Threshold 17 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking), climb 3 squares 
Ranged laser turret +7 (348) or 
Ranged laser turret +2 (Sd8) with Burst Fire or 
Ranged laser turret +2 (3d8) and 
laser turret +2 (3d8) with Double Attack or 
Ranged laser turret +5 (448) with Rapid Shot or 
Ranged laser turret -2 [5d8) and 
laser turret -2 (Sd@) with Burst Fire and Double Attack or 
Ranged laser turret +0 (4d8) 
and laser turret +0 (4d8) with Double Attack and Rapid Shot 
Ranged self-destruct +5 (8d6, 4-square burst centered on droid) or 
Ranged virus burst +5 vs. Fortitude Defense (-2 persistent steps down 
condition track, effect reoccurs once per day until treated) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach | square 
Base Atk +6; Grp +13 
Atk Options autofire, Burst Fire, Double Attack, Rapid Shot 
Special Actions Running Attack, self-destruct 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con —, lint 11, Wis 8, Cha 7 

Feats Burst Fire, Double Attack, Rapid Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus 
(Initiative), Weapon Proficiency (rifles. simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +15, Stealth +0 

Systems walking locomotion, magnetic feet, basic pracessor, inte-nai 
comlink, improved sersor package, self-destruct system (@d6 damage 
or virus) 

Possessions 3 laser turrets 

Availability Military; Cost 2,500 credits 


OOM-Series Battle Droid 
OOM-Series droids are originally designed by the Neimoidians to serve as 
crew aboard Trade Federation vessels. Yellow-striped OOM commanders 
oversee operations, blue-striped OOM pilots fly the ships, and red-striped 
OOM security forces protect vital areas. While not as effective as livine crews, 
they require almost no day-to-day maintenance and consume little eneray, 
and defective droids can be deactivated and replaced within minutes—all very 
important cansiderations to the cost-conscious Trade Federation. 

Although technically superior to (and less expensive than) their replace- 
ments, the B-Series battle droids and super battle droids, OOM-Series battie 
draids are viewed by the Confederacy of Independent Systems as “obsolete” 
and “ineffective’—particularly given the Trade Federation's disastrous defeat 
at Naboo. (Unfortunately, the improvements demanded by the Techno 
Union and the other Separatists lead to outrageous cost overruns, and the 
compromise they reach make the new droids less effective, but still cost 
twice as much.) 

OOM-Series battle droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


OOM-Series Battle Droid CL2 

Medium droid (4th-deqree) nonheroic 6 

Init +3; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 21; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d341) 

Ranged blaster carbine +4 (348) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con —, int 11, Wis 9, Cha 9 

Feats Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, heavy weapons, 
simple weapons), plus Coordinated Attack], Skili Training (Knowledge 
[tactics])2, or Skill Training (Pilot)3 

Skills Perception +7, plus Knowledge (tactics)2 +5 or Pilot3 +5 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine, electrobinoculars2, personal holoprojector2 

Availability Military; Cost 900 credits 

1 Security models only. 

2 Cammuander models anly. 

3 Pilot models only. 


Spelunker Probe Droid 

Spelunker probe droids are originally designed to enter subterranean areas 
to search for valuable ore deposits. When the Commerce Guild joins the 
Confederacy of Independent Systems, they hand the designs over to the 
Techno Union, which removes some of the mining-specific components and 
replaces them with advanced stealth systems. These modified droids are 
often referred to as “chameleon droids.” 

The modified spelunker probe croid is intended as a covert assassin droid, 
using Stealth to approach enemies and either attack with its laser cannons 
or deliver mines undetected to key entry and exit points on the battlefield. 
A common tactic for chameleon droids is to invisibly lay down numerous 
mines around their intended targets, then open fire, thus hopefully herding 
enemies inte the explosives. The integrated remote detonator also enables 
the droits to tngineer avalanches and cave-ins without requiring their 
opponents to trip the mines. 

The Techno Union retains the original droids' traction-field generators, 
which allow the spelunkers ta walk on walls and ceilings, planting their mines 
completely undetected. 

Spelunker probe droids can't be played as droid heroes, 


Spelunker Probe Droid CL6 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3/scout 5 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision, Perception +11 

Lanquages Binary 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 17, Will 15 

hp 30; Threshold 17 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking), climb 3 squares 

Melee claw +6 [1d4+3) or 

Ranged laser cannons +1 (3d8+2) with autofire or 

Ranged laser cannons +1 (5d8+2I with Burst Fire 

Ranged frag mine +6 (4d6, 2-square burst radius) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con —, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8 < 

Special Qualities cloaxing (total concealment), Hidden Movement, 
Impraved Stealth, stability 

Talents Acute Senses, Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Stealth}, Weapon Proficiency 
(heavy weapons, pistols, rifles) 


Skills Climb +10, Perception +11 (can reroll), Stealth +15 (can reroll) 

Systems walking locomotion (extra legs), basic processor, claw (climbing 
claws}, improved sensor package, cloaking holoprojector 

Possessions laser cannon (as light repeating blaster), minelayer, 24 frag 
mines, remote detonator 

Availability Military; Cost 15,750 credits 

Stability—A spelunker probe droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks 
made to resist being knocked prove. 


Ultra Droideka 

The ultra droideka is an oversized destroyer droid that can be used to supple- 
ment droid troops on the battlefield in much the same way that large crab 
droids do. The ultra droideka requires tremendous power to produce encugh 
energy to sustain its shields. For this reason, many af these droids aperate 
in shieldless mode when there is a low chance of being targeted, or wher 
other droids are nearby ta protect them from harm. Otherwise, the ultra 
droideka functions almost identically to the droideka, though its weapons 
ere considerably more powerful. 

Uitra droidekas can’t be played as droid heroes. 


1B-11D WiOWTSABSER OROIDS DEFEIND AN ULTRA OROIDEK«. 


Ix BSiadvHo 


Ultra Droideka cLé 

Huge droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 16 

init +10; Senses Perception +15 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 20, Will 13; +6 armor 

hp 60; SR 20; Threshold 29 

immune droid immunities 

Speed 3 squares (walking), 12 squares (wheeled) 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +10 (3412) with autofire or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +10 (5d12) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +8/+8 (3412) with autofire or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +8/+8 (5d12) with Burst Fire 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach | square 

Base Atk +12; Grp +31 

Atk Options Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery Il, Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 28, Dex 15, Con —, Int &, Wis 14, Cha 7 

Special Qualities droid traits ‘ 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery }, Dual 
Weapon Mastery I, Improved Defenses, Point Blank Shot, Weapon 
Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, -ifles) 

Skills Perception +15, Stealth +0 

Systems walking locomotion, wheeled locomotion (exclusive), remote 
recefver, 2 tool apperdages, shield generator (SR 20), integrated 
comlink) 

Possessions 2 heavy repeating blasters (treat as E-web repeating 
blasters), durasteel plating (+6 armor) 

Availability Military; Cost 29,000 credits 


CONFEDERACY 
VEHICLES 


The Confederacy of Independent Systems has a distinct advantage over 
the Grand Army of the Republic in that many of the corporations that had 
military contracts with tre Republic were among the first to defect to the 
Separatist movement, 

Many of the vehicles described below are droid-controlled and do not 
require organic crews to operate, 


GROUND ARMORED TANK 

Baktoid Armor Workshop's answer to the Grand Army's TX-130 Sater-class 
fighter tank, the Ground Armored Tank (or GAT) is a lightly armec, lightly 
armored fast-attack vehicle built for recon and light infantry support. Often 
escarted by a squad of B1-Series battle droids on STAPs, the GAT is fast and 
agile, making it idea? for “hit-and-run” tactics, The GAT is controlled by an 
integrated droid brain, ensuring that it is expendable, 


By the second year of the Clone Wars, most GATs are either destroyed or 
warchoused; improvements made ta the TX-130 coupled with the appearance 
of AT-XTs in the Republic’s battle lines render the GAT virtually obsolete. 


Ground Armored Tank <1 10 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +6; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 14}, Fort 23: +6 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 175; DR 10; Threshold 33 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 130 km/h} 

Ranged medium laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged missile launchers +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +25 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 17, Con =, Int 14 

Skills initiative +6, Perception +5, Pilot +6 

Crew droid brain (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables rone; Carried Craft none 

Payload 24 missiles 

Availability Military; Cost 17,500 (11,000 used) 


Medium Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 4d10x2 
Missile Launchers (pilot) 

Atk +6, Dmg 8d6, 4-square splash 


Repose NU-CLASS ATTACK SHUTTLES 
ATTACK A BBPARATIGT GAT. 


1G-22Z2T HWAILFIRE-TCLASS 

DROID TANK 

Built by Haor Chall Engineering to be the ultimate droid weapons platform, 
the |G-227 Hailfire-class droid tank (sometimes called the “wheel droid”) 
is effective against the Republic's heaviest walkers and even their LAAT/i 
gunships. Under idea! circumstances, one Hajlfire can take down a section 
of AT-TE walkers and still wipe out an entire platoon of clone troopers with 
its retractable laser cannon. 

Designed as an all-terrain tank, the Hailfire operates on two massive, 
independently turning wheels that give the tank an extremely tight turning 
radius, as well as letting it reach decent land speeds—at least fast enough to 
move into range, deliver its payload of missiles, then retreat to a safe distance 
where it can be resuppitied. Unfortunately, the Hailfire is very lightly armored 
compared to most tanks, making it extremely vulnerable to counterattack. 

The Confederacy’s |G-227 droid tanks are all equipped with Baktoid Armor 
Workshop's inexpensive “hailfire” missiles. Packed with concentrated thermal 
detonator warheads, these missiles use an algorithmic guidance system 
designed to counter anti-missile defense systems. 


IG-227 Hailfire-class Droid Tank CL12 
Huge ground vehicle (wheeled) 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11) Fort 19; +3 armor 
hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 29 = 

Speed 8 squares (max. velacity 45 km/h) 

Ranged missile launchers +5 (sce below) or 

Ranged laser cannon +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +21 

Atk Options fire-linked missile launchers 

Abilities Str 29, Dex 15, Con —, Int 13 

Skills Initiative +5, Perception +6, Pilot +5 

Crew droid brain (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 
Payload 30 “hailfire" missiles 

Availability Military; Cost 60,000 


Missile Launchers (pilot) 

Atk +5, Dmg 6d10%2, 4-square splash 
Laser Cannon (pilot} 

Atk +5, Omg 4d10x2 


MANTA DORDID SUBFIGHTER 

Built oy Haor Chall Engineering, tne Manta droid subfighter is an aquatic 
fighter craft used against aquatic ot amphibious species such as the Mon 
Calamari and Gungans. Although originally specified as a variable-geometry 
droid (similarto the "Vultuve” droid Starfighter), the intense pressures at the 
Manta's operating depths proved an insurmountable design obstacle, and 
Haor Chall Engineering compensated by producing more than the contracted- 
for number of subfighters, as well as a subfighter carrier. 

After the disastrous Battle of Mon Calamari, the Separatist forces flee 
and leave behind a large number of their Manta droid subfighters. Unable to 
depart on their own, the subfighters band together in a foose-knit droid com- 
munity and eventually form alliances with the native Quarren, hunting various 
ocean predators in exchange for repa rs, equipment, and modifications. 


{<X YSLavHD 


“li(- 
il: 
@ 

6 || a 
2 || 
|| 7 
ia 
a= 
| 
— 
a 


IX HSLIWHD 


ASVMEEGaAINMAS SA, 


Manta Droid Subfighter cL9 
Huge water vehicle (speeder) 
Init +6; Senses Perception +5 


Multi-Troop Transport CLEé 
Colossal ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init -5; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-faoted 11), Fort 17; +3 armor 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 26; +10 armor, Vehicular Combat _ 
hp 240; DR 20; Threshold 76 


hp 75; DR 10; Threshold 27 

Speed swim 12 squares (max. velocity 160 km/h) 
Ranged laser cannons +2 (see below) or 

Ranged torpedo launchers +3 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +17 

Atk Options fire-linked torpedo launchers 


Speed 6 squares (max. velacity 35 km/h) 
Ranged 2 twin blaster cannons +2 (see below) 
Fighting Space 6x6; Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +36 _ 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 10, Cen =, Int 14 


Abilities Str 25, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +6, Perception +5, Pilot +6 


Crew droid brain (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 
Payload 12 tornecoes 

Availability Military; Cost 22,000 


Laser Cannons (pilot) 
__ Atk +3, Dmg 4d10x2 
Torpedo Launchers (pilot) 
Atk +3, Dmg 8d6, 4-square burst 


MULTI-TROOP TRANSPORT 

Baktoid Armor Workshop designs and manufactures the Multi-Troop Trans- 
port (MTT) for the Trade Federation's battle droid “security force” long before 
the Clone Wars. Although equipped with only minimal weaponry, the MTT 
is heavily armored, allowing it to plow through troaps or light vehicles to 
reach Its deployment point. 

To facilitate rapid deployment, the engineers at Baktoid Armor Workshop 
developed a hydraulic storage rack that could not only stack 112 31-Series 
battle droids (compressed into a convenient boxlike shape) in the MIT's 
cargo bay but also deploy them directly onto the battlefield in less than 
one minute. 

A variant of the MTT, the Multi-Utility Transport, lacks the MTT's weap- 
onry and has a tap speed of only 25 km/h (4 squares), but carries up to 20 
tons of cargo. 


ue; a 


‘BEING HARC 


WITH SUPERIOR T 


ce = 
© - 


Skills Initiative -5, Perception +5, Pilot -5 

Crew 4 OOM-Series battle draids (normal); Passengers 112 B1-Series 
battle droids (compressed) or 20 droideka destroyer droids 
(compressed) 

Cargo 12 tons; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Availability Restricted; Cost 138,000 (80,000 used) 


Twin Blaster Cannons (gunner) | 
Atk +2, Dmg 3d10x2 


OG-S HOMING SPIDER DROID 

The OG-Series droids from the Commerce Guild are employed as mobile 
heavy weapon platforms prior to the Clone Wars, and they require only minor 
modifications for use in the war against the Republic. Being essentially a 
starship reactor on legs, the so-called “spider walker” is able to mount nearly 
any weapon for use against opponents. 

Homing spider Groids are often teamed with units of four DSD1 dwarf 
spider droids, which act as spotters for the larger and somewhat less agile 
0G-~-9s. The DSD1’s synchronized fire circuits relay targeting data to the OG-9, 
making it more accurate. (In game terms, the dwarf spider droids use the aid 
another action to grant bonuses on the OG-9 attack rolls.) 

The 0G-9 has a significant weakness in that its legs are not as heavily 
armored as its main body. Aay critical hit against an OG-9 that deals damage 
equal to or greater than its damage threshold brings the spider droid to an 
immediate halt and reduces its speed to 0 squares, though it is still capable 
of attacking. The droid remains immobile until repaired. 


NOD, BEING HARD 


BETTER.” 


VAU 


—-WALON 


ae 


OG-9 Homing Spider Droid CL7 
Huge ground vehicle (walker) 

Init +5: Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 17; +5 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 70; DR 10; Threshold 27 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 56 km/h) 

Ranged laser cannon +6 (see below) and 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster -1 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +19 

Atk Options autofire (heavy reptating blaster) 
Abilities Str 24, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +5, Perception +6, Pilot +5 

Crew droid brain (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 70,000 


Laser Cannon (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 5010 

Heavy Repeating Blaster (pilot) 
Atk -? (autofire only), Dmg 3410 


PERSUADER-CLASS DROID 
ENFORCER 
Known variously as the Corporate Alliance tank droid, CAD, or “snail” tank, 
the NR-N99 Persuader-ciass droid enforcer is originally developed as an anti- 
insurgent droid, but it % swiftly converted for a somewhat more lethal role 
in the Clone Wars. Although few were present at the Battle of Geanosis, the 
NR-N99s are deployed in massive numbers at the Battle of Kashyyyk. 
Persuader-class droid enforcers are usually deployed in pairs as escorts 
for Hailfire-class droid tanks, ar in trios as escorts for OG-9 homing spider 
droids. 


Persuader-class Draid Enforcer CL 14 
Huge ground vehicle (tracked) 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 20; +5 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 15; Threshold 30 

Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 50 km/h) 

Ranged ion cannons +5 (see below) 

Ranged heavy repesting blaster +0 (see below) 

Ranged missile launcher +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +22 

Atk Options autofire (aeavy repeating blaster) 


& PRE®BUADER-CLAgE DARGIG 
\\ ENFORCRR CHAag CLONG 


Abilities Str 30, Dex #2, 'Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +5, Perception +6, Pilot +5 


Crew droid drain (skilled}; Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Payload 48 thermal detonators, 12 concussion missiles, 4 homing 
missiles, 2 dumbfire torpedoes 

Availability Military; Cost 49,000 


ton Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 44102 ion 


Heavy Repeating Blaster (pilot) 
Atk +0 (autofire only), Dmg 3d10 

Missile Launchers (pilot) 
Atk +3, Dmg 86, 4-square burst (thermal detonators) or 7d10x2 
(concussion missiles) or 6d10x2 (homing missiles) or 9d10x2 
(dumbfire torpedoes) 


ix eaLavnO—) 


SOVHUSGESWNSOSS SHA | fal 
| 


IK MaLeavHoD 


ASVESESEHAINGS SAA 


SINGLE TROOPER AERIAL 
PLATFORM (STAP) 

Designed specifically tor OOM-Series and B1~Series battle droids by Baktoid 
Armor Workshop, the Single Trooper Aerial Platform (or STAP) 's a swift, 
agile weapons platform held aloft on repulsorlifts, The STAP is really litte 
more than a variant of the speeder bike, built to accommodate a battle droid 
rider. The Trade Federation employs entire squadrons of STAPs for scouting, 
patrols, and light anti-personnel support, though several of them working 
in concert can wreak hevoc on entrenched opponents or deliver battle droid 
troops behind enemy lines, where they can dismount and attac< enemies 
from the rear. 


Single Trooper Aerial Platform CL2 
Large airspeeder 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 11; +2 armor, Vehicular Cembat 
hp 15; Threshold 16 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 400 km/h) 

Ranged twin blaster cannons +4 (see below} 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +2; Grp +8 

Atk Options autofire (twin blaster cannons) 

Abilities Sry 13, Dex 16, Con —, Int 10 

Skills Initiative +8, Perception +6, Pilot +8 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,500 


Twin Blaster Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4, Dmg 4010 


TRADE FEDERATION TROOP 
CARRIER 

The Trade Federation troop carrier is an unarmed variant of the Multi-Troop 
Transport, but equipped with the same hydraulically powered battle droid 
deployment racks, Propelled by repulsorlifts, the troop carrier is little more 
than a modified cargo sled, so it necds considerable protection while it sets 
down its droid “passengers.” Consequently, few are employed during battles, 
though they are quite common in pre-battle deployment. 


Trade Federation Troop Carrier cL4 

Colossal ground vehicle (soeeder) 

Init -3; Senses Perception +6 E 

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 8), Fort 20: +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 120; OR 10; Threshold 70 | 

Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 50 km/h) 

Fighting Space 6x6; Cover total 

Base Atk +2: Grp +32 

Abilities Str 30, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3 

Crew 2 OOM-Series pilot battle droids (skilled); Passengers 112 B1-Series 
battle droids 

Cargo 4 tons; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost 37,000 


TRI-DROID 
The success of the octuptarra combat tri-droid prompted the Techno Union to 
develop a larger model, resulting in the mobile artillery tri-droid—a towering 
behemoth capable of destroying enemy armor with a single shot fram one 
of its three heavy ordnance launchers. 

The tri-droid sees extersive use in the Battle of Mygeeto toward the end 
of the Clone Wars, but it is fairly rare prior to that. 


Tri-Droid cL9 
Gargantuan ground vehicle (walker) 

Init +2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 {flat-footed 13), Fort 22; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 160; DR 15; Threshold 32 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 50 km/h), climb 4 squares 

Ranged 3 heavy ordnance launchers +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +29 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +2, Perception +6, Pilot +2 

Crew droid brain (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Payload 48 heavy ordnance shells 

Availability Military; Cost 100,000 credits 


Heavy Ordnance Launcher (qunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 5010x5, 4-square burst 


TsSsMeEU-6& PERSONAL 

WHEEL BIKE 

Originally created as an all-terrain military reconnaissance vehicle—and later 
adopted by civilians for racing—the Tsmeu-6 personal wheel bike returns 
to its roots during the Clone Wars, serving as a light patrol vehicle for the 
Confederacy of Independent Systems. The wheel bike is difficult to control, 
particularly at higher specds, so pilats need to be specially trained to handle 
the vehicle. Even the military version is dangerously unstable in high-speed 
turns, requiring extreme skill to maneuver. 

One particular innovation that makes the Tsmeu-6 popular with both 
the military and racing enthusiasts is the set of retractable all-terrain legs, 
which allow the driver to not only right the vehicle after a spili but also 
enables the wheel bike to negotiate difficult terrain, such as is commonly 
found on battlefields. 


Tsmeu-6 Personal Wheel Bike CL3 
Large ground vehicle (wheeled /wa!xing) 

Init +10; Senses Perception +8 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 15; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 50; DR 5; Threshold 20 

Speed 10 squares (max. velocity 330 km/h), walk 6 squares 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 

Base Atk +5; Grp +15 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Perception +8, Pilot +10 

Crew | (expert); Passengers 1 

Cargo 10 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 15,000 


General Grievous's Wheel Bike 
General Grievous’s personal wheel bike has been modified by replacing the 
passenger seat with a double laser cannon. 


Grievous’s Wheel Bike (Modified Tsmeu-6) CL5 
Large ground vehicle (wheeled/walxing) 

Init +10; Senses Perception +8 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 15; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 50; OR 5; Threshold 20 


Abilities Str 20, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Perception +8, Pilot +10 

Crew 1 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 5 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military: Cost not availatle for sale 


Double Laser Cannon (pilot) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire}, Dmg 5d10 


CONFEDERACY 
STARSHIPS 

All of the major factions that comprise the Confederacy of Independent Sys- 
tems, including the Techno Union, the Commerce Guide, the Trade Federation, 
and the InterGalactic Banking Clan, have fleets of ships at their command 
and access to vast resources with which to build more. 


BC-71I4 LUXURY TRANSPORT 
Commissioned by the InterGalactic Banking Clan and designed by the Techno 
Union, the BC-714 luxury transport is one of the galaxy’s fastest, most 
comfortable interstellar vessels, with quarters for 30 passengers, private 
staterooms for special quests, a 20-seat holotheater, and a dining room that 
rivais some of the finest restaurants 04 Muunilinst. Essentially a starfaring 
pleasure yacht, the BC-714 is considered a status symbol to Muun executives, 
and many consider it an affront to travel in anything less. 

What the Banking Clan’s BC-714 transport lacks in firepower, it makes up for 
in speed. The transport’s lean, aerodynamic shape and powerful twin engines 
gives it tremendous thrust in atmosphere, and its advanced hyperdrives carry 
it from system to system without the delay of more common transports. 


TEC 


ix HaLagvHS 


BC-714 Luxury Transport CL5 

Colossal space transport 

Init -5: Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 12 {flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +12 armor 

hp 135; DR 15; SR 45; Threshold 77 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,800 km/h), fly 2 squares (starship 
scale) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +37 


eb 


AOVYISEGSEINSH SH 


Speed 10 squares (max. velocity 330 km/h), walk 6 squares 
Ranged double laser cannon +9 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 

Base Atk +5; Grp +15 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannon) 


Abilities Str 44, Dex 10, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 17 (normal): Passengers 30 

Cargo 80 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (x6 backup), nav computer 

Availability Restricted; Cast 1,700,000 (980,000 used) 


ASVHSEGSINGS GHA, 


0 
I 
> 
a 
4 
a 
2 
x 


BELBULLAB HEavy 
STARFIGHTER 
Feethan Ottraw Scalable Assemblies, developers of the Self-Constructing 
Armament Factory, develop the Belbullab-22 heavy starfighter to fill a gap 
in the Confederacy’'s starFighter fleets: an assault starfighter that, unlike vul- 
ture droid starfighters and droid tri-fighters, can go head-to-head with the 
Repubtic’s ARC-170s. The Belbullab-22 also comes in heavy assault craft and 
strike Oomber models (the Belbuilab-23 and Belbullab-24, respectively). 
General Grievous owns a modified Belbullab-22, the Soulless One, which 
includes a cutting-edge HoloNe+ transceiver and cansiderably more efficient 
hyperdrives. He uses the Soulfess One as his personal transport when he needs 
to travel quickly, without the protection of the Separatist fleet. 
Belbullab Heavy Starfighter CL 13 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +3; Senses Perception +6 : 
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 28; +10 armar,.Vehicular Combat 
hp 160; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 48 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 2 triple laser cannons +6 {see below) or 

Ranged 2 concussion missile launchers +6 (Beloullab-24; see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +35 

Atk Options autofire (tnple laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 47, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +3, Perception +6, Pilot +3, Use Computer +6 
Crew | (skilled); Passengers nont 

Cargo 140 kg; Consumables | weck; Carried Craft none 
Paylaad 12 concussion missiles (Belbullab-24 only) 
Hyperdrive x6 (x15 backup), nav computer 

Availability Military: Cost 168,000 (125,000 used) 


Belbullab-22: Tripie Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 5d10x2 


Belbullab-23 and Belbullab-24: Triple Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 64102 

Belbullab-24: Concussion Missile Launchers (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 9d10x2 


SSL6U1L 48-22 BTARPIGHTENS E@SORY 4 
BHUTYTLUEER,. 


BoEATHIPEDE-CLA® 


Soulless One (Modified Belbullab-22) 
Gargantuan Starfighter 
Init +7, Senses Perception +8 


cL 14 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 28; +10 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 160; DR 10: SR 25; Threshold 48 


Speed fly 16 squares (max, velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged triple faser cannons +9 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or { square {starship scale}; Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +38 

Atk Options autofire (triple laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 47, Dex 19, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +7, Perception +8, Pilot +7, Use Computer +8 


Crew 1 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 160 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 [x5 backup), nav computer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Triple Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


SESS 


C-99793 LANDING CRAFT 

When Haor Chall Engineering builds thousands of C-9979 landing craft for 
the Trade Federation, nominally for “securtty purposes,” the Trade Federation 
wastes no time in using them in their invasion of Naboo. Later, they piedge 
their entire fleet of C-9979s to the Confederacy of Independent Systems. 

As landing craft, the C-997Ss are very functional, carrying over 150 
ground vehicles of different types in massive storage racks and quickly 
deploying them via computerized repulsor tracks, through the central staging 
area and down the doarding ramp, located in the C-9979's landing pedestal. 
The C-9979s themselves aiso break down easily for transport aboard Trade 
Federation cruisers; their wings can be detached and stored alongside the 
main body of the landing craft. 

Although the C-9979 can be crewed by organic beings. it is more cost- 
effective to use battle droids. During the invasion of Naboo, nearly all the 
C-9979 landing craft ave operated entirely by OOM-Series battle droids; 
during the Clone Wars, 81-Series battle droids are more common. 


©-9976 LANDING CRAFT FACE HEAVY GROUND FIRE 
PROM BPHA-Ta. 


C-9979 Landing Craft CL 10 

Colossal (frigate) space transport 

Init -5; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 34; +71 armor 

hp 600; DR 15; SR 60; Threshold 134 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 590 km/h), fly 1 square 
(starship scale} 

Ranged 2 fire-linked laser cannons +3 (see below) 

Ranged 2 fire-linked blaster cannons +3 (sce below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover tatai 

Base Atk +0: Grp +43 

Atk Options autofire (blaster cannons) 

Abilities Srr 58, Dex 10, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilat +5, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 88 OOM-Series battle droids (normal), Passengers 30 repair droids, 
40 OOM-Series command battle droids, 39 OOM-Series pilot batele 
draids, 15 OOM-Series security battle droids 

Cargo 1,800 tons; Consumables 1 dav; Carried Craft 28 Trade Federation 
troop carriers; 114 AATs; 11 MITTs 

Availability Military; Cost 200,000 (75,000 used) 


Fire-linked Laser Cannons (gunner) 
Atk 43, Dmg 5d10x2 

Fire-linked Blaster Cannons (gunner) 
Atk +3, Dmg 5d10x2 


CIS-ADVANCED STARFIGHTER 
Stalen from a secret weapons factory on Diado by Jedi Master Saesee Tiin, 
the CIS-Advanced starfighter is a pratotype that never sees actual battlefield 
use xcept in a few trials. However, many of the systemic innovations are 
borrowed by Republic engineers for inclusion on Republic starships such as 
the Eta-2 Actis Interceptor develaped by Kuat Systems Engineering specifi- 
cally for Jedi fighter pilots. 

Very few ClS-Advanced starfighters are built, and most of those are 
constructed by the Republic for use in training clone fighter pilots. The 
one Saesee Tin steals is the only one the Separatists have, and the plans 
are vaporized when Master Tiin destrays the weapons factary building the 
prototype. 


AGVVSESSNSOS SHA 


hi waiavnS 


Ban 7 


sy 


IX HBLeIvVHD 


AOBVEALESINGD SH 


ClS-Advanced Starfighter cL 9 
Huge starfighter 
Init +7; Senses Perception +6 


Diamona-class Cruiser CL 13 
Colossal (frigate) space t-ansport 


Init -4; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 90; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 34 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fart 35; +12 armor 
hp 840; OR 15; SR 50; Threshold 135 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,300 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged heavy blaster cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged proton tarnedo launchers +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire [heavy blaster cannons) 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 1,450 km/h), fly 1 squares 
(starship scaie) 

Ranged 2 laser cannon batteries +13 (starship scale: sec below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +50 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon batteries) 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 15, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 


Abilities Str 61, Dex 12, Con —, Int 17 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +4 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 190 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft ‘none 
Payload 24 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x6, nav computer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Heavy Blaster Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 64102 


Proton Torpedo Launchers (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 9010x2 


DIAMOND-CLASS CRUISER 
The Cornmerce Guild's entry in the rapid-deployment arena is the Diamond- 
class cruiser, Designed to deliver thousands of spider droids quickly and 
efficiently to ground-based vattiefields—it is a considerably more effective 
landing craft than the Trade Federation's C-9979. Although lightly armed, 
the Diamond-class cruiser's ability to field a dozen OG-9s (and their accom- 
panying DSD1s) in iess than a minute ensures that the vessel spends very 
little time on the ground—ane most of that time it is surrounded by deadly 
homing spider droids. 

The president of the Commerce Guild, Shu Mai, uses a Diamond-class 
cruiser as her personal transport and as the flagship of the Commerce Guild 
ficet. 


Crew 748 (normal); Passengers 45 

Cargo 1,380 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft G00 0G-9 
homing spider droids, 2,400 DSD1 dwarf spider droids 

Hyperdrive x.75 (x4 backup), nav computer 

Availability Military; Cost 5,000,000 (2,125,000 used) 


Laser Cannon Batteries (6 gunners) 
Atk +13, Dmg 4010x2 


A D4MOND-CLASBS CRUIRER MRES UPON A REPUBLIC FAIGATE. 


DROCH-CLASS BOARDING SHIP 
The Confederacy likes to use captured enemy ships for covert missions. 
Toward this end, Separatist engineers design specialized boarding vessels 
that can transfer boarding parties to the interior of an enemy vessel without 
causing catastrophic damage to the ship itself. One such design is the Droch- 
class boarding ship, which can be launched in large numbers to capture enemy 
capital ships while stili keeping them spaceworthy. 

The Droch-class boarding ship has a special boarding drill on its forward 
section that can be used to drill into a starship and release its passengers 
safely inside the ship. As a standard action, the pilot of the Drach-class 
boarding ship can make an attack with the boarding drill against a ship in 
an adjacent square. If the attack succeeds, the boarding ship moves into 
the target's space and attaches itself to the hull of the target ship without 
triggering a collision. Each round thereafter, as a standard action, the pilot 
can use the drili to make a grapple check and deal damage to the target 
ship equal to the grapple check's result, ignoring the target ship's SR. When 
the target ship has taken cumulative damage from the drill in excess of its 
damage threshold, the boarding ship punches through and its passengers 
cain enter the target ship safely. 


Oroch-class Boarding Ship CL? 

Huge starfighter 

Init +4; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor 

hp 60; DR 5; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged light laser cannons +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2: Grp +24 

Atk Options boarding drill 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative 44, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer+6 

Crew 1; Passengers 6 (droid troops) 

Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Restricted; Cost 43,000 


Light Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 3d10x2 
Boarding Drill (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg — (grapple +24) 


HARDCELL-CLASS TRANSPORT 
The Techno Union contributed nearly three hundred of their Hardcell-class 
uransports to the Separatist cause before the Clone Wars began. After losing 
hundreds of them at the Battle of Geonosis, the Techno Union supplied the 
Confederacy with another thousand. Although sturdy, the Hardcel/-class 
vessel uses a cluster of primary thruster engines, rather than the conven- 
tional repulsorlift engines found on mast starships—partly because thrusters 
outperform repulsorlifts in acceleration, and partly because the Skakoans 
have three fuel-rich moons in their home system. 

The crew cabins of the HardcelJ-c ass space transport (located in the 
uppermost portion of the ship's nose cone} are designed for Skakoan habita- 
tion. Skakoans can forego their pressure suits in the crew cabins, but other 
species require either flight suits or space suits to survive, 

Although heavily armored, the Hardce/!-class transport is only lightly 
armed, and vulnerable to well-placed shots. A critical hit against a Hardcelf- 
class transport deals triple damage, rather than double damage. 
Hardcell-class Transport CL 10 
Colossal (frigate) space transport 
Init -4; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 38; +14 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 800; DR 25; SR 100: Threshold 138 
Speed fly 18 squares (max. vetocity 4.900 km/h), fly 1 square 

{starship scale) 

Ranged 2 laser cannon batteries +16 (sce below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +55 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 66, Dex 10, Con ~, Int 18 

Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +15 (+6°), Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +15 (+6") 

Crew 190 (skilled); Passengers 1,017 

Cargo 12,400 tans; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 650 Hailfire- 
class droid tanks 

Hyperdrive x1 (x8 backup), nav computer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“ {f the ship has no astramech droids, use these skill modifiers insteod, 


Laser Cannons (6 gunners) 
Atk +16, Dmg 4010x2 


LevuecsesNeoa SM 


Ix ¥SLavHD ) 


1} 


an 


ADVVOEQSAIMAD & 


ee) 


Ho 


HYEN4A-CLASS BOMBER 
One of the many droid starfighter variants used by the Confederacy, the 
Hyena-ciass bomber from Baktoid Armor Workshop uses the basic chassis 
of a droid starfighter but expands it, making room fora greater payload. The 
bomber features an expanded munitions hold to one side of the droid star- 
fighter's primary control systems, allowing the vessei to carry bath cancus- 
sion missiles and proton torpetioes. Hyena-class bombers typically fly toward 
a target and unleash a torrent af missiles and torpedoes to ove7wheim the 
target's shields in half the time taken by other comparably-sized bombers. 
Given the computerized nature of its piloting system, a Ayena-class 
bomber tan attack with all weapons as thougn each had its own gunner. 
Hyena-class Bomber CL7 
Huae starfighter 
Init +2; Senses Perception +8 
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor 
hp 70; DR §; Threshoid 32 , 
Speed fly 16 squares [max. velacity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares 
{starship scale) 
Ranged light laser cannons +7 (see below] and 
proton torpedoes 47 (see below] end 
light concussion m ssiles +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3 or | square (starship scale): Cover none 
Base Atk +5; Grp +27 
Abilities Str 35, Dex 14 Con -, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilat +8, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 0 (expert); Passengers nane 

Cargo none kg: Consumables 2 days: Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 proton torpedoes, 6 concussion missiles 
Availability Restricted; Cost 23,006 


Light Laser Cannons 
Atk +7, Dmg 3010x2 


Proton Torpedoes 
Atk +7, Omg 9102 


Light Concussion Missiles 
Atk +7, Dmg 7d10x2 


HARDESLL-CLABS TRANSPORTS DEFEND 
A PROVIDENCE-CLAGS CEG™AOVER, 


PROVIDENCE-CLASS 
DESTROYER 

Originalty built for the Trade Federation by the Quarren Free Dac Volunteers 
Engineering Corps, the kilemeter-long Providence-class destroyer (frequently 
referred to as 3 “Trade Federation cruiser’) is one of the Confederacy's most 
powerful warshios, more than @ match for any similarly classed cruiser in 
the Republic Navy. It is so formidable in combat that General Grievous uses 
one, the Invisible Hong, as his fiagship in the assault on Coruscant. Endlessly 
modifiable (due to modular compartments), the Providence-class destroyer 
can be made faster with upgraded hyperdrives or sublight thrusters; it can 
be made deadlier by addirg weapon battery Compartments; it can be made 
ints a light starfighter carrier by increasing the size of the hangar bays; oF 
countless other variations. 


Ge 


Ix HSladvHD 


PUNWORCCA 116-CLASS SLOOP 
The Punworcee 116~class interstellar sloop is a small hyperspace-capable 
yacht created by the Huppla Pasa Tisc Shipwrights Collective (the Geono- 
sian corporation responsible for the Ginivex-class starfighter). Smali and 
somewhat cramped, the sloop is usually used only for short interplanetary 
flights, but it is at least comfortable enough fora small number of passengers, 
provided the journey doesn’t last mare than a day or $0. 

AS a gift to Count Dooku, the Geonosian archduke, Poggle the Lesser, 
nad Huppla Pasa Tise Shipwrights Collective build a custom Punworcca 
116-class interstellar sloop. Dooku then modified the vessel by having an 
antique solar sail fitted to the ship, allowing him to cruise largely undetected 
by most Starship sensors. 


Punworcca 116-class Sloop CL 6 
Gargantuan space transport 
Init +3 (+13"); Senses Perception +6 (+4") 


SHEATFHPEDE-CLASS SHUTTLE 
The Neimoidian leadership of the trade Federation frequently travels in per- 
sonal shuttles, the most popular of which is the Sheathipede-class transport 
shuttle from Haor Chall Engineering. It is so popular with them, in fact, that 
the vessel is more widely <nown as a “Neimoidian shuttle.” 

Most Neimoidians employ the Sheathipede's automated flight system, 
which enables the ship to receive verbal destination coordinates. Pilots and 
passengers are free to lounge in comfort in the rear compartments while the 
ship quides itself to the saccified destination—an important consiceration 
for Neimoidians. Neimoidians are quick to point out that the shuttle is only 
designed to travel from a planetary orbit to the surface and back again, and 
is not meant to be used in combat situations. 


Sheathipede-class Shuttle cL 4 
Colossal space transport 
Init -3; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 10), Fart 22; +5 armor 
hp 6O; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 42 


Defenses Ref 8 (flat-footed 6), Fort 27; +6 armor 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,600 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged microtractor-pressor +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 0” 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2 (+1"); Grp +29 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 14, Con =, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +3 (413°), Mechanics +6, Perception +6 (+4°), 
Pilot +3 (413°), Use Computer +6 (+13°) 


ABVUSGAEMSED HHL 


Crew 2, or i FA-4 pilot droid plus 1 optional organic co-pilot (skilled); 
Passengers 11 

Cargo 240 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive «1,5, nav computer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 35,700 

" ff the ship has only the FA-4 pilot droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Microtractor-pressor (co-pilot) 
Atk +2, Dmg — (grapple +14; see “Weapon Systems” on page 198) 


(starship scale) 
Fighting Space 6x6 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +37 
Abilities Str 45, Dex 14, Con —, Int 19 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 6 
Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost not available for sale 


SuUBIUGATOR-CLASS HEAVY 
CRUISER 

One of the largest ships to come out of the Confederacy's shipyards, the 
Subjugator-class heavy cruiser is a capital ship designed around its massive 
ion pulse cannons. The cruiser disables enemy ships so that it can destroy 
them with ease. The Subjugator-class heavy cruiser was designed and con- 
structed in secret by Quarren Separatists at their shipyards on Pammant, 
using the construction of the Providence-class ships as a cover. 

The Malevolence, one of General Grievous's command ships, is a Subju- 
gator-class heavy cruiser. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, the Subjugator-class heavy cruiser 
can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares within 2 squares 
of it. All ion weapon attacks made against enemy starships within that area 
deal +2 dice of damage on a successful hit. 


Unlike many warships, the Providence-chass cruiser uses a “bridge- 
forward” setup (rather than a dorsal command tower, as is common with 
Republic warships such as the Acclamatar-class assault ship and Venotor- 
class Star Destroyer). This setup makes the Providence-class slightly more 
maneuverable than its Republic counterparts, particularly in atmospheres— 
although the ship is not equipped for ground landings (being designed, like 
so many other Quarren and Mon Calamari ships, for water landings). 
Providence-class Destroyer CL 18 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init 73; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 54; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,800; OR 20; SR 180; Threshold 254 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 1,050 kmh), fly 4 squares 

(starship scale) 

Ranged quad turbolaser battery +18" (see below) 

3 dual laser cannon batteries +16 (see below) 

heavy ion cannons +8" {see below) 

point-defense ion cannon battery +18 (see below) 

8 proton torpedo launcher batteries +18 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +76 

Abilities Str 98, Dex 12, Con —, Int 22 

Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 

Use Computer +6 
Crew 22,350 {skilled); Passengers 48,247 
Cargo 29,000 tons; Consumables | year; Carried Craft 8 landing craft} 

shuttles 
Payload 2,800 proton torpedoes 
Hyperdrive x1.5 (x10 backup), nay computer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
* Apply 0 -20 penalty on attacks ogainst targets smaller thon Colossal size. 


Quad Turbolaser Battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +18 (-2 against targets smaller than Colossal}, Dmg 7d10x5 
Dual Laser Cannon Battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +16,Dmg Gd10x2 
Heavy lon Cannons (gunner) 
Atk +8 (-12 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3410x5 ion 
Point-Defense lon Cannon Battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +18, Dmg 3d10x2 ion 
Proton Torpedo Launcher Battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +18, Dmg 9010%2 


Invisible Hand 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -1; Senses Perception +8 


CL 20 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 54; +14 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,800; DR 20; 5R 180; Threshold 254 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged quad turbolaser battery +21° (see below) 
3 dual laser cannon batteries +19 (see below) 
heavy ion cannons +11" (see below) 
point-defense ion cannon battery +21 (see below) 
8 proton torpedo launcher batteries +21 (see brlow) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +79 


Abilities Str 98, Dex 12, Con —, Int 22 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 350 (expert); Passengers 125,000 

Cargo 29,000 tans; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 16 landing craft/ 
shuttles, 24 starfighters 

Payload 2,800 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1 (x10 backup), nav computer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sate 


Quad Turbolaser Battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +2) (+1 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d\0x5 


Dual Laser Cannon Battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +19, Bmg 6d10x2 
Heavy lon Cannons (gunner) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smalter than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion 


Point-Defense lon Cannon Battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +21, Dmg 30102 ion 7 

Proton Torpedo Launcher Battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +21, Dmg 9d)0x2 


x BSLavHS 


ABVRSEGLESANOE) SL 


Qe 


A Pain oF BANKING CLAN TRANSPORTS BUPFORT 
THE MALEVOLENCS, A SUBJUDATOR-CLASB HEAVY CRUIBER. 


Crew 550 (skilled); Passengers 60,000 (battle droids) 

Cargo 13,000 tons; Consumables 2 years: Carried Craft 144 “Vulture” 
droid starfighters, 48 Hyene-class droid bombers, various support craft 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12): navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a -20 penalty on ottocks against targets smafier than Colossal size. 


Heavy Turbolaser Battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal}, Dmg 7d10%5 
Medium Turbolaser Battery (5 gunners) 


Subjugator-class Heavy Cruiser CL 20 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fart 53; +13 armor 
hp 1,750; OR 20; SR 130; Threshold 253 
Speed fiy 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 heavy turbolaser batteries +15" (see below) and 
2 medium turbolaser batteries +15” (see below) and 
§ point-defense light laser cannon batteries +15 (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +11 (see below) and 
2 ion pulse cannons +7” (see below) and 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +65 
Atk Options tactical fire 
Abilities Str 97, Dex 14, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative <2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Atk +15 (=5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 


Point-Defense Light Laser Cannon Battery (5 gunners) 


Atk +15, Dmg 3d10x2 


Tractor Beam Battery (3 gunners) 


Atk #11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
— (grapple +65) 


fon Pulse Cannon (gunner) 


Atk +7, Omg 9d10x10 ion; sce the “lon Pulse Cannon” sidebar. 


1ON PULSE CANNON 
The ion pulse cannon is found on Subjugator-class heavy cruisers ana 
is used to disable enemy starships before they have a chance to fire 
back. No other class of ship carries the weapon due to its unique power 
generation needs. ; 

lon pulse cannons are area attack weapons, even at starship scale. 
A single ion pulse cannon targets all starships with 5 squares (starship 
scale) of the ship carrying the weapon; the gunner makes an attack roll 


against each ship within that area. On a hit, the target takes normal i jon 
damage and moves -2 steps on the condition track. Ona miss, the target 


takes half damage and moves -1 step on the condition track. 

Unlike most other starship weapons, ion pulse cannons have a sig- 
nificant build-up and cooldown time. The weapon can be fired as normal 
as a standard action. However, after firing the ion pulse cannon, the 
gunner must spend three consecutive full-round actions clearing the 
weapon of ionized particles before it can be fired again. If the starship 
takes damage that equals or exceeds its damage threshold at any time 
during this recharge period, the ion pulse cannon automatically overloads 
and is destroyed. 


1x YRLavno 


ABVYUEEEINEGS SL, 


APTER Xil 


oa 
FRINGE AC TIONS 


chapter describes new allies, enemies, and technology belonging to 
factions other than the Republic and the Confederacy. 

The allies and antagonists in this chapter are designed to give campaigns 
1 distinctly Clone Wars feel. Gamemasters should feel free to include these 
aracters in adventures, even if they only appear fleetingly in secondary 
les. The appearance of such characters can give players a sense of truly 
aking a difference in the larger conflict. 

Some of the vehicles and starships presented here may be available on 
the open market, or the Gamemaster can make them available to heroes as 
part of an adventure. 


MERCENARY FACTIONS 


Though much of the conflict of the Clone Wars takes place between the 
Separatists and the Republic, smaller mercenary factions and planetary 
forces play key roles in many battles. Though their efforts are usually local- 
ized and focused, some of the actions of these factions have repercussions 
on the war as a whole. 

Throughout the Clone Wars, the Separatists use the large financial 
resources they possess to hire mercenary bands of all stripes from around 
the galaxy. Among these mercenary groups are organizations such as the 
Sabaoth Mercenaries, who act under the guidance of Separatist leaders to 
deploy dangerous chemical weapons such as trihexalon. The Sabaoth Mer- 
cenaries, and other blasters-for-hire from across the galaxy, find themselves 
in the Separatists’ employ, performing tasks and clandestine operations 
that cannot be trusted to droids. Moreover, in many parts of the galaxy, 
the Confederacy's war effort requires mercenaries simply to maintain the 
Separatists’ military presence when droid troops are destroyed faster than 
they can be replenished. 

Not every independent force that fights in the Clone Wars is a purely 
mercenary band. Many planetary defense forces are technically not part of 
the Republic’s Grand Army or the forces of the Confederacy, and as such 
have their own command structures and unique units. For example, the 
Wookiee defense forces work closely with both Jedi Master Yoda and the 
Republic military forces under the control of Commander Gree at the Battle 
of Kashyyyk, but they are not technically part of the Republic command 
hierarchy. These independent defense forces are a good option for heroes 
who wish to take part in the Clone Wars conflict but do not wish to directly 
involve themselves in the Republic or the Confederacy. 


ix eStiadvHD 


SNOILIVa SONIDS 


es 


Nx SaLevHo) 


SNOILEYE) SONI) 


INFLUENTIAL FIGURES 


The following individuals figure prominently in a Clone Wars campaign, and 
their actions play a major role in shaping the history of this era. 


BOBA FETT 

Boba Fett is the unaltered clone of Jango Fett. He sees his “father” beheaded 

by Mace Windu during the Battle of Geanosis. As a teenager in the later part 

of the Clone Wars, he begins his career finding work wherever he can—as 

mercenary, soldier, personal guard, assassin, and of course, bounty hunter. 
The following statistics reflect Boba Fett at the start of what promises 

to be a notorious carcer. 


Boba Fett (Episode Il!) CL7 

Medium Human (clone) scout 3/soldier 4 

Destiny 1; Force 3; Dark Side 2 

Init +12; Senses low-light vision, Perception +10 (can reroll, must take 
second result) . 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Mando'a 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 19), Fort 21, Will 19 

hp 66; DR 1; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares (jet pack) 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+5) 

Ranged blaster carbine +10 (34843) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +5 (3d8+3) and blaster carbine +5 (3d8+3) with 
Doubie Attack or 

Ranged flamethrower +10 (3d6+3, 6-square cone) or 

Ranged missile tauncher +10 (6d6+3, 2-square splash) or 

Ranged stun grenade +10 (4d6+3, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged whipcord +10 (grab) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Double Attack, Keen Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Running Attack 

Special Actions Quick Draw 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 18, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Juggernaut, Keen Shot 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack, Exotic Weapon 
Proficiency (flamethrower), Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Quick Draw, Running Attack, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 


Skills Endurance +10, initiative +12, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception 
+10 (can reroil, must keep second result), Persuasion +9, Pilot +12, 
Stealth +12, Survival +10 

Possessions Siave i, Mandalorian armor (as battle armor with helmet 
package; 4 weapon attachments), blaster carbine, 4 stun grenades, 
flamethrower (5 shots), missile launcher, 4 missiles, whipcord (treat as 
net), blaster gauntlet (teat as hald-out blaster), jet pack (10 charges), 
utility belt with medpac 


CAVIK TOTH 

Cavik Toth's ambition leacs him to found his own mercenary force, the 
Sabaoth Squadron. Prior to the start of the Clone Wars, Toth and his forces 
ally with Count Dooku and the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Toth's 
adversaries include Nym and his Lok Revemants as welt as Jedi Master Adi 
Gallia. 


Captain Cavik Toth cL 

Medium Human soldier 4/scoundrel 3face pilot 2/officer 2 

Destiny 2; Force 4; Dark Side 2 

Init +13: Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Ryl 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 25), Fort 24, Will 26, Dodae 

hp 86; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+5) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistal +13 (3d8+5) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistal +11 (4d8+5) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +9; Grp +9 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Deadeye, Hyperdriven, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Spacehound, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Coordinated Attack, Deployment Tactics 

Abilities Sty 11, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Battle Analysis), 
vehicle dodge +1 

Talents Battle Analysis, Cover Fire, Deployment Tactics, Elusive 
Dogfighter, Ryperdriven, Spacehound 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Careful Shot, Coordinated 
Attack, Deadeye, Dodge, Point Blank Shoat, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13, Knowledge (tactics) +11, Perception +12, Pilot +13 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, flight suit, command uniform 


CHEWBACCA 

Known for his great strength and loyalty, Chewbacca is a wise, sophisti- 
cated Wookiee and an exceptional scout. As a clase friend to Wookiee city 
leader Tarfful of Kachirho, Chewbacca is asked to be part of the Wookiee 
High Command responsible for the battle plan to protect the city from a 
Separatist invasion. When Order 66 is issued, Chewbacca assists his friend 
Tarfful in protecting Jedi Master Yoda and aiding the venerable Foree-user 
in his escape from Kashyyyk. 


Chewbacca (Episode II!) cL 6 

Medium Wookiee scout 6 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 (can reroll, must take second result) 

Languages Basic (understand only), Huttese, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 17, Will 16 

hp 67; Threshold 17; extraordinary recuperation 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+47) or 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+10) with Powerful Charge 

Ranged bowcaster +5 (3d10+3) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +8 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Powerful Charge, 
Precise Shot 

Special Actions rage 1/day 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 12, Con 20, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Extreme Effort, Jury-Rigger 

Feats Careful Shot, Martial Arts |, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Powerful Charge, 
Precise Shot, Shake It Off, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons} 

Skills Climb +8 (can take 10 when distracted), Endurance +13, Initiative 
+9, Mechanics +9 (can reroll when making jury-rigged repair), 
Perception +8 (can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +3 
(can reroll attempts to intimidate, must take second result), Pilot +9, 
Survival +5 

Possessions bowcaster, bandolier, tool kit 


MBRUMEBRU 
This intelligent Wookice elder is about 250 years old during the Clone Wars, 


He develops effective defensive tactics against Trandoshan raiders prior 


to the war. Due to his vast experience, he leads the beachfront defense at 
Kachirho during the Confederacy’s invasion of Kashyyyk. 


Merumeru CL6 

Medium Wookiee soldier 5/nable 1 

Destiny 1; Farce 3 

Init +10; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic (understand only), Dosh (understand only), Durese 
(understand only), Shyriiwook 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 22, Will 18 
hp 79; Threshold 22; extraordinary recuperation 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee battle staff +10 (1d6+13) 

Ranged bowcaster +7 (301043) or 

Ranged bowcaster +5 (4d10+3) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +5; Grp +10 

Atk Options Charging Fire, Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Coordinate +1, Indomitable, rage 1/day 


Abilities Str 20, Dex 14, Con 18, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 13 

Talents Battle Analysis, Coordinate +', Cover Fire, Indomitable 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Charging Fire, Coordinated 
Attack, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +13 (can take 10 when distracted), Endurance +13, Initiative 
+10, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +8. Persuasion +4 (can reroll 
attempts to intimidate, must take second result) 

Possessions bowcaster, battle staff, battle helm 


Mx SHSLavHo 


0), 


SWOILEVS 


1x eHSLeIVHo 


SHELLEY) SNIP) 


NYM 


Leader of the Lok Revenants, Nym is a brigand with a sense of honor and of 
higher purpose. The Fecorin pirate 1s also considered a scourge of the space 
lanes, After being orphaned at an carly age, a young Nym is raised by harsh 
criminals—thus developing his physical skilis and abrasive personality. Later, 
his reputation as a fierec fighter and briltiant tactician carns him the respect 
he desires im the underworld, Eventually, he builds 2 pirate crew whose speed 
and effectiveness make them fearsame. Despite this, he makes every effort 
te minimize bloodshed Gn cach mission. 


Nym’s most prized bounty is a heavily modified Scurrg H-6 prototype 
bomber he calls Havoc. Nym is caught by a Trade Federation-hired mercenary 
while trying to fence weapons, but he is rescued by his loyal crew. The Lok 
Revenants’ base is attacked by the Trade Federation, and Nym moves on with 
his life. Ironically, he teams up with the mercenary who caught him, Vana 
Sage, and with Rhys Dallows, a Naboo pilot, to wreak havoc on the Trade 
Federation. For aiding Naboo forces, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine wards 
Nym a full pardon. Despite that, he goes back to his fringe ways ard lays 
low in Bothan space looking for work. Later, he reluctantly teams uo with 
Jedi Master Adi Gailia to fight his old foe, Captain Cavik Toth, commander 
of the Sabaoth Squadron mercenaries. 


Nym clu 

Medium Feeorin scoundrel 11 

Destiny 2; Force 4 

Init +7; Senses low-light vision, Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Feeorin, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 23), Fort 26, Will 22, Dadge 

hp 86; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+7) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +10 (3d8+5) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (4d8+5) with Rapid Shat or 

Ranged blaster rifle +10 (2d8+5) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (448+5) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Careful Shoat, Charging Fire, Deadeyc, Hyperdriven, Lucky 
Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Sneak Attack +106, 
Spacehound, Starship Raider 

Special Actions Knack 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con 17, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 12 

Talents Hyperdriven, Knack, Lucky Shot, Sneak Attack +1d6, Spacehound, 
Starship Raider 

Feats Carcful Shot, Charging Fire, Deadeye, Dodge, Point Blank Shot. 
Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Wespon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Endurance +18, Knowledge (tactics) #11, 
Persuasion +11, Pilot +17 

Possessions heavy blaster aistol, blaster rifle, Scurrg H-6 prototype 
bornber (Havoc) 


SALPORIN 

Saiparin joins Captain Merumeru’s defense during the Separatist invasion 
of Kachirho. He is best known for his mastery of the ryyk blades. Despite his 
bond-engagément to the Wookiee maiden Gorrlyn, the couple serve together 
under Merumeru. In addition, Salporin is a childhood friend of Chewbacca. 


Salporin CL5 

Medium Wookiee soldier 4/scout 1 

Destiny 1; Force 2 

Init +B; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basi¢ (understand only), Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fart 20, Will 16 

hp 81; Threshold 20; extraordinary recuperation 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee ryyk blades +11 (1d8+8, devastating 5) or 

Melee ryyk blades +9 (2d8+8, devastating 5) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee ryyk blades +6/+6 (1d8+8, devastating 5) or 

Melee ryyk bfades +4/+4 (2d8+8, devastating 5) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged bowcaster +5 (3d10+2) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +10 

Atk Options Rapid Strike 

Special Actions rage |/day, Shake li Off 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 13, Con 16, lint 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Devastating Attack (ryyk blades), Surefooted, Weapon 
Specialization (ryyk blades) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, meciuim), Dual Weapon Mastery 1, Rapid 
Strike, Shake it Off, Weapon Focus {ryyk blades), Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climo +13 (can take 10 when distracted), Endurance +10, Initiative 
+8, Jump +13, Perception +8, Persuasion +2 {can reroll attempts to 
intimidate, must take second result) 

Possessions 2 ryyk blades (set page 97 of The Force Unieashed™ 
Campaign Guide), bowcaster 


TARFFUL 

A mighty warrior leader, fierce and tawering, Tarfful works his way up to 
become the city leader of coastal Kachirho, where he serves for decades before 
the Clone Wars. He enjoys dangerous hunting expeditions. At one point in 
the war, he is taken prisoner by Trandoshan siavers, but later he is rescued by 
clone commandos. During the Confederacy’s invasion of Kachirho, he takes up 
the little-used mantle of war chief as the Wookiees and their Republic allies 
fight off the invasion. Notable among the Republic forces is Jedi Master Yoda. 
Yoda and Tarfful share a strong bond, so much so that Tarfful considers Yoda 
a member of his “honor family.” Because of this, he aids Yoda when the clone 
troopers under Yoda‘s command betray the venerable Jedi Master. Another 
of Tarfful's close friends is the Wookiee scout Chewbacca. 


Tarfful CL 12 

Medium Wookiee scout 3/soldier 4/noble 5 

Destiny 3; Force 6 

Init +12 (can reroll, must take second result); Senses Perception +12 (can 
reroll, must take second result) 

Languages Basic (understand only), Dosh (understand only), Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 24), Fort 26, Will 25 

hp 102; Threshold 26; extraordinary recuperation 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +13 (144410) 

Ranged bowcaster +11 (3d10+6) or 

Ranged bowcaster +9 (4d10+6) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged bowcaster +6/+6 (3d10+6) with Double Attack or 

Ranged bowcaster +4/+4 (4d10+6) with Double Attack and Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +9: Grp +13 

Atk Options Charging Fire, Double Attack (bowcaster), Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinated Attack, 
rage I/day, Rally, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 19, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 16 

Talents Acute Senses, Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Cover Fire, Distant 
Command, Imaroved Initiative, Rally 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Charging Fire, Coordinated 
Attack, Double Attack (bowcaster), Point Blank Shat, Precise Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training 
(Knowledge (bureaucracy)), Skill Training (Persuasion), Weapon Focus 
{bowcaster), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +16 (can take 10 when distracted), Endurance +13, Initiative 
+12 (can reroll, must take second result), Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+32, Knowledge (tactics) +12, Perception +12 (can reroll, must take 
second result), Persuasion +79 (can reroll attempts to intimidate, must 
take second result), Survival +12 

Possessions bowcaster 


eEwervvTT ow, 


, 


EGNONASVS) BONIS) 


Zee Tee HoT 


ZIRO THE HuTrr 

The uncle of Jabba the Hutt, Ziro the Hutt (whose full name and title is 
Ziro Desilijic Tiure) is a devious crime lord who dwells in the seedy depths 
of Coruscant. Ziro the Hutt employs assassins, thugs, thieves, and a variety 
of other sinister agents, both on Coruscant and abroad. Despite holding 
the rank of Vigo in the Black Sun crime syndicate, he is considered a lesser 
crime lord on Coruscant; however, Zira has consideradie power thanks to 
nis association with influential members of the Confederacy of Independent 
Systems. Unafraid to make deals with those who would harm the Desilijic 
clare tf it would bring him more profit and power, Ziro is a treacherous Hutt 
whose betrayals will surely catch up with him, 


Ziro the Hutt CcL9 

Large Hutt noble 4/scoundrel 3fcrime tord 2 

Destiny 1; Force 7; Dark Side 6 

Init +10; Senses Perecption +17 

Languages Basic, Bocee, Gamorrean, High Galactic, Huttese, Quarrenese, 
Rodese, Ryl, Shyriiwook (understant only) 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 21), Fort 21, Will 27 

hp 57; Threshold 31 

Immune +5 bonus to Will Defense against Use the Force checks 

Speed 2 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (16644) 

Ranged by weapon +7 

Base Atk +6; Grp +11 

Atk Options Point Biank Shot 

Special Actions Disruptive, Presence, Impcl Ally |, Impel Ally Il, 

Walk the Line 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 16, Wis 16, Cha 15 

Special Qualities supreme stability 

Talents Disruptive, Presence, Impel Ally |, Impel Ally Il, Walk the Line, 
Weaken Resolve 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point 
Blank Shot, Skill Facus (Deception), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus 
(Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +16, Gather Information +11, Initiative +10, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Knowledge (sacial 
sciences) +12, Perceptian +17, Persuasion +16 (can reroll, must take 
second result), Use Computer +12 

Possessions various personal belongings 


“SENATOR, |! 
BELIEVE YOU ARE 
TOO DANGEROUS TO 
BE KEPT ALIVE.” 


-ZIRO THE HUTT 


VEHICLES AND 
STARSHIPS 


During the Clone Wars, vehicies of war roll off assembly lines on planets 
throughout the galaxy. The foiiowing section details several vehicles that 
appear during the Clone Wars and are suitable for use by both allies and 
antagonists in a Clone Wars campaign. 


OEVVAOR JET CATAMARAN 

Named after the oevvaor, a flying marine reptile indigenous to Kashyyyk’s 
coasts, this flying catamaran is designed to the surface of fresiwater lagoons 
en Kashyyyk. 

Incorporating Padracer-style jet engines and compact repulsorlifts, this 
15-meter-long vessel can attain speeds of up to 370 kilometers per hour 
over water. Its hull, fashioned from thick wroshyr timber, is strona enough 
to provide protection against enemy blaster fire. 
Oewaor Jet Catamaran CcL3 
Gargantuan vehicle (speeder) 

Init +5; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 16; +3 armor 

hp 60; DR 5; Threshold 36 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 270 km/h over water), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged blaster cannon +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), 
none (passengers) 

Base Atk +0: Grp +31 

Atk Options autofire (blaster cannon) 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 14, Con ~, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +5 

Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 2 

Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 12,125 (2,700 used) 


Blaster Cannon (gunner) 
Atk +2 (-3 autofire), Dmg 3d16 


RADDAUGH GNASP 
FLUTTERCRAFT (ORNITHOPTER) 
Named after a dangerous insect native to the Wookice colony moon of 
Alaris, these cramped ornithopters buzz through the skies of Kashyyyk, 
conducting security patrols, search-rescuc missions, and perimeter scans. 
The 7-meter-long vehicle, manufactured by the enterprising Wookiees of 
Appazanna Engineering Works, is an armed, lightweight, twin-seat Scout 
craft perfect for defending the tree-cities of the Wookiee homeworld. 
Featuring a tail-gun but no armer, tke ornithopter relies on its speed and 
agility te avoid incoming fire, and its mostly open cockpit provides minimal 
cover for its. crew of two. 


WoOokKIRE PLUTTERCRAFPY 


1x YBLavHsS 


. 


Ted vSLIWHD 


SNSILSV2) SONI <2) 


Raddaugh Gnasp Fluttercraft CL4 

Huge air vehicle (ornithopter) 

Init +11; Senses Perception +8 

Defenses Ref 14 (Fiat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 29 

Speed fy 12 squares (max. veiocity 310 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon tail-gun +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 of | square (starship scale); Caver +2 (creve) 

Base Atk +2: Grp +20 

Atk Options autofire {iaser cannon tail-gun) 

Abiiities Str 18, Dex 1€, Con — int 16 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +9 

Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 3 kg: Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost 14,750 (3,200 used) 


Laser Cannon Tail-Gur (gunner) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10 


SABAOTH DESTROYER 

Sabaoth destrayers are intimidating capital ships employed by the mercenary 
Sabaoth Squadron. Recruited by Count Dooku, the Sabaoth Squadron fights 
for the Separatists in early engagements of the Clone Wars, influencing key 
battles. Several Sabaoth destroyers are eliminated by the Fecorin pirate 
Nym and his allies—including Sabaoth Squadron Leader Cavik Tath’s flag- 
ship, the Reaver. 


Sabaoth Destroyer CL 12 

Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 {flat-footed 12), Fort 36; +12 armor 

hp 900; DR 15; SR 130; Threshold 136 

Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 3 point-defense heavy laser cannon batteries +9 (see below) and 
2 light turbolaser batteries +9* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 squares (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +48 

Abilities Str 62, Dex 14, Con =, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2 

Crew 250 (skilled); Passengers 3,000 

Cargo 3,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 12 starfichters 

Hyperdrive x3 (backup x18), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 3.5 million (1.4 million used) 


* Apply a =20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Point-Defense Heavy Laser Cannon Battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +3, Dmg 6410x2 
Light Turbolaser Battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +9 {-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 2d10x5 


SABAOQOTH STARFIGHTER 

Structurally, the Sabgoth starfighter is little more than a cockpit mounted 
behind a pair of downward-angled wings, each tipped with a pair of laser 
cannans, As the main starfighters of the Sabaoth Squadron, Sabaoth star- 
fighters give combat support ta the Sabaoth destroyers. Under the command 
of Captain Cavik Toth, Sabaoth starfighters fight for the Separatists. They are 
first seen launching from Sabacth destroyers in battle over Geonosis, where 
they meet the Jedi starfighters of Adi Gallia and Siri Tachi. 


& BABAOTH CBS TROYER LAUNCHES A SQUADRON 
OF BABOATH BTARFIOTERB- 


Sabaoth Starfighter CL7 
Huge starfighter 
Init +12; Senses Perception +8 


Dactillion CL 2 
Huge airborne beast 3 
Init +8 (can reroll, must take second result); Senses Perception +2 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23; +3 armor 
hp 75; DR 5; Threshold 33 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 10), Fort 18, Will 12 
hp 37; Threshold 28 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,110 km/h], fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 4 laser cannons +8 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +28 


Speed 4 squares, fly 6 squares 
Melee 2 claws +9 (1d8+7) and 
bite +9 (24647) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 
Base Atk +2: Grp+19 


Abilities Str 36, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +12, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +9 
Crew | (expert) Passengers none 

Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 170,000 (72,000 used) 


Laser Cannon (pilot) 
Atk +8, Omg 4d10x2 


BEASTS 


All worlds have nonsentient life forms that occasionally present threats to 
civilization. Some of these beasts can be damesticated and used as pets or 
mounts, while others are untamable. A couple beasts of note are presented 
below, 


DACTILLION 

Dactillions are predators that plagued Utapauns during their rise to civiliza- 
tion. These four-legged reptilian carnivores are 6 meters tall with a 24-meter 
wingspan. They are an ancient species that is often solitary and nomadic. 
Within the sinkholes of Utapau, they can use their claws to scale cliff faces 
or their wings ta ride the thermal drifts. They feed on grotto fish, small prey, 
and carrion. By providing dactillions with fresh meat, the Utapauns are able to 
domesticate them, turning these reptilian predators into trusted mounts. 


Abilities Str 24, Dex 16, Con 26, Int 4, Wis 15, Cha 8 

Feats Skill Training (Climb, Survival) 

Skills Climb +12, Initiative +8 (can reroll, must take seeond result), 
Survival +7 


HORA 

Horaxes are enormous, reptilian creatures native to the planet Nelvaan. 
Adult specimens grow to a height of 15 meters, their tough blue-gray skin 
covers a powerfully muscled frame. Because of their immense size, they have 
a brutal impact on the environment, uprooting trees with their shovel-like 
horns. Fortunately, Horaxes are solitary creatures, gathering in pairs only to 
mate. They use their enormous fangs, massive nose horns, and Spurred taiis 
to fight cach other for territory, 


lis SSLevHoD 


Horax CL8 | 
Huge beast 8 | 
Init +4; Senses Perception +4 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 18, Will 9 
hp 100; Threshold 28 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee gore +16 (2d6+10) and 
tail slap +16 (2d6+10 plus special) ar 
Melee gore +11" (2d6+15) and 
tail slap 411" (2d6+20 plus special) } 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square (2 squares with tail slap) 
Base Atk +6; Grp +26 
Atk Options Power Attack, tail slap 
Abilities Str 30, Dex 8, Con 26, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 2 
Feats Power Attack, Toughness, Skitl Training (Initiative) 
Skills Initiative +4, Perception +4 
“ includes 5 points of Power Attack. 


NI 


J 


a 
J 


SNOLLOY. 


Tail Slap—When a horax uses Power Attack with its tail Slap, it deals 
extra damage cqual to the number of points of Power Attack spent. 
Any creature hit by a horax’s tail slap attack Is knocked jprone. 


wee eEeuvuUuUNvuUuUuUuvuY 


: 
I 
R | 
i 
3 
x! |) 


APPENDIX 


Every character, creature, droid, vehicle, starship, and emplacement in 
this book appears on this list, which is sorted alphabetically by Challenge 


Level (CL). 


CHARACTERS AND CREATURES 
Clone Shacktrooper 
EduCorps Worker 
Geonosian Warrior 
Kybuck 

MedCorps Worker 
AgriCorps Worker 

Clone Scout Trooper 
Clone Subtrooper 
Dactillion 

ExplorCorps Worker 
Gamma-383 “Trench” 
Clone Naval Officer 
Geonasian Elite Warrior 
Admiral Wullf Yularen 
Ahsoka Tano 

Clone Jet Trooper 
Clone Pilot 

Mas Amedaa 

Clone Blaze Trooper 
Salporin 

Senate Commando 
Chewbacca 

Clone Fighter Pilot 
Galactic Marine 
Merumeru 

Trandoshan Bounty Hunter 
Boba Fett 

Clone Shadow Trooper 
General Whorm Loathsom 
ARC Trooper 

Clone Assassin 

Clone Commando 
Clone Trooper Battalion 
Horax 

Nahdar Vebb 

Captain Argyus 

dedi Healer 

Jedi Instructor 

Sly Moore 

Ziro the Hutt 

ARC Trooper Alpha-17 


OO SCH SCHOO SSHBINI THB AAMRMHHHMAR KERR EROUNNHYNNH = | aa | 


cL 


S 


PAGE 


153 
122 
181 
129 
123 
122 


CHARACTERS AND CREATURES 
Commander Rex 


Jedi Archivist 

Aayla Secura 

Cavik Toth 

Nym 

Quinlan Vos 

Tarfful 

Trandoshan Mercenary 
Asajj Ventress 

K'Kruhk 

Ki-Adi-Mundi 

Kit Fisto 

Anakin Skywalker 
Obi-Wan Kenobi 

Plo Koon 

An‘ya Kuro (The Dark Woman) 
Durge 

Saesee Tiin 

Count Dooku 

Mace Windu 

Yoda 


DROIDS 

5YO Protocol Droid 

EW-3 Midwife Droid 

FA-4 Pilot Droid 

FA-5 Valet Droid 
Marksman-H Combat Remote 
P2 Series Astramech Droid 
Serve-0-Droid Pit Droid 
CLL-6 Binary Load Lifter 

DD-13 Medical Assistant Droid 
FX-6 Medical Assistance Droid 
IG-86 Sentinel Droid 

IM-6 Medical Droid 

IW-37 Pincer Loader Droid 

LE Series Repair Droid 

SP-4 Analysis Droid 
BCA-11/X Iraining Droid 

Cold Assault Battle Droid 

IG Lancer Combat Droid 
OOM-Series Battle Droid 
B-Series Battle Droid Squad 
LR-57 Combat Drord 


160 


196 


195 


DROIDS 

Octuptarra Combat Tri-Droid 
Bi-A Series Air Battle Droid 
Battle Droid Assassin 
Cortosis Battle Droid 

A-DSD Advanced Dwarf Spider Droid 
Droid Commando 

IG-110 Lightsaber Droid 
LM-432 Assault Crab Droid 
Spelunker Probe Droid 

Ultra Droideka 

A-Series Assassin Droid 


JK-13 Security Droid 


VEHICLES AND STARSHIPS 
DCO0052 “Intergalactic” Speeder 


Single Trooper Aerial Platform (STAP) 


Oevvaor Jet Catamaran 

Tsmeu-6 Personal Wheel Bike 

Ubrikkian Seitiss-2 Caravel Cabin 
Medlifter Troop Transport 

Raddaugh Gnasp Fluttercraft 
Sheathipede-class Shuttle 

Trade Federation Troop Carrier 
All-Jerrain Recon Transport (AT-RT! 
BARC Speeder 

8C-714 Luxury Transport 

Grievous's Wheel Bike (Modified Tsmeu-6) 
All-Terrain Experimental Transport (AT-XT) 
Dagger-ciass Starfighter 

G9 Rigger 

Multi-Troop Transport (MTT) 

Punworcea 116-class Sloop 

Unstable Terrain Artillery Transport (UT-AT) 
Bartoz-ciass Freighter 

Dianoga-class Assault Starfighter 
Droch-class Boarding Ship 

Hyena-class Bomber 

Infantry Support Platforms 

0G-9 Homing Spider Droid 
Pursuer-ctass Enforcement Ship 
Sabaoth Starfighter 

$40K Phoenix Howk-class Light Pinnace 
TX-130 Saber-class Fighter Tank 


cL 


WDMMOOAOMmAF ERY 


B= 


oO 
= 


WN NNN NN NNN OOAMODAMO NTN kk Se wWwYw SS = 


VEHICLES AND STARSHIPS 
Freefali-class Starfighter 

GS-100 Salvage Ship 

KR-TB Doomtreader 

LAAT/e Carrier 

MorninaStar-A Assautt Starfighter 
Republic Troop Transport 
CiS-Advanced Starfighter 
Manta Droid Subfighter 
Tri-Droid 

Ubrikkian Seltiss-2 Caravel 
All-Terrain Attack Pod (AT-AP) 
C-9975 Landing Craft 

Delta-7 Aethersprite Interceptor Variants 
Ground Armored Tank (GAT) 
Hardcell-class Transport 
Koensayr BTL-S1 Y-wing 

Scurrg H-6 Prototype Bomber 
Eta-2 Actis Interceptor Variants 
Kappa-class Shuttle 

Ajl-Terrain Tactical Enforcer (AT-TE) 
Azure Angel 

IG-227 Hailfire-class Droid Tank 
Nu-class Assault Shuttle 
Sabaoth Destroyer 


Belbullab Heavy Starfighter 

CR-20 Troop Carrier 

Diamond-ciass Cruiser 
Persuader-class Droid Enforcer 
Soulless One (Modified Belbullab-22) 
MedStar-class Frigate 

Consular-class Cruiser {c70 Charger Rewofit) 
Pelta-class Medical Frigate 
Self-Propelled Heavy Artillery 
Providence-class Destroyer 

Invisible Hand 

Subjugator-class Heavy Cruiser 


WEAPON EMPLACEMENTS 
LRIK Sonic Antipersonnel Cannon 
AV-7 Antivehicle Cannon 


eooocmoanaoaal 


wo 


“LIKE FIRE ACROSS THE GALAXY 
THE CLONE WARS SPREAD.” 
The Clone Wars have begun, and now the great conflicts of this setting can be relived—or told for the first time—in your 


campaigns, Featuring material drawn from The Clone Wars television series, as well as films, comics, and video games set 
during the Clone Wars, this campaign guide gives players and Gamemasters the tools to create new heroes and design 


exciting adventures against the backdrop of galactic war. 


+ § 7” _N ~ 4 
i= 


Visit our website at www.starwars.com 
www.wizards.com/starwar's 


sulay 
S ty 


THE GLONE WARS CAMPAIGN GUIDE CONTAINS MATERIAL 
FOR BOTH PLAYERS AND GAMEMASTERS, INCLUDING: 


wy 
5 iy 
fer’ 


slarwars.com 


@ New talents, feats, prestige classes, equipment, and other options for heroes, 
ISBN: 978-0-7969-4900-4 


MUN ii 
aL | | | 


@ Rules for followers, allowing heroes to take command. 


@ Advice on running adventures set during the Clone Wars. 


@® A mass combat system for resolving large-scale battles in any 
ist 


Star Wars campaign. Sg eae Pw Sonans 
° 0 Syst tive jogo Sug. Retail: US $39.95 CAN $45.00 
; 2c int ai Coline ve inted i S.A. 218817200 


