OLEPLAYING 


4 
R 
f = 


¥ 
0 
0 
a 
W 
4 
=) 
4 
W 
4 
0 
ia) 
Zz 
0 
- 
ia) 
W 
< 
0 
< 
n 


SAGA EDITION 


REVISED CORE RULEBOOK 


CHRISTOPHER PERKINS, OWEN K.C. STEPHENS, RODNEY THOMPSON 


CREPITS 


Bill Slavicsek, Andy Collins, 1O Wiker 
JA 


Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C. Stephens, 
Rodney Thompson 
SF 


Gary M. Sarli 
/— (wikemanipnaraaarae 


———————————————————— 


YF YT 
——-— 
YT 


Daniel Falconer, Langdon Foss, 46 Squared, 
Daniel Gelon, D. Alexander Gregory, Matt Hatton, 
Raven Mimura, Vinod Rams, Ramon Perez, 
Andrew Robinson, Marc Sasso, Greg Staples, 
Mark Tedin, Chris Trevas, Lucasfilm Ltd, 


Joseph Al-Khazraji, lan Allen, Michael Beeler, Newell 
Curlee, James Hamilton, Doug Hyatt, Lj Stephens, 
Brett Thompson, Clay Venable, Shay Wells 


Letand Chee, Andy Collins, Jonathan Gibbons, 
Rob Heinsoo, Scott Sarli, Mark Valetutto, 
Jel! Wadidill, Rob Watkins, lames Wyatt 


VI 


Some rules mechanics are buseston the Star Wars Repaying Gaore Revised Cote fuedonk by Bal Stavicem, Andy Collin, ane 1D Whey. the original QUNGEONS 6 ORAGONS® rules created by €. Gary Gygax and Daye Arreson, end the new DUNGEONS & DRAGONS game designed 
by Jonathan Tweet, Morte Cook, Ship Wikame, Sichardé Baker, and Pener Adkisen. 


This Wawrits of the Coast game product cortaizs ro Opes Gare Contest No portian af this work may be reproduced in ary torm witout arittrs permission. Ta lnars more about the Open Garming License and the (20 System License, please visit awa wizards.com/d2). 


US. CANADA, ASIA, GREAT BANTAIN 

PRCIFIC, 6 LATIN AMERICA HASBAG UK LTD WIZARDS OF THE COAST, BELGIUM 

WIZARDS OF THE COAST, INC. vay "TMOFYELD 6D 

yor NEWPORT, GNENT WP3 CH 1702 GAO01-BUGAARDEN 
FENTON, WA 98057-0707 
PLEASE MEEP THIS ADDRESS FOR TOUR RECORUS «+32 2 467 3960 
SBM S7E-D7HHS-4356-2 

€20-10796720-001-EN 
aaTAS E221 


FIRST PRINTING: MAY 2007 


ONTENTS 


PONS Sask stercvcued sneace ce 131 ze or: = 

RABIN ES oo ss a evic eases 133 Life in the Galaxy .......... 227 

Services and Expenses ....... 140 Planets of the Galaxy....... 228 

Encumbrance.........020008 140 Travel in the Galaxy. ........ 237 
This isa ss aenierng Game...... i _ CWS: GComepar .... 142 | 


: : ia. 2 ‘omb at § quence S 3e 
Pha vests i { eS Sree Combat Statistics ...........144 The | Role of the G eeneier 239 
RUiesebeserdacswiis ry Initiative. ..2...............149 Running a Game Session .... .242 


This !s the Stor Wars 


Pere SUPTISE sic civveveasesceasctA® Building an Encounter. .......247 
Orestes see siiensescersecss Types of Skill Checks.......... Types of Actions............. 150 Awarding 

ieeiasway Trying Again. ................58 Special Combat Rules........155 Experience Points ........248 
Pon vcenkennseaxans Favorable and Unfavorable —— Other Rewards..............248 
Circumstances. ........... 59 it VEHICLES .. 164_ Building an Adventure ....., 249 
Rae ratvisviee's-s'0e Time and Skill Checks .........60 Pet etdeeeeenes , Building a Campaign.......,.251 
boc sineeyss Checks without Rolls. .......,.60 Vehicle Types ......... 51... .166 NEGINE ween screens og 
; Combining Skill Attempts. .....61 Vehicle Combat Statistics, ....167 ice tk I ae: 256 

if “ “} Ability Checks .............-. Characters in Vehicles. ....... 

Foaken rea BAAR seca sy sted Starting the Battle .......... 


eet sisesi-ens : : Vehicle Combat Actions 
ee &g ++--78 | Special Vehicle 


tere reece r ewer FT jj — AAEPIVGE FAUIC DS. .. . eee eee 


feretwtwwew ween ED FT VERPIE VOM TIUIOMS .. 2.2... 


cheb Pte btn aida ey oS) Wc i Ree 


meee eee 
ts 


ee eee 


Aho: Tre Force..90_ 
Rei iaaa acs ensues The Force through the Ages....91 


str tee 


Creating a Droid Hero........ 
Ren asaiss le daekeheny Using the Force..............92 DION Talt§. is nececvesacecs 
SRMalaicis'vveeegeved FORCE POINES. oes eee cs 92 Droid Systems .,..,.........188 


= ane 


CLAN SS eee WR DOE SIE Co .o4 co nesencnen Qe Modifying Droids....,.......197 
Sample Droids ......,....... 


ee ee es 


thet ee eee 


BraR eh vaey v0 vse cice’ Force Power Descriptions......96 We atek 


re ete on), OCU Cor WH: PResTice = Character Archetypes........278 
DAUWAVA cemeceessies i mo Le Bee 2 £UN Other Species.............. 


Seer eree wer eee OO FUREY SOLICITS... eee eee AUS Fo PER ARIUE WOO. ee cee ee 


MMe céSreececerecc:O/ |  FORCCAISINO TBEUONG ss cccccche) PRO RHOR «2. cevicenceneves 
SOOM 88 OF Ent jg “WWHEY UIWINASl err er er esseees 

Peer e rere ese re sees i aN LU borer res asc se cies 
Peewee wee ces esee SI A Bees ees ee see ee 6 BMPR FEED TTOODOT. Cw eens sees 


i er ee ee. | i nk ee ee te eS) ws) ) 
AOE H terre eee esse see ee F MEUM sewn errerrserr erence tw | jj § FURLE PUL. wns evereeevee 


OME + waivsineane i FORCE RSID oss cnesie's 


- A re : . - GUINER cca nceerncscee cure 
_ CHAPTER ; po REE Se: 217 

SOD AMET 0 5 o 9c ei semsariies 219 

DO ores owcecs casey see 220 

Vaaialen Sith Apprentice .............222 

nae Melee Weapons............. SABLE oo recerccevssaevecken 


sas Ranged Weapons............124 


ee Se 


: 
0 
4 
c 
/ 

- 


| 


Welcome to the latest edition of the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. Whether you're an experienced player or 
new to the game, you're in for a real treat. 


Why the new edition? First and foremost, we wanted the “definitive” core rulebook to encompass all six 
feature films—something that wasn't possible until after the release of Episode Ill: Revenge of the Sithin 2005. 
Secondly, Wizards of the Coast had stepped away from the roleplaying game for a few years to focus on the Stor 
Wars Miniatures Game. After the successful launch of the miniatures line, we knew that we wanted a roleplaying 
game rulebook that embraced our pre-painted plastic miniatures—over 500 of them and counting. And what 
a great opportunity to give Star Wors Miniatures Game players another way in which to use their miniatures! 
Lastly, we wanted to make good on a promise to treat this game as a living document shaped by fan feedback 
and the latest breakthroughs in game design, Like the Star Wars saga itself, the game evolves. 


So, here it is: the first roleplaying game rulebook to span the complete Star Wars film saga. What else could 
we call it but the Saga Edition? 


This rulebook doesn't change how roleplaying games are played: You still need those wacky dice, your 
imagination, a love for all things Star Wars, and a few good friends. However, it boldly reinvents the game by 
allowing players to customize their characters in ways never before possible. Characters gain access to more 
feats as well as new suites of talents. Every level gained promises something new and exciting. We've even 
taken 2 few pointers from the miniatures game and streamlined the combat rules. We've also simplified the 
skill system and devised Force rules that feel more elegant and true to the Star Wars milieu. 


The book incorporates Episode II content (of course!) as well as a few surprises. Like its predecessors, the 
Saga Edition rulebook promises new adventures in the Stor Wars galaxy and delivers a rules system that doesn't 
apologize for breaking new ground. 


Believe it or not, it’s been thirty years since George Lucas gave us his first film in the Star Wors saga. | was 
9 years old when the movie premiered on May 25, 1977. Truth be told, | was the boy on my block with the Stor 
Wars posters tacked to his bedroom walls, shelves lined with Stor Wars action figures, and yes, Star Wors bed 
sheets, Many of the “dry years” between Episode VI and Episode | were spent playing electronic games such 
as X-Wing, TIE Fighter, and Dark Forces. Somewhere along the way, | became an adult, and shortly before the 
release of The Phantom Menace, | rekindled my passion for Stor Wors and unleashed my inner child by becoming 
the editor-in-chief of Stor Wars Gomer magazine. In this role, | was able to meet the people behind the Stor 
Wars legacy, even work with them, | visited Skywalker Ranch, read film scripts stamped “confidential,” attended 
conventions, followed Peter Mayhew around like a happy little dog, and enjoyed frequent behind-the-scenes 
glimpses of filmmaking magic. It stuns me to think of how much Star Wars has remained a part of my life in 
spite of all of the things that can occupy one's time, 


Thirty years—what a cause for celebration! Perhaps for this reason alone, the time seemed right to revisit 
this great game, make it better, and give it a facelift. I'm as proud of this book as anything I've worked on, and 
I've been doing game design since | was seventeen. As a follow-up, Wizards of the Coast plans to unveil more 
products in its new line of roleplaying game supplements and accessories. | hope you're as excited by them as 
| am. More importantly, | hope this book fills many of your evenings and weekends with adventure, laughter, 
and fond memories of a galaxy far, far away. 


Chin ako 


Christopher Perkins 
January 7, 2007 


— 


~The Star Wars films depict an amazing galaxy of strange aliens, wondrous 
»machinery, mystical powers, epic struggles, great heroes, and terrible villains, 
From the moment the first Star Destroyer blazed across the screen, the story 
(Of Star Wars captivated the world. With this game, you can re-create the 
tory of the films or craft your own adventures in the Star Wors universe. All 
Pyou need is some dice, a few friends, and your imagination. 
-— az c 
we THIS IS STAR WARS 
~ Blasters; X-wing starfighters; lightsabers; clone troopers; the Force. ., . 
Stor Wars is space fantasy at its best, full of action, adventure, and a 
sense of wonder. The heroes are larger than life. The villains are utterly evil. 
"The universe has a lived-in, well-used look and feel to it. It's a familiar story, 
but it’s never been told quite this way before. It has mythic elements that 
speak to the heart of the audience. It’s epic in scope: everything appears 
on a grand scale. And it's fun. Vehicles move very fast. Things blow up. We 
want to cheer for the good guys and boo the bad guys, And, sometimes, we 
want to be a part of that faraway galaxy. 


THIS IS A 
ROLEPLAYING GAME 


It's a game of your imagination, where you get to tell stories by taking on 
roles of the main characters—characters you create. It's a game that offers a 
multitude of choices to those characters—more choices than even the most 
sophisticated computer game, because the only limit to what you can do 
is what you can imagine. The story is like a movie, except all of the action 
takes place in your imagination. There's no script to the movie (other than 
a rough outline used by the Gamemaster}; you decide what your character 
says and does. The Gamemaster is the director and special effects designer, 
deciding what the story is about and taking on the roles of all the other 
characters—the villains, the extras, the special guest stars. The Gamemas- 
ter also keeps track of the rules, interprets the outcome of actions, and 
describes what happens. Together, players and Gamemaster create a story, 
and everybody has a great time. 


THis Is THE 
STAR WARS 
ROLEPLAYING GAME 


Combine the fabulous elements of the Star Wars universe with the imagi- 
nation-powered engine of a roleplaying game, and the faraway galaxy 
draws nearer. Everything you need is in this book except the dice. Check 


out The Basics, starting on page 9, to get an idea of the fundamentals of 
the game. 


z 
+ 
a 
0 
9 
Ks 
6 
3 
Q 
z 


When you're ready, flip through the rest of this book. It offers a wealth 
of options, allowing you to play in any Star Wars era. It lets you play the 
good guys, the bad quys, or the guys in between if you want to add a little 
ambiguity to an otherwise black-and-white universe. 

When you play the Stor Wars Roleplaying Game, you create a unique 
fictional character that lives in the imaginations of you and your friends. 
One person in the game, the Gamemaster (GM), controls the villains and 
other people who live in the Stor Wars universe. Through your characters, 
you and your friends face the dangers and explore the mysteries that your 
Gamemaster sets before you. 

Anything is possible in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. You can have your 
character try anything you can think of. If it sounds good and the dice fall in 
your favor, the action succeeds. The Basics section has mare details. 

Now, get ready. It’s a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. And the 
Force is with you. Enjoy! 


CHARACTERS 


Your characters are the stars of the movie, the main characters in the game. 
We sometimes refer to them as “heroes,” not in the “good guy” sense per 
se, but in the sense of the main protagonists of the story. Each character's 
imaginary life is different. Your character might be... 


A tough blaster-for-hire. 

A Padawan learner seeking to gain power in the Force. 
A brash starfighter pilot. 

A gambler looking to make the next big score. 

A grizzled spacer making a living on the space lanes. 
A smuggler with a heart of gold. 

A young senator from a prosperous world. 

A Rebel spy. 

A Jedi Knight wielding a lightsaber in defense of the Republic. 
A galactic scout exploring the hyperspace lanes. 

A soldier trained for war in the Outer Rim. 

Or any other kind of character you can imagine. 


WHAT YOU NEED 


TO PLAY 
Here's what you need to start playing the Stor Wars Roleplaying Game: 


This book, which tells you how to create and play your character. 

A copy of the character sheet (on page 287) 

A pencil and scratch paper. 

One or two four-sided dice (4), four or more six-sided dice (d6), an 
cight-sided die (d8), two ten-sided dice (d10), a twelve-sided die (d12), 
and a twenty-sided die (d20). 


¢ A miniature from the Star Wars Miniatures Game line to represent your 
character. 
© Abattle map with 1-inch squares to put your miniature on, 


Players should read the front sections of this book, the parts dealing with 
character creation, skills, feats, and equipment. The rest of the book is for the 
Gamemaster, providing advice for running the game, opponents to throw at 
the players’ characters, and a few starting points for adventures. 


Dice 


The rules abbreviate dice rolls with phrases such as "4d6+2," which means 
“four six-sided dice plus 2" (generating a number between 6 and 26). The first 
number tells you how many dice to roll (all of which are added together), the 
number after the “d" tells you what type of dice to use, and any number after 
that indicates a quantity that is added to or subtracted from the result. 

Some examples: 

3d6: Three six-sided dice, generating a number from 3 to 18. This is the 
amount of damage that a blaster pistol deals. 

2d8: Two eight-sided dice, generating a number from 2 to 16. This is the 
amount of damage that a lightsaber deals in the hands of a Ist-ievel Jedi. 


THE THREE ERAS 
OF PLAY 


The Stor Wars Roleplaying Game supports adventures and campaigns set in 
many different eras, three of which are described in detail in this book. You 
can set your campaign in the time of the prequel movies (Episodes I-III). 
Known as the Rise of the Empire era, this is a period when the Republic's 
power is waning, war grips the galaxy, and the Jedi Council still holds sway 
over ten thousand Jedi Knights. This time period pre-dates the Empire but 
includes the tumultuous Clone Wars. 

Or, you can go forward in time to the classic period of galactic civil war 
and play in the Rebellion era, when the power of the Empire is supreme and 
those capable of using the Force ate few and far between, This is the time 
described in the original Star Wars films (Episodes IV-VI). 

Or, jump to a time twenty years after the Battle of Endor and participate 
in the events surrounding the invasion of the galaxy. Aliens from beyond 
the edge of known space have begun an incursion into the New Republic as 
forces conspire to threaten the hard-won peace in the era of The New Jedi 
Order (as described in the De! Rey Books novel series). 

In addition, the rules in this book can be used to support campaigns set in 
other eras. For example, in the distant past the Jedi and Sith warred for the 
fate of the galaxy, as described in Dark Horse Comics’ Toles of the Jedi and 
Knights of the Old Republic series, as well as the Knights of the Old Republic 
video game series, Alternately, you may choose to set your game inthe Legacy 
era, as popularized in Dark Horse Comics’ Legacy series: Forty years after 


The New’ Jedi Order era, the Empire has once again risen to power and the 
Sith have regained contro! of the galaxy. Although these time periods are 
not explicitly covered in this book, the rules herein can be used as a basis 
for play in these eras. 


THE BASICS 
A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away... 

With this compelling phrase, every Star Wars film thunders onto the 
screen. These epic movies enthrall us with a mix of space fantasy, high 
adventure, and mythology, We thrill to the adventures of Luke Skywalker and 
Han Solo, Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker and Padmé 
Amidala. We imagine ourselves piloting X-wing starfighters down the Death 
Star trench or engaging in fight-to-the-death lightsaber duels with Darth 
Maul, Count Dooku, or General Grievous. 

With the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, you can experience this epic saga 
in a whole new way. Imagine yourself as a Jedi in training or a Republic 
Senator, a brave starfighter pilot or a powerful Wookiee. Whether you want 
to be a player or the Gamemaster, this book is your portal to the action- 
packed Star Wars galaxy. 


THE CORE MECHANIC 

The Stor Wars Roleplaying Game uses a core mechanic to resolve all actions. 
This central game rule keeps play fast and intuitive. Whenever you want to 
attempt an action that has some chance of failure, you roll a twenty-sided 
die (or "d20"). To determine whether your character succeeds at a task (such 
as an attack or the use of a skill), you do this: 


© Rolla d20. 
© Add any relevant modifiers. 
© Compare the result to a target number. 


if the result equals or exceeds the target number (set by the GM orgiven 
in the rules), your character succeeds at the task at hand. If the result is 
lower than the target number, you fail. 


THE GAMEMASTER 

When you play the Stor Wars Roleplaying Game, you're participating in an 
tive story. Players take on the roles of unique characters, called heroes. 
One player serves as the Gamemaster, 2 combination director, narrator, and 
referee. The GM describes situations, asks the players what their characters 
Want to do, and resolves these actions according to the rules of the game. 
The GM sets each scene, keeps the story moving, and takes on the roles of 
the Opponents and other characters that the players’ heroes encounter in 
ach adventure. if you're the GM, you should read through all sections of 
this book; you don't need to memorize it, but you do need to have an idea 
Of where to find things once play begins, 


HEROES 

If you're a player, you take the role of a hero—one of the “stars” of the Star 
Wars saga that you, the other players, and the GM al! help to develop, You 
create your character with the help of the game rules that follow, according 
to your own vision for the type of hero you want to play. As your character 
participates in adventures, he or she gains experience points (XP) that help 
him or her improve and become more powerful. 

For more information on character creation, see page 13. 


GAME PLAY 


This overview gives you enough of the basics to get a feel for how this 
roleplaying game works. The chapters that follow take these basic concepts 
and expand upon them, 

Important! You don't have to memorize the contents of this book to play 
the game. It's @ game, not homework. Once you understand the basics, start 
playing! Use this book as a reference during play. The table of contents and 
index should help you find a specific topic easily. When in doubt, stick to the 
basics, keep playing, and have fun. You can always look up an obscure rule 
after your game session ends, but remember that you don't have to sweat 
the details in the middle of play. 


ROLLING DICE 

We've already explained the basic rule that forms the foundation of the 
game—roll a d20, add a modifier, and try to get a result that's equal to or 
greater than the target number. Whenever your character tries to accomplish 
something significant, the GM asks you to roll a d20. 

Important! Not every action requires a die rail. Roll dice in combat and 
other dramatic situations when the success of an action is in doubt. 

The d20 is used to determine results in combat and when making skill 
checks and ability checks. In other words, the d20 determines whether or 
not you succeed at an action, 

The other dice (d4, d6, dB, d10, and d12) are used to determine what 
happens after you succeed. Usually, the other dice come into play after 
making a successful attack roll to determine how much damage the attack 
deals to the target. 


Aa GAME SESSION 
In the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, the Gamemaster and players get together 
to tell a story through the play of the game, We call these group-created 
stories “adventures.” A Stor Wors adventure features plenty of action, lots 
of opportunities for combat, cool villains, epic plots, and a sense of wonder 
and grandeur. 

Typically, the game consists of adventures that resemble episodes in the 
movie saga. One adventure might play out in a single game session; another 
might stretch across several evenings of play. A session can last as long as 


you're comfortable playing, from as short as one hour to as long as a 12- 
hour marathon. Most groups get together and play for two to four hours at 
a time. The game can be stopped at any time and restarted when the players 
get back together. 

Each adventure consists of interrelated scenes. A scene might feature 
some kind of challenge or roleplaying encounter, or it could revolve around 
combat. When there's no combat going on, play is much more casual, The 
GM describes the scene and asks the players what their characters do. When 
combat breaks out, game play becomes more structured, and the action 
takes place in rounds. 


WHAT CHARACTERS CAN DO 

A character can try to do anything you can imagine, just so long as it fits 
the scene the GM describes, Depending on the situation, your character 
might want to: 


Listen at a door 

Use a computer terminal 

Explore a location 

Converse with an alien 

Bargain with a merchant 

Intimidate a thug 

Talk ta an ally 

Pilot a vehicle 

Search for a clue 

Bluff an official 

Repair an item 

Swing across a repulsorlift shaft 

Mave 

Duck behind a bulkhead 

Attack an opponent 

Characters accomplish these things by making skill checks, ability checks, 
or attack rolls, all of which entail a modified d20 roll. 


WHAT'S NExtT? 


If you're new to roleplaying games, you might be wondering how to proceed. 
After you've read over these basics to get an understanding of the game, 
check out The First Game Session (see below). This example of play provides 
some insight into how a roleplaying game session plays out, Then review the 
first few chapters of the book. When you're ready, use the Character Creation 
overview (page 13) and a copy of the character sheet from the back of the 
book to create a character. (You can also download a copy of the character 
sheet from our website at www.wizards.com/starwars.) When you, your 
Gamemaster, and the other players are ready, start playing! 


SeTurP 

After you've created a hero, get together with the rest of your gaming group 
for your first adventure. Prior to this, the GM has developed a storyline for 
the adventure. She might buy a complete, ready-to-play adventure or grab 
one off of the Internet. Alternately, the GM might develop one using the 
guidelines in Chapter 14: Gamemastering. 

Pick an evening or a weekend afternoon or some other convenient time 
when you and your friends can spend a few hours playing the Star Wars 
Roleplaying Game. Decide on how much time you want to spend playing. 
(Two to four hours is a good length for a game session.) 

Where should you play the game? Anywhere that's comfortable. The 
place should have a flat surface to roll dice on, such as a kitchen table. The 
GM sits so that the other players can't look over her shoulder or peek at her 
adventure notes. She needs enough room to spread out the rulebook and 
any other materials she might have for the game session, including other 
Star Wars books, a battle map, miniatures, a pencil or pen, dice, and her 
adventure notes. 


GENERAL ADVICE 

The first couple of game sessions you play might be a little uneven as 
everyone learns how the game works and gets comfortable with the idea 
of roleplaying. Remember that these rules are guidelines, a framework and 
structure for playing Stor ors adventures in a roleplaying game environment. 
A roleplaying game is a living game; it evolves and develops as you play it. If 
something isn't working for your group, and the entire group agrees, make 
a change. But wait until you've played a few times with the official rules 
before you decide to tinker. 


THE First GAME SESSION 

You and your friends have reviewed the basic rules and created 1tst-level 
characters. Your Gamemaster has reviewed the rules and is ready to run her 
first adventure. You've agreed upon a time and place to play. Then the time 
arrives and the game begins! 

Sitting around the table, with dice and snacks scattered in all directions, 
the players gather. Michele is the GM. She takes her place at the head of the 
table. Chris sits in the next seat; he's running Sia-Lan, a female Jedi. Next 
to Chris is Mike, practicing his Wookiee sounds to inject a little authenticity 
into his character, Rorworr the scout. Across the table, Penny makes some 
last-minute notes on her character sheet, adding a little more detail to Vor'en 
the soldier, Next to Penny, Brian anxiously waits to get started. He's running 
Deel Surool, the crafty scoundrel. 

Michele has selected a number of Star Wars miniatures from her collec- 
tion to use in tonight's game. The figures will help the players visualize the 
action in certain situations and will speed along play. She's got a miniature 
to represent each of the players’ characters, and she places them in the 


‘ 


_middle of the table. She leaves a few others hidden on the floor beside her. 
"She'll use these later to represent opponents that will challenge and compete 
Michele doesn't have a specific character for herself. While the players 
each run a single hero, the Gamemaster narrates the story, adjudicates the 
“gules, and plays all of the GM characters—the supporting cast that serves 
"gs allies and opponents for the heroes. 

Anyway, it looks like everyone's ready to get started. Michele answers a 
"few last-minute rules questions, then begins the game. 


Michele (GM): A /ong time ago, in a galaxy far, far away... it is the time 
of the Republic, about twenty-two years before the days of the Empire and 
the first Death Stor battle station. Supreme Chancellor Palpatine leads the 
Republic, Mace Windu and Yoda leod the Jedi Council, and the start of the 
Clone Wars is still a few weeks away. 

You're ina spaceport cantina on Corellia, a prominent world in the galactic 
core, The place is pretty busy fora weekday afternoon, though it’s not packed 
to capacity. You see humans and a variety of other species drinking, laughing, 
and talking quietly near the bar, in shadowy booths, and at a scattering of 
freestanding tables. Among those you see are the other players’ characters. 
Why don't you each take a moment to describe yourselves? 

Chris (Sia-Lan): You see a young woman with brown hair sitting alone 
in one of the booths. She's sipping a clear liquid and watching the crowd. 
Her hairstyle and outfit mark her as a Jedi. She's a Padawan learner, if any of 
you know anything about the specifics of the Jedi order. She has a lightsaber 
hanging at her side, but it’s probably hidden beneath the table. 

Mike (Rorworr): There's a young male Wookiee standing at the bar. He's 
exchanging words with the bartender. He's tall, but perhaps a bit thin when 
‘compared to other Wookiees you may have seen. He's got a bowcaster slung 
across his back, and he’s nursing a huge mug of some foamy liquid. 

Penny (Vor'en): My choracter sits in a corner booth, his back to the wall 
05 he nonchalantly studies the crowd. He's got dark eyes and an intense gaze, 
and he looks strong and capable. He's wearing bits and pieces of light body 
armor. If he has any weapons—and you're sure he does—they're either hidden 
under the table or in the booth's darker shadows. 

Brian (Deel): You also see a young male Twi'lek—you know, the guys with 
the head-toils, like Bib Fortuna—sitting at one of the tables in the middie of 
the room. He's playing sabacc with a few of the spacers, and it looks like he's 
begun to amass more than his share of credits. 

Michele (GM): Okay. You've al! noticed each other, but you don’t know 
tach other yet. Before anything else happens, why don’t each of you make a 
Perception check for me? 

The players each roll a d20 and add their Perception skill modifier to get 
‘@ result. If a character doesn't have the Perception skill as a trained skill, the 
Player Still gets to apply his Wisdom modifier (if any) to the roll. After all the 
players have made the skill check, they let the GM know the results. 


Chris (Sia-Lan): Sia-Lan gota 15. 

Mike (Rorworr): 17 for Rorworr! 

Penny (Vor'en): / rolled an 8. 

Brian (Deel): The amazingly perceptive Dee! Surool got a 22. 

Michele consults her notes, checking to see what the DC for the Percep- 
tion check is. She nods and makes a note or two, just to keep the players 
quessing. 

Michele (GM): Vor'en the soldier, even though he's watching the room, 
fails to notice something that the rest of you successfully spot. The rest of 
you see a Human male who /ooks a lot like Senator Alastar Treen of Corulag. 
He's dressed like most of the other spacers in the cantina, and he's deep in 
conversation with a Rodian female. 

Just then, you all see the cantina doors slide open as a group of tough-/ook- 
ing thugs enters the room. The bartender yells, "Hey, no blasters in here!” He 
ducks behind the bor, just in time, as one of the thugs casually fires a bloster 
bolt in his direction. There are four thugs—two Humans, a Rodian, and a 
Gamorrean. The Gamorrean wields a vibroblade, and the other three are armed 
with blaster pistols. The Gamorrean grunts something foul and gestures toward 
the table where the senotor is sitting. 

“For the Seporatists!” shouts one of the Humans with a sneer as he prepares 
to target Senator Treen. 

Everyone make an Initiative check! 

The players each roll a d20 and add their Initiative skill modifier to get 
a result. If a character doesn't have the Initiative skill as a trained skill, the 
player still gets to apply his Dexterity modifier [if any) to the roll. Michele 
rolls a single Initiative check for the group of thugs, and one for the disquised 
senator and his companion. 

Chris (Sia-Lan): Sio-Lan got an 18, 

Mike (Rorworr): 10 for Rorworr! 

Penny (Vor'en): Vor'en gota 12. 

Brian (Deel): The fast-acting Deel Surool got a 15. 

Michele writes down the initiative order, from highest result to lowest. She 
jots down: 

Sia-Lan 18 

Deel 15 

Thugs 13 (her roll) 

Vor'en 12 

Rorworr 10 

Senator 7 (her roll) 

Michele (GM): The thugs look like they're gunning for the senator. Sia-Lan, 
what ore you going to do? 

Chris (Sia-Lan): | leap out of the booth and position myself between the 
senator and the thugs as my first move action. As my second move action | 
drow my lightsaber. Asa free action, | activate the lightsaber and shout, “This 
man is under the protection of the Jedi Knights!” 


} 


NolLonaguln 


“/ 


f 


boNAN 


Sey 


INN mos 


AUIS 


Michele (GM): Your lightsaber hums to life. Deel, you're next. What are 
you going to do? 

Brian (Deel): Helping a senator and a Jedi could be profitable. Deel tips 
his table over and crouches behind it to get some cover. | guess that's a move 
action. Then he pulls out his blaster for his second move action. 

Michele (GM): When the table crashes onto its side, sabacc card-chips 
and credits scatter across the floor. The spacers you were playing with dive 
for cover, 


Brian (Deel): Oops, / forgot about the sobacc game in all the excitement 
No matter, | guess. Most of the credits belonged to Deel, anyway. 

Michele (GM): The thugs act next. The two humans each take a shot 
at the Jedi who's standing between them and the senator. The Rodian thug 
tokes a shot at Deel, and the Gamorrean rushes forward to slice at the Jedi 
with his vibroblade. 

Chris (Sia-Lan): 'm going to use the table next to me to protect myself 
from the blaster shots. 


Michele, (GM): Sure. Thot gives you cover against all the thugs, but 
in your Reflex Defense by +4. 
Michele makes the attack rolls for the two thugs. The first one gets an 
11. The second one gets a 19. 
Sia-Lan's Reflex Defense when she uses cover to protect herself is 19. That 
means she blocks the first bolt, but the second bolt gets through. 
Michele rolls 3d6 damage for the successful blaster pistol attack. The total 
‘gs 11. Sia-Lan has 22 hit points, so the attack reduces her hit points to 11. 
The rest of the round continues, with Michele finishing up the thug's 
_ actions, then Vor'en, Rorworr, and Senator Treen acting in turn. Each round 
plays out in this order until one side or the other is defeated or flees. Then the 
would get a chance to meet each other and find out why the senator 
i s in disguise and under attack. And so begins this Stor Wors adventure! 
. 


CHARACTER CREATION 
_ Make sure you review Chapters 1 through 9 before using this overview when 
ereating a Stor Wors character. Make a copy of the character sheet from the 
back of this book to use as a record of your character. 

_ Characters generally begin play at Ist level and attain additional levels 
; as they complete adventures. 


1. GENERATE ABILITY SCORES 
Every character has six abilities that represent the character's basic strengths 
and weaknesses. These abilities~Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelli- 

gence, Wisdom, and Charisma—affect everything a hero does, from fighting 

‘to using skills. 

__ Ascore of 10 or 11 in an ability is average. Higher scores grant bonuses, 
_ and lower scores give penalties. When you create your character, you'll want 
_ to put your higher scores into the abilities most closely associated with your 

character's class. 
__ Use one of the methods described in Chapter 1: Abilities to generate your 
Six ability scores. Record the scores on a piece of scrap paper and put them 
de for the moment. 


@. SSLECT YOUR SPECIES 
Star Wors character, you aren't limited to simply being Human. There 
fe a variety of species available, from Mon Calamari to Wookiee. Select the 
PECIES you want to play from those presented in Chapter 2: Species. 
_ Each Species has its own set of special abilities and modifiers. Record 
‘Mese traits on your character sheet. 


Ss. CHOOSE YOUR CLASS 
Class provides you with a starting point for your character, a frame upon 
“you can hang skills, feats, and various story elements. Choose a class 
those presented in Chapter 3: Heroic Classes and write it on your 
ter sheet. 


4. ASSIGN ABILITY SCORES 

Now that you know what species and class you want your character to be, 
take the scores you generated earlier and assiqn each to one of the six abili- 
ties: Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma. 
Then make any adjustments to these scores according to the species you 
selected. 

For guidance, each class description indicates which abilities are most 
important for that class. You might want to put your highest scores in the 
abilities that accentuate the natural benefits of the class. 

Record your ability scores on your character sheet. Record your ability 
modifiers as well. 


5. DETERMINE COMBAT 
STATIsTics 

In combat, you need to know your character's hit points, defenses, damage 
threshold, attack bonuses, and speed, as well as how many Force Points he 
has to spend. 


Hit Points 
Each character can withstand a certain amount of damage before falling 
unconscious or dying. This ability to take damage and keep on functioning 
is represented by the character's hit points. 

Your class determines how many hit points you have at 1st level, as 
shown below: 


STARTING HIT POINTS 
24 + Constitution modifier 


30+) | modifier 


For example, if your character belongs to the scoundrel class and you 
have a 12 Constitution, you start with 19 hit points (18 plus 1 for your 
Constitution bonus). 

Your hit points increase as you gain levels, as described on page 37. 


Defenses 
Determine your character's defenses as follows: 

Reflex Defense: 10 + your heroic level or armor bonus + Dexterity modi- 
fier + class bonus + natural armor bonus + size modifier 

Fortitude Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Constitution modifier + class 
bonus + equipment bonus 

Will Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Wisdom modifier + class bonus 

When you take your first level in a heroic class, you gain class bonuses 
on two or mare defenses, as shown on page 36. 


ABVSEAAINNY wOS SHUM SVAS Bias 


WW 
IO es 


ees 


ioior 


MOAININY vax 


NOM. SDNaowiN) 


8 GUTM— VVLS 


=) 


fe 
Ss 


SS) 


ASIVE 


If you wear armor, you must substitute your armor bonus for your heroic 
level when caleulating your Reflex Defense. For example, a 1st-level soldier 
with a Dexterity of 12 wearing a blast helmet and vest (+2 armor bonus) 
has a Reflex Defense of 13 (10 + 2 armor + 1 Dex + 1 class). Some types 
of armor also provide an equipment bonus to your Fortitude Defense in 
addition to an armor bonus to your Reflex Defense (as noted in Table 8-7 
Armor, page 132). 


Damage Threshold 
Attacks that deal massive amounts of damage can impair or incapacitate 
you regardless of how many hit points you have remaining. Your damage 
threshold determines how much damage a single attack must deal to reduce 
your combat effectiveness or, in some cases, kil! you. 

A Small or Medium character's damage threshold is equal to his or her For- 
titude Defense. Record this number on your character sheet. 


ae 


Your character's class determines your base attack bonus. Record this number 
on the character sheet. 

Jedi and soldiers have a base attack bonus of +1 at Ist level; nobles, 
scoundrels, and scouts have a base attack bonus of +0 at Ist level. 


Melee Attack Bonus 

To determine your melee attack bonus, add your Strength modifier to your 
base attack bonus. Certain feats and talents might provide additional modi- 
fiers, so make adjustments as necessary. 


Ranged Attack Bonus 

To determine your ranged attack bonus, add your Dexterity modifier to your 
base attack bonus. Certain feats and talents might provide additional modi- 
fiers, so make adjustments as necessary. 


Speed 


Your character's species determines her speed. Most species have a speed of 
6 squares. Ewoks have a speed of 4 squares because they are Small, 


Force Points 
Your character begins play with 5 Force Points. Indicate this in the space 
provided on the character sheet. 

If you end up taking the Force Boon feat (page 85), you gain an additional 
3 Force Points. 


Destiny Point 

if your GM uses the optional destiny rules described in Chapter 7: Heroic 
Traits, your character begins play with 1 Destiny Point. Indicate this in the 
space provided on the character sheet. 


6. SEvrectT SKILLS 

Skills represent how well a character accomplishes dramatic tasks other 
than combat, such as disabling a tractor beam generator or climbing a 
sheer surface. 

Each class comes with a list of class skills. From this list, you get to pick 
a number of skills in which your character is considered trained. The number 
of trained skills your character gets depends on the class you've selected and 
your character's Intelligence modifier. Once you've selected your character's 
trained skills, determine the skill check modifier for each skill. 

The skill check modifier for trained skills is one-half your character level 
{rounded down) + the relevant ability modifier + 5. If you are untrained in a 
skill, the skill check modifier is one-half your character level (rounded down) 
+ the relevant ability modifier, (In other words, you get a +5 bonus on skill 
checks made using trained skills.) 


Some skills cannot be used untrained, See Chapter 4: Skills for more 
information. 


7. SELECT FEATS 
Feats are special features that provide a character with new capabilities or 
improvements. 

Your character begins play with at least one feat. If you are playing a 
Human, you get a bonus feat. In addition, your class also gives you several 
starting feats that you get for free. 

Select your feats from Chapter 5: Feats and record them on the character 
sheet. Some feats may affect the information you've already recorded, so 
make adjustments as necessary. 


8. SBSLECT A TALENT 

At 1st level, your character gets a talent (a special class feature), Choose 
a talent from any of the talent trees presented in your character's class 
description. Some talents have prerequisites that must be met before they 
can be selected. 


9. DETERMINE STARTING 
CREDITS AND Buy GEAR 

Your character's class determines how many credits you start play with, Use 
your credits to purchase equipment for your character. Chapter 8: Equipment 
describes weapons, armor, and gear you can select from. 


10. FINISH YOUR CHARACTER 
The last details you need to add to your character sheet help you visualize 
and roleplay your character. You need a name, of course—something that 
fits your class, species, and the Star Warsgalaxy. You should also determine 
your character's age, gender, height, weight, eye and hair color, skin color, 
and any relevant background information you want to provide. (Make sure 
to run your ideas past your Gamemaster so that he or she can fit them into 
the campaign.) 

Chapter 7: Heroic Traits provides guidelines that can help you with these 
details and characteristics. 


—EE 


CHAPTER |! ! 
BILITIES 


Just about every dice roll you make is going to get a bonus or penalty based 
on your character's abilities. A tough character has a better chance of surviv- 
ing a freezing night on Hoth, A perceptive character is more likely to notice 
stormtroopers sneaking up from behind. A stupid character is less likely to 
find a concealed pane! that leads to a secret cargo compartment. Your ability 
scores tell you what your modifiers are for rolls such as these. 

Your character has six abilities: Strength (abbreviated Str), Dexterity 
(Dex), Constitution (Con), Intelligence (Int), Wisdom (Wis), and Charisma 
(Cha). Each of your character's above-average abilities gives you a benefit 
on certain die rolls, and each below-average ability gives you a disadvantage 
on other die rolls. You roll your scores randomly, assign them to the abilities 
you like, raise and lower them according to your character's species, and 
then raise them as your character advances in experience. 


YOuUR ABILITY SCORES 
To create an ability score for your character, roll four six-sided dice (4d6). 
Disregard the lowest die and total the three highest dice. 

This roll gives you a number between 3 (horrible) and 18 (tremendous). 
The average ability score for the typical galactic citizen is 10 or 11, but your 
character is not typical, The most common ability scores for player characters 
(heroes) are 12 and 13. (The average hero is above average.) 

Make this roll six times, recording the result each time on a piece of paper. 
Once you have all six scores, assign each score to ane of your six abilities. At this 
step, you need to know what kind of person your character is going to be, includ- 
ing his species and class, in order to know where best to place your character's 
ability scores. Remember that choosing a species other than Human causes some 
of these ability scores to change (see Table 2-1: Species Ability Adjustments). 


ABILITY MODIFIERS 

Each ability, after changes made because of species, has a -5 to +5 modi- 
fier. Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers shows the modifier for each ability, based 
on its score. 

The modifier is the number you add to or subtract from the die roll when 
your character tries to do something related to that ability, For instance, 
you add or subtract your Strength modifier to your roll when you try to hit 
someone with a vibroblade. You also apply the modifier to some numbers 
that aren't die rolls, such as when you add or subtract your Dexterity modifier 
to your Reflex Defense. A positive modifier is called a bonus and a negative 
modifier is called a penalty. 


REROLLING 

If your scores are too low, you may serap them and reroll all six scores. Your 
scores are considered too low if your total modifiers (before changes accord- 
ing to species) are 0 or less, or if your highest score is 13 or lower. 


SCORE MODIFIER © SCORE MODIFIER SCORE MODIFIER 
' ~~ 243 + 24-25 +7 
2-3 -4 14-15 +2 26-27 +8 
Ss 3 ae ee. er) 
agi -2 18-19 +4 30-31 +10 
= " mean 152) PRET TE... 
10-11 ) 22-23 +6 


PLANNED GENERATION 
Instead of rolling dice, you may select the scores you want by using the 
planned character generation method. This requires a bit more thought and 
effort on your part, since you need to know what kind of character you want 
to play so you can select your scores appropriately. Determine your species 
and class beforehand, then select your scores as outlined below. 

Your character's ability scores all start at 8. You have 25 points to spend 
to increase these scores, using the costs shown below. After you select your 
scores, apply any species modifiers. 


SCORE COST SCORE COST SCORE COST 
8 0 12 4 16 10 
9 1 13 5 7 13 

10 2 4 6 18 16 

VW 3 15 8 


STANDARD SCORE PACKAGE 
The third method of determining ability scores is the standard score pack- 
age, a balanced mix of scores designed to quickly create hero characters. 
Assign the scores to the abilities as you like. After you assign your scores, 
apply species modifiers. 

The standard score package is: 

15, 14, 13, 12, 10, and 8. 


THE ABILITIES 

Each ability partially describes your character and affects some of your 
character's actions. The description of each ability includes a list of notable 
characters along with their scores in that ability, 


STRENGTH (STR) 
Strength measures your character's muscle and physical power. This ability 
is especially important for soldiers because it helps them prevail in physical 
combat. 

You apply your character's Strength modifier to: 

—Melee attack rolls. 

—Damage rolls for melee and thrown weapons. (Exceptions: Grenades 
don’t have their damage modified by Strength.) 

—Climb, Jump, and Swim checks (the skills with Strength as the key 
ability). 

—Strength checks (for breaking down doors and the like). 


DexTEeERity (Dex) 
Dexterity measures hand-eye coordination, agility, reflexes, and balance. 
This ability is the most important ability for scoundrels, but it's also high 
on the list for characters who want to be good shots with ranged weapons 
{such as blaster pistols) or who want to handle the controls of a starship or 
speeder fairly well. 

You apply your character's Dexterity modifier to: 

—Ranged attack rolls, such as with blasters. 

—Reflex Defense, provided the character can react to the attack. 

—Acrobatics, Pilot, Ride, and Stealth checks (the skills where Dexterity 
is the key ability). 


CONSTITUTION (CON) 

Constitution represents your character's health and stamina. Constitution 
adds to a hero's hit points, so it’s important for everyone, but most important 
for soldiers and Jedi. 

You apply your Constitution modifier to: 

—Each die roll for gaining additional hit points (though a penalty can 
never drop a hit point roll below 1; a character always gains at least 1 hit 
point each time he or she goes up a level). 

—Fortitude Defense, for resisting poison, radiation, and similar threats. 

—The Endurance skill. 


Hf a character's Constitution changes, his or her hit points should also 
increase or decrease accordingly. 


INTELLIGENCE (INT) 
intelligence determines how well your character learns and reasons. Intel- 
ligence is important for scouts, nobles, and any character who wants to have 
a wide assortment of skills, 
You apply your character's Intelligence modifier to: 
—The number of languages your character knows at the start of the game. 
—The number of trained skills you have. 


—Knowledge, Mechanics, and Use Computer checks (the skills with Intel- 
jigence as the key ability). 


Beasts have Intelligence scores of 1 or 2. Sentient creatures have scores 
of at least 3. 

When a character's Intelligence score permanently increases or decreases, 
its number of trained skills and known languages also changes. For example, if 
Paul's Wookiee scout increases his Intelligence from 13 to 14, his Int modifier 

from +1 to +2. Paul's Wookiee gains one new trained skill (chosen from 
his class skills) and one new language. The Wookiee's greater Intelligence allows 
him to utilize things he had learned but never before applied properly. 


wisDpoM (wis) 
Every creature has a Wisdom score. Wisdom describes a character's willpower, 
common sense, perception, and intuition. Compared to Intelligence, Wisdom 
js more related to being in tune with and aware of one's surroundings, while 
Intelligence represents one's ability to analyze information, An “absent- 
minded professor” has a low Wisdom score and a high Intelligence score. 
A simpleton with low Intelligence might nevertheless have great insight 
(high Wisdom). Wisdom is the most important ability for scouts, but it's 
also important to characters wishing to be in-tune with their environment 
or characters who like to gamble. If you want your character to have keen 
senses, put 2 high score in Wisdom. 

You apply your character's Wisdom modifier to; 

—Will Defense, generally for resisting certain Force attacks. 

—Perception, Survival, and Treat Injury checks (the skills with Wisdom 
as the key ability), 

—The number of Force powers you learn when you take the Force Train- 
ing feat. 


When a Force-using character's Wisdom score permanently increases 
or decreases, his number of known Force powers also changes. For every 
instance of the Force Training feat that you have, you gain one Force power 
{or an additional use of an already-known Force power) for every point by 
which your Wisdom modifier increases. If you instead suffer a permanent 
reduction in your Wisdom modifier, you lose access to the same number of 
Force powers; you must choose which Force powers (or extra uses of the 
Same Force power) you lose. 


CHARISMA (CHA) 
Every creature has a Charisma score. Charisma measures a character's force 
Of personality, persuasiveness, personal magnetism, ability to lead, and physi- 
Cal attractiveness. It represents actual strength of personality and force of 
Presence, not merely how others perceive you in a social setting. Charisma 
iS most important for nobles and Jedi. 

You apply your Charisma modifier to: 


—Deception, Gather Information, Persuasion, and Use the Force checks 
(skills with Charisma as the key ability). 


CHANGING 
ABILITY SCORES 


Over time, your character's ability scores can change. Ability scores can 
increase without limit. 


@ At 4th, 8th, 12th, 16th, and 20th level, a heroic character increases two 
ability scores by 1 point each. 

© Asa character ages, some ability scores go up and others go down. See 
Table 7-2: Aging Effects (page 110) for details. 


When an ability score changes, all attributes associated with that score 
change accordingly, For example, when Sia-Lan becomes a 4th-level Jedi, 
she increases her Dexterity from 15 to 16 and increases her Charisma from 
13 to 14. Now she's harder to hit, better at using ranged weapons, and all of 
her Dexterity-based and Charisma-besed skills improve as well. 


thi 


CHAPTER I 
SPECIES 


The Star Wars galaxy contains a bewildering variety of species, each with its 
own unique outlook and civilization. Although Humans dominate the known 
galaxy, there are many intelligent alien species that can be encountered 
_ wherever you travel. 

f Humans live among the Core Worlds, throughout the Mid Rim, and even 
on the worlds of the Outer Rim Territories. Most of the alien species have 
} their own homeworlds and colonies, but individuals can be found anywhere, 
thanks to the prevalence of hyperspace travel. The promise of profit and 
power often lure members of all species to the same areas, including space- 
ports and metropolitan cities. 

Sometimes it's easy to believe that all Rodians are outlaws or all Wookiees 
are short-tempered, but the truth is that every member of every species is 
unique. Depending on the era in which your campaign is set, nonhuman 
species have. different social advantages or disadvantages, as explained in 
the Era Notes: Species sidebar (page 23). 


. CHOOSING A SPECIES 


‘After you roll your ability scores and before you write them on your charac- 
ster sheet, choose your character's species. At the same time, you'll want to 
D select your character's class, since species affects how well the character 
tan do in each class. Once you've decided your character's species and class, 
issign ability scores to particular abilities. Alter the scores according to the 
‘Species (see Table 2-1: Species Ability Modifiers) and continue detailing 
Bir character. 

You can play a character of any species presented in this chapter, but 
ertain species do better pursuing certain classes. 

Your character's species provides plenty of clues as to the sort of person 
or she is, how he or she feels about characters of other species, and what 
otivates him or her, Remember, however, that the species descriptions only 
jpply to the majority of people. In each species, some individuals diverge 
from the norm, and your character can be one of these. Don't let a descrip- 

tion hinder you from detailing your character as you like. 


i 


tl #Si0¥YrHa 


Your character's species determines some of his or her qualities. 


ABILITY ADUUSTMENTS 
Find your character's species on Table 2-1: Species Ability Adjustments and 
apply the adjustments that you see there to your character's ability scores, 
If the changes raise a score above 18 or lower it below 3, that's okay. 

For example, a Rodian gets a +2 species bonus on his Dexterity score and 
@ -2 penalty on his Wisdom and Charisma scores. Knowing this, the player 
puts her best score rolled (15) in Dexterity and sees it increase to 17. She 
doesn't want a Wisdom or Charisma penalty for her character, so she puts 
above-average scores (13 and 12) in Wisdom and Charisma. These drop to 
11 and 10, for neither a bonus nor a penalty, 


ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 


a 
a 
ah 


Ey 
z 


+2 Dex, -2 Con 


+2 Dex, +2 Int, -2 Con 


é 


Gamorrean +2 Str, -2 Dex, -2 Int 


Ithorian +2 Wis, +2 Cha, -2 Dex 


Mon Calamari +2 Int, +2 Wis, -2 Con 


Rodian +2 Dex, -2 Wis, -2 Cha 


Trandoshan +2 Str, -2 Dex 


Wookiee +4 Str, +2 Con, -2 Dex, -2 Wis, -2 Cha 


COMMON LANGUAGES 

The Star Wars galaxy is home to millions of languages, but picking 
languages for your character doesn't need to be daunting. A few of the 
more common languages are listed below. Among these, Basic is the most 
common in the Outer Rim), Binary (used by droids and programmers), and 
Bocce (a trade language that can be spoken by almost any species). 


Basic Huttese 
Bothese Kel Dor 

Cerean Mon Calamarian 
Durese Rodese 
Ewokese” Ryl 

Gamorrean Shyriiwook 
Gunganese* Sullustese 

High Galactic Zabrak 


* Local language not widely spoken except on its planet of origin. 


*THE ABILITY 
TO SPEAK DOES 
NOT MAKE YOU 

INTELLIGENT.” 


—- Qui-Gon JINN 


KNOWN LANGUAGES 

The primary language used throughout known space is called Basic, Most 
characters can speak Basic, and all characters understand it even if they can’t 
speak it. Nonhuman characters can also speak, read, and write the language 
associated with their species; for example, Bothans speak, read, and write 
Bothese as well as Basic. 

Characters with an Intelligence bonus know how to speak, read, and write 
other languages as well. For each point of Intelligence bonus, a character can 
speak, read, and write one additional lanquage of his choice. 

Some species (Gamorreans and Wookiees, for example) are incapable of 
speaking any language other than their native tongue, but they can learn to” 
read and write other languages just fine. 


HUMANS 
Humans dominate the Core Worlds 
and can be found in virtually every 
corner of the galaxy. They are 
the ancestors of early spacefaring 
pioneers, conquerors, traders, trav- 
elers, and refugees. Humans have 
always been people on the move. 
As a result, they can be found on 
almost every inhabited planet. As 
a species, Humans are physically, 
culturally, and politically diverse. 
Hardy or fine, light-skinned or dark, 
Humans remain one of the most 
dominant species throughout all 
eras of play. 

Personality: Human personal- 
ity runs the gamut of possibilities, though members of this species tend 
to be highly adaptable, tenacious, and willing to keep striving no matter 
the odds. They are flexible and ambitious, diverse in their tastes, morals, 
customs, and habits. 

Physical Description: Humans average about 1.8 meters tall. Skin shades 
fun from nearly black to very pale, hair from black to blond. Men are usually 
taller and heavier than women. Humans achieve maturity about the age of 
15 and rarely live beyond 100. 

Homeworlds: Various, including Coruscant (page 229), Corellia, Naboo 
{page 233), Tatooine (page 236), and Alderaan 

Languages: Humans speak, read, and write Basic. They often learn other 
languages as well, including obscure ones. 

Example Names: Anakin, Arani, Bail, Ben, Beru, Biggs, Boba, Corran, Dack, 
Dane, Galak, Garm, Han, Jango, Jodo, Lando, Leia, Luke, Mace, Mara, Obi-Wan, 
Owen, Padmé, Qui-Gon, Sia-Lan, Rann, Talon, Vor'en, Wedge, Winter. 

Adventurers; Humans aren't afraid to try anything, and Human adventur- 
ers are the most audacious, daring, and ambitious members of an audacious, 
daring, and ambitious species. A Human can earn glory by amassing power, 
Wealth, and fame. More than any other species, Humans champion causes 
father than territories or groups. 


HUMAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Mans share the following species traits: 
Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Humans have no special bonuses 
OF penalties due to their size. 
t Human base speed is 6 squares. 
Bonus Trained Skill; Humans are versatile and accomplished at many 


task 


S.A Human character chooses one additional trained skill at 1st level. 


The skill must be chosen from the character's list of class skills (see Chapter 
3: Heroic Classes). 

Bonus Feat: Humans gain one bonus feat at Ist level (see Chapter 5: 
Feats). 

Automatic Language: Basic. 


BOTHANS 

Native to Bothawui, these short, fur-covered humanoids have had hyper- 
space travel for thousands of years. Bothans use information as a measure 
of wealth and power, even wielding it as a weapon when necessary. The 


ERA NOTES: SPECIES 

Nonhuman characters have some restrictions placed upon them, 
depending on the era in which your campaign is set. These restrictions 
are described below, 


The Rise of the Empire (50 to 0 years before Episode IV) 

During the time that saw the erosion of the Old Republic and the rise 
of the Empire, including the period around Episodes I-III, all species 
participated in a more or less cosmopolitan galaxy, The only restrictions 
on your choice of an alien species in this time frame refer to species that 
have not yet “been discovered” by the galaxy at large. Ewoks, therefore, 
are not available if your campaign is set in this era. 


The Rebellion (0 to 5 years after Episode IV) 
The Empire was particularly entrenched with anti-alien sentiments. 
During this period of galactic history, most alien species were either 
enslaved or subjugated by the Empire. In the Outer Rim, nonhuman spe- 
cies continued to carry on their lives as normally as they were able, but 
in the more civilized regions, nonhumans were relegated to the status 
of second-class citizens—or worse. Many aliens joined the Rebellion, 
fighting alangside humans in an effort to throw off the shackles of 
oppression and tyranny. Ewoks show up late in this era, during the 
Battle of Endor, and free Wookiees rarely appear due to their status 
as Slaves of the Empire. 

Late in this era, with the decline of the Empire and the birth of the 
New Republic, nonhumans once again take @ prominent and equal role 
in the affairs of the galaxy. 


The New Jedi Order (25+ years after Episode !V) 

All alien species are available without restriction in this time frame. The 
era is marked by the New Republic's battle against the Yuuzhan Vong 
invaders and tainted by growing distrust of the Jedi Knights. 


i) HaiavHD 


in 
iI 
> 
0 
4 
a 
2B 


BoTrHan 


Bothan SpyNet, one of the largest 
intelligence agencies during most 
eras, plays an important role in the 
Galactic Civil War 

Culturally, Bothans don't 
believe in direct conflict because 
it destroys people, material, and 
even information. They prefer 
behind-the-scenes manipulation, 
watching and waiting for infor- 
mation that they can use to gain 
Status and influence. This attitude 
makes espionage a natural part of 
their culture. While others often 
find Bothans to be manipulative 
and irritating, no one wants to lose 
access to their SpyNet. As a result, 
nearly all groups have at least some contact with the Bothans. 

Personality: Bothans are curious, manipulative, crafty, suspicious, 
and even a bit paranoid. They can be irritating, but they are also loyal and 
brave. 

Physical Description: Bothans are covered with fur that ripples in 
response to their emotional state. They have tapered ears, and both male and 
female Bothans sport beards, They average about 1.6 meters tall and have a 
maturity rate and life span slightly greater than Humans. 

Homeworld: The industrial world of Bothawui (page 228), with various 
colony worlds throughout the Mid Rim Territories. 

Languages: Bothans speak, read, and write Bothese and Basic. 

Example Names: Borsk Fey'lya, Karka Kre'fey, Koth Melan, Tav Breil'lya, 
Tereb Ab'ion. 

Adventurers: Bothan adventurers, often SpyNet operatives, engage in 
daring missions at great personal risk. In addition, many Bothan heroes serve 
as soldiers, pilots, and diplomats. Their curiosity leads some to be explorers 
and scouts 


BOTHAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Bothans share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Constitution. Bothans are agile but 
not particularly resilient. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Bothans have no special bonuses 
or penalties duc to their size. 

Speed: Bothan base speed is 6 squares. 

Iron Will; Bothans have above-average willpower and gain a +2 species 
bonus to their Will Defense, 


Conditional Bonus Feat: Bothans are natural spies and investigators. A 
Bothan with Gather Information as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Gather 
Information) as a bonus feat 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Bothese. 


CEREANS 


Cereans are a sophisticated and cultured humanoid species native to Cerea, 
a world on the fringes of known space. Their elongated heads distinguish 
them from most other humanoid species. 

Cereans established contact with the rest of the galaxy shortly before the 
Galactic Republic was transformed into the Empire, swiftly gaining fame as 
expert astrogators, cryptographers, and economists. Few patterns or trends 
escape the notice of a Cerean. 

Cerean society is matriarchal, and the Cerean culture's traditional values 
emphasize living in harmony with nature and minimizing any impact on the 
environment from technology. The peaceful philosophies of the Jedi appeal 
to Cereans, and many join the Order, 

Personality: Cereans tend to be calm, rational, and extremely logical 

Physical Description: Cereans average about 2 meters tall, with elon- 
gated craniums housing binary brains. They have a maturity rate and life 
Span similar to those of Humans. 

Homeworld: The blissful planet Cerea [page 228) 

Languages: Cereans speak, read, and write Cerean and Basic. 

Example Names: Ki-Adi, So Leet, Sylvn, Ti-Dal, Maj-Odo, 

Adventurers: Cereans who become adventurers do so in spite of their 
peaceful traditions. Still, when a cause or situation leads down this path, a 
Cerean tries to keep these traditions intact, avoiding aggression when pos- 
sible, The binary brain allows a Cerean to constantly weigh both sides in any 
disagreement and give two points of view equal consideration. This ability 
extends even to issues surrounding 
the Force, and a Cerean Force-user 
often contemplates the light side 
and the dark side simultaneously. 


CEREAN 
SPecies 
TRAITS 

Cereans share the following spe- 
cies traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intel- 
ligence, +2 Wisdom, -2 Dexterity. 
Cereans are bright and intuitive 
but fess coordinated than most 
other species. 


Cesear 


Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Cereans have no special bonuses or 
{ties due to their size. 
Speed: Cerean base speed is 6 squares. 
intuitive Initiative: A Cerean may choose to reroll any Initiative check, 
put the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. Despite their 


general lack of coordination, Cereans’ reaction speed is superior to that of 


most other species. 
Conditional Bonus Feat; A Cerean with Initiative as a trained skill gains 


Skill Focus (Initiative) as a bonus feat. 
Automatic Languages: Basic and Cerean. 


UROS 
ces humanoids from the Duro system, Duros were ane of the first 
species to become a major influence in the Galactic Republic, and many 
respected scholars credited the Duros with creating the first hyperdrive. The 
Duros have a natural affinity for space travel, possessing an innate grasp of 
the mathematical underpinnings of astrogational computations. Many tales 
are swapped in cantinas about Duros astrogators calculating the coordinates 
for supposedly impossible jumps in their heads. Although not as numerous 
as Humans, the Duros are almost as omnipresent; all but the smallest settle- 
ments in known space feature Duros populations 

The Duros species has existed on other worlds in isolation from the rest 
of their kind, evolving in slight different directions from the baseline species. 
The most populous and well-known near-Duros species are the Neimoidians, 
a people rarely encountered during the Rebellion era. 

Personality: A Duros tends to be intense and adventurous, always 
seeking to learn what's at the end of the next hyperspace jump. They are a 
proud, self-sufficient, fun-loving people who also have a tendency toward 
gregariousness 

Physical Description: Duros 
average about 1.8 meters tall, 
They are hairless, with large eyes 
and wide, lipless mouths. Skin 
Color ranges from blue-gray to 
deep azure, 

Homeworld: The orbiting cities 
of the Duro system (page 230) 

Languages: Duros speak and 
are literate in Durese and Basic. 

Example Names: Baniss Keeg, 
Ellor, Kadio, Kir Vantai, Lai Nootka, 
Monnda Tebbo. 

Adventurers: Duros adventur- 
Crs include hyperspace explorers, 
Star Charters, and spacers of all 
descriptions They also tend to 


Dvrace 


gravitate toward the sciences, including engineering and astrogation. Some 
Duros shun exploration in favor of smuggling and trading, and a small number 
go into diplomatic professions. 


DuROS SPECIES TRAITS 
Duros share the following species traits: 
Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, +2 Intelligence, -2 Constitution. Duros 
are agile in mind and body, but they aren't a physically hardy people. 
Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Duros have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 
Speed: Duros base speed is 6 squares. 
Expert Pilot: As natural spacers, a Duros may choose to reroll any Pilot 
check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 
Automatic Languages: Basic and Durese, 


EwoKks 


Intelligent omnivores native to one of the moons orbiting Endor, Ewoks are 
almost unknown prior to the Battle of Endor. Ewoks live in tree-dweiling 
tribes with gender-based division of labor; males hunt, forage, and make 
weapons, while females raise young and handle other domestic tasks. Ewok 
culture revolves around complex animistic beliefs involving the giant trees 
of the forest moon. 

Although technologically primitive, Ewoks are clever, inquisitive, and 
inventive, Skittish and wary when first introduced to machines, their curiosity 
500n overcomes fear. 

Personality: Ewoks tend to be curious, superstitious, and courageous, 
though they can be fearful around things that are strange and new, 

Physical Description: Ewoks average about 1 meter tall, Their fur color 
and pattern varies widely. 

Homeworld: The forest moon of 
Endor (page 230). 

Languages: Ewoks speak 
Ewokese. They have no written 
form of their language. They can 
learn to speak Basic. 

Example Names: Asha, Chirpa, 
Deej, Kneesaa, Latara, Logray 
Malani, Nippet, Paploo, Shodu, 
Teebo, Wicket, Wiley. 

Adventurers: An Ewok adven- 
turer may be motivated by a love of 
excitement, a natura! inquisitive- 
ness, or a warrior's quest. Collect- 
ing powerful “maaic” items from 
fallen opponents is sure way to earn 
the respect of the tribe, 


Bwon 


wuaiawHo 


if) 
I 
> 
v 
4 
] 
3 


Ewor SPecie&s TRAITS 
Ewoks share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Strenath. Ewoks are very aqile but 
somewhat weak. 

Small Size: As Small creatures, Ewoks gain a +1 size bonus to their Reflex 
Defense and a +5 size bonus on Stealth checks. However, their lifting and 
carrying limits are three-quarters of those of Medium characters. 

Speed: Ewok base speed is 4 squares. 

Primitive: Ewoks do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, or 
heavy weapons) as starting feats at Ist level, even if their class normally 
grants them. 

Scent: Ewoks have a keen sense of smell. At close range (within 10 
squares), Ewoks ignore concealment and cover for purposes of Perception 
checks, and they take no penalty from poor visibility when tracking (see 
Survival skill, page 73). 

Sneaky: An Ewok may choose to reroll any Stealth check, but the result 
of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Ewoks are skilled foragers. An Ewok with Sur- 
vival as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Survival) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Ewokese (speak only). 


GAMORREANS 


Gamorreans are green-skinned, porcine creatures from native to Gamorr. 
Their tendency toward violence makes them valued as criminal enforcers; 
though viewed as mindless brutes, they don’t care so long as they are paid 
to fight. 

Gamorrean civilization revolves around the never-ending wars between 
their clans. Preferring large melee weapons in combat, many see ranged 
weapons as cowardly. Males live to fight; females farm, hunt, and manu- 
facture weapons. Inter-clan hatred 
rarely fades, and anyone hiring 
Gamorreans should be aware of 
their clans to avoid infighting. 

Personality: Gamorreans are 
brutish, violent, and proud, They 
respect physical prowess and have 
no problem facing death against a 
foe they feel they are on at least 
equal footing with. 

Physical Description: Gamor- 
reans average about 1.8 meters 
tall, with thick green skin covering 
powerful muscles. Close-set eyes, a 
thick snout, tusks, and small horns 
give them a distinct look. 


GAMORREAN 


Homeworld: The preindustrial world of Gamorr (pae 231), 

Languages: Gamorreans speak Gamorrean. They have no written ver- 
sion of the language. They can learn to understand but not speak other 
languages. 

Example Names: Gartoga, Jubnuk, Ortugg, Ugmush, Venorra, Warlug. 

Adventurers: Some Gamorreans leave their homeworld as slaves but 
later escape or buy out their contracts. Others sell their contracts, finding 
employment as bodyguards or enforcers. A Gamorrean is constantly at war; 
it's only a matter of figuring out who the enemy is. Gamorrean heroes tend 
to select the soldier class 


GAMORREAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Gamorreans share the following species traits; 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity, -2 Intelligence. Gamorreans 
possess greater physical power, but have limited agility and intelligence. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Gamorreans have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Gamorrean base speed is 6 squares. 

Primitive: Gamorreans do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
or heavy weapons) as starting feats at Ist level, even if their class normally 
grants them. 

Great Fortitude: Gamorreans gain a +2 species bonus to their Fortitude 
Defense, accounting for their great physical resistance. 

Bonus Feat: Gamorreans gain Improved Damage Threshold as a bonus 
feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic (cannot speak) and Gamorrean (speak 
only). 


GUNGANS 


The Gungans are omnivorous 
humanoids native to the swamps of 
Naboo. Technologically advanced, 
they rely mostly on biotech, grow- 
ing instead of building their homes 
and production facilities. 

While their culture is peaceful, 
it evolved from a series of long, 
bloody clan wars, and Gungans still 
admire strength and cunning, Most 
communities are devoted to farm~ 
ing or manufacturing goods that 
are then traded to other Gungan 
settlements, but they will reluc- 
tantly trade with the Humans of 
Naboo. 


OUNDAN 


; : Gungans tend to be inquisitive, cautious, and suspicious. 
cal Description: Gungans range from 1.6 to 2 meters tall, with two 
floppy ears, and long tongues. 
prid: Naboo (page 233). 

+ Gungans speak, read, and write Gunganese and Basic. 
nie Names: Fassa, Jar Jar, Rugor, Tarpals, Toba, Tobler Ceel, Yoss. 
‘Adven' : Many Gungans leave their underwater cities to explore. 
ie the treaty with the Humans of Naboo, some Gungans—perhaps driven 
4 an impulse to regain the warrior spirit of old—have taken a larger step 


society. 


NGAN SPECIES TRAITS 

ngans share the following species traits: 

Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma. Gungans 
re agile but aren't particularly witty or astute. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Gungans have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

s sed; Gungan base speed is 6 squares. They have a swim speed of 4 


~ Expert Swimmer: A Gungan may choose to reroll any Swim check, but 

the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. In addition, a 

Gungan may choose to take 10 on Swim checks even when distracted or 
hreatened. 

~ Hold Breath: Gungans are at home either in air or water. A Gungan can 

hold his breath for 2 number of rounds equal to 25 times his Constitution 

t before he needs to make Endurance checks to hold his breath (see the 

ce skill, page 66). 

_ Lightning Reflexes: Gungans gain a +2 species bonus to their Reflex 

Defense, accounting for their uncanny ability to avoid danger. 

x Low-Light Vision; Gungans ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 

Ment) from darkness. 

Familiarity: Gungans with the Weapon Proficiency (simple 

ns} Feat are proficient with the atlati and the cesta (see page 121). 

natic Languages: Basic and Gunganese. 


THORIANS 


$ are tall humanoids whose appearance leads many to refer to them 
ally as “Hammerheads.” Peaceful and gentle, Ithorians are widely 
U as talented artists, brilliant agricultural engineers, and skilled 


Hans are perhaps the greatest ecologists in the galaxy, devoting their 
l0gy to preserving the natural beauty of their homeworld’s jungles. They 
“herds,” dwelling in cities that hover above the surface of their planet and 
}t0 maintain the ecological balance in the “Mother Jungle.” 


Ithorians also travel the galaxy in massive “herd ships,” masterpieces of envi- 
ronmental engineering that carry a perfect replica of their native jungle. Many look 
forward to trading for the exotic wares the Ithorians bring from distant planets. 

Personality: Ithorians tend to be calm, peaceful, tranquil, and gentle. 

Physical Description: !thorians are humanoid, ranging in height from 1.8 
to 2.3 meters tall, with long necks that cur! forward and end in dome-shaped 
heads. They have two mouths, one on each side of their neck, producing a 
stereo effect when they talk. 

Homeworld: Ithor (page 231), or a specific herd ship. 

Language: |thorians speak stereophonic Ithorese and Basic. 

Example Names: Fandomar, Momaw, Oraltor, Tomla, Trangle, Umwaw. 

Adventurers: Ithorians tend to concentrate on peaceful professions. They 
love to meet new beings and see new places. Often, wanderlust leads them to 
explore the greater galaxy for a time before they eventually return home. 


“WHY DO !l SENSE 
WE'VE PICKED UP 
ANOTHER PATHETIC 
LIFE FORM." 


—- OBI-WAN KENOBI 


ITHORIAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Ithorians share the following species traits; 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom, +2 Charisma, -2 Dexterity. Ithorians are 
wise and deliberate thinkers whose 
personable nature allows them to 
get along well with others, but they 
are not agile. 

Medium Size: As Medium crea- 
tures, Ithorians have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their 
size. 

Speed: Ithorian base speed is 
6 squares. 

Iran Will; Ithorians have 
above-average willpower and gain 
a +2 species bonus to their Will 
Defense. 

Bellow: As a standard action, 
an Ithorian can open all four of its 
throats and emit a terrible subsonic 


ITHORIAN 


i) SSiarna 


Senos 


bellow. The Ithorian makes a special attack roll (1d20 + its character level) and 
compares the result to the Fortitude Defense of all creatures and unattended 
objects in a 6-square cone. A successful hit deals 36 points of sonic damage; 
if the attack misses, the target takes half damage instead. 

Each use of this ability moves the Ithorian -1 step along the condition 
track (see Conditions, page 148). 

An Ithorian can choose to add more dice (d6s) to the damage it deals with 
its bellow, but each additional 146 of damage moves the Ithorian another ~1 
step along the condition track. 

Survival Instinct: An Ithorian may choose to reroll any Survival check, 
but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Ithorians like to maintain close ties with nature 
An Ithorian with Knowledge [life sciences) as a trained skill gains Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [life sciences]) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and |thorese 


KEL DOR 


The Kel Dor evolved on Dorin, a world with an atmosphere consisting mostly 
of helium and a gas that is unique to that world. As such, Kel Dor cannot 
breathe on planets with common nitrogen/oxygen atmospheres. Conversely, 
Dorin’s atmosphere is toxic to most nonnative life (see page 253), 

On other planets, Kel Dor dwellings provide their native atmosphere 
(stored in large tanks}. When outside, Kel Dor must wear breath masks and 
goggles. They can neither see nor breathe without these devices. Most Kel 
Dor breath masks include vocoders that amplify the wearer's speech; while 
their vocal cords function normally in their native atmosphere, Kel Dor must 
shout to produce sound in other environments. Their eyesight, however, is 
enhanced when they are away from Dorin. 

Personality: Calm and kind, the Kel Dor never turn away a being in 
need. Still, most believe in quick, 
simple justice (even engaging in 
vigilantism). 

Physical Description: The aver- 
age Kel Dor stands between 1.6 and 
2 meters tall. Their skin ranges from 
peach to deep red, and most have 
black eyes. 

Homeworld: The technological 
planet of Dorin (page 229). 

Languages: The Kel Dor speak, 
read, and write Kel Dor and Basic. 

Example Names: Dorn Tio, Plo 
Koon, Torin Dol. 

Adventurers; Ke! Dor commonly 
become diplomats, bounty hunters, 


Ke. OOR 


and Jedi, Given their altruism and sense of justice, many enter law 
enforcement. 


Ker. DOR SPECIES TRAITS 
Kel Dor share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, +2 Wisdom, -2 Constitution. Kel Dor 
are quick and wise, but they suffer from weaker constitutions than other 
species. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Ke! Dor have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Kel Dor base speed is 6 squares, 

Keen Force Sense: Kel Dor may choose to reroll any Use the Force check 
made to search their feelings or sense the Force, keeping the better of the two 
results. 

Low-Light Vision: Kel Dor ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Special Equipment: Kel Dor suffer limitations outside their native 
atmosphere. Without protective goggles, a Kel Dor is considered blind (see 
page 254). Without an antiox breath mask, a Kel Dor begins to suffocate 
(see Endurance, page 66). A replacement mask costs 2,000 credits (500 on 
Dorin), and a year's supply of filters costs 200 credits (50 on Dorin), Kel Dor 
characters begin play with these items at no cost. 

An antiox breath mask is poisonous to other species (see page 255). 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Kel Dor. 


MON CALAMARI 


Amphibious land-dwellers, the Mon Calamari share their Outer Rim home- 
world with the aquatic Quarren. They tend to be soft-spoken but vigorously 
defend causes that inspire them. Mon Calamari suffered under great oppres- 
sion under the Galactic Empire; 
thus, it was one of the first worlds 
to declare support for the Rebel 
Alliance. 

Mon Calamari are widely rec- 
ognized for their keen analytical 
and organizational abilities, and 
they have developed a reputation 
as being among the foremost Ship 
designers in the galaxy. They see 
everything they create as a work of 
art, not just as a tool or weapon. 

Personality: Creative, quits 
and inquisitive, the Mon Calamari 
are dreamers who cherish peace but 
aren't afraid to fight for the causes 
they believe in. 


MON CALAMAR! 


nysical Description: The average Mon Calamari stands 1.8 meters tall. 
hey have high-domed heads, large eyes, and smooth, mottled skin. 
“Momeworld: The watery world of Mon Calamari (page 232). 
anguages: The Mon Calamari speak, read, and write Mon Calamarian 
sd Basic. They tend to learn Quarrenese as well. 

Example Names: Ackbar, Bant, Cilghal, Ibtisam, Jesmin, Oro, Perit, 


a Adventurers: Mon Calamari seek their dreams among the stars. They 

te idealistic and daring, often attaching themselves to causes that seem 

less or lost right from the start. They strive to prove that even thinkers 
dreamers can be brave and daring when the need arises, 


MON CALAMAR! SPECIES TRAITS 
Mon Calamari share the following species traits: 

; “Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, +2 Wisdom, -2 Constitution. Mon 
Calamari are bright and prudent, but they have relatively frail physiques. 

_ Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Mon Calamari have no special 
pnuses or penalties due to their size. 
J Speed: Mon Calamari base speed is 6 squares. They have a swim speed 
of 4 squares. 
Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Mon Calamari can't 
drown in water. 

Expert Swimmer: A Mon Calamari may choose to reroll any Swim check, 
but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. In addition, a 
Calamari may choose to take 10. on Swim checks even when distracted 
Of threatened. 

~ Low-Light Vision: Mon Calamari ignore concealment (but not total 
concealment) from darkness. 

- Conditional Bonus Feat: Keenly perceptive, a Mon Calamari with 
Perception as a trained skill gains 
Skill Focus (Perception) as a bonus 
feat. 

Languages: Basic and Mon 
Calamarian. 


QUARREN 
The Quarren hail from the distant 
Outer Rim world of Mon Calamari, 
sharing the world with the sentient 
humanoid species of the same 
name. The Mon Calamari live on 
the surface of the world, while the 
more isolationist Quarren dwell 
in oxygen-filled cities in the deep 
recesses of the oceans. 


Offworld, Quarren generally stay clear galactic politics. Instead, they often 
become involved with shadowy occupations such as pirates, smugglers, and 
spy networks. Many Quarren blame both the Empire and the Rebels (even 
more than the Mon Calamari) for their homeworld’s devastation during the 
Galactic Civil War. 

Personality: Practical and conservative, Quarren tend to hate change 
and distrust anyone who displays overt optimism and idealism. 

Physical Description: The average Quarren stands 1.8 meters tall. They 
have leathery skin and heads that resemble four-tentacied squids, hence the 
name "squid head” sometimes used by others. 

Homeworld: The watery planet Mon Calamari (page 232). 

Languages: Quarren speak, read, and write Quarrenese and Basic. They 
tend to learn Mon Calamarian as well. 

Example Names: Kelmut, Seggor, Tessek, Tsillin, Vekker, Vuhlig. 

Adventurers: Quarren leave their homeworld to escape their dependency 
on the Mon Calamari. They tend to seek out the fringes of society, operating 
as scoundrels or nobles in criminal organizations. 


QUARREN SPECIES TRAITS 
Quarren share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. Quarren are 
extremely resilient and physically tough, though they tend toward deficien- 
cies in wisdom and social graces. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Quarren have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Quarren base speed is 6 squares. They have a swim speed of 4 
squares. 

Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Quarren can’t drown 
in water. 

Expert Swimmer: A Quarren may choose to reroll any Swim check, but 
the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. In addition, a 
Quarren may choose to take 10 on Swim checks even when distracted or 
threatened. 

Low-Light Vision: Quarren ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Adept traders and negotiators, Quarren with 
Persuasion as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Persuasion) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Quarrenese. 


RODIANS 

Rodians hail from the Tyrius star system in the Mid Rim, their homeworld 
humid and choked with heavy rain forests teeming with dangerous life forms. 
in this hostile environment, the Rodians evolved into brutal hunters and killers 
to survive. As a result, Rodian culture centers around the concept of “the 
hunt." Their art glorifies violence and the act of stalking prey. The more intel- 


ligent and dangerous a hunter's prey, the more honorable the hunt. Rodians 
have numerous annual festivals that exist solely to honor such activities. 

Since joining the rest of the galaxy's spacefaring species, the Rodians have 
come to view bounty hunting as the most honorable profession in existence, 
and many have found great success in this field. 

Personality: Rodians tend to be violent, tenacious, and dedicated. 

Physical Description: Humanoid, with multifaceted eyes, a tapered snout, 
and deep green skin, the average Rodian stands 1.6 meters tall. 

Homeworld: The industria! world of Rodia (page 234). 

Languages: Rodians speak, read, and write Rodese and Basic, but many 
learn to speak Huttese as well. 

Example Names: Andoorni, Beedo, Chido, Doda, Greedo, Greeata, Kelko, 
Navik, Neela, Neesh, Wald, 

Adventurers: Rodian adventurers leave their homeworld to improve 
their skills, hoping to one day return and claim the title of Hunt Master. To 
this end, they take on roles that allaw them to flex their hunting skills and 
increase their battle prowess, most commonly working as bounty hunters 
or mercenaries. 


RODIAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Rodians share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma, Rodians are 
quick and well coordinated but often act before thinking things through and 
are often rude and try to bully others. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Rodians have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Rodian base speed is 6 squares. 

Heightened Awareness: A Rodian may choose to reroll any Perception 
check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Low-Light Vision: Rodians 
ignore concealment (but not total 
concealment) from darkness. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Rodi- 
ans are taught how to track and 
survive in the wilderness of Rodia 
from a very young age. A Rodian 
with Survival as a trained skill 
gains Skill Focus (Survival) as a 
bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic 
and Rodese. 


RFODIAN 


SULLUSTANS 


To survive the natural perils of their harsh, volcanic homeworld, the Sullustans 
evolved in the planet's numerous caves. They prefer to dwell underground, 
constructing highly advanced cities of such great beauty that wealthy 
sightseers come from all over the galaxy to visit them. Living underground 
helped the Sullustans to develop acute senses, and they are renowned for 
their navigational and piloting skills. 

This friendly, gregarious species enjoys interacting with unique, unusual, 
and interesting beings. When Old Republic scouts first visited their home- 
world, the Sullustans quickly embraced galactic civilization. The Sullustan 
manufacturing company SoroSuubd is one of the largest non-Human-owned 
interstellar corporations in the galaxy. In fact, the company is so powerful 
that it has become the official government of Sullust, and more than half of 
the planet's population is on its payroll. 

Personality: Sullustans tend to be pragmatic, pleasant, and fond of 
practical jokes. 

Physical Description: Humanoid with large round eyes, big ears, and 
jowls, the average Sullustan stands 1,5 meters tall. 

Homeworld: The volcanic, technological world Sullust (page 235), 

Languages: Sullustans speak, read, and write Sullustese and Basic, 

Example Names: Ari] Nunb, Diir Nep, Nien Nunb, Sian Tevy, Syub 
Snunb. 

Adventurers: Sullustan adventurers enjoy exploring the galaxy, conduct- 
ing business, and pulling pranks to see how others react. They are inquisitive 
and love to discover things through personal experience, sometimes being 
a bit reckless. 


SULLUSTAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Sullustans share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexter 
ity, -2 Constitution. Sullustans are 
quick, agile, and good with ranged 
weapons, but they are not as hardy 
as other species 

Medium Size: As Medium crea~ 
tures, Sullustans have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their 
size, 

Speed; Sullustan base speed |S 
6 squares. 

Darkvision: Sullustans ignore 
concealment (including total con- 
cealment) from darkness. However 
they cannot perceive colors in total 
darkness. 


BSuclvusran 


Expert Climber: Sullustans are adept at climbing in their underground 
homes. A Sullustan may choose to take 10 on Climb checks even when 
distracted or threatened, 

Heightened Awareness: A Sullustan may choose to reroll any Perception 
check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Sullustese 


TRANDOSHANS 


The reptilian Trandoshans are known for their great strength and warlike 
natures. Many of these beings dedicate themselves to martial training, and 
some follow the path of the hunter on their native world. A few have even 
become renowned (or infamous) bounty hunters in galactic society. Tran- 
doshans have a long-standing enmity with Wookiees, and the two species 
have fought often over the centuries. 

Trandoshans (who refer to themselves as “T'doshok"} have supersensitive 
eyes that can see into the infrared range. They shed their skin several times 
jn the span of their lives and can even regenerate lost limbs, but their clawed 
hands have difficulty with fine manipulation of objects. 

Personality: Violent, brutal, and driven, Trandoshans love to compete but 
can show compassion and mercy as the situation warrants. 

Physical Description: Trandoshans range from 1.8 to 2.1 meters tall. 
Their scaly hides offer additional defense against attacks. 

Homeworld: Trandosha (page 237). 

Lanquage: Trandoshans speak, read, and write Dosh and Basic. 

Example Names: Bossk, Fusset, Krussk, Ssuurg, Tusserk. 

Adventurers: A Trandoshan adventurer craves the thrill of battle. Some 
leave Dosha to become bodyquards or mercenaries. Others set out to find 
new places to hunt and explore. A few use their warrior traditions to become 
Soldiers, some even developing into bounty hunters as time goes by. 


TRANDOSHAN 
SPecies 
TRAITS 

Trandoshans share the following 
Species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, 
~2 Dexterity. Trandoshans are pow- 
erful but lack agility. 

Medium Size: As Medium crea- 
tures, Trandoshans have no special 
bonuses or penalties duc to their 
Size. 

Speed: Trandoshan base speed 
is 6 squares. 


TRANDOSHAN 


Darkvision: Trandoshans ignore concealment [including tota! con- 
cealment) from darkness. However, they cannot perceive colors in total 
darkness, 

Limb Regeneration: A Trandoshan regrows a lost limb in 1410 days. At 
the end of that time, all persistent penalties associated with the loss of the 
limb are removed 

Natural Armor: Trandoshans have thick scales that provide a +1 natural 
armor bonus to their Reflex Defense. A natural armor bonus stacks with an 
armor bonus. 

Bonus Feat: Rugged and resilient, Trandoshans gain Toughness as a 
bonus feat 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Dosh. 


TWrLEKS 


From the dry, rocky world of Ryloth, Twi'leks have made a place for themselves 
along the galactic rim. These tall, thin humanoids include a variety of distinct 
subraces, but are all instantly recognizable by the tentacular “head-tails” 
(called Jekku) that protrude from the backs of their heads. 

Sly, calculating beings, Twi'leks prefer to avoid trouble and stick to the 
shadows until an opportunity to act without undue danger to themselves 
presents itself, Their entrepreneurial spirit frequently leads them to positions 
of influence, and Twi'lek corporate executives and ambassadors are no less 
common than unscrupulous Twi'lek freighter captains and crime lords. 

Personality: Twi'leks are calculating, pragmatic, and charismatic peopie. 
Generally, they try to avoid being swept up in open conflict, preferring 
instead to duck into the shadows where they can observe, plan, and prepare 
to profit from the outcome, 

Physical Description: Humanoids with long head-tails, the average 
Twi'lek stands between 1.6 and 2 meters tall. Skin tones include white, 
green, blue, red, and orange, among 
others. 

Homeworld: Twi'leks come from 
the planet Ryloth (page 234). 

Languages: Twi'leks speak, 
read, and write Ryl and Basic. They 
can also communicate with one 
another using their lekku (a form 
of sign language). Some also learn 
Huttese. 

Example Names: Bib Fortuna, 
Dee! Surool, Firith Olan, Koyi Komad, 
Lyn Me, Oola, Tott Doneeta. 


Twi'ten 


BeaLevHon 


SHasas 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
Lad 
3 


Adventurers: Twi'lek adventurers generally prefer to work behind the 
scenes, letting others stand in the full light of day. Many wind up in busi- 
ness (whether legal or illegal), performing as entertainers, or even serving 
as diplomats. 


Twi'lek SPECIES TRAITS 
Twi'leks share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Charisma, -2 Wisdom. Twi'leks make convincing 
diplomats but are relatively weak-willed. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Twi'leks have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Twi'lek base speed is 6 squares. 

Deceptive: Naturally gifted at manipulation, a Twi'lek may choose to 
reroll any Deception check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted 
even if it is worse. 

Great Fortitude: Twi'leks gain a +2 species bonus to their Fortitude 
Defense, Twi'leks have great health with a natural resistance to toxins and 
illness. 

Low-Light Vision: Twi'leks ignore concealment (but not total concea!- 
ment) from darkness, 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Ryl. 


WOOKIEES 


Wookiees are widely recognized as one of the strongest and fiercest intel- 
ligent species in the galaxy. Wookiees have many customs and traditions 
that revolve around honor and loyalty, including the special bond called the 
honor family and the sacred pledge called the life debt. A Wookiee never uses 
his or her climbing claws in combat; doing this is considered dishonorable 
and a sign of madness. 

Personality: Wookices tend to be honorable, rash, loyal, and 
short-tempered. 

Physical Description: Wookiees are large furry bipeds ranging in height 
from 2 to 2.3 meters. 

Homeworld: The forest world of Kashyyyk (page 232). 

Language: Wookiees speak Shyriiwook, consisting of complex grunts and 
growls. They understand Basic but lack the ability to speak it. 

Example Names: Chewbacca, Gorwooken, Groznik, Low-bacca, Ralrra, 
Rorworr, Salporin. 

Adventurers: Wookiee adventurers usually start out as wanderers or 
explorers, but some find this path by forming an honor family with (or owing 
a life debt to) other adventures. 


WOOKIEE SPECIES TRAITS 
Wookiees share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +4 Strength, +2 Constitution, -2 Dexterity, -2 
Wisdom, -2 Charisma. Wookiees are powerful and hardy, but they aren't 


woox«rre 
agile, tend to be impulsive, and have 


little patience for diplomacy. 

Medium Size: As Medium crea- 
tures, Wookiees have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their 
size. 

Speed: Wookiee base speed js 
6 squares. 

Extraordinary Recuperation: 
A Wookiee regains hit points at 
double the normal rate (see Natural 
Healing, page 148). 

Rage: Once per day, a Wook- 
iee can fly into a rage as a swift 
action. While raging, the Wookiee 
temporarily gains 2 +2 rage bonus 
on melee attack rolls and melee 
damage rolls but cannot use skills that require patience and concentration, 
such as Mechanics, Stealth, or Use the Force, 

A fit of rage lasts for a number of rounds equal to 5 + the Wookiee's 
Constitution modifier. At the end of its rage, a Wookiee moves -1 persistent 
step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). The penalties 
imposed by this condition persist until the Wookiee takes at least 10 minutes 
to recuperate, during which time the Wookiee can't engage in any strenu- 
ous activity. 

Weapon Familiarity: Wookiees with the Weapon Proficiency (rifles) feat 
are proficient with the bowcaster, 

Skills: Wookiees are great climbers and may choose to take 10 on 
Climb checks even when distracted or threatened. Known to pull the ears 
off gundarks, they may choose to 
reroll any Persuasion check made 
to intimidate others, but the result 
of the reroll must be accepted even 
if it is worse, 

Automatic Languages: Basic 
(cannot speak) and Shyriiwook. 


ZABRAK 


The Zabrak are an early spacefar- 
ing race distinguished by patterns 
of vestigial horns on their heads. 
Zabrak hail from many worlds 
and have been spacefarers for so 
long that they define themselves 
and each other according to their 
colony of origin. 


ZasAae 


The harshness of Iridonia, their homeworld, forged in the Zabrak an 
iron will to survive. Driven to escape their world, they sought to obtain the 
knowledge of space flight. When Duros scouts began exploring the Mid Rim 
Territories, they encountered Zabrak in eight sovereign colonies in five dif- 
ferent systems. Though subjugated under the harsh rule of the Empire, the 
Zabrak colonies eventually regained their independence 

Zabrak possess a great amount of confidence, and they believe that there 
ig nothing they can't accomplish. While this innate attitude could lead to 
feelings of superiority, most Zabrak don't look down on others. They believe 
in themselves and are proud and strong, but they rarely project any negativity 
toward those of other species. 

Personality: Zabrak tend to be dedicated, intense, and focused, some- 
times appearing obsessive and s ngle-minded to other species. 

Physical Description: Humanoid, distinguished by patterns of vestigial 
horns atop their heads, The average Zabrak stands 1.8 meters tall. 

Homeworld: Iridonia (page 231) or one of eight colonies in the Mid Rim 


region of space. 
Language: Zabrak speak, read, and write Zabrak and Basic. 


Example Names: Aagh Odok, Eeth Koth, Kooth Aan 

Adventurers: Zabrak adventurers love to explore the galaxy. No chal- 
lenge is too big to deter a Zabrak. They range from scoundrels on distant 
colony worlds, to noble diplomats and merchants, to scouts, soldiers, and 
even Jedi 


ZABRAK SPECIES TRAITS 
Zabrak share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: Zabrak have no ability score adjustments 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Zabrak have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size 

Speed: Zabrak base speed is 6 squares. 

Heightened Awareness; Having strong survival instincts and quick reac- 
tions, a Zabrak may choose to reroll any Perception check, but the result of 
the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Superior Defenses: Adapted to a very tough and trying environment, 
Zabrak gain a +1 species bonus to all of their defenses. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Zabrak. 


ii SSLavHo 


[ 


Ss 


SNH H=i 


— CHAPTER II 
Heroic CLASSES 


Stor Wors heroes seek credits, glory, justice, fame, influence, and knowledge, 
among other goals. Some of these goals are honorable, some base, Each 
character chooses a different way to achieve these goals, from brutal combat 
power to subtle skills to mastery of the Force. Some adventurers prevail and 
grow in experience, wealth, and power. Others die. 

A character class is the frame upon which you build your hero. It isn't 
meant to be rigid or confining. Instead, a class provides a starting point 
from which you can develop in any direction you sec fit. Don't think of a 
class as restrictive: instead, a class is defining. When you choose a class 
for your character, you're laying the foundation of a concept that will grow 
and expand as you play. A class provides structure. How you develop your 
character is entirely up to you. You get to choose talents and feats as you 
) advance—and you can take levels in other classes as you go along if that 
better serves the concept at the core of your hero. 


CHOOSING 
A HEROIC CLASS 


Five basic classes, known as heroic classes, are available in the Star Wars 
Roleplaying Game, Characters with levels in heroic classes are called heroic 
characters, or heroes. Unlike nonheroic supporting characters, heroic char- 
acters have many special abilities that make them extraordinary. 
At Ist level, you must choose a heroic class for your character. The five 
heroic classes are: 
Jedi: The Jedi are the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy. They 
’ 
: 


o) 
TI! 
> 
s | 
4 
‘I 
2 


learn to master the Force, and their trademark weapon is the lightsaber. 

Noble: The noble is a shrewd bargainer and negotiator who inspires 
confidence and makes a great leader. 

Scoundrel: The scoundrel js a tricky, skillful rogue who succeeds by 
stealth instead of brute force. 

Scout: The scout is a cunning, skilled explorer trained to operate in the 
vast wilderness of space and backwater worlds, 

Soldier: A warnor with exceptional combat capability and unequaled 
skill with weapons. 


THE MULTICLASS CHARACTER 

As your character advances in level, he or she may add new classes. Adding 
a new Class gives the character a broader range of abilities, but all advance- 
ment in the new class is at the expense of advancement in the character's 
other class or classes. A noble, for example, might became a noble/soldier. 
Adding the soldier class would give her proficiency in more weapons, a better 
Fortitude Deferse, and so on, but it would also mean that she doesn’t cain 
new noble talents and thus js nol as powerful a noble as she otherwise would 
have become. Rules for creating and advancing multiclass characters can be 
found at the end of this chapter. 


CLASS AND 
LEVEL BONUSES 


An attack roll is a combination of three numbers, each representing a dif- 
ferent factor: a random factor (the number you roll on the d20), a number 
representing the character's innate abilities (the ability modifier), and a 
bonus representing the character's experience and training. This third factor 
depends on the character's class and level. Each class table summarizes the 
figures for this third factor. 


BASE ATTACK BONUS 
Check the table for your character's class. Your character's base attack 
bonus applies to all attack rolls. Use the bonus that corresponds to the 
character's class level. 

If a character has more than one class, add the base attack bonuses for 
each class together to determine the character's base attack bonus. 


DAMAGE BONUS 
Your character deals extra damage on melee and ranged attacks equal to 
one-half her character level, rounded down. A Ist-level character, therefore, 
has a damage bonus of +0. 

For example, a 4th-level soldier armed with a heavy blaster deals 3d8+2 
points of damage with the weapon. A 12th-level soldier armed with the exact 
same weapon deals 3d8+6 points of damage. 


DEFENSES 
Your character has three defense scores. Defenses are discussed fully on 
page 145, 

Reflex Defense: 10 + your heroic level or armor bonus + Dexterity modi- 
fier + class bonus + natural armor bonus [if any) + size modifier 

Fortitude Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Constitution modifier + class 
bonus + equipment bonus 

Will Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Wisdom modifier + class bonus 


Heroic Level 

Your heroic level is the sum of all levels you have in heroic classes Ledi, 
noble, scoundrel, scout, soldier) and prestige classes (see Chapter 12). |r 
does not include levels in the nonheroic character class (see page 277) 
or beast class (see page 273). For example, if you were a scout 6/soldier 
2, you would have a heroic level of 8, adding that number to all of your 
defense scores. 


Class Bonuses to Defenses 
When you take your first level in a heroic class, you gain class bonuses on 
two or more defenses, as shown below: 


CLASS CLASS BONUSES TO DEFENSES 

Jedi +1. Fortitude Defense, +1 Will Defense 
Noble +1 Reflex Defense, +2 a ticked 

Scoundrel +2 2 
Scout +2 Reflex Defense, +1 Fortitude hehe 

Soldier +1 Reflex Defense, +2 Fortitude Defense — 


Class bonuses do not stack; you only apply the best bonus from all your 
classes to each defense score. Continuing the previous example, if you were a 
scout 6/soldier 2, you would have a +2 class bonus to your Fortitude Defense 
(this is the better bonus, granted by being a soldier) and a +2 class bonus 10 
your Reflex Defense (also the better bonus, granted by being a scout). If you” 
later added a level of noble, you would also gain a +2 class bonus to your” 
Will Defense. 


LEVEL-DEPENDENT 
BENEFITS 


in addition to attack bonuses and saving throw bonuses, all characters 9a 
other benefits from advancing in level. Table 3-1: Experience and Level= 
Dependent Benefits summarizes these additional benefits. 

XP: This column shows the experience point total needed to achi 
a given character level. For multiclass characters, XP determines over@ : 
character level, not individual class levels. 

Feats: This column indicates the levels at which a character gains fea ’ 
These feats are in addition to any bonus feats granted in the class de crip 
tions and the bonus feat granted to Humans at 1st level. a 

Ability Increases: This column indicates the levels at which a charact® 
gains ability score increases. Upon gaining 4th, 8th, 12th, 16th, and 20 
level, a character increases two of his or her ability scores by 1 point ¢ ks 
The player chooses which two ability scores to improve. A player cannot @pPt 
both ability increases to a single ability score, and the ability improveme™ 
are permanent. 


: 


FEATS INCREASES 


: 
5 


2 
3 
! 
i 


> 
> 
bd 
3 
| 


Ist, 2nd 


3 
= 
3 
w 
a 
' 


2 
g 


3rd, 4th 


2 
8 


S 
8 
8 


5th 5th, 6th 


Es 


91,000 


16th 120,000 


7th, 8th 


18th 153,000 7th 


20th 190,000 = 9th, 10th 


For example, a noble with a starting Dexterity of 13 and a starting Cha- 

fisma of 15 might improve to Dex 14 and Cha 16 at 4th level. At 8th level, the 
Same character might improve Charisma again (from 16 to 17) and increase 
any one of the other five abilities by 1 as well. 
; Ability Score increases are retroactive, For example, if you increase your 
Intelligence Score from 13 to 14, you immediately gain an additional trained 
Skill Chosen from your class skills and an additional lanquaae. Similarly, if a 
Jedi with two instances of the Force Training feat increased his Wisdom from 
‘13to 14, he would gain two Force powers (for a total of six). 


Multiclass Characters: For multiclass characters, ability increases are 
gained according to overall character level, not class level. Thus, a 3rd-leve! 
noble/ist-level soldier is a 4th-level character overall and eligible for her 
first two ability score boosts. 


CLASS DESCRIPTIONS 


The rest of this chapter, up to the section on multiclass characters, describes 
each class. These descriptions are general. Individual members of a class may 
differ in their attitudes, outlooks, and other aspects. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Game rule information follows the general class description. Not all of the 
following categories apply to every class. 


ABILITIES 

This entry tells you which abilities are most important for a character of 
that class. Players can “play against type," but a typical character of a class 
puts his or her highest ability scores where they'll do the most good. (Or, in 
game-world terms, the character is attracted to the class that most suits 
his or her talents, or for which he or she is best qualified.) 


HiT POINTS 
A tst-level heroic character begins play with a certain number of hit points 
determined by his or her class: 


CLASS STARTING HIT POINTS 
Scout 24 + Constitution modifier 
Jedi, soldier 30 + Constitution modifier 


A character's hit points increase each time he or she gains a level. The 
type of die rolled depends on the class in which the level is gained, as shown 
below: 


CLASS HIT POINTS/LEVEL 
Noble, scoundrel 16 + Constitution modifier 
1d8 + Constitution modifier 


The character always gets at least 1 hit point with each new level, regard- 
less of the player's die roll and the character's Constitution modifier. 


CLASS TABLE 
This table details how a character improves as he or she gains levels. Class 
tables include the following information: 

Level: The character's level in the class. 


Base Attack Bonus: The character's base attack bonus. Apply this bonus 
to the character's attack rolls and damage rolls. 

Class Features: Level-dependent class abilities, alternating between 
talents and bonus feats. 


Class Skills 

Every class has a list of class skills, Once a player selects a class for his 
character, he chooses a number of trained skills from the character's list 
of class skills. The exact number of trained skills a player can choose at Ist 
level depends on the character's class: 


CLASS NUMBER OF TRAINED SKILLS 
Jedi modifier 

Noble | 6+ Intelligence modifier 
Scoundrel 4 + Intelligence modifier 
Scout 5 + Intelligence modifier 
Soldier 3 + Intelligence modifier 


Put another way, a character's trained skills represent a subset of that 
character's class skills. Every time a character picks up a new class, his list 
of class skills grows to include those of the new class, but the only way 
to gain new trained skills after Ist level is to take the Skill Training feat 
(page 88). 

For example, a noble gets 6 trained skills at Ist level. If she has a +1 Intel- 
ligence modifier, her total becomes 7 trained skills. The noble then selects 7 
skills from her list of class skills, which then become trained skills for her. 

For more information on trained skills, see Chapter 4: Skills, 


CLASS FEATURES 

This entry details special characteristics of the class, including starting feats 
that the character gets for free at Ist level, special talents uniquely flavored 
to the class, and bonus feats. 


JEDI 


Jedi combine physical training with mastery of the Force. Jedi concentrate 
on battle prowess, defense, and lightsaber training. Additionally, they are 
ambassadors of the Jedi order, protecting the Republic from all dangers, Few 
are strong enough in the Force and have the devotion to walk the Jedi’s path, 
but those few are awarded with a powerful ally. They walk in a larger world 
than those who neither feel nor heed the Force. 


ExXPLoiTs 

All Jedi journey into the galaxy at large to further their own knowledge and 
to help those in need. They take their responsibility seriously, considering 
even mundane missions to be personal tests. Most Jedi follow the light side, 
but some become darksiders and use the Force for evil or selfish intent. 


Those imbued with the light side refrain from using the Force for every 
task, preferring to find other solutions and save the Force for when it is 
truly needed. Those who succumb to the dark side use every advantage at 
their disposal, wielding the Force to solve problems as a soldier would use a 
blaster to destroy a stingfly. 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 


+2 Bonus feat 


~ 
J 
= 


+4 Bonus feat 


e 
= 
> 


+6 Bonus feat 


o 
xs 
— 


oo 
> 


+6 Bonus feat 


10th +10 Bonus feat 


12th +12 Bonus feat 


14th +14 Bonus feat 


16th +16 Bonus feat 


18th +18 Bonus feat 


20th +20 Bonus feat 


Class Skills (trained in 2 + Int modifier): Acrobatics, Endurance, Initia 
Knowledge {all skills, taken individually), Perception, Pilot, Use the Force 


- 


sARACTERISTICS Force Points | 
ledi's strength flows from the Force, granting her special powers. This Jedi gain # number of Force Points equal to 5 + one-half their character level 
“aster often masters the ability to feel the living Force in the world {rounded down) at 1st level and every time they gain a new level in this class. 


‘her. Charisma and Wisdom are the most important abilities for a Jedi, Any Force Points left over from previous levels are lost. 


ther abilities are nearly as important. 
~ phil os CLass FeaTURES 
GROUND All of the following are features of the Jedi class. 


AcK . 
J ily starts out as a Padawan learner attached to a Jedi 
(Prior to Ist level, the character trained as a student 
the Jedi Council. She begins her heroic career at Ist 
when she Is selected as a Padawan learner.) The Jedi has 
uine desire to use the Force to help the people of the 
| A Jedi has a deep connection to her mentor and the 
‘order but often operates with only tangential contact with 
er master or order. 

Still, not all who study the Jedi arts are actually members 
the Jedi order, During the Old Sith Wars (thousands of 
ci rs before the Battle of Yavin), many Sith acolytes and 
sitiates are often members of this class before becoming 

th apprentice under a particular Sith Lord (see page 
This class is also common among other Force 

onis with strong ties to the Jedi arts, such as the 
garai (see page 106). 


Defense Bonuses 
At ist level, you gain a +1 class bonus to your Fortitude Defense, 
Reflex Defense, and Will Defense. 


Lightsaber 

You start play with a lightsaber provided by your 
Master. Later, you can build your own lightsaber 
(see Build Lightsaber, below). 


Starting Feats 

At ist level, you gain the following bonus feats: 
Force Sensitivity 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers) 
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 


Talents 

At Ist level and every odd-numbered level there- 
after (3rd, Sth, 7th, ete.), you select a talent from 
any of the following talent trees. You may choose a 
talent from any tree you wish, but you must meet the 
prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent 
can be selected more than once unless expressly 

indicated. 


EXAMPLES OF JEDI! IN 
STAR WARS 
‘Luke Skywalker (after training under Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda), 
, ) -Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, Mace Windu, Bastila Shan, 
Qu Vos. 
~ 
GAME RULE 
x ORMATION 
have the following game statistics. JEDI CONSULAR TALENT TREE 
Jedi that follow the path of the consular 
are skilled negotiators and talented 
ambassadors. You prefer to use the 
strength of your words and the 
wisdom that the Force provides to 
solve conflicts. 
Adept Negotiator: As a 
standard action, you can 
weaken the resolve of one 
enemy with your words, 
The target must have an 
Intelligence of 3 or higher, 
and it must be able to see, 


Lies 
adi should be gifted in all abilities, but Wisdom 


and Charisma are most important. Strength and 
RErity are also useful. 


begin play at Ist level with a number 
E points equal to 30 + their Con- 
On modifier. At each level 
Ist, Jedi gain 1d10 hit points 
ution modifier, 


Bia-LAN WezZz, FEMALE HUMAN JED! 


hear, and understand you. Make a Persuasion check; if the result equals or 
exceeds the target's Will Defense, it moves -1 step along the condition track 
(see Conditions, page 148), The target gets a +5 bonus to its Will Defense 
if it is highter level than you. If the target reaches the end of the track, it 
does not fall unconscious; instead, it cannot attack you or your allies for the 
remainder of the encounter unless you or one of your allies attacks it or one 
of its allies first. This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Force Persuasion: You can use your Use the Force check modifier instead 
of your Persuasion check modifier when making Persuasion checks. You are 
considered trained in the Persuasion skill for purposes of using this talent. 
If you are entitled to a Persuasion check reroll, you may reroll your Use the 
Force check instead (subject to the same circumstances and limitations). 

Prerequisite: Adept Negotiator. 

Master Negotiator: If you successfully use the Adept Negotiator talent 
(see above), your target moves an additional -1 step along the condition 
track (-2 steps total). This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisite; Adept Negotiator. 

Skilled Advisor: You can spend a full-round action advising an ally, 
thereby granting her @ +5 bonus on her next skill check. If you spend a 
Force Point, the bonus increases to +10. The target must be able (and will- 
ing) to hear and understand your advice. You cannot advise yourself. This is 
a mind-affecting effect. 


JED! GUARDIAN TALENT TREE 
Jedi that follow the path of the guardian are more combat-oriented than 
other Jedi, honing their skills to become deadly combatants. 

Acrobatic Recovery: |f an effect causes you to fall prone, you can make 
a DC 20 Acrobatics check to remain on your feet. 


Battle Meditation: The Jedi technique known as Battle Meditation 
allows you and your allies to work together seamlessly and with a level of 
precision that can only come from the Force. As a full-round action, you 
can spend a Force Point to give you and all allies within 6 squares of you a 
+1 insight bonus on attack rolls that lasts until the end of the encounter, 
This bonus does not extend to allies outside the range of the effect, even 
if they move within 6 squares of you later on. Allies who benefit from the 
Battle Meditation must remain within 6 squares of you to retain the insight 
bonus, and they lose it if you are knocked unconscious or killed, This is a 
mind-affecting effect. 

Elusive Target: When fighting an opponent or multiple opponents in 
melee, other opponents attempting to target you with ranged attacks take 
a -5 penalty. This penalty is in addition to the normal -5 penalty for firing 
into melee (see Shooting or Throwing into a Melee, page 161), making the 
penalty to target you -10. 

Force Intuition: You can use your Use the Force check modifier instead 
of your Initiative modifier when making Initiative checks. You are considered 
trained in the Initiative skill for purposes of using this talent. If you are 
entitled to an Initiative check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check 
instead {subject to the same circumstances and limitations). 

Resilience: You can spend a Force Point as a swift action to move +2 
steps along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). 


JED! SENTINEL TALENT TREE 

The Jedi that follow the path of the sentinel are the true enemies of the dark 
side, hunting down evil and stopping the spread of darkness wherever they 
go. You are a master of subtlety and difficult to tempt with the dark side, 
even when constantly confronted with its power. 

Clear Mind: You may reroll any opposed Use the Force check made to 
avoid being detected by other Force-users. You must take the result of the 
reroll, even if it is worse. 

Dark Side Sense: Jedi following the path of the sentinel become excep=- 
tionally talented at rooting out evil. You may reroll any Use the Force check 
made to sense the presence and relative location of characters with 2 Dark 
Side Score of 1 or higher, You must take the result of the reroll, even if it is 
worse, 

Dark Side Scourge: Against creatures with a Dark Side Score of 1 of 
higher, you deal extra damage on melee attacks equal to your Charisma 
bonus (minimum +1). 

Prerequisite: Dark Side Sense. 

Force Haze: You can spend a Force Point as a standard action to create # 
“haze” that hides you and your allies from the perceptions of others. You ca 
hide a number of creatures in line of sight equal to your class level. Make 2 Use 
the Force check and compare the result to the Wil! Defense of any opponent 
that moves into line of sight of any creature hidden by your Force haze. If 


UuMy ALLY 1S 
‘HE FORCE, AND 
POWERFUL ALLY 
Te oe 


— JEDI MASTER YODA 


a! 


.ck result beats the opponent's Will Defense, all hidden creatures are 
if they had total concealment against that opponent. 

¢ haze lasts up to 1 minute but is dismissed instantly if anyone 

the Force haze makes an attack. 

visite: Clear Mind. 

Dark Side: You gain a +5 Force bonus to al! Defense scores 

powers with the /dark side] descriptor and Force powers 

from any dark Force-user (that is, any Force-user whose Dark 

uals his Wisdom score). 

site: Dark Side Sense. 


ER COMBAT TALENT TREE 

aber is the chosen weapon of the Jedi, Not as clumsy or random as 
the lightsaber is an elegant weapon for a more civilized combatant. 
9 talents allow you to improve your prowess with a lightsaber. 
As a reaction, you may negate a melee attack by making a suc- 
Use the Force check. The DC of the skill check is equal to the result 
] ta ck roll you wish to negate, and you take a cumulative -5 penalty 
Use the Force check for every time you have used Block or Defiect 
beginning of your last turn. You must have a lightsaber drawn 
to use this talent, and you must be aware of the attack and not 


Asa reaction, you may negate a ranged attack by making a suc- 
t the Force check. The DC of the skill check is equal to the result of 
Toll you wish to negate, and you take a cumulative -5 penalty on 
Force check for every time you have used Block or Deflect since 
of your last turn. You must have a lightsaber drawn and ignited 
ilent, and you must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed. 
= this talent to deflect some of the barrage of shots fired 
Ngee Weapon set on autofire. If you succeed on the Use the Force 
¢ half damage if the autofire attack hits and no damage if the 
misses. This talent has no effect on other area attacks (such 
missiles, and flamethrowers). 

Mt Cannot be used to negate attacks made by Colossal (frig- 
te vehicles unless the attack is made with a point-defense 


Lightsaber Defense: As a swift action, you can use your lightsaber to 
parry your opponents’ attacks, gaining a +1 deflection bonus to your Reflex 
Defense until the start of your next turn. You must have a lightsaber drawn 
and ignited to use this talent, and you don't gain the deflection bonus if you 
are flat-footed or otherwise unaware of the incoming attack. 

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent, 
the deflection bonus increases by +1 (maximum +3). 

Weapon Specialization (lightsabers): You gain a +2 bonus on melee 
damage rolls with lightsabers. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89). 

Lightsaber Throw: You can hurl a lightsaber as a standard action, treat- 
ing it as a thrown weapon. You are considered proficient with the thrown 
lightsaber, and you apply the normal range penalties to the attack roll (see 
Table 8-5: Range Penalties). The thrown lightsaber deals normal weapon 
damage if it hits. 

If your target is no more than 6 squares away, you can pull your light- 
saber back to your hand as a swift action by making a DC 20 Use the Force 
check, 

Redirect Shot: This talent allows you to redirect a deflected blaster bolt 
along a specific trajectory so that it damages another creature or object in 
its path, Once per round when you successfully deflect a blaster bolt, you can 
make an immediate ranged attack against another target with which you have 
line of sight. Apply the normal range penalties to the attack roll (see Table 8-5: 
Range Penalties}, not counting the distance the bolt traveled to reach you. If 
the attack succeeds, it deals norma! weapon damage to the target. 

Only single blaster bolts can be redirected in this manner. Barrages from 
autofire weapons and other types of projectiles can't be redirected. 

Prerequisites: Deflect, base attack bonus +5. 


Build Lightsaber 
At 7th level and beyond, you can build your own lightsaber (see the Building 
a Lightsaber sidebar). 


Bonus Feats 

At each even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.), you gain a bonus feat. 
This feat must be selected from the following list, and you must meet any 
prerequisites for that feat. 

Acrobatic Strike, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Double Attack, Dual 
Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery II, Dual Weapon Mastery Ill, Great 
Cleave, Improved Charge, Improved Disarm, Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Martial 
Arts Ill, Melee Defense, Mobility, Quick Draw, Power Attack, Powerful Charge, 
Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Skill Focus, Skil! Training, Strong in the Force, 
Triple Attack, Triple Crit, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers). 


CREDITS 
A Ist-level Jedi starts play with 3d4 x 100 credits. 


S8sevIa Nexey) 


NOBLE EXAMPLES OF NOBLES IN 
STAR WARS 
Leia Organa, Padmé Amidala, Bail Organa, Talon Karrde, Jabba the 
Hutt, Chancellor Valorum, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine. 


Members of the noble class use their intelligence and natural cha- 
risma to make their way in the galaxy. From true royalty to elected 
officials, military commanders to crime lords, traders, merchants, 
ambassadors, holovid stars, and influential corporate magnates, 
character types who appear in the noble class are varied and numer- 
ous. Some bring honor to the name. Others are sly, treacherous, and 
dishonorable to the core. With a winning smile, 2 golden tonque, a 
powerful message, or a knack for making compromises, the noble 
commands respect, makes friends, and inevitably influences 
people. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Nobles have the following game statistics. 


Abilities 
Charisma is undoubtedly a noble’s most important abil- 
ity score, as the noble's skill at interacting with others 
and projecting a sense of confidence are crucial for 
his or her success. Wisdom and Intelligence form 
the basis of other important skills, so these ability 
scores are also significant. 


ExXPLoITs 

Most nobles wind up in dangerous situations because 
of something they believe in or because their job calls 
for it. Others hope to use their negotiating talents to 
navigate 2 course through the troubles around them, 
or seek to find profit in the troubles of others. Whatever 
their initial motivations, nobles usually wind up taking to 
a cause and a goal that sustains them through the roughest 
missions. An adventuring noble might be a senator's aide, a free 
trader, a diplomat, a true prince or princess, or an outlaw’s lieu- 
tenant. Nobles often feel responsible for others, though some 
consider themselves to be better than those around them. 


Hit Points 
Nobles begin play at 1st level with a number of hit 
points equal to 18 + their Constitution modifier. At 
each level after Ist, nobles gain 1d6 hit points + their 
Constitution modifier. 


Force Points 

Nobles gain a number of Force Points equal to 5 + one-half 
their character level (rounded down) at ist level and every time 
they gain a new level in this class. Any Force Points left over from 


CHARACTERISTICS ; 
previous levels are lost. 


The noble fosters feelings of good will and honesty, or at least the 
illusion of such, to succeed. Where other classes shoot first, the 
noble starts out asking questions and hopes to finish by negotiating 
a deal. The noble believes she can be more effective with words and 
deeds than with violence, though some draw a blaster when push 
comes to shove. The noble is more comfortable in civilized regions 
of space, where law and order have some meaning. Of all the classes, 
nobles have the best diplomatic and bargaining skills. They're good 
talkers, negotiators, and bluffers. They have a knack for inspiring 
others, and they make good leaders. 


CLASS FEATURES 
All of the following are features of the noble class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At Ist level, you gain a +1 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and 
@ +2 class bonus to your Will Defense. 


Starting Feats 
You begin play with the following feats: 
Linguist* 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 
* You must meet the prerequisite of this feat (minimum Intel 
ligence 13) to gain it. 


BACKGROUND 

Nobles come to their profession in a variety of ways. Altruistic 
nobles believe it is their duty and responsibility to serve and lead. 
More selfish nobles seek the fame, wealth, and power often assaci- 
ated with the positions they aspire to. Power-hungry nobles take 
advantage of the system and wind up helping others only to help 
themselves, The halls of power are calling. How the noble answers 
can make all the difference. 


ARAN! KORDEN, PEMALE HUMAN NOBLE 


} and every odd-numbered level thereafter (3rd, Sth, 7th, etc.), 
talent from any of the following talent trees, You may choose 
any tree you wish, but you must meet the prerequisites (if 
chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once unless 


¥ 


TALENT TREE 
y greatest strengths is your ability to exert influence over your 


ce: You can make a Persuasion check to intimidate a creature as 

action {instead of a full-round action). 

.d Surrender: Once per encounter, you can make a Persuasion 
standard action to demand surrender from an opponent who has 

iced to one-half or less of its hit points. If your check result equals 

‘the target's Will Defense, it surrenders to you and your allies, 

weapons it is holding, and takes no hostile actions. If the target is 

+ than you, it gains a +5 bonus to its Will Defense. If you or any of 

attack it, it no longer submits to your will and can act normally. 

can only use this talent against a particular target once per encounter. 
isa mind-affecting effect. 
er : Presence. 

d Weaken Resolve; As Weaken Resolve (see below), except that 

Goesn't stop fleeing from you if it is wounded. 
lisites: Presence, Weaken Resolve. 

\ Resolve: Once per round, when you deal damage equal to or 
ter than the target's damage threshold, make a Persuasion check as a free 
nm; if the result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, you fill the 

h terror, causing it to flee from you at top speed for 1 minute. The 

take standard actions, swift actions, or full-round actions while 

id the target stops fleeing and can act normally if it is wounded. 

fe action or reaction, the target can spend a Force Point [if it has 

Spent one earlier in the round) to negate the effect. The effect 

ically negated if the target's level is equal to or higher than your 

ef level. This is a mind-affecting fear effect. 

equisite; Presence, 


ON TALENT TREE 

fenowned for their ability to inspire their followers and urge 
tess. You can often get results out of their friends, allies, and 
it other leaders cannot. 

talents in this tree are mind-affecting effects. Moreover, you 
any Of these talents on yourself. 

Ally: As @ standard action, you can bolster an ally within line of 
9 him +1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 
ing him a number of bonus hit points equal to his character level 


if he's at one-half his maximum hit points or less. Damage is subtracted from 
the bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining at the end of 
the encounter go away. You can't bolster the same ally more than once ina 
single encounter, and you can't bolster yourself. 

ignite Fervor: Whenever you hit an opponent with a melee or ranged 
attack, you can (as a free action) choose to give one ally within your line of 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 


t~ 
a 


+1 Bonus feat 


Bonus feat 


6th Bonus feat 


+ 
c= 


8th +6 Bonus feat 


10th +7 Bonus feat 


12th +9 Bonus feat 


14th +1 OBonus feat 


16th +] 2Bonus feat 


18th +13 Bonus feat 


20th +15 Bonus feat 


Class Skills (trained in 6 + Int modifier): Deception, Gather Information, 
Initiative, Knowledge {all skills, taken individually), Perception, Persuasion, 
Pilot, Ride, Treat Injury, Use Computer 


sight a bonus to damage on his next attack equal to his character level. Once 
his fervor has been ignited, the affected ally doesn’t need to remain within 
line of sight of you; if his next attack misses, he loses the bonus to damage 
granted by this talent. You can't ignite fervor in yourself. 

Prerequisites: Bolster Ally, Inspire Confidence, 

Inspire Confidence: As a standard action, you can inspire confidence in 
all allies in your line of sight, granting them a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls 
and a +1 morale bonus on skill checks for the rest of the encounter or until 
you're unconscious or dead. Once inspired, your allies don't need to remain 
within line of sight of you. You can't inspire confidence in yourself. 

Inspire Haste: As a swift action, you can encourage one of your allies 
within line of sight to make haste with a skill check, On that ally's next turn, 
that ally can make a skill check that requires a standard action as a move 
action instead. 

Inspire Zeal: Whenever an ally within line of sight of you makes an attack 
that moves an opponent down the condition track (such as by dealing damage 
that equals or exceeds the target's damage threshold), that ally moves the 
target an additional -1 step down the condition track. 

Prerequisites: Bolster Ally, Inspire Confidence, Ignite Fervor. 


LEADERSHIP TALENT TREE 
A born leader, you know how to take charge and lead your companions and 
followers to success. 

All of the talents in this tree are mind-affecting effects. Moreover, you 
can't use any of these talents on yourself. 

Born Leader: Once per encounter, as a swift action, you grant all allies 
within your line of sight a +1 insight bonus on attack rolls. This effect lasts 
for as long as they remain within line of sight of you. An ally loses this bonus 
immediately if line of sight is broken or if you are unconscious or dead. 

Coordinate: A noble with this talent has a knack for getting people to 
work together. When you use this talent as a standard action, all allies within 
your line of sight grant an additional +1 bonus when they use the aid another 
action until the start of your next turn (see Aid Another, page 151). 

You may select this talent multiple times; each time you do, the bonus 
granted by the coordinate ability increases by +1 (to a maximum of +5). 

Distant Command: Any ally who gains the benefit of your Born Leader 
talent (see above) does not lose the benefit if their line of sight to you is 
broken. 

Prerequisite: Born Leader. 

Fearless Leader: As a swift action, you can provide a courageous ¢xample for 
your allies. For the remainder of the encounter, your allies receive a +5 morale 
bonus to their Will Defense against any fear effect. Your allies lose this benefit 
if they lose line of sight to you, or if you are killed or knocked unconscious. 

Prerequisite: Born Leader. 

Rally: Once per encounter, you can rally your allies and bring them back 
from the edge of defeat. As a swift action, any allies within your line of sight 


who have less than half their total hit points remaining gain @ +2 morale 
bonus to their Reflex Defense and Will Defense and a +2 bonus to all damage 
rolls for the remainder of the encounter. 

Prerequisites: Born Leader, Distant Command. 

Trust: You can give up your standard action to give one ally within your 
line of sight an extra standard action or move action on his next turn, to 
do with as he pleases. The ally does not lose the action if line of sight js 
later broken. 

Prerequisites: Born Leader, Coordinate. 


LINEAGE TALENT TREE 
You lead a privileged life and reap the benefit of an upbringing beyond most 
citizens of the galaxy. 

Connections: You are able to obtain licensed, restricted, military, or illegal 
equipment without having to pay a licensing fee or endure a background 
check, provided the total cost of the desired equipment is equal to or less” 
than your character level x 1,000 credits. In addition, when obtaining equip~ 
ment or services through the black market, you reduce the black market cost 
multiplier by 1. See Restricted Items (page 118) for details. 

Educated: Thanks to your well-rounded education, you may make any 
Knowledge check untrained. 

Spontaneous Skill: Sometimes you surprise others with your skill, Once 
per day, you may make an untrained skill check as though you were trained 
in the skill, Exception; You cannot use this talent to make an untrained Use 
the Force check as though you were trained in the skill unless you have the 
Force Sensitivity feat (page 85), 

You can select this talent multiple times; each time you do, you can use 
it one additional time per day. 

Prerequisite: Educated. 

Wealth: Each time you gain a level (including the level at which you se 
this talent), you receive an amount of credits equal to 5,000 x your nob 
level. You can spend these credits as you see fit. The credits appear ina civi- 
lized, accessible location of your choice or in your private bank account. 


Bonus Feats 

At every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.), you gain e bonus 
This feat must be selected from the following list, and you must meet 
prerequisites for that feat. 

Armor Proficiency (light), Cybernetic Surgery, Exotic Weapon Profi 
Linguist, Melee Defense, Skill Focus, Skill Training, Surgical Expe 
Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons), Wea 
Proficiency (rifles). 


CREDITS 
A Ist-level noble starts play with 3d4 x 400 credits. 


ow ——, 


bad, and neutral—who either live outside the law 
ast it in order to get the upper hand, They can come from any world 
Fthe galaxy. Most use their intelligence and dexterity to accomplish 
many rely on charisma as a fallback when all else fails. The scoundrel 
teh bravado, cunning, duplicity, and trickery. They live by their wits, 
ating, stealing, and even fighting when the need arises. 


xPLOITSs 
\s live a life of adventure for the excitement it provides. Others 
turing to advance their illicit careers, Some are good-hearted rogues 
the thrill or to right a wrong done to them or those they love. Others 
( knaves who serve only one master—the greed that swells inside 
often, a adventurous scoundre! falls somewhere in the middle, 
allegiance and attitudes as the political climate changes, until 
thing larger than himself sets him on a particular course through the 
sxy. Adventurous scoundrels call themselves smugglers, pirates, outlaws, 
ers, slicers, con artists, thieves, rogues, and spies, 
ARACTERISTICS 
drels have a knack for getting into and out of trouble. They have an 
for seif-preservation that keeps them alive, but it's usually tempered 
need to experience the thrills that their profession has to offer, and 
@dventurous scoundrels are also saddied with a sense of honor that 
ymetimes makes them go against their natural inclinations. 


ACKGROUND 

s don't often start out secking to defy authority and break the law. 

i€ are thrust into the profession as a means of rebellion. Others wind up 
e wrong side of the law due to bad luck, poor decisions, or circumstances 

their control. The skills they pick up along the way make them great 

of any mission team. 


AMPLES OF SCOUNDRELS IN 
R WarRs 


Lando Calrissian, Dash Rendar, Dexter Jettster, Ghent, Watto. 


46 RULE INFORMATION 
have the following game statistics. 


— Intelligence are a scoundre!’s most important ability scores, 
os Must have quick reflexes and a sharp wit to survive. Charisma 


Otel for talking one's way out of trouble, and Wisdom is useful for 
“i trouble before it finds the scoundrel. 


Hit Points 

Scoundrels begin play at 1st level with a number of hit points equal to 18 + 
their Constitution modifier. At cach level after Ist, scoundrels gain 1d6 hit 
points + their Constitution modifier, 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 


2nd +1 Bonus Feat 


= 
> 


+3 Bonus Feat 


o 
a 
=> 


+4 Bonus Feat 


8th +6 Bonus Feat 


10th +7 Bonus Feat 


12th +9 Bonus Feat 


14th +10 Bonus Feat 


16th +12 Bonus Feat 


18th #13 Bonus Feat 


20th +15 Bonus Feat 


Class Skills (trained in 4 + Int modifier): Acrobatics, Deception, Gather 
Information, Initiative, Knowledge (all skills, taken individually), Mechanics, 
Perception, Persuasion, Pilot, Stealth, Use Computer 


n 
I 
i> 
}0 
it 
a) 
a 


Je) 


SeSsesvae) & 


Force Points Knack: Once per day, you can reroll a skill check and take the better 
Scoundrels gain a number of Force Points equal to 5 + one-half their result. 
character level (rounded down) at Ist level and every time they gain You can select this talent multiple times; each time you select 
a new level in this class, Any Force Points left over from previous this talent, you can use it one additional time per day. 
levels are lost. Lucky Shot: Once per day, you can reroll an attack roll and 
take the better result. 
You can select this talent multiple times; each time you 
select this talent, you can use it one additional time per 
day. 


CLASS FEATURES 

All of the following are features of the scoundrel class. 
Defense Bonuses Prerequisite: Knack, 
At Ist level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex 


Defense and a +1 class bonus to your Will Defense. MISFORTUNE TALENT TREE 


Your mother always said you were trouble. Now, your 
enemies know it, too, 
Dastardly Strike: Whenever you make a successful 
attack against an opponent that is denied its Dexterity 
banus to Reflex Defense, the target moves ~1 step along 
the condition track (see Conditions, page 148) 
Disruptive: By spending two swift actions, you can 
use your knack for causing trouble and instigating 
chaos to disrupt your enemies. Until the start of 
your next turn, you suppress all morale and insight 
bonuses applied to enemies in your line of sight. 

Skirmisher: If you move at least 2 squares 
before you attack and end your move in a dif- 
ferent square from where you started, you gain 
a +1 bonus on attack rolls until the start of your 
next turn. 

Sneak Attack: Any time your opponent is 
flat-footed or otherwise denied its Dexterity 

bonus to Reflex Defense, you deal an extra 106 
points of damage with a successful melee or ranged 
attack. You must be within 6 squares of the target 10 
make a sneak attack with a ranged weapon. 

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time 
you Select it, your sneak attack damage increases OY 
+106 (maximum +10d6). 

Walk the Line: As a standard action, you can do oF 
say something that catches your enemies off quard- All 

opponents within 6 squares of you and in your line of sight 
take a -2 penalty to their defenses until the start of your next 
turn. The penalty is negated if line of sight is broken. 
Prerequisite: Disruptive. 


Starting Feats 

You begin play with the following feats: 
Point Blank Shot 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 


Talents 

At Ist level and every odd-numbered level thereafter 
(3rd, 5th, 7th, etc,), you select a talent from any of 
the following talent trees. You may choose a talent 
from any tree you wish, but you must meet the pre- 
requisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be 
selected more than once unless expressly indicated 


FORTUNE TALENT TREE 
Many scoundrels like to gamble with destiny, putting every- 
thing on the line and trusting fate (or the Force) to bring 
them fortune, fame, and success. 

Fool's Luck: Asa standard action, you can spend a Force 
Point to gain one of the following benefits for the rest of the 
encounter; a +1 luck bonus on attack rolls, a +5 luck bonus 
on skill checks, of a +1 luck bonus to all your defenses. 

Fortune's Favor: Whenever you score a critical hit with 
a melee or ranged attack, you gain a free standard action. 
You must take the extra standard action before the end of 
your turn, or else it is lost. 

Gambler: You gain a +2 competence bonus on Wisdom 
checks when you gamble (see the Gambling sidebar on the 
next page). 

You can select this talent multiple times; each time you take 
this talent, the competence bonus increases by +2. 


OBS. SvROCOL, MALE Twi'teK SCOUNCFEL 


ENT TREE 

like a ghost through the HoloNet and can hack into enemy main- 
4 computer systems with astonishing grace. 

+ You can issue a routine command to a computer (see page 
o, action. 

»r Slicer: You may choose to reroll any Use Computer check made to 
Seness on 2 computer, keeping the better of the two results. 
squisite: Gimmick. 

»: You can substitute your Use Computer skill for any Gather Informa- 


as long as you have access to a computer network, 


ER TALENT TREE 
the space lanes seeking wealth, fame, adventure, or something 


e. You're also pretty good with vehicles in general. 

: Once per day while aboard a starship, you can add your 
drei class level as a bonus on a single attack roll, skill check, or ability 
The decision to add this bonus can be made after the result of the 
ee check is known. 

cehound: You take no penalty on attack rolls in low-gravity or 
ity environments, and you ignore the debilitating effects of space 
(see Zero-Gravity Environments, page 257). In addition, you are 
Considered proficient with any starship weapon. 

"Starship Raider: You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls while aboard a 
‘Starship. This bonus applies to attacks made with starship weapons as well 
bersonal weapons used aboard a starship. 

Prerequisite: Spacehound. 

onal Warrior: Whenever you rol! a natural 20 on an attack roll made 
0 fd @ Starship, you gain one temporary Force Point, If the Force Point is 
ed before the end of the encounter, it is lost. 


= Prerequisite Spacehound. 


us Feats 
every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.), you gain a bonus feat. 
is feat must be selected from the following list, and you must meet any 
Guisites for that feat. 
Deadeye, Dodge, Melee Defense, Mobility, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid 
Running Attack, Skill Focus, Skill Training, Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
{advanced melee weapons). 


ane 


n 


EDiTs 
ei scoundrel starts play with 3d4 x 250 credits. 


ttt SBiewHo 


Saga Edition Web Enhancement 1 


Games Books | Community | Events | Help 


) STAR.WARS. 


ROLE PLAY Ins Game 


oo aeae 


Thursday, June 21, 2007 


Saga Edition Web Enhancement 1 


The Tech Specialist 


By Rodney Thompson 


A favored archetype of long-time Star Wars gamers, the tech specialist is a character that focuses on 
modifying and enhanced fantastic technology to fit his or her needs. Tech specialists range from 
brilliant engineers to prodigious outlaw techs, though all share a love for the guns, gear, and gadgets 
found in the galaxy far, far away. 


This web enhancement includes a few rules (cut from the Saga Edition core rulebook for space) that 
allow heroes to take on the role of the tech specialist. Additionally, you will find sample heroic 
characters -- a Zabrak engineer and a Mon Calamari outlaw tech -- that illustrate two ways to build 
tech-oriented characters for your own campaign. Of course, these are just two examples, and a hero 
who wants to tinker with machines and electronics has a number of options available across many 
different classes. 


Additionally, these rules will be featured in an upcoming sourcebook for reference at the gaming 
table, and will be expanded upon with more talents and rules to further enhance your game. 


New Talent Tree: The Outlaw Tech 


The following new talent tree is intended for use by characters with the scoundrel 
class. Scoundrels learn a variety of tricks that allow them to squeeze more life 
out of ailing technology, and they can enhance their gear in ways the 
manufacturer never intended. 


TRADING CARD GAME 


Fast Repairs 
Whenever you jury-rig an object or vehicle, the vehicle gains a number of 
temporary hit points equal to the result of your Mechanics check. Damage is 


http://www. wizards.com/default.asp?x=starwars/article/sagaenhancement! (1 of 7)22/06/2007 12:35:23 PM 


Saga Edition Web Enhancement 1 


subtracted from these temporary hit points first, and temporary hit points go 
away at the conclusion of the encounter. 
Prerequisites: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 


Hot Wire 

You can use your Mechanics check modifier instead of your Use Computer check 
modifier when making Use Computer checks to improve access to a computer 
system. You are considered trained in the Use Computer skill for purposes of 
using this talent. If you are entitled to a Use Computer check reroll, you may 
reroll your Mechanics check instead (subject to the same circumstances and 
limitations). 

Prerequisites: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 


Quick Fix 

Once per encounter, you may jury-rig an object vehicle that is not disabled. All normal benefits and 
penalties for jury-rigging still apply. 

Prerequisites: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 


Personalized Modifications 

As a standard action, you may tweak the settings, grips, and moving parts of a powered weapon you 
wield, tailoring it to your needs. For the remainder of the encounter, you gain a +1 equipment bonus 
on attack rolls and a +2 equipment bonus on damage rolls with that weapon. You can use this talent 
only on powered weapons (those that require a power cell to operate), including weapons connected 
to a larger power source, such as vehicle and starship weapons. 


Encrypted Transmission: The Outlaw Tech Talent Tree 


The Outlaw Tech talent tree fills some niches left by the existing Mechanics rules and options for 
repairing broken pieces of technology. Here's a behind-the-screen look at the design decisions that 
went into creating these talents. 


Fast Repairs is designed to make jury-rigging more appealing to tech-oriented characters. As it 
stands now, jury-rigging an object or vehicle moves it up the condition track but does not provide 
temporary hit points. If your ship is at O hit points and you jury-rig it, it's still disabled from hit point 
loss. This new talent alleviates that problem, while still making jury-rigging useful for ships pushed 
down the condition track by other means (such as ion damage). 


Quick Fix builds on Fast Repairs and gives a techie character a way to restore some hit points to 
a vehicle that's still in the fight, but brings with it the threat of becoming disabled at the end of the 
encounter. This new talent also gives ship engineers something else to do in combat, especially in 
desperate situations, and it can bring a vehicle back up to full fighting form very quickly. 


Hot Wire is similar to the other skill-substitution talents and makes sense for a techie who may not 


http://www. wizards.com/default.asp?x=starwars/article/sagaenhancementl (2 of 7)22/06/2007 12:35:23 PM 


Saga Edition Web Enhancement 1 


New Feat: Tech Specialist 


The new Tech Specialist feat allows a hero to make custom modifications to weapons, armor, droids, 
devices, and vehicles so that they function beyond their normal specifications. 


Prerequisite: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 


Benefit: You can modify a device, suit of armor, weapon, droid, or vehicle so that it gains a special 
trait. Specific traits are given on the Tech Specialist Modifications table below. You may perform only 
one modification at a time. Unless noted otherwise, you cannot grant more than one benefit to a 
single device, suit of armor, weapon, droid, or vehicle, and you can't apply the same benefit more 
than once. 


Before beginning the modification, you must pay one-tenth the cost of the device, suit of armor, 
weapon, droid, or vehicle you wish to modify or 1,000 credits, whichever is more. Completing the 
modification requires 1 day per 1,000 credits of the modification's cost. At the end of this time, make 
a DC 20 Mechanics check; you can't take 10 or take 20 on this check. If the check succeeds, the 
modification is completed successfully, and the object gains the desired trait. If the check fails, you 
lose all credits spent making the modification, and the object doesn't gain the desired trait. However, 
you may start over from scratch if you wish. 


Other characters trained in the Mechanics skill can assist you, reducing 
proportionately the time needed to complete the modification. At the end of 
modification process, they can make a Mechanics check to aid your check. 


The market value of a modified item is equal to the base cost of the item plus double 
the cost of the modifications made to it (not including credits wasted on failed 
modification attempts). 


Special: This feat is considered a bonus feat for the noble and scoundrel classes. 


http://www. wizards.com/default.asp?x=starwars/article/sagaenhancement1 (3 of 7)22/06/2007 12:35:23 PM 


Saga Edition Web Enhancement | 


Tech Specialist Modifications 
Armor Trait 
Agile Armor 
Fortifying Armor 


Protective Armor 
Device Trait 


Enhanced Strength 


Improved Durability 


Mastercraft Device 


Droid Trait 
Enhanced Dexterity 
Enhanced Intelligence 


Enhanced Strength 


Vehicle Trait 


Enhanced Dexterity 
Improved Speed 


Improved Shields 


Weapon Trait 


Improved Accuracy 


Improved Damage 


http://www.wizards.com/default.asp?x=starwars/article/sagaenhancement1 (4 of 7)22/06/2007 12:35:23 PM 


Benefit 
Increases the armor's maximum Dexterity bonus 1. 


Increases the armor's equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense 
by 1. 


Increases the armor's armor bonus to Reflex Defense by 1. 
Benefit 
Increases the device's Strength score by 2. 


The device's damage reduction increases by 1, and it gains 
extra hit points equal to one-quarter of its base hit points. 


Skill checks made using the device gain a +1 equipment 
bonus, or the device's existing equipment bonus increases 
by 1. 


Benefit 
Increases the droid's Dexterity score by 2. 
Increases the droid's Intelligence score by 2. 


Increases the droid's Strength score by 2. 


Benefit 
Increases the vehicle's Dexterity score by 2. 


Increases the vehicle's speed by one-quarter of its base 
speed (minimum 1 square). 


Increases the vehicle's shield rating by 5. 


Benefit 
The weapon gains a +1 equipment bonus on attack rolls. 


The weapon deals +2 points of damage with a successful 
hit. If the weapon has a damage multiplier (for example, 
6d10 x 2), apply the extra damage before applying the 
multiplier. 


Saga Edition Web Enhancement | 


An autofire-only ranged weapon can be set to fire single 
Selective Fire shots, or a single-shot ranged weapon can be made to have 
an autofire mode. 


Sample Character: The Outlaw Tech 


An outlaw tech is a master of making machines do what she wants them to do. Operating far outside 
the bounds of manufacturer intentions (and sometimes outside the law), she is able to hotwire 
starships and amp up weapons to the point where her after-market modifications can be considered 
illegal. 


An outlaw tech works well on her own without the need of other classes for support. She can run-and- 
gun just as well as she can use a hydrospanner, and her strengths lie in areas where her own actions 
are what save the day. Though an outlaw tech has a less formal education than other technically 
minded characters, she is a good fighter and a fast worker who can fulfill a variety of roles. 


OutlawCL 
Tech 7 


Medium Mon Calamari scoundrel 7 

Force Points 5 

Init +5; Senses Low-light vision, Perception +15 

Languages Basic, Binary (understand only), Huttese, Mon Calamarian, Ryl, Shyriiwook 
(understand only) 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 17, Will 20 
hp 39; Threshold 17 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee +5 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (3d8+3) 
Base Atk +5; Grp +5 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Running Attack 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 18, Wis 15, Cha 9 

SQ breathe underwater, expert swimmer 

Talents Fast Repairs, Knack, Quick Fix, Personalized Modifications 

Feats Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus 
(Mechanics), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Tech Specialist, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 


http://www. wizards.com/default.asp?x=starwars/article/sagaenhancementl (5 of 7)22/06/2007 12:35:23 PM 


Saga Edition Web Enhancement | 


Skills Deception +7, Gather Information +7, Knowledge (Galactic lore) +12, Knowledge 
(technology) +12, Mechanics +17 (+18 when using mastercraft tool kit), Perception 
+15, Pilot +10, Swim +15 (may reroll Swim checks and accept the second roll; may take 
10 even under pressure), Use Computer +17 (+18 when using mastercraft datapad) 
Possessions heavy blaster pistol (improved accuracy), comlink, mastercraft datapad, 
mastercraft tool kit, various personal belongings 


Sample Character: The Engineer 


An engineer is more of an academic designer than a jury-rigging mechanic. He considers the outlaw 
tech's work to be a sloppy imitation of real ingenuity and can use his knowledge to create more solid 
and reliable designs. An engineer is much more of a team player, and many heroes find that an 
engineer helps them get out of scrapes by encouraging them to work together. Because he's familiar 
with coordinating teams, an engineer has the knowledge and resources to create all-new (and 
significantly improved) pieces of technology that function reliably under all conditions. 


, CL 
Engineer 


Medium Zabrak noble 6/scoundrel 1 

Force Points 5 

Init +9; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary (understand only), Bocce, High Galactic, Huttese, Mon 
Calamarian, Shyriiwook (understand only), Sullustese, Zabrak 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 18, Will 22 
hp 37; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee +3 

Ranged hold-out blaster +7 (3d4+3) 
Base Atk +4; Grp +3 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 13 

SQ heightened awareness 

Talents Coordinate, Inspire Haste, Trace, Wealth 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology]), Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill 
Focus (Use Computer), Skill Training (Mechanics), Tech Specialist, Weapon Focus 
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Knowledge (Galactic lore) +11, Knowledge (physical sciences) +11, 
Knowledge (technology) +16, Mechanics +16, Perception +10 (may reroll any Perception 


http://www. wizards.com/default.asp?x=starwars/article/sagaenhancementl (6 of 7)22/06/2007 12:35:23 PM 


Saga Edition Web Enhancement 1 


check and keep the second roll), Persuasion +9, Pilot +9, Use Computer +16 (+17 when 
using masterwork datapad or masterwork portable computer) 

Possessions hold-out blaster (improved accuracy), comlink, masterwork datapad, 
masterwork portable computer, personal holoprojector, various personal belongings 


New to the Inside Finda - 
About Us’ Jobs Canc) Wizards Store Press Help Sitemap 
ESRB 7 


CUCK TO PRIVACY STATEMENT 


PRIVACY STATEMENT 
©2007 Lucasfilm Ltd. & ® or TM where indicated. All rights reserved. Used under authorization. 


http://www. wizards.com/default.asp?x=starwars/article/sagaenhancement1 (7 of 7)22/06/2007 12:35:23 PM 


Scout 

Scouts are natural explorers and adventurers, full of curiosity and trained to 
handle the out-of-the-way locations where they often operate. Scouts tend 
to be independent, signing on when the credits are good and their skills are 
best utilized and tested. Scouts understand the lay of the land and the orbit 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS _— CLASS FEATURES 


2nd +1 Bonus Feat 


4th +3 Bonus Feat 


6th +4 Bonus Feat 


o 
= 
> 
+ 
f= 2) 


Bonus Feat 


10th +7 Bonus Feat 


rs) 
> 


+9 Bonus Feat 


14th #10 Bonus Feat 


16th +12 Bonus Feat 


18th +13 Bonus Feat 


20th +15 Bonus Feat 


Class Skills (trained in 5 + Int modifier): Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, 
Knowledge (all skills, taken individually), Mechanics, Perception, Pilot, Ride, 
Stealth, Survival, Swim 


of the stars. They know how to recognize danger and locate the basic neces- 
sities for survival. The scout seeks knowledge, tries to solve mysteries, and 
wants to be the first to see something new and different. The scout learns 
to find a path through the wild regions, often becoming a decent pilot along 
the way, and usually learns how to protect himself from whatever hides over 
the next hill or beyond the most distant nebula. 


<PLOITS 
Many scouts become adventurers to see what's in the next star system, 
They pick up skills that make them excellent members of any team. They 
are usually the best trackers, trailblazers, and survivalists the galaxy has to 
offer. Some scouts are scientists and researchers who learn the skills of the 
profession so they don't have to rely on others, Some sell their services to the 
highest bidder. More often, the adventurous scout has a good heart, a sense 
of honor, and a burning desire to embrace the wild regions of the galaxy and 
learn to conquer them—either figuratively or literally. Adventurous scouts. 
call themselves rangers, outriders, hunters, explorers, quides, adventurous 
scholars, and vanguards. 


CHARACTERISTICS 
Scouts temper insatiable curiosity with excellent survival instincts, They 
make use of dexterity and intelligence, as well as wisdom, to spot and avoid 
dangers. The scout has an undying faith in himself and his abilities that 
sometimes allows the scout to call upon reserves and an inner strength to 
get out of tough situations. Scouts like to be the first to reach any location, 
although they also want to reach it in one piece, They can be gruff or silent, 
jovial or talkative. They are confident and brave, and they often appreciate: 
the wonders that the galaxy has to offer. 


BACKGROUND 
Scouts come to their profession in search of something, usually knowledge of 
secrets or the answers to the mysteries of the ages. Scholars, while possibly 
associated with an institute of learning or a particular government, often 
forsake the halls of academe for the pure research of working in the field. 
Pathfinders and explorers may work for a government or a military institu= 
tion, or they may take on freelance contracts from anyone willing to pay '0r 
their services. Many scouts develop into bounty hunters, especially 
who combine military skills with their tracking and searching abilities. 
group of adventurers benefits from having a scout in the party. 


EXAMPLES OF SCOUTS IN 
STAR WARS 
Chewbacca, Wicket the Ewok, Captain Tarpals, 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Scouts have the following game statistics. 


=, AWARENESS TALENT TREE 
of the scout’s key skills rely on Dexterity, Intelligence, You are exceptionally good at noticing things and avoiding perilous 


ite : i j ituations. 

Strength is also useful for the scout trained in ” 

one Acute Senses: You may choose to reroll any Perception check, but 
$ je 


the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse, 
' Expert Tracker: You take no penalty on Survival checks made to 
‘eset play at tst level with a number of hit points follow tracks while moving your normal speed. (Without this talent, 
ai to 24 + their Constitution modifier. At each level after you take a -5 penalty on Survival checks made to follow tracks while 
Ist, scoundrels gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitu- moving your normal speed.) 
‘tion modifier. 


Prerequisite: Acute Senses. 
Improved Initiative: You may choose to reroll any Initiative 
Force Points 
‘Geouts gain a number of Force Points equal to 5 


check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is 
Wone-half their character level (rounded down) 


worse, 
: at ist level and every time they gain a new level 


Prerequisite: Acute Senses. 

Keen Shot: You take no penalty on your attack roll when attack- 
fn this class. Any Force Points left over from 
previous fevels are lost 


ing a target with concealment (but not total concealment). 
Prerequisite: Acute Senses. 
Uncanny Dodge |: You retain your Dexterity bonus to your 
Refiex Defense reqardiess of being caught flat-footed or struck 
by a hidden attacker. You still lose your Dexterity bonus 
to your Reflex Defense if you are immobilized 
Prerequisites: Acute Senses, Improved Initiative. 
Uncanny Dodge Il: You cannot be flanked. You 
can react to opponents on opposite sides of you as 
easily as you can react to a single attacker, 
Prerequisites: Acute Senses, Improved Initia- 
tive, Uncanny Dodge |. 


CLASS FEATURES 
All of the following are features of the scout 


class. 


Defense Bonuses 

At ist level, you gain a +1 class bonus to your Forti- 
tude Defense and a +2 class bonus to your Reflex 
Defense. (See page 145 for more information on 
defenses.) 


Starting Feats 
You begin play with the following feats: 
Shake |t Off* 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 
Weapon Proficiency (rifles) 
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 
* You must meet the prerequisite of this feat (mini- 
mum Constitution 13 and trained in the Endurance 
Skill} to gain it. 


Talents 


At Ist level ang every odd-numbered level thereafter 
A910, 5th, 7th, etc,), you select a talent from any of the 

‘ Ing talent trees. You may choose a talent from 
Py tree you wish, but you must meet the prerequisites 
j EBAY) Of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected 
MOF than once unless expressly indicated. 


CAMOUFLAGE TALENT TREE 
You learn quickly how to blend in with your 
environment, 

Hidden Movement: You're very good at 
hiding when mobile. You take no penalty on your 
Stealth check when moving your norma! speed. 

Prerequisite: Improved Stealth. 
Improved Stealth: You may choose to reroll any Stealth check, but the 
result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Total Concealment: Any situation that would give you concealment 
(see page 156) grants you total concealment instead. 

Prerequisites: Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth. 


FRINGER TALENT TREE 
You're especially skilled at “getting by" on backwater worlds. 
Barter: You may reroll any Persuasion check made to haggle 
(see the Persuasion skill, page 71). You must, however, accept the 
result of the reroll 


KELKo, Mace ROOWN BSCOouvT 


i) @ei.ewHoD 


SeassevrS Seovs- 


fn 
IZ 
> 
t 
~~ 
Lf 
2 


Fringe Savant: Whenever you roll natural 20 on a skill check 
during an encounter, you gain one temporary Force Point, If the 
Force Point is not used before the end of the encounter, it is 
lost. 

Long Stride: Your speed increases by 2 squares 
if you are wearing light armor or no armor. If 
you have a natural fly, climb, or swim speed, 
it increases by 2 squares as well. You cannot 
use this talent if you are wearing medium or 
heavy armor. 

Jury-Rigger: You may reroll any 
Mechanics check made to accomplish a 
jury-rigged repair (see the Mechanics skill, 
page 68). You must, however, accept the 
result of the reroll. 


SURVIVOR TALENT TREE 
As an explorer of dangerous places, you are trained to 
react to danger swiftly and adroitly, as well as navigate 
difficult terrain and reduce damage 

Evasion: if you are hit by an area attack (see 
Area Attacks, page 155), you take half damace if the 
attack hit you. If the area attack misses you, you take 
no damage 

Extreme Effort: You can spend two swift actions to 
gain a +5 bonus on a single Strength check or Strength- 
based skill check made during the same round 

Sprint: When you use the run action, you can move 
up to five times your speed [instead of the normal four 
times your speed). 

Surefooted: Your speed is not reduced by difficult ter- 
rain (see Difficult Terrain, page 159). 


Bonus Feats 
At every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.], you gain a 
bonus feat. This feat must be selected from the following list, 
and you must meet any prerequisites for that feat 

Armor Proficiency (light, medium, or heavy), Careful 
Shot, Deadeye, Dodge, Far Shot, Linguist, Mobility, 
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Running 
Attack, Skill Focus, Skill Training, Sniper, Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons). 


CREDITS 
A ist-level scout starts play with 3d4 x 250 credits 


VOR'EN KURN, 


SOLDIER 


Soldiers combine discipline with martial skills to become the best pure 

warriors in the galaxy. Soldiers can be stalwart defenders 
of those in need, cruel marauders, or brave adventurers, 
They can be hired guns, noble champions, or cold-hearted 
killers. They fight for glory, for honor, to right wrongs, 
to gain power, to acquire wealth, or simply for the thrill 
of battle. 


EXPLOITS 
Many soldiers see adventures, raids on enemy strong- 
holds, and dangerous missions as their jobs. Some want 
to defend those who can't defend themselves; others 
seck to use their muscle to carve their own place of 
importance in the galaxy. Whatever their initial moti- 
vation, most soldiers wind up living for the thrill of 
combat and the excitement of adventure, Adventuring 
soldiers call themselves quards, bodyguards, champions, 
enforcers, mercenaries, warriors, soldiers of fortune, or 
simply adventurers 


CHARACTERISTICS 
Soldiers have the best all-around fighting abilities, and an 
individual soldier develops styles and techniques that set 
him apart from his peers. A given soldier might be especially 
capable with certain weapons, another trained to execute spe= 
cific combat maneuvers. As soldiers gain experience, they get 
more opportunities to develop their fighting skills. 


BACKGROUND 

Most soldiers come to the profession after receiving at least 
some amount of formal training from a military organizé= 
tion, local militia, or private army. Some attend formal 
academies; others are self-taught and well tested. Aso diet 
may have taken up his weapon to escape a mundane life. 
Another may be following a proud family tradition. Soldiers 
in a particular unit share a certain camaraderie, but most 
have nothing in common except battle prowess and the 
desire to apply it to a given situation. 


EXAMPLES OF SOLDIERS 

IN STAR WARS 4 

Admiral Ackbar, Corran Horn, Captain Panaka, Captain 

Typho, General Crix Madine, Kyle Katarn, Wedge Antilles: 
Zam Wesell. 


MALE HUMAN BOLDIEF 


RULE INFORMATION 
" ‘the following game statistics. 


in the Star Wars universe uses blasters and other ranged 
exterity is the soldier's most important ability score, followed 
‘onstitution and Strength, Don't underestimate the importance 
and Wisdom, however, since many of a soldier's useful skills 
n these abilities. 


n play at 1st level with a number of hit points equal to 30 + their 
n modifier. At each level after Ist, soldiers gain 1410 hit points 
titution modifier. 


n a number of Force Points equal to 5 + one-half their character 
d down) at Ist level and every time they gain a new level in this 
Any Force Points left over from previous levels are lost. 


ASS FEATURES 
‘the | ng are features of the soldier class, 


*” 


Proficiency (medium) 
Proficiency (pistols) 
Neapon Proficiency (rifles) 

pon Proficiency {simple weapons) 


“and every odd-numbered level thereafter (3rd, 5th, 7th, etc.), 
talent from any of the following talent trees. You may choose 
mm any tree you wish, but you must meet the prerequisites (if 
talent. No talent can be selected more than once unless 


Cated. 


~IALIST TALENT TREE 


ze the benefits of wearing armor while reducing or eliminat- 


it of its drawbacks, 
oa 


Armor Mastery: The maximum Dexterity bonus of your armor improves 
by +1. You must be proficient with the armor you are wearing to gain this 
benefit. 

Prerequisite: Armored Defense. 


BASE ATTACK 


LEVEL BONUS _— CLASS FEATURES 


Bonus Feat 


nN 
~] 
Qa. 
+ 
Ld 


5 


+4 Bonus Feat 


> 
> 


+6 Bonus Feat 


Bonus Feat 


10th +10 Bonus Feat 


12th +12 Bonus Feat 


14th +14 Bonus Feat 


16th +16 Bonus Feat 


3 


+18 Bonus Feat 


20th +20 Bonus Feat 


Class Skills (trained in 3 + Int modifier): Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, 
Knowledge (tactics), Mechanics, Perception, Pilot, Swim, Treat Injury, Use 
Computer 


Armored Defense: When calculating your Reflex Defense, you may add 
cither your heroic level or your armor bonus, whichever is higher. You must 
be proficient with the armor you are wearing to gain this benefit. 

Improved Armored Defense: When calculating your Reflex Defense, you 
may add your heroic level plus one-half your armor bonus (rounded down) 
or your armor bonus, whichever is higher. You must be proficient with the 
armor you are wearing to gain this benefit. 

Prerequisite: Armored Defense. 

Juggernaut: Your armor does not reduce your speed or the distance you 
can move while running. You must be proficient with the armor you are 
wearing to gain this benefit. 

Prerequisite: Armored Defense. 

Second Skin: When wearing armor with which you are proficient, your 
armor bonus to your Reflex Defense and equipment bonus to your Fortitude 
Defense increase by +1, 

Prerequisite: Armored Defense. 


BRAWLER TALENT TREE 
You like to get “up close and personal” with your enemies and engage them 
in melee combat. 

Expert Grappler: You gain a +2 competence bonus on grapple attacks 
(see page 153). 

Gun Club: You can use a ranged weapon as a melee weapon without 
taking a penalty on your attack roll. (Normally you take a -5 penalty on 
attack rolls made with an improvised weapon.) The weapon is otherwise 
treated as a club in all respects. 

if you are using a rifle with a mounted bayonet (see page 121) or vibro- 
bayonet (see page 124), you may wield that weapon as a double weapon, 
The bayonet or vibrobayonet end is treated normally, and the other end is 
treated as a club. 

Melee Smash: You deal +1 point of damage with melee attacks. 

Stunning Strike: When you damage an opponent with a melee attack, your 
opponent moves an additional -1 step along the condition track (see page 149) 
if your attack roll result equals or exceeds the target's damage threshold. 

Prerequisite: Melee Smash. 

Unbalance Opponent: You are skilled at keeping your opponents off 
balance in melee combat. During your action, you designate an opponent 
no more than one size category larger or smaller than you. That opponent 
doesn't get to add his Strength bonus on attack rolls when targeting you. 


“YOUR FRIEND !IS QUITE A MERCENARY: 
IF HE REALLY CARES ABOUT 


| WONDER 
ANYTHING ..- 


(If the opponent has a Strength penalty, he still suffers that penalty.) The 
opponent's Strength modifier applies to damage, as usual. You can select 
new opponent on your next turn. 7 

Prerequisite: Expert Grappler. 


COMMANDO TALENT TREE 
You use advanced combat tactics to take down enemies quickly, shield your 
comrades, and endure whatever challenges are thrown your way. 

Battle Analysis: As a swift action, you can make a DC 15 Kno 
(tactics) check. If the check succeeds, you know which allies and oppo 
in your line of sight are reduced to at least half of their maximum total 
points. 

Cover Fire: When you make a ranged attack with a pistol or rifle, all allies 
within 6 squares of you when the attack is made gain a +1 bonus to Reflex 
Defense until the start of your next turn, Allies within range don't need t 
be within your line of sight to gain the bonus. 

Prerequisite: Battie Analysis. 

Demolitionist: When you use the Mechanics skill to place an explosive 
device, the explosion deals +2 dice of damage. You may take this ta ent 
multiple times; its effects stack. 

Draw Fire: You can distract opponents and convince them that you are 
the most tempting (or most dangerous) target in an area. As a swift a ‘ion, 
make a Persuasion check and compare the result to the Will Defense of 
opponents within line of sight. If the check result exceeds an opponent's 
Defense, that opponent cannot attack any character within 6 squares of yo! 
until the start of your next turn as long as you do not have cover against t 
opponent. (The affected opponent may still attack you, however.) { 

Harm's Way: Once per round, you may spend a swift action to shield: 
single adjacent ally from attacks, taking the damage and suffering the! 
effects in your ally’s stead, Until the start of your next turn, any attack ma 
against the protected ally affects you instead. You may elect not to sh e 
your protected ally against a given attack, provided the decision is mat 
before the attack roll is made. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Initiative skill. 

indomitable: Once per day as a swift action, you can move +5 steps 
the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). This does not remove at 
persistent conditions that may be affecting you (see page 149). 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this 

you can use it one additional time per day. 


OR ANYBODY." 
—- LEIA ORGANA 


— w 


tas Nails: You can catch a second wind one extra time per day 
ene Second Wind, page 146). If you have this talent and the Extra Second 
feat (see page 85), you can catch your second wind a total of three 


times per day. 


PON SPECIALIST TALENT TREE 
You are highly trained at using specific weapons 

Devastating Attack: Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon group 
with which you are proficient. Whenever you make a successful attack against 
atarget using such a weapon, you treat your target's damage threshold as if 
it were 5 points lower when determining the result of your attack, 

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent 
it applies to a different exotic weapon or weapon group. 

Penetrating Attack: Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon group 
with which you are proficient. Whenever you make a successful attack against 
a target using such a weapon, you treat your target's damage reduction as if 
it were 5 points lower when determining the result of your attack 

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent, 
it applies toa different exotic weapon or weapon group. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus with chosen exotic weapon or weapon group. 

Weapon Specialization: Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon 
group with which you are proficient. You gain a +2 bonus on damage rolls 
with such weapons. 

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent, 
itapplies to 2 different exotic weapon or weapon group. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus with chosen exotic weapon or weapon 


group. 
Bonus Feats 


Al every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.), you gain a bonus feat. 
This feat must be selected from the following list, and you must meet any 
Prerequisites for that feat. 

Armor Proficiency (heavy), Bantha Rush, Careful Shot, Charging Fire, 
Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Coordinated Attack, Crush, Deadeye, Double 
Attack, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery ||, Dual Weapon 
Mastery tll, Exotic Weapon Proficiency, Far Shot, Great Cleave, Improved 
Charge, Improved Disarm, Martial Arts |, Martial Arts tl, Martial Arts Ill, 
Melee Defense, Mighty Swing, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, Precise 
Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Shake It Off, 
Skill Focus, Skill Training, Sniper, Throw, Toughness, Trip, Triple Attack, Triple 


Bare icate Combat, Weapon Focus, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
pons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons). 

CREDITS 

A ist. 


Wt waLewHD 


SSeevve Sieve) 


MULTICLASS 


CHARACTERS 
Acharacter may add new classes as he or she progresses in levels, Multiciass- 
ing improves a character's versatility at the expense of focus. 


CLASS AND LEVEL FEATURES 
As a general rule, the abilities of a multiclass character are the sum of the 
abilities of each of the character's classes. 


Level 

"Character level” is a character's total number of levels. It derives from 
overall XP earned and is used to determine when feats and ability score 
boosts are gained, as per Table 3-1: Experience and Level-Dependent Ben- 
efits. “Class level” is the character's level in a particular class, as per the 
individual class tables. For the single-class hero, character level and class 
level are the same. 


Hit Points 

Each time you gain a new level, roll a hit point die (the size of the die 
depends on the class in which the level is gained) and add the result to your 
character's hit point total. Your character's Constitution modifier applies to 
each hit point die roll. 

For example, a Ist-level scout who becomes a Ist-level scout/1st-level 
soldier gains a number of additional hit points equal to 1d10 + the character's 
Constitution modifier. A few game sessions later, the character gains a second 
level in the scout class, becoming a 2nd-level scout/1st-level soldier, where- 
upon her hit points increase by 1d8 + the character's Constitution modifier. 


Base Attack Bonus 

Add the base attack bonus of each class to get the character's base attack 
bonus. For instance, 2 6th-level noble/2nd-level soldier has a base attack 
bonus of +6 (+4 for noble, +2 for soldier), 


Defenses 
Each time a character gains 2 new level, his Reflex Defense, Fortitude 
Defense, and Will Defense need to be adjusted to account for the increase 
in character level. 

A character who takes his first level of a new class also gains a class 
bonus to one or more of his defenses; however, this class bonus does not 
stack with other class bonuses. 


Skills 
When you select a new class, you do not gain any new trained skills. However, 
your list of class skills expands to include those of the new class. If you take 


the Skill Training feat (page 88), you may choose your new trained skill from 
the class skill list of any class in which you have levels. 

For example, Arani is a multiclass noble/soldier who takes the Skill Training 
feat. Her new trained skill may be chosen from the noble's list of class skills 
or the soldier's list of class skills, 


Starting Feats 
When you select a new class, you do not gain all of its starting feats, Select 
one feat from the list of starting feats. For example, a Ist-level noble decides 
to take a level of soldier and gains one feat of his choice from the soldier's 
list of starting feats; he selects Weapon Proficiency (rifles). 


Talents 
if a character gains a talent as a consequence of gaining a level, he must 
select a talent associated with the class in which he gained the level, For 
example, Arani is a 2nd-level noble who decides to take a level in the soldier 
class, which grants her 2 talent. She must select her new talent from 
soldier talent trees (or from Force talent trees, if she has the Force Sensit 
feat), since it was a soldier level that granted her the talent. 


Feats 
For multiclass characters, feats are received at 3rd level and every three 
character levels thereafter, regardless of individual class level (see Tab ¢ 
3-1: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits). 

A multiclass character that gains a class bonus feat must select it from 
the bonus feats available to that particular class. For example, Arani is 
2nd-level noble/tst-level soldier who decides to take a second level in the 
soldier class, Doing so grants her a bonus feat, which she must select 
the soldier's list of bonus feats (page 53). 


Ability Increases 

For multiclass characters, abilities are increased every four character level 
regardless of individual class level (see Table 3-1: Experience and Lev 
Dependent Benefits). 


ADDING A SECOND CLASS 4 
When a single-class character gains a level, he or she may choose to increas 
the level of his or her current class or pick up a new class at Ist level. by 
GM may restrict the choices available according to how he or she hand 
classes, skills, experience, and training. For instance, the character may M&S 
to find a teacher to instruct him in the ways of the new class, Additionally, 
GM may require the player to declare what class his or her hero is "work! a 
on" before he or she makes the jump to the next level, so the character "4 
time to practice new skills. In this way, gaining the new class is the result! 
previous effort rather than a sudden development. 


- —— 


: character gains the base attack bonus, class bonuses to defense, 
‘ class skills, as well as hit points of the appropriate die type and a talent 
ated with the new class. 

Picking up a new class is not exactly the same as starting a character in 
that class. Some of the benefits for a Ist-level hero represent the advantage 
of training while young and fresh, with lots of time to practice When picking 

anew class. 2 hero does not receive the following starting benefits given 
to characters that begin their careers in that class. 


& Starting feats (select only one of the starting feats) 
* Maximum, tripled hit points from the first die 


Starting credits 


ADVANCING A LEVEL 
Each time a multiclass character achieves a new level, he either increases one 
Of his current class levels by one or picks up a new class at 1st level 

When a multiclass character increases one of his classes by one level, he 
gets all the standard benefits that characters get for achieving that level in 
that class: more hit points, possible bonuses on attack rolls, better defense 
cores, and one or more new class features (such as a talent or bonus feat) 
in addition, 2 multiclass character has the option to take any starting feat 
for that class as a bonus feat 


HOW MULTICLASSING WORKS 

Arani, a 4th-level noble, decides she wants to expand her repertoire by learn- 
ih Some soldiering. When Arani reaches 10,000 XP, she becomes a Sth-level 
Character. Instead of becoming a Sth-level noble, however, she becomes a 
4th-level noble/ist-level soldier, How exactly she picked up this new area of 
focus isn’t critical to the campaign, though the player and GM are encouraged 
$0 Create an in-game reason and opportunity for the hero to do so. 

Now, instead of gaining the benefits of a new level of noble, she gains 
the benefits of becoming a Ist-level soldier. She gains a Ist-level soldier's hit 
Points (1010 + her Constitution mod fier}, a Ist-level soldier’s +1 base attack 
BONUS, a soldier's +2 class bonus to Fortitude Defense, and a soldier talent. 
Because she gained a level, all of her defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will) 
Increase by 1 

ThE benefits described above are added to the scores Arani already had 
asa noble. She doesn’t gain any of the benefits a Sth-level noble gains. 
. ie 15,000 XP, Arani becomes a 6th-level hero, She decides she'd 
Of her Ue along the soldier path $0 she increases her soldier level instead 
level aide Again she gains the soldier's benefits for attaining a new 

en the nobie's. At this point, Arani is a 4th-level noble/2nd-level 
Soldier. Her combat Skill is a little better than a 4th-level noble's would be 

use she has learned som thi Babe figh cn t ead - 

Base attack be e bis about fighting during her time as a soldier. 

Honus is +5 (+3 from her noble class and +2 from her soldier 


). Her Reflex, Fo 


Ortitude, and Will Defenses each increase by 1 


At each new level, Arani decides whether to increase her noble level or her 
soldier level. Of course, if she wants to have even more diverse abilities, she 
could acquire @ third class, such as scoundrel. At some point, she may also 
qualify for a prestige class (see Chapter 12: Prestige Classes), In general, a 
character can multiclass as many times as there are classes available, 


i) HSievHD 


paver) 


=) 


Svea) 


IDS 


€ 


— CHAPTER 
Skit 


Dcel Surool, a scoundrel, can walk weieihy ta behind an Imperial shuttle, crouch 

in a Shadow, and carefully listen for a stormtrooper commander giving orders 

to its troops. If Vor'en Kurn, a soldier, were to try the same thing, he'd be 

| more likely to make so much noise the stormtroopers would hear him. He, 
however, could dash into the shuttle and take its controls, flying it away 
while the stormtroopers fire at it impotently. These actions and many more 
are determined by the skills that characters have (in this case, Perception, 
Pilot, and Stealth). 


SKILLS SUMMARY 

Your character's skills represent a variety of abilities, and you get better at 
them as you go up in level. A skill check takes into account your training 
(trained skill bonus), natural talent (ability modifier), and luck (the die roll). It 
may also take into account your species’ knack for certain skills or the armor 
you're wearing (armor check penalty), among other things. 


— 


TRAINED SKILLS vs. 
UNTRAINED SKILLS 
When you make a character, you are allowed to select a number of skills as 
ined skills. Your character receives a number of trained skills based on his 
r her character class and Intelligence modifier (minimum of 1 trained skill). 
rained skills are selected from the character's list of class skills at Ist level, 
at dB haracter may acquire new trained skills by taking the Skill Training 
page 88). The major difference between a trained skill and an untrained 
that you gain a +5 bonus on skill checks if you're trained in the skill. 
ef, some skills (such as Use the Force) can't be used untrained. 


1G SKILLS 
bd At ae check. roll: 


" he-half = character level + key ability modifier + mis- 


if you anttraines in the skill, add #5 to the skill check result. 

A skill check is made just like an attack roll or a saving throw. The higher 
the roll, the better. You're either trying to get a result that equals ar exceeds 
a certain Difficulty Class (DC), or you're trying to beat another character's 
check result. For instance, to sneak quietly past a guard, Deel needs to beat 
the guard's Perception check with a Stealth check. 

When adding “one-half your character level,” always round down (a 1st- 
level character adds +0), 

The “key ability modifier” is the character's bonus or penalty for the skill’s 
associated ability (Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, 
or Charisma). The key ability of a skill is noted in its description and on 
Table 4-2: Skills. 


n 
z 
> 
t 
m 
2 
< 


“Miscellaneous modifiers” include armor check penalties and bonuses 
provided by talents, feats, or equipment. 

Some skills can't be used untrained. These skills are noted on Table 4-4: 
Skills. If your character is not trained in these particular skills, you are not 
allowed to make any kind of check with them. 


How DO SKILLS WORK? 


A character begins play with a number of trained skills based on his or her 
starting heroic class edi, noble, scoundrel, scout, or soldier) and Intelligence 
modifier. A character must choose his or her trained skills from a larger list 
of class skills, as shown in Table 4-1: Trained Skills by Class. 

For example, Rorworr (a Ist-level Wookiee scout) gets 5 trained skills 
for being 2 scout. Since his Intelligence score is 12, he gets 1 additional 
trained skill, for a total of 6 trained skills. These skills must be selected from 
the scout’s list of class skills. Rorworr selects Climb, Initiative, Mechanics, 
Perception, Pilot, and Stealth as his trained skills. 


MAKING SKILL CHECKS 

When your character makes a skill check, roll 1d20 and add one-half your 
character level + your key ability modifier + any miscellaneous modifiers + 
5 (if the character is trained in the skill). Success depends on the difficulty 
of the task at hand. 

Example: Rorwort, a st-level Wookiee scout with an Intelligence of 12, 
tries to open the lock on an Imperial detention cell to free an imprisoned 
Rebel operative. First he attempts a Mechanics check. Rorworr is trained in 
the skill, so he can attempt the check (Mechanics skill checks cannot be made 
untrained), He rolls 1d20 and adds one-half his level (+0), his Intelligence 
modifier (+1), and his trained skill bonus (+5). He gets a 13. Unfortunately, 
the GM knows that the lock on the cell door as a DC of 15. Having failed his 
check and pressed for time, Rorworr shoots the lock with his blaster. 


ADVANCING SKILLS 

Since a character's skill modifiers are based on character level, they automati- 
cally increase as the character gains levels. When a character reaches 2nd 
level, all of his skill modifiers—in both trained and untrained skills—increase 
by 1. A character's skill modifiers can also be increased by other means. 


TYPES OF 
SKILL CHECKS 


When you use a skill, you make a skill check to see how well you do. The higher 
the result on your skill check, the better you do, Based on the circumstances, 
your result must equal or exceed a particular number (a DC or the result of 
an opposed skill check) for you to use the skill successfully. The harder the 
task, the higher the number you need to roll. 


Circumstances can affect your check. If you're free to work without” 
distractions, you can make a careful attempt and avoid simple mistakes, [f 
you have lots of time, you can try over and over again, assuring that you 
eventually succeed. If others help you, you may succeed where otherwise 
you would fail. 


OPPOSED CHECK 
Some skill checks are opposed checks. They are made against a randomized 
number, usually another character's skill check result. For example, to sneak 
up on @ guard, you need to beat the guard's Perception check result with yo: 
Stealth check result. You make a Stealth check, and the GM makes a Perception 
check for the quard. Whoever scores the higher result wins the contest. 

For ties on opposed checks, the character with the higher skill modifier 
wins. For instance, if a Stealth check opposed by a Perception check results in 
a tie, the sneaker’s Stealth check modifier would be compared to the noticer's — 
Perception check modifier. If those scores are the same, roll again. 


CHECK AGAINST A 

DIFFICULTY CLASS (DC) 
Some checks are made against a Difficulty Class (DC). The DC is a number 
set by the GM (using the skill rules as a guideline) that you must score as @ 
result on your skill check to succeed. For example, climbing the outer wall 
of a ruined warehouse may have a DC of 15. To climb the wall, you must get 
a result of 15 or better on a Climb check. 


UNTRAINED CHECKS 
Some skills can be used only if you are trained in the skill, If you don't have 
Use the Force, for example, regardless of your class, ability scores, and exp 
rience level, you just don’t know enough about using the Force to attemp 
to manipulate it consciously. Skills that can't be used untrained are marke 
with a “No” in the “Untrained” column on Table 4-2: Skills. 


TRYING AGAIN 


In general, you can try a skill check again if you fail, and you can keep 
indefinitely. Many skills, however, have natural consequences for failing that 
must be accounted for. Some skilis can't be tried again once a check 
failed for a particular task. For most skills, when a character has succeees 
at a given task, additional successes are meaningless. 

For example, if Deel Surool misses a Mechanics check to open a mecne 2 
cal lock, he can try again and keep trying. If, however, an alarm sount 
when the Mechanies check is missed by 5 or more, then failing has its OM 
penalty. ; 

Similarly, if Rorworr misses a Climb check, he can keep trying, but if! 
misses by 5 or more, he falls (after which he can get up and try again 
fall wasn’t too far or too painful). 


carries no penalty for failure, you can take 20 and assume that 
ng until you eventually succeed (see Checks without Rolls, 


LING 

‘s traits, talents, and other special abilities allow you to reroll a 
tk. You must declare that you are using this option immediately after 

check but before any effects are resolved. Furthermore, you must 
he result of the reroll, even if it is worse. For all purposes, the result 
is treated as the real result of your skill check. 
the Better Result: Some species traits, talents, and other special 
re more flexible, allowing you to reroll but keep the better of the 
cases, this is more restricted and only available a limited 
$5 per day (such as the Knack talent, page 46) or requires you 
Force Point (such as the Force Power Adept talent, page 214). As 
you must declare that you are using this option immediately after 

ie check but before any effects are resolved. 

is: Sometimes you have more than one species trait, talent, 
| ability that allows you to reroll the same skill check. In this 
ly Choose to take each reroll one at a time in whatever order you 
“ing each one before deciding whether to use another, 
t, 2 Cerean scoundrel makes an Initiative check. Dissatisfied with 
Hes to use the Cerean species trait that allows him to reroll his 
keeping the new result. Unfortunately, the second roll is even 
tides to use the Knack talent (page 46) to reroll one more time, 
O the better of the second and third rolls. Alternatively, he could 
Knack first, keeping the better of the first and second rolls, 
m Necessary) use his Cerean species trait to roll a third time, keeping 

ult instead of the better of the first two. 


Deception, Gather Information, initiative, Knowledge (all skills, taken individually), : 
ee fee 48 Fide, Treet Injury, Use Computer 


Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Knowledge (all skills, taken individually), 
Mechanics, Perception, Pilot, Ride, Stealth, Survival, Swim 
Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Knowledge (tactics), Mechanics, Perception, Pilot, Swim, Treat Injury, Use Computer 


FAVORABLE AND 
UNFAVORABLE 
CIRCUMSTANCES 


Some situations may make a skill easier or harder to use, resulting in a bonus 
or penalty to the skill modifier for the skill check, or a change to the skill 
check's DC. It’s one thing for Kelko, a Rodian scout, to hunt down enough 
food to eat while he's camping for the day on the forest moon of Endor, 
using 2 Survival check, Foraging for food while crossing 100 kilometers of 
Tatooine's Jundland Wastes is an entirely different matter. 

The GM can alter the odds of success in four ways to take into account 
exceptional circumstances: 


© Give the skill user a +2 circumstance bonus to represent circumstances 
that improve performance, such as having the perfect tool for the job, 
getting help from another character (see Combining Skill Attempts, 
page 61), or possessing unusually accurate information. 

© Give the skill user 2 -2 circumstance penalty to represent circumstances 
that hamper performance, such as being forced to use improvised tools 
or possessing misleading information. 

© Reduce the DC by 2 (or assign penalties to an opposed check) to repre- 
sent circumstances that make the task easier, such as having a friendly 
audience or performing work that doesn't have to be perfect. 

© Increase the DC by 2 (or add bonuses to an opposed check) to represent 
circumstances that make the task harder, such as having a hostile audi- 
ence or performing work that must be flawless. 


Circumstances that affect your ability to perform the skill change your 
skill modifier. Circumstances that modify how well you have to perform the 


skill to succeed change the DC. A bonus on your skill modifier and a reduction 
in the check’s DC have the same result—they create a better chance that 
you will succeed. But they represent different circumstances, and sometimes 
that difference is important. 

For example, Deel Surool the Twi'lek scoundrel wants to befriend a group 
of Trandoshan thugs drinking in 2 cantina. Before beginning his performance, 
Dee! listens to the Trandoshans so that he can judge their mood. Doing so 
improves his chances of taking the right approach when introducing himself, 
giving him a +2 bonus to the skill modifier for his Persuasion check. The Tran- 
doshans are in a good mood because they recently received a sizable payoff, 
so the GM reduces the bonus they receive for an indifferent attitude to +0. 
(Deel’s attempt at diplomacy isn't better just because the Trandoshans are in 
4 good mood, so he does not get a bonus to add into his skill modifier.) 

However, the leader of the gang, a Human bounty hunter, has been unable 
to locate the Wookiee he’s tracking, and he's suspicious of Deel. (Didn't the 
datafile suggest the Wookiee was often seen in the company of a Twi'lek?) 
He gains a +2 bonus to his Will Defense to resist being persuaded [in addition 
to the normal +2 for being indifferent), 

Deel rolls a 6 and adds +8 for his skill modifier (including +2 for his 
impromptu research). His result is 14. The Trandoshans have a Will Defense 
of 13, so Deel’s skill check result is high enough to shift their attitudes to 
friendly, but not their leader (Will Defense 16). The Trandoshans applaud Dee! 
Surool and offer to buy him drinks, but their leader eyes him suspiciously. 


TIME AND 
SKILL CHECKS 


A skill’s description tells you whether using a skill is a standard action, a 
move action, a swift action, a full-round action, or a free action. Some skills 
can take minutes or hours to use. 

In general, using a skill that requires concentration (and thus distracts you 
from being fully aware of what's going on around you) provokes an attack of 
opportunity from an opponent if you are within that opponent's threatened 
area when you attempt the skill check. See Attacks of Opportunity, page 
155, for more information. 


CHECKS WITHOUT 
ROLLS 


A skill check represents an attempt to accomplish some goal, usually in the 
face of some sort of time pressure or distraction. Sometimes, though, you 
can use a skill under more favorable circumstances and eliminate the luck 
factor. 


TAKING 10 
When you're not in a rush and not being threatened or distracted, you may 
choose to take 10. Instead of rolling 1420 for the skill check, calculate your 
result as if you had rolled a 10 (an average roll on 3 d20), For many relatively 
routine tasks, taking 10 results in a success. 

Distractions, threats, and danger make it impossible for a character to 
take 10, You also can't take 10 when using a skill untrained, though the GM 
may allow exceptions for truly routine activities. 

Example: Rorworr the Wookiee has a Climb skill modifier of +10. The 
steep, rocky slope he’s climbing has a DC of 15. With a little care, he can take 
10 and succeed automatically. But partway up the slope, a bounty hunter 
begins taking blaster shots at him from up above. Rorworr needs to make a 
Climb check to reach the bounty hunter, and this time he can’t take 10, He 
must make the skill check normally while under attack. ' 


TAKING 20 
When you have plenty of time (generally 2 minutes for a skill that can nor 
mally be checked in 1 round), and when the skill being attempted carries no 
penalty for failure, you can take 20. Taking 20 represents making multiple 
rolls, assuming that eventually you will roll a 20. Instead of rolling 1420 for 
the skill check, calculate the result as if you had rolled a 20. Taking 20 means 
you keep trying until you get it right. Taking 20 takes twenty times as long 
as making a single check. 

Example: Rorworr comes to a cliff face. He takes 10 to make the climt 
for a result of 20 (10 plus his +10 skill modifier). However, the DC is 23, 
the GM tells him that he fails to make progress up the cliff. (His check result 
is at least high enough that he doesn't fall.) Rorworr can’t take 20 because: 
there is a penalty associated with failure (falling, in this case). a 

Later, Rorworr finds a small bunker in the cliffside and searches it. The 
GM notes in the Perception skill description that each 1-square area takes 
a full-round action to search (and she secretly assigns a DC of 15 to tne 
attempt). She estimates that the floors, walls, and ceiling of the bunker mak 
up about twenty squares (about 45 square meters), so she tells Rorwe 
player that it takes 2 minutes to search the whole bunker. Rorworr rolls 1420 
and adds his +5 skill modifier. The result of 11 fails, Now Rorworr dec 
that he is going to search the bunker high and low, for as long as it take> 
The GM takes the original time of 2 minutes and multiplies it by 20, for # 
minutes. That's how long it takes Rorworr to search the whole bunker 
exacting detail. Now Rorworr’s player treats his roll as if it were 20, 
result of 25. That's more than enough to beat the DC of 15, and Re 
finds a datapad discarded in a waste disposal unit. 


ABINING SKILL 
eEMPTS 

in one character tries the same skill at the same time and for 
se, their efforts may overiap. 


VIDUAL EVENTS 
werai characters attempt some action, and each succeeds or fails 


or her own. 
»xamole, Rorworr and each of his companions need to climb a slope 
he top. Regardless of Rorworr's result, the other characters need 


i checks, too. Every character makes a skill check. 


OPERATION 
the individual heroes react to the same circumstance, and they 
ther to help each other out. In this case, one hero is considered 
of the effort and makes a skill check while each helper makes a 
against DC 10. (You can't take 10 on this check.) For each helper 
s, the leader gets a +2 circumstance bonus (as per the rule for 
umstances). In many cases, a character's help won't be benefi- 
limited number of characters can help at the same time. The 
§ cooperation as she sees fit for the circumstances. 
lance, if Kelko has been badly wounded, Vor'en Kurn can try a Treat 
to keep him from dying. One other character can help Vor'en. If 
jero makes a Treat Injury check against DC 10, then Vor'en gets a 
in the Treat Injury check he makes to help Kelko. The GM rules that 
can't help Vor'en at the same time because a third person 
‘get in the way. 
ation may not require all the characters to make the same skill 
tlko and Dee! Surool try to find information about an illegal busi- 
Hutt’s datapad, only one can make a Use Computer check. While 
ily checking the datapad, Deel Suroo! realizes his Knowledge 
ay be able to give hints on what to look for. Surool can make 
ledge (business) check to give Kelko a +2 bonus to his Use 


| LITY CHECKS 

ES You try to do something to which no specific skill applies. In 
ou make an ability check: Roll 1d20 and apply the appropriate 
aitier. The GM assigns a DC, or sets up an opposed check when 
=» af€ engaged in a contest using one ability against another. 
Faster who rolls highest acts first. 

GaSes, a test of one's ability doesn’t involve luck. Just as you 
# height check to see who is taller, you don't make a Strength 


check to see who is stronger, When two characters arm wrestle, for example, 
the stronger character simply wins. In the case of identical scores, then make 
opposed Strength checks. 


EXAMPLE ABILITY CHECK KEY ABILITY 


Dexterity = 


Navigating a maze 
SEN ee EC RS haey POee D 


Pes tet s5'a's 
ven 


Getting yourself noticed ina crowd 


SKILL DESCRIPTIONS 
This section describes each skill, including common uses and typical modi- 
fiers. Characters can sometimes use skills for other purposes than those listed 
here, For example, you might be able to impress the members of a starfighter 
squadron by making a Pilot check. 

Here is the format for skill descriptions. Headings that do not apply to a 
particular skill are omitted in that skill's description. 


SkKiLtt NAme (KEY ABILITY) 
Trained Only; Armor Check Penalty 
The skill name line and the line beneath it include the following information. 

Key Ability: The abbreviation for the ability whose modifier applies to 
the skill check. 

Trained Only: If “Trained Only” appears on the line beneath the skill name, 
you must be trained in that skill to use it. If "Trained Only" is omitted, the 
skill can be used untrained except for some uses. If any special notes apply 
to trained or untrained use, they are covered in the Special section, 

Armor Check Penalty: If “Armor Check Penalty” appears on the line 
beneath the skill name, a character takes a penalty on skill checks made with 
this skill if he’s wearing armor with which he is not proficient. The size of the 
armor check penalty depends on the type of armor: light, -2; medium, -5; or 
heavy, -10. For example, Rorworr the Wookiee scout is proficient with light 
armor only. If he attempts to swim in medium armor, he takes a -5 armor 
check penalty on his Swim check. 

Retry: Any circumstances that apply to successive attempts to use 
the skill successfully. If this paragraph is omitted, the skill check can 
be tried again without any inherent penalty other than consuming 
additional time. 

Special: Any special notes that apply, such as rules regarding untrained 
use and whether or not you can take 10 or take 20 when using the skill. 

Time: How much time it takes to make a check with this skill, if that 
information hasn't already been covered elsewhere. 


USE ARMOR CHECK 
SKILL (KEY ABILITY) UNTRAINED? PENALTY? JEDI NOBLE SCOUNDREL SCOUT 


Climb (Str) Yes Yes - - = c 
Endurance (Con) Yes Yes Cc - = c 
Initiative (Dex) Yes Yes c c c c 
Knowledge (int) Yes! No e c c c 


Perception (Wis) Yes’ No Cc Cc Cc Cc 


Pilot (Dex) Yes! No c c c 


Stealth (Dex) Yes Yes i. J c c 


Swim (Str) Yes Yes - - - c 


Use Computer (int) Yes! No - Cc Cc 


C Class skill 

1 Some uses of the skill require that you be trained in the skill, 

2 Knowledge (tactics) only. 

3 Any chorocter with the Force Sensitivity feat treats Use the Force as a class skill. 


AcROBATICS (Dex) or unstable, increase the DC by 5. A failed check means you fall prone # 
Armor Check Penalty must make a DC 15 Reflex save to catch the ledge or wire. 


You can move at normal speed across difficult terrain, keep your balance 
while walking on a narrow surface, take less damage from a fall, slip free SURFACE ACROBATICS DC 
of restraints or a grappling foe, and get up from prone safely. In addition to ony 
the specific options listed below, you can use Acrobatics to perform typical adc 15 
tumbling, flipping, or gymnastic maneuvers. 

Balance: A successful Acrobatics check allows you to move at half speed 
along a narrow surface such as a ledge or wire. The DC of the Acrobatics check 
varies with the width of the surface (see below). If the surface is slippery 


You are considered flat-footed while balancing, and thus you lose ¥ 
Dexterity bonus to your Reflex Defense (if any). If you are trained in AC 
batics, you aren't considered flat-footed while balancing. 


dl 


take damage while balancing, you must immediately make another 

satis check against the same DC to keep from falling. 

"Cross Difficult Terrain (Trained Only): With a successful DC 15 Acrobat- 
you can move through difficult terrain at your normal speed. 

; Bonds: With a successful Acrobatics check, you can slip free of 

ints (DC varies; see table below), wriggle through a tight space (DC 

Wor escape from a grapple (DC = the grappler’s grapple check). The DC to 

free of 3 restraint depends on the type of restraint (see table). 

it takes an attack action to escape a grapple. It takes a full-round action 

to escape 2 net or to move 1 square through a tight space. It takes 1 minute 

to escape from ropes, binder cuffs, or manacles 


RESTRAINT ACROBATICS DC 
Ropes Opponent's Dex check + 10 
Net 15 


Binder cus 25 


Fall Prone (Trained Only): if you are trained in Acrobatics and succeed 
at a DC 15 check, you can drop to a prone position as a free action (instead 
of a swift action) 

Reduce Falling Damage (Trained Only): With a successful DC 15 Acro- 
baties check, you can treat a fall as if it was 3 meters (2 squares) shorter when 
determining damage. For every 10 points by which you beat this DC, you can 
Subtract an additional 3 meters from the fall for determining damage. If you 
Make this check and take no damage from the fall, you land on your feet. 

if you are struck by a falling object, you can reduce the damage you 
take by half with a successful DC 15 Acrobatics check (see Falling Objects, 
page 254). 

Stand Up from Prone (Trained Only): If you are trained in Acrobatics 
@nd Succeed at a DC 15 check, you can stand up from a prone position as a 
Swift action (instead of a move action). 

Tumble (Trained Only): if you succeed at a DC 15 Acrobatics check, you 
fan tumble through the threatened area or fighting space of an enemy as 
Part of your move action without provoking an attack of opportunity. Each 
threatened Squsére of occupied square that you tumble through counts as 2 
Squares of movement. 

Special; You can't take 10 or take 20 on an Acrobatics check 

Ifyou are trained in Acrobatics, you gain a +2 dodge bonus to your Reflex 

when fighting defensively (see Fighting Defensively, page 152). 


Cuimes (str) 


“age Check Penalty 
S€ this skill to scale a cliff, to get to a window on the second story of a 
. F to climb up an antenna array after falling out of an airway at 


mE DOttom of a floating city, 


Al SB4evHO 


@ 
a8 
Ss 
P 


Climb Surface: With each successful Climb check, you can advance up, 
down, or across a Slope or a wall or other steep incline (or even a ceiling with 
handholds). A slope is considered to be any incline of less than 60 degrees; 
a wall is any incline of 60 dearees or steeper. You can climb at one-half of 
your speed as a full-round action. You can move half that far—one-fourth 
of your speed—as a move action. 

A failed Climb check indicates that you make no progress, and a check 
that fails by 5 or more means that you fall from whatever height you have 
already attained, 

The DC of the check depends on the circumstances of the climb: 


DC EXAMPLE WALL OR SURFACE 


© Slope too steep to walk up; 
He = : MSt. ad ae Veyr tate a 
5 — Rape with a wall to brace against or a knotted rope, but 


15 Surface with adequate handholds and footholds (natural or artifi- 
cial), such as a very rough natural rock surface or a tree; an unknot- 
ted rope, 


stra rock wall ora brick wal. 
= rfectly smooth, flat, vertical surface cannot be climbed. 


Seiya St fs Coens ets Sees BSc 
tt two on . ) 


= 5 ‘Climbing 3 corner where you can brace against perpendicular walls 
{reduces normal DC by 5). a 
* These modifiers are cumulative; use any that apply. 


Since you can’t move to avoid an attack while climbing, opponents get 
a@ +2 bonus on attack rolls against you, and you lose any Dexterity bonus to 
your Reflex Defense. 

Any time you take damage while climbing, make a Climb check against the 
DC of the slope or wall, Failure means you fall from your current height and 
sustain the appropriate falling damage (see Falling Damage, page 255). 

Accelerated Climbing: You try to climb more quickly than normal, but 
you take a -5 penalty on Climb checks. Accelerated climbing allows you 
to climb at your full speed as a full-round action. You can move haif that 
far—one-half of your speed—as 2 move action. 

Catching Yourself When Falling: It's practically impossible to catch 
yourself on a wall while falling. Make a Climb check (DC = the wall’s DC 
+ 20) to do so. A slope is relatively easier to catch yourself on (DC = the 
slope's DC + 10). 


Making Handholds and Footholds: You can make your own handholds: 
and footholds by pounding pitons into a wall. Doing so takes 1 minute pe, 
piton, and one piton is needed per meter. As with any surface with handhg is 
and footholds, a wall with pitons in it has a DC of 15. In the same way, g 
climber with an ice axe or similar implement can cut handholds or footholds 
in an ice wall. 4 

Special: Someone using a rope can haul a character upward (or lower 
the character) by means of sheer strength. Use the encumbrance rules [ 
page 140) to determine how much weight a character can lift. 

You can take 10 while climbing, but you can't take 20. 


DECEPTION (CHA) 
You can make the untrue seem true, the outrageous seem plausible, and the 
nefarious seem ordinary. The skill encompasses conning, fast-talking, mis¢ j 
rection, forgery, disguise, and outright lying. Use a Deception check to sa 
temporary confusion, pass as someone you're not, get someone to turn his 
head in the direction you point, or pass faked documents off as genuine. — 

Deceive: When you want to make another character believe something 
that is untrue, you can attempt to deceive them. You can deceive a target in 
one of two ways: by producing a deceptive appearance or by communicating 
deceptive information. 

Deceptive Appearance; When you produce a deceptive appearal 
such as disguising your appearance or producing forged documents, 
a Deception check opposed by the Perception check of any target that se es 


authentic. If you fail, the target detects the deception. Creating a deceptn ¢ 
appearance requires at least 1 minute (10 rounds) for simple deceptions, 0 
minutes for moderate deceptions, 1 hour for difficult deceptions, 1 day for 
incredible deceptions, or 2 weeks (10 days) for outrageous deceptions. Yo 
can rush and create the deception in less time (treating it as if it were one 
step easier, to a minimum of simple), but you take a -10 penalty on put 
Deception check. In all cases, make a single Deception check at the tim 
you create the deceptive appearance and compare your check result tot 
Perception check of any character who encounters it. 

Deceptive Information: When you communicate deceptive infor 
such as telling a lie or distorting facts to lead the target to a false cones 
sion, make a Deception check against the Will Defense of any target tM 
can understand you. If you succeed, the target believes that what your 
telling them is true. While most cases of deceptive information are eit 
verbal or written (requiring the target to be able to understand you). " 
can deceive with gestures, body language, facial expressions, and so For 
Communicating deceptive information requires at least a standard act 
for simple deceptions, a full-round action for moderate deceptions, 
minute (10 rounds) or even more for difficult, incredible, or outrageous O&S™ 
tions. You can rush and communicate your deception in less time (treat 


convince an old friend, and forging 
, = -deceotion is ; 27m 0 ur 


*UWUH, 


‘Step easier, to a minimum of simple), but you take a -10 
r Deception check. If your deceptive information is written, 
nerwise preserved for later viewing, your original Deception 
Compared to the Will Defense of all targets who later read 
deception. 
you convey both a deceptive appearance and deceptive 
example, if you create a falsified document (such as an 
etter from 2 senator, or orders from a military commander), 
CE Something that looks authentic (deceptive appearance) 
9 believable content (deceptive information). In this case, 
tption check and compare it to both the target's Perception 
tense. Similarly, you might disguise yourself as an Imperial 


A moderate deception is believable and doesn't affect the target much one way or the other, and you 
need. Moderate deceptions include convincing a suspicious guard that you're not a thief; disguising yourself as a member of another 
species or gender; and creating a false 1D good enough to pass visual scrutiny but not electronic screening. 


An incredible deception is hard to believe, presents a sizable risk to the target, or requires passing intense scrutiny. Inc! 
deceptions include convincing a reputable starship dealer to buy @ stolen Imperial shuttle, impersonating someone well enough to 
false credits. 


ry 


' at ' ¢; 
be eee Ge ee 


have most of the props you 


ear 
y 


| 
redible 


' HAD A SLIGHT WEAPONS 
ALFUNCTION BUT, UH... EVERYTHING'S 
ERFECTLY ALL RIGHT NOW. WE'RE FINE. 
VE"RE ALL FINE HERE NOW. THANK YOU. 
HOW ARE YOU?" 


- HAN SOLO 


general (deceptive appearance) and then give fake orders to a stormtrooper 
(deceptive information). In this example, you make one Deception check 
ahead of time to create the disguise and another Deception check at the 
time you give the stormtrooper his new orders. 

Favorable and unfavorable circumstances weigh heavily on the outcome 
of a deception. Two circumstances can weigh against you: The deception is 
hard to believe, or the action that the deception requires the target to take 
goes against the target's self-interest, nature, personality, or orders. 

If it's important, the GM can distinguish between a deception that fails 
because the target doesn't believe it and one that fails because it just asks 
too much of the target. For instance, if the deception demands something 
risky of the target, and your Deception check fails by 10 or less, then the 


target didn't so much see through the deception as prove reluctant to go 
along with it even if he believes it's true. If your Deception check fails by 11 
or more, he has seen through the deception (and would have done so even 
if it had not placed any demand on him). 

A successful Deception check indicates that the target reacts as you wish, 
at least for a short time, or the target believes something that you want him 
to believe. For example, you could use a deception to put someone off guard 
by telling him someone was behind him. At best, such a deception would 
make the target glance over his shoulder. It would not cause the target 
to ignore you and completely turn around. Alternatively, you could use a 
deception to make a starship captain believe that he has orders to take his 
vessel to Tatooine, If successful, the captain would carry out his new “orders” 
even though that would take quite some time, but as soon as he encounters 
contradictory information (such receiving contradictory orders from his real 
commander, or arriving at Tatooine and discovering that no one sent for him) 
he will realize that he has been fooled. 

Creating a Diversion to Hide: You can use Deception to help you hide. A 
successful Deception check that equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense 
gives you the momentary diversion you need to attempt a Stealth check while 
the target is aware of you (see the Stealth skill, page 72). 

Feint: Make a Deception check as a standard action to set the DC of your 
opponent's Initiative check. If you beat your opponent's roll, that target is 
treated as flat-footed against the first attack you make against him in the 
next round. You take a -5 penalty against non-humanoid creatures or against 
creatures with an Intelligence lower than 3. 

Retry: Generally, a failed Deception check makes the target too suspicious 
for you to try another deception in the same circumstances. For feinting in 
combat, you may retry freely, 

Special: You can take 10 when making a deception (except for feinting 
in combat), but you can't take 20. 

Time: A deception takes at least a standard action, but can take much 
longer if you try something elaborate. Disquises that require major changes 
to your physical outline, or forged documents with many safequards, can 
take hours or even days. 


ENDURANCE (CON) 
Armor Check Penalty 
You can push yourself beyond your normal physical limits. 

Force March: Each hour of walking after 8 hours requires you to attempt 
a DC 10 Endurance check (+2 per hour after the first). If you fail, you move 
-1 persistent step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148), You 
can only remove this persistent condition by resting for 8 hours. 

Hold Breath: You can hold your breath for a number of rounds equal 
to your Constitution score. After this period of time, you must succeed on 
a DC 10 Endurance check in order to continue holding your breath, The DC 
increases by +2 per additional round. If you fail, you must breathe or you 


move -1 step on the condition track (see page 149). if you reach the bottom 
of the condition track, you fall unconscious. If you are still unable to b e. 
on your next turn after falling unconscious, you die. i 

Ignore Hunger: You can go without food for a number of days equal to” 
your Constitution modifier (minimum 1 day). After this time, you must suc 
ceed on an Endurance check each day or move -1 persistent step along the 
condition track (see page 149). You can only remove this persistent condition 
by eating a nutritious meal. The DC is 10 on the first day and increases by 
+2 each day thereafter, 

Ignore Thirst: You can go without water for a number of hours equal to 
three times your Constitution score. After this time, you must succeed on | 
an Endurance check each hour or move -1 persistent step along the condi- 
tion track (see page 149). You may only remove this persistent condition 
by drinking at least 1 liter of water; for creatures that are not Medium size, 
multiply the water required by 10 for every size category above Medium or 
divide it by 10 for every size category below Medium. The DC is 10 on the 
first day and increases by +2 each day thereafter. j 

Run: You can run as a full-round action, When you run, you can move 
up to four times your speed in a straight line (or three times your speed ing 
straight line if you are wearing heavy armor or carrying a heavy load). You 
lose any Dexterity bonus to your Reflex Defense while you're running, sin 
you can't actively avoid attacks. 

You can run for a number of rounds equa! to your Constitution score 
out any trouble, If you want to continue running after that, you must succeed: 
ona DC 10 Endurance check. You must check again each round in which you 
continue to run, and the DC of the Endurance check increases by 1 for each 
previous check you made. When you fail a check, you move ~1 persistent st ep 
on the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). You can only remove this 
persistent condition by resting for the same length of time that you 
running. During this rest period, you can only move your speed. 

Sleep in Armor: You can sleep while wearing armor by succeeding at ar 
Endurance check (DC 10 for light armor, DC 15 for medium armor, and Dt 
20 for heavy armor). If you fail, you don't sleep and move ~1 persistent ste 
along the condition track (see page 149). You can only remove this persist | 
condition by sleeping for 8 hours. ia 

Swim/Tread Water: Each hour that you swim, you must succeed Of 
DC 15 Endurance check or move -1 persistent step along the condition trae 
(see page 149). You can only remove this persistent condition by res 
(not swimming or treading water) for the same length of time that you wer 
swimming. Each consecutive hour of swimming increases the OC by + 
you are only treading water, reduce the DC by 5. 


ae 


ATHER INFORMATION (CHA) 
Thies this skill to make contacts, learn local new stories and gossip, and 
Use re secrets. ; 
Learn News and Rumors: Major news stories and popular local rumors 
an be unearthed with a DC 10 Gather Information check. Learning the 
sed jled unclassified facts of a news story or determining the veracity of a 
} ser requires a DC 20 check and 50 credits in bribes Te . 
Learn Secret Information: “Secret information includes anything 
ynavailabie to tne general public, Exampies include a classified police report, a 
hidden location, military blueprints, installation security procedures, and com- 


puter access codes. Learning a piece of secret information typically requires a 
DC 25 check and 5,000 credits in bribes; however, information that's especially 
difficult to obtain (such as the technica! blueprints of the Death Star) might 
require a DC 30 or higher skill check and cost 50,000 credits or more, at the 
GM's discretion. If the check fails by 5 of more, someone notices that you're 
asking questions and comes to investigate, arrest, or silence you 

Locate Individual: Make a Gather Information check to locate a specific 
individual—either someone you know by name or someone with the skill, item, 
or information you need. The DC of the check is 15 if the target is relatively 
easy to locate; if the target isn't well known or has taken strides to conceal 


Al S@BaiLeavHo 


ITMWAS 


e 


his or her presence and/or activities, the DC is 25 and the information costs 
500 credits in bribes. 

Special: You can take 10 on a Gather Information check, but you can't 
take 20. A successful Persuasion check can reduce the monetary cost of a 
Gather Information check (see the Persuasion skill, page 71). 

Some information is beyond the reach of a Gather Information skill 
check. For example, characters searching for Darth Vader won't find him by 
speaking with tribes of Ewoks on the Forest Moon of Endor, no matter how 
many Ewoks they question. 

Time: Each Gather Information check represents 1d6 hours of time 
spent talking to informants, scanning HoloNet news broadcasts, or perusing 
information kiosks, 


INITIATIVE (Dex) 
Armor Check Penalty 
Use this skill to gain the advantage in combat. 

Start Battle: An Initiative check sets the order of combat when a fight 
starts. Each character aware of the fight makes an Initiative check and goes 
in order from highest to lowest. 

When piloting a vehicle in combat, you must apply the vehicle's size modi- 
fier to your Initiative check (see Table 10-1: Vehicle Sizes, page 166). 

Avoid Feint: When an opponent attempts to feint in combat, you oppose 
his Deception check with an Initiative check. If you meet or beat his check 
result, his feint attempt fails. 

Special: You can take 10 on an Initiative check, but you can't take 20. 


wJuUMP (STR) 

Armor Check Penalty 

Use this skill to leap over pits, vault low fences, or jump down from a tree's 
lowest branches. 

Long Jump: The DC of a running long jump is equal to the distance 
cleared (in meters) multiplied by 3. For exampie, clearing a 3-meter-wide 
(2-square-wide) pit requires a successful DC 9 Jump check. If you do not 
get at least a 4-square running start, the DC is doubled. 

High Jump: The DC of a running high jump is equal to the distance cleared 
(in meters) multiplied by 12. For example, landing atop 2 1.5-meter-high 
(1-square-high) ledge requires a successful DC 18 Jump check. If you use a 
pole of sufficient height to help you vault the distance, the DC is halved. If 
you do not get at least a 4-square running start, the DC is doubled. 

Jump Down: If you intentionally jump down from a height, you can 
attempt a DC 15 Jump check to take falling damage as if you had dropped 3 
meters (2 squares) fewer than you actually did. If you succeed on this check 
and take no damage, you land on your feet, 

Special: You can take 10 when making a Jump check. If there is no danger 
associated with failing, you can take 20. Distance covered by 2 long jump 


or high jump counts against your maximum movement in a round; dj 
covered by jumping down does not. 


KNOWLEDGE (INT) 
Knowledge encompasses a number of unrelated skills. Knowledge repre. 
sents a study of some body of lore, possibly an academic or even scientific 
discipline. 
Each time you select Knowledge as a trained skill, you must choose a fieig 
of study from the list below: 5 
Bureoucrocy: Business procedures, legal systems and regulations, and 
organizational structures ' 
Galoctic lore: Planets, homeworlds, sectors of space, galactic history, 
and the Force 7 
Life sciences: Biology, botany, genetics, archaeology, xenobiology, 
cine, and forensics 
Physical sciences: Astronomy, astrogation, chemistry, mathemati cs 
physics, and engineering 
Social sciences: Sociology, psychology, philosophy, theology, 
criminology 
Tactics: Techniques and strategies for disposing and maneuvering force: 
in combat ’ 
Technology: Function and principle of technological devices, as well # 
knowledge of cutting edge theories and advancements. 
Common Knowledge: You can answer a basic question about a subjec 
related to your field of study with a DC 10 check. For example, a DC 10 Knowl 
edge (life sciences) check is enough to know that Rodians are skilled hunte ; 
Expert Knowledge (Trained Only): You can make a Knowledge check 
a swift action to answer a question within your field of study that requil ‘ 
some level of expertise. The DC of the check ranges from 15 [for simp 
questions) to 25 (for tough questions). The GM may adjust the DC dependit 
on the character's persona! experience. For example, a DC 20 Kne eds 
(galactic lore) check might reveal specific information about the inhabit f 
of the planet Dathomir, but the DC may be lower if the character making # 
check has actually been there. . 
Retry: No, you can't reroll a failed Knowledge check. The roll repres® 
what you know, and thinking about a topic a second time doesn't let y 
know something you never learned in the first place. Z 
Special: You can take 10 when making a Knowledge check, but ¥f 
can't take 20. 


MECHANICS (INT) 

Trained Only 

You can bypass locks and traps, set and disarm explosives, fix malfu 

devices, and modify and repair damaged droids, .. 
Disable Device (requires security kit): You can use this skill to 0!s8! 

security device, defeat @ lock or trap, or rig a device to fail when itis: 


akes @ full-round action, and the DC depends on the intricacy or 
tem being disabled or sabotaged, as shown below 


qhe effort t 
jexity of the 


peVIce pc* EXAMPLES 
eet 15 Sabotage a mechanical device, jam a blaster, bypass a 
e basic mechanical lock 
20 Sabotage an electronic device, bypass a basic electronic 
Tricky nak 


25 Disarm an electronic security system, bypass a complex 
mechanical! or electronic lock 


p ; a trace nt nah * ne 
* Ifyou attempt to leave behind no trace of the tampering, increase the DC 


by 5. 


if the Mechanics check fails by 5 or more, something goes wrong. If it’s 
g trap, you spring it. If it's some sort of sabotage, you think the device is 
disabled, but it still works normally 


s[-OoOR A MECHANIC, 

YoU SEEM TO DO AN 

eSxXCeESSsiveE AMOUNT 
OF THINKING.” 


—- C-3P0 


Handle Explosives: Setting a simple explosive to blow up at a certain 
Spot Goesn't require a check, but connecting and setting a detonator does 
Also, placing an explosive for maximum effect against a structure calls for 
a check, as does disarming an explosive device. 

Setting a detonator, placing an explosive device, or disarming an explosive 
Gevice is a full-round action 

Set Detonator: Most explosives require a detonator to go off. Connecting 
a detonator to an explosive requires a DC 10 check. Failure means that the 
explosive faiis to go off as planned. Failure by 10 or more means the explosive 
G0€s Off as the detonator is be ng installed 
em ee e explosive difficult to disarm. To do $0, you choose the 
is 10) Your eae oe check to set the Getonator {it must be er ss 
Elaine “a st oe set - detonator is equal to the disarm DC - 5. For 
a. eh i “ip to make the disarm DC 20 The DC to set the deto- 

Place ei agp ene 15 (instead of the norma! 10} 
Sthucture o, owen : " Carefully plac ng an explosive aga nst a fixed 

Stationary, unattended inanimate object) increases 


the damage dealt by 
Makes the ch 


ait OY Exploiting weaknesses in its construction. The GM 
ck (So that you don't know exactly how well you've done). One 


a result of 15 or higher, you ignore the damage reduction of any object to 
which the explosives are attached. On a result of 25 or higher, the explosive 
deals double damage to the structure or vehicle against which it's placed. On 
a result of 35 or higher, it deals triple damage. In all cases, it deals norma 
damage to all other targets within its burst radius 

Disarm Explosive Device (requires a security kit): Disarming an explosive 
that has been set to go off requires a check. The DC is usually 15, unless 
the one who set the detonator chose a higher disarm OC (see Set Detonator 
above). If you fail the check, you do not disarm the explosive. If you fail it 
by 5 or more, the explosive detonates while you are adjacent to it 


Al SBSiewHo 


Jury-Rig: You can make temporary repairs to any disabled mechanical 
or electronic device, from a simple too! to a complex starship component. 
Jury-rigging is a full-round action and requires a successful DC 25 check. 
If you use a too! kit, you gain +5 equipment bonus on the check. A jury- 
rigged device gains +2 steps on the condition track. At the end of the scene 
or encounter, the jury-rigged device moves -5 steps along the track and 
becomes disabled again. (See Conditions, page 148.) 

Modify Droid (requires tool kit): You can make a Mechanics check to 
modify a droid (see Modifying Droids, page 197). 

Recharge Shields: When acting as the shield operator on a vehicle or 
operating a device with a shield rating, you can spend three swift actions 
on the same turn or on consecutive turns to make a DC 20 Mechanics check 
to recharge the vehicle's shields. If successful, you restore 5 points to its 
shield rating, up to its normal maximum, 

Regulate Power: When acting as the engineer on a vehicle or operating 2 
device, you can spend three swift actions to make a DC 20 Mechanics check 
to regulate its power. If you are successful, the vehicle moves +1 step on the 
condition track (see Conditions, page 148). 

Repair (requires tool kit): You can repair a damaged or disabled droid 
or object {including devices and vehicles). This requires at least 1 hour of 
work, at the end of which time you must make a Mechanics check. Only one 
character may repair a given droid or object at a time, but other characters 
may use the aid another action to assist (see page 151). 

Repair Droid (requires a tool kit): You can spend 1 hour and make a 
DC 20 Mechanics check to repair a damaged or disabled droid, restoring 
hit points equal to the droid’s character level and removing any persistent 
conditions currently affecting the droid. A droid can attempt to repair itself, 
but it takes a -§ penalty on its skill check. 

Repair Object: You can spend 1 hour and make a DC 20 Mechanics check 
to repair a damaged or disabled object, restoring 108 hit points and removing 
any persistent conditions currently affecting the device or vehicle. If you are 
on board a damaged vehicle while you attempt to repair it, apply any penalties 
from the vehicle's position on the condition track on your Mechanics check. 
(Major vehicle repairs are best attempted in a garage, hangar, dry dock, or 
other specialized facility.) 

Retry: You can usually retry a Mechanics check. In some specific cases, 
however, a failed Mechanics check has negative ramifications that prevent 
repeated checks (see Disable Device, above, for example). 

Special; You can take 10 or take 20 on a Mechanics check, When making 
a Mechanics check to accomplish a jury-rig repair, you can't take 20. 


PERCEPTION (Wis) 
Use this skill to perceive threats as well as your surroundings. 

The distance between you and whatever you're trying to perceive affects 
your Perception check, as do solid barriers and concealment. 


Avoid Surprise: A Perception check made at the start of a battle deter 
mines whether or not you are surprised (see Surprise, page 149). A Percepti 7 
check made to avoid surprise is a reaction. 

Eavesdrop: A DC 10 Perception check allows you to eavesdrop on a 
conversation, You must be able to understand the language being spokep 
The DC increases to 15 in relatively noisy areas (such as a cantina) or 25 jy 
particularly loud areas (such as 2 droid factory). Eavesdropping on a con. 
versation is a standard action. 

Hear Distant or Ambient Noises: A DC 10 Perception check allows you 
to detect and identify distant or ambient noises, Actively listening for distant 
or ambient noises is a standard action. ( 

Notice Targets: A Perception check lets you hear or spot other targets or 
detect someone or something sneaking up on you from behind. If the target is 5 
actively attempting to remain undetected, your Perception check is opposed 


Colossal, DC -15; Gargantuan, DC -10; Huge, DC -5; Large, DC 0; Medi 
DC 5; Small, DC 10; Tiny, DC 15; Diminutive, DC 20; Fine, DC 25. 
For every 10 squares of distance between you and the target, you 
a -5 penalty on your Perception check. You also take a -5 penalty if 
target has concealment or cover, or a -10 penalty if it has tota! con 
ment or total cover. 
Detecting a target that enters your line of sight is a reaction. A HH 
looking or listening for hidden enemies (including those to whom you do not 
have a line of sight) is a standard action. 
You can also notice if a character has a concealed weapons or objects 
Make a Perception check opposed by the target's Stealth check result. i 
you win the opposed check, you notice the concealed object. If you win ti 
opposed check by 5 or more, you can tell what kind of object is conceaies 
(for example, distinguishing a blaster from a datapad). 
Search: You can carefully examine a 1-square area or a 1-cubic-metel 
volume of goods as a full-round action. A DC 15 Perception check allows you 
to find clues, hidden compartments, secret doors, traps, irregularities, am 
other details not readily apparent within that area. The GM may increa 
the DC for especially obscure well-hidden features. a 
You can also search a character for concealed weapons or objects. Mas 
a Perception check opposed by the target's Stealth check result. If you , 
the opposed check, you find the concealed object. You receive a +10 cire a: 
stance bonus on your Perception check if you physically touch the target 
search for concealed items; this requires a full-round action and can On 
be used on a willing, pinned, or helpless target. , 
Sense Deception: You can use Perception to see through decept 
appearances made using the Deception skill. If your Perception check mes 
or exceeds the result of the Deception check, you realize that you're © 
deceived. Your Perception check to sense the deception is a reaction. 


ae Y 


THE CREATURE... 


sce: Make a Perception check to determine whether someone 
s influence of a mind-affecting Force power or other method of 
suming the effect isn’t obvious). This requires a full-round action 
sful DC 20 check. 
can make a Perception check every time you have the opportunity 
thing as a reaction. As a swift action, you may attempt to see or 
1g that you failed (or believe you failed) to notice previously. 
You can take 10 or take 20 when making a Perception check. 
ins you spend 2 minutes attempting to notice something that 
/not be there, 


RSUASION (CHA) 
influence others with your tact, subtlety, and social grace, or you 
them into being more cooperative. 
Attitude: As a full-round action, you can make a Persuasion 
the attitude of a creature with an Intelligence of 2 or higher 
ody language, or a combination of the two. The target must be 
Apply a modifier to the check based on the target's current 
rd you: hostile -10, unfriendly -5, indifferent -2, friendly +0 
+ Attitude Steps). If the check equals or exceeds the target's 
b@, the target's attitude shifts one step in your favor. If the target 
Not understand your speech, apply a -5 penalty on your Per- 
You may attempt to change the attitude of a given creature 
‘encounter. 
whenever you use the Gather Information skill, you can make a 
A check as a swift action to reduce by half the amount you must 
Guire the information you desire. Conversely, you can use this skill 
found action to increase or reduce the sell price of a desired item 
DC depends on the attitude of the individual (or individuals) 
bu're dealing: unfriendly DC 30, indifferent DC 25, friendly DC 
~ 15. You can't haggle with creatures that are hostile toward 
” that have an Intelligence of 2 or lower, No matter how adept 
gHING, @ creature won't pay more for an item that can easily 
for the standard listed price. 


Wishes you ill but won't go out of its way to harm you 


Wishes you well but won't take life-threatening risks on your behalf 


Intimidate: As @ full-round action, you can make a Persuasion check to 
force a single creature with an Intelligence of 1 or higher to back down from 
a confrontation, surrender one of its possessions, reveal a piece of secret 
information, or flee from you for a short time. The creature must be able to 
see you. Your check result must equal or exceed the target's Will Defense 
for the intimidation attempt to succeed. Apply a modifier to the check based 
on the threat the target perceives from you: 


SITUATION 


MODIFIER 


Target is helpless or completely at yourmercy =H 
aia is clearly outnumbered or ie +0 
You are clearly outnumbered or asap -10 


You can't force the target to obey your every command or do something 
that endangers its life or the lives of its allies. A creature you successfully 
intimidate becomes ane step more hostile toward you as soon as you are no 
longer an imminent threat (see Table 4-4: Attitude Steps). 

Retry: If you fail a Persuasion check, you cannot make any further Per- 
suasion checks against the targeted creature for 24 hours. 

Special: You can take 10 on a Persuasion check, but you can't take 20, 


PiLtotT (Dex) 
Use this skill to operate @ vehicle. Basic operation of a vehicle does not 
require a skill check or special training, but performing evasive maneuvers 
and difficult stunts does. 

Whenever you make a Pilot check, you must apply the vehicle's size modi- 
fier to your check (see Table 10-1: Vehicle Sizes, page 166). 

Avoid Collision: You can make a DC 15 Pilot check as a reaction to reduce 
or negate the damage from a collision (see Avoid Collision, page 173). 

Dogfight: When operating a flying vehicle, you can make a Pilot check as 
a standard action to engage in a dogfight (see Dogfight, page 171). 


Engage the Enemy (Trained Only): When piloting a vehicle in combat, 
you can choose to make a Pilot check instead of an Initiative check to deter- 
mine your place in the initiative order. 

Increase Vehicle Speed (Trained Only): You may make a DC 20 Pilot 
check as a swift action to make your vehicle perform beyond its normal 
limits. (You can't take 10 on this check.) If the check fails, your vehicle's 
speed does not increase, and your vehicle moves -1 step on the condition 
track (see Conditions, page 148). If you succeed, your vehicle's speed 
increases by 1 square until the start of your next turn, For every 5 points 
by which you exceed the DC, your vehicle's speed increases by an additional 
1 square. 

Ram: You can make a Pilot check as part of a full-round action to collide 
intentionally with a target (see Ram, page 172). 

Special: You can take 10 when making a Pilot check except when attempt- 
ing to increase a vehicle's speed. You can't take 20 on a Pilot check. 


Ripe (Dex) 

Armor Check Penalty 

Use this skill to ride any kind of mount, such as a tauntaun, dewback, or 
bantha. 

Ride Mount: Typical riding actions don't require checks. You can saddle, 
mount, ride, and dismount without a problem. Mounting or dismounting an 
animal is a move action. Some tasks, such as those undertaken in combat 
or other extreme circumstances, require checks. In addition, attempting 
trick riding or convincing the animal! to do something unusual also requires 
a check. . 


RIDING TASK pc 
Stay in saddle 10 
Soft fall 15 


Control mount in battie f 


. Armor check penalty opplies, 


Control Mount in Battle: As a move action, you can attempt to contro! 
a mount while in combat. If you fail, you can do nothing else that round. You 
do not need to roll for riding animals specifically trained for battle. 

Fast Mount or Dismount: You can mount or dismount as a swift action, 
If you fail the check, mounting or dismounting is a move action. (You can’t 
attempt a fast mount or dismount unless you can perform the mount or 
dismount as a move action this round, should the check fail.) 

Guide with Knees: You can react instantly to guide your mount with 
your knees so that you can use both hands in combat or to perform some 


other action. Make the check at the start of your round. If you fail, you can 
only use one hand this round because you need to use the other to contrpy. 
your mount. ; 
Leap: You can get your mount to leap obstacles as part of its movement 
Use your Ride skill modifier or the mount's Jump skill modifier, whichever is 
lower, to see how far the mount can jump (see the Jump skill, page 68), A 
OC 15 Ride check is required to stay on the mount when it leaps. 
Soft Fall: You react instantly when you fall off a mount, such as when it- 
is killed or when it falls, to try to avoid taking damage. If you fail, you take 
1d6 points of falling damage (see Falling Damage, page 255). a 
Stay in Saddle: You can react instantly to try to avoid falling when yo 
mount rears or bolts unexpectedly or when you take damage. 
Use Mount as Cover: You can react instantly to drop down and hang 
alongside your mount, using it as one-half cover. You can't attack while using 
your mount as cover. If you fail, you don't get the cover benefit. 4 
Special: You can take 10 when making a Ride check, but you can't take 20, 
Time: Ride is a move action, except when otherwise noted for the speci 
tasks listed above. 


STEALTH (Dex) 
Armor Check Penalty 
Use this skill to slink past a sentry without being heard, catch your enemy 
off-guard, snipe from a concealed location, or perform sleight of hand. 
Sneak: Your Stealth check sets the DC for Perception checks made te 
notice you. If an opponent's Perception check equals or exceeds your Stealt 
check, your opponent notices you. 
Any circumstance that hampers your ability to sneak imposes a -2 £ 
on your check, while favorable circumstances grant a +2 bonus. For ple 
sneaking across a surface littered with debris imposes a -2 penalty on you 
Stealth check, while a room filled with abundant hiding places grants 8 +4 
bonus on your check. 
If you move more than your speed in any given round, you take @ ~ 
penalty on your Stealth check. If you move more than twice your speed 
any given round, you take a -10 penalty on your Stealth check. ’ 
Your size provides a modifier to your Stealth checks: Fine, +20; Diminutivé 
+15; Tiny, +10; Small, +5; Medium, +0; Large, -5; Huge, -10; Gargant 
15; Colossal, -20. é. 
Conceal Item: As a standard action, you can attempt to conceal an ite 
(such as @ weapon) on your person. The concealed object must be at lea 
one size smaller than you, and you get a modifier on your skill check 989 
on the object's relative size: One size smaller, -5; two sizes smaller, +0; 0 
sizes smaller, +5; four or more sizes smaller, +10. a 
Other characters may notice a concealed object with a successful Pf 
ception check (opposed by your Stealth check result), but only if you 60 
have total concealment. A character gains a +10 circumstance bONUS | 
his Perception check if he physically touches you to search for cone 


| 


«this requires 4 full-round action that can only be performed if you're 
,» ginned, or helpless target. 
ailing. P » concealed item is a move action 
as Diversion to Hide: You can use the Deception skill (page 64) 
ou be stealthy. A successful Deception gives you the momentary 
wh oe 4 ou need to attempt a Stealth check even though people are aware 
ppangenan the others turn their attention from you, you can make a Stealth 
oe {as normal, and at no penalty) if you can reach a hiding place of some 
kind asa move action : " oe 
Pick Pocket: With 4 successful Stealth check, you can pil era wi 
pand-sized object from a target within reach. Your Stealth check mepyace 
py the target's Perception check, and the target ‘opal eee. asubs 
by 4or less, you are unab € to take the item, but the target does not notice 
the effort. If you fal! by 5 or more, you are unable to take the item and the 


target catches you in the act. 


*“1'DO PREFER A 
STRAIGHT FIGHT TO 
ALL THIS SNEAKING 

AROUND.’ 


= 


- FAN SOLO 


: 


Sleight of Hand: You can palm hand-sized objects, perform minor feats 
Of legerdemain, or attempt to perform a minor action without being noticed 
(Such as flipping a switch, pulling out 2 thermal detonator, or drawing 3 
pistol under the cover of a table), All such efforts are opposed by observer's 
Perception check. Any observer that bests your Stealth check notices the 
action you attempted, and knows how you did it. 

Snipe: After making a ranged attack from hiding, you can try to hide 
again. You must be at least 2 squares from the target, and you must already 
have successfully used Stealth to hide from the target. Make a new Stealth 
eheck {a5 normal, but with a -10 pena ty) as a move action. If you succeed, 
you remain hidden; otherwise, your location is revealed. 

Special: You can take 10 when making a Stealth check, but you can't 
take 20, 


SurRvivarc (Wis) 
Use this skill to } 


lands, identify sig 
Natural hazards 

Basic Survival: 
8V0id natural hazar 


Unt and forage Quide a party safely through arid waste- 
MS that g 


nds 


undarks live nearby, or avoid quicksand and other 


Once per day, you can make 2 DC 15 Survival check to 
0S and keep yourself safe and fed in the wild for the next 


24 hours. You can provide food and water for one additional person for every 
2 points by which your check result exceeds 10. 

Endure Extreme Temperatures (requires field kit): Once per day, you can 
make a DC 20 Survival check to ignore the effects of extreme cold or extreme 
heat for the next 24 hours (see Extreme Temperatures, page 254). 

Know Direction: As a full-round action, you can ascertain which direction 
is north by succeeding on a DC 10 Survival check (assuming you're somewhere 
where cardinal directions matter). 

Track (Trained Only): To find tracks or to follow them requires a full- 
round action and a successful Survival check. The DC of the check depends 
on the surface and the prevailing circumstances, as given below. You must 


Al 4#S1LewHo 


3} 


WX 


eT 


make another Survival check every time the tracks become difficult to follow, 
such as when other tracks cross them or when the terrain or prevailing 
circumstances change. 

You move at half normal speed while tracking. You can choose to move 
your normal speed instead, but you take a ~5 penalty on Survival checks 
made to follow tracks. 


SURFACE oc 


Firm round 20 


Soft Ground: Any surface (fresh snow, thick ash, wet mud) that holds 
clear impressions of footprints. 

Firm Ground: Any outdoor surface (lawns, fields, woods) or exceptionally 
soft or dirty indoor surface (dusty floors, thick carpets) that can capture 
footprints of a creature's passage. 

Hard Ground: Any surface that doesn't hold footprints at all (bare rock, 
concrete, metal deck plates). 


CIRCUMSTANCE 


with ra since the trail was made +1 


Fresh snow cover since the trail was made +5 


DC MODIFIER 


Tracked ii hides trail (and moves at half speed) +5 
tae or a -10 


Medium +0 
tos St eee 
Tiny or smatier +10 


Special: You can take 10 when making a Survival check. You can take 
20 if there is no danger or penalty for failure, but it takes twenty times as 
long as normal to do so. 


Using this skill, a land-based creature can swim, dive, navigate underwater 
obstacles, and so on, 

Swim: A successful Swim check allows you to swim one-quarter your 
speed as a move action or one-half your speed as a full-round action. Roll 
once per round. If you fail, you make no progress through the water. If you 
fail by 5 or more, you go underwater and must hold your breath (see the 


Endurance skill, page 66) until you reach the surface by succeeding on 
Swim check. 
The DC for the Swim check depends on the situation: 


SITUATION pc 


h water 15 


Retry: A new check is allowed the round after a check is failed. 
Special: You can take 10 when making a Swim check, but you can't take 
20. 


TREAT INUJURY (Wis) 
Use this skill to keep a badly wounded friend from dying, to heal the injured 
or to treat a diseased or poisoned character. y 

First Aid (requires a medpac): As a full-round action, you can ac 
first aid to an unconscious or wounded creature. If you succeed on a DC 15 
Treat Injury check, the creature regains a number of hit points equal to it 
character level, +1 for every point by which your check result exceeds th 
DC. Using a medical kit grants a +2 equipment bonus on your skill check. I 
the skill check succeeds, the tended creature cannot benefit from additiona’ 
first aid for 24 hours. 

You can administer first aid on yourself, but you take a -5 penalty @ 
your Treat Injury check. 

Long-Term Care: if you tend to a creature for 8 consecutive hours, tha 
creature regains hit points equal to its character level in addition to thos 
recovered from natural healing (see Natural Healing, page 148). A creatul 
can only benefit from long-term care once in a 24-hour period. You can tél 
one creature at a time if untrained, or up to six simultaneously if t 
You can't give long-term care to yourself. 

Perform Surgery (Trained Only; requires a surgery kit): You can f es 
form surgery to heal damage to a wounded creature, remove a persistel 
condition, or install a cybernetic prosthesis (see page 137). Any of thes 
operations requires 1 hour of uninterrupted work, at the end of which tin 
you must make a Treat Injury check, If you fail your check, the surgery G08 
not yield any benefit (but any resources used are still lost). In addition, 
fail your check by 5 or more, the creature takes damage equal to its ama 
threshold. If this damage reduces the creature to 0 hit points, it dies {si 
Hit Points, page 146). 4 

Heal Damage: You can make a DC 20 Treat Injury check to pert? 
surgery on a wounded creature, healing an amount of damage equal t0' 
creature's Constitution bonus (minimum 1) x the creature's level. if you: 
the check, the creature instead takes damage equal to its damage th 
If the creature was already at 0 hit points, it dies unless it can spend 
Point to save itself (see page 93). You can perform surgery on yourself to 


—_— = 


¢, but you take a -5 penalty on your skill check. Performing surgery to 
age also removes any persistent conditions afflicting the target 

a la Cybernetic Prosthesis: You must have the Cybernetic Surgery 
“feat (see pege 83) to instal! e cybernetic prosthesis on 2 fiving being. At the 
ed of the procedure, make a DC 20 Treat Injury check. lf the check succeeds, 
¢ rosthesis is insta led properly, If the check fails, the prosthes s is not 
the ly installed; however, you can try again after another uninterrupted 
hour of suroery: You can install a cybernetic prosthesis on yourself, but you 


take a -5 penaity on your skill check. 


Revivify (Trained Only; requires a medical kit): As a full-round action, 
you can revive a creature that has just died. You must reach the dead creature 
within 1 round of its death to revive it, and you must succeed on a DC 25 
Treat Injury check. Using a medpac grants @ +2 equipment bonus on the skil 
check. lf the check succeeds, the creature is unconscious instead of dead. If 
the check fails, you are unable to revive the creature 

Treat Disease (Trained Only; requires a medical kit): Treating a diseased 
character requires 8 hours. At the end of that time, make a Treat Injury check 
against the disease’s DC (see Disease, page 254). If the check succeeds, the 
patient is cured and no longer suffers any ill effects (including persistent 
conditions caused by the disease}. You can treat one creature at a time if 
untrained, or up to six simultaneously if trained 

Treat Poison (Trained Only; requires a medical kit): As a full-round 
action, you can treat a poisoned character. Make a Treat Injury check; if 
the result equals or exceeds the poison’s DC (see Poison, page 255), you 
successfully detoxify the poison in the character's system and the patient 
no longer suffers any ill effects (including persistent conditions caused by 
the poison). 

Treat Radiation (Trained Only; requires a medical kit): Treating an 
irradiated character requires 8 hours. At the end of that time, make a Treat 
Injury check against the radiation's DC [see Radiation, page 255). If the check 
succeeds, the patient is cured and no longer suffers any ill effects (including 
persistent conditions caused by the radiation). You can treat one creature at 
a time if untrained, or up to six simultaneously if trained 

Special: You can take 10 when making a Treat Injury check, but you 
can't take 20. 


Use COMPUTER (INT) 
Use this skill to access secured files and defeat security systems. 

Access Information (requires computer attitude of indifferent or 
better): Getting information through a computer requires you to connect 
to the appropriate network (such as the HoloNet, or its equivalent in other 
eras) and locate the files you seek. Connecting to a network (a full-round 
action) doesn't require a skill check if you use a computer that's already 
linked to it, However, establishing a connection to a network using a remote 
computer requires a DC 10 Use Computer check. You can also get informa- 
tion without connecting to a network if you use a computer whose memory 
contains that information; the GM decides what information a computer's 
memory actually holds. 

Finding information on a single topic requires a set amount of time (see 
below); at the end of this time, you must make a Use Computer check. The 
time required and the check DC are determined by the type of information 
sought. For example, locating general information about a senator is easier 
than locating specific information (such as the senator's date of birth), which 
is easier than finding private information (such as the senator's private comm 


Oo 
I 
> 
qv 
~ 
Ls 
3: 
< 


ATTITUDETHE COMPUTER... 


Unfriendly 


Friendly 


channel code}, which is easier than uncovering secret information (such as 
the senator's cred stick code). 


INFORMATION oc TIME REQUIRED 

General Aminute(10rounds) = tt” 
Specific 20 10 minutes 

Private oO . c ees) ae 

Secret* 30 1 day (8 hours) 


* Secret information can only be accessed on a computer that is helpful 
toward you. 


Astrogate (Trained Only): You can plot a safe course through hyper- 
space. Doing so usually requires 1 minute, at the end of which time you must 
succeed on a Use Computer check. Various factors influence the DC of the 
check (see Astrogation, page 237). 

Disable or Erase Program (Trained Only; requires computer attitude 
of helpful): You can disable or erase a program on a computer that is helpful 
toward you (See Table 4-5: Computer Attitude Steps). Disabling or erasing a 
program takes 10 minutes and requires a DC 15 Use Computer check. 

Improve Access (Trained Only): As a full-round action, you can make 
a Use Computer check to adjust the attitude of a computer in order to gain 
access to its programs and information. You must be able to communicate 
with the computer either through a direct interface (such as a keypad) or by 
connecting to it through an appropriate network (such as the HoloNet). Apply 
a modifier on the check based on the computer's current attitude toward 
you: hostile -10, unfriendly -5, indifferent -2, friendly +0 (see Table 4-5: 
Computer Attitude Steps). If the check equals or exceeds the computer's Will 
Defense, the computer's attitude shifts one step in your favor. If you fail, the 
computer's attitude does not change. If you fail by S or more, the computer's 


Treats you as an unauthorized user and blocks your access to its programs and information. 


Treats you as an authorized user and grants you access to any programs and non-secret information (as long as this does not conflict with, 
previous commands). You may add any equipment bonus provided by the computer to your Use Computer checks. 


becomes one step worse (for example, indifferent to unfriendly) and the” 
computer notifies the computer's administrator of the access attempt. 

A hostile computer can be dangerous. If a computer becomes hostile 
or if you fail any Use Computer check made to improve access to 2 host 
computer, it traces your exact location and notifies the nearest s 
personnel. In addition, if you fail by 5 or more when attempting toi : 
access to a hostile computer, it isolates your connection and rejects any 
further attempts you make to access it for 24 hours. 

Issue Routine Command (requires computer attitude of friendly 
better): As a standard action, you can issue a routine command to a 
puter. Examples include turning a computer on or off, viewing and editing 
documents or recordings in its memory, printing a hard copy of a documen 
or image on a flimsiplast sheet, opening or closing doors that the compute 
controls, and the like, 

Issuing routine commands doesn't normally require a Use Co e 
check. However, if another character issues a contradictory comma 
the computer follows the command of the character toward whom | 
has a better attitude (for example, it follows a command from som omy 
toward whom it is helpful over someone toward whom it is friendly), ? 
the computer has the same attitude toward both characters, make | x 
opposed Use Computer check against the competing character. if yo 
succeed, your command takes effect. If you fail, the opposing cha 
command takes effect. 

Reprogram Droid (Trained Only; requires tool kit): You can make 
check to reprogram a droid to obey a new master, copy data stored in! 
memory banks, change its trained skills, erase memories selectively, or eF* 
its memory entirely (resetting the droid to its factory preset status). Ine! 
for any of these actions is equa! to the droid’s Will Defense. Reprog 
a droid takes 10 minutes. 


S 


take 10 on Use Computer checks, You can take 20 on a 
except when attempting to improve access, 

er is friendly or helpful toward you, you gain an equip- 
Use Computer checks made with that computer equal to 


e Force (CHA) 

re Sensitivity feat 

the Force to help you recover from injuries, gain special 
rorm other remarkable acts. You must have the Force Sensi- 
85) to be trained in this skill. 

~¢ Power (Trained Only): You make 2 Use the Force check 
power (see Force Powers, page 95). This use of the skill 


s¢ (Trained Only): As a full-round action, you can enter a 
with a DC 10 Use the Force check. In this state, you remain 
your surroundings. Each hour you remain in the trance, you 
¢ of hit points equal to your character level. You can emerge 
as a swift action. If you remain in a Force trance for 4 con- 
urs, you emerge from the trance fully rested (as though you'd 
re in a Force trance, you can go ten times as long as normal 
or water (see the Endurance skill, page 66). 
it Object (Trained Only): As a move action, you can use the 
jetically lift and move a relatively light object within your 
A successful DC 10 Use the Force check allows you to move 
ing up to 5 kg a distance of 6 squares in any direction. As a 
faction, you can use the object as a projectile weapon, but the DC 
sto 15. If your Use the Force check beats the target's Reflex Defense, 
is and deals 16 points of bludgeoning damage. 
Feelings: As a full-round action, you can make a DC 
Force check to determine whether a particular action will 
or unfavorable results to you in the immediate future 
less}, For example, you can make the check to determine 
ing a dark side artifact will have immediate unforeseen 
‘The answer does not take into account the long-term 
nce: s of a contemplated action. Using the above example, a 
; Would not portend a future encounter with vengeful 
gered by the destruction of the dark side artifact. (The GM 
immediate consequences of the action, based on what 
the circumstances.) 
‘(Trained Only): You automatically sense disturbances in 
Hon that is strong in the dark side of the Force can be 
fange of 1 kilometer. A relative, companion, or close friend 
FOF Great pain can be sensed out to a range of 10,000 light 
ance, such as the destruction of an entire populated 


*“THE ABILITY 

TO DESTROY 

Aa PLANET !1S 
INSIGNIFICANT NEXT 
TO THE POWER OF 

THE FORCE.” 


-DARTH VADER 


planet or the distress of a whole order of allies, can be sensed anywhere 
in the same galaxy. As a full-round action, you can make a DC 15 Use the 
Force check to determine the distance and general direction to the location 
of the disturbance. 

As a full-round action, you can use this ability to actively sense other 
Force-users out to a range of 100 kilometers. If you succeed on a DC 15 Use 
the Force check, you know how many Force-users are within range, their 
approximate distance and direction from you, and whether you've met them 
before or not. Another Force-user within range can try to conceal her pres- 
ence from you by making an opposed Use the Force check. If she equals or 
exceeds your Use the Force check, you don't sense her presence at all. 

Sense Surroundings: As a swift action, you can make a DC 15 Use the 
Force check to ignore the effects of cover and concealment when making 
Perception checks to detect or observe targets. Increase the DC by 5 if this 
ability is used against targets with total cover, 

Telepathy: As a standard action, you can establish a telepathic link 
with a distant creature. Through the link, you can exchange emotions or a 
single thought, such as "Go!", “Help!", or “Danger!” The target must have 
an Intelligence of 2 or higher, and the distance between you and the target 
determines the DC (see below). Against an unwilling target, you must make 
a Use the Force check against the target's Will Defense; if the check fails, 
you cannot establish a telepathic link or attempt to telepathically contact 
the target for 24 hours unless the target becomes a willing one. 


TELEPATHY DISTANCE oc 
Seen system =e 20 
Different mer nan of the cateny 30 


Special: You can't make Use the Force checks unless you have the Force 
Sensitivity feat (see page 85). Use the Force is a class skill for any character 
with the Force Sensitivity feat. 

You can take 10 on a Use the Force check, but you can't take 20. 


special feature that cither gives your character a new capability 
*s one he or she already has. Unlike skills and talents, your choice 
ot restricted by your class, Any character can take any feat as 
erequisites are met. 


IRING FEATS 
> ats you feel best represent your character's interests and 

‘ach character gets one feat when the character is created (at 
‘3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th level, characters qain another 
ble 3-1: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 37). For 
iticlass characters, feats are gained according to total character level, 
aX dt by individual class levels. 

~ Additionally, classes get bonus feats chosen from special lists (see the 

class descriptions in Chapter 3: Heroic Classes). Humans also get a bonus 
feat at Ist level, chosen from any feat the character qualifies for. 


PREREQUISITES 

Some feats have prerequisites. A character must have the listed ability score, 
feat, trained skill, or base attack bonus in order to select or use that feat. 
A character can gain a feat at the same level at which he or she gains the 
prerequisite(s), 

A prerequisite that contains a numerical value is a minimum; any value 
higher than the ane given also meets the prerequisite. For instance, the pre- 
requisites for the Cleave feat are “Strength 13, Power Attack.” Any character 
with a Strength score of 13 or higher and the Power Attack feat meets the 
prerequisites. You can't use a feat if you've lost a prerequisite. For example, 
if your Strength drops below 13 for any reason, you can’t use the Power 
Attack feat until your Strength returns to 13 or higher. 


we. 4 
fe end 


“_ 


FEAT DESCRIPTIONS 


Here is the format for feat descriptions. 


FEAT NAME 
A description of what the feat does or represents in plain lanquage, with 
no game mechanics. 

Prerequisite(s): A minimum ability score, another feat or feats, a mini- 
mum base attack bonus, a special skill requirement, and/or a minimum level 
in a class that a character must have to acquire this feat. This entry is absent 
if a feat has no prerequisite. 

Benefit: What the feat enables you (the character) to do. 

Normal: What 2 character who does not have this feat is limited to or 
restricted from doing. If not having the feat causes no particular drawback, 
this entry ts absent. 


FEAT PREREQUISITES BENEFIT 


Armor Proficiency (heavy) Armor Proficiency (light), No penalty on attacks and no armor check penalty while wearing 
Armor Proficiency (medium) light, medium, or heavy armor. 


No penalty on attacks and no armor check penalty while wearing 
light or medium armor. 


Armor Proficiency (medium) Armor Proficiency (light) 


Burst Fire Str 3, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons), Take a-5 penalty on an autofire attack to gain +2 dice damage. 


proficient with weapon 


Make ranged attack at the end of a cha g¢, at 3 -2 penalty, 


Charging Fire Base attack bonus +4 | 


Combat Reflexes - , Gain additional attacks of opportunity. 


Crush 12 Pin, base attack bonus +1 Deal unarmed or claw damage to a pinned opponent. 


Deadeye Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, if you aim, deal extra damage. 


base attack bonus +4 


Double Attack Base attack bonus +6, proficient with weapon Make extra attack during full attack, -5 penalty to all attacks 


Take a -5 penalty on attacks when attacking with two weapons or 
both ends of a double weapon. 


Dual Weapon Mastery | 13, base attack bonus +1 


Take no penalty on attacks when attacking with two weapons or 
both ends of a double weapon. 


17, attack bonus +11, Dual Weapon 
Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery || 


Dual Weapon Mastery III 


Extra F ¢ Rage species trait Rage one additional time per day. 


Range penalties for short-, medium-, and long -ranged attacks are reduced. 


Far Shot Point Blank Shot 


Sensitivity Non-droid You can make Use the Force checks and gain access to Force talents. 


Str 13, Attack, Cleave, No limit to cleave attacks each round. 


base attack bonus +4 — 


Great Cleave 


Impro 4 Defenses - Gain +1 bonus to all defenses. 


improved Damage Threshold — Damage threshold increases by 5. 


Increase damage from unarmed attacks by one die step; 
gain +1 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense. 


Increase from unarmed attacks by one die step; 
gain +1 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense. 


Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, 
base attack bonus +6 


rength 13 ‘Spend two swift actions to deal extra damage in melee. = 


opponent pinned for 1 round, can 't move, 
and loses its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense. 


Base attack bonus +1 


Wet Ys 


Str 13 Te attack bonus for canageo on n melee attacks up to your bese ateack som 


Point Blank Shot ‘No “5. pera fr shoot ‘ete melee. 


Str 13, base attack bonus +1, 
proficient with weapon 


"Take a 2 penalty 0 ona aaa attack rol to > deal +1 die of datnee 


na melee rolltodeal+idieofdamage, 


Pee at le 


Dex 13 Move before and after making an attack 


MS eg is 


- “Gain * conpeter bons on sil checks with one velned skill, 


i ty, ee Sl wee oe 
4 


Point Biank Shot, Precise Shot, 
attack bonus +4 


You may soft cover 2 eer a ie attack, 


Trained in Treat Injury " “You can perform su in 10 minutes instead 1 


| es Gain +1 hit nt per characte ve 


Base +3, Double Attack (chosen 
weapon), proficient with chosen weapon 


Make second extra attack during full attack, ‘additional “5 ‘penalty ie all attacks 


r ee a ¢ 


Negate attack per rand the vehicle you're piloting. 


Trained in Pilot 


4 bonus on attack ol sth alected Wasnt 


Proficiency with weapon 
13, Int 13, Melee Defense, 
base attack bonus +4 


"Wake one 2 melee attack sont each pone within —y 


Special: Additional facts about the feat that may be helpful when you 
decide whether to acquire the feat. 


ACROBATIC STRIKE 
Your dexterous maneuvers and skilled acrobatics allow you to slip past 2 
foe's defenses and deliver an accurate strike against him. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Acrobatics skill. 

Benefit: If you succeed in tumbling to avoid an attack of opportunity 
(see the Acrobatics skill, page 62), you gain a +5 bonus on the next attack 
that you make against that foe as long as the attack occurs before the end 
of your current turn. 


ARMOR PROFICIENCY (HEAVY) 
You are proficient with heavy armor (see Table 8-7: Armor) and can wear it 
without impediment. 

Prerequisites: Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium). 

Benefit: When you wear heavy armor, you take no armor check penalty 
on attack rolls or skill checks, Additionally, you benefit from all of the armor's 
special equipment bonuses (if any). 

Normal: A character who wears heavy armor with which she is not 
proficient takes a -10 armor check penalty on attack rolls as well as skill 
checks made using the following skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initia- 
tive, Jump, Stealth, and Swim. Additionally, the character gains none of the 
armor's special equipment bonuses. 


ARMOR PROFICIENCY (LIGHT) 
You are proficient with light armor (see Table 8-7: Armor) and can wear it 
without impediment. 

Benefit: When you wear light armor, you take no armor check penalty on 
attack rolls or skill checks. Additionally, you benefit from all of the armor’s 
special equipment bonuses (if any). 

Normal: A character who wears heavy armor with which she is not pro- 
ficient takes a -2 armor check penalty on attack rolls as well as skill checks 
made using the following skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initiative, 
Jump, Stealth, and Swim. Additionally, the character gains none of the armor's 
special equipment bonuses. 


ARMOR PROFICIENCY (MEDIUM) 
You are proficient with medium armor (see Table 8-7: Armor) and can wear 
it without impediment. 

Prerequisite: Armor Proficiency (light). 

Benefit: When you wear medium armor, you take no armor check penalty 
on attack rolls or skill checks. Additionally, you benefit from all of the armor’s 
special equipment bonuses [if any). 


Normal: A character who wears medium armor with which she js ne 
proficient takes a -5 armor check penalty on attack rolls as well as spy 
checks made using the following skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, |nitis. 
tive, Jump, Stealth, and Swim. Additionally, the character gains none of th. 
armor's special equipment bonuses. 7 


BANTHA RUSH 
You can shove your opponents around the battlefield to gain a tacticg 
advantage. 9 

Prerequisite: Strength 13, base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: After making a successful melee attack against an opponent, 
to one size category larger than you, you can choose to move that opponent 
1 square in any direction as a free action. You can’t bantha rush an oppone 
that's being grabbed or grappled, and you can’t bantha rush your oppone : 
into a solid object or another creature's fighting space. 


BURST FIRE 
When using a ranged weapon in autofire mode, you can fire a short bur 
at a single foe. 
Prerequisites: Strength 13, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons), 
ficient with weapon. 4 
Benefit: When using a ranged weapon with autofire capability in autofin 
mode, you may fire a short burst as a single attack against a single target 
You take a -5 penalty on the attack roll but deal +2 dice of damage. Fe 
example, a weapon that deals 3d10 points of damage deals 5d10 point 0 
damage instead. 
The effects of this feat do not stack with the extra damage provid 
the Deadeye or Rapid Shot feat. 
Special; Firing a burst expends five shots and can only be done if tl 
weapon has at least five shots remaining. 
Normal: Autofire uses ten shots, targets a 2-square-by-2-square are 
and can't be aimed at a specific target. Without this feat, if you attempt 
autofire attack at a specific target, it simply counts as a normal attack af 
all the extra shots are wasted. 


CAREFUL SHOT 

You are particularly skilled at aiming your attacks. 
Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, base attack bonus +2, 
Benefit: If you aim before making a ranged attack (see Aim on page © 

you gain a +1 bonus on your attack roll, 


CHARGING FIRE 
You are able to make ranged attacks while charging. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +4. 
Benefit: When you charge, you may make a ranged attack instea® 
melee attack at the end of your movement. Unlike a normal charge 


s not help overcome your target, so you gain no bonus on 
Pain 3 normal charge, you still take a -2 penalty to your 


can make a single melee attack with a +2 bonus on your 
ne end of a charge. 


on ou with a powerful melee attack. 
ng; Strength 13, Power Attack. 
you dea! an opponent enough damage to reduce its hit points to 
gn immediate extra melee attack against anather opponent within 
. You cannot adjust 1 square before making this extra attack, The 
s with the same weapon and at the same bonus as the attack that 
‘the previous opponent. You can use this ability once per round. 


T REFLEXES 
ond quickly and repeatedly 
ponents who let their guard 


efit: When opponents 
r open, you may 
mber of additional 


modifier. 
ple, @ charac- 


“Opportunity in 
s: tt one attack 
ftunity every 
entitled to, 


‘ fgsinst three of 
still Only make 
ee nityon 
feat, you may also 
of Opportunity while 


Normal: A character without the Combat Reflexes feat can make only 
one attack of opportunity per round and can't make attacks of opportu- 
nity while flat-footed. (See Attacks of Opportunity, page 155, for more 
information.) 


COORDINATED ATTACK 
You are skilled at coordinating your attacks with your allies. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +2. 

Benefit: You are automatically successful when using the aid another 
action to aid an ally’s attack or suppress an enemy as long as the target is 
adjacent to you or within point blank range. 

Normal; You must make an attack roll against a Reflex Defense of 10 to 
gain the benefits of the aid another action, 


CRUSH 
You can deal damage to a creature that you've grappled. 
Prerequisites: Pin, base attack bonus +1. 
Benefit: !f you successfully pin an 
opponent with a grapple attack (see 
the Pin feat, page 87), you can imme- 
diately dea! bludgeoning damage 
to it equal to your unarmed 
damage or claw damage, 
whichever is greater. 


CYBERNETIC 
SURGERY 
You can perform the surgi- 
cal procedures necessary 
to graft cybernetic 
components onto 
living flesh. 
Prerequisite: 
Trained in the Treat 
Injury skill. 
Benefit: You can install 
a cybernetic prosthesis 
(see page 137) on a living 
being. The surgical procedure takes 1 
hour of uninterrupted work, after which 
you must make on a DC 20 Treat Injury 
check. If the check succeeds, the prosthesis 
is installed correctly. If the check fails, 
the prosthesis is not properly installed; 
however, you can try again after another 
uninterrupted hour of surgery. 


Special: You can install a cybernetic prosthesis on yourself, but you 
take a -5 penalty on the Treat Injury skill check. If you have the Surgical 
Expertise feat (see page 88), you can install a cybernetic prosthesis in 10 
minutes instead of 1 hour, 


DEADEYE 
You are skilled at picking off enemies with well-aimed ranged attacks. 
Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +4. 
Benefit: If you aim before making a ranged attack (see Aim, page 154) 
and the attack hits, increase the damage you deal by an additional weapon 
die. For example, if you score a hit with a blaster pistol using the Deadeye 
feat, the blaster shot deals 4d6 points of damage (instead of the normal 
3d6 points). 
The effects of this feat do not stack with the extra damage provided by 
the Burst Fire or Rapid Shot feat. 


DODGE 
You are adept at dodging blows. 

Prerequisite: Dexterity 13. 

Benefit: During your turn, you designate an opponent and receive a +1 
dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense against attacks from that opponent, 
You can select a new opponent on any action. 

A situation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense 
(if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses stack with 
each other, unlike most other types of bonuses. 


DOUBLE ATTACK 
You can make an additional attack during a round of combat. 
Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +6, proficient with chosen weapon. 
Benefit: Choose a single exotic weapon or one of the following weapon 
groups: advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, lightsabers, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons. When you use the full attack action, you may make 
one additional attack when wielding such a weapon. However, you take a 
-5 penalty on all attack rolls until your next turn because you're trading 
precision for speed. 
Normal: Making 2 single attack is a standard action. 
Special: You may select this feat multiple times. Each time you select this 
feat, it applies to a different exotic weapon or weapon group. 


DREADFUL RAGE 
You dea! horrendous damage while raging. 

Prerequisites: Rage species trait, base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: While raging, your rage bonus on melee attack rolls and melee 
damage rolls increases to +5. 

Normal: A character with the rage species trait gains a +2 rage bonus 
on melee attack rolls and melee damage rolls while raging. 


DUAL WEAPON MASTERY ! 
You are adept at fighting with two weapons and double weapons. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, base attack bonus +1, 

Benefit: When you attack with two weapons or with both ends of a double 
weapon as a part of a full attack action, you take a -5 penalty (instead of a 49 
penalty) on all attack rolls until the start of your next turn. You only gain this 
reduced penalty if you are wielding a weapon with which you are proficient 

Normal: If you use a full attack action to make more than one attack on 
your turn (see Full Attack, page 154), you take a -10 penalty on all a 
rolls for the round. 


DUAL WEAPON MASTERY II 
You are a master at fighting with two weapons and double weapons. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 15, base attack bonus +6, Dual Weapon 
Mastery |, 

Benefit: When you attack with two weapons or both ends of a doubl 
weapon as a part of a full attack action, you take a -2 penalty (instead of a -10 
penalty) on all attack rolls until the start of your next turn. You only gain this 
reduced penalty if you are wielding a weapon with which you are proficient, 

Normal: If you use a full attack action to make more than one attack on 
your turn (see Full Attack, page 154), you take a -10 penalty on all attac 
rolls for the round. 


DUAL WEAPON MASTERY ill 
You can wield two weapons or a double weapon without penalty. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 17, base attack bonus +11, Dual Weapon 
1, Dual Weapon Mastery Il. } 

Benefit: When you wield two weapons or attack with both ends oF 
double weapon as a part of a full attack action, you take no penalty on your 
attack rolls. You only gain this benefit if you are wielding a weapon WI 
which you are proficient. 

Normal: If you use a full attack action to make more than one attack OF 
your turn (see Full Attack, page 154), you take a -10 penalty on all attae 
rolls for the round. 


ExoOTIC WEAPON PROFICIENCY 
Choose an exotic weapon, such as bowcaster or atlat! (see Exotic Weal 
ons, page 119). You understand how to use that type of exotic weepa : 
combat. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: You make attack rolls with the weapon normally. 7 

Normal: A character who uses a weapon without being proficient ¥ 
it takes a -5 penalty on attack rolls. 

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times, Each time you 
feat, it applies to a different weapon. 


rage more often, 

Rage species trait. 

can rage one additional time per day. 

can take this feat multiple times; each time you take the 
in rage one additional time per day. 

SECOND WIND 

some back from the edge of oblivion more often. 

Trained in the Endurance skill. 

You can catch your second wind one additional time per day, 
still only catch a second wind once per encounter (see Second 


hero can catch his or her second wind once per day. 
. nonherolc character that takes this feat for the first time can 
id wind once per day. 
¢ this feat multiple times; each time you take this feat, you 
3 second wind one additional time per day. 


HOT 

at shooting distant foes. 

fe: Point Blank Shot. 

When you use a ranged weapon against targets at short, 
ing range, the range category is considered one less. In other 
t@ no penalty on ranged attack rolls against targets at short 
on ranged attack rolls made against targets at medium 
5 penalty on a ranged attack rolls made against targets at 


aH: When making a ranged attack roll, a character takes a ~2 penalty 
igets at short range, a -5 penalty against targets at medium range, 
penalty against targets at long range. 


BOON 
draw upon the Force more often than less skilled users. 
! Force Sensitivity, 

fou gain three additional Force Points at each level. 


= SENSITIVITY 
Sitive, aliowing you to call on the Force and learn to draw 
Cannot be a droid. 
San make Use the Force checks, and Use the Force is con- 
Skill for you. In addition, whenever you gain a new talent, 
=> OPtion of selecting a Force talent instead. You must meet the 
of the Force talent to select it (see Force Talents, page 100). 


Normal: You can't make Use the Force checks (page 77) or select Force 
talents unless you have the Force Sensitivity feat. 


FORCE TRAINING 
You learn one or more Force powers (see Force Powers, page 95). 

Prerequisites: Force Sensitivity, trained in the Use the Force skill. 

Benefit: You add to your Force power suite a number of Force powers 
equal to 1 + your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1). You can add the same 
power more than once. 

Special: You can take this feat more than once, Each time you take this 
feat, you add to your Force suite @ number of new Force powers equal to 
your Wisdom modifier. 

If your Wisdom modifier permanently increases, you immediately gain 
a number of Force powers equal to the number of Force Training feats you 
have taken, 


GREAT CLEAVE 
You can wield a melee weapon with such power that you can strike multiple 
times when you drop your opponents. 
Prerequisites: Strength 13, Power Attack, Cleave, base attack bonus +4. 
Benefit: As the Cleave feat (page 83), except that you have no limit to 
the number of times you can use it per round. 


IMPROVED CHARGE 
You can charge around obstacles. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Dodge, Mobility. 

Benefit: You can make a charge (see page 152) without having to move 
in a straight line, and you can alter your direction when making a charge to 
avoid obstacles. All other charge rules apply. 

Normal: A character must charge in an unobstructed straight line. 


IMPROVED DEFENSES 
You are skilled at fending off attacks of many forms. 

Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus to your Reflex Defense, Fortitude Defense, 
and Will Defense. 


IMPROVED DISARM 
You are skilled at disarming opponents in melee combat. 

Prerequisites: Intelligence 13, Melee Defense. 

Benefit: You gain a +5 bonus on any melee attack roll made to disarm 
an opponent, In addition, if you fail to disarm your opponent, he doesn't get 
to make a free attack against you. 

Normal: See the normal disarm rules on page 152. 


IMPROVED DAMAGE 
THRESHOLD 
You are harder to take down in a fight. 

Benefit: You increase your damage threshold by 5 (see Damage Threshold, 
page 146). 

Normal: A creature without this feat has a damage threshold equal to 
its Fortitude Defense plus its size modifier (+5 for Large, +10 for Huge, +20 
for Gargantuan, or +50 for Colossal). 

Special: You can take this feat more than once. Its effects stack. Each 
time you take this feat, increase your damage threshold by 5. 


LINGUIST 
You pick up languages quickly and easily, 

Prerequisite: intelligence 13. 

Benefit: You gain a number of bonus languages equal to 1 plus your 
Intelligence bonus (minimum of 1). See the sidebar on page 22 for a list of 
common languages. 

Special: You can take this feat more than once. Each time you take this 
feat, you gain a number of additional languages equal to 1 plus your Intel- 
ligence bonus (minimum of 1). 


MARTIAL ARTS ! 
You are adept at fighting unarmed, 

Benefit: Damage dealt by your unarmed attacks increases by one die step: 
1d3 becomes 104, 1d4 becomes 1d6, and 1d6 becomes 1d8. In addition, you 
gain a +1 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense. 

Normal; The amount of damage you deal with a successful unarmed 
attack is based on your size: Small, 1d3; Medium, 1d4; Large, 1d6. 

Special: A situation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex 
Defense (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses 
stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses. 


MARTIAL ARTS II 
You are a master at fighting unarmed, 

Prerequisites: Martial Arts |, base attack bonus +3. 

Benefit: Damage dealt by your unarmed attacks increases by one die step: 
1d4 becomes 146, 146 becomes 1d8, and 1d8 becomes 1d10. In addition, you 
gain a +1 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense (which stacks with the dodge 
bonus granted by the Martial Arts | feat). 

Normal: The amount of damage you deal with a successful unarmed 
attack is based on your size: Small, 1d3; Medium, 144; Large, 1d6. 

Special: A situation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex 
Defense (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses 
stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses. 


MARTIAL ARTS Ill 
Your martial arts prowess is second to none. 
Prerequisites: Martial Arts |, Martial Arts ll, base attack bonus +6, 
Benefit: Damage dealt by your unarmed attacks increases by one die step 
146 becomes 1d8, 1d8 becomes 1410, and 1d10 becomes 1012. In addition 
you gain a +1 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense (which stacks with th 
dodge bonus granted by the Martial Arts | and Martial Arts Il feats), 
Normal: The amount of damage you deal with a successful un 
attack is based on your size: Small, 143; Medium, 104; Large, 1d6. 
Special: A situation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to R Fe 
Defense (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonus 
stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses. ' 


MeBLEE DEFENSE 
You are trained at using your combat ability for defense as well asc 

Prerequisite: Intelligence 13. 

Benefit; When you use a standard action to make 2 melee attack, you ¢ 
take a penalty of up to -5 on your attack roll and add the same number {i 
to +5) as a dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense. This number may not excel 
your base attack bonus. The changes to attack rolls and Reflex Defense fa 
until the start of your next turn. 

Normal: A character without the Melee Defense feat can fight defensive 
while using the attack action to take a -5 penalty on his attack roll and ga 
@ +2 dodge bonus to his Reflex Defense. ‘ 


MIGHTY SWwinG 

You are capable of delivering jarring melee attacks, 
Prerequisite: Strength 13. { 
Benefit: You can spend two swift actions in the same round to deal 

die of damage on your next melee attack in the same round. 
The effects of this feat do not stack with the extra damage pre 

the Rapid Strike feat. 


MOBILITY é 
You are skilled at moving past opponents and avoiding opportum 
attacks. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Dodge. 2 

Benefit: You get a +5 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense against atte 
of opportunity caused when you move out of orintoa threatened are@ 
Attacks of Opportunity, page 155). 

Asituation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex Ue 
(if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Dodge bonuses stack wit” 
other, unlike most types of bonuses, 


Bee guited st immobilizing grappled foes 
We rerequisit®: Base attack bonus +1 
Benefit: if you succeed on a grappling attack and your opponent fails the 
ed grapple check, your opponent is automatically pinned until sss Start 
ext turn. A pinned creature can't move or take any actions while 
oer’ ts Dexterity bonus (if any) to Reflex Defense. 


and it joses 


Pe a: You cannot use the Pin and Trip feats during the same round 


the Pin and Crush feat in the same round, however. 
You can use 
POINT BLANK SHOT 


You are skilled at making well-placed shots with ranged weapons at point 


blank range 
Benefit: You get a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls with ranged 
eapons against opponents within point blank range (see Table 8-5: Weapon 


Ranges, page 129). 


POWER ATTACK 
You can make exceptionally powerful melee attacks 

Prerequisite: Strength 13 

Benefit: On your action, before making an attack roll, you may choose 
fo subtract a number from all melee attack rolls and add the same number 
fo ali melee damage rolls. This number may not exceed your base attack 
bonus. The penalty on attacks and bonus on damage applies until the start 
of your next turn 

Special: if you attack with a two-handed weapon, or with a one-handed 
Weapon wielded in two hands, instead add twice the number subtracted from 
your attack rolls. You can’t add the bonus from Power Attack to the damace 
dealt against an object or vehicle. 


POWERFUL CHARGE 
You can charge with extra force, 

Prerequisites: Medium or larger size, base attack bonus +1 

Benefit: When you charge, you gain an additional +2 bonus to your melee 
attack roll, if your metee attack hits. you deal additional damage equal to 
One-half your level 


PRECise SHorTr 


You ar Hier ay 
ti =e skilled at timing your ranged attacks so that you don't hit your 
aes by mistake 


Prerequisite: Pc nt Blank Shot. 
Benefit: You 


fen shoot or throw a ranged weapon at an oppone 


engaged in me ee comb 
Standard -§ pen 


at with one or more of your allies without taking the 


aity see Shooting or Throwing into a Melee, page 161) 


Quick DRAW 
You can draw and holster weapons with startling quickness 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1 

Benefit: You can draw or holster @ weapon as a swift action instead of 
a5 4 move action 


0 
= 
> 
\ 
4 
0 
z 
< 


RAPID SHOT 
You can make two quick shots with a ranged weapon as a single attack. 

Prerequisites: Strength 13, base attack bonus +1, proficient with 
weapon. 

Benefit: When using 2 ranged weapon, you may fire two shots as a single 
attack against a single target. You take a -2 penalty on your attack roll, but 
you deal +1 die of damage with a successful attack. 

Special: Using this feat fires two shots and can only be done if the 
weapon has sufficient ammunition remaining. The effects of this feat do 
not stack with the extra damage provided by the Burst Fire feat (page 82) 
or Deadeye feat (page 84). 


RAPID STRIKE 
You can make two quick strikes with a melee weapon as a single attack. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, base attack bonus +1, proficient with 
weapon. 

Benefit: When using a melee weapon, you may make two strikes as @ 
single attack against a single target. You take a -2 penalty on your attack 
roll, but you deal +1 die of damage with a successful attack. 

The effects of this feat do not stack with the extra damage provided by 
the Mighty Swing feat. 


RUNNING ATTACK 
You can move as you attack. 

Prerequisite: Dexterity 13. 

Benefit: When making an attack with a melee or ranged weapon, you 
can move both before and after the attack, provided that your total distance 
moved is not greater than your speed. 


SHAKE IT OFF 
You have learned to shake off debilitating conditions. 
Prerequisites: Constitution 13, trained in the Endurance skill. 
Benefit: You can spend two swift actions instead of three swift actions 
to move +1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). 
Normal: it takes three swift actions to move +1 step along the condi- 
tion track. 


SKILL Focus 
One of your skills is particularly well honed. 

Benefit: You gain a +5 competence bonus on skill checks made with one 
trained skill of your choice. 

Special: This feat may be selected multiple times. Its effects do not stack. 
Each time you take this feat, it applies to a different trained skill. 


SKILL TRAINING 
You are considered trained in a new skill, 
Benefit: Choose one untrained skill from your list of class skills, Yo) 
become trained in that skill, 4 
Special: This feat may be selected multiple times. Each time you tap 
this feat, it applies to a different class skill. 


SNIPER 

You are particularly adept at hitting the right target in a crowd. 
Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +4, 
Benefit: You always ignore soft cover (that is, cover provided byac , af 

acter, creature, or droid) when you make a ranged attack. 
Normal: You can only ignore cover if you aim (see page 154) b 

making a ranged attack. 


STRONG IN THE FORCE 
You have a particularly strong connection to the Force, 

Benefit: When you spend a Force Point to adjust the result of an 
roll, skill check, or ability check, you roll d8s rather than dé6s. 


SURGICAL EXPERTISE 
You can perform skillful surgical procedures quickly. 
Prerequisite: Trained in the Treat Injury skill. 

Benefit: You can perform surgery in 10 minutes. 
Normal: Performing surgery typically takes 1 hour (see the Treat Injul 
skill, page 74). 


THROW 

You can throw a creature that you've grappled. 
Prerequisites: Trip, base attack bonus +1. 
Benefit: If you successfully trip an opponent with a grapple attack, 

opponent falls prone in any unoccupied space you desire up to 1 Sq 

beyond your reach and takes bludgeoning damage equal to your un 

attack damage. A thrown opponent is no longer considered grappled. 


TOUGHNESS 
You are tougher than normal. 
Benefit: You gain +1 hit point per character level. 


TRIP 

You are skilled at tripping grappled foes. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1, : 
Benefit: If you succeed on a grappling attack (see page 153) aF y 

opponent fails the opposed grapple check, it falls prone in its space 4 

no longer considered grappled. 


takes a -5 penalty on melee attack rolls, Melee attacks 
‘a prone target gain 2 +5 bonus, while ranged attacks made 
one target take a -5 penalty. 

-You cannot use the Pin and Trip feats during the same round. 


i ATTACK 
ake an additional attack during @ round of combat. 

es: Base attack bonus +11, Double Attack (chosen weapon), 
chosen weapon. 

pose @ single exotic weapon or one of the following weapon 
ed meice weapons, heavy weapons, lightsabers, pistols, rifles, 
sapons. When you use the full attack action, you may make one addi- 
ck when wielding such a weapon. However, you take a -5 penalty 
ck rolls until your next turn because you're trading precision for 
3 attack and penalty stack with those of Double Attack. 
ing a single attack is a standard action. 
may select this feat multiple times. Each time you select this 
pplies to a different exotic weapon or weapon group. 


CrRitT 

ne type of weapon, such as a blaster pistol, vibrodagger, or light- 
deal more damage on a critical hit with that weapon. 

uisite 1 Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +8. 

When you score a critical hit with the selected weapon, you deal 
je. You may select “unarmed attack” as a weapon for purposes 


critical hit normally deals double damage to the target. 
can gain this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack. 
Wu take this feat, it applies to a different weapon. 


CULAR COMBAT 

@Void attacks made against your vehicle. 

Quisite: Trained in the Pilot skill. 

it Once per round (as a reaction), when you are piloting a vehicle 
P, YOu may negate a weapon hit by making a successful Pilot 
Of the skill check is equal to the result of the attack roll you 


while you are piloting a vehicle, you are considered proficient 
Operated vehicle weapons. (The vehicle descriptions in Chapter 10 
“A Weapons are operated by the pilot.) 


PON FINESSE 

Skilled at using weapons one that can benefit as much 
from Strength, 

‘Base attack bonus +1. 


Benefit: When using a light melee weapon or a lightsaber, you may use 
your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier on attack rolls. 


WEAPON FOCUS 
Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon group, You are especially good 
at using these weapons. You can choose unarmed strike or grapple for your 
weapon for purposes of this feat. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with selected exotic weapon or weapon group. 

Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on all attack rolls you make using the 
selected exotic weapon or weapon group. 

Special; You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. 
Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new exotic weapon or weapon 
group. 


WEAPON PROFICIENCY 
You are proficient with a particular kind of weaponry. 

Benefit: Choose one of the following weapon groups: advanced melee 
weapons, heavy weapons (which includes vehicular weapons and starship 
weapons), lightsabers, pistols, rifles, and simple weapons, You are proficient 
with all weapons of the selected group, For more information on weapon 
groups, see page 119. 

Normal: |f you wield a weapon with which you are not proficient, you 
take a -5 penalty to your attack rolls, 

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times, Each time you take the 
feat, it applies to a different weapon group. You cannot take exotic weapons 
as a weapon group; instead, you must select the Exotic Weapon Proficiency 
feat (see page 84) to gain proficiency with a specific exotic weapon (such 
as the bowcaster or flamethrower). 


WHIRLWIND ATTACK 
You can strike nearby opponents in an amazing, spinning melee attack. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Intelligence 13, Melee Defense, base attack 
bonus +4, 

Benefit: As a full-round action, you can make an area attack with your 
melee weapon, striking every opponent within your reach, This whirlwind 
attack uses the area attack rules (see Area Attacks, page 155); you make 
one attack roll and apply the result to every target in range. 


as 


CHAPTER 


— SS 

The Force is an energy field generated by all living things. It surrounds and 
penetrates everything, binding the galaxy together. There are two sides to 
the Force, Peace, serenity, and knowledge form the light side, while the dark 
side consists of aggression, anger, and fear. The universe is a place of balance: 
__ life and death, creation and destruction, love and hate. As such, both sides 
__ of the Force are part of the natural order, 

b Some beings are more attuned to the Force than others. Whether they 
understand jt or not, they can feel the Force flowing through them. Of 
those that are sensitive to the Force, beings that study its ways can learn to 
manipulate its energy, The Jedi fall into this category, using their knowledge 
of the Force to give them their powers. But theirs is not the only Force-using 
radition. The Sith, the Nightsisters of Dathomir, and others embrace the dark 
side of the Force, while a variety of alien cultures, such as Ewok shamans 
and Ithorian eco-priests, call the light side of the Force by different names. 
Un tanding of the Force manifests in many ways. 


‘THE Force 


THROUGH THE AGES 
For most of the history of the Republic, the Jedi were looked upon as 
defenders and protectors of justice, By their example, belief in the Force 
was accepted if not always understood. Most beings could not perceive the 
Force directly; they could only see it manifest in those attuned to it, such as 
the Jedi. At times over the years, the dark side came to the forefront, such 
as during the ancient Sith Wars, but in general the champions of the light 
side helped keep the galactic peace- 
During the Rise of the Empire era, the Force is a powerful component of 
everyday life. The Jedi are visible, active proponents of the Force, Regard- 
less of what an individual may believe about the Force, it's hard to deny the 
power demonstrated by the Jedi. As the Clone Wars rage across the galaxy, 
Jedi are seen at the forefront of battles, and the Force impacts the lives of 
soldiers and citizens alike. 
Later, in the wake of the destruction of the Jedi order and the rise of the 
Empire, the Force comes to be looked upon as an arcane religion practiced 
_ by misquided fools. The Empire outlaws the Jedi and attempts to stamp 
out anyone who demonstrates an affinity for the Force. Propaganda and 
politics keep the local systems in line and succeed in driving Force-users 
underground, where they live in fear and obscurity. 
Hf your campaign is set in the Rebellion era (around the time of Episodes 
W/ W-VI}, the Farce has faded from common knowledge. Those who can 
manipulate the Force keep their skills hidden to avoid the notice of the 
Empire. Even members of the Imperial hierarchy, despite the presence of 
Darth Vader, consider the Force to be outdated and insignificant compared to 
the military might of the Empire_ In many ways, that's just how the Emperor 
wants it. Even the Emperor, one of the most powerful Farce-users in the 


IA HEL vYHD 


> 


fe 


Z| 
Di 


galaxy, keeps his Force abilities secret from the general public and most 
of his subordinates. The few Force-users that exist during this period are 
cither hiding from the Empire, working for the Empire, or trying to ignore 
the presence of the Force. The Rebel Alliance has begun to use the Force as 
a rallying cry, adopting the Jedi salutation, “May the Force be with you,” as 
its own. Because of this, the few Force-sensitive beings that can actually use 
the Force begin to reach out to the Alliance. And, of course, Luke Skywalker 
begins his training during this time. 

\f your campaign is set in The New Jedi Order era, the Force has regained 
a place in everyday society and a new fellowship of Jedi has come to promi- 
nence under the tutelage of Luke Skywalker. Many beings in the New Republic 
however, harbor varying degrees of mistrust and fear toward Force-users 
These negative feelings are due, in part, to the actions of a few roque Jedi who 
have taken the law into their own hands and have begun to rebel against Luke 
Skywalker's leadership, The memories of a host of darksiders that plagued 
the galaxy since the time of Darth Vader and the Emperor add fuel to the fire 
of fear, and the political machinations of members of the Republic Council 
have begun to fan these flames. Force-users of this period, then, are finding 
that acceptance of the Force among the general population may turn into @ 
bad thing—at least as far as they are concerned. Tensions are already high, 
as this era is marked by the invasion of the Yuuzhan Vong 


USING THE FORCE 


The Force is a mystical energy field that surrounds and binds all living things 
in the galaxy. More than just @ source of power for those sensitive tg its 
presence, the Force can affect the fates of even ordinary citizens who have 
no aptitude for its use. In the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, there are two 
ways that players may call upon the Force for assistance. The first way, 
usable by all characters, comes in the form of Force Points. The seco 


usable only by characters with the Force Sensitivity feat, is through the Use 


of Force skill and associated Force powers 


FORCE POINTS 


Force Points represent a character's knack for using the Force to aid her 
actions. A character need not be Force-sensitive to use Force Points they 
represent the presence of the Force in all forms of life, and though some 
call it luck, others believe that it is the will of the Force that grants a person 
aid. For a Force-sensitive character, it represents a conscious decision tf 
call upon the Force for assistance. Characters without the Force Sensitivity 
feat don't realize that the Force is aiding their actions, only that they are 
trying hard to succeed 


GAINING FORCE POINTS 
You get 5 Force Points at 1st level. When you gain a new level, you lose any 
unspent Force Points from the previous level but gain a number of Forge 


to 5 + one-half your new character level (rounded down). 
sses grant a higher number of Force Points at each leve! 


Surool, a tst-level scoundrel, gains 5 Force Points at Ist 
s only four of them before achieving 2nd level. When he hits 
es the unspent Force Point from the previous level, but he 
ints (5 + one-half his new character level). 


FORCE POINTS 

you may spend a Force Point as a free action to roll 1d6 and 
tto a single attack roll, skill check, or ability check. You can do 
round. At 8th level, when you spend a Force Point, you instead 
take the best die result as your bonus; at 15th level, you roll 3d6 
s the best die result as your bonus. This is summarized below: 


NUMBER OF DICE ROLLED 


206" 
unt the highest die result. 


talents, Force techniques, Force secrets, and Force powers require 

nd a Force Point to activate. In addition, if you are a Force-user, 
d 1 Force Point as a swift action to return a single spent Force 
active suite of Force powers (see Force Powers, page 95, for 


reduced to 0 hit points and would be killed, you can spend a 
4 reaction to avoid death and instead fall unconscious (see 0 
5 and Falling Unconscious, pages 146-147). 

¥, YOu can spend 1 Force Point as a swift action to lower your Dark 
fe by 1 (see The Dark Side, below). 

pnoted otherwise, you can spend only one Force Point per round. 


E DARK SIDE 

Nas two aspects, one light and one dark. The dark side lurks in the 
Whispering to Force-users, tempting them with quick and easy 
lower. While seemingly stronger, the dark side is only easier. It 
BF the destructive impulses of all living beings. Anger, fear, hatred, 


BEWARE THE DARK SIDE 

Most players don't want their Jedi characters to slip over to the 
dark side of the Force. If you want a campaign where all the heroes 
must constantly strive against the lure of the dark side, then the GM 
should increase a character's Dark Side Score for even the most minor 
transgressions. If you want @ campaign where the heroes have more 
room to explore options, or if you don't want slipping to the dark side 
to be a major theme of the campaign, then the GM should consider 
increasing @ character's Dark Side Score only for major or moderate 
transgressions. 


and aggression are expressions of the dark side, and such emotions can 
quickly lead a Force-user down the dark side's corrupting path. Early on 
in her training, a Force-user finds that the dark side greatly enhances her 
abilities, After a time, the dark side demands more and more of those in its 
embrace. 


DARK SIDE SCORE 

Your Dark Side Score measures the extent to which you've been corrupted 
by the dark side of the Force. A 1st-level character begins play with a Dark 
Side Score of 0. The only way to increase one's Dark Side Score is to commit 
evil acts. 

A character who commits an evil act increases his Dark Side Score by 1. 
What constitutes an evil act is discussed under Dark Side Transgressions, below. 
Regardless of how many evil acts a character commits, the maximum Dark Side 
Score a character can possess is equal to his Wisdom score. Thus, a character 
with a Wisdom of 15 can have a maximum Dark Side Score of 15. 

A character whose Dark Side Score equals his Wisdom score has fully 
embraced the dark side and is wholly evil. A hero who falls to the dark side 
becomes a GM character (unless the GM wants to allow the player to continue 
playing the dark side character as @ sort of campaign anti-hero). 


DARK SIDE TRANSGRESSIONS 

The GM should use the considerations detailed below as guidelines for 
whether or not to increase a character's Dark Side Score. The quidelines are 
Separated by degree: Major transgressions are acts that definitely deserve 


*THE DARK SIDE OF THE FORCE 1S 
PATHWAY TO MANY ABILITIES SOME 
CONSIDER TO BE UNNATURAL.” 


—- SUPREME CHANCELLOR PALPATINE 


an increase, moderate transgressions are acts that probably deserve an 
increase, and minor transgressions are acts that could be considered dark 
but probably don’t deserve an increase. 


Major Transgressions 
Any of the following transgressions should increase a character's Dark Side 
Score by 1: 

Performing a blatantly evil act: This includes deliberately killing or 
injuring another character who hasn't done anything wrong or who honestly 
seeks redemption for evil acts he performed in the past. 

Using a Force power with the [dark side] descriptor: A few Force 
powers are, by their very nature, evil. Examples of Force powers with the 
[dork side} descriptor include Farce lightning, which channels dark energy, 
and dark rage, which feeds on negative emotions. 

Using the Force in anger: Using the Force in anger or hatred is bad, but 
this can be hard to enforce. It's difficult to determine the emotion a character 
is experiencing. The GM should increase a character's Dark Side Score by 1 in 
these situations only when the player specifically states that his character is 
feeling fear, anger, hatred, pride, jealousy, greed, vengeance, and so forth. 


Moderate Transgressions 
Any of the following transgressions might increase a character's Dark Side 
Score by 1, at the GM's discretion: 

Using the Force to cause undue harm: Many uses of the Force are 
not overtly of the dark side, but they can be harmful or even fatal in their 
applications. When a Force power that isn't specifically tied to the dark 
side is used to harm living beings, the GM should consider increasing the 
character's Dark Side Score by 1. 

Performing a questionably evil act: Some acts, while seemingly cruel, 
aren't necessarily evil. The GM should consider the intent behind the action 
before deciding to increase a character's Dark Side Score, For example, it may 
be a transgression to deliberately kill or injure (or allow someone else to kill 
or injure) a character known to have committed evil acts without remorse, 
but who is otherwise helpless. 


Minor Transgressions 
The following transgressions should probably not increase a character's Dark 
Side Score, unless the GM feels there's good cause to make an exception: 
Performing a dubiously evil act: Increase a character's Dark Side Score 
only when the act is out of proportion to the situation. In most cases, the 
GM shouldn't increase a character's Dark Side Score for a single incident, 
but multiple incidents may indicate that the character has an unconscious 
cruel streak. For example, a hero who kills an opponent in combat while 
ignoring opportunities to end the situation without the loss of life might 
deserve a increased Dark Side Score, though a specific situation might not 
appear quite so clear-cut. 


HEROES AND THE DARK S&S 
A GM may decide to run a completely heroic campaign. In this eg 
character becomes a GM character and is no longer under the co 
of the player. If you're the GM, consider this option carefully 
implementing it, because it takes away player freedom. If you 
tule in place at the start of your campaign, then it just becomes part 
the rules and everyone is aware of the consequences of walking do 


Dark Side Score Tracker 
The Dark Side Score tracker is a useful tool for tracking a hero's devotion! 
the dark side. The Dark Side Score tracker is represented as a row of 24 nun 
bered boxes at the bottom of your Star Wars character sheet (page 287), 

A character's Dark Side Score tracker should have a number of en 
boxes equal to the character's Wisdom score. Any extra boxes should | 
shaded in or blacked out. For example, Set Harth has a Wisdom of 11, so! 
Dark Side Score tracker looks like this: 


DARK SIDE SCORE 


1°/23}3'4/6'6'7'6 9 )10;N 


a character has no more empty boxes on his Dark Side Score tracker 
considered to be dark. He is now effectively lost to the dark side 
little hope of finding redemption. 
Whenever a character's Wisdom score increases by 1, he gets an 3a 
empty box on his Dark Side Score tracker. This box remains empty unt! 
Dark Side Score increases by 1. 7. 
A hero who still has empty boxes on his Dark Side Score tracker m™# 
tainted by the dark side, but not beyond redemption. A tainted char 
can rid himself of the dark side's taint by atoning. 


Atoning J 
A hero tainted by the dark side can work his way back to the light tht 
heroic deeds, the use of Force Points, and by atoning for past ms@5™ 
dark character's only path back to the light is to accomplish a truly & 
of heroism against the dark and in the service of the light. 


y, the tainted character accomplishes this by reducing his Dark 
A ct er can sacrifice 1 Force Point to reduce his Dark Side 
and clear one box on his Dark Side Score tracker. This form of 
represents 2 period of meditation, reflection, and absolution 
* of the character. If desired by the player and GM, this can be 
nen the campaign as part of an adventure, but it isn't necessary. It 
petween adventures. 

sion, an act of dramatic heroism by the character—if performed 
iling upon the dark side—reduces the character's Dark Side Score 
‘one box on his Dark Side Score tracker. 

acter can’t reduce his Dark Side Score by atoning. Such a 
option is an act of dramatic heroism (see below). 


may attempt to turn away from the dark side by performing 
Fdramatic heroism without calling upon the dark side of the Force. 
ct should require extreme personal cost, be made in a selfless 
id provide a significant benefit to the galactic balance. 
jer performed such an act of dramatic heroism at the end of 
Jedi when he sacrificed his own life to save his son and destroy 
Kyp Durron (in the expanded Star Wors universe) performed 
of dramatic heroism by destroying the Sun Crusher, a super 
Additionally, Jedi history tells of a Jedi named Bastila 
Knights of the Old Republic) falling to the dark side, but in an 
tie heroism she turned the Republic fleet against Darth Malak 
verful form of Battle Meditation. 
'GM accepts the act as being appropriately heroic, dramatic, and 
character's Dark Side Score drops to 1, and he clears all but 
bxes On his Dark Side Score tracker (so that he has a number 
equal to one less than his Wisdom score). In addition, the 
cts @ final toll by drawing away all of the character's current 
» Henceforth, the character must strive to walk the path of 


”? 


RCE POWERS 


"NING FORCE POWERS 

D takes the Force Training feat (see page 85) automatically 

umder of Force powers of her choice equal to 1 + her Wisdom modi- 

sa 1). A character can learn additional Force powers by taking 
u@ning feat again or by increasing her Wisdom modifier. 


SELECTING FORCE POWERS 
Choosing your Force powers can be something of an art. If you choose 
poorly, you might be stuck with a Force power that you can’t use very 
well, When selecting Force powers, remember the following: 

Like feats, Force powers cannot be changed once selected (not with- 
out your GM's approval, anyway). Also, some Force powers are inherently 
more difficult to trigger than others. For example, Force stun requires 
a OC 20 (or higher) Use the Force check to activate, which means that 
a low-level character attempting to use the power will fail more often 
than he succeeds. 

Don't forget that you can select the same Force power more than 
once if you want to be able to have multiple uses of that power in your 
suite. At low levels, it is sometimes more useful to have extra uses of 
an easy-to-trigger power than a new power that is more difficult to 
activate. 


For example, Sen Udo-Mal is a 1st-level Jedi with a Wisdom score of 11 
(+0 modifier). He takes the Force Training feat at Ist level and immediately 
gains a Force power. He chooses bottle strike, At 3rd level, he takes the Force 
Training feat again, which allows him to learn a new Force power; he chooses 
mind trick, At 4th level, Sen Udo-Mal raises his Wisdom score from 11 to 12, 
thereby increasing his ability modifier from +0 to +1; at that time, he gains 
two additional Force powers (one for each instance of the Force Training 
feat), so he chooses move object and surge. 


USING FORCE POWERS 
When your character uses a Force power, make a Use the Force check (see 
page 77). The check result determines the power’s effect. 

Some Force powers have all-or-nothing effects. Other Force powers have 
multi-tiered effects, and your Use the Force check result determines the 
maximum effect you can achieve, although you can always choose a lesser 
effect. If your Use the Force check is too low to activate the Force power's 
baseline effect, nothing happens and the action is wasted, 

Using a Force power removes it from your character's active "suite" of 
Force powers, regardless of whether the Use the Force skill check succeeds 
or fails. 

Your Force Power Suite: Your character's Force powers collectively form 
a suite. When your character uses a Force power, it’s like playing a card and 
putting it in @ discard pile. The power takes effect, and it's no longer available 
to the character... at least for a while. 

Regaining Force Powers: You have different ways to regain spent Force 
powers so that you can use them again: 

—When combat is over and you have a chance to rest for 1 minute, you 
regain all of your Force powers. 


—If you roll a natural 20 on a Use the Force check, you regain all spent 
Force powers at the end of your turn. 

—You can spend a Force Point as a reaction and immediately regain one 
spent Force power. 

—Some unique abilities (such as the Force Focus talent) allow you to 
regain spent Force powers in other ways. 


Force Power Descriptors 

Some Force powers are more strongly tied to one side of the Force than 
the other. These Force powers carry either the [light side] descriptor or the 
[dark side] descriptor. Powers that target creatures’ minds carry the [mind- 
affecting] descriptor. 

Dark Side: Using a Force power with the [dark side] descriptor increases 
your Dark Side Score by 1. You cannot use a Force Point to modify your Use 
the Force check when activating a Force power with the [dark side] descriptor. 
Dark side powers stem from powerful negative emotions and include dark 
rage and Force lightning. 

Light Side: If you have a Dark Side Score of 1 or higher, you cannot use 
a Force Point to modify your Use the Force check when activating a Force 
power with the [light side] descriptor. Light side powers are generally ben- 
eficial and include sever Force and vital transfer. 

Mind-Affecting: A Force power with the [mind-affecting] descriptor has 
no effect on creatures that are mindless (that is, creatures with no Intel- 
ligence score) or creatures that are immune to mind-affecting effects. 


FORCE POWER 
DESCRIPTIONS 


The following Force powers are available to any character with the Force 
Sensitivity feat (see page 85). Each Force power includes the following 
information: 


FORCE POWER NAME 
[DESCRIPTOR] 
\f a Force power has a descriptor, it appears in square brackets after the Force 
power's name. The name of the power is followed by a brief description of 
the Force power's effect. Time: The type of action needed to use or activate 
the Force power. Target: The targets affected by the Force power. 

Make a Use the Force check. The results of the Use the Force check 
are described here. 

Special: Some Force powers have special rules, which are covered 
nere. 


BATTLE STRIKE 
You use the Force to enhance your battle prowess. Time: Swift get) 
Target: You. 
Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines ¢ 
effect, if any: 
DC 15: Gain a +1 Force bonus on your next attack roll and deal an ag: 
tional 1d6 points of damage if the attack hits. 
DC 20: As DC 15, except you deal an additional 2d6 points of damage 
OC 25: As DC 15, except you deal an additional 3d6 points of da 
Special: You can spend a Force Point to deal an additional 2d6 po 
damage on your next attack. 


DARK RAGE [DARK SIDE] 
You become enraged as the dark side flows through you. Time: Swift acti 
Target: You, ‘ 
Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines # 
effect, if any: 
DC 15: You gain a +2 rage bonus on melee attack rolls and melee dama 
rolls until the end of your turn. 
DC 20: As DC 15, except the rage bonuses increase to +4. 
DC 25: As DC 15, except the rage bonuses increase to +6. 
Special: While consumed by rage, you cannot use skills or perform ta 
that require patience or concentration. ; 
You can spend a Force Point to extend the duration of your da 
until the end of the encounter. 


FARSEEING a 
You gain a vague, momentary impression of events happening 8 ur 
particular being in some distant place. Time: Full-round action. Targ 
creature you know or have met before. a 
Make a Use the Force check. If your check result is less than the tan 
Will Defense, you gain no information (including whether the target 64 
or dead) and cannot use this Force power against the same target " 
hours. If your check result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defens 
can sense whether the target is alive or dead and gain 2 vague 
immediate surroundings, what it's currently doing, and any strong em 
it is presently feeling. A dead target has a Will Defense of 30 for p 
of this Force power. R. 
Special: If you successfully use this Force power, you can spend a! 
Point to gain a clear mental image of the target's surroundings, #5 ™ 
other creatures and objects within 6 squares of it. 


ce DISARM 

. an opponent by using the Force to pull the weapon from his 
+ Standard action. Target: One creature within 6 squares and 
‘ine of sight 

ve a Use the Force check. Use this check in place of your attack 
attempting to disarm the target (see Disarm, page 152). If your 
ae ck succeeds, you may choose to let the item drop to the ground 
whe target's fighting space or have the item fly into your hand {in which 
Bua, must have a free hand to catch it) 

+t Feats that improve disarm attacks (such as Improved Disarm) 


4 


apply to Force disarm 
ny can spend 3 Force Point to damage or destroy the target weapon 


4, if your disarm attack succeeds, the weapon takes damage equal to 
Use the Force check result. You must declare that you are using this 
‘optio before making your disarm attack. 


ORCE GRIP 
ise the Force to choke or crush your enemy. Time: Standard action. 
Warget: One target within G squares or within line of sight 


Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
ect, if any: 

DC 15: The target takes 2d6 points of damage. !f your Use the Force check 
als or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the target can take only a 
gle swift action on his next turn, 

O20: As DC 15, except the target takes 406 points of damage. 
DCS: As OC 15, except target takes 6d6 points of damage 

Special: You may maintain your concentration on the targeted creature 
Ontinue damaging it from round to round. Mainta ning the Force grip is a 
a faction, and you must make a new Use the Force check each round 

: You can Spend a Force Point to deal an additional 2d6 points of damage 
with your Force grip 


f 


PERCE LIGHTNING [DARK siDEeE] 
Stan enemy with deadly arcs of Force energy. Time: Standard action 
# One target in line of sight and within 6 squares of you. 

a Use the Force check. Make one roll and compare the result to 
WGEtS Reflex Defense. if the attack hits, the target takes 8d6 points of 
Edamage and moves —1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, 
NSB). If the attack misses, the target takes half damage and does not 
Biong the condition track. 

etial: You can spend a Force Point to move a target an additional 
vs the condition track when you successfully hit it with Force 


FORCE SLAM 
You pound one or more creatures with the Force, Time: Standard action 
Targets: All targets within a 6-square cone and within line of sight 

Make a Use the Force check. Make one roll and compare the result to 
each target's Fortitude Defense. If the result equals or exceeds a target's 
Fortitude Defense, it takes 4d6 points of Force damage and is knocked prone. 
If the result is less than a target's Fortitude Defense, it takes half damage 
and is not knocked prone. This is an area effect 

Special: When you use this power, you can spend a Force Point to deal 
an additional 2d6 points of damage to targets in the area. 


iA BBasovrHs 


i] 


Seeec) | 


FORCE STUN 

You call upon the Force to overload an enemy's senses, potentially stunning 
it. Time: Standard action. Targets: One creature within 6 squares or within 
your line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to the target's Will 
Defense. If the check result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, the 
target moves -1 step along the condition track [see Conditions, page 148). 
For every 5 points by which you exceed the target's Will Defense, the target 
moves an additional -1 step along the condition track. 

Special: When you use this power, you can spend a Force Point to move 
the target an additional -1 step along the condition track. 


FORCE THRUST 
You use the Force to push a target away from you. Time: Standard action. 
Targets: One object or character within 12 squares and within line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. The target makes a Strength check. If 
you beat the target's Strength check, you push it back 1 square plus an 
additional square for every 5 points by which you exceed the target's check 
result. If you push the target into a larger object, the target takes 166 points 
of damage. 

The target adds its size modifier to its Strength check: Colossal, +20; 
Gargantuan, +15; Huge, +10; Large, +5; Medium, +0; Small, -5; Tiny, -10; 
Diminutive, -15; Fine, -20. In addition, it gets a +5 stability bonus if it has 
more than two legs or is otherwise exceptionally stable. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to apply a -5 penalty to the target's 
Strength check to resist your Force thrust. Additionally, if you successfully 
push the target into a larger object, you deal an additional 2d6 points of 
damage from the extreme force of the thrust. 


MIND TRICK [MIND-AFFECTING! 
You use the Farce to alter a target's perceptions or plant a suggestion in its 
mind. Time: Standard action. Target: One Intelligence 3 or higher creature 
in line of sight and within 12 squares of you. 

Make a Use the Force check. If you equal or exceed the target's Will 
Defense, you may choose one of the following effects: 

~You create a fleeting hallucination that distracts the target and enables 
you to use the Stealth skill even if the target is aware of you. 

~You perform a feint so that the next attack you make against the target 
ignores its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense (if any). 

~You make an otherwise unpalatable suggestion seem completely reason- 
able to the target. You must be able to communicate with the target, and 
the suggestion can't obviously threaten the target's life. The target won't 
realize later that what he did is unacceptable. 

—You fill the target with terror, causing it to flee from you at top speed 
for 1 minute. The affected creature stops fleeing if it is wounded. The effect 


“THE FORCE CAN 

HAVE A STRONG 

INFLUENCE ON A 
WEAK MIND.” 


—- OBI-WAN KENOBI 


is negated if the target's level is equal to or higher than your character c 
This is 2 fear effect. 

Special: If you are making a suggestion, you may spend a Farce Po 
to improve the target's attitude by one step, plus one additional 
every 5 points by which your Use the Force check exceeds the targe 
Defense, 


Move OBJECT 
You telekinetically move a target up to 6 squares in any directic 
the Force. Time: Standard action. Target: One character or object 
squares or within your line of sight. ( 
Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determ 
the maximum size of the target you can lift (see below). If the targe 
a creature that resists your attempt, your Use the Force check mi 
exceed the target's Will Defense. You can hurl the target at (or drop 
another target in range if your Use the Force check exceeds the see 
target's Reflex Defense. Both targets take damage determined by your 
the Force check result. 
DC 15: Move object up to Medium size (deals 206 points of damag 
DC 20: Move object up to Large size (deals 4d6 points of damage} 
DC 25: Move object up to Huge size (deals 6d6 points of damage? 
DC30: Move object up to Gargantuan size (deals 8d6 pe 
damage) Ee: 
DC.35: Move object up to Colossal size (deals 1006 points of dama 
Special: You may maintain your concentration on the targete 
to continue to move it from round to round. Maintaining the 
power is a standard action. .. 
if you use move object against a hovering or flying target (sue 
speeder or starship), the target can oppose your Use the Force cnes 
a grapple check as a reaction. If the target wins the opposed check, ¥ 
unable to move the target, E 
You may spend a Force Point to increase the maximum size of the 
by one category and deal an additional 2d6 points of damage 
size Colossal (frigate), 12d6 damage). Alternatively, you may SPEN™ © 
Point (see page 112) to increase the maximum size of the object ¥ 


jes and deal an additional 6d6 points of damage (maximum size 
: sles co 

=~ tation]. 16d6 damacc) 
‘colassa! [5 

mecsT= ENERGY 


ntancously negate a single attack that deals energy weapon damage, 
a. lightsaber or blaster. Time: Reaction, Target: One attack made 
as . 


against you that deals energy 


weapon damage 


Make a Use the Force check. If the result of the check equals or exceeds 
the damage dealt by the eneray weapon, the attack is negated and you take 
no damage. If your check result is less than the amount of damage dealt, 
ate the attack and teke damage as norma 
ware of the attack (and not flat-footed) to negate 


you fail to ne 

Special: You must bea 
t. If you are successful, you can spend a Force Point to regain hit points 
your full 


Ps 


equal! to the damage of the negated attack, up to a maximum o 


normal hit points 


Eley =a 


SeVved OHiL, 


REBUK 

You harmlessly absorb or deflect one Force power or used against you, per- 
haps even turning it against its creator, Time: Reaction. Target: One Force 
power directed at you. 

Make a Use the Force check. !f your result equals or exceeds the check 
result of the power directed at you, you harmiessly redirect it and suffer no 
ill effects. If you result exceeds the check result of the power directed at you 
by 5 or more, you may choose to turn the Force power against its creator, 
who suffers the effect. 

Special: If you successfully reflect a Force power back at its originator, the 
originator may attempt to rebuke the power as well. If he reflects it back again, 
both you and the originator are affected by the Force power. You can spend a 
Force Point as a reaction to suffer no ill effects from a Force power that has been 
rebuked twice—once by you and once by the power’s originator. 


SEVER FORCE [LIGHT siDel 
You can block another Force-user's access to the Force, preventing him from 
spending Force Points and making it difficult for him to use Force powers, 
Time: Standard action. Target: One Force-using creature with a Dark Side 
Score of 1 or higher that is within 12 squares and within line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. If your Use the Force check equals or 
exceeds the target's Will Defense, the effect (if any) is determined by your 
check result: 

DC 25: The target cannot spend Force Points for a number of hours equal 
to its Dark Side Score. 

DC 30: As OC 25, plus the target moves -1 step along the condition track 
(see page 149) each time it uses a Force power in the same timeframe. 

DC 35: As DC 35, except the target moves -2 steps along the condition 
track each time it uses a Force power in the same timeframe. 

Special; This Force power has no effect on targets with a Dark Side 
Score of 0. 

You can spend a Force Point to double the duration of the effect. Alterna- 
tively, you can spend a Destiny Point (see page 112) to increase the duration 
to a number of days equal to the target’s Dark Side Score. 


SURGE 
The Force enables you to jump great heights and distances as well as move 
quickly. Time: Swift action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any: 

DC 10: You gain a +10 Force bonus on Jump checks and your speed 
increases by 2 squares until the start of your next turn. The Force bonus on 
Jump checks includes the adjustment for increased speed. 

DC 15: As DC 10 except: +20 Force bonus on Jump checks, speed increases 
by 4 squares. 


DC20; As DC 10 except: +30 Force bonus on Jump checks, speed ing 
by 6 squares. ‘ 
Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the power's Force bo 
on Jump checks by 10 and increase your speed by an additional 2 square 


VITAL TRANSFER [LIGHT SiDe 
You use your own life force to heal another living creature, using the Fo 
as a conduit. Time: Standard action. Target: One creature touched, 
Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines 
effect, if any: 7 
DC 15: The target heals hit points equal to 2 x its character level, 
DC 20: The target heals hit points equal to 3 x its character level. 
DC 25: The target heals hit points equal to 4 x its character level. 
Each time you use vital transfer, you take half as much damage as: 
heal (rounded down), ' 
Special: You may spend a Force Point to avoid taking any damage w 
you use this Force power. You may spend a Destiny Point (see page 1 2 
move the target +5 steps on the condition track in addition to healin 
normally. ‘ 


FORCE TALENTS J 
Force talents work exactly like the talents presented in Chapter 3: He 
Classes; however, they are available only to characters with the Fo 
sitivity feat (see page 85). Any time a character with the Force it 
feat would normally gain a talent (such as from gaining an odd-nur 

level in a heroic class), he or she may instead select a Force talen t 
one of the four Force talent trees presented below. If a character W 
Force Sensitivity feat is a member of a Force tradition (see page 106), 
she may instead select a Force talent from that tradition’s individual 
talent tree. 


ALTER TALENT TREE J 
The Force grants you considerable power over your environment 35 ¥ 
others around you. g 
Disciplined Strike: Whenever you use a Force power that hs 
effect (such as Force siam), you may exclude a certain number OF 
from the effects of that power. The number of targets that you 
in this manner is equal to your Wisdom modifier [minimum of 1). _ 
Telekinetic Power: Whenever you roll a natural 20 on your Use 
check to activate the Force disarm, Force grip, Force slam, Force: 
move object Force powers, you may choose to use that Force POWs 
immediately as a free action. You may direct the second use of tf 
power against any eligible target. a 
Telekinetic Savant: Once per encounter as a swift action, you ™ 
one of these Force powers to your suite without spending a Force Po! 
disarm, Force grip, Force slam, Force thrust, or move object. 


+ this talent multiple times. Each time you select it, you 
4+ one additional time per encounter. 


to regulate your own body systems, control your 
the Force. 

10: You can spend a Force Point as a standard 
reduction 10 for 1 minute (see Damage Reduction, 


+ As a swift action, you can spend a Force Point to remove 
ons affecting you and return to a normal state (see 


: full-round action, you may make a DC 15 Use the 
‘the check succeeds, you regain one spent Force power of 


yery: Whenever you use your second wind (see Second Wind, 
4 regain a number of additional hit points equal to 1d6 per 
(maximum 10d6). 

librium. 


rk side of the Force is the quick and easy path, granting 
forever dominating the destinies of those in its grasp. 
a Dark Side Score of 1 or higher to select talents from 
Side Score is ever reduced to 0, you lose access to all 
nt tree until your Dark Side Score increases. 

e Dark Side: You allow your hatred to fue! your attacks. 
a Force Point to modify an attack roll, you may choose 
bonus die and take the best result. However, doing so 
k Side Score by 1. 

Tst-level character with this talent could increase his Dark 
toll 2d6 instead of 1d6, taking the best die result and 
/on his attack roll, 

Asa Standard action, you grant yourself and all allies 
you 8 +1 Force bonus to all defenses until the end of the 
( uses are lost if you fall unconscious or die. Affected 
Out Of range lose the benefits for as long as they remain 
fr a 13, Power of the Dark Side. 

er an ally of equal or higher level than you is killed or 
within your line of sight, you gain a +2 Force bonus 
mage rolls until the end of the encounter. (Since Force 
» YOu don’t get a higher bonus if more than one ally 


+. 


ct, Power of the Dark Side. 


Swift Power: Once per day, you can use 3 Force power that normally 
takes a standard action or move action as a swift action. 
Prerequisite: Power of the Dark Side. 


SENSE TALENT TREE 
Your attunement to the Force grants you uncanny powers of perception. 

Force Perception: You can make a Use the Force check instead of a 
Perception check to avoid surprise, notice enemies, sense deception, or sense 
influence (see the Perception skill, page 70). You are considered trained in 
the Perception skill for purposes of using this talent. If you are entitled to 
a Perception check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check instead 
(subject to the same circumstances and limitations). 

Force Pilot: You can use your Use the Force check modifier instead of your 
Pilot check modifier when making Pilot checks. You are considered trained in 
the Pilot skill for purposes of using this talent. If you are entitled to a Pilot 
check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check instead (subject to the 
same circumstances and limitations). 

Foresight: You may spend a Force Point to reroll an Initiative check, 
keeping the better of the two rolls. Additionally, if you roll a natural 20 on 
the Initiative check reroll, you immediately regain the Force Point spent to 
activate this talent. 

Prerequisite: Force Perception. 

Gauge Force Potential: By focusing on a specific creature in your line of 
sight, you can gauge how strong in the Force itis. This takes a standard action 
and requires a Use the Force check. If your check result meets or beats the 
target's Will Defense, you know whether or not it has the Force Sensitivity feat, 
you know how many Force powers it knows (but not which ones, specifically), 
and you know how many Force Points it has currently. 

Prerequisite: Force Perception. 

Visions: Whenever you use the forseeing Force power, you can spend a 
Force Point as a swift action to see into the target's past or future instead of 
the glimpsing the target in the present. You declare how far into the target's 
past or future you wish to look, up to. a maximum of 1 year per your character 
level. Any information gained about a target's future is subject to change, 
depending on whether steps are taken to alter that future. 

Prerequisites: Force Perception, farseeing. 


FORCE TECHNIQUES 


Force techniques represent a deeper understanding of the Force and, like 
martial skills, usually come with years of practice. A few gifted or devoted 
Force-users learn to master them more quickly, In general, Force techniques 
are only available to characters with levels in certain Force-using prestige 
classes (such as the Force adept, Jedi Knight, and Sith apprentice). 
Whenever you gain access to a new Force technique, select it from the 
following list. Once selected, a Force technique cannot be changed. 


Force Point Recovery You may select this Force technique multiple times; each time you selaue 
At the end of an encounter, you automatically recover 1 Force Point spent —this Force technique, it applies to a different Force power. 
during the encounter. 
You may select this Force technique multiple times; each time you take Improved Force Trance 
it, you recover an additional Force Point spent during an encounter. Each hour you remain in a Force trance (see the Use the Force skill, page 
you regain a number of hit points equal to 2 x your character level ’ 


Force Power Mastery 
Choose a single Force power. You may take 10 on Use the Force checks to 
activate this Force power even when distracted or threatened. 


| 


n 
I 
> 
0 
4 
im 
Pi 
is 


tai oL 


— 


1S) 


~; 


Se 


: che Force, very much the way gravity well in realspace 
h’ A single person not particularly attuned 
like a candle in the night, making but the slightest 
Force, A Foree-user shines more brightly, especially 
the Force, Each time a Force-user calls upon the 
or ripples through it that can be perceived by other 
4 sparingly and in harmony with the natural balance, 
barely be detected. When auser constantly calls upon 
‘world around him, the ripples become quakes that 
eat distances. Such quakes attract attention, making 
ss refined control over the Force or who rely on the 
the target of more powerful Force-users. It is 

vugh such methods the Empire was able to hunt down 
ers in the years leading up to the Galactic Civil War. 


Light Object 

‘a Use the Force check to move a light object as a swift action 

n action. Using the light object as a projectile weapon 
ye action (instead of a standard action). 


se Force 
the sense Force ability of the Use the Force skill (see page 77) 
eaction rather than @ full-round action. 


e Surroundings 
Sense surroundings ability of the Use the Force skill (see 
ee action rather than a swift action. 


pathy 
Use the telepathy ability of the Use the Force skill (see page 
/Feroll your Use the Force check and keep the better result. 


Ce SECRETS 

Can learn to manipulate their Force powers in intriguing 
ts represent a sublime connection of the Force and are 
‘Only to powerful Force-users such as Force disciples, Jedi 
h Lords (see Chapter 12: Prestige Classes). 

‘OFce secret costs either a Force Point or a Destiny Paint (as 
eription), and the normal limits on spending Force Points and 


§ 8 round apply. (See Chapter 7: Heroic Traits for more 
esti, iny Points.) 


Whenever you learn a new Force secret, select it from the following list. 
Once selected, a Force secret cannot be changed. 


Devastating Power 

When using a Force power that deals damage, you can spend a Force Point 
to increase the power’s damage dice by 50%, Alternatively, you can spend 
a Destiny Point to double the number of damage dice. 


Distant Power 

When using a Force power that has a range expressed numerically, you can 

spend a Force Point to multiply the range by 10. Alternatively, you can spend a 

Destiny Point to increase the range to anywhere in the same star system. 
This Force secret does not remove line of sight requirements. 


Multitarget Power 

When using a Force power that affects a single target, you can spend a Force 
Point to affect one additional target. Alternatively, you can spend a Destiny 
Point to affect one target per four character levels. 


Quicken Power 

When using a Force power that requires a standard action or move action 
to activate, you can spend a Force Point to activate the power as a swift 
action instead, Alternatively, you can spend a Destiny Point to activate the 
power as a reaction instead. 


Shaped Power 

When using 2 Force power with a cone area effect (such as Force slam), 
you can spend a Force Point to instead affect a line 1 square wide and (5 x 
cone's length) squares long. Alternatively, when using a Force power with 
a cone area effect, you can spend a Destiny Point to instead affect one or 
more targets of your choice within a number of squares of you equal to the 
cone's length. 


FORCE-USING 
TRADITIONS 


Even those who don’t believe in the Force and aren't particularly attuned to 
its flow can call upon the Force without understanding exactly what they 
are doing. When a stroke of amazing luck occurs, or fate seems to be on your 
side and helps you accomplish a difficult objective, it could be the Force 
coming to your aid. In game terms, the expenditure of Force Points by non- 
Force-using characters represents this unconscious, tenuous connection to 
the Force that all living beings share. When a Force-using character calls on 
the Force in this way, he or she knows exactly what's happening, 

The most prominent and well-known Force-users in the galaxy are the 
Jedi. However, the Jedi are not the only ones who have learned to manipulate 


the Force. Other Force-users sometimes attribute their abilities to sources 
other than the Force, such as magic or gods, but they are all using the 
energy to manipulate the world around them. In game terms, anyone with 
the Force Sensitivity feat has the ability to master the Use the Force skill 
and learn Force powers, though many of these beings will never go down 
this particular path. 

Other Force-using traditions include dark side cults (such as the Sith), and 
obscure, isolated sects such as the Witches of Dathomir and the Sorcerers 
of Tund. Some know the Force for what it is but approach its use in a dif- 
ferent way from the Jedi. Others know the Force by a different name. Either 
way, it remains the mystic energy that binds the galaxy together and gives 
Force-users their powers. 

Membership: The conditions for being considered a member of a given 
Force tradition are outlined in the description. A character may be a member 
of more than one Force tradition, but this is uncommon. 


THE JED! 
There is no emotion; there is peace. 
There is no ignorance; there is knowledge. 
There is no passion; there is serenity. 
There is no death; there is the Force. 
—from The Jedi Code 


For centuries, the group of philosophers that would eventually become the 
Jedi contemplated the mysteries of the energy field known as the Force, 
Eventually, some of the group's members mastered the Force. After that, 
they dedicated themselves to using their newfound skills and powers for 
good, heiping those in need. In the thousands of years that followed, the Jedi 
served as protectors of the Galactic Republic. Answering to their own Jedi 
council and operating in concordance with the Judicial Department of the 
office of the Supreme Chancellor, the Jedi became the guardians of peace 
and justice in the galaxy. 

The Jedi, in addition to battling interstellar criminals and settling galactic 
disputes, served as mediators, defenders, and teachers. Because of their sense 
of honor and the epic challenges they undertook, the Jedi became legends, 


*“THE FORCE 
wED!I HIS POWER. 


Is WHAT GIVES THE 
IT'S AN ENERGY FIELE 
CREATED BY ALL LIVING THINGS. . 

IT SURROUNDS US AND PENETRATES U5 
IT BINDS THE GALAXY TOGETHER." 


serving as symbols of the best the Republic had to offer, With lightsg 
at their sides and the power of the Force flowing through them, the 
accomplished the tasks set before them with dedication and seeming j 
cibility. But invincibility was only an illusion. Jedi often died in the defs 
of freedom and justice. 1 

During the Rise of the Empire era (circa Episodes I-III), ten thousand 
served the Republic and defended its vast territory, They identified po al 
recruits early in life, usually within the first six months of a child's e 
As infants, those attuned to the Force and accepted by the Jedi Coy 
were taken to begin their training. Older children, if identified tater in if 
being Force-sensitive, were refused training in most cases; the Jedi be! 
that the fear and anger in older children made them too susceptible to 
dark side, and so it was unwise to train them. All characters playing if 
era that are Jedi Padawan learners (Jedi class level ist through 6th) f h 
master (Jedi class level 7th or higher), While there may be times whe 
master and the Padawan travel together, most of their interaction hap 
between adventures, while all characters are training and improvini 
master is a GM character, offering training, advice, and aid when 
feels such aid is appropriate and necessary, Unfortunately, by the end of 
time period, Anakin Skywalker has turned to the dark side and the Em 
has slaughtered nearly all the Jedi. 

During the Rebellion era, the Jedi purge has been completed. All’ 
handful of Force-users, let alone fully trained Jedi, were extermi at 


the training these Force-users provide is haphazard at best, A 
learns by experience, through occasional meetings with other Fo 
and even by studying with beings who follow other Force tradita 
not easy, which is why Jedi in this period are few and far between, 

reach the level of power exhibited in earlier or later periods. A Gam 
wishing to simulate this experience might require the potential c 


—- OBI-WAN KENCO 


jeDo! CODE 

yardions of peace in the galaxy. 

ir powe! ‘to defend and protect, never ta attack others. 
toll lif inany form. 

thers rather than ruling over them, for the good of the 


themselves through knowledge and training. 
—from The Jedi Code 


known as the Jedi Code was created to keep young 
m being drawn to the dark side. It was taught by the 
J to hundreds of thousands of Jedi throughout the ages, 
Fenobi and Master Yoda taught parts of it to Luke Skywalker, 
er passed on what he had learned to his students at 


the Jedi Code provides simple instructions for living 
t Force, A Jedi never uses the Force to gain wealth or 
rr, Instead, a Jedi uses the Force to find knowledge and 
Anger, fear, aggression, and other negative emotions 
rk side, so Jedi are taught to act only when they are at 


wraged to find nonviolent solutions whenever possible. 
from wisdom, using persuasion and counsel instead 
ers and violence. When all else fails, or to save a life, a 
netimes resort to battle in order to resolve a particularly 
situ; Though combat may sometimes be the best answer, 
yer be the first option a Jedi explores. 
f their connection to the Force, the Jedi sense its flow 
In its energy. While doing so, a Jedi sometimes perceives 
the Force. These disturbances can be explained by the 
erful Force-users in the area, or intense emotions that 
Force, such as when the life of the planet Alderaan was 
ed by the Death Star. There are even times when such distur- 
ult in feelings of urgency or premonitions that spur a Jedi to 
‘Situation where she is needed. This aspect and manifestation 
iS Covered by the Use the Force skill. 


€ non-Force-using class level before allowing them to take 
i class. 

Jedi Order era, Luke Skywalker has trained about one hundred 
186 perhaps a dozen others in need of training. Prominent 
h as Mara Jade Skywalker and Corran Horn help Skywalker 
te the efforts of these Jedi, while promising students such 


as the Solo children and Ganner Rhysode show great promise for the future. 
Jedi characters again receive a higher-level mentor who provides training and 
advice between adventures or when the Gamemaster deems such interaction 
to be warranted and important to a mission. 

Membership: Any character with the Force Sensitivity feat can become 
a member of the Jedi tradition by being accepted as an apprentice by a Jedi 
Knight or Jedi Master. 


THE SitTH 

Peace isa lie, there is only passion. 

Through passion, | gain strength. 

Through strength, | gain power. 

Through power, | gain victory. 

Through victory, my chains are broken, 

The Force shall free me. 

—from The Sith Code 


An ancient order of Force-users devoted to the dark side and determined 
to destroy the Jedi, the Sith have existed in many forms throughout the 
history of the Galaxy, The original Sith were a near-Human population on 
Korriban, subjugated and ruled by outcast Dark Jedi several thousand years 
before the Battle of Yavin. The name “Sith” eventually came to refer to the 
dark side cult that ruled the Sith people (that is, the “Lords of the Sith"). 
When the Old Republic discovered the Sith Empire thousands of years later, 
it led to the Great Hyperspace War, the first of a long series of conflicts that 
ravaged the galaxy over the next few millennia, Eventually, the Sith Empire 
(now known as the “Old Sith") was destroyed, and all it left behind were 
ancient holocrons and the ruined tombs and temples on Korriban, Yavin 4, 
and a handful of other planets throughout the galaxy. 

The current incarnation of the Sith (the “New Sith”) is the result of another 
Dark Jedi who broke away from the order. Two thousand years before the 
Battle of Yavin, this Dark Jedi had come to the understanding that the true 
power of the Force lay not through contemplation and passivity but by tap- 
ping into one’s emotions and the dark side, Renaming himself Darth Ruin, he 
stole a Sith Holocron from the archives of the Jedi order and began gathering 
followers to his banner. Awakening beliefs from the dark past, the new Sith 
cult continued to grow, driven by the promise of new powers attainable by 
tapping into the hateful energies of the dark side. It was only a matter of 
time before the order self-destructed. internecine struggles by power-hunary 
Sith practitioners dwindled their numbers. Weakened by infighting, the Sith 
were easily wiped out by the Jedi at the Battle of Ruusan, one thousand years 
after Darth Ruin founded the order. 

However, one Sith had the cunning to survive. Darth Bane restructured 
the cult so that there could only be two—no more, no less: a master and 
an apprentice, Bane adopted cunning, subterfuge, and stealth as the fun- 
damental tenets of the new Sith order. Bane took an apprentice. When that 


lA #SiawHS 


eaHed aA. 


apprentice succeeded him, that new Sith Lord would take an apprentice. 
Thus, the Sith quietly continued for centuries, until the time of Darth Sidi- 
ous. With great cunning and treachery, Sidious fomented a galactic civil war 
within the Republic, seized control of the Galactic Senate, wiped out the Jedi 
order, and replaced the Old Republic with the Galactic Empire. With Sidious 
as the Emperor and Darth Vader as his loyal apprentice, the Sith ruled the 
galaxy and plunged it into darkness, It remained so for decades until a new 
hope arose to bring Darth Vader back from the dark side and extinguish the 
menace of the Sith, 

The Sith order rises once again in the Legacy era, some 140 years after 
the Battle of Yavin. The new Sith are led 
by the enigmatic Darth Krayt and serve 
as dark side enforcers to the reincar- 
nated Empire. Though the Sith are not 
a5 common as the Jedi were during the 
days of the Old Republic, it is not uncommon to 
have a Sith apprentice or Sith Lord attached to an 
important mission or garrison. 

Membership: Any character 
with the Force Sensitivity feat can 
become a member of the Sith tra- 
dition by being accepted as an 
apprentice by a Sith Lord, During 
the Rise of the Empire era, there 
can be only one Sith Lord and one 
Sith apprentice. Thus, the only way 
to join the Sith tradition during this 
cra is to wait (or arrange) for one of 
the two Sith to die. 


OTHER 
FORCE- 
USING 
TRADITIONS 
The Jedi and the Sith are not the 
only Force-users in the galaxy. 
Several other traditions have sprung 
up over the course of history, 
some lasting for many years and 
some extinguished during Darth 
Vader's purge of the Jedi. Most 
such Force-users receive only 
rudimentary training, while 
others develop their own skills 
and abilities by simple trial and 
error. A few of the more orga- 


nized Force-using sects have learned a great deal about the Force and cap 
become powerful even without the benefit of thousands of years of traginan 
and philosophy. On the whole, the Jedi order typically attempts to root au 
these Force-users and assimilate them, or at least keep tabs on them. 

The following two Force-using sects are suitable for use in the Story 
Roleplaying Gome, though certainly there are others that would work 4 
well. Each tradition has a Force talent tree associated with it; like the Fors 
talents presented earlier in the chapter, these talents are available only tg 
characters with the Force Sensitivity feat [page 85), and even then only if 
the character is a member of that tradition, 


The Jensaarai 
The Jensaarai sect of Force-users came into existence near the 
of the Clone Wars and is relatively young compared to other : 

traditions. Founded by an Anzati Dark Jedi, Nik 

Tyris, the Jensaarai blend teachings of Jedi am 
Sith philosophy to form something altog 
different. Unfortunately, a short time after Tyas 
and a band of rogue Jedi split off to form the 
movement, the Jedi Council dispatched several 
Jedi Knights to put an end to their rebellion, n 

Jedi accomplished their mission, killing Tyf 

and his comrades, but unknowingly leavin 

behind the families and students of te 
new Jensaarai tradition. The survivin 

Jensaarai laid in wait as Darth Vi der’ 

purge of the Jedi swept through the 

galaxy, coming close to extinction 
themselves on occasion but SUVIN 
ing nonetheless. After the fall @ 
the Empire, Luke Skywalker 
Corran Horn discovered the 
saarai and made them fast aie 
even bringing some of them intot 

New Jedi Order. : 

The Jensaarai walk a dangerous 7 
between light and darkness. ThOt 
their dark Jedi Masters died eanly® 
the hands of the Council's agentes 

Jensaarai followers retained MUG ® 

the philosophy (if not the Sith Se@iss 
that Tyris had used to found the of 

The Jensaarai resemble both the Jedi and t 

Sith in many ways; they construct and Wis 

lightsabers, they defend their planet from MO™ 
forces, and they have a strong grasp of the 


they remain quite different in other respects. Jensaarai 
ct suits of armor, fashioning them after creatures they 
snalities, and they can be violent and ruthless when 
ah many Jensaerai Defenders run the risk of falling to 
le, very few actually do, as discipline and awareness of the 
their actions are two of the most important tenets of 


Any character with the Force Sensitivity feat can become 
the Jensaarai tradition by being accepted as an apprentice by 
“ ‘or Force disciple who is a member of the Jensaarai, In addi- 
sracter with the Force Sensitivity who is native to the Suarbi 
ng the Rise of the Empire era and onward) is likely a member of 
3i tradition. 


)EFENDER TALENT TREE 

k a thin line between light and darkness, using the teach- 
Jedi and the Sith to create their own unique traditions. 
U ers that are part of the Jensaarai tradition may select talents 
or: As 2 full-round action, you may spend a Force Point to 
armor to the Force, permanently increasing its armor bonus 
, the maximum Dexterity bonus of the attuned armor per- 
wes by +1. Only you can benefit from wearing the attuned 
its do not apply if someone else dons the armor. 

Bloak: As a swift action, you can surround yourself with an invis- 
a of Force power that shields you and anything you're carrying 
nic surveillance. The bubble also blocks all electronic sensors 
hications. The Force cloak lasts for as long as you concentrate 
on) or until the start of your next turn. 

Mastery: As the Force Cloak talent, except that you can 
ible to envelop a number of creatures (including yourself) 


As a swift action, you can take a penalty of up to -5 on 
add the same number (up to +5) as a Force bonus to an 
provided the ally is within your line of sight when you 
The bonus you confer cannot exceed your base attack 
eraNges to your attack rolls and your ally's Reflex Defense last 
tof your next turn. 


es of Dathomir 

et Dathomir, the witches were some of the first non-Jedi 

intered by Luke Skywalker during his quest to rebuild the 

ioe 600 years before the Clone Wars, the Jedi Order banished 
ory to the primitive planet of Dathomir. In exile, she founded 
Of Force adepts, selectively breeding with a group of exiled 


arms dealers, and within decades had created a Force-using society to rule. 
Though ruthless, Allya maintained a strict rule of law (even authoring a tome 
called the Book of Law for her followers to use as an example), After Allya’s 
death, the society fragmented into six clans, and despite Allya's command 
to never concede to evil, some of the witches she trained fell to the dark 
side, becoming the Nightsisters. 

The Witches of Dathomir are part of a primitive culture with a strong 
yet rudimentary grasp of the Force. Though much of their own knowledge is 
derived from the Jedi arts, over the centuries their lifestyle and philosophies 
have shaped their knowledge of the Force to fit their own needs. The Witches 
of Dathomir train and ride fearsome rancors, using the Force to communicate 
with them. Though their tribal organization makes them seem primitive, they 
are sophisticated and knowledgeable Force-users who, despite their rustic 
lifestyle, have evolved Force powers seemingly unheard of to other sects. 

Membership: Only female natives of Dathomir (from the Rise of the 
Empire era onward) with the Force Sensitivity feat can be members of the 
Witches of Dathomir tradition. 


DATHOMIRI WITCH TALENT TREE 

The Force-using witches of the planet Dathomir are primitive yet powerful 
beings. They use ancient training handed down for generations as the basis 
of their powers. 

Adept Spelicaster: You may use any Force power that normally requires a 
swift action, move action, or standard action as a full-round action instead, 
IF you choose to do so, you may reroll your Use the Force check to activate 
that power, but you must accept the result of the reroll, even if it is worse. 

Charm Beast: You may make a Use the Force check in place of a Persua- 
sion check when attempting to change the attitude of an undomesticated 
creature with an Intelligence of 2 or less. Additionally, you do not take the 
normal —5 penalty on the check if the creature can't speak or understand 
your language, 

Command Beast: Whenever you manage to shift the attitude of a beast 
to indifferent or friendly, you may treat that creature as a domesticated 
animal—but for you only (it remains undomesticated in its response to other 
creatures), Additionally, you may use this beast as a mount, as per the Ride 
skill (see page 72), provided that it is at least one size category larger than 
you and has a comfortable place for you to sit. For more information on 
beasts, see page 273. 

Prerequisite: Charm Beast. 

Flight: As a swift action, you can spend a Force Point to fly. You gain 
a fly speed equal to your land speed, and you can ascend at half speed or 
descend at double speed, The flight lasts until the start of your next turn; if 
you're still airborne at that time, you fail. 

Prerequisite: Adept Spelicaster. 


1A Heiae rH 


CHAPTER VI! 
OIC TRAITS 


at does your character look like? How old is he [or she)? What sort of first 
Mipression does he make? What led him to become a hero? 

his chapter covers a miscellany of topics that apply to your character. 
Lhelps you establish your character's identity and place in the Star Wars 
erse and make him or her more lifelike—like a main character in a Stor 
~ | Wars movie or novel. For many players, this is the true expression of roleplay- 

+ ing: defining the character that you are going to play- 

When you first play a character, it’s fine to leave some of the details 
sketchy, Over time, as adventures play out, you'll get a better sense of who 
you want your character to be. You'll develop your character's details much 
the way an author develops a character over several chapters in a novel or 
over several novels in a series. 


DETAILS 


This section offers advice as you determine details about your character, 
_ including his or her name, age, appearance, and personality. Start with some 
idea about your character's background and personality, and use that idea 
to develop the details that bring your character to life. 


a4 


NAME 

_ Invent or choose a name that fits your character's species and class. Chapter 
2: Species contains some examples of alien names. A name is a great way 
‘or you to start thinking about your character's background. For instance, a 
¥ Rodian scout might be named after a great Rodian hunter of the past, and 
the Rodian may be striving to live up to that heritage. Alternatively, the name 
could be that of an infamous traitor, and the hero could be bent on proving 
that she's not like her namesake, 

A name can also tell a lot about a character and help establish an image 
in your mind and the minds of the other players. It doesn't have to be 
descriptive, but you want it to fit the type of character you're going to play. 
Use the sample names to help you make up a name that has the appropriate 
Star Wars feel. 


GE 

(ieharacter's age is pretty much up to you (subject to the Gamemaster’s 
). A character reaches Ist level in a heroic class at the point when 
Steps out of mundane life and into the drama of the story, either by 
hrough circumstances beyond the character's control. That could 
joungG adult for a Padawan learner, as a 20-year-old adult (such as 
‘Luke Skywalker in A New Hope), or as an even older character, 
pur character concept. 


UA HSLdwHS 


 iBSeeaggrruvu | 


oy 
“ 


SPECIES CHILD YOUNG ADULT ADULT 
Human 1-11 years 12-15 years 16-40 years 
Bothan 1-11 years 12-16 years 17-45 years 
Cerean 1-10 years 11-15 years 16-35 years 
Duros 1-9 years 10-14 years 15-35 years 
Ewok 1-9 years 10-13 years 14-29 years 
Gamorrean 1-6 years 7-12 years 13-29 years 
Gungan 1-12 years 13-15 years 16-35 years 
Ithorian 1-13 years 14-17 years 18-44 years 
Kel Dor 1-11 years 12-15 years 16-44 years 
Mon Calamari 1-11 years 12-16 years 17-40 years 
Quarren 1-11 years 12-16 years 17-40 years 
Rodian 1-12 years 13-15 years 16-35 years 
Sullustan 1-9 years 10-14 years 15-39 years 
Trandoshan 1-11 years 12-14 years 15-34 years 
Twi'lek 1-12 years 13-15 years 16-44 years 
Wookiee 1-12 years 13-17 years 18-300 years 
Zabrak 1-8 years 9-14 years 15-44 years 


MIDDLE AGE OLD VENERABLE 
41-59 years 60-79 years 80+ years 
46-65 years 66-84 years 85+ years 
36-53 years 54-64 years 65+ years 
36-49 years 50-69 years 70+ years 
30-44 years 45-59 years 60+ years 
30-39 years 40-44 years 45+ years 
36-54 years 55-64 years 65+ years 
45-69 years 70-84 years 85+ years 
45-59 years 60-69 years 70+ years 
41-57 years 58-79 years 80+ years 
41-57 years 58-79 years 80+ years 
36-49 years 50-59 years 60+ years 
40-55 years 56-69 years 70+ years 
35-49 years 50-59 years 60+ years 
45-59 years 60-79 years 80+ years 
301-350 years 351-399 years 400+ years 
45-55 years 56-69 years 70+ years 


Table 7-1: Age by Species gives age ranges for the various species pre- 
sented in Chapter 2: Species. As your hero ages, his or her physical ability 
scores (Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution) decrease and his or her mental 
ability scores (Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma) increase, as shown in 
Table 7-2: Aging Effects). The effects of each aging step are cumulative. 
However, none of a character's ability scores can be reduced below 1 in 
this way. 

First, generate your ability scores as defined in Chapter 1, Then, once your 
starting age is determined, apply the modifiers shown on Table 7-2; Aging 


Child -3 to Str and Con; -1 to Dex, Int, Wis, and Cha 
Young adult -1 to Str, Dex, Con, Int, Wis, and Cha 

Adult No modifier 

Middle age -1 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha 
Old -2 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha 
Venerable ~3 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to int, Wis, and Cha 


Effects. Note that the methods described for determining ability scores 
the scores of an adult character. For example, when a character re 
middle age, her Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores each @ 
point, while her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores each inet 
by 1 point. When she becomes old, her physical ability scores all di 
additional 2 points, while her mental ability scores increase by 1 yi 
far she has lost a total of 3 points from her Strength, Constit 
Dexterity scores and gained a total of 2 points to her Wisdom, Intenig 
and Charisma scores due to aging. F, 

On the other hand, a child would start with a total penalty 
Strength and Constitution and a -2 penalty to all ather abilities (adj4st 
are cumulative for both the child and young adult categories). As he aa 
to young adulthood, these penalties would be reduced to -1 for cach 
score. He would thus "gain" 3 points to both his Strength and ‘ 
and 1 point to each of his other ability scores, When he later D&S® 
adult, he would gain 1 point to each of his ability scores. 4 

Jedi live longer than the average member of their species. Ht é: 
Human lives well into his or her 80s, a Human Jedi might live well i™ 
her 100s. The upper limit for a character powerful in the Force ca" z 
as much or more than a typical member of a species. 


2ANCE 

character looks like using the descriptions of the various 
2; Species as a starting point. Characters with high Cha~ 
to be better looking than those with low Charisma scores, 
er with high Charisma could have strange looks, giving him 


your hero's looks to tell something about his personality and 
ir example: 
the Twi'lek scoundrel, always has a smirk on his lips, no 
tion he finds himself in. He treats life as a joke where only 
inch line. He wears the latest fashions and comes off as being 
‘to everyone around him. 
‘urn, the Human soldier, has a rough, dark look that speaks of 
as led. His mercenary nature shows through in the way he moves, 
» wears his armor, and the way his twin blasters hang at his sides. 
aro d, dead, uncaring. You know he means business and that he's 
just by looking at him. 

fn Wezz, the Human Jedi, appears confident and in control. She 
robes and lightsaber proudly, and her fresh, young face glows 
m and hope. You know you can trust her, and you know she 
role very seriously. Perhaps even a bit too seriously. 


1T AND WEIGHT 

ht and Weight presents average heights and weights for the 
es presented in Chapter 2: Species. Your character may be of 
and weight, or you can make your character lighter, heavier, 
er. Think about what your character's abilities might say about 
weight. If she is weak but agile, she may be thin. If she is 
she may be tall or just heavy. 


SONALITY 
character acts, what she likes, what she wants out of life, 
and what makes her angry. Your character's species is a good 
when thinking about personality, but it’s a bad place to stop. 
7 (or whatever) different from every other Wookiee. 
ali vis # Summary of how your character usually acts. Make sure it's 
and fun for you to play. Give your character good points and bad 
bout his code of ethics, Will your character do anything for the 
Is there a line he just won't cross? Is your character cheerful 
stIC OF pessimistic, honorable or dishonorable? These are just 
$ that could go into your character's personality. 
tk for making an interesting personality for your character is 
Sort of conflict in his nature. For example, Deel the scoundrel 
“centered, but he looks out for his close friends. He may be 


AVERAGE 
HEIGHT 


AVERAGE 


SPECIES WEIGHT 


Human, fernale 1.6m 55 kg 


Cerean, maie 2.0m 78 kg 


Duros 1.8m 70 kg 


Gamorrean 1.8m 140 kg 


Ithorian 2.0m 90 kq 


Mon Calamari 


= 
3 


72 kg 


Rodian 


im 
3 


60 kg 


Trandoshan 2.0 m 80 kg 


Twi'lek, female 16m 55 kg 


ind 
o 
3 


Wookiee, female 100 kg 


tempted to help them, even if it goes against his best interests, so long as 
he can justify doing so. 

Your character's personality can change over time. Just because you've 
written some personality notes on your character sheet doesn’t mean you 
can't let your character grow and develop the way real people do. 


BACKGROUND 
Decide what your character's life has been like up until now. Here are a few 
questions to get you thinking: 

How did she decide to become a hero? 

How did she acquire her class? A soldier, for example, might have been 
in a planetary militia, she may come from a family of soldiers, she may have 
trained in a martial school, or she may be a self-taught mercenary. 

Where did she get her starting equipment? Did she assemble it piece by 
piece over time? Was it a parting gift from a parent or mentor? Do any items 
have special significance to her? 

What's the worst thing that's ever happened to her? 

What's the best thing that's ever happened to her? 

Does she stay in contact with her family? What do they think of her? 

Only your GM needs to know al! the details of your background. You 
can tell the other players as much or as little as you see fit. You can get as 
complex as you like, or keep your character's background simple. Has she 
traveled around the galaxy a lot? What's her home planet like? What does 
she think of the Republic (or Rebellion, or Empire, or whatever)? Does she 
know any of the other players’ characters from before the campaign started? 
If not, what's her connection to the rest of the team? 


GOALS 

Your character might have a number of objectives that he or she hopes to 
accomplish, These are the things that motivate your character. Does he seek 
wealth or love? Revenge or power? That's up to you and your GM. 

Goals can be immediate or fong-term. They can also change during play, 
and new goals can be added all the time. Think of goals as what's motivating 
your character right now, though some long-term goals might fade to the 
background until circumstances warrant. 


DESTINY 


Destiny plays a large role in the Star Wars universe. As a young boy, Anakin 
Skywalker is told that his destiny is to bring balance to the Force. Padme's 
destiny is to give birth to the twins, Luke and Leia, so that they can fulfill 
their own destinies, Luke Skywalker learns that his destiny is to redeem his 
father, Darth Vader, so that balance to the Force is restored, Leia’s destiny is 
to save the Rebellion from annihilation at the hands of the Empire and help 
forge the New Republic. The destiny mechanic helps players and Gamemasters 
recognize that all heroes—and even major villains—have significant roles to 
play in the fate of the galaxy. Destiny rewards players for good roleplaying 
and gives Gamemasters new plot hooks to use when designing adventures. 

The rules presented below are optional. A Gamemaster may decide to use 
Destiny Points or not; however, the decision to use them should be made 
before the campaign gets underway, so that each player can decide whether 
or not to embrace a destiny for her character from the outset. 


Although conceivably any character—heroic or nonheroic—has a dec 
to fulfill, only heroic characters receive Destiny Points and receive jn_p 
benefits for pursuing their destinies. Nonheroic characters don’t rep 
Destiny Points; their destinies, whatever they may be, exist purely ¢ 
story level. 


CHOOSING A DESTINY 
Players don't need to choose destinies for their heroes at the start of 
campaign—or ever, for that matter. Not every hero has a destiny th: a 
be fulfilled before the end of the campaign, and even players who 
their characters to have destinies need to give their characters—and 
campaign—a chance to develop first. It may take several adventures bi 
players understand where the campaign is going and what goals their hi 
are likely to pursue. 

Choosing a destiny can be handled in one of two ways: Either the pk 
can select an appropriate destiny for her hero (based on what's happe 
the campaign), or the Gamemaster can select a secret destiny for 
If the player chooses a destiny for her character, the GM should challe 
the player to fulfill her destiny by presenting conflicting situations W 
the smartest and most beneficial decision might force the characte 
choose between doing what is best for her fellow heroes and taking: 
toward her destiny. If the GM secretly chooses the hero's destiny, he) 
present challenges that let the character move closer to achieving her 
tiny, imparting benefits when the character is moving in the right d 
and imposing penalties when the character does something that 
far from the destined path. The GM-selected “secret destiny” 
player to take her character through a period of self-discovery, a8 
which actions lead her closer to—or farther from—her destiny. In 
this mirrors Luke Skywatker’s struggle at the end of The Empire Strikes 
when he must choose between redeeming his father and falling prey 
corruption of the dark side. 

A character with a destiny gains short-term benefits whenever 
significant progress toward fulfilling it, while a character who p 
that move him farther away from his destiny suffers short-term mt 
effects. Conversely, a character without a destiny has nothing to ga 
nothing to lose. 


ied 


DESTINY POINTS 
Destiny Points are resources that a player can use to help fulfill wi 
destiny has been set before her character. A 1st-level cha 
play with 1 Destiny Point and gains another Destiny Point at ¢ac” 
Destiny Point allows a hero to perform a nearly impossible task OF 
against all odds, 

Only a character with a destiny can gain or spend Destiny Pe 


qd Destiny Points 
sf Destiny Point does not take an action and grants one of the 


efits: 


atically score a critical hit (no attack roll required) 

a cally cause an attack made against you to miss (even once the 
is resolved) spits. Restyiags! 

of turn (thus changing your position in the initiative order}. 

ge that would otherwise harm another character within your 


the effect of some Force powers {as noted in their 
scriptions). 
e applications of Force secrets {as noted in their descriptions) 
ately gain 3 Force Points (see Force Points, page 92). 


ter may accumulate as many Destiny Points as she has levels. 
5th-level character may have as many as 5 Destiny Points if she 
gn't spend any of them. 

4 a character fulfills his destiny, he can choose to keep the Destiny 
has remaining or transfer some or all of them to allied characters. 
* who retains his unspent Destiny Points can’t spend them until 
# new destiny. A character who chooses to give away some oral 
Destiny Points can’t give more than 1 Destiny Point to any single ally. 
mo other circumstances may a character transfer his Destiny Points 
er character. 

Pexampile, Sia-Lan fulfills her destiny by redeeming a powerful dark- 
ter which she still has 2 unspent Destiny Points. Sia-Lan decides 
BVorén and Rorworr—two of her compatriots—1 Destiny Point each, 
h her with © Destiny Points. 


AMPLE DESTINIES 
ing Sample destinies should provide a starting point for any char- 
T Wishing to take advantage of the destiny rules. Each destiny includes 
fet description, with examples. 
Bonus: When a character accomplishes a goal or performs a task 
¥ Moves him closer to fulfilling his destiny (GM's determination), 
aims this short-term benefit 

stiny Penalty: When a character does something that clearly moves 
a from his destiny (GM's determination), he suffers this short-term 
ative effect. 
= Fulfilled: When a character fulfills his destiny, he gains these 


Refient benefits. Sometimes fulfilling a destiny has other effects as well: 
FE also covered here 


Corruption 
Your destiny is to corrupt an individual, organization, or location. You may 
seek to turn a person to the dark side or indoctrinate a group of people in the 
ways of evil. Your destiny may also be to become corrupted yourself, either 
by another character, an organization, or a series of life-changing events 
that unfold over time. The corruption should be a long-term goal requiring 
a great deal of time and effort. 

Examples of this destiny include the Emperor's corruption of Anakin 
Skywalker, a dark Force-user transforming a Jedi shrine into a temple of evil, 
or an Imperial officer convincing an Alliance cell to betray the Rebellion 


WHA SBSBLeyYeoS 


p=) =) 3) 3) | 


SMU, 


Fr 
q 
oy 
g 
ff) 


Additionally, a character's destiny may be to allow herself to be corrupted 
by the dark side; her fall into darkness becomes the path to achieving this 
destiny, 

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you 
gain a +1 destiny bonus on skill checks and ability checks. 

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on all skill checks and ability 
checks for 24 hours, 

Destiny Fulfilled: Increase two ability scores of your choice by +1 each. 
In addition, if your Dark Side Score (see page 94) is less than your Wisdom 
score, your Dark Side Score increases until it's equal to your Wisdom score, 
signifying that you've turned to the dark side (see The Dark Side, page 93). 


Destruction 
Your destiny is to destroy a person or object, for good or evil. A Rebel agent's 
destiny might be to destroy a tyrannical Imperial Moff presiding over his 
home planet, while a darksider may be destined to destroy a powerful Jedi 
training site used to bolster the ranks of the Jedi order. The target of this 
destiny should be something very difficult to reach, either because it’s heav- 
ily guarded or well hidden. Examples of this destiny include Darth Vader's 
destruction of the Emperor, Lando Calrissian’s destruction of the Death Star 
ll, or A-wing pilot Arvel Crynyd's destruction of the Executor. 

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you 
gain a +2 destiny bonus on all damage rolls, 

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on all damage rolls for 24 
hours. 

Destiny Fulfilled: Increase one ability score of your choice by +2. 


Discovery 
Your destiny is to discover a person, species, object, or location that was 
either previously lost or unknown to the civilized galaxy, This could be as 
simple as seeking out the remains of a long-dead hero, or as rare as Finding a 
vergence in the Force, A scout's destiny might be to find a thus-far-uncharted 
world that helps solve a galactic crisis, while a scoundrel’s destiny might 
be to chart a new route through the Deep Core, allowing the Rebel Alliance 
to sneak past the Empire's security web. The thing being discovered should 
be something that can only be found as the result of a long-term search 
or serendipitous events that only occur because the character long ago set 
down the path that would lead to that discovery. 

Examples of this destiny include Qui-Gon Jinn’s discovery of Anakin Sky- 
walker on Tatooine or Kyle Katarn’s discovery of the Valley of the Jedi. 

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you 
gain a +1 destiny bonus to all defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will). 

Destiny Penalty: You take a -1 penalty to your defenses (Reflex, Forti- 
tude, and Will) for 24 hours, 

Destiny Fulfilled: You gain a permanent +1 destiny bonus to your 
defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will), 


Education 
Your destiny is to train or educate another being or group of bein 
some way. In some cases, this could mean taking @ young Mapes 2 
and molding her into an eventual Jedi Master, or it could mean teat 
fresh-faced Rebel Alliance recruits and molding them into a cracks Re 
SpecForce operatives, Characters with this destiny are not merely teae 
providing mundane training. The education that this destiny demande y 
be of great importance to the galaxy, and should lay the groundwork for 
beneficiaries of your tutelage to go on to fulfill destinies of their own, | 
when the training is complete can this destiny be fulfilled, and the pr 
should take many months or years to complete. : 

Examples of this destiny include Obi-Wan Kenobi's training of A 
Skywalker, Yoda's training of Luke Skywalker, or Grand Admiral Thr 
training of Captain Pellaeon. : 

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of 
gain a +1 destiny bonus on skill checks and ability checks. 

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on all skill checks and al 
checks for 24 hours. 

Destiny Fulfilled: You gain a permanent +5 destiny bonus on ch 
made with one class skill of your choice. ' 


Redemption 
Your destiny is to redeem a character that has been corrupted or of 
turned to evil. Many Jedi seek to turn their fallen brethren away from 
dark side. A Rebel agent might seek to turn his brother, an Imperial 0 
away from the evil Empire, redeeming him back to the side of justic€® 
freedom. The target of this destiny should be someone that has fi 
the light in some way, whether that means turning to the dark side 
Force or simply siding with evil over good. Turning someone away. 
their wicked ways is usually very difficult and requires far more than 
persuasion, Often a character that fulfills this destiny does not SUry 
and sometimes neither does their redeemed target. Additionally, jo 
be your own target for this destiny, making your own redemption then 
of fulfilling it. 

Examples of this destiny include Luke Skywalker turning Di 
away from the dark side and Revan's redemption of Bastila Shan‘ 
Star Forge. 

Destiny Bonus: You gain a Force Point. a 
Destiny Penalty: You lose one Force Point. If you have no Force 
lose, you take a -1 penalty on attack rolls until you gain a level. 

Destiny Fulfilled: The Dark Side Score of the redeemed ; 
reduced to 1, and he loses any remaining Force Points. You gain 4 ™ 
of Force Points equal to 3 + the number of Force Points the ret 
character lost. 


requires you to save a person from death or an object from 
Often characters with this destiny will not know which person 
‘re meant to save, let alone when or how to do so. They simply 
jn the right place at the right time. A hero might spend months 
io with his allies before fulfilling his destiny by saving one of their 
versely, a Rebel agent might engage in years’ worth of espionage 
planet, only to find that his destiny is to save a local Imperial 
who betrays the Empire after having her life saved, 
Saples of this destiny include Han Solo saving Luke Skywalker’s life 
he Battle of Yavin and Wicket the Ewok rescuing Leia from the scout 
A s on Endor. 
mastiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you 
42 destiny bonus on all damage rolls. 
siny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on all attack rolls for 24 hours 
Fulfilled: Increase two ability scores of your choice by +1 


[ATH AND DESTINY 
i one's destiny may yield great benefits, but the path of destiny can 
fious. Many characters in the Star Worssaga perish attempting to fulfill 
destinies. Ifa Force-sensitive character dies while fulfilling (or attempt- 
fulfill) his destiny, the Gamemaster may allow the dead character to 
Sst as a Force spirit. !f a non-Force-user perishes while pursuing or 
Heving his destiny, the GM may decide that the character's sacrifice or 
hely death imparts some benefit upon his surviving allies 
Spirit: A Force-user who dies in the process of fulfilling his destiny 
a manifest @5 4 Force spirit. For a Jedi or other qood Force-user, this means 
I hing into a translucent blue spirit that can appear before his former 
For a darksider, this means becoming an evil dark side spirit that can 
BEPON, Continuing to Spread the influence of the dark side. 

=@ Character with the Force Sensitivity feat dies while fulfilling her 
ny, that character may become a Force spirit, retaining her conscious- 
land her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores) but becoming 
t incorporeal. The Force Spirit can manifest at will and can vanish 
€asily, It can also walk through walls and exist in the vacuum of space 
ste ally, Force spirits can travel anywhere in the galaxy instantly with a 
img Oht. However, Force spirits have no substance and cannot interact 
MCailY With creatures or objects in the universe 
ren a hero dies and becomes a Force spirit, that Force spirit becomes 
ontrolied character. Under the GM’s control, a Force spirit might 
48 Quide, advising heroes in times of dire need and sharing valuable 
evel Of wisdom it held in life, 
Sacrifice: Whenever a character willingly sacrifices himself for a 
e-? Particularly while fulfilling his destiny, he can bolster the resolve 
Ng Comrades and allies. For example, when Arvel Crynyd crashed 


his A-wing into the bridge of the Executor, it was a turning point in the Battle 
of Endor, When a character dies fulfilling his destiny in such a way, all allies 
within the same star system gain a +1 destiny bonus on attack rolls and a +1 
destiny bonus to defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will) for 24 hours. 

Vengeance: When a valued ally falls in the pursuit of his destiny, it can 
have powerful effects on those present at the time of his death. When a 
character dies fulfilling his destiny, any ally who witness his death may choose 
to become filled with a desire to avenge her fallen comrade, gaining a +2 
destiny bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls for 24 hours. Since revenge 
leads to the dark side, any Force-user who chooses to gain these bonuses 
must immediately increase his Dark Side Score by 1 (see page 93) 


A, —) | iA walevHo 


We 


if 


“fh 


CHAPTER Vil) 


AN 

xy of high-tech wonders, the only limits to what types of equipment 
nercially available depend on the inventors, merchants, and corpora- 
anufacture and supply them. Most of the items described in this 
available through legitimate arms and equipment traders. 


eY 
economy turns on the wealth and products of billions of worlds. 
hut the history of known space, money has gone by many names, 
ic unit always came back to the “credit.” As the Republic waned 
he Rise of the Empire approached (circa Episodes |-III), Republic credits 

0 called “dataries") no longer had much value beyond the Core Worlds and 
he Inner Rim. Instead, local currencies became popular. More often, people 
living and working in the distant regions wanted to trade in hard currency, 
not electronic credit chips. 
This changed when the Empire came to power. By the time of the Rebellion 
era (circa Episodes [V-VI), Imperial credits were accepted everywhere. Even 
the Alliance used this currency, as it was the standard throughout known 
space until the Empire finally fell, 
The New Republic, of course, minted its own credits after the victory 
at Endor and the establishment of the new galactic government. However, 
individual planets, regions, and sectors also adopted their own currencies, 
and the Imperial remnants issued their own scrip. Exchange rates fluctuated 
wildly throughout this period. The New Republic credit was established ten 
years after the Battle of Endor and eventually emerged as the leading cur- 
rency by the time of The New Jedi Order era. 


os 


a 


CARRYING CREDITS 

The most common methods for keeping track of your credits are the credit 
chip or cred stick. These contains memory algorithms that can securely 
monitor the amount of credits available to the owner and accurately add to 
and subtract from that amount as transactions occur. 


WEALTH BEYOND CREDITS 

Some characters with access to a ship deal in commodities. Han Solo, for 
example, smuggled goods from piace to place before hooking up with the 
Rebel Alliance. Other characters might be legitimate traders, buying and sell- 
ing commodities to pay their way across the galaxy (and subsidize the adven- 
tures in which they wind up participating). Guilds and governments requiate 
trade. Charters and licenses are granted, cargo ts regularly inspected, trade 
routes are established, and port fees are posted. In general, small freighters 
might come to the attention of local ports and the occasional inspection 
vessel, but independent traders are otherwise given a lot of freedom when 
they conduct their business. 


WA #aLewHD 


Table 8-1: Trade Goods gives baseline prices for fairly broad categories of 
goods. The Gamemaster can get more specific, add or remove items depend- 
ing on supply and demand in the campaign, and adjust prices to reflect such 
fluctuations in the market. Also, prices can vary greatly in different regions 
of space, different star systems, and even between different planets within 
the same star system. 


COMMODITY COST 
Animal, common 100 
Animal, exotic 2,000 
Animal, livestock 500 
Art, common 100 
Art, quality 1,000 
Art, precious 10,000 
Bacta, 1 liter (1 kg) 100 
Food, common (1 kg) 10 
Food, quality (1 kg) 20 
Food, exotic (1 ka} 50 
Fuel, 1 liter (1 kg) 50 
Gems, semiprecious (1 gram) 100 
Gems, precious (1 gram) 1,000 
Gems, exotic (1 gram) 10,000 
Holovid 10 
Metal, common (1 metric ton) 2,500 
Metal, precious (1 kg) 10,000 
Ore, common (1 metric ton) 1,500 
Spice, common (7 kg) 1,000 
Spice, exotic (1 gram) 20 
Textiles, common (1 meter) 5 
Textiles, quality (1 meter) 2» 
Textiles, exotic (1 meter) 100 


er, ter (1k) i 


SELLING ITEMS 
Sometimes you'll come into possession of an item that you don't want. Wy 
not talking about commodities here. Commodities are valuable goods ¢ 
can easily be exchanged almost like cash. We're talking about ind) 
items from the lists presented later in this chapter. In general, a 
will buy used equipment at half its listed price. If you have a big ter 
want to upgrade to a heavy biaster pistol, you can sell the smaller ble. 
for half price, 


RESTRICTED ITEMS 


Some objects require licenses to own or operate, or are restricted tog | 
ing organizations or individuals. In such cases, a character must pay a lice 
fee to own the object legally. A license fee is a separate expense, p 
in addition to the object to which it applies. 

The four restriction ratings are as follows: 

Licensed: The owner must obtain a license to own or operate the ob 
legally. Generally, the license is not expensive, and obtaining it has fe) 
any additional legal requirements. 

Restricted: Only specifically qualified individuals or organizations 
technically allowed to own the object. However, the real obstacles too 
ership are time and money; anyone with sufficient patience and cash 
eventually acquire the necessary license. 

Military: The object is sold primarily to legitimate police and 
organizations. A military rating is essentially the same as restricted | 
above], except that manufacturers and dealers are generally under t 
government scrutiny and are therefore especially wary of selling to pr 
individuals. 

IWegal: The object is illegal in all but specific, highly regul 
circumstances. 


GETTING A LICENSE 
To get a license, you must pay the fee required to file the appli of 
amount of the fee is a percentage of the object's normal cost, a3 15 
Table 8-2: Restricted Objects. Once you've paid the fee, make a Know 
(bureaucracy) check against the DC listed in the Skill DC column. You caf 
10 or take 20 on this check. On a success, your license is approved and 
available to you in a number of days as listed in the Time Required colum 
a failure, you spend a number of days as listed in the Time Required: : 
but you are not granted the license and your application fee is !ost. ™ 
try again as often as you like if you have the time and credits to do: ; 
Whether you succeed or fail on your Knowledge (bureaucracy) chee 
request is recorded in public records. The more restricted the licem 
more in-depth the background check required, and this leaves an n= ™ 
detailed electronic trail for athers to follow, 


 UCENSE BLACK MARKET SKILL TIME 


FEE' cost Dc REQUIRED 
10% x3 15 2 days 
50% x5 25 10 days 


e fee is given as a percentage of the licensed object's base cost. 


ase to secure a license through illicit means. If you want to 

make a Persuasion check instead of a Knowledge (bureau- 
you want to fabricate a false identity or steal another person's 
a Deception check instead of a Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
‘of these checks fails by 5 or more, the local authorities are 
you! activities. 


LACK MARKET 
i hing is available on the black market. However, you must make 
information check to locate a black market merchant who has the 
seek. The DC of the check is listed in the Skill OC column of Table 
ictec Objects, and the GM may apply a bonus or penalty to the 
rnding on the circumstances, (For example, finding a black market 
the smuggler’s moon of Nar Shaddaa is relatively easy and may 
+5 bonus on the check.) If you succeed on the Gather Information 
nd a black market merchant who has access to the item you 
you can try again later, If you fail by 5 or more, someone 
been asking questions and comes to capture, interrogate, or 


find someone who can get the item for you, you'll have to pay 
‘OF five times the item's normal price (as listed in the Black 
n of Table 8-2: Restricted Items) and wait some time for 
me available (as listed in the Time Required column). 


L.PONS 

184 dangerous place. Most people have access to some kind of 
S¢ who travel the space lanes often carry a blaster or some 

ia means of defense. A weapon's legality depends on where 

FONE Would look twice at a character wearing a blaster at his side 
or Nar Shaddaa. The same character would do well to conceal 
Ng the gleaming metropolis of Coruscant. 


WEAPON GROUPS 

Discriminating combatants choose their weapons very carefully. However, a 
character who knows how to load and fire a slugthrower pistol can handle 
a blaster pistol just as expertly. Thus, weapons are categorized based on 
their form and function, and a character who takes the appropriate Weapon 
Proficiency feat (see page 89) is considered skilled with all of the weapons 
in that group, Exotic weapons such as bowcasters and flamethrowers are 
exceptions: An exotic weapon is unique in form and function, and requires 
special training (that is, the Exotic Weapon Proficiency feat) to wield 
proficiently. 


Advanced Melee Weapons 

The most common advanced melee weapons are bladed vibro weapons with 
ultrasonic generators built into their hilts or handles. A vibro weapon's ultra- 
sonic blade gives the weapon more cutting power with less effort, Advanced 
melee weapons include the electrostaff, force pike, vibrodagger, vibroblade, 
vibrobayonet, and vibro-ax. 


Exotic Weapons 

Unlike other weapon groups, you must select the Exotic Weapon Pro- 
ficiency feat each time you want to learn how to use a different exotic 
weapon. Exotic weapons include the amphistaff, atlatl, bowcaster, cesta, 
and flamethrower. 


Heavy Weapons 

Large, powerful weapons that usually require a brace or tripod to oper- 
ate fall under the category of heavy weapons, as do even larger weapons 
mounted to vehicles and starships. Heavy weapons include the blaster 
cannon, grenade launcher, heavy repeating blaster, missile launcher, and 
E-Web repeating blaster. 


Lightsabers 

This group includes the standard lightsaber (a handgrip hilt that proj- 
ects 2 single blade of energy) and all lightsaber variants, including the 
double-bladed lightsaber (as wielded by Darth Maul in Episode |: The 
Phantom Menace}. Lightsabers ignore damage reduction unless noted 
otherwise. However, a target's shield rating reduces a lightsaber's damage 
normally, 


Pistols 

Pistols are ranged weapons that can be fired with one hand. Types of pistols 
include the blaster pistol (the most common firearm in the Star Wars uni- 
verse), the heavy blaster pistol, the hold-out blaster, the sporting blaster, 
the ion pistol, and the stugthrower pistol, 


Rifles 

Rifles deal more damage and have a greater range than pistols, but you take 
@ -5 penalty on attack rolls if you wield a rifle with one hand (regardless of 
the weapon's size relative to you). Weapons in this group include the blaster 
carbine, blaster rifle, heavy blaster rifle, sporting blaster rifle, light repeating 
blaster, ion rifle, and slugthrower rifle. 


Simple Weapons 

Simple weapons include weapons that require no special training to use, such 
as the club, combat gloves, knife, mace, quarterstaff, stun baton, grenades, 
and thermal detonator. Also included are primitive weapons such as the 
spear, net, sling, and bow, 


WEAPON SIZES 
The size of a weapon compared to your size determines whether the weapon 
is light, one-handed, two-handed, or too large for you to use. 

Light: If the weapon's size is smaller than your size (a Human using a Small 
weapon, such as a blaster pistol), then the weapon is light. Light weapons 
can be used while grappling, and light melee weapons can be used with the 
Weapon Finesse feat (page 89). 

One-Handed: If the weapon's size category is the same as your size (a 
Human using a Medium weapon, such as a heavy blaster pistol), then the 
weapon is one-handed. 

Two-Handed: If the weapon's size category is one step larger than your 
size {a Human using a Large weapon, such as a light repeating blaster), then 
the weapon requires two hands to use (and sometimes a special mount such 
as a tripod). 

Too Large to Use: If the weapon's size category is two or more steps 
larger than your size (an Ewok using a Large weapon, such as a blaster 
cannon), the weapon is too large to use. The exceptions to this are vehicle- 
or starship-mounted mounted weapons, which are housed in a unit that 
aids in their use, 


WEAPON QUALITIES 

When you choose a weapon for your character, refer to Table 8-3: 
Melee Weapons and Table 8-4: Ranged Weapons for details about the 
various weapon types. The weapon qualities on these tables are explained 
below: 

Weapon Group: A weapon's group tells you which Weapon Proficiency 
feat you need to be considered proficient with the weapon. If you don't 
have the appropriate feat, you take a -5 penalty on attacks made with the 
weapon. 

Size: The weapon's size (see Weapon Sizes, above). 

Cost: The weapon's cost in credits. 


Damage: The damage the weapon deals with each hit, Melee weapon 
add the wielder’s Strength bonus to damage, or twice the wielder's Stre 
bonus when wielded in two hands. 1 

Double weapons have two damage entries separated by a slash; 4 
represent the damage dealt by each end of the double weapon, 

Stun Damage: if the weapon has a stun setting, its stun damage is fi 
here {see Stunning, page 162, for more information). Ranged weapons s 
stun have a maximum range of 6 squares-unless noted otherwise. 

Rate of Fire: Ranged weapons have either a single-shot a C 
an autofire setting (A). A few weapons have both settings and-can be 5 
either single-shot mode or autofire mode as a swift action. Only ran: 
ons that hold multiple shots of ammunition can have an autofire 

Weight: The weapon's weight in kilograms. 

Damage Type: The type of damage a weapon deals. Some creat 
objects take more or less damage from weapons that deal a certain typ 
damage (see Damage Reduction, page 158). Some weapons deal more! 
one type of damage, depending on how the weapon is used: 

And: The weapon deals both types of damage simultaneously, 

Or: The weapon deals one type of damage or the other, chosen j 
before making the attack roll. 

Double weapons sometimes deal a different damage type d 
which end of the weapon is used; in this case, the two damage 
separated by a slash. 

(lon): See lon Damage, page 159, for special rules gov 
weapons. 

Availability: Some weapons have limited availability, as noted belo 

Licensed, Restricted, Military, or lilegal: Ownership of the weapon is lim 
to certain individuals (see Restricted Items, page 118). 

Rare: A rare weapon is generally available only on its planet of origi 
example, Naboo for the atiat! and cesta, or Kashyyyk for the bowcast 
by acquiring it directly from the manufacturer. When available on te) 
market elsewhere, rare items usually cost double the listed price. 


MELEE WEAPONS 


Used in close combat, melee weapons usually deal bludgeoning, $ 
or piercing damage, depending on the weapon's design. Some G 
powered components to augment the user's own strength. Many 1 
melee weapons are widely available and have few governmental . 
restrictions. Civilians, law enforcement agents, and military persom™ 
carry these items. 

A character's Strength modifier is always applied to a melee ™ 
attack roll and damage roll. 


The various types of melee weapons presented in Table 8-3: Mele \ 
are described below. 


‘a weapon, The amphistaff can become as rigid as stone or 
and it can contract the muscles around its head and tail 


rm: A rigid amphistaff can be wielded or thrown as a spear 
The spear's head is poisonous: If the target takes damage and 
oll equals or exceeds its Fortitude Defense, the target moves -1 
teo on the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). 
A flexible amphistaff has a reach of 2 squares (see Reach, 
hip's tail deals 144 points of piercing damage (plus the 
sngth modifier) and is poisonous: If the target takes damage 
*k roll equals or exceeds its Fortitude Defense, the target moves 
t step on the condition track. Instead of dealing damage with 
- ler may use it to pin or trip the target (see Grapple, page 
ugh he was using the Pin or Trip feat (see Chapter 5: Feats); the 
be proficient with the amphistaff but doesn’t need to have the 
at to use this feature of the weapon. 
its weapon forms, an amphistaff may be coaxed by its wielder to 
to 10 squares away (a standard action). If this ranged attack 
arget’s Reflex Defense and Fortitude Defense, the target moves 
fep on the condition track. An amphistaff can only spit venom 
24 standard hours. 


Weapon, the atlatl adds speed and power as an extension of a 
im, allowing the user to hurl energy balls farther than with just an 
5S. If forced into close combat, the wielder can use the atlat! as a 
Hee weapon. Although the atlatl is considered an exotic weapon, 
‘ ST , a8 proficient if they have the Weapon Proficiency 
pons) feat. 


squares within your reach (even if you used the rifle to make a 
pOn'your last turn), and you can use it to make attacks of oppor- 
ust requires two hands to use when mounted on a rifle. 


A bayonet cannot be used on a rifle with a folded stock. A bayonet 
detached from a rifle is treated as a knife; a mounted bayonet deals more 
damage than the knife because of the added leverage and bulk. 


Cesta 

Exotic Weapon 

Another Gungan weapon, the cesta isa flexible pole used to hurl small energy 
balls. It can also be used as a stafflike melee weapon. Although the cesta is 
considered an exotic weapon, Gungans are treated as proficient if they have 
the Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) feat. 


Club/Baton 

Simple Weapon 

Powered by the wielder's brute strength, clubs break an opponent's bones, 
or worse. They are the favored weapons of thugs. Batons (a variety of the 
club) are used by police forces on relatively peaceful worlds in crowd-control 


situations. 


Combat Gloves 
Simple Weapon 
A pair of padded gloves provides extra hitting power thanks to their weight 
and the materials used to construct them. Anyone who expects to get into 
a fistfight or a brawl probably wants to wear combat gloves. They provide 
a +1 bonus to damage on a successful unarmed attack. 

Combat gloves/are two sizes smaller than their wearer (for example, a 
pair of combat gloves designed for a Human are Tiny), Because of how they 
are worn, combat gloves can't be disarmed or dropped. 


Electrostaff 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
An electrostaff is a double weapon: Each end has an electromagnetic pulse 
generator that discharges upon impact, allowing it to deal blunt-force 
wounds. If desired, either electromagnetic pulse can be set to stun its target 
instead. The staff is made of a resilient phrik alloy that gives it DR 20; this 
damage reduction applies even against lightsaber attacks. 
Electrostaffs are not common except during the Clone Wars. The |G-100 
Series MagnaGuard droid (see page 201) typically carries an electrostaff. 
An electrostaff requires two energy cells to operate. 


Force Pike 

Advanced Melee Weapon 

Force pikes are 1-meter-long poles topped with power tips. A two-setting power 

dial located near the bottom of the pike allows the user to set the weapon to 

“lethal” or “stun.” Although primarily a vibro weapon, the force pike also delivers 

an electrical shock through its tip, dealing both piercing and energy damage. 
A force pike requires two energy cells to operate. 


ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS = COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE 
Vibrodagaer’ 200 204 _ 1 kg Slashing or piercing 
Vibroblade 250 2d6 - 1.8 kg Slashing or piercing 
Vibrobayonet 350 2d6 - 1 kg Piercing 
Force pike 500208 208 2kg Piercing and energy 
Electrostaff 3,000 2d6/2d6 206/26 2 kg Bludgeoning and energy Restricted 
Vibro-ax. 500 2410. _ ko Slashing wos 
it ' EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE 
rT 
Hl Atlatl? 50 2d4 - 1.5 kg Bludgeoning 
Cy 
e Amphistaff'? - Special = 2 kg See description 
i Cesta? 100 2d4 = 1.8 kg Bludgeoning 
LIGHTSABERS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE 
Lightsaber, short! 2,500 2d6 - 0.5 kg Energy and slashing 
Lightsaber’ 3,000 2d8 - 1 kg Energy and slashing 
Lightsaber, double 7,000 2d8/2d8 - 2 kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Knife z.. 
Simple Weapon The blade of a lightsaber is generated by an energy cell and aC 


While many weapons rely on highly advanced technology, knives still see 
wide use. A knife is completely silent and serves well in close-combat 
skirmishes. 


Lightsaber 

Lightsaber 

The lightsaber, simple in design yet difficult to wield and master, features a 
handgrip hilt that projects a blade of pure energy. The traditional weapon 
of the Jedi, the lightsaber stands as a symbol of their skill, dedication, and 
authority. 


through crystals within the hilt. The saber can cut through most mae 
(except another lightsaber blade, an energy shield, or a few exotic ms 
als), given enough time, Because only the handgrip has any weight, u 
users have difficulty judging the position of the blade. The lightsat 
potential becomes apparent in the hands of a fully trained Jedi, 
defend and attack with the weapon, deflecting shots or striking OPPS 
with the glowing blade. 

A lightsaber requires a special energy cell to operate (the cost is te 
the price of an ordinary energy cell, but it lasts almost indefinitely. 


COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
25 1d4 = 1 kg Slashing or piercing - 
15 106 - 0.5 kg Bludgeoning - 
15 1d6 2d6 0.5 kg Bludgeoning - 
50 1d8 - 2.5 kg Bludgeoning - 
60 148 - 15029 TRS ls Deg erm, 
50 1d8 - 1 kg Piercing Licensed 
65 1d6/1d6 - 1,8 kg Bludgeoning - 
COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
150 +1 - 0.4 kg Bludgeoning - 
250 +1 - 0.5 ko Bludgeoning - 
ysed to hurl energy balls (see Table 8-4: Ranged Weapons). 
ber, Double-Bladed Lightsaber, Short 
ial Lightsaber 
e-Dladed lightsaber consists of two sabers fused at their hilts. These Small Jedi characters such as Master Yoda favor the short lightsaber, some- 


. fare and require even greater skill to wield than single-bladed 
#5, One or both blades can be ignited at once. 

nth blades ignited, a double-bladed lightsaber is a double weapon. 
tk with both ends of the weapon as a full-round action, but 
take 2 -10 penalty (although certain feats and talents can 
eS€ penalties). 

” Hed lightsaber requires two special energy cells to operate 
ieee is ten times the price of an ordinary energy ceil, but it lasts 


+ 


times called a shoto. Jedi skilled at two-weapon fighting often use the shoto 
as their off-hand weapon of choice. 

Ashort lightsaber requires a special energy cell to operate (the cost is ten 
times the price of an ordinary energy cell, but it lasts almost indefinitely.) 


Mace 

Simple Weapon 

The mace is a weapon made of metal, consisting of a heavy ball atop a 
handle. 


Quarterstaff 
Simple Weapon 
A quarterstaff is made of wood, plasteel, or a metal alloy. A user can strike 
with either end of the quarterstaff, taking full advantage of any openings 
in an opponent's defenses, 

A quarterstaff is a double weapon. You can attack with both ends of 
the weapon as a full-round action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty; 
certain feats and talents can reduce these penalties. 


Spear 

Simple Weapon 

A common weapon used by hunters and warriors in primitive cultures, the 
spear is a long wooden pole with a sharp end fashioned from stone or metal. 
Members of more advanced cultures enjoy using spears for sport, though 
these weapons are usually constructed out of a durable metal alloy. Spears 
can be used as thrown weapons. 


Stun Baton 
Simple Weapon 
Ashort club with a power pack in the handle, the stun baton can be acti- 
vated to produce a stunning charge when it strikes a target (see Stunning, 
page 162). 

A stun baton requires an energy cell to operate. 


Vibro-Ax 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
This powerful vibro weapon features an energy cell that causes the blade 
to vibrate rapidly when activated. This gives the weapon far greater power 
than a standard axe, with minimal effort from the wielder. 

A vibro-ax requires two energy cells to operate. 


Vibrobayonet 

Advanced Melee Weapon 

When mounted on a rifle, a vibrobayonet allows you to use a rifle as a potent 
melee weapon. Even if you used the rifle to make a ranged attack on your last 
turn, you still threaten squares within your reach as long as your rifle has a 
mounted vibrobayonet, and you can use it to make attacks of opportunity. 
A vibrobayonet requires two hands to use when mounted on a rifle, 

A vibrobayonet cannot be used when mounted on a rifle with a folded 
stock, A vibrobayonet detached from a rifle functions as a vibrodagger; 2 
mounted vibrobayonet deals more damage than the vibrodagger because of 
the added leverage and bulk. 

A vibrobayonet requires an energy cell to operate. (Its power does not 
drain energy from the rifle’s power pack.) 


Vibroblade 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
The vibroblade is a close-combat weapon favored by soldiers and mercena, 
throughout the galaxy. It resembles a short sword with a high-tech look; 
feel. Vibroblades are illegal in most urban areas. 

A vibroblade requires an energy cell to operate. 


Vibrodagger 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
Assassins and petty thugs favor the smallest of the vibro weapons, 
vibrodagger. A number of civilians carry it for defense. It alone among y 
weapons is subject to very little regulation, since it is viewed as a com 
tool for crafters and explorers. 

A vibrodagger requires an energy cell to operate. 


RANGED WEAPONS 


At any given time, hundreds of manufacturers are creating and mark 
a wide array of ranged weapons. These weapons run the gamut from sm 
concealable handheld weapons to tripod-mounted cannons that requi 
small crew to operate. 


WEAPON RANGES 
All ranged weapons apply the wielder's Dexterity modifier to the att 
roll. Ranged attacks made at point blank range suffer no penalty. How 
ranged attacks made at short, medium, or long range take a penal 
attack roll, as shown in Table 8-5: Weapon Ranges. 
Improvised Thrown Weapons: While some weapons are 
thrown, it is physically possible to throw almost any weapon of ye 
or less. You take a -5 penalty on an attack roll made with an improv 
thrown weapon. In addition, unless the weapon is light, the improvised ti 
weapon is treated as inaccurate (see above). 


RANGED WEAPON 
DESCRIPTIONS 
The various types of ranged weapons presented in Table 8-4: Ranged ¥ 
ons are described below. 


Blaster Cannon 
Heavy Weapon .. 
Portable, shoulder-fired blaster cannons fire powerful bolts of ene! 
used as an antivehicle weapon, the blaster cannon has the range 
to inflict devastation on troops and structures alike. , 
A blaster cannon is an area effect weapon. It deals full damage 
target if the attack hits its Reflex Defense (half damage if it has Me: 
talent) and half damage if it misses (no damage if it has the Evasio” 


re or object adjacent to the target takes half damage if the attack 
» if it has the Evasion talent) and no damage if it misses. 
cannon requires a power pack to operate. After 10 shots, the 
*k must be replaced. 


blaster rifle has a short barre! and compact two-handed grip, 
more like a Jong pistol than a rifle. Some blaster carbines, such 
d by B1 battle droids, have a retractable stock. A blaster carbine 
retractable stock costs 850 credits {instead of 900 credits). 

¢ of its compact design, a blaster carbine can always be used to 
ittack of opportunity even if its stock is not folded. 

r carbine requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, the 
ck must be replaced. 

E-Web Repeating 

rb rer eating blaster can normally only be fired when mounted on 
Whe mounted on a tripod, it is treated as one size smaller for 
Of being wielded (allowing a Medium character to operate it with 


veb repeating blaster only operates in autofire mode (see Autofire, 
fequires a power generator to operate (see page 139). 

4 the E-Web repeating blaster requires a second crewman to 
IN€ Weapons power generator; this second crewman must spenda 
: - while adjacent to the weapon to regulate its power, After 
late th E-Web repeating blaster’s power, it will function normally 
be inning of your next turn. If the weapon's power is not regulated 
3 Second crewman has not done so since the same initiative 
ne Previous round), apply a -2 penalty on all attack rolls made 


Repeating 


rep : ting blaster is a fearsome weapon typically operated from a 
t or mounted on a combat vehicle. The heavy repeating 


SHIOKEY RELIGIONS AND ANCIENT 
iEAPONS ARE NO MATCH FOR A GOOD 
a BLASTER AT YOUR SIDE, KID." 


—- HAN SOLO 


blaster operates only in autofire mode (see Autofire, page 156). If you use a 
heavy repeating blaster without a tripod or other mount, you cannot brace 
the weapon before making an autofire attack. 

A heavy repeating blaster requires a power pack to operate. After 20 
shots, the power pack must be replaced. This weapon can also be attached 
to a power generator for longer use. 


Blaster Pistol 
Pistol 
The word “blaster” is a blanket term for literally thousands of different designs 
from hundreds of manufacturers, such as the popular BlasTech DL-18. Blasters 
are popular with urban police forces, traders, and anyone who needs to pack 
respectable firepower in an easily carried package. 

A blaster pistol requires a power pack to operate. After 100 shots, the 
power pack must be replaced. 


RETRACTABLE STOCKS 

Some weapons, such as the E-11 blaster rifle used by stormtroopers 
and the E-5 blaster carbine used by battle droids, have a retractable 
stock. Only rifles and pistols (and rifie- or pistol-like exotic weapons) 
can have a retractable stock. Extending or folding a retractable stock 
is a move action, 


When the stock is foided, the following rules apply: 

© Treat the weapon as a pistol for purposes of proficiency and 
range. 

© You cannot brace the weapon while using it in autofire mode (see 
page 156), even if it is an autofire-only weapon. 


When the stock is extended, the following rules apply: 

* Treat the weapon as a rifle for purposes of proficiency and range. 

* You take a -5 penalty on attack rolls with the weapon if you use it 
in one hand (regardless of its size relative to you). 


Blaster Pistol, Heavy 
Pistol 
Heavy blaster pistols were invented to provide the sort of firepower one 
expects from a blaster rifle, but in a compact and easily carried sidearm. 
The weapon produces additional “punch” by drawing heavily on its power 
pack, reducing the number of shots the power pack can provide (compared 
to a regular blaster pistol). Han Solo uses a heavy blaster pistol, the BlasTech 
DL-44. 

A heavy blaster pistol requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, 
the power pack must be replaced. 


EXOTIC WEAPONS cost DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Flamethrower’ 1,000 3d6 - 
Bowcaster 1,500 3d10 - 

HEAVY WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Grenade launcher 500 Special Special 
Blaster, heavy repeating 4,000 3d10 - 

Blaster cannon’ 3,000 3d12 - 
Missile launcher' 1,500 6d6 - 
Blaster, E-Web repeating’ 8,000 3d12 - 

PISTOLS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Biaster pistol, hold-out 300 3d4 - 

Blaster pistol 500 3d6 
lon pistol 250 3d6 ion - 


Blaster pistol, heavy 750 308 208 


Blaster Pistol, Hold-Out 
Pistol 
Small, palm-sized blasters see widespread use in weapon-restricted ap 
Hold-out blasters are commonly found in the possession of ung aia 
agents, gamblers, scoundrels, or nobles seeking to protect themse: 3 
are sometimes carried as a backup weapon for more lethal characters, 
Because of its compact design, a hold-out blaster pistol grants ; 
equipment bonus on Stealth checks made to conceal the weapon. 
A hold-out blaster requires an energy cell to operate. After 6 shots, 
energy cell must be replaced. 


RATE OF FIRE + WEIGHT TYPE 

S 7 kg Fire 

S 8 kg Energy and piercing 

RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE 

s 5 kg Varies 

A 12 kg Energy 

$ 18 kg Energy 

S 10 kg Slashing 

A 38 kg Energy 

RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE 

S 0.5 kg Energy 

S 1 kg Energy 

S 1 kg Energy (ion) 
ees. ee eee 


stol, Sporting 


act blaster is used for small-game hunting or personal 
Leia Organa used a DDC Defender sporting blaster when 
d in Episode IV: A New Hope. 

blaster requires an energy cell to operate. After 6 shots, the 
must be replaced. A sporting blaster can also be attached to a 
but after 100 shots the power pack must be replaced. 


COST DAMAGE = STUN DMG 
i 900 3d8 2d8 
1000 348 208 
800 3d6 2d6 


er rifle, sporting 


300 2d8 - 
1,200 3d8 _ 
2,000 3d10 2410 
CcOsT DAMAGE STUN DMG 

20 208 - 

200 4d6 + 

250 4d6 ion - 

250 2 4d6 
2,000 8d6 = 

35 1¢4 = 

300 106 - 


% 25 - <= 
¥ ‘Weopan [see Area Attacks, page 155). 
/epeating blaster mounted on a tripod is treated as a Lorge weapon. 


Blaster Rifle 
Rifle (see text) 
The basic blaster rifle is standard issue to soldiers across the galaxy. Some 
blaster rifles, such as the BlasTech E-11 (or its “clone,” the SoroSuub Storm- 
trooper One), have a retractable stock. A blaster rifle without a retractable 
stock costs 900 credits (instead of 1,000 credits). 

A blaster rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, the power 
pack must be replaced. 


RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
S.A 2.2 kg Energy Restricted 

S 4 kg Energy Licensed 

s kg Energy (ion) Restricted 
S,A 4kg Piercing Restricted 

A 6 kg Energy Military 

S.A Bkg Energy ‘Military 

RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
S 0.25 kg Energy Licensed, Rare 
s 0.5 kg ‘Slashing Military 
Ss 0.5 kg Energy (ion) Restricted 

S 1 kg Energy Illegal 

Ss 0.3 kg Bludgeoning - 

S 1.4-kg Piercing - 

S 4.5 kg - = 


‘Of range, treat as a thrown weapon if thrown by hand, a simple weapon if hurled by an atlat!, or on accurate simple weapon if hurled by a cesta. 


WA BaLaAvwHo 


Blaster Rifle, Heavy 
Rifle 
The heavy blaster rifle is a larger, more powerful version of the blaster rifle 
(see above) often used by clone troopers, stormtroopers, and other troops 
during battles on open terrain. Because of its size, it is not well suited to 
close-quarters fighting. 

A heavy blaster rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 30 shots, 
the power pack must be replaced. 


Blaster Rifle, Light Repeating 
Rifle 

The light repeating blaster is the largest rifle-style weapon carried by military 
personnel. It is an autofire-only weapon 
(see Autofire, page 156). 

A light repeating blaster requires a 
power pack to operate. After 30 shots, 
the power pack must be replaced. This 
weapon can also be attached to a power 
generator for longer use. 


Blaster Rifle, Sporting 

Rifle 

Sporting blaster rifles are popular with 
the galactic elite as well as among “fring- 
ers" living in isolated colonies. Sporting 
blaster rifles are legal in most systems, 
and special permits must be obtained to 
carry them on many Core worlds. Luke 
Skywalker kept a sporting blaster rifle in 
his landspeeder on Tatooine. 

Sporting blaster rifles often have a 
targeting scope mounted on them (see 
page 140), but the scope is not included 
in cost listed on Table 8-4: Ranged 
Weapons. 

A sporting blaster rifle requires 
@ power pack to operate. After 
50 shots, the power pack must be 
replaced. 


Bow 

Simple Weapon 

The bow is a typical hunter's weapon on 
low-tech worlds, but it is also used for 
sport on high-tech planets. A primitive 
bow and its arrows are made of wood 


and augmented with metal or stone, while more advanced Versions tends 
be made from durable, lightweight composite materials. 

The wielder's Strength modifier applies to damage dealt with a bow, Abs 
only holds a single arrow at a time, but it can be reloaded as a free 
A quiver of 10 arrows costs 20 credits and weighs 0.8 kg. 


Bowcaster 
Exotic Weapon 
The bowcaster is crafted exclusively by the Wookiees of Kashyyyk. A 
of modern and ancient technologies, the weapon hurls an explosive ener 
quarrel at incredible speed, much like an archaic rail gun. Although the ba 
caster is an exotic weapon, Wookiees are treated as proficient if they haveth 
Weapon Proficiency (rifles) feats 
A quiver of 10 quarrels ens 
, 50 credits and weighs 1 kg, 


: —- 


a . 2 


A : : 


—E a 


Flamethrower 
Exotic Weapon 
The flamethrower is a range 

weapon that shoots a cone of burn 
chemicals 6 squares long and 6 sq 
wide at the terminus. Make a single attat 
roll and compare it to the Reflex Defense 
every target within this area. A Si 


sion talent (see page 50) takes half ¢ 
from a successful attack and no da 
the attack misses. 

Reloading the flamethrower is @ 
round action. The weapon can 0¢ used fi 
times before its chemical supply 's Gepre 
Replacement chemical cartridges TON 
flame-thrower cost 200 credits and 
4 kg each, 


Grenade, Frag 
Simple Weapon F 
The standard fragmentation: 
nade unleashes metal shrapns 
explosive force, slicing UP 
within the 2-square burst Se 
is designed to explode on contact 
is thrown, dealing damage in the 3 
it is hurled, 


—, ~-4 
—< 


POINT BLANK SHORT 
(No Bey (-2 ATTACK) 
0-20 square 21-40 squares . 


- O-3 v2 res “ae 
0-20 squares 


yu make an area attack with a frag grenade, you make a single 
a ind compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target in the 
yest radius. Creatures you hit take full damage, and creatures you 
nalf damage. A target with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes 
ge Errom a successful attack and no damage if the attack misses. 


of a mission is to capture droids or vehicles, mercenary units, 
|, and local law enforcement agencies use ion grenades. 
grenade unleashes a brief electrostatic pulse that disables 
ic devices, and vehicles within its 2-square burst radius, It is 
ode on contact after it is thrown, effectively dealing damage 
nd it is hurled, 

'make an area attack with an ion grenade, you make a single 
d compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target in the 
tadius. Droids, vehicles, electronic devices, and cybernetically 
$ you hit take full damage, and those you miss take half 
pn. the jon damage has a chance of pushing such targets 
dition track (see lon Damage, page 159). Creatures without 
take half of the ion damage on a hit or no ion damage ona 
: ry suffer no other ill effects. A target with the Evasion talent 


10) takes half damage from a successful attack and no damage 
k misses. 


tof 2 mission is to detain or subdue rather than kill, mercenary 

ar Personnel, and local law enforcement agencies use stun gre- 
f stun grenade unleashes concussive energy that knocks 
within its 2-square burst radius. It is designed to explode on 
rit is thrown, dealing damage in the same round it is hurled. 


21-40 squares 
‘bows, slings, and energy balls hurled = atlatis and cestas. 
arenades ond thrown melee weapons such as spears and lightsabers. 


LONG 
(-10 ATTACK) 


MEDIUM 
cs Sinead 


61-80 squares 


4- 60 sacarek 


~ 61-150 squares 151-300 squares 
41-60 squares 61-80 squares 


When you make an area attack with a stun grenade, you make a single 
attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target 
in the grenade's burst radius. Creatures you hit take full stun damage, and 
creatures you miss take half stun damage. In addition, the stun damage 
has a chance of pushing targeted creatures down the condition track (see 
Stunning, page 162). A target with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes 
half stun damage from a successful attack and no stun damage if the attack 
misses its Reflex Defense. 

Droids, vehicles, and objects are immune to stun damage. 


Grenade Launcher 
Heavy Weapon 
Grenade launchers are military weapons that greatly improve the range of 
grenades, Grenades fired by grenade launchers always explode on impact, 
regardless of timers or other considerations. The type of grenade used deter- 
mines the damage, type, and burst radius. Grenade launchers cannot be used 
to hurl thermal detonators because these devices are simply too big and heavy 
{although some larger grenade mortars can hurl thermal detonators as well). 
A grenade launcher holds four grenades and has to be reloaded as a full- 
round action. A grenade launcher can be mounted on a rifle (this takes 1 minute 
and requires a DC 15 Mechanics check) or used as a separate weapon. 


lon Pistol 
Pistol 
An ion pistol fires a stream of energy that wreaks havoc on electrical sys- 
tems, making it effective against droids, vehicles, electronic devices, and 
cybernetically enhanced creatures. It deals full damage against such targets 
and has a chance of pushing its target down the condition track {see lon 
Damage, page 159). Creatures without cybernetics take half damage from 
a successful attack and suffer no other ill effects. 

An ion pistol requires a power pack to operate. After 30 shots, the power 
pack must be replaced. 


lon Rifle 

Rifle 

An ion rifle is simply a larger version of the ion pistol (see above). An ion 
rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 20 shots, the power pack must 
be replaced, 


Missile Launcher 

Heavy Weapon 

A missile launcher fires a high-speed projectile with an explosive warhead. 
The standard missile unleashes metal shrapnel with explosive force, shred- 
ding targets within a 2-square radius. 

A missile launcher is an area effect weapon. Make a single attack roll 
and compare it to the Reflex Defense of every target within the biast radius. 
A successful attack deals full damage to the target; if the attack misses, 
the target takes half damage instead. A target with the Evasion talent (see 
page 50) takes half damage from a successful attack and no damage if the 
attack misses. 

A missile launcher holds four missiles and can be reloaded as a full-round 
action. Replacement missiles are bought in pre-loaded magazines that hold 
four missiles. Magazines cost 200 credits and weigh 5 kg. 


Net 

Simple Weapon 

Nets are used for hunting and fishing in primitive cultures and for nonlethal 
crowd control in more advanced ones. 

A net allows you to initiate a grab (see page 152) or grapple (see page 
153) against a character at range. A character that is grabbed or grappled 
can attempt to escape the net (requiring a DC 15 Acrobatics check) or break 
out of it (requiring a DC 20 Strength check). You can use the Pin and Trip 
feats with a net, but you cannot use the Crush or Throw feats. 


Sling 

Simple Weapon 

A primitive weapon, the sling hurls metal! bullets or stones. The wielder's 
Strength modifier applies to damage dealt with a sling. 


Slugthrower Pistol 
Pistol 
A slugthrower pistol fires meta! bullets—called “slugs"—instead of energy 
bolts. 

Slugthrowers are mostly found on backwater fringe worlds where blasters 
aren't readily available. They don't need power packs; instead, they employ 
clips that hold 10 slugs apiece. Clips cost 20 credits and weigh 0.1 kg. 


Slugthrower Rifle 
Rifle 

A slugthrower rifle is the larger cousin of the slugthrower pistol, |t doe 
need a power pack; instead, it takes clips, and each clip holds 20 slugs { 
cost 40 credits and weigh 0.2 kg. 


Thermal Detonator 
Simple Weapon 
The thermal detonator is a fist-sized sphere containing baradium, a p 
explosive. Outlawed throughout known space except for highly 
demolitions professionals, the thermal detonator produces a fusion reag 
that generates a rapidly expanding field of searing heat and blast en 
Disguised as a bounty hunter, Princess Leia threatened Jabba with a the 
detonator at the beginning of Episode VI: Return of theJedi. 
A thermal detonator's timer can be set for 6 seconds (1 round) to as 
as an 18-second delay (3 rounds), counting down until it explodes or is) 
to its safe position. 
When you make an area attack with a thermal detonator, you mal 
single attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every! 
in the grenade's 4-square burst radius. Creatures hit take full damage, 
creatures missed take half damage. A target with the Evasion talent 
page 50) takes half damage from a successful attack and no damag ¢ i 
attack misses its Reflex Defense. 


EXPLOSIVES | 
Sometimes a mission calls for the use of more powerful explos: ve! ) 
either grenades or thermal detonators. Set explosives aren't ranged wi z 
and can't be used like grenades. Placing an explosive requires a 
check (see page 68). 

When set and activated, the charge's timer begins counting down. ; 
dard timers can be set with as much as an hour delay. Longer delays re 
specialized timers. 7 

With a successful Mechanics check, explosives ignore the oat 
reduction of objects to which they're attached. Particularly good Mei 
ies check results can increase the damage even more (see the Fi 
Explosives use of the Mechanics skill, page 68). Multiple explosiv© ; 
to explode at the same time deal extra damage: Every time you 000 
number of explosives used, you add +2 dice of damage. For examp’ 
blocks of detonite deal 7d6 points of damage, while four blocks ae 
points of damage. 


cOsT DAMAGE TYPE 
500 ar 506° Energy 
Saar ae 


sion damages everything ina I-square burst radius. 


OSIVE CHARGE 

narges are highly restricted, usually only available to military or 
ent specialists or specialized construction units, Han Solo and 

am used explosive charges to take out the shield generator on 

le Vi; Return of the Jedi. 

¢ charge delivers a lot of destructive energy to a specific 

it perfect for demolishing structures or clearing rubble. It 

le damage beyond its 1-square burst radius. Of course, col- 

and subsequent explosions usually accompany the use of an 


ONITE 

§ @ contact explosive that comes in tiny claylike blocks. It can be 
‘mo ided around a target and crammed into small cracks. Detonite 
ble in its normal forms and requires a timer to be set off. 


MOR 

armor exists in the Star Worsuniverse, but only the lightest types 
ead use. Heavier armor is considered to be too expensive, too 
$ and just not worth the trouble unless it serves an additional func- 
1 85 providing environmental protection, as in the case of Imperial 
PEF armor). See Table 8-7: Armor for the list of armor types. 
Forms of armor are restricted or even illegal outside of approved 
es. In locations where armor isn't prohibited, the wearer of armor 


mse! fas someone who either expects to cause trouble or expects 
ee his way, 


QUALITIES 
BE armor for your character, refer to Table 8-7; Armor (page 132) 
it the various armor types. The armor qualities on the table 


WEIGHT SIZE AVAILABILITY 
: Restricted 

0.1 kg Fine Restricted 

0.1 kg Fine Licensed 


Cost: The cost of the armor, Armor sized for Small characters casts half 
as much, while armor for Large characters costs double the listed price. Some 
armor has limited availability: 

Armor Bonus to Reflex Defense: When you are wearing the armor, you 
add this value as an armor bonus to your Reflex Defense (instead of adding 
your heroic level to your Reflex Defense). 

Equipment Bonus to Fortitude Defense: When you are wearing the 
armor, you add this value as an equipment bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 
Some types of armor do not provide an equipment bonus to your Fortitude 
Defense. 

Maximum Dex Bonus: This is the maximum bonus you can apply to your 
Reflex Defense from Dexterity when wearing this type of armor. Heavier 
armor limits your mobility, reducing your ability to avoid attacks. For example, 
an armored flight suit has a maximum Dexterity bonus of +3. A character 
with a Dexterity of 18 normally gains a +4 bonus to his Reflex Defense from 
Dexterity, but if he's wearing an armored flight suit, he only applies a +3 
bonus to his Reflex Defense. 

Speed: Medium and heavy armor reduces your speed to three-quarters 
normal (rounded down). Table 8-7 shows this reduction if you have a speed 
of 6 squares or 4 squares. In addition, when wearing heavy armor, you can 
only move up to three times your speed when running (instead of four times 
your speed). 

Weight: The weight of the armor. Armor fitted for Small characters weighs 
half as much. Armor fitted for Large characters weighs twice as much. 

Availability: Some armor has limited availability, as indicated below. 

Rare: This armor is generally only available by going to its planet of 
origin or by acquiring it directly from its wearer (for example, getting 
vonduun crabshell armor from a Yuuzhan Vong warrior). When available on 
the open market elsewhere, these items usually cost double the listed price, 
sometimes much more. 

Licensed, Restricted, Military, or Illegal: Ownership of the armor is 
limited to certain people, as described in Restricted Items (see page 118). 


ARMOR BONUS EQUIP BONUS MAX DEX SPEED SPEED 
ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TO REF DEFENSE TO FORT DEFENSE BONUS (6S$Q.) (4S0.) WEIGHT Av, 
Blast heimet and vest +2 - +5 - - 
Flight suit padded A SEO A RRIENTS 
Combat jumpsuit 1,500 - +4 * = 
‘Flight suit, armored 4,000 - a ae eee 
Vonduun crabshell - +5 +5 +4 - - 
"Stormtrooper armor 9000; (0, AR EG en ieee eee 
Ceremonial armor 5,000 +7 - +2 454. 3 sq. 
Corellian powersuit 10,000 +7 ; ~ ra el cee Re: 
Battle armor 7,000 +8 +2 +2 459 3 sq. 16 kg Military — 
Armored spacesuit 12,000 +9 +3 +1 459. 3 sq. 35kqg _—s=Restricted 
Battle armor, heavy 15,000 +10 +4 +] 45q.' 35g! 30kg ON 


1 When running in heavy armor, you can only move up to three times your speed (instead of four times). 


ARMOR CHECK PENALTY 

While wearing armor with which you are not proficient, you take an armor 
check penalty on attack rolls as well as skill checks made using the following 
skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Stealth, and Swim. The 
type of armor worn determines the size of the penalty: light, -2; medium, 
~§; heavy, -10. Additionally, you do not gain the armor’s equipment bonuses. 
For example, a character not proficient with light armor who dons a suit 
of stormtrooper armor takes a -2 penalty on attack rolls and certain skill 
checks (see above). In addition, he does not gain the armor's equipment 
bonus on Perception checks and cannot apply the armor’s equipment bonus 
to his Fortitude Defense. 


ARMOR DESCRIPTIONS 
The types of armor given on Table 8-7: Armor are described below. 


Armored Spacesuit 

Heavy Armor 

This bulky coverall contains a sealed life support system that provides 
everything the wearer needs to survive for 24 hours in the vacuum of space 
or any other hostile environment. 


Battle Armor 
Medium Armor 
Battle armor combines protective metal or composite plates with a pa 
jumpsuit to form a layer of protection. While off-the-rack battle ¢ 
available, most users cobble together their gear from various sources. 


Battle Armor, Heavy 
Heavy Armor 

Similar to requiar battle armor, heavy battle armor features more plating 
padding, including various pieces molded to fit the user, such as Ore istpl 
and armor covering the arms and legs. 


Blast Helmet and Vest 
Light Armor j 
This armor consists of a lightweight helmet and a composite vest iM 
worn together, offer limited protection against incoming attacks, 


Ceremonial Armor 
Medium Armor 

Ceremonial armor blends practicality with ornate design, Republic Gua ui 
imperial Royal Guards wear different styles of ceremonial armor. 


sial armor consists of a helmet, durable breast guard, shoulder 
articulated greaves for the arms and legs. 


psuit 
‘ y padded jumpsuit is designed to provide limited protection 
‘sical and energy trauma without overly restricting the wearer's 


uit 


armor contains an energized exoskeleton and a series of 

boosts the wearer's physical strength. Used by professional 

aries, and bounty hunters, the powersuit requires skill and 

effectively. 

Col n powersuit grants its wearer a +2 equipment bonus to 
sut only if the wearer has the Armor Proficiency (medium) feat. 


_ Armored 


ly flight suit that provides additional protection against 
mited periods, this armor comes in various models, including the 
{favored by various pirate gangs) and the Imperial TIE flight 
IE fighter pilots throughout the Empire). An armored flight 
to 10 hours of life support, allowing its wearer to survive in 
} or any other hostile environment. 


nst decompression, g-forces, and harmful environments. 

protection against attacks as well. A padded flight suit 
ing helmet and gloves that seal around the wearer and 
0 of life support, allowing him to survive in the vacuum 
hy other hostile environment. 


ise Soldiers of the Galactic Empire, stormtrooper armor comes 
Models based around a standard white-and-black shell. Filled 

S that assist and augment the stormtrooper in his duties, it 
‘environmental protection, three-phase sonic filtering, 


th Sarmor also exist, including snowtrooper armor, sandtrooper 
- Ooper armor. Each has slightly different details, but all 
‘acteristics common to all stormtrooper armor. Though 


~ 


TO WEAR ARMOR OR NOT 
A character's Reflex Defense can be improved with armor; however, er, 
a character who wears armor chooses to apply the armor’s bonus to to 
Reflex Defense instead of his heroic level. He also chooses to take a: @ 
penalty on certain skill checks (see Armor Check Penalty, page 132). ). 
As a character gains levels, armor becomes less enticing. For‘or 
example, a 5th-level heroic character has little reason to wear armorior 
that grants an armor bonus of +5 or less, unless the armor confersers 
some other useful benefit or the character has the Armored Defense or or 
Improved Armored Defense talents (see page 52). Still, some charactersers 
enjoy the benefit of having a higher Fortitude Defense and damage ge 
threshold; against very dangerous opponents, armor can literally be be 
the difference between life and death. 


unavailable on the open market, these suits can occasionally be found 1d on 
the black market (or sometimes much higher). 

Stormtrooper armor (including all variants} grants a wearer who has ts the 
Armor Proficiency (light) feat a +2 equipment bonus on Perception chemecks 
as well as low-light vision. Stormtrooper armor also includes an integratrated 
comlink in the helmet, allowing hands-free communication. 

Wearing snowtrooper armor (18,000 credits) makes you immune to to the 
effects of extreme cold (see Extreme Temperatures, page 254). 

Wearing sandtrooper armor (18,000 credits) makes you immune to to the 
effects of extreme heat (see Extreme Temperatures, page 254). 


Vonduun Crabshell Armor 

Light Armor 

Yuuzhan Vong warriors wear this bioengineered “living armor” into battttle. 
The armor clings to its wearer's body like a parasite until its wearer dieses or 
decides to remove it. It is not found anywhere except in the hands of tf the 
Yuuzhan Vong (see page 285). 


EQUIPMENT 

A sample of common equipment available during the time periods covereced in 
this book is given on Table 8-8: Equipment. Refer to the descriptions behelow 
for other pertinent information. 


COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES 
Communications devices in the Star Wars Roleplaying Gome are assunamed 
to use the same basic set of frequencies. The primary differences between 
them lie in range, size, and what kind of data (audio, visual, or holo) tl they 
can carry. If two or more communication devices are within range of ¢ one 
another and share a data type, they can communicate. 


Comlink 
A personal communications transceiver, the comlink consists of a receiver, 
a transmitter, and a power source. Comlinks come in a variety of shapes 
and styles. 

Short-range comlinks have a range of 50 kilometers or low orbit, and 
they can be built into helmets and armor; for example, stormtrooper armor 
includes a helmet equipped with a short-range comlink. 

A long-range comlink has a range of 200 kilometers or high orbit, and it 
requires with a backpack-sized comset. For double the cost, a long-range 
comlink can be miniaturized to a wrist-sized unit. 

Encryption: A comlink can have hardwired encryption routines (adding 
+10 to the DC of all Use Computer checks made to intercept your transmis- 
sion) for ten times the base cost. 

Video Capability: A comlink can have video capability (two-dimensional 
images in addition to audio) for twice the base cost. 

Holo Capability: A comlink can have holo capability (three-dimensional 
images in addition to audia) for five times the base cost. 


Pocket Scrambler 

This is a simple add-on device that can be attached to any normal com- 
munications device, such as a comlink and more advanced transceiver, The 
pocket scrambler automatically encodes any outgoing message so that it 
can be read only by a communications device equipped with a linked pocket 
scrambler. Anyone who intercepts the scrambled message must make a DC 
30 Use Computer check to decrypt it. 


Vox-Box 
A vox-box is a simple audio playback unit with 12 preprogrammed phrases 
in Basic ("Yes." "No." "Maybe." “Greetings.” “Go away." “How much?” “Please 
take me to someone with authority.” “| understand." "| need assistance.” "I 
can help you.” “| mean no harm." “| am hungry."), each with its own button. 
These devices are useful to races that understand Basic but can't speak it 
(such as Gamorreans and Wookiees). Devices that speak these phrases in 
other languages also exist. 

Altering one or more of a vox-box's preprogrammed phrases requires a 
DC 10 Use Computer check. 


COMPUTERS AND STORAGE 
Devices 

A computer includes any electronic device that stores and processes data. Its 
Intelligence score represents its processing capability and is relevant when 
making Use Computer checks (see page 75). 


© If a computer's attitude toward you js friendly or helpful, it grants an 
equipment bonus equal to its Intelligence bonus (if any) on any Use 
Computer check you make using that computer. 


© A computer's Will Defense is equal to 15 + its Intelligence modifier, 
When attempting to improve your access to a computer (see page 76), 
your Use Computer check result must equal or exceed the computer's 
Will Defense. 


Storage Devices: Some computers are very simple and used only for 
recording, storing, or viewing data. Some storage devices include a basic 
operating system and display that allows for the manual viewing, entry, and 
editing of data, but these are more expensive. 


Code Cylinder 

A compact encoded security device issued to many military, political, or 
corporate officials, a code cylinder accesses computer data via a droid's 
scomp link or provides entry into restricted facilities. Each cylinder features 
the user's personal security clearance data. High-ranking personnel may carry 
more than one cylinder, each with different access codes encrypted within 
them. Republic citizens, Imperial officers, and New Republic personnel use 
them to facilitate security measures. 

Code cylinders are storage devices with Intelligence 10 and Will Defense 
15. improving your access to a code cylinder is difficult because the cylinder 
has a starting attitude of hostile (see page 75). If your Use Computer check 
fails by 5 or more, the code cylinder's self-destruct programming activates 
and ruins the cylinder. 


Credit Chip 
The credit chip is a small, flat card that features a security codeout and 
credit algorithm memory stripes. The chip can hold a specified number of 
credits appropriate to the government that issued it, or it can draw from a 
specific account held by the user, Credit chips not only allow quick and easy 
transfers of funds but also protect users from theft. 

Credit chips are storage devices with Intelligence 10 and Will Defense 
15. Improving your access to a credit chip is very difficult because the chip 
has a starting attitude of hostile (see page 75). Once it is friendly, you can 
draw from the account to which it is linked. If you fail by 5 or more on your 
Use Computer check to improve access, the credit chip's security program 
detects the intrusion attempt and self-destructs. 

Modifying a credit chip so that government and bank computers think 
that it draws on a different account or that it has a different value stored 
is almost impossible: The central bank's computers have Will Defense 30 
and a starting attitude of hostile (see page 75); even worse, you won't 
know if your check succeeded until after you attempt to use the modified 
credit chip. If you fail, the government or bank computer orders the chip's ; 
self-destruct programming to activate, ruining the chip. If you fail by 5 OF 
more, the chip's self-destruct programming activates and the governmen 
or bank computer has traced your location, dispatching security person 
to apprehend you. 


Comlink, short-range 25 0.1 kg 
miink, long-range 250 1kg 
Pocket scrambler 400 0.5 kg 
Code cylinder 500 0.1 kg 
Credit chip 100 0.1 kg 
Datacards, blank (10) 10 0.1 kg 
 Datapad 1,000 0.5 kg 
Datapad, basic 100 0.3 kg 
_ Holaprojector, personal 1,000 0.5 kg 
Portable computer 5,000 2 ka 
‘DETECTION AND SURVEILLANCE DEVICES COST == WEIGHT — 
Electrobinoculars 1,000 1 kg 
Glow rod 10 1kg 
Fusion lantern 25 2 kq 
Audiorecorder 25 0.1 kg 
Holorecorder 100 0.1 kg 
Videorecorder 50 0.1 kg 
Sensor pack 1,500 9 kg 
UFESUPPORT. = COST WEIGHT 
Aquata breather 350 0,2 kg 
Breath mask 200 2 kg 
Atmosphere canister/filter 25 1 kg 
‘Flight suit 1,000 3 kg 
Space suit 2,000 15 kg 
MEDICALGEAR == COST. WEIGHT 
Bacta tank (empty) 100,000 500 kg 
‘Bacta, 1 liter’ 100 2kg 
Cybernetic prosthesis 1,500? Varies 
Medical kit. 600 20 kg 
Medpac 100 1 kg 
‘Surgery kit ot 1,000 10kg 


All-temperature cloak 100 1.5 kg 
Chain (3 meters) 25 2.5 kg 
Field kit 1,000 10 kg 
Liquid cable dispenser (15 meters) 10 0.2 kg 
Ration pack § 0.1 kg 
Syntherope [45 meters) 20 2.5 kg 
ROR ES PSS Ta ES eee 
Binder cuffs 50 0.5 kg 
Energy cell 10 - 
Fire extinguisher 50 3 kg 
Mesh tape 5 0.5 kg 
Power generator 750 15 kg 
Power pack 25 0.1 kg 
Power recharger 100 1kg 
Security kit 750 1kg 
Too! kit a 1 Me 
Utility belt 
WEAPON AND ARMOR ACCESSORIES COSTER 
Bandolier 100 2 kg 
Helmet package 4,000 1kg 
Holster 
Concealed 50 0.2 kg 
Hip 25 0.5 kg 
Standard 100 0.2 kg 
Enhanced low-light 1,000 1.2 kg 


1 It takes 300 liters of bacta to fill a bacta tank. 


2 The cost of a cybernetic prosthesis does not include the surgical cost to install 


it (500 credits). 


LawHe 
ae 


wero 


Data Card 

A data card is a simple storage device with Intelligence 2. Intended solely 
as external storage for a computer, it has no interface for direct display, 
editing, or entry of data. 


Datapad 
These handheld personal computers serve as notebooks, day planners, 
calculators, and sketchpads. In addition to performing basic computer 
functions, datapads can interface with larger computer networks directly 
or via comlink, 

A datapad is a computer with Intelligence 12. Simpler datapads also exist 
(Intelligence 10, 100 credits), but they are actually just storage devices with 
display, input, and editing capability; they have no ability to run programs. 


Holoprojector, Personal 

A handheld, personal hologram transmitter can be used to view real-time 
or recorded three-dimensional images or to pass the information through 
a comlink connection. This storage device has Intelligence 2 and enough 
memory to store about 1 hour of a holo recording or 1,000 holo images. 


Portable Computer 
Compact and light enough to be carried in an attaché case or backpack but 
powerful enough to run fairly complex programs, portable computers are 
the information technology of choice for anyone who needs access to a lot 
of data while on the go. As such, they are particularly popular with traveling 
business executives, military commanders in the field, and slicers. 

A portable computer has Intelligence 14. 


DETECTION AND 

SURVEILLANCE DEVICES 

Some detection devices augment a character's natural ability to perceive its 
environment (for example, macrobinoculars), providing a bonus or reducing 
penalties on Perception checks. Others use sensors to scan their surroundings 
beyond the normal visual and audible range. 


Electrobinoculars 
This device magnifies distant objects in most lighting conditions. An internal 
display provides data on range, relative and true azimuths, and elevation. 
Viewing options include zoom and wide-vision observation. Electrobinoculars 
also feature radiation sensors and a nightvision mode that grants darkvision 
(see Darkvision, page 257) out to the user's normal range of sight. 
Electrobinoculars reduce the range penalty on Perception checks to 
-1 for every 10 squares of distance (instead of -5 for every 10 squares of 
distance). 


Glow Rod ' 
A glow rod is a portable illumination device that projects a beam of light 
up to 6 squares. 


Fusion Lantern 

A hand-held light source larger than a glow rod, the fusion lantern produces 
light and heat. The light spreads out from the lantern, producing illumination 
in a 6-square radius. 


Recording Unit 
This storage device is an audio, video, or holo recorder with a playback fea- 
ture. It has Intelligence 1 and 1 memory unit. You can modify a recording 
(edit, erase, or rearrange the order of events) with a DC 15 Use Computer 
check. However, anyone can make an opposed Perception check (if observing 
the recording) or opposed Use Computer check (if inspecting the data from 
the recording) to detect any modifications you have made. Editing or modify- 
ing a recording without first uploading it to a computer can be difficult: Add 
the recording unit's Intelligence modifier (-5) to any Use Computer checks 
you make to change the recording. 

Audio Recorder: An audio recorder stores 100 hours of high-quality 
sound. 

Video Recorder: A video recorder stores 10 hours of high-quality video. 

Holo Recorder: A holo recorder stores 1 hour of high-quality holos. 


Sensor Pack 

A portable scanning device, the sensor pack is a bulky rectangle featuring a 
variety of dials and switches, a readout display, and a scanning dish. It provides 
general details on comm signals, life forms, and hazards within 1 kilometer. 
Operating a sensor pack requires a standard action and grants a +5 circum- 
stance bonus on your Perception checks until the end of your next turn. 


LiFe SUPPORT 

The Star Wars Roleplaying Game includes many hostile environments, ranging 
from deep oceans to poisonous atmospheres to the vacuum of space. These 
devices enable creatures to function in such environments. 


Aquata Breather 

While underwater, an Aquata Breather can provide up to 2 hours of breathable 
air through its mouthpiece. Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi used Aquata 
Breathers while swimming to Otoh Gunga in Episode |: The Phantom Menace, 
and Obi-Wan Kenobi used his again when evading clone troopers on Utapau 
in Episode Ill: Revenge of the Sith, 


Breath Mask . 
This personal atmosphere-filtering system consists of a mask that fits over 
the nose and mouth and a hose connecting the mask to a portable /ife= 


rt system, A breath mask provides 1 hour of breathable atmosphere 
efore the filter and atmosphere canister must be replaced. A functional 
reath mask grants immunity to inhaled poisons, including poisonous atmo- 
res. A breath mask offers no protection from extreme temperatures or 

hard vacuum. 

A breath mask system can be built into a suit of armor; Darth Vader's 
armor contains such a system, 

Replacing the filter and atmosphere canister requires a DC 10 Mechan- 
ies check. 


Flight Suit 
The flight suit is a one-piece coverall (plus a helmet) that provides life 
support, protects the wearer from hostile environments, and prevents the 
wearer from succumbing to the adverse effects of high-velocity flying. A 
flight suit includes a matching helmet and gloves that seal around the wearer 
and provide up to 10 hours of life support. 

As long as you have life support remaining, you are immune to any hostile 
atmosphere or inhaled poison hazard. The suit also grants a +7 equipment 
bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 


Space Suit 
This bulky coverall contains a sealed life support system that provides 
everything the wearer needs to survive for 24 hours in the vacuum of space 
or any other hostile environment. 

As long as you have life support remaining, you are immune to any 
atmosphere or inhaled poison hazard. The suit also grants a +2 equipment 
bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 


MEDICAL GEAR 

Medical equipment by itself does not restore lost hit points—it can only help 
when used with the Treat Injury skill (see page 74). Several common types 
of medical equipment are described below. 


Bacta Tank 
This large, specialized tank is filled with the powerful healing agent, bacta, 
which promotes rapid healing. 

A bacta tank can be used in conjunction with surgery (see Treat Injury 
skill, page 74). If the Treat Injury check is successful, the patient heals a 
number of hit points equal to its character level in addition to that provided 
by Surgery. 

A bacta tank can also be used when treating disease, poison, or radiation 
in @ creature. In this case, the bacta tank grants a +5 equipment bonus on 
your Treat Injury check. 

A bacta tank and a supply of bacta is expensive, so such medical equip- 
ment is usually found only in hospitals, aboard capital ships, and within 
major military bases. Each hour of treatment consumes one liter of bacta, 


which costs 100 credits. A typical tank holds up to 300 liters of bacta, and 
the tank must hold at least 150 liters at all times to provide any benefit. Only 
one creature can be immersed in the tank at any given time. 


Cybernetic Prosthesis 

Prosthetic replacements in the Ster Wors universe frequently take the form 
of mechanical simulations powered by tiny high-capacity battery packs and 
motivated by the recipient's bioelectrical impulses. In effect, someone who 
loses a limb or an extremity can have an electronic replacement that acts 
(and in some cases looks) just like the original. 

Cybernetic prosthetic devices are unusual, but hardly rare. Luke Skywalker 
gains a cybernetic replacement for his right hand, lost in battle against Darth 
Vader—who, in turn, had much of his own body replaced with cybernetics 
years before. 

Attaching a cybernetic prosthesis requires the Cybernetic Surgery feat 
(see page 83). Once attached, the cybernetic replacement performs as well 
as the origina! limb or extremity. Common cybernetic prosthetics include 
arms, hands, legs, feet, and various internal organs. In addition to the cost 
of the prosthesis, the recipient must also cover the cost of the surgery (see 
Table 8-9: Services and Expenses, page 144). 

Unlike other creatures, a creature with cybernetic prosthetics takes full 
damage from weapons and attacks that deal ion damage. 

Because the Force is present in all living things, but not machines, crea- 
tures with cybernetic prosthetics take a -1 penalty on Use the Force checks 
for each prosthetic replacement (to a maximum penalty of -5). 


Medical Kit 
This backpack-sized medical kit includes almost everything a first responder 
needs to save a life: diagnostic scanners, anti-venom, medicine to counteract 
the effects of contaminated water and radiation poisoning, burn treatments, 
defibrillators, respirator, shock blankets, pressure cuffs, a collapsible repul- 
sorlift stretcher for patient transport (capable of hovering with 160 kg load), 
and even limited surgical tools. In addition, a medical kit has six external 
pouches for carrying expendable medical supplies, such as medpacs. 

You need a medical kit to revive a dying character, treat disease, treat 
poison, or treat radiation (see the Treat Injury skill, page 74). 


Medpac 

Medpacs are compact packages designed to both equip a trained medic for work 
in the field and to allow untrained individuals to apply first aid in emergencies. A 
medpac contains bandages, bacta, synthetic flesh, coagulants, stimulants, and 
other medicines designed to help an injured patient recover quickly. 

Once you use a medpac, its contents are expended even if your Treat 
Injury check is not successful. Any given creature can only benefit from the 
use of a medpac once in a 24-hour period. (See the Treat Injury skill, page 
74, for more information.) 


Surgery Kit 

This small kit contains the instruments a character needs to perform surgery 
on a wounded character using the Treat Injury skill (see page 74). You must 
be trained in the Treat Injury skill to perform surgery using a surgery kit. 


SURVIVAL GEAR 

Whether you're exploring the Dune Sea of Tatooine or scaling the volcanic 
mountains of Mustafar, you need the right equipment to survive. The most 
important considerations are food, water, shelter, and a way to signal for 
help. On many worlds, a lack of survival gear leads to a quick death. 


All-Temperature Cloak 

This wrap-around cloak protects its wearer from the elements, providing a 
+5 equipment bonus to its wearer's Fortitude Defense against extreme heat 
or cold (see Extreme Temperatures, page 254). 


Chain 

This 3-meter (2-square) length of chain has damage reduction 10 and 5 
hit points. It has Strength 44 and can safely support over 5 metric tons of 
weight, and it can be broken with a DC 32 Strength check. 


Field Kit 
Essentially a backpack full of survival gear, the typical field kit contains two 
condensing canteens with built-in water purification systems, a sunshield 


roll, @ week's worth of food rations, two glow rods, two breath masks, 24 
filters, 12 atmosphere canisters, and an all-temperature cloak. 

You need a field kit to make a Survival check to endure extreme tem- 
peratures (see the Survival skill, page 73), 


Jet Pack 

A jet pack is a propulsion system that a character can strap on, allowing 
flight over short distances. Arm and wrist controls are employed for maneu- 
vering. Activating a jet pack is a swift action, and you gain a fly speed of 
6 squares until the end of your turn. A jet pack has 10 charges and can be 
run continuously; no swift action is required to activate the jet pack on 
subsequent rounds of use. 

Routine maneuvers do not require a Pilot check, but you must make a 
DC 20 Pilot check if you land after moving more than 12 squares during the 
same turn; on a failure, you fall prone. 

A jet pack can lift up to 180 kg while flying. Replacement fuel cells cost 
100 credits. 


Liquid Cable Dispenser 

Cable dispensers contain a special liquid that instantly solidifies upon contact 
with either atmosphere or vacuum to form a tough, lightweight, flexible cable. 
The dispenser contains enough liquid for 15 meters (10 squares) of cable and 
is refillable at authorized outlets. The cable has Strength 28 and can safely 
support up to 560 kg, and it can be broken with a DC 24 Strength check. 


Ration Pack 

Ration packs are compact meais that take up little room (you can fit six ina 
pouch designed to carry a datapad) but have all the requirements to nour- 
ish a person for one day. Each ration pack is geared for a range of species. 
The food isn't appetizing, and it doesn't include water, but it does prevent 
mainutrition, 


Syntherope 

Although not as compact and convenient as a liquid cable dispenser, synthe- 
rope is stronger and more durable. A coil contains 45 meters (30 squares) 
of syntherope, and unlike liquid cable it is meant to be reused, Syntherope 
has Strength 30 and can safely support up to 720 kg, and it can be broken 
with a DC 25 Strength check, 


TOOLS 
Any object designed to make a task easier—or take care of it entirely-S 
essentially a tool. Most technical jobs can be performed with a security kit 
or tool kit, but some devices not included in those packages don't fit under 
any other category, and are presented here. 


Binder Cuffs 

Binder cuffs are durasteel restraints designed to lock two limbs of a prisoner 
together, normally the wrists of ankles, but it is possible to lock one arm to 
one leg or use the binder cuffs to hook a prisoner to a tree. The cuffs have 
damage reduction 10, 20 hit points, and Strength 40, Breaking them requires 
a DC 30 Strength check, and removing them without the seven-digit release 
code requires a DC 25 Mechanics check. The binder cuffs can be attached to 
the limbs of any creature of Large, Medium, or Small size. 


Energy Cell 

This small battery provides power for devices, including certain types of 
weapons. An energy cell appears as a small, flat disk. An energy cell can be 
recharged with a power recharger. 


Fire Extinguisher 
A full-round blast from this tool produces a chemical cloud that provides total 
concealment (see page 156). Those inside the cloud can't see targets outside 
the cloud, and those outside the cloud can't see targets inside the cloud. 
The cloud spreads 1 square in all directions for every round it is activated. It 
dissipates after 3 rounds (no matter how large the cloud). Each full-round 
blast depletes one-tenth of the fire extinguisher's chemical supply. 
If used for its intended purpose, the extinguisher can put out a fire of up 
to 10 squares in size at a rate of 1 square per round before it is depleted. 
Reloading the fire extinguisher is a full-round action, Replacement chemi- 
cal cartridges for the extinguisher cost 25 credits each. 


Mesh Tape 
The usefulness of mesh tape is limited only by a character's imagination. Mesh 
tape adhesive has Strength 15 and can support up to 90 kg indefinitely (and 
up to 180 kg for up to 5 rounds). Mesh tape itself has Strength 20 when used 
to bind another character and requires a DC 20 Strength check to break. 

A roll provides 30 meters (20 squares) of tape, 5 centimeters wide. 


Power Generator 

A power generator is a small fusion reactor that provides continuous power 
for heavy weapons, vehicles, structures, and machinery. It can power anything 
up to a Gargantuan vehicle or structure indefinitely, a Colossal vehicle or 
structure for 1 day, and a vehicle or structure of Colossal (frigate) size for 1 
hour. After that, it is disabled and must be repaired. 

If a power generator is destroyed while in use, its fusion reactor overloads 
and explodes, venting plasma into the surrounding area, When a fusion reac- 
tor explodes, make an attack rol! (1d20+10) against the Reflex Defense of 
every target within 4 squares. If the attack succeeds, the target takes 8d6 
points of energy damage. If the attack misses, the target takes half damage. 
A target with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes half damage if the attack 
succeeds or no damage if the attack misses, This is an area attack 


. 


Power Pack 

A power pack is a compact rectangular battery that fits into the grip or barrel 
of an energy weapon, such as a blaster, to provide the power needed to fire 
it. A power pack can be recharged with a power recharger. 


Power Recharger 

A power recharger is used to recharge a power pack or energy cell. The 
recharge process takes 4 hours, and only one power pack or energy cell may 
be recharged at a time. A power recharger holds enough power to recharge 
100 packs or cells, but is normally connected to a ship's or building's power 
supply, allowing it effectively unlimited recharge capacity. 


Security Kit 

A security kit is a set of special tools for bypassing electronic and mechani- 
cal locks. It usually includes electronic components and dedicated sensor 
devices. On most worlds, possession of a security kit is illegal for anyone 
who doesn't have the proper permits, such as members of law enforcement 
agencies and professional security experts. 

A security kit is required to bypass traps or security systems using the 
Mechanics skill (see page 68). A security kit contains a comlink that monitors 
frequencies typically used by silent alarms, so the user can know if such an 
alarm has been triggered at any point during the operation. 


Tool Kit 
You need a tool kit to reprogram a droid or to repair a damaged droid or 
vehicle. A tool kit also makes repairing devices much simpler. 

The standard tool kit represents a broad collection of tools designed to 
take apart, analyze, modify, and rebuild almost any technological device. 
Most technicians personalize their tool kits over the course of years, but 
almost all contain at least an electroshock probe (for shorting out electronic 
components or soldering wires), fusion cutter (for cutting apart durasteel and 
similar materials), hydrospanner (to tighten and loosen all forms of screws 
and fasteners), laser welder (for connecting things), power calibrator (both 
for analyzing circuitry and to act as an emergency power cell), power prybar 
(for forcing things open), probe sensors, sonic welder (for connecting things 
when you can't afford a fire), various circuits and connector wires, vibro- 
cutters (for things that don't call for a fusion cutter), and welding goggles 
(so you don't burn out your eyes). 

Many of these tools can be used as makeshift weapons. They all qualify 
as simple weapons, but since they aren't designed for combat, they impose 
a -5 penalty on attack rolls. (Droids with such tools on too! mounts don’t 
suffer these penalties, since they don't have to deal with an oddly shaped 
handle.) Different tools deal different damage: electroshock probe, 148 
ion; fusion cutter, 2d6 energy; laser welder, 1dB energy; power prybar, 1d8 
bludgeoning; sonic welder, 108 energy. 


Utility Belt 

A utility belt has several pouches containing a three-day supply of food 
capsules, a medpac, a tool kit, a spare power pack, a spare energy cell, a 
glow rod, a comiink, a liquid cable dispenser with a small grappling hook, 
and a couple of empty pouches for whatever else the wearer wants to add 
(up to 0.5 kg per pouch). 


WEAPON AND ARMOR 
ACCESSORIES 

A number of off-the-shelf accessories can enhance one's performance on 
the battlefield. 


Bandolier 
Since there are so many types of weapons, there are an equally large number 
of ammunition types. Depending upon the weapons the wearer carries, 
a bandolier may contain energy cells or power packs (for blasters), clips 
(for slugthrowers), explosive bolts (for bowcasters), magazines (for missile 
launchers), grenades, knives, or any number of other forms of ammunition. 
A bandolier has 12 slots that can each hold a single Tiny weapon (such as 
@ grenade or a knife) or a single piece of equipment weighing up to 0.5 kg. 
Any item on the bandolier can be retrieved as a move action, 


Helmet Package 

When installed in the helmet of a suit of armor, this electronic package 
allows the armor to grant the wearer a +2 equipment bonus on Perception 
checks as well as low-light vision. In addition, it includes an integrated 
hands-free comlink. Stormtrooper armor and its variants include such a 
system (MFTAS, or Multi-Frequency Target Acquisition System), already 
included in its statistics. Installing a helmet package takes 1 hour and a DC 
20 Mechanics check. 


Holster 

Holsters are generally available for all Medium or smaller weapons. (Larger 
weapons are usually carried on shoulder straps, hangers, or baldrics that 
cost as much as a hip holster.) A holster for a melee weapon is usually 
called a sheath. 

Hip Holster: This holster holds the weapon in an easily accessed—and 
easily seen—location. 

Concealed Holster: A concealed holster is designed to help keep a weapon 
out of sight (see the Stealth skill, page 72). In most cases, this is a shoulder 
holster (the weapon fits under the wearer's armpit, presumably beneath a 
jacket, vest, or cloak). Small or Tiny weapons and single-bladed lightsabers 
can be carried in concealed waistband holsters (often placed inside the 
wearer's waistband in the small of the back). Tiny weapons and single-bladed 
lightsabers can also be carried in ankle, boot, or wrist holsters. 


A concealed holster allows you to draw a concealed weapon as a move 
action instead of a standard action, but you take a -5 penalty on your Stealth 
check to conceal the weapon, 


Targeting Scope 

A targeting scope is a sighting device that makes it easier to hit distant 
targets. However, it affords a very limited field of view, making it difficult 
to use. Installing a targeting scope on a rifle or pistol requires 10 minutes 
and a DC 10 Mechanics check. 

Standard: A standard targeting scope reduces the range by one category 
(for example, from medium to short range). However, you must aim at your 
target to gain this benefit, and you lose the benefit if you change targets or 
lose line of sight to your target (see Aim, page 154). 

Enhanced Low-Light: A low-light targeting scope functions the same as 
a Standard targeting scope in normal light. However, after aiming at a target, 
it allows the wielder to ignore concealment (but not total concealment) from 
darkness when attacking that target. 


SERVICES AND 
EXPENSES 


A brief listing of common services and expenses is given on Table 8-9: 
Services and Expenses. The cost figures on the table are guidelines only; 
the cost of certain services and expenses may be higher in isolated or 
primitive areas. 


ENCUMBRANCE 


Encumbrance rules determine how much your equipment slows you down. 
Encumbrance comes in two parts: encumbrance by armor and encumbrance 
by total weight. 


ENCUMBRANCE BY ARMOR 
Your armor defines your maximum Dexterity bonus to Refiex Defense, your 
armor check penalty, your speed, and how fast you move when you run (see 
Armor, page 131). Unless your character is weak or carrying a lot of gear, 
that’s all you need to know, The extra gear your character carries, such as 
weapons and medpacs, won't slow your character down any more than his 
or her armor already does. 

If your character is carrying a really heavy load, however, then you'll need 
to calculate encumbrance by weight. 


ENCUMBRANCE BY WEIGHT 

If you want to determine whether your character's gear is heavy enough to 
slow him or her down (more than any armor already does), add up the weight 
of all the armor, weapons, and gear the character is carrying. If the total 
equals or exceeds the square of one-half your character's Strength score, 


he or she is carrying a heavy load. For example, a character with Strength 
12 is carrying a heavy load if the total weight of his or her armor and gear 
is 36 kg (0.5 x 12, squared) or more. 

When carrying a heavy load, a character takes a -10 penalty on checks 
made using the following skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, 
Stealth, and Swim. A heavy load also reduces the character's speed to three- 
quarters normal (rounded down). A character can move up to three times 
his or her speed when running with a heavy load (instead of four times). 


CARRYING CAPACITY 

The amount of weight that you can lift (in kilograms) is based on your 
Strength score and determined by the following formula: (Strength score)? 
* 0.5. For example, a character with Strength 15 can lift 112.5 kg (15 x 15 
x 0.5). 


A character can strain to lift an amount of weight (in kilograms) equal 
to his Strength score squared, but he or she can only stagger around with 
it. While overloaded in this way, the character loses any Dexterity bonus 
to Reflex Defense and can only move 1 Square per round (as a full-round 
action). 

A dragged object has less effective weight depending on the resistance 
of the surface: normal ground, 1/2; smooth surface or wheels, 1/5; com- 
pletely frictionless (such as pulling an object in zero-g or on a repulsorlift), 
1/10. Dragging an object over rough ground is no easier than lifting it, 

Bigger and Smaller Creatures: Larger creatures can carry more weight 
depending on size category: Large (x2), Huge (x5), Gargantuan (x10), and 
Colossal (x20). Smatier creatures can carry less weight depending on size 
Category: Small (x0.75), Tiny (x0.5), Diminutive (x0.25), Fine (0.01). 


SERVICE COST 
ONIN EME) Ta RRS ee RTT: Taxi, local 10 
Luxurious 150 Passage, steerage (up to 5 days) 500 
Upscale A = ao Passage, average (up to 5 days) 1,000 
Average 10 Passage, upscale (up to 5 days) 2,000 
Budget pe. SP "Ta 5,000 
chartered space transport up to 10,000 
Luxurious 0 a og 
Jpscale , oc Luxurious 10,000 
Average 50 Wealthy 5,000 
Budget : . 20 Comfortable 2,000 
PE ky Average 1,000 
Bacta tank treatment (per hour) 300 Struggling 500 
Medpac treatment 300 Self-sufficient 100 
Treat disease (per day) 500 Speeder bike 20 
Treat poison (per hour) 7 100 Landspeeder, average | 50 
Treat radiation (per day) 1,000 Landspeeder, luxury 100 
Shuttle, interplanetary 1,000 


The galaxy is a dangerous place, and sometimes you have to fight to survive. 
Whether the enemy takes the form of battle droids or stormtroopers, a dark 
Force-user or a rampaging rancor, you need to be able to defend yourself. 
Using blasters, vibroblades, and lightsabers, heroes regularly get caught up 
in blazing firefights, wild cantina brawls, and mesmerizing lightsaber duels. 
You can try to bluff your way out of a taugh situation, attempt to sneak 
away when your opponent is distracted, or even dazzle an enemy with your 
charming personality, But when all else fails, nothing beats having a good 
blaster at your side 

This chapter details the combat rules, covering the basics first. The 
back end of the chapter looks at some of the more unusual strategies that 
heroes can employ, including using vehicles in combat. Many special abili- 
ties and forms of damage that affect combat are covered in Chapter 14: 
Gamemastering. 


COMBAT SEQUENCE 


Combat takes place in a series of rounds, with each character taking one 
turn cach round. Generally, combat runs in the following way: 

Step 1. The GM determines which characters are aware of their oppo- 
nents at the start of the battle. If at least some combatants are unaware 
of their opponents, a surprise round happens before regular rounds begin. 
If there is a Surprise round, each combatant starts the battle flat-footed, A 
fiat- footed character doesn't add a Dexterity bonus to his Reflex Defense. 
Once combatants act, they are no longer flat-footed. 

Step 2. The combatants who are aware of the opponents can act in the | 

; 


x) HBLavHoO 


| 
| 
: 
| 


surprise round, so they make an Initiative check. In initiative order (highest 
to lowest), combatants who started the battle aware of thei nents each 
take a single action (a standard action, a move action, or a Swift action; no 
full-round actions allowed) during the surprise round. Combatants who were 
unaware do not get to act in the surprise round. 
Step 3. Combatants who have not yet made an Initiative check do so. 
All combatants are now ready to begin their first reqular round. If all com- 
batants were aware of their opponents when the battle began, there is no 
surprise round and this is the first step in the combat sequence If there is 1 
no surprise round, no one starts flat-footed (everyone was alert enough to | 
be ready for a fight). 
Step 4. Combatants act in initiative order. 
Step 5. When everyone has had a turn, the combatant with the highest 
initiative acts again, and steps 4 and 5 repeat until combat ends, 


THE COMBAT ROUND 

Each round represents 6 seconds in the game world. In the real world, a 
round is an opportunity for each character involved in a combat to take one 
or more actions. Anything a person could reasonably do in 6 seconds, your 
character can do in 1 round, 

Each round begins with the character with the highest Initiative check 
result and then proceeds, in descending order, from there, Each round uses 
the same initiative order, When a character's turn comes up in the initiative 
sequence, that character performs his entire round's worth of actions. 

For almost all purposes, there is no relevance to the end of a round or the 
beginning of a round. The term “round” works like the word “month.” A month 
can mean either a calendar month, or a span of time from a day in one month 
to the same day the next month. In the same way, a round can be a segment 
of game time starting with the first character to act and ending with the last, 
but it usually means a span of time from one round to the same initiative 
number in the next round. Effects that last a certain number of rounds end 
just before the same initiative number that they began on. 


ACTIONS IN COMBAT 

Every round, on your character's turn, you may take a standard action, a 
move action, and a swift action {in any order), You may take a move action 
ora swift action in place of a standard action, but not the other way around. 
You may also take a swift action in place of a move action, but not the other 
way around, Finally, you may sacrifice all three of these actions to perform 
a single full-round action on your turn, 


STANDARD ACTION 
| 
MOVE ACTION 
| 
SWIFT ACTION 


Standard Action: A standard action is usually the most important action 
you'll take in a round, and it often consists of some sort of attack—swinging 
a lightsaber, firing a blaster, throwing a punch, hurling a grenade, and so on. 
You can perform one standard action on your turn, 

Move Action: A move action represents physical movement. The most 
common move action is moving your speed. Standing up from a prone position, 
opening a door, and drawing a weapon are also move actions. You can perform 
one move action on your turn, or two if you give up your standard action. 

Swift Action: Most swift actions enable you to perform your standard 
action, Examples include switching a weapon's mode and dropping a held 
item. You can perform one swift action on your turn, or two if you give up 
cither your standard action or your move action, or three if you give up both 
your standard action and your move action, 


———— 


Full-Round Action: A full-round action consumes all of your effort during 
@ given round, effectively replacing all other actions on your turn. Some uses 
of skills require a full-round action to complete. Examples include bypass- 
ing a lock (using the Mechanics skill), searching an area for clues (using the 
Perception skill), and entering a Force trance (using the Use the Force skill), 
A full-round action can't span multiple rounds; for example, you cannot 
perform a full-round action that replaces your move action and swift action 
in the first round and your standard action in the following round. 


Free Actions and Reactions 
Some actions take such a negligible amount of time that they can be per- 
formed in addition to other actions or they can happen out of turn: 

Free Action: Free actions consume almost no time or effort, and you 
may take one or more free actions even when it isn’t your turn. Examples 
include calling out to your friends for help and taunting a foe. The GM puts 
reasonable limits on what counts as a free action. Reciting the epic history 
of the Rodian hunter clans takes several minutes (or more) and therefore isn't 
a free action. You can't take free actions when you're flat-footed. 

Reaction: A reaction is an instantaneous response to someone else's 
action, and you can use a reaction even if it is not your turn. Examples 
of reactions include making a Perception check to notice a bounty hunter 
sneaking up behind you and instantly activating a Force power to absorb 
damage from an incoming blaster bolt. 


COMBAT STATISTICS 


Several fundamental statistics determine how well you do in combat. This 
section summarizes these statistics. 


ATTACK ROLL 

Attacking is a standard action. When you make an attack roll, roll 1420 and 

add the appropriate modifiers. If your result is equal to or higher than the 

target's Reflex Defense, you hit and deal damage (see Damage below), 
Your attack roll with a melee weapon or unarmed attack is: 


1d20 + base attack bonus + Strength modifier 
Your attack roll with a ranged weapon is: 


1d20 + base attack bonus + Dexterity modifier + range penalty 
(if any) 


Base Attack Bonus; Your class and level determine your base attack 
bonus. 

Strength Modifier: Strength helps you swing a weapon harder and faster, 
so your Strength modifier applies to melee attack rolls. 


Dexterity Modifier: Since Dexterity measures coordination and steadiness, 
your Dexterity modifier applies to attacks with ranged weapons. 

Range Penalty: A ranged weapon can attack a target at point blank, short, 
medium, or long range. If you make a ranged attack against a target within 
the weapon's point blank range, you take no penalty on the attack roll; your 
penalty on attack rolls increases to -2 at short range, -5 at medium range, 
and -10 at long range (see Table 8-5: Weapon Ranges, page 129). 


Critical Hits 

When you roll a natural 20 on your attack roll (the d20 comes up “20"), the 
attack automatically hits, no matter how high the defender’s Reflex Defense. 
in addition, you score a critical hit and deal double damage. All targets are 
subject to critical hits, even inanimate objects. 


Automatic Misses 

When you roll a natural 1 on your attack roll (the d20 comes up “1"), the 
attack automatically misses, no matter how high the bonus on the attack 
roll is. 


DAMAGE 
When you hit with an attack, you deal damage that reduces the enemy's hit 
points (see Hit Points, below). 

Damage with a melee weapon or thrown melee weapon js calculated 
as follows: 


Weapon damage + one-half heroic level (rounded down) + Strength 
modifier 


Damage with a ranged weapon is calculated as follows: 
Weapon damage + one-half heroic level (rounded down) 


Weapon Damage: A hit always deals at least 1 point of damage, even if 
penalties to damage bring the damage result below 1. 

One-Half Heroic Level: Weapons are simply more dangerous in the hands 
of powerful heroes (and villains). 

Strength Modifier: When you hit with a melee weapon or thrown melee 
weapon, you add your Strength modifier to damage. When you hit with 
a melee weapon that you are wielding two-handed, you add double your 
Strength bonus (if any) to the damage. This higher Strength modifier does 
not apply to two-handed melee attacks with light weapons. 


DEFENSES 
Your defenses represent your ability to avoid taking damage and overcome 
attacks against the body and mind. You have three defense scores: 


Reflex Defense: 10 + your heroic level or armor bonus + Dexterity 
modifier + class bonus + natural armor bonus + size modifier 


Fortitude Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Constitution modifier + 
class bonus + equipment bonus 


Will Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Wisdom modifier + class 
bonus 


Your species, talents, feats, and actions may grant additional bonuses to 
one or more of these defenses. For example, Gamorreans gain a +2 species 
bonus to Fortitude Defense, while a character with the Improved Defenses 
feat (page 85) gains a +1 bonus to all three defenses. 


Reflex Defense 

Your Reflex Defense (Ref) represents how hard you are to hit in combat, and 
most attacks target a creature's Reflex Defense. If an opponent's attack roll 
equals or exceeds your Reflex Defense, the attack hits. 

Heroic Level: Your heroic level is the sum of all levels you have in heroic 
classes Vedi, noble, scoundrel, scout, soldier) and prestige classes (see 
Chapter 12). It does not include levels in the nonheroic class (see page 277) 
or beast class (see page 273). 

Armor Bonus: Your armor bonus is determined by the armor you wear 
(see Table 8-7: Armor, page 132). If you are wearing armor, add your armor 
bonus to your Reflex Defense instead of your heroic level. This represents 
the difference between using your innate skill to avoid injury and counting 
on your armor to absorb the damage from incoming attacks. 

Dexterity Modifier: Nimble targets are more difficult to hit than slow 
ones, Add your Dexterity modifier to your Reflex Defense, If you are flat- 
footed or unaware of an attack, you lose your Dexterity bonus (but not a 
penalty) to your Reflex Defense. If you are helpless (for example, knocked 
unconscious), calculate your Reflex Defense as if you had a Dexterity score 
of 0 (-5 modifier). 

Size Modifier: Smaller creatures are harder to hit than bigger ones. Apply 
the appropriate size modifier to your Reflex Defense (and only your Reflex 
Defense). Size modifiers are as follows: Colossal, -10; Gargantuan, —5; Huge, 
~2; Large, -1; Medium, +0; Small, +1; Tiny, +2; Diminutive, +5; Fine, +10. 


Fortitude Defense 

Your Fortitude Defense (Fort) represents your ability to resist the effects of 
poison, disease, and radiation, as well as your ability to ignore effects that 
would incapacitate a normal being, 

Heroic Level: Your heroic level is the sum of all levels you have in heroic 
classes Vedi, noble, scoundrel, scout, soldier) and prestige classes (see 
Chapter 12). It does not include levels in the nonheroic class (see page 277) 
or beast class (see page 273). 


Constitution Modifier: Tougher, healthier targets are more difficult to 
hurt than weaker ones, so you add your Constitution modifier to your Forti- 
tude Defense. A nonliving target (that is, any target without a Constitution 
score, such as a droid) instead adds its Strength modifier to its Fortitude 
Defense. 

Equipment Bonus: Some kinds of armor provide an equipment bonus to 
your Fortitude Defense (see Table 8-7: Armor, page 132). 


Will Defense 
Your Will Defense (Will) represents your willpower and your ability to resist 
certain Force powers and other effects that attack your mind. 

Heroic Level: Your heroic level is the sum of all levels you have in heroic 
classes (Jedi, noble, scoundrel, scout, soldier) and prestige classes (see 
Chapter 12). It does not include levels in the nonheroic class (see page 277) 
or beast class (see page 273). 

Wisdom Modifier: Strong-willed characters are harder to influence than 
weak-willed ones. You add your Wisdom modifier to your Will Defense. 
When you are unconscious, you have an effective Wisdom score of 0 (-5 
modifier). 


SPEED 
Your speed tells you how far you can move with a single move action. Your 
speed depends mostly on your species, although certain kinds of armor can 
reduce your speed (see Armor, page 131). Some creatures, droids, and vehicles 
have a natural climb, burrow, fly, and/or swim speed in addition to their 
normal land speed. Any effect that reduces speed affects all of a creature's 
movement modes unless noted otherwise. 

Speed is measured in squares, Each square represents 1.5 meters (about 
5 feet). 

Fly: A creature with a fly speed is capable of flight, but not if it is carrying 
a heavy load (see Encumbrance, page 140). 


HiT POINTS 
Hit points (sometimes abbreviated “hp”) represent two things in the game 
world: the ability to take physical punishment and keep going, and the abil- 
ity to turn a serious blow into a graze or near miss. As you become more 
experienced, you become more adept at parrying strikes, dodging attacks, 
and rolling with blows such that you minimize or avoid significant physical 
trauma, but all this effort slowly wears you down. Rather than trying to 
keep track of the difference between attacks and how much physical injury 
you take, hit points are an abstract measure of your total ability to survive 
damage. 

As long as you have at least 1 hit point, you can act normally on your 
turn. 


Second Wind F 

If you are reduced to one-half your maximum hit points or less, you can 
catch a second wind as a swift action. This action heals one-quarter of your 
full hit point total (rounded down) or a number of hit points equal to your 
Constitution score, whichever is greater. You can catch a second wind only 
once per day. Certain feats or talents may allow you to catch a second wind 
more often, but never more than once in a single encounter, 

Only heroic characters can catch a second wind: nonheroic characters, 
creatures, objects, devices, and vehicles cannot. Exception: A nonheroic 
character that takes the Extra Second Wind feat (page 85) can catch a 
second wind once per day. 


0 Hit Points 

A creature reduced to 0 hit points moves -5 steps on the condition track and 
falls unconscious (see Falling Unconscious, below). However, if the damage 
that reduced the creature to 0 hit points equals or exceeds its damage 
threshold, the creature is killed instead (see Damage Threshold, below). 

A droid, object, or vehicle reduced to 0 hit points moves -5 steps on the 
condition track and is disabled (but repairable). However, if the damage that 
reduced it to 0 hit points equals or exceeds its damage threshold, the droid, 
object, or vehicle is destroyed instead. A destroyed droid, object, or vehicle 
cannot be repaired. 


Damage Threshold 

Attacks that deal massive amounts of damage can impair or incapacitate 
you regardless of how many hit points you have remaining. Your damage 
threshold determines how much damage a single attack must deal to reduce 
your combat effectiveness or, in some cases, kill you. Your damage threshold 
is calculated as follows: 


Damage threshold = Fortitude Defense + size modifier 


Size Modifier: Creatures, droids, and vehicles larger than Medium size 
gain a size bonus to their damage threshold. This size bonus is +5 for Large, 
+10 for Huge, +20 for Gargantuan, and +50 for Colossal. 

When a single attack made against you deals damage that equals or 
exceeds your damage threshold, but not enough damage to drop you to 0 
hit points, you move -1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 
148). If the damage reduces you to 0 hit points, you are dead. 

Droids, Objects, and Vehicles: A droid, object, or vehicle reduced to 0 hit 
points by an attack that deals damage equal to or greater than its damage 
threshold is destroyed. 

Spending a Force Point: If you are reduced to 0 hit points by an attack 
that deals damage equal to or greater than your damage threshold, you 
can avoid death by immediately spending a Force Point, even if you spent 3 
Force Point earlier in the round. A character who spends a Force Point in this 


fashion remains at 0 hit points, moves -5 steps along the condition track 
(see Conditions, page 148), and falls unconscious. 

|fa droid is reduced to 0 hit points by an attack that deals damage equal 
to or greater than its damage threshold, it may spend a Force Point in this 
manner to be disabled instead of destroyed. 

Improved Damage Threshold: You can increase your damage threshold 
by taking the Improved Damage Threshold feat (page 86). 


Falling Unconscious 
A creature pushed to the bottom of the condition track (see Conditions, page 
148) or reduced to 0 hit points falls unconscious. When you fall unconscious, 


you fall prone and are unable to take any actions. After 1 minute (10 rounds), 
you make a DC 10 Constitution check. On a success, you move +1 step on 
the condition track, regain consciousness, recover hit points equal to your 
level, and can act normally on your next turn (although you start prone). 
If the check fails, you remain unconscious for 1 hour, after which you can 
attempt another Constitution check. You make a new Constitution check 
every hour until you regain consciousness. If you fail by 5 or more points, 
or if you roll a natural 1 on your Constitution check, you are dead. You can't 
take 10 on the Constitution check, 

If you fail a Constitution check to regain consciousness, your condition 
becomes persistent (see page 149), which means that you can't heal damage 


x! SSiLeawHoS 


naturally and you can't use the recover action (see page 154) until you've 
had surgery performed on you or until you get eight consecutive, uninter- 
rupted hours of rest. 

An unconscious character or creature subjected to a coup de grace attack 
(see page 154) or an attack that deals damage equal to or greater than its 
damage threshold dies immediately. 

A character or creature that receives any kind of healing while uncon- 
scious immediately revives and can get up to fight again (but starts 
prone); the healed character or creature has a number of hit points equal 
to the amount of healing it received, and it moves +1 step on the condi- 
tion track. 

Droids: When a droid is disabled (the equivalent of being unconscious), 
it moves ~5 steps on the condition track, falls prone, and is unable to take 
any actions. It remains inert and inoperative until repaired (see the Mechan- 
ies skill, page 68). A droid that is repaired immediately reactivates and can 
get up to fight again (but starts prone). The repaired droid gains a number 
of hit points equal to the amount repaired, and it moves +1 step on the 
condition track. 1 

Objects, Devices, and Vehicles: When an object, device, or vehicle is 
disabled, it moves -5 steps on the condition track and no longer functions. 
It remains inert and inoperative until repaired (see the Mechanics skill, page 
68). A repaired object, device, or vehicle gains a number of hit points equal 
to the amount repaired, and it moves +1 step on the condition track. 


Death 

A character or creature that dies cannot be brought back to life except under 
special circumstances (see the revivify ability of the Treat Injury skill, page 
74). Similarly, a destroyed droid, object, or vehicle cannot be repaired. 

The Star Wars galaxy is a vast and perilous wilderness, and heroes who 
fight against evil and tyranny sometimes make the ultimate sacrifice. When 
a hero dies, the only thing a player can do is bid her character a fond farewell 
and roll up a new one, 


Natural Healing 
A living creature that gets eight consecutive, uninterrupted hours of rest 
regains hit points equal to its level. A living creature cannot hea! naturally 
if it has any persistent conditions (see next page), and a creature can only 
benefit from natural healing once in a 24-hour period. 

In addition to the hit points gained from natural healing, a creature can 
regain additional hit points from first aid or long-term care (see Treat Injury 
skill, page 74). 


CONDITIONS ‘ 
Certain debilitating attacks reduce one's combat effectiveness instead of 
one’s hit points. Examples include a stun grenade blast, a force march, a 
paralyzing venom, or long-term exposure to extreme temperatures. Multiple 
conditions have cumulative effects and can quickly drive a creature from its 
normal state to unconsciousness or disable an otherwise functional droid, 
device, or vehicle. 

Physically debilitating attacks are usually made against the target's For- 
titude Defense, while mentally debilitating attacks target one’s Will Defense. 
Either type of attack pushes the target along the same track. 


The Condition Track 

A creature, droid, object, or vehicle not affected by any debilitating condi- 
tions is assumed to be in a “normal state," which represents one end of the 
condition track. Each debilitating effect to which it succumbs moves it one 
or more steps along the condition track. A creature pushed to the last Step 
on the condition track falls unconscious (see Falling Unconscious, above), 
A droid, object, or vehicle pushed to the last step on the condition track is 
disabled until repaired using the Mechanics skill (see page 68). 

When a device is pushed down the condition track, apply the indicated 
penaity on skill checks to any skill check made using the device. 

When a vehicle is pushed down the condition track, all of the vehicle's 
occupants suffer the same penalties as the vehicle itself until the vehicle is 
disabled. Penalties imposed by multiple condition tracks are cumulative; in 
other words, a vehicle's occupants suffer the effects of their own personal 
condition tracks in addition to the effects of the vehicle’s condition track. 


Removing Conditions 

You can improve your condition by spending three swift actions to use the 
recover action, moving +1 step along the condition track. You can spend al 
three swift actions in a single round or spread them out across consecutive 
rounds. For example, you could spend a swift action at the end of one turn 
and two swift actions at the start of your next turn to move +1 step along 
the condition track. Certain situations may prevent you from spending swift 
actions to move toward a normal state on the condition track (see Persistent 
Conditions, below), 

Resting for eight consecutive, uninterrupted hours usually removes all 
debilitating conditions afflicting a creature and returns it to its normal 
state. Some causes of debilitation, such as poison and hunger, may prevent 
a creature from improving its condition or returning to its normal state until 
the cause of the debilitation is treated (see Persistent Conditions, below). 


Normal state (no penalties) 


-1 step } +1 step 


-1 step I +1 step 


1 step t +1 step 


-1 step | +1 step 


Persistent Conditions 

Some hazards and attacks (such as poison and disease) result in a persistent 
condition that cannot be removed except in certain circumstances. Any time 
a condition is persistent, you cannot use the recover action (see page 154) 
to move steps up the condition track, and you do not regain any hit points 
from natural healing. However, once a persistent condition is removed by 
satisfying the requirements stated in its description, you can move up the 
condition track and hea! normally. 

Persistent conditions do not prevent you from moving up the condition 
track by means other than the recover action or resting for 8 hours. For 
example, an unconscious creature that fails its first Constitution check has 
a persistent condition from its injuries, but it still moves +1 step on the 
condition track when it makes a successful Constitution check to regain 
consciousness. 

Multiple Persistent Conditions: Sometimes you are affected by more 
than one persistent condition. For example, you might be poisoned after 
already suffering the effects of a disease. In this case, you must satisfy the 
requirements for removing all of these persistent conditions before you can 
move up the condition track. 


INITIATIVE 


In every round during combat, each combatant gets to do something. The 
combatants’ Initiative checks determine the order in which they act, from 
highest to lowest. 


INITIATIVE CHECKS 

At the start of a battle, each player makes an Initiative skill check for his 
character. (A character can make an Initiative check untrained.) The GM rolls 
Initiative checks for the opponents. Al! combatants act in order, from the 
highest Initiative check result to the lowest. A character's initiative count 
remains the same for all rounds of the combat unless a character takes an 
action that causes her place in the initiative order to change (see Special 
Initiative Actions, page 161). 

The GM should write the names of the characters on a piece of scrap paper 
in initiative order. That way, in subsequent rounds the GM can move quickly 
from one character to the next. If two combatants have the same Initiative 
check result, the character with the highest Initiative check modifier acts 
first. If there is still a tie, roll a die. 

To save time, the GM can make a single Initiative check for all of the bad 
guys, rolling 1d20 and adding the lowest Initiative check modifier in the 
group. That way, each player gets a turn each round and the GM also gets 
one turn. At the GM's option, however, he can make separate Initiative checks 
for different groups of opponents or even for individual foes. For instance, 
the GM may make one Initiative check for an Imperial officer and another 
check for his squad of stormtroopers. 


YOINING A BATTLE 
if characters enter a battle after it has begun, they make their Initiative check 
at that time and act whenever their turn comes up in the existing order. 


FLAT-FOOTED 

In any battle that begins with a surprise round (see Surprise, below), you 
start the battle flat-footed. You remain flat-footed until your first regular 
turn in the initiative order. You can’t apply your Dexterity bonus (if any) to 
your Reflex Defense while flat-footed. 


SURPRISE 

When combat starts, if you are not aware of your enemies but they are aware 
of you, you're surprised. If you know about your opponents but they don't 
know about you, you surprise them. 


AWARENESS AND SURPRISE 
Sometimes all the combatants on a side are aware of their opponents; 
sometimes none are; sometimes only some of them are. Sometimes a few 
combatants on each side are aware and the other combatants on each side 
are unaware, 


Determining Awareness 

The GM determines who is aware of whom at the start of a battle. She may 
call for Perception checks to see how aware the characters are of their 
opponents. Some example situations: 


¢ The mission team enters a cantina and immediately spots a gang of 
Rodians. Alert and watchful, the Rodians also notice the heroes. Both 
sides are aware; neither is surprised. The heroes and the Rodians make 
Initiative checks, and the battle begins. 

@ While exploring an abandoned armory, the heroes are being watched by 
a pack of Jawas. The Jawas lurk in hiding places, waiting for the right 
time to strike and defend their new Jair from the intruders. Sia-Lan spots 
one of the Jawas as it tries to sneak behind a partially destroyed battle 
droid, The Jawas shriek and leap from their hiding places, surrounding 
the heroes. The Jawas and Sia-Lan each get to act during the surprise 
round. The other heroes, caught unaware, can't act. After the surprise 
round, the first regular round of combat begins. 

@ The mission team advances down a dark corridor in the space-station 
fortress of Grumbog, an alien warlord, using glow rods to light the way. 
At the end of the corridor, three of Grumbog's soldiers have set up an 
E-Web repeating blaster. They fire the weapon, sending a powerful blast 
down the corridor. That's the end of the surprise round. After determin- 
ing whether any of the heroes were hit and calculating damage, the GM 
announces that the first regular round of combat begins. The mission 
team is in a tough spot, since they are facing a powerful weapon and 
still can't see who is attacking them. 


The Surprise Round 

If some but not all of the combatants are aware of their opponents, a surprise 
round happens before regular rounds begin. The combatants who are aware of 
their opponents can act in the surprise round, so they make Initiative checks. 
In initiative order (highest to lowest), combatants who started the battle 
aware of their opponents each take a single action—a standard action, a move 
action, or a swift action—during the surprise round. If no one is surprised, a 
surprise round doesn't occur. 

Unaware Combatants: Combatants who are unaware at the start of 
battle do not get to act in the surprise round. Unaware combatants are flat- 
footed because they have not acted yet, so they do not apply their Dexterity 
bonus (if any) to their Reflex Defense. 


TYPES OF ACTIONS 
The fundamental combat actions of moving and attacking cover m 
what you want to do in a battle. They're all described here and summa 
in Table 9-1: Actions in Combat. 


STANDARD ACTIONS 
A standard action is usually the most important action you'll take in a rp 
and it often consists of some sort of attack—swinging a lightsaber, 
a blaster, throwing a punch, hurling a grenade, and So on. You can pert 
one standard action in a given round of combat. 

A standard action could be any one of the following: 


Attack with a Melee Weapon 
With a melee weapon, you can strike any enemy in a square you can threate 
Small and Medium characters threaten the squares adjacent to them. Biga 
creatures may threaten a larger number of squares, as defined by their rea 
(see Reach, page 161). "| 

Two-Handed Melee Weapons: When you wield 2 melee weapon twi 
handed, add double your Strength bonus (if any) to the damage. This high 
Strength modifier does not apply to light weapons (weapons smaller th: 
your size). 

Improvised Weapons: Sometimes objects not crafted to be 0 
get used: chairs, bottles, crates, and so on. Because these objects are fi 
designed for such use, characters who use improvised weapons are 
as not proficient with them and take a -5 penalty on their attack rolls. Th 
GM determines the size and damage dealt by an improvised weapon. 


Attack with a Ranged Weapon 
With a ranged weapon, you can throw or shoot at any target within yor 
line of sight. A target is in line of sight if there are no obstructions {inelut 
ing other characters) between you and the target. The maximum rang 
of a ranged attack depends on the weapon used (see Table 8-5: 
Ranges, page 129). 

A ranged weapon can attack a target at point blank, short, medium, | 
long range. If you make a ranged attack against a target within the we 
point blank range, you take no penalty on the attack roll; your penalty t 
attack rolls increases to -2 at short range, -5 at medium range, and -1 
at long range. a 

Improvised Thrown Weapons: Sometimes objects not crafted to 0 
weapons get thrown: small rocks, vases, pitchers, lightsabers, and $0 
Because these objects are not designed for such use, characters who US 
improvised thrown weapons are treated as not proficient with them and t ” 
a -5 penalty on their attack rolls. The GM determines the size and d 
dealt by an improvised thrown weapon. 


HIT DAMAGE STRENGTH HIT DAMAGE STRENGTH 
DR' POINTS THRESHOLD (BREAK DC’) OBJECT OR' POINTS THRESHOLD (BREAK DC’) 
Meee PEL Sa aaa. 
1 5 1 (10) Mesh tape - 1 15 20 (20) 
1 Ss 1 (10) Liquid cable 4 ae ee: ee ae 
2 5 1 (10) Syntherop ~ 4 20 30 (25) 
Be NE 4(12) Ca iTS (26 32 (26) 
5 10 10 (15) Binder cuffs 10 20 25 40 (30) 
EO 
10 35 20 (20) Cheap - 1 5 1 (10) 
10 8=«-20 55 40 (30) Average A ie Se 10 = 10 (15) 
10 8§©630 85 80 (50) Good 5 10 15 20 (20) 
High security wm 10 ©6035) 
- 5 10 10 (15) Ultrahigh security 20 ~=—-150 35 
re 
Yeapon, Small (blaster pistol) 5 6 12 15 (17) Metal bars (2 cm thick) 10 = 30 25 40 (30) 
m(blasterrifle) 5 10 6 20 (20) Permacrete wall (30cm thick) 10 150 30 50 (35) 
ge (heavy blaster rifle) 10 10 7 25 (25) Metal wall or hull (15 cm thick) 10 = 1150 35 60 (40) 
e(EWeb) = = 10 2 30 , 30(30) Wooden door (5 em thick) a 10 10 (15) 
she Siren oheet'sdemoge reduction Metal door or airlock (Sem thick) 10 50 30 50 (35) 
ne D I ababih check to dsdie the osect Blast door (50 cm thick) R= NE 
Attack an Object 


d action, you can aid an ally's next skill check or attack roll, or 
an interfere with an enemy's attacks. 
ding @ Skill Check or Ability Check: You can help another character 
bess on her skill check or ability check by making the same kind 
Or ability check in a cooperative effort. If you roll a 10 or higher 
ck, the character you are helping gains a +2 bonus on her check. 
¢ 10 on 2 skill check or ability check to aid another. 
Attack Roll: In combat, you can aid another character's attack 
Opponent to avoid your own attacks, making it more difficult 
id your ally. Select an opponent and make an attack against a 
of 10. If you succeed, you grant a +2 bonus on a single ally's 
roll against that opponent. 
g an Enemy: In combat, you can distract or interfere with an 
9 his attacks more difficult. Select an opponent and make an 
gainst a Reflex Defense of 10. If you succeed, that opponent takes 
ty ON its next attack roll, 


ae 


Sometimes you need to attack an object such as a door, a control console, or 
a held weapon, either to destroy it or to bypass it. An unattended, immobile 
object has a Reflex Defense of 5 + its size modifier; an unattended, moving 
object has a Reflex Defense of 10 + its size modifier. If you hit it, you deal 
damage as normal. However, an object usually has damage reduction (DR), 
which means that any attack that hits it has its damage reduced by the 
indicated amount. (Lightsabers ignore an object's damage reduction.) An 
object reduced to 0 hit points is disabled. If the damage that reduces the 
object to 0 hit points also equals or exceeds the object's damage threshold, 
the object is destroyed instead. 

Like characters, objects become increasingly debilitated if they take a lot 
of damage at once. If an object takes damage from a single attack that equals 
or exceeds its damage threshold, it moves —1 step on the condition track. An 
object that moves -5 steps on the condition track is disabled. 

Held, Carried, or Worn Objects: A held, carried, or worn object is much 
harder to hit than an unattended object and has @ Reflex Defense equal to 10 
+ the object's size modifier + the Reflex Defense of the holder (not counting 
armor bonus or natural armor bonus, if any). 


5 per em 1 of thickness 


steel) = WO‘ perem of thickness 


15 per cm of thickness 
Ge he ee ae 


Multipart Objects: Very large objects can have separate hit point 
totals for different sections. For example, you can break the window of an 
airspeeder without destroying the whole speeder. 

The Right Weapon for the Job: The GM may determine that certain 
weapons just can't deal damage effectively to certain objects. For example, 
you will have a hard time breaking open a blast door with a cesta or cutting 
a cable with a club. The GM may also rule that certain attacks are especially 
successful against some objects. For example, it's easy to sheer or ignite a 
curtain with a lightsaber. 

Strength: All objects have a Strength score that represents their innate 
ability to bear weight (see Encumbrance, page 140). An object supporting 
weight in excess of its heavy load moves -1 step along the condition track 
immediately and another -1 step each round on the same initiative count. 
If an object is supporting weight in excess of twice its heavy load, it is 
immediately disabled. 

Breaking an Object: When you try to break something with sudden force 
rather than by dealing regular damage, use a Strength check to determine 
whether you succeed. The DC depends more on the construction of the item 
than on the material (see Table 9-1: Statistics for Objects), but it is usually 
equal to 15 + the object's Strength modifier, Attempting to break an object 
is a standard action. If the object has moved steps down the condition track, 
apply the condition penalty to the object's break DC. 

Object Statistics: Use Table 9-1: Statistics for Objects and Table 9-2: 
Statistics for Substances to determine or extrapolate the statistics for any 
given object. 


Charge . 
As a standard action, you can move your speed (minimum 2 squares: 
straight line through unobstructed terrain, and then make a melee atts 
the end of your movement. You gain a +2 bonus on your attack roll : 
a -2 penalty to your Reflex Defense until the start of your next t) 
cannot charge through low objects, difficult terrain, or squares oceunie 
enemies, but allies do not hinder your charge. a 


Disarm 
As a standard action, you may attempt to disarm an opponent, 
to drop one weapon (or other object) that he is holding. 
Making a Disarm Attack: Make a normal melee attack roll against ye 
opponent, who gets a +10 bonus to his Reflex Defense. If your opponer 
holding the weapon with more than one hand, you take a -5 penalty on y 
attack roll to disarm him. a 
If the attack succeeds, your opponent is disarmed. If you su 
disarm your opponent with an unarmed attack, you can take the disarr 
weapon. Otherwise, it's on the ground at your opponent's feet (in his fi 
ing space). i 
If your disarm attack fails, your opponent can make an im 
attack against you. 
Improved Disarm: If you have the Improved Disarm feat (see page 8 
you get a +5 bonus on your melee attack roll to disarm an oppo: ca 
your opponent doesn't get to make an immediate free attack against yo 
your disarm attack fails. 
Ranged Disarm: If you have the Ranged Disarm talent (see page 217 
you can attempt to disarm your opponent with a ranged attack. If the atts 
fails, your opponent doesn't get an immediate free attack against you 


Fight Defensively 
Asa standard action, you can concentrate more on protecting yoursellt e 
hurting your enemies. You can take a -5 penalty on your attack page 


opportunity), you gain a +5 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense ut nti 
start of your next turn. 

Acrobatics: !f you are trained in the Acrobatics skill, you instead ¢ get 
+5 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense when you fight defensively, ora: 
dodge bonus if you choose to make no attacks. 


Grab 
As a standard action, you can make a grab attack. A grab attack is treat 
as an unarmed attack except that it doesn't deal damage and you 1a™ 
-5 penalty on the attack roll. You can only grab an opponent up too 
category larger than yourself, and only one opponent at a time. 


iit breaks the grab, a grabbed creature takes a -2 penalty on attack 
nes it uses a natural weapon ora light weapon. Additionally, it cannot 
until it breaks the grab. Breaking the grab is a standard action and 
cally clears one grabber per character level. (The grabbed creature 
ich grabbers it clears if there are any left over.) 


Je attack is an improved version of the grab attack (see above). 
ey make a grapple attack (a standard action) if you have the Pin 
the Trip feat, or both, You can only grapple an opponent up to one size 
ry larger than you, and only one opponent at a time. 
sh ‘ing attack is treated as an unarmed attack except that it deals 
if the grappling attack hits, you and the target immediately 
sed grapple checks. A grapple check is 1420 + base attack bonus 
or Dexterity modifier (whichever is higher) + size modifier (see 
your check result equals or exceeds the target's check result, the 


sets of a grapple depend on the specific feat or combination of 
jou are using (see the feat descriptions in Chapter 5: Feats): Pin, Pin 
ush, Trip, or Trip and Throw. 

natively, if you are armed with a light weapon, you may deal damage 
at weapon if you win the opposed grapple check; no attack roll is 


lers for the grapple check are as follows: Fine, -20; Diminutive, 
=10; Small, -5; Medium, +0; Large, +5; Huge, +10; Gargantuan, 
al, +20. 


VE ACTIONS 

etic in represents physical movement. The most common move action 
ir Speed. You can perform one move action on your turn, or two 
your standard action. With the exception of specific movement- 
Mast move actions don’t require skill checks. In some cases 
ering open a stuck door), ability checks might be required. 
include the fol lowing: 


We up to your Speed as a move action. Even moving 1 square is 
Move action. 


|modes of movement are also covered by this type of action, 
ing and riding an animal. 


a Weapon 

ing a weapon is a move action. 

mW: If you have the Quick Draw feat (page 87), you can draw or 
1 8S 3 swift action instead of a move action. 


Manipulate an Item 

Manipulating an item includes drawing or holstering a weapon, picking up an 

item, loading a weapon, opening a door, or moving a heavy object. 
Retrieve a Stored Item: Retrieving an item out of a backpack, carrying 

case, or other closed container requires two move actions, one to open the 

container and one to get the item. Holsters, utility belts, and bandoliers are 

not considered to be closed containers for this purpose. 


Stand Up 
Standing up from a prone position requires a move action. 

Acrobatics: If you are trained in the Acrobatics skill (see page 62), you 
can stand up from a prone position as a swift action with a successful DC 
15 Acrobatics check. 


Withdraw 
You can withdraw from combat as a move action. To withdraw, the first 1 
square of your movement must take you out of your opponent's threatened 
area by the shortest possible route. If you must move more than 1 square 
to escape the threatened area, you can't withdraw. You can move normally 
(take a move action) in order to escape an opponent, but you provoke an 
attack of opportunity when doing so. 

Once you clear the threatened area, you may continue to move, up to a 
total of half your speed. 

You can disengage from more than one opponent in the same action, but 
only if you can clear all threatened areas in your first 1 square of movement. 

Disengaging protects you from attacks of opportunity during your first 
square of movement, but you may provoke attacks of opportunity later in 
your turn (for example, you may move through another character's threat- 
ened area). 


Swift ACTIONS 

Things that require very little time or effort can be accomplished with a swift 
action. Some actions, feats, and talents require one or more swift actions 
to perform. You normally get one swift action per round, but you can take a 
second swift action instead of a standard action or move action, and you can 
take three swift actions in a round if you give up both your standard action 
and move action. Multiple swift actions usually have to occur on the same 
round or consecutive rounds, and some actions require that the multiple 
swift actions be consecutive (that is, no other action interrupts them). This 
is noted in the action’s description. 

Swift actions include the following: 


Activate an Item 
A swift action allows you to activate an item. Starting a vehicle, turning on a 
computer, and lighting a fusion lantern are all examples of activating an item. 


waiaynD 


Aim 
2 Swift Actions 
You can take two consecutive swift actions in the same round to more care- 
fully line up a ranged attack. When you do so, you ignore all cover bonuses 
to your target's Reflex Defense on your next attack. You still must have line 
of sight to the target, however. 

You lose the benefits of aiming if you lose line of sight to your target or 
if you take any other action before making your attack. 

Careful Shot: If you have the Careful Shot feat (page 82), you gain a +1 
bonus on your ranged attack roll when you take the time to aim first. 

Deadeye: If you have the Deadeye feat (page 84), you deal extra damage 
when you take the time to aim first. 


Catch a Second Wind 

Asa swift action, you can catch a second wind (see Second Wind, page 146). 
You can only catch a second wind once per day. Only heroic characters can 
catch a second wind; nonheroic characters, objects, devices, and vehicles 
cannot. 

Extra Second Wind: This feat (described on page 85) allows a heroic 
character to catch a second wind one extra time per day (but never more 
than once in a single encounter). A nonheroic character that takes the Extra 
Second Wind feat can catch a second wind once per day. 


Drop an Item 

Dropping an item is a swift action (but picking one up is a move action). 
You can drop an item so that it falls on the ground in your fighting space or 
lands in an adjacent square. 


Fall Prone 
Falling into a prone position requires a swift action. 

Acrobatics: If you are trained in the Acrobatics skill (see page 62), you 
can fall prone as a free action with a successful DC 15 Acrobatics check. 


Recover 

3 Swift Actions 

You can spend three swift actions in the same round or across consecutive 
rounds to move +1 step on the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). 
You cannot use the recover action while affected by a persistent condition 
(see Persistent Conditions, page 149). 


Switch Weapon Mode 

Some weapons have multiple weapon modes. Examples include blaster pistols, 
which have both a lethal setting and a stun setting, and blaster carbines, 
which have both a single-shot mode and an autofire mode. Switching to 
another weapon mode takes a swift action. 


FULL-ROUND ACTIONS 
A full-round action consumes all of your effort during a given re 
tively replacing all other actions on your turn. A full-round 
span multiple rounds; for example, you cannot perform a full-round ae 
that replaces your move action and swift action in the first round and 
standard action in the following round. a 
Full-round actions include the following: 


Coup de Grace 
As a full-round action, you can use a melee weapon to deliver a coup deg 
to a helpless creature or droid. You can also use a ranged weapon, p: 
you are adjacent to the target. You automatically score a critical hit, 
double damage. A defender reduced to 0 hit points by the coup de grace, 
instantly, or, in the case of a droid, is destroyed. An unconscious or disak 
defender hit by a coup de grace also dies or is destroyed instantly. 

You can't deliver a coup de grace against a vehicle or object. 


Full Attack 
As a full-round action, you can make more than one attack. To gain ex 
attacks, you must be wielding two weapons, wielding a double we 
or using a special ability that grants extra attacks. When making 
attacks, you may resolve your attacks in any order desired, declaring 
target of each attack immediately before making the attack roll. Extra atta 
granted from different sources are cumulative. Any penalties associated wit 
gaining an extra attack apply to all attacks that character makes until | 
start of his next turn. j 
Attacking with Two Weapons: As a full-round action, a character arm 
with two weapons can attack once with each weapon, but the character tak 
a -10 penalty on all attacks for the round. This penalty assumes that t! 
acter is proficient with the weapon in hand; apply an additional -5 p 
on the attack roll if the character is not proficient with the weapouall 
A character armed with three or more weapons still only gains one ext 
attack, but that character may choose which weapon it wishes to use 
this extra attack each round. 
Attacking with a Double Weapon: As a full-round action, a chara 
armed with a double weapon (such as a double-bladed light S 
attack once with each end of the weapon, but the character takes 4 
penalty on all attacks for the round. This penalty assumes that the ch 
acter is proficient with the weapon; apply an additional —5 penalty on 
attack roll if the character is not proficient with the weapon. (A che ; 
who chooses to attack with only one end of a double weapon can 60 50 
a standard action.) 
Dual Weapon Mastery: The Dual Weapon Mastery feats (see pag 
reduce the -10 penalty on attack rolls when fighting with two We@P 


both ends of 2 double weapon. A character with all three Dual Weapon 

Bi ssery feats negates the -10 penalty entirely. 
Double Attack and Triple Attack: The Double Attack feat (see page 84) 
allows 2 character to make one extra attack during a full attack, but the 
| character takes a —5 penalty on all attacks until the start of his next turn, 
The Triple Attack feat (see page 89) allows a character to make one extra 
j attack in addition to that granted by Double Attack, giving the character 
) gn additional -5 penalty {total -10 penalty) on all attacks until the start of 
his next turn, If the character is armed with more than one weapon, he may 
Ghoose which weapon (or weapons) he will use to make each extra attack. 


Run 
You can run as a full-round action, moving up to four times your speed in 


Da straight line (or three times your speed in a straight line if wearing heavy 
g@rmor or carrying a heavy load). See the Endurance skill (page 66) for run- 
ning rules. 


SPECIAL COMBAT 
RULES 


This section describes various special rules that arise during combat. The 
MWIES are presented alphabetically by topic. 


AREA ATTACKS 

Certain weapons and effects, such as grenades, autofire weapons, or the 

Force siam power, target all creatures in a given area instead of a single 

a you make an area attack, you make a single attack roll and compare 

‘the fesult to the Reflex Defense of every target in the area. Creatures you 

Ait take ful) damage, and creatures you miss take half damaae. 

Uy Autofire Weapons: A weapon set on autofire targets a 2-square-by-2- 

“Square area (see Autofire, below, for more information). 

4 Burst Radius: Grenades and explosives usually have a burst radius. When 

liga Make an area attack with such a weapon, you must decide where to 
Mer the burst before you make the attack roll, The center of a burst is 

On the corner of a square (at the "crosshairs"). 

Weapons: Some weapons have a splash radius. When you make an 
“Kagainst a target, that target takes full damage if your attack roll equals 
BECds the its Reflex Defense, and half damage if the attack misses. Also 
& fe your attack roll against the Reflex Defense of every target adjacent 
=. Piimary target; these adjacent targets take half damage if the attack 
RETRO damage if the attack misses. 


evon: A character with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes half 
a # Successful area attack and no damage from an area effect 


es his Reflex Defense. 


ATTACKS OF OPPORTUNITY 

If an enemy moves out of a square adjacent to you or performs an action that 
forces him to let down his guard, you can make a single, immediate attack 
against that enemy (even if you've already acted during the round). This is 
called an attack of opportunity. 

You can only make attacks of opportunity with melee weapons, natural 
weapons, pistols, carbines, and any weapon with a folded stock. You may 
also make attacks of opportunity while unarmed if you have the Martial 
Arts | feat, 


Royal Guard B 


Luke Skywalker 


v 


Royal Guard A 


ClAGRAM @-I: ATTACK OF CDPPORTUNITY | 
L_wxe SKyvwat.Ken MOVES |! BQUARE ano ATTACKS ROYAL GUARD 


A. HE PROVOKES AN ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY PROM ROYAL 
GVUARO B. 


xi esiavena 


a 


1 


a oe 


Provoking an Attack of Opportunity 
Two actions can provoke attacks of opportunity: 


® Moving out of a threatened square. 
© Performing an action that distracts you from defending yourself and lets 
your guard down while within a threatened square. 


Most characters threaten the squares adjacent to them; larger characters 
threaten all squares within their reach (see Reach, page 161). A creature only 
threatens an area if it is armed with a natural weapon, a melee weapon, a 
pistol, a carbine, or any weapon with a folded stock. 

Moving Out of a Threatened Square: When you move out of a threat- 
ened square, you generally provoke an attack of opportunity. You do not 
provoke an attack of opportunity if you use the withdraw action (see page 
153) or if you successfully tumble (see Acrobatics skill, page 62). 

Performing an Action that Distracts You: Some actions, when per- 
formed in a threatened area, provoke attacks of opportunity because they 
make you divert your attention from the fight at hand. The following actions 
provoke attacks of opportunity: 


Making an unarmed attack without the Martial Arts | feat 

Aiming 

Loading a weapon 

Picking up an item 

Retrieving a stored item 

Moving into an enemy's square 

Using any skill that distracts you or forces you to drop your guard (GM's 
determination) 


Making an Attack of Opportunity 

An attack of opportunity is a single free attack, and you can only make 
one attack of opportunity per round. You don't have to make an attack of 
opportunity if you don’t want to. An attack of opportunity is always made 
at your full attack bonus, minus any situational penalties you suffer. 

You can’t make an attack of opportunity if you're flat-footed. 

Combat Reflexes: If you have the Combat Reflexes feat (page 83), you 
can make more than one attack of opportunity during a round, and you may 
make an attack of opportunity while flat-footed. However, you may only 
make one attack of opportunity per provoking action. (Moving any number 
of squares is treated as a single provoking action.) 


AUTOFIRE 

Any ranged weapon that has an autofire setting can be set on autofire as a 
swift action. Table 8-4: Ranged Weapons (page 126) indicates whether or 
not a specific weapon has an autofire setting. Some weapons, such as E-Web 
repeating blasters, operate only in autofire mode. 


Autofire is treated as an area attack (see Area Attack, page 155) 
target a 2-square-by-2-square area, make a single attack roll at a -5 
and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every creature in 
Creatures you hit take full damage, and creatures you miss take half dar 
Autofire consumes ten shots or slugs, and it can only be used if the we 
has ten shots or slugs in it. 

Autofire-Only Weapons: If you are using an autofire-only we 
you may brace your weapon by taking two swift actions in the same 
immediately before making your attack. When you brace an autofire., 
weapon, you take only a -2 penalty on your attack roll when 
autofire attack or using the Burst Fire feat (see below). 

Only heavy weapons, rifles, and pistols with an extended stock (s 
125) can be braced. 

Burst Fire: The Burst Fire feat (see page 82) allows you to use a we: 
set on autofire against a specific creature instead of an area. You tak 
-5 penalty on your attack roll but deal +2 dice of damage. Using burs! f 
expends half as many shots or slugs (five instead of ten). This is not ex 
sidered an area attack, so the damage cannot be reduced using the Eva 
talent (see below). r 

Evasion: A character with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes hi 
damage from a successful autofire attack and no damage from an autof 
attack that misses his Reflex Defense (also see Burst Fire, above). 


CONCEALMENT 
Concealment encompasses all circumstances where nothing physically blog 
a blow or shot but where something interferes with an attacker's 
An attack that would normally hit might actually miss because the tar 
has concealment. A target might gain concealment from fog, smoke, pt 
lighting, tall grass, foliage, or other effects that make it difficult to pinpol 
the target's location. 
To determine whether your target has concealment from your 
attack, choose a corner of your square. If any line from this corner to 
corner of the target's square passes through a square or border that provi 
concealment, the target has concealment. When making a melee att 
against an adjacent target, your target has concealment if his space is ent 
within an effect that grants concealment (such as a cloud of smoke). 
If you attack a target with concealment, you take a -2 penalty on yt 
attack roll. Multiple sources of concealment (such as a defender in a 109 
night, with no illumination) do not apply additional penalties. 4 
if you attempt to notice a target with concealment, you take a -5 pen 
on your Perception check. aq 
Ignoring Concealment: Concealment isn't always effective. For instan 
a character with low-light vision ignores concealment from darkness (04® 
total concealment; see below). Likewise, a character with darkvision (@™ 
all concealment from darkness (even total concealment). 


Fog, smoke foliage, and other visual obstructions work normally against 
characters with darkvision or low-light vision. 


Total Concealment 
jf you have fine of effect to a target but not line of sight (for instance, if 


he is in total darkness or if you're blinded), he is considered to have total 
concealment from you. You can't attack an opponent that has total conceal- 
ment, though you can attack into a square that you think he occupies. if 
you attack a target with total concealment, you take a ~5 penalty on your 
gitack roll. You can't make an attack of opportunity against an opponent 
With total concealment, even if you know what square or squares the oppo- 
nent occupies. 

if you attempt to notice a target with total concealment, you take a -10 
penalty on your Perception check. 


Rancor 


ie $2: arrack oF 
INDY MOvVes none 


OrProatTuUNITY tt 


. wir TMAN | BQUARE ANDO ATTACKS THE 

OR Tun “Aa "1S LIGHTSABER. MACE PROVOKES aTTACKS OF 
Ty 

PROM BOTH TUSKEN Raipeme (wHo ane ARMED 


COVER 
Creatures and terrain features can provide cover against attacks. A creature 
with cover gains a +5 cover bonus to its Reflex Defense, no matter how 
many creatures and terrain features are between it and the attacker, Terrain 
features that provide cover include trees, walls, vehicles, and cargo crates. 

To determine whether an enemy has cover, choose a corner of the attack- 
er's square. If any line from this corner to any corner of the target's square 
passes through a barrier or any square occupied by a creature, the target has 
cover. The target does not have cover if the line runs along or touches the 
edge of 2 wall or other square that would otherwise provide cover. 

An adjacent enemy never has cover, 

Big Creatures and Cover: Any creature with a fighting space larger than 
1} square determines cover against melee attacks slightly differently than 
smaller creatures, Such a creature can choose any square that it occupies to 
determine whether an opponent has cover against its melee attacks. Similarly, 


Tusken Raider A 


Mace Windu 


Tusken Raider 8 


WITH Garr ericks) AS HE MOVES OUT OF THEINA THREATENED 
SQUARES. HE ALSO PROVOKES AN ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY FROM 
THE BANCOR AG HE MOVES THROUGH ITS THREATENED AREA (THE 
PF ANCOR HAG REACH). 


i esidavrns 


A 


rs ) 


Co 


i =e 


<x) eBigcwrHgD 


when making a melee attack against such a creature, you can pick any of the 
squares it occupies to determine whether it has cover against you. 

Cover and Attacks of Opportunity: You can't make an attack of oppor- 
tunity against an opponent with cover relative to you 

Cover and Stealth Checks: You can use cover to make a Stealth check. 
Without cover, you usually need concealment (see above) to make a Stealth 
check 

Low Objects and Cover: Low objects provide cover to creatures in those 
squares. However, the attacker ignores low objects in its own fighting space and 
adjacent squares. Low objects in the attacker's space and in adjacent squares 
don't provide cover to enemies; essentially, the attacker shoots over them. 


Improved Cover 
In some cases, cover may provide a greater bonus to Reflex Defense 
instance, a character peering around a corner or through a narrow aperture 
has even better cover than a character standing behind a low wall org land. 
speeder, In such situations, double the normal cover bonus to Reflex Defense 
(+10 instead of +5). A creature with improved cover takes no damage from. 
area attacks that fail to hit its Reflex Defense. Furthermore, improved cova 
provides a +5 bonus on Stealth checks. 1 
The GM may impose other penalties or restrictions to attacks depends 
ing on the details of the cover, For example, to strike effectively through g 
gun port, you need to use a long thrusting weapon, such as a lightsaber, & 
vibro-ax just isn't going to get through a narrow slit. 


Total Cover 

If you don’t have line of effect to your target (for instance, if he is completely 
behind a high wall), he is considered to have total cover from you. You cant 
make an attack against a target that has total cover. 


DAMAGE REDUCTION (DOR) 
A creature or object with damage reduction (DR) ignores a certain amount 
of damage from every attack. The amount of damage it ignores is always 
indicated; for example, an object with DR 10 ignores the first 10 points of 
damage from each attack 

Damage reduction is sometimes bypassed by one or more specific damage 
types (noted after the DR value). For example, a creature with DR S/enermy 
ignores 5 points of damage from any source except one that deals energy 
damage (such as from a blaster). Similarly, a creature with OR 10/piercing 
or slashing ignores 10 points of damage from any source except one that 
deals piercing or slashing damage 

Certain talents grant damage reduction, When a character with multiple 
types of damage reduction takes damage, use whichever damage reduction 
value most benefits the character, based on the type of damage. For exempigy 
if a character with DR 1 and DR 10/energy is struck by a blaster, it’s Better 
for the character to apply his DR 1 against the attack (since DR 10/energy 
is bypassed by blaster). 

Lightsabers: Lightsaber ignore damage reduction unless specifically 
noted otherwise 


DIAGONAL MOVEMENT 
Moving diagonally costs double. When moving or counting along 8 diagonal 
path, each diagonal counts as 2 squares, as shown in Diagram 9-3 if a chate 
acter moves diagonally through low objects or difficult terrain, tHe cost 
movement doubles twice (that is, each square counts as 4 squares) 

A character can't move diagonally past the corner or end of 4 wall that 
extends to a grid corner. 


pier icuLT TERRAIN 
Broken ground, buckled deck plating, and similar obstacles are collectively 
dto as difficult terrain. It costs twice as much to move into a square 
containing difficult terrain. Creatures of Large size and bigger must pay the 
eaita cost for moving across difficult terrain if any part of their fighting 
e moves into such a square. 
Difficult terrain does not block line of sight or provide cover. 


EBNCUMBRANCE AND SPEED 
Wearing medium or heavy armor or carrying @ heavy load reduces your 
character's speed to three-quarters normal (4 squares if your base speed is 
Gsquares, or 3 squares if your base speed is 4 squares). While wearing heavy 
armor of carrying a heavy load, you can run at triple your speed. 
A character with a fly speed cannot fly while carrying a heavy load. 


FIGHTING SPACE 

The squares that a creature occupies on the battle map are collectively 
feferred to as its fighting space. Small and Medium creatures (including 
most characters) have a fighting space of 1 square. Large creatures have 
@fghting space of 4 squares (2 squares on a side). Huge creatures have a 
fighting space of 9 squares (3 squares on a side). Gargantuan and Colossal 
Creatures haye much larger fighting spaces. 


FLANKING 

If you are making a melee attack against an opponent and you have an ally 

On the other side of the opponent so that the opponent is directly between 

the two of you, you are flanking that opponent. You gain a +2 flanking 
= On your melee attack roll. See Diagrams 9-4 and 9-5 for examples 


Of flanking. 


You don’t gain a flanking bonus when making a ranged attack 


HELPLESs OPPONENTS 
Abelpiess Opponent—one who is bound, sleeping, unconscious, or otherwise 
y's an easy target You can sometimes approach a target that 
rey ware of your presence, get adjacent to it, and treat it as helpless. If the 
2+ 8 in Combat or some other tense Situation, and therefore in a state of 
\s awareness and readiness, or if the target can use its Dexterity bonus 
P its Reflex Defense, then that target can't be considered unaware. 
+ any reasonable precautions taken by a target—including stationing 
BUSIGS, placing its back to a wall, or being able to make Perception 
also precludes catching that target unaware and helpless. 
% ~~ "'§ a Helpless Opponent: A melee attack against a helpless 
Sha 3 +5 bonus on the attack roll (equivalent to attacking a 
a. 3 ranged attack gets no special bonus. In addition, a helpless 
Nt add its Dexterity bonus (if any) to its Reflex Defense, In 


fact, its Dexterity score is treated as if it were 0, so its Dexterity modifier 
to Reflex Defense is -5, 


ION DAMAGE 
lon pistols and ion rifles emit powerful bursts of electrostatic energy that 
can disable droids, vehicles, and electrical devices in much the same way 
that stun weapons can incapacitate living creatures 

When you make a successful attack with a weapon that deals ion 
damage, first subtract half of the ion damage from the target's hit points. 
Creatures that do not have cybernetic prosthetics are singed by the ion 
energy but suffer no other ill effects. Droids, vehicles, electronic devices, 


DIAGRAM @-3! MOVEMENT 

MOVING DIAGONALLY COSTS DOUBLE. A CHARACTER CAN'T MOVE 
DIAGONALLY PAST A CORNER OR END OF A WALL, MOVING 
THROUGH LOW OCM@VJECTS ALSO COBT COUBLE. IF A CHARACTER 
MOVES CIADONALLY THROUGH LOW OBvECcTS, THE COsT OF 
MOVEMENT COUBLES Twice. 


x) HeLa vVHS 


LYSIS) 


{ 


and cybernetically enhanced creatures may suffer additional effects, as fighting space to any point in the target's fighting space. If the player 
noted below: controls the attacking character can draw that line without touching » 
square that provides total cover (a wall, closed door, or similar Darrier) gp 
If the ion damage reduces the target's current hit points to 0, the target total concealment (thick smoke, total darkness, or anything else that preyen 


moves —5 steps on the condition track and is either knocked unconscious visibility), that character has line of sight to the target. “ 
or disabled (see Falling Unconscious, page 147) A line that nicks a corner or runs along a wall does not provide line oF 
If the ion damage (before being halved) equals or exceeds the target's sight, Other characters and creatures, low objects, difficult terrain, and of ¢ 


damage threshold, the target moves -2 steps on the condition track. de not block line of sight. 
Line of Effect: Line of effect works just like line of sight, but it ignores 
LINE OF SIGHT squares that provide total concealment. For example, a character who js bling 
A character can target an enemy that he can see, which is to say, any enemy or in total darkness doesn't have line of sight to any target, but that chara 
within his line of sight. Draw an imaginary line from any point in the attacker's has line of effect to any target that doesn't have total cover. 


] 


Ki-Adi-Mundi 


<i salavHS 


ad 
J 
Obi-Wan Kenobi 


Super Battle Droid 


’ 


£3 


< 


Anakin Skywalker T > li 


: 
' 
: 


Agen Kolar 
if 


DIAGRAM @-4: FLANKING I O4GRAMm B~G: FLANKING I! 

ANAKIN BKYWALKER ANO OBI-WAN KENOB! ARE FLANKING Tit KI-ADI-MUND!I AND AGEN KOLAR ARE FLANKING THE oOwaRnr 
SUPER BATTLE OCRCID, THEY EACH GAIN A +2 FLANKING SONUS SPIDER OROID. THEY BACH GAIN A +Z FLANKING BONUE om 
ON MELEE ATTACKS AGAINGT THE OFROCID, ATTACKS AGAINGT THE OCFROCIC. 


ING THROUGH 

UPIED SQUARES 

bs you Can pass through an occupied square. 

You can move through a square occupied by any character, creature, 

doesn't consider you an enemy, 

or Unconscious Enemy: You can move through a square occupied 

my that doesn't present an obstacle, such as one who is dead, 

us, or disabled, 

uch Larger or Smaller Enemy: Any character can move through a 
d by an enemy three or more size categories larger or smaller 


> 


in enemy's fighting space (see the Acrobatics skill, page 62). 


ONE TARGETS 

Sattacks, talents, feats, and Force powers can knock a character prone. 

takes a -5 penalty on melee attack rolls. Melee attacks 

La prone character gain a +5 bonus, while ranged attacks made 
‘prone character take a -5 penalty. Being prone may also give a 

< total cover instead of normal cover (for example, being prone 

ow wall), subject to the GM's discretion. 


.CrH 
re s reach determines the distance it can reach when making a melee 
A creature threatens all squares within its reach. Small and Medium 
fave a reach of 1 square, which means they can make melee 
against targets in adjacent squares. Larger creatures tend to 
eater reach and, consequently, a bigger threatened area. 

er Creatures: A creature with greater-than-normal reach (more 
Square) can still attack Opponents directly next to it. A creature with 
formal reach usually gets an attack of opportunity against an 
the opponent approaches it, because the opponent must 
‘Ove within its threatened area before making a melee attack, 
C : A Fine, Diminutive, or Tiny creature must be in 
to attack you; moving into your square provokes an attack of 
. 4 Can attack into your own space if you need to witha melee 
ut not a ranged attack), so you can attack very small opponents 


D RATING (SR) 

devices, and vehicies have a shield rating (SR). Whenever a 
RK takes damage from an attack, reduce the damage by the 
femaining damage (if any) is dealt to the target's hit points, 
g¢ reduction normally. 


Shield Damage: If the damage dealt by an attack exceeds the target's 
SR, reduce the shield rating by 5. This reduction is cumulative, so a target's 
shield rating can eventually be reduced to zero, A character may recharge the 
shields of a device or vehicle by spending three swift actions on the same or 
consecutive rounds to make a DC 20 Mechanics check; if the check succeeds, 
the target's SR improves by 5 points (up to its normal maximum). A droid 
may recharge its own shields by spending three swift actions on the same or 
consecutive rounds to make a DC 20 Endurance check; if the check succeeds, 
its current shieid rating improves by 5 points (up to its normal maximum). 


SHOOTING OR THROWING INTO 

a& MELEE 

If you shoot a ranged weapon or throw a weapon at an opponent that is adja- 

cent to one or more of your allies, you take a —5 penalty on your attack roll. 

This penalty accounts for the fact that you're trying not to hit your allies, 
Precise Shot: If you have the Precise Shot feat (page 87), you don't take 

this penalty. 


SPECIAL INITIATIVE ACTIONS 
Usually you act as soon as you can in combat, but sometimes you want to act 
later, at a better time, or in response to the actions of someone else. 


Delay 

By choosing to delay, you take no action when your turn in the initiative 
order arrives. Instead, you act normally at whatever later initiative point you 
decide to act. When you delay, you voluntarily reduce your own initiative 
count for the rest of the encounter. When your new, lower initiative count 
comes up later in the same round, you can act normally. You can specify this 
new initiative result or just wait until some time later in the round and act 
at that time, thus fixing your new initiative result at that point. 

Delaying is useful if you need to see what your friends or enemies are 
going to do before deciding what to do yourself. The price you pay is lost 
initiative. You never get back the time you spend waiting to see what's 
going to happen. 

Example; Deel and Vor'en approach a locked hatch, behind which they 
expect to encounter a crime boss and his thugs. Vor'en's initiative count is 
22, but he delays. He wants to open fire on the crime boss with his heavy 
blaster rifle, so he delays. On initiative count 14, Deel uses his Mechan- 
ics skill to unlock and open the door. Now Vor'en can move through the 
doorway and fire 2 shot at the crime boss, but his Initiative is reduced to 
13 (just after Deel’s initiative of 14). For the rest of the battle, Vor'en acts 
on initiative count 13. 

Multiple Characters Delaying: If multiple characters delay their actions, 
the one with the highest Initiative check modifier has the advantage. If two 
or more delaying characters both want to act on the same initiative count, 
the one with the highest Initiative check modifier gets to go first. 


0 
i 
> 
| 
-f 
i] 
iy 
(x 


S) 


FSS) 


AS 


Ready 

Readying lets you prepare to take an action later, after your turn is over but 
before your next turn has begun. You can ready a single standard action or 
move action. To do so, specify the standard action or move you will take and 
the circumstances under which you will take it. Then, any time before your 


Stormtrooper A 


% 


Stormtrooper B 


a 
< 2) - 


< 


DiaGRam &-G: Line OF Biort 

TWO CHARACTERS HAVE LINE OF BIGHT TO BACH OTHER IF 
THERE'S AT LEAST ONE CLEAR LINE BETWEEN THEIF GP4CES. A 
LINE THAT NICKS 4 CORNER OF RUNS ALONG A WALL OOES NOT 
PROVICE LINE OF BIGHT. A CHARACTER NEEOS LINE OF SIGhT TO 
AN BNEMY TO ATTACK THAT ENEMY. HAN SOLO HAS LINE OF 
BIGHT TO BTORMTROOPER A, BUT NOT TO BTORMTFROOPER @. 


next turn, you may take the readied action in response to those cirey 
(assuming they occur). 

Initiative Consequences of Readying: The count on which you 
your readied action becomes your new initiative result. If you come to 
next action and have not yet performed your readied action, you don't 
to take the readied action (though you can ready the same action again) 
you take your readied action in the next round, before your reqular acting: 
your initiative rises to that new point in the order of battle, and you do not 
get your regular action in that round. ; 

Example: Kelko and his friend Sia-Lan have just encountered a trio of 
Tusken Raiders in the wilds of Tatooine. On initiative count 14, Keiko specifies, 
that he is going to fire his blaster at the first Raider that tries making aa 
attack, On count 10, Sia-Lan moves next to Kelko and readies an attack with 
her lightsaber so that she can strike any foe that comes within 1 square of 
her position. On count 7, the Tusken Raiders charge, brandishing their gaffi 
sticks. As soon as the lead Raider raises his weapon, Kelko fires his big 
but misses. Next, Sia-Lan swings at the first Raider to reach her and drops” 
him. Other Raiders, however, reach Sia-Lan and attack her, From this pointony 
both Kelko and Sia-Lan act on initiative count 7 (and before the Raiders), 


SQUEEZING 
Creatures of Large size and bigger can squeeze through small openings and» 
down narrow hallways that are at least half as wide as their fighting space) 
provided they end their movement in an area that they can normally occupy 
Big droids and vehicles can't squeeze at all, unless they can compress thelr 
frames to accommodate the tighter space. 

Creatures of Large size or biqger cannot squeeze past enemies. 


STUNNING 
Sometimes you'd rather knock an enemy unconscious than kill him, That's why 
many weapons have stun settings and why stun batons and stun grenades 
are popular with law enforcement agencies throughout the galaxy. 

Various melee weapons and blasters have a stun setting, and switching) 
a weapon to its stun setting (or resetting it to normal damage) is a swift 
action. Some stun weapons, such as Stun grenades, only have a stun setting, 
Unless otherwise noted, the stun setting on a blaster weapon hasa@ maximum 
range of 6 squares (no range penalties). 

Only creatures can be stunned. Droids, vehicles, and objects are immune 
to stunning effects. 

When you make a successful attack with a weapon that deals stun damage 
subtract half of the stun damage from the target's hit points. Addition@! effects 
may occur as well, depending on the amount of damage dealt: 


© |f the stun damage reduces the target's current hit points to0, the target 
moves -5 steps on the condition track and is knocked unconscious (see 
Falling Unconscious, page 147). 


s jf the stun damage (before being halved) equals or exceeds the target's 
damage threshold, the target moves ~2 steps on the condition track 


_ Acreature knocked unconscious by a stunning effect does not die if it 
anatural 1 onits Constitution check to regain consciousness or if it fails 
he check by 5 or more points. It simply remains unconscious 


No Cover 


<i GOVER AND Line OF BIOnT 
une 4LOND A WALL OR THAT NICKS A CORNER or A 
‘oY PROVIDE COVER. BTORMTROOPER A CORES NOT 


UNARMED ATTACKS 
Striking for damage with punches, kicks, and head butts is essentially like attack- 
ing with a melee weapon. Unarmed attacks deal normal bludgeoning damaae. 
A Medium character normally deals 1d4 points of bludgeoning damage 
(plus Strength modifier) with a successful unarmed attack; a Small character 
deals 1d3 points of bludgeoning damage (plus Strength modifier). Certain 
talents, feats, or special abilities may increase the damage a character deals 
with his unarmed attacks 


Stormtrooper A 


Stormtrooper B 


No Cover 


HAVE COYSA FROM HAN SOLO. STORMTROOPER B [COSS NOT 
HAVE COVER FROM PRINCESS LEIA. HAN AND LEIA OO NOT HAVE 
LINE OF BIGHT TO ONE ANOTHER. 


| 
| 


xi wSiavHod 


CHAPTER x 
__ VBHICLES 


a* » Vehicles in the Stor Wars universe run the gamut from ponderous armored 
> i» Mwalkers and capital ships to agile airspeeders and starfighters. Despite this 
af wsticty, the basic purpose of all vehicles remains similar: moving passengers 
. one place to another. Of course, the places involved in this journey can 
aihy affect the form and function of the vehicle. 
The st rules come into play whenever vehicles figure prominently on the 
d—whether that battlefield happens to be ona planet's surface or 
ark void of space. The movement and combat rules presented here 
al types of vehicles, from planetary vehicles to starships. 
agost respects, vehicies follow the same rules as characters, insofar as 
ave Movement, actions, and the capacity to take damage, 


a 


. 


> = 


as” eis “” 


eas 

e < 

: e 
ag, tev 
$i, SCALE 

© These rules use two scales: character scale and starship scale. If the encoun- 


ter involves both vehicles and characters on foot, use character scale. If the 
scene involves vehicles only, use starship scale. 


CHARACTER SCALE 
Character scale is identical to the standard movement scale. Combat is carried 
out on a grid in which each square equals 1.5 meters (about 5 feet). 

In character scale, most vehicles are large enough to occupy multiple 
squares on the battle grid, How many squares a vehicle occupies is determined 
by the vehicle's size (and the same holds true for characters and creatures), 
Vehicles of Colossal (frigate) size or greater are not placed on the battle map; 
they are either off the map (perhaps providing fire support), or the battle 
takes place inside them. 

In character scale, more than one surface vehicle cannot Occupy the 
same space on the battle grid, and a collision occurs whenever a vehicle 
nters a square occupied by a creature, obstacle, or other vehicle (see Col- 
hs ions, page 173). 


b. TARSHIP SCALE 


t s imgunt of space depending on the vehicles involved. In most cases, one 
“st f if 4s hundreds or even thousands of meters wide. In starship scale, the 
yg pid sei wepresents relative movement, not absolute movement, so several 
SHIPS IN orbit might be drifting together at many kilometers per second 
pas they move around one another. 
At starship scale, a vehicle can pass through squares occupied by allies, 
iP Mot squares occupied by enemies. 


a 


{fi starship scale, each square of the grid is abstract, representing a variable. 


0 
I 
> 
t 
4 
a. 
\3 
x) 


= saicdvHa 


VEHICLE TYPES 


The term “vehicle” encompasses both planetary vehicles (such as airspeeders, 
landspeeders, and walkers) and starships (such as starfighters, space trans- 
ports, and capital ships). The major difference between planetary vehicles 
and starships is that planetary vehicles generally do not travel in the vacuum 
of space, Rules that pertain only to planetary vehicles or starships are called 
out specifically. 


PLANETARY VEHICLES 
Planetary vehicles are further subdivided into ground vehicles and air 
vehicles. 

Ground Vehicle: The most basic vehicles in the Star Wars universe, ground 
vehicles only operate on (or very near) a planetary surface. 

Speeder: Speeders are common sights on the technologically advanced 
worlds. Equipped with repulsorlift drive technology, they hover above the 
ground at a height of anywhere from a few centimeters to several meters 
and can achieve remarkable speeds. Speeders ignore penalties for difficult 
terrain, 

Tracked; Tracked vehicles have treads or tracks looped around a large 
number of wheels, providing great traction but making them less maneu- 
verable at higher speeds—and extremely loud at any speed, Tracked vehicles 
ignore penalties for difficult terrain and take half damage from collisions 
with obstacles at least one size category smaller than them. 

Walker: Walkers move about on two or more legs, literally walking over 
the terrain. Walkers retain their balance by means of finely tuned gyroscopes 
and offer a fairly smooth ride, They rely on even footing, however, and when 
they topple, the results can be disastrous. Walkers ignore obstacles that are 
three or more sizes smaller than them, 


Wheeled: Wheeled vehicles move on one or more wheels (most 
monly two to four). Faster and more maneuverable than tracked or 
vehicles, wheels are a cheap alternative to repulsorlift technology fo, 
and fast vehicles. 

Air Vehicle: Air vehicles generally operate above a planetary 
within the planet's atmosphere. 

Airspeeders: Airspeeders are repulsorlift vehicles that can tra 
where up to about 300 kilometers above ground level, but they are 
of true space flight. Because they fly so high above the ground, they 
penalties for terrain or obstructions. Of all planetary vehicles, airsnes 
are the most maneuverable. 


STARSHIP 
Starships are vehicles capable of interplanetary and interstellar travel, 
are further subdivided into starfighters, space transports, capital 
space stations. 
Starfighter: Starfighters are small, agile starships of Gargantuan siz 
smaller, Though they can travel in atmosphere, they excel at space con 
Starfighters can function with as few as one crewmember (the pilot), 1 
Space Transport: Space transports are mid-size starships of Colossa 
Colossal (frigate) size with fewer than 200 hit points. Most space tf 
are designed for moving passengers or cargo, but some are used as g 
drop ships, or assault shuttles. 


VEHICLE SIZE 


SIZE MODIFIER’ EXAMPLES 
Colossal (station) -10 Executor-class Star 0 
Death Star 
Colossal (cruiser) -10 imperial-class Star Destroyer, 


MC80 Mon Calamari cruiser 


Colossal (frigate) -10 Corellian corvette (Tantive IV}, 


Nebulon-8 frigate 
Colossal -10 AT-AT, YT-1300 light freighter 
{Millennium Falcon) 
Gargantuan -5 AAT-1 repulsor tank, X-wing staf 
Huge -2 AT-ST walker, TIE fighter 
Large 1 Speeder bike, X-34 landspeeder 


1 Apply this size modifier to the vehicle's Reflex Defense, as well as to!" tia 
and Pilot checks made by the vehicle's occupants. 


Papital Ship: Capital ships include all starships of Colossal (frigate) size 
ner, Capital ships usually carry hundreds if not thousands of crewmem- 
Rarcand passenae’s, and some are large enough to house other capital ships 
Guiehin their hangar bays. Some very large transports and colony ships fal 
Han this category despite not being designed for combat. 

Station: Though not technically modes of transportation, space 
Banc have statistics like other starships. A space station can have a 
7 lation in the thousands or millions, depending on its size. Most space 
ane are immobile, the Death Star being a notable exception, 


VEHICLE COMBAT 
STATISTICS 


All vehicle statistics that are relevant to combat are described below. 


VEHICLE SIZE 

les use similar size categories as creatures, as shown on Table 10-1: 
Sizes. The Colossal size category is further subdivided to differentiate 
Particularly massive starships and space stations. 

” Avehicle's size modifier applies to the vehicie's Reflex Defense, as well as 
ito Initiative and Pilot checks made by the vehicle's occupants. 


ATTACKS 
Wehicle equipped with weapons can make attacks against enemies within 
An attack roll with a vehicle weapon is calculated as follows: 


1420 + base attack bonus + vehicle's Intelligence modifier + range 


«Ne 


Base Attock Bonus: Use the base attack bonus of the gunner (which, in 

me Cases, may be the pilot), 

a ligence Modifier: A vehicle's computer improves the accuracy of the 
eUSIES Weapon systems, and the vehicle's intelligence score measures the 

ty of the computer. 

9¢ Modifier: A vehicle weapon can attack a target at point blank, short, 

Or long range. If you make a ranged attack against a target within 

AY Pon's point blank range, you take no penalty on the attack roll. Your 

a On attack rolls increases to -2 at short range, -5 at medium range, 
OY Bt long range (see Table 10-2: Vehicle Weapon Ranges). 


cal Hits 

} 
er Combat, when you roll a natural 20 on your attack, you 
ly hit and deal double damage. 


<3 Misses 
2 Natural 1 on your attack, you automatically miss. 


x bSLlavHo 


——CHARACTER SCALE (IN SQUARES) STARSHIP SCALE (IN SQUARES) 
WEAPON TYPE PT. BLANK SHORT MEDIUM LONG PT. BLANK SHORT MEDIUM 
Blaster cannon 0-120 121-240 = 241-600 ——601-1,200 Co 
lon cannon 0-300 301-600  601-1,500 _‘1,501-3,000 0-2 3-4 5-10 
Laser cannon 0-150 151-300 301-750 = 751-1,500 0-1 oy a 
Missile or torpedo 0-450 451-900 901-2,250 2,251-4,500 0-3 4-6 
Point-defense’ 0-150 151-300 = 301-750 751-1,500 0-1 ets 
Tractor beam' 0-150 151-300 301-750 751-1,500 0-1 2 
Turbolaser’ 0-600 601-1,200 —-1,201-3,000 —_3,001-6,000 0-4 5-8 


1 This weapon can only be mounted on a vehicle of Colossal (frigate) size or larger. 


DAMAGE 

When you hit with a vehicle weapon, you deal damage according to the type 
of weapon [listed in each vehicle's statistics). Damage dealt by a vehicle 
weapon is calculated as follows: 


Weapon damage x damage multiplier 


Damage Multiplier: After rolling the weapon damage dice, multiply the 
result by the listed damage multiplier. For example, when you fire a vehicle 
weapon that deals 6d10x2 damage, roll 6d10 and multiply the result by 2. 


DEFEN Ss 

Avehicle’s defenses represent how difficult it is to hit or overload its systems. 
Unlike characters, vehicles do not have a Will Defense. However, vehicles have 
a Reflex Defense and a Fortitude Defense which are calculated as follows: 


Reflex Defense = 10 + vehicle's Dexterity modifier + size modifier 
+ armor bonus or pilot's heroic level 
Fortitude Defense = 10 + vehicle's Strength modifier 


Reflex Defense (Ref) 
Whenever you make an attack against a vehicle, compare your attack roll to 
the target's Reflex Defense (abbreviated “Ref*). If you equal or exceed the 
vehicle's Reflex Defense, you hit it and deal damage. 
Size Modifier: Use the vehicie's size modifier instead of your own when 
calculating the vehicle's Reflex Defense (see Table 10-1: Vehicle Sizes), 
Armor Bonus: Use the vehicle's armor bonus instead of your own when 
calculating the vehicle’s Reflex Defense. You may add your heroic level 
instead of this armor bonus. 


Dexterity Modifier: A vehicle's Dexterity modifier represents how w 
can move out of harm's way. If the pilot is flat-footed, or if the vehi 
out of control or attacked by an undetected opponent, the vehicle as 
Dexterity bonus to its Reflex Defense. If the vehicle is at a full stop, poy 
down, or disabled, it is treated as if it has a Dexterity score of 0 (-5 pe 
to Reflex Defense). 


Fortitude Defense (Fort) 
Vehicles use their Fortitude Defense (abbreviated “Fort") to determine: 
damage threshold (see below). 

Strength Bonus: A vehicle's Strength bonus represents its overall tou 
ness and durability. 4g 


HiT POINTS 
Vehicies have hit points, just like characters, Hit points are abstract, me 
to represent not only the vehicle's physical mass but also the rot stnes 
fragility of its systems. 


Damage Threshold f 
Like creatures, vehicles have a damage threshold, calculated as follows: 


Damage threshold = Fortitude Defense + size modifier 


ze Modifier: Apply the following size modifiers to a vehicle's damage 
4: Large, +5; Huge, +10; Gargantuan, +20; Colossal, +50; Colossal 
ox "4100; Colossal (cruiser), +200; Colossal (station), +500. 

icle takes damage from a single attack that equals or exceeds 
threshold, the vehicle moves -1 step on the condition track (see 
page 148). A vehicle pushed to the bottom of the condition 
disabled and comes to a complete stop immediately. If the vehicle 
ng in a gravity well at the time it became disabled, it immediately 
meters (100 squares) plus another 300 meters (200 squares) every 
stil it either hits the surface or is reactivated. Resolve falling damage 
{see Falling Damage, page 255). 

is reduced to 0 hit points by an attack that deals damage equal 
than its damage threshold, it is destroyed. In addition, all of the 
ple’s occupants take half damage from the attack. 


vi 


ew COVER 

sles provide at least some cover to their passengers, Passengers 
bonus to their Reflex Defense against any attacks that target 
ad of the vehicle. A vehicle can provide no cover, normal cover (+5 
s), improved cover (+10 cover bonus}, or full cover. You cannot 
rget that has full cover. 

tra vehicle provides to its passengers is included in its statistics 
Descriptions, page 174). 


eeED 

t has a speed, given in squares. The pilot may move a vehicle up 
d Speed as a move action, and up to four times its speed with the 
t action (see page 172). 

pS and airspeeders have a separate listing for their speed in star- 


Velocity: This is the maximum speed a vehicle may move in 
er scale, It is seldom relevant in combat because such speeds quickly 
shicle off the battle map and out of range. 


RACTERS IN 
CLES 


in a vehicle fills one of several possible roles, which determines 
€r can do. A character can fill several roles at once, but most 
be filled by one character at a time. For example, an X-wing 
a5 the vehicte’s commander and gunner, while her astromech 
cts as a copilot, shield operator, and engineer, On the other 
-class Star Destroyer with thousands of crewmembers still 
HOt, One commander, and so forth. You can change roles from 
@, but you can only start filling a particular role if no other 
as filied that role since your last turn. 


‘ 


Pilot: The pilot of the vehicle controls its movement. Most vehicles have 
only one position from where the vehicle can be piloted. Piloting a vehicle is, 
at a minimum, a move action, which means that the pilot can do something 
else with his standard action and swift action. A vehicle can have only one 
pilot at one time. The pilot adds the vehicle's size modifier and Dexterity 
modifier on all Initiative and Pilot checks. 

Copilot: A copilot can help the pilot by using the aid another action (see 
Aid Another, page 170). The copilot must be seated in a location where he can 
see in front of the vehicle and advise the pilot (in most cases, this location 
is the cockpit). Aiding the pilot is a standard action, leaving the copilot with 
a move action and swift action each round to do something else. A vehicle 
can have only one copilot at a time. 

Gunner: Most military vehicles and some civilian vehicles have built-in 
weapons. Any weapon not controlled by the pilot or co-pilot requires a gunner 
to operate. A vehicle can have as many gunners as it has gunner positions. 

Commander: The commander coordinates the various crewmembers and 
stations aboard the vehicle, analyzes the battle as it unfolds, and looks for 
weaknesses in the enemy’s vehicles and tactics. A vehicle can only have one 
commander at a time. 

System Operator: The system operator manages the vehicle's shields, 
sensors, and communications. A vehicle can only have one system operator 
at a time. 

Engineer: The chief engineer keeps the ship running even as it takes 
debilitating damage to its systems, diverting power from overloaded circuits 
to keep the ship functional. The engineer also leads efforts to repair damage 
to the hull between battles. A vehicle can only have one chief engineer at 
a time. 

Other Crew: Other crewmembers can fill many supporting roles, coordi- 
nating troops or starfighters, administering medical care, guarding sensitive 
areas, and providing general maintenance. These crewmembers can assist 
others on some skill checks; for example, the members of a repair team may 
assist the chief engineer in his duties on capital ships. 

Passenger: All other personnel aboard the vehicle are considered pas- 
sengers. Passengers have no specific role in the vehicle's operation but may 
take actions aboard the vehicle or replace crewmembers as needed. 


STARTING THE BATTLE 


Unless noted otherwise, climbing aboard a vehicle is a move action, and 
powering up a vehicle requires a second move action. 


INITIATIVE 

There are two options for determining initiative in vehicle combat. First, 
each character can make a separate Initiative check. This is probably the 
best method if most or all characters are aboard the same vehicle, but it can 
result in a lot of delayed or readied actions as passengers wait for pilots to 


in 
I 
> 
v 
4 
A) | 
“2D 
x) 


perform maneuvers. An alternative is to make an Initiative check for each 
vehicle, using the pilot's Initiative check modifier. This is particularly appropri- 
ate when characters are in separate vehicles, since it allows everyone aboard 
the same vehicle to act more or less simultaneously. 

Special: If you are trained in the Pilot skill (see page 71), you can choose 
to make a Pilot check instead of an Initiative check to determine your place 
in the initiative order. In any event, you must apply the vehicle's size modifier 
to your check (see Table 10-1: Vehicle Sizes, page 166). 


VEHICLE COMBAT 
ACTIONS 


The types of actions you can take during a single turn don't change when 
you're aboard a vehicle. 

Some of the actions described below can only be performed by particular 
crewmembers. In this case, the eligible crewmembers are listed in parentheses 
following the action's name. 


STANDARD ACTIONS 
A standard action could be any one of the following: 


Aid Another : 
As a standard action, you can aid an ally’s next skill check, ability 
or attack roll, 
Aiding a Skill Check or Ability Check: You can help another cha, 
achieve success on her skill check or ability check by making the san 
of skill check or ability check in a cooperative effort. If you roll a 10 of hi 
on your check, the character you are helping gains a +2 bonus on her sh 
You can't take 10 on a skill check or ability check to aid another. Oni 
Copilot can assist on Pilot checks, and only the commander can assist on 
Computer checks. Any crewmember can aid any other skill check. 
Aiding an Attack Roll: In combat, you can aid another character’ 
by providing improved targeting data or by coordinating that att, 
other vehicle actions. A gunner can grant a +2 bonus on another cha 
attack roll by making an attack against a Reflex Defense of 10. 
A sensor operator can grant a +2 bonus on another character's atea 
roll by making a DC 10 Use Computer check. a 
Avehicle’s commander can grant a +2 bonus on another character's at 
roll by making a DC 10 Knowledge (tactics) check. 


Attack with Melee Weapon 
With a melee weapon, you can strike any enemy in a square you can threat 
You can only threaten squares within your reach from the vehicle's space, ar 
you don't threaten spaces around the vehicle at all if it grants total cover Fo 
example, a Jedi on a speeder bike could attack targets adjacent to the bit 
with his lightsaber, but the same Jedi couldn't do so while inside an AT-Al 

You can't make a melte attack in starship scale, except within the confin 
of the vehicle you occupy. 


Attack with Ranged Weapon 
With a ranged weapon, you can throw or shoot at any target within yo 
line of sight, as long as your vehicle does not grant you total cover Fe 
example, clone troopers can fire their blasters at targets outside a LAI 
gunship as long as the ship's doors are open. Range modifiers apply no 
for your weapon, ; 
You cannot make a personal ranged attack in starship scale, except Ww 
the confines of the vehicle you occupy, 


Attack with Vehicle Weapon 
Gunner Only j 
Any gunners (including the pilot, if there are pilot-operated weapons OF 
vehicle) can make an attack with their vehicle weapon as a standard 
The maximum range and the range modifiers of a vehicle weapon # 
depend on the weapon used (see Table 10-2: Vehicle Weapon Ranges). 

Capital Ships: Capital ship weapons are designed for long-f@™ 
bombardment against large or immobile targets, and they have diffic 


4 small enemies. When attacking a target of less than Colossal 
oie “je that is Colossal (frigate) size or larger takes a -20 penalty on 
“rolls. Point-defense weapons are specifically designed to attack 
gets and do not take these penalties. 

Pilot: If you are trained in the Pilot skill, you gain a +2 bonus 
icks made with any vehicle weapon identified as being crewed by 


lard action, you can move up to your vehicle's speed (minimum 2 
straight line through unobstructed terrain directly toward your 
and then make an attack with a vehicle weapon at that target at the 
your movement. You gain a +2 bonus on your attack roll and take a 
ity to your vehicle's Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn. 
p scale, you cannot make an attack run through squares occupied 
pies, but allies do not hinder your attack run. 


d action, the pilot of an airspeeder or starfighter can initiate a 
aginst an enemy airspeeder or starfighter in an adjacent square 
le). Make a Pilot check at a -5 penalty, opposed by the enemy's 
If you succeed, you and the target vehicle are engaged in a 


tes of Dogfighting: A vehicle engaged in a dogfight must 
€ dogfight action on every turn, and it cannot move out of its cur- 
are until it disengages (see below). While engaged in a dogfight, you 
attack any target outside the dogfight. 
fo a Dogfight: If another vehicle fires into a dogfight, it takes a 
bn its attack roll unless the gunner has the Precise Shot feat. 
ig in @ Dogfight: Make an opposed Pilot check as a standard 
win the opposed check, you may make a single attack with a 
85 a swift action. If you fail, you cannot attack the target, 
On your vehicle take a -5 penalty on any attack rolls they 
ip next turn. 
from a Dogfight: Make an opposed Pilot check as a move 
you win the opposed check, you successfully disengage from the 


MES. 
qUNIC 


dogfight and may move a number of squares equal to your speed. If you 
fail, you remain in the dogfight, and any gunners on your vehicle take a —5 
penalty on any attack rolls they make until your next turn. 

Attack of Opportunity: If an enemy starfighter tries to move through 
your square or an adjacent square, you may attempt to initiate a dogfight 
as an attack of opportunity. If successful, the enemy starfighter must stop 
moving. 


Fight Defensively 

Pilot Only 

As a standard action, you can concentrate more on protecting your vehicle 
than hurting your enemies. You and all gunners on your vehicle take a -5 
penalty on your attack rolls and your vehicle gains a +2 dodge bonus to its 
Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn. If you choose to make no 
attacks, your vehicle gains a +5 dodge bonus to its Reflex Defense and all 
gunners on your vehicle take a -10 penalty on their attack rolls until the 
start of your next turn, 

Trained Pilot: If you are trained in the Pilot skill, your vehicle instead 
gains a +5 dodge bonus to its Reflex Defense when you and your gunners 
take a -5 penalty on attack rolls, or a +10 dodge bonus if you choose to 
make no attacks on your turn, 


MOVE ACTIONS 
Move actions include the following: 


Move 

Pilot Only 

You can move up to your vehicle's speed. The only restriction for vehicle 
movement is that you cannot reenter a square you just left, 


Swift ACTIONS 
Swift actions include the following: 


Aim 

Gunner Only 

Just as in character combat, you can aim before making a ranged attack 
(see Aim, page 154). 


rH AT SHIP SAVED MY LIFE QUITE A FEW 
SHE'S THE FASTEST HUNK OF 
IN THE GALAxyY." 


—- LANDO CALRISSIAN 


Full Stop 
Pilot Only 


If you Naven't already used a move action or full-round action to move your 
vehicle this turn, you can spend a swift action to bring your vehicle to a full 
stop. After that, the vehicle is considered stationary. 

You cannot bring a vehicle to a full stop if you used all-out movement 
(see below) on your last turn. 


Increase Vehicle Speed 

Pilot Only 

If you are trained in the Pilot skill, you may make a DC 20 Pilot check as a 
swift action to push your vehicle beyond its normal limits. (You can't take 
10 on this check.) If the check fails, your vehicle's speed does not increase, 
and your vehicle moves -1 step on the condition track (see Conditions, page 
148). If you succeed, your vehicle's speed increases by 1 square until the 
start of your next turn. For every 5 points by which you exceed the DC, your 
vehicle's speed increases by an additional 1 square. 


Raise or Lower Shields 

System Operator Only 

By spending a swift action, you can activate or deactivate the shields on 
your vehicle, Shields are generally kept inactive in noncombat situations to 
reduce strain on the vehicle's systems, and raising shields is often perceived 
as evidence of hostile intent, so many commanders prefer to keep their shields 
down unless they are expecting trouble. 


Recharge Shields 

System Operator Only; 3 swift actions 

By spending three swift actions during the same turn or on consecutive turns, 
you can make a DC 20 Mechanics check to increase your current shield rating 
by 5, up to the vehicle's normal maximum. 


Reroute Power 

Engineer Only; 3 swift actions 

By spending three swift actions during the same turn or on consecutive turns, 
you can make a DC 20 Mechanics check to move your vehicle +1 step on the 
condition track (see Conditions, page 148). 


FULL-ROUND ACTIONS 
Full-round actions include the following: 


All-Out Movement 

Pilot Only 

As a full-round action, you can move up to four times your vehicle's speed. 
All of this movement must be in a straight line, and you can't avoid collisions 


while doing so (see Avoid Collision, page 173). Your vehicle loses its 7 
bonus to Reflex Defense until the beginning of your next turn, 
You can’t use all-out movement unless you moved on your fast 4 
Because most power is diverted to the engines when using all-oy 
ment, gunners on board your vehicle cannot attack until the start ¢ 
next turn. a 
Maximum Velocity (character scale only): |f you use all-out move 
on your turn, you may move up to your vehicle’s maximum “ith 
all-out movement on your next turn. If you move your vehicle's may 
velocity, you must either continue moving at the vehicle's maximum: e 
or use all-out movement as your action on the following turn, 


Full Attack 
Gunner Only 
If you are capable of making more than one attack (because you haw 
Double Attack feat or a similar ability), you must make a full attack ¢ 
those extra attacks. A pilot who spends at least a move action every r 
moving his vehicle cannot make a full attack action unless the vehicle 
already been brought to a full stop. | 


Ram 

Pilot Only 

As a full-round action, you can attempt to ram a target by mo 
vehicle into the target's fighting space. You must have sufficient mov 
to reach the target's fighting space, and the ram is treated as an area eff 
You can use your vehicle to ram just about anything, including anc 
vehicle, 2 creature, or a structure. 

Make a Pilot check at a -10 penalty against the target’s Reflex Defe 
If the check succeeds, your vehicle, the target, and all passengers 
vehicles involved in the collision {including you) take the amoun 
damage listed in Table 10-3: Collision Damage. Assuming you're alive 
conscious, you can continue moving through the target's fighting §} 
if your vehicle has any movement left, Otherwise, your vehicle is pus 
out of the target's fighting space and into the nearest available squa 
and your turn ends. 

If your Pilot check fails, your vehicle, the target, and all passen' 10 
vehicles involved in the collision (including you) take half damage. In a 
tion, your vehicle is pushed out of the target's fighting space and 
nearest available squares, at which point your turn ends. A 

All-Out Movement: If the colliding vehicle is moving all-out or m0 
at maximum velocity (see All-Out Movement, above), double the ¢ 
caused by the collision. 

Vehicular Evasion: If you have the Vehicular Evasion talent (pe 
you can reduce or negate the damage your vehicle and its passeng 
when rammed by another vehicle. 


ACTIONS 
‘ays. a character may make any number of reactions during a round. 


fen your vehicle is subject to a collision, you can make a DC 15 Pilot 
‘9¢ a reaction. If you succeed on the check, all targets involved in the 
clon take half damage (see Collisions, below, for more information). 


above). 
hip Scale: Collisions are easier to avoid at starship scale. If you 


hip Scale: Because of the size of each square compared to the size of 
5, area attacks (including autofire, burst radius weapons, and splash 
‘ §) are resolved as attacks on a single target in starship scale unless 
pon is specifically listed as having a starship-scale area attack. 


OF IRE 
licle weapon is capable of autofire, you can use it to make an area 
racter scale, just as in character combat. 
bot Attacks: Instead of attacking a 2~square-by-2-square area, air- 
S and starfighters may attack a number of squares in a straight line 
/HY Over them. Doing this requires the attack run action (see page 
' the area attack applies to a straight line 1 square wide and 5 to 
- You take a penaity to your attack roll equal to the number 


fs whenever your vehicle moves into a space occupied by 
ure, another vehicle, or hazard (such as an asteroid), or 
things move into your vehicle's fighting space. A collision is 
1am area attack (see Area Attacks, page 155). You can reduce or 


negate the damage from a collision as a reaction by succeeding at a DC 15 
Pilot check (see Avoid Collision, above). 

Ramming Vehicles: When the source of the collision is a ramming vehicle, 
the pilot of the ramming vehicle makes a Pilot check (instead of an attack 
roll) and compares the result to the Reflex Defense of the target. If the check 
succeeds, the ramming vehicle, the target, and al! passengers aboard vehicles 
involved in the collision take the amount of damage listed on Table 10-3: 
Collision Damage. If the check fails, reduce the damage by half. 

Mobile Hazards: When the source of the collision is a mobile hazard of 
Large size or greater (such as an asteroid or unguided vehicle), the colliding 
hazard makes an attack roll against the target's Reflex Defense. The hazard's 
attack roll is resolved by rolling 1d20 and adding a flat modifier based on 
its size: Large, +1; Huge, +2; Gargantuan, +5; Colossal or bigger, +10. If 
the attack hits, the colliding hazard, the target, and all passengers aboard 


SIZE OF COLLIDING 


VEHICLE OR HAZARD DAMAGE’ 


15d6 + Str modifier 


Colossal (cruiser) 


Colossal 8d6 + Str modifier 


Huge 4d6 + Str modifier 


1 Double the damage if the colliding vehicle is using all-out movement (see 
page 172). 


x ¥Bs1avHo 


0 
Tt 
0 
v 
4 
" 
a 
x 


vehicles involved in the collision take the amount of damage listed on Table 
10-3: Collision Damage. If the attack fails, reduce the damage by half. 


MISSILES AND TORPEDOES 

Some vehicles carry guided projectile weapons such as proton torpedoes or 
concussion missiles. Attacks with these weapons are resolved just as with 
any other weapon. 

If you aim before making an attack with a missile or torpedo, it locks 
on to the target and can track its target independently. Make your attack 
roll normally, but if you miss, the missile or torpedo can attempt to attack 
again on your next turn. This next attack is made using the same attack 
bonus, but with a -5 penalty. (You do not need to spend an action to make 
this attack.) If the missile or torpedo misses its target a second time, it 
self-destructs harmlessly. 

Attacking a Missile or Torpedo: If a missile or torpedo misses its target 
initially, it is possible to shoot it down before it attacks again. A missile or 
torpedo has a Reflex Defense of 30 and 10 hit points, and it is considered 
to occupy the same square as its target for purposes of determining range 
penalties. 


It is also possible to attack a missile or torpedo prior to its fj st 
but you must have readied an action specifically for this purpose 
page 162). 


TRACTOR BEAMS 
Instead of damaging a vehicle's hit points, tractor beams prevent ane 
vehicle from escaping. When attacking with a tractor beam, your » 
hits if you equal or exceed the target's Reflex Defense. If you hit, ma 
opposed grapple check (see Grapple, page 153). If you win the one 
grapple check, the target is grabbed. 
If a grabbed target is of your vehicle's size or smaller, then it canne 
and it loses its Dexterity bonus to its Reflex Defense. Each round on your 
you must make another opposed grapple check; if you win the opposed hi 
you may pull the target up to 10 squares closer to you (or 1 Square close 
you in starship scale) or hold it in place in its current square. If you lose 
opposed check, the target manages to slip free from the tractor be: 


scale). If the grabbed vehicle ever moves beyond the range of your rae 
beam, the tractor beam's hold is broken automatically, 


target's square), your vehicle may use docking clamps to attach itse 
the target. Once this is done, it is possible to board the target ship by blo 
ing open or cutting through an airlock or the hull (see Attack an Obje 
page 151). q 


VEHICLE 
DESCRIPTIONS 


This section presents several common vehicles that you can incl ide 
your Stor Wars campaign. Every vehicle description comes with a Set) 
combat statistics. Some statistics are exclusive to vehicles or require me 
elaboration: 

Challenge Level (CL): Heroes gain experience points (XP) for 
ing, disabling, or otherwise overcoming the vehicle based on the 
CL (see Awarding Experience Points, page 248). However, they dont gi 
additional XP for incidental crew or passengers killed as a result OF 
vehicle's destruction. For example, heroes who blow up a shuttle 00) 
receive XP for its crew; however, if the shuttle was transporting an Im 
Moff that the heroes were hired to eliminate, they should receive XP for 
Imperial Moff as well, gs 

Maximum Velocity: The maximum speed the vehicle can achiew be 
using all-out movement for at least one full round. Maximum Verges 
never used in starship scale. 


(Grp): The vehicle's grapple modifier is mainly used to resist 
to restrain the vehicle physically (usually via tractor beam). 

} y Space: The fighting space that the vehicle occupies at character 
‘starship scale, or both (see Fighting Space, page 159). 

‘ever: The amount of cover the vehicle grants to its crew and passengers, 
none, +5 (normal cover), +10 [improved cover), or total. 

srew: The number and quality of the crew (see the Crew Quality sidebar). 
srew modifiers are already included in all other statistics in the vehicle 


sse : The number of passengers (including troops) that the vehicle 
, in addition to its crew. 

‘ a : Capacity: The amount of cargo the vehicle can carry. 

r Craft: Other vehicles that are usually carried aboard this 


y load: The vehicle's complement of grenades, rockets, missiles, and 
does, If the vehicle has no payload, this line is absent. 

perdrive: The multiplier used when calculating hyperspace travel 
Astrogation, page 237). If the starship has a backup hyperdrive, 
er is listed in parentheses. Hyperdrive is never used in character 
. Ai vehicle has no hyperdrive, this line is absent. 
See Restricted Items, page 118. 


tL KERS 

valkers are used as armored assault vehicles. Their sheer size and 
them to carry more armor and weapons than a similarly sized 
ft vehicle, and they can step over smaller obstacles. 


n Armored Transport (AT-AT) 

eter-tall All Terrain Armored Transport (AT-AT) is an imposing, 
i behemoth that shakes the ground as it plods toward enemy 
ie {The Empire used AT-ATs to overwhelm Rebel forces on Hoth 


CL 14 
d vehicle (walker) 
es Perception +8 
16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 29; +16 armor 
; Threshold 79 
ts (max. velocity 60 km/h) 
Jaser cannons +7 (see below) and 
Ons +7 (see below) 

6x12; Cover total 

p +42 
Butofire (medium blaster cannons) 
48, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14 


Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot -2 

Crew 5 (expert); Passengers 40 

Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft 5 speeder bikes or 2 
AT-STs 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 3410x2 


All-Terrain Scout Transport (AT-ST) 
The 8.5-meter-tall All-Terrain Scout Transport (AT-ST) is a nimble, two-legged 
mobile weapons platform that rapidly moves across battlefields and through 
cramped urban environments, providing reconnaissance and quick-response 
fire support for ground troops. 
AT-ST CL8 
Huge ground vehicle (walker) 
Init +8; Senses Perception +8 
Defense Ref 14 [flat-footed 12), Fort 20; +4 armor 
hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 30 
Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 90 km/h) 
Ranged twin blaster cannons +6 (see below) and 
twin light blaster cannon +6 (see below) or 
Ranged twin blaster cannons +6 (see below) and 
grenade launcher +6 [see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +25 
Atk Options autofire (twin light blaster cannon) 
Abilities Str 30, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12 


Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +8 
Crew 2 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 12 frag grenades 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


SrPeeDpEeERS 

Ground-based repulsor vehicles, collectively known as landspeeders, are 
common on planets throughout the galaxy. They are used widely by military 
forces, civilian authorities, businesses, and private citizens. Most families 
own at least one landspeeder, particularly on planets with scant urbanization 
and little public transportation. Landspeeders are propelied by repulsorlifts, 
although some racing and military models use ion engines for greater top- 
end speed. 


SoroSuub X-34 Landspeeder 

One of the most popular models of civilian speeders is the SoroSuub X-series, 
which can attain a maximum altitude of 1.5 meters. It isa durable two-person 
craft that features holographic displays, computer-assisted navigation, and 
counterbalances for a stable ride over rough terrain. (Luke Skywalker used 
an X-34 landspeeder on Tatooine in Episode IV.) 


SoroSuub X-34 Landspeeder os 
Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +8; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 330 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 

Base Atk +0; Grp +15 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +8 
Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 1 

Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 10,550 (2,500 used) 


SPEEDER BIKES 

These small, fast personal transports appeal to teenagers looking for thrills, 
military forces that require effective scout vehicles, and law enforcers 
needing swift pursuit craft. Speeder bike races are popular in the Core sys- 
tems, where they are viewed as more refined than the extremely dangerous 
Podraces. Still, speeder bikes emphasize speed and maneuverability over 
safety and protection. 


Aratech 74-Z Speeder Bike 

The 74-Z is a basic speeder bike designed for military scouting and urban 
patrol missions, It consists of a powerful repulsorlift engine with two small 
thrust engines, a long forward contro! vane, and a small blaster cannon ina 
rotating forward mount. It is designed for a single pilot but has room for a 
passenger as well—both straddling the engine block of the vehicle. 


Aratech 74-Z Speeder Bike : 

Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +14; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 
hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 500 km/h) 
Ranged laser cannon +7 (410, pilot) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +5; Grp +14 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 24, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +14, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +14 
Crew 1 (expert); Passengers 1 

Cargo 3 kg; Consumables | day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 6,750 (1,200 used) 


Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10 


ARMORED ASSAULT TANKS (A& Ts 

These heavily armored vehicles use wheels, treads, powered leqs, or rep 
sorlifts to move about the battlefield. Although not mane 
pack incredible firepower and can safely transport small teams of 
into hostile territory. The Trade Federation uses AAT-1s propelled b bv Re 
repulsorlifts on the front lines of a battlefield to soften up the enemy bet 
deploying waves of battle droids. 


LAN 
adi 


AAT-1 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +7; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 23; +5 armor 
hp 180; DR 15; Threshold 33 
Weakness ion vulnerability 
Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 55 km/h) 
Ranged heavy laser cannon +4 (see below) and 
light blaster cannons +4 (see below) and 
repeating blaster cannons +4 (see below) or 
Ranged heavy laser cannon +4 (see below) and 
light blaster cannons +4 (see below) and 
missile launchers +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total (crew), none (passengers) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +25 
Atk Options autofire (repeating blaster cannons) 
Abilities Str 36, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7 


4 (skilled); Passengers 6 (external) 
nt 9 500 ka; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 


load 12 missiles 
ability Military; Cost not available for sale 


7 bility—Due to a design flaw, the AAT takes double damage 
om ion weapons. 


* PEEDERS 
eders are swift flying vehicles that can achieve altitudes of a few 
d kilometers; however, they are not suited for space travel. 


‘d incom T-47 Airspeeder 

9 1-47 airspeeder, heavily modified, is the favored ground attack 
r of the Rebel Alliance. They were used to protect Echo Base during 
of Hoth and can be adapted to many environments. 


fied Incom-T47 Airspeeder 
icle lairspeeder) 


CL6 


ise Ref 16 (flat-footed 10), Fort 16; +2 armor 
’ 10; Threshold 26 
‘16 squares (max, velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 4 squares 
ship scale) 
Souble laser cannon +4 (see below) and 
t is rcannon +4 (see below) or 
ble laser cannon +4 (see below) and 
on gun +4 (see below) or 
’ ppac te 33 or | square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
(+2; Grp +18 
§ autofire (doubie laser cannon, blaster cannon), harpoon gun 
22, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14 
e +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10 
Passengers none 
: ‘steagmaing 1 day; Carried Craft none 


Harpoon Gun—A gunner use the harpoon gun to make a grapple check 
against an enemy walker. The gunner must make an attack roll against 
the walker; if successful, the pilot must make an opposed grapple 
check. If the grapple check succeeds, the target walker cannot move 
without first making a Pilot check (DC = harpoon gun's grapple 
check result). If this Pilot check fails, the walker suffers an automatic 
collision, taking twice its collision damage. 


Double laser cannon (pilot) 


Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Omg 5d10 
Blaster cannon (gunner) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 3d10 
Harpoon gun (gunner) 

Atk +4, Dmg — (grapple +27) 


LAAT/i Gunship 
The LAAT/i attack gunship, first deployed at the Battle of Geonosis, is an 
example of a combat space transport designed to carry combat troops 
directly into the heat of battle. Its weapons are used to clear a landing zone 
and lay down suppressing fire as the troops exit the vehicle. 
LAAT/i Gunship CL 12 
Colossal air vehicle (airspeeder) 
Init +0; Senses Perception +8 
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 26; +13 armor 
hp 160; DR 15; SR 15; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 620 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged mass driver missile launchers +7 (see below) and 
anti-personnel laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
4 composite-beam pinpoint lasers +7 (see below) 
Ranged rocket launcher +7 (see below) and 
anti-personnel laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
4 composite-beam lasers +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 6x6 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (none for 
passengers if doors are open) 
Base Atk +5; Grp +38 
Atk Options autofire (anti-personnel laser cannons) 
Special Actions penetration 10 (composite-beam lasers) 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +0 
Crew 6 (expert); Passengers 30 
Cargo 2 tons; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 24 missiles, 6 rockets 
Availability Military; Cost 65,000 (40,000 used) 


Penetration 10—The gunship's composite-beam lasers ignore the first 10 
points of an enemy's damage reduction, 


STARFIGHTERS 

Starfighters, sometimes known as “snub fighters,” are the ships of choice for 
hotshot pilots. Equipped with light yet strong engines and quick, responsive 
controls, starfighters can zip in and out of tight spots before most heavier 
craft can react. Their weaponry is light, and their armor and shields are 
minimal compared to those of larger ships, but a good pilot in a starfighter 
can do as much damage as a capital ship bristling with gun turrets. 


X-wing Fighter 

Often hailed as the best starfighter ever made, the T-65B X-wing was 

developed in secret when the Incom Corporation began to support the Rebe! 

Alliance. With impressive firepower for a ship of its size, sturdy shields, and 

even a hyperdrive, the X-wing is as agile as an Imperial TIE fighter and far 

more versatile. It is equipped with a topside astromech bay, letting the pilot 

plug in an R2 droid to handle targeting, damage control, and hyperspace 

calculation. 

Incom T-65B X-wing Starfighter CL 10 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or | square (starship scale); Cover total (pilot), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6 (+13"), Perception +6 (+3"), Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 (+13") 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive <1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Military; Cost 150,000 (65,000 used) 

* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers insteoq 


a 13.4202 
Laser : t or 
y aut re). Dn 103 A iy 
t ro oe et . 
ye 


Y-Wing Fighter 
The workhorse of the Rebel Alliance, the Koensayr Y-wing is not as p 
as other snub fighters, being neither as fast nor as maneuverable. Hoy 
its impressive shields and weaponry more than make up for its perform 
flaws. | 

Like the X-wing, the Y-wing provides a topside port to allow an astror 
droid to plug in and handle most of the in-flight “dirty work.” 4 


Koensayr Y-wing Starfighter 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) and 
ion cannons +5 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +5 (see below) and 
ion cannons +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or | square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6 (+13°), Perception +6, Pilot +5, US 
Computer +6 (+13*) 

Crew 2 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 8 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Military; Cost 135,000 (60,000 used) 

* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


cannons (pilot) it just teaches them to hope that they live long enough to be promoted to 


Atk +5 {+0 autofire), Dmg 4010x2 a more advanced TIE variant 
cannons (gunner ( 
son 45 (+0 autofire), Dmg 44102 ion TIE Fighter CL7 


Huge starfighter 


— 
rpedoes (gunner) 
ein e Init +8; Senses Perception +6 


Atk +5, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


Defense Ref 15 (flat footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor 


TIE Fighter hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 32 a a 


Cheap and efficient, TIE fighters are not so much feared for their capabilities Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
as their numbers. Mass-prod uced by Sienar Fleet Systems, TIE fighters cost (starship scale) 

only a fraction oF what a comparable fighter costs. Keeping the price dowr Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below} 

means that TIE fighters have no shie ds, hyperdrives, or life support—not ever Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
cockpit gravity They can't even land without special supports. The Imperia Base Atk +2; Grp +24 

Navy believes that this teaches pilots to rely on higher authorities. In reality, Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


SN 


pd al) ta 


f 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 60,000 (25,000 used) 


Laser cannons 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


TIE Interceptor 

The TIE interceptor was designed specifically to counteract the Rebel Alliance 
X-wing. To increase speed and firepower, the designers at Sienar gave it large 
engines, more powerful energy converters, and a package of four fire-linked 
laser cannons. Although put into production before the Battle of Yavin, these 
fighters weren't in general use until just before the Battle of Endor. 


TIE Interceptor CL8 

Huge starfighter 

Init +11; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor 

hp 90; DR 10; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +11 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 75 kg: Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost 120,000 (50,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Eta-2 Actis Interceptor 

Designed to take advantage of Jedi reflexes and piloting skills, the nimble 
Eta-2 Actis Interceptor is the foremost starfighter used by the Jedi during 
the Clone Wars. Unlike many other starfighters, the Eta-2 does not boast 
any shields, relying on the pilot's ability to avoid incoming damage rather 
than protective shielding. 


Eta-2 Actis Interceptor 

Huge starfighter 

Init +18; Senses Perception +12 

Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor 

hp 70; DR 10; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares = 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +12 (see below) or 

Ranged ion cannons +12 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (pilot 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +32 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons) 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 26, Con —, Int 14 a 

Skills Initiative +18, Mechanics +12 (+13"), Perception +12, Pilot + B, 
Computer +12 (+13*) 7 

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (ace); Passengers none 7 

Cargo 60 kg; Consumables 2 days (1 week with booster ring); 
Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1 (with booster ring), 10-jump memory (astromech droid 

Availability Military; Cost 140,000 used 7 

* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


ed 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +12 (+7 autofire), D 
lon cannons (pilot) 

Atk +12 (+7 autofire), Dmg 4010x2 ion 


4d10x2 


ARC-170 Starfighter 
These rugged and durable attack fighters can handle independent raid 
well as assaults on capital ships. Their powerful shields, robust 2 
tail gunner give them good odds even when surrounded by enemy ¢ 
fighters. 


ARC-170 Starfighter 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +6; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor 

hp 150; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 48 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged heavy laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
proton torpedoes +7 (see below) and 
laser cannons +7 (see below) 


ting Space 4x4 or | square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
6 h droid) 

+5; Grp +38 

ions autofire (medium laser cannons, laser cannons) 

tes Str 46, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 

ative +6, Mechanics +8 (+13°), Perception +8, Pilot +6, Use 
Computer +8 (+13") 

y 3 plus astromech droid (expert); Passengers none 

go 110 kg; Consumables | week; Carried Craft none 

load 8 proton torpedoes 

x1.5, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Military; Cost 155,000 (70,000 used) 

he hio has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


} 


(+2 autofire), Dmg 4410x2 


u re” Droid Starfighter 

ied” by a droid brain and controlled by a remote processor, the droid 
‘is 2 completely mechanized vessel. Armed with blaster cannons 
o launchers, droid starfighters are fast and agile. Unlike conven- 
however, they can reconfigure themselves into “walk mode,” 


node and walk mode requires a standard action. 
re" Droid Starfighter CL7 


tarfighter/ground vehicle (walker) 
Senses Perception +8 


‘Groid traits (see page 187) 


se uares, fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,180 km/h), fly 4 squares 
nip scale) 


ssion missiles +7 (see below) 
3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover — 


tofire (laser cannons) 
» Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 


Crew 0 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 concussion missiles 

Availability Restricted; Cost 19,000 


Laser cannons 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Concussion missiles 

Atk +7, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


Droid Tri-Fighter 

Featuring a more advanced droid brain than the “Vulture” droid starfighters, 
the droid tri-fighter has proven itself a capable and versatile addition to the 
Separatist fleet. Its weapons can be fired at the same or separate targets, 
giving it the ability to capitalize on a target-rich environment. 


Droid Tri-Fighter cCL9 
Huge starfighter 
Init +10; Senses Perception +8 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor 
hp 100; DR 10; Threshold 34 
Immune droid traits (see page 187) 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannon +7 (see below) and 
3 light laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
concussion missiles +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover — 
Base Atk +5; Grp +29 
Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannon, light laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 38, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +10, Perception +8, Pilot +10, Use Computer +8 
Crew 0 (expert); Passengers none 
Cargo none; Consumables 2 days: Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 concussion missiles 
Availability Restricted; Cost 40,000 


Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Light laser cannons 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 
Concussion missiles 

Atk +7, Dmg 80102, 4-square splash 


x HSBLaevHoD 


agaaeanananaanaea es 


U 


} 


LAY 


a a. 


=0 


VS 


=) 


sey 


t 


SPACE TRANSPORTS 

A dizzying variety of commercial transports ply the space lanes of the galaxy, 
carrying goods and passengers from system to system and world to world for 
a reasonable price. Most are controlled by independent operators or corporate 
nterests, though governments employ their fair share of transports, some- 
times for peaceful purposes and far too often not. Space transports are 
nearly always armed, shielded, and hyperdrive-capable, allowing merchants 
to survive pirate attacks—and smuqglers to avoid authorities—while trave 


ng from place to place. 


Corellian YT-1300 Transport 
Perhaps the most adaptable light cargo transport in the galaxy, the YT-13 
design is built on a modular design to suit the needs of a wide van 

clients, many of whom aren't Human, let alone bipedal. The Y} 1300 
excellent all-purpose cargo transport, with powerful engines 
hull. The Corellian Engineering Corporation was quick to real 
a winner on its hands and made almost as many credits sel 


kits as it did selling the transports themselves 


Corellian YT-1300 Transport 
Colossal space transport 
Init -5; Senses Perception +5 


Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor —- 
hp 120; DR 15; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares ES 
{starship scale] 
Ranged laser cannon +2 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +36 
TT 


ies Str 42, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14 

tive -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, Use 
puter +5 

al); Passengers 6 

5 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
‘drive X2 (backup x12), nav computer 

iability Licensed; Cost 100,000 (25,000 used) 


PITAL SHIPS 

| ships are the backbone of any star fleet, more than compensating 
rei ir lack of speed and maneuverability with their weapons, armor, and 
ul shields. The largest carry hangars full of starfighters to supple- 
heir own impressive banks of blasters and ion cannons, gravity-well 
tors to stop fleeing opponents from entering hyperspace, or thousands 
In d troops and their support vehicles. Capital ship commanders take 
in knowing that they can make a difference just by bringing their 
f, let alone firing them. 


n Corvette 

corvette is the logical step up from the YT-1300 transport—a 

jurable space vessel for larger jobs. The corvette can serve as 

) transport, a passenger liner, a troop ship, or an escort. Corvettes 

ntly find their way into civilian use, and a significant number fall into 
ds of pirates. 


Corvette 
al (frigate) capital ship 
mses Perception +6 
f 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 38; +12 armor 
R15; SR 100; Threshold 138 
3 squares (starship scale) 
3 turbolaser batteries +12* (see below) 
te 1 square (starship scale); Cover tota! 
orp +50 
Str 66, Dex 18, Con —, Int 18 
vative +0, Mechanics +10, Perception +6, Pilot +0, Use 
ter +10 
55 (skilled); Passengers 600 
tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 
nav computer (+3) 
ensed; Cost 3.5 million (1.5 million used) 
aity on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


, 


CL 16 


Turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 


Imperial I-class Star Destroyer 

An indelible symbol of the Empire's military might, the Star Destroyer is 

a powerful incentive for troublesome worlds to submit to the will of the 

Emperor. Fast, tough, and armed to the teeth, an /mperio/ |-class Star 

Destroyer can reduce a fleet of lesser ships to so much floating debris. 

Imperial I-class Star Destroyer CL 20 

Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 56; +16 armor 

hp 2,100; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 256 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 5 turbolaser batteries +17° (see below) and 
5 ion cannon batteries +17* {see below) and 
10 point-defense laser batteries +13 (see below) and 
10 tractor beams +7* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +68 

Abilities Str 102, Dex 14, Con —, Int 20 

Skills {nitiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, Use 
Computer +6 

Crew 37,085 (skilled); Passengers 9,700 (troops) 

Cargo 36,000 tons; Consumables 6 years; Carried Craft 72 TIE fighters 
(any variant), 8 Lambda-class shuttles, 20 AT-ATs, 30 AT-STs, various 
support vehicles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x8), nay computer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a -20 penaity on attacks against targets smailer than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
lon cannon battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 agains smaller than Colossal), 3d10x5 ion 


Point-defense laser battery (4 gunners) 


t. 


Atk +13, Dmg 2d10x2 . 
Tractor beam (2 gunners) 

Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal), Omg 

— (grapple +68) 


OE 
cepa x 


=— ae NN 


ad ‘Groid is a kind of intelligent robot, a mechanical automaton electronically 
prog mmed to act, think, and behave in a certain way. 

i ‘pics facilitate various tasks that organic beings find tedious, difficult, 
dous, They are typically fashioned in the likeness of their creators or 
litarian design that stresses function. Their usefulness makes them a 


sight on nearly every inhabited world in the galaxy. They provide 


ae sistance, advice, and sometimes even friendship to trillions of sentient 
wf ings on a daily basis. 


DROID'S LIFE 


is are usually property, bought and sold like any other piece of equip- 
t. Although same droid owners come to think of their droids as friends, 
fact remains that droids are programmed to serve whoever is desig- 
ted as their master. To the vast majority of droids, the concept of droid 
Mependence is unthinkable. Without someone to command them, what 
would they do? 

Even so, ownership and control are two very different things. Droids must 
do what they are commanded to do to the best of their ability, but their 
programming dictates how they accomplish their orders. Ordered to find a 
replacement part for an X-wing, a droid might commence a systematic search 
of the repair bay, then the docking facility, then the neighbarhood, then the 
countryside, and so on—all the while thinking its actions are perfectly logi- 
cal. Droids often need very specific instructions to do what their masters 
command, in a manner meeting their master's expectations. 

Occasionally, events conspire to lead a droid to independence, These 
so-called "self-owned" droids are few, but not as rare as many believe. One 
might hear stories of droids that escape their masters after years of abuse, 
or of an entire line of droids that manifest violent personalities as the result 
of a programming glitch. However, independent droids are rarely haywire, 
rampaging killers. Independent droids often enter into partnerships with 
organic beings, particularly on worlds where a lone droid without a master 
draws a lot of unwanted attention. Independent droids sometimes even 
seek cach other out, hoping to find strength and security in numbers. Some 
independent droids are thrust into the unlikely role of hero, helping to defend 
the galaxy from the depredations of evil as personified by the likes of the 
Empire and the Yuuzhan Vong. 


CREATING A 
DROID HERO 


If you want to play a droid as a hero, you can either play an existing droid from 
this chapter or create your own unique droid hero. Droid heroes are assumed 
cither to be “self-owned" or to be owned by another player character (with 
the approval of both the Gamemaster and the player in question). Even if 
owned by another member of the party, the Gamemaster should ensure that 


ix Halawno 


the owner does not abuse his authority by giving unreasonable or unwanted 
orders to the other player's droid character. A droid player character should 
be treated the same as any other player character, and in most cases it is 
best to give suggestions or advice instead of actual orders. (In fact, most 
droid heroes have a heuristic processor so that they can creatively interpret 
orders and thus justify acting as they wish.) 

When you decide to play a droid hero, you'll have to pick out a few details 
about what type of droid your character will be. This is the equivalent of 
picking a species for a non-droid character. 


OPTION 1: 

PLAYING A CUSTOM DROID 

You can play a droid of your own design. The only choices you have to make 
are choosing your degree, size, and accessories, and assigning your ability 
scores. Once you have taken note of these details on your character sheet, 
continue with character generation normally. 


Determining Ability Scores 

Droid characters determine their ability scores the same way non-droid 
characters do (see Chapter 1: Abilities). However, droids do not have Con- 
stitution scores because they are not actually living beings; they only need 
scores for their five remaining abilities. You can determine your ability scores 
in one of three ways: 

Rolling: Roll 406 five times, discarding the lowest die each time. Add 
up the remaining three dice and assign the result to any one of your five 
abilities. 

Pianned Generation: All of your ability scores start at 8, and you have 21 
points to spend to increase them (see Planned Generation, page 18). 

Standard Score Package: The standard score package for droid heroes 
is 15, 14, 13, 12, and 10. Assign these five scores to your five abilities as 
you see fit. 


Degree 

Droids are classified by degree, reflecting the types of tasks they typically 
perform. Generally, Ist-degree droids are medical and analytical droids, 
2nd-degree droids are mechanical and technica! droids, 3rd-degree droids 
are protocol and domestic droids, 4th-degree droids are security and battle 
droids, and 5th-degree droids are labor and utility droids. A droid’s function 
does not have to match its degree, but this is uncommon. 

Pick a degree (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, or Sth) for your droid. This determines 
your ability score modifiers, as shown in Table 11-1: Droid Degrees. For 
example, a 3rd-degree protocol droid increases its Wisdom and Charisma 
scores by 2 and reduces its Strength score by 2. 


DEGREE ABILITY MODIFIERS 
2nd +2 Int, -2 Cha 

4th +2 Dex, -2 Int, -2 Cha 
Size 


You can choose to play a Medium or Small droid. Droids of other sizec 
but they are controlled by the GM. 4 
A droid’s size determines its ability modifiers, its size bonus to Ri 
Defense, its size bonus on Stealth checks, adjustments to hit points 
damage threshold, its carrying capacity (see Encumbrance, page 140), 
its cost factor (see below), as shown in Table 11-2: Droid Sizes. 
Medium: Player character droids of Medium size have no special med 
because of their size. They have a walking locomotion system (see nage 
and a speed of 6 squares. 
Smail: Player character droids of Small size apply the following a 
score modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Strength. They have a tracked locon 
system [see page 188) and a speed of 4 squares. Small droids gain: 
size bonus to their Reflex Defense and a +5 size bonus on Stealth 
However, their lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of the: 
Medium characters. 
Cost Factor: A droid’s cost factor is used to calculate the cost of the! 
and some droid systems. Particularly large droids can be very expensive 
particularly small droids are not any cheaper due to the expenses assoc 
with miniaturization. 


Class and Level 4 
You are 1st level in one heroic class (noble, scoundrel, scout, or Sola 
your choice. You cannot choose the Jedi class. 


Systems and Accessories ; 
You have a heuristic processor (see page 190) and two arm appen 
(see page 189). 

Your may spend up to 1,000 credits on additional locomotion syste® 
page 188), appendages (see page 189), and accessories (see page 193) a5} is 


fit. You do not get to keep any left over credits, but you still gain the app! ) 
starting credits according to your class (see Chapter 3: Heroic Classes). 


zits 
ids characters have certain traits in common as discussed in Droid 


vvte 


TION 2: PLAYING A 
.NDARD DROID MODEL 
sh to forego creating your own custom droid, you can always play 
e stock models found later in the chapter. If you use this option, 
als for ability scores; instead, you automatically have the ability 
d for the selected model of droid, The droid you select must meet 
D) Sing criteria, and you may modify the stock model as noted here. 
You can only be Small or Medium size, 
esse + You cannot have a remote processor, so you must install a 
processor or heuristic processor if the selected model of droid does 
include one (see Processors, page 190). 
d Level: The droid you select can have no more than three levels 
nheroic class or one level in any heroic class. If the droid you select 
inly one or two levels in the nonheroic class, you may choose to add 
wel in a heroic class of your choice; this adds 1,500 credits to your 
cost. 
n play with the minimum number of experience points neces- 
ut character level. For example, a 2nd-level nonheroic/1st-level 
would begin play with 3,000 XP. 
st: The final cost of your droid, including any necessary adjust- 
processor or adding a level in a heroic class, cannot exceed 5,000 
may add accessories or replace systems as you see fit as long as 
dst remains within this limit. You do not get to keep any unspent 
you still gain the appropriate starting credits according to your 
hapter 3: Heroic Classes}. 


Traits: All droids have certain traits in common (see Droid Traits, 
below). 

Once you have made all necessary adjustments and noted these details 
on your character sheet, continue with character generation normally. 


OROID TRAITS 
Droids share the following basic traits: 

Abilities: Droids are nonliving entities, so they do not have Constitution 
scores. Droids can increase any two of their five remaining ability scores 
by +1 cach at 4th level and every four levels thereafter, just like any other 
character. These increases represent improved heuristics and algorithms that 
the droid has developed from experience as well as upgrades to its compo- 
nents undertaken as a part of routine maintenance. Droid ability modifiers 
are determined by their degree and size (see Degree and Size, above). A droid 
can never have an ability score less than 1, regardless of modifications. 

Behavioral Inhibitors: Droids (except 4th-degree droids) cannot inten- 
tionally harm a sentient living being or knowingly allow a sentient living being 
to be harmed. Furthermore, all droids must follow orders given to them by 
their rightful owners, as long as those orders don't require the droid to harm 
a sentient living being. Droids with heuristic processors can sometimes violate 
these restrictions by creatively interpreting their behavioral inhibitions (see 
Processors, page 190). 

lon Damage Vulnerability: As electronic constructs, droids are vulner- 
able to damage from ion weapons (see lon Weapons, page 159). Generally, 
ion weapons have the same effect on droids that stun weapons have on 
living beings. 

Maintenance: Droids do not sleep, eat, or breathe. However, they do 
need to enter shutdown mode and recharge for 1 hour after 100 hours of 
operation. If a droid fails to do so, it must make an Endurance check each 


SIZE MODIFIER SIZE MODIFIER EXTRA SIZE BONUS TO CARRYING cosT 
ssa MODIFIERS TO REF DEFENSE TO STEALTH HIT POINTS DMG THRESHOLD CAPACITY FACTOR 
-4 Dex -10 -20 +100 +50, ap! Pe 

24 St, ~4 Dex -5 -15 +50 +20 x10 x10 

“7 -2 -10 +20 +10 
+85 ~2 Bi) -1 -5 +10 +5 

‘eae Coe a ee 3 7) a ’ 
~2 Str, +2 Dex +1 +5 = as 
Se ae ee: pe ot y Dita st a 

-6 Str, +6 Dex +5 +15 - ~ *0.25 «10 


wae! ee pean 


hour (DC 10, +1 per additional hour after the first) or move -1 persistent 
step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). This persistent 
condition can only be removed by the droid recharging for 1 hour. 

Memory: A droid's trained skills, feats, and talents can be reassigned with 
the Use Computer skill. A droid hero can use its own Use Computer skill to 
perform this reprogramming, but it takes a -5 penalty on its skill check. If a 
droid is ever subjected to a complete memory wipe, it becomes a basic mode! 
of its type, losing any levels and abilities gained (see Processors, below). 

Nonliving: A droid is immune to poison, disease, radiation, noncorrosive 
atmospheric hazards, vacuum, mind-affecting effects, stunning effects, and 
any other effect that works only on living targets. Droids have no connection 
to the Force and can't gain the Force Sensitivity feat or learn Force powers. 
Droids do not have a Constitution score, so they don’t get bonus hit points 
for having a high Constitution, and they apply their Strength modifier to 
their Fortitude Defense. 

Unlike living beings, droids don't “die,” but they can be disabled or 
destroyed. If a droid is reduced to 0 hit points, it is disabled and cannot be 
reactivated until it is repaired so that has at least 1 hit point. If the attack 
that reduced the droid to 0 hit points also exceeds the droid’s damage 
threshold, the droid is destroyed instead. A destroyed droid cannot be 
repaired or salvaged. 

Repair: Droids can regain lost hit points only through the use of the 
Mechanics skill (see page 68). A droid can use this skill to repair itself, but 
it takes a -5 penalty on its skill check. 

Shut Down: A droid that is shut down can take no actions and is effec- 
tively unconscious. Shutting down a willing droid is a standard action, Shut- 
ting down an unwilling droid is more difficult, requiring that you to grab the 
droid (see Grab, page 152) and then make a Mechanics check (DC = droid’s 
Will Defense) as a standard action while it's grabbed. You cannot shut down 
an unwilling droid with locked access unless it is disabled or otherwise help- 
less (see Locked Access, page 195). 

Skills: Droids normally cannot use any skill untrained except for Acrobat- 
ies, Climb, Jump, and Perception. A droid with a heuristic processor ignores 
this limitation (see Processors, page 190). 


SPEED (BY DROID SIZE)---—---— 
LOCOMOTION UP TO SMALL MEDIUM LARGE OR BIGGER COST 
Walking 4 squares 6 squares 8 squares 10 x cost factor x (speed) squared 
Wheeled 6 squares 8 squares 10 squares 5 x cost factor x (speed) oc 
Tracked 4 squares 6 squares 8 squares 20 x cost factor x (speed) sq 
Hovering 6 squares 6 squares 6 squares 100 x cost factor x (speed) aaa 
Flying 9 squares 12 squares 12 squares 200 x cost factor x (speed) squared 


Systems: Droids can have many of their characteristics c’ 
ing or replacing existing systems (see Modifying Droids, panne 
Automatic Languages: Binary plus one lanquage chosen Aly nec 
(usually Basic). 


DROID SYSTEMS 

Unlike characters and creatures, droids are essentially collections of 
ent equipment called systems. A droid’s systems can be uparaded, re 
and modified many times throughout a droid’s operational lifetime. A 
system falls into one of four categories: locomotion, processor, appe: 
or accessory. ‘ 


LOCOMOTION 
All droids begin with a base movement speed determined by locom 
system (see Table 11-3: Droid Locomotion). Droids can have more thar 
locomotion system. Add 500 x the droid’s cost factor for the second loc 
tion system, 1,000 x the droid’s cost factor for the third, 2,000 x ie dr 
cost factor for the fourth, and 5,000 x the droid’s cost factor for the 
Walking Droids: Walking droids are the most versatile droids, 
legs and feet that let them travel like bipeds, quadrupeds, and other sir 
creatures. The most common chassis for walking droids is the “h 
form (two arms, two legs, and a head). They suffer the usual p 
moving through difficult terrain (See Difficult Terrain, page 159). 
Wheeled Droids: Wheeled droids use one or more powered wh 
move and are generally designed to traverse smooth surfaces. W pi 
droids can't use the Climb skill, and the penalties of moving through di 
terrain are doubled. 4 
Tracked Droids: Tracked droids are an improvement on the W 
droid, having ridged treads that give them more traction. Tracked 4 
ignore the penalties of difficult terrain, but they take a -5 oe 
Climb checks. 
Hovering Droids: Hovering droids use repulsorlift technology te 
slowly above the ground (within 3 meters). They ignore the p 
difficult terrain. 


Flying Droids: Flying droids use engines of some kind to travel more or 

wherever they please. They are not hampered by any type of terrain, but 
ipend to be the most expensive. 

Stationary Droids: Stationary droids do not have a locomotion system 
gnd cannot move from a fixed location 


Restricted Locomotion System 
The cost of a droid’s locomotion system can be reduced by placing limitations 
pn its use. The two types of restrictions are exclusive and limited. A restricted 
igcomotion system costs only one-tenth the normal cost. 

Exclusive Locomotion System: The droid must spend a move action to 
engage or disengage this locomotion system. While the system is engaged, 
the droid can only use the move and run actions. 

Limited Locomotion System: The droid can only use this locomotion 
System fora limited time. After using this locomotion system for 1 round, the 
droid must make an Endurance check (DC 10, +1 per check after the first) or 
cannot use that locomotion system again for 1 minute (10 rounds) 
Climbing Claws 
Claws designed to grip a surface can be added to any droid with a walking 
locomotion system. Climbing claws grant the droid a climb speed equal to 
One-half its walking speed. In addition, a droid equipped with climbing claws 
May reroll a failed Climb check (keeping the better result) and can take 10 
09 Climb checks even when rushed or threatened, Climb nq claws double 
Me cost of a walking locomotion system. 


Extra Legs 


Walking droids are usually bipedal, but a walking droid can be built with three 
@F More legs (usually four) to grant the droid extra stability and carrying 
SePacity. This doubles the cost of the walking locomotion system, but the 
Groid's Carrying capacity is 50% higher than that of a bipedal droid of the 
Same Strength In addition, the droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks 
SOFESist attempts to knock it prone 


Jump Servos 


Pulsorlift-assisted jump servos can be added to any droid with a walk ng 
Otion system, Jump servos grant the droid the ability to treat all 
Bef *> Tunning jumps, even without the normal running start (see 
dea page 68); In addition, the droid may reroll a failed 

" seeping the better result) and take 10 on Jump checks 
When rushed or threatened, Jump servos double the cost of a 
NG locomotion system, 


Magnetic Feet 

Electromagnetic grippers enable a droid to cling to a ship's hull, even when the 
ship is moving at high speed. Only droids with walking, wheeled, or tracked 
locomotion can have magnetic feet 


APPENDAGES 
The types of appendages a droid has determines how well it is able to 
touch, hold, lift, carry, push, pull, or place objects. A limb that isn't used for 
ocomotion or balance has one of the following types of appendages: probe, 
instrument, tool, claw, or hand 

Droids can use their appendages to make unarmed attacks. The damage 
dealt by an unarmed attack depends on the droid’s size and the type of 
appendage. Table 11-4: Droid Appendages and Damage lists the base 
unarmed damage; remember to apply the droid’s Strength modifier to this 


Ix MRL owe 


U 


DROID SIZE PROBE INSTRUMENT TOOL CLAW HAND 


Diminutive - - = 1 = 
a aes eS 
Small - 1 142 1d3 1d2 
Medium 012 A 
Large 1d2 103 id4 1d6 1d4 
Huge BB 
Gargantuan 1d4 106 1d8 206 148 


base damage. A droid can have any number of appendages, but this does not 
increase the number of actions or attacks the droid can make in a round. 

Probe: Few droids have no actual manipulators, The bare minimum is a 
probe that can push or pull objects. 

Instrument: Instruments are a step up from simple probes. They 
might be designed to accomplish specific tasks. For example, a droid 
with a hypodermic syringe as its sole appendage can use the syringe for 
its intended purpose, but otherwise can only push objects with it. A few 
instruments are actually designed to clamp, and can thus hold objects, 
but they are generally delicate. A droid using an instrument of this nature 
has a carrying capacity [see Encumbrance, page 140) as if its Strength 
score were one-quarter of its actual value. 

Tool: Tool appendages are somewhat sturdier than instruments. A droid 
must make a DC 15 Dexterity check to lift, carry, or drag objects for which its 
tools were not designed. The GM might rule that particularly delicate objects 
have a higher DC. If the check fails, the droid drops the object. 

Weapons mounted on a droid are considered too! appendages unless 
otherwise noted. A too! mount does not include the cost of the tool or 
weapon mounted on it. 

Claw: Claws are an intermediate step between tools and hands. They are 
useful for grabbing onto objects to be moved, but aren't very good for tasks 
that require fine manipulation. While a droid could easily carry 2 blaster in 
its claw, it would have difficulty firing it, for example. A droid using a claw 
to perform a task that normally requires a true hand must make a DC 15 
Dexterity check to succeed at the task. If the check fails, the droid drops the 
object it is attempting to manipulate. 


Hand: A droid is considered to have atrue hand if its gripping app, 
includes at least three digits, one of which is opposable. Factory-n 
Series protocol droids and Baktoid Combat Automata battle dri 
equipped with hands. 


Telescopic Appendage 
The droid has an appendage that reaches farther from its body th 
A telescopic appendage has twice the normal reach for the di 
For example, a Medium droid with a telescopic appendage has 
2 squares. 


Stabilized Mount 
For five times the listed cost and weight, a tool appendage can be stab 
so that it can hold a larger weapon, This allows the droid to use that we; 
as if was wielded in two hands. 


PROCESSORS 
A droid can’t perform any functions without its processor (also know 
a droid brain), which contains all the basic information the droid need 
move its appendages, travel from place to place, behave in a ain 
and so on. A droid’s Intelligence score reflects the quality of its pr 
sor. Low-intelligence droids tend to specialize in single tasks that. 
no deductive capability. High-intelligence droids are considerat 
versatile—and more expensive. 
Basic Processor: Basic processors are not designed for creative thou 
and problem solving, and as such most droids interpret instructions 
behavioral inhibitions very literally. Furthermore, basic processors are 
limited in that the droid cannot perform any task for which it was 
programmed. For example, a droid that is not trained in the Deceg 
cannot lie or otherwise convey false or unknown information. A droig Nv 
basic processor cannot use any skill untrained except for Acrobatics, _! 
Jump, and Perception. Similarly, a basic processor does not allow at 
to use any weapon with which it is not proficient, and a droid’s behay 
inhibitors may prevent it from harming sentient living beings altogether 
Behavioral Inhibitors, below). 
Every droid comes with a basic processor, at the very least. q 
Heuristic Processor: This type of processor allows a droid to lear 
doing, usually without instruction. The droid is able to reason through: set 
potential solutions to tasks and formulate the best approach. Becaust 
a droid with a heuristic processor may use skills untrained, just like @ 
character. Similarly, the droid can wield a weapon even if it is not p 
in its use (but still takes the normal -5 penalty on attack rolls). 
In addition, a droid with a heuristic processor can creatively interpre 
instructions, allowing it to complete tasks in a manner that it deems # 
priate. A heuristic processor allows a droid to work around its % i 
inhibitors as long as it can justify a given action. For example, 2 NOES 


with @ heuristic processor can attack and even harm sentient living 
9 as long as it believes that doing so will ultimately save more sentient 
beings from harm. 
ver time, a droid equipped with a heuristic processor develops a unique 
nality based on experience. Because of this, memory wipes and restrain- 
nits are commonly used to ensure that a heuristic processor doesn't 
c droid to stray too far from its intended purpose. Still, some progres- 
masters actually encourage their droids to break their programming, 
ng the droid’s judgment to make independent decisions without taking 
tage of the situation. 
mote Processor: The droid's processor isn't located in the droid; 
sad, the droid is actually a drone for a remote processor. The processor is 
ped with a transmitter that allows a droid equipped with the appropri- 
‘ote receiver to operate as far away as 5 km (for the least expensive 
sl] to as much as 5,000 km (for the most expensive model). 
ie advantage of a remote processor is that it makes the droid much less 
ssive because it only needs a receiver instead of a lacal control system. 
ack is that the droid doesn't react as quickly as a droid with an 
pcessor, So it takes a -2 penalty to its Dexterity. 
Receiver: This unit allows a droid to receive instructions from a 
te processor. Only droids without internal processors (such as Baktoid 
lat Automata battle droids) can be fitted with remote receivers. A 
© receiver can only be connected to one remote processor at a time. 
nging the connection to a different remote processor requires a DC 20 
lanies check and a too! kit. 
tup Processor: A droid with a remote receiver can also have a backup 
that allows the droid to function even if it loses contact with its 
‘Processor. The droid will continue executing its last received orders 
ntact is reestablished. 
hronized Fire Circuits: A droid with a remote receiver can have 
fire circuits that better coordinate its actions with other droids. 
ssfully using the aid another action to assist another droid con- 
my the Same remote processor, a droid with synchronized fire circuits 
) additional +2 bonus to the other droid's check or roll. 


Inhibitors 
4 restraining bolt or periodic memory wipes, most droids oper- 
9 to a rigid set of guidelines. A droid’s core programming—the 
Memory that can't be wiped—provides it with strict instructions 
to common circumstances, most of which revolve around 
ety, ethics, and morality. These instructions are the droid's 
bitors, 
st common restriction coded into a droid’s memory is the notion 
‘tharm a sentient living being or, through inaction, allow a sen- 
BOEING to come to harm. (Fourth-degree droids do not have this 
“Olds are under similar strictures not to allow themselves to be 


harmed unless specifically ordered to do so. Of course, droids are also hard- 
wired to obey the commands of their designated masters. When a master’s 
orders conflict with the droid’s behavioral inhibitors, the droid is required 
to inform its master immediately. 

Restraining Bolt: A restraining bolt turns off a droid’s motor impulse 
without actually shutting down the droid. The restraining bolt is activated 
with a handheld device called a droid caller (see below). Restraining bolts 
must be secured to specific locations on droids. Attaching or removing a 
restraining bolt is a full-round action and requires a DC 10 Mechanics check. 
A droid fitted with a restraining bolt can't upgrade or improve its skills (see 
Reprogramming, below). 

A droid with a heuristic processor can attempt to remove its own restrain- 
ing bolt as a standard action with a successful DC 20 Charisma check followed 
by a successful DC 15 Mechanics check. A droid that fails the Charisma check 
can't attempt to remove the restraining bolt again until 24 hours pass. 

Droid Caller: The droid caller is a handheld transmitter weighing 0.2 kg. 
It transmits a signal to any droid equipped with a restraining bolt. The droid 
caller overrides a droid's motor function and impels it toward the caller for 
as long as the device is activated. 


BINARY 
Nearly all droids are programmed to understand a binary computer 
language used by most computers and intelligent machines. The simple 
version of this is a language skill called Binary. With it, droids can com- 
municate with computers and each other. Binary allows a computer or 
droid to communicate mathematical or technical information in great 
detail at a very high rate (approximately 100 times as fast as normal 
speech), but it has great difficulty expressing nontechnical topics such 
as emotion, art, philosophy, or the Force. For example, as a free action, 
a droid could use Binary to describe the exact location and physica! 
description of ail objects and characters that the droid detects in a 10- 
square-by-10-square area, but the droid would be unable to express the 
nuance of 2 conversation or the emotion conveyed by body language. 
Obviously, some droids can understand additional languages as 
well—most droids in the galaxy are programmed with Basic, even if 
they can't actually articulate the language. Some living beings learn to 
interpret the binary language of droids, even if they can't themselves 
speak an approximation of it. A living being who understands Binary 
cannot understand the same volume of information as another droid 
or computer, so the speaking droid must voluntarily slow its speech to 
normal rates (that is, the same as Basic or any other language) so that 
the living being can understand it. 


A droid with a heuristic processor fitted with a restraining bolt can resist 
the droid caller with a successful DC 20 Charisma check. If successful, that 
droid can't be affected by that specific droid caller for 24 hours. 


Reprogramming 

A basic mode! droid comes with factory-preset skills and a certain set 
of trained skills, feats, and sometimes talents. These factory-presets are 
embedded in the droid’s core programming and cannot be altered, but 
many droids have one or more trained skills left unassigned so that they can 
easily be programmed for their specific duties. Unassigned skills as well as 
feats and talents gained through level advancement can be altered through 
reprogramming. 

Reprogramming a droid requires a Use Computer check (DC = droid’s 
Will Defense) and 30 minutes of uninterrupted work. Reprogramming feats 
and talents is more difficult, so you take a -5 penalty on your Use Com- 
puter check. Furthermore, feats and talents can only be reprogrammed if 
they are neither a requirement for any of the droid’s prestige classes nor a 
prerequisite for any feat or talent the droid retains. As always, a droid must 
meet all prerequisites for any replacement feats or talents. Reprogramming 
requires that the droid be shut down for the duration of the procedure (but 
see “Droid Self-Reprogramming,” below). 

To reprogram a skill, the programmer must be trained in that skill or 
purchase a skill package (100 credits). To reprogram a feat or talent, the 
programmer must either have that feat or talent or purchase a feat or talent 
package (1,000 credits). 

If the droid's owner is unable to do the reprogramming himself, he can 
hire a professional programmer to do the task for him. The standard cost of 
hiring a programmer is (droid’s Will Defense squared) x 10 credits for a skill, 
or 10 times this amount for a feat or talent. This cost includes any necessary 
skill, feat, or talent packages. 

Droid Seif-Reprogramming: A droid trained in the Use Computer skill 
may attempt to reprogram itself, However, the droid must have the appro- 
priate skill, feat, or talent package to do so, and it takes a -5 penalty on its 
Use Computer skill check. A droid attempting to self-reprogram does not 
have to be shut down, but it is helpless and unable to take any actions until 
the attempt is completed. 


Memory Wipes 
Although intelligent droids consider it frightful and ghoulish and heroic droids 
regard it as a fate worse than death, the memory wipe is a fact of existence 
for most droids. Its primary purpose is to eradicate personality quirks that 
distinguish an independent droid. 

Wiping a droid’s memory requires a successful Use Computer check 
against the droid’s Will Defense. The droid must be shut down to perform 
the memory wipe. 


“WE SEEM TO B 

MADE TO SUFFER 

IT'S OUR LOT 
IN LIFE.” 


- C-3Po0) 


A memory wipe erases one class level per minute. A complete 
wipe reduces a droid to a basic model with no personality quirks ang 
abilities. For example, a 3PO Series protocol droid that had been a 1s 
nonheroic/4th-level scoundrel becomes a Ist-level nonheroic basic | 
after a 4-minute memory wipe, losing its scoundrel levels and all the 
responding benefits. 1 


Downloading and Restoring Memory 
Unlike organic beings, droids have a form of mechanical im 
droid's programming is saved to a computer system, and a new cha ss 
droid brain can be bought or found, others can attempt to load its. mi 
into the new droid and reactivate the droid. : 

A successful Use Computer check is required to transfer a droid’s 
gramming into a new chassis. The DC for the Use Computer ch de 
on the type of new chassis being used: 


Different model, same degree DC 25 
Different model, different degree DC35 


Each time the transfer i is attempted, the droid must make a dC 1 i 


corruption: a permanent reduction of 1d6 Intelligence points. The ¢ orn 
programming can t be repaired; if the droid's Intelligence modi es 


The droid also loses access to feats that have an Intelligence prere 
higher than the droid’s new Intelligence score. 

A droid successfully transferred into another droid of the same 
resumes functioning as it was before the transfer, retaining all ability 
class levels, skills, feats, and talents. 

A droid successfully transferred into a different model adopts the St 
and Dexterity of the new model but keeps its previous Intelligence, Ni 
and Charisma scores. The droid retains its trained skills, although Sk! 
fiers based on Strength and Dexterity might need adjusting. FI Finally, 
loses one class level (including all associated talents and feats) 45 1© 
reprogram and adapt its memory and sensory inputs for the new Chie 


AccEeESSsSORIES 
Any miscellaneous system that does not fall under one of the above catego- 
ries can be considered an accessory. Accessories add functions or improve 
existing systems on a droid, making them more capable and efficient. Table 
yi-5: Droid Accessories summarizes the various accessories described in 
this chapter 

Cost and Weight: Sometimes a droid accessory has a flat cost or weight. 
Often the cost and/or weight is determined by multiplying a base number 
by the droid’s cost factor, which is determined by the droid’s size (see Table 
Hi-2; Droid Sizes, page 187) 

Availability: Some droid accessories have limited availability or are 
Strictly regulated, as described in Restricted Items (see page 118) 


Armor 


Droids can be equipped with built-in armor that provides an armor bonus 
fo Reflex Defense. Bipedal droids with two hand appendages can also wear 
armor designed for humanoid creatures; however, the armor bonus granted 
by built-in droid armor does not stack with the armor bonus provided by worn 
armor, Table 11-6: Droid Armor summarizes the different types of built-in 
droid armor available 

Speed: A droid with built-in light, medium, or heavy armor takes no 
penalty to its speed. 

Armor Check Penalty: A droid with built-in armor takes an armor check 
penalty on attack rolls as well as skill checks made us ng the following skills: 
Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Stealth, and Swim, The type 
of armor worn determines the size of the penalty: light, -2; medium, -5 
Neavy, -10. A droid with the appropriate Armor Proficiency feat (see page 
82) negates these penalties 

Maximum Dexterity Bonus: Built-in droid armor has a maximum Dexter- 
ity bonus, just like normal armor (See Armor, page 131) 

Availability: Some armor has limited availab lity 

Rare: This armor is rarely for sale on the open market. The price of the 
armor on the black market is usually double the listed cost. 

Uicensed, Restricted, Military, or legal: Ownership of the armor is limited 
strictly regulated, as described in Restricted Items (see page 131) 

Biimove in Heavy Armor: When running in heavy armor, a droid can 
; UP to three times its speed (instead of four times) 


Communications 


BONS are capable of emitting the sounds necessary to speak Binary, a 
zege used by droids and computers to quickly transmit large amounts 
rMation (see Binary sidebar, page 191) 
4 lator: The droid is equipped with a speaker that enables it to emu 
lay than simply spout machine code. This device is Standard 
S ability to speak any language other than Binary. 


Comlink: The droid is equipped with an integrated comlink system. It is 
otherwise identical to the standard comlink (see page 134) 


Diagnostics Package 

Some droids are equipped to perform diagnostics, either as an aid to a techni- 
cian or as a general safety feature. The diagnostic package gives a droid a +2 
equipment bonus on Mechanics checks to diagnose problems. 


Hardened Systems 

Droids of Large or greater size can be designed to have internal armor and redun- 
dant systems that enable it to continue functioning despite heavy damage. This 
is represented by a multiplier that increases the bonus hit points and damage 
threshold based on the droid’s size. For example, a Large droid with hardened 
systems x3 would have +30 hit points and a +15 bonus to its damage threshold 
instead of the usual +10 hit points and +5 bonus to its damage threshold 


WE 


U 


TF TPpnrnapnrnpnigngl 


Internal Storage DROID SIZE Z 
The droid has a certain amount of open space in its chassis, allowing for the eas Ps 
addition of new internal components or compartments for carried items. 


MAXIMUM WEIGHT LIMIT 


Droids of Tiny size or smaller cannot have internal storage. fag =F 
For each 50 credits spent, the droid can carry 1 kg of material or equip- 
ment in internal storage. A droid’s size determines the maximum weight of af Ji 500 kg 
items stored in internal storage, as noted below: Colossal 5,000 kg 
EQUIPMENT COST WEIGHT 
Claw 20 x cost factor (5 x cost factor) kg 
Hand ‘50x cost factor (5x cost factor) kg 
Instrument 5 x cost factor (1 x cost factor) kg 
‘Probe 2 cost factor (0.5 x cost factor) kg 
Tool a x pce il (2 x cost factor) kg 
Cc a ni ) : : ‘d ¥ stx 2 = 
appendage cost x 2 (2 x cost factor) kg 


Telescopic appendage 


(normal weight x 2) kg 
Comilink, internal 250 0.1 kg 
Vocabulator ri eh. 9 Tal hems 05 kg 
Diagnostics package 250 4kg 
iz MES weit Se eee CL, et ree 
1,000 x cost factor (100 x cost factor) kg Military 


Compactsnent space (per kilogra m) 50 - 
loaded mechanism hh kg 
Locked a access 50 - 


ecostx2 


appendage cost x 2 


Military 


ng-Loaded Mechanism: This device allows a Small, Medium, or 
roid to launch an item held in an internal storage compartment up 
nuares as a standard action. The item can weight no more than 4 kg, 


sha 


s droid makes a ranged attack against Reflex Defense 10 to launch 
ectile into a designated square. Anyone within reach of the target 
who has a readied action can try to catch the item, provided the 
attack succeeds. (If the attack fails, the item lands in a randomly 

ne square adjacent to the target square.) Catching the item requires 
r 0 exterity check and is considered a move action. 


COST 
2,000 


1,000 
10,000 
100,000 


2,500 x cost factor 
oo | ae ea: ee 5,000 10 x cost factor ; 
7,500 x cost factor 


200 
t= ‘a ESOS... 1b heres 
1,000 
An rr 


2.000 — = 
‘i { ~ 


re 


—% 7 
, 


Spring-loaded mechanisms are not typically designed (or practical) for 
droids of Huge or larger size. 


Locked Access 

A droid with locked access has its shutdown switch secured or located inter- 
nally, preventing it from being shut off by an opponent. The droid must be 
disabled or otherwise rendered helpless before it can be shut down. 


WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 
5 kg - 

10 kg - 

100 kg - 

1,000 kg Military 
10,000 kg Military 

1 kg - 

1 kg Military 

4kg - 

(maximum damage x 0.1) kg Restricted 


2.5 kg 
1.5 kg 


(10 x cost factor) kg 
(20 x cost factor) kg 
(30 x cost factor) kg 


Military 
Military 


1 kg 
kg 
4 kg 


Selec) 


ARMOR BONUS MAX. DEX 
ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TO REF DEFENSE BONUS WEIGHT 
Plastee! shell 400 x cost factor +2 +5 (2x cost St Factor} kg 
Durasteel shell 1,600 x cost factor +4 +4 (8x onst factor kg 
Quadanium plating 2,500 x cost factor +5 +3 (10 x cost factor) kg 
Durasteel plating 3,600 x cost factor +6 +3 (12 x cost factor) kg 
Quadanium battle armor 4,900 x cost factor +7 +3 {7 x cost factor} kg 
Duranium plating 6,400 x cost factor 48 +2 (16 X cost factor) kg Resi 
Durastee! battle armor 9,600 x cost factor +8 +3 (8 x cost factor) kg Restricted 
Mandalorian steel shell 8,100 x cost factor +9 +3 (9 x cost factor) kg Military, Re 
Duranium battle armor 10,000 x cost factor +10 +2 (10 xcost factor) kg = Milite 
Neutronium plating 12,100 x cost factor +1 +1 (20 x cost factor) kg Military 


1 When running in heavy armor, 0 droid can only move up to three times its speed (instead of four times). 


Secondary Battery 

A secondary battery (sometimes called a redundant battery or backup 
battery) provides the droid with additional power, allowing it to operate 
for a longer duration. The secondary battery enables the droid to remain 
operational for 200 hours (instead of the normal 100 hours) before it needs 
to shut down and recharge. 


Self-Destruct System 
To prevent capture and analysis, the droid comes equipped with a powerful 
explosive. The charge destroys the droid from within (no attack required), 


DROID Costs 

Some droids have their cost reduced or inflated based on other circum- 
stances. Although the rules in this chapter provide an accurate means 
of determining the cost of a droid, some models may deviate from this 
cost. For example, mass production may reduce labor costs, a droid 
may be priced to match a competitor, prices may increase due to legal 
restrictions for a particular droid (particularly common for 4th-degree 
droids), or a manufacturer may have a virtual monopoly on a particular 
type of droid that allows higher prices. 


and a droid destroyed in this fashion cannot be repaired or sa 
explosion is treated as an area attack (+5 attack bonus). The damaget 
targets with the area is determined by the droid’s size (see below), an 
burst radius of the explosion is 2 squares per 4d6 of damage ( 
squares). Droids of Tiny size and smalier do not deal collateral dam: 
they self-destruct. 


DROID SIZE DAMAGE 
Small 446 
Medium G06. 
Huge 10d6 
Sensors 


Sensors allow the droid to perceive its surroundings. Most droids are equ 
with a standard sensor array that gives them the visual and audit 
of an average Human, For an additional cost, a droid can be 
an improved sensor package or with darkvision. 

improved Sensor Package: A droid with an improved sensor Pi ‘ 
gains a +2 equipment bonus on Perception checks. In addition, he 


pw-light vision, ignoring concealment (but not total concealment) 
. E55. 

vision: The droid with darkvision ignores concealment {including 
ment) from darkness. 


d Generator 

nid is fitted with a deflector shield generator—the same type mounted 
ships. Whenever the droid would take damage, reduce the damage 
droid’s shield rating (SR). If the damage is equal to or greater than 
pid’s shield rating, the droid’s shield rating is reduced by 5. By spend- 
ree swift actions on the same or consecutive rounds, the droid may 
aD 20 Endurance check to restore lost shield power. If the check 
ds, the droid’s shield rating increases by 5 points (up to its normal 
1 jt i q). 

to the size and energy requirements of shield generators, only droids 
ii size or larger can be equipped with a SR 10 generator. Only droids of 
| size or larger can be equipped with a SR 15 generator. Only droids 
le or bigger size can be equipped with a SR 20 generator. 


ator Unit 

bid is equipped with a device that allows it to understand and convey 
tion in a variety of languages, including nonverbal ones, When the 
iperiences 2 form of communication for the first time, it makes an 
yence check to determine whether it can identify and understand the 
ge. The DC js based on the translator unit's database, with the better 
iV ng 2 lower DC. 


IDIFYING DROIDS 


be modified to carry additional equipment simply by attaching 
pment to the droid’s chassis and connecting the new component 
bids processor. Adding equipment increases the droid’s weight. 
uffer from encumbrance penalties the same way organic characters 
Slow down. Adding, removing, or replacing the systems on a droid 
@ Mechanics check, the DC set by the type of system. 
motion: DC 25 Mechanics check, representing 1 day of work. 
ess r: DC 20 Use Computer check and DC 20 Mechanics check, 
Ng 1 day of work. 
@age: DC 20 Mechanics check, representing 1 hour of work. 
DC 15 Mechanics check, representing 1 hour of work. 
or Instrument Mounted on an Appendage: DC 15 
Ck, representing 10 minutes of work. You take a -5 penalty 
mies check when installing a weapon on a 1st-, 2nd-, 3rd-, 
si ‘droid, 

ification: A droid may install or replace a locomotion system, 
OF accessory on itself, but it takes a -5 penalty on its Mechanics 
#4 cannot replace or instgll a processor on itself. 


SAMPLE DROIDS 


The following sample droids are presented as basic models, in their factory- 
preset state. The trained skills and feats possessed by a basic model represent 
the droid’s core programming—characteristics the droid maintains even after 
being subjected to a memory wipe (see page 192). 


FiIRST-DEGREE DROIDS 
First-degree droids are usually medical, analytical, or scientific droids. 


2-1B Medical Droid 

Programmed by some of the finest medical minds in the galaxy, industrial 
Automaton's 2-1B Series was the first commercially successful surgical droid. 
Each 2-1B is equipped with a computer interface socket and tether; what it 
doesn't know about a patient's species or medical history, it can download 
from any medical mainframe. 

The 2-1B's servogrip pincer hands are precision-engineered for smooth, 
steady action. The core programming of 2-1B surgical droids includes the 
“physician's code.” This prevents the droid from refusing medical aid to any 
being (unless specifically ordered otherwise by an authorized operator), as 
well as preventing it from deliberately inflicting harm on an organic creature 
(except as defined by extensive guidelines for saving a life}. This includes a 
stricture against engaging in combat. 

2-1B Series droids can be played as droid heroes. 


2-1B Medical Droid 

Medium droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses low-light vision; Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 12 

hp 5; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +0 (1d3-1) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach | square 

Base Atk +1; Grp +0 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 11, Con —, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 9 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences], Treat 
Injury), Skill Training (Use Computer), Surgical Expertise 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +13, Perception +5, Treat Injury +13, Use 
Computer +8 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hands, improved 
sensor package, vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,300 credits 


CLO 


SECOND-DEGREE DROIDS 
Second-degree droids are typically astromech droids and some technical 
droids. Specific models include the R2 unit. 


R2 Series Astromech Droid 

The R2 astromech is Industrial Automaton's most successful series of diag- 
nostic and repair droids, largely due to the compact design that enables 
it (unlike its predecessors) to fit precisely into the astromech sockets of 
starfighters. An R2 unit performs all of the most complex astrogation, flight 
data, technical diagnosis, and power management tasks, freeing fighter pilots 
to concentrate on staying alive. 

The R2 astromech droid is surprisingly versatile for its size. R2s boast 
an overwhelming array of tools and sensors, all tucked away behind various 
access panels, keeping the housing largely free of obstructions. Industrial 
Automaton's designers even found a way to include “wasted space” in 
the chassis, allowing internal storage, easy upgrades, and modifications. 
Even the four standard appendages (two manipulator arms, an electric 
arc welder, and a circular saw) can be quickly and easily switched out 
with a number of specialty arms available. The two empty slots are typi- 
cally filled with a fire extinguisher and a computer interface probe (for 
an additional cost). 

Because these droids are quick-witted, sincere, and often insightful, many 
owners are reluctant to have their memories wiped, resulting in headstrong, 
independent astromech droids. 

R2 Series droids can be played as droid heroes. 
R2 Series Astromech Droid CLO 
Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 
Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +3 
Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 8, Will 10 
hp 7; Threshold 8 
Immune droid traits 
Speed 6 squares (wheeled), 4 squares (walking), 9 squares (flying) 

Melee electroshock probe +0 (18 ion) 

Fighting Space | square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp -4 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 14, Con —, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 7 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics, Use Computer), Skill Training (Perception), 
Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +3, Pilot +8, Stealth +6, Use 

Computer +13 
Systems wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, flying locomotion 

(limited), magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 6 tool appendages, 1 claw 


appendage, diagnostics package, internal storage (2 kg), impre 
sensor package, darkvision 5 
Possessions astrogation buffer (storage device, 10 memory units), 
circular saw, electroshock probe, fire extinguisher, electric arc y 
holorecorder, holoprojector 
Availability Licensed; Cost 4,500 credits 


THIRD-DEGREE DROIDS 
Third-degree droids are typically protocol droids and replica droids. 
models include 3PO series droids and translator droids. 


Protocol Droid 

Supplied with a SyntheTech AA-1 Verbobrain, the 3P0 proto 
capable of storing huge amounts of information, enabling it to 
over six million forms of communication and respond in nearly all a 
also has a tremendous capacity for analyzing previously unknown la 
and translating them into whatever language its master desires, 
even includes an olfactory sensor for translating pheromonal 
tion, The 3P0's additional memory storage is generally used to keep sp 
communication modes in active memory, avoiding lengthy de 
searching for linguistic information in mid-transiation, 

Each 3P0 comes with a factory-installed restraining bolt 
are also programmed for passive behavior—a typical 3P0 droid nm 
under any circumstances. If the droid becomes a problem, the 3PO's sh 
switch is conveniently located at the back of its neck. 

Built to resemble humanoids, 3POs come in a wide variety of colo 

3P0 Series protocol droids can be played as droid heroes. 


“I'm PROGRAMMEE 
FOR ETIQUETTE, NE 
DESTRUCTIONI” 


- c-3PO0 


3PO Series Protocol Droid 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init -1; Senses Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 9, Will 11 
hp 2; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (103-1) 


ing Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 
tk +0; Grp -1 

me Str 9, Dex 9, Con —, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 15 

‘Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge 
ueracy], Knowledge [galactic lore]) 

ig Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Knowledge (galactic lore) +6, 
¥nowledge (social sciences) +6, Persuasion +12 

fems walking locomotion, basic processor, translator unit (DC 5), 2 
sand appendages, vocabulator 

ssions audio recorder 

jlability Licensed; Cost 3,000 credits 


no 


OURTH- -DEGREE DROIOS 
degree droids are combat droids. Specific models include battle droids, 
tr droids, security droids, war droids, probe droids, and assassin droids. 


Series Battle Droid 
Wm appearance but deadly in intent, Baktoid Combat Automata’s battle 
is @ metal skeleton with a blaster. Built by the Geonosians to the Trade 
tion's specifications, battle droids are designed to resemble Geonosians, 
desiccated Neimoidian corpses. Most intelligent beings regard them 
j, but Neimoidians see battle droids as positively ghoulish. 
€ droids are drones controlled by a remote processor, taking their 
mands from a Central Control Computer that operates several thousand 
le droids, destroyer droids, and droid starfighters simultaneously. A battle 
municates with its fellow drones via comlinks, transmission anten- 
encryption computers, making for a contro! signal that is nearly 
ussibie to jam (DC 40 Mechanics check). 

ries Battle Droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


cries Battle Droid cL 1 
im droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3 

enses Perception +6 
Ss Basic, Binary 


es Ref 9 (fat-footed 9), Fort 11, Will 11 


ares (walking) 
d +3 (1d3+1) 
aster carbine +1 (3d8) 
3 1 square; Reach 1 square 

k 42:6 D +3 
55 13, Dex 9, Con —, int 9, Wis 10, Cha 10 


» Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, heavy weapons, 
apons) 


Skills Perception +6 

Systems walking locomotion, remote processor, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine 

Availability Military; Cost 1,800 credits 


B2 Series Super Battle Droid 

The B2 Series Super Battle Droid is a marked improvement in the original 
B1 Series Battle Droid design, Larger and armored, the Super Battle Droid 
relies on a central control computer for guidance, but it doesn’t deactivate 
when it loses contact with the remote processor thanks to a backup internal 
processor—a droid brain that takes over when the droid loses communica- 
tion with the central computer. This second brain allows the droid to store 
its last set of orders and continue acting on them even after the remote 
processor has shut down. 

Super Battle Droids can be played as droid heroes. 


B2 Series Super Battle Droid CL2 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +3; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 12 (fiat-footed 12), Fort 12, Will 10 

hp 21; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 


_ 


aiavno 


is 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d3+1) 

Ranged wrist blasters +4 (3d8) or 

Ranged wrist blasters +2 (4d8) with Rapid Fire 

Fighting Space | square; Reach | square 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire (wrist blasters), Charging Fire, Rapid Fire, aid 
another (+4) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 11, Con —, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 7 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Charging Fire, Rapid Shot, Toughness, 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles, simple) 

Skills Perception +8 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, backup processor, 
synchronized fire circuits, 2 hand appendages, integrated comlink, 
vocabulator, plasteel shell (+2 armor) 

Possessions wrist blasters (as blaster rifle) 

Availability Military; Cost 3,300 credits 


“IT's AGAINST MY 
PROGRAMMING TO 
IMPERSONATE A 
DEITY.” 


- C-3P0O 


Droideka Series Destroyer Droid 

Designed and built by the Geonosians of Geonosis and the Collicoids of 
Colla IV, the Droideka Series destroyer droids reflect the savage ferocity of 
their makers. 

The main propulsion method of destroyer droids is a microrepulsor- 
assisted wheel mode that allows a destroyer droid to fold itself into a roughly 
wheel-shaped package and roll along at high speeds. Though lightning- 
swift in this mode, destroyer droids are considerably more ponderous when 
unfolded for combat. 

Destroyer droids have two heavy repeating blasters that can lay down a 
devastating barrage. To augment its bronzium armor shell, a destroyer droid 
also comes equipped with a deflector shield generator. The tremendous 
energy drain of the blasters and shields necessitates that the destroyer droid 
be equipped with a minireactor. 

Destroyer droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


Droideka Series Destroyer Droid © 

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12 

Init +8; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 10 

hp 40; SR 20; Threshold 18 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 2 squares (walking), 10 squares (wheeled) 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d4+3) 

Ranged 2 laser cannons +11 (3d8) or 

Ranged 2 laser cannons +9 (408) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged 2 laser cannons +6 (5d8) with Burst Fire 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +9; Grp +17 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), Burst Fire, Point-Blank Shot, Rapic 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con —, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 7 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Point-Blank Shot, Rapid ' 
Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery Il, Weapon Profic 
(heavy weapons, rifles, simple weapons) . 

Skills Perception +13, Stealth -3 

Systems walking locomotion, wheeled locomotion (exclusive), remot 
receiver, 2 tool appendages, shield generator (SR 20), integra ed 
comlink, bronzium shell (+5 armor; treat as quadanium plating) 

Possessions 2 laser cannons (treat as blaster rifles) 

Availability Military; Cost 21,000 credits 


Dwarf Spider Droid 
In the Battle of Geonosis, the Commerce Guild deployed forces 0 of 
spider droids. Larger than a standard battle droid and armed with a p0¥ 
blaster cannon, the dwarf spider droid gives mobile heavy weapon 
to advancing infantry, 

The original function of dwarf spider droids was to root out hi 
operations. The Commerce Guild requires a tribute payment for ail oC 
operations within its borders; however, small independent operat 
dig within Commerce Guild borders and attempt to smuggle the pr 
ore into a neutral region, avoiding tribute payments. Dwarf spider aro! 
equipped to descend down rocky crags like those found inside re ugh: 
mine shafts, to catch offenders red-handed before they can reach the: 
of the Commerce Guild border. Commerce Guild star cruisers also G rn) ’ 
pliments of dwarf spider droids for security and tribute enfore 


Dwarf Spider Droid 

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9 

Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +12 
Languages Basic, Binary 


ces Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 16, Will 11 
b; Threshold 26 
droid traits 
d8 squares (walking) 
” ¢ unarmed +8°* (1d6+10) 
d biaster cannon +5 (6d8) 
ng Space 2x2; Reach | square 
Atk +6; Grp +17 
Dptions Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack 
ities Str 22, Dex 9, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 
jai Qualities stability 
: mor Proficiency (light), Far Shot, Improved Damage Threshold, 
nt Blank Shot, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Perception), Weapon 
aid (heavy weapons, simple weapons) 
imb +6 (may reroll, may take 10 when threatened), 
Ge tption +12, Stealth -6 
: ’ walking locomotion (extra legs), climbing claws, magnetic feet, 
emote receiver, darkvision, improved sensor package, locked access, 1 
al appendage, quadanium plating (+5 armor) 
is blaster cannon 
ability Military; Cost 8,500 credits 
—A dwarf spider droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks made 
sist being knocked prone. 
Hes 4 points of Power Attack 


late in the Clone Wars, the crab droids used by the Confederacy 
tndent Systems were designed to function as advanced scouts and 
a in harsh environments. Nicknamed “muckrakers” by the clone 
ier legions they faced, crab droids were often used on wet, swampy 
I ’ they could use their powerful vacuum system to clear a path 
le droids to follow. 
at ab droids range in size from 2 meters tall for the scout models to 6 
‘hag assault models, They have metal armor plating on the out- 
uitiple jointed legs that grant them great stability and flexibility. 
% are well protected from incoming fire, they do have weak spots 
ef central bodies that, while difficult to reach, leave vital equipment 
al ul ver Systems exposed to anyone brave enough to get that close. 

i ‘Oids can't be played as droid heroes. 


d Scout 
{4th-degree) nonheroic 12 
Ses Perception +13 
es Basic, Binary 
$ Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 17, Will 12 


cL4 


hp 80; Threshold 42 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking), climb 3 squares 

Melee claw +16" (1d6+15) or 

Melee claw +20° (106421) with Powerful Charge 

Ranged twin blaster +8 (3d10) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach | square 

Base Atk +9; Grp +21 

Atk Options Power Attack 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 9, Con —, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha & 

Special Qualities stability 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Crush, Pin, Power Attack, 
Powerful Charge, Weapon Proficiency (rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +8 (may reroll, may take 10 when threatened), 
Perception +13, Stealth -6 

Systems walking locomotion (extra legs), climbing claws, heuristic 
processor, 2 claw appendages, hardened systems x5, duranium battle 
armor (+10 armor) 

Possessions twin blaster (treat as heavy blaster rifle] 

Availability Military; Cost 20,000 credits 

Stability—A crab droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks made to resist 
being knocked prone, 

* Includes 8 points of Power Attack 


IG-100 Series Bodyguard Droid 

Manufactured by Holowan Mechanicals, the first |G-100 Series MagnaGuard 
droids were custom-built to General Grievous's specifications. Quick and 
deadly, the MagnaGuards are designed to protect their charge to their own 
destruction. MagnaGuard droids have thick metal plating covering a wiry 
endoskeleton and have specially designed arms that are adept at wielding 
melee weapons. 

A MagnaGuard droid can't be played as a droid hero. 


1G-100 Series MagnaGuard 

Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 6 

Force 1 

Init +9; Senses darkvision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 18 

hp 53; Threshold 17 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee electrostaff +8 (2d8+6) 

Melee electrostaff +3 (2d8+6) and 
electrostaff +3 (2d8+6) 


Fighting Space | square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Improved Disarm, Melee Defenses 

Special Actions Harm's way, Indomitable 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con —, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Talents Harm's Way, Indomitable, Weapon Specialization (advance 
weapons) 7 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Disarm, Melee Def j 
Toughness, Dual Weapon Mastery I, Weapon Focus (advanced melee ; 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +9, Endurance +8, Initiative +9, Jump +9, Perception 419 

Systems walking locomotion, magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 2 

hand appendages, telescopic appendage (1 hand), darkvision, 
improved sensor package, locked access, secondary 

battery 

Possessions electrostaff 

Availability Restricted; Cost 19,000 credits 


Viper Series Probe Droid 
Before the rise of the Empire, probe droids—often 
referred to as probots—were used primarily to 
map space lanes, survey planets, and perform 
Search-and-rescue operations. However, such 
friendly purposes fell by the wayside as the Emperor” 
conquered more and more systems. Probots became 
tools for rooting out traitors on far-flung worlds. Arakyd 
Industries manufactures the Empire's favored model, the 
Arakyd Viper, for this very purpose 
Equipped with an extensive sensor system, the Viper is either deployed — 
directly from the ground or fitted with an optional delivery system thats 
guides the probot from a ship to the designated planet. The delivery System 
possesses only rudimentary breaking capabilities, so it includes buffers ti 
prevent damage to the droid on impact. These are especially important, since 
the Imperial Viper's self-destruct system is designed to destroy the droid fm 
takes significant damage (to prevent it from falling into enemy hands). The 
sublight delivery system costs an additional 5,000 credits; a hyperspace= 
capable version sells for 15,000 credits. 
Viper Series probe droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


Viper Series Probe Droid 

Large droid (4th-degree) scout 1 

Init +6; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +9 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned ___ an 


19-100 BeAies MAGNAGUARD 


enses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 14, Will 13 Speed 6 squares (walking) 


94; Threshold 19 Melee claw +4 (1d4+3) 

iaumune dr0ic traits z. Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

eed 6 squares (hovering) Base Atk +1; Grp +4 

Melee unarmed +4 (106+4) Abilities Str 17, Dex 12, Con —, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 5 

Ranged blaster +1 (3d6) Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Focus (Endurance), Skill Training 
Fighting Space 2x2 Reach | square (Mechanics), 1 unassigned 

Base Atk +0; Grp +9 Skills Endurance +11, Mechanics +4 

Special Actions self-destruct (+5 area attack, 4d6, 2-square burst, Systems walking !ocomotion, basic processor, 2 claw appendages, 


durastee! shel! [+4 armor) 
Availability Licensed; Cost 1,000 credits 
*lace near the “Droideka” stats 


Abilities St 18, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 11 

Talents Acute Senses 

feats Armor Proficiency (light), Weapon Proficiency (blaster pistols, 
simple weapons, S ugthrowers] 

Skills Endurance +5, Initiative +6, Perception +9, Stealth +1, Survival +7, 
Use Computer +6 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 2 claw 
appendages, 2 tool appendages, improved sensor package, darkvision, 
self-destruct system (4d6), locked access, integrated comlink, 
durastee! shell (+4 armor) 

Possessions sensor unit, video recording unit, blaster (treat as blaster pistol) 

Availability Restricted; Cost 18,500 credits 


PIFTH-DEGREE DROIDS 
Fiith-degree droids are typically utility droids with low-level functions 
Dpecitic models include labor droids and power droids 


ASP Labor Droid 


ASP Series labor droids are common throughout the galaxy. They perform a 
Variety of simple tasks, including maintenance, repair, sanitation, delivery, 
and simple hard labor. Cheap and effect ve, they are designed as “entry-level” 
Oroids for first time buyers. Many ASP owners modify the droids heavily 
instead of actually replacing them 


ASPs are built for strenath and sturdiness, not intelligence. Since the main 
Vittue Of the ASP is versatility, it's programmed with only the most basic 
Hons—leaving the owner to instruct the droid in its specific duties 

ASP Series droids can be played as droid heroes 


ASP Series Labor Droid CLO 
Be droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 2 
*2; Senses Perception +1 
Wages Basic, Binary 
; Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 10 
5; Threshold 13 
€ droid traits 


LG 


is 


+. 


1S) 


CHAPTER |}; 
ESTIGE CLASSES 


F > 


and GM characters, focusing them in specific directions. A character with 
a prestige class is generally more specialized, yet perhaps slightly more 
powerful, than a character without one. 

A character can’t begin as a member of a prestige class. Abilities granted 
by prestige classes are acquired only by meeting the requirements specific 
to each example, which almost always demand—in effect—that a character 
be at least mid-level. Additionally, there may be non-rules-related require- 
ments that must be met in-game, such as group membership fees, special 
training exercises, or quests. 

Prestige classes are purely optional, and always under the purview of the 
GM. Even though a few examples can be found below, they are idiosyncratic 
to each campaign, and thus many GMs may choose to not allow them or only 
use them for GM characters. 


PRESTIGE CLASSES 

Table 12-1: Prestige Classes summarizes the prestige classes described in 
this chapter. Some prestige classes (such as the crime lord, Sith apprentice, 
and Sith Lord) are more appropriate for GM characters, and the Gamemas- 
ter may declare these classes off-limits to heroes. For this reason, a player 
should consult with her GM before angling her character toward a particular 
prestige class. 

Requirements: All prestige classes have certain requirements that a 
character must fulfill prior to taking the first level in that class. Among 
the most common requirements are a minimum character level, a minimum 
base attack bonus, being trained in certain skills, or having certain feats. 
These requirements make it easier for certain types of characters to become 
members of a given prestige class. For example, a scout could potentially 
take his first level of bounty hunter as an 8th-level character. 


; 


ix Said¥Ho 


Sasa Ve) 


ix eeiarrnyD 


PRESTIGE CLASS BASIC DESCRIPTION 


Bounty hunter 


Expert at locating and capturing fugitives 


Elite trooper Highly trained soldier or bodyguard 


Force disciple Master of the deepest mysteries of the Force 


Jedi Knight Galactic defender who follows the Jedi code 


Officer Leader of a military task force or group 


Sith Lord Powerful master of the dark side 


ACE PILOT 


The ace pilot is to vehicle combat what the elite trooper is to personal 
weapons combat. Her arms and armor are the weapons and shields of a 
sleek starship soaring through space or an airspeeder shrieking through the 
atmosphere. A veteran of countless engagements, the ace pilot has proven 
her skill again and again by virtue of facing the enemy and surviving—and 
making sure the enemy did not. She has several kills to her credit, and her 
combat maneuvers are occasionally studied and discussed in training acad- 
emies for their ingenuity and effectiveness. 

For her part, the ace pilot only feels truly alive in the cockpit, where she can 
pit herself against her peers in a life-and-death contest to see who is the better 
pilot. For some ace pilots, the contest is enough, and they don't care whether 
they win or simply get away with their lives. For others, the important thing is 
the kill. The adrenaline surge they feel when finishing off an enemy brings them 
back again and again. The best ace pilots learn to stop enemies without destroying 
them, but those aces are rare, and their exploits are legendary. 

Ace pilots define themselves by the vehicles they fly. Some are starfighter 
aces, while others fly space transports. Ace pilots can also be found at the 
controls of a Podracer, Coruscant air taxi, or even a large assault vehicle 
such as an AT-AT, 


EXAMPLES OF ACE PILOT in 
STAR WARS a 
Han Solo, Wedge Antilles, Sebulba, Wes Jansen, Tycho Celchu, B; 

Corran Horn. a 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become an ace pilot, a character must fulfill the f 
criteria. ; 
Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. 
Trained Skills: Pilot. 
Feats; Vehicular Combat. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Ace pilots have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, ace pilots gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution 


Force Points 
Ace pilots gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their char 
level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the ace pilot prestige class. 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
2nd +1 Vehicle dodge +1 
4th +3 Vehicle dodge +2 
6th +4 Vehicle dodge +3 
8th +6 Vehicle dodge +4 
10th +7 Vehicle dodge +5 


nse Bonuses 
it Ist level, ace pilots gain a +4 class bonus to their Reflex Defense and a 
) class bonus to their Fortitude Defense. 


lents 
At every odd-numbered level (Ist, 3rd, Sth, and so on), the ace pilot selects 


& talent. This talent may be selected from the Expert Pilot or Gunner talent 
Wrees (see below) or from the Spacer talent tree (see page 47). 

T ace pilot must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the 
¢ asen talent. No talent can be selected more than once 
unless expressly indicated. 


EXPERT PILOT TALENT TREE 
The ace pilot relies on finely honed instincts and years 
of pilot training to outmaneuver and destroy enemy 
farships. 
Elusive Dogfighter: When engaged in a dogfight, 
ny enemy pilot engaged in the same dogfight takes 
@ -10 penalty on attack rolls when you succeed 
° the opposed Pilot check (see Attacking in a 
‘De pfight, page 171). 
Full Throttle: You can take 10 on Pilot checks 
fade to increase your vehicle's speed (see the 
Ot skill description, page 71). In addition, 

When you use the all-out movement action 
While piloting a vehicle, your vehicle moves 

Up to five times its normal speed (instead 
Of the norma} x4). 

duke: When you fight defensively as 
Me pilot of a vehicle (see page 171), the 
a bonus to your vehicle's Reflex Defense 
ncreases to +5 even if you make an attack. 
Prerequisite: Vehicular Evasion. 
bh . Keep it Together: Once per encounter, when a 

sucIE you're piloting takes damage that equals or 
: US its damage threshold, your vehicle avoids 
ming down the condition track (see Conditions, 
age 148). 
Pursuit: You may roll twice for any 
Bed Pilot check made to initiate a dogfight, 
mPing the better result (see Dogfight, page 171). 
Micular Evasion: |f the vehicle you are piloting 
ip bY an area attack (see Area Attacks, page 155), 
Kes half damage if the attack hits. If the area attack misses 
FYehicle, it takes no damage. You cannot use this talent 
=“ YOur vehicle is stationary or disabled. 


GUNNER TALENT TREE 
Many starship gunners are skilled both in and out of the cockpit and are 
deadly with ranged weapons of any kind. 

Dogfight Gunner: While your vehicle is engaged in a dogfight, you take 
no penalty on your attack rolls with vehicle weapons even if you are not 
the pilot. 

Prerequisite: Expert Gunner. 

Expert Gunner: You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls made using vehicle 
weapons, 

Quick Trigger: Whenever an enemy vehicle moves out of your square or 
an adjacent square, you may make a single attack against that vehicle as an 
attack of opportunity. 

Prerequisite: Expert Gunner. 

System Hit: Whenever you deal damage to a vehicle that equals or 
exceeds its damage threshold, you move that vehicle an additional -1 
step on the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). 

Prerequisite: Expert Gunner. 


Vehicle Dodge 

Beginning at 2nd level, you apply a dodge bonus to the Reflex 

Defense of any vehicle you pilot. The dodge bonus is 
equal to one-half your class level, rounded down. Any 

condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to 

Reflex Defense also makes you lose dodge bonuses. 
Also, dodge bonuses stack with each other, unlike 

most other types of bonuses. 


BOUNTY 
HUNTER 


The bounty hunter capitalizes on the vendet- 
tas of others, tracking down fugitives for 
their enemies, their masters, or simply for 

justice. The best bounty hunters are the 

ones who can stay emotionally detached 
from either their employers or their 
quarry—although bounty hunters who 
hate their prey often make more spec- 
tacular kills. 

Not all bounty hunters kill. Some 
employers reserve that pleasure for them- 
selves, or plan to give the quarry a more or less 

fair trial. Some bounty hunters have reservations about taking 
lives unnecessarily. Regardless of his methods, a bounty hunter still has 
to produce the quarry in order to receive payment. Overkill is generally 
not a good idea. 


MALE BULLUSBTAN ACE PuOoT 


SiavHD} 


SsasevIa) esses [P= ¥ 


[ 


~, 


(} ux walieeHo 


Selec) 


SasewrIa aar 


At one time, organized bounty hunter guilds apportioned contracts 
and policed their membership. They dwindled in both power and 
organization during the rise of Emperor Palpatine. 

Whether working alone or in groups, bounty hunters revel in 
the thrill of the hunt. Given the nature of their work, it goes 
without saying that few bounty hunters die of boredom. 


Hunter talent tree (presented below), the Misfortune talent tre, 
page 46), or the Awareness talent tree (see page 49). You myes 

the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent eas 

selected more than once unless expressly indicated, 


BOUNTY HUNTER TALENT TREE 
The nature of their work requires bounty huntan 


associate with the scum of the universe, Youd 


EXAMPLES OF BOUNTY 
HUNTERS IN STAR WARS 
Aurra Sing, Boba Fett, Bossk, Dengar, 4-LOM, Greedo, IG-88, 
Zuckuss instincts to catch | your prey. 
Hunter's Mark: If you aim before making 
ranged attack (see Aim, page 154), you 4 
target -1 step along the condition track if the ateam 
hits (see Conditions, page 148). 
Hunter’s Target: Once per encounter ge 
free action, you may designate an opponent, 
the rest of the encounter, when you succeed @ 
a melee or ranged attack against that oppone : 
you gain a bonus on damage rolls equal to you 
class level, 
Prerequisite: Hunter's Mark. 
Notorious: Your skill as a bounty hunter) 
known throughout the galaxy, even on 
worlds. When you are not disguised, you eal 
reroll any Persuasion checks made to intimidate 
others, keeping the better result (see the Pe 
sion skill, page 71). 
Nowhere to Hide: You may choose to reroll any 
Gather Information checks made to locate a speci 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a bounty hunter, a character must fulfill 
the following criteria. 

Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. 

Trained Skills: Survival. 

Talents: At least two talents from the Awareness 
talent tree (see page 49). 


GAME RULE 
INFORMATION 
Bounty hunters have the following 
game statistics. 


Hit Points 

At each level, bounty hunters gain 
1410 hit points + their Constitution 
modifier, 


Force Points 
Bounty hunters gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half 
their character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new 
level in this class. 


worse, 
Relentless: This talent applies only to an op 
you've designated as your hunter's target (see 
Target, above). Any attack or effect originating 4 
the target that would normally move you along " 
condition track (see page 149) does not, in fact, 
you along the condition track. 

Prerequisites: Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target. P 
Ruthless Negotiator: When haggling over te price @ 
bounty (see the Persuasion skill, page 71), you can reroll 
Persuasion check and keep the better result. 

Prerequisite: Notorious. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the bounty hunter prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At Ist level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Reflex Defense 
and a +2 class bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 


Talents 
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you 


select a talent. The talent may be selected from the Bounty 


MALE QuAAREN BOUNTY HUNTER 


BASE ATTACK 


BONUS CLASS FEATURES 


Familiar foe +1 


+2 


Familiar foe +2 


Familiar foe +3 


Familiar foe +4 


Familiar foe +5 


> 


Foe 
serv ing your enemy in combat, you know how to defeat him more 
HW you spend a full-round action observing an opponent in combat, 
in a bonus on attack rolls against that opponent and a bonus to 
flex Defense against attacks made by that opponent equal to one- 
ur class level (rounded down). The effects {ast until the end of the 
iter. You cannot use this ability until after your opponent has acted 
the combat. 


mME LORD 

eS Manage to eradicate crime altogether. In the underworld, 
ys rises to the top, either through vision, organization, or sheer 
The life of a crime lord isn't for the timid. After conquering an 
, the crime lord wages a daily struggle not only to stay on top 
Stay alive. 
€, Not every crime lord is bent on corrupting society and making 
me use their criminal connections to wage lucrative guerilla 
tyrants and despots. Indeed, some of the lesser-known heroes 
ion began as smugglers or pirates, and eventually rose through 
their organization to provide a more noble direction for their 
lies. Although some did so to remove an obstacle to making 
me , Others recognized that ridding the galaxy of the Empire's evil 
bre important long-term goal. 


‘ 


Problematically, crime lords are notoriously bad at cooperating with one 
another, The head of any given criminal empire has as much to fear from a 
gang war as he does from internal dissent and ambitious underlings. Even 
those with altruistic intentions sometimes learn the hard way that their 
troops are more interested in gaining power and wealth than saving the 
galaxy from greater evils. 


EXAMPLES OF CRIME LORDS IN 
STAR WARS 

Jabba the Hutt, Prince Xizor, Talon Karrde, Ploovo Two-for-One, Davik Kang, 
GO-TO. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a crime lord, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria. 

Minimum Heroic Level: 7th, 

Trained Skills: Deception, Persuasion. 

Talents: At least one talent from the Fortune, Lineage, or Misfortune 
talent tree (see pages 44 and 46). 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Crime lords have the following game statistics. 


BASE ATTACK 
BONUS 


CLASS FEATURES 


Command cover, talent 


4th +3 Talent 
SRS Si ae SA 
6th ot Talent 
SERS = 62. SE SS 
8th +6 Talent 
BA as ie st a, 
10th +7 Talent 


ix HalawRS 


f . 


SHSSsvI sei.1Ssese) 


Hit Points Shared Notoriety: When your minions invoke your name, other 
At each level, crime lords gain 108 hit points + their Constitu- note, If you have minions (see the Attract Minion ta : 
tion modifier. they may reroll any Persuasion checks made to intimidate pe 
(see the Persuasion skill, page 71), but the result of the reroll p 
be accepted even if it is worse. ’ 
Prerequisite: Notorious, 


Force Points 

Crime lords gain a number of Force Points 
equal to 6 + one-half their character level, 
rounded down, every time they gain a new 
level in this class. 


MASTERMIND TALENT TREE 
You have the ability to attract loyal minions and 
skilled at redirecting allies on the battlefield 
Attract Minion: You attract a loyal miny 
The minion is a nonheroic character (see page 2 on 
with a class level equal to three-quarters of ya 
character level, rounded down, q 
You may select this talent multiple tiy t 
each time you select this talent, you gain anoth 
minion. Normally, you can have only one mir 
with you at a time. Any other minions you hay 
are assumed to be looking after your varios 
interests. If you lose a minion, you can send fg 
another minion if you have one (although normal tra . 
time still applies). 

Each minion that accompanies you on an adver 
entitled to an equal share of the total experience po 
earned for the adventure. For example, a minion that 

accompanies a party of five heroes on an ad 
receives one-sixth of the XP that the group teams: 
impel Ally |: You can spend a swift action to gra 

one ally the ability to move its normal speed. The all} 
must move immediately on your turn, before you ga) 
anything else, or else the opportunity is wasted, You 
can use this talent up to three times on your tum 
(spending a swift action each time). 

Impel Ally II: You can spend two swift actions t@ 
grant one ally the ability to take a standard action 
or move action. The ally must act immediately + 

your turn, before you do anything else, or else 096 
opportunity is wasted. 

Prerequisite: |mpel Ally | 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the crime lord prestige 
class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At Ist level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense 
and a +4 class bonus to your Will Defense 


Talents 
At Ist level and each level thereafter, you select a talent. The talent 
must be selected from the Infamy or Mastermind talent trees (pre- 
sented below) or the Influence talent tree {see page 43). You must 
meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can 

be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


INFAMY TALENT TREE 

You are wanted in multiple systems for criminal acts, and your 
manner of doing business has earned you an unsavory reputation 
in the criminal underworld. 

Inspire Fear |: Your infamy and reputation are such that any 
opponent whose level is equal to or less than your character 
level takes a -1 penalty on attack rolls and opposed skill checks 
made against you, as well as Use the Force checks made to 
activate Force powers that target you. This is a mind-affect- 
ing fear effect. 

Inspire Fear Il: As Inspire Fear | (see above), except that 
the penalty increases to -2 

Prerequisite: Inspire Fear |. 

Inspire Fear Ill: As Inspire Fear | (see above), except that 
the penalty increases to -5. 

Prerequisites: Inspire Fear |, Inspire Fear Il, 

Notorious: Your reputation as a crime lord is known 
throughout the galaxy, even on fringe worlds. When you are 
not disquised, you may reroll any Persuasion checks made to your Reflex Defense for each ally that is adjacent t@ ii 
intimidate others, keeping the better result (see the Persuasion up to a maximum bonus equal to one-half your class 5a 
skill, page 71). (maximum +5 at 10th level). 


Mace RoOOMMmN Ceme Loro 


Command Cover q 
Starting at 2nd level, you can use your allies 
shield you from harm. You gain a +1 cover bonus t 


IiTeE TROOPER 

elite trooper represents an individual who has received advanced combat 
hing. More than a mere soldier, the elite trooper is highly trained and 
sble of taking on any number of combat-related missions, such as guard- 
"an important location, assaulting an enemy base, or participating in a 
sithy insertion into enemy territory. She's a crack shot and, though trained 
he use of armor, can easily operate without it if the situation warrants. 
en the fighting gets particularly brutal, the elite trooper can dispatch 
d-to-hand as easily as she does with a blaster. 

Flite troopers exist in a variety of roles, but unlike Imperial stormtroop- 
“elite troops” of the Empire—they rely on skill and ingenuity more 
force and blind obedience to the Emperor’s will. Thus, the best 
for them involve penetrating attacks deep behind enemy lines, 
la warfare conducted on enemy-held worlds—situations where 
y and sheer determination are the elite trooper’s best armaments 


XAMPLES OF ELITE 

ROOPERS IN STAR WARS 

eral Madine, Major Derlin, Kyle Katarn, Lieutenant Page, Kell Tainer, ARC 
per Alpha-02. 


EQUIREMENTS 
to become an elite trooper, a character must fulfill the following 


Attack Bonus; +7. 

Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium), Martial 
pint Blank Shot. 

lents: At least one talent from the Armor Specialist, Commando, or 
On Specialist talent trees (see pages 51-53). 


KME RULE INFORMATION 
Dpers have the following game statistics. 


a level, elite troopers gain 1d12 hit points + their Constitution 


gain @ number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their char- 
dunded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


SS FEATURES 
ving are features of the elite trooper prestige class. 


BASE ATTACK 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 


2nd +2 Damage reduction 1 


4th +4 Damage reduction 2 


6th +6 Damage reduction 3 


8th +8 Damage reduction 4 


10th +10 Damage reduction 5 

Defense Bonuses 

At Ist level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +4 class 
bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 


Delay Damage 
Elite troopers are among the toughest individuals in the galaxy. After being 
exposed to numerous threats, foes, and combat situations, you've developed 
the ability to delay effects that would drop lesser creatures. 

Once per encounter as a reaction, you can choose to delay the effect of a 
single attack, ability, or effect used against you. The damage or effect does 
not take hold until the end of your next turn. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent may be selected from the Weapon Master talent tree (presented 
below), the Commando talent tree (page 52), or the Camouflage talent tree 
(page 49). You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No 
talent can be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


WEAPON MASTER TALENT TREE 
You are skilled at wielding a variety of weapons and can wield choice weapons 
with deadly precision and force, 


Ux SSicerwrHoa 


Controlled Burst: Your penalty when making an autofire attack Greater Weapon Specialization: Choose one exotic weapon gy «, 
or using the Burst Fire feat is reduced to -2. In addition, if the following weapon groups: advanced melee weapons, heavy 
you brace an autofire-only weapon, you have no penalty pistols, rifles, simple weapons. You gain a +2 bonus on damage rg 
on your attack roll, the chosen exotic weapon or a weapon from the chosen group, This be 

Exotic Weapon Mastery: You are considered profi- stacks with the bonus granted by the Weapon Specialization talent fp; 
cient with any exotic weapon, even if you don't possess the 53). You must be proficient with the weapon to gain this benefit 
appropriate Exotic Weapon Proficiency feat. You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this tat 

Greater Devastating Attack: Choose a single it applies to a different weapon group, 
exotic weapon or weapon group with which Prerequisites: Greater Weapon Focus, Weapon Focus feat (see p; 
you're proficient. Whenever you make @ suc- 89), and Weapon Specialization (see page 53) with the chosen exe 
cessful attack against a target using the chosen weapon or weapon group. 1 
exotic weapon or a weapon from the chosen Multiattack Proficiency (heavy weapons): Whenever you m: 
group, you treat your target’s damage threshold multiple attacks with any type of heavy weapon as a full attack ack 
as if it were 10 points lower when determining (see Full Attack, page 154), you reduce the penalty on your attack rq 
the result of your attack. This replaces the effects by 2. 
of the Devastating Attack talent (see page 53). You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this tale 

Prerequisites: Greater Weapon Focus, Devas- you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by an additional 2. i 
tating Attack (see page 53), and Weapon Focus Multiattack Proficiency (rifles): Whenever you make multiple attack 
feat (see page 89) with the chosen exotic weapon with any type of rifle as a full attack action (see Full Attack, page 5 
or weapon group. you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by 2. 

Greater Penetrating Attack: Choose a single You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this tale 
exotic weapon or weapon group with you reduce the penalty on yo 
which you're proficient. Whenever attack rolls by an additional 2. 
you make a successful attack against 
a target using the chosen exotic 
weapon or a weapon from the chosen 
group, you treat your target's damage reduction 
as if it were 10 points lower when determining the 
result of your attack. This replaces the effects of the 
Penetrating Attack talent (see page 53). 

Prerequisites; Greater Weapon Focus, Penetrating 
Attack (see page 53), and Weapon Focus feat (see 
page 89) with the chosen exotic weapon or weapon 
group. 

Greater Weapon Focus: Choose one exotic 
weapon or weapon group with which you're profi- 
cient. You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls with the 
chosen exotic weapon or a weapon from the chosen 
group. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by the 
Weapon Focus feat (page 89). You must be proficient 
with the weapon to gain this benefit. 

You may select this talent multiple times. Each 
time you select this talent, it applies to a different 
weapon group. 

Prerequisites; Weapon Focus feat (see page 89) 
with chosen exotic weapon or weapon group. 


Damage Reduction 
At 2nd level, you gain damai 
reduction 1 (DR 1), which means that you reduce the damage you take fro 
any attack by 1 (see Damage Reduction, page 158). 

At every even-numbered level after 2nd, your damage reduction 
by 1 (DR 2 at 4th level, DR 3 at 6th level, and so on). 


FORCE ADEPT 
The Force adept is strong in the Force but follows a different path 0 
that of the Jedi. To the Force adept, the Force and the aid it provides art 
more mysterious, more supernatural. A Force adept comes from a differ ‘ 
tradition, with different beliefs and codes of conduct than those of the# = 
There are precious few Force adepts in the galaxy, and even fewer becom 
adventurers. Some call the Force by its familiar name, while others rek i 
it by some other term entirely. 
Some Force adepts become adventurers as part of a quest to learn ® ‘ 
about the Force (or whatever they choose to call it). Others do $0 OUR) 
necessity. They are forced from their world, hunted by unscrupulous age" 
or are interested in what the galaxy might have to offer them. Force 
might be called wizards, shamans, witches, or prophets, depending 09 
they come from and what traditions they follow. Most Force adepts 


PEMALS HUMAN Evite TeOOrER 


fight side (or at least their version of it), but some fully embrace the dark 
and use the Force for evil or selfish intent. 

Force adepts usually hail from primitive cultures that revere or fear 
n for their Force powers. Some strive to keep their powers secret, both 
pause they do not fully understand them and because they are afraid of 
w others might treat them. 


xXAMPLES OF FORCE ADEPTS 
1 STAR WARS 
aj) Ventress, Inquisitor Tremayne, Maarek Stele, Sly Moore, Tenenie! Djo. 


QUIREMENTS 
lify to become a Force adept, a character must fulfill the following 


Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. 
rained Skills: Use the Force. 
its: Force Sensitivity. 
+ Any three Force talents (see Force Talents, page 100). 


ME RULE INFORMATION 
ee adepts have the following game statistics. 


+ Points 
ch level, Force adepts gain 148 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


: Points 


, gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one- -half their char- 


LASS FEATURES 
ing are features of the Force adept prestige class. 


tense Bonuses 
t level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Will Defense and a +2 class 
to your Reflex Defense and Fortitude Defense. 


odd-numbered jevel (1st, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you select a talent. 
‘May be selected from the Dark Side Devotee, Force Adept, or 
alent trees (presented below). You must meet the prerequisites 
the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once 
ipressly indicated. 


YE DEVOTEE TALENT TREE 
pet | negative emotions allow the dark side to flow through you, 
YOu great power. 


Channel Aggression: If you succeed on an attack against a flanked 
opponent or any target that is denied its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense, 
you may spend a Force Point as a free action to deal additional damage to 
the target equal to 106 per class level (maximum 10d6). 

Channel Anger: You let your anger swell into a rage. As a swift action, 
you may spend a Force Point to gain a +2 rage bonus on melee attack rolls 
and melee damage rolls for a number of rounds equal to 5 + your Constitution 
modifier. At the end of this duration, you move -1 step along the condition 
track (see Conditions, page 148). 

While raging, you cannot use skills that require patience and concentra- 
tion, such as Mechanics, Stealth, or Use the Force. 

Prerequisite: Channel Aggression. 

Crippling Strike: Whenever you score a critical hit, you may spend a 
Force Point to also reduce the target's speed by half until he is fully healed 
(that is, restored to maximum hit points). 

Prerequisite: Channel Aggression. 

Embrace the Dark Side: Whenever you use a Force power with the [dork 
side] descriptor, you may reroll your Use the Force check, but you must accept 
the result of the reroll even if it is worse. 

Upon choosing this talent, you can no longer use Force powers with the 
[light side] descriptor. 

Prerequisites; Channel Aggression, Channel Anger. 


BASE ATTACK 

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 

st 40 efense bonuses, talent 
2nd +1 Force technique 
wee ES 
4th +3 Force technique 
‘St SSA IS 5 5 Sa ES 
6th +4 Force technique 
TOURER EE RE 
8th +6 Force technique 
Sa es A ea 
10th +7 Force technique 


FORCE ADEPT TALENT TREE 

Force adepts use the Force to survive on fringe worlds, 
and they often have signature Force powers that 
they use particularly well, 

Force Power Adept: You are skilled at using a 
particular Force power. Select one Force power you 
know. When using that Force power, you have the 
option of spending a Force Point to make two Use 9 
the Force checks, keeping the better result. 

This talent may be selected multiple times. Its 
effects do not stack. Each time you select this talent, 
you must choose a different Force power. 

Force Treatment: You can make a Use the Force 
check in place of a Treat Injury check (see the Treat 
Injury skill, page 74). You are considered trained in the 
Treat Injury skill for purposes of using this talent. If you 
are entitled to a Treat Injury check reroll, you may reroll 
your Use the Force check instead (subject to the same 
circumstances and limitations). 

In addition, you can administer first aid, treat disease, 
treat poison, and treat radiation without the requisite 
medical kit or medpac. 

Fortified Body: The Force shields you against ail- 
ments, toxins, and radiation poisoning, making you 
immune to disease, poison, and radiation. 

Prerequisite: Equilibrium (see page 101). 


Force Talisman: You may spend one Force Point to imbue a w 
or some other portable object with the Force, creating a tal 
that provides protection to you. Creating the talisman tat 
full-round action. While you wear or carry the talisman 
person, you gain a +1 Force bonus to one of your defenses | 
Fortitude, or Will). You may only have one Force talisman acta 
any given time, and if your Force talisman is destroyed, you may 
create another Force talisman for 24 hours. % 

‘eo 


Greater Force Talisman: As Force Talisman (above), ¢ 

that the talisman’s Force bonus extends to all three of; 

defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will). | 
Prerequisite: Force Talisman. 


Force Technique 
You have learned improved techniques to feel the rhythy 
Force. At every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, and so. 
you gain one Force technique that, once selected, ca 
changed (see Force Techniques, page 101, for more j 


FORCE DISCIPLE 


Through meditation and contemplation of the deepest 


were raised as they reach a new and deeper understanding of thi 
connection to the universe around them. The ebb and flow’ 
life—quickening, growing, struggling, dying—becomes a cea! 
less chorus of destiny. Some Force disciples tap into this pe 
become one with it, and speak its wisdom to others. Othe 
might instead enslave destiny, twist its vision, and corrup 
others for the sake of power. 
Force disciples, like Force adepts, exist in every For 
tradition. Even the Jedi and the Sith have had For 
disciples among their ranks, but the dogma of 
traditions tends to discourage such an 
approach to the Force. However, in less We 
known dominant traditions—the Baran Do sag 
the witches of Dathomir, the Gand finds 
the Seyugi dervishes—Force disciples 1 
great power and influence, shaping their 
tions for centuries to come. Force adepts who become Force Gisth 
may wield power and influence over entire civilizations. 


FORCE ITEM TALENT TREE 
You can imbue weapons and objects with the power 
of the Force, 

Attune Weapon: You may spend a Force Point to 
attune a melee weapon. Attuning the weapon takes a full- 
round action. From that point forward, whenever you wield 
the attuned weapon, you gain a +1 Force bonus on attack 
rolls. The weapon is attuned to you alone; others who wield 
the weapon do not gain the Force bonus. 

Empower Weapon: You may spend a Force Point to 
empower a melee weapon, Empowering the weapon takes a 
full-round action. From that point forward, the empowered 
weapon deals an additional die of damage, but only when 
wielded by you. (For example, an empowered lightsaber 
deals 3d8 points of damage instead of 2d8 points of 
damage.) Others who wield the weapon do not gain the 
bonus damage die, 


PemMacle HUMAN FORCE ADErT 


xXAMPLES OF FORCE Prophet 


DISCIPLES IN STAR 


WARS 
Kadann, Lord Cronal ("Blackhole"), Rokur 


Gepta, the Saarai-kaar, Wialu 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a Force disciple, a character 
must fulfill the following criteria. 

Minimum Heroic Level: 12th. 

Trained Skills: Use the Force 

Feats: Force Sensitivity 

Talents: Any two talents from the Dark Side 
Devotee, Force Adept, or Force Item talent tree (see 
pege 214) 

Force Powers: Forseeing. 

Force Techniques: Any one (see Force Techniques, 


page 101) 


GAME RULE 
INFORMATION 
Force disciples have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, Force disciples gain 1d8 hit points + their 
Constitution modifier 


Force Points 

Force disciples gain a number of Force Points equal to 7 + 
One-half their character level, rounded down, every time 
they Gain a new level in this class. (Due to their strong 
Connection to the Force, Force disciples gain more Force 
Points than most other prestige classes.) 


Class FeatTuREes 


following are features of the Force disciple prestige 
Class. 7 


Defense Bonuses 


TSt level, you gain a +6 class bonus to your Will 
an nse 8nd a +3 class bonus to your Reflex Defense 
2Nd Fortitude Defense. 


Indomitab| 
y e 
You are 


Immune to mind-affecting effects. 


MALE ITHONIAN FORCE OlecieLe 


Every time you gain a level in this class, you receive two Destiny Points 
instead of the usual one. In addition, you may sacrifice this extra 
Destiny Point immediately after gaining a class level. If you choose 
to do so, you instead receive a prophetic vision from the 

Force; the content of this vision is determined by the GM 
The vision is instantaneous, so no time is required to 


exercise this option. Upon seeing the vision, you have 
the aption to choose a new destiny (see page 112) 
$0 long as the new destiny is related in some way to 
the vision. The GM is the final arbiter of what new 
destiny {or destinies) are appropriate 


Talents 
At every odd-numbered level (ist, 3rd, and 5th), you 
select a talent. The talent may be selected from the Force 
Adept talent tree (see page 214) or any Force talent tree 
in Chapter 6: The Force. You must meet the prerequisites 
(if any) of the chosen talent, No talent can be selected 
more than once unless expressly indicated. 


Force Secret 

You have glimpsed an eternal truth through your 
contemplation of the Force. At 2nd level and every 
level thereafter, you gain one Force secret that, once 
selected, cannot be changed (see Force Secrets, page 
103, for more information). 


TABLE 12-7: . 
THe FORCE DISCIPLE 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
Ist #0.—_efense bonuses, indomitable, 
2nd +1 Force secret 
4th +3 Force secret 
Sth 43 Foreessecret, talent 


ix uaLaves 


Sec) 
rT wWwtekeekhhkssks:eetettt.£il 


5 


Sasevr) Be. 


a 


ix BSiewHo 


' 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the gunslinger prestige ota, 


GUNSLINGER 
Since the first primitive slugthrower was developed thousands of years ago, 
there have been soldiers of fortune focused on pistol fighting. The tradi- 
tion grew with the technology, creating a special breed of blaster-wielding 
freelancers who shoot first and ask questions later. Often wandering guns- 
for-hire, bodyguards in fringe areas, professional duelists, 
or even assassins, these fighters know everything 
there is to know about pistols of all descriptions. 
They can draw faster, shoot faster, and aim more 
accurately with their weapons of choice than any 
other category of warrior. Some use their prow- 
ess to defend the weak and battle injustice, while 
others use their skill to gain fast and easy credits. 
Regardless of motivation, qunslingers seek to use 
their focused combat techniques to gain greater 
fame, and wield that fame as a weapon against less 
well-known foes. 


Defense Bonuses 
At Ist level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Rar 


Talents 
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and ep. 
you select a talent. The talent may be selecte 
the Gunslinger talent tree (presented be 
the Fortune talent tree (see page 46), or th 
Awareness talent tree (see page 49). You mu 
meet the prerequisites (if any) of the «i 
talent. No talent can be selected more tha 
once unless expressly indicated, ¥ 


GUNSLINGER TALENT TREE 
You never travel anywhere without a blaster (or two), a 
you know how to handle yourself in a gunfight. 
Debilitating Shot: If you aim before making a 
attack (see Aim, page 154) and the attack hits, 
move the target -1 step along the condition track {i 
Conditions, page 148) in addition to dealing damar 
Deceptive Shot: Select one target in line of sigh 
within 6 squares, You can spend two swift action D 
the same turn to make a Deception check; if the chee 
result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, th 
target Is denied its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Der 
against your attacks until the beginning of your next tun 
Improved Quick Draw: If you are carrying a pistol (elt 
your hand or ina holster), you may draw the pistol and make & 
attack during a surprise round even if you are surprised. If you are 0 
surprised, you may take any single action of your choice, as normal. } 
Knockdown Shot: If you aim before making @ ranged atte 
(see Aim, page 154) and the attack hits, you knock the 
prone in addition to dealing damage. You can't us€ this 
to knock down targets two or more size categories © 
than you. a 
Multiattack Proficiency (pistols): Whenever 
make multiple attacks with any type of pistol asa 
attack action (see Full Attack, page 154), you reduce #7 
penalty on your attack rolls by 2. 


EXAMPLES OF 
GUNSLINGERS IN 
STAR WARS 

Jango Fett, Han Solo, Gallandro, Dash Rendar. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a gunslinger, a charac- 
ter must fulfill the following criteria. 
Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. 
Feats: Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Quick Draw, Weapon Profi- 
ciency (pistols). 


GAME RULE 
INFORMATION 
Gunslingers have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, qunslingers gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitu- 
tion modifier. 


Force Points 
Gunslingers gain a number of Force Paints equal to 6 + one-half 
their character level, rounded down, every time they gain a 
new level in this class. 


MALE WOCKIEE OUNSLINOER 


BASE ATTACK 
CLASS FEATURES 


Trusty sidearm +1 


Trusty sidearm +2 


Trusty sidearm +3 


+8 Trusty sidearm +4 


Ith +10 Trusty sidearm +5 

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent, 
reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by an additional 2. 

langed Disarm: You can disarm an opponent using a ranged attack, If 
r aged disarm attack fails, your opponent doesn't get to make a free 

gainst you (see Disarm, page 152). 

Work; You take no penalty on your attack roll when using the 
ot feat. 


usty Sidearm 

Hing at 2nd level, you gain a bonus on damage rolls equal to one-half your 
evel (rounded down) when wielding a pistol. This damage is in addition 

€ character's usual level bonus to damage. This damage is doubled on 

Critical hit, as normal. 


EDI KNIGHT 
j the Jedi, those of the order who have proven capable, wise, self-suf- 
» NG Stable are given the rank of Knight. A Jedi apprentice must learn to 
ce without instability or strain, build his or her own lightsaber, and 
lerstanding of the Code of the Jedi (though such understanding 
from era to era, as the nature of the Jedi differs somewhat in each 

§ MOst eras, a Jedi must pass a series of tests before becoming a 
which may be as simple as fulfilling a single important mission 
Jedi Master, or as complex as a series of trials to test the Jedi's 
S, and dedication. In a few times of chaos and uncertainty, Jedi 


apprentices are forced by circumstance to push themselves past the norma! 
boundaries of their training and become knights in function, if not in name, 
with no formal testing. in these rare cases, the ruling Jedi generally acknow!- 
edge the Jedi’s status as a knight as soon as circumstances allow. 

Jedi Knights are trusted to teach apprentices, carry out missions with little 
aid or support, and use their best judgment when handling the unexpected. 
A Jedi Knight is expected to deal with any problem in a manner that reflects 
well on the Jedi as a whole, and carry out the Jedi goals of defending justice 
and maintaining peace. Jedi are the guardians of the galaxy, and the Jedi 
Knight is a skilled individual expected to uphold that trust. 


EXAMPLES OF JED! KNIGHTS IN 
STAR WARS 

Anakin Skywalker (Episode |I!), Barriss Offee, Bastila Shan, Kyle Katarn, Luke 
Skywalker (Episode VI), Nomi Sunrider, Ulic Qel-Droma. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a Jedi Knight, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria. 

Base Attack Bonus; +7. 

Trained Skills: Use the Force. 

Feats: Force Sensitivity, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers). 

Special: Must have built your own lightsaber (see the Building a Light- 
saber sidebar, page 40). 

Special: Must be a member of the Jedi tradition (see page 104), 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Jedi Knights have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, Jedi Knights gain 1410 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


Force Points 
Jedi Knights gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their char- 
acter level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the Jedi Knight prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude, and Will 
Defense. 


Talents 
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent may be selected from the Armor Specialist talent tree (see page 


SeSeSsvViH B2oeli.Ass-) 


51), the Lightsaber Combat talent tree (see page 41), the Duelist talent tree 
(presented below), or the Lightsaber Forms talent tree (presented below). 
You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can 
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


DUELIST TALENT TREE 
Through rigorous training and experience, you become one of the greatest 
swordfighters in the galaxy. 

Force Fortification: As a reaction, you can spend a Force Point to 
negate a critical hit scored against you and take normal damage instead. 
You can spend this Force Point even if you've already spent a Force 
Point earlier in the round. 

Greater Weapon Focus (lightsabers): You gain a +1 bonus on 
melee attack rolls with lightsabers. This bonus stacks with the bonus 
granted by the Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see 
page 89), 

Greater Weapon Specialization (light- 
sabers): You gain a +2 bonus on melee damage 
rolls with lightsabers. This bonus stacks with 
the bonus granted by the Weapon Specializa- 
tion (lightsabers) talent. 

Prerequisites: Greater Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Focus (lightsabers) 
feat, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 
(see page 53). 

Multiattack Proficiency (light- 
sabers): Whenever you make multiple 
attacks with any type of lightsaber as 
@ full attack action (see Full Attack, 
page 154), you reduce the penalty 
on your attack rolls by 2. 

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you 
take this talent, you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls 
by an additional 2. 

Severing Strike: When you dea! damage with a light- 
saber that is equal to or greater than both the target's 
current hit points and the target's damage threshold 
{that is, when you would deal enough damage to 
kill your target), you may choose to use this talent. 
Instead of dealing full damage, you instead deal half 
damage to your target and move it -1 step on the 
condition track (see Conditions, page 148). In addi- 
tion, you sever one of your target's arms at the wrist 
or elbow joint, or one of the target's legs at the knee or 
ankle joint (your choice). 


Penmace Twi'te« Jeo! 


Severing part of an arm prevents the target from wielding weapon. 
using tools in that hand and imposes a —5 penalty on skill checks anda : 
checks keyed to Strength and Dexterity. Severing part of a leg knocke 4 
target prone, reduces the target's speed by half, reduces its Carrying capans 

by half, and imposes a -5 penalty on skill checks and abilie 

checks keyed to Strength and Dexterity. ‘ 

Because of the severity of such an injury, losin 

a part of a limb causes a persistent condition 
can only be removed by having surgery success 
performed on you (see Treat Injury skill, page 
cybernetic replacement limb (see page 137) neg 
these reductions and penalties. 


LIGHTSABER FORMS TALENT TREE 
You have refined your knowledge of lightsaber technique: 
your blade becoming an extension of your self, Anys 
using a lightsaber may use one of these forms, but ye 
have the discipline and patience to become a trun! 
master of the form. = 
Ataru: You may add your Dexterity bonus 
(instead of your Strength bonus) on damar 
rolls when wielding a lightsaber. When 
wield a lightsaber two-handed, you i, 
apply double your Dexterity bonus (instead of 
double your Strength bonus) to the damage, 
Djem So: Once per round when an opponent hits you ith 
a melee attack, you may spend a Force Point asa reaction to ; 
make an immediate attack against that opponent. 
Jar’Kai: When you use the Lightsaber Defense talent, you” 
gain twice the normal deflection bonus to your Reflex Defense) 
when you are wielding two lightsabers. 
Prerequisites: Lightsaber Defense {see page 41), Niman. 
Juyo: Once per encounter, you may spend a Force Point asa 
action to designate a single enemy in your line of sight. For the remaings 
of the encounter, you may reroll your first attack roll each round against 
that opponent, keeping the better result, 5 
Prerequisites: Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89), Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) (see page 41), base attack bonus +10. 
Makashi: When wielding a single lightsaber in one hand, the defi 
bonus you gain from the Lightsaber Defense talent (see page 41) in 
by 2 (to a maximum of +5). 
Prerequisite: Lightsaber Defense a. 
Niman: When wielding a lightsaber, you gain a +1 bonus to your Reren 
Defense and Will Defense. By) 
Shien: Whenever you redirect a deflected blaster bolt (see the Redirect 
Shot talent, page 41), you gain a +5 bonus on your ranged attack roll. 


KnIaQnHT 


On 


ses 


BASE ATTACK 


BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
+2 Force technique 
Force technique 
Force technique 
Force technique 
th +10 Force technique 


Prerequisites: Deflect (see page 41), Redirect Shot (see page 41). 

Shi Cho: When using the Block or Defiect talents, you only take a -2 

malty on your Use the Force check for every previous block or deflect 
impt since your last turn (see page 41). 

Pr ites: Block (see page 41), Deflect (see page 41). 

im; You may take 10 on Acrobatics checks to tumble even when 

td or threatened. Additionally, each threatened or occupied square 

tumble through only counts as } square of movement. 

a : Acrobatic Recovery. 

+ You may reroll a failed Use the Force check when using the Block 

talents, 

sites: Block (see page 41), Deflect (see page 41). 

: By harnessing the unique characteristics of a lightsaber, you 

your opponent off guard by quickly shutting off and reigniting 

©. When wielding a lightsaber, you may spend two swift actions to 

eption check to feint in combat (see page 66). 

jisites: Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89), Weapon 

tion (lightsabers) (see page 41), base attack bonus +12. 

pad: When attacking with a lightsaber, you score a critical hit on a 

Toll of 19 or 20. However, a natural 19 is not considered an auto- 
© if you roll a natural 19 and still miss the target, you do not score 


tes: Juyo, Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89), Weapon 
(lightsabers) (see page 41), base attack bonus +12. 


4 


Force Technique 

You have learned improved techniques to attune yourself to the Force. At 
every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, and so on), you gain one Force 
technique that, once selected, cannot be changed (see Force Techniques, 
page 101, for more information), 


wED!I MASTER 


Jedi Masters represent the pinnacle of the Jedi order. They are Jedi who 
are both strong enough in the Force and patient enough in life to pass on 
their skills by teaching a new generation of Jedi. The journey from Padawan 
learner to Jedi Master usually takes decades, and many who start upon the 
path never reach its final destination. 

Becoming a Jedi Master requires patience, inner strength, wisdom, and 
a deep connection to and understanding of the Force. Further, a Jedi Knight 
usually doesn't become a Jedi Master until he trains a student to completion. 
Jedi are allowed only one Padawan at a time, and the training of a single 
Padawan can take years. 

The most respected Jedi Masters are invited by their peers (and, in some 
cases, their former masters) to join them on the Jedi Council. Those who join 
the council use their wisdom and influence to instruct others in the ways of 
the Force and preserve peace in the galaxy. The Jedi Council is also tasked 
with identifying Force-sensitive children across the galaxy and offering them 
instruction in the Jedi tradition. These lessons are fairly rudimentary—usu- 
ally intended to teach a student “the basics” until he or she is old enough to 
receive formal training as a Padawan. 

During the Rise of the Empire era, the Jedi Council would confer the title 
of Jedi Master upon those deemed qualified to teach others in the ways of 
the Force. During the Rebellion era and The New Jedi Order era, Jedi require 
no such approval; however, they must adhere to the tenets of the Jedi Code 
to become Jedi Masters. 


EXAMPLES OF JEDI MASTERS 

IN STAR WARS 

Adi Gallia, Eeth Koth, Luke Skywalker (The New Jedi Order era), Kit Fisto, 
Luminara Unduli, Mace Windu, Obi-Wan Kenobi (Episode fll), Plo Koon, 
Shaak Ti, Yoda. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a Jedi Master, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria. 

Minimum Heroic Level: 12th, 

Trained Skills: Use the Force. 

Feats: Force Sensitivity, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers), 

Force Techniques: Any one (see Force Techniques, page 101). 

Special: Must be a member of the Jedi tradition (see page 104). 


3 


ix weelawHS 


: 
( 
{ 
{ 
’ 


® 


GAME RULE INFORMATION Talents 
Jedi Masters have the following game statistics. At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, and 5th), you select a gaye 
The talent may be selected from the Duelist talent tree (see Be: 
218) or any Force talent tree in Chapter 6: The Force. You mi 
meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent, No talent 
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


Hit Points 
At each level, Jedi Masters gain 1d10 hit points + their Constitu- 
tion modifier, 


Force Secret 
You have meditated on the deeper mysteries of the light side 
of the Force. At 2nd level and every level thereafter, you gam 
one Force secret that, once selected, cannot be changal: 
(see Force Secrets, page 103, for more information), 


Force Points 

Jedi Masters gain a number of Force Points equa! to 7 + one-half their 
character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in 
this class. (Due to their strong connection to the Force, Jedi Masters 
gain more Force Points than most other prestige classes.) 


OFrriceER 


Even the best-trained troops need someane to make” 
decisions and provide direction. The officer fills tha 
role but also takes responsibility when the troops failin- 
their appointed tasks. They frequently also suffer the diss 
respect of their subordinates, who often see the uniform : 
as a Symbol of oppression. Many soldiers can't perceive — 
the honor of the person inside the uniform, Very few 
officers earn the universal respect of their troops 
and their superiors, but to those who understand: 
the concepts of leadership and valor, it often just 
comes naturally. 

An officer must be comfortable in command. 
willing to make tough decisions when his men need. 
guidance, and occasionally ordering individual soldiers to 
their deaths so that the unit can survive. A good officer 

learns to do so without hesitation and only agonizese 
over his decision when lives are no longer at stake. ING) 
best officers don’t let their distaste for life-or-death® 
decisions paralyze them when their troops are count= 
ing on them. Those who can't find the courage to face ; 
such dilemmas rarely stay officers for long thou 
certainly, a few somehow manage to avoid the issue 
by shifting blame elsewhere. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the Jedi Master prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At Ist level, you gain a +3 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude, 
and Will Defense 


Fearless 
You are immune to fear effects. 


Serenity 

You may enter a brief meditative state as a full-round action. You 
may remain in this trance as long as you wish, and you are still 
aware of your surroundings; however, you do lose your Dexterity 
bonus to your Reflex Defense. Upon emerging from the trance 
{a swift action), your first attack roll or Use the Force skill check 
made in the following round is considered to be a natural 20 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 


EXAMPLES OF 
OFFICERS IN 
STAR WARS | 
Admiral Ackbar, Captain Needa, General Dodonna 
General Grievous, Genera! Rieekan, General Veer 


2nd +2 Force secret 


4th +4 Force secret 


MALS Kec DOR JEO! MASTER 


EQUIREMENTS 
to become an officer, a character must fulfill the following 


Heroic Level: 7th, 
d Skills: Knowledge (tactics). 
relents: At least one talent from the Leadership talent tree (see page 44) 
ando talent tree (see page 52). 
ial: Must belong to an organization with a military or paramilitary 
Examples include the Trade Federation, the Galactic Empire, the 
sel Alliance, and the New Republic. 

i 
AME RULE INFORMATION 
ers have the fallowing game statistics. 


os. 
q 
UiTiLs 


2c level, officers gain 148 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


ce Points 
ic ers gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their character 
#, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


Ss FEATURES 
ng are features of the officer prestige class. 


ense Bonuses 
el, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +4 class 
your Will Defense. 


ver fy odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you select a talent. 
alent may be selected from the Military Tactics talent tree (presented 
the Leadership talent tree (see page 44), or the Commando talent tree 


page 52). You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. 
it can be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


TACTICS TALENT TREE 
old battles, looking for historic examples of good military 
bu are an expert at leading troops into battle and using the battle- 
four advantage, 
vie lt Tactics: As a move action, you may designate a single creature 
t as the target of an assault. If you succeed on a DC 15 Knowledge 
ck, you and all allies able to hear and understand you deal +1d6 
age to the target with each successful melee or ranged attack, 
tart of your next turn. This is a mind-affecting effect. 


BASE ATTACK 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 


2nd +2 Command cover, share talent 
i Spee 
4th +4 Share talent 
BR 2 > Se ERE IE SY aS 
6th +6 Share talent 
WPM Teta aCe 
8th +8 Share talent 
Bal ie SS OP Ps: 
10th +10 Share talent 


Deployment Tactics: You can use your tactical knowledge to direct allies in 
battle. As a move action, you can make a DC 15 Knowledge (tactics) check. If 
the check succeeds, you and any allies that can see, hear, and understand you 
gain a +1 competence bonus on attack rolls against flanked opponents or a +1 
dodge bonus to Reflex Defense against attacks of opportunity (your choice). The 
bonus lasts until the start of your next turn, This is a mind-affecting effect. 

If you have the Born Leader talent (page 44) or the Battle Analysis talent 
(page 52), the bonus granted by this talent increases to +2. 

Field Tactics: You know how to use existing terrain to best advantage. By 
using a move action, you can make a DC 15 Knowledge (tactics) check. If the 
check succeeds, you and all allies within 10 squares of you can use whatever 
cover is available to gain a +10 cover bonus to Reflex Defense (instead of 
the normal +5 cover bonus). Allies must be able to hear and understand you 
to gain this benefit, and the bonus lasts until the start of your next turn. 
This talent provides no benefit to anyone who doesn't have cover. This is a 
mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisite: Deployment Tactics. 

One for the Team: As a reaction, you can choose to take one-half or 
all of the damage dealt to an adjacent ally by a single attack. Similarly, as 2 
reaction, an adjacent ally can choose to take one-half or all of the damage 
dealt to you by a single attack (even if he doesn't have this talent). 

Prerequisite; Deployment Tactics. 

Outmaneuver: An officer learns to counter the tactics of his enemies. As 
4 standard action, you can make a DC 15 Knowledge (tactics) check. If the 
check succeeds, enemies in your line of sight lose all competence, insight, 


ix Sieve 


SESSsv1o PaLSEve) FF 


and morale bonuses on attack rolls, as weil as any dodge bonuses to Reflex 
Defense, until the start of your next turn. 

If one or more enemy officers are within your line of sight, the highest- 
level officer among them can attempt to oppose your Knowledge (tactics) 
check as a reaction. If her skill check result is higher than yours, your attempt 
to outmaneuver your enemies fails. 

Prerequisites: Deployment Tactics, Field Tactics. 

Shift Defense |: As a swift action, you can take a -2 penalty to one 
defense (Reflex, Fortitude, or Will) to gain a +1 competence bonus to another 
defense until the start of your next turn 

Shift Defense Il: As a swift action, you can take a -5 penalty to one 
defense (Reflex, Fortitude, or Will] to gain a +2 com- 
petence bonus to another defense until the start of 
your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Shift Defense |. 

Shift Defense Ill: As a swift action, you can gain 
a +5 competence bonus to one defense (Reflex, 
Fortitude, or Will) by taking a —5 penalty to your 
other two defenses. 

Prerequisites: Shift Defense 1, Shift 
Defense Il 

Tactical Edge: You can use the 
Assault Tactics, Deployment Tactics, or 
Field Tacties talent as a swift action 
instead of a move action, provided 
you have the talent in question. 


Command Cover 

Starting at 2nd level, you can use 
your allies to shield you from harm 
You gain a +1 cover bonus to your Reflex 
Defense for each ally that is adjacent to you, 
up to a maximum bonus equal to one-half 
your class level (maximum +5 at 10th level). 


Share Talent 

At every even-numbered level, choose a talent 
that you already possess. The talent you select must be under 
the Influence talent tree (page 43), the Inspiration talent tree 
(page 43), the Commando talent tree (page 52), or the Military 
Tactics talent tree (see above). Once per day as a standard 
action, you can impart the benefits of the chosen talent 

to one or more allies, effectively granting them the talent 
leven if they don't meet the prerequisites). An ally must 

be within 10 squares of you and must be able to see and 


Mace OurRoOSs Orricer 


hear you to gain the talent; once gained, its benefits last until the end of 
encounter. ’ 
You can share the talent with a number of allies equal to One-half ya 
officer class level (rounded down). 4 
Each time you gain this ability, it applies to a different talent. By 
level, an officer has five different talents that he can share with UP to fiy 
allies at a time. ‘ 
Once you select a shared talent, it cannot be changed, 


SITH APPRENTICE 


The Sith apprentice combines combat mastery with the power of the dark si 
to create a living embodiment of rage and savagery, Physical conditiean x! 


wise deadly weapon. The Sith apprentice is dedicated to the conquest ; 
subjugation of any obstacle to the Sith tradition. Throughout history, a sins 


apprentices gathered in numbers, as they did four thousand years befores P 
days of Darth Maul and Darth Tyranus, the galaxy trembled. 
But those times are gone, and the few Sith apprentices to appear since the: 
rule of Darth Bane have worked in secrecy to preserve the Sith tradition 
prepare for their ultimate conquest of the galaxy. In the thousand years si 
Bane established the rule of “one master and one apprentice," foot sold: 
outlaws, warlords, mercenaries, pirates, fighter pilots, survivalists, duel 
ists, and even the occasional Jedi Knight have turned tothe 
dark side and embraced the way of the Sith, becom 
mighty warriors, dying brutal deaths, or both, The wi 
of the Sith apprentice is a constant, unforgiving test 
of will and ability, honing each into a blade fe ne 
enough to cut through the heart of the hate 
Jedi order. Every Sith apprentice dreams 
being the one who will destroy this 
foe of the Sith tradition, 4 
The training of a Sith apprentice 1 
always one of deprivation and hardship 
Mercy and forbearance create 2 
weapon, and such a weapon is 
The Sith apprentice is subjected to ene 7 
conditioning and drilling. Displays of fear: ‘ 
uncertainty are rewarded with painful and egw 
cational punishment. Displays of StF 
and ruthlessness are reward 
another day's survival. The 
apprentice learns to live TORN 
precious few words of encourais 


sent his master gives, and the dream that he will one day stand Talents 

Ming a pile of slain Jedi. For the Sith apprentice, furious battle At every odd-numbered level (ist, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you select a talent. 

ic its OWN reward. The talent may be selected from the Armor Specialist talent tree (see page 

f 51), the Duelist talent tree (see page 218), the Lightsaber Combat talent 

tree (see page 41), or the Sith talent tree (presented below). You must 

meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can 
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


SxAMPLES OF Site 
APPRENTICES IN 
STAR WARS 

ymiya, Darth Bandon, Darth Sion, Visas Marr, Carnor Jax, 
Warb Null. SITH TALENT TREE 
1 The Sith tradition believes in order through tyranny. in ancient 
days, Sith warriors battled Jedi Knights for galactic supremacy 
until, finally, the few surviving Sith were driven into hiding. Since 
then, the Sith have conspired to annihilate the Jedi and everything 
they stand for. 

Dark Healing: You can spend a Force Point to heal wounds by 
drawing life energy from another creature within 6 squares of you, 
Using this ability is a standard action, and you must succeed on 
a ranged attack roll. If the attack equals or exceeds the target's 

Fortitude Defense, you deal 1d6 points of damage per class level 
to the target and you heal an equal amount. If the attack fails, 
there is no effect. 

Dark Scourge: You have dedicated your life to wiping out 
the Jedi, and your hatred of them knows no bounds. Against Jedi 
characters, you gain a +17 dark side bonus on attack rolls. 

Dark Side Adept: Force powers that are strongly tied to 
the dark side flow through you more easily. You can reroll any 
Use the Force check made when activating Force powers with 
the [dark side] descriptor, but you must keep the result of the 
reroll, even if it is worse. 

Dark Side Master: As Dark Side Adept (see above), except 
that you can spend a Force Point and keep the better of the 
two Use the Force checks, 

Prerequisite; Dark Side Adept. 
Force Deception: You can use your Use the Force check modifier 
instead of your Deception check modifier when making Deception checks, 


EQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a Sith apprentice, a character 
ust fulfill the following criteria. 
“Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. 
Trained Skills: Use the Force. 
) Feats: Force Sensitivity, Weapon Proficiency 
ightsaber). 
| Dark Side Score: Your Dark Side Score (see page 94) must 
be equal to your Wisdom score. If your Dark Side Score ever 
omes less than your Wisdom score, you lose access to all 
lass features granted by this class (including talents) until 
your Dark Side Score again equals your Wisdom score. 
Special: Must be a member of the Sith tradition (see 
page 105). 


it Points 


" ‘tach level, Sith apprentices gain 1¢10 hit points + their 
Lonstitution modifier. 


rce Points 
4 ‘ “Spprentices gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + 


pE=h f their character level, rounded down, every time they 
nN a New level in this class. 


°“AT LAST WE WILL 
REVEAL OURSELVES 
TO THE JEDI. AT 
LAST WE WILL 
HAVE REVENGE.” 


—- DARTH MAUL 


r SASS FEATURES 
€ following are features of the Sith apprentice prestige 


Bonuses 


% level, You gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude, 
Will Defense, 


MALE HUMAN BITH APPRENTICE 


ix HaiavHS 


+ 


SaeSssvig) Seri, Se85€) 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
‘st Hens bonuses, talent 
and +2 Force technique 
BRS Ties ye ee 
4th +4 Force technique 
RE s ee 
6th +6 Force technique 


+8 Force technique 
10th +10 Force technique 


as you use the Force to cloak your vile treachery, You are considered trained 
in the Deception skill for purposes of using this talent. If you are entitled to 
a Deception check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check instead 
(subject to the same circumstances and limitations). 

Improved Dark Healing: Your dark healing ability (see above) improves. 
The range of this ability increases to 12 squares, and even if the attack fails 
the target takes half damage while you heal an equal amount. 

Prerequisite: Dark Healing. 

Wicked Strike: When you score a critica! hit with a lightsaber, you may 
spend a Force Point to move the target -2 steps along the condition track 
(see Conditions, page 148). 

Prerequisites; Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89), Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) (see page 41). 


Force Technique 

You have learned improved techniques to control the Force. At every even- 
numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, and so on), you gain one Force technique 
that, once selected, cannot be changed (see Force Techniques, page 101, 
for more information). 


FALLEN JEDI 
A Jedi who turns to the dark side and becomes a Sith apprentice retains all 
of his Jedi class features, including talents, Force powers, bonus feats, and 


other abilities. The only exceptions are Force powers with the fj 
descriptor, which the character can no longer use. 4 


SitH LORD 
The Sith Lord is the pinnacle of the Sith tradition, Her most sacred tacke 
preserving the lore and glory of the Sith and plotting their tual 
dance to their place as rulers of the galaxy. The Sith Lord must allow » 
to stand in the way of this goal: not all the forces of the Reput 
nor the entirety of the Jedi order. When the time comes, the Sith 
be prepared to ruthlessly crush all opposition, leaving no traces b 

The Sith Lord cultivates individuals with the potential for both ¢ 
and great evil, training them from childhood, when possible, to b 
as ruthless as herself. The training can be better described as ¢ 
mental torture, but it is designed to create someone strong, fast, ¢ 
deadly. The Sith Lord passes on her knowledge of the dark side of 
instilling in her apprentice both a lust for power and a fear of fz 

Arguably, only the truly ambitious or deeply twisted ever seek 
Sith Lords. Following the path of the Sith dominates one's destiny, ret 
ing a constant devotion to engineering the ascendance of the Sith. A 
Lord cannot afford the luxury of friends, mercy, or even rest. Mes dat 
sustains her through decades of scheming and planning, of mastermin 
plots subtle and grandiose. Even then, a Sith Lord may meet heh end wi 
ever seeing her contributions to the Sith grand scheme come to 
must content herself with knowing that her apprentice, or a dese 
her apprentice a hundred generations down the line, will one day he 
sacrifice by destroying the Jedi order and replacing it with the dar 
of the Sith. 

In the carly days of the Sith, only one of their rank could ever gain thi 
“Dark Lord of the Sith.” Seizing this prestigious position generally regs 
the support of a significant portion of the Sith—and the death of the pre 
Sith Lord. With the twilight of the Sith and the rise of Darth Bane, the 
of the old Sith were supplanted by new rules. There could only be twos 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
2nd +2 Force secret 
4th +4 Force secret 


any time: One was the master, and the other was the apprentice. While both 
of these could be Sith Lords, neither could take on an apprentice until the 
other was dead. Sometimes this resulted in vicious battles between master 
and student. But more commonly, a Sith Master would pass on all he knew 
before expiring. leaving his former apprentice to take on an apprentice of 

his own, and thus continue the tradition of the Sith 


EXAMPLES OF SITH LORDS 
"IN STAR WARS 

Darth Bane, Darth Sidious, Darth Maul, Darth Tyranus, Darth Vader, 

Darth Malak, Darth Nihilus, Darth Krayt, Exar Kun 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a Sith Lord, a: character must fulfill 
the following criteria. 

Minimum Heroic Level: 12th 

Trained Skills: Use the Force 

Feats: Force Sensitivity, Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsaber). 

Force Techniques: Any one (see Force Techniques, 
page 101) 

Dark Side Score: Your Dark Side Score (see page 94) 
must be equal to your Wisdom score. If your Dark Side 
Score ever becomes less than your Wisdom score, you 
1OS€ access to all class features granted by this class until 

your Dark Side Score again equals your Wisdom score. 
Special: Must be a member of the Sith tradition (see 
page 105). 


GAME RULE 
INFORMATION 
Sith Lords have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 


At Fach level, Sith Lords gain 1d10 hit points + their 
titution modifier, 


Force Points 


Eos gain a number of Force Points equal ta 7 + one- 
oh character level, rounded down, every time they gain 

W level in this class. (Due to their strong connection to 
BME dark side of the Force, Sith Lords gain more Force Points 
MOSt other prestige classes.) 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the Sith Lord prestige class, 


Defense Bonuses 
At Ist level, you gain a +3 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude, and 
Will Defense. 


Fearless 
You are immune to fear effects. 


Talents 
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, and 5th), you select 
a talent. The talent may be selected from the Sith talent 
tree (see page 223) or any Force talent tree in Chapter 
6: The Force. You must meet the prerequisites (if any) 
of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more 
than once unless expressly indicated 


Temptation 

You are adept at using Dun Mach, an ancient and 
vile technique for tempting others to tap into the 
dark side of the Force. As a standard action, make 
a Persuasion check and compare it to the Will 
Defense of a single opponent within line of sight. If 
the check succeeds, the target is filled with fear or 
anger, briefly giving in to the dark side. If the target 
spends a Force Point before your next turn, it must 
either add 1 point to its Dark Side Score or move -1 
step on the condition track (see Conditions, page 
148) as it is overcome by doubt and remorse. If 
the target spends a Destiny Point before your next 
turn, it instead must add 2 points to its Dark Side 

Score or move -2 steps on the condition track 


Force Secret 

You have learned forbidden secrets of tapping the 

dark side of the Force. At 2nd level and every leve 
thereafter, you gain one Force secret that, once 
selected, cannot be changed (see Force Secrets 
page 103, for more information) 


FEMALE HUMAN SITH LORD 


ix waidcwre 


i 


ILSeS<) 
A 


S) 


SESSev1® © 


A \ 

_ The Star Wors universe is populated with a wide variety of species hailing 
from thousands of worlds. Each of these worlds has its own unique qualities 
and cultures, Since fantastic locales are a big part of what makes Stor Wars 
___ exciting and fun, it is important to know a little bit about the established 
| worlds in order to base adventures there. 


(i) 

LIFE IN THE GALAxY 
Because the galaxy has had some form of interrelated society for more than 
twenty thousand years (be it Old Republic, Empire, or New Republic), most 
everyone is used to a mix of species and cultures. There are some beings who 
are prejudiced against one or another species (and this is especially notice- 
able during the Empire's control of the galaxy), but most others appreciate 
the diversity the galactic society has to offer. From planetary spaceports 
to orbiting space stations, it isn't unusual for Humans and Twi'leks and 
Mon Calamari to work side by side or otherwise interact. They don’t always 
get along, but that could be said about any individuals in any species. This 
diversity has led to a spread of ideas, philosophies, sciences, and cultures. 
Markets throughout the galaxy feature a wide assortment of exotic goods 
from a variety of worlds. Again, such opportunities for species and cultures 
to mingle aren't unusual—they’re just part of everyday life. 

Finally, a galactic society requires open communications to flourish. The 
Old Republic developed the HoloNet to handle this. A near-instantaneous 
communications network, it provides a free flow of holograms and other 
forms of communications among member worlds. Using hundreds of thou- 
sands of non-mass transceivers connected through hyperspace simutunnels 
and routed through massive computer sorters and decoders, the HoloNet 
allows news and communications to flow from one world to another in 
almost real time. During the time of the Empire, large portions of the HoloNet 
system were shut down, and the remaining portions were mostly restricted to 
government and military use. This reduction of the system cut off rebellious 
worlds and kept news of the Empire's actions from spreading too quickly. 
In addition, datacards and other forms of news and information are carried 
from place to place by starships, This means that even without the HoloNet, 
in many cases information is only a hyperspace trip away. 


0 
I 
> 
v 
r 
2 
S 


MEGALABZYS) SLOVIVWes) 


PLANETS OF 
THE GALAXY 


This section provides a brief gazetteer detailing information on a variety of 
planets throughout the galaxy. Each entry lists not only pertinent informa- 
tion for the Gamemaster but also Knowledge check DCs for players. This sort 
of information allows the GM to determine how much a character (and not 
necessarily the player) knows about a given world. 


BESPIN 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate (in the Life Zone) 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 12 standard hours 

Length of Year: 5,110 standard days 

Sapient Species: 68% Human, 8% Ugnaught, 6% Lutrillian, 18% other 
species 

Government; Guild 

Capital: Cloud City 

Major Exports: Foodstuffs, technoloay 

Major Imports: Tibanna gas, tourism, cloud cars 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

15 The gas giant of Bespin is renowned for its rich stores of Tibanna gas, 
a key component in blaster ammunition. 

20 Cloud City was built by Ugnaughts, the descendents of whom now 
work the Tibanna gas mines above the planet. 

25 The beldon is a huge, floating creature that lives in Bespin's atmo- 
sphere and feeds off of airborne plankton floating around the planet. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

15 Bespin’s primary outpost of civilization is Cloud City, an independent 
mining colony and haven port for travelers in the Anoat Sector. 

20 Though Bespin is @ mining colony, they are not a part of the Mining 
Guild and have rejected any attempts by the Mining Guild to bring the 
colony into the fold. 

25 Bespin maintains neutrality most due to its size, making it a favorite 
port-of-call for smugglers and others that do not wish to attract gov- 
ernmental attention. 


BOTHAWUI 

Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 3 

Length of Day: 27 standard hours 
Length of Year: 351 local days 
Sapient Species: 98% Bothan (native), 1% Human, 1% other specs 
Government: Bothan council 

Capital: Drev'starn 

Major Exports: Information, technology 
Major Imports: Technology 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

OC RESULT 

10 Bothawui is a world covered in mountains and ridges separate 
deep, wide valleys inhabited by dangerous wildlife. 

15 Bothans eventually discovered that espionage and infi 
far more convenient methods of waging war, and soon it b 
“Bothan way.” 

20 Settlers from Bothawui established colonies on the planet of 
making the Bothans one of the few species to maintain perm 
colonies on other worlds. 

25 As a result of the suspicious and treacherous nature of I i 
Bothawui, the Bothan SpyNet developed and became the fort 
information gathering network in the galaxy. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 Bothan society is extremely focused on the flow and an 
information, even impacting the daily lives of ordinary citizens. 

15 Bothan politicians rise to power by displaying a mastery over the 
of information and the application of political force. 

20 othan politics can be extremely dangerous, and sabotage, 4 
nation, and espionage are as common on Bothawui as debat 
normal legislation on other worlds, 


CEREA 

Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity; Standard 

Moons: | 

Length of Day: 27 standard hours 
Length of Year: 386 standard days 


lent Species: 98% Cerean (native), 1% Human, 1% other species 
ylation: 450 million 

eri : Council of Elders 

ital; Tecave 

h Level: Interplanetary (industrial) 

ior Exports: Foodstuffs 

jor Imports: Technology 


owledge (Galactic Lore) 

_ RESULT 

Cerea is a lush temperate world covered in thick forests and jungles. 
Cerea’s isolation from the rest of the galaxy has resulted in the planet 
‘remaining largely untouched by industry or civilization, allowing it to 
maintain a nearly complete natural ecosystem. 

During the Clone Wars, Cerea struggled to maintain its freedom and 
neutrality, opting to stay out of the fighting whenever possible. 

| In the waning days of the Old Republic, a generation of Cerean youths 
rebelled against their elders and sought out the culture and technol- 
‘ay of the galaxy at large, leading to a conflict within their society 
that resulted in bloody uprisings. 


pwledge (Social Sciences) 


trea is largely isolationist, preferring to stay out of interstellar 
‘conflicts. 

Despite their isolationist views, many Cereans have risen to positions 
‘Of prominence, though their decision to leave the home planet has 
Made them outsiders in the eyes of their own people, 

Cereans have strict laws in place that limit the import of high technol- 
09) and goods from other worlds, as the planet's rulers seek to prevent 
Technology from corrupting their society. 

SRUSCANT 

m: Core 


rt : Temperate (urban) 
Standard 


Day: 24 standard hours 

Year: 368 local days 

ties: 78% Human (native), 22% other species 
nt: Republic or Dictatorship (depending on era) 


orts: None 
brts: Foodstuffs, medicinal goods 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Coruscant is one of the oldest and most populated planets in the 
galaxy, its surface completely covered by cities. 

15 Coruscant long ago became the seat of galactic politics, and it is from 
this planet that all major interstellar governments have ruled. 

20 Coruscant relies on vast weather control stations to regulate every- 
thing from temperature to humidity. 

25 In the lowest depths of Coruscant, citizens of the planet have degen- 
erated into barbarism or scavenging, making the city depths danger- 
ous to all but the most prepared. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 Coruscant is not only the governmental center of the galaxy but also 
the cultural center of the galaxy, where new trends and fashions 
debut. 

20 Despite the fact that most of the wealthiest members of galactic soci- 
cty live on Coruscant, the world is also home to millions of poor and 
destitute people, many of whom eke out meager livings as servants 
and laborers. 

30 Coruscant is home to the Black Sun crime syndicate (and other note- 
worthy criminal organizations) and has a flourishing black market 
where illegal goods are trafficked on a daily basis. 


DORIN 

Region: Expansion Region 

Climate: Temperate (low oxygen) 
Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 22 standard hours 
Length of Year: 409 standard days 
Sapient Species: 100% Ke! Dor (native) 
Government: Representative Republic 
Capital: Dor'shan 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Technology 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

15 Dorin has a unique atmosphere that is toxic to most sentient species 
but perfectly breathable to the Kel Dor species. 

20 Situated between two black holes, Dorin was not discovered by galac- 
tic settlers until several centuries before the Galactic Civil War. 


25 Though Kel Dor are generally altruistic and helpful, their justice system 
is very swift (perhaps frighteningly so to outsiders who make a habit 
of breaking laws). 

30 The Kel Dor once had a proud and influential Force-using tradition 
known as the Baran Do sages, but since the planet's entry into galactic 
society, the tradition’s influence and prestige have waned as young 
Kel Dor are drawn to other Force traditions. 


Knowledge (Life Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

15 Dorin’s atmosphere is composed mostly of helium and native gases, 
with very little oxygen. As a result, Kel Dor cannot breathe on other 
worlds without the assistance of a breath mask. 


OuUROQ 

Region: Core 

Climate: Temperate (polluted) 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 33 standard hours 

Length of Year: 420 local days 

Sapient Species: 53% Duros (native), 36% Human, 11% other species (on 
world); 91% Duros, 9% other species (orbital cities) 

Government: Corporate 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: Starships, technology 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, ore, labor 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Duro is one of the most reliable and prolific sources of starship manu- 
facturing in the galaxy. 

15 Many years ago, the government of Duro opted to consolidate all of 
the starship manufacturing companies into one government corpora- 
tion, at which time the entire planet came under corporate rule. 

20 The citizens of Duro were moved off of the surface of the world and 
into floating domed cities that orbited the planet, in order to make 
way for terrestrial manufacturing plants and resource harvesting 
systems. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 Duro's corporate government controls the planet's starship manufactur- 
ing facilities as well as almost every other industrial site on the world. 

15 Only those that own stock in Duro's corporate government can par- 
ticipate in lawmaking and world politics. 


20 The government on Duro permeates every aspect of the fix 
citizen-employees, and those citizens who remain on Duro are. 
guaranteed to work for some branch of the starship manufae 
business. 


ENODOR, FOREST MOON OF 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: — 

Length of Day: 18 standard hours 

Length of Year: 402 local days 

Sapient Species: 95% Ewok (native), 4% Yuzzum (native), 19% o} 
species 

Government: None 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

20 Traditionally ignored by most of the galaxy, the forest moon o a 
is a lush and nearly untouched satellite orbiting the gas giant En 
the Moddell Sector. 

25 The forest moon of Endor is a favorite spot for galactic tra 
ing through the Moddell Sector, and numerous visitors {t 
mate travelers as well as smugglers and outlaws) have used the m 
as a temporary safe haven. 

30 During the height of the Empire, the forest moon of Endor was use 
an Imperial base of operations far away from the rest of civiliza 
The second Death Star was built in orbit of the forest moon, 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 
DC RESULT 
20 The native sentient species on Endor have no significant cities oF 
nology, living in tribal groups and small villages. 
25 The native Ewoks are shamanistic, superstitious, and clever. Mey 
their villages in the boughs of great trees and are known to builde 
plex traps and pitfalls to snare much larger predators. 


GAMORR 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 28 standard hours 


ath of Year: 380 local days 

nt Species: 100% Gamorrean (native) 
: Feudal clans 

. i . : None 

jor Exports: Warriors, slaves 

sjor Imports: Foodstuffs, technology 


nowledge (Galactic Lore) 

C RESULT 

| Gamorr's past is filled with tales of war and violence, with conflicts so 
j "qumerous that almost no historians outside.of the Gamorreans them- 
selves can truly understand them. 

‘Gamorr is a verdant world covered in forests and jungles that boast a 
diverse array of flora and fauna. 

$ When the first Humans arrived on Gamorr, they enslaved large num- 
_ bers of the native populace and carried them off as slaves. 

) The Hutts are particularly notorious for visiting Gamorr and pressing 
the natives into service, a problem the Gamorreans have been power- 
Jess to prevent. 


5 The concept of warfare is central to Gamorrean society, with their 
culture and traditions revolving around neverending conflicts. 

itt n males often travel offworld to work as mercenaries and 
criminal enforcers. 

5 Gamorreans are divided into clans, each of which represents a family 
_ OF group of families that constantly clashes with other clans. 

Vhile Gamorrean males are the primary warriors and hunters, Gamor- 
in females are the matriarchs and rulers of the society. 


‘of Year: 413 local days 
pecs: 99% Zabrak (native), 19 other species 


y ports: Foodstuffs, technology 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Iridonia's environment is extremely harsh, so much so that even the 
native Zabrak have a difficult time surviving exposed on the surface. 

15 |ridonia was one of the first worlds of join the Old Republic and is 
reputed to be one of the first planets to achieve hyperspace travel. 

20 The Zabrak of Iridonia developed cities deep inside canyons carved 
into the planet's surface, clustering together in refuge and developing 
their society in the cramped caverns. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 Iridonia is a strong, independent world whose people resist oppression 
of any kind. 

15 Though the Zabrak are spread out over eight worlds (including their 
homeworld of tridonia), all eight governments have a standing agree- 
ment to come to one another's defense in times of crisis. 

20 Nationalism is a major part of Zabrak politics, and Iridonians believe 
that despite their homeworld’s harsh environment, it is the greatest 
among all Zabrak worlds. 

25 lridonians place a large emphasis on the will to survive, and as such 
their government, while civilized, believes that “survival of the fittest” 
is a philosophy that can be used to determine fitness to rule. 


ITHOR 

Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Tropical 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: | 

Length of Day: 41 standard hours 

Length of Year: 422 standard days 

Sapient Species: 99% Ithorian (native), 1% other species 
Government: Herds 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: Foodstuffs, medicine, spices 
Major Imports: Technology 


— (Galactic Lore) 
C RESULT 

r Ithor is a tropical world covered in dense rainforests and wild jungles, 

15 Ithor’s natural ecosystem remains relatively untouched despite having 
millions of native sentient inhabitants. 

20 The Ithorians first explored space in “herd ships,” massive repulsorlift- 
powered cities. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 Ithorians live in self-described herds, which travel in massive floating 
cities above the planet's surface. 

15 All Ithorians adore harmony with nature, and they are known to react 
violently when confronted with someone threatening that way of life. 

20 Each herd is completely independent from the others, remaining both 
autonomous and self-sufficient. 


KASHYY YK 

Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 
Length of Year: 381 local days 

Sapient Species: 100% Wookiee (native) 
Government: Representative Tribal 
Capital: Rwookrrorro 

Major Exports: Technology, natural resources 
Major Imports: Medicines 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Despite being covered in a thick forest of trees populated by ferocious 
predators, Kashyyyk gave rise to the Wookiee species that now travels 
the space lanes. The Wookiees have warred with their interplanetary 
neighbors, the Trandoshans, frequently throughout history. 

15 The Wookiee natives built huge cities within the trees, high above the 
most dangerous sections of the planet's forest, allowing them to live 
in relative safety. 

20 Kashyyyk only joined the galactic community a few millennia before 
the rise of the Empire, developing space travel as a result of disassem- 
bling Trandoshan technology. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 Wookiee society revolves around the importance of family and honor. 

15 Wookiees are extremely trustworthy, and a Wookiee's word is a bond 
so strong that only death can break it. 

20 Wookiee society has little tolerance for anything seen as detrimental 
or oppressive, and Wookiees are quick to dispose of problems using 
violence. 

25 The concept of the life debt (becoming someone's loyal protector for 
saving a Wookiee's life) is one example of the strength of Wookiee 
honor. 


MON CALAMARI 7 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 3 

Length of Day: 21 standard hours 

Length of Year: 398 local days 

Sapient Species: 39% Mon Calamari (native), 60% Quarren (nati, 
other species 

Government: Representative Council 

Capital: Foamwater City 

Major Exports: Warships, weapons 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, medicine, technology 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DOC RESULT 

10 Mon Calamari is an aquatic world dotted with small continents 
islands spread throughout its vast oceans, 

15 Mon Calamari has supplied the galaxy with starships of superior 
ity ever since it first made contact with the Old Republic. 

20 Unlike other worlds covered by oceans, Mon Calamari has a 
tectonic activity or violent weather, making the planet both placi 
attractive to tourists. 7 

25 Over time, a rift has developed between the Quarren and the 
Calamari, which now manifests itself as an animosity that disru 
attempts at cooperation. : 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 
DC RESULT 

10 Mon Calamari boasts two distinct societies: one for the Mon Cal 

mari species, and one for the Quarren species. 

15 III will between the Mon Calamari and the Quarren comes a5 4 

of outside interference. The Quarren see the Mon Calamari as 

dlers in galactic affairs, while many Mon Calamari see the Quar 

cowards and isolationists. 

20 The animosity between the two species is the result of conflict 

other species, some of which have nearly erupted into full-blown 

25 Interacting with either of the two societies is likely to make it gi? 

to interact with the other, as the prejudices found in both speci® 

extend to outsiders as well, 


NABOO NAR SHADDAA 


Region: Mid Rim Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Temperate Climate: Temperate (urban) 

Gravity: Standard Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 3 Moons: — 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours Length of Day: 87 standard hours 

Length of Year: 312 local days Length of Year: 419 local days 

Sapient Species: 72% Gungan (native), 27% Human, 1% other species Sapient Species: 20% Human, 1% Evocii, 79% other species 
Government: Democratic monarchy (Human), Council (Gungan) Government: Hutt crime lords 

Capitals: Theed (Human), Otoh Gunga (Gungan) Capital: None 

Major Exports: Grains, art, cultural items Major Exports: Illegal goods, narcotics, weapons 


Major imports: Technology, processed foods Major Imports: Foodstuffs, illegal goods, medicine, 


technology 


Knowledge (Bureaucracy) 

Dc RESULT 

15 Though the Humans on Naboo support a democratic government, they 
elect a sovereign monarch to rule over them, There are no age limita- 
tions on voting or even leadership. 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Naboo is a peaceful planet that has remained a relatively insignificant, 
if beautiful, member of galactic society for centuries 

15 Naboo is a world covered in beautiful oceans, sweeping grasslands, 
and rich forests. Human settlements tend to incorporate waterfalls, 
cliffs, and other natural terrain features. Gungans live in beautifu 
submerged cities hidden beneath great lakes 

20 Many years ago, the Humans of Naboo came into conflict with the 
native Gungans, thus beginning a centuries-long animosity between 
the two peoples. 

25 Naboo, unlike most other habitable worlds, does not have a molten 


core. Instead, the center of the planet is hollowed out and filled with 
Water 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 
DC RESULT 

The Human society on Naboo is peaceful and artistic, focusing on 
Promoting cultural qreatness over political power. 

Gungan society is extremely isolationist and xenophobic, to the point 
where they typically use violence first and ask questions later. 
Gungan law is usually considered extremely harsh, with even the 
smallest offenses warranting exile or even the death penalty. 


10 


25 


30 


HsBiLavreia 


mix 


JIL ILE 


‘< 


$=) 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Nar Shaddaa, also known as the Smuggler's Moon, orbits Nal Hutta 
(the Hutt homeworld). Nar Shaddaa is a haven for criminals of all 
stripes who gather to conduct illicit business. 

15 Nar Shaddaa, though technically within Hutt Space and under Hutt 
rule, has no true organized government and is divided into sectors 
ruled by individual species, gangs, and crime lords. 

20 Nar Shaddaa is an urban sprawl with soaring towers and dizzying 
depths. Many sectors of Nar Shaddaa are in poor repair, boasting 
unstable architecture and zones where even 2 wise Jedi fears to tread. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 Nar Shaddaa boasts a strong black market economy. Almost any sort 
of contraband can be found on Nar Shaddaa for the right price. 

15 Millions of smugglers, crime lords, and information brokers make their 
homes on Nar Shaddaa. Their organizations hold sway over different 
zones of the Smuggler's Moon, and small wars break out between rival 
gangs on a regular basis. 

20 Almost every major criminal organization in the galaxy, from the Hutt 
crime lords to the Black Sun Syndicate, has agents working behind the 
scenes on Nar Shaddaa. 


RODIA 

Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Tropical and arid (hot) 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 29 standard hours 

Length of Year: 305 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Rodian (native), 1% other species 
Government: Rodian Grand Protector 

Capital: Equator City 

Major Exports: Bounty hunters, foodstuffs, exotic animals, weaponry 
Major Imports: Technology, agricultural goods, weapons 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Rodia’s thick, lush jungles provide an ample breeding ground for 
savage predators, and as the Rodians themselves evolved, they learned 
to survive among even the deadliest of creatures. 

15 The Old Republic first made contact with the Rodian people thousands 
of years ago when scouting vessels arrived on their homeworld, and 
this first meeting resulted in violent conflict. 


20 Prior to joining the greater galdctic community, the Rodiar 
had become violent and prone to hunting one another dow 
indiscriminately for the thrill of the hunt. “a 

25 Since the jungles of Rodia provide plenty of food in the form 5 
vegetables, and easily hunted prey, the Rodian people never de 
any skill at agriculture, . 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10. Prestige in Rodian society is based on the individual Rodian's, by 
hunt and track. ; 

15 The Rodian people learned to channel some of their violent tende 
into works of theater, and Rodian dramas are violent but coma 
performances that are well regarded throughout the galaxy, _ 

20 The highest aspiration of many Rodian natives is to go out in ; 
galaxy and obtain a great quarry, bringing their prey back to Red 
proof of their excellent hunting skills, : 


RYLOTH 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Subarctic, temperate, and arid 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 5 

Length of Day: 305 standard days 

Length of Year: 1 local day 

Sapient Species: 76% Twi'lek (native), 24% other species 
Government: Feudal meritocracy 

Capital: Kala'uun 

Major Exports: Ry!! spice, slaves 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, medicine, technology 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 
DC RESULT Z 
10 The planet Ryloth-has long been a relatively neutral and out-of 
way planet, avoiding conflict more deftly than most other world: 
15 Ryloth is an incredibly dangerous world that has a unique orbit 
causes one side of the planet to perpetually face the world’s su 
such, the sunlit side of the planet remains incredibly hot, whit 
dark side of the planet is frigidly cold year-round. 
20 Ryloth produces an extremely rare kind of spice known as ryll, Wi 
is harvested and sold by Twi'lek traders. . 
25 The only way life forms can survive on Ryloth is by living in 2? 
of perpetual dusk right at the sunlight's terminator line, Whe 
temperatures are moderate and life can flourish. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 
pe RESULT 


10 


15 


Ryloth is usually perceived as lawless world by the galaxy at larae, 
thanks to its lax views on both slavery and the trafficking of spice 
Twi'leks native to Ryloth are extremely loyal to their families, also 
calied head-clans, as they are not only family members but also ave- 
nues to power. 

When enough members of a head-clan ascend to positions of leader- 
ship within Ryloth society, that head-clan grows in power and stature, 
rising as one through the ranks of the government. 


SuULLUST 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Superheated 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons; 2 

Length of Day: 20 standard hours 

Length of Year: 263 local days 

Sapient Species: 96% Sullustan (native), 2% Human, 1% Bith, 1% other 
species 

Government: Corporation 

Capital: Byllurun 

Major Exports: Starships, computers, droids, hyperdrive and astrogation 
technology 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, water 


0 
Ir 
> 
v 
4 
‘il 
2 
x 


Knowledge (Bureaucracy) 

DC RESULT 

10 The SoroSuub Corporation serves as the acting government of Sullust 
and runs planetary affairs like a business. 

15 SoroSuub is not a profit-driven monstrosity like those found in the Cor- 
porate Sector, and most of the company’s policies and decrees are well 
accepted by the populace because they are not intrusive or oppressive. 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Sullust is the homeworld of the Sullustan people, as well as the base 
of operations for the powerful SoroSuub Corporation. 

15 Sullust is a volcanic and tectonically unstable planet. The Sullustans 
have adapted to living in massive, subterranean lava tubes, 

20 Sullust became a major trading hub quickly after making contact 
with the rest of the galaxy, and as galactic commerce became more 
frequent on the world, so too did the presence of corporations and 
manufacturing. 

25 As the planet's prestige grew, so did the SoroSuub Corporation, 
which eventually grew so large that it seized contro! of the planet's 
government. 


TATOOINE 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Arid 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 3 

Length of Day: 23 standard hours 

Length of Year: 304 local days 

Sapient Species: 70% Human, 5% Jawa (native), 5% Tusken Raider 
(native), 20% other species 

Government: Hutt crime lords 

Capital: Bestine 

Major Exports: Illegal weapons, minerals, narcotics 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, medicine, technology 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Tatooine is a backwater desert world dotted with cities, villages, and 
moisture farms. Native species include the primitive Tusken Raiders 
and the Jawas, 

15 Controlled by the Hutts, Tatooine is a haven for criminal activity and 
is often used as a hiding place for lawbreakers on the run, 

20 Tatooine hosts numerous dangerous sporting events, including Podrac- 
ing. One of the most famous Podracing events is the Boonta Eve Clas- 
sic, which is frequently attended by the planet's Hutt overlords. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) ~ 

DC RESULT 

10 Tatooine is controlled by the Hutts, and many criminals s 
there. 

15 The Jawas of Tatooine have a reputation for being 
dealers and swindlers, but they are mostly harmless. 

20 The Tusken Raiders of Tatooine are referred to locally as Sang 
They live in nomadic tribes and often ride around on large here 
mals called banthas. Sand People are extremely violent, atts 
anyone who sets foot in their territory. They typically wield 
(“gaffi sticks"), but some tribes use primitive slugthrowers as w 


TRANDOSHA 
Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Arid 

Gravity: 62% Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 25 standard hours 
Length of Year: 371 local days 
Sapient Species: 99% Trandoshan (native), 1% other species 
Population; 42 million 
Government: Tribal 

Capital: Hsskhor 

Tech Level: Interstellar (advanced) 
Major Exports: Slaves, mercenaries 
Major Imports: Technology 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 
DC RESULT a 
10 Trandosha is located in the same system as Kashyyyk, the Wo 
homeworld. The two species rarely see eye to eye. q 
15 Trandosha boasts lighter than average gravity, which allows the: 
gish Trandoshans to move with ease on their homeworld. 
20 Trandosha joined the galactic community many millennia ago bu 
always been indirectly represented in galactic affairs by a Wookiee 
resentative, which has led to some animosity between the two spt 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 
DC RESULT 
10 Trandoshans make poor diplomats and have trouble dealing peace 
with others. 
15 Trandoshan slavers have captured or killed more Wookiees the 
other species. 
20 Trandoshans revere their tribal elders. Breaking Trandoshan trae 
or disrespecting one's elders often leads to exile from individual 
or even the entire planet. 


All the worlds in the galaxy mean nothing to a character if they are unreach- 
pble. Fortunately, hyperspace travel has become common, affordable, and 


(usually) safe. 


ASTROGATION 
Moving from a given location to a desired destination through hyperspace 
requires a successful Use Computer check. Because every object in the 
galaxy is constantly in motion, the precise path between two locations 
changes from day to day. If the astrogator uses current data (one day old 
at most), he can plot a safe course. Doing so takes 1 minute and requires a 
successful DC 10 Use Computer check 

if an astrogator has no data with which to plot a jump through hyper- 
space, the base DC for the Use Computer check is 30, and the astrogator 
must spend 1 hour calculating coordinates and vectors before attempting 
the check 

As a general rule, data for a particular route through hyperspace is avail- 
able to anyone with access to the HoloNet—although that data might be 
Outdated if the route in question is not frequently traveled by other ships 

Certain situations or circumstances can also modify the check, as shown 
in Table 13-1: Astrogation DC Modifiers. The lack of a nav computer (or, 
failing that, an astromech droid with stored coordinates) makes the task 
much more difficult. If time is of the essence, the astrogator can perform 
the check as a full-round action round by taking a -10 penalty on his Use 
Computer check 

If the Use Computer check is successful, the starship enters hyperspace 
Without incident and arrives at its destination in a number of days equal to 
106 = the ship's hyperdrive multiplier 

A failed Use Computer check indicates that the astrogator has made a 
potentially dangerous error in his calculations. Make another Use Computer 
check using the same modifiers and against the same DC. If this second 
Use Computer check is successful, the error is caught before entering 
hyperspace, and the process of plotting a course must begin anew. If this 
second Use Computer check fails, the starship moves -1 persistent step on 
the condition track [see Conditions, page 148) and takes damage equal to 
5% Of its total hit points for every point by which the check fails. (The per- 
Sistent condition and damage remain until the ship undergoes maintenance.} 
IF the Ship is not disabled or destroyed, it arrives at the intended destination 
P'double the expected travel time. If the ship is disabled, it drops out of 
¥PErspace in a random location somewhere between the point of origin 
86 the Gestination (the exact location is determined by the GM) 


: TRAVEL IN THE GALAxyY 
: 


TABLE 13-1: 
ASTROGATION DC MODIFIERS 


SITUATION CHECK MODIFIER 
Using nav computer +5 
No nav computer used -10 
No HoloNet access -5 
Attempt to make check in 1 round -10 


1 Do not apply the penalty if the ship has current astrogation dato stored in an 


astromech droid or receives accurate transmitted data from another ship. 


G 


YOOQALEIZVE Sb. 


f 


See ey 
G 


_GAMEmM ERI y Te 


a : = - — 


The Gamemaster is the quiding force of the game. If the game is fun, it will 

* be to your credit. If it isn't, you'll need to make some adjustments. But don't 
31 a 1. worry—running a Stor Wars game is nowhere near as daunting as it might 

RR. bem at first. 

Described below are the different duties of the GM. As with any hobby, 

on what you enjoy the most, but remember that the other duties are 


E ROLE OF THE 
MEMASTER 


jamemaster is storyteller and referee, creator of terrible threats against 
galaxy, secret master of the villainous, criminal, and ruthless, and hidden 

rotector of the brave. The GM's responsibilities include several important 
asks, each of these is outlined in this section. 


CREATING ADVENTURES 

As the GM, your primary role in the game is creating and presenting 
adventures in which the other players can play their heroes. To accomplish 
this, you need to spend some amount of time before the game preparing 
your Stories. This is true whether you create your own adventures or use 
published ones, 

Creating adventures takes time. Many GMs find this creative process the 
most fun and rewarding part of being a Gamemaster. Creating interesting char- 
acters, settings, plots, and challenges to present to your friends can be a great 
creative outlet In fact, creating good adventures is so important that it receives 
its own section in this chapter (see Building an Adventure, page 249). 


- TEACHING THE GAME 
TVae. Sometimes, but not always, it's the GM's responsibility to teach newcom- 
w ; F ers how to play the game. This isn't a burden; it's a wonderful opportunity. 
: | Teaching other people how to play provides you with new players and allows 
~ to set them on the path to becoming top-notch roleplayers. It’s easier 
f fio play with someone who already knows the game. Players who 
IGE by a good teacher in a fun game are more likely to stick with the 
the long haul. Use this opportunity to encourage new players to 

B the sort of gamers you want to play games with, 
fare a few pointers on teaching the game: 


OU Need to know the character creation rules so that you can help new 
ers build characters, Have each player tell you what sort of hero he 
“she wants to play, then show the players how they can create those 
eroes with the Stor Wars rules. If they don't know what to play, show 
m the five heroic classes, briefly describe each, and let them choose 
the one that most appeals to them 


Aix 4SieweRo 


© Don't worry about teaching all the rules ahead of time. All the players 
need to know are the basics that apply to understanding their heroes 
(what hit points are, how to make attack rolls, how to use skills, and 
so on), and they can pick up most of this information as the game 
progresses. 

e You need to know how to play the game. As long as you know the rules, 
the game can move along, and the players can simply focus on their 
characters and how they react to what happens in the game, Have play- 
ers tell you what they want their characters to do and translate those 
decisions into game terms for them. Teach them how the rules work 
when they need to learn them, on a case-by-case basis. For example, if 
a player wants her Jedi to use the Force, the player tells you what the 
hero attempts and you tell her what die to roll, which modifiers to add, 
and what happens as a result. After a few times, the player will know 
what to do without asking. 


PROVIDING THE BACKDROP 

The Gamemaster is the creator of his or her own campaign. Even though 
you'll be basing your adventures in the Star Wars universe, it's still your 
campaign. 

Consistency is the key to creating a backdrop that feels real to the players, 
When the heroes go back to Mos Eisley for supplies, they should encounter 
some of the same characters they met before. Soon, they'll learn the cantina 
owner's name—and she'll remember them as well. Once you've achieved this 


GAMEMASTER ACCESSORIES 
Bed ee otic are available to enhance your game; 


pies comin fee line of sight, and other combat 

factors, Miniatures also add an exciting visual element to the game by 

giving players a stronger idea of what GM characters, creatures, and 

‘other heroic characters look like. 
ee oe pone spacious, ready-to-use e 

x aateendinleeengr soo ean 


2. 


Che rid H : SPS : ¢ 
Fes athe can aco-eblc to cae hel bose. gee 
installations, and other unique adventure locations. 


level of consistency, however, provide an occasional change. if the 
come back to have their starfighter repaired again, they may disegy 
the man who ran the starport went back home to Corellia, and his ny 
now runs the family business. That sort of change—one that has noth, 
do with the heroes directly, but which they'll notice—makes the pi; 
as though they're adventuring in a living universe as real as ¢ lye 
not just a flat backdrop that exists only for them to battle stormtroons 
the villain-of-the-week. i" 


DETERMINING THE 
STYLE OF PLAY 
While the GM provides the adventures and the universe, the players ind 
GM work together to create the game as a whole. However, it's the 
responsibility to quide the way the game is played. The best way to e¢ 
plish this is by learning what the players want and figuring out what 
want as well. Many styles of play exist, but a few are detailed below. 


Blast ‘Em All! 
The heroes blow open the biast door, fight the stormtroopers, and re 
the princess. This style of play is very straightforward. It’s fun, exciting, 
action-oriented. Very little time is spent on developing personas for | 
heroes, engaging in roleplaying encounters, or mentioning situations 6 
than what's going on in the adventure. If you're running this type of 
let the heroes face obviously evil opponents and meet obviously 
characters. Don't expect heroes to anguish over what to do with p 
Don't bother too much with credits earned or time spent reco 
whatever it takes to get the heroes back into the action as quickly as po 
sible. A hero's motivation does not need to be much more than a des re 
fight evil (and maybe acquire credits). 
Rules and game balance are important in this style of play. Having here 
with combat ability greater than that of their companions can lead toun 
situations; the more powerful heroes can handle more of the challeng 
and thus their players have more fun. If you're using this style, be min 
about adjudicating rules. Think long and hard about additions or chang 
that you want to make. 


Immersive Storytelling 
The Galactic Senate is threatened by political turmoil. The heroes mu 
convince the senators to resolve their differences, but can only do: 
they've come to terms with their own differing outlooks and agenge 
style of gaming is deep, complex, and challenging. The focus isn't on 
but on talking, developing in-depth personas, and character interae 
Whole gaming sessions may pass without a single blaster being fired. ; 
In this style of game, most characters should be as complex 
detailed as the heroes—although the focus should be on motivatlor 
personality, not game statistics. Expect digressions about what each pi 


nts his or her hero to do, and why. Buying spare parts might be as impor- 
ant an encounter as fighting battle droids. (And don’t expect the heroes to 
Fight the battle droids at all unless their heroes have a good reason to do 
sp.) Heroes will sometimes take actions against their players’ better judg- 
ment because “that’s what a hero would do.” Adventures deal mostly with 
negotiations, political maneuverings, and character interaction. Players may 
en talk about the “story” they're collectively creating. 

Quoting the rules is less important in this style of play. Since combat isn’t 
focus, game mechanics take a back seat to hero development. Skills take 
recedence over combat bofiuses, and even then, the numbers don't have 
to be absolutes. Feel free to change things to fit the players’ roleplaying 
needs, perhaps even streamlining the combat system so that it takes less 
tir away from the story. 


ething in Between 
st campaigns are going to fall between these two extremes. There's 
plenty of action, but there's also a plot line and interaction between heroes 
and nonheroic characters. Players develop their heroes, but they're eager 
fo get into fights as well. The “in between” style provides a nice mixture of 
pleplaying encounters and combat encounters. Even in combat missions, you 
present characters who don’t need to be killed. Instead, you can interact 
with them through diplomacy, negotiation, or a simple conversation. 


*PERHAPS YOU 

THINK YOU'RE 

BEING TREATED 
UNFAIRLY?" 


—- DARTH VADER 


SOUUDICATING THE RULES 
NEN everyone gathers around the table to play the game, the Gamemaster 
iP charge. That doesn't mean that you can tell people what to do outside 
Oundaries of the game, but it does mean that you're the final arbiter 
rules within the game. Good players always recognize that you have 
timate authority over the game mechanics. Good GMs know not to 
AGE or overturn an existing rule without a good, logical justification so 
Mayers don't grow dissatisfied. 

means that you need to know the rules. You're not required to memo- 
N rulebook, but you should have a clear understanding of what's in 
= HOOK so that when a situation comes up that requires a ruling, you know 

to reference the proper rule in the book. 


STACKING BONUSES  — 


Often a situation arises that isn't explicitly covered by the rules. In such a 
situation, it's the GM who needs to provide guidance as to how It should be 
resolved. When you come upon a situation that doesn't seem to be covered 
by the rules, consider the following: 


© Look to any similar situation that is covered in the rules. Try to extrap- 
olate from what you see presented there and apply it to the current 
circumstance, 

© If you have to make something up, stick with it for the rest of the cam- 
paign. (This is called a “house rule,”) Consistency keeps players satisfied 
and gives them the feeling that they are adventuring in a stable, predict- 
able universe, not in some random, nonsensical place subject only to the 
GM's whims. 

© When in doubt, remember this handy rule: Favorable circumstances 
provide a +2 circumstance bonus to any 420 roll; unfavorable circum 
stances impose a -2 penalty. You'll be surprised how often this "GM's 
secret rule” solves probiems. 


KEEPING THE GAME BALANCED 

Game balance ensures that most hero choices are relatively equal, A balanced 
game is one in which ane hero doesn't dominate over the rest because ofa 
choice that he or she made (species, class, talent, feat, Force power, weapon, 


and so on). It also reflects that the heroes aren't too powerful for the threats 
they face, yet neither are they hopelessly overmatched. 
Two things drive game balance: good management and trust. 


Good Management 

A GM who carefully watches all portions of the game so that nothing 
gets out of control helps keep the game balanced. Heroes and characters, 
victories and defeats, awards and afflictions, items found and credits 
spent—all these things must be monitored. No one hero should ever become 
significantly more powerful than the others. If this does happen, the others 
should have an opportunity to catch up in short order. The heroes as a whole 
should never get so powerful that all challenges become trivial to them. 
Nor should they be constantly overwhelmed by what they must face. It's no 
fun to always lose, and always winning gets boring fast. When temporary 
imbalances do occur, it's easier to fix them by altering the challenges than 
by changing anything about the heroes and their powers or equipment. No 
one likes to get something, only to have it taken away again because it 
was too unbalancing. 


Trust 

Players should trust the GM. This trust can be gained over time through 
consistent use of rules, by not taking sides (that is, not favoring one player at 
another's expense), and by making it clear that you're not vindictive toward 
the players or their characters. If the players trust the GM—and through you, 
the game system—they will recognize that anything that enters the game has 
been carefully considered. If you adjudicate a situation, the players should be 
able to trust it as a fair call and not question or second-guess you. That way, 
the players can focus their attention on playing their characters, succeeding 
in the game, and having fun, trusting their GM to take care of matters of 
fairness and realism. They also trust that you will do whatever you can to 
make sure that they can enjoy playing their heroes, potentially succeed in the 
game, and have fun. If this level of trust can be achieved, you'll have greater 
freedom to add or change things in your game without worrying about the 
players protesting or scrutinizing every decision. 


Handling Unbalanced Heroes 

Sometimes, the unexpected happens. The heroes may defeat a villain, foil an 
unstoppable escape plan, and steal a custom starfighter you never intended 
to fall into their hands. Or, even more likely, the combination of some new 
acquisition with an item or power a hero already has will prove unbalancing 
in ways you didn't foresee. 

Once a mistake has been made, and a hero ends up too powerful, all is not 
lost. In fact, it's almost never difficult to simply increase the challenges the 
hero faces to keep him or her from breezing through encounters, However, 
this solution can be unsatisfying, since the encounters can become too dif- 
ficult for the other, more balanced heroes. At the same time, it’s never fun 


to lose some aspect of your hero that turns out to be unbalance’ 
player's point of view, it’s not his or her fault. 

You have two options: Deal with the problem in-game or deal wie 
problem out-of-game. Bs 

Dealing with the Problem In-Game: “In-game” is a term used te 
something that happens in the story created by the play of theal 
example, suppose a hero becomes unbalanced by building a dro 
that fights better than any of the heroes in the group. (This is somethir 
the GM shouldn't have let happen to begin with, but all GMs occ: sior 
make mistakes.) An in-game solution might be to have an enemy seoup 
sabotage the droid, or suspicious quards might confiscate the droid he 
time the heroes visit Coruscant. Whatever you do, try not to make j 5 
ous that the situation is actually just a tool to balance the game. |r ; 
make it seem just a part of the adventure. (If you don't, indignant a 
will get very angry.) a 

Dealing with the Problem Out-of-Game: “Out-of-game" mes 
thing that happens in the real world, but has an impact on the ae 
An out-of-game solution to the problem described in the previous p 
would be to take the player aside between sessions and explain that the: 
has become unbalanced because of her too-powerful droid and ee thi 
need to change or the game may fall apart. A reasonable person w 
the value in continuing the game, and she'll work with you either in-ga 
(perhaps donating the droid to an @ppropriate allied organization) or ¢ 6 
game (perhaps by erasing the droid from her hero sheet and just preten 
it was never there). Be warned, however, that not every gamer is reaso n 
in this way. Many will not appreciate this level of intrusion on your part 
will resent giving up a great ability or item their hero “earned.” After 
unfortunate exchange of this type, it will seem obvious and contrived if} 
try to balance things with an in-game solution. 


RUNNING A 
GAME SESSION 


After everything is prepared, and everyone sits down at the table, yo 
on. It's your show. Here are some things you should consider, at the! 
and before you ever get there, to help make the game run as smooth 
possible. 


KNOWING THE PLAYERS 
Normally, but not always, the GM is in charge of inviting players to pls y ir 
or her game. If this is the case, it's your responsibility to know and und rst it 
each of these people well enough that you can be reasonably sure that thi 
all get along, work well together, and enjoy the sort of game you 

A lot of this has to do with playing style. Ultimately, you have t 
the kind of game your players want to play. With players new to (e® 
or a newly formed group, this may take a while to define. Recognize 


while you're in charge, it's really everybody's game. The players are all there, 
coming back session after session, because they trust that you'll help them 
have a fun and rewarding experience. 


TABLE RULES 
One thing that will help everyone, players and GM alike, to all get along wi | 
be establishing a set of rules—rules that have nothing to do with the actual 
game but that govern what happens with the people around the table 

The following are some “table rules” issues you'll need to deal with 
eventually. It’s best to come up with the answers before you start a requiar 
campaign. You can establish these yourself, or you can work them out with 


your players. 


a 
ys 


al 


yea 4 | 
Vz 
a 


mma; 
Loni BN 


* 


Q 


No-Show Players 

Sometimes a requiar player can't show up for a game session. The GM and 
group are faced with the question of what to do with his or her hero. There 
are several possibilities: 


¢ Someone else runs that hero for the session (in addition to their own 
hero}. This is easiest on you, but sometimes the fill-in player resents the 
task or the replaced player is unhappy with what happens to the hero in 
his or her absence. 
You run the hero, doing your best to make the decisions that you think 
the hero's player would make. This might actually be the best solution, 
but don't do it if running a hero and running the game at the same time 
is too much for you and hurts the whole session, 


Aix wS@iavHD 


The hero, like the player, can't be present for this adventure. This only 


works in certain in-game Situations, but if it makes sense for the char- 


rto be absent, that’s a handy way to take the hero out of the action 
for a game session. Ideally, the reason for the hero's absence is one that 
allows him or her to jump back in with a minimum of fuss when the 
player is available again. (The hero may have some other commitment, 
for instance.) 

The character fades into the background for this session. This is probably 
the least desirable solution, because it strains everyone's suspension of 


gisoenet 


Recoagn ze that players come and go. Someone moves away another 


. : e 

busy, and yet another grows tired of the game, They'll quit. At the Same hs ts 
. Ime 

new players will want to join. Make sure to always keep the group at ag , 
F ; — = 5iz 
you're comfortable with. The normal-sized group has four or five olen € 
: vers 

200 others 


one 


(not including the GM). However, some groups are as small as two 


as large as seven or more. You can also play the game one-on 


» With juss 
Play Experience 


as a Jer 


one player and one GM, but that's a very different sort of 


It's a good way to handle special campaian ideas, such 

vay ; { paign ideas, suct i Master's 
mentorship of a young Padawan learner.) 
If you can, try to find out from the players how long they're interested in 
playing. Try to get a modest commitment from them to show up ¢ 


ma '€gular 
basis during that time. 


Integrating New Players 


When someone new joins the campaian, his or her hero needs to be 


tegrated 
“0 into the 
group Make sure that a new olaver knows the house rules and the table 


nto the game. At the same time, the player needs to be intearat 


es, as well as the game rule 


Rules Discussions 


It's prodabdly dest f olavers don't ques 10S or established rules, 
other aspects of the 


yame (aside from what's immediately at hand) during the game itself. Such 


propose new house rules, or conduct ¢ 


matters are best addressed at the beginning or end o7 the sessior 


Jokes and Off-Topic Discussions 
There are always funny things to be said, movie quotes, good gossip, and 


ther conversations that crop up during the game, wi ether they're ir spired by 
de for yourself 
how much is too much. Remember that this is a game and 


et at the same time keep the focus on the 


ep i 


what's going on in the session or completely extraneous. De 


as a group 
people are there to have fun 


f th 


actior ie heroes so the whole session doesn't pass in idle talk 


WORKING WITH THE PLAYERS 


wo players want the same newfound item. Each thinks his character can 


-an't find a way 


use it best or deserves it for what he’s done. If the p 


te or impose a solution. Or, WOTSS; 


decide who gets it, you will have to arbit 
one player is anary with another player for something that ne 


that day outside the game, so now his hero tries to harass 


The GM shou! Se ote 


other player's hero. e GM shouldn't sit back and let this ni 


| r 
yUU 


you to step in and help resolve conflicts like that. A: re vor 


of ceremonies and an umpire during the game. Talk with the are 


ame Session and try to resolve | 


arately outside the g eco 
ymef ts ruin 


together or sep 


Make it clear as nicely as you can that you cant let anyone s arg 


, id hard feeungs 
for the other players, and you won't tolerate real-worid Nar eeling 


the game 


game react to each athe 


affecting the way characters within the 


Another case is when a player gets really mad when you rule against him. 
gain, be firm but kind in telling him that you try your best to be fair. You 
an't have angry outbursts spoiling everyone else's fun. Settle the matter 
wtside the game session. Listen to the player's complaints, but remember 
nat you're the final arbiter. By agreeing to play in your game, that player has 
iso agreed to accept your decisions as GM. (See When Bad Things Happen 
6 Good Heroes, page 246.) 
Sometimes one player's actions ruin the fun for everyone. An obnoxious, 
responsible, troublemaking player can make the game really unpleasant. 
jometimes he gets others’ heroes killed because of his actions. Other times 
ne stops the game with arguments, tantrums, or off-topic conversations. Or 
ne might keep everyone from playing by being late or not showing up at all. 
ately, you should get rid of this player. Just don't invite him next time. 
Don't play the game with someone that you wouldn't enjoy spending time 
with in another social setting. 
4 Decide how many players you want in your game and stick with it. If 
one leaves, try to get 2 new player. If someone new wants to join an 
dy full group, resist the urge to let him or her in unless you're sure you 
handle the increased number of players. If there are too many players, 
der dividing them into two groups that play at different times. If there 
too few, you might want to recruit more or have each player play more 
han one hero. (It's good to have at least four heroes on a mission team.) 
5 if one player dominates the game and monopolizes your time with her 
¢r0's actions, the other players will quickly grow dissatisfied. Make sure 
veryone gets his or her turn. Also, make sure each player gets to make his 
her own decisions. Overeager or overbearing players sometimes try to tell 


letagame Thinking 

Mgure that there'll be a lever on the other side of the chasm that extends 
: bridge,” a player says to the others, “because the GM would never create 
‘Tap that we couldn't deactivate somehow." That's metagame thinking. Any 
ie the players base hero actions on logic that depends on the fact that 
ey re playing a game, they're “metagaming.” This activity should always 
ouraged, because it detracts from real roleplaying and spoils the 
Pension of disbelief. 

‘urprise your players by foiling this mode of thinking. Maybe there is a 
fr On the other side of the chasm—but it might be malfunctioning. Keep 
layers on their toes, and don’t let them second-guess you. Tell them 
in terms of the game universe, not of you as the GM, In the game 
€, Someone put the trench in the Death Star for a purpose. Figure 
hows and whys for what they have done, The heroes will need to 


In short, where possible, encourage the players to employ in-game logic. 
Confronted with the situation given above, an appropriate response from a 
clever hero is, “| figure there'll be a lever on the other side of the chasm that 
extends the bridge, because you'd have to be able to cross from either side." 
In fact, this is wonderful—it shows smart thinking as well as verisimilitude 
in the game universe. 


RECAPPING 

“Last time, you had just discovered the secret entrance to the Imperial shield 
generator on the forest moon of Endor. We ended the session with you on a 
nearby ridge overlooking the entrance. Arani suffered a terrible wound while 
fighting the biker scouts, Vor'en wanted to go straight to the entrance and 
shoot it out, but the rest of you talked him into helping you find a suitable 
place to watch and plan. What do you want to do?” 

In the middle of an angoing campaign, recapping activity from the pre- 
vious session at the start of a new session often helps establish the mood 
and reminds everyone what was going on. In most games, heroes continue 
what they're doing from day to day (or even hour to hour), but most players 
{in the real world) have several days of real time between game sessions. 
Some players might forget important details that will affect their decisions 
if they don't get reminders. 

Of course, that means that you, as the GM, need to keep notes of what 
happens so you don't forget, either. At the very least, jot down a few sen- 
tences about what's going on at the end of each game session. Leave your 
notes where you can find them right away at the beginning of the next ses- 
sion. You'll probably find that, as the GM, you tend to think about the game 
between sessions more than the other players do, and thus you'll remember 
more details, You'll quickly get to the point where you won't forget what 
happened in past sessions, especially if the adventures you're currently 
working on build off those events. 


SeETTIne THE PACE 

The pace of the game determines how much time you spend on a given activ- 
ity or action taken by the heroes. Different players enjoy different paces. 
Some search every room they come across, but some think doing that is not 
worth the game time. Some roleplay every encounter, while some want to 
skip on to the “good bits.” 

Do your best to please the group, but when in doubt, keep things moving. 
Don't feel that it's necessary to play out rest periods, replenishing supplies, 
or carrying out daily tasks. Sometimes that level of detail is an opportunity 
to develop heroes, but most of the time it’s unimportant. 

You should decide ahead of time, if possible, how long the playing session 
will last. This not only allows everyone to make plans around the game but 
also enadies you to judge about how much time is left during a session and 
pace things accordingly. You should always end a session at a good stop- 
ping point (see Ending Things, below). Three to four hours is a good length 


————— 


for an evening game. Some people like to play longer sessions, usually on a 
weekend. Even if you normally play for shorter periods, sometimes it's fun 
to run a longer "marathon" session. 


REFERENCING RULES 

Try to look at the rules as little as possible during a game. Although the rules 
are there to help you, paging through the book can slow things down. Look 
something up when necessary (and mark things you'll need to refer to again 
with a bookmark}, but recall a rule from memory when you can, Even if you're 
not exactly correct in your recollection, the game keeps moving. 


CHEATING 

(AND PLAYER PERCEPTIONS) 
Terrible things can happen in the game because the dice just go awry. 
Everything might be going fine, when suddenly the players have a run of 
bad luck. A round later, half the heroes are down for the count and the other 
half almost certainly can't take on the opponents that remain. If everyone 
dies, the campaign might very well end then and there, and that's bad for 
everyone. Should you stand by and watch the heroes get slaughtered? Or 
should you “cheat” and have the opponents run off, or fudge the die rolls 
so that the heroes stil] miraculously win in the end? There are really two 
issues at hand. 

Do you cheat? The answer: GMs really can't cheat. You're the umpire, and 
what you say goes. As such, it’s certainly within your right to sway things one 
way or another to keep people happy or keep things running smoothly. It’s 
no fun losing a beloved hero because he fell down a flight of stairs. A good 
rule of thumb is that a hero shouldn't die in a minor way by some fluke of the 
dice unless he or she was doing something reatly stupid at the time. 

However, you might not feel that it's right or even fun unless you obey 
the same rules the players do. Sometimes the heroes get lucky and kill an 
opponent you had planned to have around for 2 long time. By the same token, 
sometimes things go against the heroes and disaster befalls them. Both the 
GM and players take the bad with the good. That's a perfectly acceptable way 
to play, and if there's a default method of running a game, that's it. 

Just as important an issue, however, is whether the players realize that 
you bend the rules. Even if you decide that sometimes it’s okay to fudge a 
little to let the heroes survive so the game can continue, don't let the play- 
ers in on this decision. It’s important to the game that they believe they're 
always in danger. Consciously or subconsciously, if they believe you'll never 
let bad things happen to their heroes, they'll change the way they act. With 
no element of risk, victory will seem less sweet. And if thereafter something 
bad does happen to a hero, the player may believe you're out to get him. If 
he feels you saved other heroes when they were in trouble, he might become 
disaffected with the game. 


WHEN BAD THINGS HAPPER 
TO GOOD HEROES “7 
Heroes suffer setbacks, lose prized equipment, and so res & 
It's all part of the game, almost as much as success, gaining leve 
rewards, and attaining greatness. But players don't always take it we 
something bad happens to their heroes, "4 

Remind players that bad things happen sometimes, Challenges g 
the game's all about, Mention that setbacks are an opportunity to s 
later, Reassure the player of the dead hero that there are lots of o 
for new hero types she hasn't tried yet. The dead hero's surviving 
tell tales of their fallen comrade for years to come. The game 

It's rare (but possible) that an entire group of heroes can be 
In such a case, don't let it end the whole game. Encourage the play 
new heroes, perhaps of a class or species they haven't played bef; 
that's not really so bad—in fact, it's an opportunity for a dramatic ch 
of pace. This new group of heroes might even be charged with retrievir 
bodies of the fallen heroes for honorable burial. 


ENDING THINGS 
Try not to end a game session in the middle of an encounter. Leaving ¢ , 
thing hanging in the midst of combat is a terrible way to end a sessior 
difficult to keep track of things such as initiative order, in-game eff 1 
other round-by-round details between sessions. The only exception to! 
is ending with a cliffhanger. A cliffhanger ending is one in which thing: 
just a5 something monumental happens or some surprising turn of 
occurs. The purpose is to keep players intrigued and excited until 
session. A cliffhanger ends a session right before an encounter bei 
to initiative checks, and you pick up the action with initiative chi 
next game session. 
If someone was missing from that session, and you had his hero” 


Sometimes, even in a cliffhanger, this can work out well. The hero mi 
come racing into the thick of things to help out his beleaguered frien 
help save the day. a 
Allow some time—a few minutes will do—at the end of the session ton 
everyone discuss what happened, Listen to their reactions and 
more of what they like and don't like. Reinforce what you thought wer 
decisions and smart actions on their part (unless such information gives 
much away for the adventure), Always end things positively. 4 
You may want to award experience points at the end of each sesso 
you might wait until the end of each ad-venture. That's up to you. HOW 
the standard approach is to give out experience points at the end of €2 
adventure, so players whose heroes go up a level have time between a? 
tures to choose new skills, feats, and so forth. 


BUILDING AN 
ENCOUNTER 


For purposes of the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, an encounter is defined as an 
pstacie, threat, or situation (whether it be an opponent, several opponents, 
a hazard) that prevents the heroes from achieving a specific goal important 
o the adventure. An obstacle, threat, or situation can be overcome through 
smart roleplaying, combat, or skill use. Persuading @ crazed Force disciple to 
surrender might require heroes to enter difficult and perhaps life-threatening 
negotiations, while capturing a crime lord might require heroes to fight their 
ay past a squad of thugs or infiltrate the crime lord's headquarters without 
= ting off the security system. 


SHALLENGE LEVELS 

Every opponent or hazard the heroes face has a Challenge Level (CL), which 
lis GMs how tough it is to overcome. For example, every stormtrooper has 
CL, as does every wampa and garbage compactor. The more opponents and 
zards the heroes face at once, the more difficult the encounter and the 
experience points (XP) the heroes get for overcoming it (see Awarding 
ence Points, below). 

“Achallenging encounter is one the heroes should overcome with minor 
to moderate damage to themselves and some depletion of their resources. A 
single obstacle, threat, or situation of Challenge Level n is challenging for a 
wie character of similar level. For example, a 1st-level hero should find a 
cL 1 stormtrooper challenging. By extension, four CL 1 stormtroopers should 
drove challenging to four Ist-level heroes. 

‘ A difficult challenge is one that seriously taxes the heroes’ resources and 
lay require the heroes to withdraw and recover, while an unfair challenge 
uid easily lead to a total party kill. Difficult and unfair challenges are 
discussed below (see Measuring Encounter Difficulty). 

_ Complications: An encounter can be made harder by adding complica- 
ins that make overcoming certain obstacles, threats, and situations more 
Bifficult. In general, adding a complication to an encounter increases the 
sl of every affected obstacle, threat, or situation by 1. For example, if the 
eroes confront four CL 1 battle droids and two of them have the benefit of 

Proved cover (and the heroes do not), the GM should treat the two battle 
ds with cover as CL 2 threats and award experience accordingly, However, 
n twa Eeettic droids without cover would still be counted as CL 1 threats. 

Circumstances: Sometimes an encounter is made easier by 
HCumstances beyond the heroes’ control. In such cases, you may reduce 
rcint of XP the heroes earn for achieving their encounter goals by 
‘Much as half. For example, if the heroes run across two bounty hunters 
nO are moderately injured from a previous skirmish, the GM may elect to 
Yard only half normal XP for overcoming them. A GM should avoid reducing 
» AP awards when the beneficial circumstances are the direct or indirect 
Sult of good planning or roleplaying on the heroes’ parts. For example, if 


the heroes use treachery or bribery to turn one bounty hunter against the 
other, they should receive full XP for both bounty hunters even though the 
encounter was made easier by their actions, 


Measuring Encounter Difficulty 

Creating balanced and fun encounters is more art than science. However, the 
following guidelines will help you build encounters that aren't so straight- 
forward that players will be bored and aren't so difficult that the heroes 
aren't likely to survive: 

Multiple Opponents: Encounters with two to six opponents work best. 
Save the single-opponent encounter for higher-CL “bosses” like the rancor 
or Darth Vader. Avoid encounters with more than a dozen opponents unless 
you want the heroes to feel overwhelmed, 

Variety: The best encounters combine different sorts of obstacles, 
threats, and situations. Battling four Rodian soldiers in a corridor is much 
less interesting than fighting a Rodian noble, two Rodian soldiers, and the 
noble's trained nexu in a storage bay filled with cargo containers. 

Combining Different CLs: When building encounters that involve 
multiple threats, obstacles, or situations of different Challenge Levels, add 
together the various CLs and divide this sum by 3 (round down). If the result 
is within one level of the heroes’ average level, it’s probably a tough but fair 
challenge for the heroes. If the result is 2 to 3 levels above the heroes’ level, 
expect a difficult encounter that seriously taxes the heroes’ abilities and 
resources. If the result is 4 or more levels above the heroes’ level, expect the 
heroes to have a real fight on their hands, and also brace for one or more 
hero deaths. Note that these calculations are based on the assumption that 
there are four heroes in the party. Four each additional hero, subtract 1 from 
the result. For each missing hero, add 1 to the result. 

Here are some sample encounters to illustrate the formula: 


e An encounter with four CL 2 clone troopers and one CL 3 elite clone 
trooper has a combined CL of 11. Dividing 11 by 3 and rounding down, 
you get 3. Based on this result, you can expect this encounter to be a 
challenge for four 2nd-, 3rd-, or 4th-level heroes and a less challenging 
encounter for higher-level heroes. 

© An encounter with two CL 15 elite troopers has a combined CL of 30. 
Dividing 30 by 3, you get 10. Based on this result, you can expect this 
encounter to be a challenge for four 9th-, 10th-, or 11th-level heroes; a 
challenge for five 8th-, 9th-, or 10th-level heroes; or a challenge for six 
7th-, 8th-, or 9th-level heroes. 

* An encounter with a CL 8 crime lord and five CL 5 assassins has a com- 
bined CL of 33. Dividing 33 by 3, you get 11. This encounter is a challenge 
for four 10th-, 11th-, and 12th-level heroes and a difficult challenge for 
four 8th- and 9th-level heroes. It's an unfair challenge for heroes of 7th 
level or less. 


AWARDING 
EXPERIENCE POINTS 


Heroes receive experience points (XP) for overcoming opponents, hazards, 
and other obstacles that stand in the way of achieving the goals of an 
adventure. Every opponent and hazard has a Challenge Level (CL) that 
determines how much XP the heroes get for overcoming it, as shown in 
Table 14-1: Experience Point Awards. Note that overcoming an obstacle 
doesn't always mean defeating it. Heroes who trick or bribe a Gamorrean 
guard into letting them pass should get full XP for the Gamorrean, just as if 
they'd bested him in combat. 

The GM has the right to adjust XP awards depending on how rapidly he or 
she wants the heroes to gain levels and how easily the heroes achieve their 
encounter goals. Wherever possible, the GM should split XP awards equally 
between the heroes so that they're gaining levels at the same rate. Once 
the heroes accumulate enough XP to gain a level (see Table 3-1; Experience 
and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 37), it's time to increase the difficulty 
of the challenges they must overcome. 

Beginning at 6th level, heroes receive less XP awards for obstacles with 
a CL significantly lower than their character level. At some point, low-level 
threats become fodder, and little experience can be gained from overcom- 
ing them. Heroes receive one-tenth XP for anything with a Challenge Level 
equal to or less than the heroes’ average level - 5. For example, a group of 
6Gth-level heroes receive 20 XP for defeating a CL 1 stormtrooper (instead 
of 200 XP). 


OTHER REWARDS 


In addition to experience points, the heroes can earn other rewards for 
their actions. As a general rule, a challenging yet fair encounter should 
net the heroes resources equal their average level x 2,000 credits, to be 
divided equally among them. Easy encounters may deliver half as many 
resources or none at all, and difficult encounters should give 50% more at 
least. You don't have to hand out resources at the end of every encounter; 
often it is best to save the heroes’ rewards until the end of the adventure, 
in the form of a lump-sum payment given to them for completing the 
adventure's goals. 

Resources can take several different forms, as detailed below. For pur- 
poses of comparison, all resources are measured in credits. 


CREDITS 
For many characters, no reward is better than cold, hard cash. This category 
includes credit vouchers, electronic deposits of credits into a character's 
account (if the character owns a credit chip), credit coins, or trade goods 
(often precious metals). 

Credits may be found during the course of an adventure—inside a vault in 
a Hutt crime lord's palace, in the form of trade goods found in a freighter’s 


cargo hold, or perhaps even in the pockets or baggage of a ¢ 
However, heroes are more likely to receive the bulk of their w 
grateful benefactors for jobs well done. 


CHALLENGE 
LEVEL XP AWARD! 
1 200 
3 600 
5 1,000 
ri 1,400 
9 1,800 
1 2,200 
13 2,600 
15 3,000 
7 3,400 
19 3,800 


1 Divide the XP award by the number of heroes in the porty to deter” [ 
many XP each hero receives. Heroes receive one-tenth XP for anything ® 
Chalfenge Level equal to or less than their character level - 5. 


EQUIPME NT 

Heroes nvariably acquire new equipment in the course of an adventure, 
recovering it from the field of battle, seizing it from enemies they defeat, 
ng it from a less-than-secure place (such as the hold of a captured 


4 


or stea 


starship 
Be judicious when giving out valuable equipment as a reward. If the heroes 


or a poorly defended warehouse) 
find valuable equipment too often, they will be tempted to spend several 
minutes after every battle looting bodies for usable gear and later selling their 
hawked goods, and this can quickly derail or slow down an adventure 
Always point out notable equipment that you want the heroes to have 
("The scout trooper’s sniper rifle seems intact, and you can see a targeting 
scope mounted on it"). Meanwhile, never mention mundane equipment that 
isn't meant to be useful, or emphasize why the equipment is either unusable 
or undesirable (“The smugqgler’s blaster pistol is dirty and rusted, a cheap 
knock-off of a BlasTech model. You doubt he ever took the time to clean or 
Maintain the weapon”). If your players still spend too much time looting, you 
should strictly enforce the encumbrance rules (see page 140) and subtract 


the value of salvaged equipment from the rewards you give them 


BUILDING AN 
ADVENTURE 


An adventure 
ters desiqned to fit together, creating a cogent storyline for the game. Some 


sometimes called a mission—is a collection of related encoun- 


adventures are only short episodes in the campaign or interludes between 


tonger adventures, Others represent significant missions, while still others 
form the backbone of the campaign 

When building a campaign, adventure, or encounter, try to think in terms 
OF heroic goals. What must the heroes achieve or accomplish? A heroic goa 
WSually begins with a descriptive verb that best defines the required action: 
Capture, defeat, discover, destroy, escape, find, negotiate, obtain, protect 
Feseuc, and survive are good examples, Once you have a suitable verb, flest 
Ut the details: Rescue the princess from the detention cellblock. Capture 
the plans for the Emperor's newest superweapon. Negotiate safe passage 
aboard the smugglers space transport. 

Every encounter should have a specific, attainable goal that heroes can 
achieve. For example, an encounter might require the heroes to obtain a 
Code cylinder from a Rodian thug. The encounter setup could be as simple 
as Cornering the thug in a cantina or as complex as a landspeeder chase 
through the dusty streets of Mos Eisley. (Capturing the thug alive could be 
#Secondary Or additional goal.) Whether or not the heroes obtain the code 
EVlinder will determine or affect their goals in subsequent encounters 

Just as each encounter has a clearly defined goal, so too does every 
@dVenture, For short adventures, the goal might be very simple; Find R2-D2 
M the Tatooine desert and bring him back safely. A longer adventure might 

Ve an ultimate goal that can be accomplished only after the heroes achieve 


minor encounter goals and overcome various obstacles. For instance, an 
adventure's ultimate goal might be to destroy 2 new Imperial superweapon 
but accomplishing this goal might require the heroes to capture an Imperia 
spy, discover the location of the superweapon's secret construction facility, 
infiltrate the facility, defeat the Imperial forces in the facility's control room, 
and activate the superweapon’'s self-destruct system 


A ca 


campaign need not have a clear goal (particularly when it begins), 
but it should have a theme or context. When Luke and Ben meet Han and 
Chewbacca in Mos Eisley, they (and their “players,” in this mode!) had no 


“campaign” would be the overthrow of 


dea that the ultimate end of their 


‘ 


iv 


the Empire and the establishment of the New Republic. However, the GM of 
this “campaign” probably had a good idea that these heroes would become 
involved with the Rebellion during the campaign, and the Empire would be 
their primary opposition. (See Building a Campaign on the next page.) 


WHAT MAKES AN ADVENTURE 
EXciTiInec? 

Creating a memorable adventure requires more than just an interesting plot 
or a grand finish. Remember that in most cases, the heroes won't be able 
to see the behind-the-scenes machinations of the villain or the clever plot 
twists that occur on the bridge of the Imperial starship. While you want your 
adventures to feel like they could come from a movie, you can't always rely 
on the same techniques that the moviemakers use, Here are a few tricks to 
help you keep your adventures memorable and exciting. 


Intriguing Interactions 

Too often, players (and GMs) see an adventure as little more than a string 
of firefights separated by “talking.” This shortchanges one of the most com- 
pelling parts of a roleplaying game: playing a role. In addition to creating 
interesting characters, the GM must treat these characters as more than just 
cardboard props to be interacted with and then discarded. 

In general, run a GM character just as a player would run a hero—take 
whatever actions the character would take, assuming the action is possible. 
That's why it's important to determine a GM character's general outlook 
and characteristics ahead of time if possible, so you Know how to play the 
character properly, 

When a GM character interacts with heroes, the GM determines the char- 
acters’ initial attitude (hostile, unfriendly, indifferent, friendly, or helpful). A 
hero might try to influence this attitude with a Persuasion check. However, 
not all interactions require a check. Calling a Wookiee a “walking carpet” 
might shift the Wookiee's demeanor from indifferent to hostile. It doesn't 
take a roll—just the right words and deeds—to turn someone more hostile, 
In general, a hero cannot repeat attempts to influence someone. 

Although a GM character can use the Persuasion skill to influence another 
GM character, the attitudes of the heroes are never influenced by a skill 
check—the players always decide those. 


Worthy Adversaries 
While it’s all well and good for the heroes to mow through a few ranks of 
battle droids or stormtroopers during an adventure, this type of encounter 
grows tiresome quickly. Be sure to include competent adversaries for the 
heroes to encounter, whether as common enemies, archvillains, or even 
occasional foils. 

An easy mistake is making an adversary too powerful, believing that the 
heroes will have it “too easy” unless their opponent is another Darth Vader, 


Not every opponent has to be a Dark Lord of the Sith. An intelligent 
enemy can often seem much more powerful than he appears on pa, 
In the same vein, nothing is more disappointing than a clim; 
with a villain who turns out to have a glass jaw. If you know that 
will face the heroes in combat, make sure he can stand up to th 
plenty of assistance from underlings). 


Exciting Combats 
One reason that the lightsaber duels in the Star Wars movies are so e; 
is that they tend to take place in interesting locations. From a pi | 
on a narrow ledge above a Cloud City airshaft to a death duel 
by leaps between platforms and opening and closing energy 
elements add twists to traditional combat scenes. ; 
While any combat can be exciting, you should occasionally have 
heroes face opponents in a nontraditional setting. Sometimes mou 
combat (or aerial mounted combat) can provide a change of pace, Unden 
settings can be interesting as well. A short list of other suggestions 
below. For more ideas, look to the Star Wars movies, novels, and 


Daring Escapes 
Sometimes heroes get captured. It happens all the time in the mov 
While it would be fairly easy for the bad guys to simply kill the he oe 
that point, it's more interesting and fun to “take them alive.” Maybe 
villains plan to interrogate the heroes, or maybe the heroes are we 
to them alive. 

When heroes are knocked unconscious or otherwise force to surre 
the game isn't over. Quite the contrary! Instead, try setting up a situati 
which the heroes can perpetrate a daring escape, either alone or 
unexpected assistance. In The Empire Strikes Bock, Leia and Ch 
escape Imperial custody with the unexpected help of Lando Calriss 
Retum of the Jedi, the heroes escape the clutches of Jabba the Hutt thr 
resourcefulness, teamwork, and sheer luck. Daring escapes are staples 
good adventure stories and an opportunity for heroes to turn an unfortun 
situation into an advantageous one. 


Compound Encounters 
You can spice up an otherwise boring scenario by adding new elemen 
the action has already started. After the players think they know 
on, make the encounter more complex by adding a new threat, 
or new opportunity. The simplest kind of compound encounter adds 
foe halfway through a fight. If a group of assassins attacks the her 
cantina, have their bounty hunter leader show up 4 rounds later. 
if the heroes are convinced they focus of a fight in Mos Eisley is to cere 
few stormtroopers, they're not expecting a bantha stampede. 
It's important to remember the overall Encounter Level of a ce 
encounter. Heroes haven't had a chance to recover and heal since 


secinning of an encounter, so anything they face is all part of the same 
encounter, and should be added together to determine the Encounter Level. 
ft is slightly easier to deal with foes that attack a few rounds apart (since 
ot all enemies can attack the heroes off the bat), but in general you don't 
t to throw more challenges at the heroes just because their arrival time 
iestaggered. A compound encounter is a good way for a typical scenario to 
become more interesting, not a way to sneak in more foes that the heroes 
can deal with. 
For example, the heroes know an Imperial Inquisitor is hunting them 
pwn to capture their Force Sensitive members. They've been attacked by 
‘his troops once already, and know how tough those nonheroic characters 
When the heroes are trying to convince a junk dealer to sell them a 
datapad with critical information, the Inquisitor’s troops attack. The junk 
‘dealer hides at first, but after three rounds he screams he's leaving, and if 
th heroes want the datapad they can get it themselves. He throws it onto 
conveyer belt, where it's carried toward a smelter, The next round, local 
ds show up and also start shooting at the heroes. Not only must they 
twice as many foes, but the heroes must reach the datapad before 


UILDING A CAMPAIGN 


The term “campaign” refers to the ongoing game created by the Gamemaster, 
inked set of adventures or missions that follow the escapades of a group 
Of heroes. A campaign might have a single ongoing storyline—such as the 
Overthrow of the Empire—or several, shorter plots. The "classic" trilogy (A 
Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi) is an example of 
@ Campaign with a single ongoing storyline. In this “campaign” we follow 
‘the adventures of a central group of heroes—a group that changes slightly 
time as individual heroes come and go~—who generally work together 
complish their goals, 
7 Building 3 good Star Wars campaign is more than just stringing together 
i . ch of adventures, though. The guidelines below should help you create 


erore any other campaign-building task, you should decide the context 
M which the players can place (and play) their heroes. While this context 
Gesn't have to be obvious to the players at the beginning of the campaign 
‘indeed can change as play goes on), it greatly helps the Gamemaster 


ght well be out of place in the days of the Old Republic. A variety of 
t yew exist for the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, a few of which 


¢ Rebels plotting the overthrow of the Galactic Empire 

¢ Envoys of the Jedi Council searching for evidence of the Sith 

* Diplomats working for the Galactic Senate to foster peace and harmony 
in the galaxy 

© Representatives of the New Republic charged with hunting down rem- 
nants of the Empire 

* Private traders looking to gain wealth and influence 

¢ Members of a mercenary team willing to work for the highest bidder 


INCORPORATE INTERESTING 

GM CHARACTERS 

It's your job to portray everyone in the galaxy who isn’t one of the heroes. 
These people are all your characters, running the gamut from the feisty Jawa 
who sold the heroes their astromech droid to the foul Sith Lord out to destroy 
the Rebellion, or the Hutt crime lord holed up in the Tatooine desert. 

Most people go about their own lives, oblivious to the actions of the 
heroes and the events around them. Ordinary people whom they meet in a 
spaceport won't notice them as being different from anyone else unless the 
heroes do something to draw attention. In short, the rest of the galaxy doesn't 
know the heroes are, in fact, heroes. It either treats them no differently from 
anyone else, gives them no special breaks (or special penalties), or gives them 
no special attention whatsoever. The heroes have to rely on their own actions. 
If they are wise and kind, they make friends and garner respect. If they are 
foolish or unruly, they make enemies and earn the enmity of all. 

As you run your campaign, you need to portray all sorts of characters. Use 
the following tips for creating and controlling interesting characters, 


Villains and Opponents 

Villains and opponents provide an outlet for play that is unique to being a 
GM. Running the foes of the heroes is one of your main tasks, and one of 
the most fun responsibilities. When creating opponents for the heroes, keep 
the following in mind. 

Plausible Villains: Flesh out enemies. Give a fair amount of thought 
toward why enemies are doing what they do, why they are where they are, 
and how they interact with all things around them, If you think of them as 
just bad guys for the heroes to defeat, so will your players. 

Intelligent Villains: Make the enemies as smart and resourceful as they 
really would be—no more, no less. An average Trandoshan might not be the 
best strategist, but Hutts are very intelligent and usually have schemes and 
contingency plans. 

Fallible Villains: Villains don't know everything, and even smart villains 
sometimes leap to the wrong conclusions. Avoid the temptation to make 
your villains omniscient, and let the heroes surprise them once in a while. 
it'll make your villains seem more realistic and help the players feel like they 
have the advantage from time to time. 


Lackeys: Give your major villains underlings, employees, bodyquards, 
and other lackeys whenever possible, At the same time, don't deny the 
heroes the satisfaction of eventually having the opportunity to defeat the 
major villain, 


Allies 

Most allies provide assistance to the heroes in the form of information, 
resources, or safe places to hide from the Empire. These allies may be friends, 
relatives, schoo! chums, former coworkers, or anyone the heroes have met 
during their adventures, The Gamemaster should pian such characters in as 
much detail as necessary for the campaign. At the very least, a name, spe- 
cies, and personality should be included in the GM's notes. Allies will have 
attitudes of friendly or helpful toward the heroes. 

On rare occasions, heroes may have allies who will join them on their 
missions. This is most useful when the group of heroes is small or doesn’t 
cover the requisite skills for an adventure. Either the GM or one of the 
players can run this type of GM character. Be careful not to overuse them, 
because you don't want the players (and their heroes) to become reliant 
on them, 


BUILD ON CAMPAIGN EVENTS 

Once you've finished setting up the campaign, don't think your work is done. 
Without a living, reactive environment, even the most exciting context will 
become stale. Use what's come before and prepare for what's still coming. 
That's what makes a campaign different from a series of unrelated adven- 
tures. Some strategies for maintaining a campaign by building on the past 
include using recurring characters, having the heroes form relationships 
beyond the immediate adventure, changing what the heroes know, hitting 
them where it hurts, preparing the heroes for the future, and foreshadowing 
coming events. 

Recurring Characters: While this includes Tarnree, the bartender who's 
there each time the heroes visit Mos Eisley, it extends to other characters 
as well, The mysterious stranger they saw in a back alley of Coruscant reap- 
pears on Naboo, revealing his identity and original intentions. The rogue 
officer responsible for inciting mutiny returns, this time with a pirate crew 
at his command. The other Jedi the heroes beat out for a prime position 
as Council Envoy shows up again, after he has turned to the dark side, The 
scoundrel who helped the heroes free the princess returns just in time for 
a climactic battle. Overused recurring characters can make things seem 
artificial, but when you reuse existing characters judiciously, it not only 
lends realism, but also reminds heroes of their own past, reaffirming their 
place in the campaign. 

Deep Relationships: The heroes make friends with a local bartender and 
visit him every time they are in town, just to hear another of his jokes. A hero 
falls in love with a princess, and eventually, they marry. Old Yaris, a retired 
soldier, looks upon the heroes as the children he never had, The Gungans of 


Otoh Gunga deliver a present to the heres every year on the anr 
the characters’ heroic victory over a battle droid army. These relat 
flesh out a campaign, ; 

Change What the Heroes Know: The Senator of Corulag is re 
usurper. The once-dangerous trade routes are safe now, hawleste tO ir 
patrols. A powerful group of corsairs defeats most of the a inthe 
Change a few details that you have already established. You estab) 
what the players know now and what they knew before more firm 
minds. They'll also be intrigued to know why things changed. 

Hit Them Where They Hurt: If a hero makes friends with the barte 
at the spaceport, then rule that his son was among those kidna 
the Imperiais attacked. If the heroes really enjoy visiting Mos Esta: 
Espa in the path of the worst sandstorm in memory. Don't c 
the heroes will never grow attached to anything for fear that it will pu 
thing in danger. This strategy works as a powerful motivator weal 
moderation. 

Foreshadowing: If you know that later in the campaign you want to} 
an order of Dark Jedi rise up from secrecy and begin hunting Jedi, fos 
that event beforehand, Have the heroes hear rumors about Dark Jedi, 9 
see evidence of them on an unrelated adventure long before they 
and destroy Jedi, It will make the later adventure much more me 
Threading information into previous adventures while hinting at future 
helps weave a campaign into a whole. 


HAZARDS 
A hazard includes any effect that can cause harm but does not hav 
stat block. Most hazards are self-contained dangers that affect | 
or anything that comes into contact with them. A scorching dese 
toxic or corrosive atmosphere, and a virulent disease are all 
of hazards. 

Hazards affect organic creatures, machines, or both. A hazard re 
its effects by making an attack roll against one of the accel 
scores; if the attack succeeds, the target suffers the effects of the haz 
including damage that may require specia! actions to treat. A nazar dm 
affect all targets within an area or a single target, depending on its na 
and its range. 


ACID 
Corrosive acid deals damage on contact. a 
Acid (CL 2): When a target comes into contact with acid, make an att 
roll (1d20+5) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack s 
the character takes 2d6 points of acid damage. If the attack misses 
target takes half damage that round, This attack occurs again each 
until the acid is washed off or treated (requiring a DC 15 Treat Injury ¢ 
and a medical kit), 


ATMOSPHERIC HAZARDS 
Atmospheric hazards cannot be avoided, although gear can sometimes 
protect 3 character from them. Atmospheric hazards are not considered 
area effects 

Corrosive Atmosphere (CL 4): A corrosive atmosphere has chemicals 
that can eat away at everything from armor to organic flesh. Each round a 
character is exposed to a corrosive atmosphere, make an attack roll (1d20+5) 
against the character's Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the char- 
acter takes 2d6 points of acid damage. If the attack misses, the character 
takes half damage that round, 

Toxic Atmosphere (CL 6): A toxic atmosphere is filled with chemicals 
that harm most living beings. Each round a creature is exposed to a toxic 
atmasohere, make an attack roll {1d20+5) against the character's Fortitude 


Defense. If the attack succeeds, the creature takes 1d6 points of damage 
and moves -1 persistent step on the condition track (see Conditions, page 
148). If the attack misses, the creature takes half damage that round and 
does not move down the condition track. 

Vacuum (CL 8): When a creature is exposed to vacuum, make an attack 
roll {1d20+20) against the character's Fortitude Defense. If the attack suc- 
ceeds, the creature takes 1d6 points of damage and moves -2 steps down 
the condition track. If the attack fails, the creature takes no damage but 
moves -1 step down the condition track. The target cannot move back up 
the condition track until it is returned to a breathable atmosphere. A crea- 
ture knocked unconscious by exposure to a vacuum automatically takes a 
cumulative 1d6 points of damage each round (that is, 106 the first round, 
2d6 the second, 3d6 the third, and so on). If this damage ever exceeds the 
creature’s damage threshold, it dies. 


Alix Hate yreo 


KS) 


“wy 


FelJLS7nis) 


J 


Br 


BLINDNESS 

A blinded creature can't see and takes a -2 penalty to Reflex Defense, loses 
its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense (if any), moves at half speed, and takes 
a -5 penalty on Perception checks. All opponents are considered to have 
total concealment (page 156) to the blinded creature. All checks and actions 
that rely on vision (such as reading) fail automatically. 


CRUSHING HAZARDS 

Some hazards, such as hydraulic walls or doors, can deal continual crushing 
damage to anyone or anything trapped inside. Crushing hazards require 
no attack roll as long as the target is completely encompassed by the 
hazard. 

Trash Compactor (CL 10): The powerful hydraulic walls of a trash 
compactor normally take 10 rounds to close. Any creature inside the trash 
compactor once it closes completely takes 10d6 points of damage per round 
(no attack roll required). After 5 rounds, the walls retract, taking 10 rounds 
to open fully. 


DISEASE 

Diseases are viruses and other organisms that attack the immune systems of 
living creatures. Disease hazards always attack the Fortitude Defense of a 
target, ignoring equipment bonuses to Fortitude Defense, damage reduction, 
and shield rating. They cause persistent conditions if they move you down the 
condition track (see Conditions, page 148). The persistent condition cannot 
be removed until the disease is cured (see Treat Injury skill, page 74) or until 
the disease fails its attack roll against you twice. Unlike other hazards, some 
diseases may require special equipment or medicine to treat.Diseases affect 
only living creatures; droids and vehicles are immune. Airborne diseases are 
considered atmospheric hazards. 

Cardooine Chills (CL 2): The first time a character is exposed to the Car- 
dooine chills, make an attack roll (1d20+2) against the character's Fortitude 
Defense. If the attack succeeds, the character takes 106 points of damage 
and moves -1 persistent step down the condition track (see Conditions, page 
148), This attack occurs again each day the disease remains untreated, Treat- 
ing the disease requires a successful DC 15 Treat Injury check, 

Krytos Virus (CL 5): The Krytos virus is a bioengineered disease pro- 
duced by the Empire. The first time a creature is exposed to the Krytos 
virus, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against its Fortitude Defense. Apply a 
-5 penalty to the attack roll if the target is Human. If the attack succeeds, 
the creature takes 2d6 points of damage and moves -1 persistent step down 
the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). This attack occurs again 
each day the disease remains untreated. Treating the disease requires a 
successful DC 20 Treat Injury check. Using a bacta tank reduces the Treat 
Injury DC to 15. 


EXTREME TEMPERATURES 
The blistering desert of Tatooine or the chill winds of Hoth can ; 
overcome even the toughest heroes, and creatures ill-equipped 
such conditions quickly succumb to heatstroke or hypothermia 
temperatures are not considered area effects. 

Extreme Heat or Cold (CL 4): Each hour a creature is expec 
extreme heat or cold, make an attack roll (1d20+5) against the c 
Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the character takes 
of damage from heatstroke or hypothermia and moves -1 persis 
down the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). If the attack mi: 
character takes half damage and does not move down the conditio 
Heavy clothing or armor provides a +5 equipment bonus to your 
Defense to resist extreme cold but imposes a -5 penalty to your Fortit 
Defense to resist extreme heat. 

A creature suffering from heatstroke or hypothermia cannot re 
points or improve its condition until it spends at least 1 hour in a. 
environment, 


FALLING OBYECTS 
Just as creatures take damage when they fall, so too do they take dam 
when hit by falling objects. When a creature could be hit by a falling 
make an attack roll (using the attack bonus listed in Table 14-2 
from Falling Objects) against the target's Reflex Defense. If the atta 
ceeds, the target takes the listed damage. If the attack misses, the tar 
takes half damage. This is considered an area attack. Objects of Fine 
Diminutive size are too small to deal damage, regardless of the di 
fallen. A falling object must land wholly or partly in a creature's fi 
space to damage the creature. 
The GM may adjust the damage depending on the circumstan 
example, a Colossal object might be extremely light (such as ag 


ATTACK 


OBJECT — EXAMPLEDS) BONUS a CHEC! 


Tay) 3 datapad 

Small Blaster rifle - 

Medium Locker, heavy armor 40246. 
Large Speeder bike +2 406 
Huge -Landspeeder +5 
Gargantuan Starfighter +10 


Colossai AT-AT +20 


nger balloon). Objects that are forced downward (such as a piston 
tn a droid factory or a closing door) deal damage as if they were two 
size categories larger than they actually are. Additionally, if the target is 
it least three size categories smaller than the falling object, the target 
a ot move unless it succeeds on a Strength check to lift the object off 
‘itself (see Table 14-2 for the Strength check DC) or a DC 15 Acrobatics 


” 


‘check to crawl out from underneath, The GM can modify the DCs for 
either check based on the circumstances; for example, a character might 
find herself trapped under an object that has openings or gaps that allow 
to wriggle free. 


FIRE 

‘A creature or character that takes fire damage also catches on fire. For 
ach round that a creature is on fire, make an attack roll (1d20+5) against 
the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds the target takes 1d6 
ints of fire damage; if the attack fails, the target takes only half damage. 
A Character can put out the flames as a full-round action. 


POISON 

In Attack of the Clones, Zam Wesell attempts to assassinate Senator Padmé 
Amidala using poisonous centipedelike creatures called kouhuns. Later, Zam 
self is slain by a poisoned Kamino saberdart. In The Phantom Menace, 
idians pump poisonous gas into the conference room of their 
de Federation battleship in a vain attempt to dispatch Qui-Gon Jinn and 
an Kenobi. 

Poison hazards are toxins that can be ingested, inhaled, or contracted 
contact. They always attack the Fortitude Defense of a target, 
: 9 €quipment bonuses to Fortitude Defense, damage reduction, and 
Meld rating. They cause persistent conditions if they move you down the 
ition track (see Conditions, page 148). The persistent condition cannot be 
d until the poison is cured (see Treat Injury skill, page 74) or until the 
fails its attack roll against you once. Contact poisons can be applied 


to weapons; when a poisoned weapon damages the target, the poison then 
makes its attack against the target's Fortitude Defense, 

Acreature that dies from poison damage can be revived (see the revivify 
ability of the Treat Injury skill, page 74). However, reviving a creature doesn't 
remove the poison from its system; the poison must be treated separately. 

A character wearing a functional breath mask (see page 136) is immune 
to inhaled poisons, including toxic gases and atmospheres. Poisons affect 
only living creatures; droids and vehicles are immune. 

Dioxis (CL 8): Dioxis is an inhaled gas. Each round a living creature is 
exposed to dioxis, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against the target's Forti- 
tude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the target takes 4d6 points of damage 
and moves ~1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). If 
the attack fails, the target takes only half damage and doesn't move down 
the condition track. The poison attacks each round until cured with a suc- 
cessful DC 25 Treat Injury check. 

Knockout Drops (CL 2): When a creature ingests knockout drops, make 
an attack roll (1d20+5) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack 
succeeds, the target takes moves —1 step along the condition track. The 
poison attacks each round until cured with a successful DC 15 Treat Injury 
check. 

Paralytic Poison (CL 5): When a living creature is injected with a para- 
lytic poison, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against the target's Fortitude 
Defense. If the attack succeeds, the target moves -1 step along the condi- 
tion track. A target moved to the end of the condition track by the poison 
is immobilized, but not unconscious. The poison attacks each round until 
cured with a successful DC 15 Treat Injury check. 


RADIATION 

Radiation hazards always attack the Fortitude Defense of a target, ignore 
damage reduction and shield rating, and cause persistent conditions if they 
move you down the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). The persistent 
condition cannot be removed until the radiation is cured (see Treat Injury 
skill, page 74). 


RADIATION ATTACK RADIATION TREAT INJURY 
TYPE BONUS DAMAGE DC 
Moderate (CL 4) +2 4d6 20 
Extreme (CL 10) +10 8d6 30 


"yay 
+ 


*T ee 
fowtor omen hore 


- 
rin 


Wr. 


Each round a creature is exposed to a harmful dose of radiation, make an 
attack roll (1420 + the radiation's attack bonus) against the taraet’s Fortitude 
Defense. If the attack fails, the target shrugs off the radiation and suffers 
none of its effects. IF the result hits, the target moves the -1 persistent step 
along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148) and takes an amount 
of radiation damage based on the radiation’s strength, as shown in Table 
14-3: Radiation. The Treat Injury check DC to heal this radiation damage is 
dependent on the classification of the radiation. 

A creature that dies from radiation exposure can be revived (see the 
revivify ability of the Treat Injury skill, page 74). However, reviving a crea- 
ture doesn't remove the radiation from its system; the radiation must be 
treated separately. 


SMOKE 
Characters breathing heavy smoke, ash, or other toxic gases are subject to 
smoke hazards. Each round a character is exposed to a smoke hazard, make 
an attack roll (1d20+5) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack 
succeeds, the target takes 1d6 points of damage and moves -1 step down 
the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). If the attack fails, the target 
takes half damage and does not move down the condition track. 

Smoke grants concealment to characters within it (see Concealment, 
page 156). Smoke is an atmospheric hazard. 


Traps and Security Systems 

Military bases, criminal hideouts, and other facilities often have security 
systems in place to deter intruders. The Detention Block of the Death Star 
is an example of a location laden with traps designed to halt unauthorized 
incursions. 

Set Explosive (CL 2 or 5): A set explosive usually takes the form of 
detonite or an explosive charge (see Explosives, page 130). When a set explo- 
sive detonates, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against the Reflex Defense 
of every creature and object in its blast radius, (Any creature or object to 
which the explosive is attached is hit automatically.) If the attack succeeds, 


the creature or object takes full damage. If the attack misses, 
or object takes half damage. This is considered an area effect, 
CL 2 hazard; an explosive charge is a CL 5 hazard. 
Blaster Turret (CL 2): This robotic blaster turret is usually mous 
a section of floor, wall, or ceiling, It has the range of a pistol, can fire | 
direction, and has the following trained skills: Initiative +5, Pe: 
It is equipped with darkvision (page 257) and makes one attack 
against the closest target within its line of sight. Make an attack ral 
against the target's Reflex Defense. If the attack succeeds, the ta 
306 points of energy damage; on a miss, the target takes no dama 
Blaster Rifle Turret (CL 3): The blaster rifle turret is a 
variant of the blaster turret. It is statistically identical to its . 
except as noted here. It has the range of a rifle and can fire eithe 
shots or switch to autofire mode (see Autofire, page 156). It deals 3d8 poy 
of energy damage with each successful attack. a 


GRAVITY 
The force that gravity exerts on a person determines how they 7 
cally as well as their ability to perform certain actions. In addition, gri 
affects the amount of damage a character takes from falling. 
Gravity conditions may vary considerably from one environ 
next. However, for ease of play, the Star Wars Roleplaying Game 
four simplified gravity environments: normal gravity (0.8 to 1. 
gravity (0.1 to 0.8 g), high gravity (more than 1.2 q), and zero g 
than 0.1 g). The following sections summarize the game effects fi 
type of environment. j 


NORMAL GRAVITY 
Normal gravity imposes no special modifiers on a character's ability se 
attack rolls, or skill checks. Likewise, normal gravity does not mi 
creature's speed, carrying capacity, or the amount of damage it 
a fall. 


LOW-GRAVITY ENVIRONMENT! 
In a low-gravity environment, it becomes easier to move and lift h 
objects as well as perform Strength-related tasks. In addition, you take 
damage from falling. ; 
Speed: Your speed increases by one-quarter [round down to ne 
square, minimum 1). This bonus applies to all of your modes of moveme 
Carrying Capacity: Your normal carrying capacity is doubled. In 
you gain a +2 bonus on any Strength check made to lift or move aM 
unsecured object. 
Skill Check Bonuses: You gain a +2 circumstance bonus on 
based skill checks (including Climb, Jump, and Swim checks). 


Attack Roll Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on attack rolls unless you 
native to low-gravity environments or have the Spacehound talent (see 
page 47). 

Damage from Falling: Roll d4s instead of d6s when calculating falling 
damage (see Falling Damage, page 255). 


HIGH-GRAVITY ENVIRONMENTS 
Ina high-gravity environment, the pull of gravity is significantly greater than 
a|, Although an object's mass doesn't change, it becomes effectively 
1 ¢: vier. It becomes harder to move and carry heavy objects as well as perform 
Strength-related tasks. In addition, you take more damage from falling. Even 
the simple task of walking or lifting one's arms feels more laborious. 
q Speed: Your speed decreases to three-quarters normal (round down to 
nearest square, minimum 1 square). This penalty applies to all modes 
of movement. 
Carrying Capacity: Your normal carrying capacity is halved. In addition, 
‘you take a -2 penalty on any Strength check made to lift or move a heavy 
“unsecured object. 
Skill Check Penalties: You take 2 -2 penalty on Strength-based skill 
checks including Climb, Jump, and Swim checks). 
Attack Roll Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on attack rolls unless you 
ar fe native to high-gravity environments or you have the Spacehound talent 
page 47). 
9 te from Falling: Roll d8s instead of d6és when calculating falling 
ge {see Falling Damage, page 255). 


ERO-GRAVITY ENVIRONMENTS 
in a zero-gravity environment can move enormously heavy objects. 
As movement i in zero gravity requires only the ability to grab onto or push 
from larger objects, Climb and Jump checks no longer apply, 

a Most creatures find zero-gravity environments disorienting, taking 
Cnalties on their attack rolls and suffering the effects of space sickness. 
addition, creatures in zero gravity are easier to bull rush than in other 
vity environments, 
Space Sickness: When a living creature is exposed to weightlessness, 
an heap roll (1d20+0) against its Fortitude Defense. If the attack 
s, the character moves —1 persistent step down the condition track 
ions, page 148). This persistent condition cannot be removed 
@ DC 20 Treat injury check, or after eight hours, whichever comes 
attack recurs after 8 hours but does not recur again after that, 
eS with the Spacehound talent (see page 47) and droids do not suffer 
ts of space sickness. 
d= in a zero-gravity environment, a creature gains a fly speed equal 
se land speed, or it retains its natural fly speed (whichever is greater), 
+ Movement is limited to straight lines only; a creature can change 
uFSe Only by pushing away from larger objects (such as bulkheads). 


Carrying Capacity: Your normal carrying capacity increases by 10 times 
in azero-gravity environment. In addition, you gain a +10 circumstance bonus 
on any Strength check made to lift or move a heavy unsecured object. 

Attack Roll Penalty; You take a -5 penalty on attack rolls and skill checks 
while operating in a zero-qravity environment unless you are native to that 
environment or have the Spacehound talent (see page 47). 

Long-Term Exposure: Long-term exposure to zero-gravity conditions 
can cause Serious problems when returning to normal gravity, A creature that 
spends 120 hours or more in a zero-gravity environment moves -2 persistent 
steps down the condition track upon returning to normal gravity. These steps 
down the condition track cannot be removed unless the character spends at 
feast 24 hours in normal gravity. 


VISIBILITY 


It's a rare mission that doesn't end up in the dark somewhere, and heroes 
need a way to see. See Table 14-4: Light Sources for the radius that a light 
source illuminates and how long it lasts. A light source also provides shadowy 
illumination out to twice this distance; targets within shadowy illumination 
gain concealment (see page 156), but they are visible. Without a light source, 
heroes are effectively blinded {see Blindness, page 254). 


DARKVISION 

A creature or droid that has this ability can see in the dark, ignoring conceal- 
ment and total concealment due to darkness. Darkvision is black and white only, 
so there must be at least some light to discern colors. It is otherwise like normal 
sight, and a creature with darkvision can function with no light at all. 


LOW-LIGHT VISION 

A creature or droid that has low-light vision can see without penalty in 
shadowy illumination, ignoring concealment (but not total concealment) 
due to darkness. It retains the ability to distinguish color and detail under 
these conditions. 


DURATION 


Torch 3 squares 2 hours 


Glow rod 3 squares* 6 hours 
* Creates a beam 6 squares long and 1 square high. 


CHAPTER XY 
ERAS OF PLAy 


Te T"NN . 
the Gamemaster, you are free to set your an Worscampaign i in an any time 
od. However, the core rulebook focuses on three eras in particular: the 
of the Empire era, the Rebellion era, and The New Jedi Order era. The 
nation presented in this chapter is intended to give you enough of a 
op to comfortably set adventures in any of these eras. 
Rise of the Empire era represents a time of political unrest: the slow 
Dlution and ultimate demise of the Old Republic, the rise to power of 
Shancellor Palpatine, and the Clone Wars. Specifically, it’s the years around 
"Star Wars Episode |: The Phantom Menace, Episode Il: Attack of the Clones, 
ind Episode Ill: Revenge of the Sith, 
The Rebellion era cavers the time of the Galactic Civil War, as depicted 
in Episode IV: A New Hope, Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back, and Episode 
Vi: Return of the Jedi. 

Finally, The New Jedi Order era is set twenty-five years after A New Hope. 
The New Republic has been established, and Luke Skywalker's Jedi Knights are 
growing stronger. This era begins with the costly Yuuzhan se Mes! which 
reshapes much of the politics of the galaxy. This is the time p 
in the Del Rey novel series, 
Other Star Wars ras. 


nee eS 


ceo Oar 
tae 


AX BELAY HO 


SE OF THE 


Ee M = IRE ERA || 
22 to 32 Years before A New Hope 

A campaign set in this era focuses on the slow decline and corruption of 
the Republic. As The Phantom Menace comes to an end, the future for the | 
galaxy looks bright. The charismatic and popular Palpatine has been elected 
as Supreme Chancellor, the Trade Federation has seemingly been dismantled, 
and the Jedi Knights are at their peak of power and influence. However, there's 
a sinister shadow creeping across the galaxy. The vile Sith have returned. 
Crime is on the rise. Politicians continue to bicker and look after their own 
petty interests. Nothing is what it seems. 

The Phantom Menoce unfolds with a galaxy torn asunder by strife, hatred, 
and greed, Led by a charismatic Separatist named Count Dooku, thousands of 
worlds have broken away from the Republic. This “confederacy of independent 
systems” wants to free itself from the yoke of the corrupt Senate, unaware 
that their galactic insurrection could spell the rise of an even greater evil. 

As war foments and erupts between the Republic and the Separatists, 
plenty of opportunities for adventure present themselves. Heroes working for 
the Supreme Chancellor, the Jedi Council, or Count Dooku might undertake 
assignments to stem the tide of decay that grows stronger with every passing 
year. Remember that no matter what you or your players might think they 
know about Chancellor Palpatine, most people living in this era consider 


SRGRRBRRRR ERE REE 


Palpatine a good, fair leader and the best hope of the Republic. His true 
machinations have yet to reveal themselves Similarly, Count Dooku seems 


to Nave the dest interes 


t galaxy at heart. Under his august leadership, 
Ne SEEKS a Galaxy restored to order and prosperity. No one suspects that this 


former Jedi Master has fallen to the dark side of the Force 


During the era, all species are equal. For every Human senator, there 


aien species on the Senate. Some species from 


the later eras haven't been encountered yet (such as Ewoks), 


fe many more 


and some have made only cursor ¥ visits to the galaxy (such 
as the advance scouts from the Yuuzhan Vong). The order 


f the Jedi Knights is held together by the Jedi 


-ouncil, 
and some ten thousand K nights roam the galaxy as the 
defenders of the Republic. Many more Force-sensi- 
tive beings train in Jedi academies throughout 
the Republic, each hoping to be selected as a 
Padawan learner. Those who aren't selected 


Or advanced training use the skills they 


have acquired to help the Republic in 


some 


other way, Some, for example, become 
farmers in the Agri-Corps or healers in 
tne Medi Corps 
Corrupt officials, various cnminals 
evil Corporations, assassins, petty 
wariords, and dark Jedi abound in this 
time frame. New worlds still await 
discovery, and new alien species are 


encounterec 


ail the time. Any of 


S Can Det 


these top 


ome the seeds 


} adventures. Remember 
also that the Jedi Council wants 
to learn more about the new 
Sith menace. From its chamber 
igh atop the Jedi Temple in 
Coruscant, the capital world of 
the Republic, the Jedi Council 
quietly directs key memoders 
of the Jedi order to investi- 
jate incidents that might 
somenow dé tied to the Sith 
Although the Sith started 
a5 an empire controlied 
by corrupt Jedi, eventu- 
ally Darth Bane altered 
the nature of the Sith 
forever. He dictated the 


rule of the new Sith 


DARTH Vaper 


porters include Dark Lord Darth Vader, 


and assassins. The 


restricted, 


Admirals command the vast 


We 


ers Capable of pulling ships 


order; There could be only two Sith at any time. am 


aster 
and an apprentice. This doesn't 


mit the number of 
followers and lackeys the Sith could utilize 


jUSt the 
number of actual Sith 


n Revenge of the Sith, Chancellor Palpatine reveals 
to Anakin Skywalker that he is, in fact. the Sith Lord 
Darth Sidious. By this time, he has already lost twa 
apprentices (Darth Maul and D 


the Jedi. However, he creates 


th Tyranus) batt! ng 


an apparent crisis that 


encourages the senators the Republic to vote 


mim permanent powers, making him emperor of the 


Ws 


axy. Darth Sidious strikes down the Jedi with } 
new cione troop 


ooper army and takes Anakin Skywa ker 


as his new Sith apprentice, Darth Vader. His vict 


ori 


nearly complete, [ 


Sart 


a path to hunt down the remaining Jedi while he 


sweeps away the last vestiges of the Old Republic 


Heroes of this time m ght be Jedi on the run of 


ging members of what will eventually become 
he Rebel Alliance 


THE 


REBELLION 
ERA 
(0 to 5 Years after A New Hope) 

The Emperor rules with an iron will. His key Sup- 
Moffs and 


Grand Moffs of varying degrees of power and influence, 


tary commanders, and a variety of secret police, spies, 


of the Imperial Security 


Bureau (the ISB) scour the galaxy for traitors and Rebels. 


tv 


The once-great Jedi Order has been eliminated, and only 
a handful of Force-sensitive individuals remain hiding 
out-of-the-v 


working for the Emperor's New O 


planets—other than those darksiders 


ler 


The Senate has been disbanded. The HoloNet has been 


" Rep 23 
he Core worids have been effectively cut oF 


Ena 
from the rest of the galaxy. Alderaan, a world of peace 


and influence, has been destroyed. The Emperor's Grand 


mperial military machine, and 


hundreds of worlds have been tasked with keeping that 
machine going—no matter what the cost. New weapons 
of war appear regularly, from modified stormtrooper 1 


lkers, TIE fighters to Star Destroyers. Interdictor CrUle 


of hyperspace are Seeing 


wider use. No starship, private or otherwise, is safe from Imperial inspection, 
and hoardings occur on a regular basis, 

Heroes in this era prabably work for the Rebel Alliance. They can be part 
ofa Rebel cell, attached directly to Alliance High Command, or independents 
drawn to the Alliance’s cause. In addition to the Empire, opponents in this 
include crime lords, smugglers, bounty hunters, and traitors to the 
Alliance. It's up to the heroes to help turn the tide of Imperial domination. 


THE NEw JEDI ORDER 


ERA 

(25 Years after A New Hope) 

In this era the New Republic is in place, although 2 small Imperial remnant 
maintains control of a portion of the galaxy. The Jedi, on the rise again thanks 
to the efforts of Luke Skywalker, are at a crossroads, Some members of the 
order, which numbers about one hundred individuals, want to take a more 
= and deliberate role in galactic affairs. Skywalker, meanwhile, is strug- 
with whether or not he wants to reestablish the Jedi Council. Rash Jedi 
e led New Republic officials to be wary of the Knights and suspicious of 
thei true motives, Indeed, this leads to varying degrees of mistrust and even 
fear in the general populace, many of whom still remember the Emperor's 
anti-Jedi rhetoric from years before, 

_ The first galaxy-wide threat in the New Jedi order era is the Yuuzhan Vong 
nvasion. It begins with Nom Anor, a spy who sows additional seeds of discord 


ree 


its 


hroughout the galaxy. His efforts give rise to antitechnology cults dedicated to 
a he destruction of i innocent droids. Masking his true identity, he recruits ia 


Mor, however, is only the beginning of the Yuuzhan Vong threat. 

The Yuuzhan Vong are humanoids that follow a religion of pain and nature. 
They hate machines of all kinds, using instead living technology that they 
Nave bioengincered to serve as ships, weapons, and tools, These fierce, holy 

| Seek to conquer the galaxy and bring their faith to the infidels wha 
larly make use of unclean machines. Their invasion begins on far-flung 
is such as Belkadan and Helska, but they quickly widen their hold on key 
irs of the Outer Rim and Mid Rim, terraforming worlds to produce the 

Coral and other living materials that serve as their ships and weapons. 
Jedi learn, to their horror, that this intractable new enemy cannot be 
through the Force. The Jedi, former guardians of peace, become the 
prey of the Yuuzhan Vong, Meanwhile, the extragalactic intruders 
their reientiess advance toward the Core, crushing any force that 
#Fes stand in their way. A few worlds surrender without a fight, while those 

fesist are rendered uninhabitable, In time Coruscant itself falls, signaling 
Heath of the New Republic. 
tually the Yuuzhan Vong discover their history may not be as they 
it, when the living planet Zonama Sekot came to Coruscant and fought 
vely against the Yuuzhan Vong, “welcoming home it’s true inhabit- 


ants." The new Galactic Federation of Free Alliances (Galactic Alliance) allows 
the Yuuzhan Vong to surrender and take Zonama Sekot as their homeworld. 
While not all Yuuzhan Vong accept this, the primary threat of the Yuuzhan 
Vong ends as Zonama Sekot flies into hyperspace to seek a new home for 
the Yuuzhan Vong in the Unknown Regions. 

Though the war is over, many threats still exist. Some Yuuzhan Vong and 
their cults still fight against technological civilization, The Galactic Alliance 
has to rebuild the galaxy. And the New Jedi Order seeks out threats to peace 
and justice, 


MAIN CHARACTERS 


The following section describes the main protagonists from the Star Wars 
feature films. 


*|I FIND YOUR 
LACK OF FAITFI 
DISTURBING.” 


—- DARTH VADER 


ANAKIN SKYWALKER 

(DARTH VADER) 

Anakin Skywalker’s destiny and the fate of the entire galaxy are linked 
inexorably. After being freed by Qui-Gon Jinn, Anakin studies the ways of the 
Jedi under Obi-Wan Kenobi, but he allows feelings of anger, fear, and hate 
to enslave him. The death of his mother and visions of Padmé’s death drive 
him to seek out the wisdom offered by a Sith Lord. In pursuing the power 
necessary to preserve Padme’s life, Anakin becomes death incarnate. 

As Darth Vader, he uses the power of the dark side of the Force to betray 
and murder his fellow Jedi and enslave the galaxy. Over two decades later, 
his son Luke—now a Jedi himself—ieads Anakin back to the light. He finds 
redemption in his sacrifice, bringing balance to the Force by ending the 
tyranny of the Emperor and the Sith. 


Darth Vader (Episode IV) CL 19 

Medium Hurnan Jedi 7/Jedi Knight S/ace pilot 2/Sith apprentice 2/Sith 
Lord 3 

Destiny 3; Force 8, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 14 

Init +17; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

La Basic, Binary, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 39 (flat-footed 36), Fort 36, Will 33; Block, Deflect 

hp 181; Threshold 36 


Immune fear effects, atmospheric and inhaled poison hazards 

Weakness life support 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +22 (2d8+17) or 

Melee lightsaber +20 (3d8+17) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +17/+17 (248+17) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +15/+15 (3d8+17) with Double Attack and 
Rapid Strike 

Ranged by weapon +20 

Base Atk +17; Grp +20 

Atk Options Double Attack, Rapid Strike, Severing 
Strike 

Special Actions Djem So, Redirect Shot, 
temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): 
forseeing, Force disorm, Force grip, Force 
slam, Force thrust, move object, negate 
energy, rebuke, surge 

Force Secrets Distant Power, Multitarget 
Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, 
Improved Move Light Object, Improved Sense 
Force 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 16, Con 17, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Special Qualities life support 

Talents Armored Defense, Block, Dark Side Adept, Deflect, 
Djem So, Force Pilot, Improved Armored Defense, Redirect 
Shot, Severing Strike, Vehicular Evasion, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Double Attack 
(lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Rapid 
Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force}, Strong in the Force, 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency {lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +17, Mechanics +16, Pilot +17, Use the 
Force +17 (may reroll when using {dark side] Force powers) 

Possessions custom armor (treat as armored flight suit with 
helmet package; modified, +8 armor bonus), lightsaber 


(self-built), cybernetic prosthetics (4, both arms and legs), Sith 


robes, utility belt with medpac 

Life Support—Due to injuries sustained on Mustafar, Darth 
Vader is completely dependent on the life support 
granted by his armor or by special sealed chambers 
designed specifically for him. Without this special life 


support, Vader begins to suffocate (see Hold Breath, page 66). 


OBI-WAN KENOBI! 

A student of Yoda and Qui-Gon Jinn, Obi-Wan 
exemplifies all that is noble and heroic about the Jedi, 
Padawan, he defeats Darth Maul after the Sith Lord strikes, 

Qui-Gon Jinn. Later, he is promoted to the rank of Jedi Knig 
given the responsibility to train Anakin Skywalker, then just a 
Over the next thirteen years, even into the Clone Wars, the two Je 
become more than student and teacher—they became the trues 
of friends. [ 
As a general in the Clone Wars, Obi-Wan survives his clone 
assassination attempt when Palpatine issues Order 66, and in: 
Jedi Temple he sees horrible evidence of Anakin's fall to the¢ 
side. Despite the crushing pain it causes him, Obi-Wan fa 
Anakin (now Darth Vader) on Mustafar, ultimately fe: 
the new Sith apprentice half-dead by a river of lava. Obie 
Wan, together with Yoda and Bail Organa, arranges to ride 
Anakin and Padme’s newborn twins. Almost two decades 

later, Obi-Wan Kenobi comes out of the Tatooine des: 
on one last desperate mission, realizing his destiny toc nce 
more face his old apprentice. 


Obi-Wan Kenobi (Episode III) CL 14 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight SjJedi Master 2 
Destiny 2; Force 7 
Init +15; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic, Shyriiwook 
Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27), Fort 29, Will 29; 
Block, Deflect, Soresu 
hp 129; Threshold 29 
Immune fear effects 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +20 (2¢8+13) or 
Melee lightsaber +15/+15 (2d8+13) with 
Double Attack 
Ranged by weapon +16 
Base Atk +14; Grp +17 
Atk Options Double Attack, Severing Strike 
Special Actions Combat Reflexes, Equilibrium, 
Redirect Shot, serenity 
Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): 
farseeing, Force slam (2), mind trick (2), 
move object, rebuke, surge, vital transfer 
Force Secrets Quicken Power 
Force Techniques Force Point Recovery (2h 
Improved Move Light Object 


Oe-Wan Kenog 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 15 
Talents Block, Deflect, Equilibrium, Greater Weapon Focus [lightsabers), 
Redirect Shot, Severing Strike, Soresu, Weapon Specialization 


(lightsabers} 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Combat Reflexes, Double Attack 
(fightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Skill Focus (Use 
the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +15, Initiative +15, Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink (encrypted), Jedi robes, utility 
belt with medcpac 


PADME AMIDALA 

Once the youngest elected Queen of the planet Naboo, Padmé Amidala later 
becomes the senator for her homeworld. Throughout her political career, she 
remains a tireless champion of democracy and diplomacy, fighting until the 
end to prevent Supreme Chancellor Palpatine from creating the Grand Army 
of the Republic and later transforming the government into the Galactic 
Empire. Her efforts to coordinate dissidents ultimately lead to the formation 
of the Rebel Alliance. 

Padme falls in love with Anakin Skywalker when he is assigned to protect 
her at the outset of the Clone Wars. They are married secretly and keep their 
relationship hidden, even when she becomes pregnant, After Anakin falls 
to the dark side, she confronts him with tragic consequences, Though she 
Survives her injuries, her destiny is realized when she trades her life for the 


lives of her newborn twins 


Senator Padmé Amidala (Episode III) CL 10 

Medium Human noble 10 

Destiny 2; Force 5, Strong in the Force 

Init +12; Senses Perception +18 

Languages Basic, Gran, Gungan, High Galactic, Mon Calamarian, Rodese 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22}, Fort 22, Will 26 a - 

hp 59; Threshold 22 

Speed G squares _ 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+5) 

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +9 (3d4+5) or 

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +4/+4 (3d4+5) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +7: Grp +9 

Atk Options Double Attack, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate +1 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 18 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust, Wanted Alive, Wealth 

Feats Double Attack (pistols), Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, Gather Information, 


Knowledge [bureaucracy], Perception, Persuasion}, Strong in the Force, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +19, Initiative +12, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +17, Knowledge (calactic lore) +12, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +12, Perception +18, Persuasion +19 

Possessions sporting blaster pistol, comlink, senatorial wardrobe, 
astromech droid (R2-D2) 


LUKE SKYWALKER 

A farm boy on the remote desert world of Tatooine, young Luke Skywalker 
never dreamt that his destiny would shape the fate of the entire galaxy 
He studies under Obi-Wan Kenobi, destroys the Death Star over Yavin, and 


becomes a Jedi Knight with Master Yoda's quidance. He goes on to redeem 


Senator Paomé AmiO aca 


PTY YYTYT{YLTIITITIT TL 


Ax Baiavwen 


U 


his father, Anakin Skywalker (now Darth Vader), helping to end the reign 
af the Empire 

In the decades that follow, Luke helps to build the fledgling New Republic, 
founds the Jedi Praxeum on Yavin 4, raises a new order of Jedi, and fights 
back the menace of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion 
Luke Skywalker (Episode VI) CL 11 
Medium Human scout 1/Jedi 7/ace pilot 2/Jedi Knight 1 
Destiny 2; Force 5, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 3 
Init +13; Senses Perception +12 
Languages Basic, Huttese, Shyriiwook 


Luke SKYWwALKEeR 


Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 23), Fort’25, Will 25; Block, Deflect, 
hp 99; Threshold 25 


Evasion 


Speed 6 squares a 

Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+11) or 

Melee lightsaber +9/+10 (2d8+11) with Double Attack 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +12 

Atk Options Double Attack, Severing Strike 

Special Actions Melee Defense Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): mind trick, move object, surge 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Talents Block, Deflect, Evasion, Redirect Shot, Severing Strike, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Me te 
Defense, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the Force, Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers}, Weapon 


Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +13, Ride +13, 
Survival +12, Use the Force +16 

Possessions blaster pistol, lightsaber (self-built), cybernetic prosthesis (1, 
right hang), flight suit, robes, utility belt with medpac 


LEIA ORGANA 

As the Senator of Alderaan, Leia Organa secretly serves the Rebel Alliance, 
determined to bring down the tyranny and injustice that her adopted father 
(and her late mother) had fought so hard to destroy. Leia is instrumental In 
every turning point of the Galactic Civil War, and her influence shapes te 
government of the New Republic, particularly after she becomes the Chief 
of State in the wake of Mon Mothma’s retirement. Over time, Leia becomes 
increasingly devoted to the Jedi tradition, until finally she begins to ive 9? 
to the legacy of the Skywalker name. 
Leia Organa (Episode VI) CL 10 
Medium Human noble 8/soldier 2 

Destiny 2; Force 5, Strong in the Force 

Init +12; Senses Perception +18 


Languages Basic, Bothan, High Galactic, Mon Calamarian, Shyriiwook, 


Ubese 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 23, Will 24 
hp 63 Threshold 23 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+6) 

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +10 (3d4+5) or 

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +5/+5 (3d4+5) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Deadeye, Double Attack, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Inspire Confidence, Rally 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Talents Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Inspire Confidence, Rally, Weapon 
Specialization (pistols) 

Feats Deadeye, Double Attack, Linquist, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 
Skill Focus (Deception, Knowledge [tactics], Perception, Persuasion), 
Strong in the Force, Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +18, Gather Information +13, Knowledge 


(bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (garactic lore) +12, Knowledge 


(tactics) +17, Initiative +12, Perception +17, Persuasion +18 
Possessions sporting blaster pistol, datapad, utility belt with medpac, 


Rebel uniform 


HAN SOLO 


Once an Imperial officer discharged for saving the life of a Wookiee slave 


lo goes on to become one of the best pilots and smugglers in the 
galaxy, One lost shipment of spice, however, leads to a debt to Jabba the 
Hutt that Han can't repay, and his shady past comes back to haunt him on 
Cloud City after the Battle of Hoth. Still, his friends manage to free Han from 
the clutches of the Hutt gangster, and Han leads the Rebel commando team 
Wat destroys the shield generator on Endor 

Years later, Han and Leia are married and have children, all of whom grow 
tO be Jedi studying under their Uncle Luke. When the Yuuzhan Vong invade 
ihe galaxy, Han's suffers one loss after another, beginning with the deaths 
of Chewbacca and, later, his youngest son, Anakin Solo. Even after the end 
of the war, Han's personal pain continues as he watches the Galactic Alliance 
and his native Corellia square off... and the fear of losing his only remaining 
son to the dark side begins to grow 


Han Solo (Episode VI) CL 12 
Medium Human scoundrel 5/soldier 2/ace pilot 3/qunslinger 2 

Destiny 2; Force 6 

Init +18: Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Rodese, Shyriiwook 


Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 26), Fort 25, Will 24 

hp 77; Threshold 25 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+7) 

Ranged heavy biaster pistol +14 (3d8+6) 

Ranged heavy biaster pistol +12 (4d8+6) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +9; Grp +11 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Sneak 
Attack +1d6, Trigger Work 

Special Actions Ful! Throttle, Quick Draw, Stellar Warrior 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 14 


HAN BOLO 42ND LBA ORGDANA 


~< 


: 
> 
v 
4 
n 
iD 


Ut 


LSD 


=] > 


Talents Full Throttie, Keep It Together, Sneak Attack +106, Spacehound, 
Stellar Warrior, Trigger Work, Weapon Specialization (pistols) 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus 
(Initiative, Pilot}, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (pistols, heavy 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Initiative +18, Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, 
Mechanics +13, Perception +12, Pilot +18 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol with targeting scope, tool kit, modified 
YT-1300 transport (Millennium Falcon) 


SUPPORTING 
CHARACTERS 


The following section presents sample supporting characters from the Star 
Wars feature films. 


CHEWBACCA 

The mighty Chewbacca fights in the Clone Wars to defend the Republic, 
working closely with Jedi Master Yoda. When the Jedi are destroyed by 
the traitorous clone army, Chewbacca decides he is no longer interested in 
fighting for the Republic. After a brutal battle, he is captured by the Empire 
and rescued by a young Imperial officer named Han Solo. Moved by Solo’s 
courage, Chewbacca decides that he owes Solo a life debt. He promptly 
attaches himself to Han Solo and follows him everywhere, becoming Solo's 
closest friend and sometimes conscience 


Chewbacca (Episode Vi) 

Medium Wookiee scout 6/scoundrel 4 

Destiny 2; Force 5 

Init +6; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic (understand only), Huttese (understand only), 
Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 27, Will 21 

hp 110; Threshold 27; extraordinary recuperation 


CL 10 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d6+9) or 

Melee unarmed +15 (1d6+14) with Powerful Charge 

Ranged bawcaster +8 (3d10+5) or 

Ranged bowcaster +6 (4d10+5) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +7; Grp +11 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Crush, Deadeye, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Powerful 
Charge, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions rage 2/day 

Abilities Str 19, Dex 13, Con 20, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 10 


Talents Acute Senses, Extreme Effort; Jury-Riqger, Spacehound, Stellar 
Warrior 

Feats Careful Shot, Crush, Deadeye, Extra Rage, Martial Arts |, Pin, Point 
Blank Shot, Powerful Charge, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Ski Training 
(Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +5 (may take 10 when distracted), Endurance +10, 
Mechanics +10 (may reroll when making jury-rigged repair), 
Perception +10 (treat range as one category less), Persuasion 45 (may 
reroll attempts to intimidate), Pilot +10, Use Computer +10 (may reroll 
and keep better result when plotting hyperspace jump) 

Possessions bowcaster, bandolier, tool kit 


CHeweaacc® 


LANDO CALRISSIAN 

A gambler, smuggler, con artist, opportunist, and all-around scoundrel, 

Lando Calrissian considers himself more of an entrepreneur than a criminal. 

Although his capital sometimes comes from questionable sources, Lando 

almost always puts it into more or less legitimate operations, with the sole 

purpose of turning it into even more capital, He is nothing if not ambitious— 

though sometimes his ambition gets the better of him, 

Lando Calrissian (Episode VI) cL8 

Medium Human scoundrel 8 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 1 

Init +6; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Shyriiwook, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 19, Will 20; Dodge, Mobility 

hp 50; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares; Running Attack 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pisto! +9 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +4/+4 (3d6+4) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Double Attack, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Fool's Luck, Fortune's Favor, Gambier 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 16 

Talents Dastardly Strike, Fool's Luck, Fortune's Favor, Gambler 

Feats Dodge, Double Attack, Mobility, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, 
Skill Focus (Deception), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +17, Gather Information +12, Mechanics +11, 
Perception +10, Persuasion +12, Pilot +11 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, expensive clothes 


R2-D2 

At first glance, R2-D2 seems an unassuming astromech droid, typical of his 
_ Séries. But Artoo is unusual in that he has a unique personality quirk: cour- 
age, Artoo demonstrates his bravery again and again, taking the typical R2 
unit's helpfulness to an unheard-of extreme. 

Although he serves faithfully, Artoo does so in the manner he feels is 
best—which doesn't always coincide with the instructions given to him. In 
addition to being innovative and resourceful, he is often absolutely right 
sbout the best course of action. 


R2-D2 (Episode VI) 

‘Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2/scoundrel 6 
Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +6 


CL6 


Languages Basic, Binary, Huttese, Mon Calamarian, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 16, Will 18; Dodge, Mobility 

hp 34; Threshold 16 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 4 squares (wheeled), 1 square (walking), 6 squares (flying) 

Melee electroshock probe +10 (1d8+3 ion) 

Ranged by weapon +14 

Base Atk +5; Grp +3 

Special Actions Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Gimmick 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16, Wis 10, Cha 7 

Talents Gimmick, Master Slicer, Trace 

Feats Dodge, improved Defenses, Melee Defense, Mobility, Point 
Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Mechanics, Use Computer), Skill Training 
(Perception), Toughness, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +7, Mechanics +17, Perception +9, Pilot +12, Use 
Computer +15 (may reroll and keep better result when improving 
access to a computer) 

Systems wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, flying locomotion 
(limited), magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 6 tool appendages, | claw 
appendage, diagnostics package, internal storage (2 kg) 

Possessions circular saw, electroshock probe, fire extinguisher, electric arc 
welder, holorecorder, holoprojector 


c-3P0 

The gleaming golden protocol droid C-3P0 is typical of his model: outspoken, 

fussy, and even a bit high-strung. But since these qualities hardly interfere 

with his work, his personality quirks are mostly tolerated. Threepio is unusual 

in that he was not manufactured by Cybot Galactica, like most protocol 

droids. He was, in fact, assembled from spare parts by young Anakin Sky- 

walker on the remote planet of Tatooine. Still, Threepio meets all the safety 

and performance standards of the original manufacturer, so he has managed 

to serve several masters adequately. 

C-3PO (Episode VI) CL5 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1/nobie 5 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init -1; Senses Perception +0 

Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Bothan, High Galactic, Huttese, Mon 
Calamarian, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 19 

hp 26; Threshold 15 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 


: 


Se) 12) SVE) 


Melee unarmed +2 (1d3+1) 

Ranged by weapon +2 

Base Atk +3; Grp +2 

Special Actions Coordinate +2 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 9, Con —, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Talents Coordinate (2), Educated 

Feats Improved Defenses, Linguist (2), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill 
Training (Deception, Knowledge (bureaucracy), Knowledge [galactic 
lore], Perception), Toughness 

Skills Deception +11, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +9, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +9, Knowledge (social sciences) +9, Perception +9, 
Persuasion +16 

Systems walking locomotion, standard processor, transtator unit (DC 5), 2 
hand appendages, vocabulator 

Possessions audio recorder 


YODA 

The wizened Jedi Master Yoda is a living legend to the Jedi order, the per- 
sonification of its ideals. He is nearly $00 years old when Senator Palpatine 
is elected Supreme Chancellor of the Republic. Yoda plays a significant 
part in the events surrounding the start of the Clone Wars. He forges close 
friendships with the Wookiees during the war and spends much of his time 
away from Coruscant. He escapes the destruction and death caused by 
Order 66, and when the Jedi order is destroyed, Yoda retreats into hiding 
on Dagobah to await the day he will be needed to help restore balance to 
the Force. To that end, Yoda trains Luke Skywalker in the ways of the Jedi 
and helps prepare him to confront Darth Vader and the Emperor. This task 
complete, Yoda finally succumbs to age and, like so many Jedi before him, 
becomes one with the Force. 
Yoda (Episode II!) CL 20 
Small Jedi 8/Jedi Knight 7/Jedi Master 5 

Destiny 4; Force 8, Strong in the Force 

Init +18; Senses Use the Force +24 

Languages Basic, Cerean, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 37 (flat-footed 34), Fort 33, Will 38; Block, Deflect 

hp 174; Threshold 33 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +25 (2d8+16) or 

Melee lightsaber +24/+24 (2d8+16) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +29/+29/+29 (2d8+16) with Triple Attack 

Ranged by weapon +23 

Base Atk +20; Grp +14 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack, Triple Attack 


Special Actions Redirect Shot, serenity, Skilled Advisor 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +24): battle strike (2), 
Force disarm, Force slam (2), Force thrust, mind trick (2), 
(2), negate energy, rebuke (3), surge (2), vital transfer 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power, 
Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force, Force Point Recovery (2) 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 21, Cha 19 

Talents Ataru, Block, Deflect, Force Perception, Foresight, Multiattack — 
Proficiency (lightsabers x2), Redirect Shot, Severing Strike, Skilled 
Advisor, Visions 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), 
Running Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Acrobatics). 
Strong in the Force, Triple Attack, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus _ 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +18, Initiative +18 (may spend a Force Point to reroll 
and keep better result), Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Knowledge 
(tactics) +17, Use the Force +24 (may substitute for Perception checks) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), cane, Jedi robes ' 


forseeing, — 


move object. 


EMPEROR PALPATINE 

(DARTH Sipious) 

Possessed of the boundless power of the Force and adept in the ways of 
the dark side, the Emperor is one of the most dangerous and evil Humans 
in galactic history. The Emperor began his career of evil so subtly that 
outward change evidenced the darkness in his heart. Those who encounte 
him considered him a kindly fellow, perhaps even a bit outclassed by the 
and magnitude of the political arena into which he had been thrust when 
became a senator, But even then he was scheming, forging alliances with 
influential figures in the Senate and the great learning centers. 

Ten years after he is elected Supreme Chancellor of the Senate, Palpatine 
sways Count Dooku to the dark side and uses him to found the Confederacy 
of Independent Systems. The ensuing conflict between the Republic and 
Separatists enables Palpatine to trick the Senate into forming the E 
and voting him in as Emperor. Following the death of Dooku, he secures 
service of Anakin Skywalker as his new apprentice, using him as a foil aga! 
the Jedi and the Separatists. His master stroke is the secret Order 66, with 
which he orders the clone troopers, programmed to obey him, to betray and 
assassinate the Jedi. 

With the resources of a million worlds at his disposal and an 
supply of political malcontents to serve as slave labor, the Emperor bul 
great engines of destruction to ensure his domination of the galaxy. 1N& 
greatest of these weapons is the planet-destroying Death Star. To 0 . 
its construction and deployment, the Emperor turns to his new apprent! $f 
Darth Vader. Although the Emperor foresees the return of the Jedi Knights 
in the form of Luke Skywalker, he can't foresee (or won't accept) the impact 


that young Skywalker will have on Darth Vader—or the ultimate betrayal that Force Powers Known (Use the Force +24): dark rage, farseeing, Force 

vould soell the Empire's door disarm, Force lightning (4), Force slam, Force thrust, move object (3), 
rebuke (2), surge (3), vital transter 

Emperor Palpatine (Episode III) CL 20 Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power 

Medium Human noble 6/Jedi 1/Sith apprentice 8/Sith Lord 5 Quicken Power 

Destiny 4; Force 8; Dark Side 20 Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move Light Object 


Init +16; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings; Use the Force +24 mproved Sense Force, Improved Sense Surroundings 


Languages Basic, Bothan, Geonosian, Gran, High Galactic, Neimoidian, Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 18, Wis 20, Cha 19 


Rodese, Ryl, Sith, Zabrak Talents Block, Connections, Dark Scourge, Dark Side Adept, Deflect, Force 
Defenses Ref 35 (flat-footed 33), Fort 34, Will 38; Block, Deflect Perception, Multiattack Proficiency (lightsabers x2), Redirect Shot, 
hp 132; Threshold 34 Visions, Wealth 
Immune fear effects Feats Double Attack, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Linguist 
Speed 6 &( jae ‘ Melee Defense, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Triple Attack, Trip! it 
Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+10/x3) or (lightsabers}, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers 
Melee lightsaber +20/+20 (2d8+10/> “k or pistols, simple weapons], Whirlwind Attack 
Melee lightsaber +15/+15/+15 (2d8+10/x3) with Triple Attack Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +19, Initiative +16, Knowledge 
Ranged by weapon +20 (oureaucracy) +19, Knowledge (galactic lore} +19, Knowledge 
Base Atk +18; Grp +2 lsocial sciences) +19, Knowledae (tactics) +19, Persuasion +19, Use 
Atk Options Dark Scourge, Double Attack, Melee Defense, Triple Attack Computer +19, Use the Force +24 (may reroll when using /dark side! 

Whirlwind Attack Force powers, may substitute for Perception checks) 


Special Actions Redirect Shot, temptation Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Sith robes, comlink (encrypted) 


Tee Eercanon 


U 


BOoOsBA FETT 


The most feared bounty hunter of his time, Boba Fett racks up an unheard-of 


number of successf 


ul bounties that earns him a reputation as a force to be 
reckoned with. His name fills outlaws and criminals with dread. Boba Fett 
seems bereft of conscience. It means nothing to him to accept help from 


someone, then minutes later turn that person in for a bounty 


Boba Fett (Episode IV) CL 15 
Medium scout 3/soldier 5/bounty hunter 5/elite trooper 2 
Destiny 3; Force 6; Dark Side 7 

Init +16; Senses low-light vision; Perception +16 


Languages Basic, Huttese, Mando’a 


Defenses Ref 34 [flat-footed 32), Fort 33, Will 2 
hp 122; DR 1; Threshold 33 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares (jetpack); Running Attack 
Melee unarmed +16 (1d6+9} 

Ranged blaster carbine +18 (3d8+7) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +15/+15 (3d8+7) with Double Attack or 


Ranged grenade launcher +18 (4d6+7, stun, 2-square burst) or 
Ranged flamethrower +18 (3d 


Boea Ferr 


Ranged missile launcher +18 (6d6+7, 2~Square spiash) or 

Ranged stun grenade +18 (4d6+7, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged whipcord +18 (grab) 

Base Atk +14; Grp +18 

Atk Options Double Attack, Hunter's Mark, Keen Shot, Point Blank Shor 
Precise Shot 

Special Actions familiar foe +2, Hunter's Target, Quick Draw 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 18, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 13 “a 
Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target 
Improved Armored Defense, Juggernaut, Keen Shot, Multiattack 


Proficiency (rifles), Notorious 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack, Exotic Wear 
Proficiency (flamethrower), Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Quick Draw, Running Attack, Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +14, Initiative +16, Knowledge (tactics) +14, 
Perception +16, Persuasion +8 (may reroll and keep better result when 
intimidating), Pilot +16, Stealth +11, Survival +14 

Possessions Mandalorian armor (+8 armor, 42 


equipment; as battle armor with helmet 


package; 4 weapon attachments], blaster 


carbine with mounted grenade launcher, 4 stun grenades, Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+15) and 

flamethrower (5 shots), missile launcher, 4 missiles, lightsaber +11 (2d8+15) and 

whipcord (treat as net), blaster gauntlet (treat as lightsaber +11 (2d8415) with Double Attack and 

hold-out blaster), jet pack (10 charges), utility belt with lightsaber +11 (2d8+15) with Triple Attack 

medpac Ranged heavy blaster pistol +17 (3d8+7) 

Base Atk +13; Grp +19 

Atk Options Double Attack, Dual Weapon Mastery, 
Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Triple Attack 


GENERAL GRIEVOUS 
General Grievous learned the art of war as a Kaleesh 
warlord fighting against the Huk species. That war 
ended when the Jedi Council decreed the Huks to 
be the victims of Kaleesh aggression and made the 


Outmaneuver, Tough as Nails 

Kaleesh people pay for their actions. Angered by Cha 14 

Special Qualities command cover +2, share talent 

(Outmaneuver) 

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, 
Deployment Tactics, Greater Weapon Focus 


the Jedi order, Grievous is further embittered when 
he barely survives a shuttle crash. His broken body is 
rebuilt on Geonosis, an act paid for by the InterGa- 
actic Banking Clan as a gift to their Separatist leader, 
Count Dooku 

Count Dooku trains Grievous in lightsaber duel- 
ing techniques, and Grievous proudly collects the 
lightsabers from the Jedi he defeats. Grievous has 
four metal arms and can fight with four lightsabers 
at once, making him a terrifying opponent in melee 
combat. He faces Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan 


(lightsabers), Improved Armored Defense, 
Outmaneuver, Tough as Nails, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double 
Attack [lightsabers), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dua! 
Weapon Mastery Il, Martial Arts |, Melee Defense, 
Point Blank Shot, Triple Attack (lightsabers), 
Weapon Focus [lightsabers, simple weapons}, 
Weapon Proficiency [lightsabers, pistols, rifles 
simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +8 (may take 10 when distracted, 
may reroll and keep better result), Endurance +12, 
Initiative +16, Jump +13 (may take 10 when 
distracted, may reroll and keep better result) 
Knowledge (tactics) +14, Perception +14 

Survival +7 (may reroll and keep better result in 
hot or arid environments) 
Systems walking locomotion, climbing claws, 
jump servos, 6 hand appendages (legs may 

be used as hands), unique armor (+8 armor) 

improved sensor package, darkvision 

Possessions 4 lightsabers, heavy blaster pistol, 


Kenobi during the Battle of Coruscant but manages 
to elude them. He is not so fortunate when he fights 
against Obi-Wan on Utapau, dying at the end of an 
epic confrontation. 


General Grievous CL 14 

Medium Kaleesh (cyborg) soldier 8/elite trooper 
3/officer 3 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 10 

Init +16; Senses darkvision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Kaleesh, Muun, Geonosian 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27), Fort 28, Will 28 

hp 101; DR 1; Threshold 28 

Immune atmospheric and inhaled poison hazards 

Weakness vulnerable to ion damage and stunning effects 


Speed 8 squares, climb 4 squares cloak 
Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+21) or 
Melee lightsaber +19 (2d8+15) and 
lightsaber +19 (2d8+15) 
Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+15) and 
lightsaber +14 (2d8+15) and 
lightsaber +14 (2d8+15) with Double Attack 
or 


Grievous may use any type of droid system 
except a processor. His cyborg chassis includes @ 
life support system, making him immune to atmospheric 
and inhaled poison hazards. 


Centre. Grievous 


Special Actions Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics, 


Abilities Str 22, Dex 19, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 10, 


Cyborg Hybrid—As 2 cyborg hybrid, General 


tar Wars universe is home to a dizzying array of sapient species. Despite 
ct that Humans have been traveling the stars for tens of thousands 
and many aliens have been doing the same for an equal amount of 
juts discover new inhabited worlds all the time. 

apter presents various creatures and characters that GMs can use 
| allies or adversaries for the heroes, from rampaging rancors to 
yopers, Each ally or opponent comes with ready-to-play statistics 
the GM's job a little easier, 


BEASTS 
| animals and other nonsentient life forms have levels in the beast class (a 
 nonheroic class). In the Stor Wars universe, beasts are usually encountered 
as threats (such as acklays, rancors, and wampas) or as mounts (such as 

dewbacks and tauntauns). 

Beasts have an Intelligence of 1 or 2. They roll their other five ability 
scores normally {see Chapter 1: Abilities). Beasts that show above average 
cunning usually have a good Wisdom score. 

Beasts increase only one ability score by one point every fourth level 
(instead of increasing two scores by one point éach), However, they gain 
feats normally as they advance in level, as shown in Table 3-1: Experience 
and Level-Dependent Benefits (page 37). A beast that gains an Intelligence 

higher as a result of an ability increase is eligible to multiclass (see 
s8ing, below). 
; do not gain talents or starting feats, do not add their beast 
class level to their defense scores, and do not gain Force Points or Destiny 
Points. 


EXAMPLES OF BEASTS IN 
STAR WARS 
Acklay, dewback, nexu, rancor, reek, tauntaun, wampa. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Beasts have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, beasts gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


Force Points 
Beasts do not gain Force Points. 


IA &SLewHO 


BASE ATTACK BASE ATTACK 

LEVEL BONUS LEVEL BONUS 
PS a are ee ee 
2nd +) 12th +9 
FS See ee 
4th +3 14th +10 
RESELL ee See) 
6th +4 16th +12 
SISO RSs BEE a 

+6 18th +13 
PT Sa a ae, Se 

+7 20th +15 


Class Skills (trained in 1 + Int modifier, minimum 1): Acrobatics, Climb, 
Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Perception, Stealth, Survival, Swim. 


CLASS FEATURES 
Beasts gain the following class features at Ist level. 


ABILITY SIZE MODIFIER 
BEAST SIZE MODIFIERS' TO REF DEFENSE 
Gargantuan +24 Str, +24 Con, -4 Dex -5 
Huge +16 Str, +16 Con, -4 Dex 2 
Large +8 Str, +8 Con, -2 Dex -1 
Small -2 Str, +2 Dex +1 
Tiny ~4Str, +4 Dex #2 
Diminutive ~6 Str, +6 Dex +5 
Fine -8 Str, +8 Dex +10 


1 An ability score can never be lower than 1. 
2 Beasts with four or more legs double their carrying capacity. 


Natural Armor 4 

Many beasts have thick hides or scales that grant a natural armor 
to their Reflex Defense. The amount of natural armor varies from c 
to creature. A beast's natural armor bonus is never higher than its 
class level. 


Natural Weapons 
A beast has one or more natural weapon attacks (see below). It applies its 
Strength bonus on melee attack rolls made with natura! weapons and its 
Dexterity bonus on ranged attack rolls made with natural weapons. Ifa beast 
has two or more natural eeapons, it may make attacks with all of them at 
no penalty when using the full attack action. 

A beast gains a bonus on damage rolls made with its natural weapons 
equal to one-half its beast class level, rounded down. A beast is proficient 
with its own natural weapons, but not with any other weapon group. 

The most common natural weapon attacks for beasts are summarized 
here: 

Bite: A bite attack deals an amount of piercing damage determined by 
the beast's size: Fine, 1; Diminutive, 1d2; Tiny, 1d3; Small, 1d4; Medium, 1d6;_ 
Large, 1d8; Huge, 266; Gargantuan, 346; Colossal, 4d6. 

Claw: A claw attack deals an amount of slashing damage determined by 
the beast's size: Fine or Diminutive, 1; Tiny, 142; Small, 143; Medium, 14) 
Large, 1d6; Huge, 148; Gargantuan, 246; Colossal, 3d6, 

Gore: The creature impales opponents with a horn or antler, dealing 
an amount of piercing damage determined by the beast’s size: Fine, 1) 
Diminutive, 1d2; Tiny, 1d3; Small, 1d4; Medium, 1d6; Large, 1d8; Huge, 206; 
Gargantuan, 3d6; Colossal, 406. 


SIZE MODIFIER SIZEBONUSTO CARRYING 
TO STEALTH DMGTHRESHOLD CAPACITY’ HEIGHT OR LENGTH 

-20 +50 x20 19.3 mormore 
-15 +20 x10 9,7 to 19.2 m 

-10 +10 x5 49t096m 
-5 +5 x2 2.5 to4.8m 

ig Le x1 13to24m 
+5 = 0.75 0.7 to 1.2m ( 
+10 = x0.5 O4to06m 
+15 - «0.25 0.2 %00.3m 

$20 S x001  Olmoriess 


Slam: The creature batters opponents with an appendage, dealing 
an amount bludgeoning damage determined by the beast’s size: Fine or 
Diminutive, 1; Tiny, 142; Small, 1d3; Medium, 104; Large, 1d6; Huge, 148; 
Gargantuan, 2d6; Colossal, 3d6. 

Sting: A sting deals piercing damage and may also inject a poison (see 
Poison, page 255). Sting damage is determined by the beast'’s size: Fine or 
Diminutive, 1; Tiny, 142; Small, 1d3; Medium, 1d4; Large, 1d6; Huge, 148; 
Gargantuan, 2d6; Colossal, 346. 


Species Traits 
Some beasts have adapted to living in extreme environments and gain special 
bonuses and traits, as summarized below: 

Airborne: May reroll Initiative checks but must keep the second result, 
even if it's worse, 

Aquatic: Can't drown in water and doesn't need to make Swim checks; 
low-light vision (see page 257). 

Arctic: May reroll Survival checks made to endure extreme cold, keeping 
the better result. 

Desert: May reroll Survival checks made to endure extreme heat, keeping 
the better result. 

Subterranean: May reroll Perception checks but must keep the second 
result, even if it's worse; darkvision (see page 257), 


MULTICLASSING 

A beast with an Intelligence of 3 or higher can multiclass into any heroic 
class (see Chapter 3: Heroic Classes). Beasts with an Intelligence of 1 or 2 
cannot multiclass. 


Size MODIFIER 
A beast applies a size modifier to its Reflex Defense and Stealth checks 
based on its size. A beast of Large size or bigger also gains a size 

bonus to its damage threshold. Table 16-2: Beast Size Modifiers 
Summarizes this information. 


BEAST 
DESCRIPTIONS 


This section contains sample beasts from the Star Wars 
feature films. Each description includes statistics for a 
typical member of the species. 


ACKLAY 
The most dangerous predator native to Geonosis is the savage acklay, a 
monstrous arthropod with an armored exoskeleton and slashing foreclaws. 


Acklay CL 10 
Huge beast 11 
Init +9; Senses Perception +10 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 19, Will 10 
hp 148; Threshold 29 
Immune mild, moderate, and severe radiation 
Speed 8 squares 
Melee 2 claws +11* (148418) and 
bite +11° (2d6+18) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 
Base Atk +8; Grp +26 
Abilities Str 27, Dex 9, Con 29, Int 2, Wis 11, Cha 11 
Feats Cleave, Power Attack, Skill Training (Initiative, Perception) 
Skills Climb +18, Initiative +9, Perception +10 
* Includes 5 points of Power Attack 


DEWBACK 

Of all the creatures indigenous to Tatooine's vast deserts, the dewback is 
the most respected. While the plodding bantha makes for shelter at the first 
hint of a sandstorm, a dewback marches resolutely on without so much as 
a grunt, even right through the heart of the storm. 


ACKLAY 


> 
; 


IAX SSicvHD 


Lal 


siav 


IA Sst 


Dewback CL2 
Large desert beast 3 

Init +0; Senses Perception +0 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 18, Will 9 
hp 43; Threshold 28 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee bite +6 (1d8+5) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +11 

Abilities Str 19, Dex 8, Con 26, Int 1, Wis 8, Cha 3 
Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Toughness 
Skills Survival +5 


NeEexu 

Native to the jungles of Indona and Cholganna, the nexu is a fierce, stealthy 
predator with little fear of larger opponents, or even the weapons of sentient 
beings. Hunted for sport on their native planet, nexu often turn the tables 
on their would-be hunters and slash them to ribbons before they can fire 
a shat. 


Nexu CL5 

Medium beast 6 

Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 13, Will 12 

hp 45; Threshold 13 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +8 (104+7) and 
bite +8 (1d6+7) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach | square 

Base Atk +4; Grp +8 

Atk Options ambush +2d6, Pin 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 18, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Feats Pin, Skill Training (Initiative, Perception) 

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +10, Stealth +12 

Ambush—A nexu deals +2d6 points of damage with its natural weapons 
against a flat-footed opponent. 


RANCOR 

While there are certainly larger and more vicious creatures in the galaxy, the 
rancor holds a special place in the nightmares of countless sentient creatures. 
Creatures of vast rage and single-minded carnage, rancors are periodically 
captured by big game hunters and shipped to new worlds as exotic pets. 


Rancor ' Cis 

Huge beast 12 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 8 

hp 138; fast healing 5; Threshold 36 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +11° (1d8+20) or 

Melee bite +11" (2d6+20) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +9; Grp +27 

Atk Options Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 26, Dex 9, Con 23, Int 2, Wis 7, Cha 15 

Special Qualities fast healing 5 

Feats Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack, Toughness 

Skills Perception +9 

Fast Healing 5—A rancor automatically regains 5 hit points every round 
at the end of its turn, up to its normal maximum, until it is killed, 

" Includes 6 points of Power Attack 


REEK 

Reeks wander the plains of Ylesia in great herds, contentedly munching on 
grass and lichens. Although immensely strong, they generally reserve their 
violent behavior for the mating season, when the sound of two bull reeks 
fighting for dominance rumbles like thunder across the plains. 

When a reek attacks, it lowers its head, charges, and attempts to gore 
with its large horn. Should the initial attack miss, the reek flails its head 
about blindly, hoping to chase away its prey so that it can attempt another 
charge. 


Reek cL8 
Huge beast 8 

Init +3; Senses Perception +3 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 20, Will 9 
hp 124; Threshold 30 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee gore +10° (2d6+16) or 

Melee gore +12° (2d6+20) with Powerful Charge 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +24 

Atk Options Power Attack, Powerful Charge 
Special Actions rage 

Abilities Str 27, Dex 8, Con 30, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 2 
Feats Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Toughness 


Skills Endurance +20 - 


Rage—The first time a reek takes damage greater than its Will Defense 
From a single attack, it flies into a terrible rage. While enraged, the 
reek temporarily gains a +2 rage bonus on melee attack rolls and melee 
damage rolls, The reek's fit of rage lasts for a number of rounds equal 
to 5 + its Constitution modifier. At the end of its rage, the reek moves 
-1 persistent step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). 
The penalties imposed by this condition persist until the reek takes at 
least 10 minutes to recuperate, during which time it can't engage in 
any strenuous activity. A reek can be pulled out of its enraged state by 
making it friendly (see the Persuasion skill, page 71). 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack 


TAUNTAUN 

Dirty and smelly, the reptilian tauntaun is perfectly suited to life on the 
barren ice world of Hoth. The tauntaun’s thick fur and layers of fat keep its 
body temperature high enough for it to operate during the day, but it must 
seek shelter from the bitter cold at night. 


Tauntaun CL 1 
Large arctic beast 2 

Init +2; Senses scent; Perception +0 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 13, Will $ 
hp 17; Threshold 18 

Speed & squares 

Melee claw +5 (1d6+5) or 

Melee bite +5 (1d8+5) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp +10 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 12, Con 16, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 6 
Feats Toughness 

Skills Survival +5 


Scent—Tauntauns ignore concealment and cover when making Perception 
checks to notice opponents within 10 squares, and they take no penalty 
from poor visibility when tracking (see the Survival skill, page 73). 


WAMPA 

The wampa is a fearsome predator, both aggressive and subtle. Displaying 
uncanny cunning, a wampa sometimes ventures into even heavily guarded 
areas to slaughter and drag a victim away, leaving the survivors confused, 
terrified, and ripe targets for another attack later. 

Wampas are covered in dirty white fur and move with amazing stealth. 
Only their claws, horns, and gleaming yellow eyes show up against the back- 
drop of Hoth's endless snowfields. Most of the time, especially in a raging 
Storm, that simply isn’t enough to betray the wampa's presence. 


Wampa cL 4 

Large arctic beast 5 

Init +2; Senses darkvision; Perception +2 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 16, Will 12 

hp 52; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee 2 claws +7" (1d6+8) and 
bite +7* (1d8+8) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +3; Grp +13 

Atk Options rend +2d6 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 10, Con 22, Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 10 

Feats Power Attack, Skill Training (Stealth) 

Skills Stealth +7, Survival +9 

Rend—If 2 wampa hits with both of its claw attacks in the same turn, it 
rends its opponent for an additional 2d6 points of damage. 

* Includes 1 point of Power Attack. 


NONHEROIC 
CHARACTERS 


Nonheroic characters include everything from professional workers to petty 
criminals, police officers to common thugs. They lack the inclination or train- 
ing to be heroes, but they are capable in their own fields. Skilled engineers, 
educated professors, and master architects are all nonheroic characters, 
as is the local governor, the self-serving spice merchant, and the baseline 
Imperial stormtrooper, 

Nonheroic characters do not gain talents, do not add their nonheroic class 
level to their defense scores, and do not gain Force Points or Destiny Points. 
In addition, they only get to increase one ability score by one point every 
fourth level (instead of increasing two scores by one point each). However, 
they gain feats normally as they advance in level, as shown in Table 3-1: 
Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits (page 37). 


EXAMPLES OF NONHEROIC 
CHARACTERS IN STAR WARS 
Battle droids, clone troopers, ordinary civilians, Rebel! troopers, 
stormtroopers. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Nonheroic characters have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, nonheroic characters gain 1d4 hit points + their Constitution 
modifier. 


Force Points 
Nonheroie characters do not gain Force Points. 


CLASS FEATURES 
Nonheroic characters receive no special class features other than some 
starting feats at Ist level. 


Starting Feats 
A nonheroic character gains three starting feats at 1st level, chosen from 
the following list: 

Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium), Skill Focus", Skill 
Training’, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons), Weapon Profi- 
ciency (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (pistols), Weapon Proficiency 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons). 

* This feat may be selected more than once. Each time the feat is selected, itapplies 
to a different skill (see the relevant feat description in Chapter 5: Feats). 


MULTICLASSING 
A nonheroic character can multiclass into a heroic class, The normal multi- 
classing rules apply (see Multiclass Characters, page 54). 


BASE ATTACK BASE ATTACK 

LEVEL BONUS LEVEL BONUS 
BERR Pini A hi ea 
2nd +1 12th +9 
Ce Se Sea a. 
4th +3 14th +10 
eS ae 
6th +4 16th +12 
RN Sees ST 
8th +6 18th +13 
Ee i ee i a 
10th +7 20th +15 


Class Skills (trained in 1 + Int modifier, minimum 1): Acrobatics, Climb, 
Deception, Endurance, Gather Information, Initiative, Jump, Knowledge (all 
skills, taken individually), Mechanics, Perception, Persuasion, Pilot, Stealth, 
Survival, Swim, Treat Injury, Use Computer. 


CHARACTER 


ARCHETYPES 
The following pregenerated characters are examples of typical allies an 
opponents that you can throw into an adventure or campaign, They 
resent some of the more common characters seen across the various 
Wars eras. Add personalities and histories to these archetypal cha 
as you see fit. 


CREATING NON-HUMAN 
CHARACTERS 

The statistics provided here use the Human species as the baseline (see 
Humans, page 23). If you wish to change the character's species, follow 
these simple rules: 


© Remove one of the character's feats. (Human characters gain a bonus” 
feat.) 

e Remove one of the Human's trained skills. (Human characters gain a 
bonus trained skill.) 

© Add the relevant species traits for the selected species (see Chapter 2: 
Species or Other Species, page 284). 


THE GALACTIC EMPIRE 
The Galactic Empire is a vast and highly organized government ruled over — 
by Emperor Palpatine. The Galactic Empire seized power at the end of the | 
Clone Wars following an unprecedented military build-up and the destruc- 
tion of the Jedi order. a 

The Empire is divided into sectors, each of which is governed by a Moff 
and guarded by military forces. The Empire's authority on any given world 
can range from a single garrison (found mostly on backwater planets like 
Tatooine) to an intense presence with a stormtrooper on every street corner 
(as in the Deep Core and important Core worlds). 


Stormtrooper 

Stormtroopers are the elite troops of the Empire, trained to fight and die 
without fear or question. Squads of stormtroopers strike terror into the 
hearts of civilians throughout the galaxy, enforcing the Emperor's will with 
ruthless zeal and efficiency. 

Stormtroopers are a separate force from the troops of Imperial Forces” 
and do not answer directly to Imperial military officers. They are obedient 
and devoted to the Emperor. They cannot be bribed, blackmailed, or seduced. 
Any such attempt automatically fails. 

After recognizing the need for troopers with special equipment 3nd 
training, the Emperor ordered the development of additional types of stor 
mtroopers, including (but not limited to) snowtroopers, sandtroopers, and 
scout troopers. 


Stormtrooper CL1 
Medium Human nonheroic 4 

Dark Side | 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 10 
hp 10; Threshold 12 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (id4+1) 

Ranged biaster rifle +4 (308) or 

Ranged frag grenade +3 (406, 2-square burst) 


Scout Trooper CL2 
Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Dark Side 1} 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 11, Will 10 
hp 21; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +5 (3d8) or 


Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Weapon Focus 


(blaster rifles}, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 0 
Skills Endurance +7, Perception +9 13 
Possessions stormtrooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), blaster rifle 2 

frag grenade, utility belt with medpac 2 

o¢ xt 
Heavy Stormtrooper CL 2 IS} 
Medium Human nonheroic 8 
Dark Side | 


init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 
Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 9 
hp 20 Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+2) 


Sanity 


Ns 


Ranged light repeating blaster +2 (3d8) with autofire or Y 
Ranged light repeating blaster +5 (3d8) with braced autofire or 0) 
Ranged frag grenade +6 (4d6, 2-square burst) 10, 
Base Atk +6; Grp +8 MY 
Atk Options autofire (light repeating blaster), Burst Fire, Point Blank Shot 2 J 
Special Actions brace (light repeating blaster) y 
Abilities Str 15, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 9, Cha 8 & 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Point Blank Shot, Weapon 5 


Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles, simple 
weapons} 

Skills Endurance +9, Mechanics +10, Perception +10 

Possessions stormtrooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), light repeating 
blaster, 3 explosive charges, frag grenade, utility belt with medpac 


Ranged frag grenade (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +4 

Atk Options Burst Fire 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Stealth), 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +10, Pilot +9, Stealth +9 

Possessions scout trooper armor (+4 armor; as combat jumpsuit with 
helmet package), blaster pistol, blaster rifle with standard targeting 
scope, frag grenade, utility belt with medpac, Aratech 74-Z military 
speeder bike 


Imperial Officer 

Admired, respected, and feared, the officers of the Imperial Army and Imperial 
Navy are drawn from prestigious families with long histories of military ser- 
vice. Few are promoted up from the lower ranks. Most are inducted straight 
into officer training academies, instructed in doctrine, leadership, and tactics, 
and then awarded commissions. There, if they distinguish themselves, they 
finally get a chance to rise through the upper echelons—but rarely do they 
find occasion to dirty their hands. 


Imperial Officer CL5 
Medium Human nonheroic 4/noble 3/officer 1 

Force 2; Dark Side 5 

Init +3; Senses Perception +10 


Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, High Galactic 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 14, Will 18 


hp 33; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +6 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 8, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill 
Training (Deception, Pilot), Toughness, Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +10, Persuasion 
+16, Pilot +8 

Possessions blaster pistol, code cylinder, comlink (encrypted), officer's 
uniform 


REBEL ALLIANCE 
The Rebel Alliance fights against the tyranny of the Empire in order to restore 
justice and freedom to the galaxy. Formed by loyalists such as Mon Mothma 
and Senator Bail Organa, the Rebel Alliance struggles against the Empire at 
every turn. It uses guerilla warfare and undercover violence to weaken the 
Imperial machine and help free the oppressed people of the galaxy, Though 
the Alliance sometimes engages in direct military action against the Empire, 
as seen at the Battle of Yavin or the Battle of Endor, most of the efforts of 
the Alliance take place under the guise of legitimate activity. For this reason, 
the Alliance has attracted not only freedom fighters but also outlaws, smug- 
glers, and even pirates, 

The Rebel Alliance is loosely organized into cells that can operate rela- 
tively independently of Alliance command. Each cell operates on imperial 
worlds or out of hidden bases, such as the base on Hoth. Any worlds that 
sympathize with the Alliance find themselves the targets of Imperial wrath, 
Alliance agents are always on the run from the Empire, and Rebels that are 
captured are dealt with swiftly and harshly. 


Rebel Trooper 

The basic Rebel Trooper is stationed on Rebel bases and aboard Alliance star- 
ships throughout the galaxy, serving as the first line of defense against the 
Empire's stormtroopers, They are also used as scouts and saboteurs. 


Rebel Trooper CL1 

Medium Human nonheroic 3 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Lanquages Basic 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 10; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +2 (1¢4) 

Ranged blaster pisto! +4 (3d6) or 

Ranged frag grenade +3 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +3 

Special Actions Point Blank Shot" 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot", Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +7, Perception +6" 

Possessions blast helmet and vest (+2 armor), blaster pistol, comlink 
(encrypted) 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


Elite Rebel Trooper CL 2 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12}, Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 21; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+1} 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6) or 

Ranged frag grenade +5 (406, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Special Actions Point Blank Shot" 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Can 12, Int 9, Wis 10, 
Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved 
Damage Threshold, Point Blank Shot", 
Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon \ 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Perception +8" 

Possessions blast helmet and vest (+2 
armor), blaster pistol, 2 frag grenades, 
comlink (encrypted) 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


GALACTIC 
REPUBLIC 
Consisting of thousands of 
civilized worlds, the Galactic 
Republic is the oldest gov- 
erning body in history. 
Senators from its con- 
Stituent worlds deter- 
mine policy and enact 
laws, ensuring that peace and prosperity 
reign throughout the galaxy. 

The greatest threat to the Galactic Repub- 
lic is the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a coali- 
tion of worlds that believes the Republic has become 
Corrupt. The Senate authorizes the deployment of a vast 
Clone army to quell the Separatist threat, leading to 
the Clone Wars and ending with the destruction of the 
Separatist leadership and the dissolution of the Republic 
in favor of a new Empire. 


Clone Trooper 

To counter the threat of the Trade Federation’s droid armies, the Republic 
deploys an army of cloned warriors. The clones’ creators, the Kaminoans, 
conceive the clones from a single genetic blueprint (that of the bounty hunter 
Jango Fett), making a few alterations to ensure the troopers’ rapid maturation 
and unwavering obedience. The true joyalty of the clone troopers is revealed 
at the end of the Clone Wars, when Darth Sidious issues Order 66 and turns 
the clones against the Jedi order, 

Although identical in appearance, clone troopers have different levels of 
training, which accounts for their varying levels of ability. Clone troopers 
can't be bribed, blackmailed, or seduced. Any such attempt automatically 
fails 


Clone Trooper CL2 
Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Init +9; Senses Perception +4 
Languages Basic 


A Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 13, Will 9 
»_ . Bi 


hp 21; Threshold 13 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee by weapon +5 
Ranged blaster rifle +5 (3d8+3) 
Base Atk +4; Grp +5 
Atk Options Careful Shot 
Special Actions Point Blank 
Shot 
Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, 
Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, 
Cha8 
Feats Armor Proficiency 
(light), Careful Shot, Point 
Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(simple weapons) 
Skills Initiative +9, Perception +4 
Possessions clone trooper armor 
{+6 armor, +2 equipment), 
blaster rifle, comlink 


CLONsS TROOPER 


1AxX BBidvHD | 


Clone Trooper Commander CL5 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 2/officer 1 

Force 3; Dark Side 5 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic, High Galactic 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 17, Will 17 

hp 30; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+1) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +8 (3d10+1) or 

Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6+1, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged ion grenade +7 (4d6+1 ion, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Coordinated Attack, 
Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 10, Con 10, int 13, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Talents Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot, Skill 
Training (Perception, Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +9, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +11, Persuasion 
+10, Pilot +9 

Possessions clone trooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), heavy blaster 
rifle, frag grenade, ion grenade, comlink (encrypted, long-range 
[miniaturized], holo capability), utility belt with medpac 


ARC Trooper 

The ARC Troopers (Advanced Recon Commandos) are elite clone units that 
were personally trained by Jango Fett. Whereas most clone troopers are 
trained to work as a unit, ARC Troopers function well as individuals, making 
them even more formidable as foes. 


ARC Trooper cL8 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 3/elite trooper 3 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 2 

Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Mando'a 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 24, Will 16 

hp 57; DR 1; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d4+5) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +10 (Sd10+5) with Burst Fire or 
Ranged heavy repeating blaster +10 (3d10+5) with autofire or 
Ranged missile launcher +12 (6d6+5, 2-square splash) or 


Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8+3) and 
heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged frag grenade +11 (4d6+3, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged ion grenade +11 (40643 ion, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blaster), brace (heavy repeating 
blaster), Burst Fire (heavy repeating blaster) 

Special Actions Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Armored Defense, Controlled Burst, Improved Armored Defense, 
Weapon Specialization (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery 
|, Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons} 

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +13, Stealth +10 

Possessions ARC trooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), heavy 
repeating blaster, missile launcher, 4 missiles, 2 heavy blaster pistols, 2 
frag grenades, 2 ion grenades, utility belt with medpac 


THE FRINGE 

Fringers live at the edges of society, Criminals, independents, traders, and 
mercenaries of all kinds consider themselves fringers. While not all members 
of the fringe are criminals (certainly, many are hard-working and honest 
folk), anyone who operates far from the seat of galactic power or outside 
the bounds of the law can be considered part of the fringe. 


Assassin 

An assassin usually maintains a cover that enables him to travel freely, yet 
also explains why he's in a given location at a given time. Many assassins - 
hold jobs as merchants, sales representatives for interstellar corporations, or 
diplomats. A truly villainous assassin has a “signature” consisting of a unique 
weapon, a particular approach, or some memento left with his victims. 


Assassin CLS: 
Medium Human scoundrel 5 

Force 1; Dark Side 12 

Init +10; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic plus 2 other languages 
Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 17), Fort 14, Will 17 


hp 27; Threshold 14 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +6 (2d6+2) or 

Melee vibroblade +4 (3d6+2) with Rapid Strike 
Ranged blaster rifle +6 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +6 


Atk Options Careful Shot", Dastardly Strike, Rapid Strike, Sneak Attack 
+2d6 

Special Actions Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 8, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Talents Dastardly Strike, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Feats Careful Shot", Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Strike, Weapon 
Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +10", Deception +8, Gather Information +8, Initiative 
+10, Perception +8, Persuasion +8, Stealth +10 

Possessions blaster rifle with enhanced targeting scope, hold-out blaster, 
vibroblade, vibrodagger, comlink (encrypted), utility belt with medpac 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


Bounty Hunter 

Bounty hunters track and recover sentient beings to bring them to “justice”— 
even if that's little more than a Hutt’s personal vendetta. Before the Empire, 
most bounty hunters were members of a galaxywide quild that worked openly, 
taking contracts to hunt down criminals for various authorities. During the 
Emperor's reign, the guild fragmented, leaving a large number of independent 
operatives. Though they occasionally band together to tackle particularly 
difficult targets, most of the time they work alone, vying against each other 
to collect the largest rewards. Bounty hunters differ from assassins in that 
they usually seek to capture their targets, not kill them. 


Bounty Hunter CL7 

Medium Human nonheroic 4/scout 3/bounty hunter 3 

Force 2; Dark Side 4 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 20, Will 18 

hp 64; Threshold 20 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee vibrobayonet +10 (2d6+7) or 

Melee vibrobayonet +10 (3d6+7) with Mighty Swing 

Ranged blaster carbine +11 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +9 (4d8+3) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged stun grenade +9 (4d6+3 stun, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options Hunter's Mark, Mighty Swing, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions familiar foe +1, Hunter's Target, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot" 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Expert Tracker, Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Mighty Swing, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot", Rapid Shot, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13, Endurance +12", Perception +14, Survival +12 

Possessions Corellian powersuit (+7 armor) with helmet package, blaster 
carbine, vibrobayonet, 2 stun grenades, utility belt with medpac, 
bounty hunter's license, datapad 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


Crime Lord 

Crime lords come from all strata of society. Some began their careers as 
streetwise thugs, crawling up from the darkest, filthiest pits of the galaxy 
to positions of power within the criminal underworld. Others are noble-born, 
using their money and influence to support their fiendish syndicates. 


Crime Lord CL 8 

Medium Human scoundrel 4/noble 3/crime lord 1 

Force 2; Dark Side 9 

Init +6; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, High Galactic, Huttese, plus 5 other languages 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 18, Will 23; Dodge 

hp 51; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares; Running Attack 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+3) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +7 (368+4) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +5 (3d8+4) and 
heavy blaster pistol +5 (3d8+4) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Dastardly Strike, Dual Weapon Mastery II, 
Sneak Attack +1d6 

Special Actions Point Biank Shot, Presence 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 17, Wis 12, Cha 15 

Talents Connections, Dastardly Strike, Minion, Presence, Sneak Attack 
+1d6 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Dodge, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon 
Mastery Ii, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus 
(Deception), Toughness", Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +11, Deception +16, Gather Information +11, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12", Perception +10, 
Persuasion +11, Stealth +11 

Possessions 2 heavy blaster pistols, datapad, comlink (encrypted), 
enforcers (including several thugs and a 6th-level minion), 1,000 
credits 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


Dark Side Marauder 

Though the Jedi are the most powerful Force-users in the galaxy, they are by 
no means the only ones, Dark side marauders are Force-sensitive individuals 
consumed with rage, hatred, or an insatiable hunger for personal power. 


Dark Side Marauder CL4 

Medium Human soldier 4 

Force 1; Dark Side 14 

Init +7; Senses Perception +4 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 19), Fort 19, Will 16 

hp 50; Threshold 24 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee vibro-ax +7 (2d10+10) or 

Melee vibro-ax +7 (3¢10+10) with Mighty Swing 

Ranged hold-out blaster +4 (3d4+2) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options Mighty Swing 

Special Actions Indomitable, Tough as Nails 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +8): dark rage (2), surge 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Indomitable, Weapon Specialization (advanced melee weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, 
Improved Damage Threshold", Mighty Swing, Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +8", Initiative +7, Use the Force +8 

Possessions battle armor (+8 armor, +2 equipment), vibro-ax, hold-out 
blaster, comlink, 100 credits 

H Humon bonus feat or trained skill 


Thug 

Thugs are basic bruisers. They are street toughs aspiring to become swoop 
champions, grunts working for a local crime lord, security guards, or law 
enforcers prone to breaking heads and taking bribes. 


Thug os 
Medium Human nonheroic 2 

Dark Side 3 

Init +6; Senses +5 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will9 

hp 9; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibro-ax +2 (2d10+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +1 (3d6) 


Base Atk +1; Grp +2 

Atk Options Cleave" 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 9, Cha 10 

Feats Cleave", Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 
pistols, simple weapons) : 

Skills Initiative +6, Perception +5" 

Possessions Blaster pistol, vibro-ax 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


OTHER SPECIES 

All of the character stat blocks in this chapter use Human as the base species, 
However, you can easily use these stat blocks to represent non-Human charac- 
ters as well by removing the Human species traits (one bonus trained skill and 
one bonus feat) and applying the new species’ traits. You may use the species 
described in Chapter 2: Species or any of the species presented below. 


AQUALISH 

Aqualish are walrus-faced humanoids with skin ranging in color from dark green 
or blue to deep russet or black. Some Aqualish subspecies have four eyes instead 
of two or fins instead of hands. The Aqualish admire strength and are openly 
hostile toward the weak. In fact, it is customary and accepted social behavior 
among Aqualish to be pushy and belligerent upon first meeting others. 


Aqualish Species Traits 

© Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. 

© Size: Medium. 

© Speed: 6 squares. 

© Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Aqualish can't drown in 
water. 

© Expert Swimmer: An Aqualish may choose to reroll any Swim check, 
but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. In addi- 
tion, an Aqualish may choose to take 10 on Swim checks even when 
distracted or threatened. 

* Bonus Feat: Toughness. 

* Languages: Aqualish, Basic. 


HuTTs 

Hutts are immense, sluglike, creatures with bulbous heads, Two catlike eyes 
rise from the surface of a Hutt’s face, while a lipless mouth spreads from ear 
hole to ear hole. Most Hutts are vicious megalomaniacs who consider their 
kind to be beyond morality as perceived by lesser beings. They have a talent 
for manipulating others and enjoy exerting power over others. 


Hutt Species Traits 
® Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, +2 Constitution, +2 Intelligence, -© 
Dexterity. 


© Size: Large, Hutts take a -1 size penalty to their Reflex Defense, a -5 


Yuuzhan Vong Species Traits 


size penalty on Stealth checks, and a +5 size bonus to their damage © Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Wisdom. 
threshold. Their lifting and carrying limits are double those of Medium © Size: Medium. 
characters ® Speed: 6 squares 
© Speed: 2 squares © Force Immunity: Yuuzhan Vong can't take the Force Sensitivity feat, 
Force Resistance: +5 species bonus to Wil! Defense against any Use the can't make Use the Force checks, and never gain Force Points. In addi- 
Force check. tion, they are immune to any Force effect that targets their Will Defense 
© Supreme Stability: Hutts can't be tripped or knocked prone (including Force powers and aspects of the Use the Force skill). 
© Skills: A Hutt may reroll a Persuasion check, keeping the better result ® Technophobic: Yuuzhan Vong take a -5 penalty on attack rolls and skill 


* Languages: Basic, Huttese 


checks made when using mechanical weapons or tools. 


® Weapon Familiarity: Yuuzhan Vong with the Weapon Proficiency 
(simple weapons) feat are considered proficient with the amphistaff. 
Language: Yuuzhan Vong 


NEIMOIDIANS 
Neimoidians stand between 1.6 and 2 meters tall and are of slight build ° 
Their skin ranges from mottled green to gray, and their vaguely reptilian 
faces are flat and elongated. They have red eyes, thick lips, and no noses. 
Neimoidians have two primary motivations: to control their surroundings at 
all times and to acquire as much wealth and power as they can. The latter 
goal might seem a logical means of attaining the former, but to a Neimoidian, 
the pursuit of wealth and power is an end unto itself. Such traits gave rise 
to the Trade Federation, one of the most powerful and influential economic 
forces in the Galactic Republic 


Neimoidian Species Traits 
® Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, +2 Wisdom, -2 Strength 
* Size: Medium 


© Speed: 6 squares > 
* Conditional Bonus Feat: Neimoidians with Deception as a trained skill i" 
gain Skill Focus (Deception) as a bonus feat a 
© Skills: A Neimoidian may reroll a Deception check but must keep the fi) 
second result. > 
* Languages: Basic, Neimoidian, Pak Pak 22 
Y 
YUUZHAN VONG O} 
Conquerors from beyond the galactic rim, the Yuuzhan Vong are organized, uu) 
bloodthirsty, ritually scarred warriors driven by religious fervor, They are W 
masters of biotechnology; their clothing, weapons, and equipment are geneti- | 
Cally engineered life forms, They despise mechanical technology (droids in y) 
particular) and destroy any such technology they encounter, They are also rs 
disconnected from the Force in a way that Jedi and other Force-sensitive rn 


f 


beings find unsettling 

The culture of the Yuuzhan Vong is based on the domination of lesser 
Species. To the Yuuzhan Vong, most other species are unworthy and suit- 
able only as slaves. The worthy are regarded with enough tolerance to grant 
them a clean death. 


INDEx 


Entries in black type are talents. 


Acrobatic Recovery 40 
Acute Senses 49 

Adept Negotiator 39 
Adept Spelicaster 107 
aid another 151 

aim 154 

area attacks 155 
armor check penalty 132 
Armor Mastery 51 
Armored Defense 52 
Assault Tactics 221 
astrogation 237 

Ataru 218 

attack an object 151 
attocks of opportunity 155 
attack roll 144 
Attract Minion 210 
Attune Armor 107 
Attune Weapon 214 
autofire 156 
automatic misses 145 
Barter 49 

base attack bonus 36 
Battie Analysis 52 
Battle Meditation 40 
Block 41 

Bolster Ally 43 

Born Leader 44 
challenge level (CL) 247 
Channel Aggression 213 
Channel Anger 213 
charge 152 

Charm Beast 107 

Clear Mind 40 
Command Beast 107 
concealment 156 
conditions 148 
Connections 44 
Controlied Burst 212 
Coordinate 44 

coup de grace 154 
cover 157 

Cover Fire 52 

Crippling Strike 213 
critical hits 145 
damage 145 

damage reduction (DR) 158 
damage threshold 146 
Dark Healing 223 

Dark Presence 101 

Dark Scourge 223 

Dark Side Adept 223 
Dark Side Master 223 


Dark Side Sense 40 
dark side score 93 
Dart Side Scourge 40 
darkvision 257 
Dastardly Strike 46 
death 148 
Debilitating Shot 216 
Deceptive Shot 216 
defenses 145 

class bonuses 36 
Deflect 41 
delay 161 
Demand Surrender 43 
Demolitionist 52 
Deployment Tactics 221 
destiny 112 
Devastating Attack 53 
difficult terrain 159 
disarm 152 
Disciplined Strike 100 
Disruptive 46 
Distant Command 44 
Djem So 218 
Dagfight Gunner 207 
Draw Fire 52 
Educated 44 
Elusive Dogfighter 207 
Elusive Target 40 
Embrace The Dark Side 214 
Empower Weapon 214 
encumbrance 140 
Equilibrium 107 
Evasion 50 
Exotic Weapon Mastery 212 
experience points (xp) 248 
Expert Grappler 52 
Expert Gunner 207 
Expert Tracker 49 
Extreme Effort 50 
falling unconscious 147 
Fearless Leader 44 
Field Tactics 221 
fight defensively 152 
fighting space 159 
flanking 159 
Flight 107 
Fool's Luck 46 
Farce Cloak 107 
Force Cloak Mastery 107 
Force Deception 223 
Force Focus 101 
Force Fotification 218 
Force Haze 40 
Force Intuition 40 
Force Perception 101 
Force Persuasion 40 
Force Pilot 101 


force points 92 
Force Power Adept 214 
force powers 95 
Force Recovery 101 
force secrets 103 
force talents 100 
Force Talisman 214 
force techniques 101 
Force Treatment 214 
Foresight 101 
Fortified Body 214 
Fortune's Favor 46 
Fringe Savant 50 

full attack 154 

Full Throttle 207 
Gambler 46 

gambling 47 

Gauge Force Potential 101 
Gimmick 47 

grab 152 

grapple 153 


Greater Devastating Attack 212 


Greater Force Talisman 214 


Greater Penetrating Attack 212 


Greater Weapon Focus 212 
Lightsabers 218 


Greater Weapon Specialization 212 


Lightsabers 218 
Gun Club 52 
Harm's Way 52 
hazards 252 
helpless opponents 159 
heroic level 36 
Hidden Movement 49 
hit points 146 
Hunter's Mark 208 
Hunter's Target 208 
Hyperdriven 47 
Ignite Fervor 43 
Impel Ally t, 216 
Improved Armored Defense 52 
Improved Dark Healing 224 
Improved Initiative 49 
Improved Quick Draw 216 
Improved Stealth 49 
Improved Weaken Resolve 43 
indomitable 52 
initiative 149 
Inspire Confidence 44 
Inspire Fear t, Il, 111210 
Inspire Haste 44 
Inspire Zeal 44 
ion damage 159 
Jar’kai 218 
Juggernaut 52 
Juke 207 
Jury-rigger 50 


Juyo 218 
Keen Shot 49 
Keep It Together 207 
Knack 46 
Knockdown Shot 216 
languages 22 
Ughtsaber Defense 41 
Lightsaber Throw 41 
line of sight 160 
Linked Defense 107 
Long Stride 50 
low-light vision 257 
Lucky Shot 46 
Makashi 218 
Master Negotiator 40 
Master Slicer 47 
Melee Smash 52 
movement 
diagonal movement 158 
run 155 
speed 146 
squeezing 162 


through occupied squares 161 


Multiattack Proficiency 
Heavy Weapons, Rifles 212 
Lightsabers 218 
Pistols 216 

multiclass characters 54 

natural healing 148 

Niman 218 

Notorious 208, 210 

Nowhere to Hide 208 

One for the Team 221 

Outmaneuver 221 

Penetrating Attack 53 

Power of the Dark Side 101 

Presence 43 

prone targets 167 

Quick Trigger 207 

Rally 44 

Ranged Disarm 217 

reach 161 

ready 162 

recover 154 

Redirect Shot 41 

Relentless 206 

Relentless Pursuit 207 

Resilience 40 

Resist the Dark Side 41 

restricted items 118 

retractable stocks 125 

Revenge 101 

Ruthless Negotiator 208 

Second Skin 52 

second wind 146 

Severing Strike 218 

Shared Notoreity 210 


shield rating (SR) 161 

Shien 218 

Shift Defense |, Hl, ttl 222 

Shii-cho 219 

shooting or throwing into a 

melee 161 

Skilled Advisor 40 

skills 
opposed check 58 
“taking 10 or 20° 61 
trained vs, untrained 57 

Skirmisher 46 

Sneak Attack 46 

Sokan 219 

Soresu 219 

Spacehound 47 

Spontancous Skill 44 

Sprint 50 

Starship Raider 47 

Stellar Warrior 47 

stacking bonuses 241 

stunning 162 

Stunning Strike 52 

Surefooted 50 

surprise 149 

Swift Power 107 

System Hit 207 

Tactical Edge 222 

Telekinetic Power 100 

Telekinetic Savant 100 

Total Concealment 49 

Tough as Nails 53 

Trace 47 

Trakata 219 

Trigger Work 217 

Trust 44 

unarmed attacks 163 

Unbsiance Opponent 52 

Uncanny Dodge |, i 49 

Vaapad 219 

Vehicular Evasion 207 

Visions 101 

Walk the Line 46 

Weaken Resolve 43 

Wealth 44 

Weapon Specialization 53 
Lightsabers 41 

weapons 
draw or holster 153 
switch weapon mode 154 
weapon batteries 170 
weapon groups 119 
weapon sizes 120 

Wicked Strike 224 

withdraw 153 


A LONG TIME AGO IN A GALAXY FAR, 


St space fantasy of all time 


i xoerience the excitement and epic scope t the Qreaest spe 
f against the sinister plots of the Sith, join the Reballia 


Defend the Republ 
against the oppressive might of the Empire. or save 
New Republic from the tyranny of the Yuuzhan Vong 


The only limit to the adventure 


; your imagination 


| 


INCLUDES EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO 


FAR AWAY «as. 


THIS BOOK 
CREATE YOUR OWN STAR WARS CHARACTERS AND CAMPAIGNS: 


amplete game rules for players and Gamemasters 
Lharacters, creatures, weapons, equipment, vehicles, and droid 
ll six Star Wars movies (ine uding tpisode Ill: Ri venge of the Sith 


Ft 


and the extended universe 


Double-sided full-color battle map 
Pg 


Lar WBE" 


nag 


| www.wizards.com/starwars 


SSN: O78 


| ; 
i |) 
9"7 aC 


'BOD-435 


ul | 


US $39.95 


ii 


(B6"943556 


< 
uw 


DAN $49.9 


107967200 


