. a ® 
ROLEPLAYING GAME | 


THE FORCE UNLEASHED" GAMPAIGN GUIDE. 


STERLING HERSHEY PETER SCHWEIGHOFER OWEN K.C. STEPHENS ROONEY THOMPSON 


THE FORCE UNLEASHED” 
CAMPAIGN GUIDE 


STERLING HERSHEY, PETER SCHWEIGHOFER, OWEN K.C. STEPHENS, RODNEY THOMPSON 


3 


Siiasy 


lw 


QensVveImn FgoXued FAL 


CREBITS 


laa Sterling Hershey, Peter Schweighofer, (ee ee 5 LS a ; 

ee ees Owen K.C. Stephens, Rodney Thompson PRODUCTION MANAGERS Shari Overbay, Cynda Callaway 

( { 

| DEVELOPER Rodney Thompson ART DIRECTOR Paul Hebron 

\ a e —_ ns “s } 

(jen Mae) es Andrew Finch, Stephen Radney- 

| ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT | COVER DESIGNER | Paul Hebron 

Ka na _____} McFarland a J 

eDiitoR Kim Mohan GRAPHIC DESIGNER ] Soe Hemmi 

aurea a’ are : . 

L EDITORS. “i SING dna Frank Parisi, Sue Rostoni [ae ea MAN BOER At | Jefferson Duntap 

( See nes 4 : : (GRAPHIC PRODUCTION . : 

| DESIGN MANAGER Christopher Perkins SoSH | Christopher Tarditf 

ij —— = — Attila Adorjany, Ben Wootten, Christian A. Piccolo, 

( MANAGING EDITOR Kim Mohan INTERIOR ARTISTS | Christopher West, Daniel Faiconer, Francis Tsai, leffrey 

es Pred, ey = tt 1s Carlisle, Jonathan Hill, Kalman Andrasofszky, Paul 
Shipper-Carole Newman & Associates, Ramon Perez, 
Rebecca A. Wrigley, Udon Comics, Warren Mahy 

DIRECTOR OF RPG R&D | Bill Slavicsek IMAGING TECHNICIAN Bob Jordan 

porn) Michael Beeler, Shawn Blakeney, Logan Bonner, Adam Colby, Mike Donais, Anna LST ee ee 

| PLAYTESTERS Galyon, Charles Galyon, Patrick Hallahan, Rachel Halonen, Matthew Sernett, Chris [ SPECIAL THANKS } Leland Chee 


Sims, Brett Thompson, Chris Tulach, Nick Wechsler, Shay Welis, Sam Witwer 


Some rules mechanics are based on the Stor Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C. Stephens, and Rodney Thompson, the original Dungeons & Dragons? rules created by €. Gary Gygax and Dave 
Ameson, and the new Dungeons & Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. 


This Wizards of the Coast’ game prodact contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission. To learn more about the Open Gaming License and the d20 System™ License, please 
visit www.wizards.com/d20. 


US., Canada, Asia, TAIN EUROPE LUE) 
Pacific, & Latin Ameri¢a abro UK Lid Wizards of the Coast. Belgium 
Wizards of he Coast, Inc. ‘(Hofveld 6D ? punks 
P.O. Box 72? nt PQ OYH 1702 Groot-Bijgaarden ® 
R At Belgium ZARDS.COM Wi. STARWARS.COM 
Please keep tvs address for your records +32 2 467 3360 ISBN: 978-0-7869-4743-0 
620-21511720-003-8N 
987654321 


FIRST PRINTING: MARCH 2008 
©2008 LUCASFILM LTD. & @ OR '™ WHERE INDICATED. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 


SED UNDER AUTHOR, 


of Wizards of the Coast 1 the U.S.A. and otner countries.i Ris Mater al IS Protected under tt 


n of Wizards of the Coast, lite. This preduct is a work of fiction. Any Sil arity to actual peo; 


Dungeons & Dragons 


Coast, and their regpective togas are trader! 
M's prohibited without tie express verither yy 


ws of the Unied Stales of A 
tans, places, ar events |§ p 


wherized use 
2USA 


ica. Any FEbrocucven of une 


of the ah 


y caine tal. Printed In th 


INTRODUCTION oe 


What Is in This book? ..........6 
Species Characteristics. ....... 11 
AICONds: tied igued icy metas} 
Caamasi 

Felucian 

Glan nsanacsccdie petbvaerese 
Nosaurian 

lel 23.0 chp crete ar decte fyieeetaatesa ease 
VOQ OMAN ein si xe ae seemless 17 
TOGMUtate akan a timeline tee 7 
WHIDRIC dates teracnansaou 18 
VarkOldetawotespensehacanaccd 19 


| CHIE I: HEROIC 


TRAITS... +e. 20 
The Heroic Classes............ 23 
ShillSiiceutencwee se nedoeae cee 29 
Feats 


Un 


( CHP EQUIPMENT 
_AND DROIDS .. +94 


Jedi During the Dark Times. .... 83 


Reactions to Force-Users...... 84 
Temptation of the Dark Side. ...85 
Force Powers .........0- eee ee 85 
Force lalénts .......ss0000008 87 
Force Techniques............. 88 
Force SecretS......-0. 00. ease 89 
Force Unleashed Abilities...... 89 
Force-Using Traditions ........ 91 


CHPTRVI: CAMPAIGN 


GUIDELINES... 122 


A Gathering of Heroes ....... 124 
Campaign Elements.......... 127 
A Less Civilized Age.......... 135 
Adventure: Round-Up 
on Salliche.............- 139 
Docking Bay Ambush....... 140 
Prisoner Convoy.......-..- 142 


At the Graaf’s Pleasure..... 144 


(CHIRK: Galactic 


GAZETTEER... 146 


elee Weapons.............. 96 
Ranged Weapons............. 98 
EXPIOSIVES? ou ce ver endaunns 100 
EQUIPMENT cscs tence hen 101 
DONS stv cosine sansas. oa Biiaye 102 


| CHAPTERVI: VericLeES anND 


STARSHIPS ... 108 


CHAPTER Il: PRE si Ee 


ew Prestige Class Talents. .... 42 


EnfORCEP A ssediachcratecnreiany aot d 43 
ndependent Droid............ 46 
Infiltrator. 00... eee 48 
Master Privateer ............. 50 
OUIC Acacrnatattncin athena eteoss 52 
Saboteur............00.0000- 54 
CHAPTER IV's 


ORGANIZATIONS S58 


Features of an Organization... .60 


Creating a New Organization. . .60 
Organizations for 


the Dark Times............ 66 
Antarian Rangers... .. . 66 
Black SUA Wc .e sansa. . 68 
Bothan Spynet....... ..70 
Bounty Hunters Guild .......72 
Car'das Smugglers .......... 74 
House Organay............. 76 
Kota's Militia. \ Pac adnnee 6% 78 
Lok Revenants ............. 80 


Wheeled Vehicles............ 110 
Armored Groundcar........ 110 
SPeedersevcvic cue nse t eis 110 
Arrow-23 Landspeeder ..... 110 
Flare-S SWOOP ....... 0000 111 
V-35 Courier...........0.. 112 
Zephyr-G Swoop........... 112 
Heavy Speeders............. 112 
A-AS5 Speeder Truck........ 112 
Freerunner ............005 113 
Starfighters ...........2..0. 113 
H-60 Tempest Bomber. .....114 
3-A Scyk Fighter......... 114 


ovaSword Space 
Superiority Fighter......115 


R-41 Starchaser........... 115 
oscan Multipurpose 
EI) Gee oe ee eee 116 
Zebra Starfighter.......... 117 
Space Transports............ 118 
CEM IMG ZOU Le con meni 118 
Gallofree Yards Maka-Eekai 
14000 Transport........ 120 
Cate ial SUIS Hee emer se ees 120 


Neutron Star Bulk Cruiser...121 


Planets of the Dark Times. .... 148 


CadM aS ce igaerestee eds 148 
CallOS: .si-nsamaenaisharnbn ads 148 
DeSPaViG ace vecaeewiiia wees 149 j 
FelUCla sess arek name wiins 149 
New Plympto ...........0. 150 
Raxus Prime... 0.0.00... 05 151 
Planetary Updates........... 151 
Shadowports ..........-.005 163 
Establishing a Base.......... 165 


[ OWIRK: THe EMPIRE. 166 


The Imperial Government..... 167 


Agents of Imperial Rule ...... 169 | 
The Death Star.............. 171 
imperial Military............ 171 
Stormtroopers .............. 175 
COMPNOR Operatives........ 181 

Imperial Secret 

Forces and Agents........ 182 

Imperial Personalities........ 186 

Darth Vader's i 
Secret Apprentice ...... 186 
Captain Jan Dodonna....... 187 
Captain Juno Eclipse. ...... 188 
Armand Isard............. 188 


Commander Crix Madine. ...189 
Captain Gilad Pellaeon ..... 189 


Captain Ozzik Sturn........ 190 
Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin ..190 
Admiral Thrawn ........... 191 
Inquisitor Tremayne........ 192 


Lieutenant Maximilian Veers 193 
Special Agent Wullf Yularen .193 


7 


DIOIAS Aes eet etn ee en eat 194 
WEE POMSes ch ne seuss 198 
Vehidles, 20k pee nics aeceea 200 
A5 Juggernaut ........... 200 : 
All Terrain Kashyyyk 
Transport (AT-KT]...... 200 
All Terrain Construction ° 
Transport (AT-CT)....... 201 
Command Speeder........ 1201 
Mobite Command Base... ..202 
TX-130T Fighter Tank....... 202 
Starfighters .............. 204 
A-7 Hunter... ... 0... 204 
TIE Prototype ............ 204 
Space Transports............ 205 
Guardian-class 
Light Cruiser........... 205 
Rogue Shadow............ 205 
Sentinel-class Shuttle. .....206 
Capital Ships .............0. 207 
Escort Carrier. ..........06 207 
Gladiator-class 
Star Destroyer ......... 208 


Tartan-class Patrol Cruiser. 209 
Venator-class Star Destroyer 209 
Victory-class Star Destroyer.210 


CIFIR: ALLIES AND 


OPPONENTS .. 212 


Important Figures 


of the Dark Times ........ 213 
Bail Organa............... 213 
Mon Mothma............. 214 
Garm Bel Iblis............. 215 
Sabe siicvan< se okte eens 216 
Master Rahm Kota......... 217 
Kota's Militia...........00. 218 
Kazdan Paratus............218 
Shag Tissucnonice teed ate 219 
Maris Brood ............04 220 
Felucians......... ccc cee 221 
JAWAS 0. oc cece ans beawenaes 223 
Ugnaughts ...............0. 223 
Wookiee Berserkers.......... 223 
Beas tS ps adianniereiieint het ine 224 

Bull RANCOF s..c2ecesucne cae 224 

Felucian Ripper............ 224 


GehSsveatwWwn @GeveE@d FgAL 


INTRODUCTI 


ON 


slale : 


The Republic has fallen. The Jedi are all but extinct. The Sith rule the galaxy, 
and the Empire tightens its grip on star systems with no one to oppose it. 
Welcome to the Dark Times. 

The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide is a resource for players and Game- 
masters looking to set their adventures between the end of Revenge of the 
Sith and the years leading up to A New Hope. Within this book's pages is 
everything a player needs to create a hero who will take center stage during 
these treacherous years, Gamemasters will find this book invaluable when 
planning campaigns for this time period. It includes descriptions of the major 
heroes and villains of the era as well as advice on designing campaigns, 
adventures, and encounters appropriate to the setting. This campaign guide 
provides you with everything you need to run or play in a Force Unleashed 
campaign. 

The Dark Times consist of the period beginning immediately after the 
conclusion of Revenge of the Sith and leading up to the foundation of the > 
Rebel Alliance. This time frame encompasses the true rise of the Empire to j 
full prominence and the descent of the galaxy into a less civilized age. These 
intervening years between movies are rife with opportunities to tackle adven- 
tures on totally new ground. This setting allows the players’ characters to go 
on totally new adventures, experience worlds and events previously unseen 
in the Star Wars setting, and forge their own path to glory. A Gamemaster 
who runs a campaign in this era has nearly a blank slate for adventures to 
fill in, allowing him or her to explore a variety of options in storytelling 
without the need to worry about conflicting with continuity. Best of all, the 
heroes can make a difference in the galaxy without worrying about being 
overshadowed by the characters from the six Star Wars films. 


OASHSVS"INM 3S9H0gd SHL . NO! 


GSHUSYSINA Seved SHA 


The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide also ties in with the LucasArts video 
game of the same title, as well as the accompanying multimedia products that 
relate to the game. The Force Unieashed takes place during the Dark Times and 
follows the path of Darth Vader's first apprentice. Just as the game explores 
this rich setting, so too does The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide delve into 
the people, places, creatures, and technology of the game. However, where 
the protagonist of The Force Unleashed is Vader's apprentice, this book lets 
your heroes be Jedi, nobles, smugglers, bounty hunters, mercenaries, explor- 
ers, or any number of other character types of your choosing. Additionally, 
many of the characters featured in this book are also available as miniatures 
in the Star Wars Miniatures: The Force Unleashed expansion set, providing 
new options for running encounters in your campaign. 

This book is far more than a mere description of the events of The Force 
Unleashed, Within these pages are the seeds of new adventures far beyond the 
scope of the video game, with heroes and villains hand-picked from throughout 
the Star Wars galaxy. Inside this book you will find new character options, new 
adventure scenarios, and a treatise on the far-reaching Galactic Empire that 
paints a vivid picture of just how deeply the galaxy has sunk into darkness. 


WHAT IS IN TRIS 


BOOK? 


This book serves as the basis for playing in and Gamemastering a Force 
Unleashed campaign, set during the Dark Times between Revenge of the 
Sith and the Galactic Civil War. The book consists of two sections, one for 
players (the chapters in the front of the book) and one for Gamemasters (the 
chapters at the back of the book). 

Chapter 1: Species covers new alien species relevant to a Force Unleashed 
campaign. This chapter includes species that have a significant history during 
the Dark Times, as well as species featured in The Force Unleashed game and 
the Dark Times comic series from Dark Horse Comics. 

Chapter 2: Heroic Traits includes a wide array of new options for char- 
acter creation: talents and talent trees, feats, new uses for skills, and new 
destinies for heroic characters. This chapter gives players everything they 
need to create heroes specifically designed to fit into the Dark Times. 

Chapter 3: Prestige Classes presents new prestige classes for Dark Times 
heroes. These elite classes provide something for starting heroes to aspire to 
and exemplify the kinds of heroes found in a Force Unleashed campaign. 

Chapter 4: Organizations gives heroes several sample organizations 
they can join, along with the benefits and requirements for membership. 
Additionally, if the heroes want to start their own organization, rules are 
included in this chapter for doing so. 

Chapter 5: The Force offers new Force powers and talents, as well as 
an expansion of the Force-based prestige class features from the Star Wars 
Roleplaying Game Saga Edition core rulebook. This chapter also expands the 


options for Force-users from traditions other than the Jedi Order. 

Chapter 6: Equipment and Droids covers the new weapons, armor, 
and other gear that heroes can purchase or find during the Dark Times. This 
chapter also includes new droids and new rules for heroic droids in a Force 
Unleashed campaign. 

Chapter 7: Vehicles and Starships presents new modes of transporta- 
tion for heroes in a Force Unleashed campaign. The vehicles and starships 
in this chapter are largely intended for player use, and it also includes deck 
plans for a space transport. 

Chapter 8: The Force Unleashed Campaign begins the Gamemaster 
section and covers a wide variety of topics. This chapter helps Gamemasters 
capture the distinctive feel of the Dark Times setting, provides information 
on how things in the galaxy work, and covers many of the major themes that 
should be ever-present in a Force Unleashed campaign. 

Chapter 9: Galactic Gazetteer gives a tour of the galaxy during the Dark 
Times. This chapter includes information on new worlds in a format similar to 
that found in the Saga Edition core rulebook. It also visits all the other major 
worlds and provides information on how each of those planets has changed 
during the Dark Times and what is true about the planet in this setting. 

Chapter 10: The Empire is a collection of information covering the 
Galactic Empire. This chapter presents everything the Gamemaster needs 
to provide villains and other challenges for heroes in a Force Unleashed 
campaign, including NPCs, weapons, vehicles, and starships. 

Chapter 11: Allies and Opponents covers characters and archetypes 
found in the setting that are not specifically related to the Empire. The 
characters in this chapter might serve as benefactors, enemies, comrades, 
or foes; they give the Gamemaster a variety of elements useful in fleshing 
out the galaxy during this time period. 


WHAT IS A 
FORCE UNLEASHED 
CAMPAIGN? 


A Force Unleashed campaign is unlike other Star Wars campaigns in a number 
of ways, not the least of which is the role the heroes play in the story. In a 
Force Unleashed campaign, the heroes are among the few individuals brave 
enough to stand up to the Empire and fight for freedom from oppression. 
Luke Skywalker is still on Tatooine, Yoda is secluded on Dagobah, and the 
Rebel Alliance has not yet been formed. The Empire is everywhere, and the 
heroes have no one to turn to but themselves. They can truly make a dif- 
ference in the galaxy, and it is up to them to strike the first blows against 
the Empire, showing the galaxy that it no longer has to submit to the will of 
the corrupt Emperor. The Sith might rule the galaxy unchallenged for now, 
but when your heroes take the fight to the Empire, the entire galaxy shakes 
with that battle’s repercussions. 


- eens speae ie 


At first glance, a Force Unleashed campaign might seem similar to a cam- 
paign set during the Rebellion Era, After all, the Empire is still a far-reaching 
adversary, and the villainous Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine still pose 
a threat to freedom everywhere. There are some key differences, however, 
between the Dark Times and the Rebellion Era. For one, the heroes play a 
much larger role in the galactic arena during the Dark Times than they would 
during the Rebellion. For another, the heroes of a Force Unleashed campaign 
truly forge their own path, taking on the Empire on their own terms without 
the Rebel Alliance looking over their shoulders. The galaxy is a far different 
place from what it is during the Galactic Civil War; Kashyyyk is still enslaved, 
Mon Calamari and Sullust have not openly rebelled, and the heroes of the 
Rebel Alliance have not yet stepped onto the galactic stage. 

In a Force Unleashed campaign, the Empire is a monolithic entity whose 
influence can be felt even in the farthest outposts of the galaxy. The Empire 
has reached worlds previously inaccessible to the Old Republic; Shmi 


Skywalker claims that the Republic doesn’t exist on Tatooine, but Han Solo 
and Luke Skywalker have to run from the Empire at Mos Eisley. Where once 
freedom and egalitarianism reigned, now only oppression and fear hold 
sway. Stormtroopers are on every corner, the Core Worlds are fortresses of 
Imperial power, and the intimidating visage of dagger-shaped Star Destroy- 
ers stand watch over the space lanes. During the Dark Times, the Empire is 
not distracted by the ongoing war with the Rebel Alliance, and it can devote 
its full resources to pursuing and destroying any opposition. Without the 
battles and skirmishes of the Galactic Civil War to draw away the attention 
of the Imperial Army and Navy, battalions of stormtroopers march through 
the streets of every city, and TIE fighters patrol the skies of every world. In 
no other time period is the Empire stronger or its reach longer, meaning that 
all heroes face an uphill battle. 

More important, the heroes are by and large on their own in a Force 
Unleashed campaign. Although they could have wealthy benefactors and 


) 


NOILINGOYLNI 


GXASVaelIWn geau@2d BAL 


Lows 


N 


NOM oSnGouL 


QGEeHneseveiInn assed FA 


benevolent allies, no Rebel Alliance exists to mount an organized resistance 
against the Empire. No secret Rebel bases are available to hide in or defend, 
and heroes have no Rebel resources to draw upon for dangerous missions. The 
incom Corporation's executives have not yet defected, leaving the heroes to 
pilot either outdated ships from before the Clone Wars or starfighters that 
can put up at best an even fight against the ships that the Empire fields. 

This situation also means that every hero's efforts are important. The 
heroes of a Force Unleashed campaign have a destiny, and that destiny is to 
strike the first blow against the monolithic Empire. it might take the form 
of rescuing someone from the oppression of the Empire, or forging a new 
path in the fringe, or any number of other missions appropriate to the Dark 
Times. Regardless, the heroes and their destiny become the focal point of a 
Force Unleashed campaign, without the players or the Gamemaster having to 
worry about conflicting with the destinies of the heroes from the films. The 
players are in control of heroes whose actions will have galactic repercus- 
sions, more so than in almost any other era. 

A great advantage of a Force Unleashed campaign is that, for the first 
time, the setting encourages you to pull material from all six movies in the 
Star Wars saga. Heroes can shoot down TIE fighters, run from AT-ATs, or gun 
down stormtroopers just as easily as they can blast a V-wing starfighter out 
of the sky or engage a battalion of aging clone troopers in battle. Vehicles and 
starships from the Clone Wars are still heavily in use, and newer ships from 
the Rebellion Era are just now being invented. Heroes and villains from both 
the prequel trilogy and the classic trilogy can make appearances, and some 
in unexpected ways. During the Dark Times, heroes of the Rebellion such as 
Jan Dodonna and Crix Madine are still working for the Empire, making them 
dangerous foes whose tactical minds will one day help the Rebel Alliance 
defeat the Empire, but for now serve only to foil the heroes’ plans. Moreover, 
a Force Unleashed campaign gives heroes the chance to face off against old 
enemies in new ways: Imagine squaring off in a space battle against Grand 
Admiral Thrawn during his prime, or finding that the young assassin you 
fought to a standstill was in fact Mara Jade during her training years. The 
heroes face a galaxy of possibilities, and old villains seem new again under 
different circumstances. 

Of course, setting a game during this time period means that it is also far 
easier for a hero to be a Force-user, or even a Jedi, than in the Rebellion Era. 
Though most of the Jedi are destined to be hunted down and killed by Vader's 
minions by the time of the Rebellion, your heroes can play Jedi who have 
survived Order 66 and fight evil in secret. Alternatively, the variety of Force 
traditions available in a Force Unleashed campaign mean that a Jensaarai 
Defender or a Felucian shaman is just as viable as a character option as the 
aforementioned Jedi Knight on the run. Regardless, the Force can be with you 
in the Dark Times, and without it some heroes might not stand a chance. 

Above all, as in much of the Star Wars saga, a Force Unleashed campaign 
is about heroes fighting villains. For now, the dark side of the Force holds 


sway, and heroes find themselves outnumbered and outgunned. This situation 
just makes their struggle that much more heroic, and when their victories 
come, they will be that much more legendary. Although the perils are great, 
and the odds are against the heroes, and the taint of evil is everywhere, get 
ready to grab your blaster or lightsaber, hop in your tramp freighter, and 
take the fight to the Empire! 


MAUOR EVENTS 


Though the Dark Times represent a new and unexplored time period in Star 
Wars history, certain major events are known to occur between the execu- 
tion of Order 66 and the first salvos of the Galactic Civil War. The following 
major events should highlight some of the more prominent features of a Force 
Unleashed campaign and give both players and the Gamemaster a sense of 
what is going on in the galaxy around them at this point. 


ESTABLISHMENT OF THE 
NEw ORDER 
The Dark Times truly begin with the execution of Order 66 and Supreme 
Chancellor Palpatine’s famous Declaration of a New Order speech. From 
this point the Empire begins its ascendancy toward total domination. With 
clone troopers spread throughout the galaxy for the Clone Wars, the Empire 
begins its reign with personnel almost everywhere from the first day. Regional 
governors are given a higher degree of control over their domains than ever 
before, and the Empire begins to crack down on dissent wherever it arises. 

The military machine starts to extend its reach throughout the galaxy, 
with Star Destroyers hovering over every major planet. Machines of war, 
ostensibly there to protect the peace, now roll through the streets of every 
city from the Core to the Outer Rim. Imperial Moffs replace planetary leaders 
as the authority on every world, and law enforcement becomes the domain 
of stormtroopers and officers of the Empire. 
ASCENSION OF IMPERIAL 
LEADERS 
Some of the galaxy’s most tyrannical leaders rise to power during the Dark 
Times. Grand Moff Tarkin, the man who will eventually be responsible for 
the destruction of Alderaan, rises through the Imperial hierarchy during 
this time. Grand Admiral Thrawn revolutionizes Imperial naval tactics, while 
famous officers such as General Veers, Admiral Motti, and Admiral Ozzel 
continue their ascension to command roles. Imperial Intelligence reaches 
new levels of pervasiveness under the control of Armand Isard, and ambi- 
tious Moffs such as Jerjerrod and Tavira accumulate power the way a space 
slug accumulates mynocks. 

This time period also sees the rise of several Imperial leaders who will go 
on to play a major role in the Empire's downfall. Rebel Alliance leaders such 
as Crix Madine and Jan Dodonna serve as Imperial officers for a time during 


this period, though they will later defect to the Rebellion when the Empire's 
tyranny becomes too much for them to bear. Although they serve as Imperial 
agents during the Dark Times, the seeds of their defection have already been 
planted. Additionally, late in the Dark Times some famous heroes such as Han 
Solo even serve the Empire for a short time, but as it becomes apparent how 
deep the Empire's evil goes, they strike out on their own. 


GROWING THREAT OF THE 

DARK SIDE 

With the Sith dominating the galaxy and the Jedi Order nearly completely 
wiped out, it comes as no surprise that the agents of the dark side of the Force 
become prevalent during these years. The establishment of the Inquisitorius 
(the Empire's cabal of Jedi hunters) gives Jedi traitors and fallen Jedi a place 
to continue service under the Empire, while the Emperor and Vader begin 
training a small number of Force-users to serve as their personal servants. 
During the Dark Times, Emperor's Hands such as Mara Jade and Shira Brie 
have already begun their training, and they will start taking on missions for 
the Empire despite being merely teenagers. 

The Emperor also allows the spread of dark side Force-users in other areas. 
The Prophets of the Dark Side, cultists and evil Force adepts from the world 
of Dromund Kaas, serve the Emperor and train his agents in the ways of the 
dark side. On the Emperor's personal fortress world of Byss, dark side adepts 
use Sith alchemy to create Imperial Sentinels, while the Emperor's elite Royal 
Guardsmen are taught the techniques of the dark side of the Force in their 
training as Sovereign Protectors. Everywhere throughout the galaxy, the 
presence of the dark side seeps in like the fetid waters of corruption. 


IMPERIAL ATROCITIES 

With no one to oppose them, agents of the Empire commit atrocities on 
a scale previously considered unimaginable. The Empire razes the planet 
Caamas at Palpatine's command, leaving the planet devastated and inhos- 
pitable to the native Caamasi. Innocent beings on worlds controlled by the 
Empire are slaughtered, as in the case of the Ghorman Massacre (an event 
that would help mobilize early Rebels to action). Other worlds, such as Duro 
and Centares, are simply used up and discarded to improve the Imperial 
war machine. 

Moreover, many species are subjected to the horrors of slavery, such as the 
Mon Calamari and the Wookiees. During this time period, non-Human aliens 
are treated as second-class citizens, and the Empire passes legislation with a 
distinct antialien bias. The Empire allows the Corporate Sector Authority to 
expand into nearly thirty thousand star systems, in the process coming into 
contact with and eventually exploiting a number of native alien species, with 
no regard for those species’ rights. Even Humans from worlds out of favor 
with the Emperor find themselves trapped under the government's boots, 
making it a difficult time to be a citizen of any species. 


A LESS CIVILIZED AGE 

Another side effect of the rise of the Empire is that criminal activity rises as 
well. Major criminal organizations see exceptional growth and prosperity, 
such as the Black Sun crime syndicate, mostly due to the fact that Imperial 
governors and bureaucrats were so prone to corruption. Many leaders will 
turn a blind eye to the crime and vice spread by these crime syndicates, 
allowing them to run rampant. Where once the decency af common citizens 
could hold criminals in check, the oppression of the Empire stamps out most 
of the resistance left in the general populace, leaving organized crime to 
prosper as never before. 

In the wake of the Clone Wars, the Empire seizes control of the economic 
and trade assets of the former members of the Confederacy. This turn of 
events creates a commercial void as the Empire puts strict limitations on 
trade—a void that will quickly be filled by smugglers and criminal cartels. 
Large smuggling cartels, such as the one run by Jorj Car'das, engage in lucra- 
tive contraband operations across the galaxy. The black market flourishes, 
and despite Imperial efforts to crack down on criminals, in truth it is only 
legitimate businesses and their honest customers that suffer from Imperial 
regulations. 


CORELLIAN TREATY 

The Dark Times conclude with the signing of the Corellian Treaty. Mon 
Mothma, Garm Bel Iblis, and Bail Organa create the document that officially 
establishes the Rebel Alliance, which is considered to be the act of treason 
that begins the Galactic Civil War. The treaty has its origins in a clandestine 
meeting on Corellia, but is finalized on Kashyyyk. 


UNLEASHED CONCEPTS 

Throughout this book, you will find a number of pieces of art from the 
LucasArts video game, The Force Unleashed. Many of these pieces are 
concept art appearing for the first time anywhere in print, and all of 
the chapter introductions feature a montage of production images from 
the video game. These images help convey the tone and feel of The 
Force Unleashed and its setting, and they provide the most accurate 
representations of new characters, vehicles, and locales from the game. 


DILINAGOHXiNI 


GeASsevEeiNn goe) 


OF 2gA4L : 
t 


Ez 


-. 


2 es SS 


“ CHAPTER I” i 
SPECIES 


SSN 
The species of the Dark Times are as varied as in any other Star Wars era. 
However, certain species suffer greatly during this period. Some species 
might flee Imperial oppression or the destruction of their homeworlds. The 
Empire considers members of certain species to be escaped slaves, no matter 
where they dwell. Many must find refuge in remote and dangerous worlds, 
far from the Empire's reach. Travel for members of these species is always 
risky, and they live their lives in fear. 

Any species available during the Rise of the Empire Era is suitable for a 
Force Unleashed campaign. Some of the species presented in this chapter 
are particularly useful for campaigns featuring Force Unleashed themes and 
abilities, but they are not restricted to those adventures. Other species play 
pivotal roles in the development of the new Empire, although not often to 
their own advantage. 


SPECIES 
CHARACTERISTICS 


Your character's species determines some of his or her qualities. 
Common Languages: Of the languages mentioned in this chapter, only 
Gran is considered a common language in the galaxy. 


ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 

Find your character's species on the table below and apply the adjustments 
indicated to your character's ability scores. Use the next two tables to help 
determine age, height, weight, and any related adjustments to your character. 
See Chapter 2: Species and Chapter 7: Heroic Traits in the Saga Edition core 
rulebook for additional information. 


ssaics3sds ¢ 


1 SeSLldgvHo 


Sqsggeas 


SPECIES ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 
Aleena +2 Dex, =2 Cha 
Caamasi -2 Str, -2 Con, +4 Wis 
Felucian +2 Con, -2 Int 

Gran -2 Int, +2 Cha 
Nosaurian +2 Dex, -2 Cha 

Talz +2 Con, -2 Int 
Togorian +4 Str, -2 Int, -2 Wis 
Togruta +2 Dex, -2 Con 
Whiphid +4 Str, -2 Int, -2 Wis 
Yarkora -2 Dex, +2 Wis, +2 Cha 


YOUNG 

SPECIES CHILD ADULT ADULT 
Aleena 1-12 years 13-18 19-45 
Caamasi 1-11 years 12-15 16-49 
Felucian 1-8 years 9-19 20-49 
Gran 1-10 years 11-15 16-40 
Nosaurian 1-10 years 11-15 16-45 
Talz 1-3 years 4-8 9-25 
Togorian 1-9 years 10-14 15-44 
Togruta 1-11 years 12-17 18-54 
Whiphid 1-10 years 11-15 16-84 
Yarkora 1-10 years 11=18 19-64 
ALEENA 


Aleena are a small reptilian species best known as galactic travelers. Their 
inborn curiosity coupled with strong dedication to family inspires them to 
tour most any part of the galaxy together. Aleena families show up even 
in the most unusual or dangerous locales, just to see the sights. However, 
although “galactic tourist” might be the Aleena stereotype, they also engage 
the galaxy in more civic ways. In the Republic, Aleena served in the Galactic 
Senate and as Jedi Knights and Masters. Squads of Aleena scouts even helped 


SPECIES HEIGHT WEIGHT 
Aleena 0.8 m 50 kg 
Caamasi 1.8m 80 kg 
Felucian 1.9m 90 kg 
Gran 1.6m 80 kg 
Nosaurian 14m 75 kg 
Talz 2m 90 kg 
Togorian 2.5m 170 kg 
Togruta 1.7m 75 kg 
Whiphid 2.5m 55 kg 
Yarkora 2m 95 kg 


MIDDLE 

AGE OLD VENERABLE 
46-60 61-79 80+ 
50-76 77-89 90+ 
50-70 71-85 86+ 
41-62 63-79 80+ 
46-79 80-99 100+ 
26-40 41-52 53+ 
45-64 65-79 80+ 
55-74 75-94 95+ 
85-99 100-249 250+ 
65-94 95-124 125+ 


to defend Kashyyyk during the Clone Wars. In the Empire, the species has 
not garnered any special attention. 

Aleena are quick and agile. Their metabolism allows them to burn a lot 
of energy ina short amount of time, giving them a significant boost to their 
speed and reflexes. Some Aleena use these natural skills as Podracers and 
pilots. 

Personality: Aleena are adventurous and courageous. They have a great 
curiosity, which inspires them to travel extensively. They are quick in spirit as 


well as in body, and they do not let the fact that they are one of the smaller 
species in the galaxy inhibit or intimidate them. 

Physical Description: An Aleena is a short, reptilian biped that has large 
eyes and a wide mouth with small, sharp teeth. Its head tapers back from a 
wide face. Aleena have long bodies in comparison to their short arms and 
stubby legs. They are typically blue-gray in color. 

Homeworlds: The harsh, arid world of Aleen in the Inner Rim. 

Languages: Aleena speak Basic as well as their own language. 

Example Names: Bogg Tyrell, Kazdan Paratus, Ratts Tyrell, Tsui Choi. 

Adventurers: The curious nature of the Aleena might lead them most 
anywhere in the galaxy. Heroic Aleena are often scouts, pilots, and nobles. 
Up until the Dark Times, Force-using Aleena were regular members of the 
Jedi Order. 


ALEENA SPECIES TRAITS 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Charisma. Aleena are extremely quick, 
but they have difficulty relating to other species. 

Small Size: As Small creatures, Aleena have a +1 size bonus to their Reflex 
Defense and a +5 size bonus on Stealth checks. However, their lifting and 
carrying limits are three-quarters of those of Medium characters. 

Speed: Aleena base speed is 4 squares. 

Nimble: An Aleena can choose to reroll any Acrobatics check, but the 
result of the reroil must be accepted, even if it is worse. Aleena are quite 
adept at avoiding danger in combat when they can see it coming. 

Quick Energy: Once per encounter, an Aleena can gain a tempo- 
rary boost to quickness and reflexes. When this ability is activated as a 
swift action, an Aleena gains a +2 bonus on Dexterity-based skill checks 
and increases its speed to 8 
squares. The energy lasts for a 
number of rounds equal to the 
Aleena’s Constitution modifier 
(minimum 1 round). When 
the energy is expended, the 
Aleena moves -1 persistent 
step along the condition 
track. The penalties imposed 
by this condition persist until 
the Aleena takes at least 10 
minutes to recuperate, during 
which time the creature can't 
engage in any strenuous 
activity. 

Automatic Languages: 
Aleena and Basic. 


CAAMASI 


The Dark Times are truly the Caamasi's darkest hours. Though they will not 
know it for decades to come, the Caamasi homeworld fell victim to one 
of the vilest plots of the new Emperor. Only a few months after the end 
of the Clone Wars, the Empire, with help from internal agents, hammered 
Caamas in a devastating orbital bombardment. The world was effectively 
destroyed, along with the vast majority of the Caamasi people. Most of those 
who survived were offworld at the time. A few would return to investigate 
rehabilitating the planet, but most relocated to refugee camps on Kerilt, 
Susevfi, and Alderaan. Kerilt and Alderaan would eventually host large 
colonies of Caamasi. 

All Caamasi can create vivid telepathic memories called memnii (singular 
memnis), which can be shared with others of their species and with Jedi who 
possess at least a rudimentary command of telepathy. A memnis is as vivid 
to the one who receives it as it is to the one who participated in the event 
remembered. Caamasi are driven to share memnii as a form of collected 
history and ancestral wisdom. After the destruction of Caamas, memnii take 
On even greater importance as the only way for young Caamasi to know 
their lost homeworld. 

Personality: Caamasi possess great moral strength and a deep respect 
for others. They are artistic, freethinking, gentle, and contemplative. They 
are also well-known pacifists. 

Physical Description: A Caamasi's body is tall, lean, and covered in down. 
It has long arms with thin, three-fingered hands. The coloration of the downy 
coat is typically golden with purple rings around the eyes and three matching 
Stripes on the tops of the head that extend to the shoulders. Less common 
colorations feature radically darker hues in the same patterns. 

Homeworlds: The Core World of Caamas, prior 
to its devastation. The few survivors, 
along with Caamasi who were offworld 
at the time, migrated to Kerilt in the 
Algara system and also established a 

large colony on Alderaan (before that 
planet too was destroyed). 
Languages: Caamasi speak, 
read, and write Caamasi and Basic. 
Example Names: Elegos A’Kla, 
Yleni¢ It’kla, Releqy, Tegas Sulkec, 
Megli Likarin. 
Adventurers: As pacifists, 
Caamasi are never soldiers or 
similarly aggressive character types. 

Heroic Caamasi are typically nobles, 

particularly diplomats. Prior to the 

rise of the Empire, those extremely 


{ HaLoawrim 


sqasgas 


Pee) 


| SSierHo 


SqsageS 


rare Caamasi who are strong in the Force might become Jedi diplomats 
and consulars. During the Dark Times, Caamasi Force-users conceal their 
abilities. 


CAAMAS! SPECIES TRAITS 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Strength, -2 Constitution, +4 Wisdom. Caamasi 
are renowned for their insight, not their physical strength. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Caamasi have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Caamasi base speed is 6 squares. 

Adept Diplomat: A Caamasi can choose to reroll any Persuasion check, 
using the better result. 

Pacifism: As a standard action, a Caamasi can make a Persuasion check 
against the Will Defense of a single target within line of sight. If the check 
is successful, the target moves -1 step along the condition track if it makes 
any attacks before the start of the Caamasi’s next turn. The target must be 
able to hear and understand the Caamasi for this ability to have any effect, 
and any single target can be affected only once at any given time (meaning 
that multiple Caamasi may not use this ability on the same target at the 
same time). This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Memory Sharing: Caamasi can create strong, lasting memories and share 
them with others of their species through an inborn telepathy. Sharing a 
memory begins with taking a full-round action to initiate the link between 
two adjacent Caamasi; transferring a memory requires as much time as the 
events being recalled. The recipient of a memory must be willing to receive 
it. Experiencing memniiis not like receiving a photographic memory of those 
events, but rather a complete, immersive experience. Any character who 
receives a memnis fram a Caamasi always gains favorable circumstances 
on Knowledge checks related to that memory. 

Force-using characters can also receive memnii from a Caamasi with a 
successful DC 15 Use the Force check, made as a reaction. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Caamasi. 


FELUCIAN 


Felucians are mysterious sentient beings native to the vast fungal swamps 
and jungles of Felucia. Though Felucia has long been colonized, the native 
Felucians avoided notice by living deep in the jungle. Such seclusion was 
easily maintained. Even the hardiest of colonists were loath to brave the 
perils of the dangerous wilderness without cause. 

The Felucians are an unusual, amphibious species. They are highly adapted 
to surviving the wilds of their home planet, and fade easily into its confusing 
mass of plant life. They are equally at home on land or in the water, and they 
traverse the swamps with ease. 

All Felucians are part of a single, planetwide tribe that is broken down into 
smaller villages and communities, each one led by shamans and chieftains. 


These shamans are very strong 
in the Force, using it to their 
own ends with incredible skill. 
(See page 222 for more about 
the Felucian shamans.) 

Personality: Felucians 
are strange and alien beings 
who appear to operate on a 
different social level, much as 
the Tusken Raiders of Tatooine 
do. Most Felucians are subject 
to some rather wild mood 
swings, reacting to situations 
in a variety of (often sur- 
prising) ways. Their natural 
connection to the Living Force 
gives them a Somewhat primal 
attitude. 

Physical Description: 
Felucians are a tall, bipedal species. Both their arms and legs end in four, 
large webbed digits with suction-cup fingertips. Springing from the under- 
side of each forearm is a second short arm, ending in three targe and agile 
fingers. A Felucian’s head is a thick mass of long flexible tendrils featuring 
illuminated tips. The eyes and mouth appear as black holes or openings 
within this mass. 

Homeworlds: The swampy, fungal, forest-covered Outer Rim world of 
Felucia. 

Languages: Felucians speak their own guttural, barking language, known 
as Felucianese. 

Example Names: Gokkuul, Kargrek, Hagark. 

Adventurers: Offworld Felucians are exceedingly rare. Heroic Felucians 
gravitate toward Force-using classes, though no Felucian is known to have 
ever joined the Jedi Order. Many are also scouts or soldiers. 


FELUCIAN SPECIES TRAITS 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Intelligence. Felucians must be 
tough to compete with the dangerous plants and animals of their homeworld, 
but they live in a relatively primitive state. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Felucians have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Felucian base speed is 6 squares. 

Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Felucians can't drown 
in water. 

Low-Light Vision: Felucians ignore concealment (but not total 
concealment) from darkness. 


Natural Camouflage: A Felucian can choose to reroll any Stealth check 
to sneak, using the better result. 

Bonus Feat: Felucians gain Force Sensitivity as a bonus feat. 

Force Blast: Once per encounter a Felucian can make an untrained Use 
the Force check to activate the Force blast power. A Felucian who takes the 
Force Training feat automatically adds a single use of the Force blast power 
to his Force power suite (for free) instead of this ability. 

Primitive: Regardless of their starting class, Felucians gain Weapon 
Proficiency only for the simple weapons group. 

Weapon Familiarity: Felucians treat the Felucian skullolade as a simple 
weapon instead of an exotic weapon. 

Automatic Languages: Felucianese. 


GRAN 


Gran originally came from the world and system of Kinyen in the Expansion 
Region. They are longtime members of galactic society, with numerous 
colonies. Although most of these colonies are peaceful, their colony on 
Malastare quickly became embroiled in a bitter conflict with the native Dugs, 
forcing the Gran to act aggressively to protect themselves. 

Gran place society over self, and they receive training that complements 
both their personal talents and society's needs. The desire to maintain balance 
within society caused the Gran to establish alien-only areas of Kinyen. This 
was intended to restrict alien influence and avoid trouble between species, 
such as what happened on Malastare. During the Dark Times, the Empire 
has pushed the Gran leadership to grant access to al! areas. When the 
Gran refused, Kinyen was subjected to orbital bombardment. The Kinyen 
Gran relented, but the incident 
inspired many Gran to resist 
the new Empire. 

Personality: Gran are 
highly social and unable to 
stand solitude, or isolation 
from other Gran, for any 
length of time. Most are talk- 
ative, friendly, and hospitable. 
They are slow to anger. Gran 
friendships are for life. Gran 
from Malastare and other 
colonies follow looser social 
codes than those from the 
homeworld. 

Physical Description: The 
beige=skinned Gran have three 
distinctive eye stalks with 
pitch-black eyes, ahead of 


small horns and large, triangular ears. Males and females have similar 
builds. 

Homeworlds: Kinyen, with colonies on many other worlds, including 
Hok and Malastare. 

Languages: Gran speak, read, and write Basic and Gran. 

Example Names: Ainlee Teem, Aks Moe, Ask Aak, Baskol Yeesrim, Cera 
Vixe, Cruegar, Kea R-Lan, Mawhonic, Nadin Paal, Ree-Yees, Vee Naagq. 

Adventurers: Heroic Gran are often nobles, scoundrels, scouts, and 
bounty hunters. Prior to the Dark Times, Gran Jedi consulars were common, 
and it is possible that some survived the initial Jedi purge. After the bombard- 
ment of Kinyen, individualistic Gran find themselves open to other methods 
of serving society, looking for new ways to resist the Empire. 


GRAN SPECIES TRAITS 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Intelligence, +2 Charisma. Gran are highly social 
creatures. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Gran have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Gran base speed is 6 squares. 

Darkvision: Gran ignore concealment (including total concealment) from 
darkness. However, they cannot perceive colors in total darkness. 

Target Awareness: A Gran takes no distance penalties on Perception 
checks made to notice targets for the first 50 squares between the Gran 
and its targets. 

Triple Vision: Once per encounter, a Gran can aim by taking a single swift 
action instead of two swift actions. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: A Gran with the Point Blank Shot feat gains 
Precise Shot as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Gran. 


NOSAURIAN 


The Nosaurians are bipedal reptilian creatures native to New Plympto. 
They are a proud but embattled species. A crumbling economy unaided 
by Republic restrictions forced the Nosaurians to join the Confederacy 
of Independent Systems. After the defeat of the CIS, the Nosaurians tried 
to carry on the fight, only to be crushed by Darth Vader's stormtrooper 
contingent, the 501st. Tne Dark Times brought the Nosaurians defeat, 
enslavement, and the systematic exploitation of their world by their new 
Imperial masters. 

The Nosaurians have several unusual abilities and customs. They have 
black-and-white vision, which is rarely a hindrance. They can produce a 
brief flash of bright light from the interior of their mouths at will. Some 
Nosaurians use this trait to signal each other at great distances in the dark 
forests of their homeworld. At sunset (or at mysterious and inopportune 
moments when offworld}, they “sing down the sun” at the top of their lungs, 
even when they are unable to see the sun. 


1 | eatagvHo 


SqigsdsS 


1 ¥SiavHo 


SsqiaddSs 


Personality: Nosaurians are naturally 
gregarious and even-tempered. However, the 
brutal annihilation of their forces and the 
enslavement of much of their population 
at the end of the Clone Wars left 
them embittered and angry. Both 
the Empire and Humans in general 
bear the brunt of Nosaurian anger in 
the following decades. 

Physical Description: 
Nosaurians’ thick skin ranges in color 
primarily from light green to black, with 
other colors less common. A Nosau- 
rian’s head features a prominent ridge 
of horns, serving both as a natural 
headdress and as a weapon. Old and 
battle-scarred Nosaurians often have 
broken or damaged horns. 

Homeworlds: The forested and swampy planet of New Plympto in the 
Core Worlds region. 

Languages: Nosaurians speak, read, and write Basic as well as their 
own language, which is a complex collection of sounds featuring barks, 
warbles, and hissing, plus a written language consisting of two alphabets 
and metaphors about nature, the weather, and seasons. 

Example Names: Fefar Blackeye, Bomo Greenbark, Clegg Holdfast, Churra 
Leafhorn, Moco Minkfruit. 

Adventurers: Nosaurian adventurers can be of any class. Soldiers and 
scoundrels are most common during the Dark Times; these are often veterans 
of the Clone Wars trying to avoid Imperial notice. 


NOSAURIAN SPECIES TRAITS 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Charisma. Nosaurian reflexes are 
quick, but their demeanor is abrasive toward other species. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Nosaurians have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Nosaurian base speed is 6 squares. 

Climber’s Heritage: All Nosaurians have Climb as a class skill. 

Natural Weapon: A Nosaurian has natura! weapons, in the form of horns. 
When a Nosaurian makes an unarmed attack, it may choose to use its natural 
weapons, dealing 1d6 points of piercing damage with that attack instead 
of normal unarmed damage. Nosaurians are always considered armed with 
their natural weapons. 

Survival Instinct: A Nosaurian can choose to reroll any Survival check, 
but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Nosaurian. 


TALZ 

The Empire subjugates the Talz very early in the Dark Times. The New Order 
wasted no time in secretly enslaving the race and forcing them to mine the 
mineral wealth of Alzoc Ill. The Talz do not understand the motives of their 
new masters, but they can do little but comply. Those few Talz who escape 
must hide themselves among the fringes of the galaxy, lest the Imperials 
send them back to their homeworld. During this time, almost no one in the 
galaxy at large knows that the Talz even exist. 

Although primitive, the Talz are quick learners and take to technology 
quite well. Their two sets of distinctive eyes allow them to see at all times— 
one set works in bright light, the other in total darkness. Their thick fur is 
suited to the frigid temperatures of Alzoc Ill. 

Personality: Talz are gentle, kindhearted, and slow to anger. 

Physical Description: A Talz is completely covered in shaggy white fur. 
Each one has four black eyes, plus a proboscis for talking and eating, and 
two large hands with sharp talons. 

Homeworlds: Alzoc Ill, a frozen wortd in the Outer Rim system of 
Alzoc. 

Languages: Talz speak their own language of buzzing and chirping 
sounds. 

Example Names: Foul Moudama, Arvor, Bama Vook, Forfur, Gar, Muftak, 
Rugg, Toffik, Veefa, Voruf. 

Adventurers: Talz are usually fringer-based scoundrels, and they are a 
quick study when introduced to technology. Few Talz are Force-users. 


TALZ SPECIES TRAITS 
Ability Modifiers: +2 
| Alzoc Ill winters make the Talz 
strong and resilient, but they 
and develop intellectually. 
Medium Size: As Medium 
bonuses or penalties due to 
their size. 
6 squares. 
Darkvision: Talz ignore 
concealment) from darkness. 
However, they cannot perceive 


Constitution, -2 Intelligence. 
1 have had little chance to learn 
creatures, Talz have no special 
Speed: Talz base speed is 
concealment (including total 
colors in total darkness. 


Natural Weapon: A Talz has natural weapons, in the form of sharp claws. 
When a Talz makes an unarmed attack, it may choose to use its natural 
weapons, dealing 1d6 points of slashing damage with that attack instead 
of normal unarmed damage. Talz are always considered armed with their 
natural weapons. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Talz learn how to use technology very quickly. 
A Talz who has Mechanics as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Mechanics) 
as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Talz. 


TOGORIAN 


Togorians are predatory, aggressive nomads and fearless warriors. In the days 
of the Republic, Togorian pirate fleets were a known menace. The Republic 
was unsuccessful in quelling this threat, but the new Empire has the drive 
and the firepower to crush the fleets. During the Dark Times, pirate fleet 
survivors are likely to seek their fortunes aboard non-Togorian ships and in 
non-Togorian organizations. 

Togorians in a group are led by the largest, most aggressive, and most 
ruthless individual among them. They have little honor, but prefer fights 
against other Togorians to be face-to-face combat. Males and females have 
little contact with each other. The males are nomadic, often using domesti- 
cated mosgoth flying lizards as mounts. The females live in the cities, tending 
animals and seeing to the Togorians’ limited technological pursuits. 

Personality: Togorian males respect strength above everything else. To 
that end, they often seek to prove themselves in melee combat against worthy 
opponents, especially members of other powerful species. Other species 
mistrust Togorians, for they are treacherous, foul, 
and temperamental. Togorian females 
are equally aggressive and vicious, 
but are much less likely to leave their 
homeworld. 

Physical Description: Togorians 
are muscular, stand on legs with 
two knees, and have retract- 
able, razor-sharp claws. Their 
piercing jade eyes provide them 
with excellent vision, even in low 
light. A Togorian's thick fur is 
normally jet black or black with 
orange stripes. 

Homeworlds: The temper- 
ate world of Togoria, featuring 
isolated cities among vast savan- 
nas, deep canyons and great, deep 
forests. 


Languages: Togorians speak their own language, plus Basic. 

Example Names: Dankin, Dh'rang, H’sishi, Keta, Mezgraf, Mrrov, Muuurgh, 
Qrrulla, Rowv, Ruukas, Sarrah, Seendar. 

Adventurers: Togorians in the galaxy at large are often pirates, outcasts, 
or exiles. They naturally find their way to criminal enterprises, serving as 
hired muscle or in other brutal pursuits. They prefer to create their own 
pirate bands, and they scheme to take over any band they do not lead. 
Togorian heroes are usually soldiers or scoundrels. They have little aptitude 
for technology. The few Togorian Force-users are rarely trustworthy and 
likely to fall to the dark side in short order. 


TOGORIAN SPECIES TRAITS 

Ability Modifiers: +4 Strength, -2 Intelligence, -2 Wisdom. Togorians 
are strong and tough, but not terribly bright or learned. 

Large Size: Large. Togorians take a -1 size penalty to Reflex Defense 
and a -5 size penalty on Stealth checks. Their lifting and carrying limits are 
double those of Medium characters. 

Speed: Togorian base speed is 6 squares. 

Feline Reflexes: Togorians gain a +1 species bonus to Reflex Defense. 

Low-Light Vision: Togorians ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Physical Intimidation: When using the Persuasion skill to intimidate, 
Togorians use their Strength bonus instead of their Charisma bonus when 
determining the check modifier. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Togorian. 


TOGRUTA 


Togruta are natives of the planet Shili, a world of dense forests, wild scru- 
blands, and ever-growing urban areas. The most striking features of Togruta 
are their brightly colored horns, head, tails, and skin. These patterns serve as 
a sort of camouflage that helps them stalk prey through the red and white, 
meter-tall turu-grass of the scrublands. 

Togruta are natural pack hunters and work effectively in large groups. 
Individualism is generally discouraged, but despite this fact, most Togruta 
leaders gain power and prestige through expressions of individuality. 

Outsiders often believe that Togruta are venomous. Although no one 
knows how this rumor was started, Togruta do use their sharp incisors to 
kill one of their favorite meals, the small, rodentlike thimiars. Outsiders who 
witness this event could mistake the thimiar's death throes for the result 
of poisoning. 

Personality: Togruta are social, outspoken, perceptive and attentive. 
They prefer to work in groups and are adept at complex social interaction 
within a known group. 


| YSsLiavHo 


8; 


HDSsEAS 


S 


| HSievHo 


0 
0 
I 
a 
fm 
@ 


Physical Description: A Togruta has an oval 
face flanked by striped, curved horns and a long 
head tail. Elaborate red and white patterns 
adorn the face, while a Togruta's body and 
limbs display red and white stripes. 

Homeworlds: Shili in the Expansion 
Region, a planet featuring small com- 
munities within dense forests and hidden 
valleys. 

Languages: Togruta speak Basic and 
Togruti. 

Example Names: Ashla, Raana Tey, Codi 
Ty, Creev Zrgaat, Dyani Zaan, Jir Taalan, 
Qusak Laal, Shaak Ti, Vika Saaris, Ahsoka 
Tano. 

Adventurers: Strong-willed, highly 
independent Togruta leave their home- 
world to “hunt among the stars.” Togruta 
are often nobles, scouts, or soldiers, or 
become Force adepts, but can belong to 
any class. 


TOGRUTA SPECIES TRAITS 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Constitution. Togruta are quick on 
the hunt but more delicate than some races. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Togruta have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Togruta base speed is 6 squares. 

Pack Hunter: Togruta deal an extra 2 points of damage on melee attacks 
against opponents they flank. 

Sneaky: A Togruta can choose to reroll any Stealth check to sneak, but 
the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Spatial Awareness: Togruta can sense their surroundings using passive 
echolocation. Togruta ignore all cover and concealment when making 
Perception checks to notice targets within 10 squares. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Togruti. 


WHIPHID 

Whiphids are nomadic hunters, living on and making seasonal migrations 
across the vast tundra of their homeworld. Whiphid society is primitive 
and tribal, with each tribe led by a Spearmaster. They live for the hunt and 
the thrill of the kill. When they were discovered by traders during the Old 
Republic, the Whiphids were quite taken with the traders’ technology. Since 
that time, numerous Whiphids have left their tribes behind in search of a 
lucrative and more comfortable life elsewhere in the galaxy. 

Personality: Whiphids are natural predators. They enjoy the hunt as much 
as the kill. Outsiders might be surprised by their agreeable and outgoing 
personalities, especially when some Whiphid must learn the difference 
between “friend” and "food" the hard way. A combination of greed and lack 
of scruples lead many into the shady side of galactic society. 

Physical Description: Whiphids are bulky bipeds covered in light brown 
or golden fur. A Whiphid's lower jaw sports two large tusks. Whiphids vary 
in bulk and size depending on the climate they live in. They often shed some 
weight on hotter worlds to prevent overheating. 

Homeworlds: The tundra world of Toola, in the Kaelta system in the 
Outer Rim. 

Languages: Whiphids have no written language. They speak their native 
tongue of barks and growls, also called Whiphid. 

Example Names: J’Quille, K’Kruhk, Jempa, Wapnji, Aiks Fwa, Ch’Unkk, 
D'Wopp, Fillin Ta, Valarian, Waroopa. 

Adventurers: Though primitive, Whiphids are eager to explore the galaxy. 
Offworld Whiphids quickly pick up the use of technology. Many Whiphids 
follow their natural predatory instincts to become soldiers, bounty hunters, 
or mercenaries. Nobles are 
uncommon. Force-ensitive 
Whiphids are rare, but not 
unheard of. 


WHIPEHIDO 
SPECIES 
TRAITS 

Ability Modifiers: +4 
Strength, -2 Intelligence, 
-2 Wisdom. Whiphids are 
typically strong, but many 
lack experience in the wider 
galaxy. 

Large Size: Whipids take 
a -1 size penalty to Reflex 
Defense and a -5 size penalty 
on Stealth checks. Their lifting 
and carrying limits are double 
those of Medium characters. 


Speed: Whiphid base speed is 6 squares. 

Insulating Fur: Their thick fur gives Whiphids a +5 species bonus to 
Fortitude Defense to resist extreme cold. 

Natural Weapon: A Whiphid has natural weapons, in the form of sharp 
claws. When a Whiphid makes an unarmed attack, it may choose to use its 
natural weapons, dealing 1d6 points of slashing damage with that attack 
instead of normal unarmed damage. Whiphid are always considered armed 
with their natural weapons. 

Scent: Whiphids have an extremely strong sense of smell. At close range 
(within 10 squares), Whiphids ignore concealment and cover for the purpose 
of Perception checks, and they take no penalty for poor visibility when 
tracking (see “Survival,” page 73 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Automatic Languages: Whiphid. 


YARKORA 


Yarkora are among the most mysterious species in the galaxy. Though 
individual Yarkora have made their way in the vast, galactic underworld 
for many decades, the species as a whole managed to escape formal notice 
until after the Battle of Yavin. During the Dark Times, the Yarkora perform 
the activities they are known for: information brokering, petty theft, and 
the occasional con job. 

Yarkora are adept at gathering information, aided by their acute senses 
of sight and hearing. Most Yarkora try to keep a low profile by acting alone. 
However, those who find a ship or gang useful have no trouble gathering the 
needed henchmen, thanks to their 
natural charisma. 

Personality: Yarkora are mas- 
ters of manipulation. They are 
adept at plying others for desired 
information while revealing very 
little about themselves. True 

friendships between Yarkora 
and other species are rare. 

Exploitation of the moment 

is more to their liking. They 
often promote a distinguished 
appearance, even when dressed 
in the lowliest of garb. 

Physical Description: A Yar- 
kora has three-fingered hands 
with large black nails and a 
=- prominent snout flanked by 
tufts of hair. The body of 

a Yarkora is covered in short, 
smooth, usually beige fur. 


Homeworlds: Unknown. 

Languages: The Yarkora speak Basic and use their own language only 
among themselves. 

Example Names: Adaka-Vanae, Haesh-Rulan, Nemor-Jelak, Rault-Sanik, 
Saelt-Marae, Schurk-Heren. 

Adventurers: Yarkora adventurers are usually nobles or scoundrels. 
Though many are loners, some might join groups or crews when doing so 
suits their needs. Such alliances are typically fragile, since their reputation 
as thieves, con artists, and information brokers precedes them. There are 
few known Yarkora Force-users. 


YARKORA SPECIES TRAITS 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Dexterity, +2 Wisdom, +2 Charisma. Yarkora are 
charismatic and street smart. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Yarkora have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Yarkora base speed is 6 squares. 

Confusion: As a defense mechanism, all Yarkora can use a combina- 
tion of motions and sounds to distract and deter potential enemies. Once 
per encounter as a standard action, a Yarkora can make a Deception check 
against the Will Defense of all targets within 6 squares. If the Deception 
check result equals or exceeds a target's Will Defense, that target does 
not threaten any squares until the end of the Yarkora’s next turn. This is a 
mind-affecting effect. 

Deceptive: Naturally gifted at manipulation, a Yarkora can choose to 
reroll any Deception check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted 
even if it is worse. 

Streetwise: Yarkora are adept at collecting information from a variety 
of sources. All Yarkora have Gather Information as a class skill. 

Automatic Languages: Yarkora speak Basic and Yarkora. 


| eSn0VvHoO 


Ssisdes 


Me 
; dL CHAPTER Il 
He oie TRAITS 


a's’e 


— ~ 


The Dark Times naturally bring new and diverse challenges 
_ to all character types. In this chapter, players will find 
information on creating Dark Times heroes, including story 


stige classes gain access to new talents, and new destinies 
suited to the Dark Times are described. Finally, new Unleashed abilities 
give non-Force-users equally interesting and powerful options similar to 
the Force Unleashed abilities in Chapter 5: The Force. 


In The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide, it is assumed that the characters 
are heroes fighting against the evils of the galaxy. Generally speaking, the 
heroes are fighting the Empire and its supporters, plus criminal factions that 
might prove troublesome. Although it is possible to play darker roles using 
this book, the focus is on the forces of good. 


MeEROIC ORIGINS 

Heroes are created through a combination of circumstance and personal 
ability. How heroic would Luke Skywalker have been if he had remained 
on Tatooine? He had significant innate talents and powers, but the Death 
Star would not have been destroyed if he had remained at home. Though 
circumstances beyond his control forced him from his homeworld, his own 
abilities and desires enabled him to turn those negatives into a great victory 
for the Rebellion and ultimately the galaxy. 

Why does your character become a hero? Your character could come from 
any region of the galaxy and any level of society. Heroes might emerge from 
the impoverished classes, the masses of everyday workers, the spacefaring 
population, or the most elite royal houses. A hero could be a noble angry 
with a government that abuses its power; a soldier who questions whether 
he's fighting on the right side; a scout who fears that the Empire could 
bring desolation to the worlds she discovers; a Jedi fleeing from the Imperial 
purge; or a scoundrel with a heart of gold who realizes that money means 
nothing without freedom. 

What pushes your character to leave his or her comfortable life to pursue 
a furtive and dangerous war against a seemingly invincible Empire? Not 
everyone perceives from the start the threat posed by Imperial tyranny. For 
many people, Palpatine’s New Order seems to be no more than a shift in 
government policies to help bring peace and prosperity back to the galaxy. 
Those who fight the Empire have come to the realization that someone must 
oppose this brutal dictatorship before it enslaves people in every system. 


SilivyaLt DOYsH * i HStdvHa 


G 


SHWIVeL S083) 


One of the following basic themes might define your character's circum- 
stances prior to becoming a hero. 

Imperial Persecution: The Jedi Knights, witnesses to the horrors of 
Order 66, and other Imperial dissenters bear firsthand testimony to the 
savage cruelty of Palpatine’s intentions for the New Order. The experience 
of merciless execution or persecution defines this hero’s origin. Those lucky 
enough to escape become targeted by the Empire. Many who openly oppose 
Palpatine's rise become the targets of swift and brutal reprisals. How can 
anyone sit back and let the Empire enslave entire worlds after witnessing 
the slaughter of the Jedi Knights? 

Although your hero's primary goal remains fleeing from Imperial persecu- 
tion, he or she might choose to take a stand and openly oppose the Empire. 
This opposition could take the form of many activities that could aid a bud- 
ding resistance movement: establishing safe havens, scavenging supplies 
for survival, finding allies to help in the fight. These heroes seek to remain 
in hiding, for each foray into civilized society brings the risk of exposure, 
betrayal, capture, and death. Former Republic Senator Garm Bel Iblis is an 
example of a hero forged by direct Imperial persecution. 

Gradual Oppression: As the Empire expands its power throughout the 
galaxy, its oppressive policies affect the lives of more and more people. 
At first, only those directly targeted by the New Order—the Jedi Knights, 
enslaved aliens, and obvious enemies of the Empire—feel its immediate 
wrath. But once Imperial forces subdue these threats, they expand their 
policies to encompass entire regions, sectors, and worlds. They take over 
major industries, tighten their grip on trade and space travel, and dominate 
local governments. In many cases, the exact means of implementing Impe- 
rial policy falls to military officers and governors who also pursue corrupt 
agendas of their own. 

Many people, fearing for their lives, simply look the other way and hope 
they never fall victim to such direct cruelty, But these incidents cause others 
to question the Empire's authority and their own complicity in its far-reach- 
ing treachery. As the incidents continue to become more frequent and more 
outrageous, these individuals abandon their former lives to fight the Empire. 
General Crix Madine is an example of how repeated atrocities and exposure 
to the Empire's truly ruthless nature could cause a loyal Imperial soldier to 
defect to the resistance. 

Mistaken Suspicion: Imperial forces don't make fine distinctions in 
identifying and persecuting enemies of the Empire. They arrest people on fab- 
ricated evidence, vindictive rumor, mistaken circumstances, and sometimes 
even sheer whim. Some people living complacent, law-abiding lives realize 
the true extent of the Empire's effect on society when they're subjected to 
unjust measures for supposedly betraying the Imperial government (or any 
authority associated with it). 

A hero with this origin might have suddenly found himself unjustly per- 
secuted for a supposed association with the resistance. Perhaps someone 


THE BIRTH OF A HEROD 

A certain moment in a hero's past usually inspires or forces him or her 
to take on the Empire. This incident defines why a hero emerges from 
the masses and what motivates him to fight Imperial oppression. Players 
should decide how their heroes came to realize the Empire's treacherous 
nature through some anecdote or past encounter that sheds light on 
their character's background. 

Select a heroic origin from this section or create one of your own 
choosing. Expand on the concept to build an incident in the character's 
recent past based on that theme. Embellish that incident by including 
specific locations, allies, and enemies. Ideally, these background stories 
offer the Gamemaster inspiration for campaigns and adventures. This 
could include locations and recurring heroic and nonheroic allies and 
opponents. The more details players invest in their heroes’ background 
stories, the more material they offer the Gamemaster for use in enrich- 
ing the campaign and populating it with key locations and personalities 
key to specific heroes. 


When creating a heroic back story, players should answer several key 

questions: 

e What circumstances caused the hero to join the fight against 
Palpatine’s New Order? (Choose one of the heroic origin stories as 
inspiration and customize it to fit the hero.) 

e Who is the prime adversary in a hero's back story who could return 
to present challenges in the future? A vindictive Imperial officer? A 
relentless Imperial Inquisitor? 

@ Who might aid the hero in escaping the prime adversary, fleeing the 
area, or joining a resistance cell? 

© Where does the hero go after deciding to oppose the Empire? Does 
she maintain her normal life as a cover and carry out clandestine 
operations, or does she dive into the life of a renegade insurgent? 
(The Gamemaster might offer a suggestion based on where and how 
the heroes first meet at the beginning of a campaign: see "A Gath- 
ering of Heroes,” page 124.) 


reported seeing the hero talking with a suspected dissenter or Imperial 
opponent. A business or social contact might have connections with the 
resistance that place the hero's loyalty in question. Maybe one of the hero's 
enemies decided to make his life miserable and fabricated evidence that he’s 
secretly undermining the Empire's authority. Whatever the specific reason, 
the hero becomes a target for Imperial oppression and chooses to fight like 
a soldier rather than submit like a victim. 

Such unfortunate circumstances naturally breed dissent among those who 
wouldn't ordinarily rise against the Empire. Those who were arrested under 


false pretenses might meet members of a real resistance group while impris- 
oned. When released, they could prove receptive targets for recruiters seeking 
new blood for their underground political or military organizations. 

Moral Conscience: A few astute individuals immediately perceive the 
sinister nature of Palpatine's rise to power and his use of Imperial forces and 
policies to tighten his grip on the galaxy. Unlike most people, these heroes 
have the perspective and time to analyze the Empire's methods and discern 
its ultimate motives. Some might participate in the workings of galactic 
government as diplomats, nobles, and politicians. Others, such as newsnet 
reporters and university professors, serve the public good by analyzing or 
chronicling current events. These heroes realize they must take a moral stand 
against Imperial oppression. 

These heroes gain the advantage of choosing to fight on their own terms. 
Because they see the Empire's true intent early on, they can choose to oppose 
its policies either openly or covertly. Such heroes can fight the Empire from 
the familiar covers of their legitimate lives, or they might abandon their 
former lives altogether and join a band of other heroes directly working to 
overthrow the Empire. Mon Mothma and Bail Organa are examples of this 
type of hero. 


THE HEROIC CLASSES 


Each of the heroic classes from the Saga Edition core rulebook is presented 
here as it relates to the Dark Times. Each class discussion features new 
talents, some added to existing talent trees and others as wholly new trees. 
These talents can also be used in other eras, subject to the Gamemaster’s 
approval. 


JEDI! 
Order 66 decimated the Jedi. The few surviving Jedi are in hiding, although 
some still resist the Empire in their own, limited ways. It is thought that 
around two hundred Jedi survived Order 66, but that number is dwindling. 
The Empire, Darth Vader, and Vader's apprentice hunt them down and destroy 
them at any opportunity. Most Jedi do not dare to demonstrate their abilities 
in public, for to do so eventually attracts unwanted Imperial attention. 
While in hiding, some Jedi Masters and Knights attempt to train their own 
Padawans, hoping to restore the Jedi Order someday. Early in the Dark Times, 
some Jedi banded together and attempted to destroy Darth Vader, only to 
find that they could not withstand the combined might of the Empire and the 
dark side. This served as a dire warning to all others. Some Jedi decide that 
the Order is truly dead. They take no apprentices, set aside their lightsabers, 
and try to fade into the background. And a few who cannot cope with the 
destruction of the Order turn to their own dark methods of exacting revenge 
where they can. 


Jedi player characters face significant challenges during the Dark Times, 
The general public fears them and often regards them as traitors. Even those 
who do not believe the Jedi rebellion stories are reluctant to offer too much 
aid, lest they attract the attention of the Imperials. Many hunt the Jedi, 
including the Empire and bounty hunters seeking good money. A Jedi can 
be turned in by almost anyone. 

No formal training structure exists anymore, and no financial or material 
support is forthcoming from any other Jedi. A Jedi character’s background 
and goals depend greatly on the exact time frame of the campaign. Described 
below are typical scenarios that can be adapted to your game. The benefits 
of each scenario are optional and must be approved by the Gamemaster. 

Order 66 Survivor: Somehow, you survived Order 66. Perhaps you were 
ona world that was not involved in the fighting, or you were traveling through 
hyperspace. Perhaps you fought your way out of a clone ambush. Maybe 
you escaped the attack on the Jedi Temple. You might be a Jedi of any rank: 
Padawan, Knight, or Master. You might be alone, or with other Jedi. In any 
case, you were raised at the Temple and received at least some formal Jedi 
training. Your biggest question is, now what? Fight the Empire? Try to train 
new Jedi? Try to find those in hiding? Disappear into the galaxy? 

As an Order 66 survivor, you know that some Jedi assets or connections 
still exist. Once per week, you can make a Gather Information or Knowledge 
check to gain access to old Jedi accounts, find former supporters, or locate 
old lesser known archives and caches. Failure might alert the Empire or 
others to your attempt. 

The Isolated Master: You were trained by a Jedi in hiding some years 
after Order 66. You never entered the Jedi Temple, and your training is only 
as good as your instructor's teaching abilities. Perhaps he or she was a Knight 
or Master, but that person could also be a former Padawan, doing the best 
he or she can with limited knowledge of the Force. It is equally possible 
that your Master has developed his or her own ideas about the Force. The 
destruction of the Order and the power of the dark side might have tainted 
your teaching, a fact you might not be aware of. 

During your training, your Master imparted many stories and anecdotes 
about the Force, Jedi, and the Republic. The usefulness of this information 
was not always apparent at the time, but becomes helpful as you develop or 
travel the galaxy. Once per week, you can make a Knowledge check or use 
the farseeing power to gain additional insight about your current situation. 
Failure might mean that your incomplete knowledge leads you to the wrong 
conclusion or down the wrong path. 

Self-Trained: You are strong jin the Force, but you have never been for- 
mally trained as a Jedi. You are learning what you can, but are desperately 
seeking a Master for advanced instruction. You search the galaxy for any 
sign of the hidden Jedi or other Force traditions. You probably don’t own a 
lightsaber, or perhaps one has been passed down to you by a family member 


li BSsiavHo 


SUVA HeusgAw 


—e 


SLIGHL HOVSFA 


or old friend. You keep your abilities carefully hidden, for as with all other 
Force-users, exposure means certain doom. 

You are highly skilled at concealing your Force powers. When you are 
actively trying to prevent someone from discovering your talents, you can 
use your Use the Force bonus in place of your Deception bonus when making 
a Deception check to deceive an opponent. However, your limited knowledge 
of the Force makes you less skilled at concealing its use from other Force- 
users. They can reroll Use the Force checks and use the better result when 
using the sense force application of that skill to locate you. 


NEw JEDI TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the Jedi class. 


Jedi Consular Talent Tree 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Consular talent tree, which 
is available to members of the Jedi class. Any character who can normally 
choose talents from the Jedi Consular talent tree can choose from these 
talents as well. 

Cleanse Mind: Once per turn as a swift action, you can remove one 
ongoing mind-affecting effect (such as the effects of Demand Surrender 
or Weaken Resolve talents, or the effect of being moved to the end of the 
condition track by the Adept Negotiator talent, or the ongoing effects of the 
mind trick Force power) from a single allied target within line of sight. 

Force of Will: You gain a +2 insight bonus to Will Defense. 

Also, as a swift action, you can spend a Force Point to give all allies 
within 6 squares of you a +2 insight bonus to Will Defense that lasts for the 
remainder of the encounter. This bonus does not extend to allies outside the 
range of the effect, even if they move within 6 squares of you later on. Allies 
who benefit from this talent must remain within 6 squares of you to retain 
the insight bonus, and they lose it if you are knocked unconscious or killed. 
This is a mind-affecting effect. 


Jedi Guardian Talent Tree 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Guardian talent tree, which 
is available to members of the Jedi class. Any character who can normally 
choose talents from the Jedi Guardian talent tree can choose from these 
talents as well. 

Forceful Warrior: When you score a critical hit with a lightsaber, you 
gain 1 temporary Force Point. If the Force Point is not used before the end 
of the encounter, it is lost. 

Mobile Combatant: When you end your movement adjacent to an 
opponent, you can spend a swift action to activate this talent. If the 
designated opponent moves or withdraws before the beginning of your next 
turn, you can choose to move with that opponent, up to a total distance 
equal to your current speed. Unless your opponent uses the withdraw action 
or makes an Acrobatics check to avoid attacks of opportunity, its movement 


provokes an attack of opportunity from you for the first square moved as 
normal (but not subsequent squares in the same movement). If your target 
moves farther than your speed, you must stil] end this movement closer to 
the target than you began. 


Jedi Sentinel Talent Tree 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Sentinel talent tree, which is 
available to members of the Jedi class. Any character who can normally 
choose talents from the Jedi Sentinel talent tree can choose from these 
talents as well. 

Dampen Presence: When you interact with another sentient creature, 
you can use a swift action to reduce the impression you leave on it. When 
you have finished interacting with the creature, you make a Use the Force 
check, and if the check result exceeds the target's Will Defense, it does not 
remember interacting with you once you are gone. A target that is higher in 
level than you gains a +5 bonus to its Will Defense to resist this ability. This 
is a mind-affecting effect. 

Steel Resolve: When you use a standard action to make a melee attack, 
you can take a penalty of -1 to -5 on your attack roll and add twice that 
value (+2 to +10) as an insight bonus to your Will Defense. This bonus may 
not exceed your base attack bonus. The changes to attack rolls and Will 
Defense last until the start of your next turn. 


NOBLE 


The galaxy is in flux. The abrupt end of the Clone Wars and the rise of the 
Empire has left worlds, entire species, and important economic powers scram- 
bling to find their place in the New Order. During this time, skillful diplomats 
and negotiators are needed everywhere, from the high and mighty halls of 
government to the lower reaches of backwater planets and the dangerous 
underworld. Nobles of all backgrounds fill these needs. 

Early in the Dark Times, the members of the true nobility must decide 
their allegiances very quickly. Do they support the Empire wholeheartedly and 
hope to reap the benefits of Imperial rule, despite the costs? Do they resist 
the Empire, in the hope that their worlds or organizations can break away 
or fade into the background? If so, do they openly rebel or work in secret? 
Perhaps some even work for the Empire as informants and double agents, 
attempting to ferret out opponents of the New Order. 

For nobles on the fringe of society, the Dark Times bring a multitude 
of new opportunities. When the galaxy changes from Republic to Empire, 
crime lords, smugglers, and less than legal merchants have plenty of gov- 
ernmental confusion to cover their activities. As the Empire solidifies its 
hold and improves its efficiency, the fringe finds itself forced into more 
remote locales. 

As always, nobles use their abilities to rally others to their cause. With 
the changing galaxy of the Dark Times, nobles find that their words carry 


more weight and the issues have long-term consequences. The right deci- 
sion could be the difference between relative freedom and Imperial troops 
arriving at your door, or invading your world. 

idealistic nobles seek out like-minded individuals. Anti-Empire ideologues 
might eventually find those who are secretly working to free the galaxy, such 
as Mon Mothma, Bail Organa, or Garm Bel Iblis. Others might inspire outlying 
worlds to resist Imperial intrusion, in the hope that such remote or unimport- 
ant places will be passed over, at least for the time being. These nobles spread 
the early seeds of resistance and rebellion against the Empire. 


NEW NOBLE TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the noble class. 


Inspiration Talent Tree 
The following new talent belongs to the Inspiration talent tree, which is avail- 
able to members of the noble class. Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Inspiration talent tree can choose this talent as well. 
Willpower: You can share your strength of will with your allies. Once 
per encounter as a swift action, you can grant all allies within line of sight 
a +2 morale bonus to their Will Defense. This bonus lasts for the remainder 
of the encounter, and once it is granted your allies need not remain within 
line of sight with you to retain this bonus. You may not use this talent on 
yourself. 
Prerequisites: Inspire Confidence. 


ideologue Talent Tree 
Your zeal and dedication to your cause is inspirational. It motivates your 
allies and demoralizes your enemies. 

Instruction: Once per encounter, as a standard action, you can boost 
the competence of one of your allies within 6 squares. That individual gains 
the ability to make a single skill check using your skill modifier (except Use 
the Force); this skill check must be made before the end of the encounter, 
or the benefit is lost. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you gain 
one additional use of this talent per encounter. 

Idealist: Your confidence empowers you, giving you the ability to with- 
stand the harmful influence of others. You can add your Charisma bonus in 
place of your Wisdom bonus to your Will Defense. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 

Know Your Enemy: You are well versed in the strengths and weaknesses 
of enemies of your cause. As a swift action, you can select a single enemy 
within line of sight and make a Knowledge (galactic lore) check against a 
DC equal to 15 + the target's CL. If the check is successful, you immediately 
learn any two (your choice) of the following pieces of information: target's 
base attack bonus or attack bonus with a particular weapon, any one defense 
Score, any one skill modifier, or the presence of any one talent or feat (you 


choose the talent or feat, and the Gamemaster reveals whether or not it is 
present). 

Known Dissident: You are a well-known opponent of a large and influ- 
ential government or organization (such as the Empire or the Corporate 
Sector Authority). Officials of any level are loath to take action against 
you, lest they inadvertently promote your cause. As a standard action, you 
can make a Persuasion check against the Will Defense of a single opponent 
within line of sight that can hear and understand you. If your Persuasion 
check succeeds, that opponent may not attack you or any vehicle you occupy 
until the start of your next turn. If the target is of higher level than you, it 
gains a +5 bonus to its Will Defense, and the target must be able to hear 
and understand you. If the target is attacked, the effect of this talent ends. 
This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisite: Know Your Enemy. 

Lead by Example: Your bravery and skill inspires others to follow your 
lead. Once per encounter, when you successfully deal damage to an enemy, 
you can choose to grant all allies a +1 circumstance bonus on attack rolls and 
+1 die of damage on non-area attacks against that target for the remainder 
of the encounter. 


Lineage Talent Tree 
The following new talents belong to the Lineage talent tree, which is avail- 
able to members of the noble class. Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Lineage talent tree can choose from these talents as well. 
Influential Friends: You have influential contacts within a certain 
organization, planet, or region who can provide concrete information to 
you on certain subjects. Once per day, you can have one of those contacts 
make a skill check on your behalf. The contact always takes 20 on the skill 


INFLUENTIAL FRIENDS 

The Influential Friends talent grants a noble an automatic high skill check 
result that is the result of calling in favors from some well-connected 
allies. Some Gamemasters might wonder what the talent really repre- 
sents, In essence, when a noble uses this talent, he calls in a favor from 
a contact, who sends a representative who has that skill (or just conveys 
the result of the skill check) to the heroes. For example, if the heroes 
need information on a crime lord but have no one trained in Gather 
Information, the noble uses this talent, and his contacts supply the 
heroes with the information from the resulting Gather Information check. 
Likewise, if the heroes need to get past a security checkpoint in a very 
important mission, the noble calls upon his influential friends to have 
a Deception check made to provide the heroes with high-quality fake 
identification and paperwork. The heroes must have access to planetary 
or interplanetary communications systems to use the talent. 


BSidvHoS 


| 


ae 
W 
1) 
g 
) 
ll 
5) 
» 
J 
0) 


HW estavHo 


SUNVYL DOUSH | 


check (even if the skill would normally not allow taking 20) and has a skill 
modifier equal to 5 + one-half your heroic level. Contacting your influential 
allies and receiving the benefit of the skill check takes a number of minutes 
equal to 10 x the skill check result. 

Prerequisite: Connections. 

Powerful Friends: You have a powerful contact who has an extended 
sphere of influence. The contact could be an Imperial Senator, a high-level 
military officer, a regional governor, an infamous crime lord, or another 
person of similar significance. Once per encounter, you can invoke the name 
or office of your powerful friend and take 20 on one Persuasion check, with 
no increase in the time needed to make the check. 

Prerequisites: Connections, Influential Friends. 


SCOUNDREL 

The Dark Times offer plenty of potential for opportunistic scoundrels. Much 
like nobles, scoundrels flourish when times are uncertain, thanks to chang- 
ing rules, laws, and governments. Scoundrels take advantage of new rules, 
confused officials, and shifting alliances. 

The galaxy's changing attitudes force new people into the scoundrel class. 
Former Republic officials or former loyalists who never sought a life on the 
fringe could suddenly find themselves outcasts. Those who have declared 
themselves seditionists or traitors to the Empire are forced to the fringe of 
society and discover they need new skills for survival. 

Scoundrels are found throughout the galactic fringe as smugglers, rogues, 
pirates, freedom fighters, privateers, future Rebels, and radical dissidents of 


the New Order. Even those who maintain their high social or military status 
in the new Empire might find scoundrel abilities useful as they learn to work 
against the Empire behind the scenes. 

Smugglers, in particular, find the mixture of confusion and new govern- 
mental regulation working to their advantage. Some organizations, and even 
entire planets, suddenly find themselves on the outside of the New Order and 
need illicit transport or the delivery of vital goods, without Imperial entangle- 
ments. Groups in need might be future Rebels, former CIS worlds, isolated 
anti-lmperial colonies, or purely criminal enterprises taking advantage of 
the situation. Smugglers find new opportunities at every level of society, 
whether for the sake of a cause or simply for the credits. 


NEW SCOUNDREL TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the scoundrel class. 


Slicer Talent Tree 

The following new talents belong to the Slicer talent tree, which is available 
to members of the scoundrel class. Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Slicer talent tree can choose from these talents as well. 

Electronic Forgery: You can use your Use Computer modifier in place 
of your Deception modifier to create a deceptive appearance with forged 
electronic documents. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Use Computer skill. 

Electronic Sabotage: You excel at causing havoc with computers and 
electronics. As a standard action, you can lock down a computer terminal 
by making a Use Computer check, making it potentially difficult for anyone 
else to access. That computer is considered unfriendly to anyone other than 
you who attempts to use it, and the result of your Use Computer check 
replaces the computer's Will Defense on an attempt to change its attitude. 
This effect ends if anyone else succeeds in adjusting the computer's attitude 
to indifferent. You cannot take 20 on this Use Computer check. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Use Computer skill. 

Security Slicer: You are an expert in electronic security. When you make 
a Mechanics check to disable a security system, you can do so without the 
help of a security kit. Additionally, something goes wrong only when you fail 
the Mechanics check by 10 or more. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 


Smuggling Talent Tree 

Smuggling is part skill, part talent, and part luck. The most notorious smug- 

glers in the galaxy get along by making use of their quick wits and savvy. 
Art of Concealment: Some smugglers are adept at hiding contraband 

and weapons, even on their person. When making a Stealth check to conceal 

an item, you can take 10 even under pressure. Additionally, you can conceal 

an item as a swift action. 


Fast Talker: Smugglers must be quick to explain discrepancies in their 
cover stories. Once per day, you can take 20 on a Deception check as a 
standard action when attempting to deceive. 

Prerequisite: Art of Concealment. 

Hidden Weapons: If you draw a concealed weapon and attack a target 
that failed to notice the item in the same round, that target is considered 
flat-footed against you. You can draw a concealed item or a stowed item as 
a move action, Additionally, if you have the Quick Draw feat, you can reduce 
this to a swift action. 

Prerequisite: Art of Concealment. 

Illicit Dealings: Smugglers have a knack for locating and negotiating 
illicit deals. When using Persuasion to haggle for restricted, military, or illegal 
goods you may roll twice, keeping the better result. 

Surprise Strike: Sometimes a smuggler has to fight his way out of a bad 
situation. If you fail any Deception check to convey deceptive information, 
you can initiate combat and make a single unarmed attack as a free action 
in the surprise round (or with a melee or ranged weapon, if you have the 
Quick Draw feat); all other combatants are considered surprised even if they 
are aware of you. 


Scourt 


In the Dark Times, scouts find their traditional public roles as explorers 
greatly diminished. Growing Imperial control over the space lanes and 
official galactic exploration forces many of the freethinking scouts to seek 
new areas of employment. Some move into the corporate world, searching 
forsnew systems or planetary regions rich in resources. Others specialize and 
restrict their knowledge to certain worlds. In the meantime, Imperial scouts 
continue with galactic exploration, albeit based on the ideals and priorities 
of the New Order. 

Scouts often take part in extended missions. It is not unusual during this 
time for a scout to return to a bewildering new reality in the galaxy, even 
years after the fall of the Republic. For these scouts, the Empire has appeared 
out of nowhere, along with a restrictive bureaucracy. Their former employers 
might no longer live or exist. Worse, for most scouts, their employers might 
have been targeted as enemies of the Empire, arousing immediate suspicion 
of those individuals among customs officials or other authorities. 

Given their knowledge of the less traveled regions, their individualistic 
nature, and their stealth and survival skills, it is not unusual for scouts to be 
tapped by organizations for clandestine operations. Some scouts become 
informers or outright spies for resistance groups, criminal lords, or even 
the Empire. 


l) BSLevHa 


SHiowusHy 


SHYSBA 


li eaLevHo 


arovisA 


SLIVLI 


Pe egal 


New Scout TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the scout class. 


Awareness Talent Tree 
The following new talent belongs to the Awareness talent tree, which is avail- 
able to members of the scout class. Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Awareness talent tree can choose this talent as well. 
Reset Initiative: Scouts are highly aware of their surroundings and able to 
take advantage of the slightest opportunities. Once per encounter, at any time 
after the first full round (that is, the first full round after the surprise round, 
if one occurs), the scout can set his Initiative to his current Initiative +5. 
Prerequisites: Acute Senses, Improved Initiative, trained in the Initiative 
skill. 


Spy Talent Tree 
Scouts are often capable of getting into areas unseen, and they make excel- 
lent spies thanks to their survival instincts and aptitude for stealth. 

Blend In: You know the tricks of body language and movement that allow 
you to disguise your appearance without elaborate materials or efforts. You 
can use your Stealth modifier in place of your Deception modifier for the 
purpose of creating a deceptive appearance. You are considered trained in 
the Deception skill for the purpose of using this talent. If you are entitled to 
a Deception check reroll, you can reroll your Stealth check instead (subject 
to the same circumstances and conditions). 

Incognito: Spies are adept at concealing their identities, even if not using 
a physical disguise. You can reroll your Deception check for the purpose of 
creating a deceptive appearance, using the better result. 

Prerequisite: Blend In. 

Improved Surveillance: When you successfully use the Surveillance 
talent, you grant yourself and your allies a +1 insight bonus to all defenses 
against that target. 

Prerequisites: Surveillance, trained in the Perception skill. 

Intimate Knowledge: Experienced spies and scouts remember many 
details from previous assignments, providing insights on later missions. Once 
per encounter as a standard action, you can take 20 on a check involving a 
Knowledge skill you are trained in, or take 10 on a check involving a Knowl- 
edge skill you are untrained in, even if circumstances would not normally 
allow you to take 10 or 20. 

Prerequisite: Surveillance. 

Surveillance: As a full-round action, you can make a Perception check 
against a single target within line of sight. The DCs equal to 15 or the tar- 
get's Stealth check result (if the target is actively trying to remain hidden), 
whichever is greater. If the check is successful, you grant yourself and all 
allies within line of sight a +2 insight bonus on attack rolls against that 
target until the end of your next turn. Your allies must be able to hear and 


understand you to benefit from this bonus, and they do not lose the benefit 
of this talent if they move out of line of sight after it is used. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Perception skill. 

Traceless Tampering: Spies specialize in leaving no evidence of their 
presence when they tamper with advanced electronics or basic mechanical 
systems. When using Mechanics to disable a device, you automatically leave 
no trace when tampering (with no DC increase), and you must fail by 10 or 
more (instead of 5 or more) before something goes wrong. 


SOLDIER 


Early in the Dark Times, soldiers are everywhere. The Clone Wars have just 
ended, and soldiers were needed on all sides. However, with the war's end and 
the rise of the Empire, warriors have returned to their homes and their lives. 
The number of actual soldiers has diminished, while the number of former 
warriors has increased many times. The early Imperial armed forces were 
filled out with clone troopers, but regular army, navy, and other soldiers were 
soon needed as the Imperial armed forces grew at a rapid rate. 

Soldiers who were not desired by the Empire, or who were unwilling to 
support the new government, had many other possibilities. Some joined 
local planetary forces, private corporate armies, mercenary groups, and even 
resistance fighters. Many of these were non-Humans forced from Imperial 
service. Pre-Rebellion resistance groups benefited greatly from this devel- 
opment. Mercenary units and criminal organizations also received a great 
boost in ability, aptitude, and wartime experience. 


New SOLDIER TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the soldier class. 


Mercenary Talent Tree 

Mercenaries are blasters-for-hire who sell their services to the highest 
bidder. Though money might motivate them, few types of soldiers are more 
capable of operating independently. Talents from this tree can be used to 
qualify for the elite trooper prestige class, in addition to those listed in the 
Saga Edition core rulebook. . . 

Commanding Presence: Once per encounter, you can activate this talent 
as a swift action. Until the end of the encounter, all your enemies within 
6 squares of you take a -2 penalty to their Will Defense. This is a mind- 
affecting fear effect. 

Additionally, Persuasion is now considered a class skill for you. 

Dirty Fighting: Once per encounter, if you successfully damage an 
opponent with a melee or ranged attack, you reduce the target's damage 
threshold by 2 for the remainder of the encounter. 


Feared Warrior: Your abilities on the battlefield are well known and 
feared. When you reduce an enemy to 0 hit points with an attack, you can 
make a Persuasion check as a free action against all targets within 6 squares. 
Jf your Persuasion check exceeds a target's Will Defense, that target takes 
a -2 penalty on attack rolls for the remainder of the encounter. This talent 
affects any given target only once per encounter. This is a mind-affecting 
fear effect. 

Prerequisite: Commanding Presence. 

Focused Warrior: Your training makes you confident and disciplined in 
combat. When you successfully deal damage to an opponent in combat, you 
gain a +5 morale bonus to Will Defense until the start of your next turn. 
You lose this bonus to Will Defense if you are surprised or flat-footed for 
any reason. 

Ruthless: When you deal damage to a target with a melee or ranged 
attack roll that exceeds the target's damage threshold, you gain a +2 bonus 
on damage rolls against that target for the remainder of the encounter. 

Prerequisite: Dirty Fighting. 


SKILLS 


Skills in the Star WarsSaga Edition Roleplaying Game cover a broad range of 
uses under their general titles. Below are new Specific uses for some of the 
skills in the game. However, a skill could apply in situations even when specific 
rules are not provided in the skill description. It is up to the Gamemaster to 
determine when a skill is applicable, or if an ability check is more suitable. 


ACROBATICS 
Fighting against the Empire takes heroes to a variety of worlds, some of which 
have low or high gravity, and many struggles take place in the depths of 
space. The following new uses of the Acrobatics skill are available to anyone 
who is trained in the Acrobatics skill. , 

Low and High Gravity Environments (Trained Only): You can make a DC 
20 Acrobatics check to negate the penalties to attack rolls in low and high 
gravity environments (see page 256 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Zero-Gravity Environments (Trained Only): You can use the Acrobatics 
skill to help maneuver in zero-gravity environments (see page 257 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook}. When crossing wide spaces or traversing congested 
areas, you can make an Acrobatics check (at no penalty) to arrive on target. 
As a swift action, you can make a DC 20 Acrobatics check to lessen your 
attack roll and skill check penalty to -2, instead of the normal -5. 


CLIMB 

Some worlds have severe conditions that make climbing even more difficult 
than normal. The following new rules apply to anyone making Climb checks 
under extreme conditions. 


Extreme Conditions: Climbing in extreme conditions (high altitude, 
weather, temperature, or unusual climbing surfaces) brings additional chal- 
lenges. Proper climbing and survival gear is required. Extreme conditions 
can increase the DC by 5 for each circumstance in addition to the regular 
DC modifiers. Specialized climbing gear can negate these penalties to 
Climb checks under those conditions; typically, such gear costs the same 
as a field kit. 


DECEPTION 

Heroes of the Dark Times often have to go to great lengths to keep their 
activities hidden from the omnipresent Empire. The following new uses of the 
Deception skill allow heroes to keep their clandestine activities hidden from 
the Empire, and offer a few surprises for those who get too close. 

Creating a Diversion to Hide an Item: You can use Deception to help 
you quickly hide an item while you are being observed. A successful Decep- 
tion check that equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense gives you the 
momentary diversion you need to attempt a Stealth check to hide the item 
on or near your person while the target is aware of you (see page 73 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Feign Haywire (Droids Only): You can simulate a droid going haywire 
by popping open some of your access panels, moving erratically, and making 
an assortment of electronic and mechanical 
noises. As a full-round action, you can 
make a Deception check, comparing the 
result to the Will Defense of all targets 
within line of sight. If the result of 
the Deception check is equal to 
or greater than 
a target's Will 
Defense, that 
target is con- 
sidered flat- 
footed against 
you. If you take. 
any action, the 
deception ends at the, 
end of your turn, and 
targets are not con- 
sidered flat-footed 
against you after the 
deception ends. 


” 


N esalLavng 


SLIVGYLA DOeVSH 


3 


ShHIVasL Doves 


[sear 


i] HSidvHS 


GATHER INFORMATION 
Trained spies and information analysts can pore over data gathered by their. 
agents, picking out a larger picture from smaller pieces of information. 
Enemies of the Empire must make do with what little information they can 
gather. The following use of the Gather Information skill is available to any 
hero who has Gather Information as a trained skill. 

Analysis (Trained Only): You can better assess the information obtained 
by yourself or others. Once per day, after accumulating data from previous 
Gather Information checks by yourself or others, you can make an additional 
Gather Information check to analyze the data. The base DC is 15, modified by 
the reliability of the data’s source. Particularly complete data from a reliable 
source could grant a +10 competence bonus, while incomplete data from a 
questionable source might impart a -5 to -10 penalty to the skill check. A 
successful analysis check adds +10 to the final result of each of the original 
Gather Information checks, revealing any additional information that was 
available at the higher DC. 


MECHANICS 

During the height of the Empire’s tyranny, it often becomes difficult to 
procure specific weapons or equipment, especially for seditious activity. As 
a result, many resourceful would-be rebels learn to make do with what they 
have on hand, creating the weapons and gear they need from scratch. The 
following new use of the Mechanics skill can be used by anyone who has 
Mechanics as a trained skill. 

Build Object (Trained Only; requires tool kit]: You can make a Mechan- 
ics check to construct an object (other than a droid) from scratch and/or 
with manufactured parts. Building an object requires a proper tool kit, raw 
materials, and possibly access to an electronics or machine shop. Some 
objects are beyond the ability of most characters. The raw materials for an 
object cost the same as the completed object, though heroes who have the 
Scavenger feat (see page 35) can often come up with raw materials scrounged 
from other equipment. Use the costs given in chapter 6 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook as a guide. Remote locations, rare parts, or expensive materials 
might raise the costs to double, triple, or even higher. 

When building an object, determine the object's final hit points based 
on the statistics on Table 9-1, page 151 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. 
For vehicles, use the actual hit points of the completed object. All objects 
being built in this manner start at 0 hit points. Each hour that you work on 
building an object, make a Mechanics check and refer to the table below. 
Success indicates you build 1d8 hit points’ worth of the object's total hit 
points. When the item reaches full hit points, it is completed and can be 
used as normal. 

Larger items require more time to build than smaller ones. Multiply the 
object's hit points based on the table below for the purpose of determin- 
ing how long it takes to build the object (when completed, the object's hit 


points are unchanged). For example, a Large manufactured object has 10 
hit points. However, since it is a Large item, it effectively has 50 hit points 
for the purpose of determining how long it takes to build the object (how 
many hit points you must build before it is completed]. When completed, 
the object has 10 hit points as normal. 


ITEM TYPE DC 
Simple 10 


DESCRIPTION 

Item easily created from a few raw materials, 
using common tools and parts. 

Moderate 25 Item requiring basic electronics, special materials, 


and/or specialized knowledge. 


Complex 40 Item requiring significant design and manufacturing 
skills, sophisticated parts, and special facilities. 

CIRCUMSTANCE ne 

Based on well-known item =5 

Detailed knowledge of specific item -10 

Have detailed schematics for the object available  -10 

Poor quality materials +10 

SIZE MULTIPLIER 

Medium x2 

Large 5 

Huge x10 

Gargantuan x20 

Colossal x50 

Colossal (frigate) > x100 

Colossal (cruiser) x200 . 

Colossal (station) i 500 


PERSUASION 

During the height of the Empire's power, money continues to grease the 
wheels of bureaucracy. Bribery can be a powerful means of getting things 
done, and the taint of the dark side is no more visible than in the corruption 
of the Empire's officials. The following new uses of the Persuasion skill allow 
heroes in a Force Unleashed campaign to bribe their enemies and commu- 
nicate with other intelligent species. 


Bribery: You can use the Persuasion skill to attempt to bribe government 
officials or other individuals of influence. The Persuasion check DC depends 
on the perceived risk to the official's position (if the bribe is discovered) 
modified by the nature of your request (how dangerous the request is and 
how much of a bribe you're offering). 


Risk bc 
Request is within official's reqular duties 10 
Request is outside official's duties, but within his ability 20 
Request is outside official's duties, and not easily concealed 30 
Bribery Modifier DC Modifier 
Request is personally dangerous to official +15 
Bribery amount is double the going rate -10 
Bribery amount is quadruple the going rate =I5 
Bribery amount is ten times the going rate or higher -20 


Improvised Communication: You can use the Persuasion skill to attempt 
to communicate with someone who does not understand your language 
or to nonverbally convey an idea (such as communicating silently with 
another hero while both of you are infiltrating an Imperial facility). As a 
move action, you can attempt a Persuasion check to improvise communica- 
tion with another being. The target must be able to see you, and you can 
communicate only simple concepts. The check DC is equal to 20 minus the 
target's Intelligence modifier. If the target of your improvised communica- 
tion has agreed upon signals for certain concepts in advance, reduce the 
Persuasion check DC by 5. 

Concepts that can be communicated include (but are not limited to} “Be 
quiet,” "Go," "Hello," “Help,” “Lam hungry/thirsty,” “Pick this up," “Put that 
down," "Stay here,” “Stop,” and “Thank you.” The Gamemaster can allow 
other simple concepts to be communicated, as long as they can be easily 
communicated nonverbally. 


STEALTH 
Covert action and clandestine resistance often call for the ability to hide 
things in places other than on your person. A vehicle can be hidden among a 
large pile of crates in a warehouse, or contraband can be hidden deep within 
smuggling compartments aboard starships. 

Conceal Large Items: As a full-round action, you can attempt to conceal 
Or hide a large item inside a room, behind a piece of furniture, inside a hidden 
compartment, or within a shipboard locker or other location. A large item 
is one that is the same size category as you or larger. Other characters can 
notice a concealed object or, if the item has total concealment, discover a 


telltale sign that something is amiss (such as unusual scratches, fibers, or 
smells) by making a successful Perception check (opposed by your Stealth 
check result). A character gains a +10 circumstance bonus on his Perception 
check if he is in the same square as the item or an adjacent square. Rooms 
or containers specifically constructed to conceal items can grant an equip- 
ment bonus of +5 to +20 (for features such as top-of-the-line smuggler's 
compartments) on your Stealth check. You may not take 20 on this check, 
but you may take 10. 


SURVIVAL 

Hiding from the Empire often means traveling to the farthest reaches from 
the galaxy, far off the beaten path and away from civilization. The follow- 
ing application of the Survival skill is available to any character who has 
Survival as a trained skill. 

Extended Survival (Trained Only): You are trained in methods of long- 
term survival in the wild. If you are required to survive in an uncivilized area 
for more than 48 hours, you can make a DC 20 check to find a suitable loca- 
tion for a basic shelter and campsite. Success reduces the DC for your basic 
Survival checks by 5 during those days spent using the campsite. 


FEATS 


The new feats presented here are available in any era. Some feats are espe- 
cially appropriate for Force Unleashed campaigns and should contribute to 
character concepts commonly found in this time. The Unleashed feat is used 
in Force Unleashed campaigns and usually requires Gamemaster approval 
before it can be selected by players. 


ADVANTAGEOUS ATTACK 
You know how to take advantage of slow-moving enemies in combat. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. 
Benefit: When you make a successful attack against an enemy who 
has not yet acted in combat, you add your full heroic level to damage rolls. 
Normal: Typically you add only one-half your heroic level to damage 
rolls. ‘ 


ADPVANTAGEQOUS COVER 
You know how to make the best use of available cover as shelter from enemy 
attacks. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Stealth skill. 

Benefit: When you have cover, you take no damage from area attacks, 
even if the attack roll exceeds your Reflex Defense. 

Normal: You take no damage from area attacks when you have cover 
only if the attack roll misses. 


a sean 


ea lLavHo 


ry 
W 
2 
9 
Q 
ql 
5 
2 
q 
i) 


| 


tl BSLawHo 


SHVAL Qe8seA 


TABLE 2-l: FEaTsS 


FEAT NAME PREREQUISITES 

Advantageous Attack Base attack bonus +1 

Advantageous Cover Trained in the Stealth skill 

Angled Throw Dex 13 

Bad Feeling - 

Blaster Barrage Coordinated Attack 

Controlled Rage Rage species trait 

Crossfire Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +6 
Cunning Attack - 

Focused Rage Rage species trait, Controlled Rage 
Improved Bantha Rush Str 15, Bantha Rush, base attack bonus +1 
Informer Trained in the Perception skill, Skill Focus (Perception) 
Mighty Throw Str 13 

Powerful Rage Rage species trait 

Rapport Wis 13 

Recall Trained in one Knowledge skill 

Savage Attack Double Attack, proficient with weapon 
Scavenger = 

Strafe Running Attack 

Swarm Coordinated Attack 

Unleashed Destiny 


ANGLED THROW 
Your amazing throws bounce grenades off walls into open hatches or through 
congested battle zones. 

Prerequisite: Dexterity 13. 

Benefit: When throwing a grenade or grenadelike weapon, you can 
attempt to bounce it off a wall or other surface close to your target. If your 
attack roll exceeds a Reflex Defense of 15, you ignore cover and improved 
cover (but not total cover) with your attack. 


BENEFIT 

Add full heroic level to attacks against slower enemies 
Gain the additional benefits from cover 

Ignore cover with grenades and grenadelike weapons 
Always take a move action during the surprise round 
Automatically aid another when using autofire attacks 
Enter rage as a free action, and end rage at will 
Redirect missed attacks against soft cover 

Gain +2 on attack rolls against flat-footed enemies 
When raging, use skills that require patience at a -5 penalty 
Push foes away a number of squares equal to Str modifier 
Gather information with Perception skill, and do it faster 
Add Str bonus to ranged attack rolls 

Gain a +4 bonus on Str checks and Str-based skill checks 


Grant an additional +2 bonus when using the aid another action 


Reroll any Knowledge skill check, keeping the better result 
Add +1 die of damage when successful on a full attack 
Gather materials for building objects 

Attack multiple targets as you move past them 

Gain +1 bonus on melee attack rolls when allies are adjacent 
Unlocks Unleashed abilities 


Benefit: You can always take a move action during a surprise round, 
even if you are surprised. If you are not surprised, you can take this move 
action in addition to any other actions you are normally allowed to take in 


the surprise round. 


BLASTER BARRAGE 
~You and your allies engulf an area with dense blaster fire. 
Prerequisites: Coordinated Attack. 


Benefit: When you make an attack with a weapon Set on autofire that 
BAD FEEBLING . deals damage to at least one target within the designated area, you grant a 
You have developed an innate ability to sense when things are going badly, +2 circumstance bonus on any of your allies’ autofire attacks made against 
and thus can prepare yourself for the worst. that same target until the beginning of your next turn. 


CONTROLLED RAGE 
You have learned to channel your rage. 

Prerequisite: Rage species trait. 

Benefit: You can enter a rage as a free action. Your rage ends 1 round 
after you declare it is finished. 

Normal: You must use a swift action to begin a rage and may not end 
it at will. 

Special: You may not use this feat to extend the number of rounds of 
rage available to your character. 


CROSSFIRE 
You are skilled at aiming your shots so that they have a chance of hitting 
more than one target. 
Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +6. 
Benefit: If you miss when making a ranged attack against a target that 
has soft cover (that is, cover provided by another character, creature, or 
droid), you can immediately make an attack roll (with the same weapon and at 
the same attack bonus) against the target that is providing the soft cover. 
You can use this feat only ance per round. 


CUNNING ATTACK 
You are skilled at attacking unprepared opponents. 

Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls against a flat-footed enemy 
or one who is denied its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense. 


FOCUSED RAGE 
You retain better focus while enraged. 

Prerequisites: Rage species trait, Controlled Rage. 

Benefit: While raging, you can use skills that require patience and con- 
centration, at a -5 penalty. 

Normal: While raging, you cannot use skills that require patience and 
concentration, such as Mechanics, Stealth, or Use the Force. 


IMPROVED BANTHA RUSH ‘ 
When using the Bantha Rush feat, you push your opponent additional squares 
away from you. ; 

Prerequisites: Bantha Rush, Strength 15, base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: When making a Bantha Rush, you push your opponent a number 
of additional squares away from you equal to-~half your Strength modifier 
{round down, minimum 2 squares pushed total). 

Normal: When using Bantha Rush, you normally push your opponent 
only 1 square away from you. 


BONUS FEATS 

Some of the feats in this chapter can be selected as bonus feats by 
members of certain classes. Each class mentioned below adds the 
following feats to its list of available bonus feats. 


Class Bonus Feats 
Jedi Savage Attack, Swarm 
Noble Informer, Rapport, Recall 


Scoundrel Advantageous Attack, Advantageous Cover, Bad Feeling, 
Crossfire, Cunning Attack, Scavenger 

Scout Advantageous Attack, Advantageous Cover, Bad Feeling, 
Cunning Attack 

Saldier Advantageous Cover, Angled Throw, Blaster Barrage, 
Crossfire, Improved Bantha Rush, Mighty Throw, Rapport, 
Savage Attack, Strafe 

INFORMER 


You are adept at prying into the affairs of others and dealing with those who 
are most interested in gaining that knowledge. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Perception skill. 

Benefit: You can use your Perception modifier instead of your Gather 
Information modifier when making Gather Information checks. You are 
considered trained in the Gather Information skill for the purpose of using 
this feat. If you are entitled to a Gather Information check reroll, you can 
reroll your Perception check instead (subject to the same circumstances 
and limitations). 

Additionally, when you have favorable conditions for your Gather Infor- 
mation check (such as from operating on your home planet), you reduce by 
half the time it takes to make a Gather Information check. 


MIGHTY THROW 
You are highly accurate with grenadelike weapons. 

Prerequisite: Strength 13. 

Benefit: You can add your Strength bonus (in addition to your Dexterity 
bonus) to your ranged attack bonus when using thrown weapons (including 
grenades and grenadelike weapons). Also, you can increase the length of each 
range category by a number of squares equal to your Strength modifier. 


ii us 


ShHiVveL Meous* 


= 


© 


< 


| balaevHo 


ShVvVeL DeBSH 


NATURAL LEADER 
You are a natural leader, and you found your own organization.. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 

Benefit: You become the leader of an organization of your design 
(see Chapter 4: Organizations for more information on designing new 
organizations). The organization has a scale equal to one-half your heroic 
level plus your Charisma bonus. You automatically begin with a +10 bonus 
to your organization score for your new organization. 


POWERFUL RAGE 
Your rage produces feats of extreme strength. 

Prerequisite: Rage species trait. 

Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on Strength checks and Strength-based 
skill checks when raging. 


RAPPORT 
You are adept at working with certain individuals, able to anticipate their 
next move. 

Benefit: When using the aid another action, you grant an additional 
+2 insight bonus on skill checks and attack rolls to the character you are 
assisting. This bonus does not siack with any bonus provided by the nobie's 
Coordinate talent. 


RECALL 
You know a lot of details in your area of knowledge, but don't always remem- 
ber them immediately. 

Prerequisite: Trained in at least one Knowledge skill. 

Benefit: Once per day, you can reroll any check for a Knowledge skill that 
you are trained in, using the better result. 


SAVAGE ATTACK 
You are well trained in attacking multiple times in a round. 

Prerequisites: Double Attack (chosen weapon), proficient with chosen 
weapon. 

Benefit: Choose one of the weapon groups or exotic weapons you 
selected for the Double Attack feat. When you use a full attack action and 
successfully hit the target with your first attack, you deal +1 die of damage 
on each successful attack remaining in the full attack action made against 
that target. 


SCAVENGER 
You are adept at digging through broken objects and junk piles to come up 
with the raw materials needed for certain tasks. 

Benefit: You can spend 1 hour scavenging materials from other vehicles 
or objects. When you do so, you make a Perception check to determine the 
value of the parts scavenged. You produce raw materials equal in value to 
the result of your Perception check x 30 credits. You must apply these raw 
materials toward the cost of construction of a single object (see the build 
object application of the Mechanics skill, described on page 30), and you 
can scavenge parts for only a single object at any given time. Additionally, 
you can scavenge raw materials only once for any given object you are 
attempting to build. 


STRAFE 
You can make a strafing attack without a vehicle, 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: When you make an autofire attack, instead of attacking a 2- 
Square-by-2-square area, you attack a line 1 square wide and 4 squares 
long. 

Special: If you are using a jetpack, you can use the Strafe feat to make 
an autofire attack against all squares you fly over. 


SwarRm 
You are trained to fight with allies en masse. 

Prerequisite: Coordinated Attack. 

Benefit: You gain a +1 circumstance bonus on melee attack rolls for each 
allied character adjacent to your target. 


UNLEASHED 

You gain access to Unleashed abilities (see page 37). If you have the Force 
Sensitivity feat, you also gain access to Force Unleashed abilities (see page 
89). 

Prerequisite: Must have chosen a destiny (or secret destiny). 

Benefit: You can activate Unleashed abilities by spending a Destiny Point. 
You must also have the Force Sensitivity feat in order to activate Unleashed 
abilities for Force powers and talents. 

Normal: You may not use Unleashed abilities and powers. 


DESTINIES 


Destiny is a central theme in the Ster Wars saga. Gamemasters and players 
who have chosen to use the optional destiny rules from the Saga Edition 
core rulebook can use the additional destinies presented here. They are 
suitable for Dark Times themes and campaigns, but can be adapted for 
use in any era. 

The Gamemaster and players should work together to determine a 
destiny's impact on a campaign. One or more destinies might form the 
driving force for an entire campaign, or the central focus of a short series 
of adventures. In one of these cases, the Gamemaster should present the 
characters with choices that regularly affect their destinies, giving them 
many opportunities to gain destiny bonuses and penalties. Destiny-based 
campaigns should culminate in a final adventure that allows characters to 
ultimately resolve their destinies, for better or for worse. 

In a Dark Times or Force Unleashed campaign, destinies are easily tied to 
the ongoing struggle for the hearts and minds of the populace. As the realities 
of Imperial rule sink in, people everywhere will seek their place, and in turn, 
attempt to convince others to join them. Will they buy into the promises 
and ideology of the New Order, or fight it on any front? 

Several of the destinies described below center on those who want to 
fight the Empire and begin organized resistance at any level. The Game- 
master and players might want to select complementary destinies. For 
example, one player might use the base of resistance application (see the 
sidebar on page 36) for the Discovery destiny to organize a new base for 
freedom fighters, while another character seeks the Champion destiny to 
become the leader of the group that utilizes the base. Ultimately, both of 
these destinies might support yet another character who has the Libera- 
tion destiny. Alternatively, a single character might conclude one destiny 
and take on another. 


CREATION 

Your destiny requires you to create an object, machine, or other item of 
great power or significant use. You must use this item in support of another 
character's destiny, or in a future destiny of your own. Others might 
help create the actual item, so long as you lead and make a significant 


SHVEL AaGXsH 


SAMPLE DESTINIES 
The following destinies are suitable for a Force Unleashed campaign. 


Sample Champion Destiny: Recruiting 

Your destiny is to convince an influential person or group to secretly aid 
or openly join the resistance effort on a planet or in a sector. The person 
or group must have considerable authority and resources, and thus be 
able to operate behind a thick wall of underlings and bureaucracy. The 
group might be a far-reaching criminal organization that has agents, 
established rackets, transports, and cover facilities throughout a sector, It 
could be a corporation that could lend its financial and material support 
to a local rebellion. Perhaps the hero encourages an influential military, 
government, or corporate Jeader currently serving the Empire to defect 
and aid the resistance. Convincing this entity to change its allied or 
neutral stance toward the Empire requires the hero to undertake missions 
to earn that individual’s trust. 


Sample Discovery Destiny: Base of Resistance 

Your destiny requires you to establish a hidden base that provides a safe 
haven and Support for resistance fighters in a specific region. You might 
need to Jocate a new world that could accommodate a secret base or find 
a concealed facility on a known world from which dissenters covertly 
operate against the Empire. You might need to gather allies and create 
secret support networks to maintain the base, supply it with equipment 
and weapons, and provide transportation for resistance forces. The scope 
of this destiny varies; it might be enough to establish a secret gathering 
place and a supply depot to aid resistance fighters in a single city, or 
it might require the construction of a fully operational base to support 
paramilitary operations in an entire system or even a sector. 


Sample Discovery Destiny: Force Unleashed 

You believe the Force to be far more powerful than most people think it is. 
Your destiny requires you to discover the depths of the Force and its abili- 
ties, expose friendly Force-users to this potential, and prevent enemies 
from wielding such power against you and your allies. The Gamemaster 
can use this destiny in combination with a special campaign to allow 
characters access to the Unleashed Force powers presented in Chapter 6 
and gain use of the Unieashed feat on page 35. Characters who are not 
Force-sensitive could take this destiny to gain access to the Unleashed 
feat. Campaigns might focus on one aspect of this destiny, such as 
discovering and learning new powers, preventing a specific enemy from 
using Unieashed powers, or training another Force-user. For long-term 
campaigns, one aspect of the destiny might lead to the next. An example 
of a character with this destiny is Darth Vader's secret apprentice. 


contribution to the effort. Pursuing this destiny might require you to seek 
out rare or restricted materials, expert advice, and adequate construction 
facilities or shops. 

Examples of this destiny include Grand Moff Tarkin and the construction 
of the Death Star, Raith Sienar and the TIE fighter, and Walex Blissex and 
the Victory-class Star Destroyers. 

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you 
gain a +1 destiny bonus on skill checks and ability checks. 

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on skill checks and ability checks 
for 24 hours. 

Destiny Fulfilled: You or any ally within fine of sight can spend 2 Force 
Points in a single round while performing an action using the created 
object. 


CHAMPION 

Your destiny requires you to become the leader of a large and/or significant 
group or organization and successfully lead it through an extremely threat- 
ening event. Characters who have this destiny might or might not know of 
the group they are destined to lead. They must attain this goal through a 
mixture of training, charisma, experience, and political maneuvering. The 
Gamemaster might want to divide this into two destinies: attaining leader- 
ship and leading the group through troubled times. 

Examples of this destiny include Mon Mothma leading the Rebel Alliance, 
Darth Sidious gaining control of the Republic, Wedge Antilles leading Rogue 
Squadron, and Admiral Ackbar escaping Grand Moff Tarkin and eventually 
taking command of the Rebel Fleet. 

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you 
gain a +1 destiny bonus to all defenses. 

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty to all your defenses for 24 hours. 

Destiny Fulfilled: You receive a permanent +2 increase to your Charisma 
score. 


LIBERATION 

Your destiny is to liberate a group, population, or region from Imperial domi- 
nation. The focus of this destiny can range from a persecuted group—a small 
alien enclave, a remote town, or an orbital installation—all the way to a city, 
a starport, or even an entire planet. For instance, a hero might endeavor to 
free a planet's governing legislature, which had been previously relocated 
to a well-guarded penal camp by a hard-line Imperial governor to silence its 
dissenting view. As another example, she could attempt to wrest control of 
a starship construction facility from the Empire by influencing the worker 
population to revolt, supplying arms and equipment, and leading them in 
a mutiny. Achieving this objective usually requires organizing resistance 
to Imperial forces that are persecuting the local populace, destroying key 


installations or assets, or deterring or eliminating personnel that are vital 
for the Empire to maintain its oppressive grip. 

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you 
gain a +2 destiny bonus on damage rolls. 

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on damage rolls for 24 hours. 

Destiny Fulfilled: You gain a permanent +1 destiny bonus to all your 
defenses. 


UNLEASHED ABILITIES 

Unleashed abilities are extremely powerful and devastating abilities that 
even the greatest heroes can use only once in a great while, if ever. (The 
use of these abilities is optional, and subject to Gamemaster approval.) In a 


cinematic sense, the times when these abilities come into play are incredibly 
powerful moments. The Gamemaster and players are encouraged to play up 
the drama and excitement of such a memorable scene. 

Using an Unleashed ability requires the expenditure of a Destiny Point. 
To use one of these powers, your character must possess the Unleashed feat 
and have a destiny. At the Gamemaster’s discretion, a hero might be required 
to complete a special destiny to gain access to this feat (see the sample 
Force Unfeashed destinies on page 36). Unlike with feats and other abilities, 
Unleashed abilities are not selected ahead of time. Instead, you select the one 
you want to use based on the circumstances at the moment. However, you must 
meet any prerequisites mentioned in the descriptions. If you have the Force 
Sensitivity feat, see page 89 for Force Unleashed abilities and powers. 


jf) esiavnS 


Re eee 


5) 


ShLVEL HeovEIhH 


SHVSL HSHLesgh 


TABLE 2-2: UNLEASHED ABILITIES 
UNLEASHED ABILITY 


PREREQUISITE 


Unleashed Bantha Rush Bantha Rush feat, Unleashed feat 
Unleashed Charge Unleashed feat 

Unleashed Cleave Cleave feat, Unleashed feat 

Unleashed Devastating Attack Devastating Attack, Unleashed feat 
Unleashed Extreme Effort Extreme Effort, Unleashed feat 
Unleashed Firepower Unleashed feat 

Unleashed Ignite Fervor Ignite Fervor, Unleashed feat 
Unleashed Keen Shot Keen Shot, Unteashed feat 

Unleashed Mighty Swing Mighty Swing feat, Unleashed feat 
Unleashed Penetrating Attack Penetrating Attack, Unleashed feat 
Unleashed Rage Rage species trait, Unleashed feat 
Unleashed Skirmisher Skirmisher, Unleashed feat 

Unleashed Sneak Attack Sneak Attack, Unleashed feat 
Unleashed Strafe Strafe feat, Unleashed feat, weapon with autofire 
Unleashed Whirlwind Attack Unleashed feat, Whirlwind Attack feat 


BENEFIT 

Knock target prone and down condition track 

Take full attack at the end of an extended charge 
Cleave against all targets within your reach 

Always exceed the target's damage threshold 

Increase Extreme Effort bonus to +20 

Attack five targets within range simultaneously 
Inspire all allies within line of sight to do more damage 
Ignore all cover on attacks for 1 round 

Knock opponent prone with Mighty Swing 

Ignore all DR of your opponents for 1 round 

Gain increased bonuses when raging 

Gain a bonus to attack and damage equal to move 
Gain bonuses to attack and damage with Sneak Attack 
Take no penalties on attack roll over wider area 


Knock down your enemies with an improved attack 


UNLEASHED BANTHA RUSH 
You charge forth, shoving back anyone who stands in your way. 
Prerequisites: Bantha Rush feat, Unleashed feat. 
Benefit: When you use the Bantha Rush feat, you can spend a Destiny 
Point to automatically increase the distance you move your target by 5 
squares and knock your target prone. 


UNLEASHED CHARGE 
Few things can stand in your way when you make a ferocious and nearly 
unstoppable charge to attack an enemy. 

Prerequisite: Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: By spending a Destiny Point, you make an amazing charge 
attack. As a standard action, you gain a +5 bonus on each attack roll and 
take a -2 penalty to your Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn. 
You can move up to twice your speed (minimum 2 squares) in a straight 
line through obstructed or unobstructed terrain, and then take a full attack 
action as a part of this standard action instead of a full-round action. Allies 
do not hinder your ability to: charge. 

Special: If you have the Improved Charge feat, you can alter your course 
around obstructions and enemies. If you have the Powerful Charge feat, you 
can apply the benefit of that feat as well. 


UNLEASHED CLEAVE 
When you fell a foe, your attacks continue on to all of your nearby 
enemies. 

Prerequisite: Cleave feat, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you deal enough damage to an opponent to reduce its hit 
points to 0, you can spend a Destiny Point to get an immediate extra melee 
attack against all opponents within your reach. This feat works in all other 
ways as the Cleave feat. 


UNLEASHED DEVASTATING 
ATTACK ; 
You do incredible amounts of harm to your targets. 

Prerequisites: Devastating Attack, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you make an attack (either as a single attack or part of 
a full attack action), you can spend a Destiny Point to treat every attack as 
though it exceeded the target's damage threshold, regardless of whether or 
not the attack normally would, until the beginning of your next turn. 


“UNLEASHED EXTREME EFFORT 


You have the ability to perform incredible feats of strength. 

Prerequisites: Extreme Effort, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the Extreme Effort talent, you can spend a Destiny 
Point to increase the bonus provided by the talent to +20. 


UNLEASHED FIREPOWER 
You can fire an astounding number of accurate shots in a short time. 
Prerequisite: Unleashed feat. 
Benefit: By spending a Destiny Point, as a standard action you can fire 
at up to five separate targets within range of your ranged weapon. Make a 
single attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of each target. 
Roll a single damage roll and apply it to every target successfully hit. 
Special: Bonuses and penalties from other feats and talents stack with 
this ability. You can attack each target only once. You must have enough 
ammunition for each target; otherwise you stop dealing damage when you 
run out. Aiming provides no benefit on this attack. 


UNLEASHED IGNITE FERVOR 
You inspire all your allies to devastate an opponent. 

Prerequisites: Ignite Fervor, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the Ignite Fervor talent, you can spend a Destiny 
Point to provide the damage bonus to all allies within line of sight. 


UNLEASHED KEEN SHOT 
Your attacks strike with an unnatural accuracy. 

Prerequisites: Keen Shot, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you make a ranged attack, you can spend a Destiny Point 
to ignore all cover on attacks until the beginning of your next turn. 


UNLEASHED MIGHTY SWING 
Your melee attacks are particularly devastating. 

Prerequisite: Mighty Swing feat, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the Mighty Swing feat, you can spend a Destiny 
Point to gain a +5 bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls, and you can make 
an automatic trip attack (as with the Trip feat) against the target, also with 
a +5 bonus on the opposed grapple check. 


UNLEASHED PENETRATING 
ATTACK 
Your attacks punch right through the defenses of your opponents. 
Prerequisites: Penetrating Attack, Unleashed feat. 
Benefit: When you make an attack (either as a single attack or part of 
a full attack action), you can spend a Destiny Point to ignore all damage 
reduction of your targets until the beginning of your next turn. 


UNLEASHED RAGE 
Your unbridled rage is awesome to behold and devastating to your 
enemies. 

Prerequisites: Rage species trait, Unleashed feat. 


Benefit: By spending a Destiny Point at the start of your rage, you gain 
an additional +10 to your melee attack rolls and melee damage rolls and +5 
to your Fortitude Defense. At the end of your rage, you move -2 persistent 
steps along the condition track. The penalties imposed by this condition 
persist until you take at least 20 minutes to recuperate, during which time 
you can't engage in any strenuous activity. 

Special: Bonuses and penalties from other feats and talents stack with 
this ability. 


UNLEASHED SKIRMISHER 
You move with uncanny speed, unleashing a devastating attack against 
your foes. 

Prerequisites: Skirmisher, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you gain the benefit of the Skirmisher talent on a melee 
or ranged attack, you can spend a Destiny Point to get an automatic criti- 
cal hit on your attack and gain a bonus to your base damage equal to the 
number of squares you moved. 


UNLEASHED SNEAK ATTACK 
You strike with the ultimate sneak attack at the most opportune moment. 

Prerequisites: Sneak Attack, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you make an attack that deals extra damage thanks to 
the Sneak Attack talent, you can spend a Destiny Point to gain a +5 bonus 
on your melee or ranged attack roll and deal an extra 5d6 points of damage 
with a successful hit. You must be within 6 squares of the target to make 
a sneak attack with a ranged weapon. This extra damage stacks with any 
damage bonus provided by the Sneak Attack talent. 


UNLEASHED STRAFE 

Your expanded strafing attack is devastating within its fire zone. 
Prerequisites: Strafe feat, Unleashed feat, weapon with autofire. 
Benefit: When you use the Strafe feat, you can spend a Destiny Point to 

targetan area 4 squares long by 3 squares wide. 


UNLEASHED WHIRLWIND 
ATTACK 
Your whirlwind attack is particularly effective and powerful. 
Prerequisites: Unleashed feat, Whirlwind Attack feat. 
Benefit: When you use the Whirlwind Attack feat, you can spend a 
Destiny Point to gain a +5 bonus on your attack roll and knock prone any 
targets you damage. 


HSLawvwHoa 


G 


SHIVA Oe8sA 


CHAPTER III 
STIGE sodhsinitr = = 


‘a'ole 
= 


\? 


ee —=—_  \ 


Prestige classes enable characters to specialize, gaining new talents and 
abilities unattainable through other classes. These classes allow players to 
develop their characters around specific concepts, roles, or character types. 
As always, prestige classes are optional, and the Gamemaster has the final 
say on which ones, if any, are allowed in the campaign. The prestige classes 
presented here enhance Dark Times or Force Unleashed campaigns, but they 
can be used in any era of play. 

All the new prestige classes described in this chapter are suitable for 
player or Gamemaster use. To qualify for a particular prestige class, a char- 
acter must meet all the class’s prerequisites. The players and Gamemaster 
should work together to generate adventures and story lines that allow a 
player to take these classes. 


NEw TALENTS FOR 
XISTING PRESTIGE 
LASSES 


This chapter features six new prestige classes suitable for a Force Unleashed 
campaign and also includes several new talent trees for existing prestige 
classes. Like those new talent trees for core classes (Jedi, noble, scoundrel, 
scout, soldier) in the previous chapter, any character taking a level in the 
designated prestige class that would normally grant the talent can take one 
of these talents. Even though a prestige class description might not mention 
these talent trees specifically, they are considered to be a part of the list of 
suitable talent trees for that prestige class. 

For example, in the description of the Talents granted to the elite trooper 
prestige class that appear in the Saga Fdition core rulebook, the text states 
that a character can choose talents from the Weapon Master talent tree, the 
Commando talent tree, or the Camouflage talent tree. This chapter presents 
the Critical Master talent tree for the elite trooper, which is considered to 
be on the list of talent trees for the elite trooper just like the other three. 
Any talent that relies on a character's class level considers the levels of all 
classes that have access to that talent cumulative. 

However, none of the new talent trees granted to core classes by this book 
are added to the list of approved talent trees for that prestige class unless 
specifically noted in that talent tree's description. Though the elite trooper 
has access to the Commando talent tree of the soldier class, he does not gain 
access to the Mercenary talent tree from the previous chapter even though 
it is considered a soldier talent tree. New talents for existing talent trees are 
treated no differently from any other talent in that tree. 


Ssssv109 as090I1ss¥d i 


beset) 


il! HaeidgvHo 


ISIS)e) 


SEssv71e aes 


New PRESTIGE CLASS 
TALENTS 


This section presents new talents for several of the prestige classes in the 
Saga Edition core rulebook. 


BOUNTY HUNTER TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the bounty hunter prestige 
class. 


BOUNTY HUNTER TALENT TREE 

The following new talents belong to the Bounty Hunter talent tree, which 
is available to members of the bounty hunter prestige class. Any character 
who has levels in the bounty hunter prestige class can choose from these 
talents as well. 

Fearsome: Your reputation precedes you, striking fear in your target. Any 
opponent within 6 squares whose level is equal to or less than your heroic 
level takes a -1 penalty on attack rolls made against you. 

Prerequisite: Notorious. 

Signature Item: You are famous for using certain items, and you have 
become skilled at wielding them. You select a single weapon, suit of armor, 
vehicle, starship, or other item. While wielding that weapon, wearing that 
armor, piloting that vehicle, or otherwise using that item, you gain a +2 
morale bonus on opposed skill checks. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you choose 
a new object to be your signature item. The effects of multiple signature 
items are cumulative with one another, increasing this morale bonus by 1 
each time. 

Jedi Hunter: You are skilled at fighting Jedi and other Force-users. You 
gain a +1 insight bonus to Fortitude and Will Defense and deal +1 die of 
damage against characters who have the Force Sensitivity feat. 


EvITeE TROOPER TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the elite trooper prestige 
class. 


CRITICAL MASTER TALENT TREE 
Some elite troopers know exactly where to strike their foes to deal maximum 
damage, potentially crippling their enemies in the process. 

Deny Move: When you score a critical hit with a melee or ranged attack, 
your target cannot move on its next turn. 

Prerequisite: Reduce Mobility. 

Extended Critical Range (heavy weapons): When you are using a heavy 
weapon, you extend the weapon's critical range by 1 (for example, 19-20 
instead of 20). However, anything other than a natural 20 is not considered 


an automatic hit; if you roll anything other than a natural 20 and still miss 
the target, you do not score a critical hit. 

Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +10, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weap- 
ons) feat. 

Extended Critical Range (rifles): When you are using a rifle, you extend 
the weapon's critical range by 1 (for example, 19-20 instead of 20). However, 
anything other than a natural 20 is not considered an automatic hit; if you 
roll anything other than a natural 20 and still miss the target, you do not 
score a critical hit. 

Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +10, Weapon Proficiency (rifles) feat. 

Flurry Attack: Choose a single weapon group or exotic weapon you are 
proficient with. When you score a critical hit with a weapon from that group, 
you can make one immediate extra attack (in addition to the other effects 
of a critical hit) against a single target within range. You may only use this 
talent once per turn. You can select this talent multiple times. Its effects do 
not stack. Each time you take the talent, it applies to a new weapon group 
or exotic weapon. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Proficiency feat for chosen weapon. 

Knockback: When you score a critical hit against a target no more than 
two size categories larger than you are, you can choose to move that oppo- 
nent 1 square in any direction as a free action. You cannot use this talent on 
an opponent that is being grabbed or grappled, and you cannot move your 
target into a solid object or another creature's fighting space. 

Reduce Defense: When you score a critical hit with a melee or ranged 
attack, your target takes a -2 penalty to Reflex Defense until it is fully healed 
(at maximum hit points). 

Reduce Mobility: When you score a critical hit with a melee or ranged 
attack, you reduce the target's speed by half until it is fully healed (at 
maximum hit points). 


FORCE ADEPT TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the Force adept prestige 
class. 


IMPERIAL INQUISITOR TALENT TREE 

The Imperial Inquisitors are a special group of dark Jedi who work for the 
Empire. Trained to hunt down and destroy the remaining Jedi whenever they 
are found, Imperial Inquisitors are steeped in the lore of the dark side. A 
character must be a member of the Inquisitorius and have a dark side score 
of 1+ to take talents from this tree. 

Cower Enemies: When you use the Persuasion skill to intimidate, you 
can intimidate all targets in a 6-square cone (originating from your square) 
instead of intimidating a single target. All other limitations to the intimidation 
use of the Persuasion skill still apply. 

Prerequisite: Force Interrogation. 


Force Interrogation: When you deal damage to one or more creatures 
by using a Force power, you can immediately make a Persuasion check as a 
free action to intimidate a single target you damaged. 

Inquisition: You are particularly adept at dealing with Force-sensitive 
foes. You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and deal +1 die of damage against 
targets that have the Force Sensitivity feat. 

Unsettling Presence: You can spend a Force Point as a standard action 
to create an aura of unsettling discomfort around you. You make a Use the 
Force check when you activate this talent and compare the check result to 
the Will Defense of any creature that comes within 6 squares of you. If your 
Use the Force check result exceeds the creature's Will Defense, that target 
takes a -2 penalty on attack rolls and skill checks while within 6 squares of 
you. This aura lasts for the remainder of the encounter. 

Prerequisite: Force Interrogation. 


JEDI KNIGHT TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the Jedi Knight prestige 
class. 


New Duelist Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Duelist talent tree, which is available 
to members of the Jedi Knight and Sith apprentice prestige classes. Any 
character who can normally choose talents from the Duelist talent tree can 
choose from these talents as well. 

Improved Lightsaber Throw: You can spend a Force Point as a standard 
action to throw your lightsaber at a group of opponents. You make a single 
ranged attack roll (treating the lightsaber as a thrown weapon) and compare 
the result to the Reflex Defense of all targets in a 6-square line originating 
in your square. If your attack roll result exceeds a target’s Reflex Defense, 
you deal normal lightsaber damage to that target (dealing half damage if 
you fail to exceed the target’s Reflex Defense). This attack is considered 
an area attack. 

You can pull your lightsaber back to your hand as a swift action by making 
a DC 20 Use the Force check. 

Prerequisite: Lightsaber Throw. 

Thrown Lightsaber Mastery: Any target successfully struck by a light- 
saber you throw moves at half speed (round down) until the beginning of 
your next turn. : 

Prerequisites: Improved Lightsaber Throw, Lightsaber Throw. 


we 


PRESTIGE CLASS BASIC DESCRIPTION 


Enforcer Elite law enforcement operative 
Independent droid Extremely autonomous and specialized droids 
Infiltrator Covert and military operatives 


Master privateer Expert raider for hire 


Medic Versatile and mobile healer 
Saboteur Disruptive agent able to attack unlikely targets 
ENFORCER 


The vital task of law enforcement takes many forms throughout the galaxy. 
Backwater constables, Sector Rangers, corporate security forces, city police, 
and some types of Imperial agents are a few of the typical examples. The 
rise of the Empire and its ever-growing governmental intrusiveness brings 
about a great increase in enforcers of all types. 


il SeSLavwHga 


SAsSv71S BeaVr~,.s9e8e) 


v 
i 
W 
0 
= 
a 
W 
fo 
\f 
> 
@ 
@ 
Wy 
@ 


Enforcers are elite law enforcement officers and agents. In respectable 
organizations, they are the most skilled investigators, the best patrol officers, 
and often leaders within their departments. In corrupt organizations, they 
might use special connections to gain their position, but they still have a 
degree of ability, if not integrity. Both honest and corrupt enforcers can be 
found at any level and any organization. 

Honest enforcers are dedicated and driven to keep the peace and capture 
the bad guys. They often aspire to high levels of morality, fairness, and justice. 
Just because they're honest doesn't mean they don't support the Empire. 
They might be dedicated to the Empire's ideals, yet unaware or disbelieving 
of its worst offenses. 

Corrupt enforcers are self-serving. They use their position to gain personal 
fortune or power, operating individually or in concert with others in their 
organization. They might not possess the appropriate attitude for the job, 
but they have at least enough skill to hang on to it. 

An enforcer's duties and abilities vary by assignment. Urban patrols pursue 
suspects through congested cityscapes. Sector Rangers use a broad set of 
abilities to investigate and track down criminals throughout their own sector 
of space. Imperial Security Bureau and COMPNOR agents rely on political 
power and fear as much as natural investigative talents and training to hunt 
down Rebels and other opponents of the New Order. 

In a Force Unleashed campaign, enforcer characters might find their 
loyalty to their positions as upholders of the law conflicting with the new 
political reality of the New Order. How these enforcers balance this pressure 
should be integral to character development and have some influence on 
the direction of the campaign. 


TABLE 3-2: THE ENFORCER ~ 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
Ist +0 Defense bonuses, resources, talent 
2nd +1 Targeted suspect +1 
3rd +2 Talent 
4th +3 Targeted suspect +2 
5th +3 Talent 
6th +4 Targeted suspect +3 
7th +5 Talent 
8th +6 Targeted suspect +4 
9th +6 Talent 


10th +7 Targeted suspect +5 


EXAMPLES OF EBENFORCERS IN 
STAR WARS 

Corporate Sector Authority Security, Corran Horn, CorSec agents, Sector 
Rangers, ISB agents, high-level COMPNOR operatives. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become an enforcer, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria. 
Minimum Level: 7th. 
Trained Skills: Gather Information, Perception. 
Talents: At least one talent from the Survival talent tree. 
Special:Must belong to a law enforcement or similar security 
organization, 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Enforcers have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, enforcers gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


Force Points 
Enforcers gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their character 
level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the enforcer prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +2 class 
bonus to your Will Defense. 


Resources 
You have access to additional resources provided by your department or 
organization. Each time you gain a level, you receive restricted or military 
equipment (including weapons or vehicles) equal in value to your heroic level 
x 2,000 credits. The equipment appears in a civilized, accessible location 
of your choice. 

You can choose not to receive any resources when you gain a level, instead 
adding the value of any equipment you would normally gain to the resources 
you gain at your next level. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Survivor talent tree (see page 50 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook) or the Enforcement talent tree (presented below). 


You must meet the prerequisites (if any] of the chosen talent. No talent can 
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


ENFORCEMENT TALENT TREE 
You are a trained investigator who can locate and apprehend a quarry with 
exceptional speed and prowess. 

Cover Bracing: You can brace a weapon set on autofire as a single swift 
action (instead of two) if you are adjacent to an object (including walls, 
barriers, and vehicles) that provides you with cover from all of the target 
squares. 

Intentional Crash: You know how to intentionally crash an opponent's 
moving vehicle. When you successfully deal damage to a vehicle by ramming 
it, your vehicle takes half damage from the ram. Additionally, if the target 
vehicle is the same size as your vehicle or smaller, that vehicle cannot move 
in the following round. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Pilot skill. 

Nonlethal Tactics: When you are using a ranged weapon set to stun, 
stun grenades, nets, or stun batons, you gain a +1 bonus on your attack roll 
and deal +1 die of stun damage. 

Pursuit: When running, you are not restricted to a straight line (see 
“Endurance,” page 66 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) and you can reroll 
Endurance checks, using the better result, while running. 

Prerequisite: Dexterity 13. 

Respected Officer: You have a reputation that causes allies and enemies 
to treat you with respect. You automatically improve the attitude of an 
indifferent character to friendly with no check required (see “Persuasion,” 
page 71 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Slowing Stun: When you move a target at least -1 step along the 
condition track with an attack, its speed is halved until all conditions are 
removed. 

Takedown: When you successfully make a melee attack and deal damage 
at the end of a charge, you knock your target prone as well, provided your 
opponent is no more than one size category larger than you. 


Targeted Suspect 

The time you spend investigating a suspect results in benefits when you 
are dealing with the suspect during an encounter. If you spend a full-round 
action observing an opponent in combat, you gain a bonus on attack rolls and 
Deception, Perception, and Persuasion checks equal to one-half your class 
level (rounded down). The benefits last for the remainder of the encounter. You 
cannot use this ability until after your opponent has acted during combat. 


SESeevie IgaILSssawe 


il) SaiawHa 


9 
he 
> 
v 
Prt 
o 
2 


Sesevas gOaLSssV 


INDEPENDENT DROID 
Although many droids in the galaxy function on their own, some become 
highly independent and self-sufficient. These specialized droids prefer to 
operate on their own, or in the company of a specific group useful to their 
current needs. 

Members of this prestige class usually must experience a program- 
breaking event. This event could occur as the result of conflicting orders, a 
malfunctioning processor, or a deliberate action taken by a droid program- 
mer—either an organic creature or another droid. Players and Gamemasters 
are encouraged to develop such an event before using this prestige class. 

Independent droids express their individuality much more strongly than 
a typical droid unit does. One might focus on a very narrow segment of its 
programming. Another might develop a complex or damaged personality. 
Independent droids universally reject the notion that they are owned by 
anyone, though the more deceptive or pragmatic units among them could 
give the appearance of having such an attitude if they believe that doing so is 
necessary to ultimately retain their independence or avoid a memory wipe. 

In a Force Unleashed campaign, independent droids might show up on 
any world. Some worlds, such as the junk world of Raxus Prime, could have a 
large number of these droids. Droids that survived the Clone Wars but were 
subsequently abandoned, stranded, or isolated for other reasons are likely 
candidates for this prestige class. 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 


Ist +0 Defense bonuses, sapience, talent 
2nd +1 ndependent spirit +1 

3rd +2 Talent 

4th +3 ndependent spirit +2 

5th +3 Talent 

6th +4 ndependent spirit +3 

7th +5 Talent 

8th +6 ndependent spirit +4 
“9th +6 Talent 

10th +7 ndependent spirit +5 


EXAMPLES OF INDEPENDENT 
DRO'IDS IN STAR WARS 
HK-47, |G-88, PROXY, Blue Max, Bollux. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become an independent droid, a character must fulfill the 
following criteria. 

Minimum Level: 3rd. 

Trained Skills: Use Computer. 

System: Heuristic Processor. 

Special: Droids only. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Independent droids have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, independent droids gain 1d12 hit points. 


Force Points 

Independent droids gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half 
their character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in 
this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the independent droid prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and +4 class 
bonus to your Will Defense. 


Sapience 
You can choose to have your droid immunities not apply to any mind-affect- 
ing effect, allowing you to benefit from mind-affecting abilities that provide 
positive effects. 

Additionally, you have permanently disabled your behavioral inhibitor, 
enabling you to take any desired action. Furthermore, you are immune to 
the effects of restraining bolts. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered tevel (1st, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Autonomy talent tree or the Specialized 
Droid talent tree {both presented below). You must meet the prerequisites (if 
any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once unless 
expressly indicated. 


AUTONOMY TALENT TREE 


You are able to resist any attempts to curb your independence and can fight 
back against anyone that tries to suppress your personality. 

Defensive Electronics: You defend your independence from all. When 
someone tries to reprogram you, add your class level to your Will Defense. 

lon Resistance 10: You gain DR 10 against ion damage. 

Soft Reset: You are adept at rerouting your internal electronics. If you are 
moved to the bottom of the condition track by any means other than taking 
damage exceeding your damage threshold, you automatically move +1 step 
along the condition track after being disabled for 2 rounds, 

Modification Specialist: You have become skilled at reprogramming 
and modifying your own systems. You do not incur the normal -5 penalty 
on Mechanics and Use Computer checks to reprogram yourself or perform 
self-modifications (see page 197 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Repair Self: When you repair yourself (using the repair droid application 
of the Mechanics skill), you repair 1 additional hit point for each point by 
which your check exceeds the DC. 


SPECIALIZED DROID TALENT TREE 
You have become more specialized than other droids of the same ora similar 
model. 

Computer Language: You can use your Persuasion modifier instead of 
your Use Computer modifier when making Use Computer checks. You are 
considered trained in the Use Computer skill for the purpose of using this 
talent. If you are entitled to a Use Computer check reroll, you can reroll 
your Persuasion check instead (subject to the same circumstances and 
limitations). 

Prerequisite: Must know the Binary language. 

Computer Master: You can reroll any opposed Use Computer check, 
using the better result. 

Enhanced Manipulation: You have improved appendage manipulation 
routines. You can take 10 when making any Dexterity-based skill check, even 
if you are threatened or would not normally be able to take 10. , 

Prerequisite: Dexterity 15. 

Hotwired Processor: You gain temporary processing power, enhancing 
your mental attributes. When you hotwire your processor (a swift action), 
you gain a +5 circumstance bonus on Intelligence- and Wisdom-based skill 
checks and a +1 circumstance bonus on ranged attack rolls. A hotwiring lasts 
for a number of rounds equal to one-half your level (rounded down). 

When the hotwiring ends, you move -1 persistent step along the condi- 
tion track. The penalties imposed by this condition persist until you receive 
repairs (using the repair droid application of the Mechanics skill). 


| 


=) 


il SeSsteavHnd 


SEsesvi9 BSILSaVe |e 


Gates 


SESsvdS SeILSaued | 


a 
I 
> 
v 
4 
Ww 
2 


Power Surge: You temporarily surge your power systems to enhance your 
physical abilities. When you initiate a power surge (a swift action), you gain 
a +1 circumstance bonus on melee attack rolls, +1 die of damage on melee 
damage rolls, and an increase of 2 squares to your speed. A power surge lasts 
for a number of rounds equal to one-half your level (rounded down). 

At the end of a power surge, you move -1 persistent step along the condi- 
tion track. The penalties imposed by this condition persist until you receive 
repairs (using the repair droid application of the Mechanics skill). 

Skill Conversion: When you reprogram yourself, you can sacrifice a single 
trained skill for a bonus Skill Focus feat. You must meet the prerequisites 
for the feat (you must be trained in the skill you choose to gain Skill Focus 
for), and you can do this only once per reprogramming. 


Independent Spirit 

At 2nd level, you gain the ability to assert your independence and protect 
yourself from harm. Once per encounter, you can grant yourself a morale 
bonus to any defense score (your choice) as a reaction. This bonus is equal 
to one-half your class level (rounded down). 


INFILTRATOR 


Infiltrators come in many guises, such as spies, moles, special forces opera- 
tives, and secret agents. Infiltrators specialize in secretly penetrating enemy 
strongholds or organizations and carrying out their missions from within. 

Infiltrators typically operate individually or in small groups. Their training 
emphasizes stealth, discreet combat, and covert penetration techniques. They 
typically have less combat training than commandos and are better trained 
and more mission-specific than saboteurs. Covert infiltrators operate for 
extended periods of time within an organization. Aggressive infiltrators carry 
out specific combat missions, on their own or in support of commandos or 
other military units. 

Bothan infiltrators are highly effective and a critical part of the Bothan 
Spy Network. They use the network as much as the network uses them. 
They gain access to network resources, while they are a resource to the 
network in and of themselves. They use this arrangement to their advantage 
whenever possible. 

In a Force Unleashed campaign, Imperial operatives of all sorts might be 
infiltrators. Covert spies or ISB agents work to discern any hint of sedition, 
rebellion, or simply dissent with the New Order. Military infiltrators are 
deployed where dissenters are well armed, or to make a public statement. 
Anti-Imperial operatives might secretly work for dissident Senators, trying 
to penetrate the workings of the plethora of new organizations that have 
sprung up within the new Imperial government. 


EXAMPLES OF INFILTRATORS IN 
STAR WARS 
Lt. Judder Page, Sabé, Shira Brie, Winter, Bothan Spynet operatives. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become an infiltrator, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria. 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Trained Skills: Perception, Stealth. 

Feats: Skill Focus (Stealth). 

Talents: At least two talents from the Camouflage or Spy talent trees. 


GAMES RULE INFORMATION 
Infiltrators have the following game statistics. 


Hit: Points 
At each level, infiltrators gain 108 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


Force Points 
Infiltrators gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their character 
level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


TABL® 2249 jy) Sa 
THE INFILTRATOR 


a7 
‘eed eels 
t 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
Ist +0 Defense bonuses, talent 
2nd +1 Unarmed stun (+1 die} 
3rd +2 Talent 
4th +3 Lead infiltrator 
5th +3 Talent 
6th +4 Unarmed stun (+2 dice) 
7th +5 Talent 
8th +6 Lead infiltrator 
Sth +6 Talent 
10th +7 Unarmed stun (+3 dice) 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the infiltrator prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +2 class 
bonus to your Will Defense. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Camouflage talent tree (see page 49 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook), the Spy talent tree (see page 28), the Infil- 
tration talent tree, or the Bothan Spynet talent tree (both presented below). 
You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can 
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


INFILTRATION TALENT TREE 
You are trained to secretly infiltrate enemy strongholds and organizations 
by force or by guile. 

Always Ready: You are accustomed to operating in response to enemy 
actions. When your readied action is triggered, it does not change your 
initiative count (see page 162 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Initiative skill. 

Concealed Weapon Expert: You are deadly with an unarmed strike, 
hold-out blaster, dagger, or vibrodagger or other small, concealable weapon 
(as determined by the Gamemaster). Once per round you can use a swift 
action to reroll an attack using one of these weapons, but you must take the 
second result, even if it is worse. 

Creeping Approach: As a swift action, you can designate a single oppo- 
nent within 12 squares that is unaware of you as the target of this talent. 
Until the beginning of your next turn, that target may not make Perception 
checks to notice you, even if you enter the target's line of sight. If you or any 
of your allies attack the target, the effect of this talent ends. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Stealth skill. 

Set for Stun: You are particularly adept with stun weapons. If you are 
using a ranged weapon that deals stun damage (including a lethal weapon 
set to stun), you can spend two consecutive swift actions in the same round 
to activate this talent. If the stun damage on your next attack exceeds the 
target's damage threshold, you move the target -3 steps along the condition 
track instead of the normal -2. 

You lose the benefit of this talent if you lose line of sight to your target 
or if you take any other action before making your attack. 

Silent Takedown: You are skilled at quietly knocking out or eliminating 
guards and others when they are caught unaware. If you damage an opponent 
that is unaware of you, that opponent cannot speak or make other noises 
untifthe end of your next turn. This is a stunning effect. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Stealth skill. 


mM 


Sasevds se.ease | 


iii eslLavHo 


SPsseviS seaiLsauel 


BOTHAN SPYNET TALENT TREE 


You are trained to work within the famed Bothan Spynet. The spynet is a 
secret collection of organic and electronic resources and personnel spread 
throughout the galaxy, accessed by computer or in person. 

Bothan Resources: Your status within the Spynet gives you access to 
additional resources, and you know the best sources for restricted or rare 
items. With a successful DC 20 Gather Information check, you can purchase 
standard weapons, equipment, and transport services at 50% of the going 
rate, or exotic and restricted weapons, equipment, and transport services 
at 75% of the going rate. 

Prerequisite: Spynet Agent. 

Knowledge Is Life: As a swift action, you can designate a single target 
within line of sight and make a Knowledge (galactic lore) check against a DC 
equal to 15 + the target's CL. If the check is successful, for the remainder 
of the encounter you gain a +2 morale bonus to the defense score of your 
choice against that target. 

Prerequisite: Spynet Agent. 

Knowledge Is Power: As a swift action, you can designate a single target 
within your line of sight and make a Knowledge (galactic lore) check against a 
DC equal to 15 + the target's CL. If the check is successful, for the remainder 
of the encounter you score a critical hit against that target on a natural rol! 
of 19 or 20. If you have another ability that increases your weapon's critical 
range against that target (such as the elite trooper's extended critical range 
talent, or the Jedi Knight's Vaapad talent), you increase this range by 1 (for 
example, from 19-20 to 18-20). However, anything other than a natural 20 
is not considered an automatic hit; if you roll anything other than a natural 
20 and still miss the target, you do not score a critical hit. 

Prerequisite: Spynet Agent. 

Knowledge Is Strength: As a swift action, you can designate a single 
target within your line of sight and make a Knowledge (galactic lore} check 
against a DC equal to 15 + the target's CL. If the check is successful, for 
the remainder of the encounter you gain a +2 morale bonus on attack rolls 
against that target. 

Prerequisite: Spynet Agent. 

Six Questions: You have mastered the basic Bothan philosophy of Six 
Questions to glean more information from contacts through fewer questions. 
As a swift action, you can make a Knowledge (galactic lore) check against 
a DC equal to 15 + the target's CL. If the check is successful, you learn a 
target character's level, classes, and ability scores, and the target's available 
Force Points and Destiny Points. 

Prerequisite: Spynet Agent. 

Spynet Agent: You can use your Gather Information check modifier 
instead of your Knowledge (galactic lore) check modifier when making Knowl- 
edge (galactic lore) checks. You are considered trained in the Knowledge 
(galactic lore) skill for the purpose of using this talent. If you are entitled to 


a Knowledge (galactic lore) reroll, you can reroll your Gather Information 
check instead (subject to the same circumstances and limitations). 
Prerequisites: Bothan species, or two talents from the Infiltration tree. 


Unarmed Stun 

Starting at 2nd level, you can use your unarmed attacks to deal stun damage. 
You must designate your intention to stun your target before the attack is 
made, and you deal +1 die of damage on your unarmed attack, which deals 
stun damage. At 6th level, this extra damage increases to +2 dice, and at 
10th level it increases to +3 dice. 


Lead Infiltrator 

Starting at 4th level, you are an effective leader of infiltration teams. You 
can make a Stealth check for a number of allies within line of sight equal to 
your Charisma bonus (minimum one), using your check result in place of their 
Stealth checks. At 8th level, you double the number of allies you can lead 
using this ability. Allies must stay within line of sight to retain this bonus. 


MASTER PRIVATEER 


Governments, large corporations, and other organizations have hired pri- 
vateers throughout galactic history. Privateers might operate from a single 
armed ship, or they might control fleets of cruisers and starfighters. During 
the Clone Wars, the Confederacy of Independent Systems was known to use 
privateers to bolster its forces, especially late in the war. This might have also 
been a tactic to induce pirate forces to attack Republic shipping, drawing 
the pirates away from the CIS's own lucrative mercantile shipping networks. 
Though privateers are more active during wartime, they also operate during 
peacetime in more volatile sectors or systems. 

Typically, a privateer operates under a letter of marque from an authoriz~ 
ing government or a corporate entity that controls a large region of space. 
A letter of marque offers a form of legitimacy to justify actions that most 
would consider nothing more than piracy. Indeed, on the surface, pirates 
and privateers operate in much the same fashion. They privately own and 
operate armed vessels that attack merchant shipping and take the cargoes 
for themselves. Whereas pirates attack whomever they please, privateers 
are theoretically restricted to ships of specific governments or ownership, 
as authorized by the letter of marque. Pirates treat prisoners as they see fit, 
perhaps offering them up for ransom or selling them into slavery. Privateers 
must treat captured personnel as prisoners of war during wartime, or as 
specified by their letter of marque at other times. 

Master privateers are experts at the art of stopping and seizing vessels, 
They are skilled pilots, capable combatants, and shrewd negotiators. They 
are familiar with people and regions that are likely to be friendly (or at least 
tolerant) toward privateers and are thus able to obtain letters of marque with 


some regularity. The line between pirates and privateers is often blurred, and 
legitimate privateers sometimes ultimately cross the line into piracy. 
During the Dark Times, the Empire considers privateers to be pirates and 
treats them as such. Thus, active privateers have been forced to the fringes 
of the galaxy during this time. The future Rebel Alliance would eventually 
experiment with using privateers, but that would prove to be a very contro- 
versial decision, and it did not gain widespread support in the Alliance. 


EXAMPLES OF MASTER 
PRIVATEERS IN STAR WARS 
Bakken, Captain Dhas Vedij of the Far Orbit, Grov Bricker, Urias Xhaxin. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a master privateer, a character must fulfill the fol- 
lowing criteria. 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Trained Skills: Deception, Pilot. 

Feats: Vehicular Combat. 

Talents: At least two talents from the Misfortune, Smuggling, or Space- 
hound talent trees. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Master privateers have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, master privateers gain 1410 hit points + their Constitution 
modifier. 


BASE ATTACK 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 

Ist +] Defense Donuses, talent 

2nd +2 Veteran privateer (1/encounter] 
3rd +3 Talent 

4th +4 Veteran privateer (2/encounter) 
Sth +5 Talent 

6th +6 Veteran privateer (3/encounter) 
7th +7 Talent 

8th +8 Veteran privateer (4/encounter} 
9th +9 Talent 


10th +10 Veteran privateer (5/encounter) 


iil eSiLavHD 


SassevdS seILseaye) 


| 


S9sSsevde ABSLSEee) 


= 


Wt) Sata vHD 


Force Points 

Master privateers gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half 
their character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in 
this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the master privateer prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +4 class 
bonus to your Will Defense. 


Piracy 

Even though you are a legitimate privateer, piracy is a great temptation to 
you. If you are lost to the dark side, you drop all pretense of privateering, 
you become a known pirate, and you may not take any further levels of 
master privateer. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Infamy talent tree (see page 210 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook) or the Privateer talent tree (presented below). 
You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can 
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


PRIVATEER TALENT TREE 
You are a veteran of privateering and have learned the secrets of fighting 
aboard starships. 

Armored Spacer: You can use armored spacesuits as if you had the Armor 
Proficiency (heavy) feat. 

Attract Privateer: You attract a loyal privateer lieutenant. The privateer 
is a nonheroic character who has a class level equal to three-quarters of your 
character level, rounded down. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you gain 
another privateer. Each privateer who accompanies you on an adventure 
is entitled to an equal share of the total experience points earned for the 
adventure. For example, a privateer who accompanies a party of five heroes 
on an adventure receives one-sixth of the XP that the group earns. 

Blaster and Blade I: When you make a single attack with an advanced 
melee weapon as a standard action, you can immediately make an attack with 
a pistol as a free action, provided you have both the advanced melee weapon 
and the pistol in your hands when the melee attack is made. You apply the 
normal penalties for fighting with two weapons to both of these attacks. 

Prerequisites: Dual Weapon Mastery | feat, Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons, pistols) feats. 


Blaster and Blade Il: When you are wielding both an advanced melee 
weapon and a pistol, you treat the advanced melee weapon as though you 
were wielding it two-handed (including doubling your Strength bonus on 
damage rolls). 

Prerequisites: Blaster and Blade |, Dual Weapon Mastery | feat, Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols) feats. 

Blaster and Blade II]: When you are wielding both an advanced melee 
weapon anda pistol, you can make a full attack as a standard action instead 
of a full-round action, provided you attack with both weapons. 

Prerequisites: Blaster and Blade |, Blaster and Blade ||, Dual Weapon Mas- 
tery | feat, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols) feats. 

Boarder: You are skilled at boarding hostile vessels. You ignore cover (but 
not improved cover) with your character-scale ranged attacks while aboard 
a Starship or space station. 

lon Mastery: You know the typical weaknesses of vehicles and droids, and 
you know how to preserve such targets for capture rather than destroying 
them. When attacking with ion weapons, you gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls 
and deal +1 die of ion damage. 

Multiattack Proficiency (advanced melee weapons): When you make 
multiple attacks with any type of advanced melee weapon as a full attack 
action, you lessen the penalty on your attack rolls by 2. 

You can take this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you lessen 
the penalty on your attack rolls by an additional 2. 

Preserving Shot: When you deal damage with a vehicle weapon that 
is equal to or greater than both the target vehicle's current hit points and 
the target vehicle's damage threshold (that is, when you would deal enough 
damage to destroy the target vehicle), you can choose to use this talent. 
Instead of dealing full damage, you instead deal half damage to your target 
and move it -1 step along on the condition track. In addition, you disable 
the ship's sublight engines and hyperdrive. The ship cannot move or make 
a jump to lightspeed until it has received repairs (through use of the repair 
object application of the Mechanics skill). 


Veteran Privateer 

Your experience as a privateer has hardened you to the realities of battle, 
granting you the ability to subdue your foes with little difficulty. When you 
make an attack roll, as a free action you can grant yourself a +2 competence 
bonus on that attack roll. You can do this a number of times per encounter 
equal to one-half your class level (rounded down). 


MEDIC 


The galaxy is a dangerous place. Vicious creatures, massive battles, bar- 
room brawls, lethal environments, and other kinds of threats imperil people 
everywhere. Doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel provide vital care 
to the critically injured, but are less available to those operating in the field. 


The medic fills this void, providing on-the-spot advanced medical treatment 
and support. 

Medics are highly trained healers, able to function in the worst of condi- 
tions and circumstances. They possess great knowledge of the healing arts 
and sciences. They know quick and effective treatment methods and use them 
to perform near-miracles to save injured and dying creatures. 

Medics live to heal others. The most altruistic among them heal any and 
all within their abilities. Disillusioned or vengeful medics might choose to 
heal only their allies and companions. Many medics serve as starship medical 
officers, battlefield surgeons, or corporate medical personnel, or in portable 
medical facilities. A medic on the shadier side of society might operate a 
back-alley clinic, serve a criminal organization, or work as the personal 
physician of a crime lord. 


EXAMPLES OF MEDICS IN 
STAR WARS 
Dhagon Gent, Elassar Targon, Jos Vondar, Ton Phanan. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a medic, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria. 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Trained Skills: Knowledge (life sciences), Treat Injury. 

Feats: Surgical Expertise. 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
Ist +0 Defense bonuses, talent 
2nd +1 Medical secret 
3rd +2 Talent 
4th +3 Medical secret 
5th +3 Talent 
6th +4 Medical secret 
7th +5 Talent 
8th +6 Medical secret 
9th +6 Talent 
10th +7 Medical secret 


Sasseyie Age .Lsse) 


ea) 


iii HSLgvHo 


SESsevds FPOILSse) 


ij HSiavHo 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Medics have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, medics gain 148 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


Force Points 
Medics gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their character 
level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the medic prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Fortitude Defense and a +2 
class bonus to your Will Defense. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Advanced Medicine talent tree (presented 
below) or the Survivor talent tree (see page 50 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook}. You must meet the prerequisites {if any) of the chosen talent. No 
talent can be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


ADVANCED MEDICINE TALENT TREE 
You are highly trained in medica! procedures for all conditions, 

Battlefield Medic: You can use the first aid application of the Treat Injury 
skill on a creature as a standard action instead of a full-round action. 

Prerequisite: Steady Under Pressure. 

Bring Them Back: You can use the revivify application of the Treat Injury 
skill on a target that has died anytime within a number of rounds equal to 
one-half your heroic level. 

Emergency Team: You are skilled at working on and managing an emer- 
gency medical team. Allies automatically succeed on aid another attempts 
when assisting you with Treat Injury checks. 

Extra First Aid: You can use the first aid application of the Treat Injury 
skill one additional time per day on a target that has already received first 
aid for the day. 

Medical Miracle: As a standard action, you can make a DC 20 Treat 
Injury check on an adjacent target. If the check is successful, that target 
immediately uses its second wind, even if it is above half hit points. If the 
target has already expended all of its second winds for the day, this talent 
has no effect. 

Natural Healing: Your extensive knowledge of natural healing allows 
you to make first aid, treat disease, and treat poison (Treat Injury) checks 


without a medical kit, if you have access to appropriate natural substitutes 
(as determined by the Gamemaster). 

Second Chance: If you fail your Treat Injury check, your patient does not 
take any additional damage, nor does it die, even if the failed check would 
normally require it. 

Prerequisite: Steady Under Pressure. 

Steady Under Pressure: You can choose to reroll any Treat Injury check, 
using the better result. 


Medical Secrets 

As your medical skills grow, you gain insight into specific medical procedures 
and treatment of specific species. At each even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 
6th and so on), you gain a medical secret, giving you a bonus when you use 
a specific application of the Treat Injury skill. You can select a given treat- 
ment only once. 

When you gain this class feature, select a secret from the choices 
below. 

Improved First Aid: When you use a medpac to perform first aid with the 
Treat Injury skill, the creature gains one additional point for every point by 
which your check exceeds the DC (in addition to any extra hit point gained 
normally for exceeding the DC). 

Improved Heal Damage: On a successful surgery attempt to heal 
damage, the target recovers an additional number of hit points equal to 
your class level. 

Improved Long-Term Care: On a successful application of long-term 
care, the target recovers an additional number of hit points equal to your 
class level. 

Improved Perform Surgery: You can attempt a Treat Injury check to 
perform surgery in half the usual time. 

Improved Revivify: You can make a Treat Injury check to revivify someone 
as a standard action instead of a full-round action. 

Improved Treatment: You can make a Treat Injury check to treat disease 
or radiation in 1 hour, instead of 8 hours. Also, you can treat up to twice as 
many patients as normal. 

Personal Physician: You take no penalties on your skill checks when using 
the Treat Injury skill on yourself. 


SABOTEUR 

Saboteurs aim to disrupt or destroy the physical mechanisms of their enemies, 
usually covertly and often from within. They might use improvised tools or 
create specialized devices to carry out certain tasks. They rely on stealth and 
secrecy to carry out their missions. A saboteur might work alone in a single 
installation, or as part of a small group for complex or widespread attacks. 
Saboteur missions employ explosives, computer slicing, droid reprogramming, 
and social engineering to achieve their goals. ; 


The best saboteurs focus their attacks and methods for maximum disrup- 
tion and damage to the systems, objects, or vehicles they want to affect. 
Collateral damage is typically unwanted and counterproductive to their cause, 
especially to sensitive or nonmilitary targets. Many targets are disabled rather 
than destroyed, but the results can still be very effective and demoralizing 
to an enemy. Many saboteurs must make the most of limited supplies, which 
often forces them to make precise attacks te avoid wasting resources. 

During the Dark Times, saboteurs are among the most radical and prolific 
of the anti-Imperial factions. They might appear at any installation, though 
high security measures make their attacks less likely. Skilled saboteurs are 
difficult for Imperials to defend against, and therefore they are ruthlessly pur- 
sued by all Imperial organizations, especially the Imperial Security Bureau. 


EXAMPLES OF SABOTEURS IN 
STAR WARS 

Kell Tainer, Kyle Katarn (pre-/edi Knight), Wes Janson, Zann Consortium 
Defilers. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a saboteur, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria, 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Trained Skills: Deception, Mechanics, Use Computer. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Saboteurs have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, saboteurs gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


BASE ATTACK 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 

Ist +0 Defense bonuses, talent, unexpected results 
2nd +1 Destructive 

3rd +2 Talent 

4th +3 Quick sabotage 

5th +3 Talent 

6th +4 Quick sabotage 

7th 45 Talent 

8th +6 Quick sabotage 

Sth ~ +6 - Talent 


10th +7 Master saboteur 


Soe) 


i BSsiavHa 


Sassvds geoLseEe) 


\0 
I 
> 
v 
4 

Ay) 
2 


ILSOME) 


n 
U 


SeessyqWe as) 


Force Points 
Saboteurs gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their character 
level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the saboteur prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain 2 +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +4 class 
bonus to your Will Defense. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Slicer talent tree (see page 47 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook), the Misfortune talent tree (see page 46 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook), the Sabotage talent tree, or the Turret talent 
tree (both presented below). You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the 
chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once unless expressly 
indicated. 


SABOTAGE TALENT TREE 


You are skilled at improvising weapons, handling explosives, and disrupting 
the enemy. 

Device Jammer: You can construct a short-range jammer that affects 
a specific type of electronic device such as a personal shield generator, 
comlink, computer, or datapad. As a full-round action, you select a particu- 
lar piece of equipment (any object except a droid, vehicle, or weapon) and 
make a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the check is successful, all devices of the 
chosen type cease to function while within 12 squares of your position for 
the remainder of the encounter. You may only have one jammer (device or 
droid) active at a time. 

Droid Jammer: You can construct a short-range jammer that affects 
droids. As a full-round action, you make a Mechanics check to build the 
jammer. When a droid comes within 6 squares of you, compare the result of 
your Mechanics check to the droid’s Will Defense. If your check result equals 
or exceeds the droid’s Will Defense, the droid can take only swift actions as 
long as it remains within the radius of the jammer. Droids that are immune 
to the effect of a restraining bolt are immune to the effect of this talent. 
The jammer functions for the remainder of the encounter. You may only have 
one jammer (device or droid) active at a time. 


Extreme Explosion: You know how to set large charges and use dozens 
of charges for extremely large explosions. You increase the blast radius of 
any mines or explosives by 1 square. 

Prerequisites: Skilled Demolitionist, Shaped Explosion. 

Mine Mastery: You can place a mine as a standard action instead of a 
full-round action. 

Shaped Explosion: You know how to set charges to direct a blast in a 
specific direction or manner. You can shape an explosion caused by explosives 
or mines that you set into a line or a cone instead of a radius. The length of 
the line is equal to 2 x the radius of the explosive blast, the length of the 
cone is equal to 3 x the radius of the blast, and either the line or the cone 
originates from the square where the explosives are placed. 

Prerequisite: Skilled Demolitionist. 

SkiJled Demolitionist: You can set a detonator as a swift action, and 
your explosives never go off as the detonator is being placed, even if you 
fail the check by 10 or more. You must still roll to determine if the charge 
otherwise goes off as planned (see “Mechanics,” page 69 of the Saga Edi- 
tion core rulebook). 


TURRET TALENT TREE 
You can construct small, disposable, automated turrets. 

Blaster Turret I: Once per encounter, as standard action you can create 
a blaster turret (Size Tiny, Initiative +4, Perception +4, Reflex Defense 10, 10 
hp, Threshold 8) that can be mounted to any flat surface. The turret fires as 
a standard blaster pistol once per round, using your base attack bonus plus 
your Intelligence bonus and dealing 3d6 points of damage. The turret fires 
at any target you designate (a free action, once per round on your turn), 
though you must remain adjacent to the turret to control it. The turret is 
expended at the end of the encounter. 

Blaster Turret Il: Your turret’s capabilities increase in the following ways: 
Initiative +8, Perception +8, Reflex Defense 12, 15 hp, Threshold 10, and 
the turret deals 3d8 points of damage. The turret can be directed by remote 
control at a range of 12 squares. 

Prerequisite: Blaster Turret |. 

Blaster Turret Ill: Your turret gains the ability to fire twice per round, 
with a -5 penalty on each attack roll, and gains DR 5. 

Prerequisites: Blaster Turret |, Blaster Turret Il. 

lon Turret: You can construct a turret that is highly effective against 
droids. The turret deals ion damage instead of normal damage. 

Prerequisite: Blaster Turret I. 

Stun Turret: You can construct a nonlethal turret. The turret deals stun 
damage instead of normal damage. 

Prerequisite: Blaster Turret I. 


Turret Self-Destruct: Your turret self-destructs automatically when 
it reaches 0 hit points. It explodes in a 2-square radius, dealing its normal 
damage. !f you are adjacent to the turret, you can disable this feature as 
a reaction. 

Prerequisite: Blaster Turret |. 


Unexpected Results 

When you are active as a saboteur, you occasionally see the results of your 
work at unexpected moments. When an enemy making an attack roll against 
you rolls a natural 1 on an attack roll using an advanced melee weapon, 
lightsaber, pistol, rifle, or heavy weapon, that weapon is immediately disabled 
and ceases to function until it has received repairs (through use of the repair 
object application of the Mechanics skill). 


Destructive 
Starting at 2nd level, you always deal double damage to unattended objects 
and vehicles. 


Quick Sabotage 

You know how to disable equipment quickly and effectively. You can attempt 
a Mechanics check to disable a device by using improvised tools if no security 
kit is available. At 4th level, you can attempt to disable simple devices as 
a swift action. At 6th level, you can attempt to disable tricky devices as a 
swift action. At 8th level, you can attempt to disable complex devices using 
two swift actions. 


Master Saboteur 

When you reach 10th level, you excel at inhibiting and destroying enemy 
equipment. You can reroll any Mechanics check to disable a device or handle 
explosives, using the better result. 


mt HSsiarHa 


fF 


Sasesvi19 seiLeave 


“CHAPTER IV 


UU 


f 
4 
Ps 
zy 
et 
} 


Ss 


Though the Rebel Alliance has not yet been formed, and resistance cells 
are scattered throughout the galaxy with no central leadership, heroes still 
have the option of joining up with other like-minded people in pursuit of a 
common goal. In fact, during the Dark Times banding together is often the 
only way to survive. Heroes are likely to want to join, or found, their own 
rebellious groups (which might lay the groundwork for the Alliance to form). 
Alternatively, they might seek refuge on the fringes of society, building up 


~ their own smuggling empire or joining forces with the Black Sun crime syn- 


dicate. Regardless of the type of organization they choose to join or found, 
this chapter should give both players and Gamemasters the information they 
need to integrate these organizations into a campaign. 

In game terms, an organization is a collection of criteria and benefits 
that measures a character's value to a particular organization. Moreover, an 
organization can provide numerous benefits to its members, benefits that 
increase in value and effect as a member ascends through the organization's 
ranks. Each organization has its own criteria for what makes a good member, 
and as such two heroes of the same level might have widely different ranks 
within the same organization based on their deeds and abilities. Increasing 
one's rank in an organization often requires a member to do extraordinary 
things, perhaps even things he wouldn't normally do, to prove his allegiance 
to the organization or improve his stature. A character can be a member 
of only one organization at any given time (he can have an organization 
score with only a single organization); to gain another organization score, a 
character must abandon his current organization and join a new one. lypi- 
cally, a character cannot rejoin an organization he has abandoned, though 
exceptions can be made under special circumstances. 


SNOlivZINvVOYO t 


anaes 


Al usidvHg 


eu ea & 
SNOILY2INYS) 


FEATURES OF AN 
ORGANIZATION 


All organizations have some common features that describe what the orga- 
nization is all about and what benefits it provides. The following features 
are common to all organization descriptions. 

Type: This section describes the type or function of the organization, 
along with a general description of what the organization does and how it 
goes about its business. Examples include paramilitary groups, crime syndi- 
cates, and law enforcement agencies. 

Enemies and Allies: This part of an organization entry details the known 
allies and enemies of the organization. Organizations have the potential to 
make friends with powerful people, and at the same time they might offend 
or anger other people in different positions of influence. Some organizations 
will make enemies and allies of other organizations, and these relationships 
are detailed in this section. 

Scale: An organization's scale determines its sphere of influence, where 
its members can be found, and where its resources can be accessed. An 
organization's scale is not necessarily tied to its number of members. For 
example, a noble house from the Tapani Sector might have only a few hun- 
dred members, but its influence is felt across many planets, making it more 
expansive than a planetary militia that has tens of thousands of members. 

Organization Score Criteria: Every member of an organization has an 
organization score that describes how revered or reviled the character is within 
the ranks of the organization. This section describes what it takes to join an 
organization, and then what it takes to rise and fall through the organization's 
ranks based on one’s organization score. The basic criteria for joining the 
organization must be observed by all members, although certain criteria for 
advancement and demotion might affect only certain members. 

If a character's organization score drops to O or lower, that individual 
is removed from the organization and may not rejoin except under special 
circumstances. 

Criteria fables: Each organization entry contains criteria tables, which 
enumerate the individual acts or attributes that provide bonuses and penal- 
ties to an individual's organization score. 

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: Once a character has an organization score, 
he compares it to the information in this section to determine the good and 
bad aspects of membership. This section gives information on the benefits 
gained by heroes at certain organization scores, as well as the drawbacks and 
duties they face as well. For example, a hero might have access to resources 
he could not normally get elsewhere, while at the same time find himself 
forced to deal with Imperial bounty hunters. 

Roleplaying Applications: Joining an organization is not something one 
does on a whim; it is a commitment that can shape the entire course of a 
character's life. This section describes the roleplaying applications of being 


in an organization, such as how it might change a hero's attitude or how 
it might challenge him on a regular basis. If an organization calls for the 
destruction of a civilian power plant but the hero is a Jedi who has sworn 
to protect civilians from harm, what kind of conflict does that create in the 
character, and how might it be resolved? This sections seeks to raise, and 
answer, questions such as that. 


CREATING A NEw 
ORGANIZATION 


Though this chapter presents several organizations for heroes to join, play- 
ers and Gamemasters might want to craft their own organizations from the 
ground up to personalize their campaigns. If a player wants to found an 
organization and become its leader, she can take the Natural Leader feat 
{see page 34). Other heroes, even members of her own adventuring party, 
can join her organization, or join totally different organizations if they so 
choose. Some players might simply want to be members of a new organization 
(or one not described below), in which case the Gamemaster should craft an 
organization to suit the campaign. 

When you, as the GM, begin creating an organization from scratch, you 
need to have certain pieces of information on hand before you start dealing 
with game mechanics. The following questions should be answered when 
you are ready to begin the organization design process. 


WHAT ARE THE 
ORGANIZATION'S GOALS? 

The most important question you need to answer is what the organization 
sets out to do. Most organizations are unified by their goals. Crime syndicates 
want to make money, governments want to keep order, law enforcement 
agencies want to bring people to justice, and Force traditions want to expand 
their knowledge of the Force. Decide what your organization works toward 
achieving and what they want to accomplish so that you have a better idea 
of why the organization works together. 


WHO IS A MEMBER OF THE 
ORGANIZATION? 

When you determine what kinds of people are members of an organization, 
you help define what a player character is expected to be like as well if he 
joins that organization. If an organization is made up only of Force-sensitive 
Kel Dor, a Rodian scoundrel might not fit in as well as that character's player 
would like. Along the same lines, an organization whose members are made up 
of hundreds of species from around the galaxy would not be likely to accept 
a member from the Humanocentric Empire who is unwilling to abandon his 
antialien bias. Deciding what kinds of characters fit in well with an organiza- 
tion also dictates what kinds of characters are engaged with it. 


WHO RUNS THE 

ORGANIZATION? 

Ask yourself who is in charge of the organization in question. Is your 
Force tradition ruled by a council of elders who hand down assignments 
from their chambers? Is your noble house led by a charismatic Senator 
or an unscrupulous bureaucrat? Does your business fall under the con- 
trol of a single, powerful decision-maker, or does he in turn answer to 
a shadowy council of investors? An organization's leaders are the ones 
who are likely to dole out assignments or award special recognition to 
a character, and as such it is important to have an idea of who these 
people might be. 


WHERE DOES THE 
ORGANIZATION OPERATE? 

Defining an organization's general area of operation is essential to deter- 
mining its scale. Moreover, an organization might function only in a certain 
region of the galaxy, making it difficult for heroes adventuring in other 
systems and sectors to get in contact with the agents of that organiza- 
tion. Additionally, many of the resources an organization provides can be 
obtained only within that organization’s domain, and as such it should be 
clearly defined what that domain actually encompasses before the creation 
of the organization is finished. 


WHAT DOES THE 

ORGANIZATION DO ON A 
REGULAR BASIS? 

Figure out what kinds of routine tasks the organization undertakes. Do 
agents of your noble house travel to the government center every day to 
participate in politics? Does your paramilitary organization stage raids 
on Imperial outposts once a week? Does your pirate gang prey on pass- 
ing ships every few hours? Regular and routine activities help define the 
organization as a whole and give the GM a better idea of what to expect 
that a heroic member of the organization will need to undertake as a part 
of membership. 


WHO SUPPORTS THE 
ORGANIZATION, AND WHO 
WORKS AGAINST !IT? 

Aside from its members and leaders, an organization usually has third-party 
supporters. Nobles who support the cause clandestinely funnel credits into 
the organization's account, and law enforcement agencies look the other 
way when a group's actions are for the good of the people, if not necessarily 
within the letter of the law. By the same token, every organization has its 
enemies, and they usually work to stymie the group's progress at every turn. 


Determining who works for and against an organization will help flesh out 
enemies and allies during the creation process. 

After you've answered these questions, you can go back and fill in the 
organization’s history, notable members, specific history, and so forth. 


DESIGNING A New 
ORGANIZATION 


When creating a new organization, you must determine all of the following 
traits. 


TYPE 
An organization's type determines its function, methods, and the scope of 
its power and influence. An organization's type also determines what kind of 
Knowledge check is used to find out more information about that organiza- 
tion. If you are not sure what type to choose for your organization, take a 
look at other organizations similar to yours and see what type they use. 
Any organization should be classified as one of the types given in the 
following table. Information about an organization can be discovered or 
determined by a character who makes a successful Knowledge check using 
the skill given in the second column. 


) 


Al #S3icdvHO 


SNeoltkwaInvyveavyea@ 


23 


Al 43atdvH 


pf}. 


UNV ae@ 


o 


SDL 


SWel 


KNOWLEDGE SPECIALTY 
Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
Knowledge (galactic lore) 
Knowledge (social sciences) 
Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
Knowledge (galactic lore) 
Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
Knowledge (galactic lore) 
Knowledge (social sciences) 
Knowledge (social sciences) 


ORGANIZATION TYPE 
Business/ professional 
Community or tribe 

Crime syndicate or outlaw gang 
Enforcement 

Force tradition 
Government/bureaucracy 
Military or paramilitary 

Noble house 

Religion 


ENEMIES AND ALLIES 

Determining whom your organization gets along with and whom it comes into 
conflict with is usually easy. If your organization fights against the Empire, 
chances are the Empire is your enemy. If your organization seeks to end the 
scourge of crime in its sector, crime syndicates are probably your enemy. By 
the same token, if you have goals and methods similar to those of another 
organization, it is likely to be your ally. For example, if your organization is 
a paramilitary group that helps stop interstellar smuggling, law enforcement 
agencies might be your allies. 


SCALE 

Determining an organization's scale is one of the most important parts 
of creating a new organization. An organization's scale determines how 
powerful and influential it is and what resources are available to its 
members. For organizations founded by players, the organization's scale 
is a function of their level and Charisma modifier (see the description 
of the Natural Leader feat, page 34, for more information on how this 
mechanic works). For other organizations, ones that are more established 
and that have a longer history, the Gamemaster should determine each 
organization's scale based on its history and sphere of influence. The 
organization should have a scale comparable to that of other organizations 
of its type; for example, a pirate gang that preys upon ships throughout the 
Elrood Sector is probably found throughout the sector but likely doesn't 
have the resources to be everywhere in the sector at once. As such, the 
gang is probably considered influential in multiple systems simultaneously, 
but borders on being sectorwide. The Gamemaster would then choose a 
scale of 12 (multiple systems) for the organization, since it definitely 
covers multiple systems throughout the sector but is not quite as large 
as, say, the sector government. 

Table 4-1: Organization Scale gives scale numbers, as well as the general 
sphere of influence and examples of organizations at each scale. Note that an 
organization might be present at a certain scale but have little influence; for 
example, the Bothan Spynet is present throughout the galaxy, but has real 


TABLE 4-1: ORGANIZATION 
SCALE 
SPHERE OF 
SCALE INFLUENCE EXAMPLES 
1 Small localized group Single starship, neighborhood 
2 Larger localized group Primitive tribe, cantina, trading post 
3 City area Small noble house, local police 
4 Small city faction Swoop gang, small Force tradition 
5 Larger city faction Secret police, underground racing league 
6 Citywide Moderate Force tradition, city security 
force 
7 Citywide (larger) Jedi academy, local crime syndicate 
Regional/national Large noble house 
Planetary Corellian Security Force (CorSec), 
House Organa 
10 Multiple planets Government with colonies, Kota’s Militia 
1 Systemwide System Defense Forces, Colonial military 
12 Multiple systems Regional government, 
Tapani Sector noble house 
13 Sector Corporate Sector Authority, Sector Rangers 
14 Multiple sectors Bounty Hunters Guild, Car'das Smugglers, 
Trade Federation, Antarian Rangers 
15 Galactic region; Core Bothan Spynet, Hutt Clan, Sith Empire 
Worlds, Outer Rim, 
Expansion Region, etc. 
16 Multiple galactic Black Sun, Confederacy of Independent 
regions (more than 3) Systems, Yuuzhan Vong invasion 
7 Partial galactic: Old Republic, Jedi Order, Rebel Alliance 
most known worlds, 
except in Some regions 
18 Galactic; most New Republic, Galactic Alliance 
known worlds in the 
primary galactic axis 
19 Intergalactic; known — Galactic Empire 
galaxy and satellite galaxies 
20 Entire galaxy; all None to date 


known worlds 
plus Unknown Regions 


influence in only a few regions. Additionally, an organization's scale is not 
directly retated to the number of members within the organization; clearly, 
any single branch of the Corporate Sector Authority (scale 13) has far more 
members than the Jedi Order (scale 17), yet the Jedi Order has influence 
throughout a much larger portion of the galaxy. 


Organization Scale vs. Power 

An organization's scale is a measure of its power and influence, and is a 
symbolic number that represents a number of factors. When two organiza- 
tions come into conflict, the Gamemaster can use the organization's scale to 
resolve the outcome of that clash if it doesn't require an in-game roleplaying 
solution. For example, if the heroes’ organization decides to raid an enemy 
storehouse, and this raid is not a part of an adventure, the Gamemaster can 
use organization scale to determine the success of failure of the raid. 

When an organization takes action against another organization, you can 
rolla power check to determine which side comes out ahead. To make a power 
check, roll 1d20 and add the organization's scale, comparing it to a similar 
check for the opposing organization. If circumstances are favorable for one 
organization, grant that organization a +2 bonus on its power check; likewise, 
if circumstances are unfavorable, impose a -2 penalty on that organization's 
power check. If the winner of the opposed check exceeds the opponent's 
result by 15 or more, the losing organization suffers a devastating defeat, 
and in some circumstances its scale might be reduced by 1 (as determined 
by the Gamemaster). 

For example, the Lok Revenants (scale 12) decide to attack a convoy 
belonging to the Desilijic Hutt clan (scale 15). Since this conflict is tangential 
to the plot and has little to do with the adventure at hand, the Gamemaster 
decides to resolve it “offscreen” to save time and move the story along. 
The Revenants stage their attack in a nebula that the Revenants often use 
and know very well, granting them a +2 bonus on their check for favorable 
circumstances. The Gamemaster rolls a 14 for the Lok Revenants (giving 
that group a power check result of 28), and a 9 for the Desilijic Hutt clan 
(giving it a result of 24). In this case, the Lok Revenants stage a successful 
raid, capturing starships and valuable cargo. Of course, the Hutts might not 
look upon the pirates favorably after that, and could stage a mercenary raid 
of their own.... 


ORGANIZATION SCORE 

CRITERIA 

Once you have determined the organization's scale, you can determine 
which criteria are used to increase a character's standing. The tables below 
provide some of the most common organization score criteria, which can be 
adapted to fit a new organization. Though the values below are recommended 
for each criteria [positive and negative], the Gamemaster can modify the 
bonuses to organization scores if a particular criteria has a larger impact 


USING ORGANIZATIONS TO 
RESOLVE MASS COMBAT 

You can use the organization power check rules to resolve mass combat. 
Though the Gamemaster might have an outcome of battle in mind when 
mass combat takes place, the power check rules make it easy to resolve 
large-scale battles without having to script them entirely. When the 
heroes participate in a large battle, such as the Battle of Naboo or 
the Battle of Endor, they have the chance to make a difference and 
turn the tide of combat. Typically, a massive fight will take place in 
the background while the heroes engage in a small number of more 
focused encounters. If you want to use this system to resolve mass 
combat, design adventures using massive battles as the backdrop for a 
number of encounters. 

Each time the heroes successfully overcome an encounter, make an 
opposed power check between the two factions, adding a bonus equal 
to one-half the average level of the heroes to the power check of the 
heroes’ allied organization. If the heroes fail to overcome an encounter, 
make an opposed power check but impose a -5 penalty on the allied 
organization's power check. Take note of which organization wins each 
power check, and at the end of the battle the organization that has the 
higher number of victories wins. 

For example, the heroes are members of Kota’s Militia (scale 10) 
staging an assault on an outpost belonging to the Empire {scale 19). The 
heroes have an average of ten heroic levels, and they plan the attack 
to take place when the Imperial Navy is shifting vessels between star 
systems (resulting in unfavorable circumstances for the Empire). The 
GM determines that there will be three encounters that represent the 
battle. The heroes overcome the first encounter successfully, and the 
GM rolls a power check for Kota’s Militia (roll of 14 + 10 for scale + 5 
for one-half the party's heroic level, total of 29) that beats the Empire's 
power check (roll of 11 + 19 for scale - 2 for unfavorable circumstances, 
total of 28). They fail the second encounter, and the Empire wins that 
power check handily. On the third encounter they succeed, and Kota’s 
Militia wins the last power check. The militia has won two out of three 
power checks, and emerges from the battle victorious. 


on the organization than would normally be assumed. For example, a Force 
tradition might normally award a bonus to a character's organization score 
for defeating a member who has fallen to the dark side at + 1/4 CR. However, 
if it is exceedingly rare that this happens—say, only once or twice in the last 
1,000 years—the Gamemaster can bump this up to a bonus of +1/2 CR if it 
is appropriate to the campaign. 


SNOILYZINVeS@ 


SHOILYaINVYeSBa) 


When you create a new organization (or when a heroic character founds 
a new organization), select criteria from the tables below to modify mem- 
bers’ organization scores. Every organization can have up to ten positive 
criteria for "free"; for each positive criterion beyond the tenth, you must 
also select a negative criterion that can reduce a member's organization 
score. Thus, an organization that has twelve positive criteria will also have 
two negative criteria. 


Modifiers for Larger Scales 

The modifiers on the tables below apply to organizations with a scale of 1 
through 7. For organizations with a scale of 8 through 14, divide the orga- 
nization score modifier by 2. For organizations with a scale of 15 through 
20, divide the organization score modifier by 4. The minimum adjustment a 
character can receive is 1 point. 


TABLE 4-2: SAMPLE ORGANIZATION SCORE CRITERIA 


POSITIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Experience +1/2 character levels 
Is a member of a certain species +1 
Has at least one level in a certain class +1 
Charisma 13 or higher +1 
Base attack bonus +5 through +9 +1 
Base attack bonus +10 through +14 +2 
Base attack bonus +15 or higher +3 
Trained in appropriate skill +1 
Has the Skill Focus feat for appropriate skill +2 
Has a feat that is significant to the organization +1 
Has a talent that is significant to the organization +1 
Is Force-sensitive +1 
Knows a particular Force power +1 
Has levels in the Jedi Knight or Sith apprentice class +2 
Reviled +1/4 Dark Side Score 
Member of a prestige class significant to the organization +1 
Wealth +1 per 50,000 credits 
Possesses an item significant to the organization (example: lightsaber) +2 
Has a destiny significant to the organization +1 
From a favored planet +1 
Has parents, spouse, or siblings in the organization +2 
Recruits a new member into the organization +1 
Ten or more years spent in the organization +1 
Thirty or more years spent in the organization +2 
One hundred or more years spent in the organization +5 
Recommendation of a member who has an organization score of 21+ +2 
Saves the life of a member who has an organization score of 21+ +3 
Works continually with a member of the organization +1 


Completes a mission assigned by the organization 
Makes a discovery important to the organization 


+1 per mission 
+1 per discovery 


POSITIVE CRITERIA (CONT.) ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Defeats an enemy of the organization in combat +1/4 opponent’s CL 
(CL must be equal to or greater than the character's level) 
Destroys/razes a stronghold of an enemy of the organization +8 
Participates in ritual/pilgrimage important to the organization +1 
Donate credits or supplies to the organization +1 per 5,000 
credits donated 
Participates in a battle in which the organization is victorious +1 
Brings an enemy of the organization to justice +1/4 opponent's CL 


NEGATIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Is of a hated species =2 
Associates with hated species -1 
Charisma 8 or lower -2 
Lacks base attack bonus of a certain amount -3 
Not trained in appropriate skill -2 
Lacks a feat that is significant to the organization <<} 
Lacks a talent that is significant to the organization -3 
Is not Force-sensitive -2 
Reviled -1/4 Dark Side Score 


Known to be friendly with an enemy of the organization 
Loses or destroys supplies or material 
that oelongs to the organization 


-2 to -10 
-1 per 5,000 credit value 


Fails on a mission assigned by the organization ee. 
Fails to defeat an enemy of the organization in combat -4 
Is a wanted criminal or is the target of a bounty posting -2 
Has a death mark -5 to -10 
Steals from the organization -10 
Provides information about the organization to an enemy -10 
Posts a bounty on a member of the organization -10 


Kills a member of the organization intentionally -20 


TABLE 4-3: SAMPLE BENEFITS AND DUTIES 


BENEFITS FOR ORGANIZATION SCORE 10-19 

+2 bonus on attempts to use the aid another action to assist another member 
of the organization 

+2 bonus to Will Defense to resist effects from enemies of the organization 

When you spend a Force Point to enhance a particular skill check, roll 2d6 and 
take the higher result 

Monthly stipend of 100 credits x your organization score for tasks related to 
the organization 

Access to an astromech droid or protocol droid that has no more than three 
nonheroic levels (no heroic levels) 

Access to a safe house or unfurnished apartment within organization's scale 

Access to a starfighter for up to 1 week 

Access to a specialist agent (one who has no more than four levels, heroic or 
nonheroic) while within the organization's sphere of influence 

Can spend a Force Point to immediately requisition 1,000 credits’ worth of 
legal, unrestricted supplies or services within the organization's sphere 
of influence 

Free transportation while within the organization's sphere of influence 

Pay no licensing fees on licensed goods within the organization's sphere of 
influence 


BENEFITS FOR ORGANIZATION SCORE 20-29 

+1 circumstance bonus on attack rolls against an enemy of the organization 

10% discount on items purchased through a vendor friendly to the 
organization 

Obtain a meeting with an official, ruler, or leader of your organization or a group 
friendly to your organization in 1d4 days 

Take no attitude penalty on Persuasion checks to influence the attitudes of 
members of the organization 

Access to an information source that allows you to make a Gather Information 
check from anywhere in the galaxy 

Access to four helpers or agents (nonheroic 8) while within the organization's 
sphere of influence 

Access to a specialist agent (one who has no more than eight levels, heroic or 
nonheroic) while within the organization's sphere of influence 

Access to a space transport for up to 1 week 


BENEFITS FOR ORGANIZATION SCORE 20-29 (CONT.) 

Access to four starfighters for up to 1 week 

Costs for modifying items that have significance to the organization by using 
the Tech Specialist feat are waived once per week 

Free medical care while within the organization's sphere of influence 

Pay no licensing fees on restricted goods within the organization's sphere of 
influence 


BENEFITS FOR ORGANIZATION SCORE 30 OR HIGHER 

Access to a capital starship for up to 1 week 

Access to a space transport 

Access to twelve starfighters (and their pilots) for up to 1 week 

Access to a personal aide who has heroic levels equal to your heroic level -3 

Can spend a Force Point to immediately requisition 10,000 credits’ worth of 
supplies, regardless of restrictions 

Obtain a meeting with an official, ruler, or leader of a rival (but not enemy) 
organization in 1d4 days (maximum once every three months} 

Access to a specialist agent (one who has no more than twelve levels, heroic or 
nonheroic) while within the organization's sphere of influence 

Pay no licensing fees on military goods within the organization's sphere of 
influence 


DUTIES 

Perform a dangerous mission for the organization 

Kill, capture, or disable an enemy of the organization (CL equal to your heroic 
level +1) 

Donate credits to the organization's reserves (credits equal to 1,000 x your 
character level} 

Obtain supplies or material for your organization (valued at credits equal to 
2,000 x your character level) 

Destroy opposing organization's supplies (valued at credits equal to 5,000 x 
your character level) 

Participate in a battle against an enemy of the organization 

Recruit or rescue a member of the organization 

Train a new member of the organization 

Obtain a rare or unique object for the organization 


Al SSLSaWwHoD 


SNO1DWVZ2INYeaee@ 


Al e3LlavHo 


Soe 


SNOILYZINY 


TITLES, BENEFITS, AND CUTIES 
Some organizations have titles that correspond to ascension through the 
organization's ranks; for example, a military organization has ranks such as 
lieutenant, captain, and general, while other organizations might have their 
own rank structure. Typically, a new rank is achieved for every 6 to 10 points 
gained in an organization score, though some organizations might have larger 
or smaller gaps in their rank system. Additionally, some organizations have 
smaller gaps between ranks at Jower ranks than at higher ranks, making it 
easier to obtain new titles at the lower levels of the organization than at 
higher levels. Not every rank brings with it new mechanical benefits, and 
many titles are merely honorifics. 

Moreover, being a high-ranking member of an organization usually carries 
with it both responsibilities and benefits. When you create an organization, 
choose three benefits (one from each tier) to grant members of the organi- 
zation who achieve a certain organization score. You can select additional 
benefits, but for each additional benefit you select, you should also choose a 
duty that affects that character. A higher-ranking member of an organization 
gains all the benefits of lower ranks, as well as the benefits of his current 
rank. Although being a high-ranking member of an organization certainly 
has its advantages, that status also makes that character a target and can 
drain away time and resources that he needs to spend in attempting to fulfill 
his responsibilities. 


ROLEPLAYING APPLICATIONS 

Each organization's description should include some roleplaying notes 
that tell players how being a member of that organization wil! affect their 
characters. 


ORGANIZATIONS FOR 
THE DARK TIMES 


The following sample organizations are suitable for use in a Force Unleashed 
campaign, and are intended for players who want to join an organization that 
will allow them to oppose, or at least operate outside, the Galactic Empire. 
The Gamemaster should note that the organizations presented here do not 
strictly follow the rules given above for organization creation; similarly, 
the GM should feel free to bend some of the rules of his originally created 
organizations in order to better fit the concept. These organizations can 
be used straight from the book, or can serve as an inspiration for the new 
organizations in a campaign. 


ANTARIAN RANGERS 

The Antarian Rangers are a group of trained soldiers and scouts who special- 
ize in providing support for the Jedi. Founded by a Gotal named Kaskutal, 
the Antarian Rangers serve as field agents when the Jedi need resources 


beyond those provided by the Order. Though trained for combat, the Antarian 
Rangers also provide nonviolent support by offering Jedi transport services, 
supplies and other physical resources, and intelligence when working in 
the galaxy abroad. Though their efforts were not officially sanctioned or 
approved by the Jedi Council, many Jedi Knights trusted the Antarian Rang- 
ers with their lives. 

When Supreme Chancellor Palpatine executed Order 66, the Jedi were not 
the only ones targeted. Antarian Rangers, long known to be staunch support- 
ers of the Jedi, were branded as enemies of the state and collaborators who 
should be wiped out as well. Their numbers already diminished by the Clone 
Wars, the Antarian Rangers were all but wiped out by the clone troopers, 
much the same as the Jedi were, and they nearly faded into obscurity. 

Also like the Jedi, many Antarian Rangers survived the purge by going 
into hiding. Small cells of Antarian Rangers continue to operate during the 
rise of the Empire, including cells at Toprawa and Tabiid. Though fleeing 
from the long reach of the Empire themselves, the Antarian Rangers ferry 
those few Jedi who survived the Clone Wars to safety, with varying degrees 
of success. As the Empire marches on, the Antarian Rangers become less 
like an active paramilitary group and more like an underground resistance 
movement. Though they do not reach anywhere near the scale that the Rebel 
Alliance will in later years, the Antarian Rangers conduct clandestine military 
operations to locate and rescue Jedi, fight off rising Imperial oppression, and 
protect their own members from discovery and imprisonment. 

Type: Paramilitary. 

Enemies and Allies: The greatest enemy of the Antarian Rangers is the 
Empire. Imperial Inquisitors continue to scour the galaxy for the remnants 
of the Jedi and their supporters, and the Antarian Rangers are hunted down 
just as voraciously. Like the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil War, the 
Antarian Rangers oppose the Empire at every turn, and they fight against 
anyone who aids the government in exterminating the Jedi. 

The few Jedi who remain following Order 66 fail under the Rangers’ pro- 
tection, though most go so far into hiding that even the Antarian Rangers 
do not know where they are. Some Antarian Rangers have allied themselves 
with members of other Force traditions, in the hope of preserving Force- 
sensitive beings in preparation for the day when the Jedi Order is rebuilt and 
new Padawans are needed. 

Scale: 14 (multiple sectors). 

Organization Score Criteria: In order to become a member of the Antar- 
ian Rangers, a character must possess at least rudimentary knowledge of 
the Force and the Jedi's existence prior to the rise of the Empire. A character 
cannot begin using organization criteria or gaining the benefits of an Antar- 
ian Ranger organization score until he has successfully made contact with a 
member of the Antarian Ranger organization and pledged support. 

Criteria Tables: The following criteria can affect the organization score 
of a member of the Antarian Rangers. 


POSITIVE CRITERIA 
Character level 

Member of the Gotal species 
Force-sensitive 

Has at least one level in the scout or soidier class 

Has the Coordinated Attack feat 

Has the Weapon Focus (rifles) feat 

Completes a mission assigned by the Antarian Rangers 
Consistently travels in the company of a Jedi 
Discovers a Jedi who survived Order 66 


ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
+1/2 character level 
+1 


+1 
+1 
+1 
+1 
+1 
+1 


+1 per discovery 


POSITIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Has levels in the Jedi Knight prestige class +1 
Establishes a secret base or safe house for Jedi on the run +1 
Spends a Destiny Point to absorb damage that would be dealt toa Jedi +1 
Saves the life of a Jedi, or frees one from captivity +2 


Kills a dark Jedi, Sith, or other dark sider 
Obtains supplies or weapons for use 
by the Antarian Rangers 


+1/4 the dark sider's CL 
+1 per 10,000 credits 
in value (max +5} 


NEGATIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 


Takes on a bounty for a Jedi who has a Dark Side Score of 3 or lower -2 
Known to be an ally, informant, or agent of the Empire -5 
Kills a Jedi who has a Dark Side Score of 3 or lower -10 
Intentionally kills another Antarian Ranger -20 


Titles, Benefits, and Duties: The Antarian Rangers organize themselves 
much like any other military outfit. Though the organization has fewer ranks 
than a full-scale military, becoming a Ranger is part of a lengthy process 
that requires a member to prove both loyalty and capability. While they are 
active in the organization, Antarian Rangers must be prepared at all times to 
answer the call of their leaders, and they are expected to step in whenever 
a Jedi needs assistance. Antarian Rangers receive highly specialized train- 
ing that teaches them pathfinding and survival skills, search and rescue 
protocols, and the basics of providing armed support to Force-wielding Jedi 
on the battlefield. 


RANK SCORE TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 
0 3orlower None 
1 4-7 Explorer: Explorers are the lowest-ranking members 
of the Antarian Rangers. They are applicants who have 
not yet completed the training required to become full- 
fledged Rangers. Once per encounter, an explorer can 
make a Perception check as a swift action. 


2 8-10 Lieutenant: The rank of lieutenant is an honorific that 
carries no mechanical benefits. 
3-11-20 Ranger: Rangers are official members of the organization 


who have completed their training and are on active duty. 
When a ranger uses the aid another action to assist a 
character who has at least one evel in the Jedi class on a 
skill check or attack roll, he increases the bonus provided 
by that aid by 1. 


JAI HsSiavHo 


SNOoILY2ZINYVaXe 


Ai esieavHo 


SNEOILG2INVOaeBe@ 


RANK SCORE 
4 21-30 


TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 

Ranger Captain: Field commanders and officers, ranger 
captains are distinguished members of the Antarian 
Rangers organization who have proven their ability to 
lead troops into combat. Once per encounter, if a ranger 
captain succeeds on a Perception check to notice a target 
that is actively using the Stealth skill to avoid notice, 
the ranger captain can make a single immediate attack 
against that target, provided the target is within range. 
5 31 or higher Ranger General: The highest-ranking members of the 
organization, ranger generals make the broad, sweeping 
decisions that affect the Antarian Rangers as a whole. 
Once per encounter as a swift action, a ranger general can 
grant a number of allies equal to his Charisma modifier 
(minimum one} the Rapport feat (see page 34) for the 
duration of the encounter. All such allies must be within 
the ranger general's line of sight to receive this benefit, 
though they need not remain within line of sight to retain 
the benefit. 


Roleplaying Applications: Playing a member of the Antarian Rangers 
presents many of the same difficulties as playing a Jedi during the Dark Times. 
Hunted nearly to the brink of extinction, Antarian Rangers have no one to 
call on but themselves if trouble arises. Additionally, since most Rangers 
lack the ability to tap into the Force, they rarely get advance warning that 
agents of the dark side are approaching, and thus are susceptible to ambush 
by the Emperor's pawns. 

Antarian Rangers are likely to be among the first into battle and the last 
to leave. Members of the organization usually take scout talents such as 
Evasion and Improved Initiative, combining those with abilities of the soldier 
class to create mobile and survivable advance scout troops. Additionally, 
at higher levels most Antarian Rangers will take at least a few levels in the 
elite trooper and officer prestige classes, seeking talents such as Assault 
Tactics (or any of the other tactical talents) that can aid them in coordinat- 
ing squads of allies. 


BLACK SUN 

Though the Hutts are among the most famous criminals in the galaxy, the 
Black Sun crime syndicate is likely the single most widespread underworld 
group, stretching from the Core Worlds all the way to the Outer Rim. The 
Black Sun crime syndicate is full of assassins, murderers, and other sadistic 
criminals out to make a profit from their illegal activities. Black Sun, whose 
center of operations is on the city planet of Coruscant, operates in partial 


secrecy. Many on the fringes of society know the name Black Sun, but most 
law-abiding citizens have never heard of the group. Most Black Sun members 
do not advertise their allegiance (they wear no distinctive markings, at least 
not outwardly) and deny any links to the crime syndicate if they are captured 
and questioned by the police. 

Black Sun operates primarily in busy, cosmopolitan areas where a large 
number of people are available to be exploited. Whereas the Hutt crime 
families spend time on remote, Outer Rim worlds, most Black Sun agents 
tend to focus their efforts on planets that have both a high population and 
a high crime rate. This strategy makes it easier for Black Sun agents to blend 
in with other criminals (thus avoiding drawing attention to the syndicate) 
and also provides an ample breeding ground for potential organization 
members. Working on highly developed worlds also ensures a higher payoff 
and provides more options for syndicate members seeking to find an arena 
to dabble their dirty fingers in. 

Black Sun operates in a variety of criminal fields. Each Vigo (high-ranking 
member) typically specializes in a particular crime or vice; for example, one 
Vigo might specialize in extortion, and thus would be in charge of a mas- 
sive protection ring on Coruscant. Another might be a former assassin, and 
as such would be put in charge of the syndicate's band of galaxy-roaming 
professional killers. Black Sun agents deal in everything from confidence 
scams, gambling rings, and extortion rackets to high-level thievery, corporate 
espionage, and terrorism. For the right price, Black Sun is willing and able to 
perform almost any task outside the law. 

Black Sun is highly capable and equally ruthless. Crossing a Black Sun 
agent is a good way to ensure than misfortune will come your way. Crossing 
a high-ranking operative usually earns the offender a one-way ticket to a 
block of carbonite at the bottom of a Mon Calamari ocean. Black Sun is also 
willing to take out its own members when they displease the Vigos or the 
underlord. Many well-known criminals have been found dead as the result 
of infighting between members of the Black Sun crime syndicate. 

Type: Crime syndicate. 

Enemies and Allies: The chief enemy of Black Sun is the law. Any law 
enforcement agency, from Corellian Security all the way up to the Sector 
Rangers, would be thrilled to bring down a part (or all) of Black Sun. Addition- 
ally, any criminal organization that doesn't fall under Black Sun's umbrella 
is usually a rival, if not an outright enemy, of Black Sun. Though the Black 
Sun crime syndicate certainly has its fair share of enemies, most Vigos and 
their underlings are not without their sense of opportunity, and many times 
Black Sun agents will make alliances (however temporary) with other groups 
and individuals as benefits their needs. 

Seale: 16 (multiple galactic regions). 

Organization Score Criteria: In order to become a member of Black Sun, 
typically one must rise through the ranks of the criminal underworld high 
enough to attract the attention of an existing Black Sun agent. A character 


cannot begin using organization criteria or gaining the benefits of a Black 
Sun organization score unless he has successfully undergone initiation into 
the syndicate, which usually involves performing some difficult and danger- 
ous criminal act. 

Criteria Tables: The following criteria can affect the organization score 
of a member of the Black Sun crime syndicate. 


POSITIVE CRITERIA 
Character level 


ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
+12 character level 


Ruthless +1/4 Dark Side Score 
Has at least one level in the scoundrel class +1 
Trained in the Deception skill +1 
Wealth +1 per 20,000 credits (max +5) 
Obtains money/supplies through crime +1 per 5,000 credits (max +5) 
Recruits a new member of Black Sun +1 
Has the Skill Focus (Deception) feat +1 
Has at least one level in the crime lord prestige class +1 
Has at least one follower from the Minion talent +1 
Is a wanted criminal +1 
Deflects police or other authorities away from a Black Sun operation +1 


Kills an enemy of Black Sun 
Kills a traitor to Black Sun 


+ 1/4 enemy's CL 
+ 1/4 enemy's CL 


NEGATIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Fails at a task assigned by a superior -1 
Gets another member of Black Sun killed while on the job -5 
Loses Black Sun property -1 per 20,000 credits value 
Associates with members of law enforcement -2 
Fails to deflect police attention away from a Black Sun operation -2 
Captured by the authorities -5 
Posts a bounty on a member of Black Sun -10 
Provides information to the authorities about Black Sun operations -10 


Titles, Benefits, and Duties: Black Sun doesn't concern itself overly with 
specific titles, except for its highest-ranking members (the Vigos and the 
underlord). Most new initiates never advance beyond the rank of operative, 
simply because competition is so fierce that anyone who tries to ascend 
through the syndicate’s hierarchy has to eliminate those above him first. 
Black Sun teaches its members how to take advantage of the weak, the 
innocent, and the corrupt for their own benefit. Black Sun demands that its 
agents be stronger, faster, smarter, and more perceptive than the agents of 
other criminal organizations, and failure usually results in severe punishment. 
All Black Sun agents are required to do what their superiors demand, a fact 
that has led some particularly cowardly Vigos to send ambitious underlings 
on suicide missions. 


RANK SCORE 
0 3 or lower 
] 4-12 


TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 

None 

Operative: Operatives are the lowest-ranking members 
of the Black Sun crime syndicate and represent the 
majority of its members. Operatives can be anything 
from spies to thugs or assassins, though no operative 
has much clout within the syndicate. Once per encounter, 
an operative of Black Sun can increase his damage ona 
single attack by 1 die. The use of this ability is declared 
after the operative makes his attack roll, but before 
damage has been rolled. 

2 13-22 Enforcer: Enforcers are dangerous and ambitious 
members of Black Sun who are responsible for making 
sure that the daily activities of the crime syndicate go 
smoothly. Enforcers can be everything from gang leaders 
to cleanup crew who ensure that the syndicate’s activities 
do not draw Imperial attention. Once per encounter, a 
Black Sun enforcer can take 20 on a Persuasion check to 
intimidate a target as a full-round action. 

Vigo: Crime lords in their own right, the Vigos of Black 
Sun are the most feared agents in the syndicate. Each 
Vigo usually controls Black Sun activities throughout an 
entire sector. Any Vigo who has levels in the crime lord 


3 23-30 


prestige class can have a number of minions equal to his 
or her Charisma modifier (minimum 2) present at any 
given time, ignoring the restriction that allows only one 
minion to be present at a time. 


3. } 


Al eaiavHo 


u 


SNEOILY2INY @8@ 


J 


Al e¥S3idvwHoS 


ZINVOuUOo 


S2 


SBNEILY 


RANK SCORE TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 

4  31orhigher Underlord: The underlord is the supreme ruler of 
the entire organization. Prince Xizor is the Black Sun 
underlord throughout most of the Dark Times and the 
Rebellion Era. There can be only one underlord at any 
given time, and a rising agent of Black Sun who wants to 
seize the title of underlord must kill the current underlord 
to take his place. An underlord can have one minion that 
has heroic levels instead of nonheroic levels (as dictated 
by the Attract Minion talent). 


Roleplaying Applications: Playing a member of Black Sun, especially in 
a heroic party, can present a number of challenges. Though Black Sun agents 
are often called upon to perform illegal and unethical actions, desperate 
times often call for desperate measures. The Black Sun syndicate feels the 
pressure of the Empire just as anyone else does, and a Black Sun character 
might ally himself with a group of heroes in the hope of dealing enough 
damage to the Empire to weaken its grasp on the galaxy. Black Sun agents 
also mix well with smugglers, bounty hunters, and anyone else who isn't 
afraid to shoot first and scoop up the credits later. 

Black Sun agents usually find a mix of the scoundrel and noble classes to 
be the most effective. The Wealth talent can represent the money a Black 
Sun agent makes from his misdeeds (many of which occur “offscreen” and 
during downtime), providing the character with some tangible rewards for 
his crimes. Similarly, Black Sun agents who are interested in rising through 
the crime syndicate’s ranks will quickly find that the crime lord prestige class 
is a great way to obtain enough minions and a reputation for violence to 
challenge any superior in the organization, even the underlord himself. 


BOTHAN SPYNET 

Among the foremost information-gathering organizations in the galaxy, the 
Bothan Spynet makes knowledge its business. A natural outgrowth of Bothan 
society and culture, the Spynet represents the labor of thousands of Bothans 
and their allies throughout the galaxy. No other spy network in the galaxy 
can claim the level of organization and expansion that the Bothan Spynet 
boasts; the Bothans have agents in almost every government in the Empire, 
and though the Empire’s policies of antialien discrimination keep them from 
reaching the highest levels of the military they have still managed to win 
(or buy) the assistance of high-ranking Imperial personnel. 

Not all members of the Bothan Spynet are, in fact, Bothans. Were that 
the case, Bothans everywhere in the galaxy would be shunned even more 
than they already are. Instead, the Spynet’s most senior leaders are Bothans, 
while informants and agents are members of a variety of species. The Spynet 
is a vast web of interconnected information networks; a Twi'lek major domo 


working for a Hutt crime lord might pass information along to the Spynet 
in exchange for information about the Hutt's rivals, while a Podracer pilot 
might obtain plans for a new military-grade engine in exchange for spying 
on his noble sponsor from the Tapani Sector. The Spynet trades information 
for information, money for information, or information for money. 

The Bothan Spynet spans thousands of worlds throughout the galaxy. 
Agents on these worlds pass information up to their higher-ranking contacts, 
who pass it along to their higher-ranking contacts, until the information 
reaches the highest levels of Spynet command. Though the Spynet does not 
have one central base of operations, the leading members of the Spynet 
collate, sort, and analyze the information that flows in, then disseminate 
the information throughout the galaxy as they see fit. The information net- 
work acts as a series of chains connected to a central hub, with information 
traveling up and down each chain on a regular basis. 

The Bothan Spynet does not obtain its information solely through trade 
and bribery. Bothan spies, among the most talented espionage and observa- 
tion agents in the galaxy, are often dispatched to bring back information of 
critical importance. Though it will be many years until the Spynet's agents 
obtain information on the Emperor's visit to the second Death Star, Bothan 
spies are constantly roving the galaxy on important missions. They are dis- 
patched to the farthest reaches of the galaxy, traveling far from Bothawui 
in search of whatever information their commanders need. Each Bothan 
spy is a master of infiltration and espionage, and loyal to the Spynet and all 
Bothans above all else. 

Type: Business/professional. 

Enemies and Allies: No one likes to be spied on. For this reason, many 
people throughout the galaxy—even normal, !aw-abiding citizens who have 
nothing to hide—revile the Bothan Spynet for its information trafficking. 
Most of the Spynet's enemies are corporations and governments that don't 
want their private information available for others to see. Moreover, since the 
Spynet often obtains and then redistributes sensitive information (such as 
blueprints for a prototype starship, or the travel plans of Grand Moff Tarkin), 
thousands of people throughout the galaxy wouldn't be opposed to killing 
a Spynet agent just to keep that information from getting out. By the same 
token, just as many organizations use the Spynet to obtain information on 
their own enemies and competitors. As a result, one who might be an enemy 
today could just as easily be an ally tomorrow. 

Scale: 15 (galactic region). 

Organization Score Criteria: Becoming a member of the Bothan Spynet 
in any meaningful capacity usually involves earning the trust of an existing 
member. Sending relevant information along the Spynet's channels is the 
only way to become trusted; informing the Spynet that a group of travelers 
was attacked by wildlife on Felucia likely isn't relevant unless one of those 
travelers is a major personality. 


Criteria Tables: The following criteria can affect the organization score 
of a member of the Bothan Spynet. 


POSITIVE CRITERIA 
Character level 


ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
+1/2 character leve 


rained in the Deception skill + || 
rained in the Gather Information skill + 
Has levels in the infiltrator prestige class +1 
Has at least one talent from the Bothan Spynet talent tree +1 
en or more years in the Bothan Spynet + 
Successfully sends information over pirated Holonet signal + 
Uncovers information to be passed along the Spynet +4 
nfiltrates a base of operations of another organization +1 


Causes the arrest, capture, or death of an enemy +1/4 the enemy's CL 


by passing along information 


Member of the Bothan species +2 
Has the Skill Focus (Gather Information) feat +2 
Uncovers a major secret about an individual or organization +2 
Establishes a Spynet cell on a new planet +2 
NEGATIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Reveals oneself as a member of the Spynet -5 
Fails to pass along important information = 
Fails to obtain information requested by Spynet superiors =] 
Untrained in the Deception skill -2 
Untrained in the Gather Information skill =5 
Provides information about the Spynet to another organization -10 


Titles, Benefits, and Duties: Members of the Bothan Spynet do not wear 
any outward identification, nor do they use formal titles. Informers, agents, 
and spies are referred to merely as “agents” regardless of their actual rank 
in the organization, and Spynet agents base their hierarchy on the amount 
of information that flows through an individual person, not on any artificial 
ranking system. Though the leaders of the Spynet are clearly in charge, those 
in the middle and lower ranks of the organization consider their station to be 
very fluid. Spynet agents are expected to constantly feed information into 
the network, and any agent who fails to do so will quickly find his power 
and influence waning among Spynet agents. 


RANK SCORE TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 
0 3orlower None 
1 4-8 Informer: An informer is a low-level member of 
the Spynet who passes along information and rarely 
works directly with those who might actually broker 
information. Gather Information is a class skill for Spynet 
informers. 

Agent: Spynet agents are the lowest members of the 

organization with any leadership responsibilities. Agents 

are more than merely informants; they are exposed to 
large amounts of sensitive information as it flows through 

their hands and up the chain of command. Once per day a 

Spynet agent can reroll any Knowledge check, using the 

better result. 

a) 48230 Spy: A spy for the Bothan Spynet is usually one of the 

most trusted agents in the organization. A spy is expected 

to be able to obtain and deliver almost any piece of 
information that the Spynet requires. A spy might be 
called upon to perform a dangerous mission for the 

Spynet, one that could result in the spy’s death. A spy 

pays no credits for Gather Information checks, even when 

obtaining secret information. 

4  31orhigher Spymaster: The spymasters are the highest-ranking 
members of the Bothan Spynet. Each one typically 
specializes in a certain field or region. One spymaster 
might be in charge of all information pertaining to 
Imperial activity in the Quter Rim, while another might be 
concerned solely with corporate espionage. Spymasters 
share responsibility for running the Spynet, keeping 
the network running smoothly and working together 
only when necessary. A spymaster makes al! Gather 
Information checks in 1 hour, and can take 20 on Gather 
information checks (requiring 20 hours of work). 


Roleplaying Applications: Playing a member of the Bothan Spynet can 
be easy to do without creating any conflict within an adventuring party. 
Like all good spies, a member of the Bothan Spynet need not tell anyone 
that he is, in fact, a spy. However, concealing this information can have 
some dangerous consequences if it is later revealed that the character has 
been a spy all along. The constant tension between maintaining a cover 
and remaining loyal to the other heroes can be a compelling conflict for a 


SNOWY 24INYSaeoe 


Ai eSssidvHg 


WVeNuoe 


SNOILVZ 


member of the Bothan Spynet, and the Gamemaster is encouraged to present 
situations in which a character's loyalty to his friends is tested against his 
need to maintain secrecy. After all, it’s hard to trust a spy when you find out 
the truth about him the hard way. 


BOUNTY HUNTERS GUILD 

A coalition of the most powerful, most dangerous, and most ruthless 
hunters in the galaxy, the Bounty Hunters Guild is an institution that has 
served the interests of bounty hunters for millennia. Dating back to the days 
before the Jedi Civil War, the Bounty Hunters Guild regulates the bounty 
hunters of the galaxy, making sure they follow the proper procedures when 
claiming bounties. The Bounty Hunters Guild is one of the main reasons 
that bounty hunting has risen to be such a well-known profession; with 
the guild around to ensure that bounty hunters aren't just paid vigilantes 
who have no regard for procedure, the Empire is likely to make use of the 
guild's services. 

From the early years of the Empire until the rise of the Rebellion, the guild 
is led by a Trandoshan named Cradossk (father of the famous bounty hunter 
Bossk). During these years, the guild flourishes and bounty hunters spread 
throughout the galaxy. The Bounty Hunters Guild takes a share of the profits 
from these bounties in the form of guild dues, and in turn ensures that the 
bounty hunters in the guild follow the unwritten code that maintains the 
reputation of bounty hunters everywhere. 

The Bounty Hunters Guild is actually composed of many smaller guilds 
that operate nearly independently. These guilds are held together only 
loosely by the overarching Bounty Hunters Guild, each one with its own 
organization, regulations, specialties, and agendas. Several “houses” form 
the core of the Bounty Hunters Guild along with a number of smaller 
groups, each one specializing in its own unique brand of bounty hunting 
but all reporting back to the guildmaster. The houses are the Crimson 
Nova (whose members included Aurra Sing, Boushh, and Zuckuss), House 
Benelex (specializing in kidnapping retrieval), House Neuvalis (a secretive 
group that rarely deals with outsiders), House Paramexor (which takes 
bounties only on murderers), House Renliss (composed of female hunters 
pursuing male bounties}, House Salaktori (which accepts only the most 
elite hunters), House Tresario (which specializes in hunting pirates), the 


GUILD HOUSES 

The Bounty Hunters Guild has a number of smaller houses that can be 
used to further flesh out the guild and its politics. The houses described 
in this section are intentionally accompanied by only a smail amount of 
detail, allowing the Gamemaster to expand upon them as fits the cam- 
paign. Additionally, the GM can create a new house or two for heroes to 
join, fight, or rise through the ranks of to lead as head of the house. 


Mantis Syndicate (more mercenaries than bounty hunters), the Ragnar 
Syndicate (specializing in unorthodox techniques and skills), Skine Bounty 
Hunter College (composed of the top specialists in a variety of fields), and 
the Slaver Syndicate (a group of thugs who sometimes turn their bounties 
over to slavers). 

Though the Bounty Hunters Guild has a certain amount of power over 
its own members, the guild is still full of loose cannons that occasionally 
bend or break the rules for their own benefit. For this reason, the guild will 
never rise to the level of prominence that other organizations, such as Black 
Sun, possess through the strength and strictness of their leadership. The 
Bounty Hunters Guild is more a loose coalition of professionals than a solidly 
structured organization, and infighting between the houses is a common 
occurrence. Throughout the organization's history, feuds and rivalries have 
disrupted the guild's efforts to consolidate its power and impose more rigid 
control over its members. 


Though the percentage of bounty hunters in the galaxy who are members 
of the guild is rather small, those who join quickly discover that the benefits 
of loyal membership are many. Guild bounty hunters often get preferred 
choice of bounties, receiving notifications of bounty postings before they 
are broadcast through all the normal channels (giving guild bounty hunters 
a head start). Some agents of the Empire deal exclusively with guild bounty 
hunters, ensuring that Imperial credits always flow into the accounts of 
guild members. As a result of the Bounty Hunters Guild's influence over its 
members, many organizations throughout the galaxy trust agents of the 
guild only when it comes to dealing with serious bounties. 

Type: Business/professional. 

Enemies and Allies: In many ways the guild can be its own worst enemy. 
Infighting between the members of the various houses has threatened to 
tear the guild apart several times over the years, and has nearly succeeded. 
Most people throughout the galaxy are understandably wary of bounty 
hunters, and members of the guild are no different. Though proof of guild 
membership will usually allow a bounty hunter to travel unhindered, on many 
worlds having such a heavily armed person moving about is considered risky, 
resulting in the bounty hunter being barred from the world. Additionally, 
members of the guild must constantly be on the lookout for former targets 
who come back for revenge (though targets wanted “dead or alive” rarely 
have the opportunity to seek payback). 

Scale: 14 (multiple sectors). 

Organization Score Criteria: Becoming a member of the Bounty Hunters 
Guild is a relatively simple process. Typically, a bounty hunter need only 
contact a guild representative for membership, pay an initial guild membership 
fee of 500 credits, and pledge to follow the code and rules set forth by the 
guild. A member of the Bounty Hunters Guild receives guild membership 
identification and secure comm codes to contact guild representatives in a 
variety of star systems. Additionally, guild members must pay dues equal to 
10% of any bounty to the guild. Failure to pay this tithe will result from expul- 
sion from the guild, and usually violent reprisals from guild representatives. 
Each house within the guild has its own dues and regulations, and members 
are subject to the rules laid down by the head of the house. 


CLAIMING A BOUNTY 

Though no solid rules govern how much a bounty is worth {because a 
number of factors, including the desperation of the person posting the 
bounty, can influence its final value), some guidelines can be used to 
determine the correct payout. As a rule of thumb, a bounty should be 
worth credits equal to roughly 1,000 x the CL of the target of the bounty. 
Each target should have his or her own bounty payout. 


Criteria Tables: The following criteria can affect the organization score 
of a member of the Bounty Hunters Guild. 


POSITIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Character level +1/2 character level 
Trained in the Perception skill or the Survival skill +1 
Base attack bonus +5 through +9 +1 
Base attack bonus +10 or higher +2 
Has at least one level in the bounty hunter prestige class +1 
Officially joins one of the guild houses +1 
Successfully claims a bounty worth 10,000 credits or less +1 
Successfully claims a bounty worth more than 10,000 credits +2 
Successfully claims a bounty while competing +1 
against another bounty hunter 

Receives recommendation or commendation from a head of house +1 
Successfully claims a bounty posted +2 
by an organization with a scale of 13 or higher 

Successfully claims a bounty posted by the guild +1/4 target’s CL 


on another guild member 


NEGATIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Fails to bring a target wanted alive in alive -2 
Disobeys head of house -1 
Accepts bribe from a target -2 


Fails to claim any bounties -1 each month no bounties claimed 
Fails to claim a bounty while competing against another bounty hunter = -1 
Sabotages the efforts of a bounty hunter of the same guild house =) 
Is the target of a bounty posting -10 


Titles, Benefits, and Duties: Members of the Bounty Hunters Guild do 
not concern themselves with traditional ranks or titles. A bounty hunter in 
the guild is merely another member, with the exception being that the heads 
of the various houses and the guildmaster have significant influence over the 
other members. All members are expected to actively hunt bounties and pay 
their 10% tithe to the guild, but beyond that, few expectations are placed 
upon them. When a guild member does something to draw the ire of another 
house or even the guild as a whole, that bounty hunter might find himself 
the subject of a guild bounty. 


0 
I 
> 
v 
af 
o 
2 
<i 


SNOEILZZINVeYe 


0 
I 
\> 
\0 
4 
i) 
2 
< 


SWNOILY2INVY@SS)e) |~ 


RANK SCORE TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 
O 3orlower None 
1 4-10 Freelancer: Freelancers are the lowest-level bounty 
hunters in the guild. They have not joined a house and 
have simply paid their initial membership fees and begun 
hunting guild-approved bounties. A freelancer can buy 
any licensed, restricted, or military equipment or vehicles 
without paying any licensing fees while within the guild's 
sphere of influence. 
Hunter: After a hunter has been in the guild a while, he or 
she typically joins one of the guild houses and establishes 


2 11-16 


a reputation as a reliable member of the Bounty Hunters 
Guild. A hunter gains an additional 10% of the value of 
a given bounty when successfully claiming a bounty. 
Senior Hunter: The rank of senior hunter is an honorific 
that carries no mechanical benefits. 
Head of House: A head of one of the houses in the 
Bounty Hunters Guild commands the respect of guild 
members from all houses, even among rivals, and ts 
responsible for the conduct, training, and expertise of 
the members of his or her house. A head of house never 
takes any attitude penalties to Persuasion checks made 
against bounty hunters or other criminals. 
5 31 or higher Guildmaster: There can be only one guildmaster at a 
time, though as in many other criminal organizations, the 


3 17-20 


4 21-30 


person in this position can be changed with a single shot 
from a blaster. The guildmaster keeps all the houses from 
breaking out into open war with one another and ensures 
that the reputation of the guild is maintained throughout 
the galaxy. Once per encounter when an enemy within 
the guildmaster’s line of sight makes an attack roll, the 
guildmaster can make a Persuasion check to intimidate 
the attacker as a reaction. If the check is successful, the 
attack is negated. This is a mind-affecting fear effect. 


Roleplaying Applications: Members of the Bounty Hunters Guild operate 
much the same way as normal bounty hunters. Though guild bounty hunters 
must contribute a small percentage of their claimed bounties to the guild, 
being a member of the Bounty Hunters Guild is an almost entirely beneficial 
relationship. Guild members receive training, services, and preferential treat- 
ment in claiming bounties with little obligation to the guild itself. Members 


of individual houses might have their own duties and requirements, but the 
loose structure of the guild makes it unlikely that a bounty hunter will be 
saddled with any large obligations. 


CAR’'’DAS SMUGGLERS 

Founded by a talented young smuggler by the name of Jor} Car‘das, the 
Car‘das smugglers (often referred to simply as the Car‘das) are a band of 
criminals whose power rivals that of many Hutt clans and Black Sun cells. 
Shortly before the Clone Wars, Jorj Car'das was in control of a modest smug- 
gling ring that had gained some notoriety on the Outer Rim. When another 
smuggler by the name of Booster Terrik was sent to Kessel, Jorj Car’das took 
over his organization and began building up his own small criminal empire. 
Not long after the establishment of the Galactic Empire, Jor} Car'das vanished 
for several months; when he returned, he was visibly a changed man, and 
he quickly began turning his small criminal empire into a relatively large 
one. Thanks to Jorj Car’das's newfound insights and intuition, the smug- 
gling ring grew to the point where its agents spread throughout the Outer 
Rim and beyond. 

The Car'das are criminals who control many smuggling operations 
throughout the galaxy. Primarily concerned with the movement and sale of 
contraband, the Car'das also engage in small-scale piracy and a number of 
other criminal activities. Though not usually considered to be violent crimi- 
nals, Car'das members are usually hardened members of the fringe who aren't 
afraid to shoot their way out of a sticky situation. The greed and ambition of 
Jorj Car'das often filters its way down to individual members, and many of 
the Car'das are simply out to make a small fortune and establish themselves 
as powerful individuals. 

The Car'das are organized into smaller cells that operate in particular 
regions and sectors throughout the galaxy. Each cell then reports to the 
central organization, led by Jorj Car'das himself, though each cell is required 
to operate semi-independently. Those cells then have individual ship crews 
or groups of ships that perform a variety of smuggling operations, each 
ship having its own captain and hierarchy. For example, the crew of a space 
transport would perform smuggling missions based on orders handed down 
to its captain from the cell it is a part of; in turn, after the mission is com- 
plete, the captain passes reports of success and a cut of the profits back up 
to the cell, which in turn passes a portion of the credits up to Jorj Car'das 
and his trusted lieutenants. 

The Car‘das are usually more concerned with turning a profit than 
with engaging in violent criminal activity. The cunning and insight of their 
leader allows them to avoid conflict altogether at times, and members of 
the Car'das are required to be as shrewd and intelligent as they are bold. 
Jorj Car’das has little patience for anything other than intelligent actions, 
and those who take foolish chances often find themselves kicked out of 
the organization before too long. Jor) Car'das seems to have precognitive 


abilities, and he expects those who work for him to act as though they do 
as well. 

Since the majority of the Car'das operations involve smuggling, most of 
the organization's members are accomplished pilots and mechanics. Though 
just about anyone who has skills related to smuggling can be a member 
(including hired blasters, slicers, and other criminals), the Car'das are care- 
ful to interview anyone who joins the organization to ensure that he or she 
is not a police officer or an undercover Imperial agent. Though the Car‘das 
have yet to be infiltrated, the organization's members remain understandably 
paranoid, especially in the face of increased Imperial interest in trade routes 
and cargo transport operations. 

Ships acting on behalf of the Car‘das receive numerous benefits as a part 
of a smuggling ring. Car'das freighters have access to private shadowports 
where they can lie low and make repairs until the eyes of the Empire move 
on to other targets. Smugglers who work for the Car'das usually receive the 
best cargoes with the highest profitability, and gain access to numerous 
resources that make smuggling easier. The Car’das almost always have the 
most up-to-date navigational information, and their contacts within local law 
enforcement agencies can usually ensure that customs inspections somehow 
pass over Car'das transports. 

Type: Crime syndicate. 

Enemies and Allies: Though largely a nonviolent group, the Car'das 
smugglers do have many enemies throughout the galaxy. Law enforcement 
officials, especially the Sector Rangers, are constantly trying to shut down 
various Car'das cells in their home sectors. Other crime syndicates, such as 
Black Sun and the Hutt clans, dislike the Car'das’s uncanny ability to hone 
in on their turf, and have taken steps to harm the smuggling ring and its 
enemies. Despite these dangers, the Car'das have managed to rise to promi- 
nence, and many young smugglers have brought their ships to the smuggling 
ring, using the scale of the organization to learn of the best smuggling routes 
and take advantage of the vast resources at the Car‘das's disposal. 

Scale: 14 (multiple sectors). 

Organization Score Criteria: Joining the Car'das is not a simple process, 
though anyone who is genuinely interested in making a living as a smuggler 
is likely to find welcome. Any character who is in no way affiliated with 
any government or law enforcement agency can become a member of the 
Car'das. Members must either own their own ship or be crewmembers aboard 
a Car'das vessel. Finally, joining the Car'das usually involves convincing Jor) 
Car'das himself of one’s worthiness, though his moodiness can often make 
such a task more difficult than it should be. 

Criteria Tables: The following criteria can affect the organization score 
of a member of Jorj Car‘das's smuggling ring. 


POSITIVE CRITERIA 
Character level 


ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
+1/2 character level 


Has at least one level in the scoundrel class +1 
Has at least one talent from the Spacer talent tree +4 
Has at least one talent from the Smuggler talent tree +1 
Captain or owner of a space transport +1 
Intelligence or Wisdom 15 or higher +1 
Trained in the Pilot skill +1 
Trained in the Use Computer skill +1 


Makes a successful smuggling run for the Car'das 
value of the cargo (max +5) 


+1 per 10,000 credit 


Bypasses an Imperial blockade +1 
Prevents the capture or death of another Car‘das member +1 
Discovers a new hyperspace route for use in smuggling +1 
Completes a known smuggling run (Kessel Run, Rycar’s Run, ete.) +2 
Establishes a new shadowport for Car'das smugglers +2 
NEGATIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Causes a hyperspace mishap =] 
Damages or destroys cargo -1 per 10,000 credits value 
Intelligence or Wisdom 9 or lower -2 
Dumps a cargo without being able to retrieve it =2 
Betrays another Car'das member to the authorities -10 
Exposes the location of a shadowport or other Car‘das hideout -20 


Titles, Benefits, and Duties: Typically, a Car'das member's rank is most 
important aboard his own ship. Most leaders of Car‘das cells still operate their 
own starships and go on smuggling runs, allowing them to remain in touch 
with the situations that smugglers face. Almost everyone in the hierarchy 
continues to take an active hand in smuggling operations. A member of the 
Car'das is expected to accept any job handed down by his cell and complete it 
without question, and those members of the organization who do so repeat- 
edly find themselves rising through the organization's ranks quickly. 


RANK SCORE TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 
0 3orlower None 
1 4-8 Crewmember: the lowest ranking members of 


Car'das are crewmembers who work at the various 
stations aboard smuggling vessels. These are the system 
operators, copilots, and engineers who make sure that 
each smuggling ship is capable of making its assigned 


"Al eaiaewvHo 


eae 


SNOILYZINVOE© 


Al SBSicvHgd 


@ 
ay 
p 
» 
& 
; 
sl 
a 
Z, 
@ 


RANK SCORE TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 

runs. A crewmember can pick any Intelligence-based skill 
to add to his class skill list. 

Navigator or Helmsman: The rank of navigator or 
helmsman is an honorific that carries no mechanical 
benefits. 

Officer: Officers are the leaders among the crews of the 
various smuggling ships. Although they do not command 
their own vessels, most officers have a decent level of 
responsibility and at least a few crewmembers who report 
to them. Car‘das officers always succeed when using the 


aid another action to assist a member of Car'das on a 


3 14-20 


Deception or Pilot check. 

First Officer: Though the rank of first officer usually 

signifies the aide to the captain on a ship, most of 

Car'das's first officers are actually the commanders 

of smuggling ships. A first officer automatically gains 

command of a Colossal space transport valued at 

500,000 credits or less. 

5 31 or higher Captain: A captain is just one step below Jorj Car’das 
himself in the smuggling ring, usually the commander 
of an entire cell of smugglers. Captains are expected 
to manage their cells with the same kind of strategy 
and efficiency that Jor} Car'das demonstrates, and must 
be certain that each member of the smuggling ring is 
contributing to the growing criminal empire. A captain 
always has at least one Colossal space transport (valued 
at 500,000 credits or less) and five starfighters (valued 
at 80,000 credits or less each) available for use at any 
time, in addition to his own personal space transport. 


4 21-30 


Roleplaying Applications: The Car’das smuggling ring is a great place for 
heroes who want to enjoy the benefits of life on the fringe without getting 
involved with violent or overtly villainous beings. Though they are capable 
of gunning down enemies when needed, members of Car'das are mostly 
concerned with turning a profit, and as such, heroic smugglers often find 
their way into the Car'das organization. Though the smuggling ring's leader 
is himself greedy and ambitious, the Car‘das organization is a great way for 
heroic characters to get a taste of smuggling life without having to struggle 
through trying to turn a profit with no help from anyone else. Additionally, 
many members of the Car'das organization go on to be heroes in their own 


right (including Talon Karrde, who in the future will go on to help the New 
Republic on a number of occasions}, meaning that scoundrels who have a 
heart of gold fit right in with other members of the smuggling ring. 


HOUSE ORGANA 

One of the most popular and famous noble houses in the entire galaxy, 
House Organa is the royal family of Alderaan and the house of Senator Bail 
Organa. An ancient noble house dating back to the early days of Alderaan, 
House Organa wields a great amount of influence not only on Alderaan but 
also throughout the galaxy. Thanks primarily to the efforts of the outspoken’ 
Senator, House Organa is a trusted group of nobles who are concerned with 
the well-being of all people throughout the galaxy. It is wealthy, prominent, 
and powerful; there are few other houses that any young noble would want 
to be born into. 

The noble house of Queen Breha Organa herself, House Organa has a great 
deal of political influence that has been built up over thousands of years. 
Though the actual reach of House Organa cannot be tangibly measured, 
many believe that the noble house has the ability to affect events even 
as far away as planets on the Outer Rim. Though House Organa’s wealth 
might seem limitless, the effectiveness of its credits depends greatly on 
who is being paid to do what. Despite outward appearances of loyalty to 
the Empire, Bail Organa regularly funnels credits and other resources into 
the hands of those who would seek to bring about the resurrection of the 
Old Republic. House Organa walks a fine line, maintaining the appearance of 
dedication to the Galactic Empire while in truth supporting seditious activity 
throughout the galaxy. 

Although Senator Bail Organa is the most famous member of this noble 
house, a number of people affiliated with House Organa are not directly 
related to the Organa line. Many friends, allies, and subjects of House Organa 
have been taken in and enjoy the benefits of being associated with the pres- 
tigious noble house. For example, though she is not a member of the Organa 
family, the Naboo woman known as Sabé has been invited into House Organa 
to train Bail's young daughter and her friend Winter. Though joining a noble 
house by some means other than being born into it is a rare occurrence, House 
Organa recognizes that it needs all the capable allies it can get, and sees the 
value in putting its resources at the disposal of trusted friends. 

House Organa is, to all outward appearances, nothing more than the ruling 
noble family. Few suspect the larger role that House Organa has played in 
galactic politics over the years. In many ways, House Organa has disguised 
itself as the typical noble house, whose power and influence are confined 
to Alderaan, when in truth the Organas have slowly cultivated contacts and 
resources on hundreds of worlds over the years. Fram credits stowed away in 
secret bank accounts on Bothawui to apartments rented under false names 
on Eriadu, House Organa has resources at its disposal far beyond the scope 
of the typical noble house. 


Type: Noble house. 

Enemies and Allies: Despite the precautions taken over the years, many 
agents of the Empire suspect that Bail Organa has been working against the 
Empire since its inception. Some rising powers within the Empire want to 
make an example of House Organa, showing that even wealthy and power- 
ful noble families can be crushed by the might of Imperial justice. Thus far, 
Senator Organa has not yet given them the excuse they need to make a move 
against House Organa, though it is only a matter of time before someone gets 
bold enough to try. Many influential people support House Organa, some of 
whom are more powerful than others; Mon Mothma of Chandrila and Garm 
Bel lblis of Corellia are two examples among those who ally themselves with 
House Organa on a regular basis. 

Scale: 9 (planetary). 


Organization Score Criteria: Since House Organa is taking subtle and 
covert action against the Empire on a regular basis, new members of the noble 
house must prove themselves suitably trustworthy. For someone from outside 
the Organa lineage, proving that one can be trusted with House Organa’s 
secrets is usually the greatest difficulty. A hero related to the Organa family 
by blood, such as a cousin or other member of a minor branch of the Organa 
bloodline, usually has an easier time gaining the main house's trust. Likewise, 
Bail Organa’s sisters (Celly, Rouge, and Tia) have families of their own, and a 
hero from House Organa could be related to one of those individuals. 

Criteria Tables: The following criteria can affect the organization score 
of a member of House Organa. 


POSITIVE CRITERIA 
Character level 


ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
+1/2 character level 


Has at least one level in the noble class +1 
Has at least five levels in the noble class +2 
Has at least ten levels in the noble class +3 
Has any talent from the Ideologue talent tree +1 
Trained in the Persuasion skill +1 
Has the Skill Focus (Persuasion) feat +1 
Charisma 13 or higher +1 
Completes a major task on behalf of House Organa +1 


Donates credits to a group fighting 
against the Empire 
Discovers a Jedi who survived Order 66 


+1 per 20,000 credits (max +5) 


+1 per discovery 


Blood relative of House Organa +2 
Commendation from a member of House Organa +1 
Saves the life of a member of House Organa +2 


NEGATIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 


Disobeys a command of a higher-ranking house member -1 
Commits violence against an ally or member of the house -2 
Reviled =1/2 Dark Side Score 
Arrested and charged by law enforcement for a crime =2 
Has levels in the crime lord prestige class -2 
Arrested by the Empire for seditious acts -10 
Betrays House Organa’s secret actions to the Empire =20 


SNOILYZ2INYVeaEe 


F a 
I 
Pp 
v 
4 
a 
1h 
a 


ra 


Ail esieavHo 


SNOILIYG2ZINVaES 


Titles, Benefits, and Duties: Members of House Organa are required to 
always serve the best interests of the noble house and follow the decrees of 
the queen and her prince consort. Vassals (though not addressed as such) 
serve House Organa in a variety of means, but rarely wield much power 
within the ranks of the organization. Blood relatives of House Organa are 
considered true nobility, though on occasion a close ally has been raised to 
the rank of lord or lady as a reward for great deeds or sacrifices. Members of 
House Organa are constantly under scrutiny, both from other noble houses 
as well as the Empire, and must take extra precautions to hide any evidence 
of seditious activities. 


RANK SCORE 
0 3 or lower 
1 4-10 


TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 

None 

Vassal: The vassals of House Organa are minor associates 
who have been granted the protection and influence of 
the noble house. A vassal of House Organa can add any 
one Charisma-based skill to his class skill list. 

2 11-20 Lord/Lady: Having proven themselves worthy of House 
Organa’s full confidence, most members of the noble 
house are granted the title of lord or lady, though the 
title is typically used only in formal settings. A lord or 
lady of House Organa can retry a failed Persuasion check 
to change attitude once per day. 

Prince/Princess: The most revered members of House 
Organa, typically only those who are born into the 
Organa extended family, are granted the title of prince 
or princess. When a prince or princess of House Organa 
successfully makes a Persuasion check to intimidate a 
target, he or she grants all allies within line of sight a 
+2 morale bonus on their next skill check (provided the 
check is made within 1 minute or before the end of the 
encounter, whichever is longer). 

4 31 orhigher High Prince/High Princess: Only the highest-ranking 
members of House Organa are granted the title of high 
prince or high princess. They are the ruling members 
of the family, and it is exceedingly difficult for those 
who were not born into House Organa to reach this 
rank. A high prince or high princess of House Organa is 
automatically granted the ownership and use of a capital 
ship valued at no more than 3,000,000 credits. 


3 21-30 


Roleplaying Applications: As the preeminent noble house of the Core 
Worlds, House Organa provides a number of excellent roleplaying opportuni- 
ties for players (noble and otherwise). A heroic noble might be a member of 
a lesser branch of the Organa bloodline, while nonnobles could come into 
the service of Bail Organa himself through their deeds. Players who become 
members of House Organa must take extra care not to implicate themselves 
or the Senator in any kind of criminal activity; doing so not only jeopardizes 
the house's integrity but could also result in a loss of resources available 
to the noble house. Heroes who are members of House Organa will have a 
much greater involvement in the politics of the galaxy and are likely to have 
contacts in the highest echelons of government and Society. 


KOTA’'S MILITIA 

During the Clone Wars, one of the greatest generals among the Jedi was 
Master Rahm Kota. A distinguished commander who instilled confidence in 
his troops, General Kota served with distinction on several fronts. However, 
Master Kota did not have confidence in clone soldiers and instead surrounded 
himself with dedicated warriors from throughout the galaxy. In the end, it 
was this mistrust of the clones that saved his life; wnen Order 66 was given, 
a squad of Antarian Rangers in his service was notified and managed to 
ferry Kota and many of his soldiers into hiding. When the Empire rose and 
took control of the galaxy, Kota and his loyal armsmen remained in hiding, 
emerging only to execute carefully planned strikes against the Empire. 

Kota’s Militia is composed of a small number of troops that served with 
General Kota during the Clone Wars, as well as many new recruits who have 
flocked to his banner over the years. Though small in number, the members 
of Kota’s Militia fight with the competence of hardened soldiers, and thanks 
to the unique insights of their commander they typically emerge victorious 
even from missions when they are clearly outnumbered. It is not the most elite 
unit of soldiers in tne galaxy, but Kota’s Militia shows the kind of dedication 
to Master Kota that most commanding officers would love to have from their 
followers. Through careful planning, following orders precisely, and a good 
amount of bravery, Kota's Militia has managed to survive for years despite 
being the target of Imperial searches. 

Kota’s Militia targets the Empire in all its forms, with missions ranging 
from attacking TIE fighter construction facilities to raiding local arms ware- 
houses. Clandestine in its activities, Kota’s Militia has operated for years right 
under the watchful eyes of the Empire. Less well organized and with fewer 
resources than the Rebel Alliance will have years later, Kota’s Militia treats 
every mission as though it could be the organization's last. Needless to say, 
Kota’s Militia rarely rushes into any situation, preferring instead to plan for 
any eventuality lest the organization fall due to fatal mistakes. 

Type: Military/paramilitary. 

Enemies and Allies: Kota’s Militia has a single primary enemy: the 
Galactic Empire. More to the point, General Kota tends to pick targets that 


are of significance to Darth Vader; one mission might involve destroying a 
factory that Vader recently visited, while another might require the militia to 
steal a shuttle that Vader used as a personal transport. Additionally, since a 
Jedi leads the organization, the Inquisitorius has taken a particular interest 
in Kota’s Militia. Many Inquisitors have dedicated large amounts of time to 
finding Rahm Kota and his agents, and they would like nothing more than 
to crush Kota’s Militia under their boot heels. 

Scale: 10 (multiple planets). 

Organization Score Criteria: Joining Kota's Militia is only slightly more 
difficult than finding it. The overt action that the militia takes against the 
Empire requires that its members maintain secrecy at all times, and prospec- 
tive members are usually sought out by existing militiamen rather than the 
other way around. Anyone who goes to great tengths to harm the Empire is 
a likely candidate for acceptance into Kota’s Militia. 

Criteria Tables: The following criteria can affect the organization score 
of a member of Kota's Militia. 


POSITIVE CRITERIA 
Character level 


ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
+1/2 character leve 

Force-sensitive +1 

Has levels in the Jedi class { 

Has levels in the soldier class 

Has levels in the infiltrator prestige class 


Has levels in the Jedi Knight prestige class +1 
Has levels in the saboteur prestige class +1 
Base attack bonus +5 or higher +1 
Completes a mission for Kota’s Militia +1 


+1/4 enemy's CL 
+1 per 50,000 credits value (max +5} 


Defeats a major Imperial opponent 
Destroys major Imperial supplies 


Veteran of the Clone Wars (Separatist allegiance) +1 
Veteran of the Clone Wars (Republic allegiance) +2 
Has the Destruction destiny +1 
NEGATIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Fails on a mission assigned by General Kota =a 
Captured by the Empire -2 
Causes the capture of a member of Kota’s Militia -2 
Clone -2 
Harms a Jedi who has a Dark Side Score of 3 or lower -5 
Kills a Jedi who has a Dark Side Score of 3 or lower -20 
Kills another member of Kota's Militia =20 


Betrays General Kota’s existence to the Empire -20 


Titles, Benefits, and Duties: Kota runs his militia the way most generals 
run their armies. Being a member of Kota’s Militia always brings a certain 
amount of responsibility with it. Members of the organization must be 
prepared to take orders from their superior officers at all times, and must 
be willing and able to engage in dangerous missions to harm the Empire. A 
member of Kota’s Militia will usually go on one to two missions per month, 
often on different worlds or even with entirely different militia members. 
Though members of Kota's Militia benefit from the training and guidance 
they receive from a Jedi Master, all members of the organization are prepared 
to give their lives to save the life of their leader at any time. 


RANK SCORE 
0 3 or lower 
1 4-6 


TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 
None 

Recruit: New arrivals in General Kota's Militia are given 
the rank of recruit and begin undertaking missions for the 
Jedi general almost immediately. A recruit in Kota's Militia 
can spend a Force Point as a free action to immediately 
move a number of squares up to his or her speed. 
Private: The rank of private is an honorific that carries 
no mechanical denefits. 

Lieutenant: Given command over squads of militia 
members, the lieutenants in Kota’s Militia are entrusted 
with small amounts of authority to test their worthiness as 
field commanders. As a swift action, a lieutenant in Kota’s 
Militia can allow any ally within line of sight to change the 
triggering conditions of any action he or she has readied. 
Captain: Among General Kota's most trusted officers, 
the captains of Kota’s Militia have proven themselves as 
steadfast leaders, even under fire. Once per encounter, a 
captain in Kota’s Militia can, as a reaction, grant himself 
or a single ally within line of sight a +5 morale bonus to 
Will Defense. The target of this ability must be able to 
see and hear the captain for it to take effect. 

5 31 orhigher General: Only a few other members of Kota’s Militia 
have been given the rank of general aside from Master 
Kota himself. The generals in Kota’s Militia plan all of the 
organization's operations and missions. Once per encounter 


4 21-30 


as a swift action, a general can designate a single ally 
within 6 squares and line of sight; that ally's initiative count 
changes to the general’s initiative count -1, and the ally 
acts immediately once the general's turn ends. 


i. ee 
4 


Al HSidwHo 


| 


SNeILY~2INYOaBoa 


| 


9] 
I 
> 
v 
4 
a 
2 
< 


SNoiw2Invayroa 


Roleplaying Applications: Joining Kota’s Militia is much like joining the 
Rebellion (though of course the Rebel Alliance will not exist for many years 
to come). Members of Kota’s Militia are outlaws, having thrown their lot 
in with the fugitive Jedi, and will find themselves hunted throughout the 
galaxy. Moreover, because Kota's Militia takes overt military action against 
the Empire, a member of the organization will almost certainly have warrants 
out for his arrest—and likely bounties for his capture dead or alive. When a 
character joins Kota’s Militia, he is throwing away any chance at having a 
legitimate, legal life within the confines of the Empire and dedicating himself 
to fighting tyranny no matter what the cost. 


LOK REVENANTS 

One of the oldest surviving pirate groups in the galaxy, the Revenants of Lok 
have been around since well before the Clone Wars. Led by a Feeorin by the 
name of Nym, the Revenants are a group of pirates, mercenaries, and rebels 
who operate outside the bounds of Imperial law. The Revenants hide from 
the watchful eye of the Empire at their home base on the sulfurous planet 
of Lok, and stage raids on Imperial convoys whenever the need strikes them. 
No other organization has any influence on Lok, not even the Empire, and 
as such the Revenants are their own rulers and masters. They set the code 
they follow, and they come and go as they please. 

Despite the inherent love of money and mayhem that comes with being a 
pirate, most of the Revenants came into Nym‘s service thanks to his actions 
against the Trade Federation prior to and during the Clone Wars. With the 
rise of the Empire, Nym and the Revenants have a new establishment to 
hate and rage against, and they do so with pleasure. Most of the Revenants 
have some kind of grudge against the Empire, whether it results just from 
the Empire's shutting down other piracy operations or something more 
personal. Anti-Imperial sentiment runs strong through the Revenants, and 
most of the group's members signed on for piracy as a chance to get back 
at the Empire any way they can. The Revenants remain loyal to Nym through 
even the hardest of times, and their small fleet has survived battles against 
seemingly insurmountable odds. 

Most of the Revenants spend time either within their fortress on Lok or 
aboard one of the organization's many starships. Carefully planned raids 
take portions of the fleet away from Lok, though most of the operations 
take place within the Karthakk Sector. The Revenants concern themselves 
primarily with targeting Imperial convoys and cargo vessels that stray too 
close to the Revenants' domain, though on occasion the pirate group does 
range out farther in search of fresh prey. Though Nym would gruffly disdain 
the idea of doing so, much of the bounty pilfered from Imperial vessels is 
sold to those who need it most: Foodstuffs and medical supplies go to worlds 
where Imperial oppression is rampant, while the weapons and vehicles that 
the pirate gang does not want for itself are often sold to anti-Ilmperial fac- 
tions (such as Kota’s Militia), Though the Revenants target Imperial convoys 


and sell weapons to rebellious groups, the Revenants consider themselves 
to be neutral in galactic conflicts, and Nym is reluctant to declare open 
war on the Empire. 

Type: Outlaw gang. 

Enemies and Allies: Law enforcement agencies and the Empire are among 
the most dangerous enemies of the Revenants. Additionally, other pirate 
gangs are constantly fighting the Revenants over their domain, both in the 
Karthakk Sector and elsewhere, with conflicts sometimes escalating into 
wholesale fleet engagements. Despite their troubles, both with the law and 
with other pirates, the Revenants manage to turn a tidy profit by dealing with 
some other organizations that have large amounts of resources. Many of the 
weapons used by Kota’s Militia were bought from the Revenants, and both 
Black Sun and Car'das have amicable relationships with the pirate gang. 

Seale: 12 (multiple systems). 

Organization Score Criteria: Becoming a member of the Revenants 
involves finding them and proving that one has the skills necessary to become 
a pirate. The Revenants are theoretically willing to accept anyone who can 
pull his or her weight, but Imperial sympathizers are always unwelcome. 
Additionally, any members who can bring unique resources to the group, 
such as new ships for the fleet or new technology to make piracy easier, will 
quickly find a home among the Revenants. 

Criteria Tables: The following criteria can affect the organization score 
of a member of the Lok Revenants. 


POSITIVE CRITERIA ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
Character level +1/2 character level 
Has levels in the scoundrel class +1 
Has levels in the master privateer prestige class +1 
Trained in the Pilot skill +1 
Has the Vehicular Combat feat +1 
Has the Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons) feat +1 
Base attack bonus +5 through +9 +1 
Base attack bonus +10 or higher +2 
Has had an Imperial bounty placed on his/her head +2 


Has defeated a bounty hunter attempting +1/4 the bounty hunter's CL 
to collect an Imperial bounty 
Captures an enemy starship 


Captures valuable cargo 


+1/4 starship’s CL (max +5) 
+1 per 20,000 credits valuc (max +5) 


NEGATIVE CRITERIA 
Damages or destroys cargo 


ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
-1 per 10,000 credits value 


Captured by the Empire or other law enforcement agency -2 
Veteran of the Clone Wars (Separatist) =| 
Destroys an enemy starship when it could have been disabled -2 
Provides information to the Empire on the Revenants’ activities -15 
Reveals the location of the Revenants home base -15 


Titles, Benefits, and Duties: Though the Revenants operate on the 
fringes of society, Nym runs a tight ship, and most members of the organi- 
zation know their place very clearly. Each member of the organization has a 
clear rank, and each is expected to follow the orders of his or her superiors 
without fail. Much as with the members of Car'das, an individual's title within 
the organization is not always indicative of his or her position aboard a ship. 
All members of the Revenants are expected to be present and accounted for 
on raids, except for a small contingent that is always left behind to guard 
the fortress on Lok. 


RANK SCORE 
0 3 or lower 
] 4-10 


TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 

None 

Deck Hand: The lowliest pirates in the Lok Revenants, 
deck hands perform most of the menial tasks aboard 
their pirate vessels. Deck hands are also responsible 
for repelling any boarders and ensuring that prisoners 
are taken care of. Once per encounter, a deck hand can 
choose to automatically succeed on any aid another 
attempt. 

2 11-20 Privateer: After putting in their time as deck hands, most 
members of the Revenants rise to the rank of privateer, 
Though technically the Lok Revenants have no letters 
of marque, Nym designates his more trusted followers 
as privateers to give some legitimacy to the Revenants' 
piracy. A privateer is always considered to have favorable 
circumstances when making Persuasion checks while 
within the organization's sphere of influence. 


RANK SCORE 
3-21-30 


TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 

Bosun: Any members of the Revenants who show 
exceptional leadership are usually placed under the 
direct command of a captain and given significant 
responsibilities. A bosun is in charge of keeping order 
aboard a Revenant space vessel and ensuring that all 
members of the crew are doing their jobs. Once per 
encounter, a bosun can target one enemy within line 
of sight as a reaction. All of the bosun’s allies adjacent 
to that target can immediately move 1 square in any 
direction without provoking attacks of opportunity, 
though they may not end this movement in an occupied 
square. 

4 31 or higher Captain: Nym's most trusted lieutenants are often given 
their own ships and declared captains in their own right. 
Captains among the Lok Revenants usually command 
frigates or corvettes, such as the Nebulon-B or the 
Corellian Corvette. A captain is automatically granted the 
ownership and use of a capital ship valued at no more 
than 3,000,000 credits. 


Roleplaying Applications: Heroes who join the Revenants are walking a 
fine line between open rebellion and simple criminal activity. Though not as 
militant as Kota's Militia, the Revenants aren't nearly as greedy or self-serving 
as Car'das or Black Sun, and they often display a somewhat twisted sense of 
altruism or honor in their actions. The Revenants make a great organization 
for heroes who want to experience life on the fringe but also want to take 
the fight to the Empire in a significant way. 


DB: 


an a 


SNO1iwZInvaue 


Ss 
The execution of Order 66 wiped out nearly all the Jedi, eliminating the largest 
single bastion of Force-users that could have stood in the way of Emperor 
Palpatine's ascension to power. Despite the tragic success of this plan, some 


_ Jedi managed to survive the purge and flee into the relative safety of a life 


of seclusion. Despite their efforts to remain hidden, these Jedi often find 
themselves continually on the run from Darth Vader's Jedi hunters. 

Through all this, knowledge of the Force survives even in the Dark Times. 
Small pockets of Force-users, many associated with traditions unknown to 
the Jedi, continue to operate in secret. Some Jedi remain defiant, clinging 
to the Old Republic's ideals and waging their own private wars against the 
Empire. Others are simply swept up in the flow of events, finding themselves 
tossed across the galaxy by their destinies, unsure exactly where they will 
end up. 

Since Jedi and other Force-users remain active during the Dark Times, 
many of them must learn to adapt to the new state of the galaxy, and that 
often means adapting the ways in which they use the Force. This chapter 
presents new options for Force-users, including powers, talents, techniques, 
and secrets, specifically those designed to give heroes something unique to 
distinguish them from heroes of other eras. Though certainly the Gamemas- 
ter can allow characters in other eras to make use of the mechanics in this 
chapter, they are tailored for heroes of the Dark Times, and they make great 
additions to heroes in a Force Unleashed campaign. 


wZwED!I DURING THE 
DARK TIMES 


The destruction of the Jedi Order and the execution of Order 66 dealt a 
huge blow to the forces of good in the galaxy. Though some Jedi survived 
the purge, their lives were irrevocably altered the moment Anakin Skywalker 
gave in to the dark side and Darth Vader was born. No longer members of an 
ancient tradition of sages and guardians, in the blink of an eye surviving Jedi 
became the last vestiges of a broken tradition. Literally overnight, many Jedi 
found themselves without allies, without a home, and without any direction. 
The galaxy had gone from a war-torn landscape in which the Jedi acted as 
generals to a place of tyrannical order in which the Jedi were outlawed. 
Imagine waking up to find that, even though you had done nothing differ- 
ently, today those who considered you an ally now consider you worthy of 
execution. All Jedi faced this jarring revelation in the days following Order 
66, the repercussions of which shape what those few survivors would do 
during the Dark Times. 


A HaievwHg 


S39yHu0gd SHL 


A 8SiavHoD 


Beayued FHL 


For some Jedi, the transition was more than they could bear. One day 
the galaxy is defended by the Jedi, and the next it is defenseless against the 
might of the Empire. Those surviving Jedi who were the most devastated 
by the deaths of their companions suffer greatly under the weight of the 
extermination of the Jedi. Some Jedi actually go insane, either partially or 
wholly, leaving them but shells of the great heroes they once were. In fact, 
an Aleena Jedi Knight named Kazdan Paratus was so deranged in the wake 
of the purge that he constructed an entire false world for himself on the 
junkyard planet of Raxus Prime. Though his was an extreme example, it simply 
illustrates how badly the extermination affects those surviving Jedi. 

Some Jedi refuse to accept that the Order had been defeated, carrying on 
a personal crusade against the Empire. With the help of allies and other like- 
minded individuals, these Jedi fight small wars against the Empire, clinging to 
the belief that they can still bring down the tyrannical government and restore 
peace and justice to the galaxy. Others fight to lay the seeds of rebellion, 
hoping that their example will lead others to join their efforts. Jedi Master 
Rahm Kota, a brilliant tactician and military commander from the Clone Wars, 
wages a private war against the Empire, striking out from hidden safe houses 
to sabotage Imperial facilities. Many heroic Jedi follow a similar path, since 
doing so allows them to remain true to their principles and beliefs. 

Some Jedi simply abandon their past, instead choosing to start their 
lives over. Though for most them the Jedi Order is the only life they have 
known, a select few put down their lightsabers and abandon their meditative 
techniques, choosing to live a mundane life rather than spend their days on 
the run. These Jedi become law enforcement officials, bounty hunters, or 
mercenaries, or even take on jobs that don't make use of any of the combat 
training they have received. Though some consider these acts cowardly, 
most Jedi who abandon their previous lives see themselves as engaging in 
self-preservation. They believe that no one can take on the Empire alone, 
so they attempt to simply live the rest of their lives in peace. However, it 
does not seem as though the Force is willing to let these people go so easily, 
and some of them find that their destiny brings them back into touch with 
their old habits. 

Finally, a few Jedi choose to fade away into the backdrop of the galaxy, 
biding their time until they can act. They do not abandon their lives as Jedi, 
but they do not actively seek to draw the Empire's attention. Both Yoda 
and Obi-Wan Kenobi choose this life, as does the Togruta Jedi Shaak Ti. 
By retreating into the shadows, these individuals ensure that the Empire's 
Jedi hunters do not find them, allowing them to prepare for a time in the 
future when they will once again step onto the galactic stage. These Jedi 
spend their days honing their skills in the Force, meditating and practicing 
their lightsaber techniques. They believe that their destiny has not yet been 
fulfilled, and that only the guidance of the Force, not their own desire to 
strike back at the Empire, is the true path to success. 


REACTIONS TO 
FORCE-USERS 


Though Jedi were always considered mystics and wielders of great super- 
natural powers, during the Dark Times knowledge of the Force becomes 
something of myth or legend. Following the execution of Order 66, the 
Emperor orders the eradication of nearly all records of the Jedi, effectively 
wiping their names from galactic history. Though those who lived through 
the Clone Wars are certainly familiar with the Jedi and what they can do, 
a large segment of the galactic population considers them to be no more 
than magicians or purveyors of superstitious nonsense. Especially in the 
Outer Rim, where even during the height of the Clone Wars their presence 
was rare, most people might hear of the Jedi referred to only as sorcerers 
devoted to some ancient religion. 


For others, however, learning that someone can use the Force—or worse, 
that someone Is a Jedi Knight—is a far more dangerous prospect than many 
would suspect. Loyal citizens of the Empire know it is their duty to report 
any suspicious activity, especially with regard to use of the Force. One of the 
fastest ways to ensure that the Inquisitorius comes knocking at a hero's door 
is for that individual to use the Force publicly, especially on a world loyal to 
the Empire. Though many citizens might be too frightened to attempt to turn 
in a known Force-user, others regard it as their duty to do so, and they will 
go straight to the nearest Imperial Security Bureau headquarters to provide 
information regarding the presence of the Force-user. 

See Chapter 8: The Force Unleashed Campaign for more information on 
the consequences of using the Force, or a lightsaber, in public. 


NOTICING FORCE-USERS 

With the Empire risen and the Jedi outlawed, it is no longer safe for anyone to 
use the Force in public without discretion. Citizens of the Empire are trained 
to keep an eye out for suspicious activity, and agents of the ISB and COMP- 
NOR can be found around every corner, in public and also in disguise. Even 
everyday citizens, fearful of reprisals from Imperial officials, will frequently 
report visible uses of the Force to the proper authorities. 

Asa result, during the Dark Times a character who uses the Force in a public 
place is considered to have unfavorable circumstances for the purpose of making 
Stealth checks until that individual escapes the public eye. This rule represents 
the public’s general awareness of Force-users as well as the populace’s reaction 
to visible use of the Force. The Gamemaster can rule that uses of the Force that 
cannot be visibly connected to a character, such as telekinetically transporting 
a box across a crowded street, do not provide unfavorable circumstances. 


TEMPTATION 
DARK SIDE 


The lure of the dark side is great, and even those Jedi who walk the path of 
the light often stray into darkness from time to time. Though it is easy for 
a character who wants to be willfully evil to do so (by selecting talents or 
Force powers that draw upon the dark side for power), some Gamemasters 
might want to introduce rules that make the dark side more tempting for 
even those Jedi who have never chosen to dabble in the teachings of the dark 
side. These rules are optional, and should be included only if the GM wants 
to make the threat of falling to the dark side more tempting. 

As a free action, any character who has the Force Sensitivity feat can 
spend a Force Point to add any one Force power that has the [dark side] 
descriptor to his or her active Force power suite. That power can then be 
used as normal. However, when the power is used (or at the end of the 
encounter), it goes away entirely and may nat be recovered by any of the 
normal means [including resting for 1 minute, spending a Force Point, 
making use of the Force Recovery talent, or rolling a natural 20 on a Use 
the Force check). 


OF THE 


Similarly, any character who has the Force Sensitivity feat can spend a 
Force Point as a free action to temporarily gain the use of any talents from 
the Dark Side talent tree, the Dark Side Devotee talent tree, or the Sith talent 
tree. A character must meet all the prerequisites for one of these talents to 
be able to use it, and the character can spend more than 1 Force Point over 
the course of an encounter to gain multiple talents from those talent trees. 
Talents gained in this manner temporarily count toward the prerequisites of 
other talents, and the effects of these talents last for the remainder of the 
encounter. Additionally, at the conclusion of the encounter, the character 
increases his or her Dark Side Score by a number of points equal to the 
number of Force Points spent in this manner. 

For example, in the first round of an encounter, a Jedi could spend a 
Force Point to gain the benefit of the Power of the Dark Side talent for the 
remainder of the encounter. In the following round he can spend another 
Force Point to gain access to the Swift Power talent, since he temporarily has 
access to its prerequisite talent. At the end of the encounter, the Jedi loses 
access to these talents and increases his Dark Side Score by 2. 


OPTIONAL RULE: ATONEMENT 

In addition to making the dark side more tempting, some Gamemasters might 
want to make it more difficult for a character to reduce his or her Dark Side 
Score. Any GM who wants to make atonement more meaningful can use the 
following optional rule to reduce the heroes’ ability to avoid the effects of 
their misdeeds. Any character who wants to spend a Force Point to reduce his 
Dark Side Score must spend at least 24 hours in meditation, contemplating 
the effects of the dark side. Additionally, all characters can spend a Force 
Point to reduce their Dark Side Score only once per level. 


FORCE POWERS 


The following Force powers are available to any character who has the Force 
Sensitivity feat (see page 85 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). These Force 
powers represent the growing threat of the dark side (as well as the kinds of 
powers that the agents of evil introduce into the galaxy) and also serve as 
features designed to enhance a character in a Force Unieashed campaign. 

Telekinetic Power: Powers with the {te/ekinetic] descriptor are included 
among the powers affected by talents like Telekinetic Power and Telekinetic 
Savant (SE 100). 


CORRUPTION [DARK SIDE] 

You use the Force to send a bolt of pure dark side vileness into an enemy. 
Time: Standard action. Targets: One target within 12 squares and within 
line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any. Compare the result to the target's Fortitude Defense. If the 
check result equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the target 
is affected. 


YHO 


gave” IHL 


tll 
aauee ana | 


DC 15: The target takes 2d6 Force damage, and hald that amount again 
at the start of its turn. If your Use the Force check equals or exceeds the 
target's Fortitude Defense, the target takes half that damage again in the 
following round. 

DC 20:As DC 15, except the target takes 3d6 points of damage. 

DC 25:As DC 15, except the target takes 4d6 points of damage. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except the target takes 5d6 points of damage. 

The target adds a size modifier to its Fortitude Defense: Colossal, +50; 
Gargantuan, +20; Huge, +10; Large, +5; Medium and smaller, +0. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point when you successfully damage a 
target by using this power to have all creatures adjacent to the target take 
half this damage if the Use the Force check also exceeds their Fortitude 
Defense. These secondary targets do not take additional damage in the 
following round. 


FORCE BLAST 

You use the Force to create a ball of compressed air and debris that you can 
hurl at enemy targets. Time: Standard action. Target: One target within 12 
squares and within line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result of your Use the Force 
check to the Reflex Defense of the target; if you exceed the target's Reflex 
Defense, you deal damage with the Force blast. The result of the Use the 
Foree check determines the effect, if any. 

DC 15: The Force blast deals 2d6 points of damage to the target. 

DC 20; As DC 15, except you deal 3d6 points of damage. 

DC 25:As DC 15, except you deal 4d6 points of damage. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except you deal 5d6 points of damage. 

Special: You can spend a force point to add one-half your heroic level as 
a damage bonus on a Force blast just as you would with a normal weapon. 


FORCE SHIELD [TELEKINETIC]I 
You use the Force to create a bubble of telekinetic energy around yourself, 
protecting you from harm. Time: Reaction. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the Use the Force check 
determines the effect, if any. 

DC 15: You gain a shield rating (SR) of 5 until the beginning of your next 
turn. Unlike other shields, this shield is made of pure telekinetic energy and 
cannot be recharged by any means. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except you gain SR 10. 

DC 25:As DC 15, except you gain SR 15. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except you gain SR 20. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point when you activate this power to 
increase the power's SR by 5. You can maintain your concentration on a Force 
shie/d to continue to gain the benefit of the power’s SR from round to round, 
extending the normal duration. Maintaining the Force shield power is a stan- 
dard action. !f the power's SR is ever reduced to 0, the power's effect ends. 


FORCE STORM 

[DARK SIDE, TELEKINETIC] 

You use the Force to create a swirling whirlwind of dark side energy around 
yourself. Time: Standard action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. You create a vortex of debris and dark 
energy around yourself that deals 2d6 points of damage to all adjacent targets 
at the end of your turn. The result of your Use the Force check determines 
the duration of the effect, if any. 

DC 20: 2 rounds. 

DC 25: 4 rounds. 

DC 30:6 rounds. 

DC 35: 8 rounds. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to deal an extra 2d6 points of 
damage with a Force storm. 


KINETIC COMBAT 
You use the Force to manipulate your chosen weapon, allowing it to operate 
independent of your grasp. Time: Standard action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. If you succeed on a DC 20 check, you can 
telekinetically move a one-handed melee weapon you hold up to 12 squares 
and make an attack with it. The weapon is considered held by you, even 
if it is hovering nearby and not in your hands. The attack uses your base 
attack bonus modified by your Charisma modifier as the attack bonus for 
the attack. A successful attack deals normal melee weapon damage, adding 
one-half your heroic level to damage as normal and substituting your Cha- 
risma modifier for your Strength modifier for damage. Talents and feats that 
would normally enhance a weapon's use do not do so while you are using 
kinetic combat to wield the weapon (for example, you cannot use Mighty 
Swing or Power Attack while wielding the weapon). The weapon threatens all 
squares adjacent to it, and it can be used to make an attack of opportunity 
if a target provokes one from the weapon. Any attacks of opportunity made 
by the weapon count as though they were made by you. 

Special: You can maintain kinetic combat from round to round, extending 
the normal duration. Maintaining the kinetic combat power is a swift action, 
and as a standard action each round you maintain it you can direct the 
weapon to move up to 6 Squares and make a single attack against a target 
adjacent to the weapon, though the weapon must remain within 12 squares 
of you or the power's effect ends. If you suffer damage while maintaining 
kinetic combat, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 15 + 
damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. 

You can spend a Force Point to gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls with a 
weapon wielded using kinetic combat. 


REPULSE [TELEKINETICI 
You use the Force to clear an area around yourself. Time: Standard action. 
Targets: All adjacent targets. 

Make a Use the Force check. The targets make Strength checks, adding 
their base attack bonus. If you beat a target's Strength check, you push it back 
1 square plus 1 additional square for every 5 points by which you exceeded 
the target’s check result. IF you push the target into a larger object, the 
target takes 1d6 points of damage. 

The target adds its size modifier to its Strength check: Colossal, +20; 
Gargantuan, +15; Huge, +10; Large, +5; Medium, +0; Small, -5; Tiny, -10; 
Diminutive, -15; Fine, -20. In addition, it gets a +5 stability bonus if it has 
more than two legs or is otherwise exceptionally stable. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to apply a -5 penalty to the target's 
Strength check to resist your repulse. Additionally, after spending a Force 
Point, if you successfully push the target into a larger object, you deal an 
extra 2d6 points of damage from the extreme force of the thrust. 


FORCE TALENTS 


When a character who has the Force Sensitivity feat would normally gain a 
talent (such as from advancing to an odd-numbered level in a heroic class), 
he or she can instead select a Force talent from among those in chapter 6 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook or those presented below. If a character 
who has the Force Sensitivity feat is a member of a Force-using tradition 
(see page 91 of this book and page 103 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), 
he or she can instead select a Force talent from that tradition’s individual 
Force talent tree. 


ALTER TALENT TREE 
The foflowing new talents belong to the Alter talent tree. 

IHusion: As a standard action, you can spend a Force Point to create 
an illusion that seems perfectly real to anyone who views it. You designate 
the form and complexity of the illusion, as well as its size and location, and 
make a Use the Force check. When a creature views the illusion, compare 
the result of your Use the Force check to the creature's Will Defense; if your 
check result exceeds its Will Defense, it believes the illusion to be real. Any 
physical interaction with the illusion (such as touching it, passing through 
it, or shooting it with a blaster) immediately reveals the true nature of the 
illusion, and the creature is no longer deceived. The illusion lasts for a number 
of minutes equal to your heroic level. 

The illusion's size also affects your Use the Force check, applying a pen- 
alty for exceptionally large illusions. The penalties are -1 for Huge illusions, 
-2 for Gargantuan illusions, -5 for Colossal illusions, and -10 for Colossal 
(Frigate) or larger illusions. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisite: Mind trick. 


JSaued SHL 


eaBoHed ahs 


Telekinetic Prodigy: When you take the Force Training feat and select 
move object as one of your Force powers, you can also select one extra 
power to add to your Force suite for free. This power must be one of the 
powers affected by the Telekinetic Savant talent. You can gain only one 
extra power each time you take the Force Training feat, regardless of 
how many times you choose the move object power. 

Prerequisite: Telekinetic Savant. 


CONTROL TALENT TREE 
The following new talents belong to the Control talent tree. 

Force Exertion: When you select this talent, choose one Force power that 
you have in your Force power suite. As a reaction, you can remove any one 
Force power from your active suite to add an extra use of the Force power 
designated by this talent. Doing so moves you -1 persistent step along the con- 
dition track. This persistent condition is removed by resting for 1 minute. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you choose 
a different Force power to be gained by using this talent. 

Prerequisite: Force Training feat. 

Indomitable Will: You can spend a Force Point as a standard action to 
become immune to all mind-affecting effects for 1 minute. 


DARK SIDE TALENT TREE 
The following new talent belongs to the Dark Side talent tree. 

Wrath of the Dark Side: When you roll a natural 20 on a Use the Force 
check to activate a Force power that directly deals damage to a target, you 
can choose not to regain all of your spent Force powers as normal and instead 
the targets damaged by the power take half that damage again at the start 
of their next turn. Only powers that directly damage the target are subject 
to this talent, including corruption, Force blast, Force grip, Force lightning, 
Force slam, Force storm, Force thrust (only when spending a Force Point), 
and repulse (only when spending a Force Point). 

Prerequisite: Power of the Dark Side. 


SENSE TALENT TREE 
The following new talent belongs to the Sense talent tree. 

Feel the Force: As a standard action, you can spend a Force Point to 
ignore all concealment for 1 minute. 


FORCE TECHNIQUES 


Force techniques represent a deeper understanding of the Force and, like 
martial skills, usually require years of practice. A few gifted or devoted Force- 
users learn to master them more quickly. In general, Force techniques are 
available only to characters who have levels in certain Force-using prestige 
classes (such as Force adept, Jedi Knight, and Sith apprentice). 

When you gain access to a new Force technique, you can select it from among 


those on pages 102-103 of the Saga Edition core rulebook or from the techniques 
described below. Once selected, a Force technique cannot be changed. 


Improved Battle Strike 
When you use the battle strike power, you can apply the bonus to attack rolls 
and damage rolls for all attacks made during a full attack action. 


Improved Dark Rage 

When you use the dark rage power, you ignore the restriction that prevents 
you from using skills or performing tasks that require patience and concentra- 
tion. Additionally, you can always activate this power in the surprise round, 
even if you are considered surprised. 


Improved Force Disarm 

When you use the Force disarm power, you can change the time it takes 
to activate it to a full-round action; if you do so, your opponent does not 
gain the normal +10 bonus to Reflex Defense normally associated with 
disarming. 


Improved Force Thrust 

When you use the Force thrust power, you can change the time it takes to 
activate it to a full-round action and spend a Force Point in order to target 
all creatures in a 6-square cone that originates from your square. 


Improved Force Grip 

When you use the Force grip power, you can spend a Force Point as a free 
action to maintain the Force grip for 1 additional round without the need 
to concentrate. However, after this additional round you may not resume 
concentrating on the power. 


Improved Force Lightning 

When you use the Force lightning power and change the time it takes to 
activate to a full-round action, your target must make a Strength check. If 
your Use the Force check result beats the target's Strength check, you push 
it back 1 square plus 1 additional square for every 5 points by which you 
exceed the target's check result. If you push the target into a larger object, 
the target takes 1d6 points of damage. 

The target adds its base attack bonus and size modifier to its Strength 
check: Colossal, +20; Gargantuan, +15; Huge, +10; Large, +5; Medium, +0; 
Small, -5; Tiny, -10; Diminutive, -15; Fine, -20. In addition, it gets a +5 stabil- 
ity bonus if it has more than two legs or is otherwise exceptionally stable. 


Improved Force Storm 
Asa swift action, you can end the duration of the Force storm power to deal 
4d6 points of damage to all targets within 2 squares of you. 


Improved Mind Trick 

When you use the mind trick power, you can change the time it takes to 
activate it to a full-round action in order to target all creatures in a 6-square 
cone that originates from your square. You can spend a Force Point to increase 
the area to a 12-square cone that originates from your square. 


Improved Rebuke 

When an ally within 12 squares and within line of sight of you is the target 
of a Force power, you can use the rebuke power as though you were the 
target of that Force power instead. 


Improved Repulse 

When you use the repulse power, you can change the time it takes to acti- 
vate it to a full-round action in order to target all creatures in a 2-square- 
radius burst that originates from your square. You can spend a Force Point 
to increase the area to a 4-square-radius burst that originates from your 
square. 


FORCE SECRETS 

Skilled Force-users can learn to manipulate their Force powers in intriguing 
ways. Force secrets represent a sublime connection of the Force and are 
usually available only to powerful Force-users such as Force disciples, Jedi 
Masters, and Sith Lords. 

Activating a Force secret costs either a Force Point or a Destiny Point (as 
noted in its description), and the normal limits on spending Force Points and 
Destiny Points during a round apply. 

When you learn a new Force secret, you can select it from among those 
on page 103 of the Saga Edition core rulebook or from the secrets described 
below. Once selected, a Force secret cannot be changed. 


Corrupted Power 

When you activate a Force power, you can spend a Force Point to corrupt the 
power. The power gains the [dark side] descriptor, and opponents who have 
a Dark Side Score lower than yours take a -2 penalty to all defense scores 
against this activation of the power. Alternatively, you can spend a Destiny 
Point to increase the penalty to opponents’ defense scores to =5. You cannot 
use this Force secret unless your Dark Side Score equals your Wisdom score. 
Powers that have the [light side] descriptor cannot be corrupted by the use 
of this Force secret. 


Debilitating Power 

When you use a Force power that successfully deals damage lo the target, 
you can spend a Force Point to move the target -1 step alang the condition 
track (in addition to any movement along the condition track 
ihe power normally) provided your Use the Force check equals of execeds 


imposed by 


the target's damage threshold. Alternatively, you can spend a Destiny Point 
to move the target -3 steps along the condition track. 


Enlarged Power 

When you use a Force power that affects targets within an area (such as a 
radius or a cone), you can spend a Force Point to double the distance that 
the effect extends from your square (for example, a 6-square cone can be 
made into a 12-square cone). Alternatively, you can spend a Destiny Point 
to multiply the distance the effect extends by 5 (making a 6-square cone 
into a 30-square cone). 


Pure Power 

When you use a Force power, you can spend a Force Point to purify the power. 
The power gains the flight side] descriptor, and opponents who have a Dark 
Side Score of 1 or higher take a -2 penalty to all defense scores against 
this activation of the power. Alternatively, you can spend a Destiny Point to 
increase the penalty to opponents’ defense scores to —5. You cannot use this 
Force secret if you have a Dark Side Score of 1 or higher. Powers that have 
the [dark side] descriptor cannot be purified with this Force secret. 


Remote Power 

When you use a Force power that has a cone, line, or radius effect that 
originates from your square, you can spend a Force Point to have the power 
originate from a square within 6 squares of you. Alternatively, you can spend 
a Destiny Point to have the power originate from any square within line of 
sight. You still choose the direction of the Force power as though you were 
standing in the chosen square. 


FORCE UNLEASHED 
ABILITIES 


Like the standard Unleashed abilities in Chapter 2: Heroic Traits, Force 
Unleashed abilities allow the user to do something incredible with the Force. 
The following Unleashed abilities are available only to characters who have 
the Force Sensitivity feat, but otherwise function exactly as other Unleashed 
abilities (see page 37 for more information on Unleashed abilities). 


UNLEASHED BATTLE 
MEDITATION 
Your skill in Battle Meditation allows you to coordinate battles taking place 
across an entire star system, 

Prerequisites: Battle Meditation, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the Battle Meditation talent, you can spend a 
Destiny Point to have its bonuses apply to all allies witnin the same star 
system. 


geaXed g9H4 


A BSidgvHo 


d 
ie 
u 

y 

@ 

I 

a 

Ww 


UNLEASHED BATTLE STRIKE 
Your combat prowess is unparalleled. 

Prerequisites: Battle strike, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the battle strike power and you spend a Des- 
tiny Point, your next melee attack, if successful, also moves the target an 
additional -2 steps along the condition track, regardless of whether the 
damage exceeds the target's damage threshold. 


UNLEASHED CORRUPTION 
You can draw upon the power of the dark side to cover your foes in an 
unavoidable miasma of evil. 

Prerequisites: Corruption, Unleashed feat. 


Benefit: When you successfully damage a target by using the corruption 
power and you spend a Destiny Point, the target takes the additional half 
damage each round for 5 rounds instead of just 1 round. 


UNLEASHED DARK RAGE 
You let the power of the dark side flow through you, bringing you closer to 
ultimate success. 

Prerequisites: Dark rage, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the dark rage power, you can spend a Destiny 
Point to gain a +10 rage bonus on melee attack rolls and damage rolls for 
the remainder of the encounter. 


UNLEASHED FORCE BLAST 
You can fire a blast of Force energy at your opponents with enough power 
to damage even vehicles and starships. 

Prerequisites: Force blast, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the Force blast power, you can spend a Destiny 
Point to multiply the damage by 2. 


UNLEASHED FORCE GRIP 
Holding an enemy in your vise grip of the Force is a trivial matter. 

Prerequisites: Force grip, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you successfully use the Force grip power on a target, 
you can spend a Destiny Point to maintain the power with no concentration 
{requiring no action) for a number of rounds equal to half your Charisma 
modifier (minimum 1 round). Taking damage still requires you to make Use 
the Force checks to maintain the power. 


UNLEASHED FORCE LIGHTNING 
The power of your Force lightning drives back your foes as they bear the 
brunt of your strength in the Force. 

Prerequisites: Force lightning Force power, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the Force lightning power, you can spend a 
Destiny Point to target all creatures in a 6-square cone that originates from 
your square. 


UNLEASHED FORCE STORM 
You become a maelstrom of dark Force energy, devastating nearby foes. 
Prerequisites: Force storm Force power, Unleashed feat. 
Benefit: When you use the Force storm power and you spend a Destiny 
Point, it deals 8d6 paints of damage to adjacent targets for the duration 
of the power. 


UNLEASHED FORCE THRUST 
You can hurl your foes away with incredible strength and speed. 

Prerequisites: Force thrust Force power, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the Force thrust power and you spend a Destiny 
Point, opponents affected by the power do not add their size modifier to their 
Strength checks to resist the power's effect. A creature that would normally 
have a penalty on its Strength check due to size still retains that penalty. 

Additionally, the distance you move the target 1s multiplied by 2. If you 
push the target into a larger object, the target takes 16 points of damage 
per square moved by this power. 


UNLEASHED MOVE OBJECT 
You can hurl an object through the air with such incredible force that it 
devastates even vehicles and starships. 

Prerequisites: Move object Force power, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you hurl one object or character into another object or 
character and you spend a Destiny Point, multiply the damage dealt by 2. 


UNLEASHED REPULSE 
You hur! back any encroaching enemies, ensuring that they are no immedi- 
ate threat to you. 

Prerequisites: Repulse Force power, Unleashed feat. 

Benefit: When you use the repulse power and you spend a Destiny Point, 
opponents affected by the power do not add their size modifier to their 
Strength checks to resist the power's effect. A creature that would normally 
have a penalty on its Strength check due to size stil] retains that penalty. 

Additionally, the distance you move the target is multiplied by 2. If you 
push the target into a larger object, the target takes 1d6 points of damage 
per square moved by this power. 


FORCE-USING 
TRADITIONS 


With the Jedi declared public enemies and hunted by the agents of the Empire, 
other Force traditions continue to flourish in secret. Often targeted just as 
fervently as the few remaining Jedi, members of alternative Force traditions 
must also keep their knowledge and powers a secret, lest they draw the 
attention of the Inquisitorius. In addition to the Jensaarai and the Witches 
of Dathomir {both presented in the Saga Edition core rulebook), the Force 
traditions described below have their own unique powers and philosophies 
that set them apart from the fugitive Jedi. 


THE AGENTS OF 
Ossus 


One of the few Force traditions to actually grow during the Dark Times, 
the Agents of Ossus were Force-sensitive citizens of the galaxy who grew 
up during the prominent years of the Empire. During Darth Vader's assault 
on the Jedi Temple, a young Human Jedi Padawan named Jin-Lo Rayce hid 
in the archives in the hope of avoiding detection by the newly named Sith 
Lord and his clone troopers. Rayce, who as a boy had been fascinated by the 
intricacies of Jedi history, had spent many long nights in the archives and 
was apprenticed to Jedi Knight Jocasta Nu as her most recent Padawan. As 
Lord Vader stormed through the Jedi Temple, Jocasta Nu went to face the 
Sith Lord to stop him from accessing the temple's signal beacon. Before 
she left, she told her Padawan to take a datapad filled with blueprints of 
the Coruscant underbelly and flee the Jedi Temple through underground 


Soeed gH 


“A esiavHo 


BaYVosd gnAL 


passages. As his Master was struck down, Jin-Lo Rayce escaped into the 
lower levels of Coruscant and vanished from the sight of the Empire. 

For some months Rayce lived in hiding in the depths of Coruscant, avoid- 
ing Imperial patrols and subsisting on whatever he could find. Eventually 
he managed to stow away aboard a space transport headed to Chandrila, 
where he lived for a short time. Rayce bounced from one world in the Core 
to another, sometimes escaping to worlds in the Inner and Mid Rim, always 
in search of Jedi survivors, and never finding any. During his travels, Rayce 
came into contact with young, Force-sensitive beings wha would have been 
discovered by the Jedi had it not been for the Clone Wars and the rise of the 
Empire. After spending several months on the run, Rayce eventually came to 
terms with the fact that the Jedi were gone. Though only half-trained himself, 
Rayce decided to revisit the worlds he had traveled to and train those he 
encountered in the ways of the Force. Over time, he created several small 
cells of Force-sensitive agents who could tap into their powers in, at the 
very least, a rudimentary way. 

Jin-Lo Rayce always made sure to keep his allegiances quiet. Even though 
he was training students in the ways of the Force, he didn’t want even a 
whisper of the word "Jedi" to reach Imperial ears. Having lost his lightsaber 
in his escape from the Jedi Temple, Rayce never tried to teach his students 
the use of the traditional weapon (and, in truth, he had not yet mastered it 
himself). Instead, he taught the basics of using the Force to guide a blaster or 
a vibroblade, and he instructed his students in techniques that he developed 
living hidden on the streets of Coruscant and a dozen other urban worlds. 
Eventually his students were learning techniques wholly different from the 
teachings that Rayce had learned among the Jedi. 

Rayce decided to name his group of pupils after the planet Ossus, a lost 
repository of Jedi knowledge. His students, the Agents of Ossus, would be 
repositories of knowledge as well—only they would not be lost, but rather 
in hiding. The Agents of Ossus grew within a few short years to have a pres- 
ence on a number of civilized worlds. These successes, however, also led to 
tragic failures. The Inquisitorius hunted down and eradicated a number of 
cells, driving most other Agents of Ossus deeper into hiding. Those who were 
willing to continue their training were rare, and most were far more cautious 
than ever before in hiding their talents and powers. 

Members of the Agents of Ossus focus on using the Force to aid 
their survival under the heel of the Empire. Living almost exclusively 
in urban environments, the Agents of Ossus develop Force powers that 
fit with their lifestyles. They use blasters and fly starships, and they 
are as Comfortable in the concrete jungle of a city as a Wookiee would 
be in the true jungles of Kashyyyk. They believe that they are the last 
torchbearers in a galaxy of darkness, and that their ability to use the 
Force—and their willingness to do so—is all that is keeping the galaxy 
from being plunged completely into the abyss of corruption fostered by 
the Empire. Though not necessarily engaged as dissidents against the 
Empire, by and large they choose to live outside the government's rules 


and regulations, and they strike out on their own path even while living 
among law-abiding citizens. 

Membership: Any character who has the Force Sensitivity feat can 
become a member of the Agents of Ossus by being accepted as an apprentice 
by a Force adept or Force disciple who is already a member of this tradition. 
Additionally, any character who has the Force Sensitivity feat and is living 
on an urbanized world in the Inner Rim or the Core Worlds region can be a 
member of the Agents of Ossus. 


AGENT OF OSSUS TALENT TREE 

The Agents of Ossus are urban Force-users who specialize in using their 
powers to survive in the cities and towns at the center of civilization. Their 
proximity to Imperial authority necessitates both discretion and creativity 
among their members. 

Because the Agent of Ossus talent tree is a Force talent tree, you need 
the Force Sensitivity feat to select these talents. 

Buried Presence: You can spend a Force Point as a standard action to 
become immune to detection by the Force for 1 hour. During this time, you 
always avoid detection by characters who are using the sense force applica- 
tion of the Use the Force skill, and you cannot be the target of the farseeing 
power. You may use this as a reaction to another character attempting to 
locate you with Sense Force (but before the character locates you), and if 
you make a Use the Force check this power’s effect immediately ends. 

Conceal Other: When you use either the Buried Presence talent or the 
Vanish talent, you affect one other willing adjacent target, granting it the 
effect of that talent as well. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, it increases 
the number of adjacent willing targets you affect by one. 

Prerequisite: Buried Presence. 

Insightful Aim: You can spend a Force Point as a swift action to substi- 
tute your Use the Force modifier for your ranged attack bonus when making 
attacks with a ranged weapon until the beginning of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Proficiency (pistols or rifles) feat. 

Vanish: You can make a Use the Force check as a swift action to vanish 
from the sight of a single target within line of sight. If the result of your Use 
the Force check exceeds the target's Will Defense, you gain total concealment 
from that target until the beginning of your next turn, or until you make an 
attack roll or skill check against the target. 


FELUCIAN SHAMANS 


Native to the Force-rich world of Felucia, the Felucian shamans are among 
the most talented natural Force-users in the galaxy. The world of Felucia is 
tied intimately to the Living Force, and as such the world’s flora and fauna, 
including the Felucians themselves, can be influenced by the presence of 
strong agents of the Force, both light ane dark. The members of the shaman 
caste of Felucia, aware of this potential danger, always ensure that any of 


their brethren who fall to the dark side are immediately executed in the 
Ancient Abyss—the resting place of one of the largest Sarlaccs in the galaxy. 
The shamans fear, and rightly so, that allowing a powerful agent of the dark 
side to live on their world will corrupt not only their fellow Felucians but 
the planet itself. 

The Felucian shamans study the ways of the Force and use it to protect 
their people from the dangers native to the fungal world. These shamans learn 
to manipulate the Force blast power that is second nature to all their people, 
using it to much greater effect. Additionally, most Felucian shamans study 
the healing arts and are exceptionally good at treating the various injuries 
and maladies that are common on such a wild, untamed world. Felucian 
shamans draw upon the power of the world around them for strength, and 
they train their fellow shamans to stay away from the dark side lest it corrupt 
the entire planet. 

Those few Felucians who show both interest and exceptional aptitude in 
the Force are usually trained in the ways of shamanism whether they want to 


be or not. The shamans of Felucia cannot risk a potentially powerful Force- 
user growing up among them without receiving the training needed to avoid 
the lure of the dark side. These shamans are extremely careful about who 
they share their secrets with, and only a small handful of Force-users from 
other worlds have ever been trained by the Felucian shamans. 

Membership: Only Felucians who are trained in the Use the Force skill 
are accepted into the ranks of the Felucian shamans. 


FELUCIAN SHAMAN TALENT TREE 

Felucian shamans learn to manipulate their natural aptitude with the Force 
and amplify their inherent powers in a variety of ways. In addition to the 
talents described below, Felucian shamans can also select the Charm Beast 
and Command Beast talents from the Dathomiri Witch talent tree (see page 
107 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Detonate: When you use the Force biast power, you can spend a Force 
Point to compare the result of your Use the Force check to the Reflex Defense 
of all other characters, creatures, and droids within 2 squares of your target. 
If you exceed the Reflex Defense of those secondary targets, they also take 
damage from the Force blast, and if you fail to exceed their Reflex Defense, 
they take half damage instead. This is considered to be an area attack against 
the secondary targets (but not against the original target). 

Prerequisite: Force blast. 

Hive Mind: You can use the telepathy application of the Use the Force 
skill as a swift action, and you automatically succeed (no roll required) if 
your target is a willing recipient on the same planet. 

Infuse Weapon: You can spend a Force Point to infuse an unpowered 
melee weapon (one that does not require an energy cell) with the strength 
of the Force, making it resistant to the attacks of other weapons. Infusing 
the weapon takes a full-round action. From that point forward, when you 
wield the weapon, its damage reduction is doubled, and lightsabers do not 
ignore the weapon's damage reduction. When you spend a Force Point to 
modify the attack roll of an infused weapon, you also add 2 x the Force 
Point's result to the damage roll if the attack is a success. 

Sickening Blast: When you use the Force blast power, if your Use the 
Force check exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, you can choose to move 
the target -1 step along the condition track. Doing so increases your Dark 
Side Score by 1. 

Prerequisite: Force blast. 


A ySstdgvHo 


geyued FHL 


a ll 


CHAPTER 
1eNT AND P 


ROIDS ) 


SS 

The last years of the Old Republic saw an explosion in many fields of tech- 
nology. The manipulations of the Sith brought war to every corner of the 
galaxy, and war often provides excellent opportunities to develop and test 
new machines, doctrines, and ideas. Although many ideas were not new, 
properly speaking, they gained new life during this era. (For instance, battle 
droids had been used for thousands of years, but no one had done so on the 
e of the CIS in centuries.) And, as with many waves of new ideas, some 
eemed promising were eventually abandoned or replaced. 

‘ pment in use exclusively by the Galactic Empire (or at least theo- 
retically in use only by the Empire, before some insurgent gets hold of it) is 
covered in Chapter 10: The Empire. 


RIAL 
TRABAND 


y is clenched in the iron fist of the Empire, a number of items 
merely rare or restricted become illegal contraband under 
New Order. As a result, many pieces of equipment that were 
egulated) under the Republic are outlawed entirely, affecting 
availability but also the penalty for being caught with such 
items with a particular availability tag (licensed, restricted, 
, or rare) are more tightly restricted or outright banned under 
or example, lightsabers, which were once given the rare avail- 

ecome illegal during the reign of the Empire. 
eral guideline, the availability tags for equipment in the Saga 
Dre rulebook are accurate representations of how available the item 
she be during the reign of the Empire, with a few exceptions. All weapons 
; - : = ‘1 ir lightsabers weapon group are considered illegal and rare, though the 
—, SS Empire overlooks possession of such items for its chosen representatives. 
and Additionally, items with a military availability cannot be obtained legally 
‘ > through non-Imperial channels, even local planetary militias and system 
we ih defense forces (most of which are absorbed by the Empire anyway). Mili- 
7 tary-grade items obtained on the black market are considered illegal in the 
hands of private citizens, and those who carry them risk stiff penalties if 

they are discovered. 


sainyua ANY inawaindsa J IA BSicwHo 


SGieud Guy ANEIWAINeEs 


TABLE G-l: MELEE WEAPONS 


ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Large 

Power hammer 1,500 2d12 = 10 kg Bludgeoning Restricted 

Vibroblade, double 550 2d6/2d6 = 4kg Slashing Licensed 

Vibrosword 450 2d8 = 3 kg Slashing or piercing Licensed 
EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Small 

Felucian skullblade 1,500 2d6 = 0.5 kg Slashing Rare 
Medium 

Ryyk blade 500 2d10 - 1.5 kg Slashing Rare 
LIGHTSABERS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Small 

Guard shoto 7,000 2d4 - 1 kg Energy and slashing Rare, Illegal 
M ELEE WwW EAPONS these trace amounts aren't large enough to be harvested for any other use, 

» id 7 ld > 


Melee weapons saw a major resurgence in popularity in the early years of 
the Empire. This change occurred because, first, the constant warfare of 
the Clone Wars had shown soldiers that it was often better to take out a 
foe with a quiet melee strike than to always depend on the firepower of a 
blaster. Second, the rash of new Imperial laws on the Core Worlds outlawed 
blasters and other ranged weapons in many places, but largely ignored melee 
weapons as insignificant. And third, after the destruction of the Jedi Temple, 
anyone who had received any amount of Jedi training was often specialized 
in melee combat techniques, but could not risk carrying (and often couldn't 
acquire) a lightsaber. 


FELUCIAN SKULLBLADE 

Exotic Weapon 

Used in combat and ceremonies by Force-sensitive shamans on Felucia, 
skullolades are swordlike melee weapons made from the skulls of local 
animals. They are similar to crude weapons made by more primitive cultures 
throughout the galaxy, except for their ability to be imbued with Force energy 
and (when so imbued) block lightsaber strikes. This is possible because a few 
creatures on Felucia naturally grow trace amounts of Force-reactive crystal 
in their bones. Similar to crystals used for the focusing of lightsaber blades, 


but do make the skullblades surprisingly effective weapons in the hands of 
trained Force-sensitive wielders. 

Skullolades are considered items of great honor and importance. Although 
they can occasionally be found on the black market, they are normally avail- 
able only to those who train with Force adepts on Felucia. 


GUARD SHOTO 

Lightsaber 

A rare variant of the short shoto style of short lightsaber, the guard shoto 
(also referred to as the lightsaber tonfa) has a second handle that sticks 
out from the main hilt at a 90-degree angle. It is possible to hold a guard 
shoto by either the main hilt or the second handle. If it is held by the second 
handle, the lightsaber blade can be held parallel to the forearm, allowing 
it to easily be used for blocks. Because a guard shoto is designed primarily 
to block other lightsabers, it is most useful when its handle ts laced with 
phrik (a lightsaber-resistant metallic compound), an expensive process. A 
character proficient with the guard shoto gains a +2 equipment bonus on 
Use the Force checks to block melee attacks or to deflect ranged attacks 
using the Block talent or the Deflect talent. Additionally, lightsabers do not 
ignore the DR of a guard shoto. 


POWER HAMMER 

Advanced Melee Weapon 

A power hammer is a durasteel bludgeoning weapon with a smail gravity 
generator located in the head. The user triggers the qravity generator on 
the downward end of a swing, causing the hammer to hit with more power 


than the muscles of the wielder can impart to it (though it’s difficult for the 
wielder to swiftly recover from a blow). This results in a weapan that can 
smash through armored plates or solid rock. Power hammers were originally 
used by asteroid miners. They became popular melee weapons after a few 
conflicts early in the history of the Empire when mining campanies found 
their possessions claimed by the Empire, and their miners fought back. 


Extra damage from the use of the Power Attack feat can be added to 
damage dealt to an object or a vehicle with a power hammer. If you use the 
Double Attack, Triple Attack, or Rapid Strike feats with a power hammer, you 
take an additional -2 penalty on attack rolls. 

A power hammer requires two energy cells to operate. 


RYYK BLADE 

Exotic Weapon 

Aryyk blade is a traditional Wookiee blade used for hunting, clearing paths, 
and (if necessary) combat. The blade is always a broad, curved design, and 
the handle is wrapped in leather, but the exact style varies from Wookiee to 
Wookiee. For a non-Wookiee to use a ryyk without having earned the right 


1A #3iagvHQ 


SQleova GNY LNaENWAAeS 


9 
I 
> 
0 
+ 
Hy 
iD 
\< 


SQIOHG GNY LNAANEINGS | 


is an insult to most Wookiees. In fact, Trandoshan slavers often carry ryyk 
blades from captured Wookiees just to mock them. 

Wookiees who have the Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons) 
feat are proficient with the ryyk blade. A proficient character carrying a 
ryyk blade gains a +2 bonus on Survival checks made for basic survival in 
forest or jungle wilderness. 


VIBROBLADE, 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
The double vibroblade is essentially two curved vibroblades (designed exclu- 
sively for slashing attacks) attached to a central, twisted hilt. Though very 
difficult to control, when used properly it is a very effective close-combat 
weapon. 

A double vibroblade is a double weapon. You can attack with both ends of 
the weapon as a full-round action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty 
(although certain feats and talents can reduce these penalties). 

A double vibroblade requires two energy cells to operate. 


DOUBLE 


VIBROSWORD 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
The vibrosword is essentially an oversized vibroblade designed to be used 
in both hands. The weapon resembles many larger swords used by primitive 
societies, though the signs of technological enhancements can be found in 
both the handle and the blade. 

A vibrosword requires an energy cell to operate. 


RANGED WEAPONS 


Although the blaster remains the character-scale weapon of choice for 
centuries before and after the Clone Wars, the pressures of war spurred 
research into new models of ranged weapons. New inventions were also 
generated in the years afterward, as those trying to avoid the New Order's 
restrictions on personal freedoms and weaponry sought to get around the 
rules, or conceal their violations. Also, despite all the Empire's efforts, only 
a small percentage of the weapons carried by CIS forces were confiscated 
and destroyed, and a carbine designed for a droid soldier still functioned in 
the hands of living creatures. In the fringe and Outer Rim regions, people 
soon learned that nearly any weapon could be concealed in the back of a 
speeder or under a cloak. 


BRYAR PISTOL 

Pistol 

A Bryar pistol is a cut-down version of a Bryar rifle. Though it has less range 
than the rifle (using standard pistol ranges) and deals slightly less damage, 
the Bryar pistol is actually more manageable and accurate at short ranges 
than the rifle version. 

As a swift action, you can prime a Bryar pistol for a built-up shot. If you 
make no attacks with the Bryar pistol before the start of your next turn, 
the next attack you make before the end of the encounter deals +1 die of 
damage and consumes 5 shots. You may not use any ability that consumes 
more than one shot (such as autofire or Rapid Shot) in conjunction with a 
primed shot. 

A Bryar pistol requires a power pack to operate. After 100 shots, the 
power pack must be recharged. 


BRYAR RIFLE 

Rifle 

A Bryar rifle is a large blaster rifle with a heftier firing chamber than on 
standard designs. Heavy and less accurate than most blaster rifles, the 
Bryar rifle makes up for its shortcomings by being able to charge up an 
overpowered blaster shot, allowing it to hit with much more power than 
typical weapons its size. 

As a swift action, you can prime a Bryar rifle for a built-up shot. If you 
make no attacks with the Bryar rifle before the start of your next turn, 
the next attack you make before the end of the encounter deals +1 die of 
damage and consumes 5 shots. You may not use any ability that consumes 
more than one shot (such as autofire or Rapid Shot) in conjunction with a 
primed shot. 

A Bryar rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, the power 
pack must be recharged. 


TABLE 6-2: RANGED WEAPONS 


PISTOLS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Medium 

Bryar pistol’ 1,350 304 = 

DX-2 Disruptor pistol 3,000 3d6 - 
RIFLES COST DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Medium 

Bryar rifle? 1,350 3d8 - 

DXR-6 Disruptor rifle 3,500 3d8 - 

Incinerator rifle 3,500 3d6 = 

Stokhli spray stick? 14,000 - 3d8 


RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
S 3 kg Energy Licensed 
3 kg Energy Illegal 
RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
5 3 kg Energy Licensed 
S 6 kg Energy Illegal 
$ 5 kg Energy Military 
S 4kg Energy Restricted 


1 Accurate weapon: This weapon takes no penalty when firing at targets at short range. 


2 Inaccurate weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at long range. 


OxX<-2 
Pistol 

The DX-2 is a disruptor pistol ouilt by the Tenloss Criminal Syndicate. It is 
illegal on most worlds and firmly outlawed by the Empire (despite its use 
by some Imperial special forces). Designed to disintegrate what it hits, the 
DX-2 tears apart targets on a molecular level, leaving gaping wounds when 
it does not totally eliminate a target. Used by some criminals and thugs, 
the DX-2 actually became more popular shortly after the end of the Clone 
Wars. Many shadowy figures think that if they are going to carry a weapon 
in defiance of Imperial law, they might as well carry a highly illegal one—and 
besides, it’s often useful not to leave bodies behind as evidence. Despite this, 
disruptor weapons remain a sign of cruelty and brutality not permitted in 
many societies, including some criminal organizations. 


DisRUPTOR PISTOL 


As a disruptor weapon, the DX-2 treats all targets as if their damage 
threshold was 5 lower than it actually is. lf damage from the DX-? kills a 
creature or destroys an object, vehicle, or droid, that target is disintegrated 
and ceases to exist. Because of the massive energy invalved in creating a 
disruptor beam, the DX-2 can fire only once every other round. You cannot 


use any feat, talent, or other special ability that consumes more than one 
shot in a round (such as Double Attack or Rapid Shot} with this 

A DX-2 requires a power pack to operate. After \0 shots, the power pack 
must be recharged. 


pon 


DxR-& 
Rifle 

The DXR-6 is a disruptor rifle built by the Tenloss Criminal Syndicate. It is 
a larger version of the DX-2, and it has the same legal and social issues 
associated with its use. 

As a disruptor weapon, the DXR-6 treats all targets as if their damage 
threshold was 5 points lower than it actually is. If damage from the DXR-6 
kills a creature or destroys an object, vehicle, or droid, that target is disinte- 
grated and ceases to exist. Because of the massive energy involved in creating 
a disruptor beam, the DXR-6 can fire only once every other round. You cannot 
use any feat, talent, or other special ability that consumes more than one shot 
in a round (such as Double Attack or Rapid Shot) with this weapon. 

A DXR-6 requires a power pack to operate. After 10 shots, the power 
pack must be recharged. 


DiISRUPTOR RIFLE 


INCINERATOR RIFLE 

Rifle 

Often used by Bothan spies to hide the evidence of their misdeeds, the 
incinerator rifle works on the same basic principles as the disruptor weapons 
popularized by the Tenloss Criminal Syndicate. Though the incinerator rifle is 
technically no more powerful than a standard blaster pistol, an incinerator 
rifle dissolves many of the molecular bonds in any target it strikes. By the 
time a target is killed or destroyed, the incinerator rifle has broken molecular 
bonds to the point where the target loses all cohesion. As a result, the wielder 
of this rifle can kill an enemy and dispose of the body all at the same time. 


SGICESG ANY LWEWEAIN 


IA BSiavHa 


SaGieud GNY LNIEWAINeGS 


A creature or character killed by an incinerator rifle (or a droid, object, 
or vehicle destroyed by one) is automatically disintegrated, leaving no trace 
behind. 

An incinerator rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 20 shots, the 
power pack must be replaced. 

STOKHLI SPRAY STICK 

Rifle 

The Stokhli spray stick is a hunting weapon designed to bring down a target 
without killing it. The Stokhli spray stick is one of the few long-range stun 
weapons in the galaxy, and high demand for the weapon has driven its 
price up to match. The spray stick fires a fine mist that coalesces into the 
form of a sticky webbing that wraps up its target as a net does. When the 
spray stick's webbing strikes a target, it also discharges a stun bolt that can 
render some of the toughest targets unconscious. Any target struck by a 
spray stick takes 3d8 points of stun damage; additionally, the spray stick's 
webbing functions as a net, allowing the attacker to initiate a grab or grapple 
on the target at range. 

A Stokhii spray stick requires canisters of spraymist to operate. After 80 
shots, the canister must be replaced, and each canister costs 100 credits. 


EXPLOSIVES 

Those who choose to covertly fight the Empire during the Dark Times must 
often do so in more indirect ways. Rather than engaging Imperial troops in 
direct battle, many rebellious elements make use of explosives, particularly 
the wide variety of mines available. Whereas the explosive charges and det- 
onite described in the Saga Edition core rulebook are most effective against 
structures and oojects, the following explosives are primarily used against 
enemy troops or vehicles. 


TABLE 6&-S3: ExPLlosives 

DAMAGE 
WEAPON COST DAMAGE TYPE 
Antivehicle mine 1,500 10d6 Energy 
Flechette mine 1,200 8d6 Piercing 
Land mine 500 8d6 Energy 
Laser trip mine 700 6d6 Energy 
Manual trigger 100 - - 
Proximity mine 1,500 6d6 Energy 


Mines, unlike traditional explosives, are designed to be placed in the 
ground or otherwise hidden from sight. Anyone attempting to notice a mine 
takes a -5 penalty on his or her Perception check. Setting a mine is a full- 
round action that does not require a Mechanics check. However, attaching 
a detonator (either timed or manual) requires a Mechanics check as usual, 
and supersedes the mine's normal triggering system. 


ANTIVEHICLE MINE 

The antivehicle mine was designed specifically to damage many types of 
vehicles. An antivehicle mine is placed in or on the ground (in any square 
adjacent to you) and is triggered when any ground vehicle enters the square in 
which it is placed. An antivehicle mine cannot be triggered by anything other 
than a vehicle moving through its square, ensuring that it is not accidentally 
triggered by a trooper and maximizing the damage to enemy vehicles. 

An antivehicle mine damages everything in a 2-square burst radius. 


FLECRETTE MINE 

A flechette mine can cause grievous harm to anyone it damages. It contains 
thousands of tiny shards of metal that, when the mine is triggered, fly into 
the air and bury themselves deeply into any targets within the blast radius. 
A flechette mine is placed in or on the ground (in any square adjacent to 
you) and is triggered when any character, creature, droid, or vehicle enters 
the square in which it is placed. 

A flechette mine damages everything in a 2-square burst radius. 


LAND MINE 
The standard land mine is an antipersonnel device that uses pressure sensors 
to determine when a target moves over it. A land mine is placed in or on the 
ground (in any square adjacent to you) and is triggered when any character, 
creature, droid, or vehicle enters the square in which it is placed. 

Aland mine damages everything in a 1-square burst radius. 


WEIGHT SIZE AVAILABILITY 
0.5 kg Diminutive Military 

0.5 kg Tiny Illegal 

0.5 kg Tiny Military 

0.5 kg Tiny Military 

0.1 kg Fine Licensed 

0.5 ky Tiny Military 


LASER TRIP MINE 
Often used in high-security areas or in places where security is more impor- 
tant than the preservation of the structure, laser trip mines use a nearly 
invisible laser beam that acts as a tripwire to detonate the mine. A laser trip 
mine is placed on the ground (in any square adjacent to you) or against any 
other solid surface; you then designate a single solid surface within 6 squares 
as the laser’s terminus. The mine is triggered when any character, creature, 
droid, or vehicle enters a square that is part of the line between the square 
where the mine is placed and the square that is the laser's terminus. 

A laser trip mine damages everything in a 2-square burst radius. 


MANUAL TRIGGER 

Manual triggers can be added to any explosive, including mines. As with 
a timer, the manual trigger must be set with a Mechanics check. If the 
check is successful, you can detonate the explosive using the trigger as 
a swift action from anywhere within 30 squares of the explosive. 


PROXIMITY MINE 
A proximity mine has a wide explosive radius and uses sensors capable of 
detecting shifts in air pressure to detonate the mine when anyone enters 
its blast radius. A proximity mine is placed in or on the ground (in any square 
adjacent to you) or against any solid surface and is triggered when any 
character, creature, droid, or vehicle enters any square within a 3-square 
radius of the mine (after setting the mine, you have 1 round to move away 
before the proximity sensors become active). 

A proximity mine damages everything in a 3-square burst radius. 


EQUIPMENT 


Much of the new equipment common in this era focuses on concealing 
yourself, or something you own. 


DEcOY GLOWROD 

Though not officially manufactured by any corporation, the decoy glowrod 
is a piece of equipment used by enemies of the Empire and smugglers alike. 
This device is a fully functional glowrod with a hollowed-out handle that can 
be used to hide small objects. A decoy glowrod can hide up to 3 kilograms 
of equipment, no one piece of which can be larger than Diminutive in size. 
This allows the owner to hide everything from code cylinders and datacards 
to credit chips and small comlinks within the interior. Best of all, since the 
glowrod is functional, Imperial customs agents almost never suspect that 
such a device is being used to carry contraband. Hiding an item inside a 
decoy glowrod grants the user a +10 equipment bonus on Stealth checks 
to hide the item. 


HOLOSHROVUD 


A holoshroud is an advanced form of holoprojector that places a stored 
holographic image of a creature over the form of the creature wearing the 
holoshroud. This creates a nearly perfect visual illusion that moves, acts, 
and reacts with the wearer. A typical model is the Corellidyne CQ-3.9x 
Holographic Image Disguiser, though it's far from the only holoshroud on the 
market. The CQ-3.9x is able to store a single holographic image to disguise the 
wearer, though it can be changed if the user has access to other holographic 
images and makes a DC 15 Use Computer check. 

Using a holoshroud gives you a +10 equipment bonus on Deception checks 
made to produce a deceptive appearance that matches the holographic image 
within the holoshroud. Creating or removing this deceptive appearance is a 
swift action (to turn the holoshroud on or off), which is not considered a rushed 
deception and does not take a -10 penalty for lacking the proper time. 


HUSH-ABOUT PERSONAL 
WETPACK 

A light jetpack that is engineered to produce little or no noise, Arakyd’s 
Hush-About personal jetpack is often used by covert enemies of the Empire 
who are engaged in sabotage and espionage missions. A Hush-About jetpack 


; 
0 
I 
> 
3 
® 
2 
Is 


f 


SGI@Ya GNY LNAWAIAeS 


A eSi0gvHS 


Uy 


{ 


SQIOUeG GNY LNIWAINOS 


uses a small jet engine that produces little noise beyond a high-pitch whine, 
meaning that the wearer takes no penalty on Stealth checks because of 
speed when using the jetpack (allowing the wearer to double move or take 
the run action while flying the jetpack with no penalty on Stealth checks). 
A Hush-About personal jetpack functions in all other ways like a normal 
jetpack, though each fuel cell for the jet pack carries only 6 charges instead 
of the normal 10. Replacement fuel cells cost 100 credits. 


REPULSOR PAD 

A repulsor pad is used mostly to ease manual labor. In essence, it is a flat 
board with four repulsors, one at each corner, that can be used to lift heavy 
objects for short-range transport. This allows a single worker to move a 
heavy crate or other object without the need to use a vehicle or a binary load 
lifter. During the Dark Times, the repulsor pad is often used by saboteurs to 
transport heavy machinery or by thieves to cart off Jarge objects without 
the need to use noisy vehicles or droids. Each repulsor pad occupies a single 
square and can be used to lift an object that occupies no more space than 
that single square; multiple repulsor pads can be used to lift larger objects. 
Activating a repulsor pad (or a group of pads) is a swift action, and a repulsor 
pad can move along with a character if that character uses a swift action 
to grab and drag the pad. If two creatures attempt to pull a repulsor pad in 
opposite directions, they make opposed Strength checks, and the pad moves 
along with the victor. 


SOUND SPONGE 

This small electronic device emits sound waves in frequencies well above 
and below the normal range of audible sound for most species in the galaxy, 
using those sounds to Suppress other sounds in the vicinity. A sound sponge 
muffles all sound in a G-square radius, increasing the Perception check DC 
to hear noises coming from that area by 10. 


TABLE 6-4: EQUIPMENT 


ITEM COST WEIGHT 
Decoy glowrod 100 4kg 
Holoshroud 25,000 0.5 kg 
Arakyd Hush-About Personal Jetpack 3,750 30 kg 
Repulsor pad 200 6 kg 
Sound sponge 3,500 1kg 


DROIDS 


Droids took center stage during much of the Clone Wars, a result of their 
heavy use by the Separatist armies. Although this period saw great strides 
in droid development, it also had a lasting effect on the attitudes of many 
who had suffered at drotds’ hands. Even decades later, it was not unusual 
to see signs declaring “Droids Not Welcome” in front of establishments on 
fringe worlds. 


DROID TALENT TREES 

Droid talents work the same as the talents presented in the Saga Edition 
core rulebook; however, each talent is available only to droids of a particular 
degree. Any time a droid would normally gain a talent (such as from gaining 
an odd-numbered level in a heroic class), the droid can select a droid talent 
from among those presented below. 


FIRST-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Dull the Pain: As a full-round action, you can make a DC 15 Treat Injury 
check on an adjacent living creature to move it +1 step along the condition 
track. 

Prerequisite. Medical Droid. 

Interrogator: You can create an aura of unliving, emotionless menace that 
no biological creature can match, and combine it with the cruel application 
of medical knowledge. You can use your Treat Injury modifier on a Persua- 
sion check to change attitude or intimidate. You must be adjacent to your 
target to use this ability, in addition to the normal requirements for these 
uses of the Persuasion skill. 

Medical Droid: When you use a medpac to perform first aid with the 
Treat Injury skill, the creature gains 2 hit points for every point by which your 
check exceeds the DC (rather than the normal 1 hit point). 


SECOND-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Adept Assistant: When you successfully aid another character on a 
Mechanics, Pilot, or Use Computer check, you add +5 to the check result 
(rather than the normal +2). 

Mechanics Mastery: You can always take 10 on a Mechanics check, 
even if distractions or hazardous circumstances would normally prevent 
you from doing so. 

Vehicle Mechanic: Once per day you can spend three swift actions in 
successive rounds to make a DC 20 Mechanics check to restore 1d8 hit 
points to a vehicle and move it +1 step along the condition track. You also 
restore 1 hit point to the vehicle for every paint by which you exceed the 
Mechanics check DC. 


THIRD-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Etiquette: When you succeed on a Persuasion check to change attitude, 
you adjust the target's attitude by one additional step. 

Helpful: Once per turn you can use the aid another action to assist 
any adjacent ally on a skill check as a swift action instead of a standard 
action. 

Protocol: You always succeed on attempts to aid another on Deception, 
Knowledge, and Persuasion checks (no check required). 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Combat Repairs: Once per day, as a full-round action, you can use the 
Mechanics skill to repair yourself (using the repair droid application of the 
skill}, as opposed to the norma! 1 hour. 

Droid Smash: You can use your mechanical strength when wielding a 
melee weapon. You add 2 x your Strength bonus to melee damage rolls when 
wielding a weapon in one hand. 

Targeting Package: You can take two consecutive swift actions in the 
same round to activate special targeting software. When you do so, you 
gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls on your next attack if 
your target is at point blank range (or within reach, for melee attacks) and 
within line of sight. 

You lose the benefit of this talent if you lose line of sight to your target 
or if you take any other action before making your attack. The effect of this 
talent stacks with that of the Point Blank Shot feat. 


FIFTH-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Cargo Hauler: You gain a +5 bonus on Strength-based skill checks. 
Additionally, you double your carrying capacity. 

Environmentally Shielded: You gain a +5 equipment bonus to your Forti- 
tude Defense against environmental hazards, including extreme atmospheric 
conditions and corrosion. 

Power Supply: You have learned to reroute power through your system 
to act as a power generator, providing power to an E-Web blaster (or similar 
weapon requiring a power generator). Additionally, whenever you would 
normally spend three swift actions to recharge shields or reroute power on 
a vehicle or starship, you need spend only two swift actions instead. 


FiRsTtT-DEGREE DROIDS 


Although combat droids, and to a lesser extent technical and engineering 
droids, are shunned by many in the years after the Clone Wars as potential 
agents of the Separatists, first-degree droids are largely seen as being some- 
how different. The most common first-degree droids are medical models, too 
useful for many creatures fo hate, and other analytical droids of this type 
are rarely encountered by typical civilians. Of course, many such droids were 
built to help run the Clone Wars, and they were much less likely to be close 


enough to the front lines to be damaged, making such droids plentiful and 
cheap in the years shortly after the war. 


Fx<-6& MEDICAL DROID 

The FX-6 medical droid was built during the Clone Wars as a mobile, autono- 
mous, skilled medical assistant to field medics fighting on the front line. The 
Grand Army of the Republic even dropped FX-6 droids into areas where fight- 
ing was planned (or already going on) to grant additional medical aid to clone 
trooper forces. Of course, this also means that numerous battlefields were 
littered with FX-6s in various states of repair, and more than one scavenger 
took the opportunity to add a few to his inventory. 

The FX-6 is able to move over many different terrains with its three cast- 
ers, a trick not available to many FX models. Many FX droids are immobile, 
but the FX-6 has a strong sense of balance and good movement ability over 
any reasonably even terrain. This additional capacity comes at the price of 
not including a personality package or even a vocoder, leaving the droid able 
to communicate only through readout panels. Although this limitation gives 
it a sinister bedside manner, it has no impact on the droid’s ability and desire 
to render medical assistance. Equipped with a ring of sensors, numerous 
surgical tools, and multiple appendages, an FX-6 can be equipped to deal 
with most medical problems and to treat any species. 

Produced in vast numbers and seeded on dozens of battlefields, the FX-6 
is a common sight in the years after the Clone Wars. Designed as an assistant, 


FX-6 Medical Droid CLO 
Medium droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 13 
hp 5; Threshold 10 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (wheeled) 

Melee unarmed +0 (1d3-1) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +1; Grp +1 


Abilities Str 9, Dex 10, Con —, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 9 

Special Qualities low-light vision 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Improved Defenses, Skill Focus (Treat Injury), 
Surgical Expertise 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +8, Perception +5, Treat Injury +13 

Systems wheeled locomotion, basic processor, 6 hands, improved sensor 
package, darkvision 

Possessions medical kit, medpac, surgery kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 3,800 


SGleolaG GNY LNWAWAINES 


1A 8ealavHo 


c 


& 
S 
1) 
K 
Wy 
Z 
dj 
D 
Z 
Y 
g 
0 
@ 
0 
@ 


the model is capable of performing as a full doctor when necessary, though 

patents often complain about its apparent lack of compassion. The model 

was eventually replaced by the more advanced FX-7, and later the 2-1B. 
FX-6 series droids can not be played as droid heroes. 


SECOND-DEGREE 
DROIDS 


Always a common sight, second-degree droids exploded in popularity and 
sales shortly after the Clone Wars. The race for better starfighters had 
begun to result in numerous designs that featured astromech-droid work 
sockets, requiring at least one astromech per starfighter. Additionally, many 
repair facilities became Empire-controlled establishments featuring customs 
officers and careful credentials checks, encouraging fringe pilots to do more 
repairs on their own—for which technical droids are a huge help. 


Q7 SERIES ASTROMECH DROID 
Designed specifically to tie in to the systems of the Alpha-3 Nimbus-class 
V-wing starfighter, the Q7 series of astromech droids was an experiment for 
its manufacturer, Industrial Automaton. Unlike the previous models of astro- 
mech, the Q7 moved by means of a repulsorlift. Although Industrial Automa- 
ton had used repulsorlift designs for simple devices such as hovercam droids 
and training remotes, it had never before attempted to make anything as 
multipurpose as an astromech with a hover capacity. Indeed, the company's 
efforts to give R2 models even limited flight ability with aftermarket leg-jets 
resulted in devices that broke down more often than they worked, forcing 
the manufacturer to stop supporting the flight accessories. 


Q7 Series Astromech Droid CLO 
Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +4; Senses darkvision; Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 7, Will 10 

hp 5; Threshold 7 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee electroshock probe -1 (1d8 ion) 
Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +1; Grp -1 


Abilities Str 7, Dex 16, Con —, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 7 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Skill Training 
(Perception), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +3, Pilot +9, Stealth +7, Use Computer 
+13 

Systems hovering locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 tool appendages, 
diagnostics package, improved sensor package, darkvision 

Possessions astrogation buffer (storage device, 10 memory units), 
electroshock probe, electric arc welder, holorecorder, holoprojector 

Availability Licensed; Cost 6,500 


However, the design of the V-wing required an astromech that took up 
little space and could get itself in and out of its work socket. A repulsor 
hoverdroid seemed the best answer, and IA felt the lucrative military 
contracts that a successful design would bring was worth the risk. After 
numerous prototypes (designated Q1 through Q6), a working blueprint 
was achieved. IA based the Q7 on the upper dome of its popular R2 series, 
both to save costs on retooling parts and because the R2s were well loved 
throughout the galaxy. Rather than a large cylindrical body, however, the 
Q7 had a lower dome as well, making it a hovering sphere less than a meter 
in diameter. 

For a few years the Q7 seemed destined to replace the R2 as the 
company’s greatest success. The smaller hovering droids were just as 
smart and adaptable as their bigger cousins (largely because of very similar 
core programming), and they had the same plucky, fearless personality 
that allowed them to operate in combat conditions. However, problems 
turned up. The repulsorlift broke down more often than tracks, cost more 
to repair, and had no backup system to allow locomotion when it failed. 
The Q7 had much less interior room, leaving it only a few standard tool 
and manipulator options. And finally, the V-wing was replaced by the 
TIE, and new Imperial military planners felt no need for astromechs in 
their fighter craft. 


Production was stopped, and the remaining stock of Q7s was sold at 
large discounts. In the decades right after the Clone Wars, this made them 
a common sight with smugglers and Outer Rim merchants. By the time of 
the Battle of Yavin, the high cost of maintaining the hovering astromechs 
had convinced most owners to give up on them. Many were converted to 
R2- or R4-like tracked droids, and others had their memories transferred 
to entirely different models. Although a few might still be encountered as 
oddities, the era of the Q7 was over. 

Q7 series droids can be played as droid heroes 


THIRD-DEGREE 
DROIDS 


Though rarely used for true military purposes, third-degree droids are often 
the face of the political forces behind combat forces. As a result, many models 
were as hated as the owners who sent them to inform local populations 
that an army was approaching and all buildings and possessions in the area 
were being confiscated. Although every major government and organization 
continues to use third-degree droids to ease negotiations straight though 
the Clone Wars and in the years beyond, the attitude of many less powerful 
civilians toward droids took a sour turn for many decades. 


BO-3000 LUXURY ATTENDANT 
DOROID 

The BD-3000 by LeisureMech Enterprises is a serviceable protocol droid that 
can also be programmed to cook, do food service, pilot private repulsor yachts 
or starships, do tailoring, handle light administrative duties, or even serve as 
a nanny or (with some modification) a bodyguard. Although the droid has 
the capacity to speak more than a million languages and is programmed with 
knowledge of diplomatic ceremonies, the primary focus of the BD-3000 is 
to be aesthetic and complimentary. As a result, the droids were extremely 
popular with Senators of the Old Republic, and with the wealthy who wanted 
to be seen as extravagant. 

A large part of the extremely high price for BD droids comes from the cus- 
tomized choice of shape, coloration, voice tone, and personality a customer 
can specify when ordering. Because of this customization, their used value 
is significantly lower than that of most other droids (since custom options 
can't be changed). As a result, when an owner no longer has any use for a 
BD-3000 (because it’s out of date, or the owner's tastes have changed, or a 
newer model has come out, or the owner has been imprisoned by the Empire}, 
the droid is often just junked or sold for parts. 

However, the droids are no less functional for their lack of prestige. 
Criminal elements often buy or steal just-abandoned luxury droids for their 
own uses. Some are turned into assassin droids, and many are simply used 
as fancy protocol droids (although only a new BD-3000 is a symbol of status 


among the upper crust of society, any model is a sign of success for a crime 
lord). Others are radically modified and put to seedier uses (the addition of 
articulated lekku is fairly common, for example). Such criminal purposes 
are easier to arrange with BD-3000 droids, because their core programming 
outlaws fewer activities (they are not forbidden to impersonate deities, for 
example), and they come equipped with heuristic processors (to better 
anticipate their owners’ preferences). 
BD-3000 droids can be played as droid heroes. 


BD-3000 Luxury Droid 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init -1; Senses darkvision; Perception -1 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 9 

hp 2; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (143-1) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +0; Grp +1 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 13, Con =, Int 12, Wis 9, Cha 15 

Feats Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), 
Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Training (Pilot) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Knowledge (galactic lore) +6, 
Knowledge (social sciences) +6, Persuasion +12, Pilot +6 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, translator unit (DC 
10), 2 hand appendages, compartment space (2 kg), internal comlink, 
locked access, vocabulator 

Possessions audio recorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 25,000 (8,000 used) 


CLO 


FOURTH-DEGREE 
DROIDS 


The end of the Clone Wars convinced most military planners that droid 
soldiers were too easily outmaneuvered by living soldiers to be a good invest- 
ment, and the market became flooded with “slightly used” droid soldiers. 
Though very few companies produced fourth-degree droids in the decades 
right after the New Order came to power, there were plenty of older models to 
choose from, and lots of replacement parts to fix them with. As years passed 
the old supply grew smaller, and droid manufacturers began experimenting 
with (and eventually producing) new combat droids. 

Although there are always those willing to employ cheap brute force, 
the stigma of most Clone Wars-era military droids made them unpopular 
choices as soon as new options came along. Very few B1 series battle 


lA =eLerHo 


SQioueg GNY LNEWANIAG®e 


SqQleNg GNY LNIWAIASSA 


F 


1A BSidvHo 


droids were still in use by the time of the Battle of Yavin, and most of their 
contemporaries were similarly retired. But for a period of a few decades, 
running into leftover Separatist battle droids was as common as running 
into Rodian bounty hunters. 


YJUNK DROIDS 

As the Clone Wars ravaged the galaxy, the debris of battle built up at the same 
time, and material for high-tech items became scarce. Inevitably, numer- 
ous groups turned to recycling, repurposing, and just rebuilding broken bits 
of technology to suit their needs. This was particularly common on worlds 
ravaged by ground fighting in major cities, and worlds filled with junk, such 
as Raxus Prime. When such jury-rigged efforts were turned to creating 
automatons, the results were cobbled-together “junk” droids. 

Although junk droids could conceivably be built out of any spare droid and 
vehicle parts and set to any needed task, the majority fall into three broad 
groups: regular, brute, and behemoth. Regular junk droids were approximately 
Human size and shape and generally used for common labor tasks. Because 
they were fairly fragile, they were often equipped with a shield or blocking 
limb to help prevent damage in the course of their duties. Brute droids are 
larger and more likely to be quadrupeds, built to be strong and solid rather 
than flexible. They are used as beasts of burden and brute-force guards. 
Behemoth droids are always specialty-built, often to serve as walking power 
plants or armored carriers. Many have a storage space to carry a Small 
creature safely within. 

Because junk droids have mashed-together programming, they are con- 
sidered dangerous by most civilized people. They might go on a rampage, 
confuse orders, or even start building more of their own kind if there's junk 
enough to do so. Although they were fairly common just after the Clone 
Wars, as the supply of high-tech components decreased, so did the popular- 
ity of junk droids. 

Regular junk droids can be played as droid heroes, but brutes and behe- 
moths cannot be. 


Junk Droid cL 1 
Medium droid nonheroic 3 

Init +4; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Binary 

Defenses Ref 14 [flat-footed 11), Fort 13, Will 10 
hp 12; Threshold 13 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee hand +4 (1d3+2) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +5 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con —, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 8 

Feats Improved Defenses, Skill Training (Climb), Skill Training (ump), Skill 
Training (Perception), Toughness 

Skills Climb +8, Jump +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +5 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 1 hand 

Availability Rare; Cost not available for sale (estimated cost 2,610) 


Brute Junk Droid CL3 
Large droid nonheroic 9 

Init +7; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Binary 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 10), Fort 18, Will 10 
hp 43; Threshold 23 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (walking} 

Melee unarmed +13 (1d6+7) or 

Melee unarmed +17 (1d6+11) with Powerful Charge 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +6; Grp +18 

Atk Options Powerful Charge, Running Attack 


Abilities Str 25, Dex 16, Con —, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 8 

Feats Improved Defenses, Powerful Charge, Running Attack, Skill Training 
(Climb), Skill Training (Jump), Skill Training (Perception), Toughness 

Skills Climb +16, Jump +16, Mechanics +9, Perception +8 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, claws 

Availability Rare; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 3,200) 


Behemoth Junk Droid CL4 
Huge droid nonheroic 12 

Init +5; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Binary 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 23, Will 11 
hp 63; Threshold 33 
Immune croid traits 


Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +12* (1d8+21) or 

Melee unarmed +16* (1d8+27) with Powerful Charge 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +9; Grp +31 

Atk Options Bantha Rush, Power Attack, Powerful Charge 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 12, Con —, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Feats Bantha Rush, Improved Defenses, Power Attack, Powerful Charge, 
Skill Training (Climb), Skill Training Gump), Skill Training (Perception), 
Toughness 

Skills Climb +23, Jump +23, Mechanics +11, Perception +11 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, claws 

Availability Rare; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 5,000) 

“Includes 9 points of Power Attack. 


lA Bala vrHO 


WAINeS |} 


SqieorGgd @ANY ANea) 


CHAPTER VII 
VEHICLES AND STARSHIPS 


an tee 


— 


The history of vehicle technology and design takes a significant downward 
turn in the early years of the Empire. After years of new ideas, designs, and 
concepts being produced rapid-fire to fight the Clone Wars, a period of much 
more modest technical advances settles in. The reason for this is partly a 
vast stock of ships left over from those wars, and mostly the Empire's desire 
to maintain strong control over the galaxy. 

Vehicles are an important part of any military or paramilitary organization, 
especially one that hopes to oppose (in whatever small way) the Empire. With 
the New Order firmly in power and the Clone Wars ended, many sources of 
military vessels are shut down by Imperial decree, while others are placed 
under the Empire's control. The Empire's chosen suppliers are free to continue 
to design, test, and develop new ideas and models, but much of the competi- 
tion that spurs innovation is shut down for many years, and will remain that 
way until the Rebel Alliance and its sympathizers begin working to produce 
vehicles to end the Empire's rule. 

New military craft are in short supply, sold legally only to those who have 
e Empire's blessing or in areas outside the New Order's growing control. 
any vehicles are produced as “armed civilian” models in the hope of slip- 
ping them past Imperial inspectors without seeming too militant. Others 
become “gray market" items, available to those who know how to find them 
but technically illegal. And, of course, vehicles originally manufactured and 
marketed with legitimately peaceful purposes are increasingly modified in 
private yards and fringe worlds to serve more martial needs. 

The vehicles and starships presented in this chapter are common in the 
years between the end of the Clone Wars and the Battle of Yavin, represent- 
ing not so much the best conceivable but more the best available. Though 
not all are used for military purposes, most are pressed into fighting in 
enough cases to make mention of them worthwhile. They are in the hands 
of pirates, smugglers, planetary defense forces, large cartels or corporations, 
and small organizations readying to fight against the growing tyranny of 
the New Order. 

Vehicles and starships in use exclusively by the New Order are detailed 
in Chapter 10: The Empire. 


SdHIHSYeviS ONY SS TIDIAMSA a 


HaLagVHOD 


A, 


WHEELED VEHICLES 


Wheeled vehicles include any vehicle restricted exclusively to traveling along 
the ground’s surface through means other than repulsors or legs. This is a 
more primitive technology than most alternatives, and it's generally easier 
to use speeders for everything from transport to cargo hauling to joyrid- 
ing. However, the same kinds of conditions that made walkers successful 
on some worlds (high-energy fields or high dust environments that knock 
out the repulsors in speeders) make other kinds of ground vehicles popular 
in some fringe areas. The New Order assumed that any ground vehicle that 
was neither a walker nor a speeder was not a military threat, briefly sparking 
renewed interest in such older technologies. 


ARMORED GROUNDCAR 

A groundcar is similar to a speeder, but it uses wheels rather than repulsors 
for motive power. These vehicles range in size from single-passenger scoot- 
ers to massive passenger or cargo vehicles. Groundcars are most common 
on fringe worlds or in manufacturing plants that have high-energy fields, 
though they are also sometimes used for simple maintenance jobs when a 
more advanced vehicle isn't required. Because groundcars tend to have more 
spare carrying capacity than speeders and are cheaper, many outlaw groups 
and bounty hunters turn to armoring groundcars for use as simple light tanks 
in the years after the Clone Wars. Although such vehicles are nowhere near 
as powerful as true military groundcars (such as the Juggernaut series of 
military wheeled vehicles), they can provide a considerable advantage over 
Armored Groundcar CL5 
Huge ground vehicle 

Init +10; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 21; +6 armor 
hp 140; DR 5; Threshold 31 


Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 90 km/h) 
Ranged 2 blaster cannons +1 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +21 


SAHMSUVLS GNY SETSIHAA IF 


Abilities Str 32, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 3 (normal); Passengers 8 

Cargo 300 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 25,000 (13,000 used) 


Blaster cannons (gunner) 
Atk +1, Dmg 3d10x2 


targets on foot or in unarmored vehicles. The statistics here represent a 
fairly typical groundcar with armor and a few weapons added on afterward, 
such as are found on a thousand fringe worlds during the Dark Times. Such 
modified vehicles were sometimes called warcrawlers. 


SPEEDERS 

Speeders are the standard for all planetary vehicles, a fact that doesn't 
change after the rise of the New Order. Though military speeders see less 
new sales during this time, military adaptations of civilian Jandspeeders are 
common. 


ARROW-2ZS3 LANDSPEEDER 

The Aratech Arrow-23 Landspeeder is an enclosed speeder truck designed 
for hunters and adventurous tourists on fringe worlds. It has a comfortable 
interior (or a \uxury interior for 10,000 credits more), a rugged exterior 
able to resist most animal attacks (and some blaster fire), and extensive 
cargo capacity. It is also one of the fastest commercial landspeeders on the 
market, a quality that endears it to many police forces and bounty hunters. 
It's easily modified, and it can be found serving as a security transport for 


Arrow-23 Landspeeder (Paramilitary) CL 2 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +7; Senses Perception +5 
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 21; +5 armor 
hp 120; DR §; Threshold 31 
Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 400 km/h) 
Ranged laser cannon +1 (see below) and 
grenade launcher +1 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total (+5 for gunner) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +9 


Abilities Str 32, Dex 19, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 5 
Cargo 800 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 10,800 (3,400 used) 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +1, Dmg 4d10 


Grenade launcher (gunner) 
Atk +1, Dmg 4d6, 2-square burst 


vV-35 COURIER 


VIPs, a prisoner transport, a light scout, and a ground smuggling vehicle in 
addition to its normal civilian uses. 

It also lends itself to service as a light military craft, often called a 
“tramp shuttle,” though it lacks the capacity to mount more than a few 
weapons. Most weapons must be mounted on open turrets, to be fired by 
a gunner who is only partially concealed by the speeder's body. A typical 
combat model is presented below; the civilian model has no weapons and 
costs 4,000 credits less. 


FLARE-S Swoore 
The Mobquet Flare-S is considered by many to be the perfect swoop bike. 
After the New Order outlawed Podracing, those who wanted to engage in 


high-speed, high-risk sports turned to swoop racing, and the Flare-S quickly 
became the most common swoop bike on the race circuit. The Flare-S ts 
extremely powerful, has a maximum altitude of 340 meters (it can be modi- 
fied with a DC 15 Mechanics check to reach an allitude of several kilometers), 
and is much faster than standard speeder bikes, It is aisa extremely dangerous 
to fly, with few safety systems. Professional swoop racers sometimes add 
deflectors to their bikes (granting them SR 5}, but doing so is an expensive 


modification, running 20,000 credits, and rarely saves live 


ZEPHYR-G Swoor 


The Flare-S is also popular with gangs, mercenaries and bounty hunters. A 
“swoop culture” of high-risk, stunt-oriented behavior exists on many worlds, 
and the dividing line between amateur swoop racers and criminally minded 
swoop gangs is often fuzzy. The Flare-S has sufficient power to mount heavy 
weapons (though not in addition to deflectors) and is sturdy enough that 
many survive longer than their riders. 


Flare-S Swoop CL 3 

Large air vehicle (speeder) 

Init +10; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 15; +2 armor 

hp 50; DR 5; Threshold 20 — 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 650 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +2; Grp +12 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew i (skilled); Passengers 1 

Cargo 2 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 5,750 (1,500 used) 


9) 
I 
cal 
v 
4 
1) 
a 
< 


| 


SHHSYUVLS GNY SHBISIHSaA 


WA BHSBastcdvHoa 


V-35 COURIER 

The V-35 courier is an extremely common, cheap, durable landspeeder 
designed for families and small businesses. Built by SoroSuub decades before 
the Clone Wars, the V-35 is a top seller until midway through the Galactic 
Civil War, when newer models finally end its long and successful run. Even 
then, the V-35 turns up regularly on fringe worlds (Luke Skywalker's Uncle 
Owen kept a V-35 for family business on his Tatooine moisture farm). 

In addition to being durable and having a good cargo capacity for a private 
speeder, the courier is popular because it offers total cover to those inside. 
Although it lacks the armor for this feature to be of much military value, it 
does allow those who would rather not be seen coming and going an excuse 
to travel incognito. Though no one normally bothers, it is possible to mount 
a small weapon turret on the vehicle's roof, tied to its scanner scope. 


V-35 Courier 

Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +7; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 105 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +9 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +5 


CL2 


SannAshwsLs GNY SswWinaa 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 2 
Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 8,000 (2,500 used) 


ZEPHYR-G Swoop 

The Zephyr-G swoop bike is a speeder bike designed for sport racing, but 
sturdy enough to be used as a utility vehicle as well. Like most swoops, it 
emphasizes speed and power over safety and maneuverability. The Zephyr-G 
has inhibitors that prevent it from hovering more than 6 meters above the 
ground, but if those are disabled (Mechanics DC 15), it can rise to nearly a 
kilometer. It's also possible to mount pistols or rifles to the swoop, though 
the frame lacks the bracing for heavy weapons. 

The Zephyr-G has far more power than it needs, a feature that allows it to 
carry a passenger (uncomfortably unless the seat is modified) and some extra 
materials, Though stock models don't include any cargo capacity, it costs only 
10 credits to add cargo panniers capable of holding 100 kg of gear. These 
factors are a large part of why it proved popular with fringe-world buyers, 
despite its relatively slow speed for a swoop. (Owen Lars owned a Zephyr-G, 
which Anakin Skywalker borrowed to search for his mother.) 


Zephyr-G Swoop CL2 

Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +8; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 17; +2 armor 

hp 50; DR 5; Threshold 22 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 350 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +0; Grp +12 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 1 
Cargo 100 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 5,750 (1,500 used) 


HEAVY SPEEDERS 

A number of military setbacks suffered by speeders of different types during 
the Clone Wars convinced the Empire that tt was safer to trust walker 
designs for most heavy ground vehicles. This decision left many repulsorlift 
manufacturers with significantly fewer government contracts, leading them 
to try innovative new designs and seek out new markets. Before the Empire 
shut down many of these avenues, heavy speeders found their way into the 
hands of numerous independent groups. Some were used as light tanks or 
mobile command platforms, while others served as military cargo or troop 
transports. 


A-AS SPESEDER TRUCK 

The speeder truck isa common sight on numerous worlds, since it’s the fastest 
and most economical way to carry tons of cargo. The Trast Heavy Transport 
A-A5 speeder truck is a typical example of dozens of different heavy cargo 
speeder designs. It is found on numerous different worlds throughout the 
Clone Wars, the rise of the New Order, and the Galactic Civil War. 

The A-A5 was designed for hard duty on rough worlds, and as such it 
was covered in heavy armor plates to protect it (and its cargo) from harsh 
environmental conditions. Its three-person crew cabin makes it perfect for 
long runs over several days, allowing the crew to drive constantly by sleeping 
in shifts (two small bunks fold out 0! the cabin's back wall). Its internal cargo 
capacity is an Impressive 25 tons, and its interior cargo bays have more fold- 


out benches, allowing the vehicle to carry twenty-five people securely. 

A number of groups, especially militias and insurgents, use A-A5 speeder 
trucks as simple troop transports, depending on their armor and range to 
move infantry into the thick of battle. Although it Serves reasonably well in 
this capacity, and requires no modifications that would cause it to stick out 


during an Imperial customs inspection, the A-A5 is not truly tough enough 


for frontline military duty. Much of its toughness is a result of its size, and 
though an A-A5 might well survive an attack by infantry troops or even those 
on AT-RTs, if it faced a similarly sized military vessel (such as an AT-AT), the 
A-A5 would be destroyed in moments. 


A-A5 Speeder Truck CL5 

Colossal ground speeder 

Init +3; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 19; +13 armor 

hp 100; DR 15; Threshold 69 

Speed fly 8 squares (max. velocity 160 km/h) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale): Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +29 

Abilities Str 28, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 3 (normal); Passengers 25 
Cargo 25 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 30,500 (8,000 used) 


FREERUNNER 

The Freerunner is a heavy military speeder designed by KAAC (the Kelliak Arms 
and Armor Company) to be the ultimate in fast, flexible military ground craft. 
Its advertising claims it’s able to take on advanced scout, supply escort, or 
even frontline combat duties. Its development just after the Clone Wars is a 
case of bad timing, however, since the Empire has already decided to move 
to walkers and tracked vehicles. With no major contracts forthcoming from 
the New Order, the Freerunner is a financial disaster for its manufacturer, 
which goes bankrupt as a result. 

The remaining stock is available for sale to anyone who has the credits and 
proper licenses (or fair forgeries), The Freerunner is popular with planetary 
defense forces, major cartels, and large gangs. Numerous minor arms deal- 
ers have managed to acquire dozens of the speeders, and auctions on fringe 
worlds are not difficult to find. Though provided with a basic weapon load 


from the factory, many Freerunners are now sold without weapans (though 
the dealers are happy to sell a few blasters at a modest additional cast). 
The Freerunner is broken into two main sections—the cockpit and the 
weapons platform. The cockpit is open to the air fo increase Ihe pilot’s field 
of vision, but this also increases vulnerability. Many owners take the time 
to fully enclose the cockpit (an additional 1,000 credits), The independent 


weapon platform allows the Freerunner to carry up la four weapon syslen 
and swap them out quickly and easily (DC 15 Mechanics chee) 
appropriate facilities are available). Though designed to be fired by gunner 


md deur, 


in the weapon platform, the armaments can also be fired by the pilot or 
copilot, though at a -5 penalty. 

In truly hazardous regions, KAAC Freerunners are sometimes used as VIP 
transports and even corporate ground shuttles. They are more commonly 
found in use as assault vehicles for major city police forces and as medium 
tanks for mercenary fighting companies. 


KAAC Freerunner CL7 
Gargantuan ground speeder 
Init +3; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 26; +8 armor 
hp 160; DR 10; Threshold 46 
Speed fly 10 squares (max. velocity 300 km/h) 
Ranged 2 heavy laser cannons +4 (see below) and 
2 blaster cannons +3 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square {starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +34 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 5 (skilled); Passengers 6 
Cargo 250 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 140,000 (110,000 used) 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 5d10x2 


Blaster cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 410 


STARFIGHTERS 


Starfighters are the most basic military vessel for space combat, serving 
roles as varied as patrol craft, armed transports, escorts, attack vessels, and 
bombers. They are also much easier to conceal than larger military ships. 
An Imperial customs ship can see at a glance whether a Corellian Corvette 
is armed with turbolasers—but determining if the ships in its hangar are 
defenseless shuttles or M3-A Seyks is much more difficult. As a result, the 
Starfighter is the ship of choice for criminal cartels, independent mercenaries, 
and insurgents, Many of the thousands of starfighters that served during 
the Clone Wars continued to see use in the decades that followed, and many 
other craft became increasingly common in the fight against the New Order 
as well, though none had the success that would later be captured by the 
<-wing design. 


SQInSseyss GNY SETWWIAAA 


U 


SaiASsHVss GANY Sa WwWHsa 


H-60 TEMPEST BOMBER 

Designed by Slayn & Korpil, the H-60 was developed in the last decades 
of the Old Republic but saw little use during that time. Its need for regular 
maintenance, as well as its unusual flying wing design with a cockpit at each 
end of the main body, made it unpopular with Republic naval planners. Seen 
as a failure, small stockpiles of the ships were left in Republic scrap yards to 
be salvaged for parts. Many of those were illicitly sold off to independent 
concerns once the New Order came to power, where the bombers enjoyed 
moderate success for a number of years. Ultimately the design was not 
flexible enough to compete with more modern starfighters, though the best 
design elements of the H-60 were incorporated into the B-wing designed 
decades later for the Rebel Alliance. 


H-60 Tempest Bomber 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +4; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor 
hp 160; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 48 


CL7 


Speed fly 15 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +3 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +3 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0: Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 4 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Payload 20 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive none 

Availability Restricted; Cost 175,000 (125,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +3 (-2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (gunner) 
Atk +3, Dmg 9d10x2, 2-square splash 


Though fairly slow and lacking a hyperdrive (though many owners install 
one as an aftermarket modification), once an H-60 gets to a battle it is 
reasonably effective. The dual-cockpit design allows an H-60 to carry an 
extensive crew (with a copilot behind the pilot, and a systems operator behind 
the gunner) so it can operate all systems simultaneously. The drawback to 
this system is the high demand for trained crews, especially compared to 
a Y-wing. For heavy targets, the concussion missiles are launched while 
linked; softer foes can be targeted by just one (dealing only 8d10x2 points 
of damage, but also using only one missile from the payload). 


M3-A SCYK FIGHTER 

The M3-A fighter is an extremely basic starfighter produced under unusual 
circumstances. Although MandalMotors supported the Confederacy of 
Independent Systems during the Clone Wars, the Empire needed as many 
starships and as much tax revenue as it could amass once it came to power. 
To eliminate the chance of MandalMotors working against the Empire, an 
Imperial advisor was piaced to oversee the operations of the company. 

However, this position was subject to both deception and bribery. Man- 
dalMotors did a brisk business with semilegitimate organizations, such as the 
Zann Consortium and Hutt business enterprises, often customizing starships 
for groups that the Empire would prefer not have such vessels. One of the 
biggest early sellers to such groups was the Scyk, which was just dangerous 
enough to be worthwhile, without being so advanced as to draw Imperial 
attention. Production of the starfighter ended at about the time the Rebel 
Alliance became active, though ships enjoyed a lively secondary market of 
sales and modifications. 

The Scyk has two strong points—it’s cheap, and its weapon mount is 
designed to handle nearly anything. Though generally produced with a single 
laser cannon (as represented in the statistics here), it's easy to swap out the 
weapon for an ion cannon, concussion missiles, or proton torpedo launcher 
(with a six-missile payload), or even a more unorthodox weapon of roughly 
the same size and power. Large organizations used this versatility to create 
small wings of starships with complementary weapon mixes (for example, 
six Scyks with lasers, three with ian cannons, and three with proton torpedo 
launchers), while individual pilots benefit by easily replacing or upgrading 
damaged weapons anywhere in the galaxy. 

The Scyk also mounts a hyperdrive, but lacks either a navicomputer or an 
astromech port for hyperspace coordinates. The starfighter depended on an 
allied ship to compute its hyperspace jumps, and generally used the system 
only to go from port to port (where such aid can generally be bought), or to 
jump with a squad supported by a larger, navicomputer-equipped starship. 


M3-A Scyk Fighter CL7 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +4; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 27; +8 armor 
hp 130; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 47 


Speed fly 15 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +1 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +32 


Abilities Str 44, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 

Availability Restricted; Cost 75,000 (35,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +1, Dmg 4d10x2 


NOVASWORD SPACE 
SUPERIORITY FIGHTER 
The NovaSword is Subpro’s attempt to break oul into a larger, qalaxywide 
market. Despite the fact that Subpro designed many successful starships and 
aided in the design of some of the most successful desiqns of its era [such a 
the Z-95 Headhunter), its location far from the Core Warlds causes it lo be 
seen as a second-rate designer. Although Subpro made many desians built by 
the Incom Corporation (including the ARC-170), Subpro never received a full 
share of the money made, nor extensive credit for ils part in (hese design 
Not wanting to be dependent on Incom, early in Ihe Clone Wars Subpro 
sets out to build its own successor to the 2-95, a multipurpose star 
named the NovaSword. 

The NovaSword is a nimble, powerful craf! thal bo 
ments over the 2-95. With fair shields, high speed 
and an integral hyperdrive, the NovaSworil is 4 
act as an interceptor, light bomber, or scout. Ihy 
operated by a single pilot, but it has a second 
passenger or can hold a copilot, commander, 
(though not a gunner). This feature allows a 
trained pilot to each NovaSword and have an e! 
larger organization to assign two crewmembers 
utility from each ship. 


The design should be a great success. However, Subpro’s reputation 
prevented the Old Republic (and later the Empire) from buying any of the 
new fighter, and relatively low numbers were built. Although a few planetary 
defense forces and large business groups buy small fleets of NovaSwords, 
they are most commonly sold to private buyers, including mercenaries and 
bounty hunters. The high price of the starfighter is one reason its success 
has been limited to wealthier groups. 

The Separatists managed to buy several dozen NovaSwords for use by 
elite commanders in their fleet. Durge used a NovaSword as his personal 
fighter for much of the Clone Wars. When the X-wing was produced by Incom 
several years later, the NovaSword was largely forgotten. 


NovaSword Space Superiority Fighter CL7 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor 


hp 110; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 46 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 


‘Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1 


Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 4 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Payload 3 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Restricted: Cost 145,000 (65,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 5d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 8d10x2, 2-square splash 


R-41 STARCHASER 
lhe R-41 Starchaser is a solid starfighter built to compete with the Z-95 
idpanter. It has a good mix of weapons, speed, and durability, but its 
an provides no place for a droid. This limitation prevents it from making 
|| use of its wide array of weapons, though the pilot does have the luxury 
electing the best weapon for specific attack runs. Even so, the R-41 lacks 
widespread popularity of many other starfighters from the same era, and 


SQqinseHuvsAs GNY SEISIHAaA 


8 


a ee ovo ww 
SaihsHvsAs AGNWY SAaVWAAA 


1i\A esatavHo 


by the end of the Clone Wars it is clearly outmatched by modern starships. 
The Starchaser is cheap and dependable, if not spectacular, and thus is often 
used by groups that are unable to arrange for regular maintenance, such as 
pirates and criminal organizations. 

The other main fault of the R-41 is a lack of heavy armor or internal hull 
bracing, leaving its overstuffed frame vuinerable to well-placed hits from 
enemy fire. Expert pilots often get around this flaw by flying very defen- 
sively, managing to avoid taking as many hits while using the Starchaser’s 
armament to lethal effect. Indeed, some ace pilots claim that knowing their 
ship is more fragile encourages them not to take chances, and many more 
modern starfighters have been eliminated by well-flown R-41s using this 
philosophy. 

A two-seat version of the ship exists, the R-42 Starchaser. Other than 
having a seat for a gunner, the ship is identical to the earlier model. The R-42 
is much less common, with only a few hundred having been manufactured 


R-41 Starchaser 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +6; Senses Perception +6 


cL9 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +6 armor 
hp 100; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 44 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged ion cannon +6 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +29 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 20, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1 

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Payload 2 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 115,000 (55,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 5d10x2 


lon cannon (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 3d10x2 ion 


Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 8d10x2, 2-square splash 


before Hoersch-Kessel Drive, Inc. gave up on the design entirely. The two- 
seat ships are more effective, but less popular with the crowd that makes 
up mast of the Starchaser buying market. 


TOSCAN MULTIPURPOSE 
FIicHTeER 

Built by Shobquix Yards (using a cockpit designed by Koensayr and later 
appearing on the Y-wing), the Toscan MPF (multipurpose fighter) was 
designed well before the Clone Wars as an open-frame starfighter for 
other shipyards. The base model, the Toscan 8-Q, has a x2 hyperdrive, weak 
shields, basic navicomputer, and life support for a pilot installed, but carries 
only a basic weapon package of two laser cannons. Extensive room is left 
for heavier weapons, more crew space, additional maneuvering thrusters, 
greater cargo capacity, or whatever other improvements are desired. The 
idea was that other shipyards would buy the Toscan and make whatever 
modifications were required to fill various starfighter roles. Expecting huge 


Toscan 8-0 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +1; Senses Perception +5 


cL8 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +7 armor 
hp 120; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 47 


Speed fly 14 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
. scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +2 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +2 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +32 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 44, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 3 

Cargo 440 kg; Consumables 4 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Payload 12 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 180,000 (40,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +2 (-3 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


Medium concussion missiles (gunner) 
Atk +2, Dmg 8d10x2, 2-square splash 


sales numbers, Shobquix produced the Toscan frame in enormous numbers. 
Overall, the program was a horrible failure. 

The problems with the idea were twofold. First, most shipyards prefer to 
custom-design their own starfighter frames from the ground up. Second, the 
cost of a modified Toscan (with both Shobquix and whoever “finished” the 
starfighter taking a profit) was too high compared to its final capabilities. 
A few hundred wtre bought by various shipyards as test vehicles (Sienar in 
particular built several gunship Toscans, with quad laser cannons and dual 
ion cannons as test beds for systems later added to the Skipray blastboat), 
but most were sold at discount to private buyers. Such Toscans rarely live 
up to their potential (since private buyers lack the resources of a full ship- 
yard), but most could at least add some cargo and passenger capacity. The 
statistics here represent a “typical” Toscan, though many can be found with 
both heavier and lighter weapon loads. 


Make-BEKa!: L4000 


ZEBRA STARFIGHTER 

The Zebra starfighter is a single-pilot starfighter built by Hyrotii Vehicle 
Works. The simple craft (looking more like an airspeeder than a starfighter) 
has no hyperdrive and only moderate shields, but is built around two heavy, 
linked laser cannons that are supposed to give it the firepower to make attack 
runs on well-armored targets. In practice, the Zebra is too slow to be of much 
use except in large numbers, or against immobile targets such as ground 
installations (though even then the lack of missile weapons reduces its chance 
of killing bigger targets). However, for many years after the establishment of 
the New Order the Zebra is the best starfighter many non-Imperial forces can 
get their hands on. By the time X-wings and similar craft are more available, 
the Zebra loses its popularity and becomes a second-line fighter. 


M3-4& SCvYK FIGHTER 


SOHSYUVLAS ONY SHIDIHAA | 


< 
0 
g 
9) 
WJ 


= 


3 ONY 


HASSLE 


g 


Zebra Starfighter CL6 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +1; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +7 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 47 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged heavy laser cannons +1 (see below} 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +32 

Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 44, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +1, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +1, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive none 

Availability Restricted; Cost 80,000 (30,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +1 (—4 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


SPACE TRANSPORTS 


With the end of open warfare, and the beginning of efforts to avoid the all- 
encompassing Imperial navy, space transports become the most common 
starships seen anywhere in the galaxy. They were found on every side of 
every conflict. Businesses used them to break shipments into smaller units 
to avoid losing all their cargo to a single pirate raid, while pirates used them 
to make those raids. Smugglers used them to ship contraband through Impe- 
rial blockades, legitimate independent merchants carried small cargoes to 
fringe worlds, the Empire used them to patrol as many worlds as possible, 
and insurgents used them to fight the Empire in hundreds of ragtag, unco- 
ordinated efforts to stop the spread of tyranny. 

The scope of the Clone Wars was so vast that no effort to recover the 
weapons used could even begin to be comprehensive. Numerous ships used 
for troop transports or light skirmish vessels were converted into space 
transports, with a surprising amount of firepower hidden under jury-rigged 
modifications. Even more military weapons were cut out of wrecked space- 
craft, and added to space transports just big enough to accommodate them. 
The New Order soon discovered that any merchant vessel could turn out to 
be a pocket warship with no warning. 


CEC HwKk-290 

The Corellian Engineering Corporation designed the Hawk series of trans- 
ports in the decades before the Clone Wars, in an effort to break into a 
new market for small, fast cargo ships. Although the YT-series of ships was 
wildly successful financially, it was seen by the galaxy at large as being 
rugged but ugly—tramp ships for tramp captains. The Hawk line was aimed 
at more upscale clients—wealthy merchants in need of ships to land at 
resort worlds without being an eyesore, and nobles or politicians in need of 
a cargo craft for personal business that wouldn't lower their prestige. The 
line was a modest success, but never hit sales numbers to rival YT-series 
ships, and it was discontinued during the Clone Wars to make way for more 
military production. 

The Hwk-290 is the most prevalent of the Hawk-series of freighters, 
and a common sight through the Clone Wars and the first few decades 
of the New Order. It is extremely nimble for a cargo vessel, depending on 
maneuverability rather than strong shields or armor to survive attack. Stock 
versions of the ship have no weapons, but as with most CEC models, it's easy 
to add a few lasers as modifications. (Linked blaster cannons are the most 
common addition, and two sets are included in the statistics here.) Ships 
actually intended for military use (such as the Moldy Crow, used by Kyle 
Katarn among others) can carry more than twice as many weapons, though 
at the expense of some cargo capacity. 


Hwk-290 cL 9 

Colossal space transport 

Init +0; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 12), Fort 28; +12 armor 

hp 160; DR 15; Threshold 78 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged 2 blaster cannons +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +38 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 6 

Cargo 150 tons; Consumables 6 moths; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 135,000 (55,000 used) 


Blaster cannons (pilot, gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 5d10x2 


Gallofree Yards Maka-Eekai L4000 Transport 


J 7 ' 
Suit wr’ 


/ Center Deck 


Passenger, 
linunge 


Lower Deck 


Computers 


bfSensprs} 


A SSaiavno 
A [a 


aot 
fe A Passengerbavins) 


| square = 3 meters 


= 
SHNMSYUVLS GNY SSAISIHAA 


Ge Console @ [hair —> Qoor w= Bunk @ fable 
® Refresher om Sofa & Lift Tube = Gab Storage/Desk @ Oejarik Board 


SAMSUVLS GNY SHISHA 


GALLOFREE YARPS MAKA- 
EeKai L4A0O00 TRANSPORT 

The Maka-Eekai L4000 is among the largest transports ever built for the 
independent freighter market. Although bulk freighters are often much 
more massive, the Maka-Eekai is still designed to be operated by a single 
independent captain, rather than a large corporation, well-connected cartels, 
or a government. Though two-thirds the size of Gallofree Yards’ common 
GR-75 medium transport, the Maka-Eekai has less than 10% of the cargo 
capacity due to its focus on comfort and maneuverability rather than just 
storage space. The hope was that wealthy independent merchants would pay 
a premium to haul their loads in comfort and style. 

The design program that produced this model began in the latter days of 
the Old Republic, and the first model rolled off the line just as the Clone Wars 
began in earnest. As a result, sales were poor, prompting the manufacturer to 
cut the price considerably. Although this tactic did boost sales, the financial 
hit sustained by Gallofree Yards was considerable, and the manufacturer 
never truly recovered. No further production runs were attempted, and 
though the Maka-Eekai is a common sight in the years shortly after the 
Clone Wars, a few years after the Battle of Yavin most are gone. Because 
they shared many components with larger transports, most Maka-Eekai are 
eventually scrapped for parts to repair larger ships that have ten times their 
cargo capacity. 

Most Maka-Eekai are configured primarily as cargo haulers, with room 
for only a few passengers but hundreds of tons of cargo. It's possible to 
convert cargo space into roomy accommodations, at the rate of 10 tons of 
cargo per additional passenger (to a maximum of forty passengers). Many 
Maka-Eekai are produced with different cargo/passenger mixes as standard 
stock options at no additional cost. Of course, most of this tonnage goes 
to stowage for six months of food for an additional person as well as more 
life support equipment, living facilities, and galley space—people carried 
in cargo space for only a very short trip (such as refugees) don’t take up 
anything close to 10 tons. 

The only armament in a stock Maka-Eekai is the two double laser cannons 
mounted in turrets on either side of the ship. However, a common addition 
is a set of linked laser cannons in a ball turret found at the end of a gun 
boom. The boom doubles as a stabilizing fin, swinging to the back of the 
ship for both landing and lightspeed travel but projecting below the ship for 
normal space travel. Access to the ball turret is through a tunnel running 
the length of the gun boom, a maneuver most easily accomplished in zero 
gravity. Because it is aimed at an independent market, the Maka-Eekai uses a 
surprising amount of space for targeting computers, maneuvering thrusters, 
and sensors, making even stock versions far more combat-ready than their 
rotund appearance would suggest. 


Maka-Eekai L4000 Transport CL9 

Colossal space transport 

Init -2; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 31; +12 armor 

hp 200; DR 15; SR 20; Threshold 81 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h}, fly 2 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged double laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +41 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 52, Dex 16, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 4 (normal); Passengers 9 

Cargo 410 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 180,000 (85,000 used) 


Double laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


CAPITAL SHIPS 


In the years right after the Clone Wars, few capital ships are in the hands 
of anyone other than the Empire, planetary navies, and a small number of 
business consortiums so large that they have the same amount of influence 
as planetary governments (if not more). Capital ships are hard to hide or 
maintain, and are the first concern of the New Order. Although Imperial! 
planners have little fear of snub fighters or even armed space transports, the 
threat of capital ships in the hands of renegade forces is a high concern. The 
Empire works hard to track any modern capital ship, and though a few from 
the Clone Wars do end up being used against the Empire, the numbers are 
small enough not to be a threat to more than individual sectors. 

Older capital ships are a lower priority, though still higher than smaller 
designs. Anything built well before the Clone Wars, or lacking the firepower 
common in later Clone Wars warships, is seen as a secondary concern. If 
an ally of the Empire decides to acquire such outdated capital ships, it's 
largely overlooked. If an outlaw faction gathered them, Imperial planners 
assume that the ships will either fall apart from lack of maintenance or be 
destroyed as soon as they cause enough trouble to require Star Destroyers 
to be sent after them. 


NEUTRON STAR BULK CRUISER 
Bulk cruisers were designed during the Clone Wars to serve as second-line 
warships. Produced with older technology and off-the-rack components, 
these starship designs are all slow, undergunned, crew-intensive, and prone 
to malfunctions. In fact they are generally little more than upscaled space 
transports, with little of the armor plating, heavy shielding or massive 
weapons that make most capital ship designs effective. As their name sug- 
gests, they were simply large starships, depending on their bulk to overpower 
smaller vessels. In truth a bulk cruiser has approximately the same firepower 
as a smaller (and cheaper) frigate, though somewhat more ability to absorb 
damage. Where they can, the designs use their freely available space to good 
advantage, such as considerable carried craft and massive heavy quad lasers 
(which deal nearly as much damage as turbolasers, but are much larger and 
cheaper to construct). 


Neutron Star Bulk Cruiser 

Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 51; +11 armor 

hp 1,400; DR 20; SR 100; Threshold 251 

Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 

Ranged 5 heavy quad laser cannon batteries +14* (see below) and 
2 tractor beams +4* (see below) and 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +68 

Atk Options autofire (neavy quad laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 92, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 2,050 (skilled); Passengers 200 (troops) 

Cargo 5,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 36 starfighters, 2 
space transports 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 5,000,000 (2,500,000 used) 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


CL 16 


Heavy quad laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal) (+9 autofire), Dmg 
4d10x5 

Tractor beam (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-16 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg = (grapple 
+68) 


Rendili StarDrive's Neutron Star Bulk Cruiser is typical of these designs. 
Produced during the Clone Wars, none of the ships see service in that conflict 
as the Separatists' sudden defeat catches Rendili off guard. The new Empire 
has very little interest in the outdated design (though a few are bought for 
testing and patrol of already secure sectors}, and the majority are sold to 
private concerns. For a few decades bulk cruisers are a common sight in poor 
systems and fringe worlds, but their poor performance and high maintenance 
costs puts most of the production line out of commission within three 
decades. Those few that remain are considered very second-rate vessels, 
and are mostly used as armed cargo transports. 

Tactical Fire: A Neutron Star needs escorts, and normally depends on 
its own starfighter complement to keep it safe. Its crews are taught to work 
with starfighter wings to protect them and get them safely on board the 
bulk cruiser when damaged. As a standard action, a Neutron Star can forgo 
all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius. All 
allied starships of Gargantuan size or smaller within this radius gain a +2 
bonus to Reflex Defense. 


CiviILIAN VESSELS 

With the rise of the Empire, many vessels that were once considered 
suitable for civilian use became illegal or, at the very least, highly 
restricted. Like weapons and equipment that are made illegal when the 
Empire is formed, some starships (particularly those that have significant 
weapon systems) cease production and sales at the behest of Imperial 
authority. This in turn creates a very high black market demand for these 
Starships, and also makes the punishment for being caught with such a 
vessel more severe. For example, personal starfighters such as the Soro- 
Suub Cutlass-9 starfighter were in common use throughout the galaxy 
during the Clone Wars, but the Empire, claiming that a starfighter has 
little use except in an offensive role, cracks down on private ownership 
of such vessels in the name of galactic security. 


SHHSev.s GNY SSswWInaga 


CHAPTER VIII 
ELINES 


= mies 


The heroes in a Force Unleashed campaign rise to the occasion to fight the 
growing threat of Imperial oppression. When Supreme Chancellor Palpatine 
declares his New Order, few realize its sinister, oppressive intention. Many 
people accept it as a reasonable solution to the turmoil caused by the 
Separatist uprising. The average, law-abiding citizen who views galactic 
government as a distant concern sees Palpatine’s speech as yet another 
seemingly meaningless policy announcement, heralding at most a gradual 
change in daily life. Some who have misgivings about the declaration of the 
New Order keep quiet, either because they fear Imperial reprisals or because 
they feel powerless to oppose such a galaxy-spanning tyranny. Those aware 
of the brutality of Order 66, people who recognize Palpatine's true intentions, 
and the growing number of galactic citizens who witness or experience the 
Empire's increasing oppression and brutality realize that they must risk their 
lives and sacrifice their way of life to fight Imperial domination. 

These heroes can make a difference in the galaxy. This is a time when 
general sentiment gradually shifts from perceiving the Empire as the rightful 
government of the galaxy to seeing it as an oppressive tyranny that pushes 
the galaxy to the brink of civil war. A Force Unleashed campaign focuses on 
the heroes who become aware of this threat early in the struggle and quickly 
move to oppose Imperial treachery. These daring few stand out from those 
who feel too complacent or too intimidated to devote their lives to take action 
against an increasingly cruel Empire. Through the heroes’ actions, galactic 
sentiment begins to shift against the Empire, eventually creating the climate 
in which the Rebel Alliance will be founded in the years to come. 

The heroes become protagonists not only of their own campaign story, 
but of the grander history of resistance against tyranny. Ultimately, the 
heroes’ seditious actions will give rise to the birth of the Rebellion. They make 
conscious choices to take action; the heroes do not sit back and allow the 
Empire to squeeze freedom from the galaxy; instead, they oppose tyranny 
in every way possible. 

This decision pits them directly against a government and a society 
structured to root out dissension and crush any threat to authority. They 
must fight not only the visible soldiers of the Empire—clone troopers, ISB 
agents, stormtroopers, Imperial Inquisitors—but average, well-meaning 
people who believe they're upholding a legitimate government by reporting 
suspicious activities or subversive actions, and more sinister elements of the 
civilian population who value profits made from the Empire's tyranny over 
the freedom and well-being of innocent people. 


SSNINSIGING NOIvawyo i lip ua Lawns 


ry 


=] 


HWiA BSLlerHc 


A 


~ 


SSNITNAEGING NEIveanVvea 


This chapter explores the major themes that drive a Force Unleashed cam- 
paign and offers advice for Gamemasters on using them asa basis for exciting 
adventures opposing the expanding Empire. It offers players ideas on how 
their heroes first decided to join the fight against Imperial tyranny. Game- 
masters can find resources on creating encounters, adventures, and broad 
story lines incorporating the growing Imperial oppression and the effect it 
has on everyday life in the galaxy. Asample adventure with three encounters 
at the end of the chapter puts these tips to use and provides an example that 
the Gamemaster can use in creating his or her own scenarios. 


A GATHERING OF 
HEROES 


How does a Gamemaster bring together a possibly disparate band of heroes— 
many with different backgrounds—to begin a Force Unleashed campaign? 

A Gamemaster should take a moment before starting a campaign to talk 
with players about what common elements the heroes share that might give 
them a reason to join forces. They might find or create connections with 
each other's heroes that could explain how and why they are fighting the 
Empire together. Players might adjust hero backgrounds to take into account 
references to other heroes, locations from their past, or common enemies 
and allies that would give them some sense of camaraderie. 

A Gamemaster might decide to take a varied collection of heroes and 
throw them into the action in an introductory scenario. Thrusting them 
all into a common crisis—forcing them to rely on each other's strengths to 
overcome a greater challenge—forges them into one cohesive group that 
shares common adversaries and goals. 

The Dark Times present several situations in which heroes might join 
forces to resist Imperial tyranny based on shared background elements or 
an opening origins adventure. 


SHARED HERO BACKGROUNDS 
The easiest way to connect heroes before starting a Force Unleashed cam- 
paign requires some precampaign discussion among the Gamemaster and 
the players. They should discuss character backgrounds—particularly events 
directly Jeading to their decision to aid the resistance—and find elements that 
might link one hero to another. If each of the heroes creates an association 
with someone else in the group, however distant, all of them have some 
reason to collaborate. 

Each player should read or describe her hero's back story for the entire 
group. Once everyone's finished, they can hone in on locations, incidents, 
allies, and adversaries mentioned that they might share. 

For example, Jedi Padawan Nanto Vanix relies on a sympathetic transport 
captain to flee Felucia and find safety on Sullust. Perhaps another player's 
hero decides to play a fugitive pilot, assuming the role of the transport pilot 


to provide not only a motivation for fighting the Empire, but a background link 
with the Jedi and a reason to join forces during a campaign. Instead of fleeing 
to Sullust, they might head to Moorja, where scout Joren Q’aal and soldier Rass 
Throven find themselves at the end of their own accounts of how they came 
to recognize the Empire's treachery and decided to join the resistance. 

Don't go overboard weaving intricate connections among all the heroes. 
Each player needs only a good reason to care about one other hero to forge 
a bond among the group. Maybe two heroes come from the same oppressed 
homeworld, know a common acquaintance, witnessed the same historical 
event, or even shared misadventures before the campaign begins. 


COMMON CAMPAIGN ELEMENTS 
Depending on the focus of a Force Unleashed campaign, the heroes might start 
operating with some common elements. A Gamemaster who designs a story 
arc based ona core concept should give players as much common information 
beforehand so they can incorporate that material into character creation. 

Here are a few one-sentence examples of campaign ideas during the Dark 
Times that might affect what heroes the players create and the common 
bonds they might use to establish connections among themselves. 


e The heroes aid a band of fugitive Wookiee slaves intent on freeing other 
oppressed aliens and disrupting Imperial activities supporting the occu- 
pation of Kashyyyk. 

© As members of a noble house, the heroes conduct covert missions to 
establish and support resistance cells on other Core Worlds. 

e Trapped on Mon Calamari at the same time the Empire incinerates three 
floating cities in retaliation for covert resistance activities, the heroes 
rise up with the local populace to oppose the Imperial occupation. 

e Fringers employed with a criminal organization witness Imperial atroci- 
ties and work to convince their overlords to secretly support subjugated 
worlds and undermine the Empire. 


Be careful not to coerce some players to radically alter their heroes’ basic 
concepts just to make connections with others and fit into the story line. 
If the campaign centers around a band of escaped Wookiee slaves, don't 
force everyone to play a Wookiee. Some people can play non-Wookiee allies 
sympathetic to the cause of enslaved aliens: a plucky Sullustan scout, a grim 
Rodian soldier, a well-connected Human noble. The Gamemaster should help 
players adjust their heroes to best fit into the group's theme and the overall 
campaign premise. 

Common campaign components not only give the players ideas for shared 
background elements, but offer inspiration for the kinds of heroes that might 
best fit into the anticipated action. Here are some more specific factors in 
a campaign that could offer common ground in heroic origins and shared 
connections. 


LOCATION 

The heroes find themselves all in the same location when the campaign 
starts. The setting serves as a springboard for an overall story arc, providing 
a common ground upon which the heroes meet and forge an initial alliance. 
Some heroes might call the location home or have other connections to it 
(business contacts, family and friends, affinity for a particular neighborhood, 
restaurant, or club), while others could have traveled there to carry out their 
own agenda. Assuming they're either native to the world or have spent some 
time there during their travels, they all share some familiarity with the local 
bureaucracy, favorite shops and restaurants, and basic knowledge of the 
region and society. 

A common location provides familiar ground where the heroes can begin 
their adventures; combined with other elements, a shared setting offers the 
perfect chance for heroes to unite under special circumstances. Perhaps 
they're all visiting the same planet when a fleet arrives to blockade the 
system and crack down on anyone even remotely suspicious. 

The shared location could serve as the setting for the entire campaign. 
The Gamemaster could set a Dark Times story arc on one particular world 
where the heroes must establish, maintain, and command an insurgent group 
bent on undermining the Imperial occupation. 


EveENT 

The heroes all experience the same event—possibly from different view- 
points—that propels them to take action against the Empire. The incident 
should have some direct emotional impact on them that forges a bond 
between them. Perhaps they're at different tables in a cantina when news 
arrives that the Empire has devastated the planet Callos in retaliation for 
resistance activity. They might be innocent bystanders in a crowd mistaken 
for protesters and fired on by Imperial troops. They could witness the 
enslavement of a planet's alien population “for the good of Imperial security.” 
Perhaps they witness the seemingly arbitrary arrest and imprisonment of a 
common friend. Maybe the Empire burns down their favorite watering hole as 
an example to other establishments that harbor malcontents sowing dissent 
among the populace. They might experience firsthand Imperial persecution—a 
lengthy and rough customs inspection, unwarranted scrutiny at a security 
checkpoint, confiscation of valued items—that clearly establishes that the 
Empire considers them a genuine and dangerous threat to their authority. 


ALLIES 

The heroes share a connection to a common set of allies who provide equip- 
ment, safe havens, transport, and other support. These contacts might belong 
to a corporation, government, criminal organization, or other association 
sympathetic to those fighting Imperial oppression but who don't want to 
openly announce their opposition to the Empire. This entity arranges for the 
heroes to come together from their varied backgrounds to secretly pursue an 


agenda of underground resistance that ultimately aids their benefactors. 

The welfare of valued allies might also inspire the heroes to cooperate 
if their supporters fall victim to Imperial oppression. For instance, several 
heroes operating independently might find themselves working together to 
rescue an influential entrepreneur who can provide them with necessary 
resources—passage off the planet, medical supplies, weapons for freedom 
fighters, or vital intelligence—if only they can spring him from a secure 
penal facility. 


RALLY AROUND A CAUSE 

Whether or not they know each other beforehand, the heroes might share 
an experience that rallies them against the Empire. Provoked by Imperial 
tyranny, they pool their resources to support a particular cause. Perhaps 
a Jedi Knight fleeing Inquisitors seeks their aid. They might seek to right a 
particular Imperial injustice, such as the imprisonment of an influential and 
sympathetic leader, an arbitrary blockade of space traffic and interstellar 
trade, or a comprehensive takeover of local industry. They could stumble 
across incriminating information about the Empire or secrets about its 
military strength that—in the right hands—could help topple its influence 
in one part of the galaxy. Far-reaching events such as the enslavement of 
the Wookiees or the seizure of shipyards on Duro and Mon Calamari might 
induce heroes to join forces to directly aid those rising up against Imperial 
domination. The campaign might focus on their efforts to correct this injus- 
tice, or the incident might simply serve to galvanize the heroes, give them 
an immediate reason to nate the Empire, and inspire them to work together 
as a resistance group. 


It’s A TRAP! 

While going about their business, the heroes fall into a trap set to arrest 
people suspected of conspiring against the Empire. They could all be traveling 
aboard the same transport stopped at a checkpoint when Imperial agents 
ferret out a spy and arrest all the passengers as potential coconspirators. 
Perhaps they follow separate leads to a gathering of dissidents, only to find 
Imperial troops waiting in ambush to see which disloyal citizens show up. 
Maybe the Empire ambushes a rendezvous between smugglers and resistance 
fighters who are swapping illegal supplies and weapons; the heroes happen to 
be pilots, loaders, passengers, cell organizers, or innocent bystanders caught 
in the wide net of suspicion cast by ISB agents eager to expose traitors. They 
might just happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, or might have 
innocent associations with people or places suspected of involvement with 
an underground resistance cell. 


SeaRwVWsannSs) NEIWenwvs 


SoNWITGING NEIvanvys 


1A BeaiavHo 


It doesn’t matter whether the heroes have already joined forces or are 
working independently at the time of the ambush; the immediate crisis 
compels them to work together to fight a common adversary. If they didn't 
already hate the Empire, the ruthless perseverance that Imperial units display 
in stopping their escape and hunting them down obliges them to flee under- 
ground and convinces them to oppose the Empire's tyrannical rule. 


ADVERSARIES 

The heroes rally to defeat a particular adversary who has persecuted them 
in the past or threatens them in the present. An ambitious Imperial Moff 
Or governor could threaten the system or sector in which they operate, 
endangering their allies, contacts, friends, and loyal supporters. Jedi Knights 
fleeing Palpatine's purge might focus their efforts on ultimately defeating the 
Inquisitors sent to hunt them down. Resistance fighters could undermine a 
powerful, corrupt corporation controlled by Imperial bureaucrats. Fugitives 


must join forces to defeat the bounty hunters and troops sent to bring them 
to the perverted justice administered by Imperial courts. Insurgents trying to 
establish cells of resistance in cities, worlds, or sectors must band together 
to defeat the ISB agents, civilian informers, and Imperial soldiers intent on 
flushing them into the open and destroying them. 


CAMPAIGN ELEMENTS 


A Force Unleashed campaign, especially one in which the heroes fight grow- 
ing Imperial tyranny, should include elements that lend the appropriate 
atmosphere to the action and define the story's tone. Each element exists 
as a result of the Empire's intrusion into or domination of another aspect 
of life in the galaxy. 

All these themes relate to the heroes’ struggle against Imperial oppression: 
recruiting allies, scrounging for supplies, evading capture, gathering intelli- 
gence on Imperial targets, aiding fugitive Jedi, guarding against betrayal, and 
ultimately striking blows against the growing power of the Empire. Unlike in 
a campaign set during the Rebellion Era, they can't fall back on the structure 
and support of the Rebel Alliance, nor can they expect aid from anything 
but fledgling and often inexperienced resistance groups. 

Each of the elements discussed below could form the basis for an encoun- 
ter or an entire adventure. Gamemasters can weave their own locations and 
characters into these situations to create distinct scenarios incorporating the 
growing paranoia, fear, and brutal oppression of the Dark Times era. 


CLANDESTINE EXISTENCE 

Most heroes operate openly as outlaws defying the Imperial regime. They 
live as fugitives, evading Imperial forces, guarding against betrayal among 
their own ranks, hoarding supplies, and seeking new safe havens from those 
who would expose their seditious activities. They operate within society by 
using carefully crafted covers or surfacing only in dense population centers 
where they can easily blend into the crowd. Working unseen and undiscavered 
remains one of their top priorities. 


These underground freedom fighters, outlaws, smuqglers, and fugitives 
manage to survive and plan operations against the Empire without access 
to the usual resources available to more law-abiding cilizens, They cannot 
pass through a security checkpoint or a customs inspection without threat 
of discovery. To travel between destinations on a world or between two 


viable 


star systems requires false identity datawork and 
acquiring their own mode of transportation. Establistina a 
operations—whether a one-room safe house of ar elaborate iaecility with bar 
racks, power generator, storage bay, medical suite, ani 


cover story, Of 


“cure base of 


ivenele hangar—must 


oe accomplished outside normal channels, using Cantacls who either dant 
question their motives or can be paid to look the other way. Obtaining sup 

plies, from ordinary foodstuffs and equipment | ilized cambat gear, 
weapons, and explosives, always presents a cli) Heroes must cultivate 


new allies and contacts who are willing to aid their struggle; they must 
always take care to avoid Imperial traps and ferret out double agents who 
could betray them to ISB operatives. 

These heroes stand at the forefront of the growing resistance against 
the Empire. Because they operate on the fringe of lawful society, they can 
engage in extremely dangerous and effective activities to undermine Imperial 
authority. They undertake daring rescue missions, execute sabotage opera- 
tions, recruit new freedom fighters, establish cells of resistance, infiltrate 
installations to steal vital data, and confront Imperial troops (activities 
further detailed in “Resistance Operations,” page 134) in their open war 
against the growing tyranny of the Empire. 

Adventure Hook: When the heroes return to their safe refuge or meeting 
place, they find an Imperial assault team standing guard while ISB agents 
comb the location for clues. A keen-eyed sentry spots one of them, raises the 
alarm, and sends the entire company of troopers after them in hot pursuit. 
Whether the heroes were operating as fugitives or as covert dissidents using 
the cover of normal society, they must now evade Imperial forces and find 
some safe haven from which they can either flee the planet or reestablish a 
secret base to continue their subversive activities. 


COVERT OPPOSITION 

A few heroes secretly conspire to undermine the Empire from the cover of 
their seemingly ordinary lives as loyal citizens. They live perilous double lives 
where even the slightest mistake or the smallest suspicion could quickly bring 
Imperial retribution upon themselves, their families and friends, and even 
their world. On the surface they seem to conduct themselves as normal, 
loyal citizens of the Empire; they go to work, socialize with friends, enjoy 
entertainment, pursue some casual interests, and spend time with their 
families. Beneath that safe facade they harbor a hatred for Imperial tyranny 
that compels them to secretly support resistance activities. 

Usually their careers or social positions allow them access to essential 
resources to aid dissidents: classified data, specialized equipment, transpor- 
tation offworld, restricted weapons, and medical care, all free from prying 
questions from ISB agents. They don’t have the same freedom of movement 
and action as renegades who are maintaining a clandestine existence, but 
they aid resistance groups by slipping away unnoticed to accomplish their 
objectives. Some even undertake subversive activities right in the open: 
delivering messages to dead-drop pickup locations, hacking anti-Empire 
messages into communications feeds, even casually observing and reporting 
Imperial troop movements. 

These covert freedom fighters must take extreme care to protect their 
caver, avoid detection by ISB agents, and guard against betrayal by loyal 
citizens who would not hesitate to report suspicious behavior. Their primary 
value to the resistance forces comes from their position hidden among normal 


1 


BIVAWVYS) 


SeNMITIGING NW 


MA BeaiavHo 


U 


coo 
WITNSEAIN®S NEIVEwWVe 


Se) 


society, their access to everyday services, and their ability to operate within 
normal channels prohibited to those on the run. 


Adventure Hook 

A band of heroes operating covertly from covers in society must make con- 
tact with an outlaw who is known to openly oppose the Empire. They must 
slip away at some point during their normal routine to deliver an encrypted 
datacard, rare medicine, or some restricted weaponry to this courier without 
arousing suspicion from their coworkers, friends, and families. At some point 
during the delivery mission, one member of the group notices someone fol- 
lowing the heroes. Do they end up having to eliminate a ruthless ISB agent, or 
might they be confronting a friend who is concerned for their well-being—and 
who could inadvertently betray them by talking to the officials? 


SCARSCE RESOURCES 

For fugitive resistance fighters constantly on the run from Imperial agents 
and bounty hunters, finding resources for both everyday survival as well as 
covert operations remains a constant challenge. They continually run out of 
medical supplies, weapons, ammunition, explosives, rations, and replacement 
parts for vehicles (not to mention the vehicles themselves). They're always on 
the lookout for new sources of equipment and supplies to replace channels 
they've exhausted. Some underground groups hoard supplies so that newly 
established resistance cells have some basic equipment to work with when 
establishing themselves in new territory. Raids to obtain more supplies and 
weapons usually precede important missions involving combat, sabotage, 
and large-scale destruction. 

Operations to acquire material resources can vary in tactics, targets, and 
intensity. The heroes might establish contact with an insider at a storage 
facility, someone willing to allow them occasional access while looking the 
other way; whether he does this out of sympathy to the local resistance, 
requires payment for his services, or has other requirements for cooperation 
is up to the Gamemaster. The heroes might divert material from shipping 
operations by conning warehouse officials, masquerading as an unloading 
crew (“offloading” cargo from a ship into their own transport vessel), or 
even hijacking a freighter carrying vital cargo. They might negotiate alliances 
with criminal organizations, smugglers, and sympathetic citizens to provide 
essential supplies, though these relationships can all be compromised by 
self-serving greed or Imperial influence. Of course, the most obvious means 
of obtaining material—especially restricted weapons and explosives—remains 
infiltrating government and military supply depots. 

The heroes must take care to manage their supply sources. In the best 
cases, they divert only small amounts of material and cover their tracks well 
enough that nobody suspects anything has gone missing. Relying on one 
cooperative supplier could put them in danger; the contact might choose to 
betray them, or their frequent visits might arouse the attention of observant 


informers. Frequent attacks on a particular storage facility might force local 
and Imperial authorities to increase security. If the heroes hit the same depot 
too often, ISB agents might find a pattern and prepare an ambush to trap 
the next raiding party. 


Adventure Hook 

The heroes plan and execute a raid on a quiet Imperial Navy supply dump 
on the edge of an urban area. They have received word that a high-level 
Imperial official is visiting the planet next week, and they need to quickly 
obtain weapons, medical supplies, explosives, vehicles, and possibly even 
niforms to pull off a mission that involves sabotaging his visit, abducting 
him, or generally causing embarrassing havoc, 

Unbeknownst to the dissidents, the entire setup is an Imperial trap. The 
SB fabricated and disseminated false intelligence about the visiting Impe- 
rial official to prompt local resistance cells to act openly and reveal their 
ocations and strengths. Visual reconnaissance indicates that the supply 
dump is lightly guarded, but a special ISB ambush regiment is lying in wait 
inside cargo containers, drainage sewers, and other concealed areas around 
the depot. 


RECRUITING ALLIES 

Without any overarching organization secretly supporting their activities 
across the galaxy (like the future Rebel Alliance), the heroes must create 
their own resistance cells, safe houses, informer networks, supply chains, 
and support systems. To maintain operations of all kinds—and to replenish 
personnel easily lost during operations—the heroes must continually recruit 
new allies and contacts who can provide everything they need to continue 
the fight against the Empire and ensure their safety. They must create their 
own local support organization of allies who are willing to help with all 
aspects of their operations. 

Approaching a potential ally takes time and caution. It requires a strategy 
heavy on information-gathering and character interaction. Heroes must first 
identify individuals who could help them, then evaluate those individuals’ 
loyalty to the Empire or their willingness to aid those fighting its tyrannical 
policies. The cooperation of a potential ally could depend on how benignly 
or oppressively the Empire rules in the ally’s location, whether the potential 
ally harbors a fierce loyalty to the establishment, or whether he or she has 
suffered at the Empire's hands and thus seeks some degree of revenge. 

The heroes must find some leverage to use in convincing people to aid 
them. Intimidation rarely works and doesn't produce willing, trustworthy 
allies. Bribery offers an incentive for some dubious characters to help, though 
it seldom guarantees loyalty and often drains any monetary resources the 
heroes manage to scrape together. The best way to recruit allies comes 
from appealing to their sense of moral principle and their yearning to right 
the injustices perpetrated by the Empire on their own world and in systems 


throughout the galaxy. The heroes must show their potential collaborators 
that it's in their best interest—and for the greater good of society, their planet, 
and life everywhere—to secretly undermine Imperial power. 

Willing allies come from two sectors of the populace: those who are 
established in everyday society with jobs, reputations, and connections, and 
those who have severed such ties and now live furtive lives as outlaws fleeing 
from the Empire. At first, those who are nestled comfortably in orderly lives 
might seem useless to heroes engaged in an epic struggle against tyranny; 
however, such ordinary people can offer heroes on the run a valuable tether to 
normal society, providing services, access, and materials otherwise unavail- 
able to fugitives or difficult for them to obtain through normal channels. 
Contacts cultivated among regular citizens can aid the heroes through their 
normal jobs and everyday activities without arousing too much suspicion. 


Informers 

Ordinary people are usually sensitive to changes in their everyday routine 
or environment. They can provide seemingly mundane information that can 
significantly help the heroes in their activities against the Empire: the number 
and location of Imperial troops and sentries in an area; news and gossip of 
anti-insurgent operations; possible contacts who quietly voice their dissat- 
isfaction with the New Order; information about potential target locations; 
data from computers accessible to the public or people employed at certain 
facilities; schedules for transports around a planet or offworld. These inform- 
ers transmit their intelligence and receive new assignments through secure 
means, leaving messages at hidden dead-drop locations, transmitting them 
through secure computer or comm channels, or slipping them to the heroes 
during innocent-seeming “chance” encounters. 


Suppliers 

The heroes can use average citizens to obtain much-needed equipment. These 
supplies might consist simply of food and mundane household items that 
the heroes—as outlaws—cannot purchase without emerging into the public 
eye. If they cultivate a contact who has ties to a commercial enterprise, 
they might have a means of obtaining specialized equipment, vehicles, spare 
parts, military-grade gear, and even weapons. They must take care that their 
requests and deliveries do not compromise the supplier's cover and cause 
their arrest at the hands of Imperial forces. 


Safe Haven Providers 


Some people can provide safe havens for various subversive activities. These 
locations could offer a place to hide from authoriiies, a storage site for 
caching weapons or gear, an observation post, oF a Staging location for a 
nearby operation. Most safe house locations minatain the outward illusion 


of a more innocuous function—a hotel that includes a room permanently 


reserved for the heroes’ use; a remote country estate where they can train; 
or even a warehouse to serve as a temporary base for an operation. 


Transport Pilots 

Heroes often need a safe means of transporting themselves or supplies around 
a planet or to locations offworld. Pilots who have legitimate credentials and 
access to vehicles might help a local resistance group spread its influence 
to other regions if they have incentive to secretly work to undermine Impe- 
rial authority, especially as the Empire tightens its grip on space travel and 
seeks to limit the mobility of people, material, and ideas. Pilots can provide 
false transit papers for heroes, arrange passage aboard repulsorlift craft 
and starships, and ensure some security for personnel and cargo in case of 
Imperial entanglements. Heroes must take care not to use their transport 
contacts too often, lest those contacts come to the attention of suspicious 
people ready to report them to Imperial authorities. 


Bureaucrats 

The galaxy depends on an efficient bureaucracy to maintain operations on 
every level, from local officials to those overseeing entire sectors. Heroes 
who cultivate contacts with bureaucrats gain influential friends who have the 
power to get around obstacles of an official nature. They come from every 
level and aspect of the government and private enterprise: customs officials, 
common clerks, corporate officers, court magistrates, government workers, 
computer registrars, and elected or appointed officials for towns, cities, star- 
ports, planets, systems, and sectors. Depending on their everyday duties, they 
can use their position and influence to do small favors for heroes to covertly 
support their operations. A local registrar could forge identity cards and set 
up cover identities in the planetary population database. A starport official 
could prepare false shipping manifests to ensure that restricted or illegal 
cargoes pass to the proper resistance cells. Bureaucrats in higher echelons 
could influence policies that relieve pressure on authorities to capture the 
heroes or to increase security against their threats. 


THE FRINGE 

Those on the fringe of society—people hunted by the Empire for their affili- 
ation with the Jedi, members of criminal organizations, or those who are 
forming emerging resistance groups—can more directly help the heroes by 
conducting subversive operations outside the bounds of society and the 
law. These individuals live a furtive existence that nobody in comfortable 
civilization would call normal. They are constantly on the run from the Empire 
and local authorities. Such outlaws always look over their shoulders to make 
sure nobody's following them, listening to their conversations, or reporting 
their activities. They cannot engage in many activities that most law-abiding 
people can perform without serious danger of capture—working a regular 


SeNiisaaGin®e® NEIVAaWYS 


HA SSsLavHo 


SONIDWEIANS NEIVEINTvsS 


job, shopping, taking public transport, obtaining housing, and generally 
doing anything in public. 

These criminals act out of a strong sense of self-preservation and greed; 
they constantly weigh the risks against the potential gains. Some ultimately 
come around and join the cause out of some sense of duty to moral principle, 
though such cases remain rare. A handful of enlightened people who question 
Palpatine’s motives view these fringers as the real “underground freedom 
fighters" despite the Empire's best efforts to paint them as subversive ter- 
rorists. Heroes who seek to recruit such insurgents must somehow infiltrate 
the shady world of fugitives and criminals, proving their hatred for the Empire 
before they can even make contact with anyone who is willing to aid them. 
Of course, if the heroes themselves cross over onto the wrong side of the 
law, they have a better chance of recruiting fellow fugitives. 


Adventure Hook 

The heroes catch wind of a local noblewoman who might nurture a hatred 
for the Empire, which confiscated many of her commercial interests when it 
established control on her homeworld. This aristocrat has many connections, 
sufficient funds, and a few remaining assets that might help resistance fight- 
ers who are seeking to undermine Imperial interests in the area. To celebrate 
her forced “retirement” from her business enterprises, she’s holding a gala for 
friends and supporters at her estate on the edge of the planet's major urban 
center and starport. The heroes must infiltrate the party, discover where she 
really stands—and what she's really willing to risk—regarding the Empire, and 
quietly approach her to seek her aid in their cause. Can they convince her to 
actively use her resources to help their operations, or is the entire scenario 
a carefully constructed setting for an Imperial trap? 


Criminals 

Those who operate outside the law typically have experience in conducting 
their business and living their lives while evading the authorities. They range 
fram petty thieves who operate alone to members of vast crime syndicates. 
Depending on their experience and the extent of their own support networks, 
they can undertake a variety of tasks to support the heroes: obtaining and 
transporting restricted, stolen, or illegal goods; delivering clandestine mes- 
sages: spying on military installations or activities; slicing into computer 
networks to obtain or change data; creating false documents; and carrying 
out their usual criminal activities to support the heroes’ operations. 


Smugglers 

Like transport pilots, smugglers can move personnel, material, and data 
across planets and between systems. Since they operate outside the Jaw, 
they are much better prepared to deal with unexpected obstacles, have a 
greater freedom of movement, and are accustomed to handling delicate 
cargoes using their own network of contacts. These benefits are offset by 


the threat of increased suspicion from authorities and a tendency for resolv- 
ing problems less with diplomacy and covert actions and more with blasters 
and flamboyant chases. 


Fugitives 

Outlaws have many similarities to the heroes. They constantly flee from the 
Empire, live furtive lives apart fram common society, and harbor a fester- 
ing hatred for the Empire that—for whatever reason and through whatever 
means—has branded them as wanted criminals. As long as the heroes can 
provide relative safety, a basic means of survival, and a support network, 
fugitives usually have no problem with joining a resistance group of like- 
minded outlaws, even if becoming a group member does involve fighting 
the Empire. 


FINDING A SAFE HAVEN 

Scouting, establishing, and protecting a base of operations is a key theme 
in a Force Unleashed campaign. Unlike those operating in the Rebellion Era, 
when secret Rebel bases offer respite, Support, and resources, heroes in the 
Dark Times have only themselves and their allies to rely upon for survival 
and continued success against the Empire's growing menace. Given their 
fugitive status—even if they're operating clandestinely in common soci- 
ety—the heroes must constantly search for new, safe locations to support 
their subversive activities. 

Heroes need safe houses for living quarters and hiding places, nooks where 
they can securely store gear and supplies, and larger spaces where they can 
assemble material and personnel. They need secure medical facilities, or at 
least access to treatment in places safe from the scrutiny of those who would 
notify the authorities about suspicious characters displaying extraordinary 
injuries. Heroes might require a secure place in which to dock or repair their 
vehicles. A safe haven might serve a short-term goal—for example, an apart- 
ment with a good view of a targeted Imperial installation—or a long-term 
objective as a secure base for extended future operations. 

The heroes can scout out secure havens on their own or cultivate contacts 
who have access to useful facilities. They could scan the newsnets for items 
about businesses that are closing, buildings that have been gutted by fire, or 
abandoned factories that they might use for their own purposes. Heroes could 
actively scout out remote wilderness regions, decrepit industrial facilities, or 
residential neighborhoods where they could establish refuges. 

A network of reliable contacts that includes underworld figures or those 
operating in common society cauld also yield safe locations. The heroes 
could ask a friend to rent an apartment or a hotel room for their use. A 
sympathetic entrepreneur might allow them to use his commercial facilities. 
A bureaucrat could create cover businesses in commercial or industrial areas 
to suit their plans. A crime lord might already have secure hiding places, safe 
houses, vehicle hangars, and other facilities hidden from the authorities that 
he doesn’t mind sharing with a resistance group seeking to undermine the 
Empire's rule. 

Finding, constructing, and defending a hidden base could form the basis 
for a single adventure or the theme for an entire story are. 


Adventure Hook 


The heroes plan to destroy an important Imperial com-scan array that could 
shut down planetary communications and sensors for days. It's located in a 
quiet residential area. They must find a safe, concealed post from which to 
reconnoiter the base, establish hidden caches af weapons and supplies nearby, 
and find assembly and launch points for the assault, all without arousing the 
suspicion of local residents or security patrols, [hey might enlist the aid of 


sympathetic neighbors or service personnel working in the vicinity. 


FUGITIVE JEDI 

The Dark Times remain particularly deadly for Jedi Knights who are fleeing 
Palpatine’s campaign to wipe them out. Inquisitors wander throughout the 
galaxy, using their dark side powers and commanding special detachments 
of troops to hunt down and eliminate renegade Jedi. These fugitives natu- 
rally seek safe havens for shelter, relying on allies such as resistance cells to 
protect them from their hunters and, in some bold cases, to enable them to 
strike back against the overwhelming forces of the Empire. 

Inquisitorial adversaries play a primary role in a campaign in which any 
player runs a Jedi hero. The constant flight from enemy hunters, search for 
a safe haven, and fight for survival in a galaxy suddenly hostile to the time- 
honored heritage of the Jedi Knights overshadows much of the story line. 
Where once Jedi were welcomed as bearers of justice and order, now they 
are shunned and exposed as enemies of the state. Jedi heroes must take 
constant care to disguise their identities, whether they try to pass openly 
as everyday citizens or live a furtive life in hiding. Their presence in a group 
of freedom fighters magnifies the danger and increases the opposition 
immensely. Their very presence—and their use of Force powers—could easily 
attract an Imperial Inquisitor and his minions as adversaries on top of any 
normal opposition the heroes might face. 

In a campaign that does not include a Jedi hero, the Gamemaster can 
introduce one or more Jedi characters to motivate the heroes along a course 
of action, expose them to the relentless pursuit of the Imperial Inquisitors, 
and give them an immediate purpose: to protect the Jedi. Whether the Jedi 
helps them achieve their objectives or they aid the Jedi in achieving her own 
agenda remains secondary to the basic struggle for survival. 

Introducing the fugitive Jedi theme into a Force Unleashed campaign 
adds a particularly grim tone to the overall atmosphere. The players certainly 
know—and heroes probably suspect—that the Jedi become all but extinct 
by the time of the Rebellion Era. The grim truth remains: Jedi in a Force 
Unleashed campaign are destined to die at the hands of Vader's minions. 

The Gamemaster should have some idea of what specific fates await 
Jedi—both GM characters and the players’ heroes—at the conclusion of a 
Force Unleashed campaign. Few players enjoy seeing their heroes die, but 
knowing that they will perish at the climactic end of a campaign might 
encourage them to work toward making that death as epic as possible. The 
GM should work with players to determine their Jedi’s goals during the story 
line and how they ultimately meet their end. They might sow some plot, 
location, and character seeds that jead toward the conclusion of a story 
line and a gallant death for the Jedi. Players running Jedi should realize that 
how their heroes die~in essence, fulfilling their ultimate destiny—remains an 
essential part of their heroes’ characterization and is as important as their 
actions and adventures in life. 

For a Jedi's death to have meaning—both to the character and within 
the story line—it must come at a climactic moment in the campaign. Some 


p 


SeWIIWGAINS NOIo~rIwvea 


SeNIVWSIN®S NOIYVEWYVYsS 


players might want their Jedi characters to survive to the very end of the 
planned campaign. Others might hope that their Jedi meet their inevitable 
fate sooner, so they can continue the campaign playing a different hero. 
The Gamemaster should discuss how Jedi heroes arrive at their ultimate 
destiny without giving away too many plot points and surprises. Here are 
some general examples that players and the GM might use to broadly plan 
how and when Jedi heroes meet their end. 

Blaze of Glory: The Jedi sacrifices herself to destroy the major target 
that the heroes have been planning to assault for the entire campaign. 
With her final burst of energy, she reaches for the controls and sets the 
main power generator to overload. The Jedi fights her way to the command 
bridge and, mortally wounded, locks the navigation controls to put the ship 
ona collision course. 

Exposing the Truth: Through her final actions, the Jedi reveals the 
Empire's true intentions and the insidious extent of its plans to oppress 
freedom in the galaxy. By landing the slave transport in the city's central 
square, she shows that aliens being "reassigned for resettlement” are actually 
being sold into slavery. With her dying breath, the Jedi Knight uploads the 
incriminating datafile and broadcasts it on public frequencies throughout the 
system. The Jedi delivers evidence of the Empire's destruction of Callos to a 
sympathetic newsnet reporter, who vows to publicly broadcast it. 

Final Confrontation: To achieve the ultimate objective for the entire 
campaign, the Jedi Knight must face the group's nemesis in a final showdown. 
This principal adversary has plagued the heroes since the beginning, counter- 
ing their every move and harassing them at every turn. The duel must buy 
the other heroes time to achieve their objective, or clear the way for them 
to proceed to victory. Though the Jedi might triumph, she does not survive 
the confrontation for very long. 

Noble Sacrifice: The Jedi sacrifices her life to save her comrades or a 
key figure in the story line at the climactic moment of the campaign. She 
rescues the influential Senator and delivers him to safety even though she 
succumbs to injuries sustained in the escape. The Jedi manages to keep the 
starship from falling into the sun until everyone has evacuated. She contains 
the power core explosion until everyone has escaped the blast zone. 


Adventure Hook 

While scouting out a remote location for a hidden base, the heroes spot an 
escape pod ora damaged starship as it crash-lands nearby. When they inves- 
tigate, they discover a lone survivor who seems to be a fugitive Jedi Knight. 
Realizing how a Jedi might help their cause, they rescue him just as Imperial 
forces move in to capture the renegade. They must nurse the Jedi back to 
health, hide him from continued Imperial searches, and help him attain his 
original objective. As an unexpected twist, the person might not be a Jedi at 
all, but an impostor the ISB is using to flush out a resistance cell. 


DRDINARY PEOPLE 

How average people react when they witness potentially traitorous acts 
can make the difference between a “traitor” getting away with a risky 
deed and getting caught. But not all citizens have the same degree of 
loyalty to the Empire. When heroes interact with or around others in 
a suspicious manner, the Gamemaster should decide where observant 
citizens are located if they notice this behavior. These citizens might be 
reacting to activities that aren't overt acts of treachery. For instance, 
most people would notice someone tampering with a control panel; but 
if that hero was dressed like and acting like an official technician, most 
people wouldn't think anything “wrong” was going on. The reactions 
that ordinary people might display are discussed below, from least to 
most problematic. 

Tacit Complacency: Those who notice the heroes’ suspicious 
behavior might look the other way, not interfere, and carry on as if 
everything's normal. Most citizens overlook small infractions of the law 
anyway, especially if involving the authorities seems more inconvenient 
than letting something petty slide. This sort of reaction (or lack thereof) 
might also be evidence of some emerging sympathy for the heroes and 
their cause or a growing hatred for the Empire. 

Influenced Complicity: Someone could notice the heroes’ dubious 
actions, quietly mention it to them, and expect some incentive to avoid 
reporting the incident to the authorities. The heroes must somehow 
influence that person—by paying a bribe, appealing to the person's sense 
of justice, or offering a favor—to hush things up. The citizen agrees to 
fook the other way if doing so benefits him in some way. 

Quiet Betrayal: Loyal citizens who have a strong sense of self- 
preservation might take note of suspicious and potentially traitorous 
activity without saying anything to the heroes, then report their findings 
to the proper authorities so that those officials can follow the heroes, 
close in on them, and thwart them while they attempt to commit some 
other seditious act. These people pose the greatest threat to resistance 
fighters. It might seem to the heroes at first that they are behaving with 
tacit complacency as quiet allies, but in reality they form the backbone 
of an unofficial informer corps used by the ISB and COMPNOR to keep 
many planets in line. 

Alarm: Many people react with open alarm when they realize they're 
witnessing seditious activity, especially if it’s not terribly covert. Even 
subtle acts cause them to lose their train of thought, suddenly drop what 
they're doing, or stammer about with indecision. Most of these people 
will disengage Immediately from any contact with the heroes and head 
straight for the nearest comm station, security checkpoint, or guard 
post to report the incident. 


BETRAYAL 

Palpatine's Order 66 and the brutal slaying and pursuit of the Jedi Knights 
sets the stage for an entire era of betrayal. Governments and corporations 
make deals with the Empire, compromising their dedicated employees and 
citizens in the interest of holding onto some vestige of power, prestige, and 
wealth. Entrepreneurs implicate each other in fabricated schemes to support 
the resistance simply to eliminate competition and improve their own busi- 
ness. Residents inform on others in their neighborhood whom they suspect 
of having anti-!mperial sentiments, or just those against whom they harbor 
petty jealousies. Everyone looks out for his or her own welfare, often at 
the expense of others. Far better to offer someone else up to the Empire's 
uncaring injustice and cruel tyranny than suffer oneself. 

The Dark Times are a period of extreme risk for anyone operating against 
the Empire. At first glance everything seems more or less normal, a transi- 
tion from one galactic government to the next; but underneath the surface 
lurks something sinister. People seem to be watching each other over their 
shoulders, ISB and COMPNOR agents lurk undercover everywhere, and 
ordinary citizens live in fear of stormtroopers blasting down their door 
and making arrests. The Imperial war machine—and even many planetary 
security forces—exists solely to maintain control over systems at every level, 
exploiting resources, keeping the populace in line, and rooting out those 
who oppose its plans. 

Whom can the heroes trust? Every contact or ally they make might 
await the perfect chance to betray them, either as a citizen informer or an 
undercover Imperial agent. Someone might monitor their every move, or 
follow them through empty alleyways or crowded plazas. Every security 
checkpoint—and they become more frequent—brings with it the risk that 
someone might blow the heroes’ cover and expose them as traitors of the 
Empire. Every move they make, each communication they send, every ren- 
dezvous they complete might simply be one step into an Imperial trap. 

The Gamemaster should carefully consider when and how often to play 
the traitor card in a Force Unleashed campaign. The heroes should get a 
sense that they really can't trust anyone and that they might always be 
walking into a trap. But constantly turning carefully cultivated contacts and 
trustworthy allies against them can become tedious and create in the heroes 
(and perhaps the players} a sense of hopelessness, 2 feeling that nothing 


they do matters. Make sure any betrayal has sorne relevance to the adven- 
ture plot or the overall story arc in a campaign, Has an Impérial Inquisitor 
carefully set a trap to ensnare the group's Jedi hero? Does a trusted contac! 
turn traitor for some ulterior motive, such as freeing an imprisoned relative, 
saving the family business, or taking vengeance for some real or imagined 
offense? Does an average citizen who turns them in feel remorse later and 
rise up to aid the heroes? 

Adventure Hook: A trusted ally betrays the heroes and delivers thern into 


the custody of Imperial officials. Their imprisonment at the planetary garrison 


gives them access to an objective they have so far failed to reach: the prison 
cell of an influential Senator, the power grid to all Imperial installations in 
the area, the garrison’s arsenal, or even a powerful Imperial dignitary visiting 
the system. They must plan their escape and—with the help of the contact 
who supposedly betrayed them—use this advantageous access to achieve 
their goal by dealing the Empire a decisive blow from within. 


GROWING CRIMINAL ELEMENTS 
Although criminal organizations existed in the Republic, they maintained a 
low profile when operating within civilized areas and openly ruled only in 
more remote enclaves such as the Outer Rim and Hutt Space. With the Empire 
tightening its grasp on galactic affairs—and edging out crime syndicates with 
its own brand of brutality and vice—criminals are forced into more desperate 
measures to carry on their operations and make a profit despite increased 
security and a larger military presence. 

Some criminal groups resort to more brutal tactics and aggressive moves 
to expand the scope of their operations, taking any extreme measure neces- 
sary to survive. Others seek to form alliances with each other to better endure 
the Empire's tyranny. A few join with other groups, including resistance cells, 
to try overthrowing a government that proves bad for both legitimate and 
illegal business. 

Freedom fighters might turn to crime syndicates for favors. Criminal 
organizations can provide hard-to-obtain supplies, discreet transportation, 
restricted weapons, forged documents, personnel with specialized train- 
ing, secure access to restricted areas, and other forms of support, using an 
existing infrastructure intended to circumvent authorities. By establishing 
contacts within a crime syndicate or even a loose alliance with one, heroes 
walk a fine line between conducting a justified war against political oppres- 
sion and engaging in unlawful activities that could harm innocent civilians 
and threaten the few vestiges of civilized society left in the galaxy. 


Adventure Hook 

The heroes require specialized climbing, demolitions, and assault gear to 
penetrate a mountaintop prison where the Empire holds the planet's influ- 
ential leaders who vocally opposed the New Order. Unfortunately for the 
characters, they don't have any normal contacts who are willing to part 
with such expensive and restricted materials. The heroes hear rumors that 
the local crime syndicate can provide the necessary gear. They must make 
contact with the organization and negotiate a fragile if temporary alliance 
to get the equipment. To earn the crime lord’s trust and seal the deal, they 
must break into the Jocal starport's traffic control center (a much easier 
target than the prison) and steal security protocols, starship data records, 
and other information the crime syndicate can use to smuggle illicit goods 
an and off the planet. 


SeNITVEGINS NEIvanVva (I WIA 


U 


SSNHAAeINe NElIvanvea 


RESISTANCE OPERATIONS 

Once they establish themselves in an area, with false identities, secret hide- 
aways, and several support contacts, the heroes can spend much of their 
time conducting paramilitary operations against Imperial forces to achieve 
their objectives. These missions form the core of active resistance activities 
directly aimed at the Empire, its corporate allies, supportive local govern- 
ments, and criminal elements in their employ and draw on all the resources 
they have cultivated while establishing their rebellious cell. Each mission type 
discussed below serves as an adventure hook unto itself; the Gamemaster 
can customize the specific targets and challenges to fit the setting and draw 
upon past episodes in the campaign. 


Surveillance 

Before an operation, the heroes must spend time observing the target and 
assessing the best way to achieve their objective. They can follow Imperial 
officials and vehicles, draw a plan of a military or commercial installation, 
map possible ambush sites, note defenses and sentry routes, and check out 
possible access and escape routes—all tasks related to the particular target for 
an upcoming operation. They might conduct surveillance from a well-placed 
observation post or from simply wandering the nearby streets. If they hope to 
infiltrate a facility to steal supplies, download data, or sabotage vital systems, 
they need to examine the intended target to make sure they can enter and exit 
surreptitiously. The tricky part of surveillance is making sure nobody notices 
you. Most citizens pay no mind to a slightly more observant person walking 
past an Imperial facility; but some who are trained in counterintelligence, 
including ISB agents, know exactly how to spot someone who is observing 
and assessing a target. Although the average person who spots some really 
obvious surveillance would report it to the authorities immediately, more 
subtle people make note of the details and act on them later. 


Infiltration 

Heroes often break into (and out of) enemy installations to gather information, 
plant false intelligence, steal equipment, hijack vehicles, or sabotage facilities, 
Doing this requires some knowledge of the target's security measures and the 
means to deactivate or circumvent them. Sometimes heroes need to acquire 
specific equipment or hire specialists to gain entry, Aside from the usual dan- 
gers involved in evading traps, dodging sentries, opening locked hatches, and 
slipping past alarm sensors, the heroes must avoid causing any kind of alarm, 
lest they alert authorities to their presence and their possible intentions. 


Turning Agents 

Although the heroes constantly cultivate new contacts, allies, and recruits, 
they always remain watchful for enemy personnel they can persuade to join 
to their side. After first identifying potential targets and assessing their 
usefulness, the heroes can pander to one of their weaknesses by offering 


money, promising power, questioning their moral perspective, or even 
deceiving them altogether in an elaborate ruse; anything to encourage 
them to cooperate with the heroes in achieving short- or long-term objec- 
tives. These compromised agents usually come from the ranks of minor 
functionaries—guards, technicians, petty bureaucrats, low-ranking officers, 
and maintenance staff—though once in a while the heroes have a chance 
to turn an influential enemy agent who can really help them. Depending on 
their occupation, access, and authority, turned enemy personnel can provide 
weapons, supplies, and vehicles, allow undetected entry into restricted areas, 
pass along sensitive intelligence or data files, misinform other personnel 
about resistance activities, and generally provide an inside edge on activities 
focused on that individual's location or position. 


Ambush 

Heroes could plan an operation to attack mobile enemy forces from a care- 
fully prepared position at a vulnerable point in the route. They might seek to 
intercept a repulsorlift caravan carrying arms, prisoners, medical supplies, 
equipment, or troops. If they have access to starships, they might assault a 
freighter to capture its cargo. They could ambush an important person to 
kidnap that individual, deny the enemy his expertise at a critical moment, 
or gain information about a future objective. These operations require 
foreknowledge of the target's intended course, awareness of its defenses, 
and preparation of an ambush position with weapons, booby traps, light 
fortifications, and a swift escape route. 


Sabotage 

Destroying Imperial installations and facilities run by those who support 
the Empire remains a top priority for most resistance groups and one of the 
most visible and meaningful types of operations they can undertake. Since 
few insurgent cells have the resources to conduct an all-out frontal attack, 
they rely on subversive measures of sabotage: damaging vehicle engines, 
introducing viruses into computer banks, jamming comm-scan arrays, and 
setting timed explosives on vital machinery. Most such operations require a 
combination of good surveillance of the target and discreet infiltration (and 
exfiltration} for success at the overall objective. 


Rescue 

When enemy forces arrest members of the resistance or allied personnel, 
the comrades of those detainees often come to their aid. Rescue missions 
require the same sort of surveillance and infiltration as sabotage operations, 
but since they aren't destructive in nature, they demand a greater degree 
of care to successfully extract the imprisoned comrades. Would-be rescu- 
ers should exercise caution: A prisoner who appears to be lightly guarded 
might serve as bait to draw unwary insurgents out into the open and into 
a carefully set trap. 


A LESS CIVILIZED AGE 


The onset of the Dark Times launches an era of decline throughout the 
galaxy, as the former grandeur of the Republic—however eroded or tainted 
by corruption—deteriorates in the face of a shining New Order that leaves 
much of the galaxy in the dregs. Those who are loyal to the Empire rise in 
prominence and splendor, leaving everyone else to wallow in neglect and 
decay. Palpatine's friends gain power, prestige, and riches, while anyone 
beneath his notice suffers at the whim of his minions. 

The Empire, its loyal followers, and those who seek to make a profit 
through its oppressive policies make life much more difficult for heroes. As 
the Dark Times progress and the Empire expands its grasp over more systems 
throughout the galaxy, Palpatine’s insidious influence affects more aspects 
of life than before. Imperial personnel stretch the limits of their authority, 
learning how they can project their power, influence important people and 
ordinary citizens, and increase their standing in the new regime. 

Palpatine's New Order instills changes in many basic assumptions about 
life in the galaxy, particularly in the realm of law enforcement, but also in 
the way ordinary citizens view suspicious activities. Here are several situ- 
ations that heroes might find themselves in and some suggestions for how 
the Gamemaster might address them. 


EVERYDAY PARANOIA 

When Imperial personnel move into a system—whether in the form of a trade 
delegation ora full occupation force—most average citizens quickly learn to 
watch their backs. The Empire rules through mistrust, betrayal, and fear; its 
minions and policies reflect this tactic of intimidation at every level of life. 
Simply walking down the street might put the heroes in an uncomfortable 
spot, especially if they are known insurgents wanted by the authorities. The 
Gamemaster can use the following adventure hooks simply to add atmo- 
sphere to any scene in a public environment, or can insert them as incidents 
to precipitate action in an adventure. 


Imperial Patrol 
The heroes spot an Imperial patrol or checkpoint directly in their path. They 


must decide whether to try passing by the troopers or to find some other way 
around without attracting unwanted attention. If the heroes are wanted by 
the law for some recent operation, the patral might be searching specifically 
for them. The patrol could be actively seeking known outlaws (inctuding the 
heroes), questioning bystanders on the street and stopping individuals to 
inspect their identification and persanal possessions. Perhaps they're simply 
in transit from one post to another. In most Cases, Mowever, such patrols have 
broad orders that center on maintaining peace, detaining and questioning 
anyone who seems engaged in suspicious acliviLes, and making the Empire's 


presence felt, and feared, among the generat populace. A checkpoint usually 
exists to restrict access along a thoraughtare, olen to screen people on the 


street, stop people from entering a high-security location, or limit traffic 
into an area where Imperial troops are conducting a police action. If the 
heroes seek some other route around the patrol or checkpoint, they run the 
risk that a perceptive bystander might spot their change in course, consider 
it Suspicious behavior, and report it to the troopers. 


Shadowing 

In public areas, the heroes must always remain on guard for people taking 
note (even casually) of their presence, watching for unusual behavior, and 
alerting authorities to their possibly dubious activities. These observant 
individuals might really be ISB or COMPNOR agents under cover, local law 
enforcement officers, diligent civil servants, or minor functionaries of lacal 
government seeking to improve their stature. Attentive heroes constantly 
ask themselves if anyone's following them when they go out in public. Is that 
businessman the same person as the technician who followed their route 
yesterday, just ina different set of clothes? Where might well-placed security 
sensors monitor traffic along a busy boulevard or plaza? Savvy heroes can 
take countermeasures to help ensure that nobody's following them in public. 


INA BslevHg 


SeNMide@aine NEIvanwvs 


WA BaLavHo 


} 


Q 
> 
: 
2 
@ 
Z 
9 
W 
C 
al 
@ 


Rather than constantly peering over their shoulders, they can stop in front of 
shop windows to see who's behind them. They could disappear into a store 
or some other public place and slip out the back. Taking multiple forms of 
public transportation might help to shake someone who was tailing them. 
The heroes can never exercise too much caution in making sure they're not 
followed, especially when they head from a public place toward the hidden 
facility that supports their resistance activities. 


Shady Offer 

Whether in public or private, the heroes must closely examine any form of 
contact people might use when offering to aid them. They might receive an 
innocent-seeming offer from someone who has access to restricted supplies, 
useful communications equipment, medical facilities, vehicles and starships, 
or even vital intelligence pertinent to their current objective. In their excite - 
ment to accept help for their cause, they might fall into an Imperial trap 
intended to ferret out and capture insurgents, or even an elaborately set 
ambush specifically set to capture them. A fellow who offers to sell them a 
used landspeeder for a good price could start asking more sensitive ques- 
tions about where they live, how they earn their credits, what they intend 
to do with the speeder, and what other, possibly illegal, goods he might try 
obtaining for them. Even an acquaintance the heroes have come to trust could 
suddenly have reason to betray them through an offer of aid; the authorities 
might have recently trumped up some evidence blackmailing that individual, 
or might be threatening harm to an imprisoned friend or family member in 
order to induce that person to lure the heroes into a trap. 


SUSPICION OF THE FORCE 

Jedi who are fleeing the galaxywide purge engineered by Vader and his 
minions must take particular care to mask their true nature. Once proud 
defenders of peace and justice throughout the galaxy, they must now set 
aside their pride and arrogance and lurk in the shadows, ever watchful for 
those seeking to betray them. No longer can they afford to attempt fight- 
ing injustice with the authority of the Jedi Council behind them, nor can 
they even speak out without attracting attention. Where they once stood 
out as bold defenders and astute arbitrators, they must now blend in with 
the rest of the galaxy’s populace, lest their righteous attitude and bearing 
reveal their true identity. 

When a Jedi might encounter anyone outside her immediate sphere of 
comrades, she must make sure her lightsaber is concealed. Some simply hide 
their weapons in a safe place in or near their base of operations. Vehicles offer 
many places to hide a lightsaber—inside maintenance panels or storage hatches, 
under control consoles, stuffed between seat and bunk cushions—where one 
can easily grab it from in times of trouble. Others prefer having it on hand if 
an emergency arises; they conceal the weapon somewhere in the voluminous 
folds of their robes and capes, or in their gear bag or other accessory. 


Displaying the trappings of the Order can betray a Jedi in hiding. Jedi 
must adopt the more practical dress of everyday citizens, lest they stand 
out among the crowd, Anyone who quotes Jedi wisdom or speaks of the 
Jedi Knights in a favorable manner comes under suspicion from those who 
believe the lies Palpatine has spread about the Jedi Council's treachery and 
its role in the Republic's decline. Even reading Jedi writings or spreading Jedi 
teachings remains forbidden. 

Jedi who use Force powers in public should take care to employ only those 
powers whose activation and effects remain subtle enough to avoid casual 
notice, such as farseeing and mind trick. Jedi cannot easily conceal the use of 


some Force powers, including Force disarm, Force grip, Force lightning, Force 
slam, Force thrust, move object, negate energy, and, in most cases, surge. 

Any open indication that a hero is or was a Jedi Knight immediately 
arouses suspicion. Subtle uses of the Force might go unnoticed, but the 
more overt the effect of a Force power, or the presence or use of a light- 
saber, the more severe a reaction the Jedi provokes. The obvious presence 
of a Jedi immediately causes alarm among most citizens and retaliation 
from law enforcement, security, and Imperial military personnel. Local and 
even corporate security forces fear Jedi so much that they often evacuate 
the area of civilians and cordon it off, trying to trap the Jedi before more 
experienced bounty hunters or Imperial forces can show up to deal with 
the threat. Assuming that the Jedi escapes a situation when her presence 
causes an incident, she must be wary as Imperial troopers, bounty hunters, 
and agents of the Inquisitorius soon descend on the site to search for leads 
in the persistent hunt to eradicate the last vestiges of the Jedi Knights. 


IMPERIAL INTRUSIVENESS 

During the Dark Times, the citizens of the galaxy become more accustomed 
to checkpoints, inspections, and general Imperial interference in all aspects 
of life. Customs inspectors scrutinize passengers on starships, as well as 
freighter pilots and their crews; they examine personal identification and 
baggage, cargo, freight manifests, and official vessel operating permits. 

Most inspections occur at the point where one boards or disembarks from 
a vessel: a starport docking gate, a landing bay, or a security checkpoint 
leading to such an area. Sometimes an Imperial craft on patrol or blockade 
duty docks directly with a ship and conducts a boarding action to carry out 
a customs inspection. 

On most worlds loyal to the Empire, local law enforcement conducts 
customs inspections with the same degree of efficiency and inflexibility as 
its Imperial counterpart. In many cases, Imperial agents oversee or consult 
on local customs actions to represent Imperial interests and offer guidance 
in dealing with those who would flaunt the law. 

People passing through a customs inspection must show their identifi- 
cation (checked through planetary and Imperial databases) and offer their 
personal belongings for examination, including any items in their pockets, 
gear bags, or any other container they carry. Expensive personal items 
and bulk cargoes are subject to tariffs usually amounting to a percentage 


of their original value; depending on the degree at oppression the Empire 
exercises in an area, this tax could range tram jive to twenty-five percent. 
Customs agents usually conduct inspections af freighters and cargo areas 
to ensure that what's listed on the caryo maniiest matches what they find 
in the hold. 


Getting caught in an Imperial Customs inspection carries a great risk 
of imprisonment (see “Imprisoned by the [mpye," helow, for details), The 
penalty for infractions depends on whether local or tmperial agents conduct 


the inspection, how stringently laws are enforced in the area, and how seri- 
ously the subject reacts to criminal charges. Agents can arrest people for 
any number of legitimate or fabricated charges: carrying illegal or restricted 
goods (weapons, narcotics, or suspected intelligence data); using false 
identification; falsifying a cargo manifest; or having improper or outdated 
starship permits. Also subject to immediate arrest are wanted criminals, 
those suspected of being insurgents, those who actively seek to avoid an 
inspection, and anyone who openly criticizes or questions the Empire's right 
to such an invasion of privacy. 


IMPRISONED BY THE EMPIRE 

People arrested by Imperial forces can find themselves in detention facili- 
ties, the severity of which corresponds to the Empire's perception of their 
crime. 

Few detainees escape some form of initial interrogation before they're 
summarily sentenced to some term of incarceration. This questioning seeks 
to determine their true identity, the purpose behind their criminal activities, 
any accomplices who should also be arrested, and any hints of larger plots 
against local or Imperial objectives. 

In the early days of the Dark Times, as the Empire quickly extends its 
control over hundreds of systems, hastily erected prison camps process 
those rounded up in large raids or police actions against protesting crowds. 
This impresses other citizens with the Empire's diligence in rounding up both 
criminal troublemakers and potential insurgents. It also enables ISB personnel 
to compile lists of potential agitators in case of future disturbances. For most 
citizens, incarceration in a makeshift camp for a few weeks cures them of 
any future ideas of resisting Imperial control. 

Those who are arrested for minor infractions and don’t show evidence of 
treasonous intent usually find themselves in regional detention centers. On 
worlds with any Imperial presence, those forces maintain criminal process- 
ing facilities usually attached to the Imperial garrison. Here they separate 
the dangerous criminals, traitors, and insurgents from the petty Jawbreak- 
ers. In the most minor cases, Imperial forces turn prisoners over to local 
law enforcement for incarceration in regional jails along with other petty 
criminals and miscreants. 

Most sectors host a regional prison on the central administrative world, 
though some clusters of systems also provide such facilities. These regional 
Imperial prisons house the majority of criminal offenders; sometimes they 
also hold captured resistance fighters who might have some future value in 
tracking down other insurgents, connections to relay false information back 
to resistance cells, or usefulness when blackmailing or otherwise influencing 
friends and family to do the Empire's bidding. 

Those suspected of acting as enemies of the Empire are subjected to 
lengthy interrogations to determine their true intent, known associates, and 


f 


future plans, followed by a lengthy stay at any of several infamous Imperial 


(| 


SeENMEAINE NEIVEAY®] 


WA SHSstcvHoa 


BPeeeaze ee Fs B&B 


SENIVWEING NOIVEWYsS 


penal facilities, including the spice mines of Kessel and the penal colony 
on Despayre. The Empire uses these prisons as final dumping grounds for 
criminals and traitors, working them to death in harsh conditions to further 
support Imperial domination of the galaxy. 

Escaping from an Imperial penal facility proves extremely difficult. At first 
the makeshift detention camps offer the easiest means of escape, since their 
hasty construction doesn’t allow for many defenses and deterrents. Most 
average citizens incarcerated in such camps, however, grimly accept their 
fates, endure the petty injustices, and eventually obtain release. They have 
little reason to break out. Those imprisoned in more imposing facilities face 
a host of obstacles when seeking to escape: electrified fences, force-field 
gates, strict security protocols, patrolling sentries and probe droids, security 
monitors, underground sensors, speeder and starship patrols, and an array 
of unscalable walls and code-sealed hatches. Those brave and lucky heroes 
who manage to escape from Imperial captivity then face the challenge of 
evading pursuit forces and bounty hunters who persistently track them down 
to capture or kill them. 


BOUNTY HUNTERS 

Bounty hunters and mercenaries grow In numbers and influence during the 
Dark Times as they feed off the corruption and injustice that oppressive 
Imperial policies create. 

The Clone Wars leave many systems in chaos. Ordnance remains strewn 
about in wreckage and on battlefields. Many trained soldiers, particularly from 
the Separatists, find themselves with no useful profession in the Empire's New 
Order. Those who had been serving with security forces usurped by Imperial 
occupation troops choose between finding new careers or using their expertise 
in some other military field. Aliens faced with deportation, imprisonment, or 
slavery take up arms and fend for themselves in one of the few acceptable 
fringe occupations available to their kind. These conditions heip to form a 
base of bounty hunters and mercenaries who pursue their own selfish agendas 
(greed, revenge, carnage) in the guise of hunting down galactic criminals. 

When law enforcement officials at any level—local, sectorwide, or 
Imperial—seek assistance in apprehending or eliminating an individual wanted 
for a crime (justifiably or otherwise), they post a warrant at security centers, 
in newsnet broadcasts, and on information terminals in public places. Bounty 
hunters regularly monitor these venues for new targets. Some maintain a 
professional rapport with area security forces and receive warrants before 
they become publicly released. A few bounty hunter guilds exist in vari- 
ous places that work with law enforcement to distribute warrant notices 
among their memberships to increase the opportunity for a capture (and a 
nominal share of the bounty). Occasionally security forces—and particularly 
the Empire=actively hire bounty hunters to track down the more danger- 
ous and elusive enemies, freeing up Imperial forces for actions of a more 
military nature. 


Bounty hunters operate in a number of ways. Some work established 
and familiar territories—a particular system, sector, or region—while others 
seek the most dangerous prey, pursuing criminals across the galaxy. Loners 
go off on their own, relying on their independence and personal contacts 
for support. Others band together in loosely knit groups, though by nature 
they rarely trust each other. 

Individual bounty nunters vary In equipment, weapons, and method. A few 
subtle ones track their targets quietly under the cover of some more benign 


identity. Some have such notorious reputations that they cannot effectively 
operate under cover; in these cases they use intimidation to gather informa- 
tion and hunt down their bounties. 

Those who have an active bounty on their heads must maintain a higher 
level of paranoia than usual. Most local and Imperial !aw enforcement units 
have responsibility for entire populations, but bounty hunters care only about 
apprehending or eliminating a few individuals. Targets must take greater 
care in their movements, possibly abandoning familiar territory or avoiding 
contact with resources used in the past, lest their trail attract attention. 
It's easy to evade well-armored, weapon-toting bounty hunters whose gruff 
attitudes and hulking silhouettes cut a path through more civilized crowds. 
But even these toughs prepare elaborate traps as devious as those meticu- 
lously constructed by hunters who work under cover. Even more than usual, 
the heroes must question everything they rely on and remain on guard for 
betrayal at every moment. 


ADVENTURE: 
ROUND-UP ON 
SALLICHE 


Upon announcing his New Order, Palpatine immediately seeks to solidify his 
hold on systems vital to the Empire's survival. Imperial forces spearheaded 
by ISB agents descend on Salliche, an agricultural planet that supports many 
neighboring Core Worlds with its abundant crops and efficient harvesting 
corporation. 

Although Imperial military units quickly deploy to key residential, com- 
mercial, and transport centers, undercover agents set traps to cull potential 
malcontents and future political troublemakers out of the general population 
of disgruntled laborers and transient travelers. Palpatine intends to make 
sure the Core Worlds—and, more important, his military personnel deploy- 
ing to key trouble spots throughout the galaxy—continue to receive food 
stores from Salliche. 

This adventure serves as a starting point for a Force Unleashed cam- 
paign. If the heroes previously met and decided to band together, they can 
dive right into the action as a team of freedom fighters intent on opposing 
the Empire. The Gamemaster can use the introductory setup and opening 
encounter to bring together heroes who have yet to meet, forging them 
into a team by experiencing a common incident of Imperial treachery that 
galvanizes them into action. 


Each hero—individually or as a group—hears of a meeting of sympathetic 
citizens disgruntled by the sudden change in galactic government and the 
Empire's military presence on this formerly quiet, industrious Core World. 
Rumors claim Graaf Savraan, a noble relative of Salliche's governor who is 
critical of Palpatine’s rise to power and his actions during the Clone Wars, 
backs the meeting; he has a solid base of resources on Salliche, enough to 
establish his own resistance group if necessary. The heroes might have picked 
up gossip at a local club, seen graffiti scratched into a wall or sprayed in 
an alley, overheard some reliable people talking in public, or noticed a small 
advertisement flashed across a news ticker. All these clues point to a meet- 
ing at Docking Bay 723, an abandoned landing bay in an unused corner of 
Salliche's starport ... where Imperial forces wait to ambush and arrest them. 
Some might walk into the trap, while more cautious heroes might watch and 
try to help fleeing fugitives escape from hiding places nearby. 

The heroes then follow the guarded caravan of speeder trucks as Imperial 
forces transport imprisoned dissenters away from the starport and into the 
countryside. After predicting that the prisoners are heading out to the Graaf's 
rural estate, the heroes prepare an ambush at a suitable location. Any heroes 
who fell into the trap at the docking bay have a chance to try breaking out 
of the secure speeder truck's passenger bay during the commotion. 

Whether or not the heroes successfully ambush the prisoner transport 
caravan, they can proceed to the remote country estate. Imperial forces 
have hastily converted the main house and surrounding grounds into a 
fenced detention camp for processing citizens suspected of surreptitiously 
opposing the New Order. The heroes must reconnoiter the defenses and plan 
a breakout for as many prisoners as they can... each of whom might serve 
as a vital member in their growing resistance movement. 


SeENIIAGINe NMVAaWwYvsS 


1HiA BaLlevH 


Far] 
= 


SeMwIdSaINnNe NOIVEWwYsS 


DOCKING BAY 


Challenge Level 4 

SETUP: The heroes should decide before this encounter whether they have 
any suspicions that this meeting might be a trap. They can enter Docking 
Bay 723 and wait for the Graaf to meet with a crowd of other dissenters, 
or they might check out the area and find a place from which to observe 
the gathering without actually getting involved. If they join the crowd, the 
action starts with them inside the confines of the docking bay amid the other 
people. If they act warily, they could station themselves anywhere nearby 
with a good view of the bay entrance: inside the abandoned buildings across 
the street, on an adjacent rooftop, or around a corner in an alley. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


Just as the heroes settle in—either mingling with the crowd or hidden else- 
where—the Graaf emerges from his waiting place in the docking bay's control 
office and sets the trap in motion. 


The door to the docking bay's control booth opens and out steps Graaf Savraan. 
"Greetings, fellow citizens of Salliche and honored visitors to our planet,” he 
announces. “Gather round, for today we embark on a desperate journey to 
free this world, and perhaps many others, from the growing Imperial tyranny.” 
The throng of dissenters coalesces from various groups hanging around the 
abandoned docking bay, everyone focusing on the regally dressed, charismatic 
figure af the Graaf. Suddenly several sealed doors in the bay burst open and 
Imperial troops stream out, weapons raised, and order everyone to surrender. 
"Everyone take cover!" the Graaf shouts. He pulls out his blaster pistol and 
dives for cover, ready for a fight. 


THE GRAAF 


The man calling himself the Graaf is actually an agent of the Imperial 
Security Bureau. This field agent has been put in place to lure dissenters into 
an ambush, and though he maintains the illusion throughout the encounter, 
some savvy heroes might note the deception and realize that the impostor 
is part of the Imperial trap. 


"The Graaf" 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/scout 3 

Force 2; Dark Side 4 

Init +5; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, High Galactic 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 13, Will 11 

hp 27; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Talents Acute Senses, Improved Stealth 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Gather 
Information), Skill Training (Deception), Skill Training (Persuasion), Skill 
Training (Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Endurance +9, Gather Information +14, Perception 
+8 (can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +9, Stealth +9 
(can reroll, must take second result) 

Possessions blaster pistol, street clothes 


CL4 


IMPERIAL TACTICS 


The Imperial stormtroopers have orders to capture anyone gathered in the 
docking bay, whether or not they really believe they're meeting with Graaf 
Savraan to talk about opposing the Empire. They unseal the previously locked 
doors and quickly move in from their hiding places in the warehouses on each 
side of the bay and the nearby office. They move on the dissenters from every 
vantage point, blasting away with their weapons set on stun. 

Since they intend to overwhelm the crowd—and the heroes—send three 
stormtroopers into the docking bay for each hero attending the meeting. The 
ISB doesn't underestimate the danger these dissidents pose to the maintenance 
of order on Salliche, so they also keep a reserve of three more stormtroopers 
per hero just outside the main docking bay entrance (they move here from their 
hiding places in the run-down office); several patrols might also lurk in nearby 
alleys to pose as obstacles to anyone who successfully manages to climb the 
high docking bay walls and drop down into the adjacent streets. 

The stormtroopers are counting on the ISB field agent posing as the Graaf 
to distract the dissenters and cause them to focus on him as the troopers 
close the trap. When the ambush starts the “Graaf” stays in character by 
feigning surprise and alarm; he draws his blaster pistol and seeks cover while 
still keeping an eye on the gathered dissenters, The stormtroopers know he's 
an infiltrator (and in fact the mastermind behind the ambush setup), so they 


avoid shooting him. The "Graaf" doesn’t shoot until any dissenters 


(or heroes) gather with him behind cover, or someone suspects his Ambush at Docking Bay 723 


complicity in the ambush. At this point he turns his blaster on the 
dissenters—setting it to stun to ensure their capture. 

The stormtroopers react to anyone nearby who interferes with the 
ambush. Cautious heroes who decide to observe the dissenters’ meet- 
ing with the Graaf from afar might stage their own counterambush or 
even take some random potshots at stormtroopers closing in on the 
docking bay. As soon as they realize that a third party seems intent on 
harassing their police action, they detail two troopers per hero to take 
up defensive positions and engage the heroes with blaster fire. 


Stormtrooper cL 1 

Medium Human nonheroic 4 

Dark Side 1 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 10 

hp 10; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged biaster rifle +4 (3d8) or 

Ranged frag grenade +3 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +7, Perception +9 

Possessions stormtrooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), blaster rifle, 
frag grenade, utility belt with medpac 


CONCLUSION 


When the fight dies down, two speeder trucks swiftly pull up to the docking 
bay entrance with a stormtrooper escort. The troopers herd anyone who 
surrendered into the trucks—relieving them of weapons, comlinks, and other 
useful equipment—then pick up anyone who's stunned and throw them inside, 
too. Any heroes subdued during the dacking bay ambush find themselves inside 
a speeder truck with the rest of the prisoners, [nose cautious enough to observe 
the ambush from afar—even if they tried to intervene and escaped into the 
labyrinthine streets of the ramshackle starpor! sector—scramble to find trans~ 
port and follow the prison convoy out of the city and inta the countryside. 


Contral Office 
‘A 


pUpen Wreckage 
Docking 
Bay 


Junk Pile 


{olmeters = = Door 
Dissenters ©* [ocked Uoar 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

ISB agents have converted the dilapidated docking bay into an effective 
trap. The walls of the circular landing area rise 12 meters to help deflect 
the blasts from incoming and outgoing starships. Although the sheer 
surfaces consist of rough stone, heroes must make DC 25 Climb checks 
to surmount this high wall and reach the flat roof that connects the bay 
with the adjacent warehouses and a run-down office. 

Enough wreckage and debris remains along the docking bay walls to 
obscure some of the locked hatchways leading to other areas, though 
these might also provide cover for anyone evading the ambush. 

Most doors leading to areas in which the Imperial troops wait 
remain sealed, including main doors to both warehouses and the smaller 
hatches allowing access along narrow corridors. Trying to open any of 
the sealed doors requires a DC 25 Mechanics check, though by the time 
the hatch opens, the heroes find themselves directly in the path of the 
Imperial ambush. 


> 


WA SSilawHoD 


E 


) 
: 
p 
@ 
dZ 
@ 
S 
o 
1} 
ic 
zZ 
Wy 
() 


HWiA SeS4tdvHoD 


5 


SNINSEEGINGES NEIWAIwMw?7s) 


i 


PRISONER 
CONVOY 


Challenge Level 6 

SETUP: The heroes determine that the prisoner convoy follows a route 
out into the countryside toward the rural estate of Graaf Savraan, Scouting 
ahead, they find a portion of the road ideal for an ambush; a light wood 
with two boulders provides some cover on one side, with rocky hills on the 
other offering a height advantage and partial cover. Allow the players to 
decide beforehand where to position their characters in staging their own 
ambush. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


Allow the players to discuss their ambush tactics briefly before the convoy 
arrives. 


The whine of repulsorlift engines grows as several vehicles approach your 
positions. The Imperial prisoner convoy rounds a bend in the road and comes 
into view. An armed landspeeder escort appears first, followed by two speeder 
trucks, with three biker scouts taking up the rear. As the vehicles come around 
the curve, they slowly accelerate toward the straightaway just beyond your 
position. 


The heroes should all make Stealth checks against the Perception modifier 
(+10) of the lead drivers in the armed landspeeder escort; if they succeed, 
their ambush catches those in the convoy—the drivers in the armed |and- 
speeder escort and speeder trucks as well as the three biker scouts—flat- 
footed, and the heroes get to attack during an initial surprise round. 


CONVOY VEHICLES 


The lead escort vehicle looks like a used SoroSuub landspeeder hastily 
modified with an enclosed operator cabin for the driver and passenger and 
a remote laser cannon mounted on the forward fuselage. 

The speeder trucks have no armament. Like the modified landspeeder, 
they fully enclose their passengers and crew; use the landspeeder statis- 
tics—without the weapon—if the speeder trucks become involved in the 
fight. Use the statistics for the Aratech 74-Z speeder bike (below) for the 
three biker scouts bringing up the rear of the convoy. 


Modified SoroSuub X-34 Speeder Escort CL 3 
Large ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +3; Senses Perception +3 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 
hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 24 


Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 330 km/h) 
Ranged laser cannon +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +15 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 


Abilities Str 18, Dex 24, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +5, Perception +3, Pilot +14 


Crew 1 (expert); Passengers 1 
Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 13,550 (3,500 used) 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4410 


Aratech 74-Z Speeder Bike CL 4 
Large ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +14; Senses Perception +8 


Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 
hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19 


Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 500 km/h) 
Ranged laser cannon +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +5; Grp +14 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 


Abilities Str 18, Dex 24, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +14, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +14 


Crew 1 (expert); Passengers 1 
Cargo 3 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 6,750 (1,200 used) 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10 


ESCORT TACTICS 


When the heroes open fire (whether or not they catch the convoy 
flat-footed}, the Imperial drivers fall back on their training for such 
scenarios. The escort speeder pulls to one side of the road where it can 
target the heaviest fire coming from the heroes. This also allows the 
two speeder trucks to race through the clearing and down the road, 
away from danger. The heavy repulsorlift craft have a low operational 
ceiling, so they can't fly over obstacles higher than 2 meters that block 
the road; fallen trees from the woods or a small landslide blasted from 
the rocky heights would do the trick. 

The three speeder bikes pose the greatest challenge to the heroes. 
Once they make sure the speeder trucks escape, they gain altitude 
and circle the area to spot where targets are hiding. They dive down 
and strafe these locations from above, negating most of the cover 
benefits. 

Ensuring the safety and escape for the two speeder trucks remains 
the primary mission for the escort landspeeder and speeder bikes. 
Eliminating any resistance once the prisoner transports get away has 
secondary priority. The scout troopers and escort speeder return fire 
to keep the heroes at bay, but don't pursue them if they flee. If the 
heroes emerge from cover, the Imperial troops take full advantage 
and continue the attack. After a few rounds the speeders move off 
in the direction of the speeder trucks, though they probably called 
in reinforcements. 


IMPRISONED HEROES 

Any heroes who were stunned and captured in the ambush at Docking 
Bay 723 start this encounter inside one of the two speeder trucks. The 
prisoners sit on benches inside the main passenger area; they aren't 
individually restrained, but the side entry hatch remains sealed from the 
outside. The driver and guard~both scout troopers—sit in the forward 
control cabin sealed off from the prisoners, so the heroes can scheme 
to escape even before their friends ambush the convoy. Prying open a 
bulkhead panel and short-circuiting the door controls from the inside 
requires a DC 20 Mechanics check. If they manage to open the hatch 
while the convoy is still in transit, they (and the rest of the escaping 
prisoners) can jump from the moving speeder truck and run for cover 
in the woods. If they wait for the ambush, however, they can try escap- 
ing when the speeder trucks momentarily slow down (or halt entirely if 
the heroes manage to block the road) and the escorts are busy hunting 
down their attackers. 


Prisoner Convoy 


Boulder 


Armed Landspeeder 
Escort 


Roulder 


_ 
Road to Graaf's Estate 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The woods offer heroes cover (+5 to Reflex Defense) as long as they 
remain within the trees and low underbrush. The two boulders alongside 
the road offer improved cover (+10 to Reflex Defense) to those firing 
around or over them at Imperial forces. Although the rough ground of the 
rocky heights offers only some cover, it also provides a higher vantage 
point from which to attack. Anyone moving out of the woods, from 
behind the boulders, or down from the rocky heights loses any bonuses 
from cover; heroes must leave cover to reach any vehicles on the road, 
such as a halted or disabled speeder truck. 


CONCLUSION 


After the convoy and escorts move off, the heroes can gather any freed pris- 
oners, return to their vehicles, and continue down the road to discover where 
Imperial forces are taking captured dissenters. They'd better hurry, though, 
since the troopers driving the convoy followed standard protocol, reported 
the attack, and called for reinforcements to mop up any resistance. 


WA BaLtevHo ) 


SeaweidIaine Neivawvs 


NA YsidvHo 


U 


5 
t 


SeWIMNAaING NWEIvanvys= 


AT THE 
GRAAF'S 
PLEASURE 


Challenge Level 7 

SETUP: The heroes follow the road and escaping remnants of the prisoner 
convoy to the rural estate of Graaf Savraan. Imperial forces have surrounded 
the manor house and grounds witha fence, guard towers, and support build- 
ings to serve as a detention camp. Allow the heroes to position themselves 
in the nearby forest and rocky hills to survey the area and launch a rescue 
attempt. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


The players should describe how their heroes approach the prison camp and 
from what position they reconnoiter the Imperial installation. 


Imperial forces have established a makeshift prison camp on what was for- 
merly Graaf Savraan's country estate. The sprawling mansion and surrounding 
grounds now lie within a hastily erected wire fence—probably electrified—with 
guard towers at each corner and one by an opening that functions as the gate 
(no doubt it seals with some kind of lethal force field). About 40 prisoners 
mill around the estate’s enclosed grounds awaiting their fate. Most lounge 
on the grass, some pace pensively, and a few gather in angry clusters for 
heated discussions. 

Several support structures stand outside the guarded enclosure. Two prefab 
barracks provide shelter for the guards, while a metal-walled shack with a roof 
bristling with communications antennae serves as a command post. A cleared 
area outlined by blinking guide lights serves as a landing zone for transport 
craft, though nothing occupies the space at the moment. 

Observing the patrol routine for a few minutes reveals that several pairs of 
stormtroopers march along the fence’s outer perimeter while others mount a 
fixed guard at key locations. Lone stormtroopers in each of the 7-meter-tall 
sentry towers keep an eye on the prisoners and the fence, ready to fire at 
anyone with light repeating blasters. 

The compound's major weakness appears to come from the incomplete 
perimeter fence. Posts Support the wires only a few meters into the estate's 
pond, leaving a gap someone might swim through to reach the prisoners or 
escape, 


SENTRY TACTICS 

The detention camp's complement of guards consists of 16 stormtroopers: 10 

in pairs on patrol or at duty posts and one in each of the sentry towers. A lone 

Imperial officer works in the command shack. They remain at their posts and 

patrol routes unless they notice suspicious activity or come under attack. 
When fighting breaks out, stormtroopers on patrol immediately move to 

charge any threat. Those troopers standing guard at stationary posts hold 

their positions, but take cover and return fire as necessary. Guards in the 

sentry towers swing their light repeating blasters into action, assuming they 

have line of sight to attacking heroes. The Imperial officer emerges from the 

command bunker to direct the stormtroopers; he reacts defensively to any 

changes in attack strategy. They assume the prisoners remain neatly locked 

up inside the electrified enclosure unless they somehow escape and pose 

an actual combat threat. 

Imperial Officer CL5 

Medium Human nonheroic 4/noble 3/officer 1 

Force 2; Dark Side 5 

Init +3; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, High Galactic 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 14, Will 18 

hp 33; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +6 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate +1, Trust 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 8, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill 
Training (Deception), Skill Training (Pilot), Toughness, Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +10, Persuasion 
+16, Pilot +8 

Possessions blaster pistol, code cylinder, comlink (encrypted), officer's 
uniform 


Stormtrooper CL 1 
Medium Human nonheroic 4 

Dark Side 1 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 


Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 10 
hp 10; Threshold 12 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster rifle +4 (3d8) or 

Ranged frag grenade +3 (4d6, 2-square burst) 
Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +7, Perception +9 

Possessions stormtrooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), blaster rifle, 
frag grenade, utility belt with medpac 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The light woods and rocky hills offers heroes cover (+5 to Reflex Defense) 
as long as they remain within that terrain. They must cross open ground, 
however, to reach any of the detention camp buildings or the fence. They 
can fire around the barracks and command shack if they can reach them 
and use them as improved cover (+10 to Reflex Defense}. 

The guard towers stand 7 meters high, providing cover to the stor- 
mtroopers within. A ladder up the metal tube support structure allows 
access to the sentry box above. The fence deals 3d8 points of damage 
to anyone touching the wires. The lines are strung close enough to 
prevent anyone from slipping through no matter how nimble they are. 
Destroying one of the support pylons cuts the wires; felling two pylons 
cuts the power in between, The command shack contains controls for 
opening and shutting the force field gate and powering down the current 
charging the fence wires. Comm equipment allows transmissions to the 
Imperial installation in the nearest city as well as communications with 
all troopers and sentry towers on site. 

The pond presents a natural obstacle that seems easy fo swim across. 
But deep muck lurks beneath the shoreline thal snares anyone trying 
to climb ashore or wade into deeper water to escape. Pulling oneself 
out of the muck—either back to shore or into open water—requires a 
DC 20 Strength check. 


IMPRISONED HEROES 

Any heroes who were stunned and captured in the ambush at Docking 
Bay 723 and failed to escape from the speeder trucks during the ambush 
find themselves deposited inside the perimeter fence at the beginning 
of this encounter. They can plan their own escape independent of their 
comrades’ rescue attempt, though the attack offers an opportunity to 
execute it in the ensuing confusion. Assuming they can convince their 
fellow inmates to actively resist the Empire, the imprisoned heroes might 
find some allies willing to aid in their escape attempt and possibly assist 
future resistance efforts. 


CONCLUSION 


After the heroes help the prisoners escape they must quickly flee the area, 
using whatever transportation they can find to reach a safe haven. Even if 
they managed to take out all the Imperial personnel, the officer might have 
had time to send out a distress call. In any event, more transports arrive bring- 
ing fresh guards or new prisoners and quickly initiate operations to suppress 
what the Empire believes is an active resistance cell on Salliche. 

If the heroes managed to rescue any prisoners, some might channel their 
resentment for the Empire into working for a resistance cell organized by 
the heroes. 


Sentry 
Patrol 


Estate Detention (Camp 


| square = 15 Meters A 
MA A Powered 


Fence 


a buard 
‘ uff lower 


‘\j 


MA 
i dt 
a 


Pretab 
Barracks 


Mansion/ 
Prison Yard 


Command 
Shack 
inteky Hills ‘ 


RackyiHills™ 


lA SSBtaerHo 


SSIMIVNSEGINGSG NEWewvsa 


£ 


f 


y, “CHAPTER 1X 
TIC GAZETTEER 
Lh — o % | 4 ys 


re eee \ 


eee 
Few planets in the galaxy escape the Empire's influence for very long after 
Palpatine declares his New Order. 

Those just recovering from the ravages of the Clone Wars initially view the 
appearance of Imperial troops as a stabilizing influence. Others see Imperial 
interest in their affairs as a sign of galactic stability and a better economic 
connection with prosperous Core worlds. 

The Empire follows no strict policies in subjugating worlds or leaving 
others alone with minimal supervision. Only generalizations exist, based 
on a planet's strategic or material value to Palpatine, its perceived loyalty 
to the New Order, the activity of insurgent groups, and the whims of local 
commanders and governors. 

The Empire deals harshly with worlds Palpatine that perceives as threats, 
enslaving entire populations, such as the Wookiees of Kashyyyk, and con- 
spiring to bring about the destruction of other populations. The devastation 
of Caamas by an “unknown enemy" shows how ruthlessly the Empire deals 
with even the most benign dissenters. 

Planets that have assets vital to the Imperial military machine receive 
special attention. Some, such as Mon Calamari, unwillingly host a garrison 
that maintains martial law on the world to ensure continuous operation of 
essential industries. Others accept Imperial administrative control of key 
industries, such as the Bacta Cartels of Thyferra. A few, such as Muunilinst, 
Palpatine leaves alone, assured of their loyalty and dependent on their con- 
tinued cooperation. As resistance grows throughout the galaxy, the Empire 
tightens its grip on many systems, revoking earlier freedoms in the name of 
greater security and Imperial authority. 

Worlds loyal to the Empire experience changes that begin gradually and 
become frightfully apparent only as Imperial tyranny fragments the galaxy 
and sends it down a path toward civil war. 


<i BSiavHa 


YySSL413aZvV9 Ji19dv1v0 
a a cman 2 = = 


x! YSLavHo 


SBSsgLLeZveQ2 DLOVWS 


as 


PLANETS OF THE 
DARK TIMES 


This section provides a brief gazetteer detailing information on new or sig- 
nificant worlds in the Dark Times setting. it uses the same format as Chapter 
13 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


CAAMAS 

Region: Core 

Climate: Temperate to arctic 
Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 25 standard hours 
Length of Year: 375 local days 
Sapient Species: None (after Imperial orbital bombardment) 
Government: None 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Shortly after the Clone Wars, the Empire bombarded Caamas’s 
surface after the planet's extensive shield system was mysteriously 
disabled. 

15 The wise, freethinking Caamasi were staunch supporters of the 
Republic, pacifists who became prominent scholars and nobles with 
a deep sense of ethics. 

20 Several years after the destruction of Caamas, a meteor hit the 
planet and carved a massive crater in the surface. 

25 Legends claim that the earliest Jedi Knights came to Caamas, 
establishing a temple as the center for their studies of ethics and 
exercises to train their moral consciences. 


Knowledge (Life Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 An attack by the Empire damaged the planet's ecology to such a 
great extent that visitors must wear breath masks to survive on its 
surface. 

15 Most animal and plant life died in the aftermath of the attack on 
Caamas. 

20 Debris clouds floating through the atmosphere wreak havoc on the 
planet's climate. Erosion and dust storms make travel on the surface 
or in the atmosphere extremely hazardous. 


CAAMAS 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

pc 
RESULT 

10 Caamas was once home to the Caamasi people, but a devastating 
attack by the Empire forced survivors to flee to refugee camps on 
various worlds throughout the galaxy. 

15 A handful of survivors have begun corresponding and forming a 
group intent on returning to their homeworld to research ways to 
bring back the planet's natural ecology. 


CALLOS 
Region: Outer Rim 
Climate: Arctic 
Gravity: Standard 
Moons: 3 
Length of Day: 29 standard hours 
Length of Year: 296 local days 
Sapient Species: None (after Imperial orbital bombardment) 
Government: None 
Capital: None 
Major Exports: None 
Major Imports: None 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Imperial forces led by Juno Eclipse assaulted the planet after the 
Empire discovered evidence that the Callosians were developing 
a new offensive technology intended to oppose those who were 
spreading the New Order. 

15 The Imperial bombardment destroyed much of the planet's lush 
surface and sent the formerly fertile environment into a permanent 
winter that killed anything that survived the initial assault. Though 
the atmosphere remains breathable, incessant ice storms and sub- 
freezing temperatures prevent any permanent habitation. 

20 Callosians who were away from the planet at the time of the bom- 
bardment defied logic and returned to their devastated homeworld, 
presumably to die. 

25 Imperial surveys that returned later found no life signs on the 
planet's surface and no evidence of survivor enclaves. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 The reclusive Callosians developed a sophisticated culture centered 
ona lifestyle of scholarship and philosophy. 

15 Callos remained neutral during the Clone Wars and rebuffed rep- 
resentatives from both the Republic and the Separatists to support 
their causes. 

20 Small groups of Callosians left their homeworld at various times 
throughout history to learn about the greater galaxy, and until the 
planet's destruction they always returned to share their knowledge 
with their society. 


DESPAYRE 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Tropical 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 

Length of Year: 368 local days 

Sapient Species: 60% Wookice, 20% Mon Calamari, 10% Human, 
10% other species 

Government: Imperial governor 

Capital: none 

Major Exports: Starships 

Major Imports: Slaves, starship components 


Knowledge (Bureaucracy) 

DC RESULT 

10 The Imperial Navy severely restricts starship traffic in the Despayre 
system; only official military vessels, prison ships, and armed com- 
mercial freighters from corporations supplying starship components 
can enter. 

15 Separate governing administrations operate the surface penal 
colony and the orbital stardock facilities, both managed by the 
Imperial Navy. 

20 Overseers on the planet carefully screen slaves chosen to work in 
the orbital facilities. 

25 The slaves working in the orbital stardocks consist primarily of 
imprisoned Wookiees and Mon Calamari who have starship con- 
struction expertise. 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Despayre serves as an infamous penal! colony for numerous slave 
species, criminals, and political dissidents. 

15 Most slaves on Despayre are Wookiees from Kashyyyk, prized 
for their great strength and endurance under the harsh labor 
conditions. 

20 Prisoners work in vast factories that produce components used in 
the orbital shipyards that help fuel the Imperial military machine. 

30 Asmall mining operation on the planet's crystalline moon Haroon 
works to extract several immense, specially cut crystals, presumably 
for a top-secret military project. 


FELUCIA 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Tropical 

Gravity: Light (75% standard) 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 27 standard hours 

Length of Year: 232 local days 

Sapient Species: 75% Felucian (native}, 10% Gossam, 5% Twi'lek, 
10% Human 

Government: Imperial governor 

Capital: Kway Teow 

Major Exports: Slaves, biotoxins, medicine 

Major Imports: High-tech goods, foodstuffs 


E 


SHVVILLAA2ZV7Q BLIVWVWS 


JFSGLAASBVOS DLOVVYVS | 


& 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 
Dc RESULT 


10 


15 


20 


During the Clone Wars, Felucia was a major stronghold for the 
Separatists, particularly the Commerce Guild. 

Since their defeat, Separatist remnants, including the planet's 
Gossam settlers, have taken shelter in small enclaves in the fungal 
wilderness, joining forces with the fugitive laborers, outlaws, and 
smugglers they formerly persecuted. 
Imperial forces maintain a presence in Kway Teow primarily to gather 
Gossam slaves for export and to research biological agents taken 
from the diverse and abundant plant life. 
During the Dark Times, the Jedi Shaak Ti and Maris Brood seek refuge 
here from Imperial Inquisitors. 


Knowledge (Life Sciences) 
DC RESULT 


10 


15 


20 


25 


30 


The humid fungus forests covering the world’s surface glisten in 
the sun, creating a fantastic, multicolored landscape during the 
day. Most plants and animals on Felucia have adapted specialized 
defenses to protect them from each other, making them particularly 
hostile to offworlders, 

Although the plant life synthesizes its own venoms delivered through 
spores, sap, gas, and thorns, the native Felucians, Gossam colonists, 
and Commerce Guild scientists all learned how to extract and 
enhance toxic biological elements for both poisons and medicines. 
The deadly wildlife lurking on Felucia includes a Sarlace and a sub- 
species of the dreaded rancor called the bull rancor. 

The native Felucians have a degree of Force-sensitivity that primarily 
manifests itself through tribal shamans. 

Ihe Jedi apprentice Maris Brood, after hiding out on Felucia and 
turning to the dark side, corrupts several Felucian shamans and 
trains them to tap into the more sinister aspects of the Force. 


NEW PLYMPTO 

Region: Core 

Climate: Temperate to tropical 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 18 standard hours 

Length of Year: 244 local days 

Sapient Species: 95% Nosaurian (native), 4% Human, 


1% other species 


Government: Imperial governor 


Capital: Phemiss 
Major Exports: Narcotics, raw materials 
Major Imports: Weapons, high-tech goods 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 During the Clone Wars, New Plympto sided with the Separatists to 
resist Republic control over its resource harvesting policies. 

15 When the New Order was established, the Imperial Procurator 
designated the planet as expendable and therefore subjected its 
natural resources to commercial exploitation and the Nosaurians 
to virtual enslavement. 

20 An Imperial governor rules over New Plympto from a facility on the 
moon of Karsten that orbits the planet. Imperial forces razed much 
of the drifters’ district in Phemiss to make room for well-guarded 
factories. 

25 Dass Jennir, a Jedi leading clone forces on New Plympto, supposedly 
escaped Order 66 and went into hiding, remaining on the planet to 
later lead its resistance movement. 

30 Corporate scientists on the Karsten Moon conduct experiments 
to synthesize the drug called ji rikknit from a few captive rikknit 
specimens, though their efforts so far have produced an inferior 
narcotic with harmful side effects. 


Knowledge (Life Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 For many years the native Nosaurians harvested ovum sacks from 
the tree-dwelling rikknit and processed them into an addictive 
substance called ji rikknit. 

15 Nosaurians “sing down the sun” when it sets, braying loudly for 
a moment and giving away their position. They find this instinct 
almost impossible to suppress. 

20 Harvesting decimated the rikknit population so much that the spe- 
cles approached extinction. Attempts at breeding the creatures in 
captivity failed. 


Knowledge (Tactics) 

DC RESULT 

15 The Hajial Chase, an old stretch of forest 400 kilometers inland from 
Phemiss, and the surrounding woodlands offer shelter to renegade 
Nosaurians. 

20 Imperial forces rooting out local insurgents frequently begin opera- 
tions shortly before sundown to exploit the Nosaurian instinct of 
“singing down the sun.” The commotion produced by the creatures 
makes it easy to spot those that are hiding in ambush or escaping 
from raids. 


RAxXUS PRIME 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Poisonous 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 22 standard hours 

Length of Year: 388 local days 

Sapient Species: 40% 
3% other species 

Government: Imperial governor 

Capital: Central Station 

Major Exports: Starships, starship components, industrial machinery, 
raw materials 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, high-tech goods 


Human, 37% Jawa, 20% Rodian, 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 The highly industrialized planet Raxus Prime is covered with 
immense factories, sealed living habitats, streams of superheated 


runoff water, rough-hewn quarry pits, vast debris fields, and toxic 
akes. 
15 The Confederacy of Independent Systems first convened on Raxus 


Prime, and the planet later served as Count Dooku's personal fortress 

before the Clone Wars. 

20 The Empire has constructed orbital facilities above ihe planet in 
which it builds Star Destroyers, using the planet's 
industrial resources. 

25 Ancient secrets from the planet's role in the Great Sith War lurk 
deep beneath the industrially ravaged surface 

30 During the Dark Times, the Aleena Jedi Kazdan Paralus goes into 
hiding in Raxus Prime’s warren of industriat faerities. The strain of 
the Clone Wars arid the carnage of Order U6 send P: 
into insanity; he builds a replica of the Jedi Temple fram debris 


mineral and 


iratus Spiraling 


gathered from an abandoned industrial quarter on Raxus Prime, 
and he holds council sessions there with “Jedi Masters” fashioned 
from debris and guarded by an army of animated junk droid sentries 
also constructed from junk. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 Most of Raxus Prime's residents five in sealed environments near the 
industrial facilities where they work. Tunnels connect living areas 
with work bays, storage hangars, and infrastructure units, 

15 Before the Clone Wars, an entire Jawa clan was transported to 
Raxus Prime to operate and maintain the heavy machinery driving 
the planet's industries. 

20 Refugees fleeing virtual enslavement at the hands of industrial 
and Imperial masters have established hidden enclaves deep in the 
mechanized bowels of factories. 


Knowledge (Technology) 

DC RESULT 

15 The starship construction facilities orbiting Raxus Prime manufac- 
ture most heavy components for Star Destroyers—including finished 
hull plates, weapons systems, and superstructures—from the basic 
ores of the planet. 

20 Huge chunks of mineral-rich rock are dislodged from deep mine 
quarries on the surface, then loaded into an immense ore cannon 
that propels them through the atmosphere and into orbit, from 
where they are delivered to refinery and fabrication factories. 

25 Power for the massive ore cannon comes from a huge underground 
generator that draws residual energy from the planet's molten 
core. 


PLANETARY UPDATES 


Palpatine’s New Order and the subsequent intrusion of the Empire in systems 
throughout the galaxy have imposed changes on many planets that formerly 
played important roles in the Republic and galactic history. 


ALDERAAN 

As a secret witness to Palpatine’s ruthless elimination of his enemies, includ- 
ing the Jedi Knights, Bail Qrgana realizes that any open political or military 
opposition could bring Imperial retribution down upon his homeworld. The 
destruction caused by the Clone Wars and the tumult brought on by the New 
Order inspire the people of Alderaan to officially adopt pacifism as a political 
policy and way of life. To eliminate any perception that Alderaan might rearm 
tself, the government builds Another Chance, an immense armory ship loaded 


VOPLLIZVa DLOVIV® | 


SHGeaLLazZzvesS DLIVIVW®S 


<x! HStLadgvHo 


AL DERAAN 


with the planet’s superweapons and defensive ordnance, and programs it to 
perpetually jump through hyperspace until recalled in some time of future 
crisis. Instead of resorting to military action to influence galactic events, 
Alderaan's people turn to more subtle, peaceful approaches. The planet's 
representatives to the Imperial Senate, much like their predecessors in the 
Republic Senate, quietly question, undermine, and oppose oppressive policies 
and aggressive action against innocent populations. 

The people of Alderaan work hard to simultaneously establish and main- 
tain their pacifist lifestyle while acting behind the scenes to weaken the 
Empire's grip on the galaxy. Organa becomes the leader of a well-masked, 
clandestine effort to quietly aid offworld resistance groups while maintain- 
ing the facade in the Imperial Senate that his world poses no threat to 
Palpatine'’s schemes. Rich nobles pool their wealth and send it to budding 
insurgent groups throughout the galaxy using convoluted banking protocols 
through financial institutions on Ralltiir and a few sympathetic trading 
houses on Brentaal (though an abortive attempt to move money through 
Muunilinst nearly exposes this plot). With the planet's military disbanded 
and its weapons sent off on Another Chance, former general Gavvix Sironna 
tutors several aides in guerrilla warfare tactics and sends them offworld to 
establish contact with resistance groups and in turn train their freedom 
fighters. Some individuals cannot abide Alderaan’s recently adopted pacifist 
ways; they leave the planet to join more aggressive uprisings on other planets, 
though they take care to create new identities that provide no traces back 
to their homeworld. 


Organa recruits one of Queen Amidala's former handmaidens, Sabe, to 
serve as a noble envoy traveling throughout the galaxy to covertly establish 
resistance cells, spread and collect valuable intelligence, and oversee mate- 
rial Support to those who have the courage to oppose the Empire. Organa 
also maintains a watchful eye on events in the Senate and activities involv- 
ing Imperial! naval and intelligence forces that might jeopardize growing 
uprisings across the Empire. When he heard the ISB intended to arrest the 
Chandrilan Senator Mon Mothma for treason, Organa tipped her off so she 
could escape at the last minute. 

Bail Organa could tolerate his planet's peaceful stance in galactic affairs 
for only so long, however, especially in the face of the Empire's growing power 
and treachery. Toward the end of the Dark Times, Organa resigns from the 
Imperial Senate, returns to Alderaan, and—outraged by continued Imperial 
atrocities—tries to reverse his homeworld’s policy of pacifism to rally his 
people to join the increasingly open rebellion. 


BAKURA 

Though not formally part of the Republic or the Empire forged by Palpatine’s 
New Order, Bakura does not remain entirely free from Imperial influence 
during the Dark Times. During the Clone Wars, this Outer Rim world expe- 
rienced an increase in population, industry, and economic prosperity as 
various groups immigrated to Bakura seeking new and profitable business 
opportunities. Some people came to Bakura to flee the upheaval caused 
by the Clone Wars, and others migrated here to escape what they viewed 
as the growing tyranny of a corrupt Empire. This growth helped the planet 
expand mining operations to three outer-system planets and Bakura’s two 
moons; their success fueled the formation of a flourishing industry that 
manufactured repulsorlift coils and exported them to Imperial-controlled 
vehicle manufacturers such as Aratech, Jkas-Adno, and Mekuun. The initial 
migration and industrial prosperity in turn created more jobs for educated 
workers relocating to the system. 

The Empire benefits from stability on Bakura and does not openly 
interfere with its government or industrial affairs. Even while maintaining 
this illusion of independence, the Empire sends ISB agents to infiltrate the 
corporate structures of both Arden Repulsorlift and Bakur RepulsorCorp to 
ensure the continuation of mining and manufacturing operations that supply 
repulsorlift components for Imperial military vessels. These operatives work 
with Bakurans who are loyal to Imperial interests in sustaining their cover 
and quietly eliminating any dissent as news of the Empire's tyranny in other 
regions of the galaxy filters back to the Outer Rim. More intelligent, free= 
thinking elements of the population begin questioning the Empire's motives 
and establish cells of responsible, loyal citizens to investigate and uncover 
secret Imperial involvement in local industries. These undercover groups 
expand their operations from simple inquiries to more active sabotage as 
they discover the extent of ISB infiltration into government and industrial 


affairs. This movement doesn’t evolve into a full-blown resistance during 
the Dark Times. (The Empire eventually sends a small occupation fleet to 
officially annex Bakura shortly after the Battle of Yavin, ensuring a steady 
flow of repulsorlift components to support the Imperial war machine and 
suppressing open dissent against its policies.) 


BESPIN 

Tibanna gas mining operations on Bespin and visitors to Cloud City remain 
steady during the Dark Times. The planet's remote location and insignificant 
strategic value keep it well under the Empire's sensors. 

The industrial facilities continue claiming that they mine Tibanna aas as 
a hyperdrive coolant to downplay their significance and fend off inquiries 
from the Mining Guild; most still supply spin-seafed Tibanna gas for the 
arms market through discreet 
shippers who transport and 
market it in other systems. 

Cloud City's first-rate hotels, 
restaurants, and entertainment 
still attracts tourists from 
around the Outer Rim. Coupled 
with its industrial prosperity, 
Cloud City's success outshines 
that of other floating plat- 
forms, which fall into financial 
ruin (such as the abandoned 
Tibannopolis facility) or isolate 
themselves as independent, 
forgotten platforms. 

During this turbulent era, 
Bespin serves as a haven for 
smugglers, resistance fighters, and political dissidents. But the people of 
Cloud City, and particularly the authorities, value their independence and 
neutrality. They remain wary of political refugees and militant subyersives 
who use Bespin as a base for their resistance activities against the Lmpire, 
and they exert their influence to evict them when their operations 
to draw unwanted attention to the planet. Those on the run from the Lmpure 
might find a temporary sanctuary on Cloud City, but they quickly wear 
out their welcome if they continue their subversive fight! against galactis 
authority. Others on the fringe, however, such as ine Bloodhawk Pirates and 
other criminal organizations, still operate with freedom as long as they don’! 
attract any undue attention to Bespin. 


SeGrin 


threaten 


BESTINE IV 

As the Empire spreads its military might throughout the galaxy—and as 
increasing resistance at all levels requires a greater show of strength—the 
Imperial Navy establishes support, deployment, and repair bases everywhere. 
Bestine IV falls victim to this military escalation, in part because of its central 
location in its portion of the Mid Rim. Many speculate that Palpatine chooses 
the world to punish its independent-minded citizens for joining the Separat- 
ists during the Clone Wars, albeit in a small support role as a medium-sized 
starship repair facility. Long known for their aquacultural and starship con- 
struction industries, the people of Bestine accept an offer from the Empire; 
Palpatine shows leniency for their role in the Clone Wars and promises to 
relocate the settlers to another suitable world in exchange for Imperial control 
over the planet and its surface shipyard. Most of the citizens abandon their 
island spire settlements or floating aquaculture installations, only to find 
themselves dumped in the galaxy‘s slums with no means of support. 

A handful of Bestine citizens remain on their planet, clinging to life in 
island spires fortified against attack and in well-armed floating settlements. 
They operate beneath Imperial sensors, posing little threat despite their 
occasional raids on surface patrols. These renegades remain too weak to 
directly attack the expanded and well-defended Imperial shipyard. Heavy 
Imperial Navy traffic in the system prevents regular starfaring contact with 
the outside, but occasional blockade runners manage to fight their way to 
and from the planet. The outlaw Bestine settlements provide a breeding 
ground for resistance fighters and small bases for insurgent cells operating 
in the Mid Rim. 

Bestine’'s expatriate population also helps to fuel resistance movements 
elsewhere on planets where those individuals resettled. Angered by the 
Empire's betrayal and their loss of an idyllic homeworld, many join under- 
ground political groups or resistance cells in other systems and devote their 
lives to fighting the Empire and freeing their homeworld. 


BOoOTHAWU! 

The cagey Bothans—who manage to maintain their neutrality throughout the 
Clone Wars—broker a limited neutrality for Bothawui when the Empire comes 
into power. Although technically part of the Empire with representation in 
the Imperial Senate, Bothawui and many of its colonies remain relatively 
untouched by Imperial tyranny. Most of those colonies host a small Imperial 
garrison and a governor who acts as liaison between Bothan and Imperial 
administrations. Most Bothans keep to themselves in their domain of space, 
however, preferring to avoid Palpatine's preference for Human High Culture 
and the antialien prejudices it engenders. Spacefaring Bothans do leave 
their homeworld to conduct business and diplomacy, and a few enclaves 
exist in systems that tolerate their presence. Galactic citizens interacting 
with Bothans deem them as "civilized" aliens with some worth to society 
and therefore do not openly persecute them. 


<! HStdvwHoa 


8 


SPssgLLdZveS@ ALWBIYVW es 


U 


SSASGLAASBVOS BLABY 


The Empire tolerates the Bothans primarily because of their extensive 
and experienced spynet. ISB agents stationed around Bothan space, near 
enclaves, and in the Imperial complex on Bothawui itself maintain a rigorous 
counterintelligence operation that monitors the organization's operations, 
intercepts its intelligence, and, in some cases, manipulates the spynet into 
acting unknowingly for the Empire’s benefit. By leaving the Bothan spynet 
to its own devices, Palpatine keeps Bothawui a quiet, content, and some- 
what marginalized world while gaining from the Bothans’ naturally adept 
espionage activities. 


CEREA 

Cerea withdrew from the greater galaxy after having been ravaged in a 
month-long battle during the Clone Wars. The once-pristine world and its 
people were now scarred by the tragedy of warfare on a previously unprec- 
edented scale. While Palpatine is declaring his New Order, the Cereans 
reconvene their Council of Elders, elect a new president to replace the one 
who was assassinated in the fighting, and vote to seclude themselves from 
galactic affairs. The Cereans begin rebuilding portions of their homeworld 
that were marred by war, rededicating their society to peaceful, harmonious 
existence, and insulating themselves from their nearest neighbors in the Mid 
Rim. Cereans throughout the galaxy return to their homeworld to support 
the reconstruction efforts. A handful of Cerean travelers return and spark a 
debate, arguing that although Cerea itself remains a paradise to treasure and 
protect, the Cereans themselves have a moral obligation. Their intellectual 
discourse falls on deaf ears as the president and the Council of Elders reject 
their arguments. These dissenters form the core of Cereans who remain in the 
galaxy throughout the Dark Times, taking a moral stand against the Empire's 
tyranny and aiding any resistance groups they find. 

The Cereans gently evict those living in the Outsider Citadels, the only 
enclaves permitted to offworlders on the planet. Most leave peaceably when 
the Cereans cut off all trade, support, and diplomatic ties, leaving them to 
endure in the deteriorating cities with no economic reason to stay. Some 
disappear into the pristine Cerean wilderness, though nobody knows if they 
survive in the rural paradise or become prey to vengeful Cereans. 

Few outsiders return to Cerea during the Dark Times. The Council of 
Elders creates a planetary defense force that maintains starship patrols 
in the system to discourage anyone=merchants seeking trade, smugglers 
looking for a haven or new market, even insurgents searching for allies and 
aid—from approaching. Imperial forces know enough to stay away, though 
Star Destroyers and garrisons in neighboring systems monitor traffic and 
keep a wary eye on the planet to ensure that it poses no threat to the Empire. 
Expatriate Cereans find a cold welcome; they are allowed to visit only briefly, 
lest their troubles and enemies follow them to the secluded paradise. 


CHANDRILA 

During the Dark Times, Chandrila remains a cooperative yet politically con- 
tentious Core World. It continually flirts with disaster as its outspoken and 
honest politicians voice their growing disapproval of Imperial policy despite 
a series of governors who tolerate the planet's heritage of political discourse. 
As a sign of respect for its longtime service to the Republic and its status 
as one of several key agricultural systems, the Imperial governors assigned 
to the planet allow the Chandrilans to retain their participatory democracy. 
They even allow the Chandrilan House, the world’s governing body, to 
continue operating as before, with delegates opening and frankly debating 
the topics of the day. The Brionelle Academy, which trains officers for the 
planet's home defense fleet, remains in session at the governor's pleasure; 
Imperial military agents continue scouting its ranks for potential candidates 
to enroll in the Empire’s academies elsewhere, though unbeknownst to them, 
recruiters for resistance movements throughout the Bormea sector also seek 
to lure trainees into their own ranks to fight the Empire. An Imperial gar- 
rison established in Hanna City, Chandrila's capital, ensures that the Empire 
maintains a military presence in the system. 

The planet continues to serve as a haven from the industrialization of its 
neighboring worlds in the Bormea sector such as Corulag and Brentaal. The 
peaceful, idyllic planet continues maintaining its balanced ecosystem that 
encourages a burgeoning agricultural industry. Chandrila’s candid political 
culture, however, eventually endangers its standing with the local Imperial 
administration and the Emperor himself. Later in the Dark Times, Chandrila's 
outspoken politicians bring trouble to the planet as they criticize Imperial 
policies and question Palpatine’s rule. Mon Mothma’s increasing condemna- 
tion of Imperial oppression and her covert involvement in growing resistance 
movements bring about her downfall in the Senate and her condemnation 
as a traitor of the Empire. 

As Imperial tyranny increases throughout the galaxy, Chandrila becomes 
a recruiting ground for the resistance movements on nearby worlds. Respon- 
sible citizens start to use their connections and resources to aid those directly 
fighting the Empire, or they leave their privileged lives altogether to travel 
elsewhere and oppose injustice while avoiding any overt reprisals against 
their homeworld. 


CORELLIA 

By the time Palpatine declares his New Order, Corellia’s descent into lawless- 
ness is already under way. Diktat Dupas Thomree cuts a deal with the Emperor 
to largely keep Imperial forces out of the system and Corellian affairs in 
general. In return, the Diktat promises Palpatine to maintain production at 
the vital Corellian Engineering Corporation shipyards, pay taxes to the Empire, 
and politically support Palpatine's galactic policies. Corellia’s populace—a 
naturally independent and daring bunch—erupts in protest. 


The Diktat and other 
Corellian leaders enforce 
law and order through 
the ubiquitous presence 
and diverse resources of 
the Corellian Security 
Force (CorSec). During 
the Dark Times, Corellia 
is a system constantly 
in flux between the law 
imposed by the Diktat 
and enforced by CorSee 
and the criminal forces 
that indulge the people's 
natural independence, 
recklessness, and bra- 


CORELLIA 


vado. The system runs 
rampant with smugglers, crime syndicates, and pirates who flaunt the law 
to make a profit or even undermine Corellian and |mperial rule. The dedicated 
members of CorSec—from patrols on the street and administrative clerks 
to para-military response units and intelligence operatives—work tirelessly 
to strike a balance between a resentful, defiant populace and the Empire's 
threat of direct occupation. Despite CorSec's best efforts, many criminals 
slip through the cracks, including the members of several resistance cells 
working on Corellia and in other systems. 

The Empire still maintains a presence on Corellia, since Palpatine never 
truly trusts the Diktat to maintain his end of the bargain. An Imperial intel- 
ligence liaison and a small support staff openly work with CorSec person- 
nel, overseeing operations, designating priorities, and analyzing the overall 
Strategic situation in the constant fight to impose order on the lawless 
system. ISB and COMPNOR agents infiltrate many levels of Corellian society 
to maintain at the very least a watchful eye on activities in the system. 
Their intelligence aids CorSec in its efforts to stem crime and eliminate any 
resistance to Imperial or Diktat rule. On several occasions when the Corellian 
Engineering shipyards seem in immediate danger, the Imperial Navy : 
squadron of warships to guard the orbital stardocks, an action that prompt: 
a renewed round of protests from Corellian civilians. 


s5ians a 


CORULAG 
This longtime and loyal supporter of its fellow Core Worlds shrewdly aligns 
itself with Senator Palpatine during his rise 10 power, Upon declaring the 


New Order, the Emperor rewards Corulag far its devotion by awarding many 
prominent citizens high-ranking posts in the new Imperial qovernment and 
military bureaucracies. Palpatine also sponsors a new imperial military acad 

emy on Corulag, second only to the principal Raithal academy. The general 


populace benefits from increased jobs at the new academy, opportunities in 
the Imperial Army and Navy that training at that site provides, and employ- 
ment at new industries that find the planet to be an ideal and secure location 
for expanded facilities supporting the Imperial war machine. 

Corulag's citizens oblige the Emperor by focusing their loyalty toward 
Coruseant, maintaining order in their system, and providing a secure loca- 
tion for such enterprises as the Corulag Academy and Sienar Fleet Systems’ 
Advanced Research Division. Though they don't always indulge in the latest 
fashions from Coruscant, they realize that advocating the Emperor's policies 
and remaining loyal despite turmoil elsewhere in the galaxy ensures them a 
prominent place in the New Order. 

As the Dark Times progress, Corulag builds several Imperial prison facilities 
to handle the growing number of criminals, aliens, political dissidents, and 
resistance fighters captured throughout the galaxy. Located in the dense and 
nearly impassible bamboo forests between Corulag’s urban centers, these 
concealed facilities provide high-security incarceration with little chance for 
escape. If any prisoners manage to break out of these well-quarded prisons, 
they must navigate the thick bamboo forest and find some aid among a 
populace more likely to turn them in than aid them. 

Despite the fanatic loyalty displayed by most citizens of Corulag, the 
planet does harbor a small and secretive resistance. A few morally conscien- 
tious individuals disagree with Palpatine's oppressive policies elsewhere in the 
galaxy, and do what little they can without compromising their own position 
of safety to support resistance efforts in the Bormea sector. The world's 
only center of underworld culture, Crullov City, is ruled by crime syndicates 
(and quite possibly the Hutts) that tolerate resistance operations only when 
they're conducted under the guise of criminal activity. 


CORUSCANT 

The Dark Times bring changes to 
Coruscant that remain discreetly 
overlooked, concealed, and 
forgotten due to the compla- 
cency of the planet's affluent 
Human population and its 
interest in maintaining the 
decadent status quo that 
was prominent on the world 

in the waning days of the 
Republic. Palpatine quietly 
sweeps away most vestiges 
of the Repubtic that interfered 
with his agenda, leaving the 
masses their upscale diversions, 
Human High Culture, and the illusion 


CORUSCANT 


x! HStavHo 


ALAZIS) DLVYIVGE } 


Yas 


U 


HGOLLAGZvea DILIOIYVWS 


HSiagvHo) 


<I 


that they still hold prominence in the galaxy. The once grand Jedi Temple 
remains closed by Imperial order, left to crumble over time as citizens politely 
ignore its presence. The Senate continues to meet, but the debate and leg- 
islation is weak and ineffectual. Stormtroopers, Imperial military personnel, 
ISB and COMPNOR officials, and self-important advisors to a number of 
important dignitaries linger everywhere, subtle but constant reminders of the 
Emperor's true power. Most citizens don't even care that Palpatine renames 
the planet Imperial Center. 

Real changes happen in the deeper levels beneath Coruscant's polished 
surface. Most aliens disappear from Coruscant society, enterprise, and poli- 
tics. Many return to their homeworlds or colony enclaves elsewhere when 
it becomes clear that Palpatine’s advocacy of Human High Culture really 
espouses a policy of alien persecution. Those who have vested interests 
on Coruscant—or those who don’t have the means to emigrate—are herded 
into Alien Protection Zones walled off by ferrocrete barriers with perimeters 
patrolled by stormtroopers, the most infamous being the Invisible Sector, 
or Invisec. With little access to the outside, these ghettos become brutal 
breeding holes for criminal activities. Channels eventually open with contacts 
offworld that fuel this criminal economy and plunge the ghettos further into 
depravity and poverty. 

Crime flourishes elsewhere on Coruscant, from the spires of the richest 
citizens to the deeper cesspits of commoners. Prince Xizor, head of the 
fabulously successful Xizor Transport Systems, maintains a palace in the 
heart of Imperial City, the covert hub of the vast Black Sun crime syndicate. 
Entire residential sectors in the lower levels breed petty criminals and 
underworld organizations that pursue their illegal activities on whatever 
scale they can achieve. 

Despite conditions conducive to rebellion, few resistance movements 
on Coruscant become large or successful enough to even faze the general 
populace. Although a few cells form among conscientious aristocrats, politi- 
cians, and corporate executives, most draw from disaffected citizens and the 
persecuted alien population. Invisec in particular becomes a fertile recruiting 
ground for alien groups seeking to directly oppose Imperial tyranny, break 
out of their ghettos, and carry the fight to Coruscant’s surface and beyond. 
Most adopt an anti-Human stance to attract more recruits and fuel their 
anger. Although political dissenters, alien activists, and resistance fighters 
from around the galaxy attempt to infiltrate Coruscant, deliver aid and 
inspiration to comrades in arms, and undermine the Empire at its core, the 
stranglehold of the Imperial military presence and the indifference of the 
privileged population stifle any significant insurgent activities. 


ERIADU 

A key industrial world in the Outer Rim, Eriadu continues its loyal support 
of the galactic government during the Dark Times. Its service as a forward 
base for Republic forces confronting the Separatists during the Clone Wars 


seemingly goes unrewarded 
until the Emperor places 
Wilhuff Tarkin in charge of 
the Seswenna sector. As a 
native of Eriadu with along 
family history involved in 

the planet's affairs, Moff 
Tarkin establishes his 
administration on Eriadu 
and makes it the sector capi- 
tal. The move takes advantage 
of the system's industrial, com- 
mercial, and strategic importance, 
and provides some sembiance of 
Core Worlds culture for Imperial and noble 
representatives posted there from Coruscant. 
Under Tarkin’s rule, the planet's manufacturing grows, exports of technology 
increase, and corporations that have interests there thrive. 

During this time, the planet continues on the oppressive course it 
had already charted before the Clone Wars. The gap widens between the 
privileged few and the downtrodden masses laboring in the factories and 
starports. The slave trade—previously ignored in the Outer Rim by the 
Republic—grows to fuel the need for more manual laborers, with the Empire 
officially promoting enslavement of numerous alien species and political 
prisoners. Sprawling industries consume land and natural resources, leaving 
in their wake ecological destruction and outdated, dilapidated facilities. 

While the wealthy elite profess loyalty to the Emperor, the poor masses 
of workers and slaves chafe against the abuses heaped on them by their 
corporate-industrial masters and the constant Imperial military presence. 
Some who manage to escape join the sizable underground resistance move- 
ment operating from abandoned industrial facilities, burned-out habitation 
blocks, subterranean service tunnels, and factory junkyards. They are able 
to divert useful material resources without attracting too much attention. 
The immense volume of commercial starship traffic gives freedom fighters 
the ability to travel with relative ease between Friadu and other destinations 
within the Seswenna sector and other major ports throughout the galaxy. The 
worker and slave population offers an overabundance of potential recruits 
who have various useful skills. Despite an industrial cityscape ideal for har- 
boring an insurgent group and a populace waiting to rebel against its masters, 
the resistance leaders wisely conduct their campaign to undermine Imperial 
power on other worlds throughout the sector. Most fear brutal reprisals if 
they carry out sabotage on Eriadu's vast industries. Just as Eriadu serves as 
the sector capital for the Empire, it also serves as the nucleus for resistance 
operations throughout the Seswenna sector. 


ERIADU 


KASHYYYK 

After the tumult of the Clone Wars, the Wookiees witnessed firsthand the 
Empire's brutality, first in the savage execution of Order 66—which targeted 
the very Jedi who aided Kashyyyk when Separatist forces invaded—and then 
in the subsequent enslavement of the Wookiee population. Influenced by the 
Wookiees’ mortal enemies, the Trandoshans, Imperial forces systematically 
rounded up Wookiees and exported them across the galaxy as heavy laborers; 
many ended up on such infamous penal work colonies as Kessel and Despayre. 
Wookiee slaves became a commonplace sight throughout the Empire, one 
of the more notorious species victimized by Palpatine’s policies promoting 
Human High Culture and advocating persecution of aliens. 

To maintain a steady supply of Wookiee slaves for markets around the 
galaxy, the Empire established a well-fortified garrison in Kashyyyk’s coastal 
region. Here Imperial troops conduct sorties into the savage jungles, braving 
the planet's diverse and deadly wildlife, to hunt down and capture Wookiees. 
For some Imperial officers and aristocrats, the pursuit becomes a fashionable 
diversion from their official duties. At times the governor contracts with other 
parties to capture Wookiees, including crime syndicates engaged in slaving 
activities and Trandoshan hunters eager to take revenge on their enemies 
and wreak havoc on Wookiee treetop settlements. 

This systematic oppression drives many free and enslaved Wookiees to 
openly fight the Empire. Bands of Wookiees leave their settlements on Kashy- 
yyk to brave the wild jungles and to ambush hunting parties. Little outside 
aid reaches these renegade groups, thanks to the Imperial blockade and the 
planet’s savage wildlife. Given the Imperial patrols around the planet, few 
Wookiees freely leave their homeworld to join resistance groups. Enslaved 
Wookiees organize escapes from prison camps, work details, and penal 
colonies; those who succeed go into hiding underground, since their appear- 
ance and infamous reputation arouse attention and alarm local populations. 
Free Wookiees seek to establish their own effective resistance cells or make 
contact with those who can support their cause: the ultimate release of all 
enslaved Wookiees and the liberation of Kashyyyk. 


KESSEL 

Formerly run by a succession of shady business ventures, Kessel’s spice mining 
operation comes under Imperial control during the Dark Times. Palpatine 
realizes the power that glitterstim has to enslave portions of the galactic 
population and Kessel’s usefulness not only as a Source of spice but a protit 
able penal colony operation. Imperial forces evict the private enterprises thal 
formerly operated under the Republic, establish a garrison on Kessel’s moon 
to administer spice mining, and begin importing and dumping prisoners al 
all backgrounds onto the planet to mine glitterstim, The world's population 
increases dramatically as violent criminals, political dissidents, persecuted 


aliens, and captured resistance fighters all find themselves sentenced to 
permanent imprisonment on Kessel. 


During this period, the planet earns its dire reputation as the dreaded 
penal colony from where few return. Imperial personnel throughout the 
galaxy use the threat of imprisonment on Kessel to coerce individuals and 
entire populations to stay in line. Certainly the most vile criminals receive 
sentences to Kessel, but Imperial judges—and even military officers pass- 
ing summary sentences—frequently condemn citizens to the penal colony 
on a cruel whim for moderate or even slight infractions simply to get rid 
of them. 

The Empire does little to improve conditions on the planet. The air 
factories that once provided miners with a reliable source of breathable 
atmosphere fall into disrepair; Imperial engineers conduct only enough 
maintenance to ensure that the factories continue functioning at minimal 
levels. Imperial forces focus on maintaining control over spice production 
and ensuring its indirect distribution through crime syndicates, ultimately 
weakening societies through increased glitterstim addiction. Most Imperial 
personnel occupy military installations on the Garrison Moon, with guard and 
administrative personnel shuttling to key sites on Kessel’s surface in shifts. 
Eventually they establish an administrative center at Kessendra, the largest 
prisoner encampment, making it Kessel's impromptu capital. The Empire 
encourages dissent among the prisorers, rewarding those who show a will= 
ingness to work with their jailers and bully their peers, and installing them as 
overseers who drive the common prisoners—mostly by threats, blackmail, and 
violence—to increase spice production. The processed spice finds its way into 
the underworld distribution chains thanks to a handful of “corrupt” Imperial 
administrators who sell to crime syndicates and smugglers. 


KUAT 

Upon declaring the New Order, Palpatine drastically increases security in the 
Kuat System to protect one of the Empire's key starship construction facilities 
and a principal economic hub within the Core Worlds. The Imperial Bureau 
of Ships and Services (BoSS) imposes strict navigational protocols on star- 
ship traffic entering and leaving the passenger and freight ports, and limits 
access to Kuat and the orbital shipyards to designated flights and vessels 
departing from those ports. 
Most of the orbital facilities 
and space stations fall under 
military jurisdiction and oper- 
ate with varying degrees of 
supervision and restriction. 
The passenger port retains 
the greatest modicum of 
normalcy, since it caters to 
traffic from Kuat itself. The 
former planetary defense port 
maintains its profile, with the 


KU AT 


HSaLavwHoO 


x! 


6 


HASgLAsZzveaQ DALIYVWWS 


A 


YSSeLLPgZV7Oa EILovIvyeS 


<1 HS4tagvwHo 


added responsibilities and security of an Imperial military transfer point; 
absolutely no civilian ships receive clearance to this sensitive area, and 
Imperial forces deal harshly with violators. 

Governance for the entire Kuat system falls to Moff Thichis Kuras, a 
member of Kuat's lesser nobility but still a native son. Palpatine appoints 
him to balance military security needs, the aristocratic Kuatis’ sense of 
self-governance and regal pride, and an increased industrial profile for 
both starship production and research into new ordnance technologies. The 
Kuati aristocracy generally remains loyal to the Empire, because of a strong 
heritage of supporting the Republic and its successors and from a desire 
to ensure continued economic success through vast commercial starship 
construction operations. 

The sheer size of the Kuat system and the overwhelming traffic through 
the passenger and freight ports offers resistance fighters a wealth of 
opportunities to infiltrate operations on Kuat. Though they might never 
reach the Imperial transfer port, subversives can readily gain access to the 
passenger and freight ports, and from there travel to locations on Kuat or in 
the orbital shipyards themselves. As resistance to Imperial might grows, Moff 
Kuras cracks down on security violations, institutes new military protocols, 
requisitions more troops, and supports ISB and COMPNOR operations to 
root out insurgents. 

Kuat's delegate to the Imperial Senate also walks a fine line. Senator 
Giddean Danu, known for signing the Petition of 2000 opposing Palpatine's 
broad powers as Supreme Chancellor during the Clone Wars, now quietly 
supports the efforts of Mon Mothma and others who are secretly working 
to thwart Palpatine’s plans and undermine the Empire's authority. He openly 
acquiesces to the Kuati aristocracy that brought him to power and appears 
agreeable and helpful when dealing with Imperial authorities. Danu realizes 
that by retaining his post and fulfilling his duties, however distasteful, he can 
remain in a position to covertly aid resistance groups operating on Kuat. 


MON CALAMARI 
The Quarren and Mon Calamari homeworld quickly submits to Imperial 
forces intent on using one of the galaxy's top starship construction facilities 
to support their growing war machine. Despite the planet's stand against 
Count Dooku's intimidation and treachery during the Clone Wars, the Empire 
quickly realizes it must seize the orbital shipyards to increase and maintain 
its fleets and to deny growing resistance groups a potential source of fight- 
ers, transports, and capital ships. The Mon Calamari government initially 
resists Imperial envoys that seek a peaceful takeover of the shipyards. When 
an occupation fleet arrives, the Mon Calamari find themselves helpless as 
several traitorous Quarren disable the planetary shields and allow the Empire 
to dominate the planet and orbital facilities. 

While Imperial engineers struggle to adapt shipyards that were specifi- 
cally built to produce vessels of Mon Calamari design into facilities capable 


of constructing even the most basic of standard Imperial starship systems, 
the Mon Cals begin a campaign of passive resistance and covert sabotage 
to undermine the occupation. At first Imperial forces try using propaganda 
to quell dissent, build hostility toward the Republic, and fabricate an affinity 
for the Empire. But as passive resistance grows into work stoppages, shoddy 
production, and outright sabotage, Admiral Garrus Tharydine—the Imperial 
commander overseeing the occupation of Mon Calamari—carries out the 
Emperor's orders to bombard three cities floating on the planet’s surface. 
This massacre prompts both the Mon Cal and Quarren populations to rise 
up in open revolt against their masters. Starting with little more than hand 
weapons and common tools, the insurrection grows to strike back at the 
Imperial occupiers using spacecraft constructed at secret underwater facili- 
ties or outfitted at old orbital stardocks with weapons and material diverted 
from Imperial construction projects. Eventually they oust the Imperial forces, 
providing other oppressed systems with hope that they, too, have a chance 
at freedom by opposing the Empire. 


MON CALAMARI 


MUUNILINST 

The home of the galaxy’s most influential financial power, Muunilinst man- 
ages to continue its fiscal operations despite an Imperial presence in the years 
after the Clone Wars. The planet suffered heavily during the Clone Wars as 
a result of its alliance with the Separatists. The Muuns tapped some of their 
wealth to reconstruct cities devastated during the Battle of Muunilinst, when 
Republic forces deci- 
mated the capital city of 
Harnaidan and other loca- 
tions to destroy gunnery 
emplacements. The first 
few years after the Clone 
Wars see an increase in 
offworlder visitors—par- 
ticularly fellow aliens— 
coming to Muunilinst to 
help with restoration; 
this influx quickly ebbs J 
once the reconstruc- 
tion reaches completion 
and the Empire tightens 
its authority over the 
system. 

Although the Muuns 
continue backing the 
mperial credit with their world’s mineral riches, the Empire's requlahians and 
decrees inhibit their ability to finance other endeavors and pursue business 
operations of their own. The Empire seeks to curtail Muumiinst’s economic 
influence in favor of other, Human-controlled financial tistilutions closer 
o the Core Worlds. This policy has the added side effect of not only quietly 
punishing the Muuns for backing the Separatists during the Clane Wars, bul 
eeping them under watch lest they secretly finance any al (he numerous 
paltry resistance movements cropping up throughout the galaxy. Ihe Empire 
nas little to fear. During the Dark Times, the Muuns remain openly 
Palpatine’s New Order—one of the few alien species to do sa— and calmly 
endure the petty indignities of Imperial occupation io ensure ther taancial 
influence with the next political group to ascend in galactic history 

Still, a handful of Muuns work secretly to divert small amounts of fur 
fledgling resistance groups using a complex system af dummy Carporitoy 
fake accounts on other planets, and commerce agents. Hey seek to hedge 
their bets and establish reliable contacts with thase who y 
overthrow the Empire, become the dominant! government in the qalaey, and 
depend upon their financial resources, 

Imperial forces, particularly a corps of admunistrative personnel 9 
toring InterGalactic Banking Clan activities, aceupy Muunily High | 


MiULIiNIL | Ne 


oyal ta 
y 


ds to 


aht samed 
] 


The station serves as the governing seat for the Imperial occupation, though 
several garrisons on the world’s surface maintain direct control over key 
assets. Two Golan space defense platforms provide security for the world in 
addition to a steady rotation of naval power that leaves three Star Destroy- 
ers patrolling the system at any given time. The Muuns maintain a presence 
in the High Port, primarily to carry out their commercial activities with 
offworlders and maintain relationships with Imperial authorities. They also 
keep a scaled-down contingent of the infamous lotran Guard for their own 
security; much of the guard was cut back after the Imperial occupation, 
though many members entered service as personal bodyguards or mercenary 
units with influential Muun bankers. 

The station and the starport planetside in Harnaidan also host visitors 
from other worlds and corporations seeking audiences with Muun bankers 
to provide backing for their financial and industrial schemes. ISB agents 
quietly track these visitors to ensure that Muun wealth doesn’t find its way 
to groups undermining Imperial authority elsewhere in the galaxy. 


NABOO 

Despite several incidents and setbacks, Naboo remains relatively the same 
during the Dark Times. The end of the Clone Wars and the ascendancy of 
the Empire brought peace to Naboo's people even after the loss of their 
beloved Senator Padmé Amidala and a scandal that involved the ruling queen 
sheltering renegade Jedi. Like many other worlds that knew peace during the 
Republic's reign—and one that briefly tasted the bitter pill of conflict during 
the Clone Wars—Naboo openly remains loyal to the Empire while secretly 
fomenting rebellion. Its people and rulers prefer a peaceful existence under 
the Empire to a tumultuous life opposing it. In fact, many loyal Naboo citizens 
support the Empire and join military service, 

On the outside, Naboo's government and society maintain the status quo 
in all aspects of life. Little has changed on the planet except for the appoint- 
ment of an Imperial governor and the establishment of a token garrison to 
maintain contact with the local bureaucracy. The planet's representatives 
to the Senate generally supported Palpatine's policies, though more out of 
a fear that the Empire might retaliate against Naboo or its representatives 
than because of prudent political judgment. 

A few morally conscientious people on Naboo secretly opposed the Empire, 
but worked behind the scenes or far from their homeworld, lest they arouse 
Imperial retrioution against innocent citizens on Naboo. These freedom fighters 
worked within their means, using resources and contacts to quietly undermine 
Imperial interests. Some who trained at Imperial academies and served with the 
mililary used their positions to occasionally leak information, divert material 
and weapons, and otherwise aid resistance cells near their deployment zones. 
A few nobles and high-ranking bureaucrats also conspired covertly with others 
o! their station, including representatives from Alderaan, Ralltiir, and Chandrila, 
‘a form tentative alliances and work toward the Empire's downfall. 


[| 


YHASLLGBZVSAS DLBVWS 


YHOeLAAZV@a DALWDVWWS 


HSlavHD 


<I 


NAR SHADDAA 

As in other periods of galactic history, the Smuggler Moon of Nar Shaddaa 
remains relatively insulated from events and political movements elsewhere. 
Although the Hutt families don't possess the military might of the Empire, 
their influence keeps Imperial forces at bay with insinuations that they could 
sabotage key economies, supply lines, resource fulfillment, corporations, 
and even governments elsewhere in the galaxy. The Hutts sit secure in their 
own domain of space on the fringe of the Outer Rim, sending their agents 
to other worlds to deal with the rising Empire, forge cooperative arrange- 
ments with its more pliable members, and continue expanding their criminal 
syndicate throughout the galaxy. 

The sprawling, urbanized moon sees an influx in criminal activity brought 
about by tougher Imperial restrictions elsewhere and lucrative opportunities for 
shady enterprises during the initial founding of the New Order. Transient low- 
lifes come from everywhere to use Nar Shaddaa as a base ora stopover in their 
underworld dealings. Trade in illegal goods flourishes. Forgers, starship dealers, 
gun runners, moneylenders, and mercenaries make a fortune catering to those 
who seek to export Nar Shaddaa’s brand of crime to worlds crushed under the 
Imperial boot heel that are crying out for illicit goods and services. 

Nearly anything here can be bought for a price, making it a tempting yet 
dangerous resource for resistance cells operating on nearby Outer Rim worlds. 
Although freedom fighters come to Nar Shaddaa to seek allies, resources, 
and equipment, they take their chances with the murderers, thieves, smug- 
glers, and Hutts like anyone else. Despite their seeming autocracy over 
Nar Shaddaa, the Hutts still dread wholesale Imperial interference in their 
affairs or in their territory. Supporting the criminal underworld is one thing; 
harboring known insurgents bent on defeating the Empire is another matter 
entirely. Just as they maintain a watch over illegal activity originating on Nar 
Shaddaa, the Hutts keep an eye on suspected resistance operations on the 
Smuggler Moon, lest such activity arouse Imperial intervention. In addition 
to their formidable intelligence sources and enforcer networks, the Hutts 
also enlist the help of other criminal enterprises based on Nar Shaddaa or 
directly under their influence to monitor and, in some cases, curtail activities 
of known insurgents. 


RALLTIIR 

Ralltiir escaped the destruction that claimed much of Muunilinst—one 
of the other influential banking powers in the galaxy—during the Clone 
Wars and continued serving the Core Worlds as the principal Human-con- 
trolled financial center during the Dark Times. Ralltiiri society outwardly 
embraces influential trends from Coruscant, from clothing fashions to 
prejudice against aliens. The planet maintains its reputation as a steady 
investment in financial institutions by maintaining a political neutrality 
that insulates its economy. 


The populace generally accepts an 
Imperial governor and a small 
military garrison as symbols 
of stability and status within 

the Empire. Only a few in the 

immense finance corporations 

and investment markets realize 

that ISB agents and other 

Imperial minions gradually infil- 

trate their organizations with 

an eye on monitoring banking 

transactions for leads on tracking 

down suspicious deals and traitorous 

financiers secretly diverting funds to 

resistance cells opposing the Empire's rule. This 

trend ultimately leads to Ralltiir's downfall at the end of the Dark Times, 

as covert Imperial manipulation sabotages accounts for alien concerns and 
anyone suspected of supporting dissent. 

Ralltiiri politics and economics fluctuate between two political factions, 
one that unanimously supports Imperial policies and one that politely ques- 
tions their intent; some in this latter faction secretly oppose the Empire and 
covertly support those on Ralltiir and nearby worlds who work to under- 
mine its power. Sympathizers divert some funds to those who are fighting 
the Empire elsewhere, but as time progresses more resources are kept on 
Ralltiir to prepare for the time when the Empire shows its truly brutal face. 
Resistance activity slowly grows beneath the surface of Ralltiir’s society and 
goes relatively unnoticed by both the financial institutions and the Imperial 
administration. 


RALLTIUR 


RODIA 
The Rodian homeworld spends the early part of the Dark Times embroiled 
in a military coup. In the early days of the New Order, Rodia’s government 
changes after the disgrace of Rodia’s Senator over a Clone Wars bribery 
scandal that allowed Separatist forces to invade Duro. Using the traditional 
interclan wargames to eliminate rivals and consolidate power, a Rodian 
warlord named Navik the Red rises to prominence. Over the years he defeats 
his enemies, exiles entire clans into the savage Rodian wilderness, secretly 
executes dangerous challengers, and forces many to flee the planet. As the 
Dark Times near their end, Navik consofidates his power, proclaims himself 
Grand Protector, moves the capital from cosmopolitan Equator City to 
Navik's clan stronghold at Iskaayuma, and forges ties with the Black Sun 
crime syndicate to solidify his hold over Rodia. 

Equator City—known for attracting tourists to its balmy climate, 
tropical beaches, restaurants, pleasure halls, casinos, amphitheaters, and 
hotels—experiences a temporary decline during the Dark Times, brought on 


by Navik's brutal rise to power. Over time the cosmopolitan visitors trickle 
away, discouraged by the frequent assassinations, violent mobs, exploding 
speeders, and other incidents brought on by Navik's vendetta against his 
enemies. Only those accustomed to surviving in such adverse conditions—a 
society of criminals, arms dealers, smugglers, and con artists—remain to take 
advantage of the chaotic situation. 

The Empire keeps its distance from Rodia during these hostilities. A 
few Imperial envoys establish a consulate in Equator City, more to monitor 
developments on the planet than to interfere with its bloodthirsty politics. 
Those Rodians who flee the civil strife establish enclaves elsewhere in the 
galaxy, but the Empire actively supports several bounty hunters and mer- 
cenary units prone to act on its behalf hunting down criminals, uncovering 
and destroying resistance cells, and fighting smail brushfire wars against 
those who oppose Imperial policies. 


EXPANDING WORLDS 

Finding and developing several principal locations is the key for a Game- 
master who wants to expand a planetary description of a few paragraphs 
into a viable and intriguing campaign setting. The information presented 
in this chapter provides an overall picture, but the Gamemaster must 
create specific settings on a planet to provide resources and objectives 
for the heroes. 

Consider where the action in an adventure can take place. The 
heroes need several kinds of practical locations for both support and 
motivation. 

Objectives: Create definite targets for the heroes. On most worlds, 
these might consist of Imperial garrisons, administrative centers, prisons, 
the governor's estate, and other facilities established by the Empire to 
pursue its oppressive policies. Corporate offices, factary complexes, 
and industrial areas supporting the Imperial war effort also make good 
objectives. 

Resources: The heroes need locations that can provide them wilh 
resources. A starport or transportation hud could offer the means to 
travel between operational areas or bases. An urban center could con 
tain a market plaza where they might find supplies and allies willing to 
covertly support their activities. Specific locales in a city~a residential 
neighborhood, an industrial sector, an alien enclave, the Starport, an 
entertainment district, or a commercial zone—could be the locations 
of specific businesses and other establishments in whieh action could 


take place. 
Base Areas: Make sure to include a few areas where heroes could 
establish concealed facilities with a vari¢ty of profiles to support then 


Operations. Industrial wastelands, large exparises of wilderness, aban 
doned factories, and even infrastructure levels beneath a city all offer 
good places in which to set up safe bases 


SALLICHE 

Upon announcing his New Order, Palpatine immediately sent Imperial forces 
to Salliche to ensure that its abundant crops and efficient harvesting corpora- 
tion continue to support nearby Core Worlds and his growing war machine. 
Sprawling urban hubs contain crop collection, processing, and warehouse 
facilities, starport operations, and neighborhoods for laborers. These vast 
cities rise from seemingly endless plains where hovering ag platforms plant, 
tend, and harvest crops. Pockets of untamed wilderness and mountains offer 
refuges for tourists and the planet's elite. The planet's proximity to other 
Core Worlds, its ready access to easy space travel, and a worker population 
prone to discontent and strikes make it a hotbed for potential subversive 
activity against the new galactic government. 

The Salliche Agricultural Corporation fully cooperates with the Empire, 
putting its own security forces at the disposal of Imperial military and ISB 
officers. Imperial forces establish a garrison in the capital, Netassa, with 
fortified outposts at key commercial and transportation facilities. The Empire 
and the Salliche Ag Corp push the local workers to their limit in providing 
greater crop yields and production, limiting personal freedoms and abusing 
individual rights. The ISB organizes aggressive undercover purges to eliminate 
potential malcontents and future political troublemakers from the general 
population of disgruntled ag laborers; the resulting mass arrests necessitate 
a recruitment campaign to lure beleaguered workers from other systems 
to labor in Salliche's agricultural industries. During this time, Moff Gegren 
Throsen manipulates the planet's corporate and legislative bodies to inflict 
his own will and that of the Emperor. 

During the later years of the Dark Times, the planetary parliament elects 
Selnia Harbright to the Imperial Senate, primarily to remove the idealistic 
young noblewoman from Salliche’s corporate and legislative hierarchy, get 
her off the planet, and place her in a relatively ineffective position in galactic 
politics. Little do they suspect that she secretly uses ner aristocratic influ- 
ence to undermine Imperial military power on her homeworld and rid it of 
corporate and military tyranny. 


SULLUST 

The end of the Clone Wars and the emergence of the Empire brings about a 
subtle change on Sullust. Although the SoroSuub Corporation maintained a 
great degree of control over the planet and the everyday lives of its citizens, 
it now governs the entire system and throws its industrial weight behind the 
Imperial war machine. Corporate Proclamation 137d dissolved the political 
Sullustan Council in favor of complete company rule allied with its principal 
client, the Empire. 

Few Sullustans noticed any immediate change. Life under the SoroSuub 
Corporation continued as usual, though production quotas steadily rose, 
work conditions deteriorated, and personal liberties slowly disappeared. The 
Sullustan people continued placing their trust in their corporate government, 


HSHGLAGgIZsVve DLWBYIIVWes 


SBOALADGZVa BDLWVVWG® 


since it maintains 
he strict sense of 
order necessary for 
heir society, pro- 
ects their world 
rom comprehensive 
mperial occupation, 
and insulates it from 
he alien persecution 
that the New Order 
promotes. Soro- 
Suub demonstrates 
such devotion to 
a Strict military 
sense of order that 
the Empire largely 
leaves the corpo- 
ration to its own 
devices. An Imperial 
garrison and admin- 
istrative complex 
on the moon Sulon 
takes care of most 
business, while a 
consulate on Sul- 
lust directly deals 
with corporate offices. So long as the system's industrial power continues 
to support Imperial military might, Palpatine allows SoroSuub to run Sullust 
as it pleases. 

The Empire restricts visitors to Sullust, allowing only Imperial-allied busi- 
ness travelers to visit the moon of Solon. The administrative complex contains 
not only quarters for the Imperial bureaucracy, but offices for delegations 
from many galactic corporations that deal with SoroSuub in sustaining the 
Imperial war effort. Imperial agents also monitor the flow of raw materials 
and finished goods to ensure that nothing goes to support the burgeoning 
resistance groups that are emerging throughout the galaxy. 

As the Dark Times progress, more Suliustans chafe against corporate and 
Imperial interference in their lives. They voice their dissatisfaction through 
acts of civil disobedience. SoroSuub responds by offering empty promises 
and superficial policy changes to placate the masses; these strategies allow 
the company to keep Imperial interests at bay. SoroSuub maintains such tight 
control over the populace that no effective militant resistance develops on 
Sullust until the Galactic Civil War breaks out. 


SULLUST 


TATOOINE 

This desert planet in the remote backwater of the Outer Rim all but disap- 
pears into relative obscurity after the Clone Wars. The Hutts still retain 
their control over the planet—with the infamous Jabba eventually gaining 
prominence—while paying token respect to the Empire. Eventually the 
Podracer action dries up and the racing circuit leaves to finda better venue, 
but Jabba the Hutt continues using the world as a quiet place from which 
to conduct his criminal activities. The Mos Eisley starport becomes a hub 
of smuggling and vice. 

The Empire takes such little notice of Tatooine that it all but forgets about 
the small garrison it established in Mos Eisley. The planet is so obscure that 
it rates only an Imperial prefect as the chief administrator, a move possibly 
made in deference to the Hutts to avoid challenging their authority and 
causing problems with relations between the Hutts and the Empire else- 
where. The stormtroopers and the prefect care little about the crime running 
rampant in the starport and across Tatooine; they try making the most of 
their miserable situation. 

Tatooine’s isolated location, the absence of Imperial Navy patrols, and its 
minuscule garrison make Tatooine an ideal haven for smugglers and other 
galactic criminals. Jabba's organization keeps tabs on many, takes a cut of the 
profits when it can, and generally ensures that the local garrison doesn't hear 
about anything that has potentially political consequences. Although some 
resistance cells visit the planet to make deals with criminal elements, Jabba 
discourages any of them from establishing a permanent presence on Tatooine, 
lest they draw Imperial attention to this sordid corner of the galaxy. 

Few suspect that the planet's dangerous Jundland Wastes shelter one of 
the last Jedi Knights who managed to escape Order 66 and Darth Vader's 
systematic purge of the Jedi. 


THYFERRA 
Even before the Dark Times, a Human minority dominated the bacta industry 
on the Inner Rim planet of Thyferra, relying on the insectoid Vratix majority 
to harvest, transport, and brew the alazhi plant with the chemical compound 
kavam to produce the highly effective healing emulsion. After a brief period 
when the Vratix regained some control over the bacta market, the Human 
colonists consolidated their corporate operations into two companies, Zaltin 
and Xucphra, which Palpatine approaches shortly after declaring the New 
Order and favors with exclusive contracts to provide bacta to the Empire. 
Both corporations increase activity and heighten pressure on the Vratix work- 
ers to produce more bacta for export to a growing and lucrative market. 
The Human corporate colonists on Thyferra reap the benefits while 
keeping the rural harvesting clans and the urban factory workers in a state 
of near slavery. The two main urban centers, Xucphra City and the capital, 
Xozhixi, become corporate and industrial strongholds for the aristocratic 
Human administrators. Vratix in both places labor in oppressed servitude 


so their Human masters can profit from fulfilling the Empire’s ever-growing 
need for bacta. In the vast rain forests, more primitive Vratix clans harvest 
the components necessary for bacta production, often under the direction of 
company expeditionary units and always under threat of military retaliation 
from the corporate security forces if they fall below quota. 

Resentment among the Vratix was already developing before the Bacta 
Cartels made their deal with the Empire; the subsequent abuses, increased 
demands, and often brutal treatment at the hands of their corporate mas- 
ters encouraged a rebellious streak among the species’ more innovative 
thinkers. Several small and fragmented insurgent groups form, with those 
of the urban workers and tribal harvesters having little contact. The most 
radical and wide-reaching of these—one that manages to unite Vratix across 
the planet—is the Ashern, or “Black Claw," a terrorist sect with an extreme 
anti-Human prejudice. It carries out a few significant raids against corporate 
forces and facilities, but also brings down upon the general Vratix population 
severe retribution from its masters. 

Despite corporate and sometimes Imperial Navy blockades, members 
of other resistance cells from the Inner Rim manage to reach Thyferra and 
attempt to encourage insurgent activities there. The Vratix resist most such 
efforts that are coordinated by Humans, though a few initiated by alien resis- 
tance groups have some success. A few insurgent cells find the world’s dense 
rain forests to be ideal for concealing secret installations from which they 
coordinate operations on other nearby Inner Rim systems and stage sorties 
against Bacta Cartel facilities on Thyferra independent of Vratix efforts. 


SHADOWPORTS 


The term shadowport refers to a general class of starport facility that 
is concealed from the general public and the authorities. In most cases, 
shadowports serve the interests of fringers—smugglers, bounty hunters, 
and members of criminal organizations—but they might also provide covert 
docking facilities for secret government and corporate agencies, alien 
enclaves hiding from persecution, military and intelligence operations, and 
underground resistance groups. 


Shadowports range in profile, size, and amenities depending on their 
location and the resources available to those who establish, support, and use 
them. Some serve as docking facilities for small-scale secret installations, 
though their operations usually rely on having siarships readily at hand. 

Different organizations establish shadowports for their exclusive, covert 
use. Discussed below are several groups that might employ concealed port 


facilities for their own clandestine purposes. 


CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS 

Those who operate on the wrong side of the law frequently need safe 
locations where they can hide from pursuers, repair vessels damaged in 
confrontations, resupply, conceal contraband, and plan their next move. 
Smugglers, bounty hunters, gun runners, enforcers, and anyone else who 
engages in illegal activities and uses a starship often keep several locations 
in mind where they might flee if they encounter trouble. Crime syndicates 
that stick to a limited territory often maintain shadowport facilities in each 
system where they operate, giving their spacefaring personnel some degree 
of security when they travel. Some criminal shadowports are simple hiding 
places where one can quickly land, conceal a ship, effect basic repairs, and 
find minimal supplies. A few serve as more extensive installations dedicated 
to criminal activities: warehouses, factories producing illicit goods, armories, 
and safe houses for extended yet secure visits. 


ALIEN ENCLAVES 

With the Empire persecuting many alien species, especially small groups 
settled on primarily Human worlds, many aliens flee to secret enclaves. These 
hidden communities sometimes operate shadowports to enable clandestine 
Starship traffic to support the enclave. These underground settlements 
depend on discreet space travel to allow refugees and supplies to enter the 
enclave and emissaries to make contact with other fleeing aliens and potential 
allies who might aid their cause. Such persecuted groups might willingly aid 
friendly resistance groups and give them access to shadowport facilities in 
exchange for their help in evading Imperial persecution. 


MILITARY AND 
GROUPS 

Planetary and Imperial military and intelligence organizations often have 
secret installations that are served by shadowports to conceal those instal- 
lations from both the public and their opponents. Some of these shadowports 
are packed with powerful communications and sensors equipment to serve 
as listening posts. Others provide transport needs for experimental testing 
ranges, laboratories working on unethical technologies, operation launch 
points, clandestine training facilities, and secret armories. 


INTELLIGENCE 


RESISTANCE GROUPS 

Only the most well-funded and secretive resistance organizations can main- 
tain shadowports that have anything more than the bare minimum facilities. 
Most freedom fighters settle for a landing port large enough for a single vessel 
that has a few alcoves for storing cached equipment, supplies, and spare 
parts. They outfit a remote cave or rugged canyon with basic gear, or clear an 
abandoned docking bay at the edge of a busy industrial region. Some resisters 
establish shadowports in functioning portions of real starports under cover of 
a front corporation, hiding in plain sight amid the bustling traffic. 


SHBeaLLaZvyeS DLOVYVWSs 


MEIGLLGZVO SLOVIY 


ai 


xX! YStidvHo 


FACILITIES 


Shadowports have various facilities depending on how and where one was 
constructed, what group established it, and who helps maintain it. They differ 
widely, each possessing a different profile and offering services of varying 
quality. Such features range from the bare essentials to complete starport 
facilities. Here are some basic components found in shadowports, presented 
in order from most common to most exceptional. 


LANDING BAY 

Like most any landing facility, a shadowport offers somewhere to land and 
shelter a starship. At the very least, a landing zone might consist of an open 
clearing or a crater, with camouflage netting hidden nearby to conceal 
the vessel. Most shadowports offer more permanent docking bays with a 
retractable roof or an adjacent hangar bay to conceal a ship from aerial 
surveillance. Ports operating in space provide some means for connecting 
to a pressurized environment, usually a magnetically sealed field over the 
entrance or airlock gantries. Given their clandestine nature, shadowports 
don't usually offer docking facilities for capital ships; assume that anything 
from a starfighter to a medium freighter can adequately dock and shelter 
at a shadowport. 


REPAIR BAY 

Since most shadowports function as havens where spacers can find refuge 
from their adversaries in emergencies, they often provide some means to 
effect starship repairs. The simplest of ports might offer only a simple corner 
stocked with old parts, while the most complete facilities could include a 
full-service maintenance hangar and a storage bay packed with brand-new 
components. Many shadowports manage with just an alcove for heavy repair 
equipment, a few crates of spare parts, and a mostly complete set of tools 
and work gear. 


QUARTERS 

A shadowport isn't simply a haven for a ship; it also offers a sanctuary and 
amenities for crew and support personnel. Crews of larger vessels often use 
their own craft's facilities, though it’s always good to get out of the ship for 
a change of scenery, even if that consists of a run-down shadowport. At the 
very least, basic living spaces include a few bunks, a fresher, and a makeshift 
galley. More elaborate ports include personal cabins or suites, kitchens with 
ample food stores, conference rooms, and comfortable lounges. Those that 
function as secret facilities for more established organizations might also 
provide offices, research laboratories, and medical suites. 


COMMAND CENTER 

In the most basic shadowports, individual starships use their own comm- 
scan equipment to monitor nearby traffic and communicate with incoming 
and outbound ships as they normally would during flight operations. More 
sophisticated facilities have a dedicated control panel or even a small room 
with communications and sensor instruments. This equipment might consist 
of a comm-scan console and a command chair (sometimes salvaged from a 
similar facility aboard a starship) mounted in a landing bay corner. A well- 
maintained shadowport sets aside a control room to house such gear and 
the necessary power source. These facilities require comm-scan instruments 
on the surface (in concealed domes, pods, dishes, or antennae) for accurate 
and clear readings. 


OTHER FEATURES 

Depending on a shadowport's operational profile and the resources of those 
maintaining it, a facility might offer some additional installations intended 
to ensure the concealment and protection of the port or increase its useful- 
ness to visitors. These features could include added dampening or shielding 
around the base's power source, concealed defense weapons and shields, or 
extraordinary amenities such as armories, hospitals, and factories. 


NOTABLE 
SHADOWPORTS 


During the Dark Times, several shadowports arise or continue operations 
despite the ascendancy of the New Order. The Empire's sprawling tyranny 
forces more people to rely on shadowports to continue operations, especially 
in places where those people contravene the law or directly undermine 
Imperial power. 

Whether the heroes know of a shadowport's existence depends on 
their past experiences, connections, and general familiarity with the group 
that operates such a facility. Gaining this information usually requires a 
Knowledge (galactic lore) check of at least DC 25 on a hero's part, and 
some plausible explanation of how the heroes might have come across such 
sensitive information. 


BOTHAN SPACE 

The Bothan spynet maintains several shadowports supporting its espionage 
operations throughout Bothan Space. Most serve as Safe houses and listen- 
ing posts, but a few are used as Staging bases for intelligence operations. 
Although the Bothans keep these sites closely guarded secrets, ISB agents 
suspect most of their locations; however, since the Empire covertly ben- 
efits from the Bothan spynet activities, it allows the network to continue 
operating. 


ERIADU BEACON BASE 

The resistance on Eriadu maintains a large shadowport on that planet that 
helps freedom fighters support underground organizations throughout the 
Seswenna sector. Beacon Base sits partially underground beneath an aban- 
doned repulsorlift engine assembly factory at the edge of Phelar Port, nestled 
next to Eriadu Manufacturing’s main facilities (and far enough away from 
the Eriadu Planetary Security Launchport complex to evade notice). 


ITANI NEBULA BASE 

Shortly after Palpatine declares the New Order, the Empire establishes a 
research base deep within the remote Itani Nebula. The base also serves as 
a shadowport from which special operations personnel engage in sorties 
against targets to field-test new technology. The nebula’s natural proper- 
ties shield the base from detection and possibly contribute to the scientific 
studies conducted there. ltani Base and the special operations units stationed 
there steadily grow throughout the Dark Times. 


KOTHLIS SHADOWPORT 

One of the three moons orbiting the Bothan colony of Kothlis hosts a shad- 
owport that serves smugglers, pirates, and others operating on the fringe 
of galactic society. The Bothan military used the moon of Kothlis as an ord- 
nance testing ground until the end of the Clone Wars, then abandoned the 
scarred landscape in the disarmament that followed. Craters left from past 
exercises serve as docking bays, connected to each other and a central hub 
by subterranean tunnels. Although the facilities seem austere, the shadow- 
port features basic living quarters, a cozy command center, a well-stocked 
bar, and a storage bay filled with salvaged spare parts. The Bothan spynet 
remains aware of most traffic passing through the shadowport and employs 
this intelligence in its own operations when necessary. 


PORT HAVEN 

During the Dark Times, several smugglers stumble onto a remote system 
off one of the main Outer Rim hyperlanes. Tropical ocean and jung/es cover 
the lush planet, which provides a rustic yet effective sanctuary for a small 
network of fringers who cautiously share this world’s location. Mosi spac 
ers land on the beach near the site of a failed colony, where they salvage 
materials to construct a few crude dwellings. The Port Haven shatlowport 
offers few amenities, but it provides a secure location far fram Imperial eyes 
where fringers can lie low for a time. 


ESTABLISHING A BASE 


Unlike in the Rebellion Era, a ready-made support organization like the Rebel 
Alliance is not available to heroes during the Dark Times. A galaxy-spanning 
network of organized resistance fighters isn’t watching their backs, and 
they have no system of associated secret bases to which they can flee for 
sanctuary, repair, recuperation, and resupply. They have only those resources 
at their own disposal and whatever support structures they can establish 
and maintain themselves. 

Heroes in the Dark Times are on their own. Whether operating covertly 
while maintaining covers in everyday society or acting as underground free- 
dom fighters on the run, they need secret bases for a variety of purposes: 
safe houses, secure medical and recovery facilities, observation posts, staging 
areas, supply dumps, vehicle hangars, and headquarters. They must scout 
out, prepare, and operate these facilities without attracting the attention 
of law-abiding citizens, the Imperial military, and the numerous agencies 
actively eradicating dissidents. 

Abase's location should combine secrecy with accessibility and function. 
It should remain concealed from prying eyes at every stage, from site scouting 
and construction to operation and maintenance. Members of the resistance 
should have relatively easy access to it in spite of its location or defenses, 
including handy transportation if required. The base should be positioned to 
fulfill particular operational parameters and support resistance activities. 

Scouting out a base location could take various forms and might even 
form the basis for an adventure or two within the campaign. The heroes might 
reconnoiter a site themselves under the pretense of some legitimate activity: 
hiking for pleasure, surveying for a mining corporation, undertaking a salvage 
mission for a scrap collector. This reconnaissance must also include planning 
for the construction and outfitting of a base, maintaining its secrecy without 
arousing notice from the authorities or suspicious civilians. 

Bases vary in size, location, and features depending on their intended role 
in resistance operations. Heroes should have a definite plan for an installation 
when they Scout out a suitable location, though that might change depending 
on what they find. One can’t really use a one-room hiding place as a hangar 
facility, just as a huge warehouse wouldn't make sense as a location for a 
discreet observation post. 


BSBEGLAPIBZVae BLIBIVIVGS 


CHAPTER X 
Ee 


ws 
In the time since the establishment of the Empire, much has changed. From 
the superficial to the symbolic to hard reality, the Empire has replaced the 
Republic in every major aspect of society. Even the name of the galactic 
capital has been changed, from Coruscant to Imperial Center. Day by day, 
Imperial power grows. The Empire replaces old bureaucracies with new ones. 
The Imperial military machine expands exponentially. Republic symbols are 
destroyed or replaced with Imperial equivalents. 


THE IMPERIAL 
GOVERNMENT 


Emperor Palpatine has replaced or revamped nearly every part of the Republic 
government, creating his new Galactic Empire in the image he desires. The 
Emperor retains complete control over all Imperial functions and military 
forces. He is the Empire, and the Empire is his. Few dare to openly oppose 
him. Everyone understands that the Emperor's word is essentially law. Cur- 


rently, he is feared more than he is respected. However, as time passes and 4 
more supporters of the New Order come forward or are indoctrinated, more 2 
of his underlings truly respect him. J 

The Emperor leads a double life, even now. Emperor Palpatine is the public | 
face he uses to maintain control of the Empire. He appears to be genuinely x| 


worried about the state of the Empire. He rails against corruption. He pro- 
motes peace and security. He negotiates, however forcefully, with Imperial 
Senators on critical matters of state and social law. He maintains control by 
standing firm, unafraid to use heavy-handed tactics. He legitimizes his most 
outrageous moves by manipulating the Imperial Senate to support him or by 
restricting reports of anything that threatens his person or position. 

His Darth Sidious persona remains out of public view. Almost no one 
outside his inner circle and selected underlings know him as anything 
other than Palpatine. As always, the Sith Lord works from the shadows. As 
Emperor, Sidious now has great latitude to pursue his own dark projects, plus 
the power and security to keep them hidden. Unbeknownst to the galaxy 
at large, Sidious has begun to expand the reach of the dark side. Many of 
his inner circle are trained in aspects of the dark side of the Force. Secret 
prophets, the Emperor's Hands and Inquisitors, are known to some, but they 
are only the beginning. On the planet Byss, in the Deep Core, Sidious has 
established a secret training facility to attract those who are dedicated to 
the dark side. Though it might take decades, he plans that they will some 
day become integral to Imperial power and leadership. 


Seigwng SAL y 


< HStovHoa 


a 


Selena 2H 


Even though the Emperor has his own vision of the galaxy’s future, he 
remains open to new and effective ideas that support his goals. As such, 
Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin's doctrine of fear (which will become known as 
the Tarkin Doctrine) received much interest, and the recently promoted Grand 
Moff is the brightest star within the new government. Many of Tarkin's ideas 
are now beginning to be fully implemented. 


USING THE TARKIN DOCTRINE 
Although they have taken a few years to fully impiement, the ideas 
proposed by Governor Tarkin are central to Imperial rule. Within the 
Imperial jeadership, they are coming to be knawn as the Tarkin Doctrine, 
which is summarized below. 


© Form oversectors out of multiple sectors that show signs of rebel- 
lion or chronic unrest, Military forces assigned to these oversectors 
can respond ranidly to any threat, thereby eliminating such threats 
while they are still small. 

e Grant command of an oversector to a single individual who answers 
directly to the Emperor, in order te bypass delays and neutralize 
political opportunism. 

@ Use the HoloNet transceivers on Imperial command ships and the 
Imperial Center to take advantage of the HoloNet's unrivaled speed 
in communications. 

¢ Rule through the fear of force, rather than through force itself. 
Generate the impression that the Empire can call upon such over- 
whelming force that resistance is futile. Demonstrations of such 
force are key to this idea. 

e Use size to intimidate. Citizens are intimidated by Star Destroyers 
primarily because of their size and perceived firepower. Most ships 
do not dare to stand against then. A much larger vessel with a 
weapon of vast power could equally intimidate entire star systems. 


The Gamemaster can use the Tarkin Doctrine in a campaign in several 
ways. At the simplest level, using a Star Destroyer to intimidate the char- 
acters is a prime display of the Tarkin Doctrine. Imperial opponents who 
threaten with great force are another example. If the characters have 
access to large ships or becorne engaged in large-scale fleet battles, they 
might see the results of HoloNet communications firsthand as massive 
imperial reinforcements arrive. Characters might see the oversectors 
come into existence, especially if they participate in a successful group 
of resistance fighters in the Outer Rim. 


THE IMPERIAL SENATE 

After the declaration of the Empire, the Galactic Senate ceased to exist and 
was immediately replaced by its Imperial successor. For now, the Emperor 
needs the Senate to retain control of the galaxy. The Senate gives dissenters 
a place to air their grievances, and the Emperor knows that such a forum 
must be allowed to exist, or he will face greater threats. He is quite willing 
to give the impression that he values the Senate's opinions, if it will help 
him retain power. 

The Imperial Senate is not yet completely powerless. At this stage, many 
Senators still believe that they are a vital element of Imperial rule. Dissent- 
ers still hope to use the Senate to regain lost rights and otherwise reform 
the government. Even if they have limited influence over the Emperor, they 
stil] command a great deal of respect from other government officials and 
the galaxy at large. 

Senators also meet and negotiate on local issues outside of direct Imperial 
control. The Senate is still a public forum that reaches much of the galaxy. 
When the Senate is unable to counter the Emperor directly, dissenting Sena- 
tors might still get their point of view heard and out to the masses. The most 
daring Senators even discuss how to retake the galaxy, but they are few, 
and such talks are extremely secret. The Emperor's spies are everywhere, 
even among the ranks of the Senators. Ultimately, if something happens to 
the Emperor, the Senate believes it would naturally provide the forum to 
establish a new government. 


PLANETARY AND SECTOR 
GOoOvERNMENT 

One of the Emperor's first major changes to government structure was the 
creation of Imperial governors, otherwise known as Moffs. !n the earliest days 
of the New Order, a Moff oversees a territory of several sectors, as dictated 
by military and political needs. However, as Imperial power solidifies, the 
number of Moffs grows, and many foresee the day when each sector will 
be assigned its own Moff. The title of Grand Moff has recently been cre- 
ated, with more such officials expected to be appointed as the concept of 
oversectors comes into wider use. 

Moffs exist in parallel with the imperial Senators. As Imperial governors, 
the Moffs report directly to Emperor Palpatine. Although they might need 
to negotiate with Senators for political reasons, individual Senators have 
no authority over them. Imperial governors are responsible for security 
and have direct control over aJl Imperial military forces in their territory. 
They also expand and protect the ideals of the New Order under the guise 
of “protecting” those who reject “alien” cultures in favor of a completely 
Human culture and government. 

A few corporate-governed sectors are now under direct Imperial control. 
In many cases, an interstellar corporation was either nationalized outright 
for “security reasons,” or was a former member of the Separatist movement. 


All holdings of the Trade Federation and other major supporters of the 
Confederacy of Independent Systems have been transferred to Imperial 
control or to Imperial corporate supporters, such as Sienar Systems. Such 
moves bring greatly needed materials and resources directly to the Imperial 
war machine. 

At this stage, the vast majority of planets retain their own governments, 
much as they have for centuries. On some select and troublesome worlds, 
the Emperor's advisors install planetary governors to bring these planets 
in line with Imperial edicts. Most of these are non-Human worlds, such as 
Kashyyyk, and the governors have virtual free rein to keep these planets 
under control. There are relatively few planetary governors, although it is 
troublesome to some that once one is installed, he or she appears to become 
a permanent fixture. In principle, the Emperor prefers to keep out of local 
politics, especially where the citizens already support the New Order. He 
prefers to use fear and force to keep local governments under control. In 
reality, Palpatine is quite willing to step in when it suits his plans, though 
he might use intermediaries openly or covertly as needed. 


AGENTS OF IMPERIAL 


RULE 


With Imperial governance has come a vast array of public and secret orga- 
nizations designed to help maintain order at every level of society. Some 
of these organizations are extremely specialized, suited to a specific role. 
Generally speaking, the more specialized a group’s role, the fewer members 
and the more secret the group. 


COMPNOR 
Of all the new Imperial organizations, none is more accessible to the average 
galactic citizen than the Commission for the Preservation of the New Order. 
It might seem ironic that COMPNOR is the successor to the Commission for 
the Preservation of the Republic (COMPOR), a volunteer corps cammitted 
to supporting the Chancellor and the war. However, COMPOR was more 
dedicated to Palpatine than to the Republic. Using this natural base of sup- 
porters, COMPNOR was poised to provide a growing number of loyal Imperial 
supporters and activists. 

Anyone can join COMPNOR, though the overwhelming majority af mem- 


bers are Human. At the most basic level, COMPNOR works as a grass-roots 
effort on Imperial-friendly worlds, where any citizen can actively promote 
and participate in the Empire's greater goals. However, COMPNOR is more 
than just a political action body or a social club. It actively promotes the 
ethics and ideals of the New Order to all, starting with the youngest. It is an 
integral part of Imperial society. 

COMPNOR is ruled by the Select Committee. In the first years ai the 
Empire, the committee's ranks swelled ta around twenty-five Uhousand 


members. The Emperor recently took an active role in COMPNOR’s 
development and “recommended” some changes. As such, the Select 
Committee’s membership numbers have rapidly declined. The Committee 
does not comment on the extent of the reduction or the extent of the 
Emperor's involvement with the daily operations of COMPNOR. 

COMPNOR is divided into several divisions. SAGroup (the Sub Adult Group) 
is by far the largest and most active in recruiting and indoctrinating the young 
people of the galaxy into the ways of the New Order. The Coalition for Prog- 
ress started as a minor division overseeing the cultural adoption of the New 
Order within all sectors. Although it is relatively small, its power is growing 
as its information network expands throughout the Empire. The Coalition for 
Improvements was recently broken out of the Coalition for Progress to take 
a more direct role in improving a Sector's technical and social infrastructure 
to conform to the New Order. The final two divisions are CompForce and the 
Imperial Security Bureau, described in detail below. 


CompForce 

CompForce is the military arm of COMPNOR. It is filled with New Order loy- 
alists selected from other divisions. CompForce's near-fanatical dedication 
to the ideals of the New Order often brings it into conflict with the regular 
Imperial military. Not only does CompForce receive priority in terms of equip- 
ment and training, its members function as political spies when operating 
with the regular military. As a fighting group, CompForce members are loyal 
and fearsome. Their rigorously lethal training means that the best, or more 
often the luckiest, become active soldiers. AS such, most CompForce units 
are dangerous combatants, and a few of the best are becoming elite units. 


Imperial Security Bureau 

The Emperor's advisors created the Imperial Security Bureau (ISB) as a direct 
competitor to Imperial Intelligence. The ISB is staffed with New Order loyal- 
ists, a Situation that results in less objective, though dedicated and enthusi- 
astic, information gathering. The ISB performs a combination of secret police 
and intelligence duties. Its agents are equally at ease operating in public or 
clandestinely and are not afraid to identify themselves when necessary. ISB 
agents are perceived to be everywhere. 

The ISB operates from an enormous central office on Imperial Center. It 
actively competes with Imperial Intelligence to gather the best data, albeit 
with a loyalist slant. It has offices and officers scattered throughout the 
galaxy and can be found on every major world. In the three short years of 
the New Order, ISB has become a well-known and feared commodity. 


IMPERIAL INTELLIGENCE 

In the last days of the Republic, the central government's four primary and 
competing intelligence services secretly banded together to form a single 
organization to eliminate corruption and abuse of intelligence by manipulative 


x HStdwHo 


[| 


SBVIawe shh 


a 


LAavyr 


x 4a 


U 


SUIOWE SHA 


Senators. The new leadership revealed itself upon the announcement of the 
Empire, much to the chagrin of Senators and Emperor's advisors who had 
bribed the old services to produce the information they wanted. They are 
led by a mysterious group called the Ubigtorate. The public head of Imperial 
Intelligence is currently Armand Isard. 

Imperial Intelligence members are highly professional and well trained. 
Although loyal to the New Order, they are not fanatically dedicated to it as their 
ISB counterparts are. Imperial Intelligence reports to the Emperor, as well as to 
the Imperial military, which regards its service as less politically motivated and 
far more objective. The four divisions of Imperial Intelligence are Internal Orga- 
nization, the Analysis Bureau, the Bureau of Operations, and Intelligence. 

Unlike the ISB, Imperial Intelligence is highly decentralized, with offices and 
assets scattered throughout the galaxy. Although the secretive Ubiqtorate is 
believed to reside on Imperial Center, the intelligence service relies on a vast, 
interstellar communications network called Sector Plexus for its operations 
and reporting. This highly redundant and complex network uses a combination 
of hyperspace-capable message droids and short-range broadcasts to relay 
messages across the galaxy, but has no access to the HoloNet. 

Imperial Intelligence only collects and analyzes data and information. Any 
action resulting from its data is taken by other Imperial agencies, usually the 
Imperial military, Moffs, and planetary governors. If needed, it also passes 
information on to specific planetary governments. 


Imperial Inquisitors 

Imperial inquisitors are the latest, secret addition to Imperial Intelligence. 
At the request of the Emperor, a special division has been created called the 
Inquisitorius, which specializes in scouring the galaxy for Force-users of all 
types and eliminating them. Led by a Grand Inquisitor, these dark side Force- 
users seek out surviving Jedi, adepts, primitive shamans, and all students of 
the Force who are not aligned with the Emperor. 

The Inquisitors are ruthless and effective even when not using the dark 
side. Rumors of their methods and existence are slowly spreading throughout 
the intelligence services, making them among the most feared operatives. 
The Inquisitors work best through interrogation and investigation, with and 
without the Force. Few can withstand an Inquisitor’s interrogation session. 

Some Inquisitors learn significant lightsaber skills, but most do not have 
the formal training of a Sith or a Jedi. Many Inquisitors learn only basic or 
Specialized Force powers best suited for interrogation. If they happen upon 
a Jedi or some other Force-user of significant skill, they might pass the word 
to Darth Vader that the matter requires his special attention. 


THE EMPEROR'S HANDS 

Though it is unknown exactly when Emperor Palpatine began employing 
talented dark side Force-users as his exclusive Emperor's Hands, it is likely 
they began their service in the earliest years of the New Order. The Emperor 


USING COMPFORCE, THE ISB, 
AND IMPERIAL INTELLIGENCE 
CompForce makes a good military opponent for characters who are 
actively fighting against COMPNOR activities and the Select Committee. 
Resistance fighters might oppose COMPNOR attempts to expand the 
reach of the New Order on their hameworlds. CompForce units might 
also be deployed instead of stormtroopers in situations when the Emperor 
needs a show of loyal citizen support, rather the perceived mindless 
dedication of cloned trocps grown and trained for the task. 

In a Force Unleashed campaign, iSB agents are central opponents of 
underground anti-Imperial efforts and resistance units. ISB agents make 
effective antagonists and recurring enemies. Small anti-lmperial groups 
or individuals could draw the attention of a single operative hoping to 
score a vig catch; large groups might attract entire [SB task forces or 
investigation teams created for the sole purpose of shutting them down. 
If significant firepower is required, ISB probably calls in regular Imperial 
military units or stormtroopers rather than relying on CompForce. 

Imperial Intelligence might become involved in or aware of any 
operation the ISB is pursuing. However, it is far more likely to investigate 
larger-scale or significant military threats to Imperial assets and per- 
sonnel. Additionally, some {mperial Intelligence is cleared for use in the 
Imperial Senate and other governmental organizations. At times, Imperial 
Senators might obtain or request specific information, particularly about 
their own planets of sectors, but the Emperor's advisors filter and censor 
such reports before delivery and without notice. 


had long understood the need for operatives who worked for and answered 
only to him. His Sith apprentice fulfilled such a role in the past, but once 
Darth Vader became a public figure, the Emperor turned to less skilled, but 
strikingly loyal, individuals. Called the Emperor's Hands, each believes that he 
or she is the only one who receives such special attention and Force training 
from the leader of the galaxy. 

Emperor’s Hands carry out the Emperor’s most sensitive and secret 
missions anywhere in the galaxy. They have extremely high security clear- 
ances. They can call upon any Imperial reinforcements as required, and 
they have special codes that provoke an immediate response from any 
high-ranking military commander or political officer. They almost never 
reveal their true position, except to ranking officials when required to 
complete a mission. 

Each Emperor's Hand is trained in the dark side of the Force, and the 
Emperor has tailored each to use his or her unique skills to the utmost. He care- 
fully controls their training and learning, lest they become a threat to him. 


THE DEATH STAR 


The Death Star is the ultimate power in the galaxy ... or it will be, once it is 
completed. For now, it is a secret project. For many, the Death Star is little 
more than a rumor, spoken of only in hidden chambers and hushed tones. 
Most do not believe the stories. After all, even the Emperor could not hide 
a project of such scale, or so the majority believe. 

In the remote Outer Rim system of Horuz, above the planet Despayre, the 
Death Star is in the early stages of construction. It is barely a shell of its form 
to come. Fittingly, Grand Moff Tarkin oversees the construction. His vision 
of the New Order and the new battlestation mesh perfectly. 

For now, construction continues unabated and with all due speed. Though 
the completion date is years away, the schedule is relentless. Manual labor 
is provided by slave species, particularly Wookiees. Secrecy and security are 
paramount and draconian in enforcement. Funds for the project are diverted 
from system exploration and public works budgets as well as other mundane 
sources, So as not to raise the suspicions of the Imperial Senate. Only the 
Emperor knows the true budget, scope, and nature of the project. 


USING THE DEATH STAR 
Even with decades to go before its completion, the Death Star has a lot 
of potential for use in the game. Here are a few suggestions. 

Motivator: The heroes work for an Imperial Senator who assigns them 
to check up on some unusual spending reports. Their diligent efforts 
eventually lead them to some aspect of the Death Star's construction 
by way of a myriad of Imperial departments, worlds, and eventually 
Grand Moff Tarkin’s command. The heroes then have the opportunity 
to interfere with the construction of a key element of the station, such 
as its superlaser, its power core, or its immense hyperdrive. 

Catalyst: The heroes stumble onto the Horuz construction site. 
Perhaps they are scouts searching the Outer Rim, or maybe they have 
some connection to the planet Despayre. Once they have witnessed the 
massive space station being built, the Empire will stop at nothing to keep 
the secret safe, chasing the heroes to all corners of the galaxy. Life on 
the run thrusts the heroes into one adventure after another, culminating 
with their final escape—or their untimely deaths. 

Adventuring Locale: The characters investigate the movements of 
slave species, such as the Wookiees, which eventually leads them to 
Despavre. After discovering that the slaves are being used on a construc- 
tion project of immense scale, the heroes must fight to liberate those 
Slaves and free them from the persecution of the Empire. While doing 
battle aboard the incomplete Death Star, the heroes face everything 
from stormtroopers to construction droids as they make their escape 
with freed slave laborers. 


All materials for the battlestation are strip-mined directly from the Horuz 
system. Security is so tight that once anyone arrives insystem, he or she is 
never allowed to leave. It is said that only Grand Moff Tarkin, Darth Vader, 
and the Emperor are allowed to come and go as they see fit. 


IMPERIAL PERSONNEL 


The general personnel available to the Empire is as vast and varied as the 
galaxy itself. Specialized troops and agents are available for every type of 
mission or situation. All answer to the Emperor, though some are more loyal 
or fanatical to the New Order than others. All of the personnel presented 
here are suitable for a dark side or Force Unleashed campaign. 


IMPERIAL MILITARY 


The standard Imperial military forces are drawn from Human recruits and 
draftees across the galaxy. Each branch of service includes many similar 
types of soldiers, pilots, and supporting roles, though each group is trained 
specifically for its branch. 


AT-AT PILOT 

AT-AT pilots are among the best vehicle pilots the Empire has to offer. 
Although certain units, such as the famed Blizzard Force, feature elite pilots, 
the regular AT-AT pilot is formidable in his own right. They wear armored 
flight suits very similar to those of Imperial fighter pilots. 


AT-AT Pilot 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Dark Side 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 19), Fort 13, Will 10 

hp 15; Threshold 13 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (103) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) or 

Ranged by weapon +5 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Skill Training (Initiative), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +8, Pilot +9 

Possessions armored flight suit (+9 armor,+3 equipment), comlink, blaster 
pistol 


CL 2 


x HSsiavHo 


= 


aMNEWSa SgAL 


aRanAaAnnannannas 


U 


Loa vHoO 


x 8 


Boewea aAL 


AT-ST PItroT 

AI-ST pilots are normally Imperial Army pilots trained specifically to handle 
the light and agile walker in a variety of terrain and circumstances. Given 
that the AT-STs operate everywhere from the wide open plains to the con- 
gested forests of Kashyyyk, it takes specialized training to be effective in 
all conditions. Due to the confines of their cramped cockpits, AT-ST pilots 
must forgo most armor other than their helmets. 


AI-ST Pilot CL 2 
Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Dark Side 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 10, Will 10 

hp 15; Threshold 10 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (13) 
Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) or 
Ranged by weapon +5 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Initiative), 
Skill Training (Perception), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, 
pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +9 

Possessions blast vest and helmet (+2 armor), comlink, blaster pistol 


DEATH STAR TROOPER 

During the construction of the Death Star, Grand Moff Tarkin trained a select 
fighting force specifically for the fearsome battlestation. Taken from the 
best Imperial Navy troopers, the new Death Star Troopers were multitalented 
individuals who fulfilled many combat and noncombat duties throughout the 
station. They received advanced combat and independent command train- 
ing. They are an elite fighting force loyal to the Imperial Navy and Tarkin, as 
opposed to the stormtroopers who have their own command structure and 
were loyal to the Emperor. Elite Death Star Troopers served in the command 
areas, while standard troopers were found throughout the station. Their 
distinctive uniforms became a symbol of power. 


Death Star Trooper CL 2 
Medium Human nonheroic 3/soldier 1 

Force 1; Dark Side 3 

Init +3; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 13, Will 11 
hp 13; Threshold 13 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee baton +3 (1d6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) 
Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Demolitionist 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Point Blank Shot, Weapon Focus 
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +7, Perception +7 

Possessions baton, blaster pistol, comlink, utility belt, blast helmet and 
vest 


Elite Death Star Trooper CL6 
Medium Human nonheroic 3/soldier 5 

Force 1; Dark Side 3 

Init +6; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 17, Will 15 
hp 35; Threshold 17 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee baton +8 (1d6+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Precise Shot, Point Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Armored Defense, Demolitionist, Weapon Specialization (pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Skill Training (Use Computer), Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +9, Perception +9, Use Computer +9 

Possessions baton, blaster pistol, comlink, utility belt, blast helmet and 
vest 


IMPERIAL ARMY TROOPER 

Imperial Army troopers can be found stationed at garrisons and bases 

throughout the Empire. They are recruited from all Imperial systems, espe- 

cially the Core Worlds. Their training focuses on ground-based combat. 

They often operate in conjunction with stormtroopers and other military 

units on the battlefield. 

Imperial Army Trooper CL 1 

Medium Human nonheroic 3 

Dark Side 1 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 10, Will 10 

hp 8; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d6+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +3 (3d6) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +3 (348) or 

Ranged frag grenade +3 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +3 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Martial Arts |, Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +7, Perception +6 

Possessions blaster pistol, blaster rifle, blast helmet and vest [+2 armor), 
Imperial Army uniform, military comlink, credit chip 


IMPERIAL NAvyY TROOPER 

The basic Imperial Navy troopers are specialized in fighting aboard star- 
ships and space stations. They serve as shipboard security and fulfill other 
shipboard roles when their fighting skills are not required. 
Imperial Navy Trooper CL 1 
Medium Human nonheroic 3 

Dark Side 1 

Init +2; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 8; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee baton +2 (1d6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +3 (3d6) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +3 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Precise Shot, Point Blank Shot, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +6, Perception +6 

Possessions baton, blaster pistol, comlink, utility belt, blast helmet and 
vest 


IMPERIAL FIELD MEDIC 

The Imperial field medic is a highly trained medical specialist. They work 

medical wonders under combat conditions. Medics can be found in every 

branch of service. Their uniforms vary, but their skills are exemplary. 

Imperial Field Medic CL5 

Medium human nonheroic 7/medic 3 

Force 1; Dark Side 1 

Init +12; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 18, Will 17 

hp 41; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Special Actions Extra Second Wind, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities improved first aid 

Talents Battlefield Medic, Extra First Aid 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Cybernetic Surgery, Extra Second Wind, 
Shake it Off, Skill Focus (Treat Injury), Surgical Expertise, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Initiative +12, Knowledge (life sciences) +13, Treat 
injury +17, Survival +12 

Possessions blaster pistol, Imperial medic’s uniform, comlink, datapad, 
medical kit, 5 medpacs, surgery kit 


IMPERIAL ROYAL GUARDS 

The Imperial Royal Guard is one of the most recognizable units in the galaxy, 
thanks to their distinctive red armor and their presence at the side of the 
Emperor at all public functions. Rumors about the Emperor's most loyal 
guards outnumber the known facts. The Royal Guard is composed of an elite 
stormtrooper unit, trained well beyond the standard of any other military 
force in the Empire. Its exact numbers are unknown, but the Guard is never 
dispatched along with regular stormtrooper or military units. It is unknown 
if the Royal Guardsmen are clones, Human recruits, or both. 


x HSLavHo 


i 


SaMiaws” gM 


<x HStavHo 


U 


BSoliawe awl 


Royal Guard CL 10 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 6/elite trooper 2 

Force 3; Dark Side 5 

Init +17; Senses low-light vision; Perception +16 


Languages Basic 


Imperial Sovereign Protector CL 14 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 6/elite trooper 6 

Force 5; Dark Side 13 

Init +21; Senses low light vision; Perception +18 


Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 23, Will 20 
hp 75; DR 1, Threshold 23 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 27), Fort 27, Will 24 
hp 105; DR 3; Threshold 27 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee force pike +14* (2d8+7) or 

Melee unarmed +14 (1d6+6) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +12 (3d8+4) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +14 

Atk Options Cleave, Flurry Attack, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack 
Special Actions Harm's Way, Quick Draw 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Armored Defense, Flurry Attack (force pike), Harm’s Way, Weapon 
Specialization (advanced melee weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Cleave, Martial Arts |, Point 
Blank Shot, Power Attack, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Initiative), Weapon 
Focus (advanced melee weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +17, Perception +14 

Possessions Royal Guard armor (+7 armor; as ceremonial armor with 
helmet package), force pike, heavy blaster pistol, comlink (encrypted, 
long-range [miniaturized], holo capability), utility belt with medpac 

* Includes 7 point of Power Attack. 


IMPERIAL SOVEREIGN 
PROTECTOR 

The newly created Imperial Sovereign Protectors are the elite of the elite 
Royal Guards. Not satisfied to let any of his subjects become comfortable 
in their current position, the Emperor finds new ways to set the bar higher 
to encourage improvement and distract their attention from sensitive mat- 
ters or plots of their own. At present, the Imperial Sovereign Protectors are 
extremely few in number. It takes years of training and the protocols are 
under development. A few of the elite Protectors have already been revealed 
as a goal-setting measure for the rest of the Emperor's guard, as well as a 
deterrent to those who might plan to eliminate the Emperor through force. 
The numbers are restricted for another reason: these elite individuals must 
also be able to learn rudimentary Force abilities for use in defending their 
sovereign and master. 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee double vibroblade +18* (2d10+9) or 

Melee double vibroblade +16* (2d10+9) and 
double vibroblade +16* (2d10+9) or 

Melee unarmed +18 (1d8+8) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +18 (3d8+6) 

Base Atk +16; Grp +18 

Atk Options Flurry Attack, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack 

Special Actions Harm's Way, Quick Draw 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Armored Defense, Exotic Weapon Mastery, Flurry Attack (double 
vibroblade), Harm's Way, Improved Armored Defense, Weapon 
Specialization (advanced melee weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery I, Dual 
Weapon Mastery Il, Martial Arts I, Martial Arts li, Point Blank Shot, 
Power Attack, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Initiative), Weapon Focus 
(advanced melee weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +21, Perception +16 

Possessions Royal Guard armor (+7 armor; as ceremonial armor with 
helmet package), double vibroblade, heavy blaster pistol, comlink 
(encrypted, long-range [miniaturized], holo capability), utility belt with 
medpac 

*Includes 7 point of Power Attack. 


SHADOW GUARD 

The Imperial Shadow Guard is a new fighting force. Clearly based on the 
Imperial Royal Guard, members of the Shadow Guard are rarely seen in public, 
but are dispatched on special missions as directed by the Emperor himself. 
The Shadow Guard wears a variation of the Royal Guard armor, albeit with 
an inverted red and black color scheme, which is often nearly completely 
black. The Shadow Guard makes use of a unique weapon, called a lightsaber 
pike (see page 199). that has a lightsaber blade at one end. 


Imperial Shadow Guard CL 12 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 6/elite trooper 1/Force adept 3 

Force 3; Dark Side 14 

Init +18; Senses low-light vision; Perception +17 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 22), Fort 25, Will 26 

hp 86; Threshold 25 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber pike +14* (3d8+11"*) or 

Melee unarmed +15 (1d6+7) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +13 (3d8+5) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 2 squares (with lightsaber pike) 

Base Atk +13; Grp +15 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Power Attack 

Special Actions Channel Aggression, Damage Reduction 10, Equilibrium 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13): battle strike, Force lightning, 
surge 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (Force lightning) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Armored Defense, Channel Aggression, Damage Reduction 10, 
Empower Weapon, Equilibrium, Power of the Dark Side 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Cleave, Exotic Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsaber pike), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Martial 
Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Initiative), Skill 
Training (Use the Force), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +18, Perception +17, Use the Force +13 

Possessions Shadow Guard armor (+7 armor: as ceremonial armor 
with helmet package), lightsaber pike, heavy blaster pistol, comlink 
(encrypted, long-range [miniaturized], holo capability), utility belt with 
medpac 

*Includes 7 point of Power Attack. 

™ includes +1 damage die for Empower Weapon. 


STORMTROOPERS 


Much like their predecessors, the clone troopers, stormtrooper types exist 
for every battlefield. Although everyone in the galaxy has seen a standard 
stormtrooper and scout troopers, the more specialized versions are rarely 
seen away from the battlefield. 


THE SOIST STORMTROOPER 
Divisio™m 

The 501st Stormtrooper Division is the most feared and most respected 
stormtrooper force in the Empire. \ts service began during the Clone Wars 
and will survive well beyond the Dark Times. Unlike with most clone units, 
the 50st designation, assignment, and mission profile carried over into the 
new stormtrooper corps. 

The 501st is best known for the assault on the Jedi Temple under the 
command of Lord Vader, signaling the destruction of the Jedi Order. After 
that fateful day, the unit operates as Vader's personal regiment, although it 
carries out many other missions as directed by the Emperor. It is responsible 
for some of the Empire's worst atrocities. Most of its missions are highly 
classified, making it difficult for the Imperial Senate and others to track the 
group's activities. 

The 501st is trained and based on Coruscant. It is deployed in smaller units 
as required. In the Dark Times, members of the 501st look no different from 
any other stormtrooper unit, but their manner and combat skills speak for 
themselves. The unit is most often deployed when both advanced fighting 
skills and a political statement are required. 


USING THE SOIsT 

The 501st is the most visible stormtroaper unit in the Star Wars universe. 
It provides an easier way to bring a recognizable entity into the game 
other than a major villain. After all, you don't have to worry about the 
heroes defeating the 501st permanently, as you would, for instance, 
Darth Vader. Here are some suggested uses for the 5O1st: 


© Deploy in support of Vader when he is in direct contact with the 
player characters. 
Attack successful resistance bases and units loyal to the heroes. 
Use as a show of force on a planet the player characters regularly 
visit. 
Use in support of Imperial Inquisitors when hunting Jeai heroes. 
Use as guards for important locations or individuals, perhaps as a 
surprise to the player characters. 

e Attack or arrest outspoken anti-lmperial characters. You might 
want to create a cover story for their actions. 


BSieaws gaAL | x 


0 


BHIews) BAL 


xX HSiavHDd 


501st Legion Stormtrooper CL6 
Medium Human nonheroic 9/soldier 1/elite trooper 2 

Dark Side 5 

Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 


Languages Basic 


Clone Trooper Veteran CL3 
Medium middle age Human nonheroic 10 

Dark Side 2 

Init +11; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 


Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 19, Will 13 
hp 41; DR 1; Threshold 19 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 10 
hp 27; Threshold 12 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d6+3) 

Ranged blaster rifle +11 (8d8+3) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (5d8+3) with Controlled Burst or 

Ranged frag grenade +9 (4d6+1, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +11 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Burst Fire, Controlled Burst, Point 
Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Controlled Burst, Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Martial Arts |, Point 
Blank Shot, Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Initiative +12, Mechanics +12, Perception +13 

Possessions stormtrooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), blaster rifle, 
frag grenade, utility belt with medpac 


CLONE TROOPER VETERANS 

Aging at twice the rate of an average Human, the original clone troopers are 
a rapidly vanishing force throughout the Dark Times. As they get older, they 
become less useful as frontline troops. The effects of aging begin to set in, 
and though they have years of hard combat experience under their belts, 
their bodies are beginning to decline. The reality of their advanced aging is 
something that few members of the Republic ever truly stopped to consider, 
and in the years following the Clone Wars the Empire must deal with the 
harsh reality that a large number of its veteran troops are becoming less 
useful on the battlefield every day. 

However, the Empire is not about to let any resource go to waste, and 
certainly not one as experienced as the clone troopers. Aging clone troop- 
ers are regularly cycted out of frontline units and reassigned to garrisoned 
posts or less volatile regions. In more peaceful areas, it hardly matters that 
the individual filling out the armor is no longer a crack soldier. The most 
experienced and capable are used for training new stormtrooper units or 
other Imperial forces. However, few of these veteran clone troopers are 
capable of embracing a life behind a desk or in a training center, leading 
many of them to fight with suicidal recklessness rather than grow old while 
training nonclone recruits. 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+5) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Coordinated Attack, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Proficiency {pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +11, Perception +10 

Possessions clone trooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), blaster rifle, 
comlink 


SPAARTI CLONE TROOPS 

With the Kaminoan cloning facilities shut down and the limited number of 
veteran clone troopers aging quickly, the Empire began dabbling in alternative 
cloning techniques very early in its reign. One technique that was utilized 
briefly during the Clone Wars was pioneered by cloners on Cartao whose 
technology was based on Khommite cloning techniques. The clones produced 
by the Spaarti cloning method—which used cloning cylinders designed by 
Spaarti Creations—were fully grown and ready to fight within a year’s time. 
Although this effort provided the Empire with a fast solution to the prob- 
lem of declining troop numbers, it brought with it a large number of other 
problems. Clones grown in Spaarti cloning cylinders are notoriously unstable, 
and any clones that are incubated and grown in less than a year inevitably 
go insane. Additionally, Spaarti clones must have their minds formed by a 
process known as “flash memory,” which involves writing the memories of 
another trooper (usually an exceptionally loyal, disciplined, and skilled war- 
rior) to the fresh clone’s brain. Imperfections in this process often result in 
brain damage, and even when successful, the final results are far inferior to 
the Kaminoan method of combat training. 

Though the method of producing clones in Spaarti cloning cylinders 
allowed the Empire to produce more troops within a year, most of these 
troops were far inferior to the troopers who were veterans of the Clone Wars. 
Moreover, when Spaarti clones were used to supplement troopers that served 
in the Clone Wars, conflicts between the two types of clones sprung up almost 


immediately. The clones based on Jango Fett recoiled at the thought of fighting 

alongside the Spaarti clones, which they saw as freakish experiments rather 

than trained soldiers. Additionally, Spaarti clones often displayed unstable 

tendencies on the battlefield, refusing to follow orders or even turning on their 

own allies in fits of madness. As a result of these inefficiencies, the Empire 

abandoned its Spaarti cloning efforts and pursued the process of recruiting 

soldiers for the Empire in more traditional ways. A few Spaarti clones serve 

in the Empire early in the Dark Times, but by the time of the Rebellion they 

are little more than a memory of a failed experiment. 

Spaarti-Cloned Stormtrooper CL 1 

Medium Spaarti clone Human nonheroic 4 

Dark Side 1 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +3 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 9 

hp 10; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1] 

Ranged blaster rifle +4 (3d8) or 

Ranged frag grenade +3 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 8 

Special Qualities clone madness 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +7, Perception +3 

Possessions stormtrooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), blaster rifle, 
frag grenade, utility belt with medpac a 

Clone Madness—When a Spaarti clone is reduced to half its hit points or 


fewer, each round at the beginning of its turn the creature must roll 1d6 
and refer to the table below. The creature is susceptible to the indicated 
effect until the beginning of its next turn, when a new roll ‘s made. If the 
creature's hit points once again rise above halt, it is no longer susceptible 
to clone madness (unless it again draps below half fit points). 
d6 Effect 
1-3 Creature acts normally. 
4 Creature is confused and lashes Gut: it can make attacks only 
against the nearest target (whether thal target is friend of foe). 
5 Creature is distracted: it does not threaten any squares, 
6 Creature is treacherous; it can make allacks only against its 
nearest ally. 


DARK TROOPERS PHASE ZERO 

Faced with an increasing shortage of experienced troops, the Empire went 
to great lengths to supplement its forces. In addition to the introduction of 
Spaarti clones and the continued training of new recruits, the Empire began 
implementing a gruesome program that kept veterans of the Clone Wars in 
the fight—at least for a little while. A Secret project, codenamed Dark Trooper 
Phase Zero, involved taking aging clone troopers and replacing their limbs 
and many internal organs with cybernetic replacements. Based out of the 
Empirical, a hidden space station in the Dominus sector, the Dark Trooper 
Phase Zero project was overseen by a young Imperial officer by the name 
of Lt. Rom Mohe. Much of the same technology that was used to transform 
Anakin Skywalker into the cyborg Darth Vader found its way into the Dark 
Trooper Phase Zero project, and with moderate success. With their aging 
limos and organs replaced by cybernetic parts, these clone troopers could 


Phase Zero Dark Trooper CL 3 

Medium Human (cyborg) nonheroic 10 

Dark Side 2 

Init +11; Senses darkvision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 9 

hp 29; DR 5; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+5) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 12, Wis 8, Cha 9 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Coordinated Attack, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +11, Perception +9 

Systems darkvision, synchronized fire circuits 

Possessions Phase Zero Dark Trooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), 
blaster rifle, comlink, cybernetic replacements 


Cyborg Hybrid As a cyborg hybrid, a Phase Zero dark trooper can use any 
type of droid system except a processor. A Phase Zero dark trooper's 
cybernetic enhancements include a life support system, making it 
immune to atmospheric and inhaled poison hazards. Like other cyborgs, 
Phase Zero dark troopers take normal damage from ion weapons. 
Additionally, a Phase Zero dark trooper's cybernetic enhancements 
grant DR 5. 


a 


BHNAWS gh 


<x BSiagvHo 


0 


Seiewe aAtb 


L 


benefit from their combat training and experience while their cybernetic 
limbs remained in peak condition, not suffering the effects of the clones’ 
advanced aging. 

Though none can argue that the Dark Trooper Phase Zero project managed 
to do what it set out to accomplish, it would be less than accurate to call 
the project a success. Many of these cybernetically enhanced clone troopers 
were chosen for the project against their will, and they found themselves 
turned into soldiers who were more machine than man. Many Phase Zero 
Dark Troopers considered themselves monstrous abominations and attempted 
suicide rather than live as something less than Human. In some cases the 
project replaced over 70% of a clone's body with mechanical parts, yet 
another in a long line of experiments that disregarded the humanity of the 
clone troopers. 

Despite these drawbacks and the gruesome nature of the experiment, 
a significant number of Phase Zero Dark Troopers made their way onto the 
battlefield and were undeniably effective, combining the experience and 
training of veteran clone troopers with the superior physical attributes 
of a cyborg. As the Empire increases in power, and recruiting techniques 
make up for the loss of clone troopers, the Dark Trooper Phase Zero project 
declines and is eventually shut down. However, the effectiveness of these 
cybernetically enhanced troops would lead Lt. Mohc, who would eventually 
become a general, to convince the Emperor to reinstate the Dark Trooper 
project and create mechanical troops to fight the Rebellion that could operate 
without fear of death, aging, illness, or any other weaknesses of the flesh. 


CORUSCANT GUARD 

One of the status symbols marking Coruscant as the new Imperial Center is 
the development of an elite stormtrooper unit specifically for police duty 
on the capital world. Befitting their unique status, Coruscant Guards wear 
distinctive red and black armor not issued to regular stormtrooper or military 
units. They are afforded great authority to search any dwelling or structure 
as well as to detain virtually any individual when investigating criminal or 
subversive activities. High-ranking ISB agents might call upon the Guard's 
services when investigating politically powerful individuals. Although only 
a few Guard units have been activated, their numbers are growing. Some 
expect that new units will also appear on important, and potentially disrup- 
tive, Core Worlds in the coming months and years. 

Coruscant Guards use their helmet-mounted communications and sensory 
gear extensively. Commanders use an internal heads-up display to track troop 
movements and coordinate maneuvers quickly and efficiently. These displays 
are also useful for navigating Imperial Center's complex city structure. 


Coruscant Guard CL5 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 3 

Force 3; Dark Side 5 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 18, Will 13 

hp 32: Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+2) 

Melee electrostaff +8 (2d6+2) 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (3d6+1) or 

Ranged stun grenade +8 (4d6+1 stun, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Armored Defense, Second Skin 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Perception +9 

Possessions Electrostaff, Coruscant Guard armor with helmet package (as 
stormtrooper armor, +6 armor, +2 equipment), comlink, blaster rifle, 2 
stun grenades 


IMPERIAL EVO STORMTROOPER 

The Imperial EVO “Environmental” Trooper is one of the Empire's most spe- 
cialized stormtrooper units. It sports enhanced armor able to stand up to 
extreme environmental conditions and uses lethal flechette launchers in lieu 
of the standard stormtrooper blaster rifle. EVO troopers are known to operate 
on the junk planet of Raxus Prime, but they can be encountered wherever 
extreme environmental battlefield conditions exist. Some have even been 
deployed to the unfinished Death Star. 


EVO Trooper 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/scout 3/soldier 2 
Foree 1; Dark Side 5 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 
Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 21, Will 15 
hp 43; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (3d8+2} or 

Ranged blaster rifle +7 (4d8+2) with Rapid Shot or 


CL7 


Ranged flechette launcher +9 (3d8+2, 1-square splash) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +9 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle}, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid 
Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack, Shake It Off 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Expert Tracker 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Shake It Off, Skill Training (Survival), 
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons} 

Skills Endurance +12, Perception +10 (can reroll, must take second 
result), Survival +10 

Possessions EVO trooper armor with heimet package (as stormtrooper 


armor, +6 armor, +2 equipment, +10 equipment bonus against airborne 


poisons), flechette |auncher, comlink, blaster rifle 


IMPERIAL JUMPTROOPER 

The direct successor to the Republic's acclaimed jet trooper clones, the 
Jumptrooper is assigned to the battlefields that have the most treacherous 
terrain. Expertly trained in the use of his jetpack, the Jumptrooper uses it to 
maximum effect, aided by a devastating rail detonator gun that enables him 
to eliminate targets from any angle he chooses. Jumptroopers are known to 
be deployed to almost any battlefield, including Kashyyyk, Felucia, and the 
unfinished Death Star. 


JUMPTROOPER 


BTOAMTRAGrEeR COMMANDER 


SHADOW GUARD EvO STORMTROOPER 


<x HSLtdgvHo 


AHAws ghA 


an fn fe ws 


ana ff 


z 


i 


SMIAIwE) SHL 


< HSidWwHD 


Jumptrooper CL7 

Medium Human nonheroic 4/scout 3/soldier 3 

Force 1; Dark Side 5 

Init +8; Senses low light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 21), Fort 20, Will 16 

hp 51; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares (jetpack) 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged rail detonator gun +12 (3d8+3, 1-square splash) 

Base Atk +8 Grp +10 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Keen Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Running Attack, Strafe 

Special Actions Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Improved Armored Defense, Keen 
Shot 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Running Attack, Shake It Off, Skill Training (Jump), Strafe, Weapon 
Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Jump +11, Perception +12 (can reroll, must take second result), 
Stealth +13 

Possessions rail detonator gun, blaster rifle, Jumptrooper armor with 
helmet package (as stormtrooper armor, +6 armor, +2 equipment), 
jetpack, comlink 


IMPERIAL RADIATION ZONE 
TROOPER 

Radtroopers are one of the most obscure types of stormtroopers, rarely 
seen except on the highly unusual battlefields for which they are trained 
and equipped: heavy radiation zones. Radtroopers wear a distinctive silver 
and black variation on standard stormtrooper armor that contains alloys and 
polymers that allow them to move unhindered through hazardous radiation 
zones. [he troops are proficient with light weapons of all types, demolitions, 
and specialized, high-powered blasters that are not hampered by interference 
from radiation fields. They also carry antiradiation survival equipment and 
medical supplies, in case their armor becomes perforated in combat. 
Imperial Radiation Zone Trooper (Radtrooper) cL 4 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 2 

Force 1; Dark Side 5 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 19 (25 against radiation}, Will 14 


hp 34; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d6+2) 

Ranged blaster carbine +8 (3d8+1) or 

Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6+1, 2-square burst) 
Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine} 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Demolitionist 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Martial Arts I, Skill 
Training (Mechanics), Skill Training (Survival), Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +10, Mechanics +9, Perception +11, Survival +9 

Possessions blaster carbine, 2 frag grenades, Radtrooper armor with 
helmet package [+6 armor bonus, +4 equipment, +10 equipment bonus 
to Fortitude Defense against radiation hazards), comlink, radiation 
survival kit 


STORMTROVDPER COMMANDER 
Stormtrooper units maintain a self-contained command structure outside of 
the regular Imperial military machine. As such, they have their own command- 
ers and officers, well trained to get the most out of their units. These leaders 
are given training based on the ARC troopers of the Clone Wars, thereby 
allowing them greater latitude in judgment than the average stormtrooper. 
Stormtrooper Commander CL6 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 2/officer 2 
Force 3; Dark Side 5 
Init +6; Senses Perception +10 
Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 18, Will 18 
hp 35; Threshold 18 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+3) 
Ranged blaster rifle +10 (3d8+2) or 
Ranged blaster rifle +5 (3d8+2) and 
blaster rifle +5 (3d8+2) with Double Attack 
Base Atk +8; Grp +9 
Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Double Attack (rifles), Point Blank 
Shot 
Special Actions Assault Tactics, Coordinated Attack, Indomitable 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 11 
Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Indomitable) 
Talents Assault Tactics, Indomitable 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Double 
Attack (rifles), Skill Training (Knowledge [tactics]}, Point Blank Shot, 
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency [pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Endurance +10, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +10 

Possessions stormtrooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), blaster rifle, 2 
frag grenades, utility belt with medpac 


COMPNOR OPERATIVES 


COMPNOR Operatives come in all levels of ability and experience. The most 
commonly encountered types are presented below. 


COMPFORCE ASSAULT 

TROOPER 

The standard trooper of COMPNOR's military branch is the assault trooper. 
Although only moderately trained, these troopers often make up for their 
lack of skill or quality with determination, tenacity, and near-fanaticism. 
Regular Imperial military personnel question their abilities, but none ques- 
tion their toughness. Also, despite protests from the military, CompForce 
units benefit from their privileged status as New Order devotees by receiving 
quality equipment. As such, they have their own distinctive uniforms, medium 
armor, and excellent weaponry. 


CompForce Assault Trooper CL 3 

Medium Human nonheroic 7 

Force 1; Dark Side 4 

Init +4; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 14, Will 10 

hp 38; Threshold 14 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+2) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (3d8) or 

Ranged frag grenade +6 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Extra Second Wind 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Extra Second Wind, Toughness, 
Weapon Proficiency (rifles, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +10, Perception +8 

Possessions medium battle armor (+8 armor bonus, +2 equipment bonus), 
comlink, credit chip, heavy blaster pistol, blaster rifle with enhanced 
low-light scope, 2 frag grenades, electrobinoculars, utility belt 


iIsB FieLD AGENT 

To average citizens, an ISB field agent appearing at the door is one of their worst 

fears come true. Although ISB agents cannot stand against true military power, 

they are more than adequate to intimidate the local populace and low-level 
officials. Since they are not elite fighting units, ISB agents receive basic combat 
training along with specialized surveillance and interrogation training. 

Imperial Security Bureau Agent CL 4 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/scout 3 

Force 5; Dark Side 5 

Init +5; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, High Galactic 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 13, Will 11 

hp 27; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Talents Acute Senses, Improved Stealth 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Gather 
Information), Skill Training (Deception), Skill Training (Persuasion), Skill 
Training (Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Endurance +9, Gather Information +14, Perception 
+8 (can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +9, Stealth +9 
(can reroll, must take second result) 

Possessions blaster pistol, ISB uniform or street clothes, encrypted 
comlink, credit chip, blaster pistol, datapad 


ISB OFFICER 

Unlike standard ISB agents, ISB officers are feared by Imperial citizens, 
military, and government leaders alike. ISB officers are suspicious of all, so 
everyone is naturally on guard while in their presence. ISB officers are trained 
in advanced surveillance and investigation techniques. They often possess a 
way with words that strikes fear into their foes and allies alike. 


* HSsidvHo 


p 


awMienwsd gH 


= 


avHo 


SMISNWEA SHA 


3i 


iz 


Imperial Security Bureau Officer CL9 
Medium Human noble 4/scout 3/enforcer 2 

Force 5; Dark Side 6 

Init +10; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothese, Durese, High Galactic, Huttese 


Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 24), Fort 21, Will 22 
hp 60; Threshold 21 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Charging Fire, Cover Bracing, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Demand Surrender, Presence, Shake It Off, Surveillance, 
targeted suspect +1 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Acute Senses, Cover Bracing, Demand Surrender, Surveillance, 
Presence 

Feats Charging Fire, Linguist, Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Shake It Off, Skill Training [Endurance), Skill Focus (Gather 
Information), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons} 

Skills Deception +11, Endurance +10, Gather Information +16, Initiative 
+10, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +11, Knowledge (social sciences) +11, 
Perception +10 (can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +16, 
Stealth +10, Use Computer +11 

Possessions blaster pistol, ISB uniform, encrypted comlink, credit chip, 
blaster pistol, datapad 


Targeted Suspect If an ISB officer spends a full-round action observing 
an opponent in combat, he gains a +1 bonus on attack rolls and 
Deception, Perception, and Persuasion checks. The benefits last for the 
remainder of the encounter. He cannot use this ability until after his 
opponent has acted during combat. 


IMPERIAL SECRET 
FORCES AND AGENTS 


As the Empire grows in power and reach, the variety of agents and operatives 
expands to fulfill a wide range of roles, each selected specifically by the 
Emperor. These are among the most secret operatives at Palpatine's com- 
mand. Some, such as the Emperor's Hands and Imperial Inquisitors, are not 
meant to be completely secret, but rather intimidating and fearsome agents 
whom high-ranking officers and officials are reluctant to cross. 

Certain agents, particularly those working in and around the Emperor's 
fortress world of Byss, are hidden from the public and the vast majority of 
Imperial officials. Unlike with the Emperor's Hand or Inquisitors, rumors 
of these agents are mercilessly squashed, and those who discover them 
are hunted without end. 


EMPEROR'S HAND 
Every Emperor's Hand is a highly specialized individual, selected by the 
Emperor for ability with the Force and loyalty to Palpatine. Very few Imperial 
officers or officials dare refuse to help when an Emperor's Hand appears 
in their midst. Many don't believe they exist, until confronted with an 
authorization code that demands any and all aid, as if the Emperor himself 
is requesting it. And in many ways, he is. Each Emperor's Hand believes that 
he or she is the only one, a belief bestowed by the Emperor and encouraged 
by Darth Vader and the rest of Palpatine’s inner circle. Although no “stan- 
dard” Emperor's Hand exists, many of the individuals share similar basic 
abilities. Below is a prototypical Emperor's Hand, ready to be adapted for 
the Gamemaster’s campaign. 
Emperor's Hand CL 15 
Medium Human scout 5/scoundrel 5/Force adept 5 
Force 6; Dark Side 12 
Init +15; Senses Perception +13 
Languages Basic ; 
Defenses Ref 32 (flat-footed 28), Fort 19, Will 22; Dodge, Mobility 
hp 112; Threshold 19 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +12 (2d8+8) or 
Melee lightsaber +7 (2d8+8) and 

lightsaber +7 (2d8+8) with Double Attack or 
Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+8) 
Ranged heavy blaster pistol +12 (3d8+7) 
Base Atk +9; Grp +12 
Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers), Point Blank Shot, Running 

Attack, Skirmisher 
Special Actions Force Focus, Shake It Off, Telekinetic Savant 


Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): Force disarrn, Force thrust, 
move object, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move Liaht Object 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Talents Force Focus, Force Recovery, Force Talisman, Greater Force 
Talisman, Power of the Dark Side, Skirmisher, Surefooted, Swift Power, 
Telekinetic Savant 

Feats Dodge, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(2), Martial Arts I", Mobility, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Shake 
It Off, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Finesse (lightsaber), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +15, Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, Mechanics +13", 
Perception +13, Pilot +15, Stealth +15, Use the Force +15 

Possessions lightsaber, encrypted comlink with holo capability, credit 
chip, heavy blaster pistol, Greater Force Talisman (+1 all defenses) 

H Human bonus feat or trained skilf 


IMPERIAL DUNGEONEER 

The Imperial dungeoneer is among the newest of the Empire's armored sol- 
diers. As the Empire grows, so does the resolve and strength of its enemies. 
Some of the most powerful beings in the galaxy oppose the Emperor, such 
as the remaining Jedi, other Force-using splinter groups, dedicated warriors, 
and even influential political figures. As such, heavily fortified prisons are 
being established in isolated regions of the Empire to hold these dangerous 
individuals. The existence and location of a few prisons are public knowledge. 
However, the ultrahigh-security prisons and many slave labor carnips are 
closely kept secrets, far away from the prying eyes of the Imperial Senate 
and answerable only to the Emperor. Known prisons are nominally under the 


control of Imperial Intelligence. Control of slave labor camps varies, and only 
the most secret ones use dungeoneers. 

Such facilities require specialized, well-trained, and loyal guards able to 
fight exterior threats as well as keeping the prisoners from escaping. The 
Imperial dungeoneers are trained specifically for this purpose, Some dun- 
geoneers are recruited from the military, but most are clones. They are barely 
seen outside their prisons, and only on those rare occasions when they must 
take custody of a dangerous prisoner onsite. Dungeancers are trained to use 
light and heavy armor customized to their task. When using heavy armor they 
are actually locked in, with the electronic keys held elsewhere, to prevent 


prisoners from taking and using their armor in an escape attempt. 


Imperial Dungeoneer CL5 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 4 

Force 3; Dark Side 8 

Init +6; Senses Perception +10 


Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 18, Will 14 

hp 39; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d6+5) or 

Melee neuronic whip +11 (2d8+5 stun) or 

Melee vibroblade +11 (2d6+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged stun grenade +9 (4d6+2, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options Crush, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Trip (with neuronic whip) 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 12, Can 12, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Talents Armored Defense, Second Skin 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy}, Crush, Exotic Weapon 
Proficiency (neuronic whip), Martial Arts I, Pin, Point Blank Shot, 
Weapon Proficiency {rifles, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +10, Persuasion +6 

Possessions blast helmet and vest (+2 armor bonus), blaster pistol, stun 
grenade, vibroblade, neuronic whip, comlink, binder cuffs 


When using heavy dungeoneer armor (heavy battle armor with helmet 
package: +10 armor bonus, +2 equipment bonus, +2 bonus on Perception 
checks, low-light vision, with built in comlink, audio and video recorders}, 
the Imperial dungeoneer has the following altered statistics. 


Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 
Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 20, Will 14 
Speed 4 squares 


IMPERIAL INTELLIGENCE AGENT 

Imperial Intelligence agents are highly specialized operatives, often oper- 
ating deep undercover in organizations, governments, and corporations 
across the galaxy. Unlike their ISB counterparts, Imperial Intelligence 
agents strive to provide objective reports, without undue focus on politi- 
cal concerns. They take their secrecy very seriously and rarely identify 
themselves as agents to anyone outside Imperial Intelligence, unless the 
situation absolutely warrants such disclosure. Intelligence agents are 
highly trained for their roles. Although all agents receive ample training 
on surveillance and analysis techniques, they often also train to best fit 
in with their cover stories. This could require them to learn skills outside 
their normal areas of expertise. Although the agent presented below is 


x BSsLavHo 


BHlIawe) AIAL 


aa 


BSIAIwes Ssh4 


HSaLavHo 


= 


appropriate for a variety of missions, the Gamemaster is encouraged 
to create other kinds of agents, utilizing standard classes and prestige 
classes appropriate to an individual's cover story. 
Imperial Intelligence Agent CL5 
Medium Human nonheroic 4/scout 4 

Force 1; Dark Side 2 

Init +5; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Bocce, High Galactic 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15}, Fort 18, Will 15 
hp 44; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Running Attack 
Special Actions Shake It Off 


Imperial Inquisitor CL 13 

Medium Human Jedi 3/scout 4/noble 2/Force adept 4 

Force 6; Dark Side 14 

Init +12; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 25), Fort 25, Will 29; Dodge, Mobility 

hp 84; Threshold 30 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+6) or 

Melee lightsaber +9 (3d8+6) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+6) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +11 

Atk Options Rapid Strike 

Speciai Actions Equilibrium, Force Focus, Force Haze, Presence 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13): battle strike, Force grip, mind 
trick, move object, rebuke (2) 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force, Improved Sense Surroundings 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Talents Acute Senses, Improved Stealth 

Feats Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus (Gather 
Information), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Stealth), Skill 
Training (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Gather Information +15, Perception +10 {can reroll, 
must take second result), Persuasion +15, Stealth +10 (can reroll, must 
take second result), Use Computer +11 

Possessions datapad, comlink, credit chip, blaster pistol 


IMPERIAL INQUISITOR 

Imperial Inquisitors vary greatly in ability and focus, usually as a result of 
the source and extent of their Force training. Although powerful and higher- 
ranking Inquisitors might receive some modicum of training from Jedi or other 
Force-users, many of the lesser Inquisitors focus their attention on skills and 
powers related to interrogation techniques. The inquisitor presented here 
is typical of this type. 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Equilidrium, Evasion, Force Focus, Force Haze, Force Interrogation, 
Inquisition, Presence 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved Defenses, 
Improved Damage Threshold, Linguist, Mobility, Rapid Strike, Skill 
Training (Persuasion), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +12, Perception +13, 
Persuasion +13, Use the Force +13 

Possessions lightsaber, comlink, blaster pistol, datapad, credit chip 


IMPERIAL SENTINEL 

Imperial Sentinels are among the most mysterious of the Emperor's agents. 
To date, only a handful of these mute, armored giants have briefly appeared 
in public, usually to take custody of particular prisoners (often Jedi) while 
in transit to Imperial Center or secret locations. Some speculate that the 
sentinels are droids or an alien species, though the latter theory is discounted 
given the Empire's new antialien agenda. The truth is far darker than any 
people suspect. The Sentinels are an early experiment of the Emperor and 
his inner circle of dark side users to develop a class of beings completely 
subservient to their will. Using hidden cloning facilities on Byss, they corrupt 
a clone’s development physically and through the dark side of the Force, 
creating a huge, strong, but nearly mindless individual completely subservi- 
ent to its masters. Since they are in the early stages of development, it is 
rare for Sentinels to be seen outside of Byss. However, they are occasionally 
brought forth to take custody of Force-using prisoners or for limited field- 
testing. The inner circle estimates it will be decades before control of the 
Sentinels will be fine-tuned enough for their widespread use, appropriately 


about the time the other denizens of Byss are expected to be ready for their 
galactic deployment. 


Imperial Sentinel CL 3 

Large modified Human nonheroic 6 

Dark Side 6 

Init +12; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic : - 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 17), Fort 17, Will 9 (14 against Use the Force 
checks) 

hp 39; Threshold 22 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d8+5) or 

Melee vibro-ax +8 (2410410) 

Ranged by weapon +7 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +4; Grp +14 

Special Actions Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 18, Con 18, Int 6, Wis 6, Cha 4 

Special Qualities Force resistance 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Defenses, Martial Arts 
|, Point Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +6 

Possessions battle armor, vibro-ax 

Force Resistance—+5 species bonus to Will Defense against any Use the 
Farce check. 


NOGHRI WARRIORS AND 
ASSASSINS 

Early in the Dark Times, Lord Vader became aware of the decimated planet 
of Honoghr and its tough, gray-skinned sentient species, the Noghri. Under 
the guise of providing Imperial aid to restore Honoghr to its former glory, 
Vader was successful in indebting the Noghri clans to himself and the Empire. 
At his disposal is an elite force of Noghri warriors, skilled infiltrators and 
deadly assassins. They serve Vader willingly in repayment for his effort to 
save their world. In reality, the Noghri are dependent on the Empire for their 
very existence. 

The Noghri are small and fearsome. They prefer to use primitive weapons 
and hand-to-hand combat. They operate in near total secrecy. They are off- 
world only when carrying out missions for Darth Vader, at which time Vader's 
agents always accompany them to facilitate travel and mission logistics and 
ensure their secrecy. Noghri are fierce and dedicated fighters, with little under- 
standing of humor even in their most relaxed moments. When operating on a 
mission, they are completely consumed by the task until its completion, 


Noghri Warrior CL6 
Small Noghri scout 3/soldier 3 

Force 5; Dark Side 3 

Init +11; Senses scent; Perception +9 

Languages Honoghran 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 18), Fort 20, Will 17; Dodge, Mobility 
hp 56; Threshold 20 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d6+5) or 

Melee knife +5 (1d4+5) 

Ranged Stokhli spray stick +7 (34843 stun) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (rifles), Melee Smash, Running Attack 
Special Actions Shake It Off 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Devastating Attack (rifles), Improved Stealth, Hidden Movement, 
Melee Smash 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Exotic Weapon Proficiency (spray 
stick), Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Mobility, Running Attack, Shake It 
Off, Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +9, Endurance +9, Initiative +11, Perception +9, Stealth +11 
(can reroll, must take second result) 

Possessions Stokhli spray stick, knife, primitive clothing 


aMiawa HL 


miimaeekaenm@Gee fee a kx lUlUlUt#M 


< BSalavHoS 


BHiewse FAA 


Noghri Infiltrator CL 11 
Small Noghri scout 3/soldier 4/infiltrator 4 

Force 5; Dark Side 8 

Init +13; Senses scent; Perception +16 


Languages Honoghran 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 25), Fort 24, Will 24; Dodge, Mobility 
hp 84; Threshold 24 


Speed 4 squares 
Melee combat gloves +11 (1d6+9) or 
Melee combat gloves +6 (1d6+9) and 
combat gloves +6 (1d6+9) with Double Attack or 
Melee combat gloves +11 (2d6+9 stun) with unarmed stun or 
Melee knife +11 (1d4+8) 
Ranged Stokhli spray stick +12 (3d8+5 stun) 
Base Atk +9; Grp +12 
Atk Options Concealed Weapon Expert, Devastating Attack (rifles), 
Double Attack {simple weapons), Melee Smash, Running Attack 
Special Actions Shake It Off, Silent Takedown, unarmed stun 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 17, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Special Qualities lead infiltrator, unarmed stun (+1 die) 

Talents Concealed Weapon Expert, Devastating Attack (rifles), Improved 
Stealth, Hidden Movement, Melee Smash, Silent Takedown 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Double Attack (simple weapons), 
Exotic Weapon Proficiency (spray stick), Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, 
Mobility, Running Attack, Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Perception), 
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +12, Endurance +11, Initiative +13, Perception +16, Stealth 
+13 (can reroll, must take second result) 

Possessions combat gloves, Stokhli spray stick, knife, primitive clothing 


IMPERIAL 
PERSONALITIES 


Using well-known characters from the Star Wars movies and Expanded 
Universe in your game provides players with an opportunity to interact with 
their favorite heroes or villains. However, since these characters generally 
cannot be allowed to suffer undue effects, such as harm or death, you should 
control exactly how much interaction is allowed. 

Offscreen Adversary or Leader: Using this approach, the named 
character is never directly in contact with the player characters. All 
assignments, news, materials, and contacts are carried out through 
intermediaries such as important staffers, underlings, electronic mes- 
sages, and so forth. You might want to create a character of your own to 
act as the intermediary. This approach is especially useful when a high- 
ranking official, such as an Imperial Senator, is serving as the group's 


patron. Perhaps as the characters become more powerful or complete 
a vital mission, they are rewarded with a face-to-face encounter with 
their powerful ally. 

Climactic Encounter: The named character remains offscreen until 
the final episode or encounter of the campaign. The story, or the named 
character's history, might limit the character's actions, but since plenty of 
history goes unrecorded, the Gamemaster is allowed some leeway when using 
this approach. If the character is an enemy, be sure to stage the encounter 
to allow for escape or overwhelming backup to keep the character alive in 
the face of enthusiastic and creative players. 

Regular Interaction: This approach works best when used with allied 
named characters who personally dole out assignments. Enemies might 
be a constant annoyance or danger—such as the ISB agent who always 
seems to be around at the most inopportune moments. You can also 
create scenes using both named enemies and allies. For example, if the 
characters work for Mon Mothma, they might witness direct confronta- 
tions between her and ISB Agent Wullf Yularen, who could, in turn, be 
interested in what the characters are up to. Although Yularen might not 
investigate personally, he could appear in a final scene to oversee a trap 
or an unusual situation. 


DARTH VADER'S SECRET 
APPRENTICE 

The Sith Rule of Two was created by Darth Bane to keep the Sith from 
destroying themselves as they had done in the past. Darth Vader, however, 
disregarded this rule when he began training his own apprentice to fight 
the Emperor. Taken as a boy from the planet Kashyyyk where his father, a 
Jedi on the run, had been hiding him, this apprentice (who would go by the 
callsign “Starkiller”) was raised to use the power of the dark side from an 
early age. By the time he reached adulthood, Vader's apprentice was among 
the most powerful Force-users in the galaxy thanks to the tutelage of his 
Sith Master. Vader kept this apprentice secret from the Emperor, hoping to 
use the boy when the time was right to overthrow Darth Sidious, just as he 
would attempt to convince Luke Skywalker to do. 

Vader's apprentice was both strong in the Force and incredibly aggres- 
sive. As a teenager, the apprentice was already more powerful than many 
Jedi Knights had been during the Clone Wars, and it was only Darth Vader's 
incredible power and skill that allowed him to defeat the boy in combat. 
Vader's apprentice underwent a grueling training program from the time 
he was a young boy, and eventually he was sent on a number of incredibly 
dangerous assignments, including several missions to exterminate exiled 
Jedi Knights. Operating in secret, Vader's apprentice hunted down and killed 
Jedi Masters such as Kazdan Paratus and Shaak Ti, and nearly destroyed Jedi 
Master Rahm Kota as well. 


It would later be Master Kota and a young Imperial pilot named Juno 
Eclipse who would bring Vader's apprentice back from the brink of being 
lost to the dark side forever. Vader commanded his apprentice to rally the 
enemies of the Empire, including Bail Organa, Mon Mothma, and General 
Garm Bel Iblis, to form a coalition against the Empire. At the moment when 
he had finally gathered them ail together, the apprentice found Darth Vader 
waiting to spring the trap. Eventually, Vader's apprentice would turn on both 
him and the Emperor, rescuing the captive leaders from the Death Star and 
fighting off the two Sith Lords with the help of Master Kota. 


Darth Vader's Secret Apprentice 

(as of the Battle of Caltos) 

Medium human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 3/Sith apprentice 3/Sith Lord 1 

Destiny 3; Force 6; Dark Side 15 

Init +13; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 26), Fort 27, Willi 28; Block, Deflect 

hp 118; Threshold 27 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+15) or 

Melee lightsaber +16 (3d8+15) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +20 (3d8+22) with Rapid Strike and Powerful Charge 

Base Atk +14; Grp +17 

Atk Options Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Juyo, Redirect Shot, Soresu, Telekinetic Savant, 
temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): corruption, Force grip, Force 
lightning (2), Force slam, Force thrust, mind trick, move object (3), 
repulse, surge 

Force Techniques Improved Force Thrust, Improved Repulse 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 15, Cha 16 

Special Qualities fearless, temptation 

Talents Block, Dark Side Adept, Deflect, Juyo, Redirect Shot, Soresu, 
Telekinetic Prodigy, Telekinetic Savant, Weapon Specialization 
(lightsabers) 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike, 
Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the Force, Unleashed, Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Initiative +13, Use the Force +20 

Possessions lightsaber, dark clothing, comlink 


CL 14 


CAPTAIN JAN DODONNA 

During the Clone Wars, Captain Dodonna was one of the Republic Navy's 
finest Star Destroyer captains. His new, effective tactics, created with 
longtime friend Adar Tallon, had a far-reaching effect on Republic warfare 
and, later, Imperial naval forces. 

Dodonna has great misgivings about the new Empire. He resents the 
fact that his tactics and methods are being used for totalitarian purposes. 
He has retired from military service to his own moon, Brelor of the planet 
Commenor, courtesy of the Empire. Though he refuses to publicly criticize 
the new government, his friends belteve it is only a matter of time before the 
Empire decides he is too old and too resistant to its methods of persuasion 
and retraining. 


=) 


9 
I 
> 
v 
lal 
1] 
a 


BSlewe) sb 


x HSieVHD 


BoHigwea ark 


Jan Dodonna CcL8 
Medium Human noble 5/soldier 2/officer 1 

Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 3 

Init +9; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothan, Cerean, Durese, High Galactic, Mon 


Calamarian, Sullustese 


Juno Eclipse (as of the Battle of Callos) cL 11 
Medium human soldier 6/noble 1/ace pilot 3/officer 1 

Force 3; Dark Side 4 

Init +14; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary (can't speak), Bocce, Huttese, Rodese, 


Shyriiwook 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 19), Fort 20, Will 22 
hp 48; Threshold 20 


Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 25), Fort 23, Will 27 
hp 81; Threshold 23 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +6 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinate +1, Coordinated 
Attack, Deployment Tactics, Inspire Confidence 


Speed 6 squares 

Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +13 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Cover Fire, Expert Gunner, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Quick Trigger 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Commanding Presence, 
Inspire Confidence 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 15 

Talents Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinate, Deployment Tactics, 
Inspire Confidence 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Linguist, Point 
Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[technology]), Skill Training (Mechanics), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +12, Knowledge (physical sciences) +12, Knowledge (tactics) 
+17, Knowledge (technology) +17, Mechanics +12, Perception +11, 
Persuasion +9, Pilot +9, Use Computer +12 

Possessions Imperial uniform, code cylinder, comlink, blaster pistol 


CAPTAIN JUNO ECLIPSE 

Agifted pilot and skilled mechanic, Captain Juno Eclipse is a multitalented 
Imperial officer whose skills in a cockpit earned her the leadership of Darth 
Vader's Black Eight Squadron. A model officer from Corulag, Captain Eclipse 
was the youngest student ever to be accepted into the Imperial Academy, 
where she excelled in a number of fields. Captain Eclipse led Black Eight 
Squadron for several years, with her service culminating at the Battle of 
Callos, where she and her squadronmates destroyed the planet under orders 
from Darth Vader himself. 

Following her time in Black Eight Squadron, Captain Eclipse was trans- 
ferred to serve as the personal shuttle pilot of Darth Vader's secret apprentice. 
Charged with piloting and maintaining the Rogue Shadow, Captain Eclipse 
served with distinction and struck up a relationship with Vader's apprentice 
that would eventually lead to their working together against the Empire. 
Captain Eclipse was tortured aboard the Empirical, a secret research station 
in the Dominus system, and was branded a traitor to the Empire for aiding 
Vader's apprentice and piloting his ship. 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 18, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Special Qualities vehicle dodge +1 

Talents Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Commanding Presence, Cover 
Fire, Expert Gunner, Inspire Confidence, Quick Trigger 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Careful Shot, Linguist, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Pilot), Skill Focus (Use Computer], 
Skill Training (Knowledge [life sciences]), Skill Training (Persuasion), 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +14, Knowledge (life sciences) +12, Knowledge (tactics) 
+12, Mechanics +12, Persuasion +12, Pilot +19, Perception +12, Use 
Computer +17 

Possessions blaster pistol, Imperial officer's uniform, code cylinder, 
comlink, datapad, toolkit 


ARMAND ISARD 

Armand Isard is the current Director of Imperial Intelligence. An ambitious 
man, he began his career in the Senate Bureau of Intelligence. With the 
Republic declining rapidly, Isard helped orchestrate the creation of Imperial 
Intelligence and became its first publicly known director. It is unknown how 
his relationship works with the members of the otherwise secretive Ubiqtor- 
ate—if he commands them, or they oversee him. Isard has been known to alert 
Inquisitor Tremayne about suitable targets and prisoners for interrogation. 
Armand Isard CL6 
Medium Human noble 5/scout 1 

Force 2; Dark Side 5 

Init +9; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Cerean, Durese, High Galactic, Huttese, Mon Calamarian 
Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 19), Fort 18, Will 21 

hp 37; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 
Special Actions Inspire Confidence 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Talents Acute Senses, Connections, Educated, Inspire Confidence 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses, Linguist, Melee 
Defense, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Training (Stealth), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Gather Information +11, Initiative +9, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +10, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +10, Perception +10 (can reroll, must take second result), 
Persuasion +11, Stealth +9, Use Computer +10 

Possessions Imperial uniform, datapad, code cylinder, comlink, credit chip, 
blaster pistol 


COMMANDER CRIX MADINE 
Commander Crix Madine is a young, confident officer of the Imperial Army. 
He is experienced beyond his years, due to his active development of Imperial 
special forces. Madine’s current assignment is to develop new, elite com- 
mando units within the stormtrooper corps. Many think him arrogant, but 
all acknowledge his effectiveness and loyalty. He appears to be on the fast 
track for promotion and influential assignments. 


Crix Madine CL8 

Medium Human scout 3/soldier 4/officer 1 

Destiny 1; Force 1; Dark Side 1 

Init +6; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Bothese, Ithorese _ 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 21, Will 25 

hp 68; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+5) or 

Melee vibroblade +8 (2d6+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Indomitable, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 11 

Talents Acute Senses, Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Improved Stealth, 
Indomitable 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Focus (Survival), Weapon 


CRIxX MADINE 


Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +10, Knowledge (tactics) +11, Mechanics +11, Perception 
+12 (can reroll, must take second result), Pilot +11, Stealth +16 (can 
reroll, must take second result), Survival +12, Swim +10 

Possessions Imperia! uniform, comlink, code cylinder, datapad, blaster 
pistol, survival kit, vibroblade 


CAPTAIN GILAD PELLAEON 

Gilad Pellaeon is a dedicated soldier of the Empire and a former captain in 
the Republic Navy during the Clone Wars, a young naval officer of great 
integrity and military prowess. He was so enthusiastic about joining the old 
Republic armed forces that he lied about his age to enter the prestigious 
Raithal Academy. After graduating with honors, he went on to receive 
commendations for fighting pirates, eventually taking part in the ongoing 
sweep against pirate activity throughout the galaxy. Pellaeon is known as a 


x HBiavHo 


SMIAWSE SH, 


SRNAIWNE SoH, | 


loyal and competent officer. In fact, he embodies the ideal Imperial officer. 
He is professional, well trained, and above the corruption, arrogance, and 
rampant ambition common among too many Imperial commanders. Pellaeon 
will have a long and eventful career spanning five decades. 


Gilad Pellaeon CL6 
Medium Human noble 3/soldier 3 

Destiny 1; Force 2; Dark Side 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, High Galactic 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 18, Will 21 
hp 42; Threshold 18 


xX BSiavHoa 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Coordinate +1, Coordinated Attack, Inspire Confidence 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Talents Armored Defense, Coordinate, Inspire Confidence, Penetrating 
Attack (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Coordinated Attack, Point 
Blank Shot, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, 
pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +10, Initiative +9, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +9, 
Knowledge (tactics) +9, Perception +11, Persuasion +10, Pilot +9, Use 
Computer +9 

Possessions Imperial uniform, comlink, code cylinder, blaster pistol 


CAPTAIN OZZ!IK STURN 

A cruel and dangerous Imperial officer, Ozzik Sturn believes himself to be an 
incredibly savvy big game hunter. Captain Sturn was assigned to oversee the 
population of Kashyyyk and the construction of skyhooks and other facilities 
that make it easier to transport Wookiee slaves offworld. Captain Sturn is a 
violent and sadistic officer who has thrived within the Empire thanks to his 
ruthlessness, and he seems to enjoy subjugating the population of Kashyyyk. 
In fact, Captain Sturn actually wears a sash made of Wookiee pelts across 
his chest, which serves to remind the natives of what happens when you 
rebel against the Empire. 


Captain Ozzik Sturn CL 12 
Medium human noble 8/officer 4 

Force 2: Dark Side 10 

Init +13; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Bocce, High Galactic, Huttese, Ryl, Shyriiwook 


Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 25), Fort 25, Will 27 
hp 58; Threshold 25 


Speed 6 squares 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (3d8+6) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +7 (3d8+6) with autofire or 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+6) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Cunning Attack, Far Shot, Point Blank 
Shot, Strafe 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, autofire (blaster rifle), Bolster Ally, Born 
Leader, Inspire Confidence, Shift Defense | 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Assault Tactics, Shift 
Defense |) 

Talents Assault Tactics, Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Distant Command, 
Inspire Confidence, Shift Defense | 

Feats Cunning Attack, Far Shot, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank 
Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill 
Focus (Persuasion), Strafe, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons, rifles) 

Skills Deception +14, Initiative +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, 
Knowledge (life sciences) +13, Knowledge (tactics) +18, Perception 
+16, Persuasion +18, Pilot +13, Ride +13 

Possessions blaster pistol, blaster rifle, Imperial officer's uniform, code 
cylinder, comlink, datapad, Wookiee-hide sash, various personal effects 


GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN 
Grand Moff WilhuffTarkin is easily the Empire's second greatest architect and 
visionary, after the Emperor himself. For many years, he has supplied scholarly 
arguments for many of the Chancellor's, and subsequently the Emperor's, 
moves to consolidate power and wield it effectively across the galaxy. This 
reason, among many, allowed Tarkin to advance quickly in the eyes of the 
Emperor to become the first Moff after the establishment of the Empire. 

As Moff, he oversaw his home sector of Seswenna, as well as portions of 
the Outer Rim territories. From the beginning, he also spearheaded the Death 
Star project, working with the newly revealed Lord Vader to secure hundreds 
of thousands of Wookiee slaves, He reports directly to the Emperor and is 
one of the most well-informed officials in the Empire. However, it is unclear 
if Tarkin suspects the extent of the Emperor's dark side knowledge, or if he 
considers such power to be the province of Darth Vader only. 


WILHUFPF TARKIN 


Recently, the Emperor promoted Tarkin to the rank of Grand Moff, the 
first use of the title. This event marked the Emperor's full acceptance of the 
Tarkin Doctrine. As such, Tarkin has taken command of Oversector Outer, to 
tighten control of the Outer Rim territories, as well as continuing his other 
command duties. 

Tarkin is distinctive in appearance and commands a room in a way that 
no other Imperial military officer is capable of. It is significant that even Lord 
Vader must follow Tarkin’s lead in most instances, a privilege not afforded to 
many Imperial commanders. Since Tarkin is entrusted with the construction 
of the Death Star, he naturally pursues any security threat to the project. 
He works to keep all knowledge of the Death Star hidden from the Imperial 
Senate and the general public. He is adept at covering his tracks and willing 
to go to any lengths to protect the project and the Empire itself. 


Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin 

Medium Human noble 7/soldier 1/officer 1 

Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 14 

Init +4; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Dosh, High Galactic, Shyriiwook, Sullustese 
Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 22), Fort 22, Will 26 

hp 49; Threshold 22 


CL 9 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d444) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +7 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinated Attack, 
Demand Surrender, Deployment Tactics, Presence 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Talents Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Demand Surrender, Deployment 
Tactics, Educated, Presence 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [oureaucracy]), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus 
(Persuasion), Skill Training (Pilot), Skill Training (Use Computer), 
Weapon Proficiency [heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +12, Gather Information +12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+16, Knowledge (galactic lore) +11, Knowledge (social sciences) +11, 
Knowledge (tactics) +11, Knowledge (technology) +11, Perception +16, 
Persuasion +17, Pitot +9, Use Computer +11 

Possessions Imperial uniform, encrypted comlink, code cylinder, blaster 
pistol 


ADMIRAL THRAWN 

During the Dark Times, the future Grand Admiral is an anomaly within the 
Imperial military. First, he is an alien Imperial officer, a type of individual that 
has become almost unheard of since the establishment of the New Order. 
Second, it is obvious that the Emperor holds him in the highest regard. 

Admiral Thrawn’s origins are unknown to his fellow officers and crew. 
They know he is a brilliant tactician and wholly objective figure. They do 
not know that he hails from the Chiss Ascendancy and was exiled from his 
own people. They also do not know that Thrawn is responsible for the disap- 
pearance of the Outbound Flight project many years ago, an event that first 
brought Thrawn to the Emperor's attention. 

In the Dark Times, the Emperor has assigned Admiral Thrawn to expand 
the borders of the Empire by bringing the remote and barbaric worlds of the 
Unknown Regions under Imperial control. With a powerful fleet, Thrawn 
operates independently, returning to known space only infrequently to 
resupply and report. 


x eSstawHa 


ABMIANS SHL 
Ge = 


Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinate, 
Deployment Tactics 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Linguist, Skill Focus 
(Gather Information), Skill Focus (Tactics}, Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +12, Gather Information +17, Initiative +11, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +12, Knowledge (tactics) +17, Perception +10, Persuasion 
+12, Pilot +11 

Possessions Imperial uniform, code cylinder, encrypted comlink, datapad, 
blaster pistol 


Criss 

The Chiss hail from the unknown regions, nearly unknown themselves in 
the galaxy at large until decades after the Dark Times. Their home region, 
known as the Chiss Ascendancy, is controlled by four ruling families in 
a highly structured and disciplined society. 


Chiss Species Traits 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence. Chiss are disciplined and 
analytical, 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Chiss have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Chiss base speed is 6 squares. 


x BSiLavHo 


Jj Bonus Trained Skill: Chiss are versatile and accomplished at many 
sls tasks. A Chiss character chooses one additional trained skill at 1st level. 
Wy) The skill must be chosen from the character's list of class skills. 
im Low~Light Vision: Chiss can see without penalty in shadowy illu- 
@ mination, ignoring concealment (but not total concealment) due to 
7) Jetealenlanhutainn cLe darkness. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under 
a Medium Chiss noble 3/soldier 4/officer 1 TIKSE conditions: f 
im Destiny 1; Force 2: Dark Side 4 Automatic Languages: Cheunh. 
Init +11; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 
' Languages Basic, Cheunh, High Galactic, Huttese, Minnisiat, Mon 
a Calamarian, Sullustese, Sy Bisti INQUISITOR TREMAYNE 
Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 21, Will 23 Inquisitor Tremayne was well on his way to joining the dark side, even as a 
hp 60; Threshold 21 Jedi Knight fighting during the Clone Wars. His fellow Jedi and Jedi Masters 
Speed 6 squares were extremely concerned by his growing fascination with the dark side. With 
Melee unarmed +8 (14445) each mission, the brutality of war twisted the otherwise cultured Tremayne 
Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+4) more and more. Before the Jedi could act, they—out not Tremayne—were 
Base Atk +7; Grp +9 eliminated by Order 66. 
Special Actions Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinate +1, Deployment Clearly, the Empire saw something in Tremayne that it could use: a Dark 
Tactics Jedi to help establish the New Order. Because Tremayne's abilities were far 


below Vader's natural talents, he would be used only to hunt down Jedi and 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 17, Wis 12, Cha 16 
Force-users across the galaxy. 


Inquisitor Tremayne is excellent at his job. He is feared and effective. 
He takes his time questioning his subjects, and his methods are painful and 
terrible. He expects that his successful operations will soon bring about his 
promotion to Grand Inquisitor. In the meantime, he hunts for his current 
number-one quarry: Jedi Master Darrin Arkanian and his new apprentice, 
Corwin Shelvay. 
Inquisitor Tremayne CL 10 
Medium Human Jedi 7/noble 1/Jedi Knight 1/Force adept 1 
Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 13 
Init +13; Senses Perception +16 
Languages Basic, Sith 
Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 22, Lightsaber Defense 26), Fort 24, Will 25; 

Block, Deflect 
hp 97; Threshold 24 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +12 (2d8+7) 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Special Actions Force Focus, Lightsaber Defense, Presence 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): battle strike, farseeing, Force 
grip, move object 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 17, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 12 

Talents Block, Deflect, Force Focus, Force Perception, Gauge Force 

Potential, Lightsaber Defense, Presence 
Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill 

Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Gather Information), Skill Training 

(Persuasion), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, 

simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Gather Information +11, Initiative +13, Knowledge 

(galactic lore) +12, Perception +16, Persuasion +16, Use the Force +16 
Possessions lightsaber, encrypted comlink, datapad, robes, biaster pistol 


LIEUTENANT 

MAXIMILIAN VEERS 

Maximilian Veers is a young lieutenant, known as a strict disciplinarian who 
has a sharp mind and a critica! tone. He is unimpressed by incompetent 
officers and crew, no matter what their rank. He is curining and extremely 
loyal to the Empire. He is particularly skillful at using armored forces, notably 
walkers of all types. His prowess would ultimately be proven in the future 
Battle of Hoth. 


Lieutenant Maximilian Veers CL5 

Medium Human noble 1/soldier 4 

Destiny 1; Force 2; Dark Side 2 

Init +8; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Cerean, Dosh, Durese, High Galactic, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 18, Will 18 

hp 35; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Born Leader 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 13, Cha 13 

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Born Leader 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Linguist, Point Blank 
Shot, Skill Training (Mechanics), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, 
pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +8, Initiative +8, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +9, 
Knowledge (tactics) +9, Mechanics +9, Perception +8, Persuasion +8, 
Pilot +8, Treat Injury +8, Use Computer +9 

Possessions blast helmet and vest (+2 armor), encrypted comlink, code 
cylinder, Imperial uniform, blaster pistol 


SPECIAL AGENT 

WULLF YULAREN 

Wullf Yularen is one of the ISB's brightest agents, destined to attain the 
rank of colonel and take the leading ISB position on the completed Death 
Star. Yularen started his Intelligence career as a field agent for the Senate 
Intelligence Bureau. Over a decade of service, Yularen investigated count- 
less cases for, against, and about the Senate. He has observed nearly all the 
major Senators at one point or another, and as such has detailed information 
about them. 

The Senate Intelligence Bureau was known as an effective but rarely 
objective service, quite willing to back up any Senator's claim with the right 
intelligence for the right amount of cash. As the Senate grew more corrupt 
in its later years, Yularen left the service. However, he was then assigned 
to an anticorruption and anti-Separatist unit under the guidance of the 
Chancellor’s office. Yularen soon came to respect the Chancellor and became 
a loyal follower and trusted agent for the Emperor's inner circle. Yularen 
joined the Republic Navy during the Clone Wars to distance himself from 
the intelligence business. 

When the intelligence services were unexpectedly reorganized into what 
would become Imperial Intelligence, Yularen found himself on the outside. 
His loyalty to the Chancellor made others view him as less objective than 


a 


Boiadwe gvA4 


BHaWwe saA4 


: | 


the new combined intelligence service aspired to be. His awkward position 
was short-lived. With the sudden establishment of the Empire, the Emperor's 
inner circle orchestrated the creation of the ISB in opposition to the newly 
renamed Imperial Intelligence. As a loyal agent, Yularen was transferred to 
the service, an unusual move that would put him at odds with his former 
superiors for the rest of his career. 

Yularen remains a loyal servant. Though he has excellent connections to 
the inner circle, he remains an outsider. His reports are accurate, if slanted 
toward an Imperial viewpoint. He often carries out high-level assignments, 
particularly those involving Imperial Senators and other influential figures. 

Yularen is in his mid-thirties and sports a thick mustache. He is originally 
from Coruscant, his influential family providing him the political backing to 
enter the Senate Intelligence Bureau in the first place. He knows the halls 
of power well, and how to use them to his advantage. His insightful and 
perceptive nature makes him an excellent observer. Few Senators or other 
officials ever want him around. Yularen continues to root out corruption and 
sedition within the newly formed Empire, leading a task force of his own for 
Special investigations, He is also involved in investigating the signatories 
of the Petition of the 2000, a group of Senators who signed a document 
calling for the Chancellor to give up his expanded powers just before the 
end of the Clone Wars. 


Special Agent Wullf Yularen CL6 

Medium Human noble 4/scout 2 

Destiny 1; Force 2; Dark Side 2 

Init +4; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, High Galactic, Huttese, Gran 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 18, Will 20 

hp 44; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Inspire Haste, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Talents Acute Senses, Educated, Inspire Haste 

Feats Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Gather 
Information), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Stealth), Weapon 
Proficiency {heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +15, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+10, Knowledge (galactic lore} +10, Knowledge (social sciences) +10, 
Perception +9 (can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +10, 
Pilot +9, Stealth +9, Use Computer +10 

Possessions Imperial uniform, encrypted comlink, credit chip, blaster 
pistol, datapad 


DROIDS 


The Empire is very cautious when it comes to droids. Not only are droids 
among the main tools of the CIS, they are easy to reprogram and turn into 
enemies or spies. Indeed, elements of the Empire use droid spies to keep 
tabs on others within the New Order. And, of course, the swing of public 
opinion against droids makes them unpopular choices with the imperial 
Senate, though that group might not have the power to influence military 
spending for much longer. 


SECOND-DEGREE 
DROIDS 


The Empire uses numerous second-degree droids, but prefers to keep them 
under Human influence. Medical droids act as assistants to living doctors, 
scientific droids are kept under the control of senior scientists and research- 
ers. Most second-degree droids in use by the New Order are bought from 
commercial suppliers, but there are a few exceptions. 


IT-O INTERROGATOR 

With much the same programming and equipment as a medical droid, an IT-O 
droid seems harmless enough in technological terms. Its sinister appearance, 
however, gives away its true function. A floating ball of black durasteel, an 
IT-O Interrogator droid bristles with instruments of torture and recording 


devices. Its claw, shock devices, and twisted versions of medical gear are 
designed to give it an aura of menace. Indeed, its reputation has spread far 
enough that many prisoners begin reciting their sins as soon as one floats 
into their cell. 

The IT-O Interrogator is the product of Imperial military research and the 
ISB, and it is manufactured solely by Imperial factories. Use of the IT-O is 
carefully controlled by the ISB, though models do get into the hands of senior 
Moffs, military intelligence, and even CompForce. The Inquisition has begun 
manufacturing the model on its own, a fact the ISB is not aware of and won't 
be pleased by. Stormtrooper garrison commanders are also known to employ 
them, though generally only under the guidance of a senior officer. 

The droid can interrogate a prisoner by itself, or in conjunction with living 
questioners. It is designed with an emotionless personality and asks questions 
in a flat monotone. When working with a living assistant, the IT-O often says 
nothing at all, allowing the prisoner to come to fear and hate the droid, while 
seeing the living interrogator as a source of potential mercy. An IT-O is well 
equipped to bring a victim to the brink of physical damage without doing 
permanent harm, though it also has medical supplies and training in case a 
session goes too far before valuable information can be obtained. 

A reprogrammed IT-O Interrogator droid can be played as a droid hero. 


IT-O Interrogator CL 1 

Small droid (2nd-degree) noble 1 

Init +8; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary, 4 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 9, Will 14 

hp 17; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares {hovering) 

Melee electroshock probe +0 (1d8 ion) 

Ranged blaster +0 (3d6) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +0; Grp -5 

Special Actions Presence 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 11, Con —, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 16 

Talents Presence 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +8, Gather Information +8, Perception +7, Persuasion 
+13, Treat Injury +7, Use Computer +8 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 5 tool appendages, 1 claw 
appendage, locked access, vocabulator 

Possessions electroshock probe, medpac, audio recording unit, video 
recording unit, blaster (treat as blaster pistol] 

Availability Military; Cost 10,000 


THIRD-DEGREE 
DROIDS 


Third-degree droids are normally employed only by the upper ranks of the 
New Order, though many individuals who see themselves as the upper ranks 
(such as Imperial Senators and mid-ranking members of COMPNOR) acquire 
such droids as status symbols long before they have any real need of them. 
The Empire is happy to allow senior officers and officials to buy whatever 
third-degree droids they want, but it also holds them accountable for the 
actions of such droids. If a protocol droid manages to interrupt battle com- 
mands or accidentally allows spies access to classified material, its owner is 
held accountable as if he had taken such actions directly. As a result, many 
Imperial commanders use Humans for most diplomatic functions, or they 
keep numerous third-degree droids that are regularly memory-wiped back 
to factory presets. 


RA-7 PROTOCOL DROID 

The RA-7 series of protocol droids is clearly an attempt by Arakyd Indus- 
tries to duplicate most of the abilities of the 3PO series of protocol droids, 
and in most respects it fails. The droid is very similar in appearance to the 
3POQ, except for its bug-eyed head and stiffer gait. It is not as able as a 3PO 
unit, however, and in an effort to avoid the overly delicate personality of 
3PO-series droids, the RA-7 was programmed to be “stern.” In truth, the 
personalities of these droids tend to fall somewhere between taciturn and 
vindictive. Almost no one would willingly buy an RA-7 as an assistant—which 
is why the ISB gives them away as gifts. 

In fact, the RA-7 series is a plot by the ISB to keep tabs on everyone of 
questionable loyalty throughout the Empire. Though their numbers are only 
now starting to be large enough to be of real value, RA-7s are programmed 
to report on their owner's subversive or questionable activities by way of 
secret, concealed comlinks. Most RA-7s also have recording devices hidden 
within them, allowing them to gather hard evidence of their masters’ failings 
and crimes. (The recorders are concealed, requiring a DC 30 Perception check 
to find.) The ISB hands them out mostly to mid-level officers and officials, 
generally right after a promotion. Many recipients see these gifts as a sign 
of rising station and influence, but a few have begun to realize that the ISB 
does nothing without a secondary purpose. Many officers “lose” their RA-7 
droids in short order, or send them into dangerous situations from which 
they never return. 

An RA-7 series protocol droid can be played as a droid hero. 


xX HSidvHD 


Boliewa sAL 


0 
pe 
> 
a] 
j4 
{0 
{0 
X 


2BQIawse SAL 


RA-7 Protocol Droid cL 1 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +1; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 12 

hp 2; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (1d3-1) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +0; Grp +1 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 13, Con —, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 9 

Feats Skil! Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Deception), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [bureaucracy]}, Skill Training (Use Computer) 

Skills Deception +4, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Perception +14, Use 
Computer +6 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, improved sensor package, 
darkvision, transjator unit (DC 15), 2 hand appendages, compartment 
space (2 kg}, internal comlink, locked access, vocabulator 

Possessions audio recorder, video recorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 3,000 


FOURTH-DEGREE 
DROIDS 


The Empire employs very few fourth-degree droids, for a variety of reasons, 
but does not rule them out for tasks they are particularly suited for. Though 
Imperial troops cover most combat roles adequately, the New Order turns 
to military droids for specific missions whenever they are obviously the 
best choice. Most such missions are intelligence-gathering, such as those 
undertaken by Arakyd Viper probe droids. 


 PROxY 


The droid known as PROXY is a one-of-a kind creation designed to test Darth 
Vader's secret apprentice at all times. Though the droid is loyal to the appren- 
tice, its programming requires it to attempt to kill the apprentice. PROXY is a 
combat droid outfitted with numerous advanced holographic projectors that 
can produce near-perfect images around its body. PROXY contains detailed 
files on a number of Jedi Knights and Sith Lords, and also has access to top 
secret Imperial data files. As a result, PROXY can mimic the appearance and 
fighting style of a number of historic figures, which it uses to ambush the 
apprentice on a regular basis. Though dueling with the apprentice regularly 
damages and disables PROXY, the droid excels at repairing itself and can 
recover from grievous damage in a matter of hours. 


PROXKY 


PROXY CL 13 

Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 1/Jedi 9/independent droid 3 

Force 2 

Init +14; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27, Lightsaber Defense 33), Fort 29, Will 27 

hp 89; Threshold 29 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+16) or 

Melee lightsaber +17 (3d8+16) with Mighty Swing or 

Melee lightsaber +15 (3d8+16) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +19 (3d8+22) with Powerful Charge and Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +12; Grp +16 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Mighty Swing, Powerful Charge, Rapid 
Strike, Targeting Package 

Special Actions independent spirit +1, Indomitable, Lightsaber Defense 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 16, Con —, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities independent spirit +1, sapience 

Talents Indomitable, Lightsaber Defense (3), Modification Specialist, 
Repair Self, Targeting Package, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Martial Arts 
|, Martial Arts li, Mighty Swing, Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike, Skill 
Training (Acrobatics), Weapon Focus {lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Initiative +14, Jump +15, Mechanics +12, Use 
Computer +12 

Systems heuristic processor, holographic projectors, walking locomotion 

Possessions lightsaber, double-bladed lightsaber 


R-1 RECON DORGID 
Although the Empire doesn't trust droids to serve as combatants, it does 
employ military droids in combat roles as scouts and forward observers. 
One the earliest of these is the R-1, built by Arakyd Industries and based on 
designs originally developed by the Sith. A small floating droid, the R-1 lacks 
tools or hands, but it can move through openings that most of its potential 
targets can’t. Combined with its integral blaster, this allows the R-1 to track 
most prey with ease, and occasionally even take out a foe itself. 

The R-1 is popular with snipers, planetary garrisons, and shock troops. 
It has a limited broadcast range (a single planet), but can be used to scout 
areas without risking a living observer, spot targets for long-range sniper 
fire or starship bombardment, seek out wanted criminals, or follow suspects 
back to a base of operations. Though the Empire officially does not sanction 
sales of the R-1 to anyone else, many do find their way into the hands of 
bounty hunters and other independent operators. 


R-1 recon droids can be played as droid heroes. 


R-1 Recon Droid 

Small droid (4th-degree) scout 1 

Init +8; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +9 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 11, Will 13 

hp 24; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Ranged blaster +4 (3d6) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +0; Grp -2 

Special Actions self-destruct (+5 area attack, 4d6, 2-square burst) 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 11 

Talents Acute Senses 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Endurance +5, Initiative +8, Perception +9 (can reroll, must take 
second result), Stealth +8, Use Computer +6 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, improved sensor package, 
darkvision, self-destruct system (4d6), locked access, integrated 
comlink 

Possessions sensor unit, video recording unit, blaster (treat as blaster 
pistol) 

Availability Restricted; Cost 16,000 


FirFTH-DEGREE 
DROIDS 


The Empire uses labor droids no less than any other large organization, but 
few are custom-built for the New Order. In most cases a Moff or admiras buys 
any required labor droids to serve specific roles within his command. Often 
the purchases are from local manufacturers, who happily pay a finder’s fee 
to the commander in return for military contracts. As long as the budget 
doesn’t get out of hand, and the needed work gets done, no one in the Empire 
pays any attention to these practices. 


MSE-& REPAIR DROID 

The MSE-6, or “mouse droid,” is a wheeled droid used for basic tasks such 
as maintenance of a single mechanical system, message delivery, cleaning, 
and even testing dangerous areas of a damaged starship or station to make 
sure it is Safe for living creatures [and more expensive droids). The MSE-6 
is the result of a long line of small, dedicated, cheap droids used by the Old 
Republic and other governments. The MSE-6, however, is almost exclusively in 


LAdwHo 


< 


BSIgwe FaHL 


@ 


< HStdovHoD 


4 
x 
i 
n 
8 
v 
50 
a 


use by the Empire, which bought nearly the whole run (at a steep discount). 
The droids are used for Imperial installations that have high crew require- 
ments, such as Star Destroyers, to cut down on the need for larger droids 
and Human work crews as much as possible. 

An MSE-6 is generally given a single specific task and the needed gear 
to accomplish it (generally small tools it can keep in its interior storage 


MSE-6 Repair Droid CLO 
Tiny droid (5th-degree) nonheroic 2 
Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +3 


Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 8, Will 8 

hp 6; Threshold 8 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (wheeled) 

Melee claw +1 (1d2-2) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 0 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp -7 

Abilities Str 6, Dex 14, Con —, Int 15, Wis 7, Cha 7 

Feats Skill Focus [Mechanics], Skill Focus (Use Computer], Skill Training 
(Perception), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +3, Pilot +8, Stealth +6, Use 
Computer +13 

Systems wheeled locomotion, basic processor, 2 claw appendages, 
darkvision, internal storage (1 kg}, improved sensor package 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,000 


space). Though an MSE-6 looks like a small black box on wheels, it has 
two folding arms it can use for basic tasks. Although they are dedicated 
and loyal, MSE-6 droids suffer from an overdeveloped threat assessment 
program. They are skittish, and they frequently flee from anything new or 
frightening. Any time an MSE-6 moves -1 step along its condition track as 
the result of an ability that targeted its Will Defense, the droid immediately 
flees for 1d6 minutes. 
MSE-6 repair droids may not be played as droid heroes. 


WEAPONS 


The following weapons are part of the Imperial arsenal during the Dark 
Times. Many of them might make their way into the hands of the heroes (or 
even other villains). 


CR-1 BLAST CANNON 

Exotic Weapon 

Designed by Golan Arms under exclusive contract with the Galactic Republic, 
and then the Empire, the CR-1 blast cannon fires a burst of blaster bolts, 
each at reduced power, that spread out in an ever-expanding wave of energy. 
Often used to suppress riots or eliminate threats gathered in large crowds, 
the CR-1 blast cannon can be incredibly lethal at close and medium range 
but is quite ineffective at long range. 

The CR-1 blast cannon is treated as a pistol for the purpose of determining 
the weapon's range. However, the blast cannon does not take range penalties 
to attack rolls, instead applying any range penalties to damage rolls. 

Against adjacent targets, the blast cannon deals an additional 1d8 points 
of damage. Against nonadjacent targets, the weapon acts as a splash weapon 
with a 1-square splash radius. 


E-WEB MISSILE LAUNCHER 
Heavy Weapon 
A variant of the E-Web repeating blaster, an E-Web missile launcher con- 
sists of a heavy, tripod-mounted firing mechanism from which missiles are 
launched. When mounted on a tripod, it is treated as one size smaller for the 
purpose of being wielded (allowing a Medium character to operate it with two 
hands). An E-Web missile launcher operates only in single fire mode, though 
it does not require a power generator. An E-Web missile launcher is an area 
effect weapon that damages all targets in a 2-square-by-2-square area. 
Usually, a second crewmember is required to reload an E-Web missile 
launcher between shots, jamming a live missile into the launch tube as a 
move action. An E-Web missile launcher can fire only a single shot each 
round, after which the weapon must be reloaded. The wielder of an E-Web 
missile launcher can spend two swift actions in the same round immediately 
before making an attack to treat the range to the target as though it were 
one step shorter (short becomes point blank, medium becomes short, and so 


EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Neuronic whip 500 - 2d8 0.5 kg Bludgeoning and energy Restricted 
LIGHTSABERS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Lightsaber pike 4,000 2d8 = 


2kg Energy and slashing Rare 


EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
CSG CECA AD cece aR CM OME Te SHLAA T Was Leb N Ie i 
CR-1 blast cannon’ 2,000 3d8 (special) - S 6 kg Energy Military 
HEAVY WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
‘Ge FTA Ta eT RE LE Oe! 
Missile launcher, E-Web 9.500 6d6 - S 42 kg Slashing Military 
RIFLES COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
RB.) i a ee ea aes ie 
Flechette launcher’ 1,100 3d8 - ‘S 5 kg Piercing Military 
Rail detonator gun 1,900 3d8 - s 5 kg Piercing Military 


1 Inaccurate weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at long range. 


forth); this benefit stacks with the effect of the Far Shot feat. The missiles 
fired by an E-Web missile launcher cost 75 credits each. 


FLECHETTE LAUNCHER 

Rifle 

The flechette launcher is an antipersonnel weapon that saw extensive use 
during the last half of the Clone Wars. It fires canisters filled with hundreds of 
tiny durasteel darts that spread out over a large area. A flechette launcher is 
considered a splash weapon, with a 1-square splash radius. Due to its single- 
shot nature, a flechette launcher may not be used with the Rapid Shot feat, 
or any other feat or talent that expends more than a single shot. A flechette 
launcher requires special ammunition, with a cluster of four shots costing 
50 credits; after four shots, the canisters must be replaced. 


LIGHTSABER Pike 
Lightsaber 
Employed almost exclusively by the Emperor's Shadow Guard, an elite cadre 
of Force-wielding Royal Guards, the lightsaber pike resembles a primitive 
polearm in many respects. The long handle of the weapon is made of a phrik 
alloy, meaning that a lightsaber does not ignore the pike’s damage reduction. 
At the end of the handle is a slightly shorter and thicker lightsaber blade, 
which can be activated with a swift action as normal by means of a switch 
farther down the weapon's haft. A lightsaber pike increases the wielder's 
reach by 1 square but imposes a -2 penalty on Use the Force checks to use 
the Block or Deflect talents. 

A lightsaber pike requires an energy cell to operate. 


Swmieawea sr. | 


HSLlavHoa 


(}: 


geOws) sHL 


NEURONIC WHIP 
Exotic Weapon 
A neuronic whip is a long, flexible cable connected to a power pack in a 
handle that delivers a stunning jolt on contact. Unlike a typical leather 
whip, the heavy cable can crack bones and break flesh, but it is extremely 
unlikely to kill. As a result, the neuronic whip was very popular with slavers. 
A target successfully hit by a neuronic whip takes normal stun damage, plus 
1d4 points of slashing damage. Additionally, a neuronic whip increases the 
wielder's reach by 1 square. 

A neuronic whip requires an energy cell to operate. 


RaAiL DETONATOR GUN 
Rifle 
The rail detonator gun is a rarely seen weapon used by specialized storm- 
trooper units. Primarily carried by Imperial Jumptroopers, the rail detonator 
gun is an advanced weapon that complements the Jumptroopers’ penchant 
for aerial combat. It uses powerful electromagnets to hurl an explosive 
canister down the barrel of the weapon and toward a target at an incred- 
ible speed. The rail detonator gun is considered a splash weapon, with a 
1-square splash radius. 

A rail detonator gun requires a magazine of special explosive canisters, 
each of which carries 10 shots and costs 50 credits. After 10 shots, the 
magazine must be replaced. 


VEHICLES 


The Republic had found walkers to be more useful than repulsor vehicles in 
many engagements, and the Empire took to them as their primary heavy land 
units. As the New Order first started transitioning from the Grand Army of 
the Republic to the Imperial Army, numerous new walker designs were tried, 
many of which proved too expensive for long-term use. Eventually just a few 
standard models were produced, though older designs (and even old wheeled 
and tracked vehicles) were still in use for decades. 


AS JUGGERNAUT 

Smaller and older than the A6 Juggernaut that dominated the battlefields of 
closing days of the Clone Wars, the AS Juggernaut is a 10-wheeled, heavily 
armored assault vehicle that continues to see use in many Imperial forces 
despite its age. Wherever an AT-AT or similar heavy walker isn't available, 
an A5 is used as a replacement. Though faster than an AT-AT, the AS is less 
maneuverable (especially in rough terrain), slightly less resistant to damage, 
and requires a larger crew. It also mounts slightly lighter weapons, and it 
lacks the power generation to upgrade to lasers as powerful as those on an 
AT-AT. Despite these shortcomings, an A5 is a dangerous and versatile combat 
vehicle. It can effectively spearhead a ground assault, act as a mobile com- 
mand center, engage in hit-and-run raids, and even act as an antiaircraft 


battery when engaging airspeeders or low-flying starfighters. 

Though the Empire owns more Ads than anyone else, as the years pass 
and the Empire retires and replaces them, other groups begin picking them 
up. Many Imperial ASs are left as smoking wrecks on battlefields, and while 
it's not worth the Empire's time or money to recover and repair them, crime 
cartels, major corporations, and insurgent groups are willing to go to much 
greater lengths to acquire such a powerful ground unit. 
AS Juggernaut cL 11 
Colossal wheeled ground vehicle 
Init -5; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 25; +14 armor 
hp 320; DR 20; Threshold 75 
Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 200 km/h) 

Ranged heavy laser cannons +4 (see below) and 
blaster cannon +4 (see below) and 

grenade launchers +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 6x14; Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +29 

Abilities Str 40, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, Use 
Computer +5 


Crew 8 (normal); Passengers 50 (troops) 
Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 200,000 (120,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +4, Dmg 5d10x2 
Blaster cannon (gunner) 

Atk +4,Dmg 4d10x2 
Grenade launcher (gunner) 

Atk +4, Dmg 4d6, 2-square burst 


ALL. TERRAIN KASHYYYK 
TRANSPORT (AT-KT) 

The Kashyyyk deployment variant of the AT-ST is designed to root out insur- 
gents and enemy scouts from terrain that offers heavy cover. Rather than 
acting as an antivehicle platform, the AT-KT {also sometimes referred to as 
the “Hunter” scout transport, or AT-STh, when deployed on other worlds) 
is specifically an antipersonnel walker, with heavy weapons tasked to fire 
through foliage, light bunkers, and camouflage. Moreover, the vehicle's 
weapons are primarily used to stun the targets (since dead Wookiees make 
poor slaves), ensuring that even the most rebellious insurgents live to serve 
the Empire as laborers. 


AT-KT 
Huge ground vehicle (walker) 
Init +8; Senses Perception +3 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 20; +4 armor 
hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 40 


CL 10 


Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 90 km/h) 

Ranged stun cannon +6 (see below) and 
frag grenade +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +25 


Abilities Str 30, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +4, Perception +3, Pilot +8 


Crew 2 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 12 frag grenades 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Frag grenade (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 4d6 (2-square burst) 


Stun cannon (gunner) 
Atk +6, Dmg 2d10x2 stun 


ALL TERRAIN CONSTRUCTION 
TRANSPORT (AT-CT) 

For large-scale construction projects on distant worlds, many Imperial 
engineers have adapted the AT-ST frame to produce a vehicle capable of 
assisting in the construction of new facilities. Using advanced tractor beam 
technology, these All-Terrain Construction Transports (as the variant is com- 
monly known) can lift, manipulate, and move unattended objects at range, 
effectively allowing them to place girders, crates, and other pieces of heavy 
equipment exactly where construction crews need them. In order to main- 
tain this fine level of control over the tractor beams, all other weapons and 
extraneous systems had to be stripped out of the walker, leaving it unarmed. 
AT-CT pilots quickly learned to defend themselves against attacks, using the 
vehicle's tractor beams to hurl objects at their targets. 

If an AT-CT has successfully grabbed an object with its tractor beam, it can 
move the object up to 10 squares in any direction (instead of being limited to 
bringing the object closer). Additionally, an AT-CT can hurl a grabbed object 
at another target within 10 squares, making a ranged attack roll using the 


tractor beam’s attack bonus. If the attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex 4 
Defense, the target takes damage based on the size of the object being hurled M4 
(see page 254 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). a 
D 
AT-CT CL 10 x 
Huge ground vehicle (walker) 
Init +8; Senses Perception +3 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 23; +4 armor =| 
hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 43 3c 
Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 90 km/h) W 
Ranged tractor beam +8 (see below) w 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total & 
Base Atk +5; Grp +28 aU) 
Abilities Str 36, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 5) 
Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +4, Perception +3, Pilot +8 (y) 


Crew 2 (expert); Passengers none 
Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Tractor beam (gunner) 
Atk +8, Dmg — (grapple +28) 


COMMAND SPEEDER 

The Uulshos LAVr QH-7 Chariot command speeder is designed to allow a 
commander to enter or flee the field of battle with moderate protection. 
Unlike the mobile command base (described below), the Chariot com- 
mand speeder can get right into the thick of battle and out again within a 


& 


HaLaeYvYHS 


HE 


BSiewe F9HL 


matter of moments. Often used by commanders who want to get a closer 
look at the way a battle is progressing, the command speeder is also fre- 
quently tasked with evacuating a commander from a hot zone. Veteran 
officers of the Clone Wars believed that the command speeder was far 
more reliable for evacuating an officer than the LAAT/i dropship, due to 
the fact that antistarfighter weapons often targeted the dropships while 
they were en route to recover important officers. The Chariot command 
speeder boasts advanced tactical displays, and it is often used by Imperial 
generals to move to the front lines, pick up a field commander, receive a 
face-to-face briefing, and then ferry the general back to the safety of a 
mobile command base. 


Command Speeder CL8 

Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +7; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 22; +7 armor 

hp 120; DR 5; Threshold 32 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 350 km/h) 

Ranged laser cannon +3 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +24 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +7, Use 
Computer +5 


Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers none - 
Cargo 200 kg; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 40,000) 


Laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +3 [-2 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


MOBILE COMMAND BASE 

The Nen-Carvon PX-4 mobile command base is a specialized vehicle used 
by military commanders during large-scale engagements. The mobile 
command base is a tactical headquarters on treads; the interior features 
sophisticated computer systems, advanced communications arrays, and 
holographic tactical displays of remote battlefields, all of which allow 
the commanders to stay near enough to their troops to dynamically issue 
commands and move along with the battlefield. Though not designed to 
engage directly in combat, a mobile command base is protected by thick 
armor plating that gives it excellent survivability. Typically, a mobile 
command base is kept far from the battlefield, allowing the generals and 
other Imperial officers to remain inside a safe area where they can make 


command decisions far from the perils of combat. A mobile command 
base can be deployed by landing craft (they are most often deployed 
by LAAT/c dropships, but can sometimes be attached to the bottom of 
a Sentinel-class landing craft if no LAAT/c dropships are available) and 
recovered the same way. 


Mobile Command Base CL8 

Gargantuan ground vehicle (tracked) 

Init -8; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 27; +10 armor 

hp 270; DR 15; Threshold 47 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 200 km/h) 

Ranged heavy laser cannon +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 8x8; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +39 

Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 45, Dex 10, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -8, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -8, Use 
Computer +5 


Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers 7 

Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 
300,000) 


Heavy laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2, 2-square splash 


TxX-1IS0OT FIGHTER TANK 

The TX-130T is a perfect example of the kind of repulsor-driven ground unit 
the Empire is trying to phase out. However, not only are many still in service, 
the Empire continues to manufacture them in small numbers to replace those 
lost in battle. Originally deployed at the end of the Clone Wars, the Rothana 
Heavy Engineering design is a nimble, effective strike tank. It can serve in 
infantry support, fast raid, forward scout, and even escort roles to protect 
heavier walkers. Though it lacks the heavy punch of an assault walker, its 
speed, maneuverability, and anti-infantry weaponry make it an excellent 
addition to any large ground force. Although many military advisors want 
to get rid of the TX-130T, so far nothing as well suited to dealing with small, 
nimble units of insurgent commandos has been developed to replace it. 


AS JUGGERNAUT 


COMMAND SPEEDER 


TK+1GQQT FIGHTER TANK 


TX-130T Fighter Tank CLB Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +7, Use 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) Sonal +5 . 

Init +7; Senses Perception +5 Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 5 ; 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 21; +5 armor Cargo 100 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

hp 120; DR 5; SR 5; Threshold 31 Payload 8 concussion missiles 


Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 193 km/h) Availability Military; Cost 42,000 (34,000 used) 


Ranged laser cannons +1 (see below) and ee 
3 ‘ sai Laser cannons (gunner) 
medium concussion missiles +1 (see below) 


Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total ak +2, Dmg aia » 
Base Atk +0; Grp +9 Medium concussion missiles (gunner) 


Atk +2, Dmg 6d10x2, 2-square splash 


Abilities Str 33, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 


SNMNAwe 8At ) xX uSiavHoS) 
ma 


AMAIME SEIN 


“. 


x 


| 
0 
I 
> 
Iq 

is 
0 
I 

| 

j 


STARFIGHTERS 


The use of starfighters became standard during the Clone Wars, a fact that 
even the size-conscious Empire could not ignore. Since starfighters can’t 
be particularly frightening or large compared to other starships, the new 
doctrine of rule through fear requires the Imperial Navy to field massive 
numbers of starfighters. Military planners envision swarms of starfighters 
that overload enemy targeting computers and block out the skies over target 
cities through sheer quantity. Of course, such a vast number of starfighters 
is expensive, and as a result the shielded, well-armored, hyperdrive-capable 
starfighter of the Clone Wars is no longer acceptable for Imperial needs. 
Although many such snub fighters still exist (and will for years), the new 
models of cheaper, weaker fighters have begun rolling off assembly lines 
and into Imperial hangars. 


A-7 HUNTER 

The rapidly growing military needs of the New Order created opportunities 
for companies to build new shipyards, especially if they could interest the 
Empire in a new line of vessels to be the standard of Imperial fleets. Kuat 
Drive Yards earned vast profits building Imperial Star Destroyers and wanted 
to provide the Empire with its starfighter fleets as well. The main entrant for 
this role was the A-7 Hunter, an update of a long-successful line of cheap, 
simple, fast starfighters. 

For the first few years after the Clone Wars, many Imperial officers 
assumed that the A-7 Hunter would become the new standard snub fighter 
of the Empire and bought dozens of the fighters to outfit their ship's hangars. 
When the TIE fighter was instead selected, the A-7 waned in popularity 
among Imperials, though it could still be found on ships in fringe systems. 
Many of the fighters eventually ended up being used by mercenaries and 
insurgents. 

The A-7 is similar to a TIE in many respects. It has no hyperdrive or shields, 
only two laser cannons, and few support systems. Though not as fast or 
maneuverable as later designs such as TIE interceptors or A-wings, it is more 
agile than a typical TIE. Ultimately, it’s likely that its higher construction cost 
led to the Empire passing it over. 


A-7 Hunter Interceptor CL6 

Huge starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 22; +4 armor 

hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +24 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 55 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive none 

Availability Military: Cost 80,000 (45,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


TIE PROTOTYPE 

With the end of the Clone Wars, the Empire was faced with the difficult task 
of overseeing a galaxy that had been in open conflict for years. Vast areas 
of space had to be patrolled, and the only practical way of doing so was to 
construct thousands of small starfighters. The existing Republic starfighters 
were seen as too expensive to maintain for years of patrolling, and much too 
expensive to build in larger numbers. 

The Empire required a cheap and efficient fighter that could be mass- 
produced. Dozens of shipyards vied for the contract to provide those ships, 
but Sienar Fleet Systems especially impressed the Emperor with its Twin lon 
Engine prototype fighter. These fighters cost only a fraction to build com- 
pared to other proposals, and Sienar could begin production immediately. 

The first prototype TIEs were actually tougher than the final version, but 
they also cost more. They featured weak shields, a small hyperdrive, and 
two one-shot concussion missile launchers, to allow them to serve as light 
bombers, long-assault craft, and snub fighters. However, the Twin lon Engine 
was incompatible with many of those systems, requiring the TIE prototype to 
carry a secondary power supply for them. When the Empire decided to make 
numerous variant fighters, the decision was made to remove these genera- 
tors for the basic TIE (reducing costs significantly, resulting in construction 
in vast numbers). 

Even so, the TIE prototype was built in the hundreds for numerous 
test runs, and it remained very popular with its pilots {if not the Imperial 


accountants). In the first years of the New Order, squads of TIE prototypes, 
or units of older fighters (often ARC-170s or V-wings) with a TIE prototype 
wing commander, were common. The ships became less common later, 
because they required parts and maintenance that were nonstandard, and 
only truly elite pilots could insist on keeping the older ships. By the time 
the TIE interceptor and more advanced fighters were commonly available, 
most TIE prototypes were replaced or scrapped, though a few were kept as 
personal vessels of Moffs and similar high-ranking officers. 


TIE Prototype CL6 

Huge starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 22: +4 armor 

hp 60; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) or 
2 medium concussion missiles +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +24 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2, limited navicomputer (2-jump memory) 
Payload 2 medium concussion missiles 

Availability Military; Cost 130,000 (75,000 used} 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +4, Dmg 8d10x2, 2-square splash 


SPACE TRANSPORTS 


The Empire's move to capital ships that were unable to land easily on plan- 
etary surfaces makes space transports a critical part of any fleet. Transports 
are used to move troops to groundside battles, shuttle cargo from supply 
vessels to Star Destroyers, and move crew and commanders among ships 
of a fleet. Though often armed, such starships are much more valuable as 
convoy vessels than as warships. 


GUARDIAN-CLASS 

LIGHT CRUISER 

A customs and inspection vessel designed by Sienar Fleet Systems, the 
Guardian-class light cruiser is a fast and durable ship capable of patrolling 
remote systems without the need for backup or support. The Guardian-class 
light cruiser was designed to be relatively autonomous, though of course 
it was not expected to fend off large-scale assaults. For the most part, the 
Guardian-class light cruiser handles smuggler and pirate traffic in remote 
systems, acting as both a command post and enforcement vessel. Though 
considered a light cruiser, the ship is actually just a heavily armed space 
transport designed to let small crews patrol a star system with few amenities. 
Despite the fact that the ship has a hyperdrive, the Empire typically limits 
the Guordian-class light cruiser to missions within a single star system. Any 
exercises that would normally force a Guardian-class light cruiser away from 
its home system usually warrant the assistance of larger ships, typically 
corvettes or smaller frigates. 
Guardian-class Light Cruiser CL 11 
Colossal space transport 

Init -2; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 38; +16 armor 

hp 300; DR 15; SR 120; Threshold 88 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon battery +11 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +50 


BS. =) 


xX HBiavHo 


Abilities Str 66, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -2, Use 
Computer +5 


Crew 8 (skilled); Passengers 6 (prisoners) 

Cargo 200 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10}, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 
800,000) 


Laser cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +11, Dmg 5d10x2 


ROGUE SHADOW 

The personal transport of Darth Vader's secret apprentice, the Rogue Shadow 
is a one-of-a-kind vessel designed to transport Vader's agent covertly 
throughout the galaxy. Though the vessel has had a long string of unsuc- 
cessful pilots, the space transport is among one of the most sophisticated 
vessels in the galaxy. Having come across the schematics for Darth Maul’s 


dj 
ab 
W 
W 
x | 
U | 
i 
W 


Sith Infiltrator, Lord Vader commissioned a similar vessel from Sienar Fleet 
Systems. As with the Sith Infiltrator, only a single prototype of the Rogue 
Shadow was built before it was turned over to Vader and his apprentice. All 
the engineers and mechanics who knew of the project were killed to ensure 
their silence, and following its completion only a small number of people 
knew of the Rogue Shadow's existence. 

The vessel is reminiscent of the Sith Infiltrator both in form and capabili- 
ties. Heavily armed and boasting an advanced stygian crystal cloaking device 
(granting the ship total concealment when activated), the Rogue Shadow 
is capable of moving throughout the stars undetected. The ship is consider- 
ably faster and more maneuverable than others of its size, and its shields 
are nearly unparalleled. The Rogue Shadow also has a sensor enhancement 
package (granting the pilot a +5 equipment bonus on Perception checks 
and Use Computer checks to operate sensors) and a hyperdrive that moves 
the ship across the galaxy at speeds unheard of for a nonmilitary vessel. All 
of this impressive equipment is housed in a rather nondescript shel\; Vader 
commanded that the ship be given a ubiquitous appearance, and as such 
the Rogue Shadow is a powerful combat vessel hiding beneath the looks of 
a civilian personal transport. 


RoGuEeE SHaDaWw 


Rogue Shadow CL 12 

Colossal* space transport 

Init +8; Senses Perception +12 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 25; +11 armor 

hp 110; DR 15; SR 40; Threshold 75 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,350 km/h}, fly 6 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +15 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +10; Grp +45 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 40, Dex 22, Con —, Int 20 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +8, Stealth +12 
(total concealment when cloaking device active), Use Computer +12 
{417 when using sensors) 


Crew 1 (ace); Passengers 8 

Cargo 15 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x.5, navicomputer 

Availability Unique; Cost not available for sale 

* This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purposes of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using starship 
maneuvers. 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 


SENTINEL-CLASS SHUTTLE 
With the change from starships that were able to land on planets to offload 
troops (such as the Acclamator assault ships) to spacebound Star Destroy- 
ers that brought troops into orbit but no farther, the New Order needed a 
dedicated, armored, maneuverable landing craft to safely transport troops 
directly into battle. Since these landing craft needed to be carried easily 
aboard larger ships, the existing CR20 troop carriers were not suitable. 
Using many of the same design elements as the Theta-class and Lambda- 
class, the Sentinel-class landing craft was built. Lacking in comfort or 
long-range capability, it has plenty of space, speed, and armor for the 
short-range missions it excels at. 
Most Star Destroyers of every class have at least a few Sentinel- 
class ships, as do many Imperial garrisons. In addition to acting as troop 
transports, the vehicles can serve as air Support, short-range scouts, light 
cargo vessels, or even starfighter support. 


Sentinel-class Landing Shuttle CL 10 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +5; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 16), Fort 26; +11 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 50; Threshold 49 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 5 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged 4 linked sets of laser cannons +4 (see below) and 
ion cannon +4 or 

Ranged 2 medium concussion missiles +4 and 
2 repeating blaster cannons -1 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, repeating blaster cannons) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +5, Use 
Computer +6 

Crew 6 (skilled); Passengers 54 (troops) 

Cargo 180 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft up to 36 light 
ground vehicles 

Payload 8 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 240,000 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
lon cannon (copilot) 
Atk +4, Dmg 4d10x2 ion 
Medium concussion missiles (2 gunners) 
Atk +4, Dmg 8d10[ts[2, 2-square splash 
Repeating blaster cannons (2 gunners) 
Atk -1 (autofire only), Dmg 3d8x2 


CAPITAL SHIPS 


Capital ships are the backbone of the new Imperial navy. Although Imperial 
Star Destroyers are the workhorses of that fleet, many other vessels are 
required to keep order across the vast sectors of the Empire's control. 


EsScoRT CARRIER 

With the TIE fighter overtaking other starfighters as the Empire's weapon of 
choice, the need to transport entire squadrons of fighters quickly across the 
galaxy became apparent very quickly. After some rather embarrassing defeats 
due to a lack of TIE fighter support, the Imperial Navy quickly commissioned 
Kuat Drive Yards to craft a ship capable of serving as a fighter launch platform. 


TARTAN-CLASS PATROL CRUISER, TIE FIGHTERS, 
SENTINAL-CL4ASS LANDING SHUTTLE 


Escort Carrier CL 14 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -3; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 34; +11 armor 
hp 660; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 134 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale} 

Ranged point defense double laser cannon battery +13 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +46 


Abilities Str 58, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, Use 
Computer +5 


Crew 3,505 (skilled); Passengers 800 (troops) 

Cargo 5,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 72 TIE fighters, 6 
shuttles (Lambda-, Sentinel-, or Theta-class) 

Payload 60 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x8), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 
3,500,000) 


Point defense double laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13, Dmg 3d10x2 


Medium concussion missiles (gunner) 
Atk +5, Dmg 6d10 x2, 2-square splash 


<x HStavHoa 


d 
ab 
w 
D 
& 
¥ 
D 
ny 


fx BeiavnS 


anews aH | 


The result is the Escort Carrier, a ship that can launch and store TIE fighters 
at a much faster rate than other capital ships can. Though lightly armed, the 
Escort Carrier can disgorge starfighters at an incredible pace, making it easy 
to flood the battlefield with fighter support in a matter of seconds. 

Tactical Fire: An Escort Carrier is an excellent starfighter support vessel, 
designed to ensure that its complement of starfighters reaches the battle 
as quickly as possible, including carving out safe movement lanes with its 
lasers. As a standard action, an Escort Carrier can forgo all attacks to provide 
tactical fire to all adjacent squares. All allied starfighters that begin their 
turns within this area increase their speed by 1 square until the beginning 
of their next turn. 


GLADIATOR-CLASS STAR 
DESTROYER 

The Gladiator-class Star Destroyer was originally designed by Walex Blissex 
for Rendili StarDrive during the Clone Wars to serve as an escort to Victory- 
class Star Destroyers. However, the Gladiators were not put into production 
until shortly after the Clone Wars. Further, the design was appropriated by 
the New Order and given to Kuat Drive Yards for improvement, after the 
Victory Star Destroyers were seen as something of a disappointment. Blissex 
received little credit for the final design. 

The Gladiator-class was redesigned as a long-range patrol ship, able 
to carry the New Order—in the form of administrators, starfighters, and 
troops—into the far reaches of the fringe regions. Rather than being seen 
as small for a capital ship, Imperial planners conceived of the ship as a large 
patrol cruiser, self-sufficient and much larger than the light capital ships of 


GLADIATOR-CLAS8S STAR DESTROYER 


pirates and planetary defense fleets it was expected to oppose. The Gladj- 
ator-class was to be the first Imperial Star Destroyer many worlds saw, and 
it was overpowered for such simple patrol missions. As conceived, the Gladi- 
ators were an important part of the Tarkin Doctrine, huge by patrol-craft 
Standards and a promise of bigger and more frightening Imperial ships to 
come if a local populace was uncooperative. 

In actuality, although the Gladiator Star Destroyers were extremely 
effective and cost-efficient for many years, that situation changed once 
the Rebel Alliance formed a cohesive fleet of its own. Lone Imperial craft 
became attractive targets for a fleet that couldn't risk itself against Imperial 


Gladiator-class Star Destroyer CL 16 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 


Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 15 [flat-footed 13), Fort 51; +13 armor 

hp 1,500; DR 20; SR 120; Threshold 251 

Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 5 light turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
2 point defense laser cannon batteries +13 (see below) and 
2 medium concussion missile batteries +13* (see below) and 
3 tractor beam batteries +5* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +63 

Atk Options autofire (point defense laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 92, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, Use 
Computer +6 

Crew 1,255 (skilled); Passengers 1,200 (troops) 

Cargo 6,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 24 starfighters 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x8), navicomputer 

Payload 300 medium concussion missiles 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
34,000,000) 

“ Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Light turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Point defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (+8 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Medium concussion missile battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14 (—6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x2, 2- 
square splash 


Tractor beam battery (2 gunners) 
Atk +8 (~12 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg — (grapple 
+63) 


Star Destroyers. A single Gladiator was easily able to deal with squadrons 
of smaller ships, but could be outgunned by even a small group of Mon Cal 
capital ships. Several G/adiator-ciass ships fell into the hands of pirate bands 
(including the Demofisherat about 15 BBY), usually as a result of attacks on 
repair bays or ambushes in space. 

The same keel design as the Gladiator-class was also used for the Broad- 
side-class cruiser. The Broadside-class eliminates all starfighters or landing 
craft and all but two turbolasers in favor of eight concussion missile tube 
batteries (with a 1,200 missile payload), However, a Broadside lacks the 
self-contained support to qualify as a Star Destroyer, instead being classified 
as a heavy cruiser. Broadside-class cruisers also sacrifice maneuverability 
(Dexterity 10) and armor (+12 armor bonus), causing them to require escorts 
and to be used only in fleet engagements. 

Tactical Fire: Imperial Star Destroyers are designed to provide heavy 
gunnery support in any situation, and they excel at disrupting other capital 
ships above all. Their weakness against other ships, such as starfighters, is 
usually overcome by their own complement of starfighters. As a standard 
action, a Gladiator-class Star Destroyer can forgo all attacks to provide 
tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius. All allied starships attacking 
targets within this area gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls. 


TARTAN-CLASS PATROL 
CRUISER 

One of the first starships to be commissioned for the newly formed Empire, 
the Tartan-class patrol cruiser is a fast and deadly ship used to supplement 
lmperial patrols throughout the galaxy. Produced by the Damorian Manu- 
facturing Corporation, the Jartan-class is primarily used against fighters, 
bombers and small pirate vessels, and is usually tasked with keeping order. 
Though modestly armed, the Jartan-class patrol cruiser complements other 
mid-sized ships, such as the Carrack-class light cruiser, while requiring a 
much smaller crew complement. 

The fartan-class patrol cruiser is a versatile ship that can transfer power 
between its systems with relative ease. As a result, one less swift action is 
required to recharge shields or reroute power aboard the ship (usually result- 
ing in both actions requiring two swift actions to complete). The ship is also 
exceptionally faster than others its size, allowing it to pursue starfighters 
and space transports that can usually escape capital ships. Though it's no 
match for larger vessels, such as the Nebulon-B frigate, the Tartan-class 
patrol cruiser is an excellent support ship that can outgun many corvettes 
and still pose a major threat to attacking starfighters. 

Tactical Fire: The Zartan-class patrol cruiser works well as both a support 
vessel and an antistarfighter platform. As a standard action, a Tartan-class 
patrol cruiser can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent 
squares. The DR of all enemy starfighters within that area is halved (round 
down) as long as they remain in the tactical fire area. 


Tartan-class Patrol Cruiser CL 15 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init -2; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 35; +11 armor 


hp 870; DR 15; SR 90; Threshold 135 


Speed fly 4 squares {starship scale) 

Ranged 2 point-defense laser cannon batteries +14 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +47 

Abilities Str 61, Dex 16, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -2, Use 
Computer +5 

Crew 70 (skilled) Passengers 50 (troops) 

Cargo 1,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2, (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 
4,200,000) 


Point-defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14, Dmg 6d10x2 


VENATOR-CLASS STAR 
DESTROYER 

The Venator-class Star Destroyer was designed by Lire Blissex as the ultimate 
capital-class warship of the Clone Wars. It went into service late in the 
war, however, and actually saw more service in the early days of the New 
Order. However, as icons of the Old Republic's military might, the ships were 
politically unpopular with the Empire's new propaganda offices. Additionally, 
their use as Starfighter carriers, using swarms of smaller ships for much of 
their combat power, didn’t match well with the new Tarkin Doctrine. As a 
result, the Venators were put out of service as fast as new /mperial-class 
ships could be built to replace them. Many were sold for scrap, only to 
appear in the hands of major criminal organizations or the Moff's private 
home defense fleets. 

Tactical Fire: A Venator-class Star Destroyer is an excellent starfighter 
carrier capable of operating close to the action and supporting its fighter 
corps. As a standard action, a Venator-class Star Destroyer can forgo all 
attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius. All allied 
starships of Gargantuan size or smaller within this area gain a +2 bonus on 
attack rolls and increase their damage dice by one step (for example, from 
4d10x2 to 4d12x2). 


<x HSidvHga 


fy 


Tr wTeetwtEktsatstetfetFeou«F.;.:«é;€sSSCtéta=@ 


BMeEwe SAL 


< HSLaVHO 


13) 


Venator-class Star Destroyer CL 19 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 


Init -3; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 52; +13 armor 
hp 1,590; DR 20; SR 200; Threshold 252 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 heavy turbolaser batteries +11” (see below) and 
2 medium double turbolasers +7* (see below) and 
8 point-defense laser batteries +13 (see below) and 
2 point-defense flight deck laser batteries +15 (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +9* (see below) and 
4 proton torpedoes +5* (see below) and 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 (ships in 
flight deck when hangar open) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +74 

Atk Options autofire (medium double turbolasers) 


Abilities Str 95, Dex 12, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, Use 
Computer +6 


Crew 7,400 (skilled); Passengers 2,000 (troops) 

Cargo 20,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 192 V-wings 
or V-19 Torrents, 192 Eta-2s, 36 ARC-170s, 40 heavy airspeeders, 24 
heavy walkers, various support craft 

Payload 64 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
50,000,000 used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 


SulIaws SH, 


Medium double turbolaser (gunner) 
Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal} (+2 autofire) (-18 
autofire against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 


Point-defense laser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13, Dmg 3d10x2 


Point-defense flight deck laser battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +15, Dmg 3d10x2 


Tractor beam battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg — (grapple 
+74) 


Proton torpedo (gunner) 
Atk +5 (-15 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x2, 2- 
square splash 


VICTORY-CLASS STAR 
DESTROYER 

The Victory-class Star Destroyer was designed during the Clone Wars by 
Walex Blissex as part of the Victor Initiative Project, aimed at producing 
dedicated warships to directly oppose the heavy warships of the Separat- 
ists. At the time of its first production, there was serious doubt about the 
Republic's ability to defeat the Separatists, and as a result a crash building 
program churned out a large number of Victory-class ships. Though suc- 
cessful enough in fleet engagements, the ships turned out to be painfully 
slow, and they depended heavily on missile munitions (preventing them from 
engaging in long running battles). By the end of the Clone Wars, superior 
ships were already in production. 

However, since so many Victory-class Star Destroyers were in existence, 
they became the backbone of Imperial power for the first decades of the 
New Order. Though /mperiai-class Star Destroyers were larger and more 
powerful, Victory-class ships were far more common. Small, unorganized 
bands of pirates or insurgents rarely required more than a Victory-class ship 
(often with a few customs corvettes as escorts). In later years, enough other 
classes of ships had been built that the aging Victory-class vessels were no 
longer as common. Many were sold to private concerns, including several 
hundred to the Corporate Sector Authority. 

Variants of the Victory-class were common. Though the standard model 
carries twenty massive assault concussion missile tubes (for planetary 
assaults), many replaced those with eighty standard concussion missile 
launchers (with a total payload of 1,600 missiles). A later upgrade, the Vic- 
tory-ll, had improved engines installed for a higher speed (3 squares). These 
became much more commonplace after the fall of the Emperor, and created 
a new era for the decades-old ships. 

Tactical Fire: Imperial Star Destroyers are designed to provide heavy 
gunnery support in any situation, and excel at disrupting other capital ships 
above all. Their weakness against other ships, such as starfighters, is usually 
overcome by their own complement of starfighters. As a standard action, a 
Victory-class Star Destroyer can forgo ail attacks to provide tactical fire to 
all squares in a 2-square radius. All allied starships attacking targets within 
this area gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls. 


Victory I-class Star Destroyer cL 19 
Colossal {cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 45: +12 armor 
hp 1,200; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 245 
Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged 4 heavy double turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
2 light quad turbolaser batteries +14” (see below) and 
4 heavy concussion missile batteries +14" (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +14* (see below) and 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +67 
Atk Options autofire (double turbolasers, light quad turbolasers) 


Abilities Str 90, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, Use 
Computer +6 


Crew 5,200 (skilled); Passengers 2,040 (troops) 

Cargo 8,100 tons; Consumables 4 years; Carried Craft 48 starfighters, 
20 heavy ground vehicles, 20 medium ground vehicles, various support 
craft 

Payload 80 heavy concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
50,000,000 used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy double turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal) (+9 autofire), Dmg 
4d10x5 


Light quad turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal) (+9 autofire), Dmg 
3d10x5 

Heavy concussion missile battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5, 2- 
square splash 


Tractor beam battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +14 (~6 against targets smalfer than Colossal), Dmg — (grapple 
+67} 


HesSsiadvHg 


SBHnewmead SAlt 


§ 


ee 
CHAPTER XI 
ALLIES AND an diced diele = 


ROS 


A Force Unleashed campaign is about more than just the heroes fighting 
the Empire. While the heroes struggle to strike critical blows against the 
monolithic Empire, the rest of the galaxy continues on with its daily business. 
Throughout the course of a Force Unleashed campaign, the heroes might 
have the chance to come across allies and enemies not directly related to 
the struggle against the Empire or the power of the Force. Moreover, the 
heroes might need to rely on these allies to keep themselves active in the 
galaxy. This chapter presents new allies and opponents for use during the 
Dark Times. 


IMPORTANT FIGURES 
OF THE DARK TIMES 


A Gamemaster running a campaign during the Dark Times can draw upon 

a variety of characters to aid and challenge players. These include unique, 

heroic characters who play pivotal roles during this period as well as non- 

' heroic supporting characters. 

} The less common the character, the less likely it is that heroes might 
encounter that individual in the everyday course of events. For instance, a 


~ \ Paratus. Others range around certain regions, including the Senators, Master 
“\ Rahm Kota and his militia, and Wookiee berserkers. 


/ BaiL ORGANA 


NG é f Despite witnessing Palpatine’s rise to power and the brutal creation of the 

/ New Order, Bail Organa continues to represent Alderaan in the Galactic 

' A P { Senate while quietly working to undermine the Emperor's power. Without 
j } 4 openly joining the resistance, he covertly aids subversive elements fighting 


2 | ’ 

; =) ' band of freedom fighters has a better chance of meeting pirates and Jawas 
7 ” ° { than it does a Galactic Senator or a renegade Jedi. Some characters by their 
; -\ very nature stick to certain territory, such as the Felucians and Kazdan 


i Imperial tyranny, even finding and aiding refugee Jedi. Toward the end of 
' the Dark Times, he eventually works with Mon Mothma to form the basis 
le for the Rebel Alliance. 

j Throughout this period, Organa openly professes loyalty to the Empire. 

) | ; \ i Although this strategy helps maintain the illusion that the Imperial Senate 

-{ actually has influence over galactic affairs, it keeps him in a position to work 

\ j within the bureaucracy and behind the scenes to aid the nascent resistance 
\ .3 “~ j ‘4 movements sprouting up across the galaxy. 

\ ’ . J Organa uses his connections in the Senate to secretly oppose Palpatine's 

\ x 4 broad policies and several specific operations. When he learned of the 

’ Emperor's plot to assassinate Corellian Senator Garm Bel Iblis, Organa 

j ) dispatched an Alderaanian agent to warn him; the Senator escaped the 

; bomb, but the explosion killed his family and sent him into hiding to form 


J 
4 / \ his own resistance group and later organize clandestine military operations 


SLNSNOddO IGNY sainyv i 1x HatoveH 


CS) RE NEY) ES). Ee. 


woe we &, 


| 
| 


ix HaiagvHD 


SANANOodSe0 ANY Sandy’ 


against Imperial targets. Through his position and contacts, Organa gained 
foreknowledge of the Emperor's decision to arrest Chandrilan Senator Mon 
Mothma for treason as an example to others; a bodyguard spirited her to 
safety ahead of the ISB agents sent to arrest her. While in hiding, both Garm 
Bel Iblis and Mon Mathma work with Organa through secret channels to form 
the foundation of what would become the Rebel Alliance. 
Organa uses his political position to covertly aid resistance groups, particu- 
larly those in the Core Worlds. Using a network of diplomatic operatives, he 
quietly leaks useful information to planetary rulers, dissidents in hiding, and 
insurgent fighters who might employ that information against the Emperor's 
plans. Organa also does what he can to secretly aid those who are fleeing Impe- 
rial persecution, particularly outlaw Jedi. He helps Yoda and Obi-Wan Kenobi 
escape from Coruscant in the wake of Palpatine's betrayal. When Organa or his 
agents finda Jedi in need, they offer what aid they can and attempt to hide the 
Jedi, either by using a carefully concealed location or by creating a new identity; 
for instance, Organa finds one Jedi a job as one of his personal advisors under 
the guise of the Trustant of the Caamasi Remnant on Alderaan. 

Organa encourages Garm Bel Iblis and Mon Mothma in their efforts to 


establish a galaxywide resistance movement, though he spends much time 
fostering a balance between the two dynamic and often obstinate personalities. 
Toward the end of the Dark Times, they meet in secret with other representa- 
tives to sign the Corellian Treaty, forming a loose union of resistance groups 
that would become the Rebel Alliance. Organa's best hope remains his daughter 
Leia, whom he adopted after the death of her mother, Padmé Amidala. During 
the Dark Times, he and a close group of tutors (including Sabé) raise Leia and 
train her in both the diplomatic arts and the broad-minded thinking necessary 
to bring the galaxy out from beneath the Empire's oppressive boot. 


Bail Organa CL9 

Medium Human noble 9 

Destiny 2; Force 4 

Init +10; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Mon Calamarian, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 14, Will 18; Dodge 

hp 50, Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (2d6+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Melee Defense 

Special Actions Born Leader, Inspire Confidence, Presence, Quick Draw 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Connections, Educated, Inspire Confidence, Presence 

Feats Dodge, Linguist, Melee Defense, Quick Draw, Skill Focus 
(Deception), Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy], Skill Focus 
(Perception), Skill Training (Initiative), Skill Training (Pilot), Skill 
Training (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +16, Gather Information +11, Initiative +10, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +15, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +10, Perception +16, Persuasion +11, Pilot +10, Treat Injury 
+11, Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, datapad 


MON MOTHMA 

Unlike Bail Organa, Mon Mothma speaks more openly against Imperial 
oppression and thus brings upon herself Palpatine's attention and, ultimately, 
reprisal. 

The Senator from Chandrila maintains the diplomatic tradition of her 
homeworld, which espouses outspoken and frank political discussion and 
even dissent. She opposes the military buildup before the Clone Wars and 
advocates that Palpatine relinquish his power when the conflict ends. Mon 
Mothma not only represents Chandrila's interests in galactic affairs, but 
speaks out for the rights of individual local systems as Imperial policies 


begin depriving them of their rights to self-governance. 

Her forthright views against the Empire bring Mon Mothma under closer 
scrutiny by the ISB, COMPNOR, and the Emperor himself, thus preventing her 
from dabbling in more effective covert efforts to undermine Imperial rule. 
She uses her official channels, Senatorial privilege, and political contacts to 
effect change, maintaining a belief that the system of government, no matter 
how broken, still has some small degree of effectiveness. During these years, 
she meets frequently with colleagues on Coruscant and their homeworlds, 
introduces fruitless measures to grant local systems relief from Imperial 
policies, and tries to place Senate oversights on Imperial operations. Mon 
Mothma also tutors Bail Organa’s daughter, Leia, in diplomatic and political 
affairs, preparing her to succeed her father as Alderaan’s representative 
in the Senate and eventually lead a galaxy-spanning resistance movement. 

Toward the end of the Dark Times, Palpatine finally loses patience with 
Mon Mothma's outspoken opposition and covert operations with resistance 
groups. He orders her arrest by ISB agents, but she narrowly escapes cap- 
ture thanks to a tip from Bail Organa. She continues working in secret to 
undermine Imperial power, support and unite disparate insurgent groups, and 
forge an official alliance that openly opposes the Empire. 


Mon Mothma 

Medium Human noble 8 

Destiny 2; Force 6 

Init +9; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Bothese, Mon Calamarian, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 19), Fort 18, Will 22 

hp 45; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+3) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +6 (3d4+4) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +5 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate +1, Distant Command, Presence 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 15, Wis 15, Cha 17 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Distant Command, Presence 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Gather Information), 
Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), Skill Focus (Perception), 

Skill Focus {Persuasion}, Skill Focus (Use Computer), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Training (Stealth), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +17, Gather Information +17, Initiative +9, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +16, Knowledge (galactic lore) +11, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +11, Perception +16, Persuasion +17, Stealth +9, Use 
Computer +16 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, datapad, comlink, holorecorder, 500 
credits 


CL8 


GARM BEL IBLIS 

Corellia's Senator frequently chafes against Imperial rule and subsequently 
becomes a victim of its vengeance. He ultimately loses his family, position, 
and influence, fleeing underground as an outlaw who rises to lead a growing 
band of resistance fighters. 

Garm Bel Iblis holds Corellian interests and independence at heart, trying 
to keep the system out of the folly of the Clone Wars, and later—upon seeing 
that Corellia could no longer fend off Imperial interference—secretly estab- 
lishing and supporting political resistance groups throughout his system. 
Bel Iblis quickly realizes how ineffective Palpatine’s rise to power makes the 
Imperial Senate. Though he uses his diplomatic privilege, political contacts, 
and administrative resources to work behind the scenes undermining the 
Emperor's policies and aiding insurgents, Bel Iblis does not conceal his dis- 
dain for Palpatine and the New Order. The charismatic Senator quickly draws 
unwanted attention from the Emperor, ISB, and COMPNOR. On Anchoron, he 
narrowly escapes an assassination attempt thanks to a tip from one of Bail 
Organa's secret emissaries; his wife and family die in the explosion, fueling 
Bel Iblis’s resolve to fight Palpatine and his tyrannical Empire. 


ix HSLavH5 


> 
[Pr 
c 
i 
tH) 
> 
Z, 
g 
a 
U 
wu 
WwW 
Ze 
U) 
24 
q| 
0) 


SLNINGeGdO GNY SsaIsatIyv 


Ix HSLaeYvVHO 


The bomb plot offers Bel Iblis a means to escape; in the confusion he 
flees the scene and goes into hiding. Many believe he died in the explosion, 
a rumor Palpatine does not deny in an effort to intimidate opposition to his 
rule. Bel Iblis uses these circumstances to his advantage, secretly recruiting 
volunteers from Corellia for a private military resistance group that begins 
targeting key Imperial facilities in the Corellian sector. He sought aid from his 
former colleagues Bail Organa and Mon Mothma; despite their differences, 
they operate as the most cohesive insurgent group during the Dark Times. 
Ultimately the trio works through secret channels to form the foundation 
of what would become the Rebel Alfiance. 


Garm Bel Iblis 

Medium Human noble 6/soldier 2 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +10; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Bothese 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 18, Will 17; Dodge 

hp 57; Threshold 23 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +6 (1d4+4) or 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +7 (2d8+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate +1, Fearless Leader, Indomitable 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Fearless Leader, |Indomitable 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Dodge, Improved Damage 
Threshold, Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Knowledge 
[tactics]}, Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Gather Information +11, Initiative +10, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +10, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Knowledge (tactics) 
+10, Perception +12, Persuasion +11, Pilot +10 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, blast helmet and vest, knife, comlink, 
datapad 


CL 8 


SABE 
The former handmaiden and bodyguard for Padmé Amidala pursues a similar 
career after the Clone Wars, working as a diplomatic agent for Naboo's rulers 
and a clandestine operative for the resistance movement among various 
Imperial Senators and insurgent groups. 

After the Clone Wars, Sabe continues her service to the Naboo govern- 
ment as an aid to its representative to the Imperial Senate. Angered by what 
little she knew of her friend Padmé Amidala’s death, Sabé identifies and 


cultivates contacts in the Senate and on sympathetic worlds who secretly 
opposed Palpatine’s tyrannical rule and the Empire's oppressive policies. 
While walking the corridors of the bureaucracy she quietly aids the resistance, 
relaying messages between agents, gathering, analyzing, and disseminating 
intelligence, guarding against Imperial treachery, and counseling those who 
are seeking to channel aid to freedom fighters around the galaxy. 

As a diplomatic emissary, Sabé has official access to transportation, not 
only between Naboo and Coruscant but to any worlds that have business, 
negotiations, or ties with her homeworld. This mobility enables her to expand 
her secret resistance activities beyond the Senate chamber; she smuggles 
equipment to nascent insurgent cells, conveys intelligence about Imperial 
operations, and trains freedom fighters in combat and espionage. 

During this time, she befriends Senator Bail Organa and becomes one of 
his principal agents carrying out operations behind the scenes. She makes 
many trips to Alderaan to check in on Amidala's daughter, now Organa’s 
adopted daughter, Leia. Organa encourages Sabé to tutor Leia and her close 
companion Winter in a variety of subjects, from etiquette and bureaucracy 
to the more esoteric arts. Though Leia learns much from Sabé, Winter spends 
more time with her, improving skills that later serve her well as Leia’s double 
and bodyguard. 


Sabé 

Medium Human noble 2/scoundrel 4 

Force 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Gunganese, Huttese, Ryl, Shyriiwook (cannot speak} 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 16, Will 20; Dodge 

hp 37; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +5 (2d4+2) 

Ranged hold-out blaster +5 (34443) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +5 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Disruptive, Walk the Line 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 11, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Talents Bolster Ally, Disruptive, Walk the Line 

Feats Dodge, Improved Damage Threshold, Linguist, Skill Focus 
(Deception), Skill Focus (Perception), Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Proficiency [advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +15, Gather Information +10, Initiative +9, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +9, Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +9, Perception +14, Persuasion +10, Treat Injury +9, Use 
Computer +9 

Possessions comlink, datapad, handmaiden robes, hold-out blaster, 
vibrodagger 


CL6 


MASTER RAHM KOTA 
When the Clone Wars break out and Palpatine reveals his massive armies 
of clone troopers, many express their concern at this explosive military 
escalation. Jedi Master Rahm Kota, promoted to a position as a general 
during the conflict, assembled his own hand-picked and personally trained 
militia unit entirely free of clone personnel. Kota’s Militia deploys both asa 
combat unit in the field and as a special operations force against specialized 
targets. The decision costs Kota during the many battles in the Clone Wars. 
He slowly grows weary of seeing his soldiers and trusted friends fall in a 
conflict that he ultimately suspects will elevate Palpatine, exterminate the 
Jedi, and destroy the Republic. 
His choice to Jead nonclone troops saves Kota from Order 66, since he 
has no clones under his command and thus no hostile military force betray- 
ing him; however, it dooms him and his soldiers to an existence as hunted 
renegades and known enemies of the Empire during the Dark Times. Kota 
and his militia flee into the Outer Rim and establish a string of small bases 
from which they sabotage and assault a number of Imperial facilities, includ- 
ing a TIE fighter construction installation above Nar Shaddaa. They live a 


dangerous existence, constantly on the run from Imperial forces and evading 
an ever-intensifying hunt for renegade Jedi. Despite his military leadership 
and expertise as a Jedi, Kota eventually falls prey to one of Vader's minions 
hunting down the last vestiges of the Jedi Knights. 


Master Rahm Kota 

Medium Human Jedi 7/soldier 3/Jedi Knight 3/Jedi Master 1 

Destiny 1; Force 6 

Init +13; Senses Perception +19 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 27), Fort 30, Will 29: Block, Deflect 

hp 109; Threshold 30 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +20 (2d8+19) or 

Melee lightsaber +18 (3d8+19) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +22 (3d8+26) with Powerful Charge and Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +14; Grp +18 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Juyo, Redirect Shot, serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): battle strike (2), farseeing, 
Force slam, mind trick, move object, rebuke, repulse, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery 


CL 14 


Abilities Str 18, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Special Qualities fearless, serenity 

Talents Armored Defense, Block, Deflect, Force Perception, Greater 
Weapon Specialization (lightsabers), Juyo, Redirect Shot, Visions, 
Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Armor Proficiency (light), Force Sensitivity, Force 
Training (3), Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), 
Skill Training (Acrobatics), Skill Training (Use Computer), Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Initiative +13, Perception +19, Use Computer +11, 
Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber, light combat armor (as armored flight suit +5, +2 
equipment), comlink, Jedi robes 


“VADER THINKS 


HE'S TURNED YOU... 
BUT | CAN SENSE 


YOUR FUTURE.” 


—- MASTER RAHIM KOTA 


IX HStagvHo 


SLNENOdEO GNY SSAIVTY 


(fe) Ga ea al ee ee ee eT 


Mies) 


oe eee ee ee! 


SLNINMOJISO GNY SEITay 


{ 


1x HeHSaLawHo 


U 


KOTA’'S MILITIA 

The men and women serving in Kota’s Militia represent an enlightened class 
of citizens who realize that their civic obligation to the Republic requires their 
direct involvement in galactic affairs. Despite their varied origins—military 
academy graduates, CorSec agents, responsible nobles~they all believe the 
burden of military service shouldn't fall to an army of clones that have no 
vested interest in the Republic, but to the very people who stand to benefit 
from victory. 

These citizens volunteer when the Clone Wars begin, drawn to Master 
Rahm Kota because he is one of the few generals leading nonclone forces. 
They undergo military training under his tutelage, including small-unit 
tactics and commando operations. The militia undertakes several special 
assignments and joins other nonclone units such as the Antarian Rangers 
for larger assaults. Like many of those units, they fall victim to Order 66 and 
share the same fate as their Jedi commanders: to become hunted outlaws 
labeled as traitors to the Empire. 

During the Dark Times, the militia rallies around Master Kota. The soldiers 
spend their time ensuring their safety, seeking new havens, establishing 
bases and contacts, working with allies, obtaining necessary supplies and 
transport, and staying one step ahead of Vader's agents. Once they stabi~ 
lize their position, the militia members turn to Master Kota for inspiration 
in striking back at nearby Imperial installations in the Outer Rim. Most 
become casualties in these small assaults; they ultimately fall victim to the 
agents sent by Vader to hunt them down. 
Kota’s Militia Soldier CL 2 
Medium Human nonheroic 8 
Force 1 
Init +11; Senses Perception +5 
Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 11 
hp 22; Threshold 13 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee bayonet +7 (1d8+1) 

Ranged rail detonator gun +9 (3d8, 1-square splash) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Combat Reflexes, Skill Focus (Stealth), 
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency pistols", rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Stealth +16" 

Possessions blast helmet and vest (+2 armor), rail detonator gun, bayonet, 
comlink, 150 credits 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


Kota’s Militia Saboteur 

Medium Human nonheroic 8/saboteur 3 

Force 2 

Init +6; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 14, Will 18 

hp 38; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee bayonet +9 (1d8+2) 

Ranged rail detonator gun +10 (3d8+1, 1-square splash) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities destructive, unexpected results 

Talents Shaped Explosion, Skilled Demolitionist 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Combat Reflexes, Skill Focus (Mechanics), 
Skill Training (Deception), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapan Proficiency 
(pistols*, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Mechanics +15, Use Computer" +10 

Possessions blast helmet and vest (+2 armor), rail detonator gun, bayonet, 
3 land mines, comlink, 150 credits 

H Human bonus or trained skill 


CL5 


KAZDAN PARATUS 

Not all Jedi who survive Order 66 manage to escape unharmed. After being 
betrayed by clone troopers and branded a traitor by Palpatine, the Aleena 
Jedi Kazdan Paratus flees the carnage and ends up hiding amid the industrial 
wastelands on Raxus Prime. His accelerated Aleena metabolism reacted 
poorly to the prolonged stress of serving in the Clone Wars and the trauma 
of Order 66, sending Paratus into an emotional meltdown and a permanent 
state of insanity. The once courageous Jedi Knight spirals into a delusional 
existence of denial and fantasy. 

In the first throes of his insanity, Paratus nurtures an inferiority complex 
focused on his size. As a result, he attaches four prosthetic, mechanical spider 
arms to his back to provide him with greater size and mobility as needed. 
As he trains with his new attachments, Paratus enters the next phase of his 
descent into insanity. The Jedi Knight perpetuates a grand delusion that he is 
a member of the Jedi Council. Using Raxus Prime's abundant industrial debris 
and an army of mechanical constructs he creates from junk, Paratus builds 
an elaborate replica of the Jedi Temple. He populates it with “Jedi Masters" 
fashioned from debris, with whom he holds sessions as a member of the 
Jedi Council. Paratus spends his days prowling his Jedi Temple (on the floor, 
walls, and ceilings, thanks to his spider limbs), consulting the “library,” and 
conducting training with imaginary Jedi Padawans (and honing his own skills). 
He modifies the animated constructs used to build the temple to become 


mechanized guards who protect the temple against its “enemies’—anyone 

seeking to enter and destroy Paratus’s hold over his imaginary Jedi Order. 
Most inhabitants of Raxus Prime who discover Paratus's deranged Jedi 

Temple steer clear of the Jedi. Paratus rarely ventures out of his lair, preferring 

his custom-made yet delusional environment to the trials of the real world. 

Those who trespass in his domain must face his automated army of junk 

guardians and, if they get very far, the wrath of the insane Jedi himself. 

Kazdan Paratus CL 14 

Small Aleena Jedi 9/Jedi Knight 5 

Force 6 

Init +12; Senses Perception +15 

Languages Aleena, Basic 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 27), Fort 26, Will 28; Block, Deflect 

hp 102; Threshold 19 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+11) or 

Melee spider claw +15 (1d6+8) 

Base Atk +14; Grp +10 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Improved Disarm, Melee Defense 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, quick energy, Redirect Shot, Shien, 
Telekinetic Savant 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): battle strike, Force slam, Force 
stun, Force thrust, move object, negate energy, rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Improved Move Light Object, Improved Sense 
Surroundings 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Special Qualities nimble, quick energy 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Block, Deflect, Redirect Shot, Resilience, Shien, 
Telekinetic Savant, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved 
Disarm, Melee Defense, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use the 
Force), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +7 (can reroll, must take second result), Initiative +12, 
Mechanics +19, Perception +15, Stealth +12, Use the Force +15 

Possessions lightsaber, 4 prosthetic spider arms (+4 squares to speed}, 
magnifying lens and light, tool kit 


SHAAK T! 

This Togruta Jedi Master and influential member of the Jedi Council served 
with distinction as a Jedi High General during the Clone Wars. The Jedi 
revere Shaak Ti as one of the highest of their Order and among the most 
accomplished in lightsaber combat. Unfortunately for her, nothing could 
save her from Palpatine's treachery. 

She narrowly survived the carnage of Order 66 and fled to Felucia. She 
searched the planet for any signs of other Jedi who managed to escape, and 
ultimately disappeared into the wilderness to flee from Imperial forces and 
find a safe haven. 

The Jedi Master struggled to survive in Felucia’s harsh environment and 
eventually made contact with the native population living amid the dense 
fungi jungles. She established a rapport with the Force-sensitive Felucians 
and began training their shamans in specific powers to help them oppose 
the Imperial troops and minions of Vader that are hunting down the Jedi and 
seeking to eradicate the native Force-users on the planet. 


I< HS4agVvHo 


P 
nm 
OQ 
b 
i 
gy 
0 
0 
7) 
@ 
Zz 
ly) 
Z 
ql 
(0) 


Co ED a ean ye ye 


fRab 


O 8 SG So SSeS 


SLNINOAdO GNWY SsaiqaIY? 


—— 


IX BSiaVHo 


During this time, Shaak Ti’s new apprentice Maris Brood begins experi- 
menting with the Force on her own and starts down the path toward the 
dark side. Her efforts to train the Felucians, her concern for Maris Brood’s 
divergence from the Jedi path, and the constant struggle to remain hidden 
distract Shaak Ti when one of Vader's Jedi hunters appears and destroys her, 
leaving her Padawan and the Felucians to their own devices. 


Shaak Ti 

Medium Togruta Jedi 8/Jedi Knight 4/Jedi Master 2 

Force 6 

Init +14; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Togruti 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 27), Fort 27, Will 30; Block, Deflect 

hp 140; Threshold 27 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +20 (2d8+10) or 

Melee lightsaber +18 (3d8+10) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +15 (2d8+10) and 
lightsaber +15 (2d8+10) with Double Attack or 

Melee unarmed +17 (1d4+8) 

Base Atk +16; Grp +18 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Ataru, Battle Meditation, Double Attack 
(lightsabers), Rapid Strike, Running Attack 

Special Actions Acrobatic Recovery, Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): battle strike, Force slam, Force 
stun, Force thrust, move object, rebuke, surge 

Force Secrets Devastating Power 

Force Techniques Improved Force Trance, Improved Sense Force, 

mproved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Talents Acrobatic Recovery, Ataru, Battle Meditation, Block, Deflect, 

Redirect Shot, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, 

Force Training (2), Running Attack, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use 

the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 

Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Initiative +14, Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber, Jedi robes 


CL 14 


“ARE YOU PREPARED 
TO MEET YOUR 
FATE?” 


—- SHAAK TI 


MARIS BROOD 

The last Padawan of Jedi Master Shaak Ti, Maris Brood fled to Felucia after 
serving the Republic during the later years of the Clone Wars and escaping 
the execution of Order 66. During her time on Felucia~while her Master 
focused on training the native shamans in the ways of the Force—Brood 
wandered off on her own, testing her skills against the planet's hostile wildlife 
and exploring the Force along her own course. After Vader's minion defeats 
Shaak Ti, Brood is left on her own with the Force-sensitive natives and the 
harsh Felucian wilderness. Fueled by her anger at Shaak Ti for abandoning 
her, horror at the carnage of her Master's death, and isolation on the danger- 
ous planet of Felucia, Brood descends toward the dark side. She continues 
training the shamans in the Jedi arts but, colored by her rage, corrupts many 
of them into turning to the dark side. Brood establishes herself as the leader 
of the dark Felucian shamans and trains many rancors to do her bidding. 
Her most dangerous ally is the bull rancor, which she uses to fend off any 
intruders into her domain. 


Maris Brood CL7 
Medium Zabrak Jedi 7 

Force 5; Dark Side 12 

Init +10; Senses Perception +10 


Languages Basic, Zabrak 


Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18, Lightsaber Defense 21), Fort 17, Will 20; 
Block, Deflect 
hp 69; Threshold 17 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee guard shoto +9 (2d6+3) or 

Melee guard shoto +7 (2d6+3) and 
guard shoto +7 (2d6+3) or 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4} 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Special Actions Lightsaber Defense, Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +14): battle strike (2), dark rage, 
move object, rebuke, surge 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 9, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Block, Charm Beast, Command Beast, Deflect, Lightsaber Defense 

Feats Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery Il, Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (2), Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +10, Initiative +10, Perception +10, Use the Force +14 

Possessions 2 guard shotos, field kit, medpac 


FELUCIANS 

The natives of the planet Felucia are constantly faced with the ever-shift- 
ing balance of the Force on their home planet. Unlike many other primitive 
cultures, the Felucians are not organized into many tribes, but instead are all 
members of one tribe that spans the entire planet. As such, the same social 
hierarchy exists in every Felucian village. The Empire, and the Gossams who 
settled on Felucia, both failed to recognize this fact, instead treating each 
village or pocket of civilization as its own tribe or territory. As such, conflicts 
between the Felucians and the invaders usually escalated as a result of the 
outsiders’ attempts to isolate Felucian settlements from one another. 


FELUCIAN SHAMANS 

Among the Felucians, shamans are spiritual leaders and instructors in the 

ways of the Force. Each Felucian shaman learns to manipulate his or her own 

natural abilities with the Force and can wield Force powers with greater skill 

than any other Felucian. These shamans are closely in tune with the flow of 

the Force throughout Felucia and are constantly on watch for other Felucians 

who are flirting with the dark side. Despite their vigilance, the Felucians 

sometimes lose a shaman to the dark side, which causes the community to 

hunt down the dark shaman and feed him to the Sarlacc. 

Felucian Shaman CL3 

Medium Felucian nonheroic 9 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Felucianese 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will 12 

hp 11; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee skullblade +8 (2d6+1) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): Force blast (2), move object 
(2), rebuke (2), vital transfer 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 15, Cha 13 

Special Qualities breathe underwater, natural camouflage, Force blast 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Skill Focus (Use the Force), 
Skill Training (Initiative), Skill Training (Use the Force), Weapon Focus 
(simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Perception +11, Stealth +5 (can reroll when sneaking 
and take better result], Use the Force +15 

Possessions skullblade, loincloth, warning horn 


ix HSiavHs 


i 


SLNENOoHIeO@ GNY SSIdny’ 


= 


HaLeavHo 


1x 


SLNIANGAde GNY SsSsnqnlIyv 


FELUCIAN Scouts 

The harsh nature of Felucia’s environment requires most Felucians to train in 
combat as well as in survival skills. Felucian scouts protect native villagers, 
forming the core of their society. They hunt, make war on other tribes, and 
fend off intruders into their territory, particularly Imperial minions sent to 
exterminate them for their natural Force-sensitivity. 


Felucian Scout CL1 

Medium Felucian nonheroic 4 

Init +8; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Felucianese 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 12, Will 12 

hp 11; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee skullblade +6 (2d6+2) or 

Melee skullblade +6 (3d6+2) with Mighty Swing 

Ranged by weapon +4 

Base Atk +3; Grp +5 

Atk Options Mighty Swing 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 15, Cha 8 

Special Qualities breathe underwater, natural camouflage, Force blast 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Mighty Swing, Skill Training (Initiative), Skill 
Training (Stealth), Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +8, Perception +9, Stealth +8 (can reroll when sneaking 
and take better result), Use the Force +1 

Possessions skullblade, loincloth, warning horn 


DREXL ROOSH 

Drex! Roosh is a Rodian thug and would-be crime lord who has set up shop 
on Raxus Prime. Like many Rodians, Drexl thinks far more of himself than the 
rest of the galaxy does. Drexl enjoys bossing around his minions and their 
Jawa assistants, and he always seems to be looking for a fight. Reckless and 
defiant, Drex| Roosh wants nothing more than to prove to the galaxy that he 
should be feared and admired. Drexl uses a jetpack for moving about Raxus 
Prime and also employs it in combat. 


Drexl Roosh CL5 

Medium Rodian nonheroic 6/scoundrei 3 

Force 3; Dark Side 8 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +4 

Languages Rodese 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 13, Will 14 

hp 26; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +9 (2d6+3) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +10 (3d8+1) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (3d8+1) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Combat Reflexes, Point Blank Shot, 
Skirmisher, Strafe 

Special Actions Fool's Luck 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 15, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Special Qualities heightened awareness 

Talents Fool's Luck, Skirmisher 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Persuasion), 
Strafe, Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Perception +4 (can reroll, must take second result), 
Persuasion +10 

Possessions vibroblade, heavy blaster pistol, blaster rifle, comlink, jetpack, 
various personal belongings 


DREXL ROOSH'S GANG 

Drex!'s gang is a small band of thugs, scavengers, and criminals that operates 
out of Raxus Prime. Drex! has managed to set up a rather impressive salvage 
operation on the junk-covered planet, and he uses his Rodian minions to 
produce scrap and other goods that can be sold to offworld traders. Drex| 
has little regard for the lives of his gang members, and even less for the lives 
of those who attempt to interfere with his operation. Drexl's scavengers pick 
apart any junk found on the planet, looking for valuable hunks of metal or 
intact mechanical parts. On many occasions, Drex\’s gang has come into 
conflict with the Core, the massive computer system that coordinates Raxus 
Prime's automated labor population. Drex! continues to reap the rewards of 
his boldness while defying the Core’s droid legions at every turn. 


Drexl's Gang Member CL 2 
Medium Rodian nonheroic 6 

Dark Side 4 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision; Perception +1 

Languages Rodese 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 10, Will 8 


hp 16; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +7 (2d4+3) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 15, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 6, Cha 8 

Special Qualities heightened awareness 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Combat Reflexes, Coordinated Attack, 
Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple 
weapons} 

Skills Initiative +10, Perception +1 (can reroll, must take second result) 

Possessions vibrodagger, heavy blaster pistol, blast helmet and vest (+2 
armor), 50 credits 


YwAWAS 


These diminutive scavengers and technicians are native to Tatooine, but a few 
small groups have spread throughout the galaxy in enclaves wherever others 
require their mechanical services. Raxus Prime provides an entire clan of Jawas 
with a planet's worth of factories and other infrastructure installations to 
maintain and vast industrial wastelands that they prowl for spare parts. Drexl 
Roosh often uses Jawa scavengers to supplement his own gang's operations. 

Jawas do not usually exhibit aggressive behavior. Although they carry 
ion guns to disable droids and other electronics during their scavenging 
operations, they rarely attack others unless in self-defense. 


Jawa CL 2 

Small Jawa nonheroic 6 

Init +5; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Jawa, Jawa Trade Language 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 12; Dodge 

hp 18; Threshold 9 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (143) 

Ranged ion pistol +6 (3d6 ion) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +1 

Atk Options Trip 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 14, Con 8, int 15, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Feats Dodge, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Trip, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles) 

Skills Mechanics +15, Perception +10, Stealth +15 

Possessions ion pistol, datapad, tool kit, satchel, 2 energy cells, mesh 
tape, 70 credits 


UGNAUGHTS 


These natives of Gentes have long suffered various degrees of slavery. Their 
rugged build and aptitude for mechanics make them ideal industrial work- 
ers, but their lack of planetary defenses and military structure make them 
vulnerable to the more aggressive powers in the galaxy. Throughout history, 
different forces—both official governments and corporate entities as well as 
freelancing slavers—have raided Gentes and exported entire communities of 
Ugnaughts to industrial sites across the galaxy. 

Ugnaughts suffer under slavery during the Clone Wars, too, as Separatist 
forces raid Gentes and haul away thousands of Ugnaughts to work in factories 
producing weapons, droids, and vessels, including the droid foundries on 
Geonosis. Many escape in the aftermath of battles and sieges, leaving the 
scarred worlds to establish independent enclaves. The floating Tibanna gas 
mining installations of Bespin have long provided one of the few free havens 
for expatriate Ugnaughts; here they maintain both the mining machinery 
and the infrastructure facilities that keep the cities aloft. Over the years they 
have become valuable members of the Bespin populace. 


Ugnaught CL2 

Small Ugnaught nonheroic 6 

Init +3; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Ugnaught 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 11, Will 12; Dodge 

hp 27; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee hydrospanner +6 (1d6+2) or 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +1 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Feats Dodge, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +15, Use Computer +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, hydrospanner, datapad, tool kit, work coveralls, 
50 credits 


WOOKIEE BERSERKERS 


After the Empire blockaded Kashyyyk and began enslaving Wookiees, 
renegade Wookiees formed small bands of berserker units to fight Imperial 
forces, with the ultimate goal of liberating their homeworld. Some units are 
made up of individuals far from Kashyyyk who manage to escape Imperial 
imprisonment. Others suffer under captivity in penal labor colonies before 
escaping and fighting their way to freedom. All fuel their fighting fervor 
with rage at what the Empire has done to them, their homeworld, and their 


ix HSidwHoS 


SLNINOGEea GNY SSIqaWY? 


OS 6, 2th 


0 


SLNSGNOGE0 GNY SSI? 


ix HSLavHo 


f 


people. Many harbor mistrust of all Humans, even those who seek to aid them, 

thanks to the Empire's policy promoting Human High Culture and its brutal 

persecution of many alien species. Since mast law-abiding citizens recognize 

Wookiees as dangerous enslaved aliens, berserker groups remain in hiding, 

their mobility limited to clandestine transportation methods. 

Wookiee Berserker CL 2 

Medium Wookiee nonheroic 8 

Init +15; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic (cannot speak), Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 12, Will 11 

hp 36; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d6+3) 

Ranged bowcaster +7 {3d10} 

Base Atk +6; Grp +9 

Special Actions rage 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Feats Dreadful Rage, Extra Rage, Skill Focus (Initiative), Weapon 
Proficiency (rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Initiative +715 

Possessions bowcaster, satchel, 40 credits 


BEASTS 

Though the Empire is the greatest threat during the Dark Times, many heroes 
have met their end at the hands (or claws) of a dangerous creature native to 
alien worlds. The following beasts, each native to the fungal world of Felucia, 
can be used in a Force Unleashed campaign to provide new challenges for 
the heroes to face while in any wilderness setting. 


BULL RANCOR 

The bull rancor is seemingly a creature of myth rumored to populate the 
deepest jungles of Felucia. With huge tusks and a massive spined tail, a bull 
rancor is much larger than most other rancors and is incredibly dangerous. 
The bull rancor is incredibly long-lived and exceedingly rare; Imperial biolo- 
gists have yet to capture one for study. Based on the accounts of the native 
Felucians, these creatures are believed to emerge from the deepest jungles 
only once every few years. A bull rancor is dangerous, even to other rancors, 
and the creatures usually live in solitude. 
Bull Rancor CL 13 
Gargantuan beast 12 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 16, Will 8 


hp 186; DR 15"; fast healing 5; Threshold 36 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +17** each (1d8+26) or 

Melee bite +17** (2d6+26) or 

Melee tail +17** (1d8+26) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Reach 3 squares 

Base Atk +9; Grp +39 

Atk Options Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 9, Con 31, Int 2, Wis 7, Cha 15 

Special Qualities fast healing 5 

Feats Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack, Toughness 

Skills Perception +9 

Fast Healing 5—A rancor automatically regains 5 hit points every round 
at the end of its turn, up to its normal maximum, until it is killed. 

“Lightsabers do not ignare a bull rancor's damage reduction. 

* Includes 6 points of Power Attack. 


FELUCIAN RIPPER 

A dangerous creature that dwells in the shallow rivers and creeks flowing 
throughout Felucia, the Felucian ripper has a wide body and a large mouth 
filled with jagged teeth. A Felucian ripper can hide even in the shallowest 
of water, and can actually leap out of the water to attack other creatures, 
provided that the ripper ends its movement back underwater. 
Felucian Ripper CL5 
Medium beast 6 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +4 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 11 

hp 33; Threshold 11 

Speed 10 squares 

Melee bite +6 (1d6+5) or 

Melee bite +4 (2d6+5) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee bite +8 (2d6+8) with Rapid Strike and Powerful Charge or 

Melee tail slam +6 (1d4+5) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike, Running Attack 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Special Qualities aquatic 

Feats Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike, Running Attack 

Skills Stealth +11 


“BEFORE THE DARK TIMES. BEFORE THE EMPIRE.” 


~ From the ashes of the Republic rises the dread Galactic Empire. The Sith hold the fate of 
the galaxy in their iron grasp, and the Rebel Alliance is still years away from formation. 
In these dark times, is there any force that can challenge the tyranny of the Empire? 


ante | 
Visit our website at 


www.starwars.com 
www.wizards.com/starwars 


THIS BOOK PROVIDES EVERYTHING A PLAYER 
OR GAMEMASTER NEEDS TO ENJOY A CAMPAIGN 
SET DURING THE DARK TIMES: 


@ A complete campaign setting for the time between Hevenge of the Sith and A New Hope. 


©) beclusive content based on the exciting LucasArts multimedia event, /he force Unleashed. 


New character options that expand and intensify how the Force can be used. aN ann oe 
as Gf ir 3 e 
CDA cetailed look at the Galactic Empire, its minions, and its technology. . alls (74) 
y ye starwars.com 

@® To use this accessory, players and Gamemasters also need the 162006 Linco Li &: 7 igh reserved: tinea unser iteration. 


@ i itiy Wizards of the Coast, 20 System and their respective logos are trademarks 
Star Wars® Roleplaying Game Saga Edition core rulebook. bribe antegrade 


