— 


~ 


ROLEPLAYING GAME 


GALAXKY AT WAR™ 


ROONEY THOMPSON GARY ASTLEFORD ERIC CAGLE DANIEL WALLACE 


GALAXY AT WAR™ 


RODNEY THOMPSON, GARY ASTLEFORD, ERIC CAGLE, DANIEL WALLACE 


Oo) 


CGREBITS 


ESIGNERS Rodney Thompson, Gary Astleford, PRODUCTION MANAGER ‘ynda Callaway 
Eric Cagle, Danie! Wallace 
ADDITIONAL DESIGN Jonathan Stevens GRAPHIC DESIGNERS: Leon Cortez 
VELOPER Rodney Thompson PRE-PRESS MANAGE! Jefferson Dunlap 


IG BROOUC TION Christopher Tardiff 


EDITORS Ray Vallese, Bradley Will Ane T. 
LUCAS LICENSING EDITOR | Frank Parisi COVER ARTIST Jason Chan 
Steve Argyle, Drew Baker, Jeffrey Carlisle, Miguel 
aaNaGG RoR =) Tesh come Coimbra, Jason A. Engle, Gonzalo Flores, Randy 
Gallegos, Jason Juta, Corey Macourek, Christopher 
INTERIOR ARTISTS | Moeller, Walter O'Neal, Paul Shipper, Brian Snoddy, 
Zoltan Boros & Gabor Szikszai, Chris Trevas, Francis 
CR OEET I Ser TIE ne, Tsai, Christopher West, Ben Wootten 
DESIGN MANAGER: Christopher Perkins 


ee a a 


DIRECTOR OF RPG RAD | Bil Slavicsek (MSSINS TR Ab NSIS Carmen Cheung 


ART DIRECTORS: Blake Beasley, Ryan Sansaver CIAL THANKS Leland Chee 
—————————————— 


‘Some rules mechanics are based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C. Stephens, and Rodney Thompson, the original Dungeons tx Dragons* rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave 
‘Arneson, and the 3” Edition Dungeons & Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adinon 


This Witards of the Coast" game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of ths work may be reproduces in any form without written petmission. 


US, Canada, Asa, GREAT BATTAN, 
Pace, & Latin America asbro UK ia pot the Cont Belghen 
Ward ofthe Coast LC Cosine ay Industanan | 
PO, Box 707 Newport, Gent NPS O¥H 02 Got-Brgharden 
Reanon, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BAAN, Beiguin worn wzaros.com Pace ey 
‘Questions? 1-300-824-6496 Please eep hs addvess for your ecords +3070 289.277 8-0-7869.5221.2 

(620-24181720-001-EN 

987654321 


Fist Printing: September 2009 


2009 LUCASFLM LTD & @ OR WHERE INDICATED. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, 
‘USED UNDER AUTHORATION 


Dungeons & Dragons, 420 System, Wizards ofthe Coast, andthe respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast inthe US.A and ether countries This material protected nes the copyright laws othe Unite States of Amesica. Any reproduction or unauthorized use 
ofthe mateal or artwork contained herein prohtited mthout the express wien permission of Wiards of he Caast LLC This products & work of ction, Any smarty to actual people, organizatans laces, or events purely coincidental Printed inthe U S.A 


CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION... 4 Capital Ships... Command Bridge 
Vehicle and Corridor. + 166 
Starship Weapons . Gunnery Towe 148 : : 
CIES: RANE Arey: Vehicle Fire Effects... Hangar Bay. 148 gg eee 16 
Laboratory 150 se z 
Encounter: The Big Boom.....170 
Barabel Medical Bay . 150 
ga Of, 450 Mini-Adventure #2; 
Jashade = 
Lurmen. Reactor Core. 151 TADS Fi ssa naisiares ae) 


Tactical Command Center, “182 Encounter: Watch Your Step ..174 


Taung .. a exo Use Mini-Adventure #3: 
Thakwaas! ‘3 i Remember the Akkalo. ....176 
Trianii Restricted Access . 


You're in the Army Now .......79 


Encounter: The Last Stand ....178 


Yevetha, « Military Adventures. .. at totale Mini-Adventure #4: That Which 
Yuzzem, Blast Doors. . i 
The Imperial Campaign Does Not Kill Me... 180 
Zynertian . Magnetically Sealed : 
‘ Types of Imperial Campaigns .93 Encounter: 
Heroic Classes . Doors and Rooms. 
i Types of Imperial Heroes... iia tec Unexpected Company... ..182 
A ca Battlefield Encounter Tool Kit SSE eles Mini-Adventure #5: 
ah Sie Random Mission Generator ...102 TARA No Man Left Behind ......184 
4 ea Ha Tae : Finan Encounter: The Extraction ,, ..186 
restige Class Tale CHAPTER Vs MILITARY Mini-Adventure #6: 


Martial Arts Master . .. 104 and Corridors... 


UNITS... Choke Point .......6s000' 188 


fe] 

? 

Secondary Conduit 3 

CHIR: HaRDWAR Ailon Nova Guard 106 Computer Systems: eae On Hands | 

eccNaas Churhee's Riflemen. Main Computers. eee Fl 

bic Hapan Royal Guard. Control Room Computers ...160 Ge Gite Me 

te scatter ree scat 

demo ” Katarn Commandos. Alarm System Controls . Tesetaoes @ 

Equipment Lightning Squadron. a Communications Controls. ..160 si > 

aliens Mandalorian Protectors ......118 Information Systems .......161 p 

awe ‘ Mistry Shadow Guard Life Support Controls... ..161 b 

sehshiss Nimbus Commandos Sensor Controls “161 % 

Series Medical Droid, Onderon Beast Riders, Weapons Controls s 


KDY-4 Tech Droid, ....... 
Chiba DR-10 Protocol Droid. 52 
B2-AA Air Assault 

Super Battle Droid ......52 


Republic Rocket-Jumpers.....126 Station Hazards. . . “ Part 2: The lon Cannon 
Senate Guard Carbonite Part 3: The Invasion 
Senate Commandos . Freezing Chambers , of Tirahnt 


BVM 179 


: Sun Guards of Thyrsus . Chasms and Pits Encounter: Drop Zone . 

Eradicator-Series Rane . 

Rane es Trianii Rangers. Conveyor Belts... Zolghast's Bunker. 

saad E Wraith Squadron. Crushing Damage. 

Purge Trooper Bs 
since Electrified Floors 
Tactical Did. ‘35 Gas....... Control Center... an 
Vigilant 2X-Series ~ 136 Gravity Traps. . Encounter: Rooftop 

Picket Droid .......+.+++! 55 The Battlestation Toolkit .....137 bieae ee santas 
CLL-M2 Ordnance Lifter... ..56 Introduction to ie crinnk 
MR-200 Series Battlestation Design...... 138 Shock Locks: 

Minesweeper Droid . Battlestation Challenge Level .142 

a a Trap Doors. 
Beasts of War... Battlestation Interior : 
3 Wind Tunnels 
Vehicles and Starships . Locations 144 
‘ and Exhaust Vents. 
Ground Vehicles. Airlock. 144 : 
Saas hse ve Prisons and Cell Blocks. 
pan Transports : Jedi Imprisonment Devices. 165 


Z bP 
F 
m 
0 
J 
0 
0 
4 
- 
g 


rr er 
Few things are more constant in the Star Wars saga than the ongoing conflict 
of war. Our first exposure to the Star Wars saga began with the war between 
the Rebel Alliance and the Galactic Empire, and the stories of heroes from a 
galaxy far, far away almost all fall against the backdrop of armed conflict. 
From the ancient Great Hyperspace War to the Jedi Civil War, from the Clone 
\. Wars through the Sith-Imperial War, time has been marked in the galaxy not 
by its long-standing eras of peace, but by its tranquility-shattering periods 
war. Nearly every great tale of heroism and villainy comes with galaxy- 
ning conflict as a part of its story, and the same goes for the stories of 
pes in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. 
, Galaxy at War is dedicated to bringing the same kinds of epic conflict 
4 vi ~=~*to your adventures and campaigns. Inside this book you will find a virtual 
toolbox full of material that you can use to give your adventures a backdrop 
fitting for a setting focused on warfare. Galaxy at War is all about bringing 
a strong militaristic feeling to your adventures, whether your heroes are part 
of a military unit engaged in a war or simply swept up as unwilling pawns in 
@ galactic conflict. With this book, you should be able to take a campaign 
set during any of the wars throughout the galaxy's history and create a 
campaign that makes your heroes feel like they are directly contributing to 
the outcome of that conflict. 
Players using this book will find inspiration not only for their heroes’ 
origins, but also for their destinies. This book helps players get into a mili- 
tary mindset, so that they can bring their heroes (soldiers and otherwise) to 
life. Players with characters of any class in a war-themed campaign should 
find plenty of things to use in this book, including new ideas for character 
histories, weapons, and equipment. Moreover, this book can be a great 
inspiration for an entire group of players looking to find ways to bring their 
heroes together and form bonds that will last through an entire campaign; 
nothing ensures loyalty like going into the fire together and coming out the 
other side alive. 
Gamemasters will find this book full of not only sample adventures but 
also advice for creating and maintaining military adventures and campaigns. 
This book can serve as a tool kit for putting together military adventures, from 
“ the pre-mission briefing all the way through the post-combat breakdown 
and mission analysis. Galaxy at War provides not only advice for running 
military-themed campaigns (including the archetypal military campaign, in 
which the heroes play characters who are members of the Imperial military), 
but also provides small details and subtle touches, like military jargon and 
NPC personality qualities, that can help GMs transform adventures from 
| standard mission-based games into exciting and in-depth war epics. 


) 


HYM Lv Axvivo 


Norsnaouint 


How Tro USE 
THis BOOK 


The first two chapters of Galaxy ayers 


acter-building information a: as new mech: systems meant 


s. The remainder of th 
4: Military Orga 


useful to players looking 


heroes’ norma 


book is 


for Gamemaster 


ations 


er history or aspirations, Here are suggestions for 


AS A PLAYER 


As a player, you want to focus not only on enhancing your hero's 
abilities but alsc hing out the character's personality and history to 
fit a military-themed campaign. A hero is not just a collection of statistics 
and abilities; a hero has a personality and a unique viewpoint from which 
he or she interacts with the galaxy. Galaxy at War can help you find the 

hose things exist for your character in a military campaign, and help 
provide depth and a knowledge of your hero's history and methods that w 
make roleplaying the character easier 


Hero Concepts 


t, this book can be used to come th a basic concept for your hero 
Aside from the new species presented in this book, Galaxy at War can help 
yu figure out where your hero came from and where he or she might be 

going. For example, your hero might be a member of one of the various 
military units presented in Chapter 4: Military Organizations. You can use 
the information in this book to answer other questions that will add depth 
) your characte your hero a part of the conflict? Did your hero go 

through some kind of boot camp, and if so did he or she graduate? What 
about officer dacy training? Is your hero destined to be a leader or 
ome kind of special your hero making the military a career, or merely 
aying his or her dues before moving on to another life? With these questions 

wered, you'll have a solid idea of what your particular hero's role is in a 


med campaign 


This book can also be great for building your party's concept. Are you 
and your allies all part of the same military unit? Were you trained together, 
or thrown together for some reason? If you and your allies have personality 
‘onflicts, how do you overcome those for the sake of the mission? If you 
are all part of the same military unit, each hero still likely has a specialty 
you should figure out who specializes in what in advance, and then fold that 


decision into each of the heroes’ historie 


Hero Building 

With a solid concept for your military hero in mind, the next step is to build 
your hero. Chapter 1: Military Heroes provides several new races, new feats, 
and new talents to help flesh out your hero in a particular role, Addition 
ally, if you and your allies all belong to the same military unit, there are 
several mechanics (including the new team feats) that can help provide a 


0€5, to go along with your unifying 


unifying mechanical theme for your he 
story theme 

Chapter 2: Hardware takes the blasters, armor, and gear available to your 
hero to a whole new level. In addition to new pieces of equipment available 
for military heroes, this chapter also includes a new gear requisitioning 
system, which can replace the standard wealth system in the Saga Edition 
rules, allowing you to gear up with just the right amount of equipment for 
a given situation. Using this system, you can make sure that you and your 
allies always have the right tools for the mission, not to mention giving you 
edom to experiment with new weapons and gear over the course 


greater f 


of multiple missions. 


Hero Advancement 

With your hero complete, your adventures can begin—but that's no reason 
to put this book away. As your hero advances in level, so too will he or she 
n stature and esteem. If your campaign is using the rank and 
privilege rules from Chapter 2: Hardware, your hero will gain a progres- 
sively greater n your hero's military unit. With greater rank comes 
a greater budget for requisitioning gear, as well as unique new abilities that 
in only be obtained through achieving particular ranks. 


advance 


ank with 


AS A GAMEMASTER 

For Gamemasters, this book is primarily about two things: helping you estab- 
lish the right tone for your adventures, and giving you the tools you need to 
construct exciting military adventures. When you start running a campaign 
set against the backdrop of a war-torn galaxy, you can decide how much 
or how little of the campaign really interacts with the war. If you plan on 
having the war affect the adventures, and vice versa, there are several ways 
that you can use the material in this book to bring the danger and brutality 
of open war into your campaign. 


‘As with players creating heroes, the first two chapters of this book provide 
a number of new character options that you can use to create the NPC allies 
and antagonists that your heroes are likely to interact with in a military cam- 
paign. You'll need a cast of secondary characters for allies to support your 
heroes—such as quartermasters, commanding officers, undercover contacts, 
and enemy defectors—that help reinforce the fact that the heroes aren't 
the only ones fighting in the war, By the same token, none of the conflicts 
in the Star Wars saga is without its share of high-profile villains, and both 
the character options and background suggestions can help you to flesh out 
those characters. The same talents, feats, weapons, and equipment that your 
heroes can use to create the different members of a military unit can be used 
to create the unique leaders of the opposing forces. 


Building Encounters 

Like other Saga Edition books, Galaxy at War is filled with various elements 
that can be picked up and dropped into your encounters whole cloth to make 
them more interesting. In addition to the new creatures, droids, and vehicles 
featured in Chapter 2: Hardware, this book contains a number of sample 
encounters that can be inserted into your adventures, with as many or as few 
changes as you see fit to tailor them to your campaign. More than that, this 
book features a variety of tools to help you design your own encounters that 
help evoke a sense of participating in an ongoing war. For example, the battle- 
field encounter tool kit in Chapter 3: Military Campaigns details a number of 
hazards that can be added to an encounter to make the encounter feel more 
like it is taking place during a large-scale skirmish between opposing armies, 
while Chapter 5: Bases and Battlestations features maps of common locales 
that can be used as the basis for your own encounters. 


Building Adventures 

When it comes time to combine multiple encounters to form an adventure, 
Chapter 3: Military Campaigns identifies a step-by-step process that Game- 
masters can use as a template for their mission-based adventures. Each 
adventure begins with a mission briefing, for example, and then follows 
through steps like requisitioning gear, insertion, execution of the mission, 
and eventually extraction and debriefing, providing advice for Gamemasters 
‘on how to use these steps when designing their own adventures. 


An adventure is far more than just a collection of encounters and enemies. 
The information in Galaxy at War helps Gamemasters create interesting NPCs 
(which, as described above, have many of the same facets as heroes), as well 
as plots that are meaningful to the outcome of battles and even the war as 
a whole. Moreover, players are going to have access to special abil 
result of their rank and influence within their own military unit, abilities that 
GMs will need to plan ahead for; when a hero using the rank system from 
Chapter 2: Hardware calls for evac, for example, the GM can have the form 
that the requested transport will take planned out ahead of time. 


Building Campaigns 

Once you've finished designing your adventures, all that remains is to weave 
them together into campaigns. If you allow your heroes the chance to influ- 
ence the outcome of battles throughout your adventures (using the Battles in 
Adventures adventure mechanics from Chapter 3: Military Campaigns), the 
outcomes of those adventures will shape how the war, as a whole, is turning 
out. The heroes need not necessarily be turning the tide completely, but they 
may be pushing back the enemy in a certain sector of space. 

One of the great parts about running a campaign focused on warfare and 
military conflict is that the eventual resolution of the campaign is often quite 
obvious: The heroes’ faction emerges victorious over the opposing faction. 
Along the way, it's important that your players feel like they are influenc- 
ing the way the conflict turns out. As they rise through the ranks of their 
organization, they will wield more and more power, and likewise the battles 
they take part in should be more and more epic. 


Zz 
4 
a 
0 
0 
c 
5 
P| 
ie} 
Zz 


OT as data 
7 CHAPTER |! | 


| Ean hdd SLs 


For over a thousand generations the Jedi knights have guarded the peace 
throughout the galaxy. Even so, key eras of the Star Wors saga are ravaged by 
war, offering Gamemasters opportunities for campaigns focusing on warfare 
and the military. The heroes of a military campaign fight in battles, but they 
also can be the characters around which the war turns. In many cases, the 
actions of such heroes not only decide battles but also determine the fate 
of entire systems and sectors. Billions of lives hang in the balance, and the 
heroes’ actions can determine the final outcome of entire wars. The heroes of 
a military campaign are not simply combatants, they are agents of destiny. 

The soldier class is well suited for a military campaign. This book intro- 
duces new options specifically geared for characters who take levels in the 
soldier class, including those who have only a few levels of the class, Addi- 
tionally, the soldier class encompasses a wide variety of archetypes within 
the military theme: Soldiers can be covert-ops warriors, military police, 
officers-in-training, mercenaries, starfighter pilots, gunners, martial arts 
masters, and much, much more. This book helps players and Gamemasters 
use the soldier class to greater potential, illuminating new paths for combat 


At the sami@time, soldiers are not the only participants in warfare. Nobles 
cruit and command troops; scoundrels raid supply lines and ambush unsus- 
pecting-troops; scouts prepare entire armies for the battles they are about 
to face; and Jédinbring’the power of the Force to combat. Heroes of these 
classes can find new talents and feats in this chapter, and elsewhere in the 
book other new material to give heroes a distinctly military edge. Heroes of 
all classes are affected by the tides of war, and this book presents several 
new options that reflect how involvement in galaxywide war changes those 
characters. 
Much of the discussion in this book uses the word “military” to represent 
a general theme of a faction involved in a war. The term is not reserved only 
for organized factions such as the Republic or the Empire, but also covers 
any paramilitary or combat-oriented group. Highly organized and militant 
pirate groups, mercenary bands, support forces, and even individual adven- 
turing parties all fall under this banner, Military heroes are not required to 
be signed up for the armed forces of a major government, although typically 
they are members of an organized force with a rank structure and protocols 
of behavior focusing on combat and warfare. 


1 esiegwHo z 


S3083H AYuvLIIIW * 


| 


New SPECIES 

The following new species each have a special connection to warfare and 
combat. Whether they are adept mercenaries like the Dashade, veteran war- 
riors like the Taung, or pacifists trying to escape the horrors of war like the 
Lurmen, each species hasa role to play ina military campaign. When starting a 
campaign with a military focus, Gamemasters and players should consider these 
species for the various roles they might play in a wartime environment. 


SPECIES CHARACTERISTICS 
Your character's species determines some of his or her qualities, 


Ability Adjustments 

Find your character's species on Table 1-1: Species Ability Adjustments and 
apply the appropriate adjustments to your character's ability scores, Use the 
next two tables to help determine your character's age, height, and weight. 


TA © 1-1: SPECIES 
ABILITY ADUUSTMENTS 


‘SPECIES ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 

Barabel +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity, -2 Wisdom 
Dashade +2 Dexterity, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma 
Lurmen +2 Wisdom, -2 Strength 

Taung +2 Constitution, -2 Charisma 
Thakwaash +4 Strength, -2 Dexterity, -2 Charisma 
Trianii +2 Wisdom 

Yevetha +2 Strength, -2 Charisma 

Yuzzem +4 Strength, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma 
Zygerrian +2 Constitution, -2 Wisdom 


TABLE 1-2: AGE BY SPECIES 


YOUNG MIDDLE 
SPECIES CHILD ADULT ADULT AGE OLD VENERABLE 
Barabel 1-8 9-15 16-40 41-59 60-79 80+ 
Dashade 1-10 1-15 16-44 45-69 70-84 85+ 
Lurmen 1-12 13-18 19-35 36-60 61-75 76+ 
Taung 1-6 7-12 13-45 46-64 65-84 85+ 
Thakwaash 1-9 10-14 15-49 50-74 75-89 90+ 
Trianii 1-11 12-17 18-44 45-64 65-84 85+ 
Yevetha 1-5 6-11 12-44 45-66 67-80 81+ 
Yuzzem 1-8 9-15 16-40 41-59 60-79 80+ 
Zygerrian 1-9 10-16 17-39 40-60 61-80 81+ 


TABLE 1-3: AVERAGE HEIGHT 
AND WEIGHT 


‘SPECIES HEIGHT WEIGHT 
Barabel 2m 110 kg 
Dashade 1.85 m 90 kg 
Lurmen Im 20 kg 
Taung 2m 95 kg 
Thakwaash 2.8m 130 kg 
Trianii 2m 95 kg 
Yevetha 1.9m 80 kg 
Yuzzem 25m 180 kg 
Zygerrian 17m 60 kg 
BARABEL 


A towering reptilian species, the Barabel are relative newcomers to the 
galactic community. Having evolved from nocturnal predators, Barabels 
are well-suited to cope with prolonged periods of darkness, and they retain 
much of their ancestors’ ferocity. 

Several centuries prior to the formation of the Empire—at least according 
to Barabel legend—an Ithorian Jedi explorer named Noga-ta came to their 
world and peacefully settled a millennium-long civil war stemming from a 
dispute over prime hunting grounds. This instills a high regard for the Jedi in 
all Barabel for centuries to follow, even in the wake of the Galactic Empire's 
anti-Jedi propaganda. For a short time, the Barabels are hunted by illegal 
safaris set up by Imperial-backed Planetary Safaris, but a massed uprising 


carry out orders effi- 


ciently and quickly 
they are not hesitant 


to challenge a leader 


their survival is threat 


ened. Barabels are also 


frequent and. popular 


participants in the sport 


hackboxing. The monstrous brute Tull Raine holds the Outer Rim title for 
ears, developing a reputation for killing opponents in the ring 
Personality: Barabels are ruthlessly pragmatic and indepe 
55 a Wide range of emotions with a simple “sissing" sound, causing other 


nt. They 


to view them as mean spirited or at least constantly angry. Barabels 
jgressive nature and predatory instincts frequently lead them to solve 
roblems with the direct approach, and they have no qualms about killing 
Physical Description: Barabels are towering bipeds with reptilian fea 
es; a prominent jaw; sharp teeth; a long tail; and remarkably tough, dark 
cales, Barabels are between 1.9 and 2.3 meters in height, adding to their 
carsome reputation 
Homeworld: Barab | 
Languages: Barabel 
Example Names: Baraduk, Ragath, Saba, Shaka-ka, Tesar, Tibor, 
angar 
Adventurers: Few Barabels chose to leave their homeworld, but those 
10 do usually become bounty hunters and trackers. Others are recruited 
fito mercenary companies, and several shockboxing promoters feature 
arabels in their stables. 


vJeEDi RESPECT 
The impact of a lone Jedi Knight on the Barabel culture, centuries before 
the rise of the Empire, gives the entire species a deeply ingrained respect 
for members of the Jedi Order, to such an extent that Barabel accept the 
word of a Jedi at face value, even when they might otherwise disregard 
the same statement from a non-Jedi. However, beings who gain a Bara- 
bel's trust by falsely claiming to be Jedi quickly learn the folly of their 
ways when the ruse is exposed 

To this end, characters who have proven themselves to be Jedi are 
considered to have favorable circumstances when making Persuasion 
checks against a Barabel. 


BARABEL SPECIES TRAITS 


Barabel share the following species traits 
Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity 
Size: As M 

ties due to their size 
Speed: Barabel base speed is 6 squares. 

Natural Armor: A Barabel’s thick scaly hide provides a +2 natural armor 
bonus to Reflex Defense. A natural armor bonus stacks with an armor 


, -2 Wisdom 


dium creatures, Barabels have no special bonuses or penal 


bonus. 
Natural Weapons: A Bar 
ws, needle-sharp teeth, and a thick tail, When making an unarmed attack, 


pel has natural weapons in the form of sharp 


4 Barabel can choose to use natural weapons, dealing 1d6 points of slashing 
‘age (claws), piercing damage (bite), or bludgeoning damage (tail) with 
that attack instead of normal unarmed damage. Barabel are always consid- 
ered armed when attacking with their natural weapons. 

Stun Resistance: A Barabel's reflective scales defuse the effects of stun 
m a +5 species bonus to damage threshold to resist 


weapons, gr 
the effect of 2 ‘apon. 

Radiation Resistance: A Barabel’s armored hide protects from hazard 
ous radiation, granting a +5 species bonus to Fortitude Defense to resist the 
didition, Barabels never gain a persistent condition 


ating t 


stun 


effect of radiation. In 
from suffering the effect of radiation. 

Darkvision: Barabel ignore concealment (including total concealment) 
from darkness. However, they cannot perceive colors in total darkness 

Primitive: Barabels do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, or 
heavy weapons) as starting feats at ist level, even if their class normally 
grants them 

Skills: A Barabel can reroll a Persuasion check made to intimidate others, 
but the result of the reroll must be accepted, even if it is worse. 

Automatic Languages: Barabel 


7S 


C) ABW 


ISOS 


DASHADE 
The Dashade are known 
throughout the galaxy as 
elite assassins, mercenaries, 
and killers, particularly due 
to their partial immunities 
to the Force abilities of the 
Jedi. The most feared and 
deadly Dashade are given 
the honorary title Shadow 
Killer. 

The Dashade work as 
mercenaries and bodyguards 
for many groups, Most nota- 
bly, though, Dashade work 
for the various Sith upris~ 
ings even though the Sith 
are directly responsible for 
the Cron Cluster supernova 
that destroys the Dashade 
homeworld thousands of 
years before the Galactic 
Civil War. Even with the 
loss of their homeworld, the Dashade avoid extinction. Their exact num- 
bers remain unknown, but reports suggest that the Dashade were able to 
establish one or more colonies far outside their home system prior to the 
Cron Cluster disaster. 

Personality: Secretive beings, Dashade believe they are superior to 
most sentient beings in the galaxy. Raised in an aggressive culture where 
might does indeed make right, those Dashade who work as mercenaries or 
in other combat-related roles remain loyal to an employer, regardless of 
what they think of that individual, but only as long as the relationship is 
profitable for the Dashade and they are not prevented from displaying their 
considerable combat prowess. Those who try to keep a Dashade on a short 
leash soon receive a first-hand lesson in why these shadowy assassins are 
so widely feared. 

Physical Description: The Dashade are a hairless reptilian species. Their 
height, beady, red-orange eyes, and prominent fangs reinforce their fear- 
some reputation. No visual clues indicate the gender of a Dashade. Their 
skin tones range from pitch black to dark gray, but green-skinned Dashade 
are not unheard of. 

Homeworld: Urkupp, a harsh, irradiated world in the Cron Cluster prior 
to its destruction, 

Languages: Dashadi 


DasHace 


Example Names: Tessun Kel, Nos Kellex, Alaris Koth, Ket Maliss, Tel 
Sorath. 

Adventurers: The majority of Dashade encountered away from their 
homeworld are mercenaries and assassins employed by those who can afford 
their services and retain their loyalty. During the Sith War, their might- 
makes-right philosophy leads the Dashade to side with the Sith and with 
groups such as the royals of Falleen and perhaps even the Galactic Empire. 
Sporadic reports mention members of an unknown species with resistance 
to Jedi powers leading assaults against the Jedi during the Great Jedi Purge 
in the years between the Clone Wars and the Galactic Civil War, 


DASHADE SPECIES TRAITS 
Dashade share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma, Dashade are 
remarkably agile given their impressive size, but they have difficulty recogniz~ 
ing threats and interacting with others because of their sense of superiority 
and their secretive nature. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Dashade have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size, 

Speed: Dashade base speed is 6 squares 

Environmental Adaptation: Because of the unforgiving nature of their 
homeworld, Dashade gain a +5 species bonus to their Fortitude Defense 
against the effect of extreme heat, extreme cold, and radiation. 

Fearsome Reputation: Dashade can reroll Persuasion checks made to 
intimidate another, keeping the better result 

Force Resistance: Dashade gain a +5 species bonus to Fortitude Defense 
and Will Defense against any Use the Force checks. 


LURMEN 

Lurmen are small, furry humanoids with the ability to roll up in a ball for 
faster overland travel. Their love of peace leads the Lurmen to avoid entangle- 
ments in galactic events. As a society, Lurmen eschew conflict of any kind, 
refusing to fight even in their own defense, During the Clone Wars, a colony 
of Lurmen on Maridun is nearly wiped out by a Separatist weapon, and only 
when several Lurmen break away from the wishes of their elders and join 
the fight are their people saved. Although the Lurmen seem stubborn in 
holding onto their ways, in truth they lead a lifestyle largely free of conflict, 
and have for eons. 

Although the Lurmen use little technology on a day-to-day basis, they 
are not completely ignorant of it. The Lurmen who colonize Maridun arrive 
aboard starships, although once on their new world they reverted to agrar- 
ian living. Lurmen live peaceful lives, but from time to time young Lurmen 
abandon the old ways. Young Lurmen who leave their homeworlds return 
years or decades later, settling back once more into the simple lifestyle of 
their people after having had their fill of the galaxy at large 


LuRMeN 


Personality: Lurmen 
are friendly but cautious 
of outsiders. Lurmen are 
staunch pacifists, but 
some see the need for 
action in conflict. Those 
Lurmen who are willing to 
fight prefer trickery and 
indirect action to direct 
violence 

Physical Description: 
Lurmen are small, lithe 
creatures roughly 1 meter 
tall. They have relatively 
long limbs and are covered 
in thick fur. 

Homeworld: Myge 
with a colony on Maridun. 

Languages: Lurmen 
speak Basic and have their 
own tribal languages, col- 
lectively called Lurmese. 
They write in pictographs 
and glyphs that convey 
complex ideas. 

Example Names: Tee Wat Kaa, Tub, Wag Too. 

Adventurers: The few Lurmen who become adventurers do so either 
out of curiosity or out of rebellion against their elders. Lurmen adventur- 
ers gravitate toward roles that do not rely on violence. Many Lurmen learn 
trade skills, such as starship maintenance or basic medicine, and find posts 
aboard starships as crew members so that they can see the galaxy and 
satisfy their curiosity, 


LURMEN SPECIES TRAITS 
Lurmen share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom, -2 Strength. Lurmen are pacifists and 
healers, lacking the physical strength of other species. 

Size: As Small creatures, Lurmen gain a +1 size bonus to their Reflex 
Defense and a +5 size bonus on Stealth checks. However, their lifting and 
carrying limits are three-quarters those of Medium characters. 

Speed: Lurmen base speed is 4 squares. 

Mender: Lurmen have learned to heal wounds rather than create them. A 
Lurmen trained in Treat Injury reduces the Treat Injury DC for all applications 
of the skill by his or her Wisdom modifier. 


Primitive: Lurmen do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, or 
heavy weapons) as starting feats at 1st level, even if their class normally 
grants these feats. 

Roller: A Lurmen can curl into a ball and quickly roll along the ground 
As a swift action, a Lurmen can increase his or her base speed by 4. In this 
form, the Lurmen can take only move, withdraw, catch a second wind, drop 
an item, recover, and run actions. The Lurmen can also spend a swift action 
to emerge from rolling form, losing the +4 speed bonus and regaining access 
to all actions he or she can normally take 

Skills: Lurmen are great climbers and can choose to take 10 on Climb 
checks even when distracted or threatened. 

Automatic Languages: Basic, Lurmese. 


TAUNG 


Taungs are warriors first and foremost, having battled the native Human 
nations for control of Coruscant before being driven off and forced to 
flee to the Outer Rim world of Roon, where they remain for millennia until 
the legendary Mandalore the First leads them to conquer another world. 
Taungs rename both the world and themselves in his honor, becoming the 
Mandalorians. With a clan-based nomadic culture, Taungs view battle and 
war as both a source of personal honor and a way to show pride in their 
community. Veterans of successful battles are held in high regard, to such an 
extent that they are the de facto leaders 

of their communities. Only the 
leader of all the Mandalorians, 
known simply as Mandalore, 
holds greater sway with 
the clans 

Personality: Warlike by 
nature, Taungs are prag- 
matic and ruthless, But by 
the same token, they are 
also extraordinarily loyal 
to their clan, which serves 
the same function that a 
biological family serves for 
other species. 

Physical Description: 
Taungs have gray skin and 
generally appear similar to 
Humans, except for their 
faces, which strongly 
resemble the armored visor 
of a Mandalorian helmet 


TAUNG 


g 
4 

; 
a 
cd 


Ssseusi 


Seeusey) AYvLITA 


Homeworld: Coruscant, but later Mandalore is adopted as their 
homeworld. 

Languages: Mando’a, a language with a sentence structure similar to 
Basic, with most of the differences stemming from frequent word merging 
and an emphasis on ease of pronunciation. 

Example Names: A pragmatic species, Taungs have names that describe 
desirable traits, such as Atin (“persistent”), Kot (“strength”), and Tor 
(“justice”). 

Adventurers: Taungs are nomads, frequently traveling the stars in search 
of worthy opponents against whom they can test their prowess. Wandering 
Taungs find work with mercenary companies, where their martial upbringing 
makes them incredibly valuable. History records no occurrences of a Taung 
displaying Force abilities. 


TAUNG SPECIES TRAITS 
Taungs share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Charisma. Taungs are physically 
resilient, able to endure when others would give up. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Taungs have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size. 

Speed: Taung base speed is 6 squares. 

Armor Training: Taung characters increase the Maximum Dexterity bonus 
from worn armor by 1. 

Superior Defenses: Because they constantly test themselves both physi- 
cally and mentally in combat well before reaching adulthood, Taungs gain a 
+1 species bonus to all their defenses. 

Warrior Culture: Taungs can reroll any Knowledge (tactics) check, but 
the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Automatic Languages: Basic, Mando'a. 


THAKWAASH 

Possessed of great strength, these large bipeds are best known for their 
uniquely non-Human mindset. A Thakwaash has multiple separate personali- 
ties, each specializing in a certain function or area of expertise. Interacting 
with Thakwaash can be difficult for other species, particularly for Humans, 
who view such behavior among their own kind as a mental disorder. The maxi- 
mum number of personalities that a single Thakwaash can develop is unknown, 
as is the means by which such personalities form in the first place. 

No reliable reports of Thakwaash exist prior to the Empire's defeat at the 
Forest Moon of Endor. As a species, the Thakwaash do not acquire hyperdrive 
technology until after that battle. However, individual Thakwaash might find 
their way into the galaxy earlier. 

Personality: A single Thakwaash mind contains several distinct personali- 
ties. Some Thakwaash manifest dozens of different personalities and refer to 
themselves in the plural, This habit frequently leaves members of other spe- 
cies uncomfortable, because they are never certain of who they are speaking 


THAKWAASH 


with, especially since Thak- 
waash are likely to change 
personalities in the middle 
of conversations. Unlike 
most beings who exhibit 
a multiple-personality 
disorder, each individual 
Thakwaash personality 
retains a basic knowledge 
of events and facts that the 
other personalities experi- 
ence, although this rarely 
includes exact details. Con- 
versations come to a halt 
when a Thakwaash pauses 
and asks a new acquain- 
tance's name as if they 
had not been introduced 
already. 

Physical Description: 
Thakwaash average 3 
meters in height, with ath- 
letic builds proportionate to 
their great height, making 
them look even more imposing. They also sport long manes slightly darker 
than the fur covering their bodies. They have an equine appearance made all 
the more prominent by their flaring nostrils and large dark eyes. 

Homeworld: Thakwaa, a temperate world with grassy plans, located in 
the Outer Rim. 

Languages: Thakwaashi. 

Example Names: Aythar Desh, Hohass Ekwesh, Shakwa Rehakas, Jiva 
Shelani, Wee Taskelor. In spite of having multiple personalities, a Thakwaash 
has only a single name. 

Adventurers: Thakwaash are unknown to the galaxy until after the 
Galactic Civil War, but when Thakwaash are encountered away from their 
homeworld, they can be found in any imaginable vocation, since their wide 
array of personalities enables them to excel in any field. No Force-sensitive 
Thakwaash have been identified, but researchers admit that their multiple 
personalities would make identifying such beings far more difficult than 
normal. 


THAKWAASH SPECIES TRAITS 
Thakwaash share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +4 Strength, -2 Dexterity, -2 Charisma. Thakwaash 
have large, powerful builds, but their multiple personalities make relations 
with other species difficult. 


Size: As Medium creatures, Thakwaash have no special bonuses or penal- 
ties due to their size. 

Speed: Thakwaash base speed is 6 squares. 

Multiple Personalities: Once per encounter, asa free action at the start 
of his or her turn, a Thakwaash can negate or remove any mind-affecting 
effects. 

Natural Armor: Thakwaash gain a +1 natural armor bonus to Reflex 
Defense. A natural armor bonus stacks with an armor bonus. 

Automatic Languages: Thakwaashi. 


TRIANI 
The Trianii are a feline race of intrepid explorers, but unlike other technologi- 
cally advanced species of the galaxy, they express no interest in becoming 
a part of the greater galactic community. The Trianii use impressive displays 
of force to drive away interlopers so that they are left alone to explore their 
region of the galaxy. Their homeworld is located on the edge of the region 
of space controlled by the Corporate Sector Authority. An attempt by the 
CSA to expand its area of control into Trianil territories is met with a display 
of Trianii determination as the species expel the invaders, proving that the 
ships and weapons of the Trianii Rangers are as formidable as those of other 
galactic forces. 

Trianii society is a matriarchy—partly because females of the species 
are taller and slightly stronger than the males—ruled by tribunals 
of females known as yu’nar, Trianii cul- 
ture revolves around religious 
beliefs that cover all aspects 
of life, including art, lit- 
erature, commerce, and 
warfare. At one point in 
their history, the Trianii 
have numerous differ- 
ent religions, but when 
a religious civil war 
threatens to erupt, the 
leaders of these dif- 
ferent faiths instead 
agree to work together 
to create an official reli- 
gion, They establish a 
belief structure with a 
moral code that all sides 
find acceptable while 


TRAN 


at the same time allowing Trianii to continue following the individual faiths 
of their families. 

Trianii wear little clothing, selecting garments only for necessity, either as 
protection or utility. The one item commonly worn by the species is a utility 
belt that holds essential items. Even ceremonial garb is limited to jewelry 
and similar adornments. 

Personality: Adventurous by nature, Trianii feel a constant urge to 
explore, and they place a high value on independence. Spirituality is a large 
part of Trianii culture, with devotion split between the formal government 
religion and each family’s traditional religious values. 

Physical Description: A Trianii is a slender humanoid with prominent 
feline facial characteristics. Sharp claws and a prehensile tail reinforce the 
species’ feline qualities. The colors and patterns of Trianii fur vary greatly. 
Trianii are about 2 meters tall; the females are slightly taller than the males 
and possess correspondingly larger physiques. 

Homeworld: Trian, located in the outermost portion of the Tingel Arm. 

Languages: The Trianii language is composed of purrs, growls, and roll- 
ing vocalizations. The written form uses a syllabary instead of an alphabet. 
Trianii encountered outside Trianii space have some fluency in Basic, but 
few are literate in it. 

Example Names: Atuarre, Duarrid, Keeheen, Pakka, Reakhas, Shearran, 
Tuunac. 

Adventurers: Almost all Trianii encountered outside the species’ area of 
influence are members of the Trianii Rangers, the space patrol force respon- 
sible for protecting Trianii colonies from outside threats (see page 132). The 
Rangers often undertake missions to explore uncharted regions or to gather 
reconnaissance. Other Trianii adventurers are either independent scouts or 
are just curious about the galactic community that their leaders want no part 
of. Many outsiders confuse the Trianii with other feline species such as the 
Cathars or the Togorians, a mistake few Trianii bother to correct. 


TRIAN! SPECIES TRAITS 
Trianii share the following species traits 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom. Trianii have excellent vision and, because 
of their curious nature, are very aware of their surroundings. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Trianii have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size, 

Speed: Trianii base speed is 6 squares. 

Acrobatic Prowess: A Trianii can reroll any Acrobatics check, but the 
result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Natural Weapons: A Trianii’s sharp claws serve as natural weapons. 
When making an unarmed attack, a Trianii can use natural weapons, dealing 
1d6 points of slashing damage with that attack instead of normal unarmed 
damage. Trianii are always considered armed with their natural weapons. 


| BaiavHD 


SSeS) ASww 


Sseeouer) 4Evuw 


Prehensile Tail: A Trianii’s long, flexible tail is dexterous and strong. A 
Trianii's tail can effectively hold (but not wield) a Small or smaller item. When 
holding a Medium or larger item with his or her tail, a Trianni is encumbered 
and is considered to be carrying a heavy load. 

‘Automatic Languages: Trianii 


YEVETHA 

A tall, skeletal species with lithe builds, the Yevetha have little impact on 
the galaxy until after the fall of the Empire, but even that slight influence 
makes them known for their intense xenophobia and a culture heavily cen- 
tered upon death. 

During Emperor Palpatine’s reign, the Yevethas' homeworld, N'zoth, is 
seized and made the site of an Imperial shipyard. When the Yevetha revolt 
against their Imperial masters shortly after the Battle of Yavin, they seize 
control of the shipyards and over the following decade proceed to refine 
their technological capabilities, devising new starships and weapons that 
enable them to seize and forcibly colonize over a dozen worlds in the Koor- 
nacht Cluster. They then embark on an ambitious campaign against the New 
Republic military, suffering a crushing defeat because of the influence of 
members of the Fallanassi sect of Force-users—a defeat that leaves many 
Yevetha dead because of their inborn refusal to accept surrender. 

The New Republic keeps the species under watch until active patrols are 
removed close to a decade after the bloody battle, during which time the 
Yevetha build an even larger force than their original fleet. As the Yevetha 
are poised to once again wage war on the New Republic, the extra-galactic 
Yuuzhan Vong assault the galaxy; when informed of the Yevetha and the threat 
they pose, the Yuuzhan Vong invade the N'zoth system. Although the details of 
the conflict are not known, the Yuuzhan Vong are ultimately victorious, demol- 
ishing the rebuilt Yevethan fleet and unleashing a horrific orbital bombardment 
of N'zoth. The Yevetha appear to be wiped from the galaxy, but because of 
their expansionist tendencies, one or more of their colonies likely survived the 
destruction of their homeworld. Their final fate remains unknown. 

Personality: The Yevetha are a proud species, having long believed them- 
selves to be the only intelligent species in the galaxy. In spite of their violent 
nature, Yevetha adhere to their strict social hierarchy and religious beliefs 
with a fanatical loyalty, welcoming death and sacrifice as great honors. 

Physical Description: Seeming to other species to appear ghoulish, 
Yevetha are tall humanoids who are so gaunt as to appear skeletal. They 
have large dark gray eyes, pallid gray skin, and a notable lack of body hair. 
A Yevetha has six digits on each hand, and each wrist hides a retractable 
dewclaw that when fully extended is the length of a vibroblade. Males of 
the species display two pairs of crests on the upper and lower parts of their 
faces, which swell red in response to combat. 

Homeworld: N'zoth, in the Core Worlds region. 


yeverHa 


Languages: Yevetha prefer their native lan- 
guage, Yevethan, at all times. Despite their 
ability to speak Basic, few make the effort 
to learn the language because of their 
xenophobia. 

Example Names: Dar Bille, Eri 
Palle, Kez Haar, Nil Spaar, Vol Noorr, 
Vor Duull, Zar Braan. 

Adventurers: Yevethan adven- 
turers are uncommon, especially 
prior to the creation of the Galactic 
Empire. Before the founding of the 
New Republic, few Yevetha leave their 
home system, although some are 
sent on scouting missions to assess 
the strength of worlds selected for 
invasion. 


YEVETHA 
SPECIES 

TRAITS 

Yevetha share the following species 
traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Charisma. Yevetha are strong despite 
their gaunt physiques, but their fatalistic culture and violent xenophobia 
color their outlook. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Yevetha have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size. 

Speed: Yevetha base speed is 6 squares. 

Mechanical Aptitude: Yevetha have a knack for technology. Once per 
encounter, a Yevetha can treat any single Mechanics check as if the die roll 
is a natural 20. 

Natural Weapons: A Yevetha’s retractable claws are natural weapons. 
When making an unarmed attack, a Yevetha can use natural weapons, dealing 
1d6 points of slashing damage with that attack instead of normal unarmed 
damage. Yevetha are always considered armed with their natural weapons. 

Xenophobia: Yevetha have an intense distrust of all species other than 
their own, and gain a +2 species bonus to Will Defense against Persua~ 
sion checks made to improve their attitude by any creature of a different 
species. 

Automatic Languages: Yevethan. 


YUZZEmM 


In spite of a well-deserved 
reputation as tempera- 
mental brutes, Yuzzem are 
cunning and intelligent, 
and their resourcefulness 
gives them as much of an 
advantage as their physi- 
cally powerful frames, The 
Empire has learned this the 
hard way after they declared 
the Yuzzem a slave species, 
rounded up large numbers of 
them, and put them to work 
in heavy-labor operations. 
The Yuzzem have frequently 
revolted against their Impe- 
rial masters, showing that 
hey can be as ferocious as 
Wookiees, with no reserva 
tions about using their claws 
und tusks in a fight 
Personality: Contrary to 
their popular image as loud 
nd violent brutes, Yuzzem 
have a strong sense of fair play and a generous disposition. Like Wookices, 
they have a strict yet simple code of honor to which they adhere at all times 
ho has 


Jzzem insist on repaying a debt owed, whether helping someone 


helped them or seeking vengeance for a wrong committed against them 
Physical Description: Yuzzem are towering humanoids with heavily 
muscled upper bodies and long arms as broad as Humans. A Yuzzem has a 
prominent snout and an equally prominent pair of tusks jutting up from its 
lower jaw. Covered in a thick pelt of brown fur, a Yuzzem averages 2.5 meters 
all, but its muscular bulk makes it seem a great deal larger. 
Homeworld: Ragna Ill, an arboreal world located in the Mid Rim 
Languages: Yuzz is a guttural language of growls, roars, and mev 
and unlike many other languages, it has no written form. Yuzz is largely 
unpronounceable by other species, although Yuzzem have little trouble 
peaking Basic 
Example Names: Dek, Gor, Hin, Kee, Pok, Rha, Wuk 
Adventurers: The first few Yuzzem leave Ragna Ill as slaves of the Empire, 
but once they gain their freedom they quickly found employment as enforcers 
and mercenaries. Many also return to their homeworld with stories about 
life among the stars, encouraging future generations of Yuzzem to travel the 
galaxy and seek their own destinies. 


s, 


Yuzzem Species Traits 
Yuzzem share the following species traits 

Ability Modifiers: +4 Strength, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. Yuzzem are 
physically powerful, but their volatile nature earns them few allies 

Size: As Large creatures, Yuzzem take a -1 size penalty to Reflex Defense 
and a -5 size penalty to Stealth checks. Their lifting and carrying limits are 
double those of Medium characters. 

Speed: Yuzzem base speed is 6 squares 

Natural Weapons: A Yuzzem's large tusks and sharp claws serve as 
natural weapons. When making an unarmed attack, a Yuzzem can use natural 
weapons, dealing 1d8 points of piercing damage (bite) or slashing damage 
(claws) instead of normal unarmed damage. Yuzzem are always considered 
armed with their natural weapons. 

Physically Intimidating: Yuzzem use their Strength modifier instead of 
their Charisma modifier for Persuasion checks made to intimidate others 

Scent: At close range (within 10 squares), Yuzzem ignore concealment 
and cover for purposes of Perception checks, and they take no penalty from 
poor visibility when tracking (see “Survival” on page 73 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook) 

Skills: A Yuzzem can reroll Climb checks, but the result of the reroll must 
be accepted even if it is worse. 

Automatic Languages: Yuzz 


ZYGERRIAN 


A violent species from the distant corners of the Outer Rim, Zygerrians are 


own for their history of piracy and war. As a species that earns its fame 


through slavery, piracy, and violence, Zygerri 
ans are feared in spaceports throughout the 
galaxy. Raised in a culture where weak- 
ness can mean death or enslavement, 
Zygerrians cultivate a dangerous, 
unpredictable image to deter others 
from challenging their dominance 
Those who do must contend with the 


Zygerrians' natural combat prowess, 
since Zygerrians are excellent fighters 
with or without weapons 

Zygerrian society is built on the 
principle that strength leads to author- 
ity, and for Zygerrians, strength can 
mean many things—physical strength, 
and also strength of will, of conviction, 
and of bravery. Zygerrians are dif- 
ficult to defeat in any arena because 
their physical resilience is matched 


ZYOERRIAN 


Sees) A8wut 


SseuEe) 48viww 


by their indomitable spirit. Enemies of the Zygerrians quickly learn that 
you cannot make Zygerrians flinch. They would sooner die than bend to the 
desires of others. 

Personality: Zygerrians are aggressive and violent. They are strong-willed 
and back down from a confrontation only when they clearly cannot win. 

Physical Description: Zygerrians are humanoids with a sallow complexion 
and red hair. They have numerous bony spurs jutting out from beneath their 
skin, which gives them a jagged appearance. 

Homeworld: Zygerria. 

Languages: Zygerrians speak, read, and write Basic. 

Example Names: Ikis, Miraj, Onyx, Tek. 

Adventurers: Zygerrian adventurers make excellent soldiers and scouts, 
because their people have been nomadic pirates and slavers on the Outer 
Rim for centuries. Although there are many Zygerrian pirate gangs, not all 
Zygerrians are thugs and ruffians. Many Zygerrians become valued members 
of galactic society, abandoning their violent and aggressive tendencies. 


ZYGERRIAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Zygerrians share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Wisdom, Zygerrians are durable 
but are considered reckless by other species. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Zygerrians have no special bonuses or penal- 
ties due to their size. 

Speed: Zygerrian base speed is 6 squares. 

Bonus Feat: Zygerrians gain Martial Arts | as a bonus feat at Ist level. 

Iron Will: Zygerrians have above-average willpower, gaining a +2 species 
bonus to their Will Defense. 

Strength of Conviction: Zygerrians can use their Charisma modifier in 
place of their Wisdom modifier when calculating Will Defense. 

Automatic Language: Basic. 


HEROIC CLASSES 

Life on the battlefield can be intense, terrifying, exhilarating, or short. It can 
even be all of these at once. Most galactic citizens take food, shelter, and 
safety for granted, but in combat—from simple border skirmishes between 
rival forces to galaxy-shaking conflicts such as the Mandalorian Wars, the 
Clone Wars, or the Galactic Civil War—those features become luxuries. 
Those who learn to adapt to harsh and unforgiving conditions survive to 
fight another day. 


HED! 

They serve the Republic as keepers of the peace for much of their Order's 
long history, but when necessary, the Jedi go to war. Sometimes only a 
few Jedi are mobilized, as when Revan and Malak combat the threat of the 
Mandalorians, but at other times the entire Jedi Order commits to battle, 
as with the Clone Wars. 


New Jedi Guardian Talents 
The following new talent belongs to the Jedi Guardian talent tree, which 
is available to members of the Jedi class. Any character who can normally 
choose talents from the Jedi Guardian talent tree can choose this talent 
as well. 

Cover Escape: When you successfully spend a Force Point to negate 
a melee attack against an adjacent ally with the Block or Deflect talents, 
that ally can move up to 2 squares as a free action. This movement does not 
provoke an attack of opportunity. 


New Jedi Sentinel Talents 
The following new talent belongs to the Jedi Sentinel talent tree, which is 
available to members of the Jedi class. Any character who can normally 
choose talents from the Jedi Sentinel talent tree can choose this talent as 
well. 

Prime Targets: When you hit a target with a lightsaber attack, if the 
target has not been attacked since the end of your last turn, you deal +1 
die of damage. 


NOBLE 

Although the popular conception of a noble suggests that they would stay as 
far away from the front lines as possible, many nobles steel themselves for 
the horrors of war, coordinating the tactics of the armies under their com- 
mand and even leading the charge from the front line. Many noble families 
have a long history of proud military service. More than a few nobles have 
laid the foundations for their future business empires by working as part of 
mercenary units. 


Anticipation Talent Tree 

You have studied the ways of your enemies and have learned how to read 
the actions and thoughts of others, You can predict what they will do, and 
you gain advantage over them by anticipating their every move. 

Anticipate Movement: Once per round, as a reaction to an enemy in 
your line of sight moving, you can enable one ally within your line of sight 
to move up to his or her speed as a free action. 

Forewarn Allies: All allies within 12 squares of you gain a +2 insight 
bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls for attacks of opportunity. 

Get Down: As a reaction, when an ally is targeted by a ranged attack, 
you can enable that ally to drop prone immediately (imposing the normal -2 
penalty for a ranged attack against a prone target to the triggering attack 
roll) as a free action. 

Heavy Fire Zone: Once per turn, as a swift action, designate a 3x3 
square area within your line of sight. Until the end of your next turn, if a 
target moves into that area you can enable one ally within your line of sight 
to make an attack of opportunity against that target. The ally you choose 


A ZYOERRIAN NOBLE LEADING AN ATTACK ON AN IMPERIAL 
LANDING FORCE aHie 


must be armed with a weapon capable of making attacks of opportunity, and 
this counts toward the ally’s normal limitations for attacks of opportunity 
made in a round. 


Prerequisite: Forewarn Allies, 

Summon Aid: Once per round, as a reaction, when an enemy moves 
adjacent to you, you can enable one ally within your line of sight to imme- 
diately make a charge attack against the triggering enemy. The ally you 
choose must be able to charge the enemy from his or her current square 
under normal charge rules. 

Prerequisite: Get Down. 


New Leadership Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Leadership talent tree, which is avail- 

able to members of the noble class. Any character who can normally choose 

talents from the Leadership talent tree can choose these talents as well. 
Commanding Presence: You exce| at leading others into battle, issuing 

quick commands, demonstrating a gift for strategy, decimating your enemies, 

and impressing your peers. You can use each of the following actions once 

per encounter as a standard action: 

© Hold the Line!: Make a single melee or ranged attack against any target 

within your range. If your attack hits, all allies within 6 squares of you 
again a +2 morale bonus to their Defense scores until the end of your 
next turn, 


* Lead the Assault: Make a single melee or ranged attack against any 
target within your range. If your attack hits, all allies within 6 squares 
of you and within your line of sight gain a +2 morale bonus to their 
attack rolls and damage rolls until the end of your next turn. 

© Turn the Tide: Make a single melee or ranged attack against any target 
within your range. If you successfully damage the target, a number of 
allies equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1) can immediately 
move up to half their speed as a free action. 

Prerequisites: Born Leader, Tactical Savvy. 

Tactical Savvy: When an ally whom you can see spends a Force point to 
enhance an attack roll, the ally gains a bonus to the Force point roll equal 
to your Intelligence modifier. 

Prerequisite: Born Leader. 


SCOUNDREL 

Scoundrels are more at home in the shadows or at the helms of starships, 
but they have their place on the battlefield like any other soldier. Turning 
their luck and savvy to war, scoundrels can affect the outcome of battles by 
revealing enemy battle plans or by taking a more direct hand in disrupting 
the enemy's chain of command. 


Brigand Talent Tree 
You use your experience operating on the wrong side of the law to give you 
an advantage in a fight, fair or otherwise. 

Cheap Trick: When you make a Deception check to feint (see page 66 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook) against an enemy within 6 squares of you, 
you can roll twice, keeping the better of the two results. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Deception. 

Easy Prey: When you make an attack as a standard action and success- 
fully hit an enemy, you can choose to reduce the damage you deal by half. 
That target is then denied its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense against your 
attacks until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Cheap Trick. 

Quick Strike: During the initial round of combat, if you successfully 
damage an enemy who has not yet acted in the combat, you can make an 
immediate attack as a free action against a different target within 6 squares 
of the first target. 

Prerequisite: Cheap Trick. 

Sly Combatant: You quickly move about the battlefield, taking advantage 
of the chaos of battle to gain advantage. You can use each of the following 
actions once per encounter as a standard action: 

© Distracting Injury: Make a single melee or ranged attack against any 
enemy within your range. If the attack successfully hits, that enemy 
takes a -2 penalty to his or her attack rolls and damage rolls until the 
end of the encounter. 


TusiavHS 


SesousH) 48 V740001W a 


A TRIANI SCOUNDREL SNIPER PIREG AT AN IMPERIAL 


© Make Them Bleed: Make a single melee or ranged attack against any 
living creature within your range. If you successfully deal damage as a 
result of the attack, that enemy gains a persistent condition that can 
be removed only with a successful DC 25 Treat Injury check to perform 
surgery. 

© Strength in Numbers: Make a single melee or ranged attack against an 
enemy who is adjacent to one or more of your allies. If you successfully 
hit that enemy, you gain a +2 bonus to damage for each ally that is 
adjacent to the target 
Prerequisites: Cheap Trick, Easy Prey. 


New Misfortune Talents 
The following new talents belong to the Misfortune talent tree, which is 
available to members of the scoundrel class. Any character who can nor- 
mally choose talents from the Misfortune talent tree can choose from these 
talents as well 

Backstabber: You can take advantage of your adversary’s distractions, no 
matter how momentary or fleeting. Once per turn, when you flank a target, 
you can treat him or her as flat-footed for one of your attacks 

Prerequisite:Sneak Attack. 

Improved Sneak Attack: You can use the Sneak Attack talent against a 
target within 12 squares, instead of within 6 squares. 

Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot feat, Sneak Attack. 


scout 

Perhaps only the soldier class is more at home on a battlefield than the scout 
class is. Using their tenacity and wide range of skills, scouts frequently serve 
as the advance eyes and ears of a military force, probing the enemy line to 
determine its strengths and weaknesses without raising an alarm. Scouts 
guide small strike forces across difficult terrain and even target enemy 
officers for death. 


New Camouflage Talents 
The following new talents belong to the Camouflage talent tree, which is 
available to members of the scout class. Any character who can normally 
choose talents from the Camouflage talent tree can choose from these 
talents as well. 

Dig In: When prone, you can spend a swift action to gain concealment until 
the start of your next turn. If you stand up or move, you lose this benefit 

Ghost Assailant: If you start your turn with total concealment or total 
cover from a target, during that turn you can make a Stealth check asa swift 
action, opposed by the target's Perception check. If you succeed, the target 
is considered flat-footed against you until the end of your turn 

Slip By: When you would normally provoke an attack of opportunity by 
moving out of a threatened space, you can roll a Stealth check, replacing your 
Reflex Defense with the results of your Stealth check if it is higher. 


Advance Patrol Talent Tree 
Your skills at observation and stealth are frequently called upon as you gather 
information about enemy forces. 

Forward Patrol: At the start of a surprise round in which you are not 
caught by surprise, you can designate one ally within 6 squares of you 
as able to retain his or her Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense during the 
surprise round 

Prerequisite: Watchful Step. 

Mobile Combatant: You know that the key to winning a fight is keeping 
your enemies from pinning you down. You can use each of the following 
actions once per encounter: 

* Evasive Assault: As a standard action, make a single melee or ranged 
attack. If the attack successfully deals damage, you gain a +5 dodge 
bonus to your Reflex Defense until the end of your next turn 

* Expeditious Attack: As a standard action, make a single melee or ranged 
attack, then move up to half your speed as a free action. This movement 
does not provoke an attack of opportunity. 

* Yielding Assault: When you are damaged by an enemy's melee or ranged 
attack, you can move up to one-half your speed as a reaction. This 
movement does not provoke an attack of opportunity. On your next 
turn, you gain a favorable circumstance to your first attack roll against 
the same enemy that damaged you 
Prerequisites: Forward Patrol, Watchful Step. 


Trailblazer: During your turn, you can spend a swift action to allow all 
allies within 6 squares of you and within your line of sight to count the first 
square of difficult terrain as normal terrain each time they move. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Survival. 

Watchful Step: You can use your Perception check modifier instead of 
your Initiative modifier when making Initiative checks. If you are entitled 
to an Initiative check reroll, you can reroll your Perception check instead 
(subject to the same circumstances and limitations). You are considered to 
be trained in Initiative. 


SOLDIER 

In war soldiers truly shine, reaping the rewards of their combat training by 
carrying the day and earning victory and glory or by surviving the battle in 
ane piece, Soldiers come from all walks of life, such as the destitute street 
urchin who signs up hoping for one hot meal every day, and the bored socialite 
who wants more excitement than the upper-class lifestyle offers. 


New Commando Talent 
The following new talent belongs to the Commando talent tree, which is avail 
able to members of the soldier class. Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Commando talent tree can choose this talent as well 
Defensive Position: Whenever you have the benefit of cover (see pages 
157-158 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), you can spend two swift actions 
to treat it as improved cover until the start of your next turn. 
Prerequisite: Battle Analysis. 


Shockboxer Talent Tree 

You are trained in the shockboxing fighting style and can use your fists to 
devastate your enemies. Although you trained for competitive shockboxing, 
much of your expertise can also be applied outside the ring. 

Defensive Jab: When you are unarmed and take the fight defensively 
action, you can make a single unarmed attack as a free action against an 
adjacent target. 

Prerequisite: Retaliation Jab. 

Nimble Dodge: If an enemy misses you with a melee attack, as a reaction 
you can move up to 2 squares, but you must end your movement adjacent 
to your attacker. 

Retaliation Jab: If an enemy misses you with a melee attack, as a reaction 
you can automatically deal damage equal to your Strength modifier (minimum 
1 point of damage) to your attacker, if the attacker is within your reach 

Stinging Jab: When you hit a target with an unarmed attack, you can 
choose to deal half damage with your attack. If you do so, your enemy also 
deals half damage on all melee attacks he or she makes until the end of 
your next turn. 


A BaRAsEL SHOCKBOXER 


Stunning Shockboxer: When you deal stun damage to a target with an 
unarmed attack, after the stun damage is halved, roll one extra die of damage 
and add that to the damage subtracted from the target's hit points. 

Prerequisite: Stinging Jab. 


Veteran Talent Tree 

You have been from one side of the galaxy to the other and have fought on 
more planets than most people visit in a lifetime. Talents from this tree can 
be used to qualify for the officer prestige class, in addition to those listed 
in the Saga Edition core rulebook. 

Battlefield Remedy: You have learned a variety of different ways to 
treat combat injuries in the field. When you succeed on a Treat Injury check 
to administer First Aid, the tended creature also moves +1 step on the 
condition track. 

Prerequisite:Trained in Treat Injury. 

Grizzled Warrior: You can draw upon your extensive battlefield experi- 
ence to encourage your comrades and drive your enemies before you. You can 
use each of the following actions once per encounter as a standard action 

* Defy the Odds: Make a single melee or ranged attack. You immediately 
gain a number of bonus hit points equal to your Constitution score. 


ce) 
I 
> 
0 
4 
a} 
2} 


Seevey) ABVLITMIAW 


© Double the Pain: When you use the Aid Another action to prov 
within 6 squares of you a bonus to his or her a! 
your character level to the ally’s damage roll 
© Guarded Assault: Make a single melee or ranged attack. You gain a + 
dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense against a the start 


ck roll, 


ck is successful 


f the a 


attacks unt 
your next turn 
Prerequisites: Seen it All, Tested in Battle 
Reckless: You know from first-hand experience that victory goes 
willing to take a chance. You can add your Wisdom bonus (minimum +1) to 
ck 


o those 


the damage roll when you make a successful charge att 
Prerequisite: Tested in Battle 
Seen It All: You have seen more action in more places than most people 
know exist, and little in the galaxy gets you rattled. Any character using 
a fear effect on you must roll twice, keeping the lower result on any skill 
checks and attack rolls. 
Prerequisites: Tested in Battle, trained in Init 
Tested in Battle: When you catch a second wind (see page 154 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook), you move +2 steps on the condition track ir 


ve. 


addition to regaining hit points. 


A DASHADE SQUAD LEADER IN COMBAT 


New Weapon Specialist Talent 
The fo 


talent belongs to the Weapon Specialist talent tree 


lowing new 


available to members of the 


idier class. Any character who can 


normally choose talents from the Weapon Specialist talent tree can choose 


this talent as wel 
Autofire Assault: When making an autofire attack, you can brace a 


s not restricted to autofire only. You must be proficient with 


apon that 
the weapon being used. 


Prerequisite: Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons). 


FEATS 


The feats f 


sented here supplement those found in the Saga Edition core 
of play. They are designed for heroes 


rulebook and are suitable f 


who focus on combat, such as those engaged in the galactic conflicts 


described throughout this book. However, any character who qualifies can 


‘or any ¢ 


elect these feats 


Bantha Herder 


know how to frame your targe 


d attacks, 


with your rang moving the 


targets whe 
Prerequisites: Proficient with w 
Benefit: When you damage a Large or smaller creature with a ranged 
of your attack rol rget's Will Defense 
target's Will Defense, you can move the 


you want them to go. 


pon used, base attack bonus +1 


to the 


ttack, compare the re 


jour result equals or exceeds th 


ei 


square in any direction as a free action. If your ranged attack deals 


inst all of 


to multiple eligible creatures, you can use this benefit ag; 


being grabbed or grappled, and you can't 


into a solid object or into another creature's fighting space. 


strength to batter an opponent to the ground, 


to use you 
ig him or her prone. 
Prerequisites: Bantha Rush, Trip. 

Benefit: successfully move a creature with the Bantha 


n feat, you also knock that target prone, 


Whenever you 


Destructive Force 
You cause so much devastation to vehicles and objects that you also deal 
damage to others around those targets 

Benefit: When you deal damage to an object or vehicle that equals or 
mage threshold and reduces the target to 0 hit points, 
ack) 


e target's 


1 die of damage (of the same type as the damage used in the at 


ehicle or object 


rgets, including allies, that are adjacent to the 


Disabler 
You are skilled in the use of ion weapons and gain certain benefits depending 
‘on which weapon you use. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon used. 

Benefit: When you make a ranged attack with an ion weapon, you gain 
one of the following benefits, depending on the kind of weapon you use. 

Jon Grenade: When you use an ion grenade, the grenade's burst radius is 
3 squares instead of 2 squares. 

Jon Pistol: When you use an ion pistol, the damage dice increase from 
d6 to dB. 

Jon Rifle: You treat the ion rifle as an accurate weapon. 


Dive for Cover 
You can leap behind cover, even when caught out in the open. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Jump. 

Benefit: Once per turn, as a reaction to being targeted by a ranged attack, 
you can make a Jump check to jump horizontally. If you land in a square that 
provides you with cover from your attacker, you gain the normal cover bonus 
against the attack, even if you didn't have cover at the time the attack was 
made. When you use this feat, you always land prone. 


Fight Through Pain 
Through sheer willpower, you can keep yourself at peak fighting performance, 
ignoring physical pain and negative effects. 

Benefit: You can use your Will Defense instead of your Fortitude Defense 
when determining your damage threshold. 


Forceful Blast 
You can position your grenade attacks such that they blast creatures away 
from the center of the explosion. 
Prerequisites: Proficient with weapon used, base attack bonus +1. 
Benefit: When you damage a Large or smaller creature with a grenade 
or thermal detonator, compare the result of your attack roll to the target's 
Fortitude Defense. If your result equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude 
Defense, you can move the target 1 square in any direction as a free action. If 
the grenade or thermal detonator deals damage to multiple eligible creatures, 
you can use this benefit against all of them. You can't move a target that's 
being grabbed or grappled, and you can’t move a target into a solid object 
or into another creature's fighting space. 


Force of Personality 
As a result of your self-confidence and conviction, your will is strong. 
Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 
Benefit: You can use either your Wisdom modifier or your Charisma 
modifier to determine your Will Defense. 


Fortifying Recovery 
Even as you reel from attacks, you can get yourself back into the fight and 
make a difference. 

Prerequisite: Constitution 13. 

Benefit: When you take the recover action, you also gain a number of 
bonus hit points equal to 2 x your Constitution bonus (minimum 2). Damage is 
subtracted from the bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining 
at the end of the encounter are lost. Bonus hit points do not stack. 


SeoveH) Auvanmw 


Seeueh) 48vuw 


FEAT NAME PREREQUISITES 

Bantha Herder Proficient with weapon used, 
base attack bonus +1 

Battering Attack Bantha Rush, Trip 

Destructive Force = 

Disabler Proficient with weapon used 

Dive for Cover Trained in Jump 

Fight Through Pain - 

Forceful Blast Proficient with weapon used, 
base attack bonus +1 

Force of Personality Charisma 13 

Fortifying Recovery Constitution 13 

Mission Specialist = 

Never Surrender Trained in Endurance 

Officer Candidacy Training - 

Opportunistic Shooter - 

Pistoleer Proficient with weapon used 


Predictive Defense 
Resilient Strength 


Intelligence 13 
Strength 13 


Riflemaster Proficient with weapon used 
Risk Taker Trained in Climb or Jump 

Sport Hunter Proficient with weapon used 
Staggering Attack Proficient with weapon used, 


base attack bonus +1 


Steadying Position Careful Shot 


Mission Specialist 
You are so good with certain skills that others around you benefit from your 
guidance and example. 

Benefit: Choose one skill in which you are trained. Allies who are not 
trained in that skill gain a +2 competence bonus to the skill while they are 
within 12 squares of you. 

You can select this feat multiple times. Each time you select this feat, it 
applies to a different skill, 

Special: Only allies who have the Force Sensitivity feat gain this bonus 
to Use the Force checks. 


BENEFIT 
Move a target damaged by your ranged attack. 


Knock a target prone when you use Bantha Rush. 
Deal damage to adjacent targets when you damage objects and vehicles, 
Gain benefits when using certain ion weapons. 
Jump for cover as a reaction. 
Use your Will Defense to determine your damage threshold, 
“Move a target damaged by your grenade attack. 


Use Wisdom or Charisma to determine Will Defense. 

Gain bonus hit points when you recover. 

Grant bonus to allies’ untrained skill checks with a particular skill. 
Make an Endurance check to prevent falling to 0 hit points, 
Gain a bonus to your Rank and Privilege score. 

Gain a bonus to attacks of opportunity with ranged weapons. 
Gain benefits when using certain pistols, 

Use Dexterity or Intelligence to determine Reflex Defense. 

Use Strength or Constitution to determine Fortitude Defense. 
Gain benefits when using certain rifles. 

Improve your chances of success with Climb or Jump checks. 
Gain benefits with certain slugthrowers and sporting weapons. 
Impose penalties to enemy skill checks with a successful attack, 


Deny target's Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense when you are prone and aiming. 


Never Surrender 
You can fight your way back from the blackness of death and unconscious- 
ness, staying active in combat. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Endurance. 

Benefit: The first time you would be reduced to 0 hit points in an encoun- 
ter, you can make an Endurance check as a reaction, with a DC equal to the 
number of points of damage being dealt to you. If your check succeeds, you 
are instead reduced to 1 hit point. 


Officer Candidacy Training 

You have received special training in commanding others in combat. 
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to your Rank and Privilege organization 

score (see page 73 for more information). 


Opportunistic Shooter 
You are quick to react when nearby enemies expose themselves to your 
attacks. 

Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to attacks of opportunity with ranged 
weapons. 


Pistoleer 
You are skilled in the use of pistols and gain certain benefits depending on 
which Weapon you use. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon used. 

Benefit: When you make a ranged attack with a pistol, you gain one of 
the following benefits, depending on the kind of pistol you use. 

Blaster Pistol: You treat the blaster pistol as an accurate weapon. 

Heavy Blaster Pistol: You do not treat the heavy blaster pistol as an 
inaccurate weapon. 

Hold-Out Blaster Pistol: If you fire a hold-out blaster pistol at a target 
that has not yet acted in combat, you gain a +2 bonus to your attack rolls 
with that weapon against that target. The bonus applies to all such attacks 
until the target acts. 


Predictive Defense 
The sharpness of your mind, not the speed of your reactions, allows you to 
avoid incoming attacks. 

Prerequisite: Intelligence 13. 

Benefit: You can use either your Dexterity modifier or your Intelligence 
modifier to determine your Reflex Defense. 


Resilient Strength 
Your brute strength and physical conditioning allow you to shrug off effects 
that would debilitate others. 

Prerequisite: Strength 13. 

Benefit: You can use either your Strength modifier or your Constitution 
modifier to determine your Fortitude Defense. 


Riflemaster 
You are skilled in the use of rifles and gain certain benefits depending on 
which weapon you use. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon used. 

Benefit: When you make a ranged attack with a rifle, you gain one of the 
following benefits, depending on the kind of rifle you use. 

Blaster Carbine: You can brace a blaster carbine set to autofire, even 
though it is not an autofire-only weapon. 

Blaster Rifle: You treat the blaster rifle as an accurate weapon. 

Heavy Blaster Rifle: When you use a heavy blaster rifle, the damage dice 
increase from d10 to d12. 

Light Repeating Blaster: You treat the light repeating blaster as if it were 
Medium instead of Large. 


Risk Taker 

You're not afraid to make great leaps or climb treacherous slopes, and 
you know how to put forth the extra effort to make the impossible seem 
routine. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Climb or Jump. 

Benefit: You fall only if you fail a Climb check by 10 or more. Additionally, 
if you make a Jump check and fail to land ona safe or solid surface (such as if 
you fall into a pit or fail to clear a stream of lava), you can spend a Force Point 
as a free action and add the result of the Force Point roll to your distance 
jumped. However, you must land in the first available safe square, 

Normal: You fall if you fail a Climb check by 5 or more. 


Sport Hunter 

You are skilled in the use of slugthrowers and sporting weapons and gain 
its depending on which weapon you use. 

ite: Proficient with weapon used. 

Benefit: When you make a ranged attack with a slugthrower or sporting 
weapon, you gain one of the following benefits, depending on the kind of 
weapon you use. 

Slugthrower Pistol: When you use a slugthrower pistol at point-blank 
range, you deal an extra +1 die of damage with the weapon. 

Slugthrower Rifle: When you use a slugthrower rifle, the damage dice 
increase from d8 to d12. 

Sporting Blaster Pistol: When you use a sporting blaster pistol, reroll any 
result of 1 on the damage dice until you get a result other than 1. 

Sporting Blaster Rifle: When you use a sporting blaster rifle, you gain a 
+1 bonus to attack rolls when you aim before firing. 


1 waLavHo 


i 
4 
ae 
aa 


1 asilavno 


Ss8eUsy AaEvainw 


Staggering Attack 
You can deliver punishing blows to your enemies, distracting them and keep- 
ing them from focusing their efforts. 

Prerequisites: Proficient with weapon used, base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: When using a melee weapon, you can make an attack that 
disrupts an enemy's concentration. You take a -2 penalty to your attack roll, 
and if your attack deals damage, the target takes a -2 penalty to skill checks 
until the end of your next turn. 

Alternatively, you can take a -5 penalty to your attack roll, and if your 
attack deals damage, the target takes a -5 penalty to skill checks until the 
end of your next turn. 


BONUS FEATS 

Some of the feats in this chapter can be selected as bonus feats by certain 
classes. Characters in the following classes can add the listed feats to 
their relevant bonus feat lists. 


CLASS BONUS FEATS 

Jedi Battering Attack, Dive for Cover, Fight Through 
Pain, Force of Personality, Mission Specialist, Never 
Surrender, Officer Candidacy Training, Resilient 
Strength, Risk Taker, Staggering Attack 

Noble Disabler, Fight Through Pain, Force of Personality, 

Mission Specialist, Predictive Defense, Sport 

Hunter 

Bantha Herder, Disabler, Fight Through Pain, Force 

of Personality, Mission Specialist, Opportunistic 

Shooter, Pistoleer, Predictive Defense, Steadying 

Position. 

Scout Destructive Force, Disabler, Dive for Cover, Forceful 
Blast, Fortifying Recovery, Mission Specialist, Never 
Surrender, Opportunistic Shooter, Pistoleer, Resilient 
Strength, Riflemaster, Risk Taker, Sport Hunter, 
Steadying Position 

Soldier Bantha Herder, Battering Attack, Destructive Force, 
Disabler, Dive for Cover, Forceful Blast, Fortifying 
Recovery, Mission Specialist, Never Surrender, 
Officer Candidacy Training, Opportunistic Shooter, 
Pistoleer, Resilient Strength, Riflemaster, Risk Taker, 
Sport Hunter, Staggering Attack, Steadying 
Position 


Scoundrel 


Steadying Position 
You know how to fire from the optimal position, using the ground to steady 
your aim. 
Prerequisite: Careful Shot. 
Benefit: When you are prone and aim before making a ranged attack, your 
target does not benefit from its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense. 


MARTIAL ARTS FEATS 

The following feats represent basic training in a variety of martial arts styles. 
Additionally, many of them have special effects when used in conjunction with 
style-specific talents available to the martial arts master prestige class. 


Echani Training 
You are trained in Echani unarmed fighting techniques, giving you an advan- 
tage in hand-to-hand combat. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Martial Arts |. 

Benefit: If you make only one unarmed attack during your turn, you can 
double the damage bonus to that attack provided by your Strength modifier 
(minimum +1). 

Once per encounter when you deal damage to a target with an unarmed 
attack, you can immediately make an unarmed attack against the target's 
Fortitude Defense as a free action. If successful, you knock the target to 
the ground (prone) in its current square, provided that the target is no more 
than one size larger than you. 

Special: Targets gain a bonus to Fortitude Defense against being knocked 
prone based on their size: Medium or smaller, +0; Large, +5; Huge, +10; 
Gargantuan, +20; and Colossal, +50. In addition, unusually stable creatures 
(such as those with four legs) gain a +5 bonus to their Fortitude Defense 
against being knocked prone. 

if you have the Echani Expertise talent (see the Martial Arts Forms talent 
tree on page 32), whenever you score a critical hit with an unarmed attack, 
the target is immediately knocked to the ground (prone) in its current square, 
provided that the target is no more than one size larger than you. 


Hijkata Training 
You are trained in the Hijkata style of unarmed fighting and can quickly turn 
enemies’ attacks against them. 

Prerequisites: Combat Reflexes, Martial Arts |. 

Benefit: Once per round, when an adjacent enemy successfully damages 
you with a melee attack, you can make an attack of opportunity with an 
unarmed attack at a -5 penalty against that enemy, even if the enemy's 
attack normally would not provoke an attack of opportunity. 

Once per encounter, when an enemy provokes an attack of opportunity 
from you and you successfully damage that enemy with an unarmed attack 
of opportunity, that enemy takes a penalty to attack rolls equal to your 
Dexterity modifier (minimum +1) until the end of your next turn. 


FEAT NAME PREREQUISITES 
Echani Training Dexterity 13, Martial Arts | 
Hijkata Training Combat Reflexes, Martial Arts | 


Martial Arts |, trained in Stealth 

Dual Weapon Mastery |, Martial Arts | 
Martial Arts |, Running Attack 

Dodge, Martial Arts |, trained in Initiative 
Strength 13, Martial Arts | 

Constitution 13, Martial Arts |, Wookie 


K'tara Training 
K'thri Training 
Stava Training 
Tae-Jitsu Training 
Terds Kasi Training 
Wrruushi Training 


Special: If you have the Hijkata Expertise talent (see the Martial Arts 
Forms talent tree on page 32), once per encounter, you can spend a full- 
round action to designate a single adjacent ally. Until the start of your next 
turn, any enemy adjacent to you or the designated ally that makes an attack 
roll against that ally provokes an attack of opportunity from you. If the ally 
moves during his or her turn, you can immediately move a number of squares 
up to your speed as a reaction; however, you must end your movement in a 
square that is adjacent to the designated ally. 


K'tara Training 
You are trained in the K'tara style of unarmed fighting, which enables you to 
neutralize enemies before they even know that you are present. 

Prerequisites: Martial Arts |, trained in Stealth. 

Benefit: You roll an extra die of damage against a flat-footed enemy on 
‘one unarmed attack during your turn. 

Once per encounter, when you deal damage with an unarmed attack to 
a target that has been denied its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense, make 
a second unarmed attack against the target's Fortitude Defense as a free 
action. If successful, you render the target incapable of speech until the end 
of your next turn. This is a stunning effect. 

Special: If you have the K'tara Expertise talent (see the Martial Arts 
Forms talent tree on page 33), you can spend two swift actions to cause 
a single adjacent enemy to be flat-footed against your first attack during 
the same round. 


K'thri Training 
You are trained in the K'thri style of unarmed fighting, striking with flashy 
moves and incredible speed. 

Prerequisites: Dual Weapon Mastery |, Martial Arts |. 

Benefit: Once per round, you can spend a swift action to make a single 
unarmed attack against one enemy within reach, dealing your base unarmed 
damage with no bonus to the damage roll from your Strength or heroic level. 


BENEFIT 

Double Strength bonus to unarmed damage; knock target prone. 

Make counterattacks; impose penalties to enemy attacks. 

Deal extra damage against flat-footed enemy; render target mute. 

Make swift unarmed attacks; deal half damage on misses. 

Grab and grapple as a larger creature; grab after charging. 

Deal more damage on critical hits; use Dodge against enemies. 

Treat target's damage threshold as lower. 

Gain bonus hit points on unarmed attacks; deny target equipment bonus. 


Once per encounter, when you make an unarmed attack that misses the 
target, you deal half damage to the target. 

You must be wearing light or no armor to gain the benefit of this feat. 

‘Special: If you have the K’thri Expertise talent (see the Martial Arts Forms 
talent tree on page 33), once per encounter when making a full attack, you 
can reroll one of your unarmed attack rolls; however, you must accept the 
result of the reroll, even is worse. You must be wearing light or no armor 
to gain this special benefit. 


Stava Training 
You are trained in the Stava unarmed fighting style of the Noghri and can 
‘subdue an enemy with ease. 

Prerequisites: Martial Arts |, Running Attack. 

Benefit: When making a grab attack (see page 152 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook), you are considered to be one size category larger for the 
purpose of determining the size of the opponent that you can grab. If you 
are capable of making a grapple attack, you are considered to be one size 
category larger for the purpose of determining your size modifier to grapple 
checks. 

When making an unarmed attack against a target while charging an 
opponent (see page 152 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), if your attack 
roll is successful, you can make an immediate grab attack against that target 
as a free action. 

You must be wearing light or no armor to gain the benefit of this feat. 

Special: If you have the Stava Expertise talent (see the Martial Arts 
Forms talent tree on page 33), you can add your Strength bonus and your 
Dexterity bonus to grapple checks. You must be wearing light or no armor 
to gain this special benefit. 


] eSalavnS 


SseUsy) 4Bvamw 


1 eelavnS 


Tae-Jitsu Training 
You are trained in the Tae-Jitsu style of unarmed fighting and can use a 
variety of techniques to defeat your enemy. 

Prerequisites: Dodge, Martial Arts |, trained in Initiative. 

Benefit: When you score a critical hit with an unarmed attack, the damage 
dealt by your attack increases by one die step, to a maximum of d12. 

Once per encounter, when you make a successful unarmed attack against 
an enemy, you can spend a swift action to designate that enemy as your 
primary adversary. Until the end of the encounter, you gain the benefit of the 
Dodge feat against that enemy and against one other enemy of your choice. 

Special: If you have the Tae-Jitsu Expertise talent (see the Martial Arts 
Forms talent tree on page 33), when you score a critical hit against an enemy 
who has been designated as your primary adversary, that enemy takes a -2 
penalty to attack rolls until the end of your next turn. 


Teras Kasi Training 
You are trained in the Teras Kasi unarmed fighting style and can send an 
‘enemy reeling with a single punch, 

Prerequisites: Strength 13, Martial Arts |. 

Benefit: Once per round when you make a successful unarmed attack, 
you reduce the target's damage threshold by 5 when determining the effect 
of the attack. 

Special: If you have the Teras Kasi Basics talent (see the Master of Teras Kasi 
talent tree on page 53 of Threats of the Galaxy), you are considered to be one 
size category larger when determining the damage of your unarmed attacks. 


Wrruushi Training 
You are trained in the Wrruushi unarmed fighting style of the Wookiees and 
feel more invigorated in the heat of battle. 

Prerequisites: Constitution 13, Martial Arts |, must be a Wookiee. 

Benefit: Once per round when you make a successful unarmed attack, you 
gain a number of bonus hit points equal to your Constitution modifier. Damage 
is subtracted from the bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remain- 
ing at the end of the encounter are lost. Bonus hit points do not stack. 

Once per encounter, you can make an unarmed attack against an enemy's 
Fortitude Defense instead of the enemy's Reflex Defense. If the attack is 
successful, the enemy not only takes damage but also loses any equipment 
bonuses to Fortitude Defense until the end of the encounter. 

You must be wearing light or no armor to gain the benefit of this feat. 

Special: If you have the Wrruushi Expertise talent (see the Martial Arts 
Forms talent tree on page 33), once per encounter when you score a critical 
hit with an unarmed attack against an enemy, you can deal normal damage 
and move the target an additional -2 steps on the condition track, regard- 
less of the damage result. You must be wearing light or no armor to gain 
this special benefit. 


TEAM FEATS 

The following feats, collectively referred to as team feats, allow multiple 
heroes in a party to take the same feat to gain cumulative benefits. These 
team feats represent the concept that you and your allies have trained 
together and are part of the same military unit. When a mission calls for 
specialized skills, your group is chosen because you work well together and 
can get the job done. 

Each team feat provides a competence bonus to a particular skill check, 
the same type of bonus that is provided by the Skill Focus feat. If you are 
considering taking either a team feat or the Skill Focus feat, consider whether 
other heroes in your group are willing to take the same team feat. If at least 
two other allies take the same team feat, you will gain a greater benefit by 
taking the team feat rather than the Skill Focus feat. However, if fewer than 
two other allies take the team feat, you will gain a greater benefit by taking 
the Skill Focus feat instead. 


Aquatic Specialists 
You and your allies have trained extensively in underwater combat and 
specialize in missions in aquatic environments. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Swim. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Swim checks. At the time 
you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has this 
feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Addition- 
ally, when you swim, you swim at half speed as a move action (or you swim 
at your speed as a full-round action). 


Ascension Specialists 
You and your allies train on the sheer cliffs of Teth and the sinkholes of 
Utapau as a matter of course, 

Prerequisite: Trained in Climb. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Climb checks. At the time 
you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has this 
feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Addition- 
ally, when you climb, you climb at half speed as a move action (or at your 
normal speed as a full-round action). 


Covert Operatives 
You and your allies specialize in undercover missions in which stealth and 
subtlety are paramount. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Stealth. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Stealth checks. At the time 
you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has this 
feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Addition- 
ally, when moving more than your speed or more than twice your speed, 
reduce the penalties to Stealth checks by 2. 


FEAT NAME PREREQUISITES 
Aquatic Specialists Trained in Swim 
Ascension Specialists Trained in Climb 


Covert Operatives Trained in Stealth 
Medical Team Trained in Treat Injury 
Mounted Regiment Trained in Ride 

Nimble Team Trained in Acrobatics 
Slicer Team Trained in Use Computer 
Technical Experts Trained in Mechanics 
Tireless Squad Trained in Endurance 
Unhindered Approach Trained in Jump 

Unified Squadron Trained in Pilot 

Wary Sentries Trained in Perception 


Wilderness Specialists Trained in Survival 


Medical Team 

You and your allies know the value of keeping soldiers alive and perform as 
ling unit. 

Trained in Treat Injury. 

+ You gain a +3 competence bonus to Treat Injury checks. At the 
time you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has 
this feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Addi- 
tionally, when you use the aid another action to assist an ally who has this 
feat with a Treat Injury check to restore hit points, your ally always restores 
an extra 4 hit points to the target. 


Mounted Regiment 
You and your allies act as mounted cavalry, specializing in using beasts 
in war, 

Prerequisite: Trained in Ride. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Ride checks. At the time you 
make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has this feat, 
the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Additionally, 
Once per round as a reaction to your mount being attacked, you can make a 
Ride check; if the result exceeds the mount's Reflex Defense, use your check 
result against the attack instead of using the mount's Reflex Defense. 


Nimble Team 
You and your allies train extensively to avoid hazards and to slip through 
tight spaces, making it difficult to pin your team down. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Acrobatics. 


BENEFIT 

Gain bonuses to Swim checks when near allies. 

Gain bonuses to Climb checks when near allies. 

Gain bonuses to Stealth checks when near allies. 
Gain bonuses to Treat Injury checks when near allies. 
Gain bonuses to Ride checks when near allies. 

Gain bonuses to Acrobatics checks when near allies. 
Gain bonuses to Use Computer checks when near allies. 
Gain bonuses to Mechanics checks when near allies, 
Gain bonuses to Endurance checks when near allies. 
Gain bonuses to Jump checks when near allies. 

Gain bonuses to Pilot checks when near allies. 

Gain bonuses to Perception checks when near allies. 
Gain bonuses to Survival checks when near allies. 


Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Acrobatics checks. At the 
time you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also 
has this feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). 
Additionally, when you use the Acrobatics skill to tumble, you can tumble 
1 extra square. 


Slicer Team 
You and your allies are computer specialists, capable of penetrating even the 
strongest electronic defenses. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Use Computer. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Use Computer checks. At 
the time you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also 
has this feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). 
Additionally, when you use the aid another action to assist an ally who has this 
feat with a Use Computer check, you provide a bonus of +4 instead of +2. 


Technical Experts 
You and your allies are just as comfortable in the vehicle pool as on the 
battlefield and are capable of maintaining heavy equipment. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Mechanics. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Mechanics checks. At the 
time you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also 
has this feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). 
Additionally, when you use the aid another action to assist an ally who has 
this feat with a Mechanics check, you provide a bonus of +4 instead of +2. 


Ssotey) 48vaimw 


TesievHo 


‘ 
ab 
g 
0) 


Tireless Squad 
You and your allies train for combat scenarios in which your ability to hang 
in for the long haul is the difference between victory and defeat. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Endurance. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Endurance checks. At the 
time you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has 
this feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Addi 
tionally, when you use the aid another action to assist an ally who has this 
feat with an Endurance check, you provide a bonus of +4 instead of +2. 


Unhindered Approach 
You and your allies have trained on worlds where the terrain is unstable, and 
your team also specializes in vertical insertion into combat zones. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Jump. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Jump checks. At the time you 
make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has this feat, 
the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Additionally, 
when you use the Jump skill, add 1 square to your total jump distance. 


Unified Squadron 
You and your allies are excellent pilots whose skills shine when you fly 
together, making you better as a unit than as individuals. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Pilot. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Pilot checks. At the time you 
make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has this feat, 
the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Additionally, you 
always succeed when trying to avoid collisions with vehicles piloted by allies 
who also have this feat (no collisions occur, even at character scale). 


Wary Sentries 
You and your allies specialize in keeping tabs on your surroundings, making 
you excellent guards and advance scouts. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Perception. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Perception checks. At the 
time you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has this 
feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Additionally, 
you can take 10 on Perception checks, even when threatened or rushed. 


Wilderness Specialists 
You and your allies have been trained to survive in the wild and can live 
off the land. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Survival. 

Benefit: You gain a +3 competence bonus to Survival checks. At the time 
you make a check, for each ally within 12 squares of you who also has this 
feat, the competence bonus increases by 1 (to a maximum of +7). Addition- 
ally, when you use the aid another action to assist an ally who has this feat 
with a Survival check, you provide a bonus of +4 instead of +2. 


PRESTIGE CLASS 
TALENTS 


The following talents expand the talent trees available to the prestige classes 
found in the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


Evite TROOPER TALENTS 

The elite trooper is most at home on the field of battle, ranking among the 
most capable combatants of any military or mercenary company. A mission 
that an elite trooper considers an interesting challenge would be considered 
a suicide mission by other soldiers. 


New Weapon Master Talent 

The following talent is for use with the Weapon Master talent tree, which is 
available to members of the elite trooper prestige class, Any character who 
can normally choose talents from the Weapon Master talent tree can chose 
this talent as well, 

Ferocious Assault: Once per encounter, when making an autofire attack, 
you can treat the attack as a 6 square cone. Making this attack consumes 
20 shots from the weapon's power pack. 

Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +12, Controlled Burst. 


Squad Leader Talent Tree 
You are an expert at small-unit tactics, leading a small group of allies into 
battle as a cohesive unit. 

All talents in the Squad Leader talent tree apply to other characters in a 
squad you command. A squad includes yourself plus a number of characters 
equal to or less than the sum of your elite trooper class level plus your Cha- 
risma modifier (minimum of one other character). These characters must be 
‘on foot, must have line of sight to you, and must be able to communicate 
with you to gain the benefit of your Squad Leader talents. As a free action, 
you designate which characters are in your squad at the beginning of your 
first turn. 


Each squad can benefit from the talents of only a single squad leader, 
designated when an encounter begins. A character without a squad leader 
can join an existing squad if both character and squad leader are willing and 
if the squad leader has not reached his or her maximum squad size. 

Fall Back: As a move action, you can enable each member of your squad 
to immediately move two squares. This movement does not provoke an 
attack of opportunity. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 

Form Up: As a move action, you give all squad members a +2 morale 
bonus to their Reflex Defense until the end of your next turn, as long as 
they are within 6 squares of another squad member. 

Prerequisites:Charisma 13. 

Full Advance: As a move action, you give all squad members a +2 morale 
bonus to damage rolls until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 

Hold Steady: Once per encounter, as a standard action, you move all 
members of your squad +1 step on the condition track. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 

Search and Destroy: As a move action, you give all squad members a +2 
morale bonus to Perception checks until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 


GUNSLINGER TALENTS 

Although more commonly seen in one-on-one fights and small skirmishes, the 
gunslinger's fast reflexes and deadly accuracy are just as dangerous in large- 
scale military actions as in the holovid stereotype of a duel at midday. 


New Gunslinger Talent 

The following talent is for use with the Gunslinger talent tree, which is 
available to members of the gunslinger prestige class. Any character who 
can normally choose talents from the Gunslinger talent tree can chose this 
talent as well. 

Keep Them Honest: When using the aid another action to suppress an 
enemy (see page 151 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), the enemy instead 
takes a -5 penalty to all attack rolls until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Careful Shot feat. 


Sharpshooter Talent Tree 
You are an expert at long-range combat, using the inherent range advantage 
of a rifle to win the day. 

Bullseye: Once per encounter, you can designate a single target that 
you have aimed at and that is not within point-blank range. When making a 
ranged attack roll against that target, the target is denied its Dexterity bonus 
to Reflex Defense when determining the effect of your attack. 

Prerequisites: Draw a Bead, Precision Shot, Sniper feat. 


Draw a Bead: Once per round, you can spend a single swift action to 
designate a single enemy who is not within point-blank range. When you 
make a successful ranged attack roll that deals damage against the desig- 
nated enemy, add your Dexterity bonus (minimum +1) to the damage roll. 
This effect lasts until the target is unconscious, dead, or leaves your line of 
sight. You can have only one enemy designated in this manner. 

Prerequisites: Precision Shot, base attack bonus +10. 

Pinning Shot: You can keep your target worrying about where the next 
shot is coming from instead of trying to flee. When you deal damage to an 
enemy that you have aimed at, the target's speed is reduced to 2 squares, 
and the target cannot take either a double move action or use the run action 
until the end of your next turn. This is a stunning effect. 

Prerequisite: Precision Shot. 

Harrying Shot: When you make a successful ranged attack against 
an enemy that you have aimed at and the attack deals damage, the target 
cannot use a standard action to make an attack roll on his or her next turn. 
This counts as a stunning effect. 

Prerequisites: Pinning Shot, Precision Shot. 

Precision Shot: When using the aim action, you gain the benefit of the 
Point Blank Shot feat against your target, regardless of range category. 

Prerequisite: Far Shot feat. 


1 ssievnS 


i 
4 
o) 


MARTIAL ARTS 
MASTER 


Most warriors become proficient with a variety of weapons, but martial arts 
masters strive to master various styles of hand-to-hand combat, shunning 
blasters and turning their bodies into powerful weapons. Although other 
combatants are satisfied with learning the basics of unarmed combat, mar- 
tial arts masters learn the techniques and philosophies of many different 
styles of martial arts, incorporating different elements and techniques into 
unique personal styles. They are among the most self-sufficient and the most 
dangerous fighters in the galaxy. 

Martial arts masters focus on perfecting their art, but many different 
paths lead to that goal. Some martial arts masters withdraw from the galaxy, 
honing their skills in small, isolated enclaves, Others use their prowess in the 
defense of the helpless and innocent in a manner befitting a Jedi Knight. 
Some make their lethal skills available to the highest bidder, and still others 
hold positions of influence with criminal cartels, using their deadly fighting 
abilities to ruthlessly maintain their rank. 

During any era of play, martial arts masters can be surprisingly dangerous 
enemies, since they require nothing more than their own limbs to lay even 
the toughest of enemies low. 


BASE ATTACK BONUS CLASS FEATURES 


LEVEL 

Ist + Defense Bonuses, talent 
2nd +2 Tough as Durasteel +2 
3rd +3 Talent 

4th +4 Tough as Durasteel +4 
5th +5 Talent 

6th +6 Tough as Durasteel +6 
7th 47 Talent 

8th +8 Tough as Durasteel +8 
9th +9 Talent 

joth +10 Tough as Durastee! +10 


EXAMPLES OF MARTIAL ARTS 
MASTERS IN STAR WARS 

Anoon Bondura, Arden Lyn, Bultar Swan, the Pike sisters, the Five Masters 
of Cularin. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a martial arts master, a character must fulfill the 
following criteria. 

Base Attack Bonus: +7. 

Feats: Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Melee Defense, and at least one of the 
following feats: Echani Training, Hijkata Training, K'tara Training, K'thri Training, 
Stava Training, Tae-Jitsu Training, Teras Kasi Training, or Wrruushi Training. 

Talents: One talent from either the Brawler talent tree (see page 52 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook) or the Survivor talent tree (see page 
50 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 

Martial arts masters have the following game statistics. 

Hit Points 

At each level, martial arts masters gain 1d10 hit points + their Constitution 
modifier. 


Force Points 
Martial arts masters gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their 
character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the martial arts master prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At Ist level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +4 class 
bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Awareness talent tree (see page 49 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook), the Master of Teras Kasi talent tree (see 
page 53 of Threats of the Galaxy), the Martial Arts Forms talent tree, or the 
Unarmed Mastery talent tree (both of which are presented below). 


MARTIAL ARTS FORMS TALENT TREE 

You have advanced training in one or more martial art forms, turning your 
body into a lethal weapon. Although any character can practice these forms, 
you have the dedication and perseverance to go beyond what most beings 
are capable of. 

Echani Expertise: When making an unarmed attack, you extend your 
critical threat range by 1 (for example, 19-20 instead of 20). However, 
anything other than a natural 20 is not considered an automatic hit; if you 
roll anything other than a natural 20 and still miss the target, you do not 
score a critical hit. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +10. 

Hijkata Expertise: When you damage a creature or droid with an 
unarmed attack, the target takes a penalty to its next attack roll equal to 
your Strength bonus. 


K'tara Expertise: Once per turn, wl 
ake an attack to disarm 


tack roll 


with 


unarmed attack, you can 
Also, you do not take the -5 penalty te 
ng a Weapon With more than one hand. 
K’thri Expertise: Any enemy that begins its turn adjacent to you takes 
mage equal to your Strength modifier (minimu 
attack of opportunity against them 


only light armor or no armor. 


m 1 point) if you are able 


‘o make ou can use this talent while 


Stava Expertise: When you suc 
ke an opposed grapple check to break free of your grab. If you are initiating 


essfully grab an enemy, he or she must 


le, you can reroll your grapple check. However, you must accept the 
‘an use this talent only while wearing 


econd result, even if it is worse. You 


ht armor or no armor 

Tae-Jitsu Expertise: Once per turn, when you damage a crea 
vith an unarmed attack, compare your attack roll to the targ 
threshold. If your attack roll equals or exceeds the target's threshold, the 


ure or dr 


et's damage 


get is moved -1 step on the cond 
sf your attack 

Wrruushi Expertise: Once per turn, when you damage a creature or 
{roid with an unarmed attack, you can make an attack against the targe 


ion track, regardless the damage result 


ortitude Defense as a free action. If that attack is successful, the targe' 


ift action on their next turn. You can use this talent 


can take only a single s 


ly while wearing light armor or no armor. 


UNARMED MASTERY TALENT TREE 


You have advanced training in one or more martial art forms and have turned 


your body into a lethal w 


pon. Any char, 


er can practice these 


ut through dedication and perseverance you have exceeded the ab 
of other beings. 

Flurry of Blows: When you make r 
ittack action (see page 154 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), you reduce 
he penalty to your attack roll by 2. 

You can take this talent multiple times. Each time you take t 


acks as a full 


ultiple unarmed 


i Falenk 


you reduce the penalty to your attack rolls by an additional 2. 
Hardened Strike: If you damage with an unarmed att: 
droid that has Damage Reduction, you reduce the value of that Dan 


duction by one until the end of the encounter. Cumulative attacks against 


ck a creature or 


age 


e same target do not stack, 
Punishing Strike: When you score a critical hit on an unarmed atta 
‘ou can make an immediate unarmed attack (in addition to other effects of 


s talent only 


ritical hit) against a single target within reach. You can use th 
ce per turn and only while wearing light armor or no armor. 
Tough as Durasteel: As part of your training, you have le 
ady yourself for the attacks of your opponents, reducing the ef 


of their blows. Starting at 2nd level, whenever you damage a t 


ed how to 


armed attack while wearing light or no armor, you gain 
ss level. The number of bonus hit points you 


jual to your c 
armed attack increases for every other level you gain in this class 


A TAUNG MARTIAL ARTS MASTER 


pao shee: 
“” CHAPTER I! 


HARDWARE 


SSS SSS 
Weapons and hardware make the soldier. For thousands of years, blasters 
are the dominant weapon technology used by soldiers, mercenaries, and 
warriors alike. However, a bewildering array of weapons and armor are used 
throughout the galaxy, from cutting edge to primitive. A soldier might face 
sophisticated fighters with missile launchers, battle armor, and the latest 
in blaster and ion technology, or primitive savages wearing little more than 
bone armor and wielding bows and spears. 


SPOILS OF WAR 

One effect of war is the massive amount of weapons, armor, ships, and other 
valuable (and powerful) equipment left behind on the battlefield or captured 
in conquered cities and settlements. For the players, this becomes a windfall, 
offering a multitude of choices to upgrade their heroes’ gear. When such 
spoils become available, the GM must decide what items, if any, the heroes 
can take for their own. 

If the heroes serve in a reqular military unit, such as those of the Empire, 
Republic, or Rebel Alliance, the choice is essentially already made for them. 
Armies rarely allow soldiers to keep weapons or equipment captured in 
battle, much less to use such loot in their daily duties. Trophy items might 
be permitted, depending on the rules set down by commanding officers, but 
these are kept at the barracks to show off to comrades. Particularly powerful, 
rare, experimental, or dangerous items are never left in the hands of ordinary 
soldiers and are confiscated for study, archiving, or use in infiltration, diver- 
sion, or other such missions. 

If the heroes belong to a mercenary or paramilitary force, they might 
be allowed to keep some weapons, vehicles, and gear they obtain on their 
missions, but most of it must be turned over to be used by the organization 
or to be sold for additional profit. Of course, one aspect of belonging to a 
mercenary group is earning a percentage of the spoils of war, so capturing 
intact gear and vehicles is a high priority for any mercenary. 

As the Gamemaster, you must decide whether to allow the heroes to keep 
equipment obtained during adventures ( see “Equipment” on page 249 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). However, capturing valuable equipment should 
be considered beneficial to the players. Grant them either 25%—50% of the 
total value of the captured equipment or an appropriate XP reward. Heroes 
who consistently recover captured loot can also gain notoriety within their 
organization (see “Rank and Privilege” on page 73). Also, the Gear Requi- 
sitioning System (on page 69) allows military characters to gain access to 
bigger and better weapons and gear, making looting essentially irrelevant. 


suvMayuVH e 


T SsiavHS 


lg 
> 
a) 
9 
& 
> 
iy 
Ww 


ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS cOsT DAMAGE 


STUN DAMAGE 


WEIGHT = TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Shock stick 450 - 3d6 stun 1.4 kg Energy Licensed 
Static pike '? 300 2d6 2d6 1.8 kg Energy and piercing Restricted 
Vibrolance 500 2410 - 2kg Piercing Licensed 
EXOTIC WEAPONS cost DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
‘SOT Ee Se ee ee Ee 
Darkstick ' 1,000 1d6 - 1.5 kg Slashing Rare 
SIMPLE WEAPONS cost DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
‘Sa SS TS Si ee ne 
Entrenching tool 50 1d6 - 1kg Slashing or piercing - 
Fire blade 200 2d4 - 1.0 kg Energy and slashing - 
UNARMED cost DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Unarmed, Small character - 1d3 - - Bludgeoning = 
Shockboxing gloves 500 + +1 0.4 kg Bludgeoning and energy Restricted 
Unarmed, Medium character - 1d4 - - Bludgeoning = 
Shockboxing gloves 600 + + 0.5 kg Bludgeoning and energy Restricted 
1Can be thrown. 
2 Reach weapon. 


MELEE WEAPONS 

War is ugly, requiring a soldier to get up close and personal with the enemy. 
Most soldiers rely on blasters, but nevertheless, few venture into battle 
without a weapon suitable for hand-to-hand combat. 


Darkstick 

Exotic Weapon 

The darkstick is a curved blade developed by the Kerestian species. Difficult 
to master, the weapon is deadly in the hands of a proficient wielder. Although 
they vary in size, a typical darkstick is about 20 centimeters long with a 
handle designed to be gripped between the large knuckles of a Kerestian. 
Masters of the darkstick can hold two or even three of the blades in each 
hand, greatly increasing the damage they deal. Darksticks are named for the 
Kerestian belief of the Great Darkness that awaits all souls. 

Later versions of the darkstick also incorporate special webs of light- 
absorbing cells, which shroud the wielder in darkness. Attacks from enemies 
who are immediately adjacent treat the wielder as if he or she were in total 
concealment. Creatures or characters with darkvision ignore this penalty. 
The darkstick wielder must be able to see in the dark or take the penalty 
as well. 


Any character proficient in the use of the darkstick can hold more than 
‘one in one hand, as Kerestians do. When wielding multiple darksticks in one 
hand, you are considered to be wielding only one weapon, but you increase 
the damage dice for the darkstick from 1d6 to 2d8. (The damage remains 
2d8 for any number of darksticks over two.) 

A darkstick can be thrown. If your attack exceeds the target's Reflex 
Defense by 5 or more, the darkstick also returns to your hand immediately 
after the attack. 


Entrenching Tool 

‘Simple Weapon 

Used by soldiers for thousands of years, the entrenching tool is a durable, 
multipurpose tool that also can be an effective melee weapon. The 
entrenching tool can be configured as a short shovel, a pickaxe, or even 
a makeshift hammer. 

The entrenching tool is designed to be durable enough for combat, but 
it is not as balanced as a regular weapon. The wielder takes a —2 penalty to 
attack rolls (improvised weapons normally impose a —5 penalty to attack 
rolls) and can choose to deal either piercing or slashing damage. 


Fire Blade 
Simple Weapon 
The inhabitants of the planet Dathomir coined the term “fire blade" for this 
cutting energized blade, but similar tools can be found on nearly every planet 
in the galaxy. When activated, a sheath of energy surrounds the blade of 
this weapon, allowing it to slice through nearly any material. The fire blade 
cauterizes a wound as it cuts, and it is used to trim the nails of the ferocious 
kwi, lizard creatures native to Dathomir. 

{A fire blade ignores the DR of unattended objects, and requires an energy 
cell to operate. 


Shockboxing Gloves 

Simple Weapon 

Shockboxing gloves are powered gauntlets worn during a shockboxing match. 
Shockboxing gloves protect the wearer's hands and also deal damage to any 
character hit by them. Shockboxing gloves are similar to stunning gauntlets 
(see page 202 of the Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide). However, 
unlike stunning gauntlets, shockboxing gloves have various settings, from 
lethal to a light shock (for sparring) as well as a stun setting. 

Shockboxing gloves provide a +1 bonus to damage with a successful 
unarmed attack. They can be set to stun as a swift action, converting the 
wearer's unarmed damage to stun damage (and providing the +1 bonus to 
stun damage). 

Shockboxing gloves are two sizes smaller than their wearer (for example, 
a pair of shockboxing gloves designed for a Human are Tiny). The way 
shockboxing gloves are worn prevents the wearer from being disarmed or 
from dropping them, 


Shock Stick 

Advanced Melee Weapon 

The shock stick is a melee weapon that delivers a stunning blow to the 
enemy's senses. Using technology similar to that of a stun baton, a shock 
stick has the added benefit of delivering its stunning energy in a rapid, over- 
whelming burst that can completely disable less hardy beings. 

A shock stick always deals stun damage. When a target susceptible to 
stun damage is hit by a shock stick, compare the damage (before halving) 
to the target's current hit point total. If the damage equals or exceeds the 
target's hit point total, the target moves —5 steps on the condition track 
and is knocked unconscious. Otherwise, compare the result to the target's 
damage threshold and resolve the attack as normal. 

A shock stick requires an energy cell to operate. Additionally, a shock 
stick can be mounted on a weapon as a bayonet (see page 121 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). When a shock stick is mounted on a rifle as a bayonet, 
the wielder takes no penalty to attacks with the shock stick for not having 
the Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons) feat, if the wielder is 
proficient in the rifle's use. 


Static Pike 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
Static pikes are reach weapons utilized by the Picadors on Geonosis. Primarily 
employed to herd reticent animals or to goad dangerous ones, the static pike 
is also an effective weapon. The tip of the weapon is incredibly sharp, but 
the main purpose of the weapon is to deliver an electric shock, which can 
be adjusted either to stun a creature or to give a potentially lethal jolt. The 
handle of the static pike is insulated to protect the wielder from accidental 
electrocution. 

Static pikes can be set to deliver either lethal or stun damage. A static 
pike is balanced, allowing the wielder to throw it like a spear. 

A static pike requires an energy cell to operate. 


Vibrolance 

Advanced Melee Weapon 

The vibrolance is a large, spearlike weapon commonly employed by guards 
and sentries. The weapon deals a massive amount of damage. Gamorreans 
particularly enjoy brandishing vibrolances, using them to prod slaves or 
spear prisoners. 

The large vibroblade on the end of the weapon can deal either piercing 
or slashing damage. A vibrolance is too large and unwieldy to be thrown 
effectively. 

A vibrolance requires an energy cell to operate. 


RANGED WEAPONS 

Soldiers prefer ranged weapons. The venerable and ubiquitous blaster 
dominates the field as soldiers’ personal weapons, but environment, mission 
requirements and personal choice also influence the type of firepower that 
soldiers wield. Many soldiers carry several weapons: a rifle or carbine for 
most situations, a pistol for up-close work, and grenades or even a missile 
launcher to deal serious damage. 


Ascension Gun 

Pistol 

The ascension gun is a heavy blaster pistol with a special syntherope tether 
and grappling-dart launcher attached. As a swift action, you can switch the 
weapon from blaster mode to ascension mode. When fired in ascension mode, 
the weapon shoots a grappling dart attached to the syntherope, tethering 
the weapon to the target. If the tether is projected vertically, the ascension 
gun can pull the wielder upward at a speed of 12 squares per round, with 
a maximum vertical lift capacity of roughly 720 kg. An ascension gun can 
also be used to create a zipline to a target surface after the syntherope has 
been secured to a fixed object at the shooter's location. The zipline allows 
the wielder to slide along the line at a speed of 12 squares per round if the 
destination has a lower elevation. In ascension mode, the gun has a maximum 
range of 30 squares (45 meters). 


i waiavHo 


In blaster mode, an ascension gun functions like a normal heavy blaster 
pistol. Ascension guns are somewhat bulkier than other weapons of the 
same size, imposing a —5 penalty to Stealth checks made to conceal the 
weapon. 

An ascension gun requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, the 
power pack must be replaced. Additionally, the ascension gun carries only two 
lengths of syntherope; after 2 uses, the syntherope must be replaced. 


Blaster Pistol, Sidearm 

Pistol 

Sidearm blaster pistol is the generic term for blaster pistols that have a high 
ammunition efficiency rating. Created by BlasTech Industries under contract 
for the Grand Army of the Republic, the DC-15s sidearm blaster is a favorite 
backup weapon carried by clone commandos. Although the shots that it 
fires are as powerful as those of other blasters, the blaster's slow recharge 
rate enforces conservation of ammunition, which can be advantageous in 
a prolonged firefight or when the wielder finds himself behind enemy lines 
without access to additional power packs. 

A sidearm blaster pistol requires a power pack to operate. If you use a 
sidearm blaster pistol with the Rapid Shot feat or any feat that has Rapid 
Shot as a prerequisite, you must spend a swift action to reset the weapon's 
trigger before it can be fired again. This feature and the special energy-trickle 
technology allow the power pack to last for 250 shots 


Blaster Ri 
Rifle 
Avariable blaster rifle, such as BlasTech’s DC-15S, allows a wielder to contro! 
the amount of tibanna gas it uses, creating more-powerful shots with the 
potential to deal more damage to the target. During the Clone Wars, when 
battles are fought far from Republic supply lines, clone troopers take advan- 
tage of the ability to dial their weapon's power up or down depending on the 
enemies they face. When fighting B-Series battle droids, for example, the 
clones conserve their ammunition by using lighter damage settings. 

A variable blaster rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 500 shots, 
the weapon's power pack must be replaced. As a swift action, you can adjust 
the weapon's power level up or down. You can adjust the weapon's base 
damage to 3d6, but doing so causes the weapon to consume five times 
more shots per attack. Likewise, you can adjust the weapon's base damage 
to 3d8, but doing so causes the weapon to consume ten times more shots 
per attack. For example, attacking with Rapid Shot normally consumes 2 
shots from a blaster. On its weakest setting, each Rapid Shot attack with a 
variable blaster rifle consumes 2 of the rifle's 500 shots. If the rifle is set 
to 3d6 damage, each attack with Rapid Shot consumes 10 of the rifle’s 500 
shots (2 x 5 = 10). If the rifle is set to 3d8 damage, each attack with Rapid 
Shot consumes 20 of the rifle's 500 shots (2 x 10 = 20) 


le, Variable 


Blaster Rifle, Heavy Variable 

Rifle 

The heavy version of the variable blaster rifle functions almost identically 
to its smaller counterpart, but is capable of much higher damage and also 
includes the same technology used in the ascension gun to create syntherope 
tethers, The clone trooper’s favored blaster rifle, the BlasTech DC-15A, is an 
example of a heavy variable blaster rifle. As a swift action, you can switch the 
weapon from blaster mode to ascension mode. When fired in ascension mode, 
the weapon shoots a grappling dart attached to the syntherope, tethering 
the weapon to the target. If the tether is projected vertically, the ascension 
gun can pull the wielder upward at a speed of 12 squares per round, with 
a maximum vertical lift capacity of roughly 720 kg. An ascension gun can 
also be used to create a zipline to a target surface after the syntherope has 
been secured to a fixed object at the shooter's location. The zipline allows 
the wielder to slide along the line at a speed of 12 squares per round if the 
destination has a lower elevation. In ascension mode, the gun has a maximum 
range of 30 squares (45 meters) 


A RODIAN QUARTERMASTER 


A heavy variable blaster rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 500 
shots, the weapon's power pack must be replaced. Asa swift action, you can 
adjust the weapon's power level up or down. You can adjust the weapon's 
base damage to 3d8, but doing so causes the weapon to consume ten times 
more shots per attack. Likewise, you can adjust the weapon's base damage 
to 3d10, but doing so causes the weapon to consume twenty times more 
shots per attack. For example, attacking with Rapid Shot normally consumes 
2 shots from a blaster. On its weakest setting, each Rapid Shot attack with a 
heavy variable blaster rifle consumes 2 of the rifle's 500 shots; if the rifle is 
set to 3d8 damage, each attack with Rapid Shot consumes 20 of the rifle's 
500 shots (2 x 10 = 20); if the rifle is set to 3410 damage, each attack with 
Rapid Shot consumes 40 of the rifles 500 shots (2 x 20 = 40), 


Crossbow, Repeating 
Simple Weapon 
The repeating crossbow is popular with collectors and historical aficionados 
‘as well as with hunters who desire an additional challenge. The Drolan Plasteel 
Repeating Crossbow is a typical example of this weapon. Made from light- 
weight plasteel, it has a large under-slung magazine of quarrels. With each 
shot, the next quarrel is brought up while the string automatically recocks, 
allowing the crossbow to be fired every round. 

The repeating crossbow magazine holds 10 quarrels, costs 30 credits and 
weighs 1.2 kg. A magazine can be replaced as a move action. 


Flame Cannon 
Heavy Weapon 
The flame cannon is a larger version of the regular flamethrower, with a 
considerably longer range, hotter temperature, and greater fuel capac- 
ity. Examples include the Merr-Sonn Model CR-28 and the Czerka CZ-28 
Flamestrike. Mounted on ground vehicles or tripods, the flame cannon is ideal 
for clearing out bunkers or as a weapon of shock and terror. When mounted 
on a tripod, the flame cannon is treated as one size smaller for purposes of 
being wielded, allowing a Medium character to operate it with two hands. 

The flame cannon shoots a cone of burning chemicals 12 squares long 
and 8 squares wide at the terminus. Make a single attack roll and compare 
the result to the Reflex Defense of every target within this area. A successful 
attack deals 5d6 points of fire damage to the target. If the attack misses, the 
target instead takes half damage. A target with the Evasion talent (see page 
50 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) takes half damage from a successful 
attack and no damage if the attack misses. The normal rules for taking fire 
damage apply (see page 255 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Reloading a flame cannon isa full-round action. The weapon can be used 
20 times before its chemical supply is depleted. Replacement tanks for the 
flame cannon cost 600 credits and weigh 20 kg each. 


Grenade, Radiation 

Simple Weapon 

Banned by all but the most depraved or desperate armies, the radiation 
grenade releases a cloud of radioactive particles that sicken any character 
unfortunate enough to be exposed to them. A radiation grenade explodes in 
a burst of light smoke, affecting everything within the 2-square burst radius. 
The grenade detonates on contact after it is thrown, dealing damage in the 
same round it is hurled. 

When you make an area attack with a radiation grenade, you make a 
single attack roll and compare the result to the Fortitude Defense of every 
target in the grenade’s burst radius. Creatures you hit take full damage, and 
creatures you miss take half damage. A target with the Evasion talent (see 
page 50 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) takes half damage from a suc- 
cessful attack and no damage if the attack misses. 

The target also takes the effect of exposure to radiation. The radiation gre- 
nade is treated as Moderate radiation for the purposes of damage and Treat 
Injury checks (see pages 255-256 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Grenade, Smoke 

Simple Weapon 

A smoke grenade produces a cloud of obscuring fog that blocks sight. Smoke 
grenades come in a variety of colors, making them useful as a signaling 
method to mark aerial attacks or call for evacuation. Smoke grenades fill a 
‘2-square burst radius with thick smoke that provides concealment and cre- 
ates a smoke hazard within the area (see page 256 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook). This cloud lasts for 10 rounds. 


Interchangeable Weapon System 

Rifle (Special) 

The DC-17m Interchangeable Weapon System (also called the DC-17m 
ICWS) is a weapon unique to clone commandos. The varying demands of 
the battlefield and the clone commandos' atypical missions led BlasTech to 
design this weapon to fill three different roles. The basic configuration is 
a standard blaster rifle. Additional attachments, however, can be added to 
transform the weapon into a sniper rifle or an anti-armor grenade launcher. 
Clone commandos appreciate the versatility of the ICWS, which reduces the 
weight they carry by reducing the number of their weapons. 

The ICWS can be switched among three different modes: standard blaster 
rifle, sniper rifle, and anti-armor mode. Switching weapon types is a standard 
action. In blaster-rifle mode, the ICWS functions like a regular blaster rifle. 

When the ICWS is changed to sniper-rifle mode, the weapon includes a 
targeting scope (see page 140 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), so there 
is no penalty to attacks at short range. However, the wielder takes a —2 
penalty against targets at unmodified point blank range. 


f SievHS 


0 
T 
> 
v 
Cy 
a 


Sevacsvy) 


When the ICWS is in anti-armor mode, the weapon is a single-shot gre- 
nade launcher that fires special ammunition (3-square burst radius). In this 
mode, the ICWS is considered a heavy weapon. 


Mortar Launcher 
Heavy Weapon 
The Merr-Sonn MobileMortar-3 is typical of mortar launchers wielded by 
soldiers. The mortar launcher is popular with insurgents, partisans, and other 
underdog armies because of its ease of use, low cost, and ability to drop 
shells on the enemy from behind cover and at a distance. The mortar launcher 
consists of a tube, a tripod, and a magazine along with a built-in computer 
that adjusts for wind and other environmental factors. The magazine holds 
five shells and allows the mortar to automatically reload after every shot. 
Alternatively, the wielder can drop a single shell down the open tube, and 
the powerful electromagnet at the base launches the shell 

A mortar launcher lobs shells in a high arc. Therefore, it cannot be used 
against targets at point blank range. Additionally, when you launch a mortar 
at a target, you can treat the weapon's point of origin as being 20 squares 
in the air for the purposes of determining line of sight and cover. Mortar 
launchers fire mortar shells, which are statistically identical to grenades. 


OC-17™ INTERCHANGEABLE WEAPON SysTEM 


Rotary Blaster Cannon 

Heavy Weapon 

A rotary blaster cannon is a heavy weapon that fires a massive spray of 
blaster bolts at a target. Coming to prominence at the dawn of the Clone 
Wars, Merr-Sonn’s Z-6 rotary blaster cannon is similar to a heavy repeating 
blaster in many ways. It is carried by a single heavy-weapons specialist, but 
unlike most heavy repeating blasters, the Z-6 rotary blaster cannon does 
not require a tripod. The weapon is popular among the clone troops of the 
Galactic Republic because it can be fired from the hip, allowing the wielder 
to cover a greater fire arc with a single burst. However, the weapon is inac- 
curate when the wielder does not take time to brace it. 

If you brace a rotary blaster cannon before firing it, you can choose to 
target a 2x4 square area (instead of the normal 2x2 square area) with your 
autofire attack. However, if you do not brace the rotary blaster cannon, you 
take a —5 penalty to your attack roll in addition to the normal penalties 
associated with firing a weapon in autofire mode (see page 156 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). 

The rotary blaster cannon requires a power pack to operate. After 20 
shots, the power pack must be replaced, This weapon can also be attached 
to a power generator for longer use. 


Scatter Gun 

Rifle 

Found on primitive planets where slugthrowers are still used, the scatter 
gun is a large-barreled, low-velocity slugthrower that launches a blast of 
pellets spreading out over a distance. Scatter guns and their ammunition 
are cheap to manufacture and are primarily used for hunting. However, 
mercenaries, marines, and other soldiers sometimes carry a scatter gun as a 
back-up weapon for facing enemies in close quarters or for clearing rooms 
in house-to-house fighting. 

Scatter guns deal 348 damage at point blank range, 28 damage at short 
range, and no damage at medium or long range. They do not need power 
packs, Instead, they fire individual shells. Scatter guns hold 10 shells that 
each cost 2 credits and weigh 0.1 kg. 


HEAVY WEAPONS. COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Flame cannon* 3,000 5d6 fire = Ss 5kg Fire Military 
Mortar launcher®* 2,500 4d6 =a Ss 20 kg Slashing Military 
Rotary blaster cannon 5,500 310 - A 16 kg Energy Military 
Tactical tractor beam 8,000 3d6" - Ss 25 kg Energy Military 
PISTOLS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


8 


3d6 


fe 
a 


Blaster pistol, sidearm 1kg Energy Military 


Ascension gun! 1,200 38 Yes S 2kg Energy Military 
RIFLES COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Blaster rifle, variable 1,300 3d4* Yes SA 5 kg Energy Military 
Scatter gun! 275 3d8/2d8 - Ss 4kg Piercing Licensed 
Interchangeable Weapon 
System* 4,500 38 Yes SA 5kg Energy Military 
Sniper configuration? - 3d10 - Ss - Eneray - 
Anti-armor configuration — Special - S - Slashing = 
Anti-armor ammunition 400 4d6 - s 1kg Slashing - 


a 
a 


Blaster rifle, heavy variable! 2,250 3d6" 6.5kg Energy Military 


SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Crossbow, repeating 400 1d8 = s 1.2kg Piercing = 
Grenade, radiation’ 500 3d8* - s 0.5 kg Energy Mlegal 
Grenade, smoke* 100 - - is 0.5 kg - Restricted 
Targeting laser 50 Special - s 0.1 kg Energy Licensed 


"See weapon description. 


1 Inaccurate Weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at medium or long range. 

2 Accurate Weapon: This weapon takes no penalty when firing at targets at short range. 
3 Arc Weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at point blank range. 

4 Area attack weapon (see “Area Attacks” on page 155 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


al 


Tactical Tractor Beam 
Heavy Weapon 
This rare weapon is found only in the hands of wealthy armies or extremely 
successful mercenary groups. Utilizing the same technology as starship-sized 
tractor beams, the tactical tractor beam allows fast construction of defensive 
positions by lifting and moving artificial and natural barriers. Because of 
the massive power requirements and temperamental nature of the weapon, 
a tactical tractor beam should be mounted on a large droid or vehicle in 
order to wield the beam effectively in combat. A tactical tractor beam can 
also be fired from a tripod. When mounted on a tripod, it is treated as one 
size smaller for purposes of being wielded—allowing a Medium character 
to operate it with two hands. The tactical tractor beam requires a power 
generator to operate 

The tactical tractor beam functions like a tractor beam on a starship, but it 
can affect only Huge or smaller targets. Ifa tactical tractor beam has success- 
fully grabbed an object, it can move the object up to 10 squares in any direction 
rather than being limited to bringing the object closer, Additionally, a tactical 
tractor beam operator can hurl a grabbed object at another target within 10 
squares, making a ranged attack roll with the weapon against the new target. 
If the attack roll equals or exceeds the target's Reflex Defense, the target takes 
damage based on the size of the object hurled (see Table 14-2: Damage from 
Falling Objects on page 254 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) 


A BATTLE ORDID OPERATES 4 TACTICAL TRACTOR 


Normally, the tactical tractor beam requires a second crewman to regulate 
the weapon's power generator. The second crewman must spend a standard 
action while adjacent to the weapon to regulate its power. After you regulate 
the tactical tractor beam's power, it functions normally until the beginning 
of your next turn. If the weapon's power is not requlated—that is, if a second 
crewman has not done so since the same initiative count on the previous 
round—apply a —2 penalty to all attack rolls made with the weapon. 


Targeting Laser 

Simple Weapon 

This tiny laser is used to paint targets with a beam of light to guide mis- 
siles, bombardment attacks, or other incoming fire, but it otherwise deals 
no damage. The laser is tunable through a broad spectrum, allowing the 
attacker to home in on a specific targeting laser in the otherwise chaotic 
jumble of battlefield laser fire. It can be used by hand or mounted on any 
Medium or larger weapon. 

To use a targeting laser, the wielder makes an attack roll, ignoring any 
armor bonuses to the target's Reflex Defense, As long as the wielder repeats 
the attack each round, any ally who knows the frequency of the targeting 
laser gains a +2 bonus to attack rolls when attacking the target with a missile 
launcher, grenade launcher, or vehicle weapon. 

A targeting laser requires an energy cell to operate. 


EXPLOSIVES 

In addition to grenades and missiles, soldiers make extensive use of mines 
and other explosives. The following explosives are a mix of those used to 
destroy structures and objects and those primarily used against enemy 
troops and vehicles, 

Mines are designed for placement in the ground or to be otherwise hidden 
from sight. Any character attempting to notice a mine takes a —5 penalty 
to his or her Perception check. Setting a mine is a full-round action and 
does not require a Mechanics check. However, attaching a detonator (either 
timed or manual) requires a Mechanics check and overrides the mine's built- 
in triggering system (for more on mines, see pages 100-101 of The Force 
Unleashed Campaign Guide) 


Antipersonnel Mine 

An antipersonnel mine is a shaped explosive that discharges shrapnel in a 
cone, rather than exploding over an area, Retractable magnetic spikes on 
the bottom of the mine allow it be securely placed in the ground or attached 
toa metallic object, such as a vehicle or building. It can be detonated using 
a timer, a manual trigger (see page 101 of The Force Unleashed Campaign 
Guide), or a tripwire, Setting up a tripwire requires a DC 10 Mechanics 
check. Any character, creature, droid, or vehicle moving into a wired square 
detonates the mine. Multiple antipersonnel mines can be linked together with 


an additional DC 10 Mechanics check per mine. When one mine is activated, 
all the linked mines detonate, each dealing separate damage to all targets 
within the area of effect. 

‘An antipersonnel mine damages everything in a 6-square cone in a direc- 
tion that is determined when the mine is placed and activated. 


Detonite Cord 

Detonite cord—a long, thin cable of explosive detonite—is used mainly for 
mining and commercial demolition, Military sappers also commonly employ 
it in the field for specialized uses. Like regular detonite, detonite cord is very 
stable and requires a timer or manual trigger for detonation. 

Detonite cord is sold in reels, each with enough explosive to extend 6 
squares. Multiple reels of detonite cord can be spliced together for larger 
explosions. Designed for precise explosions, detonite causes negligible 
damage beyond its 1-square burst radius. Detonite cord gives a +5 equip- 
ment bonus to a Mechanics check to determine if the erphasiat] ignores the 
DR of an object the detonite is attached to. 


DAMAGE 
WEAPON cost DAMAGE TYPE 
Antipersonnel mine 500 6d6 Piercing 
Detonite cord 1,000 4d6" Energy 
lon mine 800 8d6 ion Energy 
Limpet mine 300 6d6 Energy 


lon Mine 
lon mines can disable droids and vehicles without causing lasting harm, 
allowing them to be captured or salvaged later on. An ion mine is placed in 
or on the ground (in any square adjacent to you) and is triggered when any 
droid or ground vehicle enters the mine's square. 

An ion mine deals ion damage to everything in a 2-square burst radius. 


Limpet Mine 

Designed to take out tanks and other vehicles, limpet mines are flat and 
about the size of a dinner plate. One side of the mine has a handle for easy 
gripping, and the other side is covered with microbeads of adhesive that 
break on hard contact with a flat surface (such as the side of a tank), ensur- 
ing solid adhesion. The shaped charge of the limpet mine causes negligible 
damage beyond its 1-square burst radius and ignores the DR of the object 
or vehicle it is attached to. 

Activating a limpet mine is a standard action. The detonation is delayed 
for one round, providing opportunity to move away before the limpet mine 
explodes. Vehicles and droids that are Large or larger offer sufficient surface 
area for attaching a limpet mine, but the mines cannot be used on characters 
or smaller droids. 


WEIGHT SIZE AVAILABILITY 
1kg Tiny Military 

Tkg Tiny Restricted 

0.5 kg Tiny Military 

0.5 kg Tiny Military 


“The explosion damages everything in a 1-square burst radius from each square that the detonite cord occupies. 


ARMOR BONUS, 
ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) 


EQUIP BONUS 
COST TO REF DEFENSE TOFORTDEFENSE BONUS 


MAX DEX SPEED SPEED 
(6SQ.) (4SQ.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 


Barabel microbe armor 4,000 +2 - +3 - - 6 kg Licensed 
Stun cloak 3,500 +1 - +5 - - 2kg Licensed 
Marine armor 5,000 +5 +2 +3 - - 12 kg Restricted 
‘Mediu AERHOE CEB) Ss 1 2a eR GS GS fe eee ea ao le TS 
Biohazard suit 4,000 = +3 - 4sq. 3sq. 9kg Licensed 
Camo scout armor 6,000 +6 42 +3 45q. 3 sq. 13 kg Licensed 
Katarn-class commando armor 30,000 +9 +4 +1 459. 3 sq. 20 kg Military 
Stalker armor 7,500 47 = 43 459. 35q. 10kg Licensed 


suvmawvts [iq fisaiavns 


A MEDIC WEARING 4 BIOHAZARD SUIT 


ARMOR 
Most soldiers wear armor on the battlefield. The armor described below is 
worn by soldiers, mercenaries, and bounty hunters alike 


Barabel Microbe Armor 
Light Armor 
Created by Creshaldyne Industries, this armor is a sleeveless vest of soft mate- 
rial, Pouches within the armor hold a saline solution containing specialized 
microorganisms, which absorb intense heat or radiation. 

Barabel microbe armor provides DR 2 against energy and fire damage. If 
you are using the Armor Upgrades option from Scum and Villainy, Barabel 
microbe armor has room for two upgrades. 


Biohazard Suit 

Medium Armor 

The biohazard suit is a common piece of equipment that protects the wearer 
from hazardous biological matter, The standard biohazard suit is bright yellow 
and features a domed, transparent helmet to allow for normal vision. A bio~ 
hazard suit provides immunity to all atmospheric or inhaled poison hazards, 
as well as to any diseases spread by inhalation or contact. A biohazard suit 
provides 1 hour of breathable atmosphere before the filter and atmosphere 
canister must be replaced. 


Camo Scout Armor 
Medium Armor 
Creshaldyne Industries camo scout armor is worn by scouts, commandos, 
and other stealthy troops. It combines sound-dampening technology with 
the light-bending and light-absorption technology used in the camouflage 
poncho (see page 46). Camo scout armor provides a +5 equipment bonus 
on all Stealth checks made by the wearer. 

If you are using the Armor Upgrades option from Scum and Villainy, 
camo scout armor has the Shadowskin upgrade and room for one additional 
upgrade. 


Katarn-class Commando Armor 

Medium Armor 

Issued several months after the Battle of Geonosis, Katarn-class commando 
armor is a superior, specialized armor, designed with input from clone com- 
mandos in the field. The armor is unusually thick, with a sealed system 
allowing the wearer to survive underwater or in vacuum for up to 24 hours. 
It also features a built-in, retractable, wrist-mounted vibroblade. This highly 
sought after armor is rarely found in the possession of civilians. Its black~ 
market price can exceed a quarter-million credits. Clone commandos swear 
by the armor’s effectiveness, even though they also grumble beneath their 
breath about its lack of comfort during long missions. 

Katarn-class commando armor grants a wearer with the Armor Proficiency 
(heavy) feat a +2 bonus on Perception checks, as well as low-light vision. 
The armor includes an integrated comlink in the helmet, allowing hands-free 
communication. 

As a full-round action, the wearer can use the bacta tanks built into the 
armor. The bacta and the suit's built-in diagnostic gear grant the wearer an 
effective Treat Injury +10 skill for self-treatment. The wearer ignores the —5 
penalty for self-administration of this skill. 

Katarn-class commando armor is highly customizable. If you are using 
the Armor Upgrades option from Scum and Villainy, the Katarn-class com- 
mando armor has the Vacuum Seal upgrade and room for three additional 
upgrades. 


Marine Armor 
Light Armor 
This light armor is employed by the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil 
War, It provides decent protection for front-line troops during ship-boarding 
actions and house-to-house fighting, and even in zero gee, in vacuum, or 
underwater. The armor's sealed life-support system allows the wearer to 
survive for up to 24 hours in the vacuum of space or other hostile environ- 
ments. The soles of the armor's boots are magnetic, enabling the wearer 
to walk on metal surfaces, such as a starship hull, without drifting off into 
space. The magnetic soles reduce the wearer's speed by 2 squares. A small 
propulsion system on the backpack allows the wearer to reroll any failed 
Swim checks, keeping the better result, and even when rushed or threatened, 
the wearer can take 10 on Swim checks and can maneuver without penalty 
in zero gravity. 

If you are using the Armor Upgrades option from Scum and Villainy, Marine 
armor has the Aquatic Adaptation and Vacuum Seal upgrades, plus room for 
one additional upgrade. 


Stalker Armor 
Medium Armor 
The M1-10 stalker armor is created by the Salus Corporation on Rodia and 
marketed for the burgeoning bounty hunter market. Multiple designs are 
created to cater to the specific needs of various humanoid species, but the 
model for Rodians is easily the best seller. Stalker armor immediately identi- 
fies the wearer as a bounty hunter, working to the advantage of the wearer 
by intimidating targets. 

Stalker armor is designed for customization. If you are using the Armor 
Upgrades option from Scum and Villainy, stalker armor has room for three 
upgrades. 


Stun Cloak 

Light Armor 

This cloak is a weapon as much as it is a form of protection. Lined with micro- 
filaments attached to a power cell, the stun cloak can emit a powerful electric 
shock to any character who grapples or is grappled by the wearer. Officers 
and nobles wear stun cloaks to thwart kidnapping attempts, and commandos 
who expect to engage in close combat also wear them. The interior of the 
cloak is insulated to prevent accidental shocks to the wearer. 

If the wearer successfully makes a grapple attack or is successfully 
grappled by an enemy, the stun cloak deals 348 points of stun damage. 

By doubling the price, the stun cloak can be upgraded to include the 
same capabilities as an all-temperature cloak (see page 138 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook) or the camouflage poncho (see page 46). Otherwise, 
the stun cloak cannot be upgraded with the Armor Upgrades option from 
Scum and Villainy. 


EQUIPMENT 

The following equipment is suitable for use by heroes in any Galaxy at War 
campaign. Table 2-5: Equipment lists the price and weight of each items. 
Refer to the descriptions below for other pertinent information. 


Com scrambler 6,000 10 kg 
Comlink, tightbeam 300 0.5 kg 
Targeting beacon 300 0.1 kg 
Triangulation visor 1400 O.5kg 
Communication scanner 1,000 1kg 
Proximity flare 50 0.5 kg 
Radiation detector 20 = 
Anti-rad dose 50 = 
Cryogenic pouch 600 1.5 kg 
Camouflage netting 2,000 5 kg 
Camouflage poncho 125 1.5 kg 
Field food processor 1,500 4kg 
Personal field shelter 500 1.5 kg 
Plasma bridge 12,500 700 kg 
Vacuum survival pouch 800 1kg 
Droid diagnostic 400 2kg 


Anti-Rad Dose 

Exposure to radiation is a fear of ship personnel and soldiers alike. An anti- 
rad dose comes in a tough hypodermic syringe. The anti-rad dose grants a 
+10 equipment bonus to the target's Fortitude Defense against radiation 
and grants a +5 equipment bonus to Treat Injury checks to cure damage 
caused by radiation. 


Tl SSLevHo 


Camouflage Netting 
This advanced netting uses the same technology as the camouflage poncho 
described below. Incorporating both light-bending technology and metallic 
jammers, it conceals objects from both visual and electronic scanning. 
Camouflage netting comes in a small backpack. Two characters must each 
spend a full round action to deploy the netting, or a single character can 
deploy it in 1 minute, Once deployed, the camouflage netting is powered by 
an internal power cell, which has enough power to last for one month, or the 
netting can be connected to an external power source. Camouflage netting 
provides a +5 equipment bonus to Stealth checks, including Stealth checks 
against sensors, for an object of Huge size or smaller. 


Camouflage Poncho 

The camouflage poncho is worn over armor to conceal the wearer from being 
spotted. Special materials track the surrounding area and alter the pattern 
of the camouflage poncho, smoothing and blending the wearer's silhouette. 
Typical examples include the Ayelixe/Krongbing Textiles camouflage poncho. 
A camouflage poncho grants a +5 equipment bonus to Stealth checks. 


Com Scrambler 

The com scrambler disrupts enemy communication, but it also scrambles 
friendly communication. Mounted on a backpack frame, a com scrambler 
can be carried to the front line and even into enemy territory, where it can 
be connected to a power source and left behind. 

A com scrambler covers a 20-kilometer radius, blanketing the area in 
powerful white noise that disrupts all comlinks, HoloNet signals, and droid 
remote receivers within the area, Getting a signal into or out of the affected 
area requires a Use Computer check against the com scrambler’s default Use 
Computer +10. This check must be made every minute as the com scrambler’s 
computer constantly scans and adapts to block any signals it locates. 


Comlink, Tightbeam 
A tightbeam comlink is a simple add-on for any comlink or transceiver. It is 
worn on a helmet or headpiece and uses special lasers to send and receive 
encrypted messages from another individual also equipped with a tightbeam 
comlink, Soldiers use the tightbeam comlink to ensure that messages are 
not intercepted on the battlefield. The two characters must be in line of 
sight with each other, but the tightbeam comlink ignores penalties due to 
darkness, smoke, or other atmospheric conditions. 

Communication scanners (see below) and other passive methods of inter- 
ception cannot pick up tightbeam comlink messages, unless the interceptor 
is directly in the path between individuals using these devices. 


Communications Scanner 
A communications scanner is a datapad-sized device used to intercept, 
analyze, decode, and record comlink, transceiver, and HoloNet transmis~ 
sions. Unencrypted broadcasts are automatically picked up. By making a 
DC 15 Use Computer check, the user can determine the number and types 
of communication being broadcasted and received within a 50-kilometer 
radius. A DC 20 Use Computer check reveals the direction and distance of 
a broadcast. The communication scanner grants a +5 equipment bonus to 
decipher encrypted messages that it receives. However, it cannot be used 
to locate the presence of tightbeam comlinks (above) unless the scanner is 
directly in the path of the comlink. 

\n addition, the communication scanner functions as a recording unit 
(see page 136 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) for the transmissions that 
it intercepts. 


Cryogenic Pouch 

A cryogenic pouch is a medical device that can stabilize critically wounded 
soldiers in the field. It comes in a small canister worn on a soldier's belt or 
stored in a medical kit. Opening the canister releases a pouch large enough 
to hold a single Medium creature. When the pouch is sealed, it releases a 
cryogenic compound that causes the creature inside to enter suspended 
animation, stabilizing his or her condition for transport to a proper medi- 
cal facility. Bounty hunters sometimes use of cryogenic pouches to move 
prisoners. 

Activating a cryogenic pouch and wrapping it around an unconscious 
creature requires a full round action. A creature that has been reduced 
to 0 hit points due to poison, radiation, or damage surpassing its Damage 
Threshold can be stabilized without dying within 143 rounds of being placed 
inside the cryogenic pouch. The creature remains unconscious and moves 
—5 steps on the condition track. 

A cryogenic pouch has enough power to keep a creature alive for up to 
24 hours, although it can be hooked up to another power source with a DC 
10 Mechanics check. Designed for rough handling in battlefield conditions, 
the pouch has DR 5, but a single point of damage is enough to breach the 
seal. If the cryogenic pouch is breached, the character inside reverts to its 
previous state after 1 round. 


Droid Diagnostic 

Mechanics and droid builders throughout the galaxy use the Interstellar Droid 
Monitoring Inc. Mk-11 Droid Diagnostic. This handheld device—roughly twice 
the size of a standard datapad—diagnoses and analyzes the functions of any 
droid connected to it, displaying damage or errors in the droid’s systems. 
The droid diagnostic grants a +2 equipment bonus on Mechanics checks for 
a droid connected to it. 


Field Food Processor 
The field food processor is used by soldiers and explorers to provide sustenance 
from local flora and fauna and is a critical survival tool when other food 
stores have been exhausted. Up to three pounds of plants, meat, or fungus 
can be placed inside the field food processor. One minute later, the processor 
exudes a gray paste that is extremely bland in taste, but is both edible and 
nutritious—enough to provide a single Medium character with a day's worth of 
food. The field food processor can be programmed to make appropriate food 
substances for up to ten different species. In addition, the field food processor 
gives a +10 equipment bonus to Fortitude checks against any poison, toxin, 
or radiation that might have been in the initial ingredients. 

A field food processor requires an energy cell, which lasts for one year 
before needing to be replaced. 


Personal Field Shelter 

The personal field shelter allows soldiers to have protection from the 
weather without having to carry a huge amount of weight. When activated, 
this small package expands to create a small, narrow tent large enough to 
hold a single Medium character. As long as the character remains sealed 
inside, the portable shelter provides a +10 equipment bonus to the user's 
Fortitude Defense against extreme heat or cold. For one hour, the personal 
field shelter can also provide a breathable atmosphere, protecting against 
inhaled poisons, including poisonous atmospheres. Special filaments on the 
exterior of the field shelter help it blend with surroundings, granting a +2 
equipment bonus to Stealth checks. 


Plasma Bridge 

A plasma bridge is projected from a single plasma generator, creating a 
surface 6 squares wide and up to 120 squares long. It can be used to bridge 
gaps or bypass terrain hazards (such as bodies of water or acid pools). The 
plasma bridge must be hooked up to a power generator in order to function. If 
an active plasma bridge is deactivated, or if its power generator is destroyed 
or disconnected, the plasma bridge generator stores enough energy to power 
the bridge for 2 rounds. After 2 rounds, if the plasma bridge is not reactivated 
or reconnected to a power generator, the bridge vanishes, and any character 
or anything on the bridge falls. 


Proximity Flare 

Soldiers and explorers use proximity flares as warning devices on the perim- 
eters of encampments. A flare is housed in a small cylinder with a spike 
on the bottom, allowing it to be securely placed in the ground. Sensors in 
the cylinder detect nearby shifts in air pressure. When any Small or larger 
character, creature, droid, or vehicle comes within a 3-square radius of the 
proximity flare, the flare launches, creating a stark, bright light illuminating 
a 10-square radius and eliminating concealment penalties due to insufficient 
lighting. Creatures can avoid tripping a proximity flare by making a DC 25 
Stealth check. 


A proximity flare can be used as a makeshift weapon when it is aimed 
horizontally instead of vertically. The proximity flare can shoot only in a 
straight line, determined when it is placed. The flare makes a +2 attack roll 
against the first target that it contacts, dealing 3d6 points of fire damage. 
If used in this way, the proximity flare sputters out after the attack and 
provides no additional illumination. 


Radiation Detector 

Worn on the wrist or on the front of armor or uniforms, a radiation detector 
alerts the user to the presence of radiation within 6 squares. The radiation 
detector gives a color code indicating the strength of radiation and, 
additionally, can be set to provide either a vibrating or an audible alarm. 


Targeting Beacon 
Soldiers use targeting beacons fora variety of purposes, such as for calling in 
medical ships to evacuate wounded personnel and for establishing hot zones 
for artillery bombardments. The cylindrical beacon has a magnetic bottom 
for attachment to a vehicle or building, plus an expanding spike for firm 
anchoring in the ground. The targeting beacon is topped with a large light, 
which can emit a pulse of visible, infrared, or ultraviolet light. The light can 
be tuned to a specific frequency so that allies who know the proper setting 
can spot it from a distance without alerting the enemy. 

Modifying the targeting beacon's frequency requires a DC 10 Mechanics 
check. In clear weather and with unimpeded line of sight, a targeting beacon's 
pulse of visible light can be seen up to 2 kilometers away. 


Triangulation Visor 

The triangulation visor provides a heads-up display to help wielders of heavy 
weapons to account for wind, gravity, distance, and other effects when 
targeting shots. The triangulation visor works only with weapons that fire 
solid rounds, such as slugthrowers, mortar launchers, missile launchers, and 
grenade launchers. It does not work with blasters, lasers, or other energy 
weapons. The triangulation visor reduces the range by one range category 
(for example, from long to medium range). A triangulation visor cannot be 
worn at the same time as a helmet or any other device worn on the head. 


Vacuum Survival Pouch 

Carried by spacers of all types, the vacuum survival pouch is a small cylinder 
typically worn on a character's belt or harness. In the event of a catastrophic 
loss of pressure, the vacuum survival pouch automatically deploys, enveloping 
the user in a protective bubble that keeps him or her alive for a few hours. 
The Meredex Atmospherics EMS-90 bubble cloak, which is worn as an article 
of clothing, is one of several variations of this item, 

The vacuum survival pouch is large enough to hold a single Medium crea- 
ture. It provides sufficient air, heat, and pressure for the creature to survive 
in hard vacuum for up to 2 hours, but it does not protect against radiation. 
The material has 2 hit points. 


eHavy) 


Nor 


OA 


ADVANCED 
CYBERNETICS 


Basic rules for cybernetic replacement parts and their implantation can be 
found on page 137 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. The following sec- 
tion details several new cybernetics options that can be included in any 
campaign 

A creature with a cybernetic part is susceptible to ion damage as though 
it was a droid. Additionally, the creature takes a cumulative —1 penalty to 
Use the Force checks for each cybernetic replacement part, including the 
unique cybernetics presented below. 


CYBERNETIC PROSTHESES 
The most common form of cybernetic enhancement is the prosthesis, which 
is commonly used to replace lost or gravely wounded body parts. Internal 
organs as well as limbs and external body parts can be replaced by pros- 
theses, A standard cybernetic prosthesis is a replacement for the lost bod 
part, and although it confers no special bonuses or benefits, it is the most 
stable. Basic cybernetics run no risk of rejection by the host body and can 
be obtained and implanted in nearly any medical center. 

However, cybernetic prostheses have been significantly modified and 


enhanced by those on the fringes of society, A single cybernetic prosthesis is 
considered a piece of equipment for the purposes of the equipment modif 

tion rules from Scum and Villainy. If you are using those rules, a cybernetic 
prosthesis has 1 free upgrade slot. A cybernetic prosthesis is two size cat- 
egories smaller than the being in which it is installed. Cybernetic prostheses 
can also benefit only from the following universal upgrades: cloaked, dual 


, secret compartment, and 


vironmental sealing, extra power sou! 


gear, 
storage capacity. Additionally, cybernetic prostheses can benefit from the 
new ion-shielding upgrade described on page SO. 


OsBvious OR 

SusBtrte CYBERNETICS 

Some cybernetic replacements and enhancements, such as Luke Sky- 
walker's cybernetic arm, look identical to the original body parts. Other 
replacements, such as Booster Terrik's and Inquisitor Tremayne's, are 
immediately recognizable as artificial cybernetics. For the most part, any 
standard cybernetic prosthesis installed in a legal medical facility looks 
identical to the original body part. However, cybernetic enhancements 
that are installed illegally in nonstandard medical facilities can be more 
visually obvious. This has no mechanical effect, so if you have cybernetic 
parts feel free to discuss their appearance with your Gamemaster. They 
can certainly add character to your hero. 


AN A-SERIES MEDICAL OROID INSTALLS A CYBERNETIC PROSTHESIS 


CYBERNETIC REJECTION 
Unique cybernetic enhancements are any cybernetic enhancements other 
than standard cybernetic prostheses. The technology for nonstandard 
cybernetic enhancements is not as advanced as that for baseline prostheses. 
Therefore, implanting unique cybernetic enhancements comes with a risk 
t the body might reject the cybernetic parts. Rejection causes a great 
deal of pain for the subject, and it is the reason that nonstandard cybernetic 
enhancements are heavily restricted. Most nonstandard cybernetic enhance- 
ments are used in the treatment of extreme medical conditions, while others 
are so experimental that only the military can make good use of them. 
When a creature has a unique cybernetic enhancement implanted, the 
cybernetic part makes an attack roll against the host's Fortitude Defense 
(1d20 plus the cybernetic component's Rejection attack bonus, listed on 
Table 2-6). If the attack roll equals or exceeds the host's Fortitude Defense, 
the host moves —1 persistent step on the condition track and the cybernetic 
component fails to function. This persistent condition cannot be removed 
until the unique cybernetic component is removed by successfully perform- 
ing surgery on the creature and installing a standard cybernetic prosthesis. 
Additionally, no more attempts can be made to install unique cybernetics 
for that body part. 


CYBERNETIC COMPONENT NAME REJECTION 
Borg construct +14 
Comlink, subcutaneous +3 
Cybernetic prosthesis =: 

Eye, infrared sensor +14 
Eye, targeting +16 

Eye, telescopic +9 
Skeletal reinforcement +12 
Sensory enhancement +14 
‘Tremor sensor 47 


UNIQUE CYBERNETICS 
This section describes unique cybernetic parts that replace biological matter 
with mechanical components. Although most of these cybernetics are 
installed in patients with severe wounds or rare diseases, some characters 
might want to have healthy body parts removed and replaced with cybernetic 
upgrades, Although this not an act directly associated with the dark side, it 
is prideful and shows disrespect for a character's natural state, Gamemasters 
should caution heroes who seek to enhance themselves artificially: Too much 
enhancement can give pride a strong grip on the hero, making him or her 
more susceptible to the lure of the dark side of the Force. 

Unlike cybernetic prostheses, these unique cybernetic systems cannot be 
altered with the equipment upgrades system. They have no upgrade slots, 
and cannot have upgrade slots reclaimed from them. 


Borg Construct 
The BioTech Borg Construct Aj’6 provides a direct cabled or wireless link 
to computers and networks within a 10-meter range. It allows a cyborg to 
remotely program and access on-board data through thought alone. The 
standard model has a built-in cyborg/droid interface and up to four BioTech 
Knowledge Cartridge or standard datacard ports (at 500 credits per port 
beyond the first). Knowledge Cartridges use proprietary technology to 
achieve Intelligence 4 (instead of Intelligence 2 for a standard datacard), 
Cost 100 credits each, and are not widely available. Installation is described 
at the Cybernetic Surgery feat; the unit cannot be self-installed. 
Characters wearing the unit gain a +2 beneficial circumstance bonus to 
Use Computer, Knowledge, and other skills at the discretion of the Gamemas- 
ter. They can also use Issue Routine Commands as a swift action (or as a free 
action if they have the Gimmick talent). Wearers become more computerlike 
and less able to relate to people, causing them to take a -5 penalty to all 
Persuasion checks. They also speak less frequently as they grow accustomed 
to the speed of communicating through electronic networks. 


COST SURGERY COST AVAILABILITY 
80,000 70,000 Restricted 
4,000 3,000 Restricted 
1,500 500 = 

300 2,250 Restricted 

500 3,750 Military 

500 3,750 Restricted 
10,000 50,000 Restricted 

800 3,000 Restricted 

400 3,750 Restricted 


Comlink, Subcutaneous 

A subcutaneous comlink features special sensors and transmitters attached 
to the vocal and auditory organs of the host. This allows the creature with 
this implant to hear comlink transmissions and to send his or her own by 
making only slight vocal sounds. When a being with a subcutaneous comlink 
wishes, he or she can communicate through this comlink without making a 
sound loud enough for others to hear. 


Eye, Infrared Sensor 

This cybernetic replacement eye includes special infrared sensors that allow 
the host to see not only visible light but also heat signatures, This grants 
the host darkvision. 


Eye, Targeting 

This cybernetic replacement eye includes enhanced target-recognition 
software linked with weapon packages and armor targeting packages. The 
eye creates HUD overlays, augmenting the host's vision to enhance combat 
prowess. A host with a targeting eye is considered to have the benefit of a 
helmet package (see page 140 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Eye, Telescopic 

A telescopic replacement eye can zoom in on remote objects, granting the 
bearer a greater range of distant vision. In some cases this is just a result 
of visual enhancement software and fine-tuned sensors, but in other cases 
this can mean that the eye literally detaches from the host and hovers on 
tiny repulsors closer to the target. A telescopic eye replacement allows the 
host to take range penalties to Perception checks every 20 squares instead 
of every 10 squares. 


0) 
I 
> 
v 
4 
Cy 
by 


SUVAGHVH}) 


i eSiavHS 


Skeletal Reinforcement 

This cybernetic enhancement package enhances the host's skeleton with 
high-impact polymers, increasing bone density and the ability to endure 
high-impact collisions. A character with skeletal reinforcements gains a +2 
equipment bonus to damage threshold. 


Sensory Enhancement 

The sensory-enhancement package places cybernetic augmentations on 
nerve endings in various sensory organs, reducing the signal-to-noise ratio 
and allowing the host to notice what might otherwise have been missed. A 
character with the sensory-enhancement package reduces by 2 any penal- 
ties to Perception checks made to notice a target with concealment or total 
concealment. 


Tremor Sensor 

A tremor sensor is installed in the feet of the host. Connected to the nervous 
system, the tremor sensor detects minute vibrations in the ground, warn- 
ing the host of approaching enemies. A creature with the tremor-sensor 
enhancement takes no penalty to Perception checks to notice targets that 
have concealment or total concealment, provided the target moved on its 
last turn. 


TOTAL REPLACEMENT 

CYyBORGS 

On rare occasions, a character can be so severely injured that most of his or 
her body is beyond recovery, yet essential organs—such as the brain, heart, 
and lungs—still function. In some of these cases, a risky technique known as 
total cyborg replacement can be used to preserve the wounded character. 
This replaces nearly all of the character’s body with cybernetic replace- 
ments, leaving a mechanical shell around a few preserved organs. General 
Grievous is the most famous example of a total-replacement cyborg, but 
Darth Vader's injuries were so extensive that he, too, could be considered a 
total-replacement cyborg. 


When you would normally die, you can spend a Destiny Point to preserve 
‘enough of yourself for placement in a total-replacement cyborg body. Your 
allies must transport you somewhere capable of performing the delicate 
surgery, and a cybernetic surgeon must complete the changeover surgery, 
which is identical to installing 6 cybernetic prostheses. Once the process 
begins, all 6 must be installed consecutively without pause. If any of the 
surgeries fails, you die. If all succeed, you are returned to life exactly as 
before, but now have 6 cybernetic prostheses and gain the Cyborg Hybrid 
special quality described below. You should work with your Gamemaster to 
determine your new appearance, which should be drastically different from 
your appearance before near-death. 


Cyborg Hybrid—As a cyborg hybrid, you can use any type of droid system 
except a processor. Your cyborg hybrid chassis includes a life support system, 
making you immune to atmospheric and inhaled poison hazards. 


DROIDS 

Although soldiers are loath to admit it, droids can be invaluable assets in 
battle, whether as support or as front-line combatants. Even in eras when 
droids are less common or distrusted—such as the Dark Times of The Force 
Unleashed campaign setting—they are still utilized in some fashion. 


FiRstT-DEGREE DROIDS 
First-degree droids are medical, analytical, or scientific droids. Specific 
examples include the A-Series medical droid. 


A-SERIES MEDICAL DROID 

The A-Series medical droid has the dubious distinction of being one of the only 
medical droid models to be outlawed by the Republic Senate. MerenData's 
A-Series is an extremely efficient model, specializing in cybernetic prosthetics 
and other biomechanical implants. Originally serving as a surgical aids for 
cybernetic-implant procedures, the A-Series medical droid proves so good 
at its task that hospitals upgrade A-Series droids from surgical assistants 
to chief surgical droids. 

However, the A-Series is not programmed for decision making. When 
thrust into their new roles, the A-Series droids do not object and go about 
their jobs. As their heuristic processors evaluate their new roles, the A-Series 
droids come to the same conclusion: Biological parts are inferior to cyber- 
netic implants. Patients across the galaxy wake from surgery with their 
perfectly healthy appendages replaced with cybernetic prostheses. A-Series 
droids are quickly identified as the culprits in these unnecessary surgeries. 
The Republic Senate bans further sale of the droids and orders all existing 
A-Series to be destroyed. MerenData never issues a formal recall, however, so 
many A-Series droids continue to serve throughout the galaxy, their owners 
ignorant of the Senate edict and of the potential danger of giving the droids 
decision-making responsibility. 


General Grievous keeps an A-Series medical droid—A-4D—as his personal 
physician responsible for maintaining the condition of Grievous cybernetic 
components. 

‘A-Series medical droids can be played as droid heroes. 


A-Series Medical Droid cli 
Small droid (1st-degree) noble 1 

Force 2 

Init +5; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 10, Will 15 

hp 18; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed —1 (1d2—1) 

Base Atk +0; Grp —5 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 12 

Talents Medical Droid 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery’, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences})*, 
Skill Focus (Treat Injury), Surgical Expertise” 

Skills Initiative +5, Knowledge (galactic lore) +7, Knowledge (life 
sciences) +12, Knowledge (technology) +7, Perception +7, 
Persuasion +6, Treat Injury +12, Use Computer +7 


A KDY-4 TECH DROID REPAIRING A PIRATE TANK 


Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
3 tool appendages, diagnostics package, vocabulator 

Possessions medical kit, medpac x5, surgery kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 9,740 credits 

Medical Droid—When the A-Series medical droid uses the Treat Injury 
skill to provide first aid with a medpac, it heals an additional 2 hit 
points for every point by which it exceeds the skill DC (rather than 
the normal 1 hit point) 

*Reprogrammed from noble starting feats 


SECOND-DEGREE DROIDS 
Second-degree droids are typically astromech droids and technical droids. 
Specific models include the KDY-4 tech droid. 


KDY-4 TECH DROID 

The KDY-4 tech droid is loved by mechanics, shipbuilders, and grease monkeys | 
of all types. Designed by Kuat Drive Yards, the KDY-4 is commonly called | 
the builder's buddy because of its utilitarian design, efficiency, and easygo- 


I 
ing manner. KDY-4s are found at nearly every shipyard, and larger vessels > 
keep some on board to repair heavy damage that exceeds the abilities of } 
astromechs. L 


The KDY-4 boasts four appendages, two of which can be retracted out 
of the way of delicate repairs. Its three magnetic legs give it unparalleled 
stability as it clambers on hulls or makes its way through the twisted metal 
of damaged interiors. Its servomotors are augmented to give it the equiva- 
lent lifting power of a strong humanoid, which is useful for hauling heavy 
equipment or securing durastee! in place for welding. 

The memory banks of these droids contain the blueprints of every starship 
commonly available in a given era. Owners augment this massive database 
with more ship designs as they obtained them. This augmentation creates an 
unintended side effect, however, because most owners are reluctant to perform 
routine memory wipes on their KDY-4s for fear of corrupting or losing this valu- 
able and expensive data. Thus, KDY-4s develop the personality quirks common 
among other second-degree droids, such as the R2 Series Astromech droid, but 
KDY-4s have a propensity for more upbeat, even chirpy mannerisms. 

KDY-4 tech droids can be played as droid heroes. 


SeVvARaSVH) 0 


9 
t 
> 
v 
4 
a 
a 


SeVAGHV) 


KDY-4 Tech Droid cL 
Medium droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 


Chiba-DR10 Protocol Droid cL1 
Small droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +4; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Binary, 5 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 13, Will 10 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 12 


hp 4; Threshold 13 hp 7; Threshold 9 
Immune droid traits Immune droid traits 
Speed 6 squares (walking) Speed 6 squares (hovering) 


Melee unarmed +4 (1d3+3) 
Reach 2 squares 
Base Atk +1; Grp +1 


Melee unarmed +1 (143-1) 
Ranged blaster pistol +5 (346) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +0 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 10, Con —, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Special Qualities stability 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology], Mechanics, Use Computer) 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +13, Mechanics +13, Perception +1, 
Use Computer +13 

Systems walking locomotion (extra leg), heuristic processor, 2 hand 
appendages, 2 tool appendages (telescopic), magnetic feet, circular 
saw, electric arc welder, fire extinguisher, spotlight (treat as a glowrod 
with 10-square range), compartment space (2 kg) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,400 credits 

Stability—A KDY-4 tech droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks made 
to resist being knocked prone. 


THIRD-DEGREE DROIDS 
Third-degree droids are typically protocol droids and replica droids. Specific 
models include the Chiba DR-10. 


CHIBA DR-10 PROTOCOL DROID 
Produced by the Chiba Corporation, the DR-10 protocol droid, commonly 
called the Chiba Drio, is utilized by the Empire in great numbers. Originally 
used as a negotiator and translator for legal matters, the Chiba DR-10 is 
found in shops, law offices, and customs checkpoints throughout the galaxy. 
Its memory banks contain a staggering array of law, customs, and trade 
information, as well as other vital business information. The Chiba DR-10 
has an added feature rarely seen in other protocol droids—a built in, pop-out 
blaster that can be deployed in a moment's notice. 

The DR-10 has a notorious programming flaw causing it to grow increas- 
ingly impatient, irritated, and aggressive when negotiations do not go its way. 
Without warning, a DR-10 might draw its blaster and start shooting. Imperial 
forces take advantage of this quirk by employing Chiba DR-10s as guards, 
monitors, probes, and security droids, where their small size, hovering loco- 
motion, and propensity to ask questions before shooting proves useful. 

Chiba-DR 10 protocol droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Deception), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Deception +7, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +7, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +7, Perception +3, Persuasion +12 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, translator unit (DC 5), 
probe appendage, internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster pistol (concealed) 

Availability Restricted; Cost 9,500 credits 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROIDS 

Fourth-degree droids are the most common type of droid encountered during 
a Galaxy at War campaign. Fourth-degree droids are combat droids such 
as guard droids, battle droids, assassin droids, and probe droids. Examples 
include the air-assault super battle droid, the purge trooper, the AAD-4 
assault droid, and the Vigilant 2X-Series picket droid, 


B2-AA AIR ASSAULT 

SUPER BATTLE DROID 

Specializing in boarding and capturing enemy vessels, the B2-AA super battle 
droid is a companion to the B1-A air battle droid (see pages 189-190 of The 
Clone Wars Campaign Guide). Unlike the B1-A, the air-assault super battle 
droid boasts an advanced jet pack with a special volatile solid fuel system. 
Although this enables the B2-AA to fly the greater distances required in space 
combat, the fuel is extremely explosive. A consequence of the volatile fuel 
is the B2-AA’s tendency to explode when destroyed, effectively giving the 
droid a self-destruct system. 

The Confederacy uses B2-AA air-assault super battle droids to stage raids 
against Republic starships, launching them in waves to blast through the 
ships’ shields, carve into the vessels, and secure the interiors of the ships. 
B2-AA super battle droids are also used as advanced attack parties, clearing 
the way for droid commando raids. B2-AA super battle droid attack forces 
are often used instead of Droch-class boarding ships, particularly when the 
target has excellent point-defense weapons or a starfighter escort. 

B2-AA super battle droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Air Assault Super Battle Droid cL4 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 2 
Force 3 


Init +6; Senses Perception +4 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 15, Will 12 

hp 26; Threshold 15 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking), 6 squares (flying, jet pack) 

Melee unarmed +7 (143+2) 

Ranged wrist blasters +8 (3d8+1) or 

Ranged wrist blasters +6 (4d8+1) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options autofire (wrist blasters), Charging Fire, Dual Weapon 
Mastery Il, Penetrating Attack (rifles), Rapid Shot 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 7 

Talents Penetrating Attack (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Charging Fire, Dual Weapon 
Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery Il, Rapid Shot, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles) 

Skills Perception +4, Pilot +11 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, backup processor, 
synchronized fire circuits, two hand appendages, integrated comlink, 
self-destruct system (5d6), durasteel battle armor, vocabulator 

Possessions wrist blasters (as blaster rifle) x2, integrated jet pack 

Availability Military; Cost 16,225 credits 

Integrated Jet Pack—Unlike a normal jet pack, the air assault super battle 
droid’s jet pack is fueled by a volatile solid fuel system. Its jet pack has 
100 charges instead of the standard 10 charges for a jet pack. 


ERADICATOR-SERIES 

BATTLE DROID 

The Eradicator-Series battle droid is one of the lesser-known droids pro- 
duced by the insectoid Colicoids. Prior to the Battle of Naboo, the Colicoids 
design several different types of assault droids, testing them on battlefields 
throughout the galaxy. Although nowhere near as common as the elegant 
and frightening Droideka Series, the Eradicator is known for its bulk and for 
its ability to send a blistering amount of fire downrange. Although not very 
bright, the Eradicator excels at terrorizing the enemy and supporting other 
assault droids. 

The Eradicator is a heavily armored bipedal droid that appears far more 
mechanical than the organic curves of other Colicoid droids. It mounts twin 
light repeating blasters, twin ion rifles, and even a shield generator for 
deflecting blaster fire and lightsabers to great effect. The Eradicator has a 
basic processor, making it far more versatile and less prone to catastrophic 
shutdown if the central operating computer is destroyed or compromised. 

Eradicator-Series battle droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


A OUTKURR AND ITS ERADICATOR BATTLE DROID HANDLER 


Eradicator-Series Battle Droid cL2 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 8 

Init +6; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic (cannot speak), Binary 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 14, Will 10 
hp 29; SR 5; Threshold 19 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+4) 

Ranged light repeating blaster +9 (348) or 
Ranged ion rifle +9 (3d8 ion) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +6; Grp +15 

Atk Options Dual Weapon Mastery I 


Abilities Str 18, Dex 15, Con —, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 6 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon 
Mastery Il, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (rifles) 

Skills Perception +9 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 claw appendages 
(retractable), internal comlink, shield generator (SR 5), bronzium shell 
(+5 armor; treat as quadanium plating) 

Possessions 2 light repeating blasters, 2 ion rifles 

Availability Military; Cost 21,500 credits 


PURGE TROOPER 

Purge troopers are extremely powerful battle droids used in limited numbers 
by the Empire to hunt down and kill the last of the Jedi just after the end 
of the Clone Wars. The purge trooper is originally conceived by a Techno 
Union engineer trying to construct droids better able to fight Jedi generals 
in the Clone Wars. The Clone Wars end before the schematics are finalized, 
and the scientist is killed in a raid on his research facility only weeks before 
Order 66. Republic clone commandos seize the scientist's records, turning 
them over to Republic Intelligence. 

When the Empire comes to power, Imperial Intelligence uncovers the 
droid schematics while researching the soon-to-be-hatched Dark Trooper 
Phase Zero project. The schematics are passed on to Imperial engineers, 
who take the rough form of the droid and create the purge trooper. Nearly 
3 meters tall, with cortosis-fiber-enhanced duranium armor plating, the 
purge trooper resembles a massive stormtrooper with dark blue armor. The 
purge trooper is resistant to lightsaber attacks and loaded with the most 
advanced information on Jedi tactics. Equipped with magnetic grappler boots 
that protect them from being hurled around by the Jedis’ telekinetic powers, 
purge troopers are programmed to keep Jedi enemies off guard and unable 
to make full use of their Force powers. 

Purge troopers cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Purge Trooper cL8 

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 6 

Force 5 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 26, Will 17 

hp 78; DR 10°; Threshold 31 

Immune droid traits, +5 to defenses against effects that force movement 

Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee purge blade +19 (2410+14/x3) or 

Melee purge blade +17 (2d10+14/x3) with Staggering Attack —2 or 

Melee purge blade +14 (2d10+14/x3) with Staggering Attack —5 

Ranged missile launcher +13 (6d6+3, 2-square splash) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +28 

Atk Options Bantha Rush, Staggering Attack 

Special Actions Indomitable 

jes Str 26, Dex 14, Con —, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 8 

Talents Indomitable, Melee Smash, Weapon Specialization (purge blade) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Bantha Rush, Battering Attack, 
Staggering Attack, Trip, Triple Crit (purge blade), Weapon Focus 
(advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13, Perception +9 


Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
2 tool appendages, hardened systems x3, improved sensor package, 
magnetic grappler boots, duranium plating with cortosis fiber 

Possessions purge blade (as vibro-ax), missile launcher 

Availability Military; Cost 31,900 credits 

* The purge trooper’s duranium plating contains cortosis weave; a 
lightsaber does not ignore the purge trooper's DR. 


SNIPER DROIDEKA 

A variant of the droideka commissioned primarily for urban warfare, the 
sniper droideka forgoes the rapid-fire double blasters of the standard 
droideka in favor of a single powerful shot. A sniper droideka usually stays 
a safe distance from its target, preferring to roll to an elevated position 
so that it can fire sniper shots down at exposed enemies. Sniper droidekas 
have the latest target-acquisition technology and are extremely accurate. 
Although they have a slower rate of fire than the standard model, each shot 
fired by a sniper droideka has excellent penetrating power. Moreover, sniper 
droidekas can fire into a battlefield from afar, with such precision that they 
rarely harm their allies. 

Sniper droidekas cannot be played as droid heroes. 


A SNIPER ORGIDEKA FIRES ON A CLONE TROOPER MOUNTED 
ON & PREECO SPeEOER. 


Sniper Droideka cL7 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9/scout 4 

Force S 

Init +9; Senses low-light vision; Perception +21 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Tactical Droid cL 
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 1 

Force 2 

Init +6; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 others 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 17 
hp 41; SR 20; Threshold 22 
Immune droid traits 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 13, Will 13 
hp 30; Threshold 13 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 2 squares (walking), 10 squares (wheeled) 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (348+2) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +13 (4d8+2) when aiming or 

Ranged blaster rifle +10 (4d8+2) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +9; Grp +17 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Deadeye, Far Shot, Keen Shot, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Sniper 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con —, Int 8, Wis 16, Cha 7 

Talents Acute Senses, Keen Shot 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Deadeye, Far Shot, 
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Perception), 
Skill Training (Stealth), Sniper, Weapon Proficiency (rifles) 

Skills Perception +21 (can reroll), Stealth +14 

Systems walking locomotion, wheeled locomotion (exclusive), remote 
receiver, 1 tool appendage, shield generator (SR 20), improved sensor 
package, integrated comlink, bronzium shell (+5 armor; treat as 
quadanium plating) 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle 

Availability Military; Cost 30,565 credits 


TACTICAL DROID 

Designed for tactical leadership among the droid forces of the Confederacy, 
T-Series tactical droids from Baktoid Combat Automata are originally 
deployed alongside OOM-Series battle droids. Tactical droids boast advanced 
combat-analysis software that helps them determine exactly when and where 
to attack for the greatest effect. Tactical droids serve as combat consultants 
subordinate to droid commanders, but all too often, the tactical droid’s supe- 
rior knowledge of combat strategies gives it a heightened sense of self-worth, 
leading T-Series tactical droids to exert their influence over the command 
structure. Unfortunately, the tactical droid's commands override those of 
OOM-Series battle droid commanders, causing droid troops to receive con- 
flicting commands. Consequently, Confederacy leaders learn to avoid posting 
tactical droids among droid forces with OOM-Series battle droids. 

Tactical droids can be played as droid heroes. 


‘Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +1 (143) 

Ranged blaster carbine +2 (308) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +2 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine) 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Battle Analysis 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +6, Knowledge (tactics) +7; Perception +7, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +7 

‘Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, two hand appendages, 
internal comlink, synchronized fire circuits, durasteel plating, 
vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine, electrobinoculars 

Availability Military; Cost 14,005 credits 


VIGILANT 2X-SERIES 

PickeT DROID 

Used during the Old Republic era, the Vigilant 2X-Series picket droid was 
designed by Automata Galactica to defend checkpoints, guard headquarters, 
or otherwise protect strategic locations. Built on a tough chassis, the Vigilant 
2X is essentially a gun platform mounted on a tracked locomotion system. 
Its sensor package is second to none, letting it constantly sweep an area for 
intruders. The Vigilant 2X is unnerving in its capacity for remaining perfectly 
still, waiting for danger to strike. Vigilant 2Xs are programmed to remain 
at their posts and cannot be drawn away from their areas by feint attacks. 
Vigilant 2Xs also feature synchronized fire circuits so that they can work 
together to maximize firepower. 

The Vigilant 2X also comes equipped with a vocabulator to warn beings 
that are about to enter into its killing zone. Those who ignore the warning 
are targets of the Vigilant 2X's heavy repeating blaster and grenade launcher, 
which are more than enough to deter intruders. The Vigilant 2X even carries 
a separate power generator to provide energy for its main gun. Any character 
hoping for a Vigilant 2X to run out of ammunition is in for a long wait. If 
the droid is damaged or if an enemy threatens to overwhelm its position, 
the Vigilant 2X’s self-destruct system engages. Vigilant 2Xs are placed on 


bridges or near other crucial chokepoints, and they use their self-destruct 
systems to cut off enemy access to their guarded territory 
Vigilant 2X-Series Picket Droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Vigilant 2X Picket Droid cL3 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9 

Init +11; Senses darkvision; Perception +19 
Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 11, Will 13 
hp 22; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (tracked) 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+1) 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +8 (3410) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +3 (5d10) with Burst Fire 

Ranged grenade launcher +8 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blaster), Burst Fire, 
Point Blank Shot 


The CLL-M2 ordnance lifter picks up, moves, and loads heavy missiles, 
mortar rounds, power packs, and other volatile ammunition. It can handle 
difficult terrain, including moving along the outside of ships or large vehicles. 
Although not particularly bright, it is programmed with the basic skills to 
prime and prepare weapons and ammunition and it can even make basic 
repairs on damaged equipment 

CLL-M2 ordnance lifter droids cannot be played as droid heroes 


CLL-M2 Ordnance Lifter Droid el 
Large droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 3 
Init +1; Senses Perception +6 
Languages Basic (cannot speak), Binary 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 20, Will 10 

hp 17; Threshold 25, 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d4+10) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +2; Grp +12 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con —, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Point Blank Shot, 
Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Proficiency 
(heavy weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Perception +19 

Systems tracked locomotion, darkvision, improved sensor package, 1 claw 
appendage, internal comlink, locked 
power generator, vocabulator, duranium plating 

Possessions grenade launcher, heavy repeating blaster 

Availability Military; Cost 32,500 credits 


ccess, self-destruct system (6d6) 


FIFTH-DEGREE DROIDS 

Fifth-degree droids are typically utility droids with low-level functions. 
Specific models include the CLL-M2 Ordnance Lifter and the MR-200 
Minesweeper Droid 


CLL-M2 ORDNANCE LIFTER 

The CLL-M2 ordnance lifter is a military version of Cybot Galactica’s 
extremely popular CLL-6 binary load lifter. Built to withstand the rigors of the 
battlefield, it features extremely thick armor that enables it to survive most 
attacks and the occasional accidental explosion. The repulsorlift mounted on 
the back of the CLL-M2 enables it to lift several times its own weight 


A CLL-MZ LOADS MISSILES INTO AN A-WING STARFIOHTER. 


Abilities Str 30, Dex 11, Con —, Int 6, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Skill Focus (Mechanics), 
Skill Training (Mechanics) 

Skills Climb +16, Mechanics +9, Perception +6 

‘Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 tool appendages, 
compartment space (5 kg), magnetic feet, secondary battery, 
durasteel battle armor 

Availability Restricted; Cost 15,000 credits 


MR-200 SERIES 

MINESWEEPER DROID 

The Baktoid MR-200-Series minesweeper droid is first deployed early in the 
Clone Wars by Separatist forces. With both sides engaged in prolonged trench 
warfare, the battlefields on some planets become static, and minefields 
are used to dissuade attack or to protect strategic locations. The MR-200 
effectively clears the worst of these areas, cutting a path through a heavily 
mined zone so that battle droids can pass safely. In a pinch, the Minesweeper 
Droid also makes an excellent shocktrooper droid, flushing out tunnels or 
trenches that shelter enemy troops. The droid is notoriously single-minded, 
and when lacking other orders, it rolls back and forth over the same ground, 
hoping to detonate any mines it might have missed. The MR-200 flags mines 
that do not detonate or that otherwise survive its brute-force tactics. This 
information is relayed back to the Central Control Computer, so that allied 
droids do not mistakenly enter the minefield. 

The minesweeper droid is a curiously shaped mix of high and low tech, 
The main body uses repulsorlift technology to safely float over the ground 
that it is clearing. However, the front of the droid is composed of a large, 
metallic drum covered in lengths of durable chain. As the droid floats along, 
the drum rotates, flailing the chains and beating the ground to detonate any 
mines it contacts. Although tough, the drum becomes battered and mangled 
from repeated explosions, so it is designed for easy replacement between 
missions. The droid's repulsorlift is powerful enough to lift the drum off the 
ground, so the minesweeper droid is able to ignore difficult terrain, 

MR-200 Series minesweeper droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


MR-200 Series Minesweeper Droid cli 
Large droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +1; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14 
Languages Basic (cannot speak), Binary 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 15, Will 12 
hp 36; Threshold 25 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee chain roller +5 (3d6+5) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +7 


Abilities Str 20, Dex 10, Con —, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Focus (Perception), 
Skill Training (Mechanics) 

Skills Mechanics +5, Perception +14 (+19 to locate explosives) 

‘Systems hovering locomotion, demolition sensor, hardened systems (x2), 
improved sensor package, integrated comlink, locked access, remote 
receiver, self-destruct system (4d6), 2 tool appendages, quadanium 
plating 

Availability Military; Cost 15,000 credits 


BEASTS OF WAR 

Many armies use living creatures as mounts, as beasts of burden, or even 
as living weapons. In the right circumstances, creatures can be superior to 
conventional vehicles. Mounts are typically quieter than vehicles and do not 
show up on sensors that are set to scan for vehicles. Mounts must be fed and 
watered, but they obviously do not require power cells, so mounted scouts 
and troopers can range far and remain in the field for weeks without resupply. 
Of course, most creatures are considerably slower than vehicles and far more 
vulnerable to attack. Nevertheless, some beings raise and train creatures to 
serve on the battlefield, either as aggressive predators or as guard beasts. 


COMMUNICATION 

Given the prevalence of advanced communication technology, using beasts 
as a means of communication might seem inefficient. However, during war, 
military forces use creative means of communicating in order to foil enemy 
intelligence. In some cases, opposing forces are so focused on the latest, most 
high-tech methods of disrupting and intercepting communications that they 
overlook mundane or primitive methods. Below is an example of a creature 
that can be used for communications during wartime. 


Carrier Butterfly 

Found on Maridun as well as on many other worlds, the carrier butterfly is 
a colorful insect roughly the size of a Human hand. These simple creatures 
have two qualities that make them uncannily good at being communica- 
tions devices: their strong verbal-association memory, and their ability to 
replicate long sequences of sounds. As a result, carrier butterflies can be 
trained to recognize the commands of their masters, fly directly to specified 
locations or individuals, and replicate lengthy messages. Although they fly 
slowly, compared to instant communication by comlink, carrier butterflies 
are so numerous in the wild that finding and intercepting a specific butterfly 
is nearly impossible. Thus, the carrier butterfly offers a secure, albeit slow, 
method of sending orders and intelligence across long distances. 


Carrier Butterfly cLo 
Diminutive beast 1 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +1 
Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 15), Fort 8, Will 11 
hp 2; Threshold 8 

Speed 8 squares (fly) 

Base Atk +0; Grp —11 

Abilities Str 2, Dex 18, Con 6, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 16 
Special Qualities mimicry 

Feats Skill Training (Deception) 

Skills Deception +8, Perception +1, Stealth +24 


Mimicry—A carrier butterfly can perfectly mimic lengthy sequences of 
sounds (such as a conversation or a message). A carrier butterfly does 
not need to roll a Deception check to reproduce a sound, but it can 
only mimic noises exactly (without alteration). 


MOUNTS 

Many military units use creatures as mounts. Although speeders and speeder 
bikes are faster, such vehicles are prone to mechanical problems in extreme 
environments. Creatures native to those environments are more reliable. 
Although urban forces almost never use creatures as mounts, military patrols 
and scouts in dangerous or hostile environments frequently use mounts, 
increasing the chances of survival 


Bolotaur 
Bolotaurs are large, long, reptilian creatures native to the forest planet of 
Kashyyyk. A bolotaur has a long neck ending in an iquanalike face. Beneath 
the bolotaur’s short snout dangles a brightly colored wattle, used both to 
attract mates and to scare off competitors. The tail of a bolotaur is at least 
as long as the rest of its body, giving it unshakable balance. A bolotaur moves 
in a quick, waddling gait, and the claws on its stubby legs dig in and grip the 
tough bark of the massive trees of Kashyyyk, allowing it to climb through the 
canopies. Bolotaurs range throughout the entire planet, with slight variations 
in color and in the length of neck and tail 

Bolotaurs are born in clutches of three to five. They have incredibly fast 
metabolisms, so they must spend most of their day eating. Bolotaurs grow 
sluggish if they cannot eat every few hours, This fast metabolism greatly 
reduces their life span, so bolotaurs live for only around twelve years. 
Although the Wookiees of Kashyyyk occasionally use bolotaurs, their enemies, 
the Trandoshans, capture bolotaurs by the thousands and employ them as 
mounts to hunt down the Wookiees. 


Scout TROOPER AND BOLOTAUR 


Bolotaur 

cL5 

Large beast 6 

Init +5; Senses 
low-light vision; 
Perception +4 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat- 
footed 15), Fort 16, Will 11 

hp 63; Threshold 21 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +10 (1d6+9) and 
bite +10 (1d8+9) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +4; Grp +15 

Atk Options Bantha Rush 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 14, Con 22, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities climbing mount 

Feats Bantha Rush, Skill Focus (Climb), Skill Training (Endurance) 

Skills Climb +19, Endurance +14, Perception +4 

Climbing Mount—When a bolotaur falls, it can make a Climb check to 
catch itself while falling without any increase to the Climb check DC. 
(Normally, catching yourself while falling adds +20 to the DC of the 
surface being climbed.) If the bolotaur is mounted by a rider trained in 
the Ride skill, the bolotaur always catches the rider if it catches itself 
while falling. 


Gelagrub 

Native to Felucia and occasionally transplanted to other jungle worlds, 
gelagrubs are large, insectlike larvae used as mounts by the clone forces 
f the Republic and by other militaries. The gelagrub is about the size of a 
dewback and has evolved in the dangerous climate of Felucia, giving it numer- 
ous natural defenses against the planet's hazards. Gelagrubs absorb food 
throughout their waking hours as they move across Felucia and require no 
actual feeding or watering while on patrol. Gelagrubs are favored mounts on 
Felucia and similar worlds because of their ability to protect their riders. Once 
a rider has sufficiently bonded with a domesticated gelagrub, the gelagrub 
treats the rider as an extension of its own body, going out of its way to avoid 
hazards and using its own natural defenses to protect its rider. 


A CLONE TROOPER RIDING 4 GELAGRUB 


Gelagrub cL3 
Large beast 4 

Init +1; Senses Perception +4 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 18, Will 13 

hp 50; Threshold 23 

Immune +5 to all defenses against natural hazards 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee siam +9 (1d6+8) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +3; Grp +14 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 8, Con 24, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 12 
Special Qualities hazard resistance 

Feats Improved Defenses, Toughness 

Skills Endurance +14, Perception +4 


Hazard Resistance—The gelagrub gains a +5 bonus to all defenses against 
natural hazards, When mounted by a rider trained in the Ride skill, the 
rider also gains this bonus against natural hazards. 


WEAPONS 

One of the most common uses of beasts in warfare is as weapons. Ever since 
primitive tribes started warring with one another, beasts have been used as 
living weapons to be unleashed on the enemy, Beasts are used as hunters 
and trackers or as engines of destruction. The following examples cover a 
wide variety of beasts that have been used as weapons of war. 


Gutkurr 

A vicious beast used by the Separatists in the Clone Wars, the gutkurr is 
a huge creature with powerful jaws and a thick carapace lined with bony 
protrusions. Gutkurrs are native to Ryloth, but for centuries they have been 
exported by crime lords as pets, much like Jabba the Hutt used a captured 
rancor to torment his enemies. The gutkurr is a surprisingly intelligent crea- 
ture that, while absolutely vicious, maintains a level of cunning exceeding 
that of other predators. Although driven by their natural predatory instincts, 
the gutkurr is intelligent enough to be trained—but only by those brave 
enough to approach the massive predators. Although the gutkurr's thick 
shell and internal insulation allow it to survive for short periods on the frigid 
night side of Ryloth, the gutkurr typically makes its home in the twilight 
area, preferring to stay out of the intense heat of the day side of the planet. 
Gutkurrs sometimes travel through the night side of the planet, ambushing 
unwary travelers 


Gutkurr cL8 
Huge beast 9 
Init +4; Senses darkvision; Perception +17 


Mastif Phalone cL6 
Large beast 7 
Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +5 


1 Sslavno 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 19, Will 13 
hp 122; Threshold 29 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 12 
hp 67; Threshold 20 


Speed 8 squares 
Melee 2 claws +17 (1d8+15) and 

bite +17 (2d6+15) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +6; Grp +27 
Atk Options Crush, Pin 


‘Speed 8 squares 
Melee 2 claws +10 (1d6+8) and 
beak +10 (1d8+8) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +5; Grp +15 

Atk Options Powerful Charge, Trip 


Abilities Str 32, Dex 10, Con 28, Int 2, Wis 16, Cha 10 
Special Qualities savage maul, uncanny tracker 

Feats Crush, Pin, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Survival) 
Skills Perception +17, Survival +12 


Abilities Str 21, Dex 14, Con 20, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 10 
Special Qualities savage frenzy, savannah hunter 
Feats Powerful Charge, Skill Focus (Stealth), Trip 
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +10 


Savage Maul—Whenever a gutkurr successfully pins an enemy with a 
grapple attack, it deals its bite damage to the target instead of its claw 
damage (as normally provided by the Crush feat). 

Uncanny Tracker—A gutkurr takes no penalty to Survival checks made to 
track a target when moving at full speed. 


Mastif Phalone 

A vicious, predatory creature native to Maridun, the mastif phalone is a 
flightless avian that is nearly as large as a landspeeder and impossible to 
domesticate. Mastif phalones are stalkers that hide in the tall grass of the 
plains of Maridun, sneaking up on their prey before pouncing. The Amanin 
of Maridun frequently capture mastif phalones and imprison them, starv- 
ing them and mistreating them while in captivity. Once the mastif phalone 
is sufficiently crazed, the Amanin release the creature in or near enemy 
encampments, where it goes berserk, attacking anything it sees. When suf- 
ficiently agitated, a mastif phalone can be more dangerous than a rancor 
and just as hard to bring down. 


Savage Frenzy—If the mastif phalone has less than half of its hit points, 
it gains a +2 bonus on all attack rolls and deals +1 die of damage on 
all attacks. 

Savannah Hunter—If the mastif phalone has concealment from a target 
that is unaware of the mastif phalone, the mastif phalone can take 20 
on Stealth checks to remain hidden from that target without increasing 
the time taken to make the Stealth check. 


Nek 

Neks are powerfully built predators from the planet Cyborrea. They are 
short, squat creatures, generally canine in appearance. Each of a nek's four 
legs ends in three sharp claws, and its mouth is huge, lined with remarkably 
long, sharp teeth that enable it to take massive bites. Neks typically hunt in 
packs of three to six, dominated by the largest and most aggressive nek. A 
pack of neks is powerful enough to take on the largest and most dangerous 
prey, such as the kudana of Rutan. 

Because of their ill temper and aggressiveness, neks are used as living 
weapons by a variety of species. These neks are raised in special kennels 
where they are taught to obey the commands of trainers brave or foolish 
enough to get close to these aggressive beasts. Domesticated neks are fitted 
with cybernetic implants and armor, making them both easier to control 
and considerably more difficult to bring down. Most are also equipped with 
comlinks that enable them to hear the commands of their owners. The nek 
described below represents a trained and modified specimen. 


Nek cls 
Medium beast 6 
Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +3 


Roggwart cL 12 
Huge beast 13 
Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 17, Will 10 
hp 69; Threshold 17 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 20, Will 14 
hp 176; Threshold 30 


Speed 8 squares 
Melee 2 claws +6° (1d4+10) and 
bite +6* (1d6+10) or 
Melee 2 claws +8* (2d4+13) and 
bite +8* (2d6+13) with Powerful Charge 
Base Atk +4; Grp +10 
Abilities Str 22, Dex 13, Con 24, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 8 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses, Power Attack, 
Powerful Charge 
Skills Endurance +15, Perception +3 
Possessions cybernetic armor (armor +4), comlink 
Conditional Bonus Feat—A nek that receives cybernetic implants and 
armor automatically gains the Armor Proficiency (light) feat for free. 
* Includes 4 points of Power Attack 


Roggwart 

Roggwarts are large, horned creatures native to Vendaxa, where they are 
natural enemies of the acklay. A roggwart's evolutionary adaptation makes 
it ideally suited for taking on single foes, since it rarely encounters more 
than one acklay at a time. A roggwart stands on its hind legs and uses its 
sharp fangs, wicked claws, and thick tail to subdue its prey. The roggwart 
is not terribly cunning, but it is difficult to surprise, retaining its predatory 
instincts even in captivity. General Grievous obtains a roggwart and keeps 
it in his private sanctum on Vassek 


Speed 8 squares 
Melee gore +15° (246+20) and 

bite +15* (2d6+20) and 

2 claws +15* (1d8+20) and 

tail slam +15* (1d8+20) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +9; Grp +29 

Atk Options Bantha Rush, Battering Attack, Power Attack, Trip 


Abilities Str 30, Dex 14, Con 28, Int 1, Wis 16, Cha 10 

Special Qualities enemy slinger, pack resistant 

Feats Bantha Rush, Battering Attack, Improved Defenses, 

Power Attack, Trip 

Skills Initiative +13, Perception +9 

Enemy Slinger—Once per round, when the roggwart successfully hits a 
target and moves it with the Bantha Rush feat, the roggwart can move 
the target 3 squares in any direction instead of 1 square. 

Pack Resistant—Once per round, as a reaction when the roggwart is hit or 
missed by an attack, the roggwart can make a tail slam attack against 
‘one creature within its reach. 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack 


Watch-Beast 

Watch-beasts originate on the planet Gamorr, but various subspecies are 
found throughout the galaxy, most notably on the Imperial world of Sirpar. 
These enormous beasts resemble both bears and pigs, with squat but power- 
fully built furry bodies and porcine faces and snouts. A watch-beast has two 
large horns and massive tusks, which are primarily for display but can also 
be used to gore prey. The watch-beast’s meaty legs are covered in dense fur 
and end in short, dull claws. 

Asits name implies, a watch-beast excels at guarding an area and alerting 
its owner to potential threats. It is extremely territorial and considers any 
creature, or even a moving object such as a speeder, to be a threat. When 
alerted to the presence of an intruder, a watch-beast releases a croaking 
bark that can be heard for nearly a kilometer. Gamorreans steal cubs from 
their mothers and bond them to a single individual, whom the watch-beast 
obeys utterly. Most owners make a point of training their watch-beasts to 
ignore allies and friendly vehicles in order to keep the watch-beast from 
barking—or attacking—every time someone arrives or leaves. 


SUVAGHV) 


Watch-Beast cL9 
Huge beast 10 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision, scent; Perception +16 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 17, Will 14 

hp 15; Threshold 27 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee slam +12* (1d8+15) and 

2 claws +12" (1d8+15) or 

Melee slam +14" (148+20) and 

2 claws +14* (1d8+20) with Powerful Charge 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +7; Grp +17 

Atk Options Cleave, Power Attack, Powerful Charge 


Abilities Str 30, Dex 10, Con 25, Int 2, Wis 18, Cha 6 

Special Qualities defensive awareness 

Feats Cleave, Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Skill Focus (Perception), 
Skill Training (Survival) 

Skills Perception +16, Survival +11 


Defensive Awareness—Watch-beasts are very alert and cannot be flanked 


Scent—Watch-beasts ignore concealment and cover when making 
Perception checks to notice enemies within 10 squares, and they take 
no penalty due to poor vision when tracking, 

* Includes 5 points of Power Attack 


VEHICLES AND 
STARSHIPS 


The following vehicles and starships represent a variety of those used by 
military and paramilitary units throughout the galaxy. They are typical of 
the vehicles heroes in a military campaign might encounter, both as allies 
and as enemies. 


GROUND VEHICLES 

Although a planet can be pounded into submission by orbital bombardment, 
infantry and armored ground units must actually take and hold locations. 
Military vehicles can use tracks, wheels, repulsors, or walker-based locomo- 
tion, depending on the mission at hand. 


Freeco Speeder 

The Bespin Motors CK-6 Freeco speeder bike is a reliable lightweight speeder 
bike used by the Grand Army of the Republic in cold environments. More 
durable than open-topped speeder bikes, the Freeco bike provides full pro- 
tection for the pilot inside while remaining light enough to enable a LAAT 
dropship to carry several in its cargo bay. Like other speeders, the Freeco 
bike's repulsor technology must receive regular maintenance, especially where 
environmental conditions warrant special attention to heavy machinery. 
Unlike other speeder bikes, the Freeco has a low maximum altitude and does 
not do well over uneven terrain. However, over smooth terrain such as the icy 
drifts of Orto Plutonia, the CK-6 speeder is fast, agile, and reliable, and the 
domed cover of the bike protects the pilot from ranged attacks. 


Freeco Speeder cL6 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +10; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 21; +3 armor 

hp 55; DR 5; Threshold 31 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 550 km/h) 

Ranged dual laser cannons +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +23 

Atk Options autofire (dual laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 33, Dex 22, Con—, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 14,700 (7,400 used) 


Dual laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10 


Medical Airspeeder 

Atypical transport vessel used by medical teams across the galaxy, the Soro- 
Sub S-130 "Shelter" speeder is designed to serve as both a mobile medical 
center and as a protective vehicle in hazardous environments. Equipped stan- 
dard with cutting-edge medical sensors, capable of detecting and analyzing 
hazards such as airborne diseases and the presence of radiation, the Shelter 
speeder is an excellent exploratory vessel for investigating locations where 
the source of illnesses and death is as yet undiscovered. Characters inside 
a Shelter medical speeder are considered to be immune to airborne hazards 
(such as inhaled poisons and diseases) and to radiation from sources outside 
of the speeder, Furthermore, the vehicle's internal atmosphere regulation 
system grants characters inside the vehicle a +5 equipment bonus to For- 
titude Defense against attack rolls made by airborne diseases and poisons 
the characters have not yet been affected by. 


Shelter Speeder cL4 
Huge air vehicle 
Init +4; Senses Perception +5. 
Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor 
hp 60; DR 5; Threshold 32 
Speed fly 8 squares (max. velocity 280 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +22 
Abilities Str 34, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +4 
Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 4, plus 2 patients 
Cargo 10 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft 1 speeder bike 
Availability Licensed; Cost 41,000 credits (26,000 used) 


WLO-5 Speeder Tank = 

The WLO-5 speeder tank from Ubrikkian Ord Pedrova is a dangerous vehicle 
featuring heavy armor and impressive weaponry that rivals that of the AAT. 
One unique attribute of the tank is that its main gun is fired by an exposed 
gunner; a second gunner, using sensors and computer-based targeting 
software, assists the main gunner from within the tank's interior. The 


WLO-S speeder tank is favored by pirates for its ease of modification and 
repair, a necessity when making repairs requires finding parts on the black 
market. Any character attempting to repair or modify a WLO-5 speeder tank 
automatically gains @ +5 equipment bonus to Mechanics checks to perform 
that action. The Weequay pirates under the command of Hondo Ohnaka use 
WLO-5 speeder tanks, modifying them to include a pair of antipersonnel laser 
cannons in addition to their normal armament (the statistics below are for 
a stock speeder tank without this modification). 


WLO-S5 Speeder Tank cL6 

Gargantuan ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +3; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor 

hp 150; DR 15; Threshold 48 

Speed fly 8 squares (max. velocity 110 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged heavy laser cannon +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Cover total (crew), +5 (gunner) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +35 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers 4 

Cargo 150 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost 115,00 credits (65,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannon (2 gunners) 
Atk +6, Dmg 6d10x2, 2-square splash 


SPACE TRANSPORTS 

Soldiers and mercenaries spend much of their time inside space transports 
traveling from battlefield to battlefield. For a small strike team of adventur- 
ing heroes, a space transport can be an ideal headquarters during missions, 
enabling the heroes to carry any equipment and vehicles they might need. 


Drop Pods 

Drop pods are used by military, and occasionally civilian, organizations to 
quickly deploy vehicles into combat zones. Little more than a protective shell 
surrounding a ground vehicle, a drop pod launches from an orbiting ship and 
then flies directly to the designated drop zone. When the drop pod lands, self- 
destructive bolts blow the pod apart, freeing the vehicle inside. The interior 
of the drop pod is pressurized and filled with atmosphere but has no extra 
accommodations for passengers. Instead, any passengers ride in the carried 
vehicle. The drop pod's descent is controlled by a droid brain. 


1 esiavHD 


Drop Pod cL2 
Gargantuan air vehicle 
Init +0; Senses Perception +5 


Defense Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +6 armor 
hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 42 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 600 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +27 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 10, Con—, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 0 (droid brain); Passengers none 

Cargo 2 tons; Consumables none; Carried Craft 1 Gargantuan (or 
smaller) vehicle 

Availability Licensed; Cost 17,000 credits 


Imperial Landing Craft 

A large shuttlecraft designed to ferry an invasion force to a planet from 
orbit, the IF-120 landing craft from Sienar Fleet Systems is more than just a 
space transport; it is a mobile base of operations. With a much larger troop 
capacity than other landing shuttles, the IF-120 is based on the Lambda-class 
and Sentinel-class shuttles. The IF-120 is larger and bulkier than either of 
those craft and forgoes the folding wings, instead relying on repulsors for 
atmospheric stability. 

The most significant difference between the IF-120 landing ship and other 
shuttlecraft is that, once landed, the IF-120 can become a remote base of 
operations. The interior of the vessel can be converted from transport mode 
into a mobile command base. With its excellent communications and sensor 
arrays, the IF-120 landing craft can act as a fully functional base of opera- 
tions, at least until the area is secured and heavier and more permanent 
craft can be brought in. 
Imperial Landing Craft CL 13 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +8 
Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +12 armor 
hp 140; DR 15; SR 40; Threshold 77 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 4 squares 

(starship scale) 

Ranged double medium laser cannons +10 (see below) and 

4 antipersonnel heavy blaster cannons +8 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +42 

Atk Options autofire (double medium laser cannons, antipersonnel heavy 
blaster cannons) 

Abilities Str 44, Dex 14, Con—, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +0, 

Use Computer +8 
Crew 8 (expert); Passengers 120 troops 
Cargo 130 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 12 speeder bikes, 

2 LAVr QH-7 Chariot command speeders, 1 PX-4 mobile command base 
Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost 290,000 credits 


Double medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Antipersonnel heavy blaster cannons (gunner) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


Penumbra-class Attack Shuttle 
The Haor Chall Engineering Penumbra-class attack shuttle was produced in 
relatively small numbers prior to the Clone Wars. As the Trade Federation and 
the rest of the Confederacy ramped up for all-out war, second-tier vehicle 
designs (such as the Penumbra-class attack shuttle) saw drastically smaller 
production runs. Since the Penumbra-class attack shuttle was one of the 
designs deemed inefficient for the Confederacy's needs, the factories dedi- 
cated to producing the vessel were temporarily closed and then converted to 
mass produce the models used more commonly by the Confederacy. Despite 
Separatist leaders’ lack of faith in the vehicle, the Penumbra-class attack 
shuttle is actually quite popular among mercenaries and pirates; though not 
optimal for use as a droid vehicle, the Penumbra-class attack shuttle makes 
a great first-strike vehicle due to its decent speed, respectable shielding, 
and excellent maneuverability, 

The Weequay pirate gang lead by Hondo Ohnaka makes use of several of 
these attack shuttles when raiding trade routes on the Outer Rim. 


Penumbra-class Attack Shuttle cL9 

Colossal space transport 

Init +1; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25; +12 armor 

hp 110; DR 15; SR 20; Threshold 75 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,175 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged medium laser cannons +6 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 squares (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +37 

Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannons), fire-link (medium laser 
cannons, medium concussion missiles) 

Abilities Str 40, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +1, 
Use Computer +6 . 

Crew 3; Passengers 10 

Cargo 20 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 

Payload 12 concussion missiles 

Availability Restricted; Cost 250,000 (135,000 used) 


Medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (copilot) 
Atk +4, Dmg 10d10x2 


Light Freighter 

Another popular design from the Corellian Engineering Corporation, the 
YU-410 light freighter's name is a bit of a misnomer. Considerably larger than 
typical light freighters, the YU-410 holds an impressive 250 tons of cargo 
in its spacious twin cargo bays. As a cost-cutting measure, the corporation 
includes smaller-than-normal engines, giving the YU-410 a low maximum 
velocity and poor maneuverability. To compensate for the lack of speed, the 
YU-410 has stronger shields and twin double laser cannons to defend itself 
against attack—often more than enough to dissuade pirates from assault- 
ing the vessel. 

Merchants and mercenaries love the YU-410's cargo capacity and rela- 
tively low profile. Most convert some of the cargo space into bigger and 
better living quarters, turning the YU-410 into a mobile base of operations 
and relying on more heavily armed escorts for defense. Its ubiquitous design 
makes repairs simple and parts easy to find at any spaceport, even those in 
the most far-flung corners of the galaxy. Cavernous cargo bays make the 
YU-410 light freighter a smuggler's dream, with plenty of nooks and crannies 
in which to store illicit merchandise. This gives a +5 bonus to Stealth checks 
for the purposes of concealing items. 


YU-410 Light Freighter cL7 

Colossal space transport 

Init —5; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 

hp 120; DR 15; DR 20; Threshold 76 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double laser cannons +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +36 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 

Al s Str 42, Dex 10, Con—, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot —5, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 4 (normal); Passengers 12 

Cargo 250 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 110,000 (30,000 used) 


Double laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +2 (-3 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


fy) 
r 
> 
q 
4 
LJ 
By 


1 BeidvRS 


SeVAeEEVH) 


Wayfarer-class Medium Transport 

The unusual design of the Wayforer-class medium transport allows cargo 
pods to be attached and detached from the port side of the vessel as needed. 
This modular design enables a Wayfarer to load a passenger section, hangar 
bay, or cargo module, depending on what is needed at the time. A Wayfarer 
features powerful engines that can handle the large mass of bulk freight 
and that give the vessel surprisingly good speed. However, its unusual 
layout makes the Wayfarer ungainly and difficult to pilot in anything less 
than ideal conditions. 

The 82-meter Wayfarer-class medium transport requires a crew of ten for 
optimal operation, but it can be flown effectively with only a pilot and one 
other crew member. The remaining crew spend most of their time securing 
cargo or operating the huge docking clamps, which attach cargo pods to the 
vessel. Wayfarers are typically found around highly developed planets, such 
as Coruscant, Corellia, and Metellos. Independent captains of Wayfarers are 
virtually guaranteed to find steady, if boring, work plying the trade lanes. 
However, its customizable design and remarkably spacious layout makes the 
Wayfarer popular with smugglers, criminals, and adventurers, who use the 
detachable module as a hangar for up to two Gargantuan or smaller star- 
fighters or ground vehicles. In a crisis, smugglers can dump their cargo pods 
with the push of a button, allowing them to escape the notice of patrols and 
customs inspectors. Partisan and Rebel forces sometimes use Wayfarers as 
assault transports, landing on a planet's surface to unload vehicles or troops 
and then quickly speeding away. 


WAYPARER-CLASS TRANSPORT 


Wayfarer-class Medium Transport cLs 

Colossal space transport 

Init 5; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +12 armor 

hp 140; DR 15; SR 20; Threshold 77 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged quad laser cannon +2 (see below) and 

laser cannon +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +37 

Atk Options autofire (quad laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 44, Dex 10, Con—, Int 14 

Skills Initiative —5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot —5, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 10 (normal); Passengers 6 

Cargo 220 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft 2 Gargantuan 
starfighters 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x14); navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 140,000 (50,000 used) 


Quad laser cannon (gunner) 

Atk +2 (-3 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Laser cannon (gunner) 

Atk +2, Dmg 4d10x2 


CAPITAL SHIPS 
The following capital ship is suitable for campaigns taking place during the 
Clone Wars or later. 


Corona-class Armed Frigate 
The Haor Chall Engineering Corona-class armed frigate was created with 
the same design philosophy as the Penumbra-class attack shuttle. Like 
that vessel, the Corona-class armed frigate was also deemed inefficient for 
droid use, and its limited production run was sold off (at extremely good 
prices) by Haor Chall Engineering to private investors who, more often than 
not, turned out to be criminals and local warlords. A moderately power- 
ful transport ship, this vessel can serve in multiple roles, and it is just as 
capable of destroying enemy vessels as rendering them inoperable. Though 
not the most powerful capital ship on the market, the Corono-class armed 
transport boasts a solid troop capacity as well as a respectable array of 
defenses, making it a good option for organizations without a lot of special- 
ized vehicles in their navies. 

The Weequay pirate Hondo Ohnaka uses at least one Corona-class armed 
transport as a raiding vessel on the Outer Rim. 


Corona-class Armed Transport CL17 

Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 35; +11 armor 

hp 750; DR 15; SR 60; Threshold 135 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 medium turbolaser batteries +10° (see below) and 
4 heavy ion cannon batteries +10° (see below) and 
4 point-defense medium laser cannon batteries +6 (see below) and 
tractor beam battery +10* (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +47 

Abilities Str 60, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 64; Passengers 200 

Cargo 450 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 6 attack shuttles, 
12 speeder tanks 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 3,7 million (2.0 million used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Medium turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +10, Dmg 5d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +10, Dmg 4d10x5 ion 
Point-defense medium laser cannon battery (2 gunners) 
Atk +6, Dmg 4d10x2 
Tractor beam battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +10, Dmg - (grapple +47) 


VEHICLE AND 

STARSHIP WEAPONS 

The following new vehicle weapons can be used to create different vehicle 
combat dynamics. The statistics for these vehicle weapons use the format of 
starship upgrades from the Starships of the Galoxy supplement, but a Game- 
master can add these weapons to the vehicle without using that system. 


EMPLACEMENT 
WEAPON DAMAGE POINTS cosT 
Chaff gun - 1 2,000 
Glowing defoliator launcher a 2 15,000 
Glowing defoliator shell 4d10x2" = 3,500, 


“Droids and creatures in sealed environment suits or vehicles are immune to 
this damage. 


Chaff Gun 

The Arakyd Caltrop-5 chaff gun is a typical example of this type of weapon. 
A chaff gun shoots a canister packed with thousands of durasteel shrapnel 
pieces. Intermixed in this canister are dozens of tiny scramblers that confuse 
sensor data, making it difficult to lock onto the vessel firing the chaff gun 
with missiles, torpedoes, or fire control computers. In a pinch, chaff guns 
fired in an atmosphere can be used offensively. When fired behind a vessel, 
the chaff gun creates a cloud of debris that can damage pursuing ships’ 
engines and clog intake valves. 

When used at starship scale, a chaff gun creates a cloud of debris in a 
single square in your vehicle's space. Attempts to hit you with other than 
area-attack weapons take a —5 penalty to attack rolls while the vehicle 
remains in the space with the chaff. Any other vehicle entering a square 
filled with chaff takes a —5 penalty to Pilot checks while in the square, The 
chaff cloud disperses at the end of your next turn. 

Launchers: A standard chaff gun holds six canisters. Additional canisters 
can be added, increasing the cost by 25% for each additional canister (up to 
a maximum of twelve canisters). 


Glowing Defoliator 

A devious weapon crated by the Separatists during the Clone Wars, the 
glowing defoliator weapon affects living creatures, literally burning them 
up. When exposed to the weapon, organic matter is converted into energy, 
causing living creatures within the weapon's area of effect to quickly burn 
to ash, The Separatists first experiment with this weapon on Maridun. The 
defoliator is fired into the field of combat, devastating living enemies while 
leaving the Separatists' droid forces unharmed. Droids take no damage from 
a glowing defoliator weapon, and only creatures completely sheltered within 
sealed vehicles, environment suits, or energy shields can avoid the effect of 
the weapon. When a glowing defoliator shell damages a living creature, the 
creature takes the same amount of damage at the start of each subsequent 
turn until dead. If a creature takes damage from a glowing defoliator shell 
but is not killed, it can stop the recurring damage only by passing through an 
energy shield that blocks out the weapon's effect (thus cleansing the body 
of the biological agents causing the damage). 


VEHICLE 
Fire ErrectTs 


Vehicles can be difficult challenges for heroes. Unless the characters pack 
serious firepower, most vehicles can easily shrug off the damage caused by 
hand-held blasters. In addition, vehicle weapons are usually able to mow 
down an entire adventuring group in short order. 

The rules provided here transform vehicles from killing machines into 
more manageable terrain objects that can augment an encounter rather 
than derail it. These effects can be offensive or defensive and can be used 
by the Gamemaster either to help or to hinder the heroes. 


fy) 
” 
> 
i 
4 
a 
a 


iT eaiLawHo 


SeVAeESVH) 


Battlefield effects are special auras that can be applied to any nonstar- 
ship vehicle that meets the prerequisites. A battlefield effect lasts until 
the end of the vehicle's next turn. A vehicle can have only one battlefield 
effect at a time, and the effect is determined prior to an encounter. Giving 
a battlefield effect to a vehicle requires no modifications to its weapons, 
armor, or other systems. 

To use a battlefield effect, the commander of the vehicle takes a standard 
action and the vehicle can make no attacks until the start of the commander's 
next turn. This produces an area of effect as described below. Characters 
or vehicles must be completely within the area of effect to be affected by 
the battlefield effect. 


Anti-Personnel 
Prerequisite: Autofire weapon. 

Asa standard action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a battle- 
field effect to all squares in a 6-square radius around itself. Allied characters 
and vehicles in this area of effect gain a +2 morale bonus to attack rolls and 
+1 die of damage against characters. 


Defender 
Prerequisite: DR 10 or SR 5. 

This vehicle absorbs damage to protect troopers from incoming attacks. 
Asa standard action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a battlefield 
effect to all squares in a 6-square radius around itself. Any attacks targeting 
allied troops or Gargantuan or smaller vehicles made by attackers within that 
area are automatically directed at the vehicle with this battlefield effect 
instead. This is a mind-affecting effect. 


Droid Hunter 
Prerequisite: lon weapon. 

This vehicle excels at disrupting and destroying droids. As a standard 
action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all 
squares in a 6-square radius around itself, On a successful attack, enemy 
droids within the area of battlefield effect take an additional +1 die of ion 
damage when hit by an attack that deals ion damage. 


Ground Churner 
Prerequisite: Tracked vehicle. 

The tracks of this vehicle can rip up roads, bridges, and terrain, and its 
weapons are altered to shatter and churn up the ground. As a standard action, 
this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares 
in a 2-square radius around itself. Terrain in this area of effect is difficult 
terrain for the purposes of movement. 


Heavy Assault 
Prerequisite: Colossal ground vehicle. 

This vehicle can guide allies’ weapons to exploit the enemy's weak- 
nesses. As a standard action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a 
battlefield effect to all squares in a 6-square radius around itself. All allied 
characters attacking targets within that area deal +1 die of damage ona 
successful attack, 


Medevac 
Prerequisite: Huge or larger vehicle. 

This vehicle is well equipped with medical gear and can respond rapidly 
to treat injured soldiers. As a standard action, this vehicle can forgo all 
attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in a 6-square radius 
around itself. All allied characters in that radius immediately move +1 step 
on the condition track. 


Minesweeper 
Prerequisites: Perception +6, DR 10. 

This vehicle excels at locating and neutralizing minefields. As a standard 
action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all 
squares in a 2-square radius around itself. All allied characters and vehicles 
within this area gain a +10 equipment bonus to Perception checks when 
locating mines, and they take half damage from mines that they detonate. 


Platoon Leader 
Prerequisite: Expert crew. 

Advanced comlinks and tactical analyzers allow this vehicle to coordinate 
friendly troops more effectively. As a standard action, this vehicle can forgo 
all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in a 6-square radius 
around itself. All allied characters and vehicles within this radius grant an 
additional +1 bonus when they use the aid another action. 


Rapid Escape 
Prerequisite: Speed 12 squares. 

As a standard action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a 
battlefield effect to all squares in a 2-square radius around itself. Allied 
characters and vehicles in this area gain +2 to their speed. 


‘Speed 6 squares. 

This vehicle is equipped with precise sensors and optics, allowing it to 
locate the enemy quickly and efficiently. As a standard action, this vehicle can 
forgo all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in a 2-square 
radius around itself. Allied characters and vehicles in this area of effect 
receive a +5 equipment bonus on Initiative checks. 


Shock and Awe 
Prerequisite: Autofire weapon (3d10 minimum damage). 

This vehicle coordinates fire to lay down a blistering amount of damage. 
‘Asa standard action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a battlefield 
effect to all squares in a 6-square radius around itself. Any enemy in this 
grea of effect automatically moves an additional —1 step on the condition 
track when targeted by a successful attack that deals damage equal to or 
exceeding the target's damage threshold. 


Shield Breaker 
Prerequisite: lon weapon. 

This vehicle can damage enemy shields. As a standard action, this vehicle 
can forgo all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in a 6-square 
radius around itself. Enemy characters, droids, or vehicles that are Huge or 
smaller within this radius have their SR halved while within these squares. 


Siege Breaker 
Prerequisite; Gargantuan vehicle. 

This vehicle excels at punching through heavy emplacements, bunkers, 
and other defensive points. As a standard action, this vehicle can forgo all 
attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in a 6-square radius 
around itself. On a successful attack roll, allied characters and vehicles within 
this radius ignore the DR of objects and buildings. 


Smoker 
Prerequisite: Huge or larger vehicle. 

This vehicle is equipped with smoke and chaff launchers, creating an 
impenetrable, obscuring cloud. As a standard action, this vehicle can forgo 
all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in a 6-square radius 
around itself. Allied characters in this area of effect can make Stealth checks 
to gain concealment while moving their normal speed. 


Sniper Fire 
Prerequisite: Gunner, Intelligence 16+. 

This vehicle has superior targeting equipment, allowing it to pinpoint the 
enemy. As a standard action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide 
a battlefield effect to all squares in a 6-square radius around itself. Allied 
characters and vehicles in this area can aim as a single swift action. 


Spotter 
Prerequisite: Perception +6. 

This vehicle provides valuable observation data and calculations for allies 
wielding heavy weapons. As a standard action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks 
to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in a 6-square radius around itself. 
Allied characters and vehicles wielding heavy weapons in this area gain a +2 
equipment bonus to attack rolls and have a critical hit range of 18-20. 


Squad Leader 
Prerequisite: Skilled crew. 

This vehicle assists in squad-level tactics, especially in cramped settings. 
Asa standard action, this vehicle can provide a battlefield effect to all squares 
in a 6-square radius around itself. Allied characters within this area of effect 
ignore cover but not total cover. 


Tank Killer 
Prerequisite: Weapon dealing 6 dice or more damage. 

This vehicle specializes in eliminating other heavy vehicles. As a standard 
action, this vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all 
squares in a 6-square radius around itself. All allied characters and vehicles 
in this area ignore the DR of vehicles on a successful attack roll. 


Terrorizer 
Prerequisite: Colossal or larger vehicle. 

This vehicle is designed to terrify the enemy. As a standard action, this 
vehicle can forgo all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in 
@ 6-square radius around itself. All enemy characters and vehicles in this 
area lose any morale or insight bonuses to attack rolls, to defense, or to 
skill checks. 


Troop Carrier 
Prerequisite: Passenger capacity of 10 or more. 

This vehicle delivers troops safely into and out of battle and provides 
cover as they load up or deploy. As a standard action, this vehicle can forgo 
all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in a 2-square radius 
around itself. Allied characters in this area are treated as having cover from 
attackers outside this area. 


GEAR REQUISITIONING 
YSTEM 


Training, equipping, and arming a soldier in a professional army costs tens of 
thousands of credits. Soldiers rarely carry their personal gear and weapons 
into battle and instead rely on their military units to outfit them with the 
gear necessary for battle. In addition to three square meals a day and a cot, 
one advantage to serving in a regular army or mercenary unit is access to 
weapons, equipment, and vehicles that are beyond the reach of civilians. A 
well-equipped and well-funded army or mercenary outfit is assumed to have 
gear, vehicles, and droids appropriate to their faction and era. In most cases, 
the average soldier has access to gear and equipment far beyond what would 
normally be available to a character by using the wealth system in the Saga 
Edition core rulebook. 


i esiewHo 


Ssevaeuvy 


The gear requisitioning system is a set of optional rules that replaces the 
standard wealth system described in the Saga Edition core rulebook. The gear 
requisitioning system gives players in a Galaxy at War campaign access to 
bigger and better weapons, armor, vehicles, and even starships that would 
exceed the limits of their personal wealth. However, the equipment that the 
heroes requisition does not belong to them and must be returned to the army 
or mercenary company’s quartermaster at the end of the adventure. When 
the heroes are off duty or not otherwise working on behalf of their unit, they 
must rely on their own weapons and gear to survive. 

Requisitioned gear is distinct from gear assigned for a specific mission. 
Requisitioned gear can be used in any way that the hero sees fit, just like 
personal gear, Heroes who requisition gear for a mission might receive addi- 
tional unique, mission-specific items or vehicles that would otherwise exceed 
their requisition budget. However, gear assigned for a mission must be used in 
accordance with the mission's parameters. A soldier is both responsible and 
accountable for gear assigned as part of a mission, and reckless endanger- 
ment or destruction of this equipment could result. in harsh discipline. For 
example, the heroes might be ordered to transport an experimental weapon 
to the battlefield, but the weapon is not theirs to deploy unless given direct 
permission. Also, starships and vehicles that ferry the heroes to and from 
locations and do not otherwise accompany the heroes after drop off are not 
considered part of a requisition budget. 

\f you utilize this system in your campaign, then the heroes should receive 
only one-half the usual rewards in credits that they would otherwise gain (see 
page 248 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Heroes in a military-themed 
campaign are fighting for the prestige and glory, not the credits, and if 
they choose to leave their military organization, they discover that life as a 
civilian comes without access to the best gear, weapons, and gadgets that 
soldiers enjoy. 


Determining Requisition Limits 
To determine the amount of credits that the heroes have available to spend 
at the beginning of an adventure, use the following formula: 


Requisition Amount: Total number of character levels in the unit x 
2,000 credits 


For example, the heroes are four 4th level characters— privates or troop- 
ers with no bonus to requisitioning (see "Rank and Requisitioning,” below). 
The 16 total character levels multiplied by 2,000 equals a total of 32,000 
credits available to spend on weapons, armor, equipment, and vehicles for 
the duration of the mission. 

Heroes can spend up to the allotted amount of credits on any weap- 
ons, armor, equipment, or vehicles (but not starships; see “Requisitioning 
Starships,” below) that the Gamemaster allows. Any credits not spent are 
lost—heroes should maximize their purchases to get as much equipment 
as possible. Military organizations have enormous budgets, contracting 
standards, and vehicle pools, so heroes pay the used cost for vehicles when 
requisitioning. The Republic and the Empire are wealthy and powerful enough 


to issue every clone trooper and stormtrooper the appropriate armor, so clone 
trooper or stormtrooper heroes can ignore the cost of armor when using the 
requisitioning system. 


Requisitioning Starships 

Instead of requisitioning extensive collections of personal equipment, heroes 
might prefer to spend their requisition allotment to obtain a starship or two 
for their mission. However, the prices of most starships, even at the used 
price, are beyond the reach of all but the highest-level heroes, so players 
who decide to requisition starships use the following formulae instead of 
the regular requisition amount: 


Requisition Amount for Personal Equipment and Vehicles: Total number 
of character levels in the group x 500 credits 


Requisition Amount for Starships: Total number of character levels in 
the group x 10,000 credits 


For example, four 10th level heroes receive a requisition limit of 20,000 
credits for personal equipment and vehicles, and they receive an additional 
requisition allotment of 400,000 credits for any starships available to their 
faction and era. 

To determine the price of a requisitioned starship, use the starship's used 
price. Extra credits not spent on starships cannot go toward personal gear 
and vice versa. Allotted credits not spent toward their requisitioning limit 
ing starships are lost for that adventure. 
joned starship comes with any crew members required to oper- 
ate the vessel, unless the heroes decide to fill the positions themselves. The 
captain of the starship might be of higher rank than the heroes, but he or 
she receives orders to follow the heroes’ instructions. 

Gamemasters should remind players that not every mission requires the 
use of a starship. Heroes in a campaign focusing on gritty house-to-house 
combat might find a starship to be unnecessary and better small arms, armor, 
and grenades more appropriate. Heroes are not required to requisition a star- 
ship merely for transportation if that starship does not otherwise accompany 
them on their mission. Heroes who requisition a starship can operate it as 
they please, as if it were their personal property, but they still must return 
the starship to the quartermaster at the end of the mission. 


Rank and Requisitioning 
Heroes gain rank as they advance within a military organization. With this 
increase in rank comes greater spending limits for requisitioning gear. Table 
2-9: Rank and Privilege indicates the bonus that heroes receive when making 
a requisition request. This bonus is applied only to the highest-ranking hero's. 
character level, essentially treating the hero as that many levels higher when 
requisitioning gear. 

For example, a 6th-level character who has obtained the rank of second 
lieutenant (+4 requisition bonus) is treated as 10th level when requisition- 
ing gear. The three other characters in this adventuring group are equal in 


character level but lower in rank, so they do not receive a bonus. The total 
character levels of one 10th-level character and three 6th-level characters is 
28, which when multiplied by 2,000 gives a total of 56,000 credits available 
to that group for requisitioning equipment. 


SAMPLE REQUISITIONED 

GEAR PACKAGES 

The following are sample requisitioned gear packages that a group of heroes 
can requisition fora mission. The packages are set for groups of four heroes 
who are not requisitioning a starship. Gamemasters should create appropriate 
gear packages for players to choose from prior to an adventure. 


CL 1 Requisitioned Gear Package A (8,000 credits) 
1 blaster pistol 

1 blaster carbine 

2 blaster rifles 

4 frag grenades 

2 ion grenades 

4 short-range comlinks 

1 pair of electrobinoculars 

4-utility belts 

2 medpacs 


CL 1 Requisitioned Gear Package B (8,000 credits) 
1 SoroSuub X-34 landspeeder 

2 blaster pistols 

| blaster carbine 

1 blaster rifle 

2 frag grenades 

4 short-range comlinks 

4 utility belts 

1 medpac 


CL 2 Requisitioned Gear Package A (16,000 credits) 
2 heavy blaster pistols 

1 ion rifle 

1 heavy blaster rifle 

4 frag grenades 

2 ion grenades 

4 combat jumpsuits 

4 long-range comlinks 

1 pair of electrobinoculars 
4 utility belts 

4 medpacs 


CL 2 Requi: ned Gear Package B (16,000 credits) 
4 Aratech 74-Z speeder bikes 
2 heavy blaster pistols 

1 blaster carbine 

1 light repeating blaster 

4 frag grenades 

4 blast helmets and vests 

4 long-range comlinks 

1 pair of electrobinoculars 

4 utility belts 

1 medical kit 

2 medpacs 


CL 4 Requisitioned Gear Package A (32,000 credits) 
3 blaster rifles 

1 heavy repeating blaster 

5 frag grenades 

4 ion grenades 

4 stun grenades 

4 combat jumpsuits 

4 long-range encrypted comlinks 
1 pair of electrobinoculars 

4 field kits 

4 utility belts 

1 medical kit 

4 medpacs 


CL 4 Requisitioned Gear Package B (32,000 credits) 
4 Aratech 74-Z speeder bikes 

4 blaster pistols 

2 blaster carbines 

1 heavy blaster rifle 

1 2-1B Medical Droid 

5 frag grenades 

4 blast helmets and vests 

4 long-range encrypted comlinks 
1 pair of electrobinoculars 

4 utility belts 

1 medical kit 

5 medpacs 


f eaiavHS 


SMUVAGHV EH) 


SUVMENVE 


CL 8 Requisitioned Gear Package A (64,000 credits) 
4 heavy blaster pistols 

2 blaster rifles 

1 light repeating blaster 

1 heavy blaster rifle 

1 grenade launcher 

8 frag grenades 

5 ion grenades 

2 thermal detonators 

4 battle armor 

4 long-range encrypted comlinks 
1 pair of electrobinoculars 

4 field kits 

4 utility belts 

1 tool kit 

1 surgery kit 

1 medical kit 

6 medpacs 

1 personal holoprojector 


CL 8 Requisitioned Gear Package B (64,000 credits) 
1 TX-130T fighter tank 
(see page 202 of The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide) 
4 heavy blaster pistols 
2 blaster carbines 
1 light repeating blaster 
7 frag grenades 
5 ion grenades 
4 long-range encrypted comlinks 
2 pairs of electrobinoculars 
4 field kits 
4 utility belts 
1 tool kit 
1 surgery kit 
1 medical kit 
5 medpacs 
1 personal holoprojector 


CL 10 Requisitioned Gear Package A (80,000 credits) 
3 heavy blaster pistols 

1 ion rifle 

2 blaster rifles 

1 heavy repeating blaster 

2 grenade launchers 

1 missile launcher 

6 missile launcher magazines 
5 thermal detonators 

8 frag grenades 

8 ion grenades 

8 stun grenades 

2 explosive charges 

2 timers 

4 battle armor 

4 long-range encrypted comlinks 
2 pairs of electrobinoculars 
4 field kits 

4 utility belts 

1 tool kit 

2 surgery kits 

8 medpacs 

2 personal holoprojectors 

2 binder cuffs 


CL 10 Requisitioned Gear Package B (80,000 credits) 
1 TX-130T fighter tank 
(see page 202 of The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide) 
1 blaster pistol 
3 heavy blaster pistols 
2 blaster rifles 
2 heavy blaster rifles 
1 grenade launcher 
4 frag grenades 
4 ion grenades 
4 stun grenades 
5 thermal detonators 
2 explosive charges 
2 timers 
4 long-range encrypted comlinks 
1 pair of electrobinoculars 
4 field kits 
4 utility belts 
1 tool kit 
1 medical kit 
6 medpacs 
2 personal holoprojectors 


RANK AND PRIVILEGE 
Ahero who serves in an army, a planetary defense organization, ora mercenary 
group is given a rank—here called a title. With a title comes authority to give 
orders, access to equipment and personnel, and increased pay. However, the 
greater a hero's title is, the greater are the accountability, responsibilities, 
and demands placed on him or her. The Star Wars Roleplaying Game is about 
action, however, not administrative paperwork or Boards of Inquiry, so heroes 
in the game are allowed more leeway than actual members of the military 
would ever hope for. A title is usually indicative of character level and experi- 
ence, but a title can be based on social status and other noncombat-oriented 
factors. Heroes often receive orders from officers who are superior in rank but 
considerably lower in level—sometimes having only nonheroic levels. 

The Rank and Privilege system provided here gives a character's title 
and the corresponding additional in-game abilities and bonus for requi- 
sitioning equipment (see "Gear Requisitioning System" on page 69). As a 
player advances in title, he or she also gains access to additional benefits. 
With title also comes authority. Table 2-9: Rank and Privilege provides a 
Requisition/Command Bonus score. Heroes add the appropriate Command 
Bonus score to any Persuasion checks when dealing with members of their 
military organization. 

In addition, as a hero advances in rank (see Table 2-9: Rank and Privilege), 
he or she can give special orders. Special orders provide a once-per-mission 
effect, such as calling in an air strike, radioing back to headquarters for tech- 
nical information, or requesting immediate evacuation from a battlefield. To 
use a special order, the highest-ranking character in the adventuring group 
must be able to communicate with his or her superiors, either by comlink or 
by messenger. A special order can have immediate results, or it might take 
some time and require additional prerequisites. Also, in some cases, special 
orders cannot be enacted, especially if the hero is far from other troops or 
is involved in a clandestine mission without the benefit of additional forces. 
Special orders are divided into minor orders, major orders, and command- 
level orders. Several examples of special orders are described below, and 
Gamemasters are encouraged to create their own or to determine if a special 
order described by a player might be within the hero's authority. 


EXAMPLE MINOR SPECIAL ORDERS 

Call in mortar strike (Atk +10, 446 damage, 2-square burst radius, every 
142 rounds). 

Request basic intelligence (any Knowledge skill, +5). 

Request transport (ground vehicle arrives in 2d10 minutes, CL equal to 
or lower than commanding hero's). 

Request reinforcements (a number of CL 1 troopers equal to one-half the 
commanding hero's level arrives in 2410 minutes). 

Remote override (Use Computer +10 check, requires datapad or personal 
computer). 

Emergency supply drop (1 medical kit and 4 medpacs, or 1 tool kit and 1 
day/character ration packs). 


EXAMPLE MAJOR SPECIAL ORDERS 

Call in air strike (Atk +15, 10d6x2 damage, 4-square splash every 1d2 
rounds for 10 rounds). 

Request detailed intelligence (any Knowledge skill, +10). 

Request transport (shuttle arrives in 2d10 minutes, CL equal to or lower 
than commanding hero's) 

Request reinforcements (a number of CL 5 troopers equal to the com- 
manding hero's level arrives in 2d10 minutes). 

Remote override (Use Computer +15 check, requires datapad or personal 
computer). 

Emergency supply drop (1 surgery kit and 1 medical kit, or 1 tool kit, 8 
medpacs, and 10 days/character ration packs). 


EXAMPLE COMMAND SPECIAL ORDERS 

Call in orbital bombardment (Atk +20, 5d6x5, 4-square splash every 142 
rounds for 10 rounds). 

Request sensitive intelligence (any Knowledge skill, +20). 

Request transport (starship arrives in 2410 minutes, CL equal to or lower 
than commanding hero's). 

Request reinforcements (a number of CL 5 troopers equal to 5 + the 
commanding hero's level arrives in 2d10 minutes). 

Remote override (Use Computer +20 check, requires datapad or personal 
computer). 

Emergency supply drop (1 medical droid, 10 medpacs, 2 tool kits, and 1 
month/character ration packs). 


ft waiavHS 


i eslavHO. 


SUVMEIV- 


POSITIVE CRITERIA 
Base attack bonus +5 through +9 
Base attack bonus +10 through +14 
Base attack bonus +15 or higher 
Captures or kills a major enemy 
Character level 
Has at least one level in the elite trooper prestige class 
Has at least one level in the noble class 
Has at least one level in the officer prestige class” 
Has at least one level in the soldier class 
Has at least one talent from Leadership talent tree 
Has the Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy}) feat 
Has the Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics]) feat 
Shows extreme valor in wartime 
Specialist (+15 or higher in Intelligence-based skill) 
Trained in the Knowledge (tactics) skill 
Veteran of a major conflict 

*See Rank and the Officer Prestige Class sidebar. 


NEGATIVE CRITERIA 
Captured in battle 
Criminal background prior to enlistment 
Fails on a mission 
Has at least one level in the scoundrel class* 
Minor infraction of military code (e.g., insulting an officer) 
Untrained in the Knowledge (tactics) skill 
Complete loss or destruction of requisitioned gear 
Fled from battle 
Major infraction of military code (e.g., assaulting an officer) 
Actions result in unnecessary loss of comrades 
Betrays military secrets 
Grievous infraction of military code (e.g., mutiny, war crime) 


* Does not apply for mercenary units. 


ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
#1 
+2 
+3 
+1/4 the enemy's CL 
+1/2 character levels 


+ 
4 
+1/2 class levels 
pal 
+ 
+ 
Bal 
+2 per instance 
+ 
eal 
+1 per conflict 


ORGANIZATION SCORE MODIFIER 
-1 
ot 
i 
-1 


Organization Score Criteria 

To advance in his or her military organization, a soldier must follow orders, 
show ingenuity and leadership in the field, and successfully complete the 
missions. Although many factors can boost a hero's title, advancement comes 
only to those who are willing to take the most challenging missions and 
survive with their comrades and gear relatively intact. The criteria in Table 
2-8 can affect the organization score of a member of an armed service or 
large mercenary company. 


Titles, Benefits, and Duties 

Military organizations follow a strict chain of command, with clear regula~ 
tions on rank, responsibility, and authority of each soldier in its command. 
Soldiers are expected to follow the orders without question, and officers 
expect that their orders are carried out quickly and efficiently by those under 
their command, Depending on the military organization, era, and even duty 
post, soldiers can advance rapidly through the ranks or can make themselves 
career foot soldiers or noncommissioned officers. 

Table 2-9 provides the most common ranks found in military groups 
throughout the galaxy. Depending on the branch, some of the titles might 
be different or might not exist at all. For simplicity's sake, the titles given 
apply to both ground and naval forces. Gamemasters are free to alter the 
titles as needed. 


MULTIPLE HEROES WITH RANK 
Not all of your heroes have to be members of a military unit to go on missions 
on behalf of those units. However, if you have multiple heroes who all have 
ranks in the same military outfit, there may be some question as to who the 
commander is on a particular mission. There are several ways to determine 
who acts as the commander on a particular mission; note that only the 
commander of a mission can issue special orders during that mission. Below 
are some suggestions for determining the commander when multiple heroes 
hold rank in the same military unit. 

The hero with the highest organization score is the commander. For 
this method, simply compare the heroes’ rank and organization scores in order 
to determine who has the highest; that person becomes the commander for 
the mission. In case of a tie, a commander is assigned by the organization's 
higher authorities based on the mission profile. This method ensures that 
the hero with the highest rank is always the commander of the mission, and 
rewards heroes who specifically take levels in certain classes (particularly 
the officer) and choose to act as the party's leader. 

The heroes rotate as commander based on specialty. A somewhat 
more egalitarian method, in this scenario the mission commander is chosen 
by the heroes’ superiors based on his or her specialty. For example, on a 
mission to locate Count Dooku's secret lair, the heroes’ superiors might put 
the Jedi character in charge, owing to her familiarity with the Force, the 
Jedi, and the Sith. If the mission calls for extended travel through the wilds 
of Daluuj, the scout character could be put in charge thanks to his record of 
survivability. For missions where combat seems to be most likely, the soldier 
character might be put in charge. Provided that the missions the heroes 
undertake have some variety in their goals and methods of execution, each 
of the heroes should get a chance to take the lead on certain missions. This 
method works out very well when the heroes are all members of the same 
military unit and all have some rank. 

The heroes choose a commander from among themselves. Under this 
option, the heroes receive a mission from their superiors and are then required 
to choose one of themselves to be the commander. This not only allows the 
heroes to spread around the chance to be a commander from mission to mis- 
sion, it also allows heroes who don't want a position of leadership to opt-out 
easily while still participating in the choice of a commander. 


SUVAEUT) 


SeVAGSVy) 


i esiavHS 


NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS 

In real-world military units, there is a difference between officers who go 
through years of elite officer training and those enlisted men and women 
who are promoted to leadership roles. Officers who are enlisted are called 
non-commissioned officers, and they are drawn from the ranks of occupa- 
tional specialists within the enlisted personnel in a military force. Enlisted 
personnel sometimes then go on to attend officer candidacy schools (or 
receive such training during active duty, in the case of militaries that have 
no formal academies). 

In the Star Wars setting, there are often few, if any, differences between 
commissioned and noncommissioned officers. Some organizations, such as 
the Rebel Alliance, have no choice but to draw upon members of their own 
organization for officers. As such, almost every officer in the Rebel Alliance 
is what would normally be considered a noncommissioned officer; typically, 
these officers begin their careers as specialists within a Rebel cell, and 
advance based on merit. In the Rebel Alliance (and similar organizations), 
advancement is so fast that there can be no practical difference between 
commissioned and noncommissioned officer. Heroes like Han Solo and Lando 
Calrissian reach the rank of General quickly, out of necessity. 

If your heroes are members of a military unit that does have a strong divide 
between commissioned and noncommissioned officers (such as the Imperial 
military), there are a few adaptations you can make to the rules to enforce 
this divide. First, noncommissioned officers have a maximum rank score cap 
of 11, meaning that no noncommissioned officer can increase his or her rank 
beyond 11 unless that character then goes on to receive officer candidacy 
training. To determine if a hero is a noncommissioned or a commissioned 
officer, look at how that hero came to be involved with the military unit. 
If the hero was drafted into service, signed on to the unit with a specialty 
other than leadership, or signed on with no prior training or specialty, that 
hero is probably a noncommissioned, enlisted soldier. If the hero attended 
a military academy (such as the one at Carida), received formal military 
training as a part of his or her upbringing (as is the case for many nobles), 
or signed on with a unit specifically for a leadership role, chances are that 
hero is a commissioned officer. 

Additionally, for military units where there is a distinction between com- 
missioned and noncommissioned officers, the ranks for those heroes with a 
rank score of 11 or less should be different for commissioned officers. Though 
the actual ranks vary from one military outfit to the next, the following 
basic ranks can be used for commissioned officers progressing through the 
first few ranks of the command hierarchy: Ensign, Sub-Lieutenant, Second 
Lieutenant. 


_~ 


HAPAN NONCOMMIBSIONED OFFICER 


all 


RANK SCORE 
0 3 or lower 
1 4-5 

6 
7 
2 8-9 
10 
" 
3 12-15 
16-18 
19-20 
4 21-23 
24-25 
26-27 
5 28+ 


REQUISITION/ 
COMMAND BONUS 


+0 


+0 


+ 


+2 


+2 


+3 


+4 


+5 


+6 


+7 


+8 


+9 


+10 


‘SPECIAL 
ORDERS 


1 minor 


2 minor 


2 minor 


2 minor 


1 minor, 
1 major 


1 minor, 
1 major 


2 minor, 
1 major 


2 minor, 
1 major, 
lemd 
2 minor, 
2 major, 
lemd 
3 minor, 
2 major, 
lemd 


3 minor, 
2 major, 
2emd 


TITLE: BENEFITS AND DUTIES 

Recruit: None 

Private/Trooper: The lowest ranking member of any military. This honorific 
provides no mechanical benefit. 

Corporal: Corporals are second in command for squads of up to ten 

privates or troopers. This honorific provides no mechanical benefit. 

Sergeant: Sergeants are in command of squads. Once per encounter as a swift 
action, a sergeant can grant an additional move action to all allies within line 
of sight. 

Warrant Officer: Warrant officers are specialists in a given field. Once per 
encounter, a warrant officer gains 2 +5 insight bonus on one INT-based 

skill check. 

Chief Warrant Officer: The rank of chief warrant officer is an honorific that 
provides no mechanical benefit. 

Master Warrant Officer: Master warrant officers are the highest 
noncommissioned officers in a military. Once per encounter, a master warrant 
officer gains access to an astromech, protocol, or medical droid that has no more 
than three nonheroic levels. 

Second Lieutenant: The lowest officer rank in the military. Second lieutenants 
typically are in charge of a platoon of 30-50 soldiers. Once per encounter, all allies 
within line of sight of a second lieutenant grant an additional +5 bonus when they 
use the aid another action until the start of the second lieutenant's next turn. 
First Lieutenant: First lieutenants are in charge of two or more platoons. 

Once per encounter, a first lieutenant can grant a +1 bonus on attack rolls to all 
allies within line of sight for one round. 

Captain: A captain can lead a company of 75-200 soldiers, pilot a 

starfighter, or command a Colossal or larger starship. This honorific provides no 
mechanical benefit. 

Commander: Commanders lead unique units of specialized troops or ships. 
Once per encounter, a commander grants a +2 bonus on attack rolls to all 

allies in line of sight. 

Major: A major commands a battalion of 500—-1,000 troops or leads 

a starfighter squadron. The honorific provides no mechanical benefit. 


Colonel: A colonel commands a battlegroup, which consists of 4—8 regiments. 
Once per encounter, a colonel can give one ally within line of sight an extra 
standard action or move action on his or her next turn, to do with as he or 

she pleases. The ally does not lose the action if line of sight is broken. 
General/Marshal: The rank of general or marshal is the highest rank that a hero 
can achieve. They command units of troops divided into armies and are responsible 
for thousands of soldiers. A general or marshal can gain full access to a capital 
starship for up to 1 week. 


Tt SSiavHO 


SEVAeEEVH) 


LP a aS 
CHAPTER Ill 


nll i elie CAMPAIGNS 


Military campaigns can portray the heroics of a high-flying starfighter 
squadron or the trials and tribulations of a special-forces unit wallowing 
in the mud. The most important difference between a military campaign 
and a more conventional one is the mood and tone. Military campaigns are 
structured. Even though the morality of the conflict might be unclear, the 
objectives are well defined. 

Winning a war requires teamwork, planning, and the skills to get the job 
done. Discipline is also important, because it provides a structure for the 
military machine. Even the lowliest trooper is expected to follow orders. If 
the trooper refuses to do so, the ripples of the insubordination can be felt 
even in the highest echelons. 

This chapter explains how to establish the necessary tone and mood of 
a military campaign and how to convey to the heroes that they are a part 
of a conflict that is much larger than any individual soldier. In addition, you 
can learn about military characters and what makes them tick. 


YOu'RE IN 
THE ARMY Now 


career in the military is just like any other job. The biggest difference is 


_” the pay. Soldiers rarely earn more than the bare minimum wage. Soldiers do, 


however, have most of their material needs met. Clothing, food, housing, and 
other necessities are all included. Another difference between soldiers and 
civilians is the risks that they take. Officers and enlisted soldiers alike are 
expected to put their lives in on the line, often for months or years at a time. 
They must fight and, if necessary, die to accomplish their missions. 

In spite of these stark contrasts, joining the military can be an attractive 
decision. For some, it is an easy way out of poverty. For others, it is a way 
to gain respect in a vast, uncaring galaxy. Some join out of duty to their 
sovereign or because they desire training in a specific field or in a trade 
skill. Others yearn for the adventure and excitement that can be found on 
the front lines of any conflict. 


SNOIVENVS AUVLIIW | Ti esiavHS—) 
Ban 


SNEIVENVSD AUGLIMIN 


MILITARY JARGON 

The military finds its own uses for everything—including language. 
Acronyms—known colloquially as alphabet soup by soldiers—abound within 
the military. Colorful phrases are passed from veteran to noob in a coming 
of age ritual that rivals that of any secret society. Below is a sampling of 
military jargon from the Star Wars universe. Some terms are specific to 
certain eras or branches of service, as noted in their definitions. 


10 Percent: (Clone Wars) Awful, terrible. Used by clone troopers 
and ARC troopers. 

100 Percent: (Clone Wars) Perfect. Used by clone troopers and 
ARC troopers. 

AO: Area of operations. A ubiquitous term for the place where a 
mission occurs. 

AWOL; Absent without leave. In some militaries, going AWOL is the 
same as desertion. 

Bad Karma: (Legacy) Imperial trooper slang for a Sith. 

Big Boys: Heavy armored transports such as AT-ATs and AT-TEs. 

Bird: A spaceship. 

Black Operation, Black Ops: Any operation or mission that has secret, 
sinister, or illegal objectives. 

Blaster Fodder: Troops sent on impossible or suicide missions. 

Blaster Magnet: (Rebel) An Imperial officer. 

Blue Milk Run: An easy or uneventful mission. 

Bogey: An enemy target, especially in atmospheric or space flight. 
Bone: (Rebel) Y-Wing starfighter. 

Boys in White: Stormtroopers. 

Bubble: Any form of personal energy shielding. 

Bucket: Any type of armor worn on the head, especially stormtrooper 
or clone trooper helmets. 

Bucket Head: (Rebel) An Imperial pilot or stormtrooper. 

Bucket of Bolts: Derogatory term for a droid. 

Buzzer: (Clone Wars) Clone trooper slang for a Single Trooper Aerial 
Platform (STAP). 

Case Yellow: Light resistance. 

Check!: (Clone Wars) Cease fire, check your fire. 

Chosen: Refers to any character enrolled in military service by draft 
or conscription. 

Civvies: Derogatory term for civilians. 

Clamshell: Any type of form-fitting hard-shell armor. 

Clankers: (Clone Wars) Battle droids. 

Collateral Damage: Civilian casualties. 

Commo: Communications. 

Deece: (Clone Wars) A DC-series blaster. 

Det, Dets: Detonator or detonators. 

Dirt, Dirty: Planetside or groundside. 

Dupe: (Rebel) A TIE bomber. 


DZ: Drop zone. An area where troops are deployed, especially by 
air insertion. 

Egg Head: (Rebel) A stormtrooper. 

Esdee Vic: A Victory-class Star Destroyer. 

Extract, Extraction: To evacuate or leave a combat zone. 

Eyeball: (Rebel) A TIE fighter. 

Final Jump: Death. 

Frag: To kill, especially with explosives. 

Freq: Frequency. 

Geos: (Clone Wars) Geonosians. 

Geosync: Geosynchronous orbit. 

Grease: To kill. 

Hardpoint: An enemy emplacement that is heavily fortified 
or defended. 

Haul Jets: To make a hasty retreat. 

High Drop: To deploy troops from orbit. 

Imp, Imps: (Rebel) Slang for Imperial troops. 

Impstar Deuce: (Rebel) An Imperial Star Destroyer Mark II. 

Insertion; The delivery of troops into an area of operations. 

ISD: Imperial Star Destroyer. 

Juggy: Juggernaut. 

KIA: Killed in Action. 

Klick: A kilometer. 

Larty: (Clone Wars) An LAAT/i gunship. 

Light Up, Lit Up: To be shot at. 

Lookalikes: Common euphemism applied to clones by nonclones. 
Also, twins. 

Loot: (Imperial) Lieutenant. 

Mandie, Mando: (Old Republic) Mandalorian. 

Mandroid: A derogatory term for a soldier who has more than two 
cybernetic implants. 

Meat Can: An armored soldier, 

MIA: Missing in action. 

MRU: (Clone Wars) Much regret, unable. 

Nebbie: (Rebel) A Nebulon-B frigate. 

Neutralize: To kill or destroy a target. 

Nexu's Den: A heavily defended area. 

Noob: Slang for a new soldier, someone who has not experienced 
combat. 

On Permanent R and R: Euphemism for someone, especially an ally or 
a friend, who has been killed. 

Ops: Operations. 

Party Favors: Hand-delivered explosives, such as grenades or 
thermal detonators. 

Peewo, PWO: (Clone Wars) Principal weapons officer. 

Plan B: A back-up plan. 


MILITARY UARGON CONTINUED 
Plastic Boy: (Rebel) A stormtrooper or other armored soldier. 
Procedure 29 Alpha: (Imperial) Also, P29A. Crazy, insane, or the 
Imperial procedure for discharging a soldier due to psychological illness 
or impairment. 

RC: (Clone Wars) Republic commando. 

Recce, Recon: Reconnaissance or scouting operations. 

Red Zero: A request for immediate extraction. 

Rocketjock: A starfighter pilot. 

Roller, Rollies: (Clone Wars) A droideka. 

RV: Rendezvous. 

SBD; (Clone Wars) Super battle droid. 

Scanner: A sensor, or a sensor specialist. 

Scuttlebutt: Gossip or rumor. 

Sep, Sepper, Seppie: (Clone Wars) A separatist. 

Shadowmen: (Rebel) Imperial storm commandos. 

(Clone Wars) A clone commando. 

Sitrep: Situation report, a military status report, 

Sitting Mynock: An easy or vulnerable target. 

Skip: (New Jedi Order) A coralskipper, or Yuuzhan Vong starfighter. 
Slugger: A slugthrower. Alternatively, a person who prefers to 
use slugthrowers. 

Smokers: Smoke grenades. 

Snowmen: (Rebel) Stormtroopers. 


LEADERSHIP 

The rigid structure of a military campaign can be jarring to those more used to 
a the independence of a conventional civilian campaign. The heroes can have 
ranks—either honorary titles or specific grades that they have earned with 
blood, sweat, and tears. Orders given by superiors are expected to be obeyed 
without question, Insubordination is dealt with swiftly and harshly. In extreme 
cases, insubordinate individuals are thrown into the brig or shot outright. 


Commissioned Officers 
The commissioned officer ranks are at the top of the military food chain. 
Commissioned officers have administrative and leadership roles and make all 
of the important decisions, such as ordering planetary invasions or deciding 
who gets promoted. These line officers come from privileged backgrounds 
and have higher education. Some are from the middle class, going against 
the current to earn their commissions. Rarely, a noncommissioned officer 
can prove his worth in battle, earning a battlefield commission. The most 
privileged officers come from so-called military families, and are known as 
Generationals. These soldiers are proud of their lineage and can trace their 
military ancestry back several decades or even centuries. 

The military structure can become rife with political infighting and favor- 
itism. In some instances, officers are appointed for political reasons rather 
than for their merit or skill. Such political appointees are looked down upon 


ighters: Small starfighters. 
Spacebrain: A derogatory term used by army troopers to describe 
naval troopers. 

Squint: (Rebel) A TIE/In interceptor. 

SSD: Super Star Destroyer. 

Stormies: (Rebel) Stormtroopers. 

TD: Thermal detonator. 

Tinnies: Droids. 
Trandos, Trannies: Trandoshans. 

Triage Code X: Badly injured and not expected to survive. 

Triple Zero: Coruscant, due to its hyperspace coordinates. 

Ugly: A starfighter cobbled together from a variety of parts. 

Vape: Vaporize, especially to destroy starfighters. 

Vapebait: An unskilled pilot, an easy target. 

VSD: Victory-class Star Destroyer. 

Wet: (Clone Wars) A nondroid enemy. 

Wet Droids: (Clone Wars) Insulting term for clone troopers 
and commandos. 

White Hats: (Rebel) Stormtroopers. 

White Job: (Clone Wars) Clone troopers. 

WIA: Wounded in action. 

XO: Executive officer. Typically refers to whoever is in command of 
an operation. 

Zap, Zapped: To kill. 


by those officers who have earned their ranks through hard work and risk 
of life and limb. Generationals are particularly disgusted by such political 
nepotism, especially since such appointments often turn out to be more 
of a detriment than a benefit to their military branches. Their well-placed 
friends make political appointees dangerous enemies if they feel they have 
been slighted. During the rise of Emperor Palpatine's New Order, the Imperial 
military is severely corrupted by the commissioning of political appointees. 

While a line officer commands forces in the field, a staff officer is 
awarded a commission based on a specific area of expertise. Staff officers 
include doctors, scientists, lawyers, military advisors, and other specialists. 
Although technically officers with all the privileges and authority of their 
specified grade, they often lack the tactical know-how and leadership skills 
of line officers. 

The officer ranks are further subdivided by their level of authority and 
the scope of their oversight. In the army, the highest ranking of these are 
known as general officers, and in the navy, they are fleet officers. These 
officers are responsible for a specific fleet or for the military presence 
throughout an entire system or sector of space. Below the general officers 
are the senior officers, who administer and maintain brigades of personnel 
and materiel. Below them are the junior officers, who command smaller 
units and unit sections. 


li eeiavHS 


SNEIVANYD ABVLAIMNW 


Creating Officer NPCs 

Perhaps the most important of the allied NPCs the heroes deal with on a 
regular basis are their commanding officers. These individuals give them 
orders, conduct their briefings, and reward or punish them for their successes 
or failures. Although heroes might aspire to the officer ranks—or even begin 
the game as junior officers—they rarely, if ever, achieve the highest senior 
officer ranks, much less those of general officers. 

Officers can have vastly different methods of managing troops. When 
creating a commanding officer for the heroes, consider the background of the 
individual officer. Is this a proud generational, whose ancestors have served 
in the military since before the Clone Wars? Or is this a political appointee 
likely to get soldiers killed or to hide in a bunker when the chips are down? 

Beyond the questions of past and personality, you also should determine 
the specifics of the officer's class and skill set. Most officers begin their 
careers as nobles, with a privileged upbringing and education. Some officers 
start as soldiers, instead, making them seem gruff and earthy when compared 
to their more privileged comrades. Officers might also include a few scoun- 
drels who have conned their way into the upper echelons of the military. 

Skills that are central to an officer's role include Initiative, Knowledge 
(tactics), and Persuasion. An officer in the field must be able to react to 
situations quickly and have a good grasp of appropriate tactical responses 
in an ever-changing combat environment. An officer must also be able to 
command his or her troops, earn their loyalty, and concisely communicate 
effective orders. 

The Commando and Leadership talent trees are an officer's bread and 
butter. Expertise in at least one of these trees is necessary for the officer to 
effectively lead on the battlefield. The Leadership talent tree is perhaps the 
more important of the two, offering talents such as Born Leader, Coordinate, 


and Rally. The Commando talent tree gives the officer more hands-on ability 
in combat with Battle Analysis, Draw Fire, and Harm's Way. 

As he or she advances in level, an officer can benefit from multiclassing. 
Soldier is the obvious multiclass choice for an officer who starts out as a 
noble. Likewise, one or two levels in the noble class can benefit a soldier who 
plans to advance through the officer ranks. Officers who work closely with 
forward scouts and small tactical units can benefit from scout levels, and 
shipboard officers can benefit from the Spacer talent tree by taking one or 
more levels in the scoundrel class. 

In the long term, an officer character should work toward gaining levels 
in the officer prestige class, which offers a number of advantages, including 
access to the Military Tactics talent tree. When used in conjunction with 
the talents gained from the Leadership or Commando talent trees, Military 
Tactics talents can make the difference between a good officer and an 
outstanding one. 


Enlisted Troops 

Below the officers is the largest part of any military—the enlisted ranks. The 
majority of soldiers at these grades are citizen soldiers who proudly serve 
their planet, system, or government by contributing to the defense and pro- 
tection of its citizens. Others are conscripts or draftees brought into service 
by societal or bureaucratic obligation, regardless of their desire to serve. 

Since enlistment in a standing military requires little education or 
privilege, enlisted troops come from all walks of life. Enlistees receive 
comprehensive training including not only combat techniques but also one 
or more technical fields, which can be of useful later in civilian life. Those 
whose homeworlds offer limited opportunities are attracted by the chance 
to travel the galaxy and learn valuable skills. Thus, many enlisted troops are 
drawn from backwater systems. 

In a campaign with an organized military setting, players will likely be 
enlisted troops. They might begin as noncommissioned officers (NCOs) within 
the senior enlisted ranks if that is appropriate to their backstories and the 
requirements of your game. NCOs supervise the day-to-day activities of the 
troops they command. In the field, a NCO assists junior and senior commis- 
sioned officers by acting as a liaison between commissioned officers and 
line troops and by commanding smaller units such as squads. 

Senior enlisted troops are sometimes older and more experienced than 
the junior commissioned officers who command them. In such instances, 
the NCOs are expected to lend their expertise to their commanders while 
remaining subservient—a delicate balance that must be maintained. Good 
officers rely heavily on the opinions and advice of their NCOs, and good NCOs 
learn when to offer their opinions and when to keep quiet. 


Creating Enlisted NPCs 

You have a lot of freedom when creating nonplayer characters within the 
enlisted ranks. Since recruits can come from any world, in any region of 
the galaxy, nearly any character can enlist. Unless the NPC is particularly 
important, keep the character as general as possible until you need to flesh 
the character out more fully. Your best bet is to keep a list of names and a 
stock soldier template handy, 

Is the character from an impoverished backwater world or has this sol- 
dier led a privileged life, enlisting to spite family expectations of officer's 
training? Is this NPC an unwilling conscript or an idealistic volunteer? Is this 
trooper a hard worker or a slacker who does the minimum amount of work 
and no more? Is this a fresh recruit right out of boot camp or a veteran who 
has lost count of the firefights of a long career? Enlisted troops are likely 
to begin their careers as soldiers and scouts, depending on their specialty. 
A scoundrel caught in the commission of a crime might be given a choice 
between prison and military service, Nobles, too, occasionally drift into the 
enlisted ranks. 

Physical skills such as Climb, Endurance, Jump, and Swim are important 
to soldiers. Quick reactions are also necessary to stay alive, making Initia 
tive a key skill, If the soldier is a specialist, then his or her area of expertise 
should be represented by training in the Mechanics, Pilot, Treat Injury, or 
Use Computer skills. Soldiers are also likely to have the Knowledge (tactics) 
skill, especially if they are in an elite unit. As a soldier advances in level, 
multiclassing is typically restricted to a level or two of scout to improve 
Stealth and Survival skills. 

A soldier must possess the proper feats to perform effectively. A soldier 
must be trained in the use of both rifles and light and, preferably, medium 
armor. Even light armor can mean the difference between life and death on 
the battlefields of the Star Wars galaxy. Any feat that increases a soldier's 
accuracy is worth having, so Point Blank Shot is a must. Soldiers who expect 
to enter close combat should consider learning Martial Arts |. 

Talents are straightforward for soldiers. The Armor Specialist, Commando, 
and Weapon Specialist talent trees offer plenty of good choices for aspiring 
military men and women. The ranges at which wars are waged make the 
Brawler talent tree somewhat less useful. Soldiers who dabble in the scout 
class should consider the talents from the Awareness, Camouflage, and 
Survivor talent trees. 

The elite trooper is the most obvious prestige class for soldiers to aspire 
to. The elite trooper's Weapon Master talent tree makes this soldier even 
more deadly, while the Delay Damage and Damage Reduction abilities vastly 
increase his or her life expectancy. 


MILITARY RECRUITMENT 

Military recruiters rarely mention the downside of military service. If they 
did, they would never meet their quotas of enlistees. They do make genuine 
promises to prospective recruits, but they sanitize their accounts of mili- 
tary life. Nevertheless, nearly every enlistee sees military-themed holovids. 
Depending on the era of play, such vids are either cinematic flights of fantasy 
in which the hero never gets seriously wounded and blasters never run out 
of ammo, or they are brutal and grueling depictions of the horrors of war 
that stun viewers. 

Prior to the Clone Wars, the public perception of the military is relatively 
neutral, perhaps a bit negative. A large standing army or navy is unnecessary, 
and peace is the rule rather than the exception. When Supreme Chancellor 
Palpatine forms the Grand Army of the Republic, the military's role and vis- 
ibility grow. Not only are clones fighting Separatists on distant battlefields, 
but clones also patrol the streets of Coruscant looking for terrorists. Likewise, 
civilian vehicles and vessels now share airspace with military transports 
and warships. 

Although the clones created on Kamino are a capable fighting force for 
the Republic and, eventually, the Empire, the vast scope of the war requires 
additional manpower from more traditional volunteers, The Republic Navy 
relies heavily on nonclone recruits to bolster its ranks, because most clones 
lack the specialized training necessary to maintain complex warships. 

The military commanders of the time know that the reserves of ready 
clones are finite, so they increase recruitment on most core and Mid Rim 
worlds. Stringent recruitment quotas are established throughout the 
Republic's loyal systems. Human-dominated worlds are targeted for heavy 
recruitment, even though many of the Republic's staunchest supporters are 
not members of the Human species. Worlds and systems that fail to meet 
recruitment quotas are initially subjected to draft lotteries, but these even- 
tually give way to so-called conscription drives that are essentially mass 
kidnappings of able-bodied men and women. 


BASIC TRAINING AND 
INDOCTRINATION 

The first stop for any new recruit is basic training. Even officers receive a form 
of basic training which is, despite rumors to the contrary, just as grueling 
as the training for enlisted troops. Few recruits know what to expect when 
they leave their transports and line up on a military tarmac for orienta~ 
tion, Recruits expect training to be a painful experience in which they are 
constantly belittled and forced to perform endless marches and physical 
exercise. The truth is not as bad as the holovids have made it out to be, but 
it is definitely not for the weak-willed or frail. 

Medical examinations are performed immediately following enlistment. 
The doctors who perform these examinations look for obvious defects or 
health issues. Recruits must also meet strict height and weight requirements. 
Any sensory deficiencies, such as near- or far-sightedness or deafness, must 


li eaiavHo 


SNAIVENVE AUVLIWA 


be correctable with the proper equipment or procedures. Physicians also 
administer a wide array of inoculations to recruits to prevent them from 
Contracting any of a hundred exotic diseases during the course of their 
military service. 

Next, recruits are stripped of their identities. Initial orientation can include 
a military-style haircut, and recruits are issued uniforms. With some military 
organizations, initial orientation also includes an alphanumeric assignment, 
such asa stormtrooper’s TK designation code. From the beginning of training 
until graduation, such troopers are expected to answer only to their desig- 
nation code. When deprived of their individuality, recruits are more easily 
trained to rely on the group as a whole when accomplishing tasks. They are 
also prepared for the impersonal nature of military service, which can be one 
of the most shocking experiences a new recruit faces. They are reduced to 
being numbers, not names, making them both unique and anonymous. 

Once the troops are issued uniforms and other equipment, they begin a 
training regimen eight to ten weeks long, designed to weed out the weak 
and to mold the rest into uniform physical fitness. This training makes the 
recruits physically healthier, and it increases their self-confidence about 
what they can accomplish physically 


Along with exercises, soldiers are taught to march and drill, both with 
and without armor and weapons. Despite its repetitive nature, drill is an 
important activity for recruits because it ingrains command movements 
into the soldier's mind, making them reflexive. Soldiers who drill endlessly 
are easier to control on the battlefield, and they respond instantly when 
familiar orders are given 

Even before learning to shoot it, a recruit is taught how to care for his or 
her weapon. The steps to strip a blaster rifle, clean it, and reassemble it are 
repeated until they are second nature. Speed is also important, and most 
militaries require that a trainee can break down, clean, and reassemble a 
weapon within a specific time. Stories of soldiers required to clean weapons 
while blindfolded or in the dark are not far from the truth. 

Conditioning recruits to the rigors of the battlefield is another important 
Part of basic training. The sounds, sights, and smells of combat are omnipres- 
ent. Soldiers drill with the sounds of blaster fire and incoming artillery in 
their ears. This acclimatizes them to such experiences, Many new soldiers 
freeze the first time they are targeted by incoming fire, and the sooner they 
become used to the experience of being shot at, the better. 

When the time comes, recruits are taught how to fight in both a real and 
a tactical sense, Combat training teaches recruits to kill their enemies, both 
with and without weapons. Because a recruit's body reacts differently when 
in optimal physical condition, trainees are expected to be in top physical 
form for combat training, so they are rarely taught combat methods straight 
away. At this point in training, a recruit undergoes several hours of physical 
exercise, followed by several more hours of combat training, either sparring 
with comrades or on a firing range. 

Weapons training is a comprehensive process. Soldiers are taught that 
they must shoot to kill, and that a wounded enemy can be just as dangerous 
as a healthy one. The enemy a soldier kills is an enemy the soldier no longer 
has to worry about. Although this is all fine in theory, the act of taking a 
life is something that most civilized militaries leave to the actual battlefield, 
That said, training is as realistic as possible without being deadly, even to the 
point of conducting skirmishes with weapons set to stun 

At the culmination of basic training, a recruit should be in peak physical 
condition and trained to fight and die on the front lines. Graduation cer- 
emonies are traditionally held with much fanfare, and group assignments are 
handed out. Depending on their affinities, some recruits go on to additional 
specialized training, such as that required for a technical role such as techni- 
Cian or medic, or for a more defined military role such as a heavy weapons 
operator or repulsorlift or walker pilot. 


WASHING OUT oF BASIC 

Despite the best efforts to train all recruits equally, some recruits cannot 
make the cut. These individuals are weeded out in the first few weeks of basic 
training for one of three reasons: physical, psychological, or disciplinary. 

Physical wash-outs include recruits with preexisting medical conditions 
that make them unfit for duty, Such conditions might escape the rigorous 
medical examinations conducted prior to basic training. Some enlistees, in 
their zeal to serve in the military, go to great lengths to hide their physical 
deficiencies. Such a problem might be knowingly overlooked by the recruit's 
superiors unless the problem prevents the recruit from completing training. 
Some recruits are injured during training, sometimes so severely that the 
recruit is discharged. 

Psychological wash-outs can be the most difficult to detect. Basic training 
presents mental challenges that some recruits cannot cope with. Instructors 
are taught to watch for signs of mental distress in their recruits. Soldiers 
sometimes react negatively to stress, but action must be taken when such 
reactions pose a threat to the recruit or to his or her comrades. Recruits who 
are suspected of having mental problems are evaluated by a military psy- 
chologist, who makes the final determination as to the trainee's suitability. 

Disciplinary wash-outs include malcontents, insubordinates, and crimi- 
nals. Military instructors seek to break negative behaviors from the outset, 
using brutal punishment and intimidation. However, this does not always 
work, particularly when the recruit in question is exceptionally strong-willed. 
Recruits are washed out for disciplinary reasons only when their infractions 
become a threat to unit cohesion. 

Individuals who wash out of basic training are shunted back to their 
civilian lives with little or no compensation. If they are guilty of serious dis- 
ciplinary infractions, they might serve time in a military prison or stockade 
before dismissal. 


TEMPERED BY FIRE 

Soldiers are trained to fight, but until the moment of truth—when they 
are tested by actual combat—they have yet to prove themselves. That first 
encounter with the enemy is rarely forgotten, and it can make a lasting 
impression on even the stoutest troopers. Every encounter is different. Was it 
an ambush? an assault? a defensive action? Were the objectives met, or was 
it a tactical disaster? Did the soldier's friends and comrades survive, or was 
the unit wiped out, leaving the soldier alone to tell the tale? All of these can 
make for an interesting, character-driven story, and it is up to you to decide 
what sort of encounter you want your heroes to experience first. 


The Senses of Combat 

If the heroes in your game are greenies just out of boot camp, a key element 
of combat is the sensory input surrounding the heroes when the blaster 
bolts begin to fly. Capture your players’ imaginations with vivid depictions 
of the violence around them. Give them a clear vision of what they see, hear, 
smell, and feel without becoming monotonous or getting bogged down in 
the details. Even one or two descriptive words can be enough to adequately 
convey the point as you narrate the events taking place. 

First of all, combat is rarely a quiet affair. Weapons discharge constantly, 
both nearby and in the distance. Explosions—whether from thrown grenades, 
cannons, or incoming artillery—rock the world and send bodies flying with 
their shock waves. Orders are shouted, and the wounded scream as their lives 
slowly bleed out into the dirt beneath them. Repulsorlifts whine as speeders 
skate across the landscape and as transports and spacecraft fly overhead. 

‘Smell is also a crucial sense that must be conveyed to the first-time com- 
batant. Continuous blaster fire creates an energy-tinged smell of ozone and 
hot wiring. Smoke from fires is everywhere, and the sources are numerous: 
burning vehicles, foliage and trees, bodies, propellant, and explosives all pro- 
duce smoke with slightly different characteristics. The heroes’ sweat— pour- 
ing from their unwashed bodies—creates a palpable aroma. The landscape 
provides its own odors, too. A battle in a swampy marsh is punctuated by 
heavy, organic smells, and a shipboard assault features atmosphere made 
sterile by countless cycles through an active life-support scrubber. 


SNSIVEANVEA AVVAITIN 


ii SSievHS 


What the players feel is just as important as what they smell and hear. Is 
it a hot day, when the heat makes wearing any kind of armor unbearable? Is 
it bitterly cold, causing the heroes’ extremities to become numb and clumsy 
in the frigid wind? Or is it a temperate day, strangely beautiful despite the 
carnage being sown all around the heroes? Consider the hammering recoil 
created by the heroes’ weapons as they fire, and the burning impact of an 
incoming blaster shot as it knocks one to the ground. 

The battlefield is filled with rich visual imagery. Fires burn, and smoke and 
fog inhibit visibility. Enemies emerge from the gloom like shadowy ghosts 
silhouetted by explosions and weapon discharges. Sudden flashes of light can 
Cause momentary blindness or provide an all-too-brief instant of lucidity. 
Provide contrasts: Dropships shriek overhead, leaving contrails across a far 
planet's purple sky, or a fragile red flower grows mere centimeters from the 
outstretched hand of a fallen enemy. 

Lastly, help your players bring out their heroes’ emotional responses 
to battle, Combat, especially a hero's first combat, is a frightening affair. 
However, emotions are tricky to convey to players in a roleplaying game. You 
must take care not to force particular responses from players. Instead, ask 
questions that lead your players to voice their emotions or to express them in 
the actions of their characters. You can certainly ask your players how their 
characters are feeling, and then expect them to act appropriately. 


Surrounded by Death 

The sights of both friendly and enemy dead and wounded should be stressed 
without turning the game into a verbal depiction of ultraviolence. Blood 
is rarely seen in the major battles of the Star Wars movies. Although you 
might punctuate your tales with brief representations of gore, these details 
should be kept to a minimum unless they serve the story. The best practice 
is to make general statements and allow the players to fill in the blanks with 
their own imaginations. Commenting that a fallen soldier was the victim of 
several hits from a high-powered blaster is enough to get the point across 
without discussing internal organs. 

A degree of empathy should be present in your depictions of the dead. 
Do not expect your heroes to shed a tear for the scores of battledroids they 
have dispatched, but you should still attempt to show them that their organic 
enemies are not so different from them. Had circumstances been different, 
those enemies might have even been friends. 


The combats that your heroes are likely to participate in might involve 
dozens or sometimes hundreds of individuals. Given the power and efficacy 
of military weapons in Star Wars, death can be nearly instantaneous and 
widespread. An assault’s first wave against a heavily fortified emplacement 
can generate significant casualties. 

The battlefield weapons of Star Wars are both spectacular and brutally 
efficient. Consider that the typical nonheroic character has 4 hit points and 
a Damage Threshold of 10 at first level. Next, take into account that a blaster 
rifle deals 348 damage on a hit, with an average damage of 13 or 14. Obvi- 
ously, a single hit from such a weapon is enough to kill a lower-level NPC. 
Heroic characters, even with their higher hit point totals, are not immune 
to such damage. An average first-level soldier can take only three such hits, 
Even taking into account the variables granted by catching a second wind 
or spending a Force Point, that soldier is reduced to a state that makes him 
or her combat ineffective unless medical attention is received. Combat in 
Star Wars is a deadly business. 


LIVING WITH WAR 

When developing NPCs for a military campaign, consider the various ways 
in which soldiers might respond to the experience of combat. Fresh recruits, 
while frightened by the prospect of their own demise, see death and injury as 
something that happens only to someone else, so NPCs who don't have much 
battle experience are likely to be more gung ho about military encounters 
than those with more time on the front lines. As recruits become seasoned 
veterans, they begin to understand that a soldier is not invulnerable. With 
this realization of their own mortality comes a desire to avoid unaccept- 
able risks. 

Over time, a soldier's comrades are sent to other units or become casual- 
ties of war. Friends are replaced by less-experienced soldiers, A veteran NPC 
might make a conscious effort to avoid close relationships within his or her 
unit, and might rebuff friendly overtures made by the heroes. Such tenden- 
cies can make veteran NPCs seem cold and dispassionate. 

Soldiers must learn to cope with the rigors of combat. Some delve into 
alcohol, spice, and other substances. Others cling memories of home, writ- 
ing letters to loved ones on a daily basis. Any distraction, whether harmful 
or benign, is a welcome change from the constant fear that permeates a 
soldier's life. Portraying the variety of ways in which the other members of 
the heroes’ unit respond to the stresses of a military campaign can add to 
the players’ sense of the rigors of war. 


AFTER THE FIRE 

After serving his or her stint on the front lines, a soldier might attempt to 
return to a normal civilian life. Most ex-soldiers who have seen combat find 
this transition to be a difficult one, because few of their new associates 
understand what they have gone through. The heroes are likely to encounter 
ex-military characters at many points in the campaign, as shopkeepers from 
whom they purchase supplies, as cantina patrons or spectators at Podraces, 
as friends, as informants, or as mercenaries. After so many years of conflict, 
former members of the Empire's vast military machine can be found in even 
the most remote regions of the galaxy. 

For example, perhaps the heroes have gone into town to enjoy some RER 
between missions, There, they discover that the bartender in a local cantina 
was a staff sergeant in the Imperial Army for many years, until her near- 
death in a firefight left her unfit for service. If the heroes press this NPC 
for details, they might discover some of the ways in which an ex-soldier's 
experience of wartime events continues to have an impact on his or her 
day-to-day life. Flashbacks and nightmares about combat, phobias or the 
avoidance of situations, sights, and sounds that the soldier associates with 
wartime experiences, and being overly aware of potential dangers are some 
of the behaviors that a character with traumatic wartime experiences could 
display. Don't overemphasize this type of extreme reaction to the experience 
of combat, but feel free to introduce the idea that the war affects every 
citizen of the Empire, not just those wearing a uniform. 


MILITARY ADVENTURES 
Vast intergalactic war is one of the elements that makes Star Wars compelling. 
The constant battles being waged throughout the galaxy give the setting 
one of its most distinctive flavors. When this is combined with the struggle 
between good and evil, you have an epic adventure. 

Although the galaxy is large enough to play host to any number of cam- 
paign types, the military campaign is one of the easiest to formulate and run, 
especially over the long term. The stories can encompass as many disparate 
elements as you wish. They can involve personal psychological struggles or 
Group struggles as heroes attempt to achieve ultimate victory. 

The truism that war brings out both the best and worst in people can be 
experienced in its fullest in a military-themed campaign. Unlike independent 
heroes—such as smugglers, fugitive Jedi, displaced nobles, fringe natives, 


or bounty hunters—active-duty soldiers are part of a well-defined chain of 
command. They are bound to a specific cause by their terms of service, usually 
part of a contract or an oath to whatever power they serve. They are paid for 
the risks they take, but this compensation pales when compared to the riches 
that independent and freelance heroes crave. The true reward is the job itself 
and the benefits of ultimate victory, if they manage to claim it. 

Many of the most exciting moments in the Star Wars movies depict 
battles for important military objectives: the attack on the Death Star during 
the Battle of Yavin in A New Hope, the Imperial deployment on Hoth in The 
Empire Strikes Back, the battle above Coruscant in Revenge of the Sith, and 
the ground assault on Geonosis in Attack of the Clones. Giving your players 
and their heroes an opportunity to participate in these sorts of actions brings 
them closer to the sense of conflict inherent in the setting. 


0 
I 
> 
v 
iy 
a 
2 


eNeIveENvTe aEwaruny | 


i eSlaveS 


DESIGNING MILITARY 
ADVENTURES 
The first thing you need to decide when designing military-themed adven- 
tures is the scale. Do you want to involve your players in grand battles, or 
are you more interested in a game that centers on a small team of military 
specialists? Is the conflict in which the heroes are embroiled a relatively iso- 
lated brushfire war, or is it part of a larger conflict that spans the galaxy? 
Although large battles are one of the genre's staples, they are often fought 
on smaller fronts. Involving the heroes in vast battles is an excellent way to 
remind them of the conflict’s scope, but if every battle is another Geonosis, 
large-scale battles can become tiresome. Your best bet is to intersperse 
smaller adventures and skirmishes with the larger ones. The last adventure 
in the series should be the climactic battle, where everything comes together 
and the heroes’ successes and failures come back to help or haunt them. 
Military adventures are rarely quiet. Soldiers are warriors, first and 
foremost, and their skills are geared toward making war. This is not to say 
that missions cannot be conducted under a blanket of secrecy. In fact, many 
missions require that the heroes use good judgment and discretion to accom- 
plish their goals. Despite this, there should be occasions where the heroes are 
expected to participate in stand-up fights against their enemies, where their 
ability to stealthily infiltrate has little influence over the final outcome. 
You also must determine the composition of the heroes’ party. Will it 
consist entirely of soldiers or multiclass characters with one or more levels of 
soldier? Or will you allow other character classes to join the group? Although 
soldiers make up the majority of most military forces, other classes can be 
a part of the adventure. Nobles can act as officers, scouts can participate 
as reconnaissance troops or as native guides, and scoundrels can lend their 
skills at stealth and infiltration to the group as a whole. Even Jedi have a 
part to play, although their true potential might be hidden from the group, 
depending upon the era in which you set your game. 


First Things First: The Objective 

Before you start, you need to determine the overall goal of the military 
campaign, The objective can be as epic or as incidental as you like, but it 
should be important in a military sense. Do you want the heroes to assault 
an entire planet? Or are they to pacify a band of pirates that has made its 
base in an asteroid field? Whatever the goal, your job is to make it interest- 
ing for the heroes and to make the rewards commensurate with the risks 
that they take. 


The Sequence of Events 

Choose a series of three to six missions that culminate in the successful 
completion of the overall military objective. You can determine these mis- 
sions based on the objective or generate them randomly. The missions need 
not take place in the same general area or within a short period of time. 


‘Some missions might send the heroes to take care of related tasks elsewhere 
before they can target the final objective. 

One or more missions might be time sensitive, lending a sense of urgency 
to the proceedings and preventing the heroes from taking detours that bog 
down play. Time-sensitive missions also remind the players that they are part 
of a larger universe, and that other events are taking place during downtime. 
Learning that an enemy fortification must be captured within the next two 
hours is more exciting than having free rein to take as much time as you 
want to plan and execute an attack. 

With each mission assigned, determine the results of both success and 
failure. Does the final objective hinge on each of these missions in some 
way? Will it be more difficult to accomplish if the missions leading up to 
it are not successfully completed? If the heroes fail in a related mission, it 
should have some noticeable effect, 


Cast of Characters 

Once you have the general path of the overall adventure plotted out, decide 
who the heroes should interact with. Who are their enemies? Who are their 
allies? Will they need additional specialists to perform their missions, or can 
they rely on their own skills to be successful? Do they have a commanding 
officer? If so, what is he or she like? 

The supporting cast should become familiar over the course of the 
adventure. Even little touches are appreciated by most players as time goes 
on. Perhaps they become friendly with the quartermaster who assigns gear 
before each mission, just as he or she admonishes them for returning the 
equipment dirty or damaged. Maybe competitors in another unit engage in 
a bit of friendly inter-unit rivalry between assignments. 

Most importantly, do not forget the other members of the heroes’ unit. 
Even if they do not participate in every mission that the heroes are sent on, 
the other squads in the heroes’ unit can become good friends and welcome 
additions to their group from time to time. If these individuals are lost, either 
alongside the heroes or while on another mission, the horrors of war and the 
losses of combat become palpable. 


Briefings 

Each mission should have an official briefing that is delivered by the com- 
manding officer. The briefing should cover the basics of the mission: the 
mission's goal; the details of the area in which the mission takes place; how 
the players are expected to arrive and depart the area; any intelligence that 
has been gathered; and, if necessary, a timetable that must be followed, Any 
secondary objectives or goals that are not critical to the overall success of 
the mission should also be covered in the briefing. 

The briefing should give a general outline of what the heroes’ command- 
ing officer intends for them to achieve. Better informed individuals than 
the heroes have concocted these plans to save the heroes the trouble of 
formulating complicated plans of their own. From Command's point of view, 


the heroes are tools to be used in a specific and predefined manner, but the 
plans are not always nonnegotiable. The heroes should be given leeway to 
make reasonable alterations, and once the mission starts it need not proceed 
exactly as planned. Events on the ground might require the heroes to make 
adjustments on the fly. 

Prepare for the briefing by having a map or two available. The heroes 
might want to know where they are going and what the local terrain is like. 
If they have multiple options for their insertion or extraction, these should 
be noted on the map, as should the locations of any secondary objectives. 
Be ready to answer any questions that the heroes ask, but remember that 
the commanding officer is not omniscient. Under most circumstances, he or 

he knows only as much about the mission as the briefing details. 

Intelligence provided during the briefing can be as specific or as general 
as you like. In fact, it need not be completely accurate. Misinformation 
increases the intensity of the mission when the assumed facts are shown 
to be incorrect. Such misinformation is not always harmful. If the analysis 
indicates that a brigade of elite stormtroopers is present, the heroes are 
unlikely to complain if those forces have been redeployed to another sector. 
Faulty intelligence should be used sparingly, however, because heroes who 
have been burned in the past tend to assume that all future intelligence will 
be wrong, as well 


Intelligence can be as mundane as you like. Enemy unit designations or 
specifications are perfect: “The area is patrolled by Kraken’s Maulers, an elite 
cadre of SpecOps troops" gives a sense of real military concerns. If the heroes 
have run into elements of these units in the past, revealing their presence 
might give the heroes second thoughts about the ease of the mission 

When the briefing is finished, the heroes should be allowed to ask any final 
questions, make requests for special equipment and personnel, and discuss 
any potential changes to the mission profile. When these final details are 
ironed out, the commanding officer dismisses them. This is your chance to 
delve into their commanding officer's personality. Is this commander cold and 
calculating, or does he or she take the time to wish each of the heroes luck 
before they depart? Are words of encouragement brief, or is this commander 
prone to bombastic speeches that bore as much as they inspire? 


Zero Hour 

Eventually, plans must be transformed into action, The heroes, as ready as 
ever, are inserted into their area of operations. From this point on, the game 
carries on much like any other. Do not be afraid to throw a few surprises 
at the players. Local wildlife, natives, and the environment can spice up an 
otherwise mundane or formulaic mission. 

Unless the mission takes place in the relative peace leading up to a full- 
scale invasion, be sure to stress the elements of war raging around the heroes 
that affect the local population and landscape. Idyllic tracts of farmland 
might be scarred by bomb craters, burned-out bunkers, and the smoking 
hulks of destroyed vehicles. 


Extraction and Debriefing 

Whether or not the heroes succeed in their assignment, they must eventually 
return to their superiors and take responsibility for their actions. Leaving a 
combat zone is a tense experience, especially if the heroes are under fire. 
One lucky shot on the part of the enemy could result in death for the entire 
unit. This is not to say that every extraction should be performed under fire. 
Instead, consider the circumstances of the mission and the status of nearby 
enemies and act accordingly. 

When they return to their commanding officer, the heroes must be 
debriefed. A debriefing is typically attended by an intelligence analyst and 
by the heroes’ CO. The heroes or their designated leader recount the mis- 
sion, revealing any discoveries they made along the way. If appropriate, 
congratulations or admonitions are made, depending on the degree of the 
mission's success. In the case of mercenary heroes (see below), final pay- 
ment is made or arranged. 

Depending on the intensity of the conflict, the heroes might have a period 
of rest between missions, or they might be expected to perform their next 
mission straightaway. If the heroes are not given time to heal or recover, 
they might suffer from fatigue and the effects of wounds. Their effective- 
ness might be reduced, but such circumstances are not uncommon during a 
protracted or high-intensity conflict 


g 
(9) 
> 
g 
10} 
> 
a 
Z 


Adventure Example: Planetary Assault 
The heroes, as part of an assaul 
nd neutralize a battery of anti-aircraft guns. The main force of the 
is scheduled to land at 
failure has important repercussions for 
With the guns neutralized, the heroes are to 
land so that they can regroup with their unit. They will then join an assault 
‘on a major starport, securing the ground facilities. The heroes’ role in the 


t force, are to land 


e main 


predetermined time, and the heroes’ succ 


e main assaul 


ait for the main force to 


starport assault is to capture an important fuel depot slated to be destroyed 
by the defenders. 

With the starport safely under control, the heroes then advance into 
neighboring hamlets in search of enemy tanks that retreated from the 


starport. The tanks are hidden and dug in, and pose a threat to advancing 


tanks, and 


troops. The players move in under cover of darkness, locate the 
neutralize them. 


The following day, the main assault force moves through the hamlet and 


picks up the heroes. The final objective of the assault is the planetary capital, 


and the battle involves a large number of ground troops with starfighter 
cover. Once more, the players are called on to precede the main assault force 


‘ors so that the orbiting naval forces can 


and knock out several shield gener 


bombard the capital's military component prior to the assai 
With the shield generators destroyed, the bombardme 


commences. 


heroes again join the primary force as it moves into the city, and they partici 


pate in an attack on the planet's go 


the system's president. Success resul 


nment center, attempting to capture 


in total victory for the ae ornkk 


while failure might prolong the planetary fighting for weeks or months. 
In essence, this adventure can be reduced to four minor missions 
neutralizing the anti-aircraft guns, capturing the fuel depot, destroying the 


hidden tai 


capturing the planetary leader, Together, they form a cha 


ks, and blowing up the shield generators—and one major mission— 


ventures t 


culminates in either victory or defeat. Every success or failure should affect 


the cai 
of their actions and their contribution 


mpaign as a whole. This gives the players a sense of the impor 


to the war. 


For example, if the anti-aircraft guns are not destroyed, then scores of 


their fellow soldiers might die en route to the planet's surface. If the fuel 


depot is not captured, then allied ground vehicles might not have eno 


fuel, slowing their advance. If the enemy tanks are not located and destroyed 


they wreak havoc on advancing allied armor, costing time and lives. And of 
course, if the shield generators are not blown up, then the orbital bombard- 
ment of the planetary capital cannot reduce the effectiveness of the enemy 


defenders, further hampering the progress of the war. 


MERCENARY GROUPS 


Rather than portraying members of a military organization such as the Old 


Republic, the New Republic, the Empire, or the Ri 


bel Alliance, you might 


consider allowing the heroes to take on the roles of civilian contractor: 


otherwise known as mercenaries. Mercenaries are freelance guns for hire, 


soldiers who sell their services to the highest bidder regardless of politics 
or morality. The use of mercenaries has a checkered reputation, especially 
‘ofessionals, but their services can be invaluable. 

Not all mercenaries—or mercs—are dishonest or shady. Some of the best- 
id mercenaries have successful track records due, in part, to good ethics. 
lercenaries can be hired singly, but they are most commonly contracted 
small- or medium-sized companies. Depending on how successful or 
well funded they are, mercenary companies might include infantry units, 
fast-attack craft, and armored assault vehicles. The best and most effective 
mercenaries act as independent military units, but without any particular 
any, however, the more expensive their services 


among militar 


es. The larger the com| 


are liable to be 

The largest mercenary companies provide services a la carte. They do 
not require that their entire organization be employed by a single power. 
Instead, they allow individual components to be contracted out, typically 
for a specified period of time. This allows them to be more fiscally flex- 
depending on the scale of the conflict. In such instances, mercenary 
companies take pains not to hire their forces out to two or more opposing 
factions at the same time. After all, the last thing they want to do is pit their 


troops against each other, 


A SEPARATIST COMMANDER. 


Nations, corporations, and other powers hire mercenaries for various 
reasons. Mercenaries are typically hired to supplement standing military 
units by providing support or additional security. Occasionally, individuals 
or organizations with no military hire mercenaries to field an armed force at 
short notice. Mercenaries are also hired to perform jobs that employers find 
questionable or distasteful, and they can be hired in secrecy. 

Contracting mercenaries can be expensive. One reason why they cost 
more than line troops is that mercenaries must fully support themselves. 
if no other stipulations are included in their contract, mercs must provide 
their own weapons, munitions, fuel, food, and other equipment. Under most 
circumstances, they must also provide their own medical care. Mercenaries 
who are wounded or die in the line of duty are owed nothing by the organi- 
zation who has hired them. 

One benefit to running a game in which the heroes portray mercenaries 
is flexibility. Mercenaries can be hired for single jobs or contracted for long- 
term assignments. Their members can come from any race. And they can also 
work for nearly any employer—the Empire, the Rebel Alliance, the Corporate 
Sector Authority, or any of a number of other interests. 


BATTLES IN ADVENTURES 

One of the best backdrops for adventures with a military theme is the battle. 
Battles can serve simply as set dressing for your adventures and encounters, 
or they can be more integral to the campaign. When heroes participate in 
adventures that take place against the backdrop of a battle, they may have 
the chance to influence that battle’s outcome. For example, the heroes may 
have a mission that is relatively small in scale, such as destroying an enemy 
frigate or rescuing prisoners of war. Set against the backdrop of a battle, 
the encounters within that adventure have not only the feel of being a 
part of a larger war, but also, depending on the heroes’ actions, may shape 
the way the battle concludes. Gamemasters who want to have the heroes’ 
actions influence the overall outcome of the battle have several options 
available to them. 


Victory Points 

One simple way to have your heroes affect the outcome of a battle during the 
Course of the adventure is with a simple resolution system that uses Victory 
Points. When designing the adventure, determine which encounters in the 
adventure have the potential to contribute, either positively or negatively, 
to the outcome of the battle the adventure is using as a backdrop. Choos- 
ing which encounters take advantage of this system should be as simple as 
asking yourself whether or not the encounter could influence the flow of 
the battle, and how much significance you want placed on that individual 
encounter. Similarly, every encounter that is part of a battle should have a 
mission or goal with a clearly defined division between victory and defeat. 
For example, suppose that you're designing an adventure set against the 
backdrop of a massive land battle on Kashyyyk. You determine that you 
want to have three encounters that can potentially affect the outcome of 


the battle. Those three encounters might alter the battle in different ways; 
for example, one of the encounters might require the heroes to free some 
Wookiee prisoners from an enemy camp and return them to the fight, while 
another might require the heroes to destroy an anti-aircraft cannon so that 
reinforcements can land safely. 

As mentioned above, each encounter must have a clear goal or mission 
with an easily determined difference between success and failure. The heroes’ 
goal might be to destroy something (or stop it from being destroyed), to 
prevent enemies from reaching a certain position, to place explosives in a 
precise location, and so on. If the heroes succeed in this goal, they earn a 
Victory Point. If they fail to achieve their goal, they receive a Defeat Point. 
There is no such thing as a partial success in this system: The heroes either 
succeed completely or they fail. 

Once all of the encounters have concluded, tally up the number of Vic- 
tory Points and the number of Defeat Points the heroes earned. If the heroes 
earned more Victory Points, the battle’s outcome swings in their favor; if 
they earned more Defeat Points, the battle’s outcome has negative repercus- 
sions for the characters. You should decide in advance what these outcomes 
might be, Failure for the heroes does not necessarily have to mean defeat 
for their side of the conflict. The victory of one side over the other may be 
a foregone conclusion, but the heroes’ success determines the actual form 
that the victory takes, how many losses were sustained, or other important 
aspects of the conflict. 

The adventure in Chapter 7 makes use of the Victory Points system in its 
final section, during a battle to liberate a planet. 


THE IMPERIAL 
CAMPAIGN 


During the Rebellion era, the largest, most powerful, and most cohesive 
military force is controlled by the Empire. The increased militarization started 
by Supreme Chancellor Palpatine during the Clone Wars is enhanced by fierce 
nationalism, xenophobia, and fears of destabilization. Constant warfare 
keeps the Imperial military in a heightened state of readiness for decades, 
and insurgent uprisings on a number of worlds sharpen the skills of Imperial 
officers and the troops that serve beneath them. 

Thousands of military vessels crewed by millions of loyal Imperial troops 
cruise space in defense of the Empire. They possess the best weapons and 
equipment available, along with the tenacity and training to use them to 
the best effect. In addition, Emperor Palpatine—a charismatic and seem- 
ingly selfless leader—has made it his goal to see that their way of life is not 
tarnished by corruption, terrorism, or the threat of primitive and debauched 
non-Human societies. 

How can they lose? 


THE IMPERIAL VIEWPOINT 
Not all Imperial characters are evil, soulless beings in thrall to the Emperor 


By the time of the Battle of Yavin, Emperor Palpatine has been in power for 


nearly three decades. For many of the young men and women serving in the 
Empire's military forces, Emperor Palpatine’s rule is all they have ever known. 
In their eyes, Imperial rule is the status quo. Their parents might remember 
the frightening years leading up to the Clone Wars, the campaigns against 
the Confederacy, and the duplicity of the Jed 


The past shows that Emperor Palpatine has single-handedly saved billions 


of loyal citizens from the enemies of his people, bringing the Republic back 
from the brink of anarchy, At a time when a strong hand is required contro 
the Senate and the corruption that riddles it, the Emperor 


doing what is necessary. In the following years, he ensures that peace and 


unafraid of 


prosperity become the right and privilege of every loyal Imperial citizen. To 
deny these truths is to deny reality, A generation of loyal Imperial citizens 
stand ready to defend their 
and Emperor Palpatine's victory over the Jedi has been told and retold a 


ay of life. History is written by the victor, 


thousand times. 


ho dare to oppose Imperial rule are me 
tors, Jedi fanatics, 
who are fueled by the same greed and corruption that pervaded the 


ly remnants 
and criminal 


The pitiful rebels 


of the Separatist movement, displaced sena 
eleme 
Old Republic. They are little better than terrorists, and the holofeeds continue 
t reports of their futile attempts to overthrow the Emperor's New 
Order. If not for their cowardly tactics, these rebel insurgents would have 
been brought to heel decades ago. 

The Emperor and his servants ensure that every citizen is informed of 


to broad 


the war's progress through detailed, first-hand accounts and moving politi- 
cal holofeeds. Eternal vigilance is the price of freedom, for terrorists lurk 
re to drop its guard so that they can 
Ss must be sacrificed, the alternative is 
tivity 


just out of sight, waiting for the En 
strike again. Although some freedo! 
unthinkable. Loyal citizens are encouraged to report any suspicious 
immediately. 


Beyond the order of the Empire lies the lawlessness of the Outer Rim ter- 


ritories. Other systems are under the sway of rebel propaganda or controlled 
by criminal elements, The war must be waged within these systems, as well. 
After all, it would be a crime to deny these countless sentient beings the 
gifts of Emperor Palpa ne 
they might also thank the Emperor for his efforts. 


lent rule. Within a generation or two, 


e's b 


As a loyal citizen of the Empire, you know that the war is horribl 
but it must be prosecuted to maintain your way of life. You know a number 
of people who have lost loved ones to acts of rebel terrorism or who have 
family members serving in either the Imperial army or navy. These selfless 
uals put the well-being of the New Order before their own, and risk 
their lives in battle for the greater good. Their sacrifices cannot have been 


true, 


indis 


made in vain. 


Given that point of view, can you blame the average Imperial citizen for 


his or her beliefs? 


Imperial Characters 

Imperial citizens might seem to be deluded, but they do not have the benefit 
of our extensive knowledge of their universe or of the evil that pervades the 
highest levels of their government. They take many factors for granted, and 
they are rewarded with a semblance of normality and order that others might 
insider repressive. But in the long run, what makes them wrong? 

One of the most interesting military-themed games has loyal Imperial 
subjects as heroes. It can be a great deal of fun to throw convention out the 
window and participate in the war from the Imperial point of view. Their 
ideology might be rooted in lies, but the motives of loyal Imperial troop 
and civilians are much the same as those of more traditional Rebellion era 


heroes. 


IMPERIAL COMMISSIONED 
OFFICER RANKS 

Listed here are the army and navy ranks used in the Grand Army of the 
Republic. For the most part, this rank structure persists through Emperor 
Palpatine's New Order. It is provided as an example of how the militaries of 
other sectors might organize their commissioned officer ranks. 

The ranks of Moff and Grand Moff are added later by Emperor Palpatine 
and occupy a grade designation somewhere between 0-12 and 0-13. Moffs 
are technically outside both the army and naval chains of command, answer- 
ing only to the Emperor. Despite this, they can take command of either army 
or naval units at their whim. 


Army Junior Officers Naval Junior Officers Grade Designation 


Junior Warrant Officer Cadet None 
Senior Warrant Officer Ensign 0-1 
Second Lieutenant Junior Lieutenant 0-2 
Lieutenant Sub-Lieutenant 0-3 

Army Senior Officers Naval Senior Officers Grade Designation 
Captain Lieutenant 0-4 
Major Lieutenant Commander 0-5 
Lieutenant Colonel Commander 0-6 
Colonel Captain 0-7 

Army General Officers Naval Fleet Officers | Grade Designation 
Brigadier General Commodore 0-8 
Major General Rear Admiral 0-9 
Lieutenant General Vice Admiral 0-10 
General Admiral 0-11 
Field Marshall Fleet Admiral 0-12 
High General High Admiral 0-13 
Grand General Grand Admiral 0-14 


TYPES OF IMPERIAL CAMPAIGNS 
Campaigns for Imperial characters are limited only by your imagination. The 
obvious choice is for the heroes to fight against rebel insurgents or worlds 
that are hostile toward Imperial occupation. However, the galaxy offers plenty 
of opportunities for the Empire to run afoul of potential enemies. 

The following sections discuss potential conflicts between the Empire 
and a number of other factions. Imperial campaigns can focus on one such 
conflict or mix and match multiple conflicts, as you see fit. 


Imperials Against Non-Humans 

The Empire is dominated by Human interests. Despite the vast number of 
non-Human species throughout the galaxy, Imperial doctrine becomes more 
and more exclusive, favoring the Human species over all others. With few 
exceptions, the Imperial military is dominated by Human officers and enlisted 


IMPERIAL NONCOMMISSIONED 
OFFICER RANKS 
As above, the list below presents the enlisted rank structure used in the 
Grand Army of the Republic. Like the officer rank structure, this organization 
persists through Emperor Palapatine’s New Order. 

Stormtrooper units use the same rank structure as the Imperial Army. 


Army Junior Navy Junior 
Enlisted Ranks Enlisted Ranks Grade Designation 
Private Shipman's Apprentice E41 
Private First Class Shipman 2nd Class E-2 
Lance Corporal Shipman Ist Class £3 
Corporal Petty Officer 3rd Class E-4 
Sergeant Petty Officer 2nd Class E5 
Army Senior Navy Senior 
Enlisted Ranks Enlisted Ranks Grade Designation 
Staff Sergeant Petty Officer 1st Class E-6 
Master Sergeant Junior Chief Petty Officer Ee7, 
First Sergeant Chief Petty Officer E-8 
Senior Sergeant Senior Chief Petty Officer E-9 
Sergeant Major Master Chief Petty Officer E10 
Command Command Master Chief E-11 
Sergeant Major Petty Officer 


troops. On occasion, particularly notable non-Humans make an impact on the 
war machine—Grand Admiral Thrawn, for example—but these are rare. 

As new worlds are discovered or as old ones are conquered, the potential 
for the Imperial military to clash with non-Humans becomes more and more 
likely. These types of struggles occur on planets such as Mon Calamari and 
Kashyyyk, where the dominant species of both worlds are relegated to slave 
labor for their Imperial masters. 

The Empire uses its technological superiority to overcome primitive 
natives. This can lead to one-sided battles where the Empire crushes its 
non-Human opposition with overwhelming force. However, this does not 
have to be the case, and many non-Human species have managed to develop 
their own advanced technology that can, in some cases, meet or surpass the 
capabilities of the Empire. 


ii esiavHo 


SNEIVANYVD AUVLMAW 


ii Ssievno 


IMPERIALS AGAINST NON- 
HUMANS ADVENTURE HOOKS 
Non-Human species in the Outer Rim have formed a coalition to oppose 
Imperial expansion into their space. The Empire, however, has other plans, 
and conflict is inevitable. Although hardly able to match the Imperial 
fleet, non-Humans know that the Empire is spread thinly across the 
galaxy, and they are hoping to make Imperial control of their space more 
costly than it is worth. 


Astrange species from unknown space has invaded an Imperial-held 
system and conquered it in less than a week. The Empire must organize 
a retaliatory strike and attempt to retake the system, but the Imperials 
do not yet know exactly what sort of beings they are dealing with. 


An uprising has occurred on a world that has been garrisoned by the 
Empire for the past several years. The native inhabitants of the world 
rebel, killing or imprisoning the Imperials on their planet. Using weapons 
and equipment taken from their would-be conquerors, the inhabitants 
intend to hold onto their planet at all costs. 


Imperials Against Imperials 

As the treachery of such Imperial luminaries as Admiral Demetrius Zaarin 
shows, the Imperial war machine can turn on itself. Military coups happen 
all the time, and some are more effective than others. Although Emperor 
Palpatine is never supplanted by a rival during the years of his rule, a number 
of attempts are made, not all of which have been made public. 

Several ambitious officers serve within the Imperial ranks. Dissatisfied with 
their situations, officers with enough power can go rogue or attempt to defect 
to the Rebel Alliance along with the troops under their command. The reasons. 
for such treachery are many and varied, but the result is ultimately the same: 
Troops loyal to the Empire inevitably face their former comrades in combat. 
An interesting feature of such a campaign is the use of Imperial technology 
against Imperial technology. TIE fighters square off against other TIE fighters, 
while Imperial troops face enemies with the same equipment and training. 


IMPERIALS AGAINST 

IMPERIALS ADVENTURE HOOK 
An ambitious Imperial Moff has declared the systems under his control 
to have seceded from the Empire, His troops and officers, loyal to the 
end, apparently stand with him against the New Order. Whatever the 
reasons for secession, the Emperor cannot allow an upstart Moff to get 
away with such an audacious act, and a small fleet of Imperial warships 
is dispatched to take the system back, one planet at a time. 


Imperials Against Pirates 

Piracy plagues the entire galaxy, and ensuring that the space lanes remain 
open and free of interstellar predators is the Empire's duty. With the Imperial 
fleet stretched thin, policing the far-flung reaches of space is difficult, if 
not impossible. Only when pirates disrupt Imperial logistics do they become 
a problem worth engaging on a grand scale. 

Most pirate bands are small and isolated, but larger pirate fleets can pose 
a threat to the Empire's space superiority. Using guerilla tactics that have 
proven successful for the Rebel Alliance, organized pirate bands make hit 
and fade attacks on Imperial shipping lanes. When these groups become a 
significant nuisance, the Empire decides to root them out and destroy them, 
but this is not always as easy as it sounds, 

Pirates, especially those in the Outer Rim territories, rely heavily on the 
local populace for support. Seen as rebels, heroes, and businessmen, these 
pirates find it easy to garner support from obscure planets, colonies, and 
shadowports. After all, they are a source of revenue for lawless settlements, 
and in a sense, joining a pirate band offers their youth the possibility of a 
profitable, if dangerous, future. 


IMPERIALS AGAINST PIRATES 
ADVENTURE HOOK 

A large pirate armada hailing from an Outer Rim system has raided 
Imperial convoy and captured a number of valuable military S 
Top-of-the-line starfighters, including experimental models from Santhe 
Sienar, are among the goods stolen by the pirates. And several high- 
ranking Imperial fleet officers traveling with the convoy are being hel 
for ransom. The Empire must now dispatch a force to the pirate-control 
system, locate the pirates, and recover the materiel and officers. 


Imperials Against the Rebel Alliance 

Perhaps the single most common theme in an Imperial military campaign is 
the fight against the Rebel Alliance. Scattered throughout the galaxy in an 
attempt to avoid Imperial entanglements, Alliance forces do occasionally 
congregate in large numbers. At these times, they are most vulnerable to 
an organized Imperial assault. 

The Alliance constantly seeks to bring new star systems into the fold 
in an attempt to strengthen their legitimacy. By sending small SpecForce 
units to train indigenous populations in the arts of guerilla warfare as well 
as by providing seditious groups with weapons and equipment, the Alliance 
hopes to cultivate unrest on worlds that have been, up until now, peacefully 
under the sway of the Empire. When such planets become battlegrounds, 
the Imperial military must crush any resistance and restore order with both 
full-scale invasions and pinpoint strikes. 


Imperial probe droids are sent on reconnaissance missions to out-of-the 
way sectors in an attempt to locate Alliance facilities. They usually recover 
little data of any usefulness, but they occasionally have strokes of luck. Bands 
of pirates and smugglers are surprised when their operations are raided by 
well-armed Imperial force looking for rebels. When a bona fide Rebel base 
is located, however, ripples of excitement course through the Imperial fleet 
in anticipation of the coming battle. 


IMPERIALS AGAINST 

THE REBEL ALLIANCE 
ADVENTURE HOOK 

A large Rebel base is found on a populated moon in the Werta system. 
The base's condition suggests that it has been established for only a short 
time. With the proper preparation, including an Interdictor, the entire 
system can be isolated, and a concerted Imperial assault can be directed 
at the moon. Taking Rebel prisoners is just as important as neutralizing 
their defenses, so care must be taken to get the most from this rare and 
tempting opportunity. However, rumors abound that this stroke of luck 
might actually be the bait for a cunning Rebel trap. 


TYPES OF IMPERIAL HEROES 
Once you determine the type of campaign you want to pursue, your next 
task is to determine the role that your heroes play in the story. The Impe- 
rial military is a large organization, offering possibilities for advancement 
that are limited only by a hero's ambitions—as well as the ambitions of any 
potential rivals 

Below are some of the types of heroic groups you might consider for your 
campaign. Some are more applicable to long-term campaigns than others, but 
they all offer an interesting diversion from the type of Star Wars campaign 
that your players might be used to, 


Stormtroopers 

By the time of the Battle of Yavin, at least two-thirds of the stormtroopers 
are of natural-born Human stock. The other third are the products of clone 
engineering. Only the best candidates from both the Imperial Army and 
Navy are eligible to join the Stormtrooper Corps, and standard height and 
weight restrictions reduce this number even more. In addition, ideological 
Compatibility with Imperial doctrine is a necessity, and a great many potential 
candidates are judged unfit based on their psychological profiles. 


As the Empire's shock troops, stormtroopers are used for high-profile 
missions, especially against the Rebel Alliance and insurgent forces. Judged 
elite, they are not wasted on mundane missions, and instead support the 
Empire's doctrine of ruling the galaxy through fear. They are outside the 
army's and navy's chains of command, but they serve aboard capital ships 
and alongside their army and navy counterparts. 

A unit of stormtroopers heroes makes an excellent basis for a military 
campaign. The downside to such a campaign is the stormtroopers’ fanati- 
cal loyalty to the Emperor, which can result in acts that might not seem 
heroic. On the other hand, by carefully crafting missions for your group of 
stormtrooper heroes, you can lead the campaign away from brutal violence 
and cultivate rich roleplaying experiences. 


STORMTROOPER ABILITY REQUIREMENTS. 

To be eligible to join the Stormtrooper Corps, a character must have the 
following minimum ability scores: Strength 12, Dexterity and Constitution 
11, all other abilities 10. 

Heroic stormtrooper characters must possess the following feats and 
Skills: Armor Proficiency (light); Weapon Focus (rifles); Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons); trained in Endurance. 

Both women and men are permitted to serve in the Stormtrooper 
Corps, but female stormtroopers are much less common than their male 


counterparts. 


i walavnS 


SNEIVENYVD ABVTLIMIA 


li SSiavHD 


SNEIVAWYVD ANVLITIW 


The Imperial Army 

Although they are rarely given screen time, the Imperial Army is the true 
backbone of the Empire's ground-based might. The Stormtrooper Corps is 
used to secure high-profile and exceptionally difficult planetary objectives, 
but the army is called upon to do most of the surface fighting. They also 
garrison conquered worlds and participate in peacekeeping operations all 
across the galaxy. 

A number of different unit types—such as armor, artillery, engineers, 
ground support, reconnaissance, and special forces units—serve within 
the Imperial Army. This makes the options for an Imperial Army campaign 
incredibly varied. A campaign can center on anything: a group of grunt troops 
trudging the front lines of a planetary assault, or the tribulations of a tank 
crew navigating a distant battlefield. 

The types of characters allowed within an army unit are also more flex- 
ible, Unlike stormtroopers, army grunts are not necessarily beholden to strict 
enforcement of Imperial doctrine. They are soldiers, plain and simple, and 
although they fight and die for the Empire, they night not necessarily agree 
with the orders they are given. 


IMPERIAL ARMY ABILITY REQUIREMENTS 
Soldiers in the Imperial Army must possess a minimum of 10 in both 
Strength and Constitution. Officers should have above-average Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and/or Charisma, but no hard and fast rule exists for judging such 
capabilities, 

All Army soldiers and officers must possess the following feats: Armor 
Proficiency (light); Weapon Proficiency (rifles, simple weapons). 


The Imperial Navy 

The true strength of the Empire lies with its naval forces. With such vast 
interstellar distances to be crossed, the Imperial fleet enforces Imperial law in 
the spacelanes, transports troops and other resources to distant battlefields, 
and supports nearly every ground-based action that takes place. So the navy’s 
attitude toward the army is somewhat less than charitable. 

Other than naval-based troopers, few options are open to soldiers in 
the navy. One of these options is that of ship-based TIE fighter pilots. The 
operations possible for a squadron of naval pilots is limited only by your 
imagination. Ground attacks, fleet defense, attacks on pirate and Rebel Alli- 
ance shipping, and escort missions are just some of the options. Survivability 
can be a problem given the relative fragility of the standard TIE model, but 
elite pilots can be members of TIE advanced squadrons. 


Like the army's troops, naval characters come from many walks of life and 
possess all manner of political views. Pilots, by necessity, must hold officer 
ranks, but this does not necessarily mean that they must be of noble birth. 
A great many Imperial pilots come from humble backgrounds. With such 
stresses placed on their numbers, the Imperial Academy is less picky about 
its applicants, especially late in the war. 


IMPERIAL NAVY ABILITY REQUIREMENTS 
Naval personnel must possess a minimum Intelligence of 10. Naval officers 
are expected to possess minimum Intelligence and Wisdom scores of 12 and 
Charisma scores of at least 14, but this not strictly enforced, and exceptions 
are made for political and staffing purposes. 

Starfighter pilots must meet specific height and weight requirements and 
have minimum Dexterity scores and Intelligence scores of 12 each, 

Naval personnel receive rudimentary combat training and must possess 
the following skills and feats: Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons); 
Use Computer, Starfighter pilots must also be trained in the Pilot skill. 


Conscripts, Draftees, and other Undesirables 
Not all the members of the Imperial military serve by choice. As the war 
against the Rebellion drags on and the need for troops grows, conscripts and 
draftees become common within the ranks, especially in the Imperial Army. 
Conscripts and draftees are fundamentally the same except that draftees 
originate on worlds that are friendly to the Imperial cause, while conscripts 
are culled from worlds under Imperial domination. Conscripts also include 
criminals who have been punished by forced military conscription, so con- 
scripts are somewhat less controllable than their drafted comrades. 

Soldiers who are forced into service see less intensive training and 
indoctrination than their volunteer counterparts—generally half as much, 
and sometimes even less than that. This causes command to view them 
as expendable, leading to a high casualty rate among their numbers. Con- 
scripted units are used for suicide missions, frontal assaults, and as the first 
waves of planetary invasions. Conscripts and draftees are led by Imperial 
officers who are proven to be ineffective leaders or who are being punished 
in some way. 

To maintain a semblance of Imperial loyalty, every such unit is assigned 
a political officer to monitor reliability. Acting as a friendly ear, the political 
officer portrays him- or herself as a guidance counselor rather than a font of 
Imperial propaganda, Rumors suggest that each company is seeded with one 
or more undercover operatives who are loyal to the Empire but act as though 
they are merely conscripts. These individuals report suspicious activities and 
seditious behavior to the unit's political officer. 


CONSCRIPT AND DRAFTEE ABILITY REQUIREMENTS 

A number of unique roleplaying opportunities exist for a unit of conscripts 
or draftees, and the types of characters who can end up in such a unit are 
limited only by the imaginations of your players. Given the selection process 
used in their recruitment, conscripts and draftees have no ability require- 
ments. The only requirements for conscripts and draftees are that they must 
be Human, and they must possess the following feats: Weapon Proficiency 
(rifles, simple weapons). 


The Upper Echelons 

One interesting option for an Imperial military campaign would be to allow 
players to serve as a cadre of nonpilot officers within one of the Imperial 
branches, Such campaigns can take place in the brutal world of military 
politics, where the only officers to see promotion are those who are willing 
to do whatever it takes to get into the highest levels of the military machine. 
Even the best officers are tried by the effort to succeed while still follow- 
ing a moral compass. The heroes might even be able to change the system 
from the inside. Obviously, such a campaign would not focus entirely on the 
front lines of battle, although the game would return to such locations on 
a regular basis. 

The cast of heroes need not consist solely of officers; a single officer hero 
can be adequate to explore the higher echelons of the Imperial military. The 
campaign would be more playable if the officer or officers in question begin 
the game as either high-level junior officers or low-level senior officers— 
either 0-3 or O-4. Nonofficer heroes can take the roles of junior officers, 
guards, orderlies, drivers/pilots, and other members of the officer's entourage. 
The most difficult aspect of such a situation is making sure the spotlight 
shines on all heroes equally and not only the officer hero. 


IMPERIAL OFFICER ABILITY REQUIREMENTS 
Imperial officers have no specific ability requirements, but they are expected 
to have good mental ability scores, Charisma is particularly important. Sup- 
port characters can run the gamut, depending on their branch of service and 
the roles they are expected to play as part of the officer's staff. 

Given the challenges of such a campaign, you might find it reasonable to 
allow heroes to start at a higher level, such as 3rd, 4th, or Sth. 


BATTLEFIELD 
ENCOUNTER TOOL KIT 


The battlefields of the Star Wars universe are many and varied, so the tactics 
of enemies and allies should not be limited to routine assault or defense. 
Methods of warfare can be codified and civil or brutal and barbaric, but the 
aim is always the same—victory. When the price of victory becomes second- 
ary to victory itself, all bets are off. 


IMPERIAL DESIGNATION 

CopEes 

The following designation codes are used by Imperial branches of service. 
Every designation code assigned is unique to an individual, although 
designations of dead or retired troops are occasionally recycled, typically 
on a five-year cycle. Recruits and trainees are given one code during 
training and another when they graduate, depending on their final 
occupational assignments. 

The first two letters of the designation code define the soldier's role 
or branch of service. The last string of digits—from one to ten figures in 
length—is the soldier's unique identification number within the specific 
branch. Transfers between branches can occur, but this requires assign- 
ment of new designation codes. 


Imperial Branch Designation Code 


Army Trooper IA 
Clone Trooper Tc 
Naval Crewman. Ic 
Naval Gunner IG 
Naval Trooper IN 
Officer 1D 
Pilot TI 
Recruit, Army RA 
Recruit, Navy RN 
Recruit, Stormtrooper RS. 
Royal Guard TR 
Sandtrooper TD 
Scout Trooper/Biker Scout 1B 
Snowtrooper Ts 
Stormtrooper TK 
Ground Transport Pilot TA 


This Battlefield Encounter Too! Kit features various rules and options for 
spicing up the battlefields of your military campaigns. Some of the rules 
presented here might prove deadly to unprepared heroes. You are advised 
to use them with care. 


ACTIVE AND STATIC DEFENSES 
The warriors on the battlefields of the Star Wars universe use a variety of 
different defensive systems to maintain their positions. Active defenses 
include automated guns and smart mines, while static defenses include 
obstacles such as razor wire, fragmentation wire, booby traps and standard 
mines, and repulsorlift inhibitors. 


SNEIVEANVSA ABVLIMW 


ARC TROOPERS TAKE COVER FROM AN AUTOMATED SENTRY OUN. 


— 


| 


Automated Sentry Guns 

At its simplest, an automated gun is an automatic blaster controlled by a 
simple droid brain. The most advanced examples are practically war droids in 
their own right. They are positioned at strategic points across the battlefield 
and monitor their field of fire for movement or other stimuli. When enemy 
units are spotted within range, the guns open fire. Most such guns are 
equipped with Identify Friend or Foe (IFF) systems that allow allied units to 
enter the gun's field of fire without being shot 


Fragmentation and Razor Wire 
Razor wire—strings of coiled wire festooned with razor-sharp metal—has been 
a battlefield staple for millennia. Although not impassable to well-equipped 
troopers, it still slows them down enough to make them vulnerable other 
defenses, such as repeating blasters 

Squares featuring razor wire are considered difficult terrain. When a 
target attempts to move through a square that contains razor wire, the wire 
makes a +10 attack, which is compared to the Reflex Defense of the target, 
If the attack succeeds, the target takes 2d6 damage and is unable to move, 
If the attack misses, the target takes half damage and can move as normal, 
A target with the Evasion talent takes half damage if the attack succeeds or 
no damage if the attack misses. Each square of razor wire has a DR of 1, 4 
hit points, a damage threshold of 20, and a break DC of 30. 


SAMPLE AUTOMATED 

SENTRY GUN 

Automated Sentry Gun cL2 
Small droid (4th degree) nonheroic 3/soldier 1 

Init +8; Senses darkvision; Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 10, Will 13 i 
hp 13; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits | 
Speed 0 squares 1 
Ranged light repeating blaster +3 (348+2) with braced autofire | 
Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 0 squares | 
Base Atk +3; Grp —5 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot | 
Abilities Str 4, Dex 12, Con —, Int 6, Wis 14, Cha 8 
Talents Weapon Specialization (rifles) : 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus } 
(Perception), Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Focus (rifles), | 
Weapon Proficiency (rifles) | 

Skills Initiative +8, Perception +16 

Systems basic processor, darkvision, improved sensor package, locked 
access, plastee! shell, weapon housing (weapon is considered to be 
braced) 

Possessions light repeating blaster, heavy power pack (150 shots) 

Availability Military; Cost 2,500 credits (1,000 used) 


DEVICE cOsT DAMAGE = STUN DAMAGE SPLASH 
Bounding mine 250 6d6 - 3 sq 
Fragmentation wire 100/m 2d6 - 1sq 
Razor wire 10/m 2d6 - - 
Smart mine 500 5d6 - 25q 
Static mine 100 4d6 - 2sq 
Vehicular mine 500 4d10x2 - 3sq 
Fragmentation wire is a particularly nasty form of razor wire that explodes 


when it is tampered with, spraying hundreds of tiny fragments through its 
area, Fragmentation wire is often interspersed with normal razor wire. The 
two are similar, but an observer can tell the difference with a successful DC 
20 Perception check. 

If a character enters a square containing fragmentation wire, the same 
attack procedure applies as for razor wire, except that a successful hit deto- 
nates the fragmentation wire, dealing 246 damage in a 1-square splash and 
destroying the fragmentation wire in that square. Fragmentation wire that 
has been destroyed cannot immobilize a target. Each square of fragmentation 
wire has a DR of 1, 4 hit points, a damage threshold of 10, and a break DC of 
15. Breaking fragmentation wire results in detonation of the wire. 


Mines 

Standard mines are laid so that enemies trigger them and become incapaci- 
tated or killed in the resulting blast. These types of mines have thousands of 
variations, but they all fall into one of three general categories: static mines, 
bounding mines, and vehicular mines. 

Static mines are small to medium explosive devices equipped with basic 
vibration sensors. They are concealed on or below the ground, and they 
detonate when triggered by nearby activity. Bounding mines are similar, but 
when activated they jump up to 1.5 meters into the air before exploding and 
sending out fragments and concussion over a wider area. 

Vehicular mines are large, powerful mines that are designed to detonate 
only when a target of sufficient weight travels over or near them. They are 
equipped with sensors that detect repulsorfields, making them effective 
against repulsorlift vehicles. 

Mines are difficult to spot when they are well concealed. Visually 
detecting any type of concealed mine requires a DC 25 Perception check. 
When detonated, a mine makes a single attack roll, which is compared to 
the Reflex Defense of every target in the mine's burst radius. Targets hit 
take full damage, and targets missed take half damage. A target with the 
Evasion talent takes half damage from a successful attack and no damage 
if the attack misses. 


WEIGHT TYPE PERCEPTION DC ~— AVAILABILITY 
Tkg Slashing 25 Military 

2 kg/m Slashing = Military 

2 kg/m Slashing - Restricted 
1.5kg Slashing 20 Military 
1kg Slashing 25 Military 
10 kg Slashing 25 Military 

Repulsorlift Inhibitors 


Repulsorlift inhibitors are simple devices that are buried 1 or 2 meters below 
the ground. They generate energy wells that disable repulsorlift engines 
within a 2-square radius. When an active repulsorlift vehicle passes over an 
area affected by a repulsorlift inhibitor, the repulsorlift inhibitor makes a 
+10 attack, which is compared to the vehicle's Reflex Defense. If the attack 
succeeds, the target takes 3410x2 ion damage and its speed is reduced 
by half. Repulsorlift inhibitors continue to function as long as they have a 
power source. A typical integrated power source can maintain an inhibitor 
for up to 2 months. 


Smart Mines 

Computer controlled explosives, colloquially referred to as smart mines, 
can be set up in a perimeter and programmed to monitor a specific area. 
When activated, they explode like any other mine, but the criteria for their 
activation can be as general or as specific as is required. Smart mines 
designate targets by using sensors that detect thermal emissions, heat, or 
ground vibration. They are also equipped with IFF systems, so they do not 
harm allied units. 

When a smart mine is installed, the operator must designate the mine's 
detonation criteria and succeed on a Use Computer check with a DC of 10. 
Success indicates that the mine behaves as programmed. Specific criteria 
include minimum range (typically within the mine's splash radius), target 
size (such as detonating only when medium or large creatures pass within 
its blast area), and the minimum number of targets (such as detonating only 
if two or more creatures are within the blast area). 

‘Smart mines can be hidden beneath dirt, debris, or foliage, but a small 
sensor cluster still extends from the top of the mine. Spotting a smart mine's 
sensor cluster requires a DC 20 Perception check, modified for range. Smart 
mines that detonate make a single attack roll, which is compared the result 
to the Reflex Defense of every target in the mine's burst radius. Creatures hit 
take full damage, and creatures missed take half damage. A target with the 
Evasion talent takes half damage from a successful attack and no damage 
if the attack misses. 


[ii weiawno +) 


g 
Q 
> 
g 
S 
ti) 


SNOIVEWYVD ABVLITIW 


TABLE 3-2: INDIRECT FIRE WEAPON RANGES 


TYPE OF INDIRECT POINT BLANK SHORT 

FIRE WEAPON (NO PENALTY) -2 PENALTY 
Cannon, heavy 5-20 km 21-40 km 
Cannon, light 2+10 km 11-20 km 

Field gun 50-400 squares 401-800 squares 
Howitzer 1-4km 5-10 km 

Mortar 60-250 squares 251-500 squares 


Turbolaser, orbital - = 


Ground-Based Artillery 

Most artillery on Star Wars battlefields is direct fire. The physics of blaster, 
laser, and turbolaser fire makes using them in an indirect-fire role either 
highly specialized—as with orbital bombardment—or impossible. Despite their 
effectiveness and vast ranges, the use of direct-fire weapons is hampered by 
terrain and ground features. So indirect-fire artillery is still in use throughout 
the galaxy and has remained essentially unchanged for centuries. Advances 
in ordnance and delivery methods have peaked, and little improvement is 
made. Large shells packed with high-grade explosives are fired from can- 
nons of varying sizes. The accuracy of these systems depends in large part 
upon the skills of the operators firing them and the expertise of the forward 
observers who direct them. One example of such a weapon is the Republic 
artillery gun used throughout the Clone Wars, specifically in the Battle of 
Christophsis. 

In addition to short-range field guns, medium-range howitzers, and 
long-range cannons, both guided and unguided missiles are also used in an 
indirect-fire role. Many ground-based artillery weapons are self-propelled, 
but some of these weapons must be towed or transported. 


Mortars 

Mortars are conventional indirect-fire weapons used throughout the Star 
Wars galaxy. A mortar is a tube that can be carried by a Medium character. 
It has a supporting bipod and a heavy base plate into which fin-stabilized 
shells are dropped. A firing pin at the bottom of the tube causes the propel- 
lant in the shell to ignite, launching the shell. A shell travels ina high ballistic 
arc, and has a relatively short range when compared to standard artillery 
cannons and guns. 


LONG 


MEDIUM 

-5 PENALTY -10 PENALTY 
41-100 km 101-200 km 

21-50 km 51-100 km 
801—2,000 squares 2,001—4,000 squares 
11-20 km 21-40 km 


501—1,250 squares 1,250-2,500 squares 
a Orbital turbolasers are always 
considered to be at long range. 


Despite being a low-tech form of ordnance delivery, mortars continue 
to be employed throughout the galaxy because they are simple to use, easy 
to transport, and inexpensive. Mortar shells, however, are more advanced 
than their launchers. The shells are self-guiding and include targeting sen- 
sors and high-yield thermal warheads. Mercenary units, local militias, and 
some elements of the Rebel Alliance and the Imperial Army regularly use 
mortars in combat. 


AN ARC TROOPER NARROWLY AVOIDS AN ARTILLERY STRIKE: 


WEAPON cost DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Cannon, heavy 2,000 10d10x2 = 
Cannon, light 1,000 8d10x2 - 
Field gun 500 4d10x2 = 
Howitzer 750 6d10x2 = 
Mortar, frag 300 4d6 = 
Mortar, ion 450 4d6 ion = 
Mortar, stun 450 = 4d6 
Mortar, thermal 3,000 8d6 = 
Turbolaser, orbital nla 5d10x5 - 


Orbital Turbolasers 
Turbolasers deployed on capital ships can also be directed at planets, provid- 
ing devastating strikes from orbit. Such barrages are incredibly destructive 
but inaccurate. Planetary bombardment is typically used when large swathes 
of ground must be reduced to a cratered, rubble-strewn landscape. 
Because of the inherent inaccuracy, a turbolaser fired at a specific grid 
reference on a planetary surface is always considered to be at long range, 
therefore taking a —10 penalty to hit. 


ARTILLERY STRIKES 

Sometimes, the heroes need artillery support, especially in campaigns where 
battlefield adventures are common. The information presented below and on 
Tables 3-2 and 3-3 pertains to artillery strikes called in by heroes. All artillery 
strikes are considered to be area attacks. Artillery strikes, as detailed above, 
are requisitioned during the initial preparation phase of a mission, just like 
any other gear. When the mission begins, the heroes can set aside a certain 
amount of their mission funds for artillery strikes, banking them in case they 
need the support. In this way, the heroes can set aside funds for support 
without having to requisition entire gunnery emplacements or starships. All 
of the costs on Table 3-3 are for a single artillery strike of that type; the one 
exception, orbital bombardment, cannot be purchased when gearing up, but 
must instead be called in as a command special order (see page 73). 


‘SPLASH DELAY WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
6 sq. 6 15 kg Slashing Military 
459. 4 8kg Slashing Military 
2sq. 2 2kg Slashing Military 
359, 3 4kg Slashing Military 
29. 2 1.8 kg Slashing Military 
259. 2 1.8 kg Energy Military 
259. 2 1.8 kg Energy (ion) Military 
45g. 2 1,8 kg Energy Military 
8 sq. 10 nla Energy Military 


A hero acting as a forward observer chooses a single square within his 
or her line of sight as the center of an artillery strike. The hero must possess 
@ comlink or some other way of relaying information to the artillery source, 
as well as a rangefinding device (such as a pair of electrobinoculars) and a 
datapad for determining planetary coordinates. The hero makes a Knowl- 
edge (tactics) check as a standard action against a DC of 15; if the check is 
successful, the artillery fires and its attack hits the target square a number 
of rounds later equal to the weapon's delay value on Table 3-3. If the hero's 
check fails, the attack is off-target by a number of squares equal to the 
amount by which the check fails. The Gamemaster determines the direction 
in which the attack is off. 

If, however, the Knowledge (tactics) check was a success, the artillery 
strike hits the target square and makes an attack at +5 against the Reflex 
Defense of any creature, object, or vehicle in the target square. The attack 
roll gains a +1 bonus for every two points by which the Knowledge (tactics) 
check exceeds a DC of 15, If an attack hits, the target takes full damage from 
the artillery strike; the target takes half damage on a miss. Likewise, compare 
the attack roll to the Reflex Defense of all targets within the attack's splash 
radius; those targets take half damage on a hit and no damage on a miss. 

On subsequent rounds, the hero can call in additional artillery strikes on 
the same location as a standard action. If the hero chooses to target the 
same square, that hero can use the same Knowledge (tactics) check result 
‘as was used on the last round instead of rolling a new skill check to re-aim 
the device. 


ii eSiavHS 


SNOIVEMVEA AUYTAITI 


SNEIVENVA AUVLITWA 


RANDOM MISSION GENERATOR 
You might have a clear idea of the types of missions you want to send the 
heroes on. However, the random mission generator, below, can help to formu- 
late a basic concept from which you can extrapolate more concrete details 
for a specific mission. To use the generator, roll a d20 and consult Table 3-4: 
Missions, Each mission type is briefly described in the next section, along 
with criteria to determine mission success. 


TABLE 3-4: MISSIONS — 


020 ROLL MISSION 
1 Ambush 
2-3 Assault 
4 Capture 
5 Cover 
6-7 Defense 
8 Delay/Hold 
9 Demolition/Denial 
10 Escort 
n Forward Observation 
12 Interdiction 
13 Pacification/Peacekeeping 
14-15 Reconnaissance 
16 Reinforcement 
7 Rescue 
18 Retreat/Withdrawal 
19-20 Search and Destroy 
Ambush 


Ambush missions send the heroes near or into enemy territory to lay in wait 
and attack passing enemy forces. Missions with this profile do not always end 
in carnage or bloodshed; sometimes the enemy does not show up at all. 

‘Success: The enemy must be encountered and engaged and must take at 
least 50% casualties. 


Assault 

Heroes on an assault mission must attack on one or more enemy positions. 

The objective of the mission is to kill, drive off, or otherwise incapacitate the 

enemy defenders, denying them the specified location. The condition of the 

enemy position after the defenses are neutralized is not important. 
Success: The enemy position must be taken or destroyed, and the enemy 

defenders must be captured, forced to retreat, or destroyed. 


Capture 
Capture missions require taking an enemy position or resource so that the 
heroes’ allies can put it to use, These missions are like assault missions, but 
the designated target must survive the encounter. 

Success: The enemy position or resource must be captured. 


Cover 
In a cover operation, the heroes must provide protection for another unit 
that is performing a separate mission. Examples include covering the retreat 
of a squad of troops or monitoring the advance of an armored column to 
prevent it from being attacked. 

Success: At least 75% of the covered force must survive, 


Defense 
The heroes must defend a location from enemy attack. Additionally, they 
must do their best to prevent damage to the location. 

Success: The heroes must successfully prevent their position from being 
captured or destroyed by the enemy. 


Delay/Hold 
Delay and hold missions are typically part of a retreat or defense. Specifically, 
a delaying mission prevents an enemy advance while elements in the rear 
withdraw or retreat with minimal enemy harassment. Hold missions, on the 
other hand, require the heroes to hold a location for a brief time, eventually 
retreating when the location is no longer useful. 

Suecess:The heroes must delay the enemy or hold a location fora specific 
length of time before withdrawing. 


Demolition/Denial 

Demolition and denial missions require the heroes to destroy an objective. In 
a demolition mission, the heroes must infiltrate the enemy's lines and destroy 
one or more targets, such as a bridge, a fuel dump, or a defensive emplace- 
ment. Denial missions, on the other hand, are made during a withdrawal or 
retreat when a location can no longer be held, to deny the resource to the 
advancing enemy. 

Success: The designated target must be completely destroyed. 


—_—_ 


Escort 
Heroes on an escort mission must protect an asset as it is moved from one 
location to another. The asset can include one or more vehicles, an individual 
or a group, or anything else that needs protection as it is relocated from 
one position to another. 

Success: At least 75% of the escorted assets must survive. 


Forward Observation 

Forward observation requires approaching an enemy position and communi- 

cating its coordinates so that artillery or air support can destroy it. 
Success: The target's correct coordinates must be communicated to the 

heroes’ allies. 


Interdiction 
Interdiction missions require the heroes to interrupt, confuse, or otherwise 
disrupt an enemy operation. Examples include destroying an enemy recon- 
nalssance patrol, preventing supplies from reaching enemy positions, or 
reducing the effectiveness of an enemy asset. 

Success: The enemy operation must be disrupted. 


Pacification/Peacekeeping 
Pacification and peacekeeping missions are akin to policing duties, requiring 
the heroes to oversee indigenous civilians or to prevent violence or conflict 
from occurring in a designated location. This is not necessarily an attack on 
civilians, but hostile action might be required, depending upon the civilian 
reaction to the heroes, 

Success: The heroes must keep the peace with a minimum of either friendly 
or civilian casualties. 


Reconnaissance 
Reconnaissance—also called recon or recce—missions require the heroes 
to scout an area for signs of enemy movement or other suspicious activity. 
Such missions are performed by small, mobile units. Stealth, while optional, 
is preferred for such missions, and combat is often incidental. 

Success: The heroes must complete their recon patrol and collect valu- 
able intelligence. Finding nothing of interest is, in and of itself, something 
to report. 


Reinforcement 
Areinforcement mission requires the heroes to locate and lend their strength 
to a friendly unit that is either under attack or has recently been attacked, 
suffering significant casualties. Reinforcement missions are typically done 
on a timetable, with the heroes expected to provide aid within a specific 
period of time. 

Success: The friendly unit must survive with at least 50% of its current 
assets intact. 


Rescue 
Arrescue mission requires the heroes to locate and return to base one or more 
allies who have fallen victim to trouble. The target of the rescue might be a 
hostage, a downed pilot, a wounded soldier, or any allies who are in trouble 
and need to be rescued. 

Success: The targets must be located and returned to base with fewer 
than 25% casualties. 


Retreat/Withdrawal 

Retreat and withdrawal missions require the heroes to vacate a specific posi- 

tion and travel to a new defensive location, Retreats are done on short notice, 

often while under fire, but withdrawals are planned and more organized. 
Success: The heroes must successfully relocate while taking no more than 

25% casualties. 


Search and Destroy 
When assigned to a search and destroy mission, the heroes must locate an 
‘enemy asset and neutralize it. This differs from demolition/denial missions in 
that the target location is either unknown or approximate—thus, the search 
aspect of the mission. 

Success: The target must be located and completely destroyed. 


li esievHo 


0 


SNEIVANVD ASVLTVW 


HAPTER IV 
MILITARY UNITS 


“SSS 


Many will claim that wars are fought by individual soldiers, and that a single 
person's contribution can turn the tides of battles and even of entire wars. 

% That may be true, but typically wars are carried out not by individuals, but 

by factions. Within most conflicts, those factions are broken down into even 

smaller groups, often known as military units. This chapter details fifteen 

unique military units drawn from across the breadth of the Star Wars saga, 

from the ancient days of the Great Sith War all the way up through the fight 
against the Yuuzhan Vong invaders. 

Some units are part of a larger military structure, but still retain a great 

of autonomy. Although organizations such as the Katarn Commandos 

ind Wraith Squadron answer to their New Republic and Galactic Alliance 

‘superiors, they still choose their own missions, create their own plans, and 

‘execute those plans according to their own standards. Other units aren't part 

of militaries at all; for example, the Mistry! Shadow Guard is an organization 

unto itself, and though beholden to the Eleven Elders of the People it answers 
“to no higher military authority other than its own leaders. 

e Heroes can choose to use these organizations as a part of their characters’ 
histories or simply as models for creating their own, similar organizations. 
Having the heroes all choose a single unit as their organization makes it 
very easy for both the players and the Gamemaster to justify why heroes of 

such disparate skills and personalities might be working together, Serving as 

members of the same military unit is a great way for heroes to find common 
ground without having to resort to elaborate descriptions of how each hero 
knows each other hero and why they would all be working together. More- 
over, having the heroes all be members of the same military unit makes it 
much easier to design adventures for those heroes, as they all have common 

{if not identical) goals and motivations. 
By the same token, these military units can be used as allies and antago- 

nists for heroes in any campaign, not just those with a military theme. Each 

military unit in this chapter contains information on its goals, methods, rank 
structure, and missions to help give the Gamemaster a solid idea of how the 
organization functions and what its members could be like. When creating 

NPC allies and antagonists, using these military units is a great way to give 

an adventure a warfare-based twist without having to alter the structure 

of the entire adventure. 


AILON 


GUARD spice seme 
ts 
2 er the 


Guard 


Foe eS abi : ' erocity, the Nova Guard helped 
ress 


ay : Fi : n Nova Guar mployed, always 
hem at the first sign of weakness, 


) War. 
zhan 
ppling 


reat and wher 


The Republic did v 
in 1000 BBY, and the Nova Guard filled the g 


ust with a government 


The rise of the Empire suited the Nov 


too-lenient Jedi commanders in Clone 


of Bassadro and Ord Canfre, the Nova Guard ¢ 


Palpatine. Under his orders, they slaughtered the Mandalor at 
Norval |, and the Allon High Marshal welc e chance c c 
the galaxy's iron-fisted ruler. 

The feeling was not mutual. Emperor Pal and his officers sneered 


at these non-Humans with delusions of superiority, an ned from 


wiping out Ailon only after the act was deemed 


Empire's resources. Instead, the Empire kept the 
sending them on suicide missions. The Ailon High Marshal 
assignments as great honors, believing the daunting odds to be 
Impe 

Th 


these impossible b: 


al military's deep respect 


Empire's scheme backfired the Nova Guard began winning ever 


les. To pre 


ther embarrassment 


Empire 


dramatically cut back on Nov y the people of Ailon 


with no outlet but to 


tary Cel 


ebrations. This string of eve 


duels, the martial 


of other cultures, drew tourists from across the Inner Rim and allowed the 


Nova Guard to keep its units in top shape. 


AILON Nova Guaro soLoiers 


METHODS 

Members of the Ailon Nova Guard are drilled from birth in military history and 
tactics. They prize physical toughness and believe in survival of the fittest. 
This near-religious devotion to martial traditions ensures that the soldiers 
of the Nova Guard are professional under every circumstance. Cowards are 
uncovered (and executed) long before they have a chance to shame their 
regiments in combat. 

The Nova Guard organizes itself into divisions and regiments based on 
the disciplines of land armies. While the Nova Guard includes sea and air 
specialties, these mercenaries find no glory in the sterile coldness of space 
warfare. 

The specializations of the Nova Guard cover the gamut of planetary 
war. Antiaircraft divisions operate missile batteries. Repulsorlift divisions 
pilot atmospheric gunships and speeder transports. Artillery divisions drive 
treaded vehicles to fire on enemy fortifications. Armor divisions crew tanks 
and personnel carriers. Naval divisions deploy aquatic troopers and sub- 
mersibles, Infantry divisions, known for their full-body armor, are skilled 
with blasters but take special pride in using the eklot, a short sword treated 
with a fast-acting neurotoxin, 

Each soldier of the Nova Guard is issued a blaster rifle (to which is affixed 
a vibrobayonet), a blaster sidearm, and a grenade launcher. In battle, Nova 
Guard divisions work together to systematically outthink, outflank, and 
overwhelm their enemy; individual soldiers often are shocked by the relative 
inexperience of their foes. 


MISSIONS 

Asa mercenary force, the Ailon Nova Guard takes nearly every job offered, 
for fear of falling out of practice. However, the Nova Guard's asking price is 
high, ensuring that the group receives only offers that are suited toa military 
force of its remarkable size and experience. 

For thousands of years, the Nova Guard aided the Republic in beating back 
Hutt incursions and in taming savage worlds on the galactic fringe. Often, 
such missions involved exhausting a planet's military over weeks or months 
while Republic negotiators gained a foothold in the capital. Other times, it 
took only days for the Nova Guard to force the enemy's surrender. 

During the Empire's reign, Nova Guard soldiers were little more than 
cannon fodder. Imperial commanders threw them against entrenched hostiles 
in the hope that their annihilation would provide insight into the enemy's 
composition and tactics. After millions of honorable deaths, the Nova Guard 
began adopting scouting and ambush tactics. This development turned what 
appeared to be certain routs into unlikely victories, including the toppling of 
King Satyr Azzlectico and the Sundering of Slession. 


The Nova Guard’s New Republic missions were less suicidal. Nova Guard 
regiments operated alongside the New Republic military to provide muscle 
and knowledge of Imperial tactics. The Yuuzhan Vong invasion prompted yet 
another flip, as the Nova Guard switched sides and led Yuuzhan Vong van- 
guards against soft spots in the defenses of Cona, Manaan, and Zeltros, 

Whatever Ailon's changing alliances with the rest of the galaxy, the Ailon 
Military Celebrations provide an outlet in which even inactive soldiers can 
participate in simulated combat. The most prominent war game during the 
festivities involves three Ailon armies—Ethromite, Oridium, and Feldspar— 
that seize and hold an island continent until the final minute of the closing 
ceremonies. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

‘A minimum five-year tour of duty in the Ailon Nova Guard is mandatory 
for every able-bodied citizen. So central is combat to Ailon culture that 
those who are rejected for service—or worse, expelled from the ranks—exile 
themselves from their homeworld in disgrace. 

New inductees into the Nova Guard receive the rank of Guardsman. 
They are considered active-duty combat personnel even while they undergo 
training. Promotion within the ranks gives Nova Guard soldiers increasing 
command responsibilities: Corporals lead sections (40 soldiers), lieutenants 
lead platoons (six sections), majors lead companies (eight platoons), and 
lieutenant colonels lead battalions (eight companies). 

Among land-based army units, colonels command regiments (made up of 
two or more battalions). The equivalent rank among air and sea divisions is 
brigadier, with a similar-sized formation called a brigade. Each Nova Guard 
division (six regiments) is led by a major general, and corps are commanded 
by field marshals. All field marshals from across the planet make up the 
Ailon Marshalate, an elite command force that doubles as a ruling council. 
The supreme ruler of the Nova Guard—and of the planet itself—is the High 
Marshal of Ailon. 

The Ailon First Honors Platoon is the most celebrated unit of the Nova 
Guard. During the annual Ailon Military Celebrations, each Guardsman 
of the First Honors Platoon carries a banner emblazoned with at least 30 
battle honors, each of which commemorates a legendary war in the group's 
13,000-year history. Currently, the celebrations pay tribute to more than 7,200 
battle honors, and the Ailon Nova Guard doesn’t intend to stop there. 


Al ¥aiavHS 


SHINN ABVLIMIN 


CHURHEE' 


HiIsTORY 

More than a mercenary force, Churhee's Riflemen is a tight-knit band of 
sharpshooters with high standards of membership—and zero tolerance for 
those who don't appreciate the purity of ranged combat. 

Formed in the decade following the end of the Clone Wars, Churhee's 
Riflemen took advantage of the Empire's stranglehold over military opera- 
tions at the sector and system level. With many planetary defense forces 
either disbanded or nationalized, the need for independent contractors was 
stronger than ever. 

Viaydm Churhee drew upon his heritage as a sharpshooter in the Army 
of the First Line on Ulda Frav to form a squad of for-hire soldiers. Churhee's 
Riflemen advertised its talents throughout the Outer Rim’s Sarin and Parmel 
Sectors, first serving as a unit within larger mercenary armies, then accept- 
ing solo jobs as its reputation grew. Soon, Churhee's Riflemen was regularly 
engaged in rear-guard harassment of enemy lines, scouting troop movements, 
and assassinating opposing commanders from long-range cover. 

Churhee's Riflemen accepted any assignment regardless of ideology, 
sometimes even switching allegiances in the middle of a battle. That changed 
after a debacle in the Y'Trella System. While on a job for the Empire, the group 
found itself pinned down by the enemy and abandoned by the Imperial forces 
that had promised to provide backup. Almost all the Riflemen perished, and 
their founder, Viaydm Churhee, was among the dead. 

The survivors regrouped on Turcan Ill under the leadership of Viadym’s 
widow, Maydla Churhee. They agreed to rebuild the unit, but this time as a 
fiercely anti-Imperial organization. Churhee's Riflemen still accepted jobs 
from sector crimelords and neutral parties, but it poured the profits into 
beefing up intel on the Parmel Sector's Moff Tallis. This intel allowed them 
to solicit specialty work from local cells of the Rebel Alliance. 

The Riflemen became such an irritant to the Empire that Moff Tallis 
eventually flattened Turcan III with a full-scale military assault. More than 
half the Riflemen died while fighting a rear-quard delaying action, but the 
remainder escaped offworld thanks to an airlift organized by the Alliance. 

The Battle of Turcan Ill cemented the members of Churhee's Riflemen as 
heroes of the Rebellion and brought the group galaxywide fame. The Rebel 
Alliance (and later the New Republic) kept the Riflemen busy with lucrative, 
exclusive assignments, in part so that they could exploit the propaganda 
value of having the Riflemen among their ranks. 

After the New Republic captured Coruscant, Churhee's Riflemen no 
longer felt comfortable working for those in the seat of galactic power. The 
group returned to Turcan Ill, but this time with the clout and freedom to be 
picky about the mercenary jobs it selected. Churhee’s Riflemen continues 
to take work from free-market gangsters, but it has a hatred for despots 
of all stripes. 


RIFLEMEN 


METHODS 

The members of Churhee's Riflemen fill a role halfway between scouts and 
light infantry, Too small in number and too lightly armored for front-line 
combat, the members of the Riflemen strike the enemy from the rear or 
from flanking positions, blasting away with quick, damaging fusillades and 
then retreating. 

The Riflemen keeps its gear and weaponry to a minimum for mobility, and 
its members seldom employ vehicles larger than speeder bikes. The group's 
signature weapon is the SoroSuub Kylan-15 blaster rifle, customized by 
Viaydm Churhee to include a collapsible stock, an advanced sniping scope, 
and a silencer. Marksmanship is a point of pride in the ranks, and Churhee's 
Riflemen encourages the rumor that its members can shoot the tongue off 
of a dripdrinker larva from 1,000 meters. 

The Riflemen's members are fond of droids and use ASPs for maintenance, 
GHT medevac droids to retrieve wounded soldiers, and repulsor-equipped R2 
units to map battlefields. The biggest dangers to the Riflemen's fighters are 
small skirmish units specifically tasked with eliminating threats like theirs. 

The ability to hit a target from long range is critical to the success of the 
Riflemen. Sniping is a core tactic, used from deep cover to take down enemy 
commanders with head shots or to detonate the lead vehicle in an armored 
column with a precise hit on its fuel canister. The Riflemen often splits its 
ranks, with one or two squads sniping from long range and the remainder of 
the company springing an ambush from near cover. Such attacks are usually 
over in minutes, ending either when the group withdraws on speeder bikes 
‘or the enemy formation has been annihilated. 

Although it often works alongside other military units, the Riflemen is 
equipped to operate on its own. Its members are experts at survival and 
camouflage in forest, mountain, and savanna settings, which correspond to 
the planets where Churhee’s Riflemen primarily operates and trains: Turcan 
MII, Vohai, and Parein II. 


MISSIONS 

Churhee's Riflemen is a mercenary group, but it accepts only jobs that exploit 
its expertise in sniping, ambush, and combat scouting. Rarely is the group 
hired to perform a mission without backup. The members of the Riflemen 
are not commandos, and the group lacks the diverse range of talents needed 
to tackle infiltration or demolition. Instead, Churhee's Riflemen is an ideal 
complement to a planetary defense force or a motley mercenary army. 

On scouting missions, the group's members execute quick reconnaissance 
on speeder bikes and report back concerning the enemy's strength and 
movements. Because of their skill, Churhee’s Riflemen is allowed to engage 
at will, taking out opposing scout patrols or dealing damage to targets of 
opportunity. 


CHURHEE'S RIFLEMEN 


All members of the group are expert snipers. Sniping and ambushing 
often happen simultaneously, as some shooters fire with surprise from close 
range while snipers pick off targets from afar. Snipers also provide support 
for full-scale army engagements, in which they can be found firing from 
fortifications or hovering gunships. 

During its early years, Churhee’s Riflemen regularly accepted missions 
from Imperial forces in the Parmel and Sarin Sectors. It operated in the place 
of dedicated scout trooper patrols, pathfinding for AT-ATs and heavy armor. 
ts targets included Sarin smugglers and pirates as well as suspected Rebel 
cells embedded in the megalopolises of Revkinn V. 


The massacre in the Y'Trella System caused the Riflemen to accept anti- 
Imperial contracts exclusively. Missions during this era relied heavily on the 
group's inside knowledge of Imperial operations and tactics, although wary 
Rebels initially didn’t put much stock in the Riflemen’s sudden change of 
heart. Churhee’s Riflemen aided Rebels and independent interests in rolling 
back the territorial gains of Moff Tallis planet by planet, sometimes chasing 
Imperial forces into the heart of a garrison and forcing the surrender of the 
base commander. 

In the post-Endor era, Churhee's Riflemen continued to fight Imperial 
holdouts, this time backed up by the full might of the New Republic Army. 
Its most celebrated public exposure came during the Ryoone campaign, 
when the Riflemen matched wits with the Empire's Lightning Squadron in a 
month-long string of engagements. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

Since the unit's inception, Churhee's Riflemen has patterned itself after 
the makeup of a traditional Imperial scout company. Its roster consists of 
approximately 240 individuals (plus various support personnel) organized 
into eight platoons. Viaydm Churhee (and later Maydla Churhee) serves as 
the unit's commanding officer. 

A platoon is made up of approximately 30 soldiers, organized into lances 
of five (including a sergeant) or squadrons of 10 (commanded by a lieuten- 
ant). Multiple squads often are led by a sergeant major. 

New members of Churhee’s Riflemen receive the initiate rank of Fron- 
tiersman, but only after passing a tracking, stealth, and sharpshooting 
program. Applicants typically come from other militias or mercenary bands 
with years of experience under their belts, but the Riflemen's program is 
so rigorous that only one out of every 20 applicants is accepted, Churhee's 
Riflemen are very welcoming toward non-Humans, often disproportionately 
employing members of species such as the Lafrarians and the Ri'Dars that 
have superior distance vision 

Although their profile was raised to a galactic scale following the Battle of 
Endor, Churhee's Riflemen is largely a fringe player most comfortable operat- 
ing in the Outer Rim and the partially explored borders of Wild Space. Its 
members are well paid, but most have few indulgences beyond caring for their 
Kylan-15 blaster rifles and enjoying an occasional glass of Forvish ale. 


TOCA) 


INF) ABZ! 


SL 


Al SaievHo 


SLING ABCTLITIN 


HAPAN ROYAL GUARD 


HisTORY 

For millennia, the Hapes Consortium—a isolated cluster of stars cut off from 
the galaxy and rumored to house beautiful women and uncountable riches— 
fueled the imaginations of envious spacers. Even today, its all-powerful 
monarchy continues to captivate public interest, and it is the Hapan Royal 
Guard that prevents the collapse of this charmed society by standing in the 
way of regicide. 

Hapan culture traces its origins to approximately 4050 BBY, when the Jedi 
Knights annihilated the Lorell Raiders (also known as the Hapan Pirates) who 
had been harassing Republic shipping from hideouts in the near-impassable 
Transitory Mists. The pirates’ captives—most of them strikingly beautiful 
women—retreated to the 63 worlds within the Mists and formed a female 
dominated and, eventually, very wealthy society. With all governmental power 
vested in the hereditary office of Queen Mother, the Hapans built a powerful 
navy and eventually sealed the cluster’s borders in 3100 BBY. 

Although the galaxy couldn't see it, the 63 Hapan worlds entered a golden 
age. The Queen Mother's power was absolute, but that didn't prevent rivals 
from trying to maneuver other family members onto the throne, The Hapan 
Royal Guard, or the Chume'doro, first appeared in about 3000 BBY to protect 
the Queen Mother. 

This bodyguard unit consisted of 100 women selected from the elite 
members of the Hapan Navy and tasked with accompanying the Queen 
Mother on trips outside the Fountain Palace, screening visitors to her throne 
room, and tasting her food. Over time, the Royal Guard's ranks increased 
as they expanded their protection to include other members of the royal 
family. When scheming heirs corrupted the Royal Guard's bodyguard details 
and enlisted their help in coup attempts, the Chume'doro established the 
Investigative Branch to ferret out plots against the Queen Mother and to 
perform internal-affairs surveillance against its own members. 

In 8 ABY, the Hapes Consortium reopened its borders. The reigning 
monarch, Ta'a Chume, fell out of power in favor of her daughter-in-law, the 
outsider Teneniel Djo. The Royal Guard shifted its allegiance to the new ruler, 
but Ta'a Chume, still under palace protection, played on her personal guards’ 
loyalty to her and used them to help plot Teneniel's death. 

Asecret war erupted within the ranks of the Chume'doro. Assassinations 
thinned the group's ranks even as it maintained an unbroken veneer of pro- 
fessionalism. The end of the Yuuzhan Vong war united the Royal Guard once 
more, with its members protecting Queen Mother Tenel Ka and her daughter 
Allana from assassination during the Second Galactic Civil War. 


METHODS 

The Hapan Royal Guard is a police force, not a military branch. Its agents are 
quietly omnipresent. The Queen Mother is never without her bodyguard, and 
other agents are stationed aboard the Queen Mother's flagship, Star Home, 
aboard any naval vessels that she might visit, and on each of the worlds of 
the Consortium. Their role in these settings is to investigate possible threats 
to members of the royal fami 

The Chume'doro have unlimited authority to commandeer local security 
forces, detain and interrogate any citizen, seize property and confiscate 
items, and tap into private communications. In the name of the Queen 
Mother, a member of the Royal Guard can overrule the orders of even the 
highest-ranking fleet admiral. Despite the lack of curbs on the power of the 
Chume'doro, most Hapans willingly submit to its authority, They believe their 
Queen Mother to be almost a goddess, and her protectors incorruptible. 

If a member of the Royal Guard detects a plot against the Queen Mother, 
an Investigative agent determines the extent of the threat, and agents arrest 
the conspirators without violence. If necessary, Royal Guards are also the 
elite fighters who defend the Queen Mother with their lives. Wars, although 
rare, occur as a result of organized pirate raids or attempted coups by the 
planetary forces of one or more of the 63 worlds of the Consortium. During 
full-scale battles, the Chume'doro commands the Hapes Home Guard and 
other military elements. 

All Royal Guards are experts in unarmed combat and the use of edged 
weapons, polearms, and blaster pistols. Specialty branches include Fountain 
Snipers (who protect the palace with long-range rifles), Fountain Gunners 
(who operate heavy weapons and fixed emplacements), and Royal Fliers (who 
pilot a variant of the Miy'til starfighter). Royal Guard detachments on the 
63 Consortium worlds have combat specialties appropriate to their assigned 
environments, such as forest, urban, arctic, and aquatic. 


MISSIONS 

Most of the Royal Guard's work is carried out by the Investigative Branch, 
including surveillance on other members of the Chume'doro. Missed threats 
often manifest in combat opportunities that are (hopefully) short and 
one-sided. These acts of attempted regicide include ambushes in cramped 
hallways, blocked avenues that trap motorcades, sniper fire during public 
addresses, and suicide killers who rush the Queen Mother laden with explo- 
sives or who pilot aircars into the palace’s residential wing. Such assassins 
can be lone crazies, hired bounty hunters, rogue military personnel, or 
even traitorous agents of the Royal Guard. During assassination attempts, 
whichever members of the Royal Guard are assigned to the Queen Mother 
or her heirs at that moment are expected to kill the attackers and escort 
the ruling family to safety. 


It takes a big threat to mobilize the entire Royal Guard. Sustained raids by 
pirates (who are sometimes led by Hapan males of noble birth) are the most 
common menace, although planetary rebellions have occurred throughout the 
Consortium’s history. In these circumstances, Royal Fliers attach themselves 
to whichever Hapan naval elements they choose, and they are automatically 
granted rank privileges and priority launch clearance over the regular pilots 
stationed aboard those Nova-class battle cruisers. 

If the conflict involves ground combat, the Chume'doro commands bat- 
talions of troops or sends individual agents on sabotage, reconnaissance, 
or rescue missions. Royal Guard agents take command of regular Hapan 
military forces only when the Queen Mother's rule is threatened or when the 
Consortium as a whole is in danger (often the same thing). Smaller conflicts 
against isolated groups of pirates or local smugglers are handled through 
the traditional military chain of command. 

Because Hapes is bathed in starlight, members of the Royal Guard share 
their people's genetic night blindness. They carry night-vision optics to 
compensate for this deficiency in low-light conditions. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

The Chume'doro has two branches: Royal and Investigative. The Royal Branch 
protects the Queen Mother through combat and deterrence; its divisions 
include Fountain Snipers and Royal Fliers, and the contingents operating 
on each of the 63 Consortium worlds are considered unique divisions. The 
Investigative Branch protects the Queen Mother through spying and inter- 
rogation, and it has five divisions: Surveillance, Interrogation, Forensics, 
Purity (internal affairs), and Stealth. 

New inductees are known as agents, and the term also is used informally 
to describe all members of the Royal Guard. In ascending order of rank, agents 
can be Grade 3, Grade 2, or Grade 1. Agents typically operate in cells of two 
to four individuals. Those who earn recommendations from their superiors 
fight in duels with polearms or other melee weapons, with the winner earning 
a promotion to officer status. 

Royal Guard officers start with the rank of captain and command up to 
40 cells of agents. The next highest rank is major, which is the highest rank 
within the Investigative Branch. 

The Royal Branch has one elite rank, the Favored, who are considered 
the spiritual descendants of the original bodyguards assembled to protect 
the first Queen Mother. Although few in number, the Favored have complete 
authority over the Royal Guard, Hapan military forces, and civilians. The ranks 
of the Favored are 100 percent female, whereas the membership of the rest 
of the Royal Guard is 95 percent female and 5 percent male. 


SLINA 48 Liww 


A MEMBER OF THE HAPAN ROYAL GUARD 


KALEESH KOLKPRAVIS 


HiIsTORY 
Kalee is a harsh, dirt-poor world that has been ignored by the rest of the 
galaxy. The only native that most beings have heard of is General Grievous. 
Society on Kalee is dominated by thousands of Kaleesh tribes linked by 
complicated bloodlines and by feuds that have endured for centuries. The 
formation of the kolkpravis—a united army of tribal warriors from across 
the eastern hemisphere—became possible only after extraplanetary threats 
eclipsed old hatreds. The soldiers of Kalee's kolkpravis tested their swords 
against Thalassian slavers and ore raiders, but the planet remained largely 
isolated, its enemies never granting it the importance the Kaleesh believed 
to be their birthright. 

During the Kadok Regions’ Bitthzvrian expansion circa 65 BBY, the 
Republic failed to topple the Bitthaevrian regime on Guiteica with a secret 
coup. Rather than allow their meddling to come to light, the Republic trained 
the kolkpravis as an insurgent force. Armed with’ Czerka Outland rifles 
and covertly aided by Jedi, including Count Dooku and Qui-Gon Jinn, the 
kolkpravis pitted themselves against the soldiers of Guiteica’s m'Yalfor'ac 
Order, Within five years, the Bitthaevrians withdrew in defeat, and the 
kolkpravis never learned that they had acted 
as the Republic's puppets. 

Soon, the warriors of the kolkpravis 
had to defend against a real and imminent 
threat. The insectoid Yam'rii (which the 
Kaleesh called the Huk) invaded Kalee while 
scouring for colony worlds, and the besieged 
kolkpravis found inspiration under the leader- 
ship of Qymaen jai Sheelal and his soulmate, 
Ronderu lij Kummar. 

Sheelal organized the kolkpravis into 
eight divisions, each answerable to 
one of the Izvoshra—eight elite 
soldiers responsible for Sheelal’s 
protection and the execution of 
his will. After driving the Yam'rii 
from Kalee, Sheelal and the 
kolkpravis chased the aggres- 
sors back to their homeworld, massacring both 
soldiers and civilians, 

The Yam'rii petitioned the Republic's Senate to 
save them from extinction, and Jedi intervention 
brought an abrupt end to the Huk War. Shamed 
by this conclusion to their crusade, the kolkpravis 
suffered further as economic sanctions 


drove Kalee into ruin. Sheelal—now calling himself Grievous as a tribute to 
his companion Ronderu following her death in combat with the Yam'rii—took 
jobs with the InterGalactic Banking Clan to alleviate his homeworld's misery, 
Yet he was a warrior, not a thug, and soon returned to lead the kolkpravis 
after learning that the Yam’rii had desecrated Kaleesh burial grounds on the 
colony world of Oben. The IBC sabotaged the ship carrying Grievous and the 
eight members of the Izvoshra, sending it into the Jenuwaa Sea. 

Grievous lived on, reborn as a cyborg to serve Count Dooku in the Clone 
Wars. Bentilais san Sk’ar, a former revolutionary turned tyrant of the western 
hemisphere and the only member of the Izvoshra to survive the crash, rallied 
the kolkpravis. He led the slaughter of the Yam'rii on Oben and moved his 
people to that resource-rich world, 

After Captain Thrawn was forced to raze Oben as part of his pacification 
of the fringe territories, Sk'ar left Kalee space to serve the Empire. The 
kolkpravis, led by a female warrior believed to be the second incarnation 
of Ronderu lij Kummar, continued to guard the remnants of their once- 
proud civilization. 


METHODS 
The kolkpravis are formed from smaller tribal 
fighting forces. Each unit follows similar 
methods—hide, scout, raid, and retreat— 
refined over centuries of intertribal warfare. 
AKaleesh tribal warrior is an expert at desert, 
mountain, or jungle combat, depending on 
which part of the planet he or she is from, and 
boasts an expertise at camouflage. Warriors 
can spend months in the field, keeping a wary 
eye on rivals while hunting for mumuu or other 
animals to bring back to their families. The land- 
scape of Kalee is riddled with rocky caves 
and other boltholes, undetectable from the 
surface and known only to tribal leaders 
and veteran scouts. 
The kolkpravis engage in tactics similar 
to those of their forebears, albeit with a 
higher degree of organization. Although 
kolkpravis units are usually made up of 
members of a single tribe, different units 
are expected to cooperate when thrown 
together into a horde, a brigade, or a 
khanate. Orders are to be obeyed without 
question under penalty of death 
As a land-based fighting force, the 
kolkpravis have no skill at space combat. 


WARRIORS OF THE KALEESH KOLKPRAVIS 


When attacking a planet, large transports race through the battle zone to 
a controlled crash landing, whereupon the kolkpravis disembark and disap- 
pear. Against weak foes, the kolkpravis swarm and kill every combatant; 
against strong foes, they go to ground to engage in wars of attrition that 
can last for years. 

Kolkpravis warriors carry Czerka Outland projectile rifles, which are 
equally effective at sniping and at quick bursts of close-range fire. For melee 
combat, all kolkpravis soldiers carry one-handed Lig swords, and many employ 
2-meter-long shoni spears. 


MISSIONS 

The kolkpravis are relentlessly martial. They have no concept of downtime and 
never retire from service. If a mission requires it, kolkpravis warriors spend 
weeks creeping silently through wind-whipped ravines to set up better shots 
at enemy encampments, even if it means losing digits to frostbite and half 
their body weight to starvation. Since Kaleesh culture is built around the 
belief that great warriors can fight their way to divinity, suicide attacks are 
encouraged as a battlefield tactic. 

During the Bittheevrian War and the Huk War, the kolkpravis landed on 
worlds controlled by the enemy and conquered key territories with hopscotch 
tactics—half the warriors held the line while the other half pushed into the 
enemy's formation, then the warriors in front held the line while those behind 
advanced. If the tide turns against them in battle, the kolkpravis scatter and 
carry on a guerilla war from deep cover, inflicting demoralizing enemy losses 
during a long campaign. The kolkpravis brigades that defend Kalee adopt 
much the same style, using their cave network to strike without warning. 

The vast majority of kolkpravis missions involve the speedy and surrepti- 
tious elimination of isolated enemy targets. A large fighting force appears 
only when victory is certain and all warriors want to count themselves among 
the day's anointed. 


The eight Izvoshra are military khans in charge of the eight kolkpravis 
divisions, and they also served as the personal bodyguards of General Griev- 
ous. Their missions involved protecting their leader from challengers and 
assassins. After Grievous was apparently killed in the crash of his ship, the 
institution of the Izvoshra lived on. Acceptance into its ranks is considered 
an important step on the road to godhood. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

The most basic unit of the kolkpravis is the tribal kamen, a small tactical 
team of 2 to 40 warriors related by family and geography. These groupings 
were the essence of warfare on Kalee for millennia until the formation of 
the kolkpravis refocused tribal rivalry on the strange customs and appear- 
ances of offworlders. A kamen is led by a blackarm, an informal tribal title 
bestowed on its strongest member. 

Roughly 100 kamen make up a horde, which is led by an officer who carries 
the title of tarkhan. Brigades are formed from 100 to 200 hordes and are led 
by officers known as baatars. Their command often is highly decentralized, 
since kolkpravis tactics are guerilla in nature and a baatar must rely on mes- 
sage carriers and guesswork to keep track of his or her troops. 

Akhanate is a military division formed from several brigades, answerable 
to one of the eight khans of the lzvoshra. The Izvoshra leave most battlefield 
planning to their baatars, instead concentrating on special missions on behalf 
of their leader. The title of supreme military commander, or khagan, was held 
by Grievous and has been bestowed on the leaders who succeeded him. 

Most members of the kolkpravis are highly concerned with rank advance- 
ment, since great military leaders can earn honored positions in the afterlife. 
Those who don't have the stuff of divinity are likely to go on suicide missions 
to take out enemy targets, which is considered a shortcut to immortality. 

Kolkpravis warriors are rarely found in the greater galaxy, but they occa- 
sionally work as mercenaries or fighters. No matter how much contact they 
have with outsiders, Kaleesh remain austere, taciturn, and humorless, 


Al saiavHo 


SLINA ABVALITMA 


Al saiavHo 


U 


ASBVAITVIA 


SNA 


KATARN COMMANDOS 


HiIsTORY 
The Katarn Commandos are the most celebrated black ops unit of the New 
Republic—the ones who get the call when impregnable strongholds need 
breaching or invincible superweapons need destroying. The Katarn Com- 
mandbs rarely earn public accolades, but their enemies know them well. 
The group was founded as the SpecForce 32nd commando unit during the 
Galactic Civil War under the command of Bren Derlin. They fought tenaciously 
during the Battle of Hoth, holding off advancing snowtroopers long enough 
to enable the evacuation of the Rebellion’s command staff. In recognition 
of the efforts of the 32nd, General Crix Madine recommended that the 
unit be assigned to protect Alliance High Command, directly answerable to 
commander-in-chief Mon Mothma. The unit fought as part of General Han 
Solo's strike team during the Battle of Endor, after which Derlin turned the 
reins of the unit over to Lieutenant Judder Page. 


KATARN CoMMANoos 


Page accepted the responsibility but refused to accept a promotion. The 
rest of the team followed his unorthodox lead. The unit became even more 
independent and irregular, disappearing into the field for weeks or months 
at a time without reporting in to New Republic contacts, yet always achiev- 
ing its objective. As its reputation grew, the 32nd became known as Page's 
Commandos. 

The team often went far beyond its mission objectives. Dispatched by 
New Republic command to destroy a shield generator during the capture 
of Basilisk, Page's Commandos went on to destroy the generator powering 
the garrison cannons, to ground a wing of TIEs with an electrified net over 
the hangar launch chute, and to force Imperial governor Nistola's surrender 
after penetrating his heavily armed flying fortress. When General Garret 
landed with a New Republic invasion force, he took the capital without 
firing a shot. 

Kyle Katarn, one of the New Republic's top operatives, joined Page's 
Commandos in the New Republic's early years, aiding the team in top-secret 
missions against Imperial warlords on worlds including Kashyyyk, Boudolayz, 
and Garos IV. Around this time, the team changed its name to the Katarn 
Commandos—some say asa tribute to Commander Katarn, although Wookiee 
member Frorral insisted that the name referred to her homeworld's jungle 
predator. 

Lieutenant Page sometimes worked solo, contributing his expertise to such 
campaigns as the capture of Coruscant and the war against Grand Admiral 
Thrawn. Eventually, Page grudgingly accepted a promotion to captain, and 
the Katarn Commandos continued to fight during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion 
and the Second Galactic Civil War. 


METHODS 

The Katarn Commandos is a semiautonomous unit allowed a great deal of 
freedom and creativity in accomplishing its objectives. Although subordinate 
to the New Republic commander-in-chief and to any ranking officer assigned 
to its campaign, the Katarn Commandos is entrusted with operating on its 
own to deliver results that benefit the overall plan, General Rieekan once 
likened the process to “tossing a nest of fire wasps into a bursa's lair and 
seeing what happens next.” 

Once the Katarn Commandos makes planetfall, its members go comm 
silent until the completion of the mission (unless they require emergency 
extraction, which is an extremely rare occurrence). The team is not appropri- 
ate for space combat missions, but in planetary environments or on space 
stations, it is capable of causing a great deal of damage. 

The members of the team have a wide range of specialties, including 
urban combat and heavy weapons, with some members devoted to keeping 
the unit alive during long deployments by locating food, repairing gear, and 
finding cover. Judder Page, with his bland, unmemorable good looks, is ideal 
at undercover work, sometimes disguising himself as one non-Human being or 
another. True non-Human members of the squad can rarely pull off the same 
trick and prefer to remain hidden until called upon to unleash their talents. 


The team members pride themselves on staying out of sight. A perfect 
mission relies solely on stealth, with enemy forces realizing that the Katarn 
Commandos has paid a visit only when their ion cannon explodes. 


MISSIONS 

Atypical mission for the Katarn Commandos begins with a drop-ship landing 
in a planet's wilderness. When such landings are not possible, missions can 
start with paraglider drops from low orbit designed to slip through enemy 
sensor nets, or with passage booked aboard public starliners to allow for 
easy disappearance into crowds during layovers at port. 

No matter how they get there, the Katarn Commandos spends roughly the 
first half of an assignment lying low and gathering intelligence to assess the 
situation on the ground, Its members might disguise themselves as corporate 
workers ina bustling city block or buy rounds in the cantina and listen to the 
local scuttlebutt. If the target is more remote, the team's members might 
spend days living in the treetops, watching enemy installations through 
macrobinoculars and taking note of fixed defenses and guard rotations. 

The Katarn Commandos team never rushes in with blasters blazing. 
During extraction missions, the team nabs its target when he or she is lightly 
guarded, then retreats to a prearranged safe port. During sabotage missions, 
the team plants explosives (or causes enough damage to trigger the target's 
own destruction), then uses the blast to cover its escape. In all cases, the 
team takes every possible step to minimize contact with the enemy. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

The members of the Katarn Commandos have little use for rank. The unit's 
most famous member, Lieutenant Judder Page, turned down countless pro- 
motions. As a result, its operational rank structure is essentially a two-stage 
hierarchy: the commander and everyone else. 

The unit typically numbers 12 individuals. Although all members have 
well-rounded backgrounds in combat and survival, each possesses a unique 
skill that benefits the team as a whole. Members defer to the team's appropri- 
ate specialist during the relevant portions of each mission, which results in 
an informal second-tier command structure that changes on the fly. 


OM: COMMANDER K 


MMAR’ 


(ATTRIBU 


> 1 SAGE 


Ss-TrPe); } Cr 


RIKE-CLAS 


The members of the team include the following: 
© Two urban combat specialists, adept at blending into crowds and fight- 
ing on rooftops or in crowded corridors. 
Two techs, responsible for repairing equipment in the field and impro- 
vising traps and explosives. 
One wilderness combat specialist, skilled in forest camouflage and 
in using the enemy's environment against them. This specialist often 
serves as the de facto expert in mountain, swamp, arctic, and aquatic 
environments as well. 
One pathfinder, who fills the role of team scout. During the early stages 
of a mission, the pathfinder is responsible for directing the team and 
often is the temporary second-in-command. 
One heavy-weapons specialist, comfortable with rocket launchers, 
thermal detonators, cannons, blasters, and just about everything else 
that can cause an explosion. 
One infiltrator, who often works alone to gain access to an enemy base 
and assist the rest of the team from an inside position. 
One scrounger, capable of visiting a junkyard and finding the parts to 
repair an airspeeder, piece together a functioning droid, or brew up an 
edible stew. 
One medic. In the history of the Katarn Commandos, no injured member 
has ever been left behind. 
One pilot/comm specialist. The team pilot can fly almost anything and 
is a skilled shipjacker. The pilot also sends, monitors, and jams commu- 
nications signals. 
The commander, a position held by Lieutenant Page but filled by other 
members when Page was unavailable. Kyle Katarn sometimes led the 
team, but more often, he served as its heavy-weapons specialist under 
Page's direction. 
Not only does rank mean little to the Katarn Commandos, but most mem- 
bers do not even consider themselves part of the regular military. Their 
unit emblem is a stylized, leaping katarn set against a background of stars. 
Members of the Commandos rarely wear uniforms emblazoned with this 
design—due partly to the nature of their infiltration missions and partly to the 
fact that they hate wearing “solider suits"—but during raids, they sometimes 
leave the insignia behind as a calling card to deepen Imperial fears of this 
supposedly unstoppable Rebel squad. 


Al esievHo 


LIGHTNING SQUADRON 


HisTORY 
Lightning Squadron, an elite re 
carries out risky and unusual scouting missions during which 


on unit the Clone V\ 


formed at the st 


provokes 
hostilities in order to gather intelligence on its opponents. 

As part of the 91st Reconnaissance Corps of the Grand Army of the Repub 
ic, Lightning Squadron was set up to handle special recon assignments. The 
group consisted of 10 clones and their All-Terrain Recon Transport mounts, 
and it could be subdivided into two lances (squads) of five. The squadron 
first action came at Herdessa, six days after the Battle of Geonosis. Lightning 
Squadron located a weak point in the Confederacy’s battle line, and its AT-RTS 
raided the MTT housing the central control computer, temporarily shutting 
down all battle droids and allowing the Republic's 121st Regiment to roll past 
the enemy's heavy artillery. At the Battle of Muunilinst, Lightning Squadron 
led three other AT-RT recon squads into the capital city, hai 
droids and preventing an organized response while the Re 
surrounded the stronghold of the InterGalactic Banking Clar 


assing IG lancer 


ublic’s main force 
At the Battle 
of Daalang, Lightning Squadron penetrated the energy shield protecting the 


Separatists’ antiorbital mass driver cannon, used their AT-RTs to sprint past 


droid defenses and destroy the shield generator, and escaping before the 


orbiting Star Destroyer Eliminator unleashed its bombardment. 


Lightning Squadron sometimes undertakes missions directly for Mace 
Windu and other Jedi generals. Late in the war, it helps enforce the siege of 
Saleucami before the squad's transfer to Kashyyyk, where the issuance of 
Order 

As the G 
Stormtrooper Corps, Lig 


ushers in a new era for all clone units 
y is segmented into both the Imperial Army and the 
ning Squadron remains an army unit attached to 
the 91st Recon Corps. Lightning Squadron, now in pursuit of the Empire's 
enemies, gains new fame from its success in uncovering hidden Rebel bases, 
The squadron probes Rebel defenses in order to provoke a counterattack, 
thereby gaining intelligence on the Rebels’ position and armaments. Once 
Lightning Squadron has assessed the Rebel base's defenses, the main army 


id Arm 


moves in and destroys the base, 


METHODS 
Although officially a recon 
many dedicated combat divi: 


nit, Lightning Squadron sees more action than 
ions. Like all recon squads, its primary task is to 
elligence, including data on enemy composition, capabili- 
ties, and movements, as well as any geographic or environmental factors that 
ck. Lightning Squadron almost always 
n well past the point where help could 


gather combat int 


could come into play during an att 


operates 


nead of the main army, of 
arrive if 
he members of Lightning Squadron are expert trackers and survivalists, 
fully capable of foot recon in situations in which their AT-RTs are impractical. 
nguistics and anthropology, allowing them 
ho can show them shortcuts. The squadron can 


things turn sour. 


to befriend native guides » 


be deployed alongside other recon units in a patchwork pattern to cover a 


battlefield zone. Among their most critical scouting duties is to identify all 
potential routes into friendly territory that could be exploited by an enemy 
during a sneak attack 

Recon units sometimes are called to serve in an offensive capacity, and 
no one receives more such orders than Lightning Squadron. The squad is 
adept at raids on lightly protected targets where surprise is the key element. 
More tyg 
harasses the leading edge of an opposing force, destroys enemy recon units, 


ical operations involve skirmish engagements in which the squadron 


and prevents incursions 

Ina defensive capacity, Lightning Squadron is trained to provide fire sup- 
port for the main army. Its primary role in these situations is to counteract 
enemy breakthroughs. Although Lightning Squadron's casualty rate is higher 
than average for recon squads in the 91st, they consider themselves the equal 
of any special-missions force. On that count, the squad's success rate rivals 
that of the best commando units 


New challenges prompt Lightning Squadron to incorporate other vehicles 
into their lineup—including the armored AT-PT and the Aratech 74-Z speeder 
bike—but the AT-RT remains the squad's mainstay throughout the Galactic 
Civil War. AT-RTs can run at speeds of up to 70 kilometers per hour, and 
squadron members often push the machines to their limits. Armaments on 
an AT-RT include a repeating blaster cannon and a mortar launcher, making 
the vehicle an effective anti-infantry platform that also can destroy light 
armored vehicles, Against opposing soldiers or battle droids, the members 
of Lightning Squadron use the inertia of their AT-RTs as a weapon in itself, 
crashing into formations and using chaos, speed, and overlapping fire to 
compensate for their vehicles’ lack of armor. 


MISSIONS 

Lightning Squadron operates in a gray zone in which the enemy's size, 
location, and intentions are murky. The squadron works in conjunction 
with a much larger mainline army, probing the enemy line for intel on the 
composition of frontline forces or to discover an unguarded path into the 
heart of a hostile camp. The squadron's tools are speed and stealth, but it 
also maintains regular communications with a battlefield operations contact 
attached to the main force. 

Lightning Squadron differs from other recon units in its self-sufficient 
combat capacity. Commanders treat it as a reserve asset to be deployed 
in situations requiring quick strikes and stealthy tactics. For example, the 
squadron might first scout an unguarded tunnel that leads to an opposing 
field headquarters. It might then be ordered to charge in, kill the field com- 
mander, and withdraw before the enemy has a chance to respond, 

When fighting infantry units, Lightning Squadron functions as mounted 
cavalry. It uses speed and a higher line of sight to decimate enemy forces, 
and squad members’ full-body armor protects them from glancing shots. An 


*LIGHTNING SQUADRONI 


enduring image from Clone Wars holomedia depicts a Lightning Squadron 
soldier charging into a cluster of droids, blaster pistols in each hand, while 
the AT-RT's foot-triggered laser cannon spits out darts of fire. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

Lightning Squadron is a reconnaissance unit attached to an army group. As 
such, its structure changed little in the transition from Republic to Empire, 
with the exception of its semi-integration into the Stormtrooper Corps during 
the Galactic Civil War. 

During the Clone Wars, new recruits in Lightning Squadron came from 
the top members of other recon squads, although positions were offered only 
after the death of an existing member. The 10 soldiers of Lightning Squadron 
are commanded by a lieutenant, with two sergeants leading each five-person 
lance. A brevet corporal is second in command of each lance. 

Within the army's hierarchy, Lightning Squadron is subordinate to its 
company’s captain, its battalion's lieutenant colonel, its regiment's colonel, 
its legion’s senior commander, and its corps’ commanding officer (Marshall 
Commander Neyo, during the Clone Wars). Still, the unit's fame allows it an 
unusual degree of autonomy. Although Lightning Squadron members don't 
receive perks beyond those enjoyed by other service members, they consider 
the respect of their peers to be compensation enough. 

After the founding of the Empire, Lightning Squadron remains attached 
to the Imperial Army despite the continued presence of clones in the unit's 
ranks. By the time of the Galactic Civil War, members of the scout trooper 
division of the Stormtrooper Corps begin to serve with Lightning Squadron, 
and the unit takes on a floating status in which it is assigned to different 
branches of command depending on mission goals. 


RECKLESS, 


SNOBBISH GLORY-HOUNDS AND SPECIAL- 
FORCES WANNABES. YEAH, THEY 


REJECTED MY APPLICATION. BurT I 


DIDN'T 


WANT TO JOIN THEM, ANYWAY.” 


HERO OF THE 


—-SERGEANT FRUMM, 
BATTLE OF VULCUSION 


Al esievHo 


Al SaievHS 


SLINA 4BvLiww 


MANDALORIAN 
PROTECTORS 


HiIsTORY 

The history of the Mandalorians encompasses tens of thousands of years, 
but the Mandalorian Protectors burned brightly for only a few decades. 
Embodying the highest ideals of their warrior culture, the Protectors were 
the antidote for a people who had too often slipped into the relative moral- 
ity of mercenaries. 

The roots of the Protectors stretch back to Jaster Mereel's formation of 
the Mandalorian Supercommandos (Mando Ori'ramikade). During the Man- 
dalorian Civil War of 60-34 BBY, the Protectors’ ranks were split into two 
factions: the rebellious Death Watch and the reformist True Mandalorians 
of Mereel and Jango Fett. The True Mandalorians met their end at the Battle 
of Galidraan, but their moral teachings, embodied in the Supercommando 
Codex, inspired many back on Mandalore. 

Shortly before the Clone Wars, a rogue ARC trooper escaped Kamino. 
Addled by the imprinted memories of his genetic "parent" Jango Fett, 
Alpha-O2—better known as Spar—journeyed to Mandalore to rebuild the 
Supercommandos. Spar found willing recruits for his new Mandalorian 
Protectors among the ranks of the planetary police force, and his Protec- 
tors also attracted former members of the Death Watch. The Protectors 
believed Spar to be the son of Jango Fett, and as inspiration, Spar took the 
title Mandalore the Resurrector. 

The Mandalorian Protectors, 212 strong, enter the Clone Wars on the side 
of the Separatists, motivated by a hunger for order and by Spar’s hatred of 
the Jedi who had orchestrated the Galidraan massacre. The Protectors hit 
the Republic hard at the Battles of New Bornalex, New Holstice, Null, and 
Zaadja, as well as the Second Battle of Kamino. These armored warriors 
fight alongside 1,000 BL-Series Battle Legionnaire droids that had been 
partly designed by Fenn Shysa—a Protector rumored by some to be the true 
power behind the Protectors, but generally considered to be Mandalore the 
Resurrector’s most loyal follower. 


MANDALORIAN PROTECTORS 


Late in the war, the Mandalorian Protectors walk into an ambush on 
Norval I! while pursuing a commission to capture Senator Amidala, All of 
them perish but three: Spar, Fenn Shysa, and Tobi Dala. Spar disappears 
soon after, leaving Shysa and Dala to rebuild the Protectors. The two begin 
training elements of Mandalore's elite police force, starting a covert war 
against the Imperial slaving operation that have coopted the Mandalorian 
government following the war's conclusion. The slavers, led by a being known 
as the Suprema, confiscate the armor from Mandalore's citizens. Despite 
this, Shysa works tirelessly to turn his recruits into worthy successors of 
the force that died at Norval II 


Occasionally taking victimless mercenary jobs to fund his efforts, Shysa 
at leads the rebuilt Protectors to victory just before the Battle of Endor. 
Tobbi Dala sacrifices himself in order to destroy the City of Bone and to kill 
the Suprema. Afterward, Shysa focuses all of his energy on restoring the 
Mandalorian Protectors. With armor, weapons, and hundreds of Mandalorian 
soldiers newly freed from slavery, Shysa accepts a commission from the 
Rebellion and assembles a force to aid Princess Leia Organa in the Rebels’ 
post-Endor fight against the Nagai and the Tofs. 

Although they are primarily known in the wider galaxy as a mercenary 
unit, the Mandalorian Protectors function largely as a home guard patrolling 
the borders of the Mandalorian Sector. After ousting Grand Admiral Takel 
from Mandalorian space, the Protectors restore their ranks to full strength. 
In 5 ABY, they aid General Luke Skywalker during the Inner Rim campaign 
against Lord Shadowspawn. 

Many believe that the era of the Mandalorian Protectors ended with 
Shysa's death on Shogun in 21 ABY. Although Boba Fett succeeds Shysa as 
Mandalore, he does not continue the Protector tradition and leads the group 
as a purely mercenary force. 


METHODS 

The Mandalorian Protectors are motivated by their adherence to the high 
moral standards of the Supercommando Codex. The Codex contains hundreds 
of commandments, resurrecting and modernizing the forgotten Canons of 
Honor. The Canons are a text of laws extrapolated from the fundamental 
Six Actions (resol‘nare) of Mandalorian culture: Wear armor, speak the 
Mandalorian language, defend oneself and one's family, raise one’s children 
as Mandalorians, contribute to the welfare of the clan, and respond to any 
order handed down by the ruling Mandalore. 

During the Clone Wars, Spar leads the Mandalorian Protectors into battle 
as a Separatist shock force. The Confederacy of Independent Systems has 
relatively weak tactics, relying on sheer battle droid volume to overwhelm 
Republic forces. In contrast, the Protectors use superior weapons and 
training to decimate Republic formations. Spar's inside knowledge of clone 
trooper operations prompts him to deploy the Protectors as a blitzkrieg 
force. They order their BL droids to chew at the main battle line while 
the Protectors use jet packs to drop into the heart of an enemy camp and 
deliver the killing blow. 

During the post-Clone Wars era, Shysa’s reconstituted Protectors have 
little to work with—no advanced weapons, no BL droids, and often not even 
Mandalorian armor. The ragged insurgents use their police training to wage a 
guerilla war against the Imperial slavers that hold their homeworld in chains. 
After Endor, a revived force of Mandalorian Protectors returns to the high- 
risk, high-damage tactics that had earned them fame in the Clone Wars. 


MISSIONS 
The Mandalorian Protectors were formed in response to the overtly mer- 
cenary ways of other Mandalorians and are reluctant to take jobs for pay. 
During the Clone Wars, the Protectors believe that they are fighting for 
the good guys, and their actions epitomize history's view that this war has 
heroes on both sides. 

Separatist commanders call in the Protectors when they need to eliminate 
stubborn enemies. If a Republic stronghold holds out for months despite 
wave after wave of battle droids assailing its walls, for example, command- 
ers requisition the Mandalorian Protectors. With only 212 members, the 
Protectors are in high demand; when they show up, they often eliminate 
the problem in less than a day. 

Fenn Shysa’s postwar Protectors are an insurgent force that focuses on 
rescuing Mandalorian slaves, harassing Imperial slaving operations, and 
assassinating the Suprema. These hit-and-run missions rely on the Protec- 
tors’ familiarity with Mandalore’s jungles, which enables the Protectors to 
vanish when the Imperials mount a counterattack. 

After the Battle of Endor, the Protectors seem to take their name liter- 
ally. They lock down the Mandalore Sector with a cloud of MandalMotors 
Pursuer-class enforcement ships and a revived legion of Supercommandos. 
If hostile capital ships enters their space, the Protectors board the vessel, 
capture its bridge, and return it to Mandalore's starport. 

The Protectors in the post-Endor era sometimes take for-hire assign- 
ments from outside parties. These jobs are accepted only with Mandalore 
Fenn Shysa’s blessing, and only when the assignments do not involve harm 
to innocents. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

Rank is important among the Mandalorian Protectors, reflecting as it does 
the traditions of their disciplined warrior culture and the values of respect 
and obedience. 

The lowest rank among the Mandalorian Protectors is private (verd'ika), a 
role that often centers around infantry duty. The next highest rank is corporal 
(alor'uus), followed by sergeant (ruus‘alor). 

The Mandalorian Protector's officer corps ranks begins with lieutenant 
{ver‘alor), followed by captain (alor‘ad) and commander (al'verde). All officers 
are known as alor in the Mandalorian language. 

The Protectors are not necessarily natives of Mandalore. Membership 
requires only that an individual follow the Six Actions and the teachings 
of the Supercommando Codex. All Mandalorians belong to a clan, but such 
clans do not specifically influence rank or deployment. 

All Mandalorian Protectors take their orders from commander-in-chief 
Mandalore (Spar during the Clone Wars, Fenn Shysa until 21 ABY). The 
government of Mandalore is a potent entity in its own right. Its ambitious 
members are capable of consolidating power over matters at home while 
the Protectors are off fighting battles. 


Al SsiavHo 


MiISTRYL 
SHADOW GUARD 


HisTORY 
The Mistryl Shado 
the galaxy's most lethal (but least encountered) sp 


w Guard, the favored daughters of Emberle 


cial-missions forces 


The Mistryl has existed on Emberlene for centuries, although not always 


under that name. Their planet's matriarchal culture encouraged secret soci- 


eties and guilds, with spies and assassins evening out the balance of power 


between factions. The rulers of Emberlene, known as the Eleven Elders of 


People, gave their blessings to seven such squads, with top members of 
unit appointed to the elite Silent Hand. The Elders’ Silent Hand unit eve 
into the Mistryl Shadow Guard 
With the outbreak of the Clone V 
to expand Emberlene's fortune at the expense of its 
if Independe 


¢ peaceful Republic worlds throughout the sector. For three 


ars, the Eleven Elders see an opportu’ 


eighbors. Emberlene 


ems, using that 


signs as a member of the Confederacy 


pretense to inva 
years, Emberlene ravages local space, first sending in its Shadow Gua 


d to 


ing up with a military wave 


kill a planet's politicians and generals, then follo 


N 


News of this aggression does no 


at flattens the disoriented defenders 


spread to the greater galaxy, and the Republic—preoccupied v 


survival: any Jedi to aid the victin 


not spare 
Faced with surrender or annihilation, the sector's planets pool their 


ions of the Sun 


resources and hire a mercenary army led by rogue 


Guards of Thyrsus. The counterattack pushes Emberlene 


their homeworld here withering orbital shelling ignites f 
leave the planet an ash-blackened shell 


Their great campaign has failed, but the Eleven Elders c 


rewriting history. They claimed that the newly crowned Emperor Palpatine 
has ordered the devastation of Emberlene to punish the world for its glori- 
Ous successes, and they use the surviving members of the Shadow Guard to 


eliminate dissidents. By the time of the Battle of Yavin, not even the Mistryl 


knows the true story behind Emberlene’s devastation. 


To sustain the impoverished planet and its people, the Eleven Elders hire 


out the Mistryl as mercenaries, where its skills earn high commissions. The 


Eleven maintain their public facade by loudly refusing to do business with 


dow Guai 
Star's 
superlaser during Operation Hammertong and in assassinating countless 


the Empire, but quietly accept Imperial jobs on the side. The SI 
are instrumental in both protecting a piece of the second Dea 


Imperial governors and moffs. 

A few members of the Mistryl Shadow Guard who learn the truth of 
Emberlene's aggression break from the order. The most prominent of these 
Loruna Scathe, founds the Azure Cabal and competes for Mistryl's mercenary 


jobs. The Eleven Elders maintain control of the Shadow Guard throughout 


the rule of the New Republic, allowing their agents maximum freedom to 


chasing the highest-paying contracts. 


VARIBE, A MISTRYL SHADOW GUARD 


METHODS 

The Mistryl is utterly loyal to the Eleven Elders but has little contact with 
them. To bring a flow of credits back to Emberlene’s people, the Mistry! 
operates almost permanently in the field. Although it do not advertise its 
skills, without lucrative jobs the Shadow Guard would serve no purpose. Its 
members have quietly built up a reputation among the elite players of the 
fringe as the galaxy's best assassins, thieves, and bodyguards. However, the 
Mistryl remains elusive and difficult to contact, a practical necessity to avoid 
detection by Imperial agents and embittered enemies of Emberlene. 

This stealthy approach doesn't mean that the Mistryl's members stay out 
of sight—only that they go unnoticed. Any female smuggler, freighter pilot, 
bounty hunter, bodyguard, or vagabond could be a Mistryl Shadow Guard. 
Most spacers never know the difference. 

At close range, the Mistryl's agents are deadly, preferring to snap necks 
quietly instead of blasting away like overexcited Mandalorians. Members of 
the Shadow Guard are trained in the use of vibroblades and holdout blast- 
ers, as well as exotic weapons including shock whips, hand claws, and zenji 
needles (balanced throwing spikes often disguised as hair decorations). 

Among the field assets available to the Mistryl is a camouflage prematch 
database that contains millions of profiles of prominent galactic citizens. 
Shadow Guard agents use these profiles to impersonate others when they 
need to pull off undercover missions or to disappear in a hurry. 

The Mistryl's ranks are few in number. Agents typically work solo or in very 
small groups, making them less likely to be detected by enemies and allowing 
them to cover a broader footprint when canvassing for contracts. 


MISSIONS 

As mercenaries, the Mistry! Shadow Guard works for its clients but is ulti- 
mately answerable to the Eleven Elders of the People. It is given an unprec- 
edented level of freedom in how to fulfill that dual role. A member of the 
Shadow Guard might work for a year or more with no input from the rulers 
of Emberlene. She can accept mercenary jobs at her discretion, as long as 
she funnels the credits back to Emberlene. 

If a job is sufficiently lucrative, a member of the Mistryl might enter into 
an open-ended contract with a single employer. These jobs vary on a case- 
by-case basis, but most people who willing to hire the Mistry! long-term do 
so to ensure their own safety. Bodyguard assignments are common, although 
the agents’ skill at stealth also makes them excellent choices for espionage, 
assassination, extraction, or theft. 


When the Eleven Elders call, the Mistryl comes running, Naturally, the 
Elders pull in the Shadow Guard to deal with threats to Emberlene, but 
such calls are rare. More often, the Elders dispense high-level assignments 
received from private clients, for whom the Elders act as brokers. Because 
the Elders are driven by greed and power, they do business with the galaxy’s 
worst scum, In such cases, they are careful to hide the identity of the client 
from the Mistryl agents assigned to the task. 

If a Mistry! Shadow Guard outlives her usefulness or shows sufficient 
disloyalty to Emberlene—particularly if she learns the extent of the Eleven 
Elders’ manipulations—she is branded by the Elders as a liability. Such agents 
can be freely hunted by the Mistryl, and the targets usually are hounded 
until pardoned or dead. Loruna Scathe is one such woman who has thrived 
since breaking ties with the Mistryl. Her Azure Cabal is intended to stand as 
a pure alternative to the Shadow Guard, which she feels has been tainted 
with the blood of innocents. The two factions have occasionally engaged in 
life-for-life grudge matches. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

The Eleven Elders of the People are the commanders-in-chief of the Mistry! 
Shadow Guard, but in the field, the Mistryl is left to its own devices. When 
necessary, the Mistry! organizes into small strike units, each led by a Shadow 
Guard who carries the temporary designation Team Prime. Potential Team 
Prime candidates are drawn from a list, kept by the Eleven Elders, of agents 
who have extensive field experience and a history of successful missions. 
Many units can be called together for large jobs, commanded by the most 
senior Team Prime or (in extreme cases) by the Elders themselves. 

Only females can join the Mistryl. The vast majority are Emberlene 
natives by birth or are the daughters of former Shadow Guard members. 
Although privileged outsiders have been known to join its ranks, such cases 
are vanishingly rare. 

A new Mistryl recruit is likely to be sent on small-scale assignments for 
the Eleven Elders in Emberlene's local sector before receiving permission to 
work in the mercenary field. At that point, she often pairs up with a more 
experienced agent in an apprenticeship that resembles a Master-Padawan 
relationship. 

Life in the Mistryl is difficult. Mercenary work at that elite level carries a 
high risk of death or dismemberment, and nearly every credit of the agents’ 
fees is sent back home. The Shadow Guard is driven by ideology and loyalty, 
which makes the risk to the Eleven Elders even greater should the Mistral 
ever discover the extent of the Elders’ corruption. 


Al esLavnS 


iE 


tr 


FN 


SLNA AUvar 


NIMBUS COMMANDOS 


HiIsTORY 

Extremely specialized and deadly dangerous, the Nimbus Commandos is the 
most lethal fighting force on the rain-soaked planet of Jabiim. Although the 
group was founded in the years just prior to the Clone Wars, its roots go 
back 3,000 years to Jabiim's colonization. 

The Jabiimi settlers form a ground army and a small stellar navy in 
response to incursions by Trandoshan raiders attempting to steal Jabiimi ore 
stockpiles. Elite divisions within the Jabiimi Army are created to handle the 
most difficult tasks, and these special forces—consisting of units such as 
the Black Gauntlets, the D.E.E.P., and the Stone Torrent—eventually become 
a third military branch. Jabiimi special forces prove instrumental in driving 
off the Lythian pirates and other threats. 

Alto Stratus, a commander within the Bronze Nimbus, become disil- 
lusioned with the cowardice of the Jabiim Army's generals and the lack of 
assistance from the Republic or its Jedi. Stratus ties the Bronze Nimbus 
more closely to his personal command, drawing elements of the Jabiim Army 
into his cult of personality. When war breaks out between the Republic and 
Count Dooku’s Separatists, Stratus seizes the opportunity to stage a coup. 
His Nimbus Commandos assassinate key members of the ruling Jabiim 
Council. Stratus then uses his influence to ally Jabiim with the Separatists, 
He consolidates the regular military, renamed the Nationalist Army, in order 
to maintain public order. 

The Republic now view Jabiim as an enemy and move to secure Jabiim’s 
ore deposits for itself. The Republic lands a ground force and joins the anti- 
Stratus faction of the former Jabiim Army, now called the Jabiim Loyalists, 
In the exhausting slog and battles that follow, the Republic's Jedi and clone 
troopers are outmatched by the opposing Jabiimi, who have spent their lives 
training and fighting in the planet's rainy muck. The Nimbus Commandos 
prove especially lethal, destroying AT-ATs with minefields and limpet charges, 
and slaughtering Jedi forces in an ambush at the Republic's Shelter Base. 
Stratus loses his life in the final push against Cobalt Station, but his war has 
been won—a shamed Republic withdraws from Jabiim in defeat 

The ranking member of the surviving Nimbus Commandos, Colonel Mazzi, 
rallies the Nationalist Army to maintain military control of Jabiim. After the 
Clone Wars, the Nimbus Commandos works with the Empire to put down 
uprisings by Jabiimi Loyalist holdouts. Stormtroopers prove ineffective in 
Jabiim's specialized terrain, and the Nimbus Commandos are given free rein 
in suppressing dissent. 


METHODS 
Members of the Nimbus Commandos are the ultimate swamp fighters. Jabiim 
is a mud ball soaked by constant drizzle and its atmosphere is an ionized 
crackle of electricity, making high-altitude repulsorlift vehicles impossible to 
operate. The Nimbus's fighters are the best soldiers of a fighting force that 
has been perfecting high-precipitation ground combat for three thousand 
years 

Nimbus Commandos soldiers are inexperienced pilots, and they fare poorly 
in urban and zero-gravity combat environments. But in their native habitat, 
they are unstoppable. The Nimbus Commandos is called upon for missions 
including retrieval, sabotage, assassination, and destruction of reinforced tar- 
gets. Its signature piece of gear, the repulsorlift skate, allows its members to 
skim 3 meters above land or water at speeds of up to 95 kilometers per hour, 
Using skates, commandos in squads of three can penetrate enemy lines and 
reach heavy equipment, which they destroy with timed charges or grenades. 
The Nimbus Commandos often employs minefields, since the skates’ repulsor 
field allows a wearer to glide over a live mine without triggering it 


Nimaus Commancos 


A Nimbus Commandos unit carries a great deal of equipment into the 
field crammed into belts and backpacks. This gear includes explosive charges, 
ammunition, nonperishable rations, waterproofing spray, thermal warming 
units, and low-altitude communications boosters. The commandos are expert 
survivalists and are skilled with edged weapons including swords, daggers, 
and machetes. 

During the Clone Wars, the Nimbus Commandos adopt the Separatist 
commando blaster rifle, a weapon capable of both long-range sniping and 
semiautomatic rapid fire as well as of launching concussive sonic blasts. 
Another Clone Wars introduction, the A-Series assassin droid, works 
alongside members of the Nimbus Commandos and uses blasters, flechette 
launchers, and cutting blades to damage organics. Many A-Series units 
continued to serve the Nimbus Commandos throughout the New Republic 
era and beyond. 


MISSIONS 

Prior to the Battle of Jabiim, the Nimbus Commandos is an outgunned insur- 
gent force zealously devoted to its leader, Alto Stratus. A dozen handpicked 
members serve as personal bodyguards for Stratus, with the remainder split 
into troops with specializations including infiltration, breaching, sniping, 
explosives disposal, high-speed reconnaissance, and assassination. 

As Stratus begins his civil war against the Jabiimi government, the Nimbus 
Commandos kills members of the Jabiim Council and carries out shadow 
missions, including kidnapping and data theft, to give Stratus the leverage 
he needs to blackmail the other councilors into following his orders. The 
Nimbus Commandos destroy armories and soften up the Jabiimi Loyalists 
so that the Nationalist Army can engage the Loyalists in battle on an equal 
footing. When Stratus decides to ally with the Confederacy of Independent 
Systems, the Nimbus Commandos gains access to offworld equipment such 
as the A-Series assassin droid, which increases the range and complexity of 
the missions the Commandos can execute. 

Stratus perishes in battle with Republic troops, but the Nimbus Com- 
mandos lives on. Its position of power during the Imperial years requires it 
to expand its traditional tactics. In response to the guerilla tactics of the 
Jabiimi Loyalists, the Nimbus Commandos devotes more resources to intel- 
ligence and counterterrorism. 


OF OUR PA 


RAPPED. 


THEY'R 


UBLIC CONVC 

COBALT STATION 
Ss HEADING RIGHT 

VEFIELD." 


The Nimbus Commandos is rarely encountered off Jabiim, but its members 
sometime work as mercenaries on swampy battlefields. One such planet is 
Nal Hutta, where the Hutt clan Gejalli is rumored to keep more than a dozen 
members of the Nimbus Commandos on retainer. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

Alto Stratus is the commander-in-chief of both the Nationalist Army and 
the Nimbus Commandos through the Battle of Jabiim. Following the battle, 
Colonel Mazzi assumes command and transforms the Nimbus Commandos 
into an elite decision-making group that holds sway over the soldiers of the 
Nationalist Army. The rank structure of the Nimbus Commandos remains the 
same under both leaders. 

Only enlisted soldiers in the Jabiim armed forces can apply for the Nimbus 
program, although highly skilled Loyalist defectors sometimes are accepted 
into its ranks. The indoctrination is grueling, but successful initiates are 
welcomed as senior enlisted and receive the rank of Nimbus Trooper. They are 
then assigned to one of the two troops that makes up a Nimbus team, which 
consists of 100 or more members. Each troop is divided into two platoons 
(each led by a Nimbus Lieutenant), four squads (each led by a Master Trooper), 
or 12 four-person fire teams (each led by a Task Unit Commander). 

Advancement through the ranks can be rapid and chaotic; the battles 
on Jabiim often see scores of members of the Nimbus Commandos die in 
a single engagement. Officers at the Task Unit Commander level or above 
are issued better battlefield equipment that is less prone to water damage 
than that of regular troops, and they command Jabiim's limited supply of 
A-Series assassin droids. 

Jabiim is a hard world, but members of the Nimbus speak of it with 
patriotic fervor. Going offworld to seek an easier life is considered by many 
to be a waste of their skills and a betrayal of their beliefs. The few members 
of the Nimbus Commandos who left Jabiim during the New Republic era to 
seek their fortunes found work only on similar planets where their environ- 
mental skills proved exceptional, and many of them eventually returned to 
their muddy homeworld, 


COOLS HAS SPOTTED 
IY MOVING TOWARD 
WE HAVE THEM 
INTO A 


ZZi, REPORTING 
T THE BA 


9 
> 
M 
3 
z 


Al SSiavHD 


ONDERON 
BEAST RIDERS 


HiIsTORY 
The Beast Riders of Onderon is a curious military force of criminals who 
banded together into a guerilla army before eventually morphing into an 
elite royal strike unit. 

Onderon is a kill-or-be-killed jungle planet that became even more lethal 
with the arrival of drexls—winged monsters, tainted by the dark side, that 
spawned on the Dxun moon. The planet's colonists built the great walled 
city of Iziz to keep the beasts at bay, and the titanic fortress (the planet's 
only major settlement) housed millions. Iziz's monarchy exiled criminals and 
dissidents into the savagery outside the city walls, but instead of becoming 
prey for the drexis, the outcasts learned to tame them. 


THe BEAST RIDERS 


The new clans of Beast Riders established a hierarchy based on the idea 
that might makes right. The head warlord carries the title of Beast Lord and 
possesses a long list of victories and the most fearsome drexl. Dozens of 
clans sprang up in the Onderon wilderness, with each clan warlord paying 
fealty to the Beast Lord. The outcasts also tamed nonflying boma beasts for 
ground raids and to guard their structures. However, the dragonlike skreey 
remain untrainable, as do Onderon's zakkegs, cannoks, and other predators 
in the planet's unforgiving ecosystem. 

When the Beast Rider society grew sufficiently large, it fixed its sights on 
Iziz. Beast Lord Kinch Sunka launches the first attack on the walled city, trig- 
gering a war that lasts for centuries. Iziz's defenders fight back with pulse- 
wave cannons and antiaircraft gunnery emplacements. The outnumbered 
clans of the Beast Riders view the war as a crusade. They realize that they 
cannot hope to seize and control all of Iziz; their goal is to breach the palace's 
defenses and kill the royals responsible for banishing their ancestors. 

Circa 4000 BBY, Beast Lord Oron Kira begins a secret romance with Galia, 
the princess of the Iziz ruling family. Helped by the Jedi Knights, the Beast 
Riders overthrows the Sith-influenced monarchs King Ommin and Queen 
Amanoa, and Oron Kira becomes the official consort of the new queen. 

The newfound legitimacy of the Beast Riders elevate it to the status of 
a special aerial unit attached to Onderon’s planetary defense force. During 
the Great Sith War, the Beast Riders chases the invading Mandalorians to 
the Dxun moon, but payback came during the Mandalorian Wars when the 
Mandalorians overwhelmed Iziz's defenses and conquered Onderon, 

Many members of the Beast Riders perish in the campaign to unseat the 
Mandalorians. Its ranks were later divided during the Onderon Civil War of 
3951 BBY. After Onderonian General Vaklu fails in his bid to overthrow Queen 
Talia, the Beast Riders—except for mercenary holdouts such as the Skelda 
clan—is united and reorganized under the banner of the Republic. 


METHODS 

The members of the Onderonian Beast Riders are distinguished by their 
relationships with their flying mounts. Every aspect of their training is 
focused on forming bonds with their drexis, and members of the Beast Riders 
consequently receive little formal training in tracking, stealth, sabotage, or 
hand-to-hand combat. In the air, however, they are unmatched. 

Drexis (also known as warbeasts) are gigantic creatures with blaster- 
resistant hides, ferrocrete-shredding claws, and teeth that can bite the head 
off a rancor. The riders control their mounts through subtle shifts in body 
position. Drexis possess enough intelligence to identify threats and execute 
the corresponding aerial maneuvers drilled into them during training. 

Beast Riders combatants typically attack in squadrons of 10 to 24, with 
multiple squadrons uniting to form wings in the event of an all-out assault. 
Riders use cannons (pulse-wave or blaster, depending on the era) mounted 
on their drexls' backs, and they carry handheld eneray or projectile weapons. 
Drexls use claws and teeth to shred enemies, and the beasts employ their 


tremendous bulk to batter down obstacles. As blaster technology became 
more advanced over the millennia, Onderon's Beast Riders begins armoring 
its mounts with lightweight durasteel plates. 

When entering a structure built for Humans, riders often have to leave 
their mounts behind. For this reason, the Beast Lord founded a class of 
close-combat warriors known as the Carvers. These commandos are carried 
into battle on the rear of drexls and are skilled in personal combat and in 
the use of bladed weapons. 


MISSIONS 

Early in its history, the Beast Riders had a single goal: the annihilation of 
Iziz's hated monarchy. During these decades, the ruling Beast Lord executes 
tactical strikes against weak points in Iziz's defenses, hoping to penetrate 
as far as the palace so that his Carvers can corner and slaughter the ruling 
family, On several occasions, the Beast Riders succeeds in killing royals, but 
it never causes sufficient chaos to destroy the monarchy. 

Helped by spies inside the city walls, the Beast Lord sometimes.organizes 
raids on lightly defended vacation spots frequented by wealthy nobles, or 
shoots down ambassadorial starships on landing approach in order to kidnap 
the passengers for ransom. Raids on Iziz's food and weapons stores occur 
several times each month. 

With Great Sith War, the Beast Riders becomes the elite advance force 
of Onderon’s royal defenders. This development puts it in a position to wage 
war against the Mandalorians, who ride techno-organic Basilisk war beasts 
in much the same fashion as the Beast Riders. The careening, vertiginous 
battles against the Mandalorians give the Beast Riders an opportunity to 
polish its dogfighting skills. After the Onderon Civil War, the Beast Riders 
defend the planet against pirates and slavers, and it remains active through 
the Galactic Civil War and beyond. 


*WHAT FOLLOWED 


NOW 


RANK STRUCTURE 

The members of the Beast Riders represent the most proficient of Onderon's 
warriors. Originally, these wild outlaws swore allegiance to the Beast Lord in 
order to survive, but even after the organization's acceptance into the Iziz 
power structure, its rank system remained largely in place. 

Recruits into the Beast Riders’ ranks are drawn from support staff, includ- 
ing boma wranglers, tribal guards, Carvers, and workers who clean the drex! 
stables. If a candidate survives a ride on a maddened drex!'s back without 
falling to the treetops below, he or she is accepted as a novice initiate. In 
time, initiates become Warriors, the lowest rank in the Beast Riders’ hierar- 
chy. Commanding the Warriors are Berserkers. These three classes—initiates, 
Warriors, and Berserkers—make up what is called the warrior caste. 

The command caste consists of Conquerors and Warlords (with subrank- 
ings that are distinguishable by the totem worn around neck or arm) and 
is responsible for all battlefield decisions. A Conqueror can lead up to 50 
Warriors and Berserkers, or two squadrons, Warlords command three to five 
Conquerors and their subordinates. Typically, there is one Warlord for every 
Beast Rider settlement (or, during later years, one for every district in the 
city of Iziz). Any member of the command caste who wishes to advance in 
rank must engage in sky combat with a superior officer. Winning elevates 
the challenger to the rank of the one challenged, and the loser is docked one 
rank—if he or she survives the duel. 

The Beast Lord rules all but can retain the title only by fending off chal- 
lengers. As a result, the Beast Lord's drexl is battle hardened and deadly. 
During the period following the Great Sith War, the Beast Lord is technically 
subordinate to the ruler of Iziz in the defense of Onderon, but often the 
planet's monarch and the reigning Beast Lord are one and the same. 


SEEMS ALMOST 


INEVITABLE—-THE ONDERONIAN OUTCASTS 


LEARNED TO SURVIVE 


IN THE WILDS, 


AND EVEN TO SUBDUE THE BEASTS 
AND CONQUER THEM. ONDERON 


BECAME A DIVIDED WORLD, ONE 
RAPIDLY DEGENERATED TO A 


THAT 
STATE OF 


PERMANENT WAR.” 


Al esievHo 


SLINN SHvLimw 


REPUBLIC 
ROCKET-YUUMPERS 


HISTORY 

The Republic rocket-jumpers, officially known as the Rocket-Jumper Elite 
Advance Unit, are the most celebrated unit of the Republic Army. Using jet 
packs, the rocket-jumpers penetrate enemy territory and establish airheads— 
temporary advance staging areas used to shuttle in troops and heavy equip- 
ment. Such missions sometimes verge on suicide, and rocket-jumpers have 
earned a reputation as hardnosed miracle workers. 

The rocket-jumper corps came into existence circa 11,000 BBY, when 
newly reliable jet pack technology allowed for the reinvention of the unit 
formerly charged with powered paraglider landings. Rocket-jumpers became 
legendary in such conflicts as the Second Herglic Feud (9757 BBY), the 
Waymancy Storm (7811 BBY), the Gank Massacres (4800 to 4775 BBY), and 
the Quesaya Border Conflict (4007 BBY). 

Rocket-jumpers use jet-equipped droids—most notably the R-EAU Line- 
master series—for resupply and rearmament; droids that survive difficult 
campaigns are often adopted as platoon mascots. The R-EAU inspired the 
development of the Juggernaut, a class of war droid that go rogue on Corus- 
cant during the Great Droid Revolution in 4015 BBY. The Juggernauts’ defeat 
of the rocket-jumpers in the sky above Monument Plaza is one of the war's 
most heartbreaking moments. Despite public sentiment and new Republic 
laws, the rocket-jumpers refuse to dismantle their R-EAUs after the uprising 
and eventually receive a special exemption for them. 

As their reputation grows, the rocket-jumpers are assigned to special 
forces missions such as VIP extraction, reconnaissance of sensor-shielded 
encampments, and destruction of enemy emplacements. Rocket-jumpers are 
among the most highly decorated soldiers in the Republic Army, and several 
of them go on to hold public office (including Republic Minister of Defense 
Netus and Supreme Chancellor Vocatara). 

The rocket-jumpers also become notorious for their off-hours antics, 
which tilt heavily toward drinking, fighting, and outrageous stunts or pranks. 
Casual patrons avoid rocket-jumper gathering places at all costs, and these 
properties are among the most difficult to insure in all of Galactic City. 

In 1000 BBY, the Republic abolishes its standing military under the Ruusan 
Reformation, leaving security in the hands of sector and planetary defense 
forces. The rocket-jumpers vanish with the rest of the Republic Army, but 
their technology and tactics live on. The Mandalorians become known for 
their jet-jumping surprise attacks, and both the Republic clone army and the 
Imperial Stormtrooper Corps develop rocket-jumper equivalents in their jet 
trooper and air trooper divisions. 


METHODS 

The rocket-jumper corps is an advance force, used to breach enemy-held 
terrain and assist the rest of the army in moving forward to a new position, 
Although armed troop carriers sometimes perform similar roles, rocket- 
jumpers are first-strike commandos, expected to clear a landing site where 
none exists. Rocket-jumpers are deployed in squads of 20 or in fire teams 
of two. They generally stick to low-altitude hops to minimize exposure to 
enemy fire. 

Rocket-jumpers maintain tight formations and are drilled on the 
importance of keeping the other members of their squad in sight at all 
times—particularly when touching down into a hot zone where a jet-jump 
miscalculation could put a solider far beyond the reach of his or her comrades, 
Rocket-jumpers are experts at urban and wilderness survival, and they can 
keep themselves alive for weeks behind enemy lines while carefully making 
their way back to the Republic front. It is said that no rocket-jumper captured 
as a prisoner of war ever broke under enemy interrogation, 

The most iconic piece of rocket-jumper equipment is the modified Zim 
Systems jet pack, which features four outriggers for controlling midair pitch 
and roll. Rocket-jumpers carry pulse-wave (or blaster) carbines, sidearms, 


A ROCKET-JUMPER 


grenades, vibroknives, survival multitools, medkits, and other items that vary 
with the mission profile. Each rocket-jumper carries 40 to 60 kilograms of 
gear, plus armor. Droids are used for resupply and other battlefield support 
roles, and some are equipped with integrated rockets. The most notable droid 
model is the R-EAU Linemaster. 

Zero-gravity combat training is part of the rocket-jumper regimen. Space 
missions are uncommon, but the Zim jet pack's solid fuel propulsion system 
works well in vacuum. 


MISSIONS 

"Impossible" is the best word to describe a typical rocket-jumper assignment. 
The members of the corps thrive on achieving tasks that their commanders 
dare not assign to any other unit. Their standard mission profile involves 
jetting over forward-facing cannons and gun emplacements and attacking 
those units from the rear, or taking out droid coordinators and reinforced 
headquarters to disrupt communications and leave the enemy vulnerable 
toa direct assault. 

Less typical assignments include aerial combat (as in the disastrous fight 
to take down the renegade Juggernauts) and aerial rescues. In the latter 
mission type, rocket-jumpers intercept a craft in flight, board it, deal with 
armed resistance, and escape with their objective intact. 

A similar template is used for zero-gravity space rescues. During naval 
battles, rocket-jumpers board space stations and enemy capital ships by 
blowing holes in their hulls. They can then destroy their targets if they have 
access to the reactor core and a sufficient supply of detonators. 

Jet packs are not typically used for sustained flight. Rocket-jumpers are 
more likely to use them to bypass troop formations, to reach inaccessible 
mountain fortresses, or to make similar tactical hops. Since the Zim ROCKET 
runs on solid fuel slugs, a pinpoint hit by an enemy's blaster can trigger an 
explosion that will almost certainly kill the wearer. 

For surprise insertions, rocket-jumpers are dropped at high altitude from 
troop carriers, To minimize possible detection by enemy spotters, they freefall 
until they are less than 100 meters from the ground, then use their packs to 
rapidly slow their descent just in time for a gentle touchdown. This maneuver 


FROM JP 


takes precision handling and is one reason why rocket-jumper training is 
among the most unforgiving in the Republic Army. 

The primary training facility for the rocket-jumper corps is on Coruscant. 
The unit itself has seen action “from the sands of Socorro to the seas of 
Seffi,” according to the corps’ motto. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

Getting into the rocket-jumper corps is a feat unto itself, Less than 8 
percent of all applicants withstand the grueling initiation. Once accepted, 
a rocket-jumper, like all soldiers of the Republic Army, receives top-down 
orders from the commander-in-chief (the Republic Supreme Chancellor) 
and the Minister of Defense. Within the structure of the army itself, the 
rocket-jumpers are organized at the corps level and commanded by a 
general. Various rocket-jumper brigades are stationed across the galaxy at 
sector military bases, with each brigade commanded by a brigadier general 
who is responsible for deploying his or her soldiers in the service of Republic 
‘Army operations throughout that sector. Individual battalions (four to six 
per brigade) consist of up to 800 rocket-jumpers each, under the command 
of a lieutenant colonel, 

Most galactic conflicts, if they involve rocket-jumpers at all, are fought 
with small groups of them. Due to the expertise and rarity of these soldiers, 
it is uncommon for more than one platoon to be deployed in most battles. 
A platoon totals 30 to 60 soldiers and their R-EAU droids and support staff, 
all under the command of a lieutenant. Platoons deploy their racket-jumpers 
in jumpsquads (8 to 12 members) or jumpteams (4 members)—small tactical 
units composed of privates and corporals that are typically led by sergeant- 
level Master Jumpers. 

A career as @ rocket-jumper is not lucrative, and a rocket-jumper's life 
expectancy is brief. But rocket-jumpers have a fierce pride in their role and 
in the history of their corps. Their reputation precedes them—thugs give them 
a wide berth, barkeeps give them free drinks, and they are never without 
romantic attention. The life of a Republic Army soldier is not glamorous, but 
the rocket-jumpers know that they're as close as it gets. 


Al saiavHo 


SLINA ASBVLIMIN 


SENATE GUARD/ 
SENATE COMMANDOS 


HisTORY 

The Senate Guard has existed as long as the Galactic Senate itself. Artwork 
from the Republic's early centuries shows mute, motionless Guardsmen at 
the signing of every treaty, their weapons a testament that the Republic was 
prepared to use force if diplomacy failed. The uniforms and gear of the Guard 
changes from century to century, but two elements keep recurring: the color 
blue (the same hue as the robes worn by the first Supreme Chancellor) and 
a helmet design reminiscent of the Notron Centurions. 

The Senate Guard began as a bodyguard detail but grew into a capital 
police force. As it did so, it began to attract the best law-enforcement officers 
away from Coruscant police forces and training academies, leading to open 
hostility between the Senate Guard and the Galactic City Police. The situation 
worsened when the Senate Guard put the entire Legislative District under 
its jurisdiction. The move, however, is necessary. To protect the thousands 
of Senators who live and work in the district (not to mention the Supreme 
Chancellor), the Senate Guard needs to cover an area much broader than 
the Grand Convocation Chamber. 

Colloquially called the Blue Guard (and, less frequently, the Republican 
Guard), the Senate Guard is inevitably influenced by the politicians it pro- 
tects. Like the Senate itself, the Guard increasingly becomes a legacy system, 
with sons and daughters of current officers afforded privileged positions in 
the Guards’ Academy on Coruscant. Corruption begins to infect the ranks, 
with affluent Senators quietly paying their Guards to look the other way while 
they conduct under-the-table business. At the same time, loyal members of 
the Guard work to root out their crooked comrades with a robust internal 
affairs department. The Guard also distinguishes itself with some of the best 
investigative and forensics work in the capital. 

The Senate Commandos are the elite members of an already elite force. 
Drawn from the Senate Guard's ranks, these top-scoring combat experts 
make up a special-missions force assigned to high-security details and other 
risky assignments. Wearing customized field armor, the Senate Commandos 
face down some of the galaxy's deadliest hired killers and bounty hunters. 

The Senate Commandos become Senator Palpatine's personal bodyguards 
following his election in 32 BBY. After the outbreak of the Clone Wars, Pal- 
patine hand-selects the most loyal members of the Senate Commando force 
to create a new bodyguard detail known as the Red Guard, The Senate Guard 
continues in a somewhat diminished role, undergoing a change in uniform 
that exchanges helmet crests for face-masking visors. 


Once the Empire takes root, security in the capital falls under two divi- 
sions: the Imperial Royal Guard, dedicated to protecting the Emperor, and 
the Coruscant Guard, charged with investigative work and military-policing, 
Former members of the Senate Guard are employed within both divisions, 

The Emperor also creates a secret security legion known as the Imperial 
Senate Guard, although it has no connection to its obsolete namesake. This 
division (and its subgroup, the Imperial Senate Sentinels) carried lightsaber 
pikes and were widely believed to be cyborgs. 


METHODS 

The Senate Guard and Senate Commandos exist only to protect the galactic 
legislature. In its most public form, this requires countless hours of stand- 
ing at attention inside a Senate platform or in the corridors of a diplomatic 
starship. But Guard responsibilities extend far beyond bodyguard detail, 
Guards are required to protect their charges from all possible dangers, 
which requires relentless investigative work to root out threats before they 
become malignant. Senate Guards spend a great deal of time patrolling the 
Legislative District, questioning citizens and following up on leads. Advanced 
intelligence-gathering missions sometimes require them to go undercover. 

When in public, Senate Guards wear their distinctive blue uniforms. 
They keep an eye on demonstrations, usher their senatorial charges to safe 
havens, and occasionally pose for holoimages for tourists. Their blaster rifles, 
although considered largely ceremonial, are surprisingly accurate from long 
range and feature a stun setting and a barrel that can double as a stun prod. 
All Guard members are drilled in the Hijkata martial arts discipline, and they 
often carry force pikes. 

Senate Commandos dispense with the symbolic robes and helmets. They 
wear flexible blue armor that is blaster resistant and resembles that worn by 
the Republic's clone troopers. Senate Commandos do not typically operate 
in the Grand Convocation Chamber or the Legislative District. They are much 
more likely to be found offworld, accompanying Senators to space station 
transfer hubs or hostile planets in need of diplomatic attention. They remain 
alert for any attempts on their charges’ lives, relying on sophisticated sensors 
built into their helmets to analyze crowds and on their DC-15 blaster rifles 
and tactical thermal detonators to end trouble in a hurry. 


MISSIONS 

A Senate Guard mission is often reactionary. It's a split-second response to 
immediate danger, followed by a lengthy and meticulous investigation to 
bring all plotters to justice. Because countless powers would love to influ- 
ence galactic legislation, assassination attempts are common, and most take 
place in the narrow streets between the Grand Convocation Chamber and the 
senatorial residences. Even more frequent are attempts to win Senators over 
through bribery. Senate Guards are expected to report all suspicious dealings 
to their superior officers, even when it puts their own lives at risk. 


A SENATE QUARD (LEFT) AND 4 SENATE COMMANDS (micHT) 


By contrast, a Senate Commando mission is combustible, aggressive, 
and unpredictable. Senate Commandos protect their charges during visits 

to worlds where battles are raging or where native lifeforms can pres- 

ent a danger. Commandos also repel boarders should an ambassadorial 

starship be breached by raiders. On the rare occasions that Coruscant is 

invaded by hostile armies, Senate Commandos are the last line of defense 
protecting the Supreme Chancellor. 

When the Senate isn’t in session, most Senate Guards and Commandos 
occupy themselves with police work. In this capacity, they often work along- 
side the Jedi; the two groups are technically part of the Republic Judicial 
Department, Daily duties include crowd control, crime scene investigation, 
street patrols, and putting down uprisings from the Undercity. 

The most famous duty of the Senate Guard is to provide security inside 
the legislature's Grand Convocation Chamber. This tradition is considered 
deathly dull by most members of the Guard, since the chamber's defenses are 
some of the tightest in the galaxy and no threat is likely to manifest within 
its walls. Senate Guards, however, remain vigilant 


RANK STRUCTURE 

New recruits to the Senate Guard come from the graduating class of the 
Guards’ Academy on Coruscant. The candidates are dominated by members 
with family connections, although acceptance is extended to distinguished 
members of recognized planetary law-enforcement divisions. These more 
experienced enrollees undergo a shortened academy program. 

The Senate Guard follows a military ranking system, and fresh academy 
graduates receive the rank of private. Their duties take place in the vicin- 
ity of Senate Guard Headquarters, where they oversee the processing of 
prisoners and suspect profiling. Corporals do more street-level work and are 
assigned to a task force that protects a prominent Senator, a small group 
of less-notable Senators, or a special government VIP. Sergeants oversee 
the security of the Grand Convocation Chamber and make assignments to 
bodyguard details. Lieutenants lead squads of two to four Guard members, 
and commanders lead task forces made up of six to 10 Guard members. 
The person who oversees all Senate Guard personnel assigned to the Grand 
Convocation Chamber is known as the Sergeant at Arms; he or she is seated 
next to the Supreme Chancellor. 

The highest ranking member of the Senate Guard is the Captain of the 
Guard. He or she answers to a special Senate committee charged with super- 
vising Guard affairs, as well as to all cabinet-level officials in the Republic 
Judicial Department. The leader of the Senate Commandos is a captain. All 
Senate Commandos are volunteers from the Senate Guard who pass a brutal 
four weeks of additional combat training. They are usually deployed in squads, 
taking orders from their commander but always deferring to the person 
they are protecting (except in matters concerning their charge’s safety). All 
members of the Guards and the Commandos, of course, ultimately serve at 
the pleasure of the Supreme Chancellor. 


ware] 
gBaeaBRn 


AS) 


Ssl~nn 


SUN GUARDS 
OF THYrRSUS 


HIsTORY 

The Sun Guards of Thyrsus is one of the most feared military units in his- 
tory, said to be the only group of warriors who could go toe to toe with the 
Mandalorians and win. 

The Sun Guards originates with the Echani Command, a confederation of 
six worlds dominated by a near-Human offshoot species. The Echani have 
silvery hair, chalk-pale skin, and a remarkable sameness in body type and 
facial features, all believed to be the result of Arkanian experimentation 
with the Human genome. 

On the worlds known as the Six Sisters, the Echani develop a kinetic 
communication style and can instantly identify an individual through subtle 
shifts in body language. This sensitivity translates well to physical combat. 
During the Bengali Uprising, the Echani on the sun-baked world of Thyrsus 
rebelled against the female council that ruled the Six Sisters, breaking their 
planet off from the others. Their military units bore the emblem of the red 
suns of Thyrsus, and their elite special-missions division evolved into the 
Sun Guard. 

The Thyrsians are a diametrical contrast to the rest of the Echani: male 
dominated instead of female dominated, heavily armored instead of lightly 
armored, drawing spiritual lore from the sun rather than the moon, and 
emphasizing bladed weapons over unarmed combat, dark of hair and skin 
In at least one way, though the Thyrsians retained a traditional element of 
Echani arts: the uncanny ability to read the body language of others and to 
predict their next move. 

At first, the Sun Guards led armies against the Echani. The group later 
turned its attention to the Mandalorians, alarmed by their expansionist 
tactics. Clashes between the Sun Guards and the Mandalorians usually took 
the form of duels to the death between small groups of combatants rather 
than full military mobilizations. 

More than a century before the rise of the Empire, Thyrsian culture 
became fixated on Force lore, particularly the prophecy that the galaxy’s 
savior would be known as “the son of suns.” The Sith Order, still in hiding 
after the Battle of Ruusan, play on the Thyrsian belief that the Sith are 
the subjects of this prophecy and encourage the Sun Guards to follow Sith 
interpretations of Jedi orthodoxy. The Sun Guards emerge as a Sith cult, and 
Darth Sidious brings members of the Guards into his employ as mercenaries 
and assassins. 

Near the end of the Clone Wars, Sidious tasks Asajj Ventress with 
eliminating the order. Of the members of the Sun Guards she spares, some 
join Emperor Palpatine's Royal Guard. Force-sensitive Sun Guards become 
candidates for the Imperial Shadow Guard. Others, such as Kenix Jir, are used 
as cloning templates (in fact, a Sun Guard had been considered as a possible 
prime clone for the Republic's clone army). 


A SUN GUARD OF THYRSUS 


Armor and weaponry from dead Sun Guards have fallen into the hands 
of bounty hunters such as Moxin Tark, who exploit the fearsome reputation 
of the Sun Guards, 


METHODS 

Members of the Thyrsus Sun Guards are known for their black armor. 
Instantly identifiable and terrifying to enemies, the heavy armor conceals a 
number of tools and weapons that influence the Sun Guards’ capture-and- 
kill techniques. The visual system built into the helmet's visor is capable of 
thermal imaging and of recording both infrared and ultraviolet wavelengths. 
A macrobinocular scope is used for surveillance and sniping. Most members 
of the Sun Guards have extendible vibroblades in their gauntlets and spikes 
concealed in both their boots and in their knee guards. The exterior of their 
forearm gauntlets and their fist plates can be heated to flesh-burning 
temperatures in seconds. 

The armor itself is highly resistant to damage but does not significantly 
reduce movement. Many members of the Sun Guards accessorize their kit 
with dart shooters lining the underside of each arm and miniature flame- 
throwers. With their deadly outlay of personal gear, it's not surprising that 
the warriors of the Sun Guards prefer to face their targets up close. 

Members hold the pike as a near-sacred weapon. Many variants of the 
pike exist, but all are approximately 1 meter long and are wielded with two 
hands, providing the means to block incoming strikes and to lash out with 
the blades at either end, Most sport double-edged vibroblades and are rein- 
forced with cortosis ore so that they can stand up to lightsaber blades. The 
ritual form, inherited from the Echani, has red-hot tips activated through 
grip controls. The force pike incorporates stun modules into each end to 
deliver debilitating shocks. 

The Sun Guard considers jet packs a dangerous and foolish extravagance 
and is contemptuous of Mandalorians' reliance on them. Over the years, the 
‘Sun Guard has developed a sort of melee version of antiair combat, employing 
pikes in precision strikes to disable or overload Mandalorian jet packs. 

Early in its history, religion was a primary motivator for the Thyrsus 
Sun Guard, although it eventually became a group of mercenaries. Religion 
regained an influence on the group when it fell under Sith sway, but one 
truth remained—the Sun Guards still insists on getting paid. It is known for 
delivering its targets alive but maimed. 


MiIssIONS 

The Sun Guards fought its Echani cousins in a string of crusades millennia 
ago, and it learned that war leads to poverty. The Sun Guards realized that its 
combat skills were virtually unmatched in the greater galaxy, and it became 
an elite unit of high-priced mercenaries. 


The Sun Guards’ missions include rescue, abduction, sabotage, wholesale 
slaughter, and more. The only factor the jobs have in common is that other 
parties have already tried them and failed. Members of the Sun Guards often 
work in teams of four to penetrate unassailable keeps and destroy ultimate 
weapons. They are adept at urban combat, including building sweeps and the 
block-by-block elimination of enemies. They can take on any foe in personal 
combat and have been known to earn extra credits in the gladiatorial pits. 

The only opponent able to stand against a Sun Guard fighter is a Man- 
dalorian, and the two factions hate each other with professional jealousy that 
burns brighter than the Oolex Pulsar. Over the centuries, the Mandalorians 
and Sun Guards have fought endlessly (most notably when both groups hired 
out to opposing sides in the Battle of Sintheti), with neither side winning 
any advantage except bragging rights. 

During the years leading up to the Clone Wars, Darth Sidious used his Sith 
status to order the Sun Guards into missions of his choosing. These assign- 
ments included the assassinations of troublesome Senators and recalcitrant 
business barons. Sidious also used members of the Sun Guards to protect 
his hidden Coruscant lair, where they summarily executed any underdweller 
who got too close. The Sith Lord's apprentice, Darth Maul, regularly engaged 
members of the Sun Guards in impromptu practice duels. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

The Sun Guards began as a special-missions force in the hierarchy of the 
regular Thyrsian military. As the centuries pass and the Sun Guards largely 
abandoned Thyrsus, it became a group of seminomadic mercenaries similar 
in organization to the Mandalorians. 

Initiates into the Sun Guard receive the rank of Stellar Legionnaire and are 
allowed entry for a provisional term of up to one year. Any violation of Sun 
Guard etiquette, such as cowardice under fire or undisciplined drunkenness, 
is grounds for immediate expulsion, Those who pass the initiation period 
are promoted to Stellar Tribune, a position that gives them control of a Sun 
Guard legion numbering between 20 and 40 soldiers. 

It is rare to encounter a member of the Sun Guard officer corps, which 
begins at Twisuns Legate, a role that allows command over two to four 
legions. The remaining ranks in the Sun Guard hierarchy, in ascending order, 
are Twisuns Praetor, Thychani Commander, Thychani Dictator, and Supreme 
Sun Guardian—a position comparable to that of general in most standard 
militaries. 

Advancement through the ranks is the result of heroism in combat. On the 
flip side, cowards—even elite Sun Guardians—can be expelled from the ranks 
at any time. When Darth Sidious set his plans in motion to create a clone 
army, the Kaminoans considered candidates from the Thychani Commander 
rank and above as templates for their clone soldiers. 


Al SsisvHS 


SBLINA ABvowWw 


Al eSiavnS 


SLINA 48vimw 


TRIANI! RANGERS 
HISTORY 

The Trianii often are mistaken for similar felinoid species such as the Togorians 
and the Tinnell; those who make this error underestimate the incredible speed 
and agility of the Trianii. By the time an enemy realizes that he is facing an 
angry Trianii, it's a good bet that he's already suffered a mortal injury. This 
physical prowess, a matter of pride among the Trianii, is prized nowhere more 
than in the ranks of the elite Trianii Rangers. 

The Trianii Ranger tradition dates back thousands of years, tracing its 
roots to a primitive frontier corps that protected landowners as they tamed 
the serpent-infested forests of Trian. By the time Trian had established a 
planetwide government, the Rangers were an above-the-law police force 
with the authority to execute suspected criminals on sight. 

The age of space travel prevented the Rangers from becoming a tyrannical 
junta; the need to protect Trian from outside invaders took precedence over 
everything else, As the Trianii established colonies on the nearby planets of 
Brochiib, Ekibo, Fibuli, Pypin, Monic, and Perin, the Trianii Rangers grew in 
size in order to patrol the hyperspace lanes between the colonies and the 
homeworld, Piloting RX4 patrol ships and Kiree starfighters, members of the 
Rangers beat back incursions by the Kwapi pirates, the maggot-cyborgs of 
Hydra, and the Ugors, a meddlesome species that simply wanted 
to collect scrap metal. With a noble cause and the blessings 
of Trian’s many gods, the Rangers became a legendary 
force within the tiny Trianii Empire. 

Its dominance ended when the Corporate 
Sector Authority—a rapacious commercial 
entity established by the Empire—extended 
its influence into their region of the Tingel 
Arm, The proud Trianii Rangers could not 
let this outrage stand, but neither could 
it drive out all the CSA landing craft. The 
CSA annexed Fibuli and reinforced it with 
Espo troops, and the Rangers mobilized into 
tooth-and-nail conflict. Amused executives 
at the CSA suddenly took the matter more 
seriously when the Trianii Rangers sent back 
the severed hands of Espo officers. 

The war between the CSA and the outnum- 
bered Trianii dragged on for years, kept alive by 
the Rangers’ hit-and-fade tactics. Many captured 
Rangers were held in suspended-animation at Stars’ 
End prison on Mytus VII. A jailbreak from Stars’ End, 
followed by the Empire's collapse in 4 ABY, brought an 
end to hostilities with the CSA. The Trianii Rangers sub- 
sequently oversaw the colonization of 19 new worlds. 


METHODS 

The Trianii Rangers is an independent space force answerable to no one 
but voluntarily subordinate to the ruling yu'nar tribunals on its homeworld. 
Similar in some respects to Republic Sector Rangers, the Trianii Rangers 
is essentially a guerilla space force that is adept at hit-and-fade strikes 
launched from the cover of asteroid belts and planetary rings. Rangers units 
habitually execute risky, pinpoint hyperspace jumps right into the center 
of enemy convoys. lon cannons are often used on a first pass, allowing 
the Rangers attackers to disable an enemy craft and puncture its hull with 
lasers on a second pass, venting the targeted ship's atmosphere to space. If 
outgunned, Rangers flee—the better to fight another day. 

The Ranger navy lacks capital ships and fighter carriers, relying instead 
on one-person starfighters and small-crewed patrol boats. Members of 
the Rangers live aboard such vessels, enduring long deployments between 
resupplies at the secret Ranger network of asteroid and moon bases. Most 
Trianii Rangers assigned to the same patrol unit are family. 

After CSA warships start capturing Ranger vessels and locking their pilots 
in the Stars’ End prison, the Ranger ships are equipped with "hyperspace 
ripcords" to trigger an emergency blind jump. Pilots who use this escape 
sometimes die in collisions with mass shadows, but many are recovered by 
their comrades after a few days adrift. 

The CSA's annexation of Fibuli force the formerly free-roaming 
Rangers to commit to a sustained campaign to 
unseat its enemy. It harries the CSA's 
blockade from outposts in the sys- 
tem’s comet cloud and lands insurgent 
teams to harass CSA Espo troops on the 
ground. 
Ranger planetary commandos prefer 
close combat because their agility 
makes them natural martial artists. The 
ranged weapons in their possession are 
frequently crude and unreliable, having 
been purchased secondhand on the 
smugglers’ market. Ranger commandos 
have an affinity for grenades and are 
experts at camouflage, particularly in the 
wooded environments found on Trian, Fibuli, 
and other Trianii colonies, All Trianii have 
needie-sharp claws and prehensile tails, 
and members of the Rangers often fasten 
blades to their tail tips. Ranger comman- 
dos are among the few Trianii who wear 
light armor; most members of the spe- 
cies don't wear any clothing at all. 


A TRIANW RANGER 


Trianii culture is highly spiritual, expressed through the sacred arts of 
dance, athletics, and song, but members of the Rangers are less sentimen- 
tal and share a hard-bitten awareness of the grim reality of battle. Most 
members of the Rangers ascribe to the gloomy philosophies of Kunik, the 
goddess of bitter retribution and swift death. 

Generally, Rangers commandos encountered in the greater galaxy are 
outcasts. These individuals value adventure and personal glory more than 
the security of family and homeworld, and they might be bounty hunters, 
trackers, or pilots for hire. 


MISSIONS 

The Trianii Rangers is not a group of mercenaries. Despite its autonomy from 
its world’s central government, it remains fiercely devoted to the protection 
of Trianii space. Prior to the rise of the Empire, the Trianii Rangers commandos 
were the scourge of Tingel Arm star pirates and the Hiitite Ravagers (the 
raiding force of an aggressive local species). Combat was based exclusively 
in space, rarely spilling outside the borders of Trianii territory. The Rangers 
cared only about chasing off intruders, and did the jobs so well that outsiders 
never gained a foothold on Trianii worlds. 

The coming of the Corporate Sector Authority, however, forced the Rang- 
ers to split its ranks between ground commandos, dedicated to sabotage 
and assassination, and an outgunned space force that executed lightning 
raids and disappeared into secret bolt-holes. After the Battle of Endor, the 
Trianii Rangers became even more paranoid as its people expanded into 
new systems. 

“Shoot first, ask questions later” is the Trianii attitude toward newcomers 
when they think they hold the advantage. In the case of a large enemy force, 
the Rangers’ command assembles task groups or battle fleets by pulling naval 
units from the surrounding trisector, 

The Trianii suspicion of outsiders has effectively eliminated Trian’s galac~ 
tic trade, Because its armaments and equipment are often out of date, the 
Rangers constantly hones its combat skills to remain competitive against 
more sophisticated foes. 


RANK STRUCTURE 

The organization of the Trianii Rangers mirrors the ruling yu'nar triumvirates 
on the Trian homeworld. Three punctinos head the Rangers, their role roughly 
equivalent to that of naval admirals. Each punctino commands Ranger forces 
within a third of Trianii space, an area known asa trisector. Each trisector has 
an identical command setup. All of the ships within the trisector make up a 
single battle fleet. Groupings of 50 to 70 vessels are known as task groups 
and are headed by a commodore-level officer called a pyorn. Flotillas are 
smaller groupings of vessels headed by a captain or sinth. 

The ships of the Ranger fleet are unusual in that none of them is capital- 
class. RX4 patrol boats have crews of four and can double as troop carriers 
for 12 to 20 tightly packed warriors. The Kiree is a single-person starfighter 
deployed in pairs. The Trianii also operate a number of captured freighters, 
including common Corellian designs such as the YT series and the Action 
transport. 

Anew Ranger recruit is likely assigned a gunner position aboard a patrol 
boat. A promotion can lead to a pilot's role on a similar class of vessel. A 
pilot who proves unusually skilled wins the right to pilot a Kiree starfighter. 
During the Fibuli war with the CSA, new recruits often became ground 
soldiers, serving in groups of three to 10 under the leadership of a veteran 
forest-warfare commando. 

Because the Trianii Rangers is the self-run military force of an impov- 
erished culture, its members enjoy few perks. Homebrew intoxicants and 
musical instruments are the most popular distractions at base, enjoyed by 
rookies and punctinos alike. 


R FOES AND END OUR 
BLESSINGS TO KUNIK, 
ALL SCORES." 


oF TRIANH RANGERS 


9 
I 
bs 
v 
4 
a 
bi 
< 


Al ¥sievHD 


SLUINM 4BVLITW) 


WRAITH SQUADRON 


HISTORY 

Wraith Squadron is a patently bizarre starfighter unit. Although ostensibly 
created by New Republic Starfighter Command in 7 ABY, the squadron 
actually came to life as the result of a wager between Commander Wedge 
Antilles and Admiral Ackbar. Antilles, a starfighter ace who saw a military 
niche halfway between pilot and commando that he could fill, bet Ackbar that 
he could whip 10 washout flyers into fighting shape and build a hybrid unit. 
The members of Wraith Squadron, equally skilled in starfighter piloting and 
special-forces disciplines, applied their oddball personalities to espionage, 
sabotage, and infiltration missions that ultimately redefined New Republic 
Intelligence. 

Antilles appointed his friend and former wingman Wes Janson as the 
squadron's second in command. The first class of Wraiths included former 
child holodrama actor Garik "Face" Loran, moody sniper Myn Donos, geneti- 
cally altered Gamorrean fighter Voort “Piggy” saBinring, Admiral Ackbar’s 
niece Jesmin Ackbar, Bothan slicer Eurrsk "Grinder" Thri'ag, multiple- 
personality Thakwaash pilot Hohass “Runt” Ekwesh, and Kell Tainer, the son 
of a man that Wes Janson had been forced to kill during his time with the 
Tierfon Yellow Aces. The squadron trained at the moon base of Folor and 
drew the scorn of purist pilots. 

The Wraiths joined in the New Republic's campaign to defeat Warlord 
Zsinj, one of many Imperials trying to carve out his own piece of the splin- 
tering Empire, Admiral Trigit, commander of the Star Destroyer /mplacable 
in Zsinj's fleet, became the squadron's first target. After the members of 
Wraith Squadron captured the enemy corvette Night Caller and posed as 
the vessel's crew, they wormed their way into Zsinj's operation and set a 
trap for Admiral Trigit at Ession. Their efforts culminated in the destruction 
of the /mplacable. 

With their impersonation and infiltration tactics a proven success, the 
member of the Wraiths next posed as the Hawk-bats, an ersatz pirate 
band. After Zsinj recruited them, they gained valuable intelligence on the 
warlord's strike at the Kuat shipyards. Zsinj stole the Super Star Destroyer 
Razor's Kiss, and Wraith Squadron's effort to undo his triumph ended in the 
Battle of Selaggis. A massive New Republic naval taskforce seemingly ended 
Zsinj's threat forever. 

Wraith Squadron no longer fit the strict definition of a starfighter squad- 
ron. Its members underwent a reassignment from Starfighter Command to 
New Republic Intelligence, where they enjoyed far more autonomy. Under 
commander Garik Loran, Wraith Squadron aided in the fight against Admiral 
Daala, in the Black Fleet Crisis, and in the hunt for the Caamas Document. 


During the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, Wraith Squadron helped the Jedi 
kill yammosk war coordinators. Their diverse specialties allowed squadron 
members to fool the Yuuzhan Vong into thinking that Jaina Solo was the 
incarnation of the trickster goddess Yun-Harla and to create undercover 
disguises for accompanying Luke Skywalker on a mission to enemy-held 
Coruscant. After the war's end, Wraith Squadron continued to serve as 
Galactic Alliance Intelligence's preeminent field unit. 


METHODS 

Although the members of Wraith Squadron have become polished after 
years of working together, the team began as a mixed bag of misfits. Many 
observers thought that they would kill each other before their first mission, 
yet those colliding personalities frequently sparked brilliance. 

Unconventional solutions are a Wraith Squadron trademark. The team 
improvises with any tools at hand to pull off schemes that most would 
deem suicidal. During the campaign against Zsinj, the team captured the 
Night Caller by bolting maneuvering jets and an X-wing laser cannon onto 
an airtight smuggling compartment, creating a makeshift boarding craft 
dubbed the Lunatic. 

The Wraith Squadron has been compared to the Katarn Commandos, since 
both groups are 12-member field units made up of eccentrics and expected 
to accomplish tough missions on their own, But the Katarn Commandos 
is a superior straight commando unit, whereas Wraith Squadron views its 
members’ specialties as their "second jobs." All team members are pilots 
first and foremost, and most of the squadron's assignments involve space or 
atmospheric combat. Although Wraith Squadron is an X-wing squadron, its 
undercover roles require familiarity with a wide variety of fighters. 

When it takes to the ground, Wraith Squadron deploys in small teams with 
members chosen based on mission objectives. These are typically specialists 
in demolitions, computer slicing, and many other fields, and each team is 
often split into multiple air-surface units to provide air cover for infiltration 
and sabotage teams. 

The dozen members of Wraith Squadron have become respected veterans 
in New Republic Intelligence with a cloud of support staff at their disposal. It 
is not unusual for a members of Wraith Squadron to act as the commanding 
officer for a small team of NRI agents. 


MISSIONS 

Wedge Antilles founded Wraith Squadron when he saw an opportunity to fill 
a gap in the New Republic armed forces. Because pilots had no commando 
expertise and commandos had no piloting expertise, neither group could 
tackle a space/ground mission on its own. AS a pilot, Antilles naturally drew 
his candidates from the New Republic's X-wing ranks. For many of these 
candidates, marred by black marks for desertion, mental imbalance, or other 
flaws, Wraith Squadron represented their last chance, 


Early missions were frequently planned on the fly, after unexpected events 
and sudden reversals. Wraith Squadron still specializes in radical deviations 
from mission plans. For this reason, New Republic Intelligence generally gives 
the squadron an objective but doesn't sweat the details of how that objective 
will be achieved. Wraith Squadron is never subject to micromanaging from 
upper levels of the command chain, 

Asa starfighter squadron, Wraith Squadron almost always spends some 
of every mission inside cockpits. The squadron's tasks can include clearing 
out a starfighter screen above a target facility, providing strafing coverage 
for a ground team in trouble, or taking out an orbiting capital ship before it 
trains its turbolasers on the planet below. 

Ground missions are where the members of Wraith Squadron separate 
themselves from other famous pilots such as the flyers of Rogue Squadron. 
Although the Wraith team can blow things up with the best of them, its 
members have a particular expertise at adopting false identities to work their 
way into position for a stab at the enemy's heart. Master actor Garik Loran 
inspired such schemes as the impersonation of the Night Caller's crew, the 
creation of the phony Hawk-bat pirates, and the use of fake vonduun crab 
armor to make the Wraiths resemble Yuuzhan Vong warriors 


RANK STRUCTURE 

Despite their official status with New Republic Intelligence, the members 
of the Wraiths have Starfighter Command military ranks. A new member is 
likely to carry the rank of flight officer, and a veteran might have the rank 
of lieutenant. During Garik Loran’s first tenure as head of the Wraiths, he 
carried the rank of brevet captain; Wedge Antilles was a commander while 


doing the same. 
During the squadron's formation, its members rarely had the respect of 

their peers, regardless of rank. Later, after the squadron's reformation within 

NRI, the situation was reversed. Even a lowly flight officer with the Wraiths 

could hold a room of aces spellbound with tales of the squadron's exploits 
Vacancies in the squadron are filled according to role. Wraith Squadron 

maintains a diverse roster of specialists at all times. Although the roster 

tself is flexible, positions that Wraith Squadron regularly needs include 

the following 

* A demolitions expert who knows how to take out cannons and other 
large targets. 

* A computer slicer who can crack into protected data cores faster than 


any droid 
* An expert at mimicry who can take on the mannerisms of others for 
undercover ops. 


* Asniper for long-range backup and target elimination. 

* An atmospheric and ground vehicle specialist, capable of hotwiring and 
operating anything. 

© A comm specialist, able to boost the team’s signals, jam the enemy's 

signals, and encrypt sensitive messages. 

A medic for when field missions don't go as planned. 

© An intelligence and analysis expert, particularly useful during the plan- 
ning stages of an operation. 

© A stealth expert, who (unlike the mimic) can gain access to enemy 

stallations through quiet subterfuge. 

© A brawler and melee combatant able to handle any non-Human—the 
bigger and uglier, the better. 


WRAITH SQUADRON 


a 
CHAPTER V 
covhiadadd AND SoU CesT Anions 


No military campaign is complete without missions to infiltrate, sabotage, 
_ or destroy the opposing force's base of operations. Whether this means 
" breaking into an Imperial prison colony to rescue a Rebel agent or piloting 
a starfighter into the heart of the Death Star, military campaigns are full of 
adventures that involve heavily defended locales. This chapter covers every- 
thing the Gamemaster needs to create exciting adventuring sites—hereafter 
referred to generically as “battlestations"—from basic concepts all the way 
through encounter design. 

A battlestation is more than just a Death Star or some other massive 
superweapon. In this chapter, the term “battlestation" means a fortified and 
actively defended location where adventures will take place. A battlestation 
can come in many forms, whether it is a space station, a ground installation, 
or a capital ship. 

Of course, before the villains can wreak havoc with a battlestation or the , 
heroes can commander it for their own noble purposes, the place has to 
be built. This chapter not only covers the basic rules for assigning statistical 
values to the various aspects of a battlestation but also introduces factors 
that affect a station in the game. Moreover, it includes specific environment 
rules for creating encounters on battlestations. 


A esisvHoS 


THE BATTLESTATION TOOL KIT 
This chapter is more than just a collection of rules and advice on designing 

bases and locations; it also serves as a guide to creating a wide variety of (aa) 
adventuring settings. Although much of this chapter discusses rooms and 
locales inside battlestations, this information can also be applied to a wide 
variety of adventuring locations. The rules described in this chapter work 
just as well for creating an adventure where the heroes have to stage a raid 
‘on a high-rise industrial skyscraper as they do for an adventure where the 
heroes need to take out a shield generator on a remote moon. 

When picking up material from this chapter for your own campaign, simply 
be mindful of the basic principles behind things like battlestation CL and 
expected attack bonuses, skill DCs, and damage rolls. Those concepts can 
apply to many places, not just bases and battlestations, and can be useful 
in a wide range of situations. 


SNOliviSsSiiive ONv sssve 


GNOVLSSILLVE GNY SESvE) 


INTRODUCTION TO 
BATTLESTATION 
DESIGN 


Before delving too far into assigning statistics and preparing deck plans and 
layouts, it is important to set down some basic ideologies and philosophies 
for battlestation design. A hastily constructed battlestation might be just 
another superweapon or an unremarkable base, but a well-planned station 
can be a great addition to any campaign. By putting some effort into the 
station's construction, you can ensure that your locale will be both exciting 
and memorable. 


WHY USE BATTLESTATIONS? 

When you think of Star Wars, not many battlestations come to mind imme- 
diately. In fact, there are only a few such sites in the films. The two Death 
Stars are prominent examples in the Star Wars saga, although the chance to 
adventure on either is somewhat limited by the timeframe of their existence 
and the actions of the Rebels. Beyond the Death Stars, however, the films 
feature many different locations and environments that could be described 
as battlestations. 

Remember, a battlestation can be a basic fortified lair, but it also can be 
a space platform to a massive starship or a ground-based security complex. 
Almost any artificial structure constructed with defense in mind can be 
built using the guidelines in this chapter, so that you can take advantage of 
locations that already exist in the movies and other media. Chances are that 
many of the places your party has explored, from a Super Star Destroyer to 
a smuggling den hidden in an asteroid field, are battlestations in their own 
right. Other good examples of battlestations in the Star Wars films include the 
Theed Palace reactor chambers in The Phantom Menace, the Geonosian droid 
factory in Attack of the Clones, and the Endor bunker in Return of the Jedi. 

Battlestations make excellent adventuring locales. They provide a sense 
of mystery and suspense, always keeping the heroes wondering what's down 
the next hallway or behind the next door. Stations present numerous oppor- 
tunities for dangerous exploration, since they frequently contain automated 
defense systems and booby traps that can cause a lot of trouble for an 
adventuring party. Similarly, living and droid security units react forcefully 
to intruders, and with a creatively designed interior, such combat encounters 
can be cinematic and unique. Battlestations often present challenges to a 
party that can be solved only with quick thinking and resourceful problem 
solving. After all, it is far easier to lay down fire in a cantina than it is to do 
so in a magnetically sealed room. 

Likewise, battlestations offer heroic opportunities to characters of all 
types. Certainly the more dangerous stations crawling with stormtroopers 
and battle droids give soldiers and Jedi plenty of enemies to shoot and slice 
their way through. No two battlestations are the same, but the adaptability 
of scouts and scoundrels means that even situations for which a party was 
not prepared can be overcome with a little improvisation. Nobles, whose 


interpersonal skills are unrivaled, can use their talents for acting and smooth 
talking to convince security that everything is under control. Almost every 
character type has something to do on a battlestation. 

Adventures on battlestations bring an epic feel to campaigns, but more 
than that, they add variety and diversity to an already vast galaxy. With 
proper planning, these stations not only stand out in the minds of the play- 
ers but also keep the whole party involved and in highest form. The heroes 
can't slide through with only minimal or halfhearted effort, which means 
that battlestations make excellent additions to any campaign where the GM 
wants to turn up the intensity. 


DETERMINING PURPOSE 

The first step to planning and building a battlestation is determining its 
purpose. The purpose defines how much time and effort the GM will expend 
on creating the station and should play a major role in shaping all aspects of 
its design. When determining a battlestation's purpose, consider the amount 
of time that the station will appear in the game, its significance to the overall 
campaign, and its impact on the adventure. 


Single-Adventure Location 

A battlestation designed as a location for a single adventure should cater to 
the needs of the story. If the station is intended simply to be the backdrop 
for the scenario, you have a little more leeway in choosing the details of its 
design. For example, if the point of the adventure is to rescue a wealthy noble 
from a prison colony, your battlestation should include cells and security 
guards, but you have more flexibility in other aspects of the design. On the 
other hand, if the station is the focal point of the adventure, you should 
spend more time making sure that everything lines up logically. That is, if 
the heroes must destroy the prison colony rather than save a captive noble, 
encounters should revolve around reaching the station's weak points or 
setting the self-destruct mechanism, 

A single-adventure location is a one-shot, disposable battlestation. The 
site will have minimal or no impact on later adventures, so the station can 
serve its purpose and be left alone for the remainder of the campaign. You 
can prepare to let the heroes destroy or disable the station and move on to 
a whole new set of challenges and adventure opportunities. 


Multiple-Adventure Location 

You must take more care when designing a battlestation that is intended 
for use in multiple adventures. First of all, if the station will appear in later 
scenarios, it should be strong enough to withstand almost anything the party 
can throw at it. Prevent tampering by covering vent shafts and sealing off 
reactor cores with blast doors. A multiple-adventure location also should 
be designed to remain fresh through several gaming sessions; the heroes 
should not see the same scenery and explore the same areas during each 
adventure. Moreover, the objectives for each adventure should be affected 
by the events of previous adventures, offering a degree of continuity that 


makes the battlestation dynamic and gives the party the sense that they are 


an impact. For example, if the heroes blast through to reach 


jal, it is reasonable to assume that by the 


enture, a temporary structure will have been erected to replace the 
Jamaged by the party, 
entually, even a multiple 


sseful life and can be the center of an exciting clim; 


dventure location wil 


x toa portion of the cam 


sign. Over the course of several adventures, the p 


arty can slowly gain access 


estricted areas and build up to destroying or disabling 


Background Location 

background battlestation is one that does not feature prominently in 
ne of an adventure but could come into play at a later time. Unlike 
gle and multiple-adventure locations, a background location serves more 


ntvAsspeh, 


ain story! 


et piece or as flavor material than as a dangerous environme 


y background locations are lighter on intern: sible 


security, more acce: 


sm the outside, and less difficult to navigate. Such battlestations have 


re descriptive information and 


Ner g mechanics, and they rarely 


olve a large number of hazards or high-security zones. 


Common examples of background locations inclu 


de massive floating casi 


orbiting planets, space stations that have been converted zaars, 


ind the home bases of certain organizations. Sometimes, these locations are 
merely mentioned or involve characters other than the heroes. For example, 


rbital cloning facility might provide the party w 


th the clone troopers 


eds in order to raid a Confederacy stronghold, but the heroes mig 


nc 
it the complex themselves. On the other hand, they might decide to trave 


he facility to request aid in person rather than through bureaucratic 


hannels, in which case you should be prepared to use th 


¢ site as part ¢ 


adventure. Background locations are among the mo: 


dynamic in y 


ur game, 


‘ause when you are preparing for the session, you don’t know whether 


ich stations will come into play. 


Campaign Objective 


The campaign objective is a battlestation that represents the culmination 


of an entire campaign's worth of adventures. The station itself is the focu 
of the campaign and plays an integral role in its development. Adventure: 


revolve around traveling to and having encounters within the st 


he heroes can also procure plans, analyze 


sabotage critica 


aknesses, 


parts, and carry out other actions that lead up to a clima 


ic confr 


Dn or around the battlestation. Thus, you must be extremely atten 


Jesigning this type of location. Since so much of the campaign will revc 


around the station, you should plan out adventures so as not tc 
mportant plot points or ch 


eng 


s. To build suspense and excitement lead 


ng up to the final encounters, each adventure should bring the her e 


tep closer to their goal, until they reach the campaign clim 


he battlestation itself. 


De used 


a campaign objec: 


jaign, the heroes start by stealing 


Toprawa. The 


ne party must 


the station. Finally, in the campaign's climax, a 


the Death Star's destruction. The battlestation is 


ampaign, and the adventures involve the station in 


te in the final battle. 


Example 


Imagine that yo 


are designing a battlestation to serve as the backdrop of 


a campaign set during the Clone Wars. However, since the campaign could 


fast a while and you don't to discard the station right away, a multipl 


adventure battlestation migh he best choice. Thus, 


hen designing the 
site, keep in mind that it needs to survive the initial adventure so that it 


can be used later. 


DETERMINING FUNCTION 
Once you have determined a metagame purpose for the battlestation, the 


ext step is to determine 


he function it serves in the Star Wars galaxy. The 


ns can be broken down into four broad catego: 


most battles 


bat mechanism, the haven, the si 


perweapon, and the utility. 


A waieeHS 


> 
2 
G) 
0) 
@ 
22 
13} 


Combat Mechanism 

A facility designed to serve as a combat mechanism truly lives up to the 
battlestation classification. A combat mechanism is meant for defense (such 
as the Golan platforms that orbit many worlds) or attack (such as the space 
stations that orbit quarantined worlds to prevent starships from escaping). 
When designing a battlestation with this function, you should consider 
whether its primary focus is offensive power or defensive capabilities. If the 
former, the station should boast a heavy complement of weaponry, attack 
starfighters and bombers, and antiship defenses. Defensively minded stations 
should bulk up on shields, defensive starfighters (such as those used for plan- 
etary defense), advanced sensor systems, and transport ships for evacuations. 
These combat stations often keep a larger-than-average troop complement 
on board and frequently are utilitarian in design and decoration. 

A combat mechanism is one of the more common types of battlestations 
encountered by an adventuring party. The heavy defenses, extensive security 
measures, and militaristic function make these stations prime targets for 
infiltration and destruction. Of course, they also are the most deadly type of 
battlestation, and they make up for any vulnerability with sheer firepower. 
Although potentially fatal to heroes who try to assault or penetrate them, 
‘combat mechanisms typically safeguard something important and thus make 
excellent challenges for a party during the climax of an adventure. 


Haven 
A haven is a place where a certain group, species, government, or other 
organization meets and has its headquarters. More than anything else, this 
type of battlestation serves as a staging point for antagonists or allies. A 
haven can be a single-adventure or a multiple-adventure location, but it is not 
always the focal point of the action. Rather, the heroes’ activities determine 
to what degree the site is brought into play. This type of battlestation does 
not necessarily need to be integrated as tightly with the plot as other stations 
usually are, but feel free to do so if that works with the ongoing storyline. 
In an adventure, it's common for the party to encounter a hostile haven 
belonging to the enemy—after all, pirates and mercenaries have homes, too. 
But not all havens are populated exclusively by adversaries. Some battlesta- 
tions of this type are as much for friends as for foes, and these battlestations 
can come into play as safe ports of call or as places to rest and recuperate. 


Superweapon 

A superweapon is a battlestation with only one purpose: destruction. 
Although similar in many respects to combat mechanisms, superweapons 
do not necessarily have any overt military function other than the use of 
their main weapon. Centerpoint Station is one of the most obvious examples 
of such a superweapon: Capable of devastating entire star systems with its 
powerful interstellar blast, the station itself has no major weapon systems 
or defense mechanisms. However, that type of superweapon is the exception 


rather than the rule. The most famous superweapon of all, the Death Star, 
is a combination of combat mechanism and superweapon. Superweapons 
make great campaign objectives as well, and they often can lend the sense 
of urgency needed to keep a campaign moving quickly. 

When designing a superweapon, be careful that the battlestation does not 
become a cliché or a contrived plot device. To make the station unique, you 
should consider how it works and what purpose it serves in the campaign. 


Utility 
Some battlestations are built to serve a specific purpose. They produce 
something, provide a service, or perform a job that is highly specialized 
and often technical. These battlestations are called utilities because, rather 
than offering a place to stay or a bristling cache of weapons, they fulfill a 
particular function. Utilities frequently focus their resources on this func- 
tion and thus are slightly more vulnerable to attack. However, if the service 
provided or the product manufactured is highly valuable or rare, the owners, 
will beef up security to ensure that the station can defend itself. 

For example, a mining outpost that brings in valuable ores can be con= 
structed with defense in mind, giving it the feel of a battlestation. Orbital 
medical facilities housing cloning laboratories and food processing space 
stations integral to the chain of galactic food shipments are further examples 
of utility battlestations. Regardless of its specific function, a utility station 
should be constructed so as to allow the station to fulfill its purpose while 
giving heroes something to do on board. Usually, characters must deal with 
a challenging array of hazards related to the battlestation's purpose. 


Example 
‘Suppose an adventure involves a specific search-and-destroy mission given to 
the heroes by the Grand Army of the Republic, Since superweapons have already 
been used in the campaign (or perhaps you're planning on using one later), 
you could decide that a utility battlestation will provide a good backdrop for 
new story elements. The station will be a manufacturing plant that churns out 
battle droids by the thousands, and the heroes must shut it down before the 
Confederacy gains a new droid army to launch against the Republic's forces. 


DETERMINING FORM 

Now that you have determined the battlestation's function and its relevance 
to the campaign, you can start designing the station's physical aspects. The 
first step in this process is choosing the outer form, which gives the heroes 
a better idea of what to expect inside the station. 


Mobile Space Stations 

A mobile space station is one of the most common and flexible forms that 
a battlestation can take. Space stations are designed specifically to recre- 
ate terrestrial environments in space, and as a result, they have many of 
the familiar trappings of a ground-based environment. Turbolifts, offices, 


hallways, and other basic components provide the illusion that the station 
is just another facility for everyday use—one that happens to be in space. 
Mobile space stations also have a unique advantage in that they can travel 
from planet to planet, essentially appearing wherever you want them to be. 
This mobility makes such stations easy to use and allows them to threaten 
‘a number of targets in the galaxy rather than just a few. 


immobile Space Stations 

Less flexible than mobile space stations but no less functional, the immobile 
space stations found throughout the galaxy are solid defenders and reliable 
sentinels, Like mobile stations, these battlestations resemble terrestrial facili- 
ties in design, possibly to a greater degree because they often are tethered 
{either literally or figuratively) to a planetary mass. As a result, fixed stations 
are more easily stocked and can afford the luxury of depending on external 
resources, unlike battlestations that drift through space for extended periods 
of time. Immobile space stations are used most commonly as defense plat- 
forms and skyhooks, as orbital bases of operation in circumstances that require 
secrecy, and as extensions of the buildings on the planet below. Additionally, 
some immobile battlestations serve as outposts in deep space, as stopover 
points for travelers, and as observation posts for scientists and scouts. 


Starships 

The only starships that make good battlestations are those of capital scale. 
Massive Imperial ships such as Super Star Destroyers and the Eclipse bring 
new levels of firepower and fear to the galaxy, and are certainly battlesta- 
tions in their own right. Often larger and more thoroughly armed than space 
platforms and other fixed stations, some immense capital ships contain all 
the elements of a battlestation and function almost identically. No clear line 
exists to separate a capital ship from a battlestation, so feel free to turn such 
a ship into a station whenever internal adventuring is key. In space combat, 
the battlestation should be treated as a starship, but adventures that take 
place within the vessel can use battlestation rules. 


Terrestrial Battlestations 

Found almost anywhere in the galaxy, terrestrial battlestations are built 
on the ground or on other natural surfaces, such as asteroids. A terrestrial 
station is any facility, such as a smugglers’ den or a pirate alcove, that is 
defended, has security measures, and presents challenges for heroes trying to 
move through the complex. Most terrestrial battlestations include facilities 
that are similar to those of their spacefaring counterparts, but with some 
modifications. For example, ground-based stations, with no ability to move 
through space, often require a less volatile reactor core than is needed by 
larger space stations. 


Example 

Knowing that the party has had a number of ground-based adventures lately, 
you may decide to use a space vessel for your battlestation. Since the heroes’ 
mission requires them to be inserted onto a Confederacy-controlled world, 
a stationary space station in orbit would be a good choice. 


CONSIDERING ADVENTURES 

The final aspect to take into consideration before designing the specifics of a 
battlestation is the nature of the adventures that will involve the station. Think 
about the types of adventures and their level of difficulty. Planning for these 
elements in advance will help you prepare for the game more effectively. 


Adventure Types 

When you create a battlestation, the type of adventure that it will be used 
for should play an integral role in its design. For example, you must decide 
whether the heroes will assault the station from the outside or from within. 
If the adventure calls for an internal assault, you should spend more time 
mapping specific locations, determining Difficulty Classes for skill checks, 
planning patrol routes, and coming up with anything else that will be needed 
to keep the heroes moving through the station. Conversely, for an external 
attack, you should pay more attention to station defenses, vulnerabilities, 
specific systems that can be targeted from the outside, and possible star- 
fighter response to the assault; the interior of the battlestation is unlikely 
to come into play. Many adventures will require a mixture of interior and 
exterior assaults, and you should plan accordingly. 


Adventure Difficulty 

Another aspect of battlestation design is the difficulty of the adventures. 
The next section of this chapter explains how to simplify this decision by 
using Challenge Levels, but when creating the station, it's worth your time 
to consider the adventure and avoid elements that could prove too difficult 
or too easy for the characters in the party. 

For example, the Death Star is probably one of the most challenging 
battlestations in the entire Star Wars saga. As a whole, it is incredibly well 
defended, massively complex, and carefully guarded, and it contains areas 
that are impenetrable to assault. But the heroes manage to make their way 
through it and come out alive because they are involved with only a small por- 
tion of the station. Even with a huge, heavily protected site, you can limit the 
adventure to a smaller, contained region of the station. This process means 
that you have to design fewer areas in advance, and it allows lower-level 
heroes to begin adventuring in less dangerous sections of the battlestation, 
gradually gaining access to more difficult areas as they increase in level. 


BATTLESTATION 
CHALLENGE LEVEL 


The battlestations that are designed using the system in this chapter are 
based around the station's Challenge Level (CL). A battlestation’s CL is a 
number between 1 and 20 that helps you to gauge how difficult adventures 
in the station should be and allows for quick construction without requiring 
too much worry about whether the encounters are too hard or too easy. It is 
important to select the CL early so that you can develop your battlestation as. 
you go along rather than having to make decisions on the fly. A battlestation’s 
CLis very similar to the CL used for individual opponents such as stormtroop- 
ers and TIE fighters. However, unlike the CL of individual opponents, the 
CL of a station is merely an overarching guideline for determining attacks, 
defenses, and the Difficulty Class of skill checks. 

When designing a battlestation as part of an adventure, the best approach 
is to build the station around the party rather than choosing a fixed CL and 
trying to construct a station to match. In other words, determine the station's 
CL by looking at the party's level. For a group of five characters, the battlesta- 
tion's CL should roughly equal the characters’ average level, although it can 
be higher for tougher adventures or lower for easier ones. 


ADAPTING EXISTING ENVIRONMENTS 


One of the most common ways to construct a defensible terrestrial 
battlestation is to build it out of an existing structure. Although a station 
that is based on an abandoned building works fine, you can add extra 
flavor by choosing a more unusual or dangerous location. The following 
are a few examples of how you can adapt existing environments to fit 
the needs of a battlestation; by no means do they represent the full range 
of possible settings. 


Asteroid Base 

An asteroid base is a familiar choice for many pirate bands and smuggling 
groups. These battlestations can act as both terrestrial and space-faring 
facilities. An asteroid belt provides a natural defense against snooping 
starships and ensures that only those who know the base's coordinates 
and the safe path through the chunks of deadly rock can reach the base. 
Most asteroid bases camouflage their presence by blending in with the 
surrounding terrain and masking the site from sensors. 


Crashed Spacecraft 

A crashed starship offers a unique alternative to artificial constructs. 
Since many spacecraft already contain necessary systems such as power, 
life support, and gravity, it is not uncommon for the remains of a capital 


ship to be cannibalized to function as a battlestation. In these cases, the 
starship's own weaponry is used for defense (usually augmented with 
a colorful selection of extra equipment). If the systems were not too 
damaged in the crash, the ship's shield generators can repel even capital 
bombardment. 


Volcano Base 9 
Hazardous and volatile natural formations, volcanoes can be harnessed by 
the daring and transformed into battlestations that are unrivaled in the — 
danger they present for both builders and intruders. Some bold designers _ 
use the natural gas vents and magma flows of a volcano to provide thermal 
power for the station. Designers also might use cutting-edge terraforming _ 
technology to reroute lava flows in order to surround the station with 
deadly moats, and take advantage of toxic fumes from the volcano's emis- 
sions to repel unprepared invaders. Although building a station around 
‘such a treacherous land mass would be considered suicide by many, it 
offers a number of advantages for those willing to take the risk. 


ADVENTURE CL EASY DC MEDIUM DC 
1 13 18 
2-3 4 9 
4-5 16 21 
6-7 7 22 
8-9 18 23 
10-11 19 4 
12-13 2 26 
4 22 27 
15 22 a7 
16-17 23 28 
18-19 4 29 
20 26 3 


USING THE CL 

Throughout this chapter, you will find references to a battlestation's CL as 
a way of assigning a Difficulty Class to a skill check or of crafting encoun- 
ters that involve station personnel or hazards, Always remember that the 
battlestation’s CL is the key to accurately gauging the toughness of a 
particular obstacle, 

For the most part, descriptions of individual locations, hazards, encoun- 
ters, and so on will explain how to use the battlestation’s CL when determin- 
ing the challenge posed to the heroes. However, Gamemasters certainly will 
come up with ideas for obstacles that are not covered in this book. In such 
cases, the following guidelines might help you use the station's CL to design 
appropriate challenges. 


Skill Difficulties 

To determine the Difficulty Class of a skill check, find the battlestation's CL 
in the far left column of Table 5-1: Difficulty Classes for Battlestations by 
CL, On each row of the table, the DCs are broken into five broad categories 
to describe the difficulty of the skill check: easy, medium, moderate, hard, 
and heroic. Some skill checks have static DCs that are unrelated to the sta- 
tion's CL; for example, making a skill check to climb a ladder has roughly 
the same DC no matter where the ladder is located. However, many skill 
check DCs vary based on the particular battlestation. For example, the DC 
for opening a locked door with a Use Computer check might be much higher 
On a battlestation that has a higher CL, owing to the fact that the station 
has significantly better security protocols and is likely to keep its defense 
systems up-to-date. 


MODERATE DC HARD DC HEROIC DC 
23 26 3 
24 27 32 
26 29 34 
27 30 35 
28 32 37 
29 33 38 
3 35 40 
32 36 4 
32 7 42 
33 38 43 
34 39 44 
36 41 46 


This chapter frequently uses these five DC categories when referring 
to skill checks—for example, the text might say that an action requires a 
moderate Mechanics check or a hard Use Computer check. Simply consult 
Table 5-1, find the row for your station's CL, and find the column for that 
category. The resulting number is the DC for that skill check. 


Battlestation Encounters 

When designing a combat encounter for a battlestation, the rules are similar 
to those used for standard encounters. Since your station's CL should be 
close to the average party level, multiply the CL by 3, then choose enemies 
and hazards whose total combined CL is close to the tripled number. If you 
intentionally set the CL of the station higher than the average party level, 
you will create tougher encounters. So when using this system, keep in mind 
how closely the station's CL matches the average level of the heroes. 


Battlestation Hazards 
Other hazards that make attacks should use the battlestation’s CL to deter- 
mine how much damage those attacks should deal. A hazard, on average, 
should deal damage that is equal to 10 + one-half the battlestation’s CL. 
For example, each hazard on a CL 8 battlestation should deal an average 
of 14 points of damage. (Refer to Table 5-2 for the average damage roll 
associated with each game die. Choose a die multiple that comes to within 
2 points of your target damage.) To make a roll with an average of 14 points 
of damage, use 348. 

Hazards that make attack rolls should include a bonus to the roll that 
is equal to 2 + the battlestation’s CL. For example, each hazard on a CL 8 
battlestation should make attack rolls with a bonus of +10. When designing 


s 
Q 


SNOLLYLSSETLALIVE Guy sesvea) 


[A warevnS 


SNOLVLSSETLALVEG Guy sesve) 


hazards for a battlestation, consider the defense bonuses of the party. In 
general, a hazard should hit its target on a roll of 10 or higher on a d20 
(which represents a 55 percent chance). The hazards on a CL8 battlestation, 
including the +10 bonus to hazard attack rolls, would hit a character with a 
Reflex Defense of 20. Feel free to adjust these numbers when you design a 
battlestation in order to make it fit your heroes’ defenses. 


DIE AVERAGE DAMAGE 
d4 25 
d6 35 
d8 45 
d10 5.5 
di2 65 


SCALING THE RATING 
Sometimes a battlestation’s CL is too high or too low for a party, especially 
if the station was designed without those specific characters in mind (such 
as the stations in published adventures). You can still use these stations as 
adventuring locales by making a few adjustments to accommodate your 
group of heroes. For battlestations that are too easy, increase the station's 
CL, which has the effect of increasing the skill check DCs, the bonus to hazard 
attack rolls, and the damage dealt by hazards. You can justify the increased 
difficulty as security system upgrades, new ownership and management, or 
simply the advancement of technology. 

For battlestations that are too difficult for the heroes, reduce the station's 
CL (and, again, the skill check DCs, hazard attack rolls, and hazard damage). 
By keeping certain sections of the station off-limits to the party, you can 
plausibly explain why some areas are more difficult to access than others. 
In the same manner that Luke, Leia, Han, and Chewbacca ventured only 
through certain sections of the Death Star, you can reduce a larger and more 
dangerous station to a simpler path that still provides a challenge as well as 
an epic backdrop. This method works well with battlestations intended for 
use over multiple adventures. When the heroes first encounter the station, 
they can explore an area that has a relatively low CL. When they return 
several adventures later, they can tackle new sections that have higher CLs 
and more appropriate challenges. 


Example 

Suppose your game's party consists of five 7th-level characters. At this 
point in the campaign, they should encounter a battlestation with a CL of 
7. This number will be used throughout the rest of the design process in 
this chapter. 


BATTLESTATION 
INTERIOR LOCATIONS 


Once you have determined the battlestation's Challenge Level, you can start 
building the interior and preparing it for the arrival of the heroes. This section 
describes a number of common rooms that you can use in the construction 
of a battlestation. Simply choose the types of locations that you need for 
your adventure, or create your own using one or more of the examples as 
a starting point. Knowing your heroes’ goals (why they're going into the 
station) should help you select appropriate rooms, but consider becoming 
familiar with all the locations in advance. By doing so, you will be better 
prepared to improvise if the players deviate from the planned adventure by 
taking actions that you did not anticipate. 

The interior locations described below are basic representations that do 
not necessarily reflect what each location might be like in a fully developed 
battlestation. Later in the chapter, other aspects such as computer systems, 
security systems, and station hazards will be added to make each location 
unique and challenging. 


AIRLOCK 

An airlock is a room used to link a battlestation to spacefaring craft such as 
starships, escape pods, satellites, and other battlestations. An airlock creates 
an airtight seal between the two vessels that prevents the air from either 
‘one from escaping into the vacuum. The airlock is pressurized by internal 
air vents and serves as a corridor between the station and the other vessel. 
Typically, an airlock consists of a 2-square-by-4-square room with a few 
simple benches and two to six storage lockers bolted to the walls. Pulling a 
bench off a wall requires a DC 30 Strength check; each bench (10 hit points; 
DR 5) provides low cover when tipped on its side. Inside each storage locker 
is a standard zero-gravity-capable space suit, two lengths of liquid cable, a 
grappling spike launcher, a medpac, and two glowrods. A 2-meter-tall door 
seals the hatch to the access tunnel, which can be opened only when the 
airlock's sensors detect a sealed, pressurized connection on the other end. 
The airlock is connected to the rest of the battlestation by a standard blast 
door (750 hit points; DR 10; damage threshold 40; Strength DC 70/Break DC 
45). Someone inside the station can force entrance into the airlock by over- 
riding the command code to open the door, which requires either a medium 
Mechanics check (if the door connecting the airlock to the outside is closed) 
ora hard Mechanics check (if the door connecting the airlock to the outside 
is open). The difference in the checks is caused by the airlock's fail-safe 
controls, which can be overridden only with great difficulty, ensuring that 
breach into the vacuum remains sealed off—and that raiders using the airlock 
as a point of entry have more trouble breaking in. Forcing open the airlock 
door that leads outside the station (50 hit points; DR 10; damage threshold 
30; Strength DC 50/Break DC 35) requires a heroic Mechanics check due 
to the battlestation’s hard-coded fail-safe mechanisms. However, since the 
airlock door leads to a vacuum, even the slightest breach can rip the door 


: found on batt 


many cases they mimic actual Sse apipce detail. Surface 


cities have restaurants, shops, and occasionally apartments and other 
forms of housing for visiting diplomats and permanent crew members. 


Some high-ranking officers aboard battlestations live in lavish mansions 
and stylish homes. 

The biggest difference between battlestation surface cities and 
those found on planets is that most station cities are enclosed. Some 
buildings might jut up to impressive heights, but walkways and speeder 
paths remain at ground level, sealed off from the vacuum of space. 
Most battlestation surface cities are so small that anything other than 
surface-level travel is impractical, although a few cities are large enough 
to warrant their own hangar bays (in which case shuttle taxis are used to 
traverse long distances). Some surface cities have installed mass transit 
systems that are totally enclosed and use repulsorcraft that keep the 
traffic moving at a decent pace. 

If you want to include a surface city in your battlestation, treat it 
like any planetary city, with the exceptions noted above. Additionally, if 
the station belongs to a particular faction, the policies and personnel of 
the city should reflect that relationship. For example, the surface city of 
an Imperial battlestation is likely to have very strict laws and constant 
stormtrooper patrols. Black markets and criminal underworlds might exist 
on such a station, but for the most part, adventuring in the surface city 
would be like adventuring on Imperial Center. 


from its hinges. If the door takes more than 40 points of damage, it is torn 
away, exposing the airlock to the cold reaches of space. 

If the airlock door is breached or opened to space, characters in the 
airlock can try to grab handles mounted on the walls to avoid being sucked 
out into space (a DC 20 Climb check). The room is completely emptied and 
becomes a total vacuum in 1 round, and if the door to the interior of the 
battlestation is also open, atmosphere continues to blast out of the airlock 
with great force. Any round the interior door remains open, a character 
holding on to the handles inside the airlock can make a DC 20 Climb check 
to reach the emergency magnetic containment (magcon) activator, which 
causes a magnetic field to appear where the airlock door used to be. Once 
the field blocks the exit to space, the airlock refills with air and resumes 
normal pressure in 2 rounds. In the event of such a breach, alarms sound in 
the airlock’s control room, on the main bridge, and on the entire deck where 
the airlock is located. 


Ifa character is exposed to vacuum or sucked into space, he or she might 
begin to suffocate. For more details on vacuum exposure, see page 253 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


BARRACKS 
Most battlestations carrying some sort of troop complement have built-in 
barracks that serve as living quarters for soldiers and other security per- 
sonnel. A barracks is typically utilitarian and sparsely furnished, as fits the 
style of most military and paramilitary groups. Although most barracks are 
square or rectangular for easy movement and organization, they vary in size 
depending on the number of troops housed within, From one wall to the other, 
bunks can be stacked two, three, and four beds high to accommodate larger 
numbers of soldiers. Aisles run between the bunks, which provide cover. A 
character can topple a stacked bunk by making a DC 15 Strength check. Any 
characters in the path of the falling bunk are subject to an attack from a 
Large falling object (see page 254 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 
Storage lockers sit along the walls between the gaps in the bunks. The 
average locker contains two standard uniforms, a comlink, one blaster 
pistol or blaster rifle, a datapad, and personal items such as holos of family 
members or pieces of memorabilia. When closed, a locker can be opened by 
entering the soldier's personal access code. A character can force the lock 
open by making a medium Mechanics check. If the character has access to 


"inde" 


TYPICAL MILITARY BARRACKS 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
o 
a 
< 


SNOILVLSSTIALVEA Guy saesve) 


SNOLLZLASSTALIEA Guy Ssvea) ] 


a portable computer or datapad, he or she can crack the locker's code by 
making a moderate Use Computer check 

The barracks are joined to the corridors of the battlestation by a standard 
sliding metal door (50 hit points; DR 10; damage threshold 30; Strength DC 
50/Break DC 35). Because most troops work in shifts, roughly a third of the 
barracks’ residents are present in the room at any given time. 

The use of energy weapons in the barracks triggers alarms in that room, 
on the deck where the barracks are located, and in the closest backup bridge 
(or the primary command bridge, if it is closer) 


COMMAND BRIDGE 
The primary command bridge is the central brain of the battlestation, It serves 
as the main location from which the battlestation’s personnel coordinate 
the station's various control rooms, backup bridges, and other systems. The 
primary bridge contains a number of terminals where personnel monitor and 
control individual systems; see Computer Systems on page 159 for details. 
Each terminal has an emergency button that shuts it down and diverts control 
to the backup command bridge, in case of invasion. Pressing a shutdown 
button requires a swift action and sounds alarms in all control rooms and 
backup bridges, calling a security patrol to the primary command bridge. 
The room also contains a plethora of readouts and displays. These displays 
(5 hit points each) explode when destroyed, dealing 1d6 points of energy 
damage to any character standing in an adjacent square. 

The primary bridge is a key target for invaders trying to seize control of 
a battlestation, However, when the station is on alert, gaining access to the 
room is no simple task. The door is made of reinforced metal (60 hit points; 
DR 20; damage threshold 30; Strength DC 50/Break DC 35) and seals shut in 
the case of an emergency. Some command bridges also have direct turbolift 
access from another area of the station, but typically such lifts are well 
guarded to prevent unauthorized access. When the battlestation is not on 
alert, gaining access to the primary command bridge is as easy as opening 
the door, although two guards are stationed outside each point of entry. 


The primary bridge usually is staffed by one technician or pilot at each 
terminal, one to three station officers and commanders, and four to six 
security personnel. When the battlestation is on alert, the number of security 
personnel increases to a dozen or so. 

Computer terminals and chairs provide cover and have 5 hit points each; 
freestanding consoles also count as low objects. Emergency storage compart- 
ments built into the floor hold equipment such as breath masks, glowrods, fire 
extinguishers, and comlinks. Locating a storage compartment requires an easy 
Perception check if the character performing the search does not know its 
exact location (or even whether it exists). In addition, most primary bridges 
are attached to two to four escape pods for use in case of emergency. 


Backup Bridges 
In addition to the primary command bridge, larger battlestations typically 
have one or more backup bridges. In an emergency, a backup bridge can take 
over all station functions and issue commands in exactly the same fashion as 
the primary bridge. A backup bridge operates with half the normal number of 
crew that staffs a primary bridge, which is the bare minimum needed to do the 
job. If the backup bridge has fewer crew members than required, its personnel 
take a -2 penalty to skill checks to control the battlestation’s systems. 
Backup bridges are located in highly secure areas of the station so that 
control can be maintained during a crisis. Forcing the door to a backup bridge 
(50 hit points; DR 10; damage threshold 30; Strength DC 50/Break DC 35) 
requires a moderate Mechanics check to override the manual locks. 


Control Rooms 

Control rooms are smaller locations that serve a single purpose. Whereas the 
primary and backup bridges can control almost any battlestation function, 
each control room allows the crew within to direct one specific system, Large 
stations have many control rooms dispersed throughout the facility; smaller 
stations have fewer such rooms, 


Control rooms fall into one of five categories: engine/hyperdrive control, 
hangar control, security control, shields control, and weapons control. Each 
room runs only the system that falls under its jurisdiction 

Engine/hyperdrive control rooms are used by station personnel to direct 
the subspace movement of the battlestation, perform astrogation calcula- 
tions, and make the jump to lightspeed. 

Hangar control rooms are used by station personnel to oversee all traffic 
entering and exiting the station's hangar bays, check IFF (Identify Friend or 
Foe) transponders for false or forged identification codes, maintain magnetic 
field integrity, and operate tractor beams. 

Security control rooms are used by station personnel to monitor sensors and 
cameras, limit access to sensitive areas, and direct security personnel to possible 
problems (for more details, see Security Systems on page 153). Some battlesta- 
tions assign multiple security control rooms to each section in order to limit the 
capabilities of any single control room in case of unauthorized access, 

Shields control rooms are used by station personnel to maintain the 


station's shield generators. 

Weapons control rooms are used by station personnel to direct the sta- 
tion's complement of external defense systems. Frequently, these systems are 
broken down into smaller groups of weapons that are managed by separate 
control rooms 

In a typical control room, computer terminals line the walls, with chairs 
at each console. A standard room has two to four technicians working at 
several terminals, monitoring information and making sure that everything 
is functioning at peak capacity. A standard metal door (50 hit points; DR 10; 
damage threshold 30; Strength DC 50/Break DC 35) separates the control 
room from the rest of the station. Many control rooms have a secondary 
storage area that holds spare parts and repair droids until needed 


CORRIDOR 
A corridor is a hallway, usually 2 to 4 meters wide, that connects locations 
in the battlestation. Usually, corridors are open and free of obstructions 
to allow for easy passage of large numbers of crew. Most corridors are 
supported by heavy metal bulkheads, although sparsely furnished sections 
have grated or textured floor plates. The bulkheads protrude enough to be 
used as cover during a firefight. However, any character using a bulkhead 
as cover or concealment takes 1d4 points of energy damage whenever an 
energy weapon strikes the bulkhead. Gamemasters can rule that an energy 
attack hits a bulkhead when the cover bonus provided by the bulkhead is the 
difference between whether an attack hits or misses, or simply determine 
randomly on all missed attacks 

Corridors are lit by luma panels that fill the area with enough light to see 
clearly and without difficulty. If the luma panels in a given corridor are knocked 
out, emergency lighting is activated that bathes the corridor in dim red light 
Treat the entire corridor as being in shadowy illumination, and all characters 
without low-light vision or darkvision take the normal penalties. 


Sv 


GNY Si 


ve) 


SNOILVLSSTLA 


A BSisvHS 


SNOIAVLSSTALVE Guy sesve) 


At regular intervals along most corridors, storage lockers on the walls 
provide easy access to emergency equipment. These lockers contain fire 
extinguishers, hydrospanners, and tool kits capable of sealing off dangerous 
leaks or putting out fires. 

Corridors lead from one part of the battlestation to another and connect 
different levels with turbolifts, Additionally, corridors have access hatches 
that lead to vent shafts, garbage chutes, and service tunnels. These hatches 
are sealed with either simple mechanical locks, which can be bypassed with 
easy Mechanics checks, or electronic locks, which can be bypassed with 
medium Use Computer checks. However, certain maintenance access panels 
that lead to vital systems are wired into the battlestation security system and 
trigger alarms in the nearest security control room. Fires and hull breaches 
in a corridor can trigger a warning alarm in the nearest control room as well. 
Corridors that potentially could be vulnerable to a hull breach can be sealed 
off by blast doors, which can be shut by pressing the emergency seal button 
on the bulkhead next to each door. 


GUNNERY TOWER 

Considered by many to be the heart of any battlestation’s defenses, the gun- 
nery tower is an elevated structure that houses manned weapons systems 
and their power sources. The weapons, such as turbolaser batteries and ion 
cannons, protrude from the tower. Inside, gunners have access to targeting 
computers, enemy schematics, and tactical readouts. The interior of the tower 
is quite small and cannot accommodate more than the crew required to oper- 
ate the weapons. Gunnery towers are accessible through special turbolifts 
that move between the corridor below and the firing room; only gunners 
or technicians with the appropriate access code can operate the lifts. If a 
weapon is fired by a gunner who does not enter the appropriate firing code 
into the controls, alarms ring in the nearest weapons control room and a 
security patrol is called to investigate. Falsifying the access or firing codes 
is a difficult process and requires a hard Use Computer check. 

Most battlestation weapons have one, two, or three gunners and occa- 
sionally a single technician, The weapons can be manually disabled by making 
a medium Mechanics check from within the gunnery tower or by deactivat- 
ing the power source that supplies the tower with energy (for details, see 
Reactor Core on page 151). Dealing damage to a weapon might destroy it, 
but the weapon's power core or ammunition supply might detonate as well, 
destroying the tower and any character inside. 


HANGAR BAY 

The primary means of entrance to a battlestation, hangar bays are good 
locations for tense encounters and dangerous combat. With massive star- 
ships coming in and out, starfighters scrambling for defense, and captured 
freighters being investigated by station personnel, hangar bays can very 
quickly become very hectic. Most hangars are wide, open areas protected 
from the vacuum of space by a magnetic containment field (or magcon), 
which allows matter to pass through but keeps in atmosphere and pressure 


so that crew members and pilots can walk about the hangar. Deactivating 
the magcon depressurizes the hangar and sucks anything not bolted down 
into space. This can be accomplished in two ways. First, someone in the 
hangar control room can shut down the magcon; for details, see Computer 
Systems on page 159. Second, someone can disable the magcon's power 
source by shutting down the coupling stations attached to the magnetic 
field, by destroying the thick power conduits (20 hit points; DR 5; damage 
threshold 20; Strength DC 20/Break DC 20) that lead to the field generators, 
or by destroying the generators (30 hit points; DR 10; damage threshold 30; 
Strength DC 20/Break DC 20). 

A hangar bay usually is filled with a variety of objects and characters, 
Cargo crates can be found throughout; a single crate provides cover, and 
a stack of crates provides improved cover. If a crate is destroyed, it might 
release dangerous or explosive materials, so combatants ina firefight should 
take care when using crates for cover. Furthermore, few hangars have spot- 
less floors, and most are littered with pools of cleaning fluids, mechanical 
lubricants, and leaked coolant. A DC 15 Acrobatics check allows a character 
to move normally through a square that contains a puddle; a failed check 
means that he or she slips and falls prone, Additionally, certain puddles of 
chemicals are highly flammable. If a character makes a successful attack 
roll on such a puddle (Reflex Defense 10), the chemicals ignite and deal 146 
points of damage to any character in that square. A liquid spill of appropriate 
size (as determined by the GM) spreads 1 square in all directions each round, 
dealing the same fire damage to characters in affected squares. 

A number of systems allow for the maintenance, storage, and upkeep of 
starships in every hangar, First, refueling stations along the walls service 
the ships; each station is attached to a massive fuel storage tank (50 hit 


points; DR 10). Reducing the storage tank's hit points to 0 causes the tank 
to explode, dealing 10d10x2 damage to anything within a 4-square burst 
radius. Second, massive cranes lift heavy equipment and stored cargo into 
transport ships. The cranes are controlled from a computer terminal inside 
the hangar area; seizing control of a crane requires a medium Use Computer 
check at the terminal. Additionally, most battlestation hangar bays have 


tractor beams to guide ships into the narrow openings or draw in captured 
starships. Most stations also have specialized racks to accommodate star- 
fighters, allowing the vessels to be stacked and placed in rows to minimize 
the storage space required and to speed up launch. These racks grant pilots 
access to their starfighters by catwalks and extension bridges and allow 
technicians to repair and refuel the ships with greater speed. 

A starship explosion in a hangar can be devastating, An exploding ship 
deals damage equal to its collision damage (see page 173 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook) to any character inside the ship and to characters or objects 
within 4 squares of the ship. This damage might cause objects such as fuel 
tanks, volatile cargo, and torpedo and missile racks to explode as well. Stan- 
dard starship missile weapons have 20 hit points and DR 10 each; when a mis- 
sile is reduced to O hit points, its munitions explode and deal normal damage to 
any objects or characters within a 4-square blast radius. Any explosions, fires, 
or unscheduled weapons activity in a hangar bay automatically trigger alarms 
in the nearest hangar control room, although due to the constant activity in 
the hangar, any unusual occurrence is likely to be observed. 


WHAT SHIPS ARE IN THE 
HANGAR? 

Although different hangars carry different ships, Gamemasters can 
assume that stations belonging to certain factions likely have certain 
ships in their hangars at any given time. Below are starfighters, trans- 
Ports, and capital ships that probably are in the hangars of stations 
run by the named factions. Of course, this list of ships is by no means 
comprehensive, but it serves as a quick guideline when a hangar needs 
to be populated on short notice. 


TABLE S-3: COMMON SHIPS IN HANGARS = 
FACTION STARFIGHTERS TRANSPORTS, CAPITAL SHIPS 

Black Sun StarViper Luxury transport Bulk hauler 

Civilian 2-95 Headhunter Gallofree medium transport Bulk hauler 

Confederacy Droid starfighter C-9979 landing craft Commerce quild transport 


Corporate Sector 
Empire 

Hapes Cluster 
Jedi 

New Republic 
Planetary Defense 
Rebel Alliance 
Yuuzhan Vong 


Authority IRD, TIS Zeta 19 

TIE fighter/bomber/ interceptor 
My'til fighter/assault bomber 
Jedi starfighter 

AJE/K/XJ X-wing 

CloakShape, pinnace, Z-95 
A/B/x/Y-wing 

Coralskipper 


Etti light transport 
Lambda-class/Sentinel-class shuttle 
Luxury transport 

Republic diplomatic cruiser 

Action VI bulk transport 

Assault shuttle 

Tramp freighter 

Yorik-trema transport 


Marauder-class corvette 

Strike-class cruiser, Lancer-class frigate 
Hapes Nova-class cruiser 

Corona-class frigate, Majestic-class cruiser 
Sector patrol craft 

Corellian corvette 

"Frill Ma-Nat corvette 


A S8iavHo 


SNOLGLSITALV®A ONY SsESsve) 


A SSiavHo 


SNOLLVYLSSETALVE GuY SEsvE) 


LABORATORY 

Many battlestations that function as research and development facilities 
contain locations designated as laboratories, These laboratories can encom- 
pass weapons labs, robotics and cybernetics labs, cloning chambers, or labs 
specializing in any number of other scientific fields. Laboratories frequently 
are sealed off from general access and guarded according to their importance 
and level of secrecy. For example, a lab processing a new type of fuel that 
makes starships 10 percent more efficient probably has a pair of guards at 
the door and one to three guards inside, whereas the top-secret cloning 
laboratories of Emperor Palpatine are quarded by dozens of soldiers, towering 
Sovereign Protectors, and any manner of other nasty (and powerful) troops. 
A typical laboratory is protected by a standard metal door (50 hit points; 
DR 10; damage threshold 30; Strength DC 50/Break DC 35) but also has a 
secondary blast door (750 hit points; DR 10; damage threshold 40; Strength 
DC 70/Break DC 45) that can seal off the lab in case of emergency. 

Inside each laboratory, in addition to whatever materials and technolo- 
gies are being researched, safety lockers are placed at regular intervals. 
Each locker contains a chemical/radiation suit, a fire extinguisher, and two 
emergency medpacs. Lab stations, each of which typically is composed of a 


MUNDANE LOCATIONS 

This chapter describes many interior battlestation locations, but Game- 
‘masters can add mundane locations as filler. The most common mundane 
location is a storage room, piled high with crates and boxes, deactivated 
droids, and other items not currently in use. You can consider these rooms 
as equipment lockers or armories for the purposes of determining what is 
inside. Similarly, many battlestations have mess halls, recreation rooms, 
observation decks, banquet halls, and other similarly ordinary locations, 
Feel free to use and modify such rooms to suit the station's aesthetic 
design and the needs of the adventure. Additionally, mundane locations 
add flavor to battlestations, breaking up the utilitarian feel and making 
the site seem more diverse, 

__ In game mechanics terms, you can create these rooms by taking bits 
and pieces from the chapter's descriptions of other interior locations. For 
example, several entries provide cover bonuses from chairs and tables, 
perfect for filling out a banquet hall, Others have computer terminals that 
can translate into entertainment devices for playing games or watching 
holovids, a in recreation rooms. Furthermore, mundane locations 
are unlikely tobe guarded and can be prime locations for heroes to rest 
and regroup before continuing through the station. In fact, you can use 
mundane locations as a way to break up the action of a battlestation 
adventure and to add story elements that keep the plot moving forward. 
Since these rooms have few game mechanics, they provide opportunities 
for character interaction and roleplaying. 


single heavy-duty table (10 hit points; DR 10) and the necessary research 
tools, can be used to grant cover. 

Chemicals and liquids follow the same spill and flammability rules given 
in the Hangar Bay section above. Any fires or radiation leak in a laboratory 
immediately causes metal blast shields (50 hit points; DR 20; damage threshold 
50; Strength DC 50/Break DC 35) to seal the room and triggers alarms in the 
nearest control room and on the entire deck where the laboratory is located, 


MEDICAL BAY 
On a battlestation, medical bays are crucial to the continued health of the 
crew. Most medical bays are utilitarian in design in order to accommodate 
the maximum number of patients at a time, and they are equipped to act 
more as emergency response units than as long-term care centers. Patients in 
need of extensive recovery time are transported off the station to a planetary 
medical facility. Medical droids can handle most duties in a station's medical 
bay; any character else who makes a Treat Injury check in the bay gains a 
+2 equipment bonus to the check due to the sensors and patient monitors 
constantly at work. Additionally, most medical bays include one or more 
bacta tanks capable of accelerating a patient's rate of healing. 

Any weapons fire in a medical bay triggers alarms in the nearest control 
room and summons a security detail to investigate. Destroying a patient 
monitor or other piece of computer equipment (5 hit points) causes a shower 
of sparks that deals 1d4 points of damage to any characters in adjacent 
squares. Destroying a chemical tank (5 hit points; DR 5) in a medical bay 
causes a small explosion that deals normal hazard damage to all characters 
in adjacent squares. Additionally, breaking the transparisteel of a bacta 
tank (5 hit points) causes the bacta inside to spill onto the floor, forcing 
characters to make a DC 15 Acrobatics check to move without slipping and 
falling prone. When a tank spills its contents, any character in an adjacent 
square must succeed on this Acrobatics check immediately to avoid being 
knocked prone by the flow of bacta. Any character inside the tank at the 
time is dumped onto the floor of the medical bay. 

Most medical bays contain a wide variety of medical equipment and an 
almost unlimited number of medpacs and other one-use items. Additionally, 
the bays usually remain unguarded. Battlestations typically place guards ina 
medical bay only when a potentially dangerous prisoner is being treated. 


OFFICE 
Among the more routine locations on a battlestation, offices are where 
management personnel such as military officers and station commanders 
work on a daily basis. Each office is typically occupied by a single member of 
the staff, who has a desk (which can provide cover) and a built-in computer 
terminal for accessing the station's network. Most crew members also have 
@ few personal effects in their offices, and paranoid officers might hide a 
hold-out blaster pistol in a secret compartment (which can be found with 
a hard Perception check). 


e 


Generally, office doors (25 hit points; DR 5; damage threshold 10; Strength 
IC 15/Break DC 10) are programmed with the access code of the person who 
works in the room, and doors are monitored by the nearest security control 
room. If the security control room detects a problem, a patrol is dispatched 
the office to investigate, Additionally, most offices have panic buttons 


that, when pressed, set off alarms in the nearest security control room and 
automatically summon a security detail. 


REACTOR CORE 

A reactor core (also known as a main reactor) distributes power through: 

out a battlestation. The reactor core uses complex and highly dangerous 
machinery to generate the massive amount of energy needed to run all the 
station's systems. Reactor cores are categorized as either stable or volatile. 
Stable cores use common methods of power generation and are not prone to 
exploding when damaged or destroyed; instead, the core simply shuts dowr 
and ceases to provide power, causing the emergency backup batteries to kick 
n until the core can be repaired, Volatile reactor cores use less stable means 
of power generation and, if severely damaged, can explode with enough force 
to destroy the station. Volatile reactor cores allowed the Rebel Alliance to 
destroy both Death Stars with small amounts of munitions. Given the risks 
involved in using volatile reactor cores, in the time following the destruction 
of the Death Stars these reactors become the power source of last resort for 
those lacking the means to secure stable reactor cores. 


Reactor cores are very dangerous and give off deadly radiation. Most 
cores are shielded by massively thick metal walls (1,500 hit points; DR 10; 
damage threshold 100; Strength DC 70/Break DC 45), making it extremely 
difficult to break through to the reactor core chamber. The only access to 
the core chamber is through a special conduit used by maintenance person- 
nel. The conduit is sealed by a blast door (750 hit points; DR 10; damage 
threshold 40; Strength DC 70/Break DC 45) that can be opened only from 
the nearest security control room, and only when the reactor is powered 
down, If the blast door is opened or breached while the core is active, the 
entire deck suffers the effects of radiation based on the battlestation's CL 
(as in Table 5-4). For more details on radiation, see page 255 of the Saga 


Edition core rulebook. 


TABLE S-4: 
RADIATION SEVERITY BY 
BATTLESTATION CL 


BATTLESTATION CL RADIATION SEVERITY 


1-5 Mild 
6-10 Moderate 
11-15 Severe 
16-20 Extreme 
B 
7 
7 


| | il ? Ee 
é 
vd y) 
= ir 
= ca 
a iF 


Coupling Stations 


Power Coupling Station 


Computer Console ff 4 


a moderate Use Computer check 


bringing that system back online makir 

character car rg ¢ 
deal ‘0 the int 
e syster | to a station ha: 


U 


TACTICAL COMMAND CENTER 
and center, also called the war room, is the focal point 


ng on a battlestation, The war room is a place for naval 


t and plan their forces’ strategy during 
Most tactical command centers are equipped 
hree-dimensional holographic displays capable of 


3 and showing real-time updates of the progress of a 


Secvwe 


phical re 


ions give a broader view of the combat 


Ww 7 uipment bonus to any Knowledge (tactics) checks 
| 7 ar room. In addition to the holographic displays, 
) center of the room provide more detailed informa- 
6 communications transcripts, and individual 
@ 
x uarded while in use. Only four to 
most officer sre capable 
{ displays and computer terminals 
Z J for cover dur tandard metal door (50 hit points; 
(i 


shold 


3reak DC 35) limits access to 


rd security mea: are monitored from the nearest 
Me 


1 centers are empty of clut- 


sus equipment, to give personnel the freedom to move 


INTERNAL DEFENSES 
Managing an adventure aboard a battlestation can be tricky. Due to the 
complexity of the interior, only made worse as the station increases in 
size, a substantial number of options are available both to heroes and to 
station personnel, Gamemasters can make their jobs more manageable by 
assuming that most stations have some of the common internal defenses 
described below. 


SECURITY SYSTEMS 

Battlestations are not the kinds of locations where adventurers have free rein 
to do whatever they please. Most stations have complex security systems in 
place to ensure that only authorized personnel can move between certain 
sections and perform certain activities. A standard security system is moni- 
tored from specialized control rooms and is concerned primarily with detect- 
ing security violations and preventing unauthorized access to systems. 


Security Control Rooms 

Security control rooms are the primary means of monitoring the data pro- 
vided by a security system. Most control rooms are responsible for one to 
five decks aboard a battlestation, depending on the station's size and the 
complexity of the security system. These control rooms are almost completely 
autonomous and help decentralize the management of security. Thus, a 
battlestation can function even if one security control room is breached, 
and trespassers who seize a control room still find it just as dangerous to 
move through the station's security zones. Usually, the primary command 
bridge can override the security control rooms, but if the bridge falls into 
enemy hands, station personnel can disable that override power, allowing 
the control rooms to maintain their authority, 

Ina typical security control room, monitors constantly cycle among the 
visual feeds from security cameras and provide statistics on sensor read- 
ings throughout the control room's domain. Moreover, the room receives 
almost all alarm signals from the area it monitors, alerting the personnel 
at the computer terminals to hull breaches, unauthorized weapons fire, and 
More, Security control rooms dispatch troops to investigate disturbances 
and to capture intruders. Unless otherwise altered by the Gamemaster, 
security control rooms are similar in design and layout to other standard 
control rooms. 


Security Cameras 

Security cameras are one of the primary means of monitoring activity aboard 
a battlestation, especially in larger stations that contain many remote areas. 
A standard security camera (3 hit points) can be mounted on any wall or 
Ceiling and provides the security control room with a view of the area within 
a 6-square cone originating from the camera. If a character enters a square 
that is adjacent to the visual cone of a stationary camera, he or she can 


make a moderate Acrobatics check to avoid being spotted by the camera, A 
character can avoid being spotted by a mobile camera, which pans back and 
forth across an area to increase visual range, by making a hard Acrobatics 
check while moving through squares that are temporarily out of the camera's 
view. Additionally, many cameras remain dormant and activate only when 
the sensors inside a room indicate a presence that is worthy of attention; in 
these cases, disabling the sensors also effectively disables the camera. 


SENSORS 
The sensors aboard a battlestation can vary widely in capabilities, ranging 
from extremely precise to relatively vague. For the most part, sensors simply 
detect the presence of life or radiation, or provide general information about 
the condition of a given area. In rare cases, sensor suites are so advanced that 
they can detect the precise number of beings in an area, the species of those 
beings, and the weapons carried, The precision of the sensors depends on the 
battlestation's CL; see Table 5-5, Each level of precision is cumulative with 
all lesser levels; for example, sensors with medium precision can also detect 
everything that sensors with low and moderate precision can detect. 

Sensors are controlled, activated, and deactivated from the security 
control room. In most cases, the actual sensors are incredibly hard to find, 
since they are little more than computerized receptors built into the walls 
and other structures of the battlestation. Finding the sensor nodes in a 
particular room requires a heroic Perception check, and tampering with a 
node almost always triggers a sensor alarm. Disconnecting the power to 
a node requires a hard Mechanics check; a successful check immediately 
‘shuts down that sensor. 


TABLE S-S: SENSOR PRECISION 


BATTLESTATION CL ‘SENSOR PRECISION 

1-4 Low; detects power failures, basic system 
malfunctions, and local alarms 

5-8 Moderate; detects presence of life, relative 
environmental conditions within the area 

9-12 Medium; detects number of lifeforms, 
weapons fire, presence of droids 

13-16 Heavy; determined species of lifeforms, 
models of droids 

17-20 Exact; determines health of lifeforms, 


weapons and equipment carried 


A waLawne 


SNOUVALSSTLAVE Guy sasve 


Droid Detectors 

Since droids differ so greatly from living creatures, specialized droid detec- 
tors were created to distinguish them. Normally, sensors that detect organic 
beings ignore droids, reading them as pieces of machinery much like computer 
terminals and sliding doors. Droid detectors, on the other hand, recognize the 
traits that make droids more than standard machinery, such as their special 
information processors and power units. 

On battlestations, droid detectors are panels roughly 1 meter square that 
are placed in door frames or narrow passageways so that any being entering 
the room must pass between them. The detectors produce a sensor field that 
constantly monitors for the presence of droids, When a droid passes through 
the field, the detector reacts based on its current settings; some detectors 
emit an alarm and have light panels that flash, and others quietly transmit 
an alarm to the nearest security control room. Disconnecting one panel of 
a droid detector (which requires a moderate Mechanics check) shuts down 
the field and renders the detector inoperable. 

Droid detectors can be customized to allow droids carrying a certain 
transponder within their chassis to pass through the field without triggering 
an alarm, which is useful on battlestations where droids are common laborers 
and messengers. Additionally, some droids can be modified in such a way that 
they are masked from detectors; in fact, some of the Human replica droids 
in the galaxy come with such a device installed by default. 


Heat Sensors 

Originally designed as a means to ensure that rooms near reactor cores 
remained at reasonable temperatures, heat sensors installed in battlestations 
and other facilities came to be used for other purposes. The sensors are not 
so precise as to be able to detect the increase in room temperature generated 
by a single living being, but as the number of creatures in a room grows, so 
does the temperature. Heat sensors are relatively ineffective in rooms larger 
than 10 squares in any dimension, since at that point, the movement of air 
currents interferes with accurate readings. 

Most heat sensors cannot detect the presence of five or fewer living 
beings in a given room. For each being that enters the room after the fifth, 
there is a cumulative 10% chance that the sensors will register the increase 
in temperature and alert the nearest security control room (roll a d10; if 
the result is equal to or lower than the number of beings in the room minus 
5, the sensors are triggered). Droids do not count toward increasing the 
temperature in a given room, but fire from energy weapons or explosives 
automatically triggers the heat sensor. 


Motion Detectors 
Motion detectors are among the most widely used sensors in the galaxy, 
Not every battlestation employs them, but they are often tied to security 
cameras so that the cameras can conserve energy and remain dormant when 
not in use, Unlike normal sensors, motion detectors are simple devices that 
have two modes: active and inactive. They do not register the number of 
beings or objects moving through an area, only that something is moving, A 
motion detector is triggered if any creature moves 1 square or more within 
the detector's area. When triggered, the detector immediately performs a 
simple, predetermined action, such as activating a security camera, power- 
ing the lights, signaling the nearest security control room, opening a door, 
and so on. 
Due to the simplicity of motion detectors, they are almost impossible to 
avoid. The best approach is to deactivate them in a nearby security contro} 
room. Trespassers can also shut down a motion detector by making a moder 
ate Perception check to locate the correct conduit and an easy Mechanics 
check to cut the power. Usually, a detector's conduit is found in a service 
and maintenance access tunnel, 


Sonic Sensors 
Less common than other types of sensors, sonic sensors can sound alarms 
and perform actions based on the sounds emitted within their range. Most 
sonic sensors are used only in areas of low or highly restricted activity, since 
any location that constantly generates noise will make a sonic sensor useless, 
Like motion detectors, sonic sensors are all-or-nothing devices. Any noise 
within a sensor's range and sensitivity will activate the sensor and trigger 
the command it has been programmed to perform. Avoiding a sonic sensor 
requires a moderate Stealth check; failure automatically triggers the sensor. 
Sonic sensors can be disabled in the same way as motion detectors. 


Tripwire Lasers 
A favorite detection method of battlestations unafraid to set nasty traps for 
invaders, tripwire lasers can trigger explosives or other hazards. A tripwire 
laser is a small device (3 hit points) that emits a tiny, visible beam in a dirt 
path to a receiver on a facing wall. Breaking the beam triggers whatever i 
connected to the device, causing automated weapons to fire, munitions to 
explode, trap doors to open, incinerators to activate, airlocks to open int 
space, and so on. 
Tripwire lasers are visible to the naked eye but easy to miss. If a character 
is actively looking for the beam, a medium Perception check will reveal i 
presence; otherwise, a heroic Perception check is needed to spot the beam. 
Most tripwire lasers are placed at ankle or knee height across a doorway 
or between two walls, requiring an easy Acrobatics check to avoid. Each 
additional laser placed parallel to the first adds 5 to the DC of the Acrobati 
check, up to a maximum of +15. 


lll 


AUTOMATED DEFENSE 
SYSTEmMs 

Acommon presence in most battlestations, automated defense systems are 
a deadly part of security. They frequently use autoblaster laser cannons, 
although nonlethal systems might use stun varieties of the weapon. Most 
automated systems are controlled from the security control room and are 
activated only on command—a safeguard to prevent authorized personnel 
from being attacked due to malfunction or mechanical failure. An autoblaster 
(5 hit points; DR 5) makes one attack per round at an attack bonus equal to 
a station hazard's expected attack roll, and it has an initiative equal to 5 + 
the battlestation’s CL. For example, on a CL 6 station, autoblasters attack on 
an initiative count of 11 with an attack bonus of +8. Autoblasters are usually 
clumped in groups of two or three and can effectively hold off intruders 
until security forces arrive. 


ALARMS AND RESPONSES 

Most security systems that monitor sensitive areas of a battlestation trigger 
alarms that warn the station's controllers about tampering or trouble. When 
an alarm sounds, sirens blare in the room where the alarm originates as 
well as in the surrounding area. (Silent alarms typically are used only when 
setting a trap for intruders.) The system also alerts the nearest security 
control room and other designated control rooms, which then issue the 
appropriate response. 

Several degrees of alarms can be triggered; each results in a specific 
response and might raise the battlestation alert level. Table 5~6 shows the 
response time for different alarms based on the station's CL. 

Level 1 Alarms: Level 1 alarms are reserved for technical problems, minor 
malfunctions, sensor anomalies, and other noncritical system failures. When 
a computer system goes offline or cameras break down, level 1 alarms notify 
the nearest security control room and summon technicians or engineers to 
handle the problem. The typical response team to a level 1 alarm consists of 
technicians and engineers with one or two security guards and, if needed, 
labor or repair droids. When a section of the battlestation is on alert or high 
alert status, level 1 alarms are automatically upgraded to level 2 alarms. 

Level 2 Alarms: Level 2 alarms indicate possible security breaches and 
potentially harmful or fatal problems. Unauthorized weapons fire, minor 
reactor leaks, security systems alerts, and the possible presence of intruders 
are cause for a level 2 alarm. Most level 2 alarms receive a response consist- 
ing of a security detail and one or two technicians in case of mechanical 
Problems, and the control room chief usually places the section in which 
the alarm sounded on alert status. If a section of the battlestation is already 
on alert or high alert status, level 2 alarms that sound in that section are 
automatically upgraded to level 3 alarms, 


Level 3 Alarms: Level 3 alarms signify major problems and threats to the 
station. The confirmed presence of intruders, major reactor malfunctions, 
internal explosions, escaping prisoners, and hull breaches trigger a level 3 
alarm. These alarms almost always summon one or two security details as well 
as station officers and, occasionally, security droids. Additionally, the section 
in which a level 3 alarm sounded is automatically placed on high alert status, 
and surrounding sections are automatically placed on alert status. 

Alert Status: Placing a section on alert status means upgrading the 
awareness of personnel so that they are prepared for possible trouble. When 
a section is on alert, alarms that sound in the section are treated more seri- 
ously. Crew members in the section are more suspicious of anomalies and 
glitches in station systems and are less likely to overlook problems or dismiss 
unfamiliar faces. A section on alert prepares for possible combat and is less 
likely to be surprised. For the purposes of determining skill check DCs and 
running combat encounters, treat a section on alert as having a CL that is 3 
higher than the battlestation's CL. 

High Alert Status: Areas of a battlestation are placed on high alert status 
when there is a clear and present danger to the station and its personnel. 
The status represents the greatest possible level of preparation. Troops 
carry their weapons with the safeties off, security guards constantly scan 
for people or items that are out of place, and computer systems are locked 
down and monitored closely for tampering. All guard positions have twice as 
many guards on duty, and section personnel are ready for battle and almost 
never surprised. For the purposes of determining skill check DCs and running 
combat encounters, treat a section on high alert as having a CL that is 5 
higher than the battlestation's CL. 


STATION LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 
cL ALARMS ALARMS ALARMS 
1-4 1410 minutes 16 minutes 1412 rounds 
5-8 2d4 minutes 1d4 minutes 1410 rounds 
9-12 18 minutes 4d10 rounds 148 rounds 
13-16 1d6 minutes 2d10 rounds 1d6 rounds 
17-20 1d4 minutes 1410 rounds 104 rounds 


SNOUVASESTLAVE envy sasve |i xsareens —) 


A esievnS 


RESTRICTED ACCESS 

In a battlestation, one of the biggest obstacles faced by adventurers is the 
difficulty of moving from place to place. Stations restrict access to certain 
areas to reduce the potential for security breaches and to limit the damage 
that can be caused by individuals. This section of the chapter describes 
common methods for restricting access. Gamemasters can decide whether 
heroes are able to bypass each restriction. 


STANDARD DOORS 

Aboard a battlestation, a standard door (50 hit points; DR 10; damage thresh- 
old 30; Strength DC 50/Break DC 35) is composed of solid metal with only a 
few working parts. Each door is opened by a simple mechanism that slides the 
door horizontally or vertically, retracting it into an alcove that holds the door 
in place until it closes again. Due to the force and speed with which doors 
close, any being in the path of a closing door is targeted by a hazard attack; 
if the being is hit, he or she is caught and crushed by the door, taking normal 
hazard damage. Additionally, the being is pinned to the ground or wall and 
cannot move until the door opens again. Opening a door by force requires 
a DC 35 Strength check to overcome the door's mechanical systems; if the 
door is unpowered, these systems become dormant, reducing the Strength 
check to DC 20. A standard door can be opened, closed, jammed, and locked 
from control panels built into nearby walls or the door frame. 


DOORS AND 

THE CONDITION TRACK 

When a door moves a negative number of steps on the condition track, 
its damage threshold is reduced as normal, and the door also becomes 
easier to open. Apply condition track penalties to a door's DR, Strength, 
and Break DC as well. A door that is pushed to the bottom of the condi- 
tion track is disabled—in other words, opened. 


BLaAsT DOORS 

Blast doors are made of incredibly dense metals that diffuse energy that 
might penetrate a normal door. Blast doors protect command bridges and 
other sensitive areas that might be exposed to powerful bursts of energy. 
For instance, blast doors sometimes seal corridors leading to hangar bays 
to prevent weapons fire from ships in the hangar from damaging sections 
deeper in the station. Most blast doors consist of two or more sections that 
converge toward the center of the frame and connect to form a solid shield. 
Thinner, single-paned blast doors (350 hit points; DR 10; damage threshold 
35; Strength DC 70/Break DC 45) close relatively quickly, in the span of only 
1 round. Thicker, double-paned blast doors (750 hit points; DR 10; damage 
threshold 40; Strength DC 70/Break DC 45), which usually consist of several 


converging parts, close in 2 rounds. Opening a blast door by force requires 
a DC 45 Strength check, reduced to DC 25 if the door is not powered. Like 
standard doors, a blast door can be opened, closed, jammed, and locked from 
control panels built into nearby walls or the door frame. 


MAGNETICALLY SEALED DOORS 
AND ROOMS 

Some doors and rooms are magnetically sealed to prevent the escape of 
energy. The process of magnetically sealing a surface is complicated and 
expensive, so it is reserved for areas in sensitive locations that are exposed 
to energy weapons. The sealing process causes the bolts from blasters and 
similar energy weapons to reflect off the surface in a random direction 
without dealing damage to the surface. Each time an energy bolt bounces 
off a magnetically sealed surface, a small amount of the energy is diffused, 
and, eventually, the energy is completely dispersed. 

In game terms, when a blaster shot or other energy projectile hits a 
magnetically sealed surface, subtract one damage die from the bolt's 
current damage amount, and roll on the magnetic seal deviation chart to 
determine the bolt's new reflected direction, For example, if a bolt fired at 
a magnetically sealed door normally deals 3d8 points of damage, the bolt 
travels off the door in a random direction and deals 2d8 points of damage 
to the target it hits, If the bolt strikes another magnetically sealed surface, 
it again bounces off in a random direction, this time dealing 1d8 points of 
damage to the target it hits. When a reflected bolt passes through a square 
occupied by a character participating in combat, use the bolt's original attack 
roll to determine whether it strikes that character. If the bolt misses a target, 
it continues along the same trajectory. 


BLAST DEVIATION CHART 


CUTTING THROUGH DOORS 

Trying to blast through a sealed door often requires a barrage of blaster fire 
or an explosive charge, but specialized cutting lasers make it much easier to 
slice one's way through. Using a plasma portal cutter, invading forces can 
penetrate a sealed door in a matter of seconds as opposed to the several 
minutes it would take to blast through with conventional weapons. The invad- 
ers simply place the plasma cutter on the door, activate the device, and stand 
clear as it burns through the door in a few rounds, When the integrity of the 
door has been compromised (meaning that the door has been reduced to 0 
hit points or moved to the bottom of the condition track), the section sliced 
out by the plasma cutter explodes inward, dealing 2d6 points of energy and 
piercing damage to any character standing adjacent to the other side of the 
door. In A New Hope, Lord Vader and his stormtroopers used a plasma cutter 
to break through the door when they invaded the Tantive IV. 


SHOOTING CONTROL PANELS 

A reckless but effective way of sealing a door, shooting the door control 
panel immobilizes the door in its current position, Additionally, the damage 
to the control panel short circuits other control panels linked to the same 
door. Any character stuck on the other side of a sealed door must repair the 
control panel on that side before the door can be opened. For example, when 
Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia fled a squad of stormtroopers aboard the 
Death Star, Luke shut the door using a control panel and then shot the panel, 
sealing the door closed. The downside of this tactic, illustrated so well in the 
same scene, is that the control panel—which potentially can operate other 
doors and bridges—will not function until replaced or repaired. 

Shooting a door contro! panel with an ion weapon is a more effective 
way of neutralizing the panel without destroying it. A successful attack 
inst a control panel with a weapon that deals ion damage automatically 
tivates the panel and resets all its systems to their default positions. 
(The panel is automatically moved to the bottom of the condition track.) 
Doors open and extendable bridges retract, and they remain in those posi- 
tions until the panel is repaired 


PLASMA CUTTERS AND 
BATTERING RAMS 

A standard plasma portal cutter is used as described in Cutting Through 
Doors. A cutter is Large, costs 10,000 credits, and weighs 110 kilograms. 
A DC 15 Mechanics check is required to attach a plasma portal cutter 
to a door. Once activated, the cutter deals 30 points of damage to 
the door each round. The Squib battering ram, featured on page 52 of 
Scum and Villainy, is another common device used to breach doors in 
battlestations. 


EXTENDABLE BRIDGES 

Many battlestations have cavernous vent shafts to release the heat generated 
by their massive reactor cores. Crossing through a shaft can be tricky, since 
most have a diameter of hundreds of feet, and any permanent obstruction 


could increase the amount of heat trapped near the reactor core. Stations 
often install extendable bridges to allow personnel to pass through cooling 
shafts without impeding their function. Because the bridges work well, sta~ 
tions sometimes install them in other locations to avoid space limitations 
and cut down on construction costs. 

An extendable bridge is activated from a side wall panel, which frequently 
s integrated into the same control pad used for the door of the corridor that 
leads to the bridge. Once activated, a bridge extends at a rate of 12 squares 
per round until it reaches the far side of the gap it is crossing. Most extend- 
able bridges have no handrails or other safety mechanisms, so any character 
who takes damage that equals of exceeds his or her damage threshold while 
standing on a bridge must make a DC 15 Acrobatics check to keep from falling 
off the side. A character who fails the check must make a DC 20 Climb check 
to grab the ledge, then take a move action to pull himself or herself back up 
onto the bridge. Failing the Climb check causes the character to fall. 


A 8sisveH: 


Sasyt 


SNOLLVLSEETLALVE) GNY & 


SNOLLVLSSTALIE Guy sesvea 


FORCE FIELDS 

Force fields cannot be damaged and prevent all matter and energy from 
passing through; most conventional and energy weapons, including lightsa- 
bers and ion guns, are useless against them. Although force fields are more 
effective and reliable than standard doors and walls, they require greater 
power and more regular maintenance. As a result, battlestations use force 
fields only in special situations. In some stations, personnel in security control 
rooms can activate emergency force fields as needed to block off certain 
areas or trap invaders. 

It is possible to overcome a force field, although the process is difficult 
and requires unconventional means. One method is to overload the field’s 
energy buffers and place a great burden on the generators. After 5 rounds of 
applying constant energy to the force field generator, such as by connecting 
the field's generator to another power generator, the field deactivates, and 
the power source applied to the force field is destroyed. 


TURBOLIFTS 

The standard means of moving between decks on a battlestation, turbolifts 
are rapidly moving cars inside narrow shafts. A standard turbolift can accom- 
modate four Medium beings and their carried gear, and a freight turbolift 
can hold 10 to 12 Medium beings or large items and cargo. On each deck of 
the station, a control panel outside a turbolift shaft is used to call the car. 


Inside each car, a control panel grants access to certain decks depending 
on the authorization of the passengers. Each car can move two floors in 1 
round and has built-in inertial compensators to prevent the passengers from 
feeling the effects of rapid acceleration or deceleration. 

Turbolift doors can be forced open with a DC 20 Strength check; opening 
the doors this way is a full-round action. In addition, each turbolift car hasa 
maintenance access hatch in the floor and another in the ceiling, used in the 
rare case of mechanical failure. A passenger can find either hatch by making 
a DC 10 Perception check. If either hatch is opened, a signal is sent to the 
nearest security control room indicating that the turbolift car is undergoing 
some kind of malfunction. 


TRAVELING THROUGH 
TURBOLIFT SHAFTS 
Turbolift shafts are a favorite means of movement for those who are aboard 
a battlestation without proper authorization, By stopping a turbolift car and 
exiting through the ceiling or floor hatch, infiltrators can enter the shaft 
itself. A ladder along the wall of the shaft allows technicians to reach mal- 
functioning cars. Moving up and down the ladder without falling requires a 
DC 10 Climb check. However, unauthorized climbers should take care—if the 
turbolift car starts moving again, the character could be injured or killed, 

If the character is below a car that starts moving downward, he or she can 
make a DC 25 Jump check to leap back into the car through the open floor 
hatch. A failed check means that the character is knocked off the ladder and 
falls to the bottom of the turbolift shaft, taking falling damage as normal 
(the distance between decks is roughly 3 squares). Furthermore, if the car 
descends to the bottom of the shaft, the character will be crushed, taking 
normal hazard damage each round that he or she remains crushed 

If the character is caught above a turbolift car that starts moving upward, 
the character can simply drop onto the car as it approaches and climb in the 
open ceiling hatch. If the character cannot enter the car, he or she will be 
crushed against the top of the shaft if the car goes to the top deck, taking 
normal hazard damage each round that he or she remains crushed 


SECRET ROOMS 

AND CORRIDORS 

Many battlestations have hidden rooms and access tunnels whose doors and 
hatches are designed to blend in with regular walls, floors, and ceilings. These 
concealed areas can be used to house top-secret research, store clandestine 
equipment, or provide solitude for station commanders wishing to vanish 
for a short time. Secret rooms and corridors function exactly like standard 
battlestation locales except for their means of access. Finding the entrance 
to a secret area requires a hard Perception check. 


place on the Se to the station and assign ees of security 
clearance accordingly. 

The heroes can manipulate control panels by making Mechanics and 
Use Computer checks. They also can use the computers in security control 
rooms to try to override normal access restrictions. 


SECONDARY CONDUITS 

Whereas ordinary corridors provide access to most sections of a battlestation, 
engineers and technicians use secondary conduits and access tunnels to reach 
parts of the station that the majority of its personnel never see. Additionally, 
air vents and waste ducts travel throughout all parts of the station, creating 
a network of passages that remain hidden from the general crew. Grates and 
doors seal off these conduits from the rest of the station and are normal 
barriers to entrance. A favorite tactic of infiltrators is to use these conduits 
to move about, thereby avoiding most usual security measures. 

Where do the secondary conduits go? Air ducts primarily travel along 
corridors and into rooms, helping to circulate the atmosphere to prevent the 
air in the station from becoming stale. In addition, these ducts frequently 
lead to the station's environmental and life support systems, and they can 
connect to wind tunnels that force air the long distances traveled by the 
ducts. Waste conduits typically follow less conventional routes, leading 
from various locales to centralized disposal centers and garbage compac- 
tors. Maintenance tunnels, on the other hand, lead directly from corridors to 
internal systems, with no routes to other locations. Technicians rarely need 
to go anywhere but straight to the systems they are working on, although 
some emergency maintenance conduits might allow them to bypass difficult 
security measures and travel directly to the heart of a problem. 


COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
Computers are the means of controlling every aspect of a battlestation. As 
such, they are incredibly powerful and heavily guarded; station personnel 
make every attempt to prevent tampering. Almost every room has one or more 
computer terminals, and although they all serve different functions, they 
are linked to a main computer system that runs through the entire station. 
The Use Computer skill is required to access station terminals, and most skill 
check DC values are a function of the battlestation’s CL. 


MAIN COMPUTERS 

Every battlestation has what is called a “main computer.” This term is a 
misnomer, since it actually refers to the network of systems that make up 
a central computer. The main computer is the hub around which all other 
computer systems operate, ensuring that every system on the station blends 
seamlessly with the entire network. It is the primary location that stores 
technical readouts, system logs, and all other data about the battlestation. 
The main computer also is a security device because it keeps the computer 
systems in the station's control rooms separate, preventing intruders from 
taking over the whole station from a single control room. The highest-ranking 
officers who can access the main computer directly can do so only from the 
primary and backup command bridges. 

Damaging or destroying the main computer can devastate (but not nec- 
essarily cripple) the efficiency of the battlestation. Coordination between 
different sections becomes almost impossible, since the main computer 
controls all internal communications (such as comlink relays, station inter- 
coms, and so on). Slicing into the main computer without authorization is 
incredibly difficult and time consuming; all main computers have a base 
attitude of hostile, although if a character has an appropriate rank cylinder, 
the computer might start with a better attitude (ranging from indifferent 
to friendly). A battlestation’s main computer has a Will Defense equal to the 
station's medium skill DC. 


SINGLE CHECKS 

OR GAINING AccESSs 

In this chapter, many descriptions refer to accomplishing some task by 
making a single Use Computer check. Such checks are meant to represent 
minor actions that do not require an advanced level of computer savvy. 
They are, in effect, 1-round distractions that can be performed as a stan- 
dard action, giving slicers and other tech-minded heroes something to do 
other than fire a blaster in combat. However, when the heroes interact 
with the station's main computer system or try to pull off an advanced 
computer task, single checks might not be sufficient. In 
Gamemasters should follow the guidelines given in the | 
skill description in the Saga Edition core rulebook, which presents more 
detailed methods for gaining access and issuing commands. You should 
also feel free to use the more detailed methods instead of the single- 
check method when dramatically appropriate. 


A esievHS 


SNOUVLSETLIVE GNY SESVE) 


SNOLVLSESTLALIE GNY Sasve) 


CONTROL ROOM COMPUTERS 

Each control room uses a sophisticated computer system that is accessed 
through terminals. The different types of control rooms have access to dif- 
ferent systems, and all are open only to authorized users. Gaining legitimate 
access requires an authorization code (known only to the technicians who 
operate the security systems) or a rank cylinder (distributed only to station 
officers). A control room computer has a starting attitude of unfriendly 
and a Will Defense equal to the station's medium skill DC. An unauthorized 
user must attempt to shift the computer's attitude to friendly or helpful, at 
which point the computer can issue commands to the systems controlled 
from that room. This Use Computer check to shift the computer's attitude 
cannot be retried, and failure locks down the system and issues an alarm 
to the nearest security control rooms. Once inside the system, the user can 
make other skill checks to attempt certain functions, which can be retried 
unless a check's description specifically says otherwise. 


ACCESS CONTROL 

The computers in security control rooms are somewhat different from those 
in other control rooms, because they specifically manage one's ability to move 
through the battlestation. These computers can grant access to portions of 
the station that normally would be off-limits to unauthorized personnel. 
Access control systems determine the levels of authorization needed to enter 
certain areas, and they react to emergency signals that call for blast doors 
to close and bridges to retract. Most access control computers in security 
control rooms have a starting attitude of unfriendly and a Will Defense equal 
to the station's moderate skill DC. Using a security computer for access 
control allows a character to open sealed doors fully or partially, extend or 
retract bridges, activate and deactivate force fields and turbolifts, and seal 
off rooms entirely. In short, access control computers can open or block pas- 
sages throughout the station. Once a character has the ability to manipulate 
access control systems, standard Use Computer checks allow him or her to 
issue commands to perform each function in a matter of seconds. 


ALARM SYSTEM CONTROLS 
During the course of a battlestation adventure, it is almost inevitable that 
alarms will sound to warn the rest of the station that something is wrong. 
Alarm control systems activate and deactivate alarms, upgrade and down- 
grade their severity, and spread alarms to other parts of the station. 

If an alarm control room computer has an attitude of friendly or better, 
a user can issue a command that will sound an alarm in a particular section 
of the station. Deactivating an alarm is slightly more difficult, requiring 
computer attitude of helpful. 


Placing an area of the station on alert requires issuing a routine com- 
mand. If the computer has an attitude of friendly, the user can place a 
section on alert status; if the computer has an attitude of helpful, the user 
can place a section on high alert status. Similarly, downgrading a high alert 
status to alert status requires a computer with an attitude of helpful, and 
downgrading an alert status to normal status requires a computer with an 
attitude of friendly. 

When an alarm sounds in a particular section of the station, personnel 
in other areas might not be aware of it. If the computer has an attitude of 
helpful, the user can spread the alarm to other sections by issuing a routine 
command for each new section. 


COMMUNICATIONS CONTROLS 
Communications systems allow security details to report to dispatch stations 
and barracks, give commanders a means of directing technicians to malfunc- 
tions, and deliver orders to other sections. Sending a message to a single 
location is a simple process, and messages can be sent to multiple locations 
simultaneously; all that is required is an attitude of friendly or better on 
the part of the computer being used. Tampering with communications, on 
the other hand, varies by the battlestation's communications security level 
(which is tied to the station's CL). 

Jamming all communications to and from a section of the station requires 
a moderate Use Computer check on a control room computer that has an 
attitude of friendly or better. 

Making a simple alteration of communications, which could entail chang- 
ing the text of a message or masking the voice of an audio communication, 
requires a medium Use Computer check. More complex alterations, such as 
changing the words in an audio message or making a holographic message 
appear to come from someone else, require a moderate (or possibly harder) 
Use Computer check. Moreover, if a message is altered so that it contains 
false information, the Gamemaster might have the sending hero make a 
Deception check as well. 

If the station has an authorized HoloNet transceiver, sending a message 
over the HoloNet requires a computer with an attitude of helpful. Sending 
a pirate signal over the HoloNet does not require any particular attitude on 
the part of the computer, but it does call for a hard Use Computer check 
because it bypasses the computer's normal protocols. 


DIRECTING PERSONNEL 
AND TROOP MOVEMENTS 

Troops and security teams constantly move through a battlestation, as do 
engineers, technicians, gunners, pilots, and droids. The personnel control room 
often sends specific personnel to certain locations, such as directing a squad 
of techs to lock down a faulty power coupling. Intruders who gain access to 
this system can reroute personnel away from their location and clear a path 
to their target—not to mention create an accessible escape route. 

To dispatch a group of noncombat personnel such as technicians, 
engineers, or members of the medical staff, the user must issue a routine 
command from a personnel control center computer that has an attitude 
of friendly or better. 

Combat personnel, such as security guards and stormtroopers, are usually 
dispatched only when a situation arises that requires their skills, an event 
that generally is accompanied by alarms. To fake a drill or come up with 
another excuse to move troops around the station, the user must issue a 
routine command on a security control computer that has an attitude of 
helpful. Canceling troop deployment is similarly difficult—belaying an order 
from another security station could raise suspicions—and also requires a 
computer with an attitude of helpful. 


INFORMATION SYSTEMS 

One of the most useful functions of a battlestation’s computer network is 
the ability to provide vast amounts of knowledge on almost any aspect of 
the station, Battlestation information systems contain schematics for the 
station and its subsystems, crew and personnel listings, prisoner records, 
and the current status of the station's individual systems. Almost anything a 
character might need to know about the station can be found somewhere on 
the computer network. A character attempting to use a station's computers 
to find information first makes a check to try to gain access to the databases 
(as with the normal rules for accessing information, this attempt requires a 
computer with an attitude of indifferent or better). 

When the character uses a terminal in an area linked to the information 
being sought, digging out most data is a simple matter, requiring only a Use 
Computer check. If the computer is located in an area tied to the information 
sought, the Gamemaster can reduce the required access time by one step; 
thus, secret information requires 1 hour to find, private information requires 
10 minutes, specific information requires 10 rounds, and general informa- 
tion requires 1 round. For example, the computers in hangar control rooms 
provide fast access to starship logs, repair and work orders, and scheduled 
starfighter testing, whereas computers in reactor control rooms have easy 
access to efficiency ratings, power anomalies, and radiation levels. 


It is more difficult and time-consuming to find information about systems 
that are not directly connected to the control room where the computer is 
being used. For a character to send a query through the main computer to 
the relevant systems, the computer in use must have an attitude of friendly 
or better. Furthermore, filling the request takes the normal amount of time. 
For example, in A New Hope, R2-D2 used a computer in the hangar control 
room to search for information about the Death Star's tractor beam. The droid 
found what it needed within a few moments because the tractor beam was 
part of the hangar bay. On the other hand, finding Princess Leia's termination 
orders took a bit longer because the detention block computers were not 
directly connected to the hangar control room. 


LIFE SUPPORT CONTROLS 

Life support is a simple system that keeps battlestation personnel comfort- 
able and healthy, but it can be manipulated in ways that prove annoying 
or fatal to the crew. The system is so integral to the station that it almost 
always is tied directly to the main computer, making it difficult to access 
from individual control room computers. However, a character can attempt 
to change the life support in various ways. For example, mildly increasing 
or decreasing the temperature in a given section of the station (up to 10 
degrees) requires a computer with an attitude of friendly or better; making 
more significant changes requires a computer with an attitude of helpful. 
Deactivating the artificial gravity in a given location requires a moderate 
Use Computer check and a computer with an attitude of helpful, because 
artificial gravity is critical for normal station operation. Cutting off the air 
circulation to a room is even more challenging, requiring a hard Use Computer 
check and a computer with an attitude of helpful; if the user succeeds, any 
character in the area where air flow has stopped begins to feel the effects 
of suffocation within minutes. 


SENSOR CONTROLS 

Since a battlestation's crew relies on sensors to know what is happening 
throughout the station, they guard sensor controls heavily to prevent tam- 
pering. Characters who gain control over sensor systems can wreak havoc in 
various ways. On a computer with an attitude of friendly or better, they can 
mask sensor readings, pass off alerts as simple sensor anomalies, and trigger 
false sensor readings in a given area. On a computer that has sensor control 
and an attitude of friendly or better, a character can completely shut down 
the sensors in a certain area by making a moderate Use Computer check. 
Doing so allows freedom of movement through the affected area—at least 
until a member of the crew notices that the sensors are offline. 


A ealavno 


, 
| 


[A eaiavno +) 


SNOLAVLSSTALVE GNY SESvE) 


WEAPONS CONTROLS 

Computer systems in charge of the battlestation’s weapons often are located 
in gunnery towers and in weapon control rooms. Such control rooms are 
located near the center of several weapons emplacements so that each 
room can control multiple weapons, reducing the number of personnel 
required to direct the station's complement. A character who gains access 
to a system capable of controlling weapons can deactivate a single weapon 
by making a medium Use Computer check on a terminal that has an attitude 
of friendly or better; he or she can deactivate a cluster of weapons with a 
moderate check. 

In addition, weapons control systems transmit data gathered from the 
station's external sensors to their associated weapons. As a result, by making 
a moderate Use Computer check, a character can halt the flow of sensor 
data, causing the associated weapons to lose any Intelligence bonuses to 
their attacks. Creating false sensor data is far more difficult; the character 
must make a hard Use Computer check on a weapons control computer that 
has an attitude of helpful. If the character succeeds, the weapons lose their 
fire control bonuses to attack rolls, but their operators do not realize that 
someone has tampered with the systems, 


STATION HAZARDS 

Security and computer systems can make adventuring aboard a battlestation 
difficult, but the most unique and memorable challenges come in the form 
of station hazards. In essence, station hazards are the Star Wars equivalent 
of traps in fantasy roleplaying games. This section describes some common 
hazards that can be used in any battlestation. Once the Gamemaster has laid 
out the station locales, adding a hazard to a particular section modifies that 
area without changing its basic functionality. Although some hazards might 
not seem to fit with all locations—for example, the primary command bridge 
probably would not have a carbonite freezing chamber—most hazards can 
be adjusted with a little creativity to work in almost any area. 


CARBONITE FREEZING 
CHAMBERS 

Primarily used for the storage and transport of gases and other volatile 
materials, the carbon freezing process requires specialized equipment that 
can be found aboard many battlestations. Most freezing mechanisms consist 
of a 3-meter-deep chamber, in which materials to be encased in carbonite 
are placed and flash-frozen in a matter of moments. The freezing process 
can be fatal to organic beings. If a living creature is placed in the chamber, 
the chamber makes a normal hazard attack against the subject's Fortitude 
Defense. If the attack succeeds, the creature takes normal hazard damage 
from the shock to its system; if the attack fails, the creature takes no damage. 
Regardless of whether the character takes damage or not, he or she is then 
considered to be frozen in carbonite. A character frozen in carbonite can 
take no actions and is considered unconscious while so frozen. A character 
emerging from carbon freeze has a persistent condition and immediately 


moves ~4 steps down the condition track; the persistent condition can only 
be removed after 8 hours of rest. 

If a character standing adjacent to a carbonite freezing chamber takes 
damage from a melee attack, he or she must make a DC 15 Acrobatics 
check to avoid falling into the chamber. A control panel to one side of the 
chamber activates the freezing process, which takes 1 round to complete. 
A character frozen in carbonite cannot move or act until unfrozen. The 
carbonite slab (70 hit points; DR 10) in which the character is encased can 
be transported through harsh conditions, even a vacuum, without harming 
the victim inside. 


CHASMS AND PITS 

In the Star Wars galaxy, many battlestations contain large chasms and pits 
that lead into the bowels of the site. Most vary in depth from openings that 
descend only a few meters to holes that seem bottomless. To provide an 
appropriate challenge for the level of the heroes, Gamemasters can design 
chasms and pits in accordance with the station's rating, giving them a depth 
in squares equal to twice the station's CL. Thus, in a CL 12 battlestation, most 
chasms would be roughly 24 squares deep. Any chasm deep enough to deal 
fatal damage to a character who falls in can be described as bottomless. On 
the other hand, if the character survives, the Gamemaster can rule that he 
or she landed on a ledge or outcropping that prevented a lethal fall. 


CONVEYOR BELTS 

For the most part, battlestations rely on repulsorlifts, but in cramped sections 
or in stations that are more industrialized, conveyor belts see a good deal 
of use, Conveyor belts alter the normal movement speed of characters who 
ride on them. A creature moving on a conveyor belt in the same direction 
that it is traveling moves at twice the normal movement rate, whereas a 
creature moving against the direction of the conveyor moves at half normal 
speed. Additionally, any creature that steps onto or starts his or her turn on 
@ conveyor belt must make a DC 20 Acrobatics check as a free action or be 
flat-footed until the start of his or her next turn. 


CRUSHING DAMAGE 

Creatures can take damage when held between opposing forces or pinned 
beneath a heavy object that continues to press downward, Crushing damage, 
similar to damage from falling objects, occurs when an object forces a 
creature against a solid surface. Crushing damage is equal to the station's 
standard hazard damage, and the creature being crushed takes damage 
each round until he or she makes a hard Strength check to pry free. Typi- 
cally, a hazard that completely encompasses a target does not need to make 
an attack roll to deal crushing damage (for example, when being crushed 
between two walls that are closing in); other crushing hazards make normal 
hazard attack rolls against the target's Reflex Defense. Some crushing haz- 
ards, such as the trash compactor from the first Death Star, might not allow 
creatures to make Strength checks. 


ELECTRIFIED FLOORS 

Frequently used in battlestations where the crew wants to guard against 
intruders on foot, electrified floors are a nasty surprise. Crossing even the 
most normal-looking corridor becomes a painful process, Electrified floors 
can be left active to deter any character from traveling down a certain path, 
or they can be activated when intruders are detected in a particular area 
Any creature standing on an active electrified floor immediately takes energy 
damage (in an amount determined by the station's normal hazard damage). 
Additionally, if a creature starts his or her turn on an electrified floor, the 
floor makes a hazard attack against the creature's Fortitude Defense; a suc- 
cessful attack knocks the target prone. 


TABLE S-7: POISONOUS Gases 


Gas 

Battlestations have mundane uses for various gases that can be poisonous or 
toxic, but some stations also employ these gases to capture or kill intruders. 
In addition, gases flow through conduits and pipes built into station walls 
and can be released by stray blaster bolts or careless tampering. Gases fill a 
room quickly, taking approximately 3 rounds to fill a room that is 20 meters 
on each side. 

Different gases have different effects. Dioxis and trauger are poisonous 
gases used specifically for killing, although korfaise gas, used in hyperdrives, 
is no less deadly. Obah is a powerful neurotoxin that can permanently 
damage any creature smaller than a Wookie, and null gas eliminates all 
oxygen in a room, 

Table 5-7 lists common gases aboard a battlestation that can injure 
creatures exposed to them. Each gas has its effect when inhaled, and each 
one makes an attack roll against a creature's Fortitude Defense when that 
creature enters or starts its turn in the gas. Each gas deals damage, has a 
secondary effect, and has a miss effect. Gamemasters can use the gases listed 
in the table as defaults or can create new ones using the expected hazard 
attack numbers and damage numbers derived from the battlestation’s CL. 


GRAVITY TRAPS 
Using artificial gravity generators, the crew can alter the gravity in a section 
of the battlestation, trapping intruders by turning the most basic of natural 
laws against them. A gravity trap can increase the gravity in an area, slowing 
movement and increasing falling damage, or it can reverse the gravity ina 
given section, causing creatures to fall toward the ceiling and take damage 
based on the distance traveled (equal to the height of the room). A trap can 
even eliminate gravity completely in a section of the battlestation, For details 
on low-gravity, high-gravity, and zero-gravity environments, see page 256 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook 

Gravity traps can be disabled by gaining control of the artificial gravity 
generators, which are considered part of the life support systems on most 
battlestations. A gravity trap affects all creatures in the specified area and 
does not discriminate between intruders and station personnel. 


GAS ATTACK BONUS DAMAGE SECONDARY EFFECT MISS EFFECT 
Dioxis (CL 8) +10 4d6 ~1 step on the condition track Half damage 
Korfaise (CL 2) +4 2410 Speed reduced by 1 square until Half damage 
target spends 1 round outside of gas, 
Null gas (CL 12) +14 3410 Special* Special* 
Obah (CL 6) +8 212 -1 step on the condition track Half damage 
Trauger (CL 14) +16 5d6 -1 step on the condition track Half damage and -1 step on the condition track 


* Null gas is @ unique type of gas that neutralizes oxygen in the oir. After 1 minute of exposure to null gas, a creature is affected os if in a vacuum and must deal with the 


effects of suffocation, For details on surviving in a vacuum, see page 25 


of the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


A eeiavnS 


ve) 


SNOILVLSSTALVE GNY SS) 


A BsiavHo 


INCINERATORS 

Originally designed as a means of disposing waste products and other junk, 
incinerators can pose a major hazard to characters aboard a battlestation. 
An incinerator is usually the size of a small room and is accessed through 
a 1-meter-tall door that the crew keeps open while feeding material inside. 
Incinerators maintain a standard temperature hot enough to destroy most of 
the waste; a creature entering an incinerator takes 1d8 points of damage per 
round from heat and fire. Every 5 rounds, however, an incinerator flares up 
to burn those waste products that can withstand the standard temperature. 
These bursts deal 3d6 points of damage to any character caught inside at 
the time. 


Liguip CABLE TRAPS 

A liquid cable trap is an unusual method of capturing intruders that uses 
conventional equipment available throughout the galaxy. Commonly installed 
in door frames and narrow passageways, these traps are triggered by tripwire 
lasers, motion detectors, or other sensors. Once triggered, a trap activates 
immediately and makes a hazard attack against any creatures caught by 
the trap (the trap covers a 2x2 square area, with one of the lines bisecting 
the square as the source of the liquid cable). On a successful attack, high- 
pressure dispensers entangle the creatures in liquid cable, which solidifies 
and wraps the target. Each creature caught by the trap becomes flat-footed 
and immobilized. The following round, each trapped creature can attempt a 
DC 20 Strength check to break free; allies outside the trap can also attempt 
this check on a creature's behalf. 


POWER DIFFUSION TUNNELS 

Station personnel sometimes bleed off the excess energy from power 
generators and reactor cores to prevent energy build-up and overload. The 
surplus energy is vented into power diffusion tunnels, which are essentially 
corridors of energy buffers. Walkways are built into these diffusion tunnels 
for maintenance purposes, but the tunnels can be hazardous to any charac- 
ter who attempts to travel through them. Every 3 rounds, a burst of energy 
passes from one end of a power diffusion tunnel to the other. Any character 
caught in the tunnel at the time takes electrical damage equal to 1d4 x the 
station's CL. 

Firing a weapon at one of the buffers (10 hit points) in a diffusion tunnel 
can have dangerous consequences. Any creature within 6 squares of the 
damaged buffer takes normal hazard damage as the energy in the buffer is 
diffused. Furthermore, the next time an energy burst travels the length of 
that tunnel, any creature within 6 squares of the damaged buffer takes twice 
the normal hazard damage. In addition, because a malfunctioning power 
diffusion tunnel can have dire consequences for the station's reactor core, 
damaging a tunnel immediately sets off an alarm and summons a crew of 
technicians to investigate the problem. 


SHOCK LOCKS 

Intended to prevent tampering with sealed doors and access tunnels, a 
shock lock sends a small electric burst into any character attempting to 
manipulate the lock. A shock lock can be placed on anything with a door, 
including entrances to station locales, equipment closets, and lockers. Any 
character who tries to make a Mechanics check on a door that has a shock 
lock takes 1d6 points of electrical damage. If a character notices the shock 
lock (moderate Perception check), he or she can try to disconnect the device 
(moderate Mechanics check). 

Occasionally, shock locks are installed in contro! panels and can be deac- 
tivated only by someone who first enters an authorization code. A shock lock 
installed for this purpose is usually built directly into the panel, making it 
undetectable. Moreover, some shock locks are designed not only to deliver 
a shock to the person attempting to use the contro! panel but also to short 
circuit and disable the panel. 


TRAP DOORS 
One of the oldest tricks in the history of station design, a trap door is used 
to drop unsuspecting trespassers (and unruly crew members) into another 
location. Most of the time, a trap door leads to a holding cell or a secure 
location, but particularly cruel station designers install trap doors that lead 
to incinerators, garbage smashers, or airlocks. A creature can detect a trap 
door by making a medium Perception check. A creature moving onto an active 
trap door must make a moderate Climb check to catch him- or herself or fall 
through to another location (as determined by the Gamemaster). Climbing 
back up to the hatch requires a moderate Climb check to scale the smooth 
inner walls of the chute. 

Most trap doors activate automatically, although some are triggered by 
commands issued at computer terminals in security control rooms. 


WIND TUNNELS 

AND EXHAUST VENTS 

Most battlestations have wind tunnels and exhaust vents that carry air 
throughout the station. These large tunnels become difficult to navigate if 
the fans at the ends are activated. When the fans blow, all creatures in the 
tunnel must make a medium Acrobatics check or be knocked to the ground 
by the force of the air. Additionally, creatures moving against the wind do so 
at only half the normal movement rate, The fans deal normal hazard damage 
to any creature that comes into contact with them. 


PRISONS AND CELL 
BrocKs 


Battlestations require secure locations for holding intruders, unruly crew- 
members, and other threats to the smooth operation of the station. Prison 
cells and detention blocks are common in most battlestations, offering an 
organized method of detaining captives that requires the least amount of 
space and only a light security crew. 


STANDARD CELLS 

The standard prison cell for a single detainee is roughly 2x2 squares. It is 
sparsely furnished, with a single bunk and a simple refresher unit built into 
the wall, neither of which can be removed or used for cover. Each cell includes 
a security camera and basic sensors, allowing the detention block crew to 
monitor each prisoner at all times. 

A cell door is a standard metal door (50 hit points; DR 10; damage 
threshold 30; Strength DC 50/Break DC 35) with a sliding viewport at eye 
jevel and another sliding panel at the base for the delivery of rations. Some 
short-term holding cells use force fields instead of metal doors, allowing the 
crew to interrogate a prisoner without having to open the cell 


DETENTION BLOCKS 

A detention block is composed of a group of prison cells arranged to allow 
station personnel to supervise them all at once. In a typical configuration, 
everal corridors fan out from a control center, each lined with cells on both 
sides, The center has a bank of computer terminals, which control door locks 
on each cell and display data from cameras and sensors. The control center 
is monitored constantly by the nearest security control room; cameras line 
the walls of the center, as do sophisticated sensors capable of detecting 
problems immediately. 

A detention block is usually crewed by two technicians, a commander, 
and four to six security guards, Additionally, some blocks keep extra guards 
on patrol in the corridors, moving up and down each hallway and checking 
on prisoners. 


Detention|Block 


ii}squarel_yi+o| Meters) 


Detention block computers contain information on each prisoner, includ- 
ing name, status, and any notes by the commander. Someone who gains 
access to these computers can view prisoner records by making a medium 
Use Computer check, although for quick reference, the crew usually posts a 
list for all to see naming everyone currently imprisoned in the block 


JED! IMPRISONMENT DEVICES 
Holding captured Jedi is one of the most difficult tasks facing the crew of 
a battlestation detention block. Fortunately for them, special imprisonment 
devices have been invented that make it possible to confine a Jedi in a bare 
cell without fear of escape. One of these devices keeps a prisoner hovering 
a meter above the floor while binding the Jedi's arms and legs with ribbons 
of blue energy; such a device imposes a -10 penalty to Use the Force checks 
by the captive 


SNOLLVLSETLLVE GNY SSE 


=f} 


A CHAPTER vi 
MILITARY ENCOUNTERS 


| t- rn j rv 


SSS 
This chapter is intended for Gamemasters and contains several mini- 
adventures ideally suited for military-style encounters. If you're a player, 
you probably should skip over this chapter and wait for your GM to spring 
these adventures on you and the other players in your group. 


USING MINI-ADVENTURES 

Occasionally, heroes take a tangent that their Gamemaster had not planned 
for, or the GM needs to fill a few hours’ play with an entertaining diversion 
from the main plot. The GM can improvise something, but, when he or she 
is at a loss for a scenario (or is just pressed for time), a mini-adventure 
might fit the bill. 

The mini-adventures presented here cover a range of themes and chal- 
lenge levels. They include blowing up a strategic bridge, defending a key 
spaceport against overwhelming odds, and retaking a ship that has been 
captured by pirates. Each mini-adventure includes an outline of the events 
and challenges presented by the scenario, which the Gamemaster can use 
to construct a few “off-the-cuff” situations—or use as a jumping-off point 
for future encounters. 

In addition, each mini-adventure also features a fully developed tactical 
encounter designed to serve as the climax of the scenario. The Gamemaster 
can use these as written, alter the details to play to the heroes’ strengths, or 
completely redesign them to fit the needs of the campaign. The GM can also 
reference these encounters when designing his or her own mini-adventures 
and scenarios. 

These mini-adventures are designed to cater to different heroes’ abili- 
ties, as well as the players’ interests, with warfare and military action in 
mind. Some scenarios, such as “Bridge 242" and “Choke Point,” require the 
heroes to sneak into enemy territory and engage in missions of d 
or assault. Other mini-adventures, such as “No Man Left Behind,’ 
Deep Space,” and "A Little REtR," are rescue operations involving Imperials, 
Black Sun pirates, or terrorists. And some, such as “Remember the Akkalo," 
ask the heroes to defend a location from advancing forces for as long as 
they can. Each mini-adventure in this chapter gives heroes of all classes 
a chance to shine, even if the scenario is not aimed specifically at their 
competencies. 

Each mini-adventure open with a section that outlines the plot and the 
rious encounters. This is followed by another section detailing the climactic 
counter of the mini-adventure. 

Although these mini-adventures are designed to be completely indepen- 

it of one another, common threads run through all of them, allowing them 

strung together and run asa sort of "sub-campaign" within the main 
campaign. How they are used is purely up to the Gamemaster's discretion. 


U 


SUSLNNGONE ABVLITNIW 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#1: BRIDGE 242 


"Bridge 242" is a mini-adventure designed for 2nd-level heroes. As members 
of a Republic strike force, the characters must sneak into Separatist territory, 
overcome droids, and disable a shield generator that protects a strategic 
bridge, allowing the Republic to capture it. With luck, the heroes might even 
get out in one piece. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


The Nosaurians, natives of New Plympto, have allied with the Separatist, 
who unfortunately brought war to their world. The heroes are members of 
the Republic army—perhaps clone troopers or specialized forces—and are part 
of the main force on New Plympto. After a surprisingly effective counterat- 
tack by the Separatists that destroyed an entire brigade of clone troopers, 


Brinoe 242 


the Republic is trying to cut off the Separatists' supply lines in hopes of 
preventing the droid army's spare parts, energy cells, and other vital gear 
from reaching the front line. 

One such supply route includes a slender bridge that spans a gaping chasm 
in Separatist-controlled territory. Designated “Bridge 242" by the Republic, 
the bridge is a major highway that allows droids, tanks, and other ground 
forces to move unimpeded 

The Republic would prefer to capture Bridge 242 and use it for their own 
troop movements. However, if capture is not possible, the Republic plans to 
call in an orbital bombardment, reducing the entire area to a crater, Although 
the strike would cut an important Separatist supply line, it also would guar~ 
antee that the conflict on New Plympto drags out for many more months, 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 
The Republic has attempted to capture the bridge with starfighters and 
artillery, but so far, a shield generator has repelled all attacks. As plans move 
forward, Republic command has decided that Bridge 242 must be captured 
within the next 6 hours or be eliminated, which would throw future battle 
plans into disarray. The heroes are the only unit within striking distance, and 
they receive orders to assault the bridge and blow up the shield generator, 
Bridge 242 is the main conduit into a small Nosaurian settlement called 
Rhigar. Once the war and the bombings began, the civilian populace fled, and 
the buildings now are little more than piles of rubble and chunks of founda- 
tion. To allow the heroes to complete their mission, the Republic forces have 
stopped bombing the area. The Separatists quickly took advantage of this 
Pause to move units across the bridge and set up depots. Droid checkpoints 
are located at each end of the bridge 


DROP POINT 

Republic command orders an LAAT/i to drop the heroes within 2 kilometers 
of the south side of the bridge, along the edge of Rhigar. The gunship cannot 
aid in the assault because the antiaircraft batteries protecting the bridge 
prevent the LAAT/i from getting close enough (the batteries are too large 
and slow to be used against the heroes). The assault takes place at night to 
help provide the heroes with better concealment. 

During the flight to the drop point, a clone trooper gives the heroes four 
explosive charges and timers, which should be more than enough to take 
out the shield generator. The trooper also provides a map and points out two 
key locations. First, the heroes’ most direct route to the bridge is a roadway 
that has been cleared by the Separatists but that is always guarded. Second, 
a medical facility adjacent to the southern checkpoint has been spared the 
most egregious bombing and is probably the best spot from which the heroes 
can launch their assault. The facility is close to a guard station that might 
be where the shield generator is hidden 


—_— 


The clone trooper also explains that two other attempts have been made 
to take the bridge, and in each case, the medical facility was the troopers’ 
last reported position. It’s possible (but doubtful) that some of these troopers 
might still be alive in the facility. 

The gunship drops the heroes off and will return to pick them up once 
they give the all-clear signal. With that, the heroes must carefully make their 
way to Bridge 242's southern checkpoint. The first kilometer of travel passes 
without incident, although the rubble and twisted plasteel of the war-torn 
settlement are disquieting. As the heroes move toward the checkpoint, they 
hear the occasional sound of blaster fire and explosions in the distance, but 
nothing in their immediate vicinity. 


DROID PATROL AND MINEFIELD 
(CL 2) 

Eventually, the heroes come to the main thoroughfare that the Separatists 
use to move vehicles and droids through the city. After each bombardment, 
droids sweep aside the rubble and debris to keep the path clear. This particular 
portion of the roadway, however, is a trap to ambush any Republic tanks that 
manage to make their way into Rhigar. Mounds of debris block each side of 
the path so that the heroes must navigate this particular stretch of road if 
they wish to reach the bridge's southern checkpoint in time. 

From the safety of cover, the heroes spy a lone battle droid walking a 
patrol up and down the roadway. A DC 15 Perception check indicates that 
the droid's path is erratic—it frequently stops and changes direction even 
when nothing seems to be in its way. A DC 15 Knowledge (tactics) check 
reveals that the battle droid is probably avoiding mines that have been 
placed in the roadway. 

Indeed, the Separatists have seeded ion mines and antipersonnel mines 
in this area (for more details on mines, see page 42). If the heroes fail to 
take out the battle droid in 2 rounds, it has time to call its comrades at the 
southern checkpoint, giving the droids there a +5 bonus to Perception checks 
when they attempt to spot the approaching heroes (see "The Big Boom" on 
the next page). 


THE MEDICAL FaciLity (CL 2) 

As the heroes near Bridge 242's southern checkpoint, they spot a mostly 
intact building. A battered sign indicates that it used to be Rhigar's medical 
facility—the structure noted during their briefing. According to the heroes’ 
map, the bridge begins on the opposite side of the medical facility. The 
building looks sufficiently intact to provide cover, and going around it would 
require traveling through side streets with little protection from droid snip- 
ers and patrols. 

At first, the facility seems deserted. Signs of violence are everywhere, with 
numerous destroyed battle droids and a demolished droideka littering the 
hallways, but the heroes find no clone troopers, alive or dead. Eventually, they 
make their way to the north end of the medical facility, which, as promised, 
provides a commanding view of Bridge 242's southern checkpoint. 

Just as the heroes catch sight of their objective, they hear a rustling noise 
in another room of the facility, along with a mechanical voice that says "Don't 
move, you" to someone or something inside. If the heroes investigate the 
dim room, a DC 15 Perception check reveals two battle droids holding their 
weapons on an IM-6 medical droid (see page 67 of The Clone Wars Campaign 
Guide) hovering over the prone body of a clone trooper. Upon seeing the 
heroes, the IM-6 says, “Are you in need of medical assistance? | am here to 
help,” which causes the battle droids to turn and attack the heroes. 

If the heroes destroy the battle droids, they discover that the clone trooper 
is dead, having perished nearly a day earlier from wounds that proved too 
extensive for the IM-6's skills. By interrogating the medical droid, the heroes 
can learn that it was part of the medical facility's droid team and has been 
providing aid to whatever living beings it encounters. The droid says that 
since the bombing stopped two days ago, Separatist forces have been bring- 
ing more and more vehicles and droids across the bridge, although it has 
no details on the movements. If asked, the IM-6 reveals that it tried to help 
two other clone troopers and a clone trooper commander who were killed 
within the facility, and it takes the heroes to the bodies. If the heroes search 
the clone troopers, they can take any gear that still remains, although the 
weapons’ power packs have been depleted. 

The IM-6 tends to any wounds that the heroes might have. If ordered 
to do so, the droid also accompanies the heroes on the rest of the mission, 
continuing to treat them as needed 


1A SaiavHo 


SUSLNNEGONE ABVLITIN) 


0 
iq) 
> 

i 
4 
a 
2 
is 


ENCOUNTER: 
THE Bic Boom 


Challenge Level 3 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “Bridge 242,” the mini- 
adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

The bridge is protected by a powerful shield, the energy for which is 
provided by a generator in the basement of the guard station at the southern 
end of the bridge, The shield also covers the station and cannot be destroyed 
by any weapons currently carried by the heroes. A shield softener portal 
is located in front of the bridge, allowing individuals and vehicles to pass 
through the shield while it is active, 

Three battle droids and two B2 super battle droids protect Bridge 242's 
southern checkpoint. The B2 droids guard the entrance to the portal, standing 
Just within the shield’s protective shell. One battle droid stands on the roof of 
the guard station, looking for enemies. Two more remain inside the station, 
monitoring the comlink and the shield generator controls. 


READ-ALOUD TExT 

When the heroes can view Bridge 242's southern checkpoint to assess the 
best way to reach and disable the shield generator, read the following text 
aloud: 


You can clearly see the bridge's southern guard post. A battle droid stands on 
the building's crenellated roof, scanning the area with a pair of electrobinocu- 
lars, while two B2 super battle droids stand on the bridge, near the southern 
end, slowly swiveling back and forth as they look for intruders. Faint light spills 
from the windows of the guard station, and at least one other figure can be 
seen moving around inside. As dust and debris from the devastated settlement 
slowly rain down, they spark and sputter in the sky, indicating that the shield 
protecting the bridge is active. A mechanical archway, tall and wide enough 
for a tank to drive through, stands in front of the bridge. This, ‘portal shimmers 
with dim light. 


A DC 10 Knowledge (technology) check reveals that the mechanical arch- 
way is a shield softener, which reduces the intensity of the shield within 
the boundaries of the portal. Vehicles and personnel can move through the 
archway at half speed without requiring that the shield be shut off. (See the 
Features of the Area sidebar.) 


The heroes can try to sneak in close, but the B2 droids on the bridge and 
the battle droid on the roof have a clear field of view. These droids gain a +2 
bonus to Perception checks, or a +5 bonus if the droid from the minefield 
managed to radio the checkpoint and warn of intruders, If the B2 droids 
spot the heroes, they step through the shield softener to use their blasters 
‘on the characters. 

The heroes must defeat the droids before they can place their explosive 
charges on the shield generator in the basement of the guard station. The 
battle droid on the roof remains there as long as it can see the heroes; if they 
enter the station, it climbs down a ladder to pursue them. The two battle 
droids that began the encounter inside the station remain inside and protect 
the turbolift that leads to the shield generator. 


CONCLUSION 

Depending on how the heroes set the timers on the charges, they might stil 
be fighting droids when the charges explode. Unless the heroes failed their 
Mechanics checks when setting the detonators, the charges deal enough 
damage to destroy the shield generator, causing the shield to shut down 
completely. The explosion rips through the guard station and deals 10d6 
points of damage to everything within 4 squares of the building, 

The heroes can radio back to headquarters and give the all-clear signal for 
the LAAT/i gunship to pick them up. Within several hours, the Republic sends 
a major convoy of troops and armored tanks to take the strategic location, 
Vehicles and personnel stream across the bridge, bringing vital supplies and 
firepower to the newly shifted front line. 

If the heroes fail to destroy the shield generator, the Republic resorts to 
orbital bombardment. The heroes must be at least 1 kilometer away from 
the bridge before the bombardment begins, turning the bridge and the sur- 
rounding landscape into dust. 

The heroes should be awarded experience for a CL 3 challenge for suc- 
cessfully completing this encounter. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The bridge checkpoint area has the following features. 
Mlumination: The interior of the guard station is well lit and provides 

normal illumination. Outside, the Separatists keep the area dark so that 

it won't stand out to Republic bombers passing overhead. However, 

some light spills out through the station windows, casting shadowy 

illumination in the surrounding area. 


Shield Softener: The shield softener is a freestanding archway set 
up at the outer edge of the shield. While the shield is active, vehicles 
and individuals can pass through the archway at a speed of 2 squares. 
The portal has SR 50, preventing most small arms fire from passing 
through. 

Upper Level: A battle droid patrols the roof of the guard station, 
using electrobinoculars to scan the surrounding rubble. A ladder on 
the side of the building allows access to the roof. Inside the station, a 
metal door opens to a turbolift that leads to the basement. The door is 
locked, but it can be bypassed with a DC 20 Use Computer check, pried 
open with a DC 30 Strength check, or destroyed (50 hit points; DR 10; 
damage threshold 30; Strength DC 50/Break DC 35), granting access 
to the shaft that drops 50 feet to the basement below. 

Main Guard Room: Two battle droids wait inside the main guard 
room. It contains communications equipment used to contact CIS 
forces and controls for monitoring the output of the shield generator 
in the basement. The windows (25 hit points; DR 2) are made of thick 
plasteel, 

Generator Room: The turbolift in the main guard room leads to the 
basement, which contains the shield generator (100 hit points; DR 5). 
The heroes can blow up the generator by planting the explosive charges 
provided during their mission briefing, 


Bridge 242 


= Debris 
furbolitt 
jattle Droid 
uper Battle Droid 


Shield Wall, Basement 


Shield 
Generator = 


40m Drop 


. 


Droid, 
On'Roof 


Southern Guard Post 


Ld 
Shield Softener 


Ruined Medical Facility 
1 square = 1.5 Meters 


g 


SYUSANNOONE) 


SUELNNGONE ABVAITMIA) 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#2: FieELDS OF 
FIRE 


“Fields of Fire” is a mini-adventure designed for 4th-level heroes. The clock 
is ticking as the heroes escort an arrogant doctor safely through a ravaged 
landscape seeded with mines in time to save the lives of critically wounded 
officers at a military camp. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


The heroes, either as mercenaries or as troops attached to an official military 
unit, are involved in surface fighting on the temperate world of Pleida in the 
Tovosh System. The planet is broken up into a number of different ecologies, 
although the primary terrain consists of sparse lowland vegetation with an 
abundance of rocky shale that makes footing treacherous, especially on 
inclines, 

The heroes’ side of the conflict is winning; the enemy forces have aban- 
doned their front-line fortifications and pulled back deeper into their own 
territory. However, during the rapid retreat, the enemy left booby traps, 
mines, and other defenses at many strategic choke points. 

As written, “Fields of Fire” requires the heroes to escort an important 
doctor through this hazardous region and deliver her safely to her destination. 
Alternatively, the Gamemaster can tweak the scenario to give the heroes a 
different reason for advancing into the dangerous area. Perhaps they are 
members of a reconnaissance unit sent to probe the enemy's defenses, or 
couriers who must deliver a message to allies deep in hostile territory. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 
During a mission briefing, the heroes learn that at Camp Kavel, a base estab- 
lished farther into the recently evacuated zone, a number of officers are criti- 
cally wounded and must receive medical care as soon as possible. The heroes 
are ordered to escort Lieutenant Pleth Juun, a surgeon, through the hazardous 
region and get her to the camp quickly~and in one piece. Unfortunately, her 
difficult personality and her lack of battlefield experience make the four-day 
trek even more challenging. In the mini-adventure’s climactic encounter, 
the group must navigate a bombed-out wasteland protected by mines and 
automated sentry guns. The heroes must find a way to ensure Juun's safety 
while crossing the demilitarized zone as quickly as possible. 


READ-ALOUD TeExT 

The heroes’ commander, Captain Roff Volane, is a veteran officer who has 
seen more than his share of death and destruction, making him curt, cyni- 
cal, and humorless. Despite his cold demeanor, Volane is a highly respected 
officer with a lifetime's worth of combat experience. The mini-adventure 
begins when Captain Volane calls the heroes into a briefing. 


“Over the past few weeks, the enemy has pulled back deeper into their own 
territory, following our assault of their fortified positions. We've sent a number 
of aerial units ahead to establish forward positions beyond the previous demili- 
torized zone, but they require resupply and reinforcements. Unfortunately, 
the enemy's surface-to-air defenses mean that we are unable to maintain air 
superiority in the region. Until we can bring in fighter support, we're restricted 
to advancing the old-fashioned way. 

“Lieutenant Pleth Jun, a surgeon attached to our battalion, is being loaned 
to Camp Kavel, one of our forward bases. Lieutenant Juun is the only available 
doctor skilled enough to treat the command officers who were wounded, some 
critically, during the advance. Given the danger of an aerial insertion, we've 
decided to sneak her to the camp on foot. You will escort her. 

“I can't stress enough that the lieutenant's safety is paramount. Some of 
‘our best men are on death's doorstep, and without a good surgeon, they won't 
live long enough to be evacuated. Once Lieutenant Juun is safely at Camp 
Kavel, you are to lend your expertise to the camp's defense until such time as 
we establish air superiority.” 


In addition to safely escorting the surgeon, Captain Volane asks the heroes 
to transport a small amount of medical supplies, as well as some critical cor- 
respondence intended for Camp Kavel's command staff. On foot, the journey 
should require a minimum of four days. 

If the heroes are attached to a military unit, their reward will be a salute 
for a job well done and possibly a medal or citation, depending on how well 
they do. If the heroes belong to a mercenary detachment, each will receive 
3,000 credits for the job, payable on success, If Pleth Juun does not survive 
the journey, the heroes will receive only 1,000 credits each, and then only if 
they deliver the medical supplies and correspondence. Given the importance 
of the surgeon, these payment terms aren't negotiable. 


PLETH Ju UN 

Following the briefing, the heroes must make a brief trip to the local field 
hospital to pick up Lieutenant Pleth Juun. They find her in the middle of 
@ messy surgery and not available. Heroes who insist on her immediate 
departure will be ignored. Once Juun finishes the operation, she washes up, 
gathers her equipment, and joins the heroes. 

By virtue of her profession, Juun is technically a junior officer. Although 
she has little combat training, she embraces the privileges of her honorary 
rank wholeheartedly. Juun comes from a wealthy Human family on Coruscant 
and is used to getting her way. She isn't openly confrontational, but she never 
forgets a slight and does her best to make miserable any character who fails 
to show her sufficient respect, 

Lieutenant Juun wears an immaculate set of combat utilities, with her 
rank and medical insignia proudly displayed. Heroes who succeed on a 
DC 15 Knowledge (tactics) check realize that the symbols will make her a 
tempting target to any snipers who spot the group as they travel to Camp 
Kavel, To convince the surgeon to remove these trappings without angering 
her, a hero must make a Persuasion check with a DC equal to Juun's Will 
Defense of 19, 


HITTING THE TRAIL 

Despite the risks involved, the four-day hike to Camp Kavel is largely 
uneventful. The Gamemaster is free to introduce enemy snipers, scouts, 
and sympathizers at any point along the way to spice things up. For the 
most part, however, the heroes should not face major threats before the 
climactic encounter. 


A DIFFICULT PASSAGE (CL 4) 
After two days of travel, the terrain changes to a mixture of burned-out flora 
and scorched ground marred with bomb craters and strings of rusting razor 
wire. The heroes have reached the former demilitarized zone, which once 
separated enemy territory from the regions occupied by the heroes and their 
allies. Nothing seems to live in the wasteland, and the remains of the dead 
that are scattered about attest to the brutality of the conflict. 

The route followed by the heroes leads them to a path that rises up into 
the enemy highlands. The area is bordered by impassable cliffs to the left and 
a sheer drop into a gully lined with jagged stones to the right. Regardless of 
the heroes' preference or better judgment, they must take the direct route, 
especially given the uncertain health of the wounded officers in Camp Kavel 
Any delay now could cost those officers their lives. 

The GM should run “Watch Your Step,” the climactic encounter. 


CAMP KAVEL 

If the heroes manage to survive the booby-trapped passage that leads into 
the highlands of the enemy's territory, they eventually reach Camp Kavel. 
Their success is judged by whether Juun survives the journey and by how 
quickly they arrive at the camp. For each day that the heroes are delayed, 
one wounded officer dies from injuries that the surgeon might have been 
able to treat. 

If Juun dies or suffers grievous bodily injury en route to Camp Kavel, the 
heroes are welcomed with dismissive glances. The officer in charge, a young 
captain with more bravado than experience, dresses them down before 
assigning them to perimeter guard duty and one or two dangerous patrols. 
Within two days, the heroes’ side of the conflict regains air superiority, and 
the characters are allowed to take a transport back to their headquarters. 


ESCAPING To CAMP KavEL 


iA BaLavnS 


SUELNNOONE) ABVAUITIA) 


1A SSLavHo 


& 
W 
v2) 
@ 
0) 
Cc 
rz 
qj 
Y 
PD} 
@ 


ENCOUNTER: 
WATCH YOUR 
STEP 


Challenge Level 4 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “Fields of Fire,” the mini- 
adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

This encounter takes place on a treacherous incline that is rife with bomb 
craters, jagged pieces of stone, and bits of shattered metal. The western 
portion of the location is bordered by a sheer cliff, and the eastern border 
is marked by a steep slope that leads into a gully filled with large, serrated 
boulders. 

The heroes begin at the southern end of map and must make their way to 
the northern edge. The retreating enemy forces have riddled the path with 
mines and other explosive devices. Given enough time, the heroes could care- 
fully pick their way through and avoid most of the traps. However, they must 
hurry; whenever they seem to slow down too much, Lieutenant Juun berates 
them for endangering the lives of the wounded officers at Camp Kavel. 

In addition to the mines, the enemy forces installed two automated sentry 
guns with interlocking fields of fire at the top of the slope, as detailed on the 
map. These weapon emplacements have been furnished with rudimentary 
camouflage and cover (DC 15 Perception check to notice the guns once they 
are in view). The guns are basically computer-controlled repeating blasters 
that lack the capacity for movement. The guns open fire when the heroes 
advance up the final slope. 


PLETH JUUN 

Pleth Jun is an attractive Human female in her mid twenties with cropped, 
dark blond hair and piercing gray eyes. Her haughty demeanor has been 
reinforced by a privileged upbringing and years of study at Coruscant's 
most prestigious medical schools. Military duty is something of a tradition 
in her family, and she isn't one to shirk her responsibilities. Despite her 
arrogance, vindictive nature and battlefield naiveté, she is a gifted surgeon 
and a loyal soldier. 

Lieutenant Juun expects to be obeyed, and if her orders are disregarded 
or outright refused, she remembers the perceived insult—and the person 
responsible for it. Still, she is sworn to save lives and would never refuse 
treatment to someone who insulted her. Besides, how could an offender pay 
for his transgressions if he were killed by enemy fire? 


Pleth Juun cL4 

Medium Human noble 4 

Force 7; Dark Side 1 

Init +8; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Cerean, Durese, High Galactic, Huttese, Kel Dor, 
Ryl 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 19 

hp 28; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee by weapon +2 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Special Actions Weaken Resolve 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Presence, Weaken Resolve 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Skill Focus (Treat 
Injury), Surgical Expertise, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Initiative +8, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +10, 
Knowledge (life sciences) +10, Knowledge (social sciences) +10, 
Perception +9, Persuasion +9, Pilot +8, Treat Injury +14, 

Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, officer's uniform, medical kit, surgical kit, 

2 medpacs 


READ-ALOUD TExT 
As the heroes venture deeper into the demilitarized zone, read the following 
text: 


The terrain rises to meet the planetary highlands, leaving a single, obvious route 
up the near-insurmountable cliff face. Although hardly a proper path, the incline 
is less steep than the alternative, and it winds back and forth as it rises to the 
highest point of the cliff that towers above you. The wind picks up suddenly, 
whistling through the shattered stone and debris that blocks your path. 


MINES AND BooBy 
TRAPS 


The area leading up the slope has been liberally sprinkled with several types 
of mines and other explosive traps, as marked on the map. Most of them 
were designed to incapacitate, not kill. The more dangerous mines are located 
farther up the slope, closer to the automated sentry guns that monitor the 
final stretch of the incline. 

Each mined space contains a hidden device placed by retreating enemies. If 
the heroes spot a mine by making a successful Perception check (DC 10 to DC 
20, depending on the mine), they can avoid it. If an oblivious character enters 
a mined square, the mine explodes. (See the Features of the Area sidebar.) 


SENTRY GUNS (2) 
These automated sentry guns are manufactured locally. Each consists of a 
rudimentary droid brain attached to a servo-controlled light repeating blaster 
fitted with a sighting device. Although these guns are not incredibly accurate, 
they make up for their simplicity by laying down an impressive barrage of 
blaster fire. The weapons rely on optical targeting systems to spot enemies 
within specific fields of fire, but they cannot distinguish friend from foe. 
The guns have been set up behind banks of rock and shale that provide 
them with a +5 cover bonus to Reflex Defense. 
When the heroes first enter one of the guns’ fields of fire, read the 
following 


At first glance, this appears to be an automated weapon turret mounted on 
an improvised frame, painted to match the surrounding shale and festooned 
with camouflage netting to reduce its silhouette. The weapon swivels ever so 
slightly before letting loose with a long, deafening burst of blaster fire. 


Automated Sentry Gun cL2 

Small droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3/soldier 1 

Init +8; Senses darkvision; Perception +16 

Languages Binary 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 19), Fort 10, Will 13 

hp 13; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 0 squares 

Ranged light repeating blaster +3 (3d8+2) with braced autofire 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 0 squares 

Base Atk +3; Grp -1 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 4, Dex 12, Con —, Int 6, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Talents Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Perception), 
Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(rifles) 

Skills Initiative +8, Perception +16 

Systems basic processor, darkvision, improved sensor package, locked 
access, plasteel shell, weapon housing (weapon is considered to be 
braced) 

Possessions light repeating blaster, heavy power pack (150 shots) 

Availability Military; Cost 2,500 credits (1,000 used) 


CONCLUSION 

Because this encounter involves no living enemies, the heroes succeed or fail 
based on the number and severity of any casualties they suffer. The priority 
is to keep Lieutenant Juun in good health and get her to Camp Kavel in time 
to save the wounded officers’ lives. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
The area has the following features. 

Terrain: The incline’s terrain is universally rough in nature. Footing 
is treacherous—pieces of loose shale in a variety of sizes cover the 
slope and can slide out from underfoot without warning. The slope is 
considered to be difficult terrain. 

Mines: The ground is seeded with three types of mines, as marked 
‘on the map. 

The first type of mine is obvious to any character within 3 squares 
of the mine who makes a DC 10 Perception check. If a creature moves 
into a square containing one of these mines, the device explodes, deal- 
ing 2d6 points of damage to all creatures in a radius of 1 square. The 
retreating enemy deliberately placed these mines in the open to create 
a false sense of security in heroes who notice them. 

The second type of mine is hidden more effectively and can be 
detected by a DC 20 Perception check. To be eligible to attempt this 
check, a character must be within 1 square of the mine. If a creature 
moves into a square containing one of these mines, the device explodes, 
dealing 4d6 points of damage to all creatures in a radius of 2 squares. 

The third type of mine is a bounding mine. Due to their design, these 
mines are placed out in the open but are camouflaged and difficult to 
see. To notice a bounding mine, a character must be within 2 squares 
of the mine and must make a DC 25 Perception check. Any creature 
moving within 1 square of a bounding mine causes the mine to activate. 
When this occurs, the mine jumps 1 meter off the ground and explodes, 
scattering fragments that deal 6d6 points of damage to all creatures in 
a burst radius of 3 squares. 

Any mine that is detected can be disarmed with a DC 15 Mechanics 
check 


TA BSievHo 


Rg 
4 
> 
3D 
Ed 
Y 
z 
G 
e 
4 
Y 
ow 
i) 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#3: REMEMBER 
THE AKKALO 


“Remember the Akkalo" is a mini-adventure designed for 6th-level heroes. 
With limited resources, the Rebel characters defend a vital strategic location 
from an assault by a larger Imperial force and must hold out until a shuttle 
arrives to carry them to safety. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


Although the destruction of the second Death Star around the Forest Moon 
of Endor served as the death knell of the Empire, the Empire does not simply 
disappear overnight. In some cases, Imperial forces continue to wage their 
war, not realizing or not believing that the Empire has been defeated. 

For Imperial troops on Sulon, a habitable moon of the planet Sullust, news 
of the Empire's supposed demise only spurs them on to fight harder. They 
launch a ferocious counterassault in hopes of ridding the moon of Rebels 
and using it as a base of operations for a prolonged strike against Sullust. 
Rebel cells and brigades are rooted out and massacred in the chaos. As their 
situation grows worse, the Rebels order an all-out retreat. Those who have 
access to starships flee immediately, but scores of Rebels are forced to travel 
across the moon's surface to attempt to capture Akkalo Station, one of the 
few remaining starports, where they have a chance to hold out until they 
can be picked up by a Rebel shuttle, 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 
Having received the order to retreat, the heroes make their way to the 
starport. Much to their surprise, they discover that Akkalo Station has only 
a skeleton crew of Imperials. Allies and comlink chatter report that another 
Imperial force is on its way to bolster the station's defenses. Apparently, the 
Imperials need the station as much as the Rebels do and prefer not to destroy 
it by orbital bombardment. 

The heroes must eliminate the Imperial troops inside the starport and 
quickly prepare for the arrival of the larger force. Rebellion command has 
promised that a shuttle will rendezvous at Akkalo Station, pick up any troops 
left on the moon, and take them to the last starship in orbit. The heroes must 
hold off the Imperials for as long as possible, buying time until the shuttle 
arrives. To make matters worse, ammunition is low, meaning that the heroes 
must be creative with the equipment, vehicles, and junk lying about the 
starport if they want to survive. 


INTO THE FRAY 

The adventure begins when the Rebellion’s planetary command issues the 
order to evacuate the moon. The heroes are to make their way to Akkalo Sta- 
tion, a small starport near their current location and the last place on Sulon 
where they stand a chance to fight off the Imperials until help can arrive. 

Rebel command informs the heroes that a Rebel cell has stolen a Lambdo- 
class shuttle and will rendezvous at Akkalo Station to pick up survivors 
before leaving the moon. This shuttle is due to arrive at the station in two 
hours, Unfortunately, the shuttle was damaged during the cell's escape 
and must replenish its coolant at the starport before it will be able to take 
off again. Therefore, the heroes must seize the station and hold it until the 
shuttle arrives. Before command terminates the transmission, they provide 
the heroes with a stolen Imperial code that might help them gain access 
to the station or its computers. Rebel command can't vouch for the code's 
validity, but it is all they have. 

If the heroes do not have their own transportation, allow them to com- 
mandeer a SoroSuub X-34 landspeeder to travel the 20 kilometers to the 
starport. A single, lonely roadway leads to the station, which sits in rugged 
badlands and is surrounded by a rocky outcropping, The speeder's sensors 
indicate when the heroes are within half a kilometer of the station, allowing 
them to view it safely from a distance before deciding what to do next. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


When the heroes can see Akkalo Station, read the following: 


Akkalo Station is a tiny starport, hardly worthy of the title. Nestled against 
a sharp rise of rocks to its rear, the station seems to be little more than a 
walled-off compound. Two watchtowers in the corners protect the central 
gate. Although the lights are on, indicating power, you see no movement within. 
You wonder if the station is deserted until, a moment later, more lights come 
‘on, and the front gate opens part way. Two stormtroopers step through the 
gate, which shuts behind them, and stand guard on either side. 


The heroes must determine a way to enter the compound. Akkalo Sta- 
tion wasn't very important before the conflict, and most of its personnel 
were rotated out for other duties, leaving behind a skeleton crew of eight 
stormtroopers, two heavy stormtroopers, two Imperial officers, and a techni- 
cian, They have been informed of Rebel activity nearby but are not yet aware 
of the heroes’ presence. 

Two of the stormtroopers stand guard outside the gate. One heavy 
stormtrooper is positioned in each watchtower, and the remaining 
stormtroopers accompany the two Imperial officers, who are in the main 
command tower. Varan Cormin, the technician, is inside the hangar bay. 


te 


THE REBEL SHUTTLE ON THE LANDING PAO 


GETTING INSIDE 
The heroes can get inside the compound's gates in three ways. 

Blast ‘em! (CL 2): The heroes can go the direct route, sneaking up on and 
attacking the stormtroopers outside the gate. They must also deal with the 
heavy stormtroopers in the watchtowers (which provide cover), who have 
electrobinoculars and constantly scan the roadway and rocks where the 
heroes are hiding. If the heroes defeat the guards, a DC 10 Perception check 
reveals a remote that opens the station's main gate. The sound of gunfire 
warns the Imperials inside of trouble. 

Sneaking Inside (CL 2): The heroes can make Stealth checks to approach 
a wall that is not being watched by the stormtroopers. Because the compound 
walls are battered and have protrusions, the heroes can scale them by making 
DC 20 Climb checks. While climbing, they must make Stealth checks to avoid 
making enough noise to alert the stormtroopers. (If the heroes scale the north 
or east walls, they gain a +5 bonus to their Stealth checks.) 


Using the Code (CL 2): The heroes can approach the gates boldly and 
try to bluff their way in. The guards demand the heroes’ names and their 
reason for entering the starport. If the heroes use the stolen Imperial code, 
they can convince the stormtroopers to open the gate by making a DC 20 
Persuasion check. If the heroes fail the check or do not have the code, the 
guards order them to leave immediately and begin blasting on the following 
round if the heroes are still present. Either way, the other Imperials in the 
station are notified of the intruders. 


DEALING WITH THE HOLDOUTS 
(CL 3) 
If the heroes make it inside Akkalo Station, they must deal with the troops in 
the command center: two Imperial officers, six stormtroopers, and two heavy 
stormtroopers. Regardless of whether they are alerted to the presence of the 
heroes, the Imperials remain in the command tower and fight to the death. 
The technician, Varan Cormin, hides in the hangar, trying not to get shot. 
If the heroes fight their way inside the command tower, an Imperial officer 
sends a distress call that summons additional troops and an AT-ST, all of 
which will arrive in 1 hour. The heroes can learn of these reinforcements by 
overhearing Imperial command explaining over the station comlink that the 
new troops are on the way. Even if the officers are killed before either can 
send the distress call, the reinforcements are dispatched when the officers 
fail to make their usual hourly report. 


READ-ALOUD TeExT 
After the battle dies down, Varan Cormin gingerly steps out of the hangar bay 
with his hands raised and approaches the heroes. Read the following text: 


A grubby looking Human male steps out from the hangar bay. His hands are 
held up in surrender. “Don't shoot!" he pleads. “I'm just the technician here— 
name's Varan Cormin. You must be the Rebels they were talking about. Don't 
worry; | hate their guts as much as you do. Got assigned to work in this pile of 
Bantha fodder while they kept my wife in @ work camp. Anything you need, 
just let me know, because those Imperials are going to come back, and I don't 
want to go down without a fight." 


Everything that Cormin says is technically correct, although he's a coward 
who will eventually betray the heroes when the reinforcements arrive. At 
any point, he does whatever seems necessary to keep his skin. Cormin has 
intimate knowledge of Akkalo Station's supplies and gear, which the heroes 
can use to prepare for the coming attack. 


SVSANNGSNE AVMGLIMIA) 


iA waravno—) 


y 
oO 


SUSANNGANE 42BvLIW 


ENCOUNTER: 
THE LAST 
STAND 


Challenge Level 6 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “Remember the Akkalo,” the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

Once the heroes have managed to secure the starport, the hardest fight is 
yet to come. The Imperial officers called for reinforcements (or their failure 
to report prompted an investigation), meaning that a small contingent of 
Imperial troops is on its way to retake Akkalo Station. The heroes have 1 
hour in which to fortify their position, gather equipment, and lay traps before 
the Rebel shuttle arrives and before the Imperial reinforcements arrive to 
lay siege to the station, 

Once the reinforcements approach within 2 kilometers, the heroes can 
monitor them by using the station's sensors. A DC 15 Use Computer check 
reveals the presence of a Huge vehicle (an AT-ST) and an indeterminate 
number of foot troops. 


PREPARING 
FOR THE WORST 


The heroes should take stock of available materials and weapons. If they killed 
or captured the stormtroopers, heavy stormtroopers, and officers, they have 
access to the Imperials' weapons, armor, and equipment (such as the heavy 
stormtroopers’ explosive charges). Unless you tracked the number of shots 
fired by Imperials during the battle, assume that all power packs are at half 
charge—a grim reminder of the ammunition problem 

If the heroes look around the starport, they find: 

© Three barrels of fuel (10 hit points; DR 2). If an eneray weapon deals 
enough damage to penetrate a barrel, it explodes, dealing 4d6 points of 
fire damage to all creatures in a 2-square burst. 

© 10 meters of chain (10 hit points; DR 5). 

* Two tool kits, two security kits, four fire extinguishers, two power gen- 
erators, and two medpacs. 

© One T8 loading vehicle (see below). 

Be prepared for the heroes to get creative with their plans. For example, 
they might barricade the front gate, set explosive charges outside the com- 
pound walls as land mines, or place fuel barrels where their explosions will 
cause maximum damage. 


After 1 hour, the stolen shuttle arrives and lands on the spot designated 
‘on the map. The shuttle is severely damaged, and its weapons have been 
knocked offline; the vessel needs to replenish its coolant before it can take 
off again. Varan Cormin immediately starts loading the coolant but otherwise 
stays out of the engagement. The shuttle's pilot is also busy with the repairs 
and remains onboard. 


HERE COMES 
THE CAVALRY (CL 6) 


As repairs begin on the shuttle, the Imperial forces arrive outside the station, 
An AT-ST waits just outside of blaster range, watching as foot troops advance. 
Ten stormtroopers provide covering fire while four heavy stormtroopers try to 
open the gate with explosive charges. The heroes can fire from the protection 
of the compound walls, which provide cover. If the Imperials breach the gate, 
they stream inside the starport and attack any character they see. 


THE TRAITOR (CL 8) 

If the heroes repel the attack with the gate intact, Varan Cormin grows 
more anxious, believing that it's just a matter of time before the Imperials 
bombard Akkalo Station, killing him in the process. He activates a remote, 
‘opening the gate, then smashes the remote so it can't be used again. Seeing 
the opportunity, the AT-ST enters the compound 3 rounds later and begins 
blasting the heroes. 

Whether Cormin opens the gate or the Imperials breach the gate on their 
own, by the time they gain entry to the station, the shuttle is nearly repaired, 
The heroes must hold off the Imperial forces for 6 more rounds while the 
remaining coolant is loaded. When this process is complete, the pilot contacts 
the heroes over a comlink and orders them to board the shuttle. 


TECHNICIAN VARAN CORMIN 
Atalented mechanic, Varan Cormin was conscripted by the Empire to provide 
service at Akkalo Station. Although he dislikes the Imperials, he's a coward 
at heart, more concerned with his own well-being than with supporting 
the Rebellion. 


Varan Cormin (V) CLT 
Medium Human nonheroic 4 

Dark Side 2 

Init +2; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Durese, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 11 

hp 18; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee welding torch +2 (1d6-1) 


Ranged hold-out blaster +3 (344) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +3 

Special Actions Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, 
Mechanics), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Mechanics +14, Perception +3, Use Computer +9 

Possessions hold-out blaster, welding torch (treat as stun baton), 
haz-chem coveralls (treat as blast helmet and vest, +2 armor) 


Technician Varan Cormin Tactics 

When the heroes arrive, Cormin does what he can to assist them—until the 
Imperial forces arrive with greater numbers and firepower, at which point 
he sees the writing on the wall, After the Imperials enter the station, Cormin 
tries to stay out of harm's way, hoping that the reinforcements will retake 
the starport. He does not participate in combat against the heroes unless 
given a clear opportunity to do so at no risk to himself. 


TS LOADING VEHICLE 

The T8 loading vehicle is a typical example of the millions of such vehicles 
found in starports around the galaxy. Cheap and easy to use and repair, the 
T8 has an open cab and front-loading forks for moving cargo onto and off of 
starships. Although the loading vehicle has no weapons, the heroes can use it 
as a makeshift battering ram, to block the main gate, or as mobile cover. 


T8 Loading Vehicle cl1 

Large ground vehicle (wheeled) 

Init +4; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 18; +1 armor 

hp 60; DR 5; Threshold 23 

Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 90 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 

Base Atk +0; Grp +13 

Abilities Str 26, Dex 10, Con —, Int 10 

Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 50 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 5,000 (1,000 used) 


CONCLUSION 

If the heroes manage to board the shuttle and escape the starport, regardless 
of whether they destroyed the AT-ST, award them experience equivalent to 
defeating a CL 8 encounter. 


Akkalo Station 


Refresher 


el 
Computers 
a aa 


10m high 


weed Stormtrooper 

Work Bay 

Landi Heavy Stormtrooper 
Watch F = Imperial otticer 
Control Station ares Conaaae 
Loading Vehicle 


1 square = 1.5 Meters 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
This area has the following features. 

Mumination: The battle takes place during the day, with no penal- 
ties for low light. 

Cover: The landing pad is full of places that provide cover. In some 
cases (such as a character sitting inside the loading vehicle), the Game- 
master can rule that the target has improved cover. 

Hangar Bay: The hangar bay contains most of the gear and equip- 
ment that the heroes can use to defend the starport. Varan Cormin 
hides here. 

Walls: The outer walls of the starport are 8 meters tall and made 
from ferrocrete (200 hit points; DR 10). They can be scaled with a DC 
20 Climb check. 

Watchtowers: The ferrocrete watchtowers (100 hit points; DR 10) 
offer an excellent view, allowing a character to see up to 2 kilometers 
away. Characters inside a watchtower gain cover. 

Gate: The main gate of the compound is made of thick durastee! (90 
hit points; DR 10). It can be opened as a swift action from a control 
panel adjacent to the gate (see map), from the command center, or by 
any Character with a gate remote. 


SYUELANAGONE) ASVLITMIA 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#4: THAT WHICH 
DOES NoT KILL 
Me... 


“That Which Does Not Kill Me..." isa mini-adventure designed for 6th-level 
heroes. While scouting the woods for information on enemy positions, the 
heroes are ambushed by Human troops. Even if they survive the ambush, 
victory is in doubt when the enemy sends in a war droid to finish them off. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


A number of patrols in the region have been lost in recent weeks, and com- 
mand is concerned that a pattern might be developing. The rank and file are 
beginning to talk, and their uneasiness is causing friction among the troops. 
Without patrols reporting back with information on enemy movements, the 
officers who plan the day-to-day operations of the forward military post are 
virtually blind. Word from the top is that it's time to send in an elite group 
to find out what, exactly, is responsible for the disappearances. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 
First, the heroes must spy on the woodlands village of Liethae to gain 
information on possible enemy activity in the area, although they are not to. 
engage in combat unless attacked first. After scouting the village, they must 
check out a nearby clearing to look for proof that smugglers are delivering 
supplies to the enemy. However, the heroes are not alone in the dense woods. 
They are ambushed by trained soldiers and must confront an Arakyd AZ-Series 
battle droid with orders to eliminate all intruders. If the heroes survive, they 
return to their base and report on what they have learned. 


MISSION BRIEFING 

The heroes are contacted by their commanding officer and assigned to 
scout behind enemy lines. According to the officer, there have been reports 
of enemy movement between the village of Liethae and a clearing in the 
woodlands nearly 10 kilometers to the east. The officer provides the following 
briefing, which should be read aloud: 


“Your assignment is to pass to the northwest and scout the perimeter 
Liethae, a village with enemy sympathies. You are not to engage the inhabit- 


villagers will attack you, even if they manage to spot you. We'd prefer that 
you refrain from being seen, so keep your heads down. All we want you to 
is observe the village and note anything unusual. 

“After you investigate Liethae, proceed 10 klicks to the east to a clearing 
that looks to have been manufactured within the past month or two. 
suspect it’s being used by smugglers who are bringing supplies and wea, 
to the enemy, but we have no proof. If you find patterns that are consis 


and let us know. Better yet, if you can catch a freighter unloading mate 
try to discover what they're transporting. 

“I'msure you've also heard the rumors that have been going around. They 
true—we've lost contact with a number of patrols recently. There's not much 
we can say about it, except that you're the best we've got. Good luck.” 


With no time to waste, the heroes should arrange to set out immediately, 
Ideally, they will move during the evening, since the lack of light will help 
them maintain some semblance of stealth. The Gamemaster can keep the 
heroes on their toes by throwing in a few brief encounters with wildlife, but 
don't get bogged down with those types of fights, since they are not the 
primary focus of this mini-adventure. 


THE VILLAGE 

The heroes should have little trouble scouting the village of Liethae. If they 
perform a quick sweep of the perimeter and investigate, they find that one 
structure is being used as a barracks for a small group of enemy troops. The 
heroes must make basic Stealth checks to remain out of sight; foolhardy 
characters who insist on getting closer than necessary have to make more 
difficult checks. 

The heroes were ordered not to initiate hostilities. But if they are attacked 
first, or if they defy their orders and try to catch the enemy troops unawares, 
use the statistics for the Rebel Trooper on page 280 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook. Sixteen enemy combatants are in and around the barracks building, 
with another four patrolling the village in two pairs, 


THE AMBUSH (CL 6) 

Somewhere between the village and the clearing, the heroes trigger the 
Unexpected Company encounter (see page 182). This encounter is the focus 
of the mini-adventure, but it won't be the end of the scenario—unless the 
heroes meet their own end in the process. 


=~ 


THE CLEARING 

After scouting the village, noting the presence of enemy troops, and defeating 
or avoiding the ambushers, the heroes should continue to the clearing. As 
their commander officer said, it is about 10 kilometers east of Liethae. The 
clearing shows obvious clues that a starship has landed recently: The ground- 
level flora has been crushed by landing struts, and signs of passage, including 
tracks from booted feet, are scattered all about. A DC 10 Perception check 
allows heroes to find garbage that indicates recent activity: empty food and 
drink packaging, a cold campfire, and a Dilnlexan cigar butt or two. 

In addition, any hero who makes a DC 15 Survival check notices that some 
of the tracks in the area appear to have been made not by Human feet but by 
a droid or small walker. The tracks lead off into the woods, heading north. 

These tracks were made by an Arakyd AZ-Series battle droid, a nasty 
antipersonnel droid that was left behind to keep its optical scanners on 
the clearing. This particular droid, as well as a number of others, have been 
hunting down patrols over the last month or two. If destroyed, the droid’s 
memory banks can be extracted (requiring a DC 20 Mechanics check) and 
analyzed to confirm this activity. 


ARAKYD AZ-SERIES 
BATTLE DROID 


If the heroes follow the unusual tracks or enter the northern woods area on 
their own, the droid (hidden to the north, out of sight) begins to formulate 
its advance and method of attack. Its orders are to wipe out any intruders, 
and the heroes qualify as targets. 

The AZ is an older battle droid. Over time, AZs have been known to develop 
a penchant for cat-and-mouse tactics, which is often interpreted by organics 
as a sadistic streak. This tendency leads to a theoretical lapse in tactical sense, 
especially when the droid is presented with only one or two targets. For this 
reason, AZs are typically memory-wiped every two or three months. 


A large, four-legged droid emerges from the trees in eerie silence. Its legs 
are mounted on a cylindrical base that is topped by a single sensor hub. A 
wicked-looking claw extends from the left side of the hub, and a large blaster 
cannon is mounted to another appendage that protrudes from the right. The 
hub rotates from left to right, taking in the scene, before the droid advances 
with cold precision toward its chosen target. 


Arakyd AZ-Series Battle Droid cL6 

Large droid (4th-degree) soldier 6 

Init +10; Senses darkvision, low light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 23, Will 18 

hp 77; Threshold 33 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee claw +11 (1d6+8) 

Ranged blaster cannon +9 (3d12+5) or 

Ranged blaster cannon +9/+9 (3d12+5/3d12+5) with Double Attack 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +16 

Atk Options Charging Fire, Double Attack (heavy weapons), 

Running Attack 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 6 

Talents Armored Defense, Improved Armored Defense, Weapon 
Specialization (blaster cannon) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Charging Fire, Double Attack 
(heavy weapons), Running Attack, Weapon Focus (blaster cannon), 
Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Jump +13, Knowledge (tactics) +9, Perception +12 

‘Systems heuristic processor, durasteel plating, claw appendage, tool 
appendage, walking locomotion with 2 extra legs, darkvision, hardened 
system x2, improved sensor package, internal comlink, locked access, 
secondary battery 

Possessions blaster cannon 

Availability Military; Cost 15,630 credits (5,210 used) 


ARAKYD AZ-SERIES 

BATTLE DROID Tactics 

If the droid is outnumbered by more than four to one, it takes advantage of 
concealment as much as possible and begin to snipe at visible heroes with its 
blaster cannon. If it can whittle the party down to one or two characters, the 
droid retreats slightly and attempts to attack from a different angle. 


RETURN TO BASE 

After their encounter with the AZ-Series battle droid, surviving heroes should 
return to their base with the information they've gathered on the village, 
the enemy troops, and the clearing. If they went above and beyond the call 
of duty to complete their mission, they receive the appropriate recognition. 
However, if the heroes engaged in unnecessary combat at the village, they 
are chastised (although not actively punished) by their superior officers. 


SYSLNASGONE Auvzrw [PTA ssieena __) 


0 
ir 
> 
y 
y 
fy 
B 
BS 


ENCOUNTER: 
UNEXPECTED 
COMPANY 


Challenge Level 6 
‘SETUP: This encounter serves as the main challenge of “That Which Does Not 
Kill Me. . .," the mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

This encounter takes place in a heavily wooded area. The ambushers are 
positioned on the map as indicated, but they should not be revealed until 
the heroes notice them. The heroes start the encounter on the left edge of 
the map, moving toward the right edge. When a hero moves into a loca 
tion that has line of sight to an ambusher, allow that hero to make a DC 26 
Perception check to notice the enemy lying in wait. (The DC already takes 
into account the fact that the ambushers benefit from concealment.) The 
ambushers automatically see the heroes unless the party takes pains to 
move surreptitiously. 

If at least two heroes move within visual range of the ambushers, the 
ambushers open fire during the surprise round (if there is one). Ambushers 
who do not have line of sight when the ambush is sprung hold their fire until 
they have a target. 

Areas marked with heavy foliage are considered to be difficult terrain. 


READ-ALOUD TExT 
If the heroes fail to notice the enemy prior to the ambush, read the follow- 
ing text aloud: 


As you move through the undergrowth, the sounds of nature are suddenly 
replaced by the cacophony of blaster fire from the trees up ahead. It's an 
ambush! 


On the other hand, if the heroes notice one or more ambushers first, read 
the following text aloud: 


The noises of the forest suddenly recede, replaced by an eerie, unnatural 
silence. The hair at the back of your neck stands on end, and the only sound 
you hear is that of your own heartbeat. As you focus your eyes on the dark 
trees and bushes ahead, you suddenly notice the partially concealed form of 
@ humanoid figure, rifle raised and ready to fire. 


AMBUSHER (6) 

The ambushers are trained veterans who have been sent out to perform a 
job—kill the enemy—and they do their best to complete the mission. How- 
ever, they are not supersoldiers or heartless fanatics. Read the following 
description aloud: 


This Human soldier is dressed in well-worn combat armor, covered with a 
ouflage poncho. His face is painted to complement his uniform, and he 

his blaster rifle like a trained professional. He seems at most 20 years ol 
his eyes show that he’s seen more than his share of death and dest 


Ambusher cL2 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Init +4; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 21; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (144) 

Ranged blaster rifle +5 (3d8) or 

Ranged frag grenade +5 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +4 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill 
Training (Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +8, Stealth +14, Survival +8 

Possessions blast helmet and vest (+2 armor) with integrated comlink, 
camouflage poncho, blaster pistol, blaster rifle, frag grenade, utility 
belt with medpac 


AMBUSHER TACTICS 

The ambushers attempt to kill the heroes in the most efficient manner pos- 
sible. If their line is encountered at either end, the opposite flank swings 
around to catch the heroes in a crossfire. If the ambushers push the heroes 
back, they pursue the characters for a short distance before regrouping and 
returning to their base. On the other hand, if more than half the ambushers 
are killed, or if their officer is killed, the remaining members retreat into the 
surrounding woods. 


AMBUSHER OFFICER 

Like his troops, the ambusher officer is a trained soldier who has survived 
many engagements. He is older than the other ambushers and carries an air 
of command. Read the following description aloud: 


Judging by his insignia, this Human is in a position of authority over the other 
soldiers. His demeanor is one of control and confidence, and he carries his 
carbine with practiced ease. 


Ambusher Officer 

Medium Human nonheroic 4/noble 3/officer 1 

Force 2 

Init +8; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 20 

hp 33; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster carbine +5 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 8, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Perception), Skil 
Training (Stealth), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +8, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +10, 
Persuasion +16, Stealth +13 

Possessions comlink (encrypted), blaster carbine, camouflage 
poncho, uniform, datapad with geographic data 


AMBUSHER OFFICER 
Tactics 

The ambusher officer uses his Born Leader, Coordinate, and Trust 
talents to get the most out of his troops. If his troops gain the 
advantage or pin down the heroes, the officer uses his comlink to 
call in an artillery strike on their location (see page 101 for rules 
on artillery strikes). 


CONCLUSION 

If the heroes neutralize the ambushers, they can advance and search the area 
Other than the officer's datapad, the heroes find little useful equipment. The 
datapad contains encrypted information and can be accessed with a passcode 
or hacked as normal. Of interest is a map of the area that shows the current 
locations of several enemy units, including the mortar team that might have 
been used to bombard the heroes’ position. The datapad is not a breathtaking 
prize for the heroes, but it is worth bringing back to their base. 

Ambushers who are captured remain silent, but only within reason. They 
are experienced troops, but they are not elite soldiers trained to withstand 
extreme interrogation. 

If the heroes are captured, they are stripped of weapons and equipment 
and taken farther behind enemy lines for questioning, 


Felleditree 


> 
q 

1 
a 
2 


0) 


SUSLNNGONE) 4EVLINW 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#5: NO MAN 
LEFT BEHIND 


“No Man Left Behind” is a mini-adventure designed for 8th-level heroes. In 
this scenario, the characters must make their way to a Rebel base thought 
destroyed by Imperial forces to find an intelligence officer who survived the 
bombardment. An Imperial unit is also approaching the site, and heroes must 
race to find the survivor first. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


During the Galactic Civil War, Darth Vader ordered a massive hunt to locate 
Moff Kalast, an Imperial traitor who supplied the Rebellion with vital codes 
that showed the design of the original Death Star. Eventually, intelligence 
revealed that Kalast might be in hiding on Jabiim, a muddy, rain-soaked planet 
in the Outer Rim where the Rebellion had established bases. 

The Empire sent a considerable force to Jabiim, but the troops were met 
by a formidable Rebellion fleet and army on the ground. A protracted battle 
took place, resulting in the destruction of many homesteads and settlements 
of the native Jabiimites. The Rebels fought fiercely to protect their bases, 
but Imperial forces overran most of them. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

The heroes are part of the Rebellion army on the planet Jabiim. With the 
destruction of several bases and encampments, Rebel command has ordered 
the withdrawal of forces to consolidate in a newly formed headquarters. 
Imperial bombardment and the crush of ground troops completely overran 
many Rebel bases, and all personnel stationed at such sites were thought lost. 
However, an intelligence officer has sent an encrypted transmission reporting 
that he managed to survive and is holed up inside one of the former bases. 
He is wounded and unable to escape, especially now that Imperial troops 
have begun to sweep the area for survivors. 

Rebel command will make every effort to prevent the capture or death of 
the stranded officer. The heroes, being close to the area, are ordered to make 
their way to the base, find the intelligence officer, and meet up with Rebel 
sympathizers who will take him to a safe location. Rebel command warns 
the heroes that a large contingent of Imperial troops is making its way into 
the area. If the characters move quickly, they can probably get into the base 
without any major conflicts, but getting out could be difficult. 


Rain falls constantly on Jabiim. The atmosphere makes electronic com- 
munication spotty and prevents repulsorlift technology from functioning 
without extensive alteration. Although starfighters and the like can fly in 
the atmosphere using their ion engines, speeders and similar vehicles do not 
work without significant alteration. Thus, both the Empire and the Rebellion 
rely on walkers and wheeled vehicles for ground transportation. 


REACHING THE BASE 
(CL 6) 


The heroes are only a few kilometers away from the abandoned Rebel base 
and can make it there on foot with relative ease. Command's intelligence was 
correct: The area is mostly devoid of an Imperial presence—for the moment, 
at least. But a few scattered patrols have begun to approach the base. 

Have the heroes make three separate DC 20 Stealth checks as they travel 
to the Rebel base. If all three checks succeed, the characters elude Imperial 
patrols and reach the base without incident. However, if they fail at least one 
Stealth check, they are spotted by a patrol of four stormtroopers and two 
heavy stormtroopers, who attack immediately. This encounter takes place on 
a map of the Gamemaster's devising but should include one area of cover; 
the rest has been blasted away during previous air strikes or is simply the 
muddy terrain of the planet. 

Because Jabiim's atmosphere is particularly full of electromagnetic inter- 
ference, the Imperial patrols (if encountered) cannot report the presence of 
the characters to their commanders, 


READ-ALOUD TExT 

Eventually, the heroes spot their objective—a ferrocrete bunker atop a low, 
muddy hill, The intelligence officer is inside, almost unconscious from pain 
and the meds that he used to treat his wounds. Read aloud the following 
text: 


At last, you come upon the Rebel base. The building, crafted from ferrocret 
that shows the ravages of recent bombardments, sits atop a low, muddy hill 
Switchbacks carved into the side of the hill lead to the bunker. This cramy 
trenchlike path is carved partly into the side of the hill; it provides cover bu' 
is difficult terrain. A low pall of smoke rises from the bunker, and on the roo! 
of the structure is some sort of antiaircraft emplacement, its barrels pointing 
toward the sky. 


UP THE Hitt (CL 3) 

The heroes must make their way up the side of the hill to get to the bunker. 
Unknown to the characters, when the Rebels abandoned the base, they left 
three Vigilant 2X-Series Picket Droids (see page 55) at key points in the 
trenches. The retreating Rebels gave the droids one final order: Blast any 
anything that tries to ascend the hill. The droids expended their grenade 
jauncher ammunition long ago and attack the heroes using only their heavy 
repeating blasters. Players might realize that simply avoiding the droids can 
work to their advantage, since the droids will still be in position when the 
Imperials approach 


THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICER 

If the heroes defeat or avoid the droids on the hill and reach the bunker, they 
find the blast door shut and locked. However, the door has been damaged 
by repeated attacks, making it easier to open. The heroes can bypass the 
door's lock with a DC 20 Use Computer check or blow the lock open (30 hit 
points; DR 10). 

Once inside, they discover that the base is in utter disarray. The repeated 
bombings knocked everything over, and the Rebels seem to have taken or 
destroyed all vital equipment and documents when they left. However, the 
bunker appears to have power, including a working sensor array. Allow the 
heroes to make a DC 10 Perception check. If they succeed, they notice a ladder 
‘on one side of the room that leads up to the roof and the antiaircraft gun. 

If the heroes search the bunker, a DC 15 Perception check reveals a light 
repeating blaster with a full charge, three frag grenades, and two medpacs 
in the debris. 

The intelligence officer lies beside the communication terminal. He's 
been seriously wounded and is barely conscious. Upon seeing the heroes, he 
smiles, groans, and says, “It's about time. Get me out of this place. We don't 
have long," before slipping into unconsciousness. 

The heroes should administer aid to the officer if they wish to get him 
out of the bunker alive. If the characters manage to revive him, he'll fight 
alongside them to the best of his abilities. 


RING ON THE STRAPING TIE PIOHTER 


A 


SUSLNNGANE) ABVANU 


iA waiaveS 


SUEANAGSNME AVUGLITIA) 


ENCOUNTER: 
THE EXTRACTION 


Challenge Level 7 
‘SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "No Man Left Behind,” the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

Now that the heroes have discovered the intelligence officer and treated 
to his wounds, they must get him out of the bunker, down the switchbacks, 
and across a turgid river to the north so they can meet with their sympathizer 
contacts. By this time, however, an Imperial patrol has arrived to check the 
base for survivors, along with a TIE fighter that sweeps the area on a recon- 
naissance mission. If the heroes expect to leave the bunker alive, they must 
first destroy the fighter. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 

Just as the heroes are getting ready to exit, the bunker's sensors detect the 
arrival of the TIE fighter and the ground troops. Read aloud the following 
text: 


As you prepare to leave, one of the sensor panels bleeps in warning of an 
approaching enemy. Even through the thick walls of the bunker, you hear the 
low, haunting scream of an ion engine as it makes a low pass over the hill. The 
sensor panel suddenly springs to life, giving data that indicates the presence 
ofa TIE fighter making loops around your location. "Enemy detected,” says the 
computer's impassive voice. “Charging antiaircraft emplacement. Personnel 
required on roof to operate.” 

Immediately after, the sensors ping once more, showing the presence of 
several ground troops at the base of the hill. The Imperials have arrived in 
full force. 


If any heroes go to the roof, have them make Stealth checks to avoid being 
spotted by the TIE fighter. Once inside the gun emplacement, the heroes 
can attack the fighter while the Imperial ground forces make their way up 
the hill's switchbacks toward the base. The ground forces consist of seven 
stormtroopers and four heavy stormtroopers. 


IMPERIAL TACTICS 

The Imperial troops run into the same problems that the heroes faced when 
they climbed the switchbacks. The terrain is difficult, muddy, and hampered 
by limited visibility. The heavy stormtroopers take the lead, laying down 
suppressing fire and throwing grenades around corners to clear the way. 
The heroes, farther up the hill, have the advantage of height and cover from 
their angle (although if they leave the base to attack the approaching troops, 
they might be targeted by the TIE fighter). 

Once a hero starts shooting with the antiaircraft gun, the TIE fighter 
focuses its attentions on the weapon. If the antiaircraft emplacement is 
destroyed or abandoned, the fighter begins strafing any heroes out in the 
open. 

If the heroes left any of the Vigilant 2X Picket Droids intact, the droids 
rain fire down on the Imperials trying to climb the hill. 


CONCLUSION 


If the heroes eliminate or avoid all Imperial troops, they can make their way 
to the river on the north edge of the map. They must make Swim checks 
to get across the water. Once the heroes are on the far bank, the Jabiimite 
sympathizers reveal themselves from the cover of the scrubby bushes and 
trees and ask, “Who goes there?” After the heroes prove that they are Rebels, 
the Jabiimites remove a camouflage tarp from a ground vehicle and drive 
everyone to a nearby village. There, the sympathizers tend to the group's 
injuries while a shuttle is en route to pick them up. 

If the heroes fail to keep the intelligence officer alive but still make it to 
the rendezvous, the nervous Jabiimites suspect a ruse. A DC 20 Persuasion 
check convinces the wavering sympathizers to take the heroes back to the 
village. If the check fails, the Jabiimites abandon the vehicle, inform the 
heroes that they are on their own, and melt back into the landscape. 

The heroes should be awarded experience for a CL 8 challenge for suc- 
cessfully completing this encounter. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
The Rebel bunker and switchbacks have the following features. 

Mlumination: The constant rain and smoke limits visibility. Beyond 6 
squares, all characters and vehicles have concealment (for details, see 
page 156 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Mud Patches: Some areas of the map are filled with thick mud 
that sucks at boots and slows movement. These areas are considered 
difficult terrain. 

Impassible Terrain: The sides of the hill are so steep, slick, and 
covered with razor wire and debris that they are effectively impassible 
to ground troops or vehicles. The switchbacks are the only way up the 
hill, 

Cover: The original purpose of the switchbacks was to provide cover 
for troops defending the bunker. Characters in a particular section of the 
switchback have cover against targets not in that section. 

Command Bunker: The bunker (500 hit points; DR 10) is built from 


0 


thick ferrocrete. The sensor system inside is still operational and can t 
pinpoint the location of any target within 2 kilometers with a DC 15 \% 
Use Computer check. \a 
River: Located on the north side of the map, the river is 5 feet deep \2 
at the edges and 10 feet deep in the middle. Treat the river as calm water Bunker $ 
for the purposes of Swim checks. 2. Blast Door 
Antiaircraft Emplacement: On the roof of the base is a quad-laser 3. Command Room 
antiaircraft emplacement. It is covered in thick armor, giving the gunner Anti-Aircratt Gun 
inside an effective Reflex Defense 22 and DR 10. The targeting computer 5. Trenches 1 square = 1.5 Meters = 
remains operational, giving the gunner a +2 bonus to attack rolls against 5 


SANAGANE) AUY. 


flying targets. The gun cannot tilt low enough to shoot targets on the 
hill or on the ground. 

Electromagnetic Interference: The atmosphere of the planet inter- 
feres with electronic devices. To use a comlink, a hero must make a DC 
20 Use Computer check. Repulsorlift vehicles and droids that have not 
been adapted to the environment cannot move. 


ALIPLOTWA 


SYUSANNOONE) 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#6: CHOKE 
POINT 


"Choke Point" is a mini-adventure designed for 8th-level heroes. The char- 
acters are ordered to invade and secure a heavily defended bunker complex 
and take any military and medical supplies that can be put to use. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

This mini-adventure is fairly self-contained and requires little exposition. 
Enemy forces have dug in along an established line, and the heroes' advance 
has begun. Scouts have reported the positions of several enemy choke points, 
the weakest of which is a bunker complex with two blaster emplacements. 
The entrance(s) to the bunkers have yet to be found, but the guns have been 
far from silent. The heroes must proceed to the forward scouts’ position, 
gain access to the bunker complex, and clear it out 


MISSION BRIEFING 
The commanding officer in charge of the heroes calls them in for a quick 
mission overview. Read the following briefing aloud 


“The offensive is commencing as planned. A number of choke points along 
our path of advance have been discovered by forward scouts. One of these is 
small complex of bunkers, located here. While I'd just as soon sow the area 
with artillery, Command would like us to search the complex for valuable sup- 
plies and intelligence. This means | need to send a team in to mop the place 
up. That team is you. 

“Proceed to grid coordinate 2 G Delta and meet up with recon team 05. 
They've been on the scene for a number of hours now, and I'm sure they're tired 
of waiting. They'll tell you what you need to know. Now get moving.” 


The heroes should waste no time in arriving at their destination by whatever 
means are available. 


RECON TEAM OS 

The recon team consists of a Human sniper, Lev Palik, and his spotter, Wren 
Cristol; for both, use the Elite Rebel Trooper statistics on page 281 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook. Their orders are to hold their position and observe, 
and that's precisely what they intend to continue doing. If the heroes ask 
for support, the scouts offer to snipe available targets from a distance, but 
not much else. 

Lev and Wren can tell the heroes about the location of a possible entrance 
to the bunker complex. A patch of underbrush cleverly conceals a narrow 
opening, which they presume gives access to the bunkers. Unfortunately, 
approaching the entrance will expose the heroes to the light repeating blaster 
fire coming from the bunkers' weapon emplacements. 


DOWN AND IN (CL 8) 
With little else to do but go forward, the heroes must access the bunker and 
clear it of all hostiles. Run the encounter “On Hands and Knees" (page 189), 


CONCLUSION 

If the characters clear out the bunker complex and capture supplies or 
prisoners, their commander officer lauds them as true heroes. Returning to 
base, especially with one or more prisoners in tow, might be an adventure 
in itself. 


RAIDING THE BUNK! 


ENCOUNTER: 
ON HANDS AND 
KNEES 


Challenge Level 8 

‘SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “Choke Point,” the mini- 
adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

The map includes two main locations: the exterior area of the bunker, 
which includes the emplacements and the two concealed entrances, and 
the interior tunnels, including any portion of the bunker complex that is 
below ground. 

Enemy soldiers occupy positions as detailed on the map, but keep this 
information secret until the heroes encounter them. The enemy field medic 
is in the bunker complex's infirmary, along with five wounded soldiers who 
are unconscious and either seriously or critically hurt, presenting little, if 
any, risk to the heroes. 

The bunker emplacements are constructed to appear as natural deviations 
ina hilly rise and are concealed with local vegetation. A DC 20 Perception 
check is required to notice the emplacements, although they become obvious 
immediately if the emplacement gunners open fire. The bunker entrances 
are concealed even more thoroughly; locating an entrance requires a DC 25 
Perception check. 


READ-ALOUD TExT 
Ifa hero manages to notice an emplacement before the gunner within notices 
him or her, read the following text aloud: 


As you advance through the underbrush, you suddenly notice a line of dark- 
ness in the hillside ahead. Halting, you examine the uncanny gloom further. 
You can just make out the barrel of a blaster protruding from the shadows, 
panning back and forth in search of targets. 


When the heroes enter the area that is defined on the map as the armory, 
read the following text aloud: 


The room is stacked with boxes and crates, each bearing military markings that 
identify the contents as ordnance. These supplies include a crate of grenades, 
a half-dozen carefully stacked blaster rifles, various other types of blasters, 
and worn blast helmets and vests hanging from the walls. This looks to be an 
armory or storage area. 


When the heroes enter the area that is defined on the map as the barracks, 
read the following text aloud: 


This large, dismal room contains orderly rows of cots and accompanying 
footlockers. Two fusion lanterns dangle from the ceiling, dimly illuminating 
the area. The smell of close-quarters living is strong. 


When the heroes enter the area that is defined on the map as the living area, 
read the following text aloud: 


This medium-sized room contains three ramshackle tables. A deck of cards 
has been spread across one of the tables. The other two show signs of recent 
activity—alloy plates laden with partially eaten rations and cups filled with 
steaming liquid sit unfinished where their owners left them. 


When the heroes enter the area that is defined on the map as the infirmary, 
read the following text aloud: 


Six cots line the northern wall of this room, five of them occupied by uncon- 
scious humanoid figures who take ragged, pained breaths. At the southern 
end of the room is a bloodstained table surrounded by medical equipment, 
over which a fusion lantern provides the only illumination. A deactivated 2-1B 
medical droid stands near the table. 

Standing over one of the unconscious figures is a stooped Human soldier 
with bloodstains on his uniform and medical insignia on his epaulets. Although 
he is a healer, he stands ready to defend the wounded patients in his care. 


ARMY SOLDIERS (8) 

The army soldiers in the bunker complex are tasked with maintaining its 
security and repelling troops that attempt to advance through the area, The 
well-trained, well-equipped soldiers are willing to sacrifice themselves to 
fulfill their objectives. They have been stationed in the complex for some 
time without relief, and the lack of support has started to wear on them. 
Read the following description aloud: 


The soldier is dressed in a dirty uniform and wields a well-maintained blaster 
carbine. Although he appears exhausted, he seems ready to fight and kill to 
defend himself and his fellows. 


1A SSieveo 


W 
4 
0) 
@ 
c 
@ 
dj 
W 
2) 
(0) 


Army Soldier cL3 
Medium Human nonheroic 3/soldier 2 

Init +8; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 16, Will 13 

hp 28; Threshold 16 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee gun club +6 (1d6+3) or 

Melee knife +6 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (346+1) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +5 (3d8+1) or 

Ranged light repeating blaster +3 (3d8+1) or 

Ranged frag grenade +5 (4d6+1, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine or light repeating blaster), 
Gun Club, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot (pistols) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Gun Club 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot (pistol), 
Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +8, Perception +8, Survival +8 

Possessions knife, blaster pistol, blaster carbine, light repeating blaster, 
frag grenade 


Army Soldier Tactics 
The army soldiers defending the bunker complex use their knowledge of its 
layout to their advantage. If such an action seems prudent, they will try to 
collapse the bunker's ceiling to impede or injure trespassers. They will not 
destroy access to their exits unless extremely hard pressed. 

Because of the restricted environment, the soldiers use blaster pistols, 
pistol butts, and knives while navigating the tunnels. In the larger rooms, they 
gladly use their carbines or light repeating blasters against invaders, 


FieLD MepDic 

The field medic assigned to the bunker complex is less skilled in combat than 
the soldiers, but he is dedicated to maintaining the safety of the wounded 
in his care. The medic has seen the number of soldiers in his unit dwindle 
slowly over the past several months, which has soured his attitude toward 
his superior officers, He has not become disloyal, but he is less likely to put 
his life on the line if the wounded soldiers in the infirmary are not directly 
threatened. 


Field Medic cL2 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Init +4; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 10, Will 12 

hp 15; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee laser scalpel +5 (143-1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (346) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Weapon Finesse 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 13 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences], Treat 
Injury), Surgical Expertise, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +8, Knowledge (life sciences) +15, Perception +5, 
Treat Injury +15, Use Computer +10 

Possessions laser scalpel, blaster pistol, datapad, fusion lantern, 
medical kit, 4 medpacs, surgery kit 


Field Medic Tactics 

The field medic is trained to fight but does so only if the lives of his patients 
are threatened. If that occurs, he uses his blaster pistol to shoot enemies as 
the opportunity presents itself. 


CONCLUSION 

The bunker complex contains a number of weapons and medical supplies (see 
the Features of the Area sidebar), but unless the heroes interrogate surviv- 
ing enemies, they gain little intelligence about the complex. If the heroes 
neutralize the blasters or power generators of the weapon emplacements, 
their forces will be able to move through the area safely. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
The bunker complex has the following features. 


Mlumination: The interior of the bunker complex is not illuminated 
unless otherwise noted. Heroes without darkvision must supply some 
form of light to see. 

Emplacements: Aside from the tunnels in the bunker complex, the 
only ingress to the armored emplacements are the firing apertures, 
which are 1 meter wide by 20 centimeters high. Gunners manning these 
weapon emplacements are considered to have improved cover and 
receive a +10 bonus to their Reflex Defense. The outward-facing walls 
of the emplacements have 50 hit points and DR 10. 

Tunnels: The tunnels that link the rooms in the complex are 1 meter 
wide and just over 1 meter in height. Medium creatures entering these 
cramped conditions must crouch and can move at only half speed. Large 
creatures probably cannot enter the tunnels (at the Gamemaster's discre- 
tion). A creature in a tunnel cannot move through a square occupied by 
another creature unless both take move actions to facilitate a switch. 

Rooms: The interior rooms of the bunker complex, including the 
interiors of the bunker emplacements, are just over 2 meters in height, 
roomy enough for most creatures to navigate in a standing position. 

Walls and Ceilings: Although sturdy, the walls of the bunker complex 
will not stand up to continuous blaster hits or explosive bursts. Dealing 
a combined total of 25 points of damage to a ceiling section causes it to 
collapse, along with the ceiling sections in adjacent squares. Creatures 
caught under a collapsing ceiling take 2d6 points of damage from the 
falling debris and eventually suffocate unless they can free themselves or 
are freed by their allies. To free himself or herself, a character must make 
a DC 20 Strength check; success allows the character to move 1 square 
in any direction (but not into a wall or other solid obstruction). If this 
movement takes the character out of the debris, he or she is freed. 

Explosives: If an explosive detonates in a tunnel or a room of the 
complex, its effects (including damage and burst radius) are increased 
1.5 times. The ceiling sections within the burst radius of an explosion 
collapse, as do those in adjacent squares. 

Floors: The floors are made of packed dirt and, in the larger rooms, 
warped wooden planks and scraps of alloy siding. 


—. 
Bunker 1 


‘2 
e 


Concealed 
entrancel 


ee Living, 
giarea 


Bunker 2 
tot 
- aE Concealed 


b entrance 2 


EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES 
The following areas of the complex contain the equipment and sup- 
plies noted. 

Armory: The armory contains a number of weapons and other military 
supplies, including 6 blaster rifles, 3 blaster carbines, 4 blaster pistols, 
29 power packs, 12 fragmentation grenades, 1 light repeating blaster, 
and 4 blast helmets with vests. 

Barracks: The barracks have enough cots and footlockers to house 
12 soldiers, but only eight are currently assigned to the complex. The 
footlockers contain the soldiers’ family photos, personal datapads, and 
other sundries. 

Emplacements: Each of the two weapon emplacements is equipped 
with a light repeating blaster and a power generator. 

Infirmary: Although the infirmary is not the equivalent of a pro- 
fessional clinic or a medical bay, it is stocked with medical supplies, 
including 13 medpacs, 2 medical kits, 1 surgery kit, and a 2-1B medicai 
droid, 

Living Area: The living area is probably the least militarized section 
of the complex. Three tables are crammed within its tight confines. 
The northern wall features a small cooking area that includes ration 
canisters and a hot plate. 


2 


6 


SUus.ANAeS 


SYELNASGONE) AUVLIMA) 


waievHS 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#7: PIRACY IN 
DEEP SPACE 


"Piracy in Deep Space” is a mini-adventure designed for 10th-level heroes. 
In this scenario, the characters must assault and recapture an Action VI 
transport that has been commandeered by pirates of the Black Sun criminal 
syndicate, The ship contains vital medical supplies that must be delivered 
toa planet in need. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


During the years of the Old Republic, soldiers spent a tremendous amount 
of time fighting pirate armies and criminal organizations whose size rivaled 
that of many legitimate governments. In the Outer Rim, where the Republic 
had less influence, pirates proved a constant threat, hijacking starships and 
stealing vital supplies bound for planets in need, Although the Republic did 
its best to prevent such attacks, their limited resources meant that as many 
as one in twenty ships fell victim to pirates. 

In one such case, the Azure Queen, an aging Action VI transport loaded 
with bacta and medical supplies worth at least 500,000 credits, was bound 
for the planet Rutan. After receiving a deceptive distress call from what it 
thought was a Republic ambassador, the ship diverted from its course and 
succumbed to attacks by Black Sun pirates on the edge of an asteroid field. 
The captain of the Azure Queen managed to send out a call for help before 
the pirates jammed the ship's hyperwave transmitter. During the attack, the 
pirates’ freighter landed a critical hit that took the Azure Queen's hyper- 
drive offline, leaving the ship stranded dangerously close to the asteroid 
field. The pirates sent a boarding party to seize the transport and repair 
the hyperdrive. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

The heroes are the only Republic troops within range of the Azure Queen. 
They are currently in command of a Koensayr ILH-KK Citadel-class cruiser, 
which has superior firepower to the pirates’ YU-410 light freighter, the Cut- 
ting Strike (see page 65). Upon arriving at the coordinates of the distress 
call, the heroes must fight off the pirates’ ship, then dock with the drifting 
Azure Queen. After capturing the ship's docking bay, the heroes must make 
their way to the bridge to take out the pirates before they complete their 
repairs of the hyperdrive and escape to Black Sun territory (with the heroes 
still on board). 


The Citade/-class cruiser that the heroes are piloting has the capacity to 
carry two starfighters, but the docking bays are currently empty because 
the ships were called away for other duty. 


Koensayr ILH-KK Citadel-class Cruiser* cL7 
Colossal space transport 
Init -4; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 26; +14 armor 
hp 120; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 830 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +1 (see below) and 
2 ion cannons +1 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +3 (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +1 (see below) and 
2 ion cannons +1 (see below) and 
tractor beam +3 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +36 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 3 (normal); Passengers 14 
Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 2 starfighters 
(currently none) 
Payload 12 medium concussion missiles 
Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 205,000 (120,000 used) 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +1 (-4 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
lon cannons (gunner) 
Atk +1, Dmg 5d10x2 ion 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +3, Dmg 8410x2, 4-square splash 
Tractor beam (pilot) 
‘Atk +1 (grapple +36) 


* These statistics represent a baseline Citadel-class cruiser with a normal 
crew from Starships of the Galaxy. Adjust statistics according to the 
heroes’ abilities. 


SS 


LOCATING THE AZURE 
QUEEN 


The last transmission that the Azure Queen sent out gave its coordinates. 
However, pinpointing its exact position is difficult because of damage to 
the ship and interference from the Cutting Strike and from the unusually 
high metal ore content of the nearby asteroid field. Once the heroes arrive 
at the given coordinates, they must make a DC 20 Use Computer check to 
detect the stranded transport's signature among the asteroids. Once they 
do, they can speed toward the ship, but as they do so, they are intercepted 
by the pirates. 


AMBUSH (CL 9) 

When the heroes come out of hyperspace, they find themselves dangerously 
close to a dense asteroid field, making the journey to the Azure Queen all the 
more hazardous. For 3 rounds, the heroes must steer through sparse asteroid 
field debris while they try to lock onto the Azure Queen's signal. Each round, 
they must make a DC 15 Pilot check to steer safely; failure means that their 
ship takes 4d6 + 20 points of damage. Eventually, they get a visual on the 
Azure Queen, which seems to be tumbling in space, venting gases and leaving 
a trail of metallic wreckage in its wake. 

Divide the battle map into three equal zones. The first zone is clear space, 
the second zone contains sparse debris from the asteroid field, and the third 
zone contains heavy debris, The stranded transport floats in the sparse debris 
at the edge of the second zone. The Cutting Strike floats alongside it, hidden 
among the heavy debris of the third zone. If the heroes make a DC 25 Use 
Computer check, they detect the presence of the freighter. If the check fails, 
the pirates surprise the heroes. 

The battle takes place in the third zone of the asteroid field. Each round, 
each side (the heroes and the pirates) must make a DC 25 Pilot check or its 
ship takes 6d6 + 30 points of damage. If the heroes can lure the Cutting Strike 
into the second zone (or use the cruisers tractor beams to pull the freighter 
into the second zone), the ships can fight in sparse debris, which requires DC 
15 Pilot checks instead of the DC 25 checks required in the third zone, 

The pirates know that they must destroy the heroes’ ship to buy enough 
time for the crew aboard the Azure Queen to finish repairs and jump into 
hyperspace. The pirate captain is on board the stranded transport; the 
second-in-command aboard the Cutting Strike will not risk his own life or 
his ship to retrieve the pirates on the Azure Queen. If the Cutting Strike is 
reduced to 20 hit points or fewer, it jumps into hyperspace, leaving the other 
pirates to their fate. 


BOARDING THE AZURE QUEEN 
(CL 6) 

After the Cutting Strike is destroyed, disabled, or jumps into hyperspace, the 
heroes can attempt to board the Azure Queen. However, as they approach 
the transport, the pirate captain opens a channel to discuss terms. Read the 
following text aloud: 


As the Azure Queen grows larger in the viewport, your comlink crackles to 
life. The face of a scarred Rodian fills the screen. “Attention, Republic vessel," 
he says. "/ am Malva Greeku, commander of the privateer Cutting Strike. You 
are outside your area of jurisdiction. However, it seems that you've bested my 
ship, and | commend your abilities. Their failure will not go unpunished. But 
| warn you that we have a large boarding party, and the crew of this vessel 
is in our control. Leave us alone, and we will release the crew unharmed ona 
civilized planet. If you insist on making things difficult, we will begin executing 
the crew.” The transmission cuts off. 


Allow the heroes to make a DC 15 Use Computer check; with a success, they 
determine that the transport's hyperdrive is offline. A subsequent DC 25 
Mechanics check reveals that, based on the visible damage, it will probably 
take the pirates 1 hour to complete repairs. 

If the heroes do nothing, after about an hour, the Azure Queen jumps into 
hyperspace and is gone. If the characters decide to take the ship, they find 
boarding a dicey proposition. The transport is spinning laterally and spewing 
dangerous chemicals and other debris. Lining up the ships at the proper angle 
requires a DC 25 Pilot check, in addition to the Pilot check needed to avoid 
the asteroids (which could be sparse or heavy, depending on where the ships 
link up). If the heroes successfully grab the Azure Queen with their tractor 
beam, they can stabilize the transport enough to gain a +5 bonus to Pilot 
checks for the purposes of docking. 

If the heroes line up the ships and get within range, they manage to 
dock with the Azure Queen, connecting at one of the transport's cargo bays. 
Upon boarding the vessel, they find the cargo bay illuminated with eerie red 
emergency lighting and full of crates and gear—but devoid of pirates. 

Run “Retaking the Azure Queen," the climactic encounter on the next 


page. 


1A BaLevHS 


SYUSLNASOONE 4BVLIWA 


SYSLNNGONE ABVLITMA 


ENCOUNTER: 
RETAKING THE 
AZURE QUEEN 


Challenge Level 11 
‘SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “Piracy in Deep Space,” the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

When the pirates boarded the Azure Queen, they expected little resistance 
and brought only a handful of personnel with them. Now that the heroes 
have boarded, the pirates fear that they will be outnumbered or outgunned, 
so they gather the hostages and make a stand in the bridge. They have cut 
the power in most of the ship and locked doors in hopes of slowing down 
the heroes long enough for their KDY-4 tech droid to finish repairing the 
hyperdrive, allowing them to take the transport to safe territory. 


BLACK SUN PIRATE (3) 

The three Black Sun pirates are extremely loyal to Captain Greeku. They know 
that since their own vessel either was destroyed or left them behind, they 
have no choice but to fight to the death or face life in a penal colony, 


Black Sun Pirate (P) cL6 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/scout 2/scoundrel 2 

Force 2 

Init +5; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 16, Will 14; Dodge 

hp 42; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibro-ax +8 (2d10+3) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +7 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged stun grenade +7 (4d6 stun) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Special Actions Jury-Rigger, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Jury-Rigger, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Point Blank Shot, Shake It Off, 
Skill Training (Endurance, Pilot), Weapon Focus (advanced melee 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Endurance +11, Mechanics +5 (can reroll when jury- 
rigging, must take the result of the reroll), Perception +5, Pilot +11 

Possessions vibro-ax, heavy blaster pistol, 2 stun grenades, utility belt, 
comlink 


CAPTAIN MALVA GREEKU 

Captain Malva Greeku is an operative in the ranks of the Black Sun who was 
given his own ship to conduct raids and piracy on behalf of the organization, 
Choosing his turf near the Hydian Way, he has earned quite a reputation as a 
capable captain, a deadly shot with a pistol, and a slippery combatant. Having 
received information from an inside source, Greeku spent weeks planning the 
hijacking of the Azure Queen in hopes that its bounty would propel him to 
the rank of enforcer, giving him even more clout and wealth. He's gambling 
with his future, and the fact that the Republic has stumbled upon his plan 
makes him even more dangerous and willing to take risks. 


Malva Greeku (G) 

Medium Rodian scoundrel 6/noble 3/gunslinger 1 

Force 6; Dark Side 9 

Init +18; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Rodese 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 25), Fort 20, Will 22 

hp 56; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee stun baton +7 (1d6+5) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +11 (3d8+5) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6/+6 (3d8+5) with Double Attack or 

Ranged stun grenade +10 (4d6+5 stun) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +10 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Dastardly Strike, Deceptive Shot, Double 
Attack (pistols), Lucky Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Rally 

Abili Str 10, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 15 

Talents Born Leader, Dastardly Strike, Deceptive Shot, Disruptive, 
Lucky Shot, Rally 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Armor Proficiency (ight), Double Attack (pistols), 
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Acrobatics, 
Deception, Initiative), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +18, Deception +17, Initiative +18, Perception +10 (can 
reroll), Pilot +13 

Possessions stun baton, heavy blaster pistol, 2 stun grenades, stun cloak, 
YU-410 light freighter (the Cutting Strike), utility belt, comlink 


cL 10 


Greeku's Tactics 

Fully aware that the heroes have docked with the Azure Queen, Greeku cuts 
the power to many portions of the ship, hoping that the poor lighting condi- 
tions will slow them down. He moves the transport's captured crew into the 
captain's quarters, which are adjacent to the bridge, and orders one of his 
pirates to stand guard over them. Greeku and the rest of the pirates remain 
on the bridge and prepare to hold off the heroes. 


The pirates have locked all doors in the areas indicated on the map, leav- 
ing only one way into or out of the bridge—the turbolift. When the heroes 
breach the bridge doors, the pirates throw stun grenades and then use their 
heavy blaster pistols. They do not hesitate to get within close range and 
attack with their vibro-axes. 

During the battle, if Greeku is reduced to 10 hit points or fewer, he uses 
his comlink to order the guard to start executing hostages, leaving the Azure 
Queen's captain for last. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The bridge of the Azure Queen has the following features. 
Illumination: With the vessel operating at minimal power, the 

bridge is lit with red emergency lighting, which provides shadowy 

illumination, 


Turbolift: The turbolift leads from the bridge to the bay where the 
heroes left their ship. It contains a camera. 

Cameras: A network of cameras mounted in most corridors and 
turbolifts of the ship can be monitored from the bridge or the captain's 
quarters. The heroes can destroy these cameras (5 hit points; DR 1) to 
deny the pirates knowledge of their activities. 

Doors: All doors (80 hit points; DR 15) in the bridge and adjacent areas 
are locked; each can be bypassed with a DC 20 Use Computer check. 

Hyperdrive Station: The pirates have brought along a KDY-4 tech 
droid (see page 51) to repair the transport's hyperdrive. The droid is 
positioned at the hyperdrive station, coordinating repairs down below. 
If the pirates can hold off the heroes and protect the droid from harm 
for 10 rounds, it completes the repairs. 

Captain's Quarters: The pirates have already killed three members 
of the Azure Queen's crew. The five remaining members, including the 
captain, are bound and being held in the captain's quarters. These 
captured crew members do not participate in the fight in any way. The 
captain's quarters also contains a medpac. 

Crew Quarters: Each crew quarters contains bunks and one 
medpac. 

Lounge: The ship's lounge holds nothing of interest. A camera 
monitors this room. 

Storage: The storage room contains a tool kit, a medpac, and four 
power packs. 

Galley: The galley contains a medpac and 50 kilograms of 
adequate food. 

Refresher: Each refresher contains a medpac. 


CONCLUSION 

If the heroes fail to secure the bridge or destroy the KDY-4 tech droid within 
10 rounds, the droid completes repairs, and the Azure Queen jumps into 
hyperspace, bringing the heroes and their ship along for the ride. The jump 
takes them into orbit around Nar Shaddaa, where three stolen Corellian 
Corvettes await the arrival of the captured transport. If the heroes manage 
to return to their ship and leave the Azure Queen, they can try to fight the 
Corvettes, but they are clearly outmatched. 

If the heroes defeat the pirates before the transport jumps into hyper- 
space, they receive experience for a CL 10 challenge. If the captain of the 
Azure Queen survives the encounter, he rewards the heroes by paying them 
1,000 credits for each crew member (if any) who survived the hijacking. 


a 
= aes 


a 


TA wSiavHS 


SVELANNGSNE) ASVLWW 


CHAPTER VII 
IRST BREACH 


Las 


a dd ee 


“Operation: First Breach” is a complete adventure that can be used as a 
part of a campaign featuring warfare. This adventure is set during the Clone 
Wars, but with some slight adaptation it can be altered to fit in almost any 
era that features two powerful military forces at war with one another, In 
this adventure, the heroes take on the role of a strike force sent to soften 
the defenses of a world controlled by their enemies, a theme that fits in 
with almost any era. 

This adventure is designed for five 3rd-level characters. Although some of 
the challenges in this adventure may be a bit tougher than 3rd-level heroes 
normally have to face, resourceful characters should be able to handle 
themselves. Additionally, this adventure makes use of many of the concepts 
presented elsewhere in this book, tying them together into an adventure 
that highlights the themes found in the military side of the Star Wars galaxy. 
Because this adventure is Set during the Clone Wars, it makes use of some 
of the statistics and information found in The Clone Wars Campaign Guide. 
Although the necessary statistics are presented here, you may want to read 
through that book to get a better idea of what the individual items are and 
how they interact with the time period surrounding the Clone Wars. 

If you are a player, you should stop reading now so that you do not spoil 
any surprises for yourself. If you are the Gamemaster, be sure to read through 
this adventure thoroughly before running it. Additionally, you may want to 
familiarize yourself with the Vehicle Fire Effects rules from page 67 for one 
of the later encounters. 


OPENING CRAWL 


For Gamemasters who wish to have an opening crawl before their adventure, 
consider using the read-aloud text below: 


STAR WARS 


OPERATION: FIRST BREACH 


It is a time of desperation for the Galactic Republic. Separatist forces have 
captured the planet Tirahnn, shutting down a major source of much-needed 
resources along the Perlemian Trade Route. 


Sensing the urgency of the situation, the Republic has prepared an invasion 
force to liberate the planet. The Separatist forces present a daunting front, 
and more than brute force is necessary for victory. 


oO 
v 
0 
> 
q 
a 
Zz 
3 
a 
a 
4 
Oo 
2 
0 
> 
0 
rT 


In order to ensure victory, the Republic has prepared a plan to soften the 
Planet's defenses ahead of the invasion. This strike team will be the first to 
breach the Separatists' defenses, and will make way for the liberation of the 
world... 


PART 1: INSERTION 

The adventure opens with the heroes being summoned to the tactical opera- 
tions center aboard the Solidarity, a Venator-class vessel that serves as the 
flagship for Jedi Master Ezar Elasra’s small but successful Mid Rim battle 
group. This adventure presumes that the Republic has some reason to trust 
the heroes, either because they have worked with the Republic before, or 
because they come recommended by a trusted ally. The heroes receive not 
only a summons, but directions that a Theto-class shuttle will pick them up 
and transport them to the Solidarity. Be sure to give the heroes time to set 
their affairs in order, do any shopping they need to, or perform any downtime 
activities they wish before the shuttle arrives. Although there should be a 
sense of urgency about the communiqué, this will be the last chance the 
heroes will have to do these things until the end of the adventure. 

The shuttle arrives at the appointed time and location—somewhere near 
the heroes’ location when they are ready to go—and within hours they are 
dropping out of hyperspace at a rendezvous point. The Solidarity appears to 
bbe much the same as all of the other Venator-class Star Destroyers, although 
it has clearly seen its share of battle. Repair crews work all over the outside 
of the ship, patching holes that were punched in the hull by turbolaser fire. 
As the shuttle docks with the Solidarity, describe the battle damage to the 
cruiser, the spacesuit-wearing repair crews, and the gaping holes that reveal 
deep gouges into the interior of the ship. 


THE BRIEFING 

The heroes are escorted by a pair of clonetroopers to Master Elasra's private 
briefing room. Ezar Elasra is a tall, powerfully-built Barabel with crimson 
scales covering most of his body. He has donned a functional set of black 
Jedi robes, and paces before a hologram of a yellow planet hovering above 
a tactical display. Attending Master Elasra is the captain of the Solidarity, a 
meticulous looking Human from Corulag who introduces himself as Captain 
Ralen. Also in the room, peering closely at the tactical display, is a clone com- 
mando with his helmet removed. Captain Ralen introduces the commando as 
Commander Husk, and then dismisses the clones that escorted the heroes to 
the briefing room. Once introductions have been made, Master Elasra begins 
the briefing, Read the following aloud: 


“The planet you see before you is Tirahnn, a world on the Perlemian Trade Route. 
Some months ago, the planet fell into Separatist hands, and we could not spare 
the resources to oppose them. Since that time, the Separatists have used their 
control of the world to disrupt trade and supply lines, and the Jedi Council has 
tasked us with dislodging the Separatists and reopening the trade route. 

“This display shows the Separatist defense fleet around Tirahnn. As you 
can see, the planet is extremely well defended, and a direct attack against 
such a fleet would be costly, 


“Tirahnn's capital city possesses a planetary ion cannon that was use 
unsuccessfully in its defense when the Confederacy took control of the plane! 
We believe that a small strike force can slip past the blockade, seize cor 
of the planetary ion cannon, and use the cannon to launch a surprise at 
against the fleet in orbit. With a large amount of the defense fleet disat 
by the ion cannon, our fleet will jump into the system, engage the remain 
defenders, and launch a full-scale ground assault to liberate the planet." 


At this point, it should be clear to the heroes that they are to be the strike 

force. Captain Ralen then continues the briefing to explain that the heroes 

will be transported by an LAAT/s stealth dropship used by the Republic 

Commandos for covert insertion into enemy territory. The heroes will also 

be accompanied by a squad of four clone commandos and a contingent of 

six clonetroopers. While the heroes perform their assigned mission, the 
clonetroopers will remain at the landing site to guard the LAAT/s from 
snooping droids. The clone commandos have their own mission: Infiltrate 
and sabotage the primary Separatist military base on Tirahnn. The Republic 
needs the heroes because they can pass as citizens of Tirahnn, while the 
clones would be recognizable even without their armor. 

This is a good chance for the heroes to ask questions about the mission. 

Below are some answers to common questions the heroes may have: 

* How do they find the ion cannon? Republic Intelligence has pin= 
pointed the ion cannon's location. The data will be transferred to the 
heroes’ datapads. 
How are they supposed to capture the ion cannon? That is a deci- 
sion largely up to them. The heroes are expected to make an on-site 
assessment of how to capture the ion cannon. Republic Intelligence has 
identified a Zygerrian Separatist, identified as Commander Zolghast, 
as the man in charge of the ion cannon’s security. Should the heroes 
encounter Zolghast, their orders are to capture him alive and hold him 
for interrogation. 

What does the Republic know about Zolghast? He is a paranoid man 

who has tried to remain hidden even during the occupation. He issues 

commands from a remote location, but little else is known. It is believed 
that he is the only one with the firing codes necessary to operate the 
jon cannon. 

* What kinds of opposition are they likely to face? The Separatists 
have a wide array of droids and vehicles occupying the planet, but for 
the most part the heroes should only have to deal with battle droids in 
capturing the ion cannon. 


SMOOTH LANDINGS 

Once the heroes have prepared for the mission, they are loaded onto the 
LAAT/s and the mission begins. The dropship disembarks from the Solidar- 
ity and then jumps to lightspeed, leaving the fleet behind. Within a matter 
of hours, the ship emerges from hyperspace well away from the planet of 
Tirahnn. From there, the pilot powers down most nonessential systems and 
the ship begins the long, nearly silent trip from the edges of the system 
toward Tirahnn itself. 

After several hours, the planet Tirahnn fills the forward viewport of the 
ship. The clone pilot calls back to everyone that they are going to full silent 
mode and orders that all electronics be shut down (including droids). Read 
the following description: 


The transport glides silently through space, appearing as a black speck to 
anyone that happens to be observing from one of the Separatist ships. There 
are long, tense moments that pass as the dropship passes through the Con- 
federacy blockade, but no turbolaser fire flashes after you. The ship begins to 
rattle as it plunges into the atmosphere, seeming to be nothing more than a 
meteorite burning up on entry. 

Once clear of the blockade, the clone pilot begins firing up the dropship's 
systems to bring it in for a covert landing on the night side of the planet. 
However, before the pilot has a chance to set a suitable approach vector, the 
entire ship bucks as it is tossed around by errant wind currents. There is the 
sound of tearing metal, and alarm klaxons begin to sound throughout the 
interior of the ship. 

“Strap in!" calls the pilot. “This is going to hurt.” 


Due to unforeseen weather patterns, the ship's angle of descent is much 
more severe than the pilot had planned for. Moreover, multiple maneuver- 
ing repulsors were damaged during the initial stages of reentry, sending the 
ship careening toward the ground. There is little the pilot can do to control 
the descent. At this point, the heroes have the chance to make a big differ- 
ence in how severe the crash is. Allow each hero to take a single action to 
aid in the landing of the careening ship. Below are a few examples of the 
kinds of things the heroes can do to help with the landing, but they are by 
no means every possible measure that can be taken; if your heroes come up 
with creative solutions, don't be afraid to improvise. 
© A hero trained in the Mechanics skill can attempt to repair some of the 
maneuvering repulsors that burned out during atmospheric entry. A DC 
19 Mechanics check restores some maneuverability that had been lost. 
© A hero trained in the Pilot skill can attempt to take the copilot seat, 
assisting the clone pilot in the descent. A DC 14 Pilot check helps level 
the angle of descent, reducing the chances of a fatal crash. 


* A hero trained in the Use Computer skill can operate the ship's sen- 
sors, calculating a better approach vector given the new circumstances. 
A successful DC 19 Use Computer check not only calculates a new 
approach, it also grants any hero acting as copilot a +2 circumstance 
bonus on a Pilot check. 

A hero trained in the Treat Injury skill can prepare the ship's passengers 
for a hard landing. A DC 24 Treat Injury check allows the hero to admin- 
ister sedatives and prepare protective gear, helping reduce the chance 
of injury on impact. 

A hero trained in Use the Force can use his or her skill in manipulat- 
ing objects telekinetically to hold the ship together and prevent further 
damage. A successful DC 24 Use the Force check allows the hero to keep 
any other external pieces from being torn off during the landing. 

If the heroes are successful in at least three of these skill checks, read the 
following aloud: 


The ship plunges toward the ground at a steep angle, and the pilot yells a 
battle cry as he pulls back on the yoke. The ship lurches upon impact with 
the ground, and threatens to rattle itself apart as it digs a deep furrow in 
the ground. After what seems like hours but is really less than a minute, the 
dropship comes to a halt. 

Long moments of silence follow, until Commander Husk calls out to the 
cabin, “Everyone 100 percent?" Within moments, the remaining clonetroopers 
and clone commandos all signal that they are fine, and bright moonlight streams 
into the ship's passenger hold as one of the side doors is forced open. 


If the heroes do not succeed in at least three skill checks to reduce the 
severity of the crash, read the following text instead: 


The ship plunges toward the ground at a steep angle, and the pilot yells a 
battle cry as he pulls back on the yoke. The ship lurches upon impact with 
the ground, and threatens to rattle itself apart as it digs a deep furrow in 
the ground. After what seems like hours but is really less than a minute, the 
dropship comes to a halt. 

Long moments of silence follow, until Commander Husk calls out to the 
cabin, “Everyone 100 percent?” A few voices answer in the affirmative, but 
there is silence from others. One of the clone commandos looks up from where 
he is hunched over another clone. “Looks like some of our boys are on perma- 
nent RER.” Once the side door of the ship opens, letting the bright moonlight 
in, you see that only two of the six clone troopers survived the crash, and that 
the pilot was killed as well, 


WA SelavnS 


Revelg LShl2) wonvvsd@ 


Seeeuue 


] LSU) INGLLVHEE! 


0 


Revel) 


WELCOMING COMMITTEE 

Unfortunately for the heroes, a dawned dropship is not the end of their tribu- 
lations. A roggwart from Vendaxa was accidentally released from captivity 
during the Separatist invasion, and it has sought refuge in the wilds nearby. 
Unfortunately, the sound of a crash and of small and delicious humanoids 
exiting the crashed ship have attracted its attention. As the heroes and 
clones are removing their supplies from the LAAT/s, the roggwart roars to 
announce its presence. 

Tactical Encounter: The roggwart has been living off of small animals 
in the wilds of Tirahnn for weeks, and it is hungry for something larger than 
the local wildlife. Refer to the "Drop Zone” tactical encounter on page 206 
for details on how to run this encounter. 

Development: With the roggwart slain or otherwise subdued, the mission 
can begin. The twinkling lights of the capital city glimmer in the night, only 
klicks away according to Commander Husk, and the clone commandos have 
their own mission to perform. As they unload BARC speeder bikes from the 
hold of the dropship and begin assembling them, Commander Husk hands 
the heroes a holoprojector with a three-dimensional topographical map of 
the surrounding area, pulled from the sensor banks of the LAAT/s. He informs 
the heroes that if they set out now, they should reach the city before dawn, 
making it easier to avoid notice by Separatist sentries 

If the clone troopers survived, they load up as much as they can carry 
and set off to make a base camp in the nearby foliage. Since they would be 
recognized inside the city, they prepare to hunker down and wait for the 
invasion to begin. The clone commando demolitions officer rigs the LAAT/s 
with explosives, and once everyone is safely clear he blasts the dropship 
into so much scrap metal, preventing the sensitive information it might be 
carrying from falling into Separatist hands. 

With that, Commander Husk dons his stealth armor helmet and turns to 
the heroes. "Good luck,” he calls, “And watch out for the clankers.” 


THE WEAKENED ROGOWART ATTACKS NEAR THE LAAT/S. 


TIRAHNN, CAPITAL CITY 

The capital city of Tirahnn, also called Tirahnn, is a place full of towering 
skyscrapers and wide, broad bazaars throughout the city. The Separatist 
invasion has done little to stop the bazaars from operating, although the 
populace does seem a bit subdued. The signs of the Confederacy presence 
can be felt everywhere. Droid squads march down the streets, the glinting 
diode eyes of droidekas watch for signs of dissent from rooftops, and droid 
starfighters zoom overhead with the whine of repulsors. At first glance, it 
seems as though the city is heavily occupied, if not repressed. 

Most of the inhabitants of Tirahnn seem to be going about their business 
as usual, though there are occasionally signs of trouble. Battle droids cluster 
around a stall in a bazaar, rifling through the owner's possessions looking for 
smuggled weapons. Hailfire tank droids roll down the street, turning their 
armament of missiles toward any gatherings of people until they disperse, 
Separatist leaders ride in armored vehicles, flanked by dozens of super battle 
droids that indiscriminately shove people out of the way. These minor back- 
ground elements can help reinforce the presence of the occupying force, and 
should motivate your heroes to help liberate the planet. 


TIRAHNN 
Region: Mid Rim 
Climate: Warm J 
Gravity: Standard 
Moons: 9 | 
Length of Day: 28 standard hours | 
Length of Year: 272 local days | 
Sapient Species: Humans (60%), various other species (40%) | 
Government: Mercantile oligarchy | 
Capital: Tirahnn | 
Major Exports: Luxury items, agricultural goods 
Major Imports: Technology 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Tirahnn is a planet that thrives on commerce. It is a major hub | 
‘on the Perlemian Trade Route and is at the center of the Zeemacht | 
Cluster. 

15 The various towns and cities on Tirahnn are famous for their large 

bazaars, where nearly any item imaginable can be bought—for 

the right price. 

Tirahnn's wealthy live in towering skyscrapers, rarely descending 

to areas that they see as “below their station,” and many claim to 

have not set foot on the ground in decades. 


20 


FINDING COMMANDER 
ZOLGHAST 

Once the heroes have made their way into the capital city, their first task isto 
find Commander Zolghast. Based on what they were told during their brief- 
ing, Zolghast is a paranoid man, but he is also the only person on the planet 
with access to the firing codes for the planetary ion cannon. Zolghast has 
commandeered a small building that was once an police outpost in Tirahnn's 
main financial district. The building has been converted into a defensible 
bunker by the paranoid commander, and now it is defended by battle droids 
and the commander's two Geonosian bodyguards. From the bunker, Zolghast 
issues commands remotely, only occasionally venturing out to make sure that 
everything is running smoothly at the planetary ion cannon, 

The heroes need to find Zolghast, and they have several avenues available 
to them to accomplish this, The following are some explanations of the most 
common methods the heroes might use to find out where Zolghast is hiding. 

Any heroes can use the Gather Information skill to find Commander 
Zolghast. Their inquiries lead them to a Draethos woman named Shara-Or 
who was once a police officer who lost her job when Zolghast ousted her 
from command of the building that would become his bunker. Shara-Or has 
been working as a private security officer in one of the skyscrapers owned 
by TaggeCo. A successful Gather Information check points the heroes in her 
direction; alternately, they might use other skills, pay out bribes, or find other 
means of locating Shara-Or. She's none too pleased with being displaced 
by the Separatist leader, and willingly tells the heroes the general location 
and information about Zolghast's bunker. She's bitter, and she wants to 
see Tirahnn liberated by the Republic, so the heroes should have no fear of 
revealing their identities or their mission to her. 

Alternately, the heroes might decide to ambush a Separatist patrol and 
get the information out of them. Most droids on the planet are controlled 
by one of the droid control ships orbiting the planet, and most cannot will- 
ingly reveal the location of Zolghast's bunker. However, ambushing a battle 
droid patrol does open up the option of tapping into their internal computer 
systems to try and retrieve data. Most battle droid patrols on Tirahnn con- 
sist of eight B1-Series battle droids, two B2-Series super battle droids, and 
either a tactical droid or an OOM-Series officer droid. The memory banks of 
tactical droids and OOM-Series droids contain basic information that can 
be used to triangulate Zolghast's bunker; retrieving that data requires a DC 
19 Use Computer check. 


If your heroes choose neither of these two methods, here are some of the 
most pertinent facts about Zolghast's hiding place that can help you figure 
out how to adjudicate their efforts. 

© Commander Zolghast spends the majority of his time in the bunker. His 
food and supplies are brought to him, and he sleeps on a bed that slides 
‘out from the wall. 

Zolghast tells no one the location of his bunker, except for those who 
already know: the police that once occupied the bunker, his superiors in 
the fleet above, his personal servant droid that brings him supplies, and 
a small number of Confederacy officers on the ground. 

The bunker is connected to the ion cannon control center directly by 
underground tunnel, Zolghast never exits the front door of his bunker if 
he must leave, he travels to the planetary ion cannon, exiting its struc~ 
ture to hide the presence of his bunker. 

The battle droids that occupy the bunker, and the droid control ship 
that commands them, are the only droids and computers that know 
Zolghast's true location at any time. 

Zolghast occasionally issues orders directly to patrols in the city via 
computer in order to protect the bunker from imagined threats. 
Tactical Encounter: With knowledge of Zolghast's bunker in hand, the 
heroes can attempt to capture the commander and his firing codes. The com- 
mander rarely leaves the facility, bringing several days' worth of rations with 
him at a time to minimize the amount of time he must spend unprotected, 
When the heroes arrive, they find the bunker sealed up tightly. Though they 
may be able to talk their way inside, given Zolghast's paranoia there is a 
good chance he will command his battle droids to simply open fire. Refer to 
the "Zolghast’s Bunker" tactical encounter on page 208 for details on how 
to run this encounter, 

Development: With Zolghast subdued and the firing codes for the 
planetary ion cannon in hand, the heroes also make another discovery: an 
underground tunnel leading from the bunker to a secret entrance of the ion 
cannon facility. Although Zolghast denies knowledge of it, the passageway 
twists and turns under the streets of Tirahnn until it reaches a secret base- 
ment in the ion cannon’s control facility. The heroes can use this to gain 
access to the ion cannon, without having to go through the front doors. 
However, this secret entrance is quarded (as they may later discover), whereas 
going through the front doors, while more difficult, allows them to bypass 
this encounter. See below for more information on the secret entrance into 
the cannon's control building. 


WA SsiavnD 


PART 2: THE ION 
CANNON 


Armed with the firing codes to the planetary ion cannon and having access to 
a secret entrance into the cannon’s structure, the heroes must seize control 
of the ion cannon and fire it at the fleet waiting in orbit. From this point, 
the heroes have three major options. Their first option, and perhaps the most 
obvious, is to infiltrate the ion cannon by accessing the secret entrance 
beneath the structure. However, there are two other options they might 
consider. First, the heroes might try and breach the planetary ion cannon 
through the blast doors leading out onto the street. Alternately, the heroes 
might choose to infiltrate the ion cannon through the roof access. Either of 
these two options circumvent the secret entrance encounter, though this 
may not necessarily be a good thing. The following sections describe the 
various parts of the planetary ion cannon and how the encounters within 
that structure fit together. 


BREACHING THE SECRET 
ENTRANCE 

If the heroes follow the long tunnel leading from Zolghast’s bunker to the 
planetary ion cannon, they emerge from the tunnel ina small security room 
meant to guard the secret entrance from intruders. The secret entrance 
functions as a security control room (see page 147) for the purposes of its 
responsibilities and actions. This control room's computer has an Intelligence 
modifier of +6 and a Will Defense of 21 and is unfriendly to users other than 
the designated OOM-Series battle droid. 

Tactical Encounter: When the heroes approach, they have the oppor- 
tunity to do so with caution. The tunnel turns at an angle shortly before 
it intersects with this security checkpoint, meaning that the droids in the 
checkpoint may not be immediately aware of the heroes’ approach. The 
heroes can make Stealth checks to hide, gaining the element of surprise 
when the security control room is breached. The droids in this area are not 
exceptionally alert, as this supposedly secret passageway is known only to 
Zolghast and the few droids that guard it. Refer to the “Back Door” tactical 
encounter on page 210 for details on how to run this encounter. 

Development: If the heroes managed to take out the defenders in this 
area without an alarm being raised, they should have the element of surprise 
when they enter the main floor of the ion cannon's structure. Should the 
heroes achieve an attitude of friendly or helpful on the security control room's 
computer, they can see live video feeds of the main control center above. 
This should give them ample opportunity to plan their attack, or come up 
with a different strategy. The droids elsewhere in the facility are controlled 
by a Droid Control Ship above, meaning that the heroes have no opportunity 
to shut them down from within the ion cannon facility. 


THE ION CANNON CONTROL 
CENTER 

Eventually, the heroes will need to seize contro! of the main control center 
of the planetary ion cannon. The ion cannon can only be fired from the com- 
puters in the main control center, and the cannon requires that Zolghast's 
command codes be provided before the firing sequence can begin, The control 
center functions as a command bridge (see page 146) for the purposes of 
its responsibilities and actions. This room has three access points: a pair 
of turbolifts leading down to the secret entrance several stories below, a 
short stairwell leading onto the roof, and a pair of blast doors (DR 10, 750 
hit points, damage threshold 70, Strength DC 40/Break DC 45) leading out 
to the street. The blast door can be opened from the outside using a control 
panel embedded in the wall; by default, this contro! panel requires a code 
cylinder (possessed only by high-ranking Separatist officers) to open, and is 
connected to the security control computer (unfriendly attitude, Intelligence 
modifier +6/Will Defense 21). Additionally, security cameras look out over 
the entrance, alerting the security post in the secret entrance if anyone is 
trying to get inside. The rooftop entrance is a normal metal door (DR 10, 
50 hit points, damage threshold 30, Strength DC 50/Break DC 35), and it is 
likewise locked by the security control computer. 

Attacking the control center sets off a Level 3 alarm throughout the 
control center, alerting the security control room in the secret entrance 
below. If the heroes did not have the encounter in the secret entrance, 
reinforcements take the turbolifts up to the ion cannon control center floor, 
arriving in 112 rounds. 

Tactical Encounter: The droids on the inside of the control center have 
orders to attack and kill any unauthorized intruders, so the moment the 
heroes show themselves they will almost certainly have a fight on their 
hands. If the heroes did not trigger an alarm (either by trying to break into 
the control center or when dealing with the droids in the secret entrance), 
they may have the opportunity to surprise the droids inside, which would not 


€ suspecting an attack. Refer to the “lon Cannon Control Center” tactical 
ncounter on page 212 for details on how to run this encounter. 

Development: Once the heroes have gained control of the command 
enter, they will have fulfilled the first (and arguably most important) part of 
neir mission, As long as they obtained the firing codes from Zolghast earlier 
| the adventure, they can access the main firing computer and prepare the 
yn cannon to fire (no skill check required). If, for some reason, the heroes 
ailed to get the firing codes from the commander earlier in the adventure, 
rings become much more difficult. A hero with good slicing skills can make 
se Computer checks to attempt to gain access to the main computer; if 
1 hero manages to shift the control center's main computer to a friendly 
ttitude, the planetary ion cannon can be fired even without the firing codes 
owever, given that the main computer's attitude to anyone without the 
ring codes is hostile, this is a significant challenge). Additionally, failure 
) improve the computer's attitude triggers alarms elsewhere in the city 
nd onboard the Separatist command vessel orbiting Tirahnn. Should this 
appen, the Separatists send reinforcements to reclaim the ion cannon; if 
at fails, they prepare to fire on the cannon from orbit. 

Assuming the heroes use Zolghast's firing codes, slice into the main 
ymputer, or otherwise use their wits and resources to obtain control of 
1¢ planetary ion cannon, a firing sequence can be programmed and then 
vated. If any heroes have any way to obtain updated sensor data about 
1¢ Ships in orbit (for example, by calling in favors or using any benefits of 
j¢ Rank and Privilege system to obtain up-to-the-minute intelligence), so 
uch the better; this allows the character activating the ion cannon to aim 
weapon more precisely and efficiently, knocking out a larger percent- 
ye of Confederacy ships. If this happens, the heroes automatically receive 
1e Victory Point for the battle that takes place in Part 3: The Invasion of 
rahnn. 

When the order is given and the command entered, the planetary ion 
innon fires. Within the cannon’s control center, the sound is thunderous, and 
the firing sequence progresses the control room computers show more and 
ore ships in orbit being disabled by the cannon, As long as the heroes did 
it alert the fleet above to their presence, the ships are caught completely 
laware, and they never have a chance at retaliation. Additionally, as soon 

the ion cannon starts taking out targets, the Republic fleet under Master 
asra exits hyperspace close to Tirahnn and begins its attack. 


INEXPECTED VISITORS 

the cannon continues to fire and the Battle of Tirahnn begins, the heroes 
¢ warned by the control center's security system that something is trying 
interfere with the flow of power to the ion cannon. Further inspection 
veals that several droids are on the roof, trying to set explosive charges to 
stroy the ion cannon. These droids were sent by the Separatists to stop the 
1 cannon before it could do any more damage to the Confederacy fleet in 
pit, and the explosion would not only rob the Republic of a valuable weapon 
the ongoing battle but would also devastate several city blocks. 


DEFENDING THE ION CANNON FROM DROID COMMANDOS: 


Tactical Encounter: The heroes will need to engage the droids on the 
roof and stop them from setting their explosives. Of course, the heroes may 
choose to abandon the cannon and flee, but doing so would leave thousands 
of citizens to die in the explosion or, should the droids discover that the con- 
trol center had been abandoned, lead to the ion cannon being turned against 
the Republic fleet. Refer to the “Rooftop Saboteurs” tactical encounter on 
page 214 for details on how to run this encounter. 

Development: With the planetary ion cannon secured and the battle in 
space going in favor of the Republic, the ground assault begins. Although the 
Republic has broken through the Separatist battle lines, Separatist ground 
forces are firmly entrenched. Part 3: The Invasion of Tirahnn, covers the 
battle for the planet and the heroes' role in it. 


PART 3: THE INVASION 
OF TIRAHNN 


Less than 30 minutes after the Republic's attack begins, the heroes’ comlinks 
crackle to life with a secure communication from the Solidarity. The com- 
muniqué orders the heroes to connect the control center's main computer to 
the Solidarity, allowing Captain Ralen's ship to control the firing of the ion 
cannon. Once the heroes have successfully placed the control center under 
the control of the Republic vessel, the tactical holographic display flickers to 
life with a full-size image of Master Elasra. Read the following aloud 


o 
: 
El 
a} 
g 
my 
PD) 
4 
0) 
» 
0) 
> 
9 
x 


HMeVvas®g LSHl¢) INOlILVHSESIQ 


“I congratulate you on your success. Our forces have broken through the 
Confederacy blockade and established a defensive position. As we speak, our 
ground forces have begun moving into Tirahnn's outskirts. 

“I have received word from Commander Husk that their mission has been 
largely successful. Our invasion force has encountered light resistance thanks 
to sabotage at the Separatist vehicle depot. However, a small force of tanks 
has begun moving through the city toward some of our troops, and it looks like 
they will reach our forces before we can drop in artillery of our own. 

“Husk's commandos are too far out to stop them, but you might be able to. 
Unfortunately, the tanks are too small for us to target them easily from orbit, 
at least without civilian casualties and significant damage to the surround- 
ing infrastructure. If you can plant a signal beacon on each of the tanks, we 
can pinpoint their positions from space and target them with more precise 
laser fire. I'm transmitting data on their route, including a narrow street that 
Intelligence has identified as a prime spot for an ambush.” 


Before breaking communications, Master Elasra asks to know the location 
of Commander Zolghast; he then dispatches a squad of clone troopers to 
retrieve Zolghast and bring him up to the Solidarity. 

With their new mission in hand, the heroes can prepare to join in the 
fighting of the Battle of Tirahnn. The Battle of Tirahnn uses the Victory Points 
system (described in Chapter 3 on page 91) to determine whether or not 
the heroes’ actions contribute positively or negatively to the outcome of the 
battle, The three major events that the heroes will participate in include the 
attack on the GAT convoy, the collapse of the access bridge, and preventing 
Commander Zolghast from escaping the planet. 


TANKS IN THE STREETS 

The first mission set before the heroes is to ambush a convoy of Separatist 
tanks, planting signal beacons on them so that ships in orbit can target them 
without the fear of collateral damage. The heroes receive specific instructions 
‘on where to ambush the tanks, as well as instructions on how to convert a 
comlink into a signal beacon that the Solidarity’s computers will recognize. 
There are plenty of spare comlinks in the ion cannon control center's equip- 
ment stores for the heroes to bring four with them. 

Tactical Encounter: The heroes should have no trouble reaching the 
ambush point without running into Confederacy interference, as most of 
the Separatist force is busy fighting off the Republic elsewhere. Refer to 
the "GAT Ambush” tactical encounter on page 216 for details on how to run 
this encounter. 

Development: If the heroes manage to plant the signal beacons on the 
four GATs, their mission is a success. The Solidarity fires a precision strike 
down at the four tanks, obliterating each of them ina single shot. The heroes 
earn a Victory Point for success. If they fail to tag all four GATs with signal 
beacons, the untagged tanks continue forward to reinforce the Separatist 
lines. This earns the heroes a Defeat Point. 


The following two encounters can happen in any order, as determined by 
the Gamemaster. If you choose, you can set it up so that the heroes receive 
both of the communications that kick off the following two encounters at or 
around the same time, giving them a choice of which to tackle first. 


If the heroes managed to pr e 
in the crash of the LAAT/s earlier in the 2 
Tear i ee OSI ae 


one of the following three major encounters. Tell 


can call on the clone troopers for r reinforcement 


ery 


order 
and join the main force invading the city. ro - 


A TURN OF GOOD LUCK 

With the Battle of Tirahnn turning more and more in favor of the Republic, the 
heroes begin to catch fleeting glimpses of the Separatists falling back after 
repeated defeats in ongoing skirmishes. The heroes’ comlinks crackle to life 
with a message from Commander Husk. It seems that the clone commandos 
have managed to completely cut off one of the Separatists’ main lines of 
retreat, and the heroes are close to the secondary path the Confederacy is 
using. This path crosses an overpass above a road in the lower levels of the 
city. If the heroes can reach this bridge and collapse it in time, they can stop 
the Confederacy from retreating further, allowing the forces of the Republic 
to crush the resistance. 

Tactical Encounter: Commander Husk relays the location of the overpass 
to the heroes, giving them simple directions to reach it from their current 
position. Refer to "The Overpass” on page 218 for details on how to run this 
encounter. 

Development: If the heroes manage to destroy the bridge before the 
retreating Separatists reach it, their mission is a success. The heroes earn a 
Victory Point, and the battle nears its conclusion. If most of the retreating 
force reaches the overpass before it is destroyed, however, the heroes earn 
a Defeat Point. 


deo! Lies 

At some point in the conflict, the heroes receive a message on a secure 
channel from a clonetrooper squad leader elsewhere in the city. According to 
the clone, he and his men were dispatched to retrieve Commander Zolghast 
and bring him back to the Solidarity. When they arrived at his location, they 
discovered he was gone. After a brief investigation, the clones discovered that 


Master Elasra had been seen escorting Zolghast at the point of a lightsaber 
out of the location where the heroes had left him. This particular clone com- 
mander was present at the Battle of Brentaal IV where another Jedi Master, 
Quinlan Vos, betrayed the Republic to the Separatists. The clone suspects 
that Master Elasra may have betrayed the Republic, and is trying to keep 
Zolghast out of the heroes’ hands. 

The truth of the matter is that the communication between the heroes 
in the ion cannon control center and the Solidarity was intercepted by Con- 
federacy spies. They dispatched one of their agents, a Clawdite transporter 
named Braxus Lyn, to rescue Zolghast and bring him out of the war zone. 
Lyn disguised herself as the Barabel Jedi Master (using a lightsaber she had 
taken from a dead Padawan during another battle) and retrieved Zolghast 
before the Republic could get there. Unfortunately, this coincided with 
Master Elasra's departure from the Solidarity in his Aethersprite interceptor 
to lead a squadron of V-19 Torrent starfighters in the space battle above 
Tirahnn. The clones have been unable to raise Master Elasra on the comlink, 
heightening their suspicion. 

The clone commander requests that the heroes intercept “Master Elasra,” 
who was last seen with Zolghast headed for a landing pad near the heroes’ 
current location. The clone doesn't usually question the motives of the Jedi, 
but he has been suspicious ever since Brentaal IV, and Commander Husk has 
vouched for the heroes’ reliability. 

Tactical Encounter: When the heroes follow the clone's directions to the 
landing pad, they arrive to see a Sheathipede-class shuttle warming up on 
the landing pad, and several figures making their way toward its boarding 
ramp. Refer to the "No Escape” tactical encounter on page 220 for details 
on how to run this encounter. 


DROIDS ATTACK DURING THE INVASION OF TIRAHNN. 


Development: if the heroes manage to stop Zolghast from escaping on 
the shuttle, they can once again capture him and turn him over to Republic 
Intelligence. This earns them a Victory Point. If Zolghast manages to escape 
on the shuttle, however, the Republic loses a valuable source of intelligence, 
and the heroes earn a Defeat Point. 


DEAD? 
illed Zolghast earlier in the mission, or 
ey chose to keep Zolghast with them the entire time, you may need 
to modify the final encounter in Part 3 to fit these developments. In 
‘the case of either of these scenarios, Braxus Lyn is a Separatist agent 
that has retrieved a number of datapads containing sensitive Separatist 
documents that would be of great value to the Republic. The clone com- 
mander that contacts the heroes instead requests that they intercept 
Lyn and retrieve the datapads, changing the objective of the "No Escape" 
encounter to stopping Braxus Lyn from escaping. Zolghast, of course, 
does not appear in the encounter in this situation, 


EPILOGUE 

Thanks to the efforts of the heroes, the Republic is able to liberate Tirahnn 
from the Confederacy and to restore order. Although the Republic suffered 
some losses, the battle went overwhelmingly in its favor. The real Jedi Master 
Elasra commends the heroes for their efforts, and assures them that they 
will receive honors for their assistance. 

If the heroes earned more Victory Points than Defeat Points, the battle is 
even more of an overwhelming success for the Republic. It not only liberates 
Tirahnn, but also destroys or captures most of the Separatist fleet defending 
the city. Among the spoils is the personal starfighter belonging to Commander 
Zolghast, a P-38 starfighter (Starships of the Galaxy, page 121), which Master 
Elasra presents to the heroes as a token of gratitude. Moreover, thanks to the 
heroes’ efforts, most of the fighting was localized in areas away from large 
civilian populations. Each of the heroes receives a commendation from the 
government of Tirahnn, and the party is rewarded with a gift of a top-floor 
suite of apartments in one of Tirahnn's most elegant skyscrapers and access 
to a private landing pad that leads directly to the suite. These accommoda- 
tions are available for the heroes’ use whenever they are on Tirahnn (and 
can serve as their base of operations for future adventures). 

If the heroes earned more Defeat Points than Victory Points, the battle 
is still won but casualties—both Republic and civilian—are high. The heroes 
receive the same offer of thanks from Master Elasra, but neither of the boons 
granted by victory. 

If the heroes have the same number of Victory Points as Defeat Points 
(possible only if they achieve excellent results in Part 2), the heroes receive 
either Zolghast's starfighter or the commendation from Tirahnn’s government 
(Gamemaster's choice). 


WA SaievHS 


= 


RaveH® 4ASel_) wool 


o 
I 
> 
v 
4 
Cy 
5) 
< 


Hevee® AS) wolavead@ 


ENCOUNTER: 
DROP ZONE 


Challenge Level 6 

‘SETUP: The heroes have crash-landed on Tirahnn in their LAAT/s, and have 
just finished shaking off the effects of the crash when a hungry roggwart, 
abandoned in the wilds as a result of the Separatist invasion of the planet, 
comes seeking food. The area of the crash is a rocky section of flat land, 
but the crash of the LAAT/s has not only dug a furrow in the ground behind 
the ship but also flung up large chunks of earth that have been scattered 
around like boulders, 

The heroes and the clones who survived the crash have hauled themselves 
outside the downed ship; allow the heroes to place themselves around the 
LAAT/s as they see fit, based on what their characters would be doing after 
the crash, The surviving clonetroopers and clone commandos are busy 
unloading the ship, and should be positioned near the rear cargo hold. The 
roggwart enters from the northwest edge of the map, from behind some of 
the larger boulders, 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 

The roggwart is hungry, and it is making no real attempt at stealth as it 
approaches, However, it is night, the heroes might be disoriented, and the 
boulders are large enough to obscure direct line of sight to the roggwart as it 
enters. Allow the heroes to make a Perception check to notice its approach; 
those who succeed on a Perception check (DC 14) notice the roggwart's 
approach and are not surprised. Those who fail the check are surprised, and 
a surprise round occurs at the beginning of combat. When combat begins, 
read the following text aloud to the players: 


With a thunderous roar and rumbling footsteps, a massive, horned creature 
emerges from behind the boulders tossed from the ground by your crash. The 
creature is nearly three times the size of a Human, and has massive claws and 
along, powerful tail. The creature walks with a loping gait and seems to be 
hunting for something small to eat—it looks like it thinks you will do! 


ROGGWART 

Roggwarts are large, horned creatures native to Vendaxa, where they are 
natural enemies of the acklay. A roggwart's evolutionary adaptation makes 
it ideally suited to take on single foes, since it rarely encounters more than 
one acklay at a time. A roggwart stands on its hind legs and uses its sharp 
fangs, wicked claws, and thick tail to subdue its prey. The roggwart is not 
particularly cunning, but it is difficult to surprise, retaining its predatory 
instincts even in captivity. This particular roggwart recently escaped from 
captivity during the Separatist invasion of Tirahnn, but it has had to subsist 
on far less food than it normally would on Vendaxa. As such, it has become 
weakened, and although it still fights fiercely to protect itself, itis noticeably 
less of a threat to the heroes than it would be in its prime condition. Read 
the following description aloud: 


Standing nearly 5 meters tall and weighing as much as a rancor, this lumber 
beast looks to be a predator that is used to getting what it wants, However, th 
porticular creature looks somewhat malnourished, and there is a sluggisht 
in its movement that suggests weakness. 


Roggwart Tactics 

The roggwart is hungry, and it plans to eat. The roggwart doesn't mind 
moving up into a position where it is surrounded, as it can knock opponents. 
away easily with its enemy slinger ability. The roggwart wants to be as 
close to as many enemies as possible, allowing it to split its many attacks 
among those who threaten it. 


CONCLUSION 

When the roggwart is defeated, the heroes (and the clone commandos of 
Aurek Squad) can go about their assignments on the planet. The clonetroopers 
haul away the roggwart's body, and then set about disguising not only the 
area of the battle but also the trail left by the LAAT/s when it crashed. If 
any of the clones were killed in the fight, they are placed inside the LAAT/s 
before Commander Husk orders the explosives placed on the ship, ensuring 
that their bodies are cremated along with the LAAT. 


Weakened Roggwart cLé 
Huge beast 13 
Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 20, Will 14 
hp 176; Threshold 30 


Speed 8 squares 
Melee gore +9* (2d6+10) and 
bite +9° (2d6+10) and 
2 claws +9* (1d8+10) and 
tail slam +9°* (1d8+10) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +9; Grp +29 
Atk Options Bantha Rush, Battering Attack, Power Attack, Trip 


Abilities Str 30, Dex 14, Con 28, Int 1, Wis 16, Cha 10 

Special Qualities enemy slinger, pack resistant 

Feats Bantha Rush, Battering Attack, Improved Defenses, Power Attack, 
Trip 

Skills Initiative +13, Perception +9 

Enemy Slinger—Once per round, when the roggwart successfully 
hits a target and moves it with the Bantha Rush feat, the 
roggwart can move the target 3 squares in any direction 
instead of 1 square. 

Pack Resistant—Once per round, as a reaction when the 
roggwart is hit or missed by an attack, the roggwart can make 
a tail slam attack against one creature within its reach. 

Weakened—This roggwart has been weakened by its extended 
time in the wilderness. Although many of its statistics remain 
unchanged, its attack bonuses and damage rolls have been 
modified to reflect its weakened state. 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

Although the clone pilot of the LAAT/s managed to bring the dropship 
down in an area that is relatively open, the crash itself has marred the 
terrain around it, All of the squares within or crossed by the furrow of 
earth leading out from behind the crashed ship count as difficult terrain. 
The large boulders on the map vary in size from 1.5 to 3 meters tall; all 
of them can be used to provide total cover for a Medium-size character 
standing adjacent to one of the boulders. However, the boulders are not 
big enough to completely hide the roggwart, and while it may be able to 
take advantage of cover, the boulders are not large enough to provide 
it with total cover. The wrecked LAAT/s is large enough that the rog- 
gwart could use it for total cover. Heroes can enter the wrecked ship's 
cargo hold and passenger bay as a move action; exiting the ship onto 
the ground costs one additional square of movement. 


= 
y 
4 
aU 
a 
5 
x 


U 


ReVveXe® LS mwolvHsea@ 


0 


ZOLGHAST'S 
BUNKER 


Challenge Level 5 

SETUP: Having located Commander Zolghast's secret bunker, the heroes 
have the chance to apprehend the Zygerrian Separatist and obtain the firing 
codes for the planetary ion cannon. The bunker is situated on open ground 
near several larger buildings. 

When the encounter begins, Zolghast is inside the bunker, looking over 
the tactical display in the northeast corner of the bunker. His two Geonosian 
bodyguards stand flanking the barriers in the entranceway. One B1-Series 
battle droid mans the antipersonnel turret on the eastern side of the building, 
while the remaining three droids are standing at various computer stations 
throughout the bunker. 


READ-ALOUD TExT 

If the heroes make no attempts at stealth in their approach, they are easily 
spotted by the battle droid in the turret tower. Given Zolghast’s paranoia, 
the droid has been ordered to open fire on anyone who has not been pre- 
authorized to approach. However, the turret has a limited line of fire, so it's 
possible the heroes can approach without alerting the droid. When the heroes 
approach, read the following text aloud: 


The bunker—clearly a former police structure—sits in the middle of an open 
expanse that would have once held a variety of police and civilian vehicles. 
Atop one side of the building sits a small tower, possibly once attached to a 
landing pad, that has been converted into a gun turret. The front of the building 
boasts large blast doors, which are the only visible entrance. 


COMMANDER ZOLGHAST 

Commander Zolghast is a Zygerrian, a native of the Outer Rim whose species 
is known for its violence and combat prowess. Zolghast's paranoia leaves 
him holed up in this bunker for long periods of time. Since Zolghast is the 
only one with access to the firing codes, the heroes will need to subdue him 
and take the codes from him. If the heroes speak to Zolghast, he adopts the 
sneering tone of a man who thinks that his enemies are beneath his notice. 
He will not give the codes up willingly, and if he sees a chance to escape out 
the front of the bunker he does so. 


Read the following description aloud: 


This Zygerrian officer stands about as tall as a human, with dark red hair 
that almost seems crimson. Bony protrusions jut from the skin of his face, 
ond his features seem angular. Though he appears to be in good shape, his 
cheeks are somewhat hollow, suggestion that he does not keep himself in 
excellent health. 


Commander Zolghast cL5 

Male Zygerrian nonheroic 6/noble 1/officer 2 

Force 3; Dark Side 6 

Init +6 ; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 23 

hp 46; Threshold 20 

Immune +5 to Fortitude/Will Defense against Use the Force checks 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+1) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (3d8+1) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Special Actions Anticipate Movement, Deployment Tactics 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Talents Anticipate Movement, Deployment Tactics 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Improved Defenses, Martial Arts 
1, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Deception), Toughness, 
Unstoppable Force’, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +12, Knowledge (Tactics) +10, Persuasion +17 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, code cylinder, comlink 

* Clone Wars Campaign Guide, page 31 


Commander Zolghast Tactics 

Commander Zolghast's paranoia has prepared him well for the day he always 
suspected would eventually come when the Republic would send its assassins, 
which is what he assumes the heroes to be. He uses Anticipate Movement to 
maneuver his allies into position whenever the heroes try to approach him, 
trying to use the battle droids and his bodyguards to keep them far enough 
away that it is difficult for them to stun him. Likewise, he uses Deployment 
Tactics to make sure that his Geonosian bodyguards have a better chance 
to hit the heroes with their electro-staffs. 


GEONOSIAN BODYGUARDS (2) 
Recognizing that Commander Zolghast's paranoia can make him unstable at 
times, his Confederacy superiors assigned a pair of Geonosian bodyguards 
to protect him from harm—and to keep an eye on him, should he finally 
crack under the pressure of his own suspicion. Former picadors in the 
Geonosian arena, both of the bodyguards are skilled warriors and masters 
of the electro-staff. 


These squat, insectoid aliens have wrinkled brown skin and elongated faces 
that give them a morose expression. Each carries a long, thin pole, around 
the end of which crackles electrical energy, and each carries a sonic blaster 
pistol at its hip. 


Geonosian Bodyguard cL3 

Medium Geonosian nonheroic 3/soldier 2 

Init +7; Senses low-light vision; Perception +2 

Languages Basic, Geonosian 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 15 (20 against radiation), Will 12; 
+4 armor 

hp 26; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares, climb 3 squares 

Melee electro-staff +6 (2d6+5, devastating 5) 

Ranged sonic blaster pistol +4 (2d6+1 sonicl) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities radiation resistance 

Talents Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Training (Stealth), Toughness, 
Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +7, Perception +2, Stealth +7 

Possessions 2 electro-staffs or 1 sonic blaster pistol, warrior tunic 
(+4 armor; as combat jumpsuit) 

1 Sonic damage cannot be deflected by lightsabers and is considered 
energy damage. 

2 The Geonosian version of the electro-staff is not a double weapon, 


Geonosian Bodyguard's Tactics 

When it becomes clear that Zolghast is in danger, the Geonosian bodyguards 
spring into action. They try to use the movement that Zolghast grants them 
to get into flanking positions, ensuring that they hit their enemies with their 
electro-staffs (hoping to move enemies down the condition track). When 
faced with Jedi, they will use their sonic pistols to prevent their attacks 
from being deflected. 


CONCLUSION 
When the enemies are defeated, the heroes have the opportunity to take the 
code cylinder from Zolghast. This code cylinder contains all of the firing codes 
necessary to operate the planetary ion cannon. Furthermore, the heroes gain 
access to the turbolift in this building, which leads to a secret tunnel; that 
tunnel, in turn, leads to the secret entrance into the planetary ion cannon. 
The heroes can travel to the ion cannon this way, if they choose. 

If the heroes manage to subdue Zolghast (either by stunning him or simply 
reducing him to 0 hit points), they must decide what to do with him until 


he can be extracted by the Republic for questioning. The heroes can choose 
to leave him here or to take him to another location for safekeeping. If the 
heroes decide to take Zolghast with them, he may wake up and try to sound 
an alarm; simply carrying around his unconscious body could be a great 
inconvenience. That said, if the heroes take this course of action, feel free 
to let them; dealing with moving a prisoner around while also trying to raid 
the planetary ion cannon should prove challenging and entertaining. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
The bunker has the following features. 

Blast Doors: The front doors to the bunker are standard blast doors. 
The blast doors have DR 10, 750 hit points, damage threshold 40, a 
Strength DC of 70, and a Break DC of 45. However, Zolghast hastily had 
a supposedly “upgraded” locking mechanism put on the doors, which was 
poorly installed by battle droids. A DC 19 Use Computer or Mechanics 
check causes the blast doors to open. 

Tactical Display: The command bunker has a holographic tactical 
display that shows various locations on Tirahnn and tracking Separatist 
patrols throughout the city. 

Gun Turret: This external gun turret was mounted at Zolghast’s 
request. It provides a +2 Intelligence bonus to a rolls and deals” 


t forces on 
nt and a 


used to monitor communications of ‘the various Separat 
Tirahnn. These computers have a starting attitude of ind 
Will Defense of 19. 

Turtolft: This turbot lads down tastes of tunnels th 
Pils oan! Maes | 


iA SsiavHo 


RavEHg AS, welLveEd@ 


ReveH® 4AS8el_d swenvuEsa@ 


TA =SievnD 


BaAcK DOOR 


Challenge Level 3 

SETUP: When the heroes travel through the secret tunnels beneath Tirahnn 
to the planetary ion cannon, they must first get past a security checkpoint 
that Zolghast has positioned at the base of the structure. This secret entrance 
is guarded by battle droids as a safeguard against the commander's bunker 
being compromised. 

This room functions as a security control room for the planetary ion 
cannon. The entire structure (detailed in the next three encounters) uses 
the battlestation rules from Chapter 5; Gamemasters should familiarize 
themselves with the rules in that chapter, as they may come into play during 
these encounters. 


READ-ALOUD TExT 

The droids go about their business in silence, so the heroes may not immedi- 
ately know that they are about to walk into a security checkpoint. While the 
heroes are approaching the final bend in the tunnel, which will lead them into 
this encounter, allow them to make Perception checks; if any of the heroes 
gets a result of 14 or higher, they hear the droids moving around in time to 
stop before entering the security checkpoint. When the heroes engage the 
droids inside, read the following text aloud: 


This small room is lit from above by luminescent glow panels, casting the entire 
permacrete room in a sterile light. Two sets of stairs lead up from the floor 
toa raised section, at the rear of which are two turbolifts. A single computer 
terminal is located between the turbolifts, its screen lit up with images of 
another location. A battle droid sits at this computer terminal, manipulating 
what are obviously security systems and alarms. 


BI-SERIES BATTLE DrRoipD (2) 


B1-Series Battle Droid cL1 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 11, Will 11 

hp 10; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d3+1) 

Ranged blaster carbine +1 (348) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +3 

Abili Str 13, Dex 9, Con —, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 10 


Feats Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, heavy weapons, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +6 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine 

Availability Military; Cost 1,800 credits 


B1-Series Battle Droid Tactics 

The two B1-Series droids are the primary operators of the security systems in 
this control room. One of the droids is always sitting at the security control 
computer, watching the screens for signs of security alerts from above, The 
other, when not performing this duty, stands aside and idles. If combat breaks 
out, the battle droid sitting at the computer console uses its first standard 
action to activate a Level 3 alarm, which sounds throughout the complex, 
then engages the heroes in battle. 


B2-SERIES SUPER BATTLE 
DrRoips (2) 


B2-Series Super Battle Droid cL2 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +3; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 12, Will 10 

hp 21; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d3+1) 

Ranged wrist blasters +4 (3d8) or 

Ranged wrist blasters +2 (4d8) with Rapid Fire 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire (wrist blasters), Charging Fire, Rapid Fire, 
aid another (+5) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 11, Con —, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 7 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Charging Fire, Rapid Shot, Toughness, 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles, simple) 

Skills Perception +8 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, backup processor, 
synchronized fire circuits, 2 hand appendages, integrated comlink, 
vocabulator, plasteel shell (+2 armor) 

Possessions wrist blasters (as blaster rifle) 

Availability Military; Cost 3,300 credits 


DROIDEKA 


Droideka Series Destroyer Droid cL4 

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12 

Init +8; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 12 

hp 40; SR 20; Threshold 18 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 2 squares (walking), 10 squares (wheeled) 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+3) 

Ranged laser cannon +12 (348) or 

Ranged laser cannon +10 (448) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged laser cannon +7 (5d8) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged laser cannon +10 (3d8) and 
laser cannon +10 (3d8) or 

Ranged laser cannon +8 (4d8) and 
laser cannon +8 (3d8) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged laser cannon +5 (5d8) and 
laser cannon +5 (348) with Burst Fire 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +9; Grp +17 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), Burst Fire, Rapid Shot 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 15, Con —, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 7 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery |, 
Dual Weapon Mastery Il, Rapid Shot, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles) 

Skills Perception +13, Stealth +3 

‘Systems walking locomotion, wheeled locomotion (exclusive), remote 
receiver, 2 tool appendages, shield generator (SR 20), integrated 
comlink, bronzium shell (+5 armor; treat as quadanium plating) 

Possessions 2 laser cannons (treat as blaster rifles) 

Availability Military; Cost 21,000 credits 


CONCLUSION 

If the heroes manage to take out the two B1 battle droids before the droids 
can raise an alarm on the computer console, they can deal with the other 
droids without fear of alerting the rest of the facility. If an alarm is raised, 
however, the main control center for the planetary ion cannon is placed on 
alert, and the heroes have no chance to surprise the droids guarding the ion 
cannon's control center. Additionally, in this situation, the droids guarding 
the control center will ready actions to fire on any intruders that exit the 
turbolifts, altering the set-up of the next encounter. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
The security control room at the secret entrance has the following 
features. 

Control Center Computer: This standard computer has a Will 
Defense of 21 and an Intelligence modifier of +6. It has a base attitude 
of unfriendly, although if one of the battle droids triggered the alarm 
the base attitude changes to hostile. 

Door: This door leads to the narrow passageway heading back to 
Commander Zolghast's bunker. The door is a standard metal door, with 
DR 10, 50 hit points, damage threshold 30, a Strength DC of 50, and a 
Break DC of 35. 

Turbolifts: The two turbolifts lead up to the ion cannon control 
center, several stories above at ground level. Each turbolift is currently 
on this floor; access to the turbolifts is locked by the control computer 
in this room. 


| 
Turbolift 
| 


| Turbolift 


piisquarel_\i's)Meters} 


WA waiavHo 


ROVee® LSid wwOLv7HsIQ) 


WA SalavnS 


HSveHg LSuld welvyvaJ@ 


ENCOUNTER: 
ION CANNON 
CONTROL 
CENTER 


Challenge Level 6 

‘SETUP: The ion cannon control center is the site of the heroes’ main objec- 
tive for the first part of their mission. In order to seize control of the center, 
they must deal with a small army of battle droids, positioned to defend the 
control center against an assault. This encounter is several levels higher than 
the heroes’ level, although most of the enemies are low CL. 

If the droids at the security checkpoint have not -d an alarm, the 
control center features a variety of B1-Series battle. droids at control sta~ 
tions throughout the room. A tactical droid coordinates their efforts, and 
four super battle droids stand watch. 


READ-ALOUD TExT 


When the heroes enter the control center, read the following text aloud: 


This large chamber features the main firing controls for the planetary ion 
cannon. Three tactical displays stand on the western sides of the room, near 
the main blast doors that lead into the building. A pair of turbolifts adorn 
the southern edge of the room, while stairs lead up to a catwalk that follows 
the eastern and northern walls. The catwalk circles a massive power column, 
around which several computer consoles are connected to the column. A 
conference table, and a small number of chairs, sit unused below one section 
of the catwalk, 


BI-SERIES BATTLE DrRoipD (9) 


B1-Series Battle Droid cL1 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 11, Will 11 
hp 10; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d3+1) 

Ranged blaster carbine +1 (348) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +3 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 9, Con —, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, heavy weapons, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +6 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine 

Availability Military; Cost 1,800 credits 


B1-Series Battle Droid Tactics 


The battle droids in the room begin the encounter operating the control 
computers of the planetary ion cannon. When combat begins, the droids 
open fire on the heroes; if they have difficulty hitting the heroes, they split 
into groups of three, with two droids using the aid another action to assist 
the third droid’s attacks. 


B2-SERIES SUPER BATTLE 
DrRoips (4) 


B2-Series Super Battle Droid cL2 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +3; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 12, Will 10 

hp 21; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d3+1) 

Ranged wrist blasters +4 (348) or 

Ranged wrist blasters +2 (4d8) with Rapid Fire 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire (wrist blasters), Charging Fire, Rapid Fire, aid 
another (+5) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 11, Con —, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 7 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Charging Fire, Rapid Shot, Toughness, 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles, simple) 

Skills Perception +8 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, backup processor, 
synchronized fire circuits, 2 hand appendages, integrated comlink, 
vocabulator, plasteel shell (+2 armor) 

Possessions wrist blasters (as blaster rifle) 

Availability Military; Cost 3,300 credits 


Super Battle Droid Tactics 

The super battle droids are not distracted by the control room's computers, so 
they open fire on the heroes as soon as it becomes apparent that the heroes 
are there. If the super battle droids have difficulty hitting the heroes, they 
split into groups of two, with one super battle droid using the aid another 
action to provide a +5 bonus (thanks to their synchronized fire circuits) to 
the attacks of the other droid. 


TACTICAL DROID 


Tactical Droid cL1 

Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 1 

Force 2 

Init +6; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 13, Will 13 

hp 30; Threshold 13 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +1 (143) 

Ranged blaster carbine +2 (3d8) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +2 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine) 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Battle Analysis 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills initiative +6, Knowledge (tactics) +7, Perception +7, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +7 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, two hand appendages, 
internal comlink, synchronized fire circuits, durasteel plating, 
vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine, electrobinoculars 


CONCLUSION 

When the heroes have subdued or destroyed all of the droids in the room, 
they will have successfully taken control of the ion cannon facility. The heroes 
now have the chance to open fire with the planetary ion cannon, complet- 
ing their mission. If the heroes did not come through the secret entrance 
below the facility, it is at this point that the heroes may be ambushed by 
the droid reinforcements rising up through the turbolifts from below; these 
reinforcements shouldn't arrive until the fight is over (or nearly so) to keep 
from overwhelming the heroes. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
The features of the area are as follows. 

Blast Doors: The front doors to the ion cannon contro! center are 
standard blast doors. The blast doors have DR 10, 750 hit points, damage 
threshold 40, a Strength DC of 70, and a Break DC of 45. 

Catwalk: The catwalk leading around the ion cannon's power con- 
duit is roughly 2 squares (3 meters) off of the ground, and it is made 
of solid metal. 

Tactical Displays: The ion cannon control center has a holographic 
tactical display that shows the state of the Separatist fleet in orbit 
above the planet, and it is constantly updated with sensor readings fed 
down to the planet by those ships. The control center likewise has two. 
vertical tactical displays that can be used as cover. 

Turbolift: Two turbolifts in this room lead down to the secret 
entrance below. 


ilon\Cannon\Control Center 


Power 
Column 


‘tom? 


Holographic|Display 


ulisauare)ji"s) Meters) 


HA SaiavHD 


HeVEH® 4ASUl_d swoLvuEdO@ 


ENCOUNTER: 
ROOFTOP 
SABOTEURS 


Challenge Level 7 

SETUP: After the heroes have seized control of the ion cannon control 
center, they have little time to enjoy their victory. When heroes initiate the 
ion cannon's firing sequence, the Separatists immediately realize that the 
station has fallen into enemy hands. Confederacy Command on Tirahnn 
dispatches a squad of droid commandos, with an OOM-Series battle droid 
acting as a spotter, to destroy the ion cannon before the heroes can do any 
more damage. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 

The heroes are alerted by the computer systems inside the control center 
when the droid commandos arrive. The commandos begin setting explosives 
and disrupting the flow of power to the ion cannon, which triggers alarms in 
the control center. When this happens, read the following aloud: 


Alarm klaxons sound in the ion cannon control center, and the screens of 
computer banks light up with intruder alerts. When examined, the displays 
show that several droids have begun disrupting the flow of power to the ion 
cannon and placing explosives on the roof. One of the droids notices the 
security cameras and orders the others to fire. The displays in the command 
center go blank, but alarms continue to sound. 


DROID COMMANDO (4) 

Although Separatist droid armies rely heavily on their numbers to overwhelm 
enemy forces, the Confederacy does have need for elite droid units that can 
accomplish objectives that cannot be achieved through overwhelming force 
alone. As a response to the desire to have droid units capable of performing 
more subtle or delicate missions, the droid engineers at Baktoid Combat 
Automata produced the BX-Series droid commandos. With heuristic proces- 
sors and memory banks loaded with complex military tactics and strategic 
information, droid commandos act as special forces capable of performing 
missions involving infiltration, stealth, and subterfuge. 


This spindly droid is reminiscent of the standard battle droid, but sleeker 
and made of darker metal. The droid’s diode eyes seem to reflect a degree of 
intelligence and competence not shared by its droid brethren. 


Droid Commando cL6 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 4 

Force 3 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 18 

hp 37; Threshold 17 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d3+2) 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Coordinated Attack, Cover Fire, 
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Sniper 

Special Actions Battle Analysis 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 8 

Talents Battle Analysis, Cover Fire 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Improved Defenses, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Skill Training (knowledge [tactics]), Sniper, Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13, Knowledge (tactics) +12, Perception +13, Stealth +13 

Systems walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, heuristic processor, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle, electrobinoculars 

Availability Military; Cost 17,900 


Droid Commando Tactics 

The droid commandos are setting explosive charges around the ion cannon 
when the heroes arrive. This takes each droid a full-round action, and each 
one makes an untrained Mechanics check at +7 (needing to hit a DC of 10) 
to set the explosive. The droid commandos must set one explosive at each 
corner of the ion cannon's space to trigger the chain reaction that will 
completely destroy the planetary ion cannon facility. If the heroes arrive 
and begin shooting, the droid commandos stop setting explosives and start 
attacking the heroes, using the Cover Fire talent to help protect one ally 
within 6 squares while it continues to set explosives. 


OOM-SERIES BATTLE DROID 
OOM-Series droids are originally designed by the Neimoidians to serve as 
crew aboard Trade Federation vessels. Yellow-striped OOM commanders 
oversee operations, blue-striped OOM pilots fly the ships, and red-striped 
OOM security forces protect vital areas. While not as effective as living crews, 
they require almost no day-to-day maintenance and consume little energy, 
and defective droids can be deactivated and replaced within minutes—all very 
important considerations to the cost-conscious Trade Federation. 


This droid appears to be a standard battle droid, with yellow markings 
indicating officer status. 


OOM-Series Battle Droid cL2 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +3; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 21; Threshold 11 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d3+1) 

Ranged blaster carbine +4 (308) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con —, Int 11, Wis 9, Cha 9 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
heavy weapons, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +7 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine 

Availability Military; Cost 900 credits 


OOM-Series Battle Droid Tactics 

The OOM-Series battle droid is present simply to act as a spotter and coor- 
dinator for the droid commandos, although they are competent enough 
not to need it. The OOM-Series droid keeps watch until combat begins, at 
which point it either attacks the heroes directly or uses Coordinated Attack 
to guarantee that it can aid its allies on attack rolls. 


CONCLUSION 

If the droids manage to defeat the heroes or run them off, then they do not 
detonate the explosives and instead reclaim the ion cannon for the Confed- 
eracy. If the droids manage to set all four of their explosives, they blow up 
the ion cannon. The heroes have a chance to escape—the explosions take 
several rounds to travel down the power column to the power core—but 
several blocks of the city are destroyed in the explosion, 

If the heroes manage to defeat all of the battle droids before all four 
explosives are placed, the heroes retain control of the planetary ion cannon 
and Republic reinforcements can be sent to hold the control center while 
the heroes perform other tasks 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The roof of the planetary ion cannon facility features the ion cannon 
itself, as well as several other objects of importance. The stairwell 
from the control center reaches the roof at the southeast corner of the 
rooftop. The ion cannon itself is atop a large platform in the center of 
the roof; a set of stairs leads up to a walkway that then connects to 
this platform. Characters can move freely under the walkway, but the 
stairs are solid. 

A small safety area sits on the southwest corner of the roof, This 
is a three-walled transparisteel booth, where observers can stand to 
watch the cannon fire without suffering the negative effects of being 
close to the weapon when it discharges. The transparisteel walls of this 
booth have DR 5, 30 hit points, damage threshold 35, a Strength DC of 
40, and a Break DC of 30. Otherwise, several vents and crates provide 
‘small amounts of cover on the roof. 


Rooftop Saboteurs 


ton'Cannon 


| 


Walkway a 


1 square = 


TA SSiavHD 


| 


ENCOUNTER: 
GAT AMBUSH 


Challenge Level 4 

SETUP: Having received orders from the Republic to ambush a convoy of 
GATs, the heroes finally reach the ambush point to see the vehicles rolling 
along before them. The four GATs are placed in a roughly square formation 
in the middle of the road. The four battle droid squads are placed around 
the GATs: one squad in the front, two squads between the GATs, and one 
squad to the rear. 

The ambush point that the Republic has chosen prevents the GATs from 
lining up effective shots on the heroes, so the GATs only use their vehicle 
fire effects option (see the GAT Tactics section below). Moreover, the heroes 
have a particular objective in this encounter: placing the signal beacons on 
the GATs. Planting a signal beacon on a GAT is not.a simple process; each 
beacon must be attached to a vehicle, which requires a character to be 
adjacent to the GAT and to spend a standard action to attach the beacon. 
The beacon cannot be attached from range (such as with the Use the Force 
skill), because the beacon must be attached to the hull of the GAT in such a 
way that it can use the metal of the hull to boost the signal that the Republic 
will use to target it. 


READ-ALOUD TExT 


When the heroes reach the ambush point, read the following text aloud: 


‘Moving down the street slowly with a deep mechanical hum are four Separatist 
tanks, Marching alongside the tanks are four squads of battle droids, watching 
for attackers. The tanks seem to be having trouble maneuvering, and it's clear 
that their firing capability is quite limited. 


GAT (4) 

Baktoid Armor Workshop's answer to the Grand Army's TX-130 Saber-class 
fighter tank, the Ground Armored Tank (or GAT) is a lightly armed, lightly 
armored fast-attack vehicle built for recon and light infantry support. Often 
escorted by a squad of B1-Series battle droids on STAPs, the GAT is fast and 
agile, making it ideal for hit-and-run tactics. The GAT is controlled by an 
integrated droid brain. 

Despite the fact that these vehicles are CL 10, they do not count toward 
the difficulty of the encounter and are worth no XP on their own, since they 
do not use normal combat tactics. See the Conclusion section for information 
on the XP award for destroying the tanks. 


Ground Armored Tank 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +6; Senses Perception +5 


cL 10 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 14), Fort 23; +6 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 175; DR 10; Threshold 33 


Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 130 km/h) 

Ranged medium laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged missile launchers +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +25 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 17, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +6, Perception +5, Pilot +6 

Crew droid brain (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Payload 24 missiles 

Availability Military; Cost 17,500 (11,000 used) 

Shock and Awe (Fire Effect)—As a standard action, the GAT can forgo 
all attacks to provide a battlefield effect to all squares in a 6-square 
radius around itself. Any enemy in this area of effect automatically 
moves an additional ~1 step on the condition track when damaged by a 
successful attack that deals damage equal to or exceeding the target's 
damage threshold. 


Medium Laser Cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 4d10x2 
Missile Launchers (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 8d6, 4-square splash 


GAT Tactics 

Due to the nature of the area of the ambush, the heroes can prevent the 
GATs from turning their weapons on the heroes directly. Each of the four 
GATs uses its Shock and Awe option each round, effectively blanketing the 
area of the combat encounter in their fire effect. During the fight, the GATs 
slow to a crawl, not wanting to be separated from their escorts; however, 
if all of the battle droid squads are defeated, the GATs begin moving again, 
using their entire round for all-out movement. If the heroes do not plant all 
of the signal beacons within 3 rounds after all of the battle droid squads are 
defeated, the GATs exit the narrow streets and gain the ability to turn their 
weapons on the heroes once more. 


BaTTLE DROID SQUAD (4) 


iroid squad con of three B1-Series battle droic ese 


h battle 


squads use the 


summarized b 7 rders to protect the GATs rit 

begins, they quickly move to attack the heroes. These squads function a 
B1-Series Battle Droid Squad cL3 
arge droid (4th-degree) squad nonhero 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref & (flat-footed 8), Fort 11, Will 1 

hp 20; Threshold 21 

Immune droid trait 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d3+1) 

Ranged blaster carbine +5 (3d8, 1-square splast 

Base Atk +2; Grp +8 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 9, Con —, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 10 


Special Qualitie: 

Feats Toughn 
simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +6 

Systems walking locomotion, 


droid traits, squa 


s, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, heavy weapons 


remote receiver, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine 

Availability Military; Cost 5,400 credit 


ack that affects 


jad are 


Squad Traits—The melee attack of a squad is an area a 
all squares within its reach. The ranged attacks of a 


considered to uare splash. Area al 


ave a 1s s deal an extra 2 dice 


of damage against a squad. A squad cannot be grabbed or grappled, 


nity attacks are not considered to be area attacks. 


and its ope 


Battle Droid Squad Tactics 

Each battle droid squad tries to take full advantage of the fact that the droids’ 
ranged attacks have a splash radius, particularly t 
adjacent to one another. As the heroes attempt to move through the tanks 
planting the beacons, the battle droid squads start creating lines of fire to 


ting heroes standing 


prevent the heroes from moving quickly from one tank to the next. 


CONCLUSION 
f any of the heroes manages to destray one or more of the GATs, this counts 


ad planted a signal beacon on that tank. If the heroes 


anks with signal beacons, they need only get cle 


efore the Republic opens fire. All four tanks are destroyed by 


cessful in their 


precision laser fire from the Solidarity, and the heroes are su 


If for some reason any of the tanks manage to escape, the heroes 


in their mission 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The narrow streets in which this encounter take place have seen some 
combat earlier in the invasion, but most buildings remain standing and 
intact. Any of the squares filled with debris counts as difficult terrain; 
most of the debris is large enough that it can be used as cover. The build~ 
ings along this narrow street are small shops and storage facilities, each 
belonging to one of Tirahnn's merchant. Most are locked and have stan- 
dard metal doors (DR 10, 50 hit points, damage threshold 30, Strength DC 
50, Break DC 35), and inside the heroes find a variety of mundane items 
and trade goods. Each building is roughly two stories tall, with about 4 
squares (6 meters) separating the roof from the street below. 


U 


TA SSisvRo 


HOVEHG 4662) »wwolmvHsae@ 


ENCOUNTER: 
THE OVERPASS 


Challenge Level 6 

SETUP: If the heroes decide to intercept the Separatist retreat, they have 
the opportunity to collapse a bridge on their escape route, effectively pin 
ning the Separatist troops and heavy vehicles between the bridge and the 
‘oncoming Republic forces. The heroes have several options for collapsing the 
bridge; four well-placed explosive charges will do the trick, but the heroes 
may have other ideas. A sufficient amount of damage along the cracks in 
the bridge (visible on the map, and discussed in the Features of the Area 
sidebar on the next page) can collapse it, but feel free to allow the heroes 
to explore other options. 

The Separatists are on their way, and an advance scout force arrives at 
about the same time as the heroes. The heroes have 10-rounds from the time 
combat starts before the main Separatist force arrives; if the bridge has not 
been collapsed by then, they fail to achieve their mission. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


When the heroes arrive at the overpass, read the following text aloud: 


This section of street features an overpass with a ramp leading down to the 
street below. The bridge has seen better days, and has clearly sustained some 
damage in the fighting. As you approach the area, a small scout force of 
Confederacy droids enters the area near the bridge. It's clear they mean to 
stop any opposition, as they have weapons at the ready. 


DROIDEKA (2) 


Droideka Series Destroyer Droid cL4 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12 

Init +8; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Ranged laser cannon +8 (4d8) and 
laser cannon +8 (3d8) with Rapid Shot or 
Ranged laser cannon +5 (5d8) and 
laser cannon +5 (3d8) with Burst Fire 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +9; Grp +17 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), Burst Fire, Rapid Shot 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 15, Con —, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 7 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery |, 
Dual Weapon Mastery II, Rapid Shot, Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles) 

Skills Perception +13, Stealth +3 

Systems walking locomotion, wheeled locomotion (exclusive), remote 
receiver, 2 tool appendages, shield generator (SR 20), integrated 
comlink, bronzium shell (+5 armor; treat as quadanium plating) 

Possessions 2 laser cannons (treat as blaster rifles) 

Availability Military; Cost 21,000 credits 


BATTLE DROID ASSASSIN 


Battle Droid Assassin cL4 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3/soldier 3 
Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 
Languages Basic, Binary 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 16, Will 13 
hp 24; Threshold 16 
Immune droid traits 
‘Speed 6 squares (walking) 
Melee unarmed +6 (1d3+2) or 
Ranged heavy blaster rifle +6 (3d10+1, devastating 5) or 
Ranged heavy blaster rifle +6 (4d10+1, devastating 5) with deadeye or 
Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +6 (3d4+1) or 
Ranged thermal detonator +6 (8d6+1, 4-square burst) 
Base Atk +5; Grp +6 
Atk Options Devastating Attack (rifles), Far Shot, Precise Shot, 
Point Blank Shot 
Special Actions aid another (+4), Battle Analysis 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 12 
hp 40; SR 20; Threshold 18 
Immune droid traits 
‘Speed 2 squares (walking), 10 squares (wheeled) 
Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+3) 
Ranged laser cannon +12 (3d8) or 
Ranged laser cannon +10 (4d8) with Rapid Shot or 
Ranged laser cannon +7 (5d8) with Burst Fire or 
Ranged laser cannon +10 (3d8) and 

laser cannon +10 (348) or 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Talents Battle Analysis, Devastating Attack (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Deadeye, Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, . 
Precise Shot, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) . 

Skills Perception +10 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, synchronized fire circuits, 
2 hand appendages, improved sensor package, internal comlink, 
vocabulator 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle with standard targeting scope, hold-out 
blaster pistol, 2 frag grenades 

Availal y Military; Cost 6,460 credits ; 


Battle Droid Assassin Tactics 

The battle droid assassin begins the encounter hidden on one of the nearby 
buildings. This droid was left behind after an earlier skirmish, and it has 
been holding position to help defend the retreating Separatist force. The 
droid has made a Stealth check before the heroes arrive (at +4), so the 
heroes might spot the droid in advance. The battle droid assassin tries to 
aim before every shot, negating the heroes’ cover and dealing more damage 
with its blaster rifle, 


LR-S7 COMBAT DrRoID (2) 

A massive combat droid used by the Retail Caucus at the Battle of Christoph- 
sis, the LR-57 specializes in launching surprise attacks. The LR-57 typically 
operates in a passive standby mode, consuming only enough power to keep 
its sensors active in order to search for threats. When the combat droid 
detects a threat, it activates and goes into attack mode, sending a signal 
back to its remote processor and awaiting instructions 


LR-57 Combat Droid cL3 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +18 

Languages Binary _ 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 17, Will 12; +6 armor 

hp 33; Threshold 22 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares 

Ranged double heavy blaster rifle +7 (4410) or 

Ranged double heavy blaster rifle +2 (6d10) with Burst Fire 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +18 

Atk Options autofire (double heavy blaster rifle), Burst Fire 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 12, Con —, Int 10, Wis 15, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Skill Focus 
(Perception), Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Stealth), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles) 

Skills Perception +18, Stealth +10 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, remote receiver, 2 
tool mounts, improved sensor package, internal comlink, locked 
access, vocabulator 

Possessions double heavy blaster rifle, durasteel plating (+6 armor) 

Availability Military; Cost 16,000 credits 


‘3 


Pita 


= 


CONCLUSION 

If the heroes manage to collapse the bridge in fewer than 10 rounds, the 
Separatist retreat has nowhere to go, and the mission is a success. If the 
heroes take 10 rounds or more, the Separatists arrive, and it becomes too 
late to stop the retreat. The heroes may stay to collapse the bridge anyway, 
but some of the faster elements of the Separatist forces (such as rolling 
droidekas and Hailfire tank droids) make it past the overpass. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

Most of this area is taken up by the main street and a single, damaged 
bridge that crosses over it, perpendicular to the street. The bridge is made 
of thick permacrete, but the damage is has sustained since the invasion 
has weakened key parts of the structure. The bridge is 3 squares (roughly 
4.5 meters) above the road, and a gently sloping ramp connects the two. 
Asmall barrier at the edge of the bridge provides cover from attackers 
below, and lights on that barrier provide illumination around the bridge 
at all hours. Four standard explosive charges, placed on opposite sides 
of the bridge at both ends, would be enough to collapse the bridge. 
Barring that, if any of the squares through which the large cracks run 
should take more than 80 points of damage (the bridge has DR 10), the 
bridge would collapse entirely. 


oy 


A SSidvHo 


ENCOUNTER: 
No EScarPe 


Challenge Level 5 
SETUP: After many skirmishes, the liberty of Tirahnn is assured, but the 
heroes have yet more work to do. When the heroes respond to the tip that a 
being that appears to be Master Elasra has retrieved Commander Zolghast, 
they make their way towafd a landing platform on which sits a Confederacy 
shuttle. When the heroes arrive, Commander Zolghast and Braxus Lyn, the 
Clawdite impersonating Master Elasra, are just heading toward the shuttle- 
craft. The shuttle sits on the landing pad, warming up, and two squads of 
battle droids lurk around the edges of the landing pad. 

In order to achieve victory in this encounter, the heroes need to stop 
Commander Zolghast from boarding the shuttle and ensure that he can be 
taken back to the Solidarity for questioning. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


When the heroes arrive, read the following section aloud: 


Asingle Separatist shuttle rests on the landing pad, lights flashing and steam 
billowing out of vents on its underbelly. Crossing the distance between you and 
the shuttle are two figures. The first is instantly recognizable as Commander 
Zolghast. Surprisingly, the second appears to be the Barabel Jedi Master, 
Ezar Elasra. He holds the commander at the point of his lightsaber, as though 
marching a prisoner along. 

COMMANDER ZOLGHAST 
Commander Zolghast CLS: 
Male Zygerrian nonheroic 6/noble 1/officer 2 

Force 3; Dark Side 6 

Init +6; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 23 

hp 46; Threshold 20 

Immune +5 to Fortitude/Will Defense against Use the Force checks 
Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+1) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (348+1) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Special Actions Anticipate Movement, Deployment Tactics 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 16 


Talents Anticipate Movement, Deployment Tactics 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Improved Defenses, Martial Arts |, 
Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Deception), Toughness, 
Unstoppable Force’, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +12, Knowledge (Tactics) +10, Perception +5, 
Persuasion +17 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, code cylinder, comlink 

* See The Clone Wars Campaign Guide, page 31 


BRAXUS LYN 

Braxus Lyn is a Clawdite mercenary and general con artist for hire. Although 
she has seen her share of action during the Clone Wars, she is not technically 
a member of the Separatists' forces, preferring to remain a freelancer, Lyn 
specializes in fixing problems, particularly problems that involve intrigue 
and espionage. She was hired by the Separatists to help keep the wealthy 
elite of Tirahnn under control, and she was tapped to rescue Zolghast when 
news of his capture reached the Separatists. Realizing that the Republic 
would have both troops and probe droids throughout the city, she disquised 
herself as Master Elasra so that any Republic forces they encountered would 
be less likely to suspect deception. Gifted with basic Force sensitivity and 
a few tricks she has picked up in her travels, she has managed to maintain 
the deception thus far. 


Braxus Lyn cL4 

Medium Clawdite nonheroic 3/scoundrel 3 

Force 2; Dark Side 3 

Init +10 ; Senses Perception +4 

Languages Basic, Clawdite, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 13, Will 15 

hp 20; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (348+1) or 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +6(3d4+1) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Bantha Herder, Pistoleer 

Special Actions Startle 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): Force Thrust, Rebuke 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 18 

Special Qualities Shapeshift, Startle 

Talents Disruptive, Knack 

Feats Bantha Herder, Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Pistoleer, Skill 
Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Use the 
Force), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 


Skills Deception +17 (+27 to disguise, can disguise as a full-round action 
at no penalty), Initiative +10 , Perception +4, Use the Force +17 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, hold-out blaster pistol, comlink, datapad, 
stolen Jedi robes and lightsaber, street clothes 


Startle—Once per encounter, as a reaction to being attacked, Braxus Lyn 
can make a Deception check against her attacker's Will Defense. If 
successful, the attacker takes a -5 penalty on the attack roll 


Braxus Lyn Tactics 

Since Lyn's mission is to get Zolghast on the ship and to keep him alive, her 
first instinct when the heroes arrive is to maintain the bluff. She uses her 
Deception skill to disguise herself as Master Elasra, Should the heroes see 
through the deception, she leaps into action, hurling enemies away with the 
Force (she will spend Force Points to regain the use of Force Thrust when 
necessary) and generally moving enemies into a position where the battle 
droid squads have optimal shots. 


BATTLE DROID SQUAD (2) 


B1-Series Battle Droid Squad cL3 

Large droid (4th-degree) squad nonheroic 3 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 8 (flat-footed 8), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 20; Threshold 21 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d3+1) 

Ranged blaster carbine +5 (348, 1-square splash) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +8 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 9, Con —, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits, squad traits 

Feats Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, heavy weapons, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +6 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster carbine 

Availability Military; Cost 5,400 credits 

Squad Traits—The melee attack of a squad is an area attack that affects 
all squares within its reach. The ranged attacks of a squad are 
considered to have a 1-square splash. Area attacks deal an extra 2 dice 
of damage against a squad. A squad cannot be grabbed or grappled, 
and its opportunity attacks are not considered to be area attacks. 


Battle Droid Squad Tactics 

The battle droid squads have been ordered to guard the landing platform 
from inconspicuous positions, but once the shooting starts they emerge 
from hiding to fire upon the heroes. They take advantage of Zolghast's 
movement, granting abilities and try to focus their fire on any heroes that 
cluster together. 


CONCLUSION 

If the heroes fail to prevent Zolghast from boarding the shuttle, it blasts off 
for space and the heroes fail this aspect of their mission. If they manage to 
subdue Zolghast, they succeed and the Republic takes possession of him 
Similarly, if the heroes manage to subdue Braxus Lyn, the Republic is doubly 
grateful to the heroes for having removed a Separatist pawn from play on 
Tirahnn. See the Epilogue {page 205) for more information on wrapping 


things up. 


RMeveE® 460d) welave~sa@) 


lo 
r 
> 
i 
4 
im 
By 
is 


INDEx 


access control 160 
Ailon Nova Guard 106 
airlock 144 
alarm system controls 160 
alarms and responses 155 
anti-rad dose 45 
Anticipate Movement (talent) 18 
antipersonnel mine 42 
Aquatic Specialists (feat) 28 
ascension gun 37 
Ascension Specialists (feat) 28 
Autofire Assault (talent) 22 
automated defense systems 155 
automated sentry gun 98 
Backstabber (talent) 20 
Bantha Herder (feat) 22 
Barabel 10 

Barabel microbe armor 44 
barracks 145 

Battering Attack (feat) 22 
Battlefield Remedy (talent) 21 
biohazard suit 44 

blaster pistol 38 

blaster rifle 38 

borg construct 49 

Bullseye (talent) 31 
camo scout armor 44 
camouflage netting 46 
camouflage poncho 46 
carbonite freezing 

chambers 162 
chaff gun 67 
chasms and pits 162 
Cheap Trick (talent) 19 
Churhee's Riflemen 108 

com scrambler 46 

comlink, subcutaneous 49 
comlink, tightbeam 46 
command bridge 146 
Commanding Presence 19 
(talent) 
communications controls 160 
communications scanner 46 
computer systems 159 
conveyor belts 162 


corridor 147 
coupling stations 152 
Cover Escape (talent) 18 
Covert Operatives (feat) 28 
crossbow 39 
crushing damage 162 
cryogenic pouch 46 
cybernetics 48 
darkstick 36 
Dashade 12 
Defensive Jab (talent) 21 
Defensive Position (talent) 21 
Destructive Force (feat) 22 
detonite cord 43 
difficulty classes 

for battlestations 143 
Dig In (talent) 20 
Disabler (feat) 23 
Dive for Cover (feat) 23 
doors 156 
Draw a Bead (talent) 31 
droid diagnostic 46 
drop pods 63 
Easy Prey (talent) 19 
Echani Expertise (talent) 32 
Echani Training (feat) 26 
electrified floors 163 
entrenching tool 36 
extendable bridges 157 
eye, infrared sensor 49 
eye, targeting 49 
eye, telescopic 49 
Fall Back (talent) 31 
Ferocious Assault (talent) 30 
field food processor 47 
Fight Through Pain (feat) 23 
fire blade 37 
flame cannon 39 
Flurry of Blows (talent) 33 
force fields 158 
Force of Personality (feat) 23 
Forceful Blast (feat) 23 
Forewarn Allies (talent) 18 
Form Up (talent) 31 
Fortifying Recovery (feat) 23 


Forward Patrol (talent) 20 
fragmentation/razor wire 98 
Freeco speeder 62 
Full Advance (talent) 31 
gas 163 
gear requisitioning 68 
Get Down (talent) 18 
Ghost Assailant (talent) 20 
glowing defoliator 67 
gravity traps 163 
grenade 39 
Grizzled Warrior (talent) 21 
Ground Armored Tank 216 
ground-based artillery 100 
gunnery tower 148 

hangar bay 148 

Hapan Royal Guard 110 
Hardened Strike (talent) 33 
Harrying Shot (talent) 31 
Heavy Fire Zone (talent) 18 
Hijkata Expertise (talent) 32 
Hijkata Training (feat) 26 
Hold Steady (talent) 31 
Imperial designation codes 97 
Imperial landing craft 64 
Imperial officer ranks 93 
Improved Sneak Attack 20 

(talent) 
incinerators 164 
information systems 161 
Interchangeable 

Weapon System 39 
ion mine 43 
ion shielding 50 
Jedi imprisonment devices 165 
K'tara Expertise (talent) 33 
K'tara Training (feat) 27 
K'thri Expertise (talent) 33 
K'thri Training (feat) 27 
Kaleesh Kolkpravis 112 
Katarn Commandos 114 
Katarn-class 

commando armor 44 

Keep Them Honest (talent) 31 
laboratory 150 


life support controls 161 
Lightning Squadron 116 
limpet mine 43 

liquid cable traps 164 
Lurmen 12 

Mandalorian Protectors 118 
marine armor 45 

martial arts feats 26 

Martial Arts Master 32 
medical bay 152 

Medical Team (feat) 29 
military jargon 80 

mines 99 

Mission Specialist (feat) 24 
Mistryl Shadow Guard 120 
Mobile Combatant (talent) 20 
mortar launcher 40 

mortars 100 

Mounted Regiment (feat) 29 
Never Surrender (feat) 24 
Nimble Dodge (talent) 21 
Nimble Team (feat) 29 
Nimbus Commandos 122 
office 150 
noncommissioned officers 76 
Officer Candidacy 

Training (feat) 25 

Onderon Beast Riders 124 
Opportunistic Shooter (feat) 25 
orbital turbolasers 101 
personal field shelter 47 
Pinning Shot (talent) 31 
Pistoleer (feat) 25 

planetary ion cannon 202 
plasma bridge 47 

power diffusion tunnels 164 
Precision Shot (talent) 31 
Predictive Defense (feat) 25 
Prime Targets (talent) 18 
prisons/cell blocks 165 
proximity flare 47 

Punishing Strike (talent) 33 
Quick Strike (talent) 19 
radiation detector 47 
random mission generator 102 


rank and privilege 77 
reactor core 151 

Reckless (talent) 22 
Republic Rocket-Jumpers 126 
repulsorlift inhibitors 99 
Resilient Strength (feat) 25 
Retaliation Jab (talent) 21 
Riflemaster (feat) 25 

Risk Taker (feat) 25 

rotary blaster cannon 40 
scatter gun 40 

Search and Destroy (talent) 31 
secondary conduits 159 
security systems 153 

Seen It All (talent) 22 
Senate Guard/Senate 
Commandos 128 

sensor controls 161 
sensors/detectors 153 
sensory enhancement 50 
sentry gun 175 

Shelter speeder 63 

shock locks 164 

shock stick 37 

shockboxing 23 
shockboxing gloves 37 
skeletal reinforcement 50 
Slicer Team (feat) 29 

Slip By (talent) 20 

Sly Combatant (talent) 19 
smart mines 99 

Sport Hunter (feat) 25 
Staggering Attack (feat) 26 
stalker armor 45 

static pike 37 

Stava Expertise (talent) 33 
Stava Training (feat) 27 
Steadying Position (feat) 26 
Stinging Jab (talent) 21 
stun cloak 45 

Summon Aid (talent) 19 
Sun Guards of Thyrsus 130 
T8 loading vehicle 179 
tactical command center 152 
Tactical Savvy (talent) 19 


tactical tractor beam 42 
Tae-Jitsu Expertise (talent) 33 
Tae-Jitsu Training (feat) 28 
targeting beacon 47 
targeting laser 42 
Taung 13 
team feats 28 
Technical Experts (feat) 29 
Teras Kasi Training (feat) 28 
Tested in Battle (talent) 22 
Thakwaash 14 
Tirahnn 200 
Tireless Squad (feat) 30 
Tough as Durastee! 33 
Trailblazer (talent) 21 
trap doors 164 
tremor sensor 50 
triangulation visor 47 
Trianii 15 
Trianii Rangers 132 
tripwire lasers 154 
turbolifts 158 
Unhindered Approach (feat) 30 
Unified Squadron (feat) 30 
vacuum survival pouch 47 
vehicle fire effects 67 
vibrolance 37 
Wary Sentries (feat) 30 
Watchful Step (talent) 21 
weapons controls 162 
Wilderness Specialists (feat) 30 
wind tunnels and 

exhaust vents 164 
WLO-5 speeder tank 63 
Wraith Squadron 134 
Wrruushi Expertise (talent) 33 
Wrruushi Training (feat) 28 
Yevetha 16 

Yuzzem 17 

Zygerrian 17 


GALAXY AT WAR 


Character 

Varan Cormin 
Ambusher 

Field medic 

‘Army soldier 
Geonosian bodyguard 
Braxus Lyn 

Pleth Juun 
Ambusher officer 
Commander Zolghast 
Black Sun pirate 
Malva Greeku 


Creature 
Carrier butterfly 
Gelagrub 
Bolotaur 

Nek 

Mastif phalone 
Gutkurr 
Watch-beast 
Roggwart 


Droid 
A-Series medical droid 
Chiba DR-10 

protocol droid 
CLL-M2 ordnance lifter 
KDY-4 tech droid 
MR-200 series 

minesweeper 
Tactical droid 
Bi-Series battle droid 
B2-Series super 

battle droid 
Eradicator-series 

battle droid 
OOM-Series battle droid 
LR-57 combat droid 
Vigilant 2X picket droid 
Air assault 

super battle droid 


Sonne svownnak 


BwooanvsoP 


Nee 325 28 68 


wWOnNNn 


+ 


Droid cL 
Battle droid assassin 4 
Droideka series destroyer 4 
Arakyd AZ-Series 
battle droid 
Droid commando 
Sniper droideka 
Purge trooper 


Starship cL 
Wayfarer-class 
medium transport 5 
Koensayr ILH-KK 
Citadel-class cruiser 7 
YU-410 light freighter 7 


Penumbra-class 

attack shuttle 9 
Corona-class 

armed transport 7 


Page 
218 


au 


WA SsiaveS 


“PREPARE FOR GROUND ASSAULT.” 
Get ready to dig into the trenches of Hoth or charge across the open plains of Geonosis, standing shoulder to shoulder 


with your fellow warriors. War has come to the galaxy, and the deeds of soldiers and generals will determine the fates of 
billions of lives. Remember your training, and don't stop fighting until the enemy is down. 


ae 


Visit our website at www.starwars.com 
www.wizards.com/starwars 


GALAXY AT WAR™ PRESENTS A VARIETY OF OPTIONS 
FOR BOTH PLAYERS AND GAMEMASTERS, INCLUDING: 


@ New talents. feats. weapons, and equipment for soldiers and military heres. 


@ bclusive information on new material from The Clone Wars” television series : Kin ey } < ae 


SYSTEM. 


@ [Guidelines for running military campaigns. | | | | 


@ Riles for designing bases and battlestations for your heroes to raid or defend. 


53995 
z 
i 
oN780786lg522i2 


Sug. Retail: US $39.95 CAN $49.00 
Printed in the U.S.A. 241817200 


@ New campaign content. including a full-length adventure. 


the Coast LLC in the USA and other countnes. 


