é 


GALAXY OF INTRIGUE 


RODNEY THOMPSON GARY ASTLEFORD ERIC CAGLE 
i 


GALAXY OF INTRIGUE 


RODNEY THOMPSON, GARY ASTLEFORD, ERIC CAGLE 


Siiasyuad 


SnaQii.wi deo AsYIVVsS 


CREDITS 
DESIGNERS | 


ADDITIONAL DESIGN 
J 
DEVELOPER 


2 wi | 
EDITORS 
a 
LUCAS LICENSING EDITOR 
—E 
=e) 
MANAGING EDITOR 
SS ——————— 
DIRECTOR OF RPG R&D 


\ eileen chia eet a 


[ART DIRECTORS | 


eo Bary Hetieiond, PRODUCTION MANAGER ie Cynda Callaway 


T. Rob Brown, Steve Miller GRAPHIC DESIGNER Yasuyo Dunnett 
———— 
Rodney Thompson PRE-PRESS MANAGER Jefferson Dunlap 


Ray Vallese, Bradley Will See Christopher Tardiff 


Frank Parisi IMAGING TECHNICIAN Carmen Cheung 
Torah Cottrill SPECIAL THANKS | Leland Chee 


Steve Argyle, Drew Baker, Miguel Coimbra, Gonzalo 
Flores, Thomas Gianni, Jason Juta, Robert Lazzaretti, 
Corey Macourek, Warren Mahy, Lee Phung, Francis 
Tsai, Franz Vohwinkel, Ben Wootten 


Bill Slavicsek 
_INTERIOR ARTISTS 


Blake Beasley, Ryan Sansaver 


Some rules mechanics are based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C. Stephens, and Rodney Thompson, the original Dungeons & Dragons® rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave 
Arneson, and the 3" Edition Dungeons & Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. 


This Wizards of the Coast* game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission, 


U.S., Canada, Asia, GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE 

Pacific, & Latin America Hasbro UK Ltd Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 

Wizards of the Coast LLC Caswell Way Industialaan 1 'o 

P.0. Box 707 Newport, Gwent NP9 OYH 1702 Groot-Bijgaarden SYSTEM.. 

Renton, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRITAIN Belgium WWW.WIZARDS.COM WWW.STARWARS.COM 
Questions? 1-800-324-6496 Please keep this address for your records +32 070 233 277 ISBN: 978-0-7869-5400-1 


620-25097000-001-EN 
987654321 
First Printing: January 2010 


©2010 LUCASFILM LTD. & @ OR ™ WHERE INDICATED. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 
USED UNDER AUTHORIZATION. 


Dungeons & Dragons, d20 System, Wizards of the Coast, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use 
of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast LLC, This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. 


CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION ...4 Interrogation .............. 55 Kashyyyk Resistance......... 112 Adventure #4: Eye on 
Using This Bo k = ” Investigationiwss + saaes ss am 55 Naboo Resistance Movement. . 114 the: Prizes 5 ¢ xem 3 2 pame 168 
pe One neste een Negotiation................ 56 New Republic Intelligence ....116 Encounter: Unexpected 
CHAPTER Is = pas. Overland Travel............. 57 Praetorite Vong............. 118 VISIROL smart 2.2 emu ox aang 170 
( ieee Searching the Debris Field ...57 The Tagge Company ......... 120 Adventure #5: My Enemy's 
[oe serniae cla Slicing the HoloNet......... 58 Tapani Nobles............0+. 123 ENeMy...ecceeeeeceeeees 172 
SSE GIOS wv crcaes wx oanranienoeors 6:5 10 Smuggling Contraband...... 58 - i Encounter: Hunt for 
ew Talents for Speeder Bike Chase......... 59 || CHAPIERVI: NYRIAAN, | the Assassin........... 174 
HEROIC CIASSESianss we craves 0 19 Tactical Leadership.......... 59 WORLD OF Adventure #6: Opportunity 
ew Talents for Traversing the Minefield ..... 60 INTRIGUE.... 124 RTC CKS «x senna 0. x aces tens 176 
Prestige Classes........... “< Sabotage Mission........... 60 ee ee 126 —— 
CATS ee vewn nee nye cee RD | em : Shrouded in Secrecy......... TOG ium eens wince 
( CHAPTER Ils EQUIPMENT - 62 Adventure #7: Double Down ..180 
CUPIERI: Sic Abmosphercsand Weather enc bas Encounter: Deal Gone Bad . .182 
eee Equipment and Weapons ...... 64 Geography .............000. 128 Seieeiihiae: 49: Extractin “ 
ARE Sisal ih a hh she EGUIDERG wis x sven no wsqnn ¥ vst 66 Surface Conditions ........ 128 Stages , 9 inn 
Running Skill Challenges....... 32 NSTI CI CS exacts pasted 6 srsco sain 8b 68 SOCHIEMTSNIES 2. « rect = 5 voeanes = 129 Siesiicsniicna Wine amd Bat, ‘ 186 | 
Example of Play...........005 36 HOTS snesses ss = services « ears 9 os 72 Madilon Mines............ 133 ‘ “ 
Skill Challenge; — peeeemee Landing on Nyriaan.......... 137 a sie 
Escape From Kessel........ 36 [ CHAPTER: CAMPAIGNS 76 GORA GIES csrsisin dscns o ear s 137 eee as ace | 
Challenge ee ag | AGathengoF Heroes .......78 | Shctinastatne. 138 | Opening Craw “189 
rag eee 44 ATRIA EI, « essen sso ae Ecology Sees 140 eects Seieuag ecsiaie 190 
Catastrophic Failure......... 44 Bylicing Intrigue Canaan od Common Animal Species. ...140 Part 1: Before the Storm....191 
Changing Objectives 44 leant i ue - Common Plant Species ..... 142 Part 2: Down Init ......... 194 
Close Call's cea amns 24 xanee xe 44 kha ema = Government Authority ....... 143 Part 3: The Coming Flood... .201 
CORPATITIEHIE. « cssceue » 0 «saute & » 45 ioeedie:. 9 The Factions of Nyriaan...... 143 Part 4: Aftermath.......... 205 
Degenerating 45 asl Encounter 1: Main Street 
Degrees of Failure.......... 45 Crema Region vicrignhiee a ( CHAPTER Vs INTRIGUE Firefight « seco s a assa 5 2 eos 206 
D f Success 45 ee ee ENCOUNTERS. 154 Encounter 2: Klieri’s 
ici seers i Fighting the Powers That Be ...89 | pea anid 
aie ioe — 46 Designing an Intrigue Using Mini-Adventures....... 155 | eoorare 3: ahaa ——— 
ite = em ae ence os aa Adventures s<cas os wae x 29 90 Adventure #1:Shooting sil Chlovi 210 
& oer Dc “alae nda dilaciiial: he The Art of Indirection......... 93 TOUTS as ec msessnsvenacsneroaws 156 | Eieeeilion de ative ied 
at Og ae 46 ' Encounter: The Trouble Hos italit 212 
vinir-ue sr ieaieatiaa ( CHAPTERV: Shooting.........000.. 158 Beare ene wate 
REStMGtd SKIN Siesta se wears vs 47 Encounter 5: Children of 
Second Effort 47 FACTIONS AND Adventure #2 :Arms Dealers cha Teratiest 214 
_ -eaieaagiaia slash | ORGANIZATIONS 36 J BSA sears ic acasanunin SB enter 160 Pp gedit ft 
Timed CHAllengeins. ssw» 47 SSee DEEN Engaunter: Haldiherthe Encounter 6: Sixteen Tons ....216 
Success and Failure........... 48 Core World Nobles ........... 98 Weeslenne 162 Encounter 7: The End 
Skill Challenge Tips........... 49 Droid Equality Foundation....100 nnn of the World...........5. 218 
ge "Ip cat . Adventure #3: Betrayal at 
Sample Skill Challenges ....... 51 The Firebird Society.......... 102 Cloud City 164 Encounter 8: Corporate 
Breaching the Bunker ....... 51 The Galactic Alliance Guard. . .104 Easduntare Chase throu: h - Wrath. + 2 xeon « suns noes 220 
The Podrace’: ¢ esis5% enews 2+ 52 WSR ETEPTES: 5s civeinc ne: enenson io te 106 he — g 106 
Asteroid Field Escape........ 53 House Kordens.ss as sacaes ei 0 1NDEX 6 ce ewes 222 


Covert Infiltration .......... 54 Imperial Intelligence......... 110 


N 
\ 


} 
' 
i 
} 


Z 
0 
a 
0 
B 
0 
0 
V4 
‘a 
£ 


VS 

: fi The civilizations of the Star Wars galaxy are bound together in an intricate web 
of intrigue. Except for the most reclusive, every sentient being in the galaxy 
is involved in a conspiracy or plot, whether he or she knows it or not. A plot 
_ might be as benign as a corporation's ad campaign or as insidious as a scheme 
to overthnow the Republic, Heroes are pushed and pulled by powerful forces, 
-such as planetary governments, the Jedi Council, or the military. A hero might 
owe a favor or have an obligation to someone and in turn wield control over 
others. Because of this web of intrigue, a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign can 
quickly move from the immediate to the vast, depending on how involved and 
wide-ranging the Gamemaster wants to make the adventure. 
Galaxy of Intrigue is designed for any era of the Star Wars timeline. Whether 
during the Old Republic, Clone Wars, Rebellion, or Legacy eras, life in the galaxy 
is complicated, as planets wage war with each other, ideologies clash, and 
rulers fight for dominion and to achieve the destinies that lie within their reach. 
Even thesrelative peace preceding the Clone Wars is riddled with intrigue as 
crouse dividuals take advantage of a distracted and apathetic populace 


aaah 


to Fran ie, Own agendas. 

With this k, Gamemasters can plunge heroes into a campaign of con- 
spiracy. Although the heroes might be caught up in the plots of others, they can 
take an active role if solving mysteries or using their influence to help shape 
the galaxy, pulling the strings of intrigue themselves. Galaxy of Intrigue pres- 
ents rules and suggestions for including noncombat elements into a campaign, 
allowing players with a flair for personal interaction, dialogue, and skill use to 
stand out. Characters from the noble class, with the most skills and talents for 
solving problems with dialogue or quick thinking, benefit most from the ideas 
presented in Galaxy of Intrigue. However, this book offers plenty for every class, 
even the most martial soldiers. The rules and ideas presented here should give 
the heroes of your campaign a new sense of purpose, helping them develop 
into multidimensional characters. 


J 


NOILSRAOOCHLN! 


SneQiiLNI dJd@ ASYIVS) 


USING THIS BOOK 


This book is the basis for a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, capturing the feel 
of political events, clandestine adventures, and layers of subterfuge, double- 
cross, and hidden plans found throughout Star Wars. Chapters 1 and 3 are 
for players, and the remaining chapters are for Gamemasters. 

Chapter 1: Heroes of Intrigue covers new species, especially ones known 
for political machinations or skill in intrigue. In addition, this chapter includes 
an array of new tools and options for character creation—such as talents, 
talent trees, and feats—for players who want their characters to shine in situ- 
ations where skills, insight, and quick thinking are more important than going 
in with blasters blazing. However, opportunities for violence still abound. 

Chapter 2: Skill Challenges introduces an optional mechanic that utilizes 
multiple skill checks to get all the heroes of an adventuring group involved 
in overcoming obstacles. 

Chapter 3: Equipment contains new gear, weapons, vehicles, and droids 
suitable for use in a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign. 

Chapter 4: Campaigns provides examples and advice for creating an 
intrigue campaign, in which subterfuge, deceit, and politics are important 
aspects of the heroes’ adventures. Additionally, the chapter helps Gamemas- 
ters design villains that are both plausible and memorable. 

Chapter 5: Factions and Organizations provides numerous examples of 
groups deeply immersed in politics, intelligence gathering, and clandestine 
operations. Each faction or organization entry includes goals, methods, and 
notable personnel, as well as ways to use the group as an antagonist or an 
ally for the heroes. 

Chapter 6: Nyriaan presents a new planet that the Gamemaster can 
use for adventures rich in intrigue and conspiracy. This planet can serve as 
a base of operations or as an adventure setting. 

Chapter 7: Intrigue Encounters includes eight mini-encounters that 
Gamemasters can weave into preexisting campaigns or use as new adven- 
tures. The mini-encounters cover a broad range of Challenge Levels and 
include the new skill challenge system from Chapter 2. 

Chapter 8: The Perfect Storm is an adventure designed for four starting 
heroes of any background. The adventure takes place on the mining world of 
Nyriaan, and it can be set during any era of the Star Wars galaxy. 


WHAT IS A GALAXY OF 
INTRIGUE CAMPAIGN? 


Just as Scum and Villainy looked at the seedier side of the Star Wars setting, 
where the heroes walked in the gray area between legality and illicit behavior, 
a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign enters the halls of power, where politicians 
shape the destiny of untold billions, corporations perform questionable 
deeds in pursuit of profit, and rebels plot to overthrow rulers. An intrigue 
campaign focuses on layers of deception, clandestine missions, and secret 
deals. Although heroes might be swept up in events and plans beyond their 
control, they are not mere pawns. They can use the same tactics against 
their enemies or the groups that oppose them. The heroes’ activities might 
have a profound impact on the destinies of those around them, all through 
the techniques of cloak and vibrodagger. 


Nothing Is What It Seems 

In a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, deception and lies are vital. As the heroes 
progress through encounters, each conclusion brings with it a number of 
additional questions to be answered, providing motivation for even more 
encounters. Heroes peel back the veneer that surrounds the forces of galac- 
tic society, revealing hidden secrets, old rivalries, and insidious plots that 
threaten to shift power in massive and dangerous ways. In turn, the heroes’ 
goals should influence the galaxy around them. Over time, the heroes might 
begin to question the truth of the facade presented before them. Allies 
might turn out to be opponents and vice versa. The motives of even the most 
altruistic group or individual can become misguided, while the actions of the 
enemy might, in fact, hold a noble purpose. 

Beyond the political arena, a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign also focuses 
heavily on the action of spies. Agents infiltrate military organizations to steal 
classified plans. Moles hide within the halls of power to relay information 
back to their controllers. Turncoats and saboteurs wreak havoc in factories 
and laboratories. Each character involved in a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign 
has his or her own motivations, adding additional layers of complication and 
conflict to a scenario and making a great adventure. 


LEIA HIDES THE DEATH STAR PLANS INSIDE OF R2-DZ 


Politics Is Personal 

Politics plays a major part in Galaxy of Intrigue campaigns, with politicians 
using the power of a legislature, a royal court, or even a tribal council to shape 
policy and influence the will of the people. Corporations use their influence 
and their lobbyists to ease restrictions on trade. Interest groups of all kinds 
use the political arena to make their voices heard and draw attention to 
their messages. Politics touches every aspect of life in the galaxy, even in 
the most far-flung, backwater planets. 

Asa case in point, the conflict in Star Wars: Episode | The Phantom Menace 
begins innocuously enough as a trade dispute. Over the course of that and 
the subsequent movies, however, the galaxy is rocked as the dispute quickly 
progresses through a blockade, an armed conflict, the removal of the Supreme 
Chancellor, the rise of Senator Palpatine, and eventually the full-scale war 
of the Clone Wars in Star Wars: Episode Ill Revenge of the Sith. 


Tension Between Light and Dark 

A Galaxy of Intrigue campaign can also incorporate the conflict between the 
light and dark sides of the Force. Practitioners of the Force might be major 
figures in a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign or mere players in the background, 
providing a bit of flavor. The Jedi maintain peace and harmony within the 
galaxy, working as negotiators and mediating disputes. However, Jedi often 
become immersed in plots and intrigue, and they must walk a careful path 
to maintain neutrality while seeking to solve problems. The machinations of 
intrigue sometimes push a Jedi too far, causing him or her to fall from the 
light side and into the dark. 

The Sith serve the dark side and seek to subvert the balance of power in 
their favor, preferably at a very greedy, personal level. Yet not every practitio- 
ner of the dark side seeks wholesale genocide—many appear to be upstanding 
citizens, beloved by the galactic public. But while one hand spreads wealth, 
favors, and solutions to problems, the other is hidden from view, sowing the 
seeds of discontent and manipulating the lives of others. Gamemasters can 
use the tension between the light and dark sides of the Force, playing on the 
preconceived notions of the players and using the conflict as a canvas upon 
which to create entertaining and memorable adventures. 


@ 
> 
[Pr 
> 
% 
<4 
0 
UV 
2 
q] | 
0 
@ 
Cc 
W 


CHAPTER | 
MEROES OF INTRIGUE 


_ Although the Star Wars universe is replete with scenes of breathtaking action, 
dramatic lightsaber duels, sweeping ship battles, and hair-raising escapes, 
_ itis also deeply immersed in intrigue. The galaxy is an enormous place with 
a huge variety of species, ideologies, corporations, and other groups jock- 
eying to gain power and to carve their own destinies. A dense, if delicate, 


- web of negotiations, treaties, alliances, and obligations weaves disparate 
groups together to stop the civilizations of the galaxy from descending into 
chaos. Sometimes this web keeps the peace, but often stability is threatened 
jor overturned as masterminds scheme for more control. For the heroes, 
adventure is around every corner and, more often than not, comes looking 
them instead of the other way around. 
WA Galaxy of Intrigue campaign has plenty of room for every type of char- 
er, although creating heroes for an intrigue campaign requires a bit more 
Dught than it might in other settings. Campaigns that focus on intrigue are 


irst glance, the noble class seems to be the wisest choice in an 
campaign. To be sure, with its tremendous amount of skills and its 
jjue-inspired talent trees, the noble class is well suited for this type of 
ainpaign, but the other classes have just as much to offer. Scoundrels use 


corporate offices to retrieve valuable information. Soldiers need not be 
ycutish thugs and can include military intelligence officers or bodyguards for 


, every Class has its place in a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, as long as 

th® characters realize that not every situation can be solved with combat. 

~ The heroes must rely on their powers of observation and deduction to move 
fe story along, as well. 


SN90Iy9.N! SO SS0USHI 


Bnei .w) de sseXEH 


SPECIES 


Given the multitude of beings and cultures that inhabit the galaxy, many 
species rely on manipulation and diplomacy to advance their causes and do 
the best for their people. Certain species use intrigue and social engineering 
for noble pursuits, such as to maintain pacifist societies. Some, however, excel 
at pulling the strings of others for the sake of financial or political gain, or 
merely for the enjoyment of being in control. 


SPECIES CHARACTERISTICS 
Your character's species determines some of his or her qualities. 


Ability Adjustments 

Find your character's species on Table 1-1: Species Ability Adjustments, and 
apply the adjustments listed there to your character's ability scores. Use 
Tables 1-2 and 1-3 to help determine your character's age, height, and weight. 


TABLE 1-1: SPECIES: 
ABILITY ADUUSTMENTS 


SPECIES ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 
Bith -2 Con, +2 Int, +2 Cha 
Defel -2 Str, +2 Int 

Fosh +2 Dex, -2 Con, +2 Cha 
Givin -2 Str, +2 Int, 

Gotal None 

Herglic +4 Str, -4 Dex 

Mrlssi -2 Str, +2 Int, +2 Cha 
Neimoidian -2 Str, +2 Cha 

Umbaran -2 Con, +2 Dex, +2 Wis 


TABLE 1-2: AGE By SPECIES 


YOUNG MIDDLE 
SPECIES CHILD ADULT ADULT AGE OLD VENERABLE 
Bith 111 12-15 16-50. 51-70 71-84 85+ 
Defel 1-6 7-10 11-49 50-74 75-89 90+ 
Fosh 1-11 12-17. 18-55 56-70 71-84 85+ 
Givin 1-10 11-14 «15-48 49-64 65-79 80+ 
Gotal 1=9 10-12 13-40 41-60 61-75 76+ 
Herglic 1-15 16-19 20-55 56-79 80-95 96+ 
Mrlssi 1-4 5-8 9-35 36-69 70-89 90+ 
Neimoidian 1-11 12-16 17-40 41-57 58-79 80+ 
Umbaran 1-10 11-15 16-44 45-69 70-89 90+ 


TABLE 1-3: AVERAGE 
HEIGHT AND WEIGHT 


SPECIES HEIGHT WEIGHT 
Bith 17m 75 kg 
Defel 1.4m 45 kg 
Fosh 1.3m 40 kg 
Givin 1.8m 70 kg 
Gotal 2.0m 85 kg 
Herglic 2.2m 110 kg 
Mrlssi 1.2m 40 kg 
Neimoidian 1.9m 70 kg 
Umbaran 1.7m 60 kg 
BiTH 


Bith have been part of the Galactic Republic for thousands of years. Intel- 
lectually advanced humanoids, Bith have oversized brains evolved to handle 
abstract skills such as language, mathematics, music, and scientific analysis. 
This fundamental shift to the intellect has caused brain functions related to 
instinct and biological drives to diminish. Their greater brainpower also means 
that Bith need to spend only four hours in a meditative trance to regain the 
energy that most species require eight hours to recover. 

As a culture, Bith find the concept of warfare abhorrent, and most are 
pacifists. During the time of the Republic, the Bith are one of the loudest 
proponents for finding diplomatic solutions and for banning weapons and 
the industries of war. This pacifistic streak has roots in the Bith's past, when 
competition between two major corporations got out of hand, resulting in 
the release of a biological weapon that turned the surface of Clak'dor VII 
into an ecological wasteland. The survivors consequently sealed their cities 
in immense domes, while many ambitious Bith left their homeworld to travel 
the galaxy. During the time of the Clone Wars, the Bith hole up in their domed 
cities, remaining neutral and trying to ride out the worst of the fighting. 
Their wholesale return to galactic society does not occur until well into the 
time of the New Republic. 

Bith are highly sought after in a wide variety of fields, including engineer- 
ing, programming, education, commercial art, and, most importantly, ship 
design. Music is a vital and revered pursuit in Bith society. Bith musicians are 
relatively common (and welcome) and can be found playing in extravagant 
opera houses, seedy cantinas, and everything in between. 

Personality: Bith are calm and rational, with a natural talent for techni- 
cal and intellectual pursuits. Despite (or as a result of) its violent past, Bith 
culture is pacifistic. Individual Bith, however, run the range of demeanors, 
but most Bith lean toward using nonaggression to overcome difficulties. All 
Bith are stimulated by intellectual problems and artistic endeavors. 


BITH 


Physical Description: Bith are 
humanoid in shape; their most 
notable features are their bul- 
bous heads and huge black 
eyes. Their skin is often some- 
where between gray and pink, 
although some Bith have skin 
tints of yellow or green. They 
lack an external nose but have a 
finely tuned sense of smell. Their 
large eyes give them incredibly 
focused vision, allowing them to 
see into the microscopic scale, 
but in turn, they have poor 
long-range vision. 
Homeworld: Bith 
originate from Clak'dor VII, 
a small planet in the Outer 
Rim that suffered heavily from 
the effects of biological warfare 
during a brief civil conflict. The 
inhabitants now reside in domed 
cities and rarely venture out of 
them onto the surface of the planet. 
Languages: Bith speak and read Bith. Those who leave the confines of 
their cities learn Basic as well. 
Example Names: Doikk, Figrin, Jinkins, Lirin, Nalan, Tech, Tedn, Thal. 
Adventurers: Given their predilection for intellectual and peaceful pur- 
suits, most Bith heroes are nobles. Force-users are uncommon, but some Bith 
have served with distinction in the Jedi Order over the millennia. 


Bith Species Traits 
Bith share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Constitution, +2 Intelligence, +2 Charisma. Bith 
bodily processes are not very efficient, but members of the species are 
bright and personable. 

Size: Bith are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penalties for their 
size. 

Speed: Bith base speed is 6 squares. 

Meditative Trance: Bith can enter into a trance that lasts for four con- 
secutive hours. At the end of the trance, they gain the benefits of having 
rested for eight consecutive hours. 

Scent: Bith have an extremely strong sense of smell. At close range 
(within 10 squares), Bith ignore concealment and cover for the purpose of 
Perception checks, and they take no penalty for poor visibility when tracking 
(see Survival on page 73 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Evolved Intellect: Whenever a Bith spends a Force Point for any reason, 
the Bith gains a temporary Force Point that must be spent to add to an 
Intelligence-based skill check. If the temporary Force Point has not been 
used by the end of the encounter, it is lost. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Bith. 


DEFEL 
Defel come from the high-gravity world of Af'El, which orbits the supergi- 
ant Ka'Dedus. The planet is unusual in that the atmosphere absorbs all light 
except that in the ultraviolet spectrum. The Defel, along with every other 
animal on the planet, have evolved to see perfectly well in ultraviolet, but they 
are completely blind when exposed to other wavelengths of light. Defel that 
leave their homeworld must wear special visors that allow them to see. This 
evolution also had an interesting effect on Defel fur, making the creatures 
effectively invisible in the normal light in which most other species operate. 
This near-invisibility has earned the Defel the nickname "wraiths" because in 
visible light, they appear as nothing more than vague shadows. 

Due to the crushing gravity and harsh seasons of their homeworld, Defel 
bind together into close-knit communities to survive. However, they also 
possess a Strong streak of independence in personal matters. They are tough, 
resilient creatures with a deep and complex sense of honor, especially toward 
their families and patrons. Their cities are built underground, and Defel are 
accomplished miners and metallurgists—one of the reasons that outsiders 
contacted them in the first place. Af'El is one of the few planets blessed with 
large quantities of meleenium, a primary 
component in the manufacturing of 
durasteel. 

Most Defel are content to remain in 
the safety of their underground cities, 
and the planet's tortuous gravity and 
harsh conditions mean that it has 
few visitors. Defel that leave Af'El 
are drawn toward professions 
that take advantage of their 
natural stealth and invisibility, 
such as thief, assassin, scout, 
and bodyguard. Most of the 
galaxy's inhabitants believe that 
the Defel are only characters from 
stories—invisible demons that lurk 
in the shadows. 


DEFEL 


SneQiN) d@ sseX'es-) 


SnAeoIe LN) de cone | | HSLavVHD } 


Personality: Defel love independence and freedom. They are a proud 
people with a strong sense of self, almost to the point of stubbornness. 
Defel are loyal to friends, family, and employers, but they are not always 
trustworthy in the conventional sense. They like to work in secrecy and rely 
on conniving and manipulation to get their way with other species. 

Physical Description: Defel are a short, mammalian species with canine 
like faces and sharp white teeth. Their arms and legs are relatively long for 
their frames and end in sharp talons that are used for digging and scratching 
rather than combat. Most importantly, their special fur renders them nearly 
invisible in normal light, making a Defel appear to be little more than a patch 
of shadow. In ultraviolet light, however, Defel appear in bright, vibrant colors 
ranging from golden to a brilliant azure. Defel are effectively blind in normal 
light and must wear special visors to see when away from their planet. 

Homeworld: Defel come from the planet Af'El, which orbits the supergi- 
ant Ka'Dedus in the Outer Rim. The world receives few visitors because of its 
high gravity and its unusual atmosphere that blocks all but ultraviolet light. 

Languages: Defel speak and read Defel. Adventurous Defel that leave 
the homeworld learn Basic. 

Example Names: Arleil, Klaar, Morr, Defeen, Thar’quan, Vox. 

Adventurers: The few Defel that leave the gravity well of their home 
planet take advantage of their stealthy and elusive nature, and most become 
scoundrels or scouts. Their keen intellect also means that some Defel become 
nobles. Defel Jedi are almost unheard-of. 


Defel Species Traits 
Defel share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Strength, +2 Intelligence. Defel have slight builds 
but keen, probing minds. 

Size: Defel are of Small size and gain a +1 size bonus to Reflex Defense 
and a +5 size bonus to Stealth checks. However, their lifting and carrying 
limits are three-quarters of those of characters of Medium size. 

Speed: Defel base speed is 6 squares. 

Partial Invisibility: The fur of a Defel helps bend all but ultraviolet light, 
rendering him or her nearly invisible. A Defel in shadowy illumination or darker 
conditions is treated as having total concealment. Defel are fully visible and 
gain no concealment against opponents with darkvision. 

Special Equipment: The eyes of Defel have evolved in such a way that 
they can see only in the ultraviolet spectrum. Defel that leave Af'El must 
wear special ultraviolet visors to see in normal light. Without such a visor, 
a Defel is considered blind (see “Blindness” on page 254 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). An ultraviolet visor costs 2,000 credits. A Defel character 
begins play with this item at no cost. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Defel. 


FOSH 


FosH 

Almost completely 
unknown by the rest of 
the galaxy, Fosh are an 
avianlike species that hail 
from an unknown planet. 
Outwardly quiet, reserved, 
and thoughtful, in truth 
Fosh are contemptuous of 
other species and consider 
all non-Fosh to be infe- 
rior. Fosh keep this con- 
descension and bigotry to 
themselves, however. They are remarkably manipulative and are masters of 
intrigue, deal making, and deception. Only Bothans are more skilled at pulling 
the strings of others. Because the Fosh are close-mouthed and few in number, 
even the name and location of their homeworld is shrouded in mystery. 

Fosh are short and slender with hollow bones. Their faces end in sharp 
beaks with openings that turn up at the back to give Fosh permanent, sar- 
donic smiles. Their arms end in delicate hands that each have four taloned 
fingers. Their sturdy legs end in twin splayed talons that allow them to perch 
on incredibly narrow spaces, such as pipes or large branches. Soft whiskers 
radiate from the front ridges of their heads, much as hair does on a Human, 
along with two antennae, which do not seem to serve any purpose—at least, 
not one that scholars can identify. Feathers on a Fosh's head turn differ- 
ent colors, depending on the Fosh's mood. Because of their delicate nature 
and fragile makeup, most Fosh stay away from violence and rely on their 
manipulation skills to defuse difficult situations. 

Personality: Fosh are quiet and private. They speak obliquely with other 
species, sowing confusion with cryptic phrases and riddles. Fosh rarely con- 
fess their true motivations for anything and focus on the long term, setting 
up elaborate plans and schemes to realize their interests. Most Fosh look 
down on other species, a fact they keep to themselves. 

Physical Description: Fosh are short, slender, and graceful birdlike 
humanoids. Their heads are capped with two antennae and a plumage of 
feathers that change color based on each Fosh's mood. Their faces end in 
short beaks, and their eyes, which have a gemlike quality, are commonly 
colored ruby red, bright citrine, or deep azure. Special glands connected to 
their tear ducts allow Fosh to release a unique chemical that can be used to 
create powerful medicine. Using this ability takes a toll on a Fosh, who must 
rest to regain strength afterward. 

Homeworld: Unknown. 

Languages: Basic and Fosh. 

Example Names: Larerre, Ootorr, Kourere, Vergere, Villatee. 


Adventurers: Regal and charismatic, most Fosh heroes are nobles or 
scoundrels. Force-users are relatively common, but only a tiny fraction of 
Fosh have become Jedi. Few Fosh have the fortitude and propensity for 
violence necessary to become soldiers. 


Fosh Species Traits 
Fosh share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Constitution, +2 Charisma. Fosh are 
nimble and persuasive, but they possess frail and delicate bones. 

Size: As creatures of Small size, Fosh gain a +1 size bonus to Reflex 
Defense and a +5 size bonus to Stealth checks. However, their lifting and 
carrying limits are three-quarters of those of characters of Medium size. 

Speed: Fosh base speed is 6 squares. 

Deceptive: A Fosh can reroll any Deception check, but must keep the 
second result, even if it is worse. 

Healing Glands: Fosh can exude a powerful fluid from their tear ducts 
that can aid in the healing process for most species. A Fosh is always con- 
sidered to have a medpac or medical kit for the purposes of making Treat 
Injury checks, and can perform Trained Only applications of the Treat Injury 
skill even when untrained. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Fosh. 


Givin 

Even with the diversity of species in the galaxy, the Givin often manage to 
shock or at least cause unease in most humanoids, since they greatly resemble 
walking skeletons. However, Givin are universally sought after as starship 
builders and engineers, both for their mathematically inclined minds and for 
their unique physiology that allows them to survive in complete vacuum. 

Mathematics permeates every aspect of Givin society, so much so that 
even their language is infused with such concepts. Givin children start training 
early, preparing their minds to handle incredibly complex equations. Rigorous 
competitions determine the best and the brightest students, who are sent to 
monasteries where they spend their lives in deep contemplation, attempting 
to unravel the mysteries of life through formulae and mathematics. 

The shipyards that circle Yag'Duhl, the Givin homeworld, produce sturdy 
and elegant starships and compete on a level matched only by the Duros 
and Verpine, the only species that receive grudging respect from the Givin. 
However, Givin designers do not equip their ships with navicomputers, since 
most Givin can calculate hyperspace jumps in their heads, and they often 
overlook life-support systems. Members of other species that purchase 
Givin-built ships must add these components. 

Personality: Givin are so analytical and logical that they think and 
converse in mathematical terminology. They typically keep to themselves, 
leading other species to consider them withdrawn and somber. Givin 
approach most events with only vague interest. However, when presented 
with a mathematical puzzle, they become animated and verbose, especially 


GivIN 


with anyone that can keep 
up with their explanations. 
Givin informally refer to 
members of other species 
as "soft" and regard most 
of them with a mix of pity 
and contempt because of 
their inability to survive in 
a vacuum unaided. 

Physical Description: 
Givin are gaunt and skel- 
etal, with exteriors covered 
in sealed carapaces. These 
exoskeletons act as organic 
vacuum suits, allowing the 
Givin to survive in a com- 
plete lack of atmosphere 
and making them immune 
to the effects of inhal- 
ants. Their faces are best 
described as forlorn, with 
frowning mouths and dark, 
triangular eyes. 

Homeworld: Givin are from the planet Yag'Duhl, located in the Inner 
Rim. Massive tidal forces constantly tug at the water and atmosphere of the 
planet, exposing areas to hard vacuum. The Givin reside inside sealed cities 
that are able to withstand the massive crush of tidal energy. 

Languages: The Givin language is thick with mathematical terms, and 
the written language conveys information using hundreds of mathematical 
symbols. Individuals without a grounding in advanced mathematics find the 
species’ language almost incomprehensible. 

Example Names: Elis Helrot, Lersia Narth, Na-Soth Larr, Nisil Alarin, 
Sladru Nalas. 

Adventurers: Givin that leave their homeworld are likely to become 
nobles or scouts. Givin scoundrels are also relatively common and have a 
propensity for gambling, a pursuit in which their mathematical skills give 
them an edge. Givin soldiers are tough and make excellent troops in hard 
vacuum encounters. Givin Force-users are rare. 


Givin Species Traits 
Givin share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Strength, +2 Intelligence. Givin lack physical 
strength, but they are extremely analytical. 

Size: Givin are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penalties for their 
size. 


BASGW.ANI de sseusH 


SBsneQ12WNI do sVseX#s-) 


Speed: Givin base speed is 6 squares. 

Exoskeleton: The hard shells of Givin grant them DR 2 and a +2 species 
bonus to Fortitude Defense. 

Deductive Reasoning: Givin constantly evaluate data, discarding incon- 
clusive results. A Givin can reroll any Knowledge check, but the result of the 
reroll must be accepted, even if it is worse. 

Unique Physiology: Givin have sealed exoskeletons and do not breathe 
in a conventional sense. They are immune to the effects of vacuum and to 
the effects of inhaled chemicals and poisons. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Givin. 


GOTAL 

Gotals are tall beings covered in thick fur that come from the moon Antar 4, 
one of several that orbit the gas giant Antar in the Prindaar System. The moon 
has a highly unusual cycle of light and dark, sometimes illuminated brightly 
and other times shrouded in complete darkness. To compensate for these 
uncertain conditions, Gotals evolved special cones atop their heads that sense 
subtle shifts in the electromagnetic field, allowing them to operate in light 
or dark without hindrance. The cones are sensitive enough to sense not only 
the presence of living creatures nearby but also a creature's mood or intent. 

Emotions are an important part of Gotal culture. Young Gotals live in a 
constant state of confusion as they are bombarded by the emotions of others. 
Learning to handle this input is what pushes a Gotal toward adulthood and 
maturity. Adult Gotals are calm, almost serene beings, but despite their out- 
ward appearance, they feel the full breadth of emotions. Because they are so 
sensitive to emotions, Gotals quickly form meaningful relationships with one 
another. Gotals prefer to be around their own kind and dislike droids, mainly 
because the electromagnetic fields produced by droids cause an irritating 
buzz perceptible to the Gotals's heightened senses. 

Gotals learned long ago to keep their opinions to themselves, and thus 
they make excellent negotiators and diplomats. Some individuals, however, 
use their natural abilities for nefarious purposes and become assassins or 
bounty hunters, tracking their prey by the emotional trail it broadcasts. 
Most species appreciate the self-discipline that Gotals exhibit, but some are 
hesitant to associate with members of the species for fear of having their 
private passions and motivations revealed. 

Personality: Because they can read the emotions of other beings, Gotals 
have learned to be extremely polite and discreet with the information that 
they glean. They keep their own emotions to themselves and speak to others in 
neutral terms to maintain civility. Indeed, Gotals are incapable of expressing 
emotions in words, relying on their cones to communicate their feelings to 
other Gotals. As a result, Gotals speak only in abstract terms, leading most 
other sentients to think they are emotionless beings. 

Physical Description: Gotals are tall creatures with flat, elongated 
faces. Thick, wiry hair covers most of their bodies. A Gotal's most notable 
feature is a pair of short cones that rises from his or her forehead. These 


GOTAL 


cones pick up subtle varia- 
tions in the electromagnetic 
fields of other beings, provid- 
ing the Gotal with the loca- 
tions and emotional states of 
the other creatures. 

Homeworld: Gotals come 
from the moon Antar 4, 
located in orbit around Antar 
in the Inner Rim. 

Languages: Gotals speak 
Basic and Gotal. However, 
the form of Basic they speak 
is devoid of emotional con- 
text. The Gotal language is 
impossible for other species 
to learn, because so much of 
it relies on feedback relayed 
through their head cones. 

Example Names: Abav 
Ghart, Glott, Kith Kark, 
Lishma, Mnor Nha, Pari Not- 
goth, Tolokai, To-yel. 

Adventurers: Because Gotals can sense emotions, most adventuring 
members of the species become nobles, but some take advantage of their 
abilities and become scoundrels. When Gotals become scouts, they usually 
do so to escape the constant electromagnetic buzzing they experience when 
in close company with other species. Force-users are relatively common, 
and many Gotals become Jedi, combining their natural empathy with the 
Force to great effect. 


Gotal Species Traits 
Gotals share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: Gotals have no ability score adjustments. 

Size: Gotal are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penalties for their size. 

Speed: Gotal base speed is 6 squares. 

Energy Reading: Gotals can read the emotions of any sentient being 
within 6 squares. As a standard action, a Gotal can make a Perception check 
against a target's Will Defense. A successful check reveals the target's 
emotional state (such as happy, sad, nervous, or scared). 

Low-Light Vision: Gotals ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Sensor Cones: A Gotal can use the Sense Force and Sense Surroundings 
applications of the Use the Force skill untrained. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Gotal. 


HERGLIC 

Herglics are hulking bipeds that evolved from water-dwelling mammals on 
the planet Giju. Their ancestors’ fins and flukes have been replaced by arms 
and legs, although Herglics still breathe through blowholes on the tops of 
their heads. 

As a whole, Herglics are great believers in fairness and honesty. They 
are renowned for always being upright traders and for honoring any deal or 
bargain they make. They assume that others behave in a similar fashion, and 
few things anger a Herglic more than deceit and cheating. 

Herglics are risk-takers, both by nature and by ancient cultural tradition. 
They love meeting new beings and experiencing the sights and sounds of 
new places. They develop space travel independently of other species, and it 
is Herglic exploration that helps the Old Republic spread through the stars 
as quickly as it does. Giju is among the first worlds in the Old Republic, and 
the Herglics often establish trading posts in colonies just for the excitement 
of visiting exotic locales. 

Herglic mercantile networks are a vital part of the galactic economy for 
thousands of years, and these networks stand loyally with the Old Republic 
during its greatest challenges because the Herglics support the fairness 
and justice they see in the galactic government. However, Herglics become 
increasingly marginalized as decadence, corruption, and greed take hold of 
the galactic government at virtually every level. 

Many consider the Herglics to be cowards and traitors to the people of 
the galaxy, and they are viewed with contempt in many quarters even a 
century after the fall of Emperor Palpatine. But the Herglics are happy to be 
in a position to help devastated worlds rebuild by supplying them with high 
quality goods at fair prices. 

Personality: Herglics are so easy-going and gregarious that they drive 
more high-strung beings, such as the Ubese, to distraction. Herglics love 
interacting and socializing with others, and they are often very generous 
when it comes to sharing wealth and good fortune. Anyone in need usually 
finds his or her Herglic friends among the first to offer assistance. Their help- 
ful nature causes many Herglics to fall victim to petty con artists, but profes- 
sional criminals know that when a Herglic feels betrayed, he or she will go to 
great lengths to take revenge. More than one small-time swindler has been 
stalked by top bounty hunters after taking advantage of the wrong Herglic. 

Members of the species also crave excitement—in fact, many Herglics 
become addicted to thrill seeking. This often manifests as a tendency to 
gamble to excess; only a strong-willed Herglic can pass up a game of chance. 
Once they start to gamble, they do not stop unless forced to quit, and a Herglic 
can easily lose everything—including the clothes off his or her back—in a short 
time by betting in the wrong casinos. For this reason, all forms of gambling 
are outlawed or heavily regulated on worlds with large Herglic populations. 


HERGLIC 


Physical Description: 
Adult Herglics stand between 
1.7 and 2.2 meters in height, 
and their heavily muscled 
bodies are very wide for their 
height. In fact, Herglics are 
so large that they cannot fit 
through doorways or cor- 
ridors built with less massive 
beings in mind. Virtually all 
ships piloted by Herglics are 
either specially constructed 
or extensively modified 
at yards operated by their 
species. 

Herglic bodies are hairless, 
and their skin ranges from a deep blue-gray to a black that is darker than 
the depths of space. Some Herglics have white bellies or white stripes that 
run up the sides of their bodes and terminate at their large, heavily lidded 
eyes. Herglic eyes are nearly universally black in color, although some rare 
individuals might have blue or red eyes. 

Homeworld: Herglics originate on the Colonies Region world of Giju, a 
planet known for its deep oceans and lush islands. 

Languages: All Herglics know Basic and Herglic. Widely traveled Herglics 
often learn up to a dozen different languages. 

Example Names: Stavros K'Hor, Udo Broxin, Fahjani Tohvar, Elbor Cruhn. 

Adventurers: Adventuring Herglics tend to be merchants who deal with 
speculative cargo and ply out-of-the-way ports on obscure trade routes, or 
they are explorers who scout little-visited systems. Wealthy Herglics have 
been known to travel space looking for new experiences by becoming involved 
with unusual people or places. Some even work as spies or information 
brokers, using their massive bulk to hide in plain sight—surely no one that 
memorable could have been the source of the information that leaked from 
the ball hosted by the Moff last month. Common classes for adventuring 
Herglics are noble, scoundrel, and scout. During the ancient times of conflict 
against the Sith Empire, a few Herglics become Jedi, although their numbers 
fall as the Jedi withdraw socially from the peoples around them. 


Species Traits 
Herglics share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +4 Strength, -4 Dexterity. Herglics are large and 
strong, but they lack grace and manual dexterity. 


[| 


Snei24W) do sseoX2sH) 


HsaiavHs 


SneQ1dLwWNI do sselsH 


Size: As creatures of Large size, Herglics take a -1 size penalty to Reflex 
Defense and a -5 size penalty to Stealth checks, and they gain a +5 size 
bonus to damage threshold. Their lifting and carrying limits are double those 
of characters of Medium size. 

Speed: Herglic base movement is 6 squares. 

Sturdy: Herglics are solidly built and literally have tough skin. This trait 
lets them ignore punishment that might knock other beings flat. Whenever 
a Herglic catches a second wind, he or she regains a number of additional 
hit points equal to 5 + one-half its level. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Herglics are gregarious creatures with a gift for 
inducing others to open up. A Herglic with Gather Information as a trained 
skill receives Skill Focus (Gather Information) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Herglic. 


MRLSSI 

The diminutive Mrlssi hail from the Colonies Region world of Mrlsst, and 
they are the only sentient species native to their star system. They evolved 
from flightless avians, and their faces are dominated by large black eyes 
and hooked beaks. 

Mrlssi are typically peaceful and scholarly. Their homeworld has long 
been home to some of the galaxy's most prestigious universities and research 
centers, including one of the leading institutions for applied sciences—the 
Mrlsst Trade and Science Academy. Out of Mrlssi schools grow a host of 
findings that ease the shipping of food and livestock between worlds, along 
with innovations that later become standard construction techniques for 
structures and vessels on planets and in space. 

Despite their place of honor among the galaxy's scientists and engineers, 
Mrlssi are not commonly encountered off their homeworld. They rarely leave 
their home system, and when they do, they travel for specific purposes and to 
specific destinations. When their task is done, they return home. The excep- 
tion is an enclave of Mrlssi that grew up on the world of Byblos, where Mrlssi 
professors have been fixtures at the engineering and applied astromechanics 
colleges of the University of Byblos for generations. 

The Mrlssi stay out of the wars that mark the rise and fall of the Galactic 
Empire, so Mrlsst is spared most of the devastation experienced by other 
worlds. The reputations of the planet's schools suffer due to Imperial propa- 
ganda that demeans anything not dominated by Humans, but Mrlsst does not 
come under military attack until five years after Emperor Palpatine's demise 
on the second Death Star. As part of his campaign against the New Republic, 
Imperial Grand Admiral Thrawn besieges and bombards Mrlsst, laying waste 
to many of the world's ancient and beautiful campuses. 

Proving that intellectual power endures, the Mrlssi quickly rebuild more 
modest campuses and soon are again at the forefront of learning and 
scientific development in the galaxy. Even the threat of the Yuuzhan Vong 
merely brightens the glow of knowledge around Mrlsst, as research scien- 


MRLSSI 


tists and students at the 
schools race to find ways 
to counteract the alien 
biotechnology. 

Personality: Mrissi are 
quick-witted and detail- 
oriented beings who value 
knowledge over physical 
possessions. Even the rich- 
est Mrlssi live modestly, 
although they often have 
huge libraries consist- 
ing of rare and obscure 
texts. Mrissi are seldom 
impressed by shows of 
wealth or power, but they 
always have great respect 
for talented intellectuals 
and scientists. 

Mrlssi are natural prob- 
lem-solvers, and they love 
mysteries and puzzles. This 
quality, coupled with keen 
analytical abilities, is what 
makes their engineers so good at improving upon existing designs. They 
can spot a design weakness and work at it until they have found the key to 
fixing the limitation. 

Mrlssi enjoy intelligent conversations and tinkering with gadgets, and 
they love nothing more than friendly debates over the relative strengths 
of various starships or speeders. They also delight in jokes and wordplay, 
considering themselves among the galaxy's foremost humorists. However, 
Mrlssi humor is often so dry or based on convoluted premises that members 
of other species can have a difficult time knowing when a Mrlssi is joking. 

Physical Description: Mrlssi are a blue-skinned, diminutive species. 
The average adult stands between 0.7 and 1.3 meters tall. Their bodies are 
covered in feathers, but their arms, legs, and faces are scaly. Young Mrlssi 
have brown or gray feathers, but as they age, they develop brightly colored 
plumage. Mrlssi have three clawed digits on each of their hands and feet. 

Mrlssi speak in high, piping voices. When they communicate in their 
native language, the sound of their vocalizations is generally considered to be 
beautiful, but when they speak Basic, their voices are grating to some species. 

Homeworld: The Mrlssi originate on Mrlsst, a Colonies Region world noted 
for its lush jungles and institutions of higher learning. 

Languages: Mrlssi know their native language (Mrlsstese) and Basic. 
Many also master the Durese and Arkanian languages so they can study 
classic scientific texts in their original forms. 


Example Names: Kepor Dagwa, Virss! Jasst, Crlisst Herssek, Krssibel 
Waray. 

Adventurers: Adventuring Mrlssi are extremely rare, but the few that 
exist tend to be explorers or spies. The former are usually scholars with an 
interest in lost civilizations, and they can be found just about anywhere in 
the galaxy, leading archeological expeditions chartered by top universities 
and wealthy patrons. The latter might not be scholars, but they take advan- 
tage of their species’ bookish, harmless reputation to engage in industrial 
espionage (or worse). Mrlssi agents are among some of the favorite outside 
operatives employed by Bothan agencies, and they are key to a number of 
successful Alliance operations during the Galactic Civil War. 


Species Traits 
Mrlssi share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Strength, +2 Intelligence, +2 Charisma. Mrlssi are 
small creatures, but they are quick-witted and very charismatic. 

Size: As creatures of Small size, Mrlssi gain a +1 size bonus to Reflex 
Defense and a +5 size bonus to Stealth checks. However, their lifting and 
carrying limits are three-quarters of those of characters of Medium size. 

Speed: Mrissi base speed is 4 squares. 

Skills: Mrlssi have a natural inclination for working with mechanical 
devices. Mechanics is always a class skill for Mrlssi. 

Scholarly Inclination: At 1st level, a Mrissi gains any one trained Knowl- 
edge skill as a bonus skill. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Mrlssi love intellectual discussions. A Mrlssi with 
Persuasion as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Persuasion) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Mrlsstese. 


NEIMOIDIAN 

Neimoidians descend from a group of Duros colonists that, during the earliest 
period of their species’ exploration of space, venture far beyond the edge of 
regions considered possible to settle. These colonists exist in isolation for 
thousands of years, in the small cluster of stars from which they draw their 
name. When contact is reestablished by the Twelfth Alderaanian Expedition, 
the expedition discovers a unique civilization that has spread to a dozen 
planets and is based around trade and conspicuous consumption. 

The Neimoidians quickly find a place in galactic civilization, excited by the 
prospect of markets beyond their own worlds. For several centuries, they are 
among the leading forces behind the construction of new starports and the 
upgrade of existing ones. They trade with everyone—Republic or Sith, Hutt 
or Herglic—because to the Neimoidians, all that matters is a market for their 
goods. They help found the Trade Federation, a cartel of mercantile interests 
that, driven by Neimoidian greed, becomes so powerful that it threatens 
the very interstellar commerce it exists to protect. When the organization 
attempts to become the sole conduit for trade in certain parts of space, 


the Senate and the Jedi intervene. The Trade Federation is shattered, and 
Neimoidians see the wealth and galactic authority they accumulated over 
centuries evaporate within a few short years. 

Neimoidian leaders then make the decision to ally with the Separatist 
movement led by renegade Jedi Count Dooku, which results in the complete 
dismantling of everything they had built beyond their home systems. For the 
entire period of the Galactic Empire, Neimoidian starports are under heavy 
Imperial control, and any efforts they make to reestablish their once-mighty 
trade networks are undermined at every turn. 

As a result, Neimoidian society turns inward in a self-imposed isolation 
that is as total as any they experienced during the millennia they spent as a 
“lost Duros colony.” The Neimoidians remain isolationists through the Legacy 
era, and the few Neimoidians that wander beyond their home space are usu- 
ally on the run from enemies at home and passing themselves off as Duros. 

Personality: Neimoidians are greedy and cowardly, always striving to 
acquire just one more credit but trying to make sure that someone else takes 
whatever risks are associated with getting it. Any agreements or promises 
they make are always full of loopholes and caveats, since Neimoidians never 
want to suffer the embarrassment of a bad deal or risk being unable to predict 
every eventuality. Neimoidians want to appear cunning and as if they are the 
intellectual masters of every situation they encounter, but they typically are 
just conniving and devious. 

Neimoidians hate 
manual labor and physi- 
cal activity, viewing such 
actions as tasks for under- 
lings. They are very fond 
of mechanical equipment 
that does work for them 
and they are enthralled 
by labor-saving devices 
of all kinds. Droids are 
especially popular among 
Neimoidians. 

Physical Description: 
Neimoidians are slight of 
build and stand between 
1.6 and 2 meters in height. 
They are hairless, with large 
red eyes and wide, lipless 
mouths. Their skin is usually 
bluish gray, but it can range 
in tone from very pale to 
almost black. Neimoidians 
favor expensive clothing 


NEIMOIDIAN 


3 


! eqHSaicvwrH 


Snealiei.wi deo sseuEsH [| 


i HeSicrHia 


dt 
vy 
2 
@ 
Wy 
0 
0 
r) 
Z 
q 
y 
@ 
C 
w 


and are always seen in public wearing whatever symbols of office or rank 
they possess. 

Homeworld: Neimoidians hail from a cluster of planets in the far reaches 
of the Colonies Region; the humid world of Neimoidia is their main home. 

Languages: Basic, Durese, and Neimoidian. 

Example Names: Rune Haako, Hath Monchar, Daultay Dofine, Tey How. 

Adventurers: Prior to the rise of the Empire, Neimoidian adventurers 
tend to be political leaders or merchants who have fallen on hard times and 
struggle to regain their former status by working as blackmailers or infor- 
mants. In later eras, Neimoidian adventurers are dedicated professionals who 
work in a range of occupations requiring the underhanded double-dealings 
at which they excel, such as trade negotiator, diplomat, debt collector, pri- 
vate investigator, and corporate spy. Regardless of occupation, Neimoidian 
adventurers are usually nobles or scoundrels. 


Species Traits 
Neimoidians share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Strength, +2 Charisma. Neimoidians avoid physical 
activity and confrontation, preferring instead to rely on the power of their 
personalities to achieve success. 

Size: Neimoidians are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penalties 
for their size. 

Speed: Neimoidian base movement is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feats: Neimoidians strive to slant deals in their 
favor, and they make agreements that they can break easily if they feel so 
inclined. A Neimoidian with Deception as a trained feat gains Skill Focus 
(Deception) as a bonus feat. A Neimoidian trained in Persuasion gains Skill 
Focus (Persuasion) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Neimoidian. 


UMBARAN 

The Umbarans hail from a hard-to-reach world deep within the Outer Rim's 
Ghost Nebula. Although they have been part of galactic civilization for mil- 
lennia, very few Umbarans have left their home system, and even fewer have 
risen to positions of power and fame in the galaxy. Umbarans are interested 
in alien cultures and civilizations, but they prefer to observe from a distance 
rather than take an active role in events. 

During the rise of the Empire, the Umbarans spend a few decades moving 
through the halls of supreme political power. An Umbaran named Sly Moore 
serves as Palpatine's chief aide during his later years as Chancellor of the 
Republic and the earliest period of his reign as Emperor. Moore's prominence 
in galactic politics causes her to be so admired on her homeworld that she 
inspires other Umbarans to venture out into the rest of the galaxy. Many 
of them join Moore on Coruscant, and soon Umbarans are a common sight 
on that world. 


UMBARAN 


As Palpatine's New Order 
becomes increasingly biased 
toward Humans, Moore van- 
ishes from the Emperor's 
side and moves into more 
shadowy roles within his 
government. From deep 
within the intelligence appa- 
ratus, she and other Umba- 
rans lead efforts to root out 
anyone who is not unques- 
tionably loyal to Emperor 
Palpatine, and they answer 
only to the Emperor. They 
are so effective that even 
Emperor Palpatine's most 
dedicated followers grow to 
fear them, something that 
strengthens the antialien 
sentiment among many of 
the Emperor's closest advi- 
sors. The Umbarans are par- 
ticularly disliked by officers 
of Imperial Intelligence, who 
resent the fact that they are subject to Umbaran scrutiny—a resentment that 
grows every time the Umbarans unmask a Rebel double agent in their ranks. 

After the death of Emperor Palpatine and the collapse of his government, 
the Umbarans find themselves under threat from the Rebels they had hunted 
and the New Order supporters they had intimidated. When former head of 
Imperial Intelligence Ysanne Isard forges a powerful coalition on Coruscant 
dedicated to reestablishing a strong Galactic Empire, the remaining Umbarans 
flee the planet, knowing that Isard will seek brutal revenge for the embar- 
rassments they caused her organization when she was rising through the 
ranks of Imperial Intelligence. 

Even before the fall of the Empire, however, Umbarans already begin to 
retreat from the galaxy. As the full scope of Emperor Palpatine's evil becomes 
more evident and knowledge of the atrocities committed in his name more 
widespread, the Umbarans grow embarrassed over Moore's association with 
the Emperor, and they resume their reclusive ways. In fact, they withdraw 
even more fully than before, fearing retribution from the many species sur- 
rounding them. 

As memories of the Empire start to fade in the minds of the galaxy's 
beings, Umbarans begin to filter back out into the galaxy in the low numbers 
typical of their off-world presence during the Old Republic. 


Personality: Umbarans seem aloof, distant, and cold to all but their closest 
friends and family members, and it is a rare observer who has the patience to 
wait for an Umbaran to let his or her guard down. As such, the few Umbarans 
active beyond their homeworld tend to be regarded by other beings as ciphers, 

Because of this emotional distance, many non-Umbarans mistakenly 
assume that Umbarans are indifferent to those around them. Nothing 
could be further from the truth. Although Umbarans keep their own affairs 
private, they constantly and quietly try to learn as much as they can about 
the affairs of others. The Umbaran knack for uncovering secrets has led to 
rumors that all members of the species are telepaths, but the truth is that 
they move about unnoticed simply because of their outsider status, listening 
and observing all the while. 

Physical Description: Umbarans are thinly built humanoids with sunken 
eyes and pallid skin tones that range from snowy white to pale blue. Male 
Umbarans stand between 1.7 and 2 meters tall; females tend to be shorter 
and slighter of build. 

Homeworld: Umbarans originate from the isolated, dark world of Umbara 
on the Outer Rim. 

Languages: Basic and Umbarese. 

Example Names: Sly Moore, Hant Tuff, Zan Palton. 

Adventurers: Most Umbaran adventurers are hard-bitten loners who 
come off as antisocial in their interactions with others. They often work as 
bounty hunters, explorers, or administrators of remote facilities that are 
mostly automated. A few Umbarans have been known to work for intelli- 
gence organizations and corporations as spies, usually as “deniable assets." 
Umbaran adventurers can be of any class, although scoundrels and scouts 
dominate. Nobles tend to be the coldest and most unfriendly of Umbaran 
adventurers, since they typically harbor dark secrets that caused them to 
leave their homeworld under less-than-reputable circumstances. 


Species Traits 
Umbarans share the following traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Constitution, +2 Dexterity, +2 Wisdom. Umba- 
rans are not as sturdy as many species, but they are naturally stealthy and 
observant. 

Size: Umbarans are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penalties for 
their size. 

Speed: Umbaran base movement is 6 squares. 

Darkvision: Umbarans ignore concealment (including total concealment) 
from darkness. However, they cannot perceive colors in total darkness. 

Stealthy: An Umbaran can reroll any Stealth check but must keep the 
second result, even if it is worse. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Umbarans are born observers, and they enjoy 
watching events from hidden vantage points. An Umbaran with Gather Infor- 
mation as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Gather Information) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Umbarese. 


NEw TALENTS FOR 
MeEROIC CLASSES 


The galaxy is rife with intrigue. Every species, corporation, planet, fiefdom, 
and other group has its own agendas and methods for getting its way. With 
so many interests jockeying for power, for good or for ill, nearly every indi- 
vidual can be considered to be involved in some form of conspiracy, if only as 
part of a demographic to be catered to or exploited. Even the hinterlands of 
the Outer Rim are home to plots for riches or power, meaning that only the 
most isolated creatures can truly pursue their destinies without influence. 
Heroes, however, are not such beings. They find themselves more enmeshed 
in the games of intrigue with every passing moment. This section explores 
how heroes who embrace those schemes and maneuvers can rise to become 
more than mere pawns—they can be vital parts of the board and, in some 
cases, the players who move the pieces in the first place. 


NOBLE 

Nobles are the movers and shakers of the galaxy, shaping policy, setting 
examples, and dictating the courses of countless lives. Nobles live and 
breathe intrigue, from the local level all the way up to the Republic Senate 
and everything in between. They are masters of brokering deals, shifting 
attitudes, and shaping mobs to suit a political purpose. 

Outside the safety of the palace, corporate boardroom, or Senate, nobles 
use their presence and oratorical skills to motivate and their actions to 
inspire. Most nobles find violence distasteful, but when a situation turns 
sour, they are often the first to pick up a blaster to engage in "extreme 
negotiations,” using power to turn the tables. They also know that utter 
eradication of the enemy is rarely the best solution to a problem. The wisest 
nobles use their abilities to persuade their allies as often as they try to win 
over their opponents. 

Nobles realize that the fates of many beings, whether members of their 
immediate clans or the population of an entire sector, rest on their shoulders. 
Some nobles carry this weight with confidence, sacrificing their own best 
interests for the sake of the people they support. Others see their status 
and clout as a way to improve their station through graft, corruption, and 
the general abuse of power. Truly adroit nobles blur the line between their 
outward actions and their actual motives. Some act as rakes while attempting 
to use covert methods to push through important legislation. Others (such 
as Senator Palpatine) pose as apparently selfless public servants who quietly 
use their positions to further sinister plots. 

In a campaign of intrigue, nobles are an obvious choice for a heroic class. 
They help soothe frayed feelings and negotiate to gain benefits for their 
group. They broker deals and diffuse tense situations before blasters are 
drawn. And nobles are frequently travelers, using their wealth and influence 
to dabble in all the limitless experiences of the galaxy, trying new things 
until they become bored or find something else to draw their attention. 


| estagvHoa 


Sneii.twi deo sseXuSs 


SnNQ82N) do sEeoX8s) 


lad) 


MASTER OF INTRIGUE TALENT TREE 

You are a skilled manipulator and have mastered the art of working behind 
the scenes to accomplish your goals. Flash and spectacle are inferior tools, 
only suitable for those without your unique talents. 

Advanced Planning: When you roll Initiative for combat, choose one 
willing ally within your line of sight. You and that ally swap Initiative results. 

Blend In: You know how to blend into a variety of cultures and groups 
with ease. As a swift action, you gain total concealment when adjacent to 
at least two other creatures. This benefit does not apply to attacks from 
adjacent creatures. 

Done It All: When you select this talent, choose two talents (from any 
nonprestige class) that you do not possess but for which you meet the 
prerequisites. Once per turn on your turn, you can spend a Force Point as 
a free action to gain the benefits of one of those talents until the end of 
your next turn. 

Get into Position: Once per encounter, at the start of your first turn, 
choose two allies within 12 squares and in your line of sight. Each ally can 
immediately move up to his or her speed as a reaction. 

Master Manipulator: You are a master of making things happen the 
way you want them to. You can use each of the following actions once per 
encounter as a swift action on your turn: 

Demand Recovery: Select one ally within 5 squares and in your line of 
sight. That ally moves +5 steps on the condition track and gains a +2 morale 
bonus to attack rolls and skill checks until the end of your next turn. 

Exceptional Control: Roll a d20 and note the result. Once before the end 
of the encounter, as a reaction you can replace the result of any enemy's 
or ally's d20 roll with the result you rolled for this ability. The enemy or ally 
must be within your line of sight. 

Word of Warning: Select one ally within 5 squares and in your line of sight. 
Once before the end of the encounter, as a reaction to that ally having any 
defense score targeted by a skill check or an attack, you can replace that 
ally's defense score with your same defense score until the attack or skill 
check is resolved. 

Prerequisite: Advanced Planning, Get into Position. 

Retaliation: Whenever you move down the condition track as a result of 
taking damage that equals or exceeds your damage threshold, the next time 
you hit and damage a creature or a droid with a melee or a ranged attack 
before the end of your next turn, you automatically move the target -1 step 
on the condition track. 

Prerequisite: Advanced Planning. 


MASTERS OF INTRIGUE KNOW HOW 
TO BLEND IN WITH A CROWD. 


SKILL CHALLENGE TALENT TREE 
You excel at complex tasks and are always called upon when your allies need 
something done quickly and done right. 

Guaranteed Boon: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to a skill 
roll in a skill challenge and accrue a failure for that skill check, you regain 
that Force Point. 

Leading Skill: Whenever you earn a success in a skill challenge, you gain 
a +2 insight bonus to your next skill check made with a different skill in the 
same skill challenge. 

Learn from Mistakes: Whenever you accrue a failure ina skill challenge, 
you grant the next ally to take an action in the skill challenge a +2 insight 
bonus to a skill check, provided that ally takes a different action (and uses 
a different skill) than you did. 

Try Your Luck: Whenever you accrue a failure in a skill challenge, choose 
one ally. The next time that ally uses the same skill that you used to accrue 
a failure before the end of the skill challenge, that ally rolls two dice on the 
skill check and keeps the better result. 


SUPERIOR SKILLS TALENT TREE 
You're not just good at what you do, you're the best. Failure is but a stumbling 
block, and great success always follows. 

Assured Skill: When you select this talent, choose one skill. Whenever 
you roll a skill check with that skill, you can choose to lose any competence 
bonuses to that skill check and instead roll 2 dice, keeping either result. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you must 
choose a different skill to gain the benefits of this talent. 

Critical Skill Success: Whenever you roll a natural 20 on a skill check, 
choose one other skill. Once before the end of your next turn, you can choose 
to gain a +5 competence bonus to a check with that skill as a free action. 

Exceptional Skill: When you select this talent, choose one skill. When- 
ever you roll a skill check with that skill, a result of 2-7 on the die is always 
treated as though you had rolled an 8. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you must 
choose a different skill to gain the benefits of this talent. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the chosen skill. 

Reliable Boon: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to a skill check, 
you always reroll a result of 1 on any of your Force Point dice, and continue 
to reroll until you get a result of 2 or higher. 

Skill Boon: When you select this talent, choose one skill. Whenever 
you spend a Force Point to add to that skill, increase the die type of your 
Force Point by one step (i.e. from d6 to d8, d8 to d10, or d10 to d12), toa 
maximum of d12. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you must 
choose a different skill to gain the benefits of this talent. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the chosen skill. 

Skill Confidence: When you select this talent, choose one skill. Whenever 
you roll a natural 19 or a natural 20 on a skill check with that skill, you gain 
the benefits of the Critical Skill Success talent and also gain bonus hit points 
equal to your Charisma modifier. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you must 
choose a different skill to gain the benefits of this talent. 

Prerequisite: Critical Skill Success, trained in the chosen skill. 

Skillful Recovery: When you select this talent, choose one skill. Whenever 
you fail a skill check with that skill, you gain one temporary Force Point. That 
Force Point can only be spent to add toa skill check with the skill you chose 
for this talent. If the Force Point is not spent by the end of the encounter, it 
is lost. For the purposes of this talent, failing a skill check means failing to 
get the minimum possible result from the skill check. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you must 
choose a different skill to gain the benefits of this talent. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the chosen skill. 


SCOUNDREL 

Like nobles, scoundrels thrive in the maze of obligations, corruption, and 
deals that runs throughout so much of the galaxy. Perhaps better than most, 
they understand how intrigue is part of the fabric of society and view it as a 
resource to be exploited rather than reviled. Successful scoundrels can use 
the web of pacts, lies, and compromises to their advantage, pitting oppos- 
ing groups against each other or finding holes in the system that they can 
exploit for political, personal, or financial gain. 

Although the general impression of scoundrels is that they live and work 
in the margins of society, just as many cruise the upper echelons of the 
galaxy, wheeling and dealing with Senators, HoloNet stars, prominent busi- 
ness people, and other elite individuals. This arena of intrigue is ripe with 
opportunity for scoundrels to run con jobs and commit outright theft. How- 
ever, those who dare to rise to this level of society are playing a dangerous 
game—beings of privilege and influence usually play for keeps, and it takes 
just one wrong word or deal gone bad for them to crush the offender. Some- 
times this retribution comes through legal channels, but more often than not, 
the elite dispatch private bodyguards or bounty hunters to exact revenge 
for lost revenue, fouled business agreements, or failed political ventures. 

Of course, just as some nobles fail to live up to their name, some scoun- 
drels fail to live down to theirs. More than a few revolutions are led by 
charismatic, talented scoundrels who use clandestine activities or guerilla 
tactics to win freedom from oppression. For these scoundrels, the system 
is broken, and they consider it futile to attempt routine diplomacy or work 
through the courts. They know that only grand gestures—in the form of 
bombs, hacked HoloNet feeds, or kidnappings of prominent individuals—will 
grab the attention of uncaring leaders and the docile masses. 


REVOLUTIONARY TALENT TREE 
You seek to overthrow the system and are adept at being a monkey wrench in 
the cogs of society, but often at the cost of others’ rights, freedoms, and lives. 

Bomb Thrower: You are skilled in making and handling impromptu 
explosives. You gain a +5 bonus to Mechanics checks for the purposes of 
handling explosives. In addition, you can spend a full-round action to craft 
the equivalent of a frag grenade from spare parts you have on hand. You must 
have access to the appropriate supplies, such as an old blaster, a toolkit, or 
materials found inside a hangar bay. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 

For the Cause: Whenever you or an ally within 6 squares of you takes 
damage that exceeds that character's damage threshold, you and all allies 
within 6 squares of you gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Make an Example. 


| SSicaevuos 


de 
ul 
i 
fo 
@ 
9 
az 
j 
9 
c 
G 


Bneid.wi de sseXush 


A KEL DOR REVOLUTIONARY 
LEADING TROOPS 


Make an Example: Whenever you hit with an attack and deal enough 
damage to exceed a target's damage threshold, that target takes a -5 
penalty to attack rolls against you until the end of your next turn. This is a 
mind-affecting effect. 

Revolutionary Rhetoric: As a standard action, you can do or say some- 
thing that causes an enemy to doubt its motives. Choose one enemy within 
12 squares and in your line of sight, and make a Persuasion check against 
the target's Will Defense. If you succeed, the target can take only move 
actions and swift actions until the end of your next turn. This effect ends if 
you attack the target. This is a mind-affecting effect. 


Scour 

Intelligence gathering is vital for any sort of clandestine activity, legal or oth- 
erwise. Scouts serve as forward observers, reconnaissance experts, advanced 
deployment personnel, and explorers for all manner of organizations. 
Although scouts might believe that their travels to the far-flung regions of 
the galaxy keep them free from the entanglements of intrigue, most would be 
alarmed to find that they still are used as cogs in the machine of conspiracy. 


Not all scouts are silent stalkers; some are scientists and researchers 
who prefer doing their experiments in the field for immediate results. In 
this pursuit, they might become embroiled in the politics of their university, 
corporation, or patron. New discoveries might be fast-tracked before they 
are ready to be revealed or quietly hushed up to avoid disrupting markets or 
upsetting the status quo. The discovery of an ancient Sith ruin or an unknown 
cache of prized ore is precious knowledge—knowledge that can be exploited 
by the right group. Scouts who reveal this information to the public for the 
good of all might find themselves the targets of greedy or angry forces that 
want such secrets for their own reasons. 

Scouts also serve the vital role of exploring unknown regions, mapping 
new areas of space and being the first to encounter unfamiliar species 
and civilizations. In any first-contact scenario, scouts serve as impromptu 
ambassadors, deciding what information to share with (and conceal from) 
new acquaintances. Although most of these scouts are not as skilled at 
diplomacy as are nobles, they must try to reach friendly accords with the 
newly discovered people—if only to escape with their skins intact. On occa- 
sion, primitive species might mistake scouts for gods or demons and petition 
them to answer questions or resolve disputes. Unscrupulous scouts take 
advantage of this confusion to enrich themselves or carve out their own 
small fiefdoms to exploit. 


ESPIONAGE TALENT TREE 

You use your knowledge of stealth and survival to make yourself a master of 
espionage and a valuable resource for those who wish to keep their hands 
clean in dirty situations. 

Fade Out: You know how to make yourself scarce when dealing with 
suspicious or hostile beings. You can use your Stealth skill, not Deception, to 
create a diversion to hide (see page 73 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 
If you are trained in the Deception skill, you gain a +5 bonus to your skill 
check for the purposes of creating a diversion. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Stealth. 

Keep Together: Whenever you are hit or missed by a melee or a ranged 
attack, you can move up to your speed as a reaction, provided that you end 
your movement adjacent to an ally. This movement does not provoke attacks 
of opportunity. 

Prudent Escape: Whenever you reduce a target to 0 hit points or oth- 
erwise render a creature unconscious, you can choose two allies within 6 
squares of you and within your line of sight. You and the allies you chose 
can immediately move up to your speeds as a reaction. This movement does 
not provoke opportunity attacks. 

Reactive Stealth: When you are missed by a ranged attack and have 
concealment or cover from the attacker, you can move up to half your speed 
as a reaction and make a Stealth check to become hidden from your attacker, 
provided you still have concealment or cover at the end of your movement. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Stealth, 


A SCOUT AND HIS NELVAANIAN ALLY PREPARE 
FOR A FIRST ENCOUNTER. 


Sizing Up: Once per encounter, you can make a Perception check against 
the Will Defense of a single target that is within 6 squares of you and within 
your line of sight. If you succeed, you gain a +2 insight bonus to all skill 
checks and attack rolls against the target until the end of the encounter. 


SOLDIER 

Soldiers serve as pawns in the intricate plots of various organizations in the 
galaxy. When negotiations break down or when force seems to be the most 
logical way to further an agenda, soldiers serve on the front lines, using their 
might to advance the edicts of a distant individual or group that sits safely 
behind durasteel walls and powerful shields. For soldiers, the circumstances 
do not matter—they receive their orders (or promises of pay) and do their 
duty to the best of their ability. 

Although many soldiers relish the relatively simple life of combat, their 
job is to serve the interests of others. Thus, even the most combat-oriented 
soldiers can find themselves part of elaborate plans, bureaucratic entangle- 
ments, or the like. Some soldiers begin to question the motives or rationale 
behind a particular engagement or the faction they serve. A few turn traitor 
or reinterpret their orders to their own liking, often at the risk of reprisal. 
Soldiers with an entrepreneurial spirit might follow their orders to the letter 
but dabble in their own projects on the side, using the chaos of war to ben- 


efit themselves in some way. Although no professional army admits it, graft 
and corruption are always present, and war profiteering lines the pockets 
of those willing to seize the initiative. Company quartermasters sell “lost or 
destroyed” equipment, intelligence officers purchase bonds or strike deals 
based on their secret findings, and so on. 

In times of conflict, soldiers might be the only ones willing and able to deal 
with the locals and, as a result, could be dragged into all manner of schemes 
and obligations, some of which might seem beyond their capabilities. For 
example, soldiers might be asked to help rebuild villages or negotiate peace 
between opposing groups; while doing so brings the soldiers short-term 
benefits, the long-term consequences could embroil them in intrigue and 
politics outside the scope of their field manual's guidelines. 

The following new talents are intended for use with the soldier class. 


NEW BRAWLER TALENTS 

The following new talents belong to the Brawler talent tree (see page 52 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the soldier 
class. Any character who can choose talents from the Brawler talent tree 
can choose these talents as well. 

Crowd Control: You can grab two adjacent creatures at a time. 

Prerequisite: Entangler. 

Disarm and Engage: When you successfully disarm an opponent, you 
can make an immediate free attack with the disarmed weapon at a -5 
penalty. If you are not proficient with the weapon, you take the penalty for 
nonproficiency as well. 

Entangler: When grabbing a target, you take a -2 penalty to your attack 
roll (instead of the normal -5 penalty). Until the target breaks the grab, it 
takes a -5 penalty to attack rolls, including those made with natural and 
light weapons (instead of the normal -2 penalty). 

Reverse Strength: You know how to use an opponent's strength against 
it. Whenever you successfully grapple an opponent, you deal damage equal 
to the opponent's Strength modifier (minimum 1 point). 


NEW COMMANDO TALENTS 

The following new talents belong to the Commando talent tree (see page 
52 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the 
soldier class. Any character who can choose talents from the Commando 
talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Coordinated Effort: When you use the aid another action to grant a 
bonus on attack rolls, if you are aiding the target of your Dedicated Protector 
talent that ally also gains a +2 bonus to damage rolls on the attack you aided. 

Prerequisite: Dedicated Protector. 


SnN@Qi32N) dO sVgeXuseH) 


j HSievHo 


slg 
W 
5) 
@) 
W 
0) 
@ 
WV 
: 
@ 
Cc 
W 


Dedicated Guardian: You can use each of the following actions once 
per encounter: 

Blast Shield: Spend a swift action. Until the end of your next turn, the ally 
who is under the effects of your Dedicated Protector talent is treated 
as having the Evasion talent for the purposes of determining damage 
from an area attack. If the ally already has Evasion, the damage from a 
successful area attack is reduced by 1 die. 

Take the Pain: Whenever your Dedicated Protector target would move 
down the condition track, you can, as a reaction, choose to move the 
same number of steps down the condition track instead (preventing the 
ally from moving down the track). 

Team Effort: Spend a swift action. Until the end of your next turn, while 
you are adjacent to your Dedicated Protector target, any enemy that is 
adjacent to you and to that ally is considered flanked. 

Prerequisites: Dedicated Protector, Harm's Way. 

Dedicated Protector: Once per encounter, you can designate one ally 
within 6 squares of you. Until the end of the encounter, that ally gains a +1 
morale bonus to Reflex Defense as long as it remains adjacent to you. Any 
individual can only be the target of this talent once per encounter. 

Prerequisite: Harm's Way. 


A HERGLIC BODYGUARD 


NEw TALENTS FOR 
PRESTIGE CLASSES 


The following talents expand the talent trees available to the prestige classes 
in the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


ACE PILOT TALENTS 

Nobles, Senators, captains of industry, and other VIPs rely on ace pilots to 
operate their luxurious starships and vehicles and to deliver them to their 
destinations in one piece. These talented pilots are experts at using defensive 
flying maneuvers to keep their ships, and the riders within, safe from harm. 


NEW EXPERT PILOT TALENTS 

The following new talents belong to the Expert Pilot talent tree (see page 
207 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of 
the ace pilot prestige class. Any character who can choose talents from the 
Expert Pilot talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Clip: When you use the ram action, you reduce the size of your ship by 
two categories for the purposes of taking collision damage. The rammed ship 
takes damage appropriate to the actual size of your ship. 

Master Defender: When you fight defensively, either your vehicle gains a 
+5 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense if you and your gunners take a -2 penalty 
to attack rolls, or it gains a +10 dodge bonus if you and your gunners take 
a -5 penalty to attack rolls. 

Shunt Damage: Once per encounter, if your ship takes damage, make a 
Pilot check and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of one adjacent allied 
ship. If your check result is higher, the allied ship takes the damage instead. 


BOUNTY HUNTER TALENTS 

Bounty hunters are an integral part of any intrigue campaign, sent by the 
elite to track down dangerous individuals or missing persons or to spy ona 
target and report his or her activities back to the client. Bounty hunters are 
adept at locating beings that do not want to be found. 


NEW BOUNTY HUNTER TALENTS 

The following new talents belong to the Bounty Hunter talent tree (see page 
208 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the 
bounty hunter prestige class. Any character who can choose talents from the 
Bounty Hunter talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Detective: You are skilled in locating individuals and using research and 
surveillance to learn some of their most intimate secrets. When you make a 
Gather Information check to locate an individual, the DC is reduced by 10, 
and the time and bribery cost are reduced by half. 

Electronic Trail: Once you have located a target using Gather Informa- 
tion, you can track its electronic presence. Once per day, you receive a catalog 
of the target's electronic trail, which includes the amount and location of 
credits spent, the routes of any public transportation taken, and the sites 


viewed on the HoloNet while the target was logged in using its primary 
identity. To receive this information, you must have access to a computer or 
datapad plus access to a network or the HoloNet. The electronic trail does not 
reveal bank balances or other secret information, which requires a separate 
Gather Information check. 

Prerequisites: Nowhere to Hide, trained in the Use Computer skill. 

Revealing Secrets: Your investigations reveal information that your 
target thought was secret. When you make a Gather Information check to 
learn secret information, the DC is reduced by 10 and the bribery cost is 
reduced to one-fifth the original cost. 

Prerequisite: Detective. 


CRIME LORD TALENTS 

By definition, crime lords are masters of intrigue. They have their fingers in 
untold pies, skimming profits off the top and constantly searching for new 
ventures to bring in capital, favors, and bargaining chips for later use. Crime 
lords are notorious for employing minions and thugs to do their bidding. 


NEW MASTERMIND TALENTS 

The following new talents belong to the Mastermind talent tree (see page 
210 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the 
crime lord prestige class. Any character who can choose talents from the 
Mastermind talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Attract Superior Minion: You attract a particularly skilled and powerful 
minion. The minion is a nonheroic character with a class level equal to your 
character level. This talent otherwise functions as the Attract Minion talent. 

Prerequisites: Attract Minion, Impel Ally I, Impel Ally II. 

Contingency Plan: Once per encounter, if you fail an attack roll, a skill 
check, or the use of a talent that requires an opposed check, you can move 
your speed as a reaction. 


GUNSLINGER 

Masters of the pistol, gunslingers are surprisingly common among the higher 
echelons of society, where they are experts in the ancient art of pistol dueling. 
Some gunslingers who follow this custom do so to repair their damaged honor 
or resolve disputes that are so grievous that death is the only solution. Other 
gunslingers simply enjoy pistol dueling and use it to prove their skill and for fun. 


NEW GUNSLINGER TALENTS 
The following new talents belong to the Gunslinger talent tree (see page 
216 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of 
the gunslinger prestige class. Any character who can choose talents from 
the Gunslinger talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Damaging Disarm: If you successfully disarm an opponent using a ranged 
attack, the target also takes half damage from the attack. 

Prerequisite: Ranged Disarm. 


Pistol Duelist: You are a master of the elegant, if archaic, custom of 
dueling with pistols. You can use each of the following actions once per 
encounter as a standard action: 

End Game: You make a single ranged attack with a pistol against an oppo- 
nent within range. The opponent's damage threshold is halved (round 
down) for the purposes of this attack. 

Snap Aiming: You make a single ranged attack with the benefits of aiming. 

Stand Steady: You gain a +4 bonus to your Reflex Defense until the end of 
your next turn and make a single ranged attack. 


FEATS 


The feats presented here supplement those found in the Saga Edition core 
rulebook and are suitable for any era of play. These feats are designed with 
intrigue-oriented characters in mind, although any character who qualifies 
can select these feats. 


ADAPTABLE TALENT 
You're a multitalented being, capable of pulling all kinds of tricks out of 
your sleeve. 

Benefit: Choose one talent that you meet the prerequisites for, from a 
class you possess. Once per day, after at least 6 hours of rest, you can choose 
to swap out one of your current talents for the talent you chose for this feat. 
The talent you swap out cannot be the prerequisite for any other talent you 
have. You can swap back to your original talent after at least 6 hours of rest. 


BONE CRUSHER 
You are skilled at dealing lasting damage to grappled opponents. 
Prerequisites: Crush, Pin. 
Benefit: When you deal damage to a grappled opponent, the opponent 
also moves -1 step on the condition track. 


BRILLIANT DEFENSE 
You think quickly enough on your feet to stay alive in dangerous situations. 
Prerequisite: Intelligence 13. 
Benefit: Once per encounter, you can add your Intelligence bonus to your 
Reflex Defense as a reaction; this benefit lasts until the start of your next turn. 


CHANNEL RAGE 
You have learned to turn your rage into pure will and determination. 
Prerequisite: Rage species trait. 
Benefit: Once per day, instead of entering into a rage, you gain a +5 
bonus to Will Defense until the end of the encounter. This bonus counts as 
using your rage ability for that day. 


aBnQih4wi deo sseXsiA 


TABLE 1-4: 
FEAT NAME 

Adaptable Talent 

Bone Crusher 

Brilliant Defense 

Channel Rage 

Cut the Red Tape 


Demoralizing Strike 
Disturbing Presence 


Expert Briber 
Fleche 

Forceful Recovery 
Grazing Shot 
Hobbling Strike 


Improved Opportunistic 
Trickery 

Indomitable Personality 

Master of Disguise 


Meat Shield 


Opportunistic Trickery 


Recurring Success 
Resolute Stance 

Sadistic Strike 

Silver Tongue 

Skill Challenge: 
Catastrophic Avoidance* 


Skill Challenge: 
Last Resort* 


Skill Challenge: Recovery* 
Stand Tall 
Wookiee Grip 


FEATS 


PREREQUISITES 
Crush, Pin 

Int 13 

Rage species trait 
Trained in Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) 

Cha 13 

Trained in Deception 


Cha 13 

Base attack bonus +1 

Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
Point Blank Shot 

Sneak Attack, Rapid Shot, 
or Rapid Strike 

Combat Reflexes, 
Opportunistic Trickery 

Cha 13 

Trained in Deception, 

Cha 13 

Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, base attack bonus +4 
Combat Reflexes, 

Sneak Attack 


Base attack bonus +1 


Trained in Persuasion 


Str 13 


BENEFITS 

Gain access to an additional talent. 

Move damaged grappled opponent -1 step on the condition track. 
Add your Intelligence bonus to your Reflex Defense as a reaction. 
Instead of raging, gain +5 to Will Defense. 

Use Knowledge (bureaucracy) in place of Gather Information. 


Make an intimidation check when you deal damage with an attack of opportunity. 
Make a Deception check to move through threatened area without provoking attack 
of opportunity. 

Reduce the time and cost of bribery attempts. 

When charging, turn any natural attack roll of 17+ into a critical hit. 

Regain one Force power when you catch a second wind. 

Strike two targets in direct line of sight, dealing half damage to each. 

Reduce the target's speed instead of dealing extra damage. 


Sacrifice attack of opportunity to reduce target's Reflex Defense by 5. 


Add your Charisma bonus to your Will Defense as a reaction. 

Gain +5 to creating a deceptive appearance or a forged document and reduce 
the penalty for rushing. 

Gain cover bonus equal to opponent's cover bonus. 


Sacrifice attack of opportunity to reduce target's Reflex Defense by 2. 


Gain extra use of a 1/encounter talent or feat. 

Gain +2 or +5 to Will Defense when you fight defensively. 

Move opponents -1 step on the condition track when you deliver a coup de grace. 
Intimidate a creature or change its attitude as a standard action. 

Catastrophic failures in a skill challenge occur less frequently and with milder results. 


Reroll a third failed skill check during a skill challenge and take the better result. 
Treat a skill challenge as if it had the recovery effect. 


When you take damage, nearby allies attack your attacker. 
Wield two-handed weapons in a single hand. 


* This feat is allowed only in campaigns that use the skill challenge rules described in Chapter 2. 


Cur THE RED TAPE 
You know how to work the bureaucratic system to get information you need. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Knowledge (bureaucracy) skill. 

Benefit: You can use your Knowledge (bureaucracy) modifier instead of 
your Gather Information modifier when making Gather Information checks. 
If you are entitled to a Gather Information check reroll, you can reroll your 
Knowledge (bureaucracy) check instead (subject to the same circumstances 
and limitations). You are considered trained in the Gather Information skill 
for the purposes of this check. 


DEMORALIZING STRIKE 
You know how to dishearten your opponents when they least expect it. 
Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 
Benefit: When you successfully deal damage to an opponent with an 
attack of opportunity, you can immediately make a Persuasion check to 
intimidate the opponent as a free action. 


DISTURBING PRESENCE 
Your presence is such that enemies let you move past them freely. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Deception skill. 

Benefit: If you succeed on a DC 15 Deception check, you can move 
through the threatened area or fighting space of an enemy as part of your 
move action without provoking an attack of opportunity. Each threatened 
square or occupied square that you move through in this manner counts as 
2 squares of movement. 

Normal: You can tumble through an occupied enemy square only by 
using the Acrobatics skill. 


EXPERT BRIBER 
You are adept at greasing the palms of contacts to minimize the amount of 
the bribe normally required. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 

Benefit: When using the Haggle application of the Persuasion skill (see 
page 71 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), you reduce the DC reduce the 
price of the item haggled over by 10. 


FLECHE 
You throw yourself at your opponent to make a single precise strike. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. 
Benefit: Once per encounter, when you charge, you can turn any natural 
attack roll of 17+ into a critical hit. 


FORCEFUL RECOVERY 
The Force is strong with you, and it gives you focus and vitality. 
Prerequisite: Force Sensitivity, Force Training. 
Benefit: Whenever you catch a second wind, choose one expended Force 
power and return that power to your Force suite. 


GRAZING SHOT 
Using precise aim, you can hit two targets with a single shot. 

Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot. 

Benefit: When you successfully make a ranged attack against a single 
target, you can make a second attack roll against an additional target that is 
in direct line of sight and no farther than 6 squares from the original target. 
If the second attack roll succeeds, make a single damage roll, and divide the 
damage equally between the two targets. If the second attack roll fails, you 
deal no damage to either target. 


SOMETIMES, A GRAZING SHOT IS EXACTLY WHAT YOU NEED. 


SneaiHws do sVseXuSeH 


m 


HaeLavHo 


SnQrWI Jd©@ sseXs-) 


SKILL CHALLENGE FEATS 

Some of the feats in this chapter interact with the mechanics used for 
skill challenges that are described in Chapter 2. If the Gamemaster does. 
not use skill challenges in the campaign, players should not choose any 
skill challenge feats for their heroes. If the GM later decides to introduce. 
skill challenges into an ongoing campaign, players should have the option 
of replacing one or more of their current feats with skill challenge feats 
when appropriate. 


HOBBLING STRIKE 
You know where to hit your enemy to slow it down. 

Prerequisite: Sneak Attack, Rapid Shot, or Rapid Strike. 

Benefit: Whenever you would deal extra damage by using Sneak Attack, 
Rapid Shot, or Rapid Strike, you reduce the target's speed by 1 square until 
the end of the encounter instead of dealing the extra damage. 


IMPROVED OPPORTUNISTIC 
TRICKERY 
When your opponent lets down its guard, you open it up to additional attacks. 
Prerequisites: Combat Reflexes, Opportunistic Trickery. 
Benefit: Whenever an opponent provokes an attack of opportunity from 
you, once per turn you can sacrifice the attack to reduce the target's Reflex 
Defense by 5 until the end of the target's next turn. 


INDOMITABLE PERSONALITY 
Your powerful personality helps you cope with attacks that assault your will. 
Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 
Benefit: Once per encounter, you can add your Charisma bonus to your 
Will Defense as a reaction; this benefit lasts until the end of your next turn. 


MASTER OF DISGUISE 
You are adept at creating convincing disguises in remarkably short periods 
of time. 

Prerequisites: Trained in the Deception skill, Charisma 13. 

Benefit: You gain a +5 insight bonus to your Deception check when 
creating a deceptive appearance or a forged document. In addition, you can 
rush the process by taking a penalty of -2 to the Deception check. 

Normal: When you rush the creation of a deceptive appearance or forged 
document, you take a -10 penalty to your Deception check. 


MEAT SHIELD 

You are adept at using an opponent's defense to your own advantage. 
Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +4. 
Benefit: Whenever an opponent attacks you while in cover provided by 

another character, creature, or droid, you are treated as being in cover from 

attacks by that opponent. 


OPPORTUNISTIC TRICKERY 
When your opponent lets down its guard, you know how to set it off balance 
for several moments. 

Prerequisites: Combat Reflexes, Sneak Attack. 

Benefit: Whenever an opponent provokes an attack of opportunity from 
you, once per turn you can sacrifice that attack to reduce the target's Reflex 
Defense by 2 for the following round. 


RECURRING SUCCESS 
You know how to make your enemies fall for the same trick twice. 
Benefit: When you select this feat, choose one talent or feat that can 
normally be used only once per encounter. You can use that talent or feat 
one additional time per encounter. 
You can select this feat multiple times. Each time you do so, you must 
choose a different skill to gain the benefits of this talent. 


RESOLUTE STANCE 
By standing your ground, you focus your mind to repel any assault. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: When you fight defensively, you gain a +2 morale bonus to your 
Will Defense. If you make no attacks until your next turn, you gain a +5 
morale bonus to your Will Defense until the start of your next turn. 

Normal: When you fight defensively, you gain a +2 dodge bonus to your 
Reflex Defense. If you make no attacks until your next turn, you gain a +5 
dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn. 


SADISTIC STRIKE 

By dispatching a helpless creature, you terrify opponents around you. 
Benefit: When you deliver a coup de grace to a helpless creature, all 

opponents within line of sight move -1 step on the condition track until the 

end of the encounter. 


BONUS FEATS 
Some of the feats in this chapter can be selected as bonus feats by 
certain classes. Each class can add the following feats to their relevant 
bonus feat list. 


CLASS BONUS FEATS 

Jedi Brilliant Defense, Resolute Stance, Stand Tall 

Noble Brilliant Defense, Cut the Red Tape, Demoralizing Strike, 
Disturbing Presence, Expert Briber, Fleche, Indomitable 
Personality, Master of Disguise, Sadistic Strike, Silver Tongue, 

2 Stand Tal) 

Scoundrel Disturbing Presence, Expert Briber, Hobbling Strike, 
Improved Opportunistic Trickery, Indomitable Personality, 
Master of Disguise, Opportunistic Trickery, Sadistic Strike, 
Silver Tongue, Stand Tall 

Scout _ Grazing Shot, Hobbling Strike, Meat Shield, Stand Tall 

Soldier Bone Crusher, Fleche, Grazing Shot, Hobbling Strike, 


Meat Shield, Resolute Stance, Sadistic Strike, Wookiee Grip 


SILVER TONGUE 
You are adept at quickly changing a creature's attitude toward you. 
Prerequisite: Trained in the Persuasion skill. 
Benefit: You can intimidate a creature or change its attitude as a stan- 
dard action. 
Normal: Intimidating a creature or changing its attitude requires a 
full-round action. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 
CATASTROPHIC AVOIDANCE 

Your luck is such that catastrophe occurs less frequently for you when you 
are engaged in stressful situations. 

Benefit: Once per skill challenge that has a chance of catastrophic 
failure, this failure occurs only if you fail a skill check by 15 or more. In 
addition, when a catastrophic failure occurs, you accrue one failure in the 
skill challenge, not two. 

Special: This feat is allowed only in campaigns that use the skill challenge 
rules described in Chapter 2. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

LAST RESORT 

When failure threatens, you throw everything you have at the skill challenge 
to prevent disaster. 

Benefit: Once per skill challenge, when you or an ally accrues a third 
failure (which would normally end the skill challenge), you or the ally can 
reroll the attempt, keeping the better result. 

Special: This feat is allowed only in campaigns that use the skill challenge 
rules described in Chapter 2. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: RECOVERY 
You can snatch victory from the jaws of defeat when involved in a skill 
challenge. 

Benefit: Once per skill challenge, you treat the challenge as if it had the 
recovery effect, even if it does not have that effect. 

Special: This feat is allowed only in campaigns that use the skill challenge 
rules described in Chapter 2. 


STAND TALL 

Your courage under fire inspires those around you to acts of bravery. 
Benefit: Once per encounter when you take damage, all allies who are 

within 6 squares of you and within your line of sight can, as a reaction, make 

a single attack on the target that damaged you. 


WOOKiEE GRIP 
Your strength is such that you need only one hand to use weapons that 
normally require two hands. 

Prerequisite: Strength 13. 

Benefit: When using a weapon in which you are proficient and that 
normally requires two hands, you can wield that weapon with a single hand. 
You take a -2 penalty to attack rolls with the weapon when it is used in 
this manner. 


SnQI294N) do sVeoX8sgH) 


CHAPTER Il 
KILL. CHALLENGES 


Lb Sm.) o 


“ewtamem ea 


ROSS 


The Star Wars saga is full of examples of heroes doing amazing things. Such 
remarkable exploits often take place during shootouts, lightsaber duels, and 
dogfights between X-wings and TIE fighters. But not every exciting scene 
in the films is about combat; many of them focus more on skills and talents 
that do not relate directly to fighting prowess. Chase sequences, stealthy 
investigations, tense negotiations, and other such scenes reflect the heroes’ 
abilities to use their cunning, their creativity, and their well-honed skills to 
achieve their goals. 

This chapter introduces the concept of skill challenges to the Star Wars 
Roleplaying Game. A skill challenge is a mechanical framework that Game- 
masters can use to create exciting and interesting scenes in which the heroes 
use their skills, not their combat abilities, to accomplish a particular goal. In 
a skill challenge, the heroes make a series of related skill checks that combine 
to determine whether they face victory or defeat. A skill challenge can take 
the place of a combat encounter in an adventure or can augment a combat 
encounter by adding a skill-based element. 

Many scenes from the Star Wars films could be represented in a roleplay- 
ing game as skill challenges. The asteroid chase in The Empire Strikes Back, 
the negotiation between Luke Skywalker and Jabba the Hutt in Return of 
the Jedi, the Podrace in The Phantom Menace, Obi-Wan's investigation of 
the Jango Fett mystery in Attack of the Clones—all of these are examples of 
sequences in which heroes use multiple skills as part of a concerted effort to 
ccomplish a task. Typically, a skill challenge represents a scene or a group 
f scenes that moves the plot forward through skill use rather than combat. 

This chapter teaches Gamemasters how to create their own skill chal- 
lenges and run them in adventures. Players might want to familiarize them- 
“selves with the Playing Skill Challenges section (page 32), which provides 
_ tips on interacting with skill challenges and using them to create exciting, 
cinematic scenes. 


ES 


er 


SSS 


SIGE 


SEOwNWsSIWIVYA) IWAS 


RUNNING SKILL 
CHALLENGES 


In many ways, a skill challenge is like any other encounter. It has opportu- 
nities for success and penalties for failure. It requires multiple heroes to 
participate and often has both obstacles and antagonists. However, whereas 
combat encounters require the heroes to use weapons or special attacks 
to achieve victory, a skill challenge requires them to use their skills and 
creativity to succeed. 


A NOTE TO PLAYERS: 
PLAYING SKILL CHALLENGES 
For players, skill challenges represent a chance not only to use your 
skills in a meaningful way but also to have your heroes contribute to 
an exciting scene. Skill challenges are great for fleshing out your char- 
acters, letting their personalities come to life in the actions they take 
outside of combat encounters. A skill challenge offers an opportunity 
to roleplay your characters’ strengths, and perhaps even weaknesses, 
in a dynamic way. 

As a player, your responsibility in the skill challenge is to come up 
with creative actions that can help your allies achieve the goal of the 
challenge. When it is your turn, think of an action that is appropriate 
for your hero in that situation. If possible, the action should play to your 
hero's strengths and give you a chance to show off your character's 
areas of expertise. Describe the action to your Gamemaster, and, if the 
GM approves of the idea, make a skill check (or another check that the 
GM calls for) to determine the result. Once each of your allies has had 
a chance to act, it will be your turn again, provided that the skill chal- 
lenge has not ended. 

Over the course of the skill challenge, the situation might evolve. 
You might receive new information, the backdrop could change, or the 
goals could shift as the challenge progresses. Be sure to think about 
how your hero would react to the changing circumstances of the skill 
challenge, and come up with new and interesting things to do. Below 
are some tips to help you choose actions that will contribute to an 
exciting, dynamic scene. 


THINK CINEMATICALLY 

Skill challenges represent interesting and thrilling scenes in the Star 
Wars milieu, and you should take actions that fit that aspect of the saga. 
Heroes in Star Wars take risks and engage in reckless stunts, yet they 
often succeed despite overwhelming odds. So too should your hero take 
risks. Think about the valiant actions depicted in the films—the heroes 
jump out of windows and grab onto flying droids high in the skylanes 


One of the most important points to remember is that a skill challenge, 
like a combat encounter, is meant to create an exciting scene or sequence of 
scenes in the tradition of the Star Wars films. A skill challenge should have the 
same tension and uncertainty as a combat encounter, with real consequences 
for success and failure. When running a skill challenge for players, you have 
many of the same responsibilities as when running a combat encounter: You 
must keep the game moving, ensure that the pace does not slow too much, 
encourage players to be creative and act cinematically, and adjudicate the 
rules of the challenge. 


of Coruscant, and they leap onto the backs of speeder bikes to reck- 
lessly pursue scout troopers on Endor. When trying to decide what to do 
during a skill challenge, think not only about what your character would 
do based on his or her personality, but also about what your character 
could do that would be cinematically daring. 


USE YOUR STRENGTHS 

During a skill challenge, you should use your strengths to achieve the 
most success. Think beyond your skill modifiers; consider what your char- 
acter is good at, and use that knowledge to inform the types of actions 
you take. For example, if you are a Rebel saboteur, you are much more 
than a collection of Mechanics and Use Computer checks. You probably 
have talents, feats, equipment, and perhaps prestige class features that 
contribute to your overall capability as a saboteur. Try using abilities that 
add to the cinematic drama of the scene, even if they do not necessarily 
grant bonuses to your skill checks. For instance, your hero could simply 
make a Mechanics check in an attempt to cause a bridge collapse, or 
your character could set up a turret to fire lasers at the support struts for 
the bridge. Although the former solution is serviceable, the latter option 
makes use not only of your skill but also, potentially, of your talents and 
equipment, and it results in a more vivid scene. 


EMBRACE VERSATILITY 

Sometimes it might seem as if the best option ina skill challenge is to 
do the same thing over and over again. However, this repetition will 
grow boring quickly, and it could end up making the skill challenge 
harder for you and your allies. If the Gamemaster restricts the number 
of times a skill can be used in the challenge, taking the same action 
multiple times will run up the count, closing the door on that option for 
your fellow heroes. For this reason, during a skill challenge you should 
embrace versatility, use different skills, and take advantage of your 
character's talents, feats, and other assets. In this way, you will create 
a more exciting and interesting scene, and you will not deny your allies 
a chance to use the same skills. 


The basic skill challenge mechanics are relatively simple. Over the course 
of the challenge, the heroes take actions that either succeed or fail. If the 
heroes accrue a set number of successes before a set number of failures, 
they succeed in the challenge. If they accrue too many failures, they fail 
the challenge. 

Of course, that description is a very simplified version of the mechanics; 
the rest of this section provides a step-by-step breakdown of the process 
used when a Gamemaster runs a skill challenge. Throughout this break- 
down, examples walk you through a sample skill challenge based on the 
Endor speeder bike chase in Return of the Jedi. The examples do not detail 
the entire sequence, but instead they highlight how elements of the skill 
challenge combine to create an exciting and iconic scene from Star Wars 
lore. The premise of this skill challenge is that the heroes have arrived on 
Endor and encountered a scout trooper patrol. Their goal is to make sure 
the scouts do not report back to their superiors and alert the Empire to the 
Rebel presence on Endor. 


DETERMINING PARTICIPANTS 

The first step when running a skill challenge is to determine who the partici- 
pants are—typically, all heroes who are present when the challenge begins 
participate in a skill challenge. If the heroes have been separated somehow, 
only a few might participate initially, but you can add more participants later 
if the scene evolves to allow for a logical place to include them. Likewise, 
depending on how the skill challenge progresses, you might rule that some 
heroes can no longer participate because they have moved too far away from 
the action, been knocked unconscious, or otherwise been prevented from 
interacting with the challenge. 

When determining who the participants in a particular skill challenge 
are, keep in mind that a participant in a skill challenge must take actions 
that contribute to the challenge. A hero who is present but who does not 
contribute to the challenge is not really a participant. As a general rule, 
once a participant in a skill challenge takes an action, he or she cannot take 
another action until all other participants have taken actions. The participants 
do not necessarily need to keep acting in the same order, but one or two 
heroes should not contribute to the success of the challenge while three 
others stand idly by. 

Participation is as important in a skill challenge as it is in a combat 
encounter. In combat, enemies present a challenge to the entire party. If 
several heroes take no actions, they and their allies will be wiped out; the 
balance of combat depends on all heroes making progress toward defeating 
their enemies. Similarly, a skill challenge requires all heroes to contribute 
toward reaching their goal. 

For example, the heroes present during the Endor sequence are Han Solo, 
Chewbacca, Luke Skywalker, and Princess Leia. The Gamemaster determines 
that these four heroes can participate in the skill challenge when they come 
across the scout troopers. 


No SuBSTITUTE 

FOR ROLEPLAYING 

Skill challenges are not intended to be a substitute for the standard 
roleplaying and noncombat scenes that probably already exist in your 
campaign. Rather, skill challenges are frameworks that let you track suc- 
cesses, failures, and consequences over a series of multiple skill checks. 
Skill challenges give you an idea of how many experience points to award 
for a particular scene, and they help you create encounters that involve 
more than simply making a few skill checks, but they should not replace 
the dialogue and interactions that you already have. While participating 
ina skill challenge, players should describe their actions and get into 
their roles just as they would at any other time. 


SETTING THE SCENE 

Once the participants in the challenge have been determined, you must set 
the scene for the heroes. This important step gives the players an idea of 
what actions they can take to contribute to the skill challenge. In a combat 
encounter, you provide basic descriptions of the terrain, the enemies, and 
other bystanders and objects so that your players are informed about the 
situation. In a skill challenge, you set the scene in such a way as to help 
the players recognize options for various actions. They need to have a clear 
picture of what is going on so they can take actions that are appropriate 
to the scene. 

For example, the Gamemaster might describe the scout troopers on Endor 
as being somewhat distracted, standing idly in the forest. Parked speeder 
bikes sit nearby, indicating that the scout troopers have traveled ahead of 
some larger force. The terrain is thick and obscures the area surrounding the 
clearing, giving the heroes ample places to hide, and the ambient noise of the 
forest covers their whispered conversation. The Gamemaster's description 
presents several options to the heroes—sneaking up on the scout troopers, 
stealing the speeder bikes, and so on—that will be part of the challenge once 
the heroes begin taking actions. 


STARTING THE CHALLENGE 

After determining the participants and setting the scene, it is time to start 
the challenge. The players take turns describing their actions, making skill 
checks or using other abilities, and the Gamemaster adjudicates the results. 
You can choose the order in which the players will act, or you can let them 
decide if the order does not matter to the mechanics of the challenge. The 
players can act in the same order each time or in a different order. The main 
rule is that each participant must take an action before any given participant 
can take his or her next action. Thus, after hero 1 takes an action, all other 
heroes must take actions before hero 1 can act again. As the participants 
take actions, be sure to track how many successes and failures they accrue. 


O 
8 | | 
(r 
(P 
Q 
qe} | 
> 
[iP 
(Pr 
WY 
ze 
@ 
W 


IMDS 


SseqnwewvyAS) 


USING SKILLS 

During a skill challenge, most of the heroes’ actions involve using skills. When 
a hero takes an action, the player describes what action is being taken and 
how that action is intended to help the party achieve success in the challenge. 
If the Gamemaster determines that the action would indeed contribute to the 
challenge, the hero makes the relevant skill check. The Gamemaster compares 
the skill check result to predetermined skill DCs, which are set during the 
creation of the skill challenge. This comparison determines whether the action 
succeeds or fails, contributing to the total number of successes or failures 
for the overall challenge. Finally, the Gamemaster describes the results of 
the action and how the scene has changed, if at all. 

Most skill challenges have varying difficulties for different actions. 
Actions that are more likely to be successful or that make more sense in the 
current situation have lower DCs than do actions that seem to be more of a 
stretch. When a player describes the action that his or her hero takes, you 
must determine whether it seems like a plausible way to contribute to the 
challenge's progress. If the action seems unlikely to work, you should give it 
a harder DC than you would give to an action that is a better match for the 
challenge. Of course, allowing the players to be creative with their actions is 
more likely to result in an exciting and cinematic scene, but in some cases, 
even creative actions have little chance of succeeding. 


HAN SOLO SNEAKING INTO THE BUNKER ON ENDOR 


Typically, a player should describe a specific action, then associate the 
action with a particular skill. For example, a player might say, “I try to 
convince the bounty hunter that we're not his quarry, and that the bounty 
is actually for another group of heroes who look like us. To do that, | make 
a Deception check." On the other hand, a player who simply says, "| make a 
Deception check" is not choosing an action—merely picking a skill. Having 
the players describe their actions not only lets them contribute to the skill 
challenge narrative but also encourages them to think creatively about how 
their heroes behave. 

Returning to the Endor example, Han Solo decides to sneak up on one of 
the scout troopers. Han's player describes the action as creeping up behind 
the scout trooper in an attempt to subdue him quietly. However, when Han 
rolls his skill check, he rolls too low, accruing a failure. The Gamemaster 
describes the results of the action (Han steps on a twig and alerts the scout 
troopers), and the challenge continues. Throughout the chase sequence, we 
see Leia using the Pilot skill to maneuver a speeder, Luke using Jump to leap 
to an adjacent speeder bike, and Leia using Deception to trick a scout trooper 
into believing that she crashed. 


Aid Another 

The aid another action is typically used to grant bonuses to allies who make 
skill checks or attack rolls. In a skill challenge, the aid another action can be 
a powerful tool, especially when combined with talents such as Coordinate 
or Skilled Advisor, which can drastically increase the bonuses provided. Since 
a skill challenge puts a large emphasis on making skill checks, it might seem 
that an easy way to earn successes would be to let the hero with the highest 
skill modifier make the check while the other heroes use aid another. However, 
the aid another action works differently during skill challenges. 

Only characters trained in a skill can aid another with that skill. 
Unlike normal skill checks, a hero must be trained in a skill to use the aid 
another action with that skill. This rule helps to encourage skilled characters 
to make their own checks, while preventing everyone from taking the aid 
another action on every skill check. 

For a given skill, the maximum bonus a character can receive from 
aid another is +10. A hero can gain only so much benefit from his or her 
allies during a skill challenge. In addition, if the heroes use talents to increase 
the bonuses, the group will reach the cap of +10 more quickly, which means 
other heroes will be free to take their own actions. 

Choosing to aid another rather than take an action has consequences. 
When one hero aids another in combat, the first hero gives up the chance to 
take down an enemy in exchange for helping an ally succeed. Similarly, in a 
skill challenge, choosing to aid another should be a choice, not the default. 
If a hero decides to aid another rather than take his or her own action to 
contribute to the challenge, the situation might grow more dire. Perhaps it 
will become slightly tougher or change in some way that further hinders 
the heroes. Do not punish a hero for choosing to aid another, but do make 
the consequences clear. 


NONCONTRIBUTING 
SKILL CHECKS 
Sometimes a player wants to make a skill check that does not neces- 
sarily contribute to the success or failure of a skill challenge, such as a 
Knowledge check to see what his or her hero knows. Gamemasters can 
allow such checks without worrying about accruing successes or fail- 
ures. For example, while Luke and Leia are speeding through the forest 
on Endor, Luke might make an Intelligence check to see what he knows 
about the speeder bike they are piloting. The Gamemaster reveals that 
its communication systems can be used to jam transmissions, and Luke 
relays that information to Leia. Luke's check did not contribute to the 
overall success or failure of the skill challenge, but it allowed Leia to 
make a Use Computer check to jam the scout troopers’ transmissions 
on her next action. 

A good rule of thumb is that if a skill check would not directly cause 
positive or negative results in the challenge, it should not accrue suc- 
cesses or failures. 


USING ABILITY CHECKS 

Sometimes an action is not covered by a specific skill, and you need to 
find another way to adjudicate that action. Ability checks are one way of 
resolving this kind of action; simply choose the ability (Strength, Dexterity, 
Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma) that most closely relates 
to the action in question. The player rolls a d20 and adds his or her relevant 
ability score modifier to determine the result. Keep in mind that, in many 
cases, an ability check will be far lower than a skill check, whether trained or 
untrained, because the heroes do not gain the half-level bonus that applies 
to skill checks. Try to call for ability checks sparingly, and cast actions as 
untrained skill checks whenever possible. 
USING TALENTS, FEATS, 

OR EQUIPMENT 

For players, skill challenges present exciting opportunities to show off what 
they can do. Sometimes the most appropriate or most cinematic action that 
a hero can take involves not just a skill but a talent, feat, piece of equipment, 
or class feature. When a player wants to use one of these different options, it 
is almost certainly in your best interest to allow it, provided that the action 
is plausible and makes sense for the character. This alternative allows the 
player to make use of the character resources in which he or she invested, 
and it opens up options that a raw skill check does not. 

When a hero uses a talent, a feat, a piece of equipment, or another special 
ability, you can still call for a skill check as part of that action, although you 
do not have to—sometimes, you can simply grant an automatic success for 
a clever application of a nonskill resource. Typically, when a player makes 
creative use of such resources, you should set the skill DC one step easier 


han normal. Consider it a reward for the player's good selection of handy 
talents, feats, or equipment. However, if the use of that particular nonskill 
resource becomes habitual, feel free to treat it like any other skill check. 
For example, Vor'en the soldier is participating in a skill challenge in which 
he must escort a droid carrying sensitive information across a battlefield 
in the middle of a large-scale ground conflict. Vor'en has the Harm's Way 
alent, which allows him to take damage instead of an adjacent ally. Vor'en 
wants to use this talent to physically shield the droid from incoming attacks, 
which the Gamemaster determines is a sufficiently creative use of a talent 
0 warrant a success. Since Harm's Way requires no skill check normally, 
he Gamemaster awards Vor'en an automatic success in the skill challenge. 


USING COMBAT ACTIONS 

Combat actions can sometimes be used to accrue successes in a skill chal- 
lenge, although they should occur infrequently. Typically, combat actions 
have the same DCs as skill checks, based on whether the action is likely to 
contribute positively to the challenge. Sometimes, taking a combat action 
(such as shooting a blaster, setting off an explosive, or making a Bantha Rush 
against an enemy) can contribute just as well as any skill. For example, a 
sniper might shoot out a lamp near the entrance to an abandoned warehouse, 
making it easier for the scoundrel to sneak inside. However, Gamemasters 
should be aware that, if too many combat actions are allowed, the skill 
challenge might turn into a combat encounter. That's okay—in fact, combat 


CHEWBACCA READIES A SHOT. 


WAS 


SHeoOnswvyA> 


SeAOnwsw7VyAS) WAS 


encounters and skill challenges might flow seamlessly together—but if too 
many combat actions are taken, you should be ready to create a combat 
encounter on the fly. 

For example, at the beginning of the Endor chase sequence, Chewbacca 
sees that scout troopers on speeder bikes are about to get away. Knowing 
that he cannot reach the speeder bikes in time, he takes a shot with his 
bowcaster, hoping to destroy one of the speeders before it can escape. He 
makes an attack roll and succeeds, which not only contributes a success in 
the skill challenge but also affects the shape of the challenge as the chase 
begins. Later, Luke uses his lightsaber to cause a speeder to crash into a tree, 
earning the final success necessary to end the challenge. 


USING FORCE POWERS 
As with combat actions, sometimes Force powers (or other Force-related 
abilities) can contribute to a skill challenge. When a hero uses the Force as 
his or her action during a challenge, you can adjudicate the action in several 
ways. First, keep in mind that no matter what form the action takes, you 
can use the same DCs that are used in other parts of the challenge as the 
minimum for success. When the hero describes the action, determine whether 
itis similar enough to an existing power, talent, or application of the Use the 
Force skill to adjudicate the action with those rules. For example, if a hero 
wants to use the Force to convince a warehouse guard to wander off, that 
is similar to the mind trick Force power. To perform that action, the hero 
must expend that Force power and follow its normal rules. Generally, using 
the power successfully is enough to warrant a success in the skill challenge. 
For other Force-related exploits that do not fall clearly under the domain 
of a particular Force power or talent, you can simply have the hero make a 
Use the Force check, just as he or she would make any other skill check in 
the challenge. For example, if the character wants to use the Force to hold 
open a closing door, he or she would have to succeed on a Use the Force 
check (with a DC equal to a relevant DC for that skill challenge) to earn a 
success. As with any other action, failing to meet the DC accrues a failure 
and has its own consequences. 


CONCLUDING THE CHALLENGE 
The skill challenge ends when one of three events takes place. First, the chal- 
lenge ends if the heroes achieve the required number of successes before 
accruing a set number of failures, earning success in the challenge overall. 
Second, the challenge ends if the heroes accrue a certain number of failures 
(usually three) before gaining the required successes, meaning they fail the 
challenge overall. Third, the challenge can end prematurely as a result of the 
heroes’ actions; for example, they might decide to break off the challenge 
and begin a combat encounter instead. When the challenge ends, the heroes 
still must deal with the consequences of their actions. 


R2-D2 ACCRUES A FAILURE IN A SKILL CHALLENGE AT THE BUNKER. 


EXAMPLE OF PLAY 

The following example of play is designed to demonstrate how a Gamemas- 
ter runs a skill challenge and how players might act and react during the 
challenge. As with the example of play from the Saga Edition core rulebook, 
Michele is the Gamemaster during the session and runs the skill challenge. 
Chris is playing Sia-Lan, a female Human Jedi Knight, and Mike plays Ror- 
worr, a Wookiee scout and gunslinger. Penny is playing a blue-skinned elite 
trooper named Vor'en, and Brian's character is Deel Surool, a canny Twi'lek 
scoundrel. Elements of the sample skill challenge will be explained in more 
detail in Designing Skill Challenges, starting on page 40. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

ESCAPE FROM KESSEL 

In this skill challenge, the heroes are trapped in the spice mines of Kessel 
and must escape to freedom. The spice mines are currently under the con- 
trol of the Colicoids, an insectoid species responsible for the design of the 
Droideka. The heroes have a chance to escape while being herded back to 
their barracks, and their goal is to make their way out of the mines, through 
the detention facility, and out to a landing pad where a spice-hauling vessel 
is refueling for take-off. During the breakout, 10 other prisoners also decide 
to fight their way to freedom, helping the heroes escape. 


cL 8 

Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Perception [DC 18]: The heroes can keep their eyes and ears open for the 
signs of approaching Colicoid guards. Alternatively, the heroes can search 
for side tunnels and passages that are rarely used. 

Persuasion [DC 23]:The heroes can convince some of their fellow prison- 
ers to keep watch or fan out to distract the guards and prevent them from 
catching the main group. 

Stealth [DC 18]: The heroes can attempt to sneak by Colicoid patrols and 
to ensure that none of the other prisoners makes too much noise. 

Survival [DC 28]: The heroes can search for signs of Colicoid tracks in 
the tunnels they are following, using that knowledge to determine which 
passages the insectoids are least likely to search. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested effects for this skill 
challenge: 

Close Call: The heroes accrue failures only on skill checks that fail by 5 
or more. 

Degrees of Failure: Any failures accrued by the heroes reduce the number 
of nonheroic prisoners that reach the ship and escape. 


Success: If the heroes succeed, they make their way to the Lantillian 
short hauler sitting on the landing pad. They successfully steal the ship and 
jump into hyperspace. 

Failure: If the heroes fail the skill challenge, they are cornered by Colicoid 
guards and must engage in a difficult combat encounter to finally gain their 
freedom. If the heroes succeed but accrued one failure during the challenge, 
only five of the other prisoners make it to freedom with them. If the heroes 
succeed but accrued two failures during the challenge, none of the other 
prisoners reach the short hauler—all 10 are recaptured by the Colicoids. 


Michele (GM): After several hours of plotting, the time finally comes for 
you to make your escape. As the Colicoid guards herd you toward the spice 
mines, you see an opening when the guards are distracted, and you run into 
an empty tunnel. About 10 other prisoners make a run for it with you. 

One of those prisoners tells you that a spice freighter is sitting on a landing 
pad on Kessel's surface, and that you probably could steal it and escape from 
the planet. First, though, you've got to get away from the Colicoids and reach 
the ship. As you make your way through near-total darkness in the mines, you 
hear the sounds of pursuit not far behind. The air is thick with the smell of 
spice, and you know that you have only minutes in which to make your escape. 

This is a skill challenge, so each of you must contribute to the escape. 
What do you do? 


SKILL CHALLENGE 
TRANSPARENCY 

How much should you tell your players during a skill challenge? In a 
combat encounter, the players know that they are engaged in combat and 
that they will act in a certain order, and they have a good idea of what 
they must do to succeed. A skill challenge, however, can be a bit more 
ambiguous. As a Gamemaster, it is up to you to decide how much to tell 
players about the challenge. Additionally, the right choice for one skill 
challenge might not be right for another, so do not be afraid to experi- 
ment with how much you reveal. There are three general categories of 
skill challenge transparency. 

Total Disclosure: You hide nothing from your players. You tell them 
when they are ina skill challenge, what skills are their best choices, how 
many successes they need, and any special rules that apply to the skill 
challenge. You might even reveal the DCs of the skill checks they must 
make. Because of the focus on game mechanics, this kind of transparency 
works best for skill challenges that have little dramatic tension, such as 
those without direct antagonists. For example, a skill challenge in which 
the heroes must work together to rebuild a broken-down starship is not 
a particularly dramatic scene, so the mechanics would not disrupt the 
flow of the game. 

Partial Disclosure: You tell your players a few things, but keep other 
things secret. You reveal that they are in a skill challenge and perhaps 
explain any special rules for the challenge. Otherwise, it is up to the 
players to feel out the situation, using roleplaying and their own insight 
to determine what skills will help them achieve success. This kind of 
transparency works best for skill challenges that have some dramatic 
tension but that still require the players to focus on a specific goal. For 
example, a chase sequence through city streets provides an interesting 
narrative, but you should make the scene's game mechanics obvious 
so the players realize that their actions have immediate consequences. 

Secret Challenge: You hide everything from the players, including 
the fact that they are in a skill challenge. You keep track of the chal- 
lenge behind the scenes as a means of directing the flow of the game 
or providing experience points for a noncombat encounter. This kind 
of transparency works best for scenes that rely heavily on roleplaying 
and dialogue (such as negotiations) so that the game mechanics do not 
interfere with the drama. This degree of transparency also works for 
skill challenges that take place over long periods of time, since it allows 
the plot to develop naturally without the players worrying about the 
skill challenge. 


il eSstdvHS 


@ 
a 
r 


SsowsiwIwWAS) 


SeEOQnNneswIVynAes WAS 


Consider how Michele set the scene, providing the basics of the surroundings 
and some description of the sights and sounds. She also provided a clear goal 
for the heroes: escape. Because she has decided to have at least some trans- 
parency, Michele informs the players that they are now ina skill challenge. 


Brian (Deel): Don't worry, everyone—I've been in tougher spots than this 
before. Just do what | tell you, and everything will be okay. I'd like to make a 
Persuasion check to try to convince some of the other prisoners that escaped 
with us to help us find the fastest route to the surface. 

Brian rolls a d20 and adds his Persuasion modifier, getting a result of 26. 
Michele compares this to the DC that she set for the skill and determines 
that Brian's check was successful, making a note that the heroes have earned 
their first success in the challenge. 

Michele (GM): The other prisoners seem to be on board with your leader- 
ship, and a Sullustan captive pushes his way forward and offers to take the lead 
in scouting ahead. It looks like you've managed to get the other prisoners’ full 
assistance, which should prove beneficial in making your escape. Who's next? 

Penny (Vor'en): As the Sullustan scouts ahead, | follow close behind him in 
case he needs someone to watch his back. | don't want our new friend getting 
grabbed by a Colicoid patrol. I'd like to make a Perception check to watch for 
the guards and make sure the Sullustan can find a path without being captured. 

Penny rolls a d20 and adds her Perception modifier, getting a result of 
19. Fortunately, Perception is one of the easier skills to use in this challenge, 
and Michele records the success. 

Michele (GM): /t's a good thing you did that. Just as the Sullustan seems 
to find a route to the surface, you hear the sound of a Colicoid patrol round- 
ing the corner. You manage to grab the Sullustan and yank him back just 
in time to avoid being noticed by the guards. Once they're gone, the rest of 
the prisoners come forward, and you can start making your way toward the 
surface. What now? 


The last two skill checks are good examples of what happens when players 
use expected skills. Each player described his or her character's actions, then 
made a skill check. After the result was determined, Michele described the 
ramifications of each action, improvising the presence of the helpful Sul- 
lustan prisoner and the near miss when Vor'en kept him from being spotted. 
That approach brings more excitement to the game than simply saying, “Your 
skill check succeeds." 


Chris (Sia-Lan): When Vor'en tells us how narrowly our Sullustan friend 
avoided being spotted, | decide to clear my mind and trust in the Force to 
guide us around any potential patrols. I'd like to make a Use the Force check 
to calm my mind and try to sense the presence of any Colicoids along our path. 

Since Use the Force is not one of the skills suggested for this challenge, 
Michele has to decide whether to allow this action. The idea seems to be 


reasonable given the circumstances, and it fits Sia-Lan's character, so 
Michele decides to allow it. She determines that, thanks to the disorienting 
environment and the unfamiliar minds of the Colicoids, the skill check should 
have a moderate difficulty—in this case, DC 28. Chris rolls a d20 and adds 
his Use the Force modifier, getting a result of 22. Michele notes this as a 
failure, since it is more than 5 below the DC she set (the threshold defined 
in the "Close Call" effect). 

Michele (GM): As you extend your senses along the path, you determine 
that there is a cluster of Colicoid minds almost directly ahead, probably some 
kind of security checkpoint. However, as you focus on the path ahead, you 
cease to pay attention to your pursuers. Cries of fear sound from the prison- 
ers behind you—a security patrol has caught up to your group!As some of the 
prisoners behind you are caught, you realize that you still have a chance to 
escape, but about half the prisoners who fled with you have been recaptured. 
Rorworr, it's your turn. What do you do? 


The above is a good example of allowing players to improvise their skill use, 
which Michele deals with by assigning a DC based on the circumstances. 
Likewise, the failed skill check has tangible consequences—five of the prison- 
ers were recaptured (as described in the Failure section of the skill challenge). 


Mike (Rorworr): As much as it pains me to leave them behind, it's now or 
never for our escape. | let out a mournful hoot and begin to move forward. I'd 
like to see if can sneak us all past that security checkpoint. I'm going to make 
a Stealth check to move us all quickly and quietly past the Colicoids ahead, 
making sure that everyone remains silent as we creep by. 

Mike rolls a d20 and adds his Stealth modifier, getting a result of 22. 
This is good enough to beat the DC that Michele set, so she marks it as a 
success—the third of the challenge so far. 

Michele (GM): Thanks to your years of evading predators on Kashyyyk, 
you're able to guide your allies like a hunting party right past the Colicoid 
security post. As you do so, you notice that the rough-hewn tunnels give way 
to metal floors and walls, signaling your entrance into the artificial facilities 
built into the surface. Within moments, you leave the darkness and enter the 
stark, sterile interior of the Colicoid administrative facility. The sounds of 
alarm klaxons blare within, so you believe that you're probably still in danger 
of pursuit by the guards. Now that everyone has taken an action, it's up to you 
guys who determine who goes next. 


At this point, Michele has changed the scene significantly, taking the chase 
out of the mines and into a service tunnel within an administrative facility. 
This not only provides a new backdrop for the scene but also opens up more 
technology-oriented skill uses. By changing the scene, Michele keeps things 
fresh and helps give players new ideas for actions to try. 


Penny (Vor'en): The corridor that we're moving down—does it look like 
a fairly modern facility? 

Michele (GM): Yes. /n fact, it looks as though this wing of the building 
was renovated fairly recently. 

Penny (Vor'en): Okay, I'm going to try to find a computer panel and 
see if | can pull up a schematic of the facility so we can find our way to the 
landing pad. 

Michele (GM): Finding a computer is no problem. Would you like to make 
a Use Computer check to try to bring up the schematic? The system's on lock- 
down, but you might be able to get through the security. 

Penny (Vor'en): Sure. 

Michele determines that this is probably a hard challenge, given that the 
heroes are in a prison facility in lockdown mode, so she sets the DC at 32. 
Penny rolls a d20 and adds her Use Computer modifier. Knowing that the 
skill check will be difficult, Penny decides to spend a Force Point to augment 
her result. The final result is 32 exactly, which Michele marks as a success. 

Michele (GM): Success! Not only do you bring up the schematics, but you 
also find a good path through the facility that seems to take you directly to 
the landing pad. It's a bit of a distance to travel, and you've still got five other 
prisoners in tow, but you think you can make it there if you hustle. Who's next? 

Chris (Sia-Lan): Since we're inside the facility and away from the mines, 
there are probably security devices tracking our movements. I'd like to use 
the Force to pull down any security cameras or sensors that | see, blinding the 
building's security forces to our activities. 

Michele determines that this action is reasonable and much easier than 
trying to detect the Colicoids (since the security devices cannot really resist 
the Jedi’s efforts), so she assigns the check a medium DC of 23. Chris rolls a 
d20, adding his Use the Force modifier for a total of 27. Michele marks this 
as a success—the fifth accrued in the challenge so far. 

Michele (GM): Great work! As you follow the directions that Vor'en 
continues to issue, you start using the Force to wrench free any security 
devices you see. The shouts of pursuit come from elsewhere. You think you've 
temporarily confused the guards because it takes them a moment to figure 
out which direction you're going. What now? 

Mike (Rorworr): Does it look like we're getting close to the landing pad? 

Michele (GM): So far, you've basically come up through hallways that 
are used to access the mines. However, thanks to your Sullustan friend, you 
entered through an area that's some kind of heavy machinery entrance, so 
you haven't run into many Colicoids. You're approaching the more heavily 
trafficked areas now. Although you guess that you're not far from the landing 
pad, more caution might be called for. 

Mike (Rorworr): Right. Good to know. Given that, I'd like to see how 
much | know about Colicoid biology. Do | think they are hindered by darkness? 

Michele (GM): You can make a Knowledge (life sciences) check to see. 

Mike (Rorworr): Okay, / rolled a 16. 


Michele (GM): You don't think they have the ability to see in the dark. 
Since that wasn't something directly contributing to your escape, you can 
still take an action. 


The above is a good example of improvising skills (Use the Force) and using 
skills that do not directly contribute to the skill challenge (Knowledge [life 
sciences]). 


Mike (Rorworr): /‘d like to see if | can find a power conduit nearby to 
disrupt some of the lights between here and the landing pad. We should have 
a better chance of escaping under cover of darkness. 

Michele (GM): There are power conduits throughout the walls of this 
service passageway. You'd need to make a Mechanics check to disable the 
lights down the corridor. 

Since the facility is of fairly recent construction, Michele sets a medium 
DC of 23 for this skill check. Mike rolls a d20, adds his Mechanics modifier, 
and gets a result of 24. Michele notes it as a success. The heroes have now 
accrued six successes and one failure. 

Michele (GM): As the lights flicker and go out, you hear Rorworr offer a 
triumphant growl in the darkness. Unfortunately, it's pretty dark for you, too, 
but the landing pad seems to be near the end of this service tunnel. As you 
make your way down the passage, a loud clatter and the harsh sounds of an 
alien language warn you that Colicoid guards are stumbling around blindly 
through the tunnels. After a few moments, they move on, not having found you. 

You travel a few more minutes and enter a passageway that still has some 
emergency lighting and leads to the landing pad. As promised, the Lantillian 
short hauler sits on the pad beneath a magnetic field that keeps out the 
vacuum outside. You dash up the open ramp, herding the five remaining prison- 
ers up with you, and not a moment too soon—Colicoid guards and droidekas 
begin spilling out of the passageway you just left. Once inside the ship, you 
close the hatch, but upon arriving in the cockpit, you find that the ship's 
design—meant for Colicoids—is completely alien. Even the computer displays 
information in an unfamiliar language. Deel, you're next. 


Michele has once again changed the scene, moving the action into the short 
hauler that the heroes will use to escape. They need only two more successes 
to finish the skill challenge, and the confines of the ship should offer at least 
a few new opportunities for the heroes to use their skills. 


Brian (Deel): /'m no good piloting an alien ship, especially if | can't read 
the controls. I'd like to make a Use Computer check to see if | can have the 
computer automatically translate everything into Basic. 

Michele determines that such translation is probably a common function 
for most ship computers and gives the check an easy DC of 18. Brian rolls 
a d20 and adds his Use Computer modifier for a total result of 18—a lucky 
thing that making the changeover was so easy. Michele notes the success. 


0) 
rN 
i 
iP 
) 
a 
> 
iP 
W 
z 
@) 
W 
0} it 


Ss@OwesimwwIVWA®) WAS 


Michele (GM): Deel spends a few moments tinkering with the computers, 
then familiar Aurebesh letters suddenly scroll across the screen. Meanwhile, 
the ring of laser fire striking the ship grows more frequent, and it looks like the 
enemy is within seconds of reaching the vessel. Everyone has taken a second 
action, so anyone can act next. What do you do? 

Brian (Deel): Time to blast off. Everyone strap in; this could be a bumpy 
ride. | drop into the pilot's chair, fire up the engines, and punch it! I'll make a 
Pilot check to get us out of here. 

Michele determines that because the heroes are inside the ship, blasting 
off is a pretty easy way to get to freedom, so she sets an easy DC of 18. 
Brian rolls a d20, adds his Pilot modifier, and gets a result of 25. Because 
the heroes have earned eight successes before accruing three failures, they 
succeed on the skill challenge. 

Michele (GM): As the engines roar to life, the ship blasts away from the 
landing pad. Red blaster bolts streak up from below, flashing past the cockpit 
window, but within moments, you're well out of range. However, your sensor 
board begins to light up. It looks like the Colicoids have scrambled some 
starfighters to intercept your escape... 


DESIGNING 
SKILL CHALLENGES 


Designing a skill challenge is much like designing a combat encounter. As the 
Gamemaster, you determine the location of the skill challenge, the obstacles 
and antagonists that might play into the scene, several options for provid- 
ing the heroes with variety, and the consequences of success or failure. 
Conceptually, skill challenges and combat encounters are similar, although 
they differ in execution. 

This section walks you through the creation of a skill challenge, from the 
initial concept to challenge effects that can be added to spice things up. 
By following these steps, you can create skill challenges that contribute to 
exciting scenes in the Star Wars tradition. 


CHOOSE THE CONCEPT 

The first step in creating a skill challenge is coming up with a compelling 
idea. Typically, when forming the basic concept, you want to focus on three 
primary areas: creating a cinematic scene, involving all the heroes and giving 
them meaningful ways to contribute, and producing a satisfactory resolution 
to their actions and to the skill challenge as a whole. 

First, create a cinematic scene. Think of the many scenes in the Star Wars 
films. The ones that best translate into skill challenges are those in which skills 
are more useful than combat prowess in resolving the situation, characters 
take risks to achieve rewards, and the heroes’ actions have a sense of tension 
that encourages them to take risks. For example, breaking into the bunker 
during the Battle of Endor meets these criteria. Although combat is taking 
place around them, the heroes (specifically Princess Leia, Han Solo, R2-D2, 
and Chewbacca) don’t try to blast their way into the bunker, but instead use 


A GAME OF SABACC CAN BE A CHALLENGE. 


their skills to get inside. They take risks, such as attempting to hot-wire the 
controls, earning both successes and failures (such as when R2 is blasted 
away from the control panel). The scene is filled with tension because the 
heroes know that if they do not disable the deflector shield, the Rebel fleet 
attacking the second Death Star will be crushed. When coming up with a 
basic concept for a skill challenge, consider these questions: 


e How does the scene encourage or require skill use? 
¢ What kinds of risks can the heroes take to achieve success? 
© What provides the sense of tension for the scene? 


With these questions answered, you can start building more specific concepts 
for the challenge. 

Second, involve all the heroes and give them meaningful ways to con- 
tribute. You do not have to tailor every element of the skill challenge to 
specific characters, but do find ways to include elements and actions that 
interact well with the party's talents. For example, if the heroes have plenty 
of technical skills and enjoy using gadgets and computers, you might want 
to design skill challenges that let them call on those resources. Of course, 
not all heroes in a group have the same skills, so a challenge such as this 
one should also provide opportunities for the nontechnical characters. For 
example, if the party includes a slicer, an outlaw tech, and a starship pilot, 
you might create a skill challenge that focuses on using those heroes’ talents 


to steal a starship from a top-secret facility. However, the party probably 
also includes a soldier, a noble, or a scout who might have different skills. 
Perhaps they could subdue the guards at the facility, talk their way past 
security checkpoints, or sneak into the control room to plant a malicious 
program the slicer cooked up. Your concept of the skill challenge should be 
broad enough to suit multiple heroes. 

Lastly, think about the different directions in which the skill challenge can 
evolve. Although you can never fully predict the actions the heroes might 
attempt, you can probably foresee some of the skills they might employ and 
sketch out a few ways in which the skill challenge can develop. Consider how 
the basic situation might change—both for the better and for the worse—as 
the heroes take actions, and how the challenge might reach a satisfactory 
resolution. Remember that the heroes’ actions should have repercussions. 


Nor A SKILL CHALLENGE 
This chapter explains what a skill challenge is, but you should also under- 
stand what is not—or should not be—a skill challenge. Just because the 
heroes make skill checks to solve a problem, that does not necessarily 
mean they are participating in a skill challenge. Examples of when you 
should not use the skill challenge system include: 

e Any time a situation can be resolved with a single skill check 

® Any situation that does not give multiple heroes something to do 

during the challenge 

e Any situation that has no risk of failure 

© Any series of events that lacks tension or cinematic flair 

® Any situation that does not evolve as the heroes take actions 


CONSIDER THE DURATION 

After coming up with a good concept for your skill challenge, decide how 
long it should take, in terms of real time and game time experienced by the 
heroes. Since a skill challenge is somewhat more abstract than a combat 
encounter, it can unfold over the course of a gaming session or even an entire 
adventure. Similarly, a skill challenge might represent an individual scene in 
the lives of the heroes, or it might span multiple scenes and be broken up 
by other events and encounters. When designing a skill challenge, you do 
not necessarily need to set strict guidelines for its duration, but do consider 
how it should unfold and at what pace. 

Some skill challenges are meant to be resolved in a relatively short 
amount of game time. In such cases, present situations that lend themselves 
to being finished without interruption. For example, a skill challenge based 
on surviving travel through an asteroid field is unlikely to be interrupted 
by other scenes and should be run straight through from beginning to end. 
These types of skill challenges take less time at the gaming table and often 
reach resolution in one scene (or in very few scenes) as the story unfolds. 


Other skill challenges that play out over a long sequence of game time 
might have interruptions. For example, consider a skill challenge that revolves 
around hunting down a crime lord that has gone into hiding. You can design 
a series of consecutive scenes that relate directly to the skill challenge, 
but you can also break up the action with combat encounters (perhaps the 
heroes jump some of the crime lord's thugs and attempt to subdue them) 
or interesting roleplaying scenes (perhaps the heroes talk to a bartender 
in a cantina frequented by the crime lord). The skill challenge might even 
be interrupted by another, shorter skill challenge—for example, the heroes 
flush the crime lord out of hiding but then must engage in a speeder chase 
to finally run him down. 


DETERMINE CL 

AND COMPLEXITY 

Now that you have a basic concept for the skill challenge and a general 
idea of how long it should take, you can determine the two most important 
factors: the challenge level (CL) and the complexity. Setting the CL of a 
skill challenge is just like setting the CL of a combat encounter. To produce 
a balanced challenge and a tense scene, set the CL at or near the average 
level of the heroes. Setting the CL higher or lower makes the challenge more 
or less difficult, respectively. 

The complexity of a skill challenge determines how many separate skill 
checks must be made to succeed in the challenge overall (see Table 2-1). A 
complexity 1 challenge requires the heroes to earn five successes to succeed 
in the challenge; a complexity 2 challenge requires eight successes; and a 
complexity 3 challenge requires 11 successes. Regardless of complexity, if 
the heroes fail three separate skill checks, they fail the challenge overall. 

The combination of CL and complexity also determines the experience 
value of the skill challenge. A complexity 1 skill challenge awards experience 
points equal to that of one opponent of a CL equal to the skill challenge's 
CL; likewise, a complexity 2 challenge awards experience points equal to 
that of two such opponents, and a complexity 3 challenge awards points 
equal to that of three such opponents. Thus, a complexity 2 skill challenge 
at CL 7 is worth the same amount of experience points as defeating two 
CL7 opponents. 

When designing a combat encounter that includes a skill challenge, take 
the challenge into account when calculating the difficulty of the encoun- 
ter—just count the challenge as a number of opponents. For example, when 
determining the difficulty of a combat encounter that includes a complexity 
2 skill challenge at CL 5, simply count the challenge as two CL 5 opponents. 

Many times, you can include a low-complexity skill challenge of a lower 
CL in a combat encounter to give the heroes opportunities to take actions 
other than fighting. Much in the same way that you might include storm- 
troopers that are well below the heroes’ level to soak up their attacks, a 
low-complexity, low-CL skill challenge can take up the heroes' actions during 
combat without making the encounter much more difficult. 


SHseOnwngsiwIvyA®) Iwas 


Hf HeSsiaevHo 


SsOnwsawvdVA®) WAS 


SeEeT SKILL DCS 

The CL of the challenge determines the target DCs of skills used in the 
challenge. Table 2-1 lists the skill DCs for challenge CLs under five general 
categories: easy, medium, moderate, hard, and heroic. When you create a skill 
challenge, these DCs determine success or failure for various skill uses. As the 
Gamemaster, you must determine whether each hero's action has a higher or 
lower likelihood of success, then assign a general difficulty (and thus a specific 
DC) to that skill check. The more plausible the hero's action in the situation, 
the lower the general difficulty category (and thus the DC) should be. 

Easy skill checks should be used for actions that have an extremely high 
likelihood of success, even if the heroes don't end up with a very high check 
result. Examples include using Persuasion to convince a friendly shopkeeper 
to help or using Mechanics to perform enough repairs to get a lightly dam- 
aged speeder up and running. You should assign an easy DC whenever you 
think that the hero's action is easy to achieve and represents a good solution 
to that part of the challenge. 

Medium skill checks should be used for actions that have a good chance of 
success but might become failures if the heroes bungle the check. Examples 
include slicing into a relatively light security system or climbing over a 
security wall in a lightly defended compound. You should assign a medium 
DC when you think the hero's action should succeed, but there is still some 
risk of failure due to a rare mistake. 


SEARCHING FOR LUKE ON HOTH IS A SKILL CHALLENGE 
WITH HIGH SKILL DCs. 


MARDER CHECKS 

AT HIGHER LEVELS 

The method described for assigning skill check DCs might give the 
impression that performing the same task is more difficult for heroes of 
higher levels, since the DCs are based on character level. However, the 
expected DCs are really just abstractions that represent many factors, 
with the assumption that challenges grow more difficult as heroes gain 
levels. Thus, a 10th-level hero making a Stealth check might need to beat 
a higher DC than he or she did when at 4th level because the circum- 
stances surrounding the Stealth check are more difficult. At 10th level, 
the skill challenge faced by the hero might have more vigilant guards, 
better security protocols, more precise sensors, or any number of other 
factors that make it harder to succeed on a Stealth check. 

This system allows you to design level-appropriate challenges without 
having to figure out the statistics for every guard, officer, and computer 
system the heroes might encounter. That said, you are free to assign skill 
check DCs based on other factors. For example, you can assign DCs based 
on the defense scores or skill modifiers of opponents, or on the statistics 
for hazards, vehicles, or objects. Similarly, you can mix and match within 
a skill challenge, assigning some DCs based on abstractions and others 
onan enemy's Will Defense or Perception bonus. Just remember that the 
result of a skill check against a defense score or a skill modifier should 
still count as a success or a failure. 


Moderate skill checks should be used for actions that have some chance 
of success but also a strong chance of failure. Examples include bribing an 
Imperial official to look the other way or flying a starship between buildings 
in a planetary metropolis. You should assign a moderate DC when the hero's 
action is risky but still a plausible solution to that part of the challenge. You 
can also assign a moderate DC when the hero's action uses a skill that is not 
optimal for the situation but that could produce results. 

Hard skill checks should be used for actions where the odds are stacked 
against the hero and the chance of failure is high. Examples include hiding 
from security guards in an open hangar or making an Acrobatics check to 
drop through a laser security grid. You should assign a hard DC when the 
hero's action probably should fail, but when luck or exceptional skill could 
pull off a miracle. You can also assign a hard DC when the skill the hero wants 
to use is unlikely to produce results during that particular skill challenge. 


TABLE 2-1: SKILL CHALLENGE DCS BY CL 


CHALLENGE CL EASY DC MEDIUM DC 
] 13 18 
2-3 14 19 
4-5 16 21 
6-7 17 22 
8-9 18 23 
10-11 19 24 
12-13 21 26 
14 22 27 
15 22 27 
16-17 23 28 
18-19 24 29 
20 26 31 


Heroic skill checks should be used for actions where success seems almost 
impossible. Examples include convincing a stormtrooper to betray the Empire 
or using the Force to plant suggestions in the mind of a Dark Jedi. You should 
assign a heroic DC when the hero's action has almost no chance of success 
or when it is implausible to expect any results from the chosen skill. 


CHOOSE PRIMARY SKILLS 

Although this step is not strictly necessary, it is a good idea to assign DCs 
to a small number of skills that the heroes are likely to use in the challenge. 
You will almost certainly need to improvise some DCs during the challenge, 
but you can probably predict some of the more obvious skill uses in advance 
and assign those DCs ahead of time. You should also note a few plausible 
uses of those skills in case you need to provide suggested actions to heroes 
who are stumped or need pointers. 

Of course, a set of primary skills is merely a handy starting point and 
does not limit the skill challenge in any way—the heroes still can attempt 
any actions they want. In fact, you should encourage your players to think 
creatively and reward them for doing so by allowing them a chance at suc- 
cess, no matter how small. Even if a skill is not considered a primary skill for 
the challenge, if a player suggests something that seems at least remotely 
plausible, give him or her the chance to try. 


CREATE OPTIONS 

When designing and running skill challenges, one of your biggest goals is to 
provide interesting options for the players. You should create opportunities 
for using a variety of skills, effectively setting up various "targets" for the 
heroes. The characters should be aware of the different elements placed 


MODERATE DC HARD DC HEROIC DC 


23 26 31 
24 27 32 
26 29 34 
27 30 35 
28 32 37 
29 33 38 
31 35 40 
32 36 41 
32 37 42 
33 38 43 
34 3g 44 
36 41 46 


before them and realize the potential for interactions. They don't negotiate 
only with a Hutt—his majordomo and protocol droid are also present. They 
don't simply evade a squad of stormtroopers—they can choose to hide in the 
slums or sneak through the elite section of town. They don't merely navigate 
an asteroid field—they can plunge into a dust cloud, zoom close to one of 
the biggest rocks, or try to reach a less dense area that has more room to 
maneuver. Such opportunities will present themselves in the way you describe 
the scene, so keep in mind that presenting multiple characters, locations, or 
objects makes it easier for the players to come up with interesting actions. 


ADD CHALLENGE EBFFECTS 

The final step in designing a skill challenge is to add one or more challenge 
effects (described in the next section) that modify the basic rules of the 
challenge. These extra effects are not required, but they can help give each 
skill challenge its own feel, just as adding special terrain features to a combat 
encounter can make it seem unique. If you want to use such effects, choose 
them in advance (not on the fly), based on the nature of the skill challenge 
in question. You also might want to make your players aware of the effects in 
case their presence alters the way the heroes would behave in that situation. 


CHALLENGE EBrFFECTS 


The effects described below provide small alterations to the game mechanics 
of a skill challenge, changing the way it plays out. Each effect has a unique 
rule associated with it, and some of the effects might be incompatible with 
one another—or at least require some adjudication from the Gamemaster. 
The description of each effect includes examples of how it can be used and 
suggestions for when it might be included in a skill challenge. 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
ui] 
2 


Ss@OQnweswIwvyA®) Wass 


SaeOWwsvwIV9VAS) 


IUAS 


ANTAGONIST 
The antagonist effect represents an opponent that actively works against the 
heroes as they perform the skill challenge. Rather than failing due to their 
own mistakes, the heroes face the threat of failure because of the efforts 
of the antagonist. In a skill challenge with the antagonist effect, the heroes 
do not accrue failures when they fail a skill check. Instead, the antagonist 
takes its own actions and makes its own skill checks (against the same DCs 
faced by the heroes), and each success the antagonist accrues counts as 
one failure for the heroes. The antagonist takes an action each time all the 
heroes have taken actions, ensuring that failures are accrued only after the 
heroes have had a chance to earn successes. 

For example, you might use this effect when the heroes are being pursued 
by a bounty hunter or when an enemy slicer is attempting to break into the 
heroes’ computer system. 


Use the antagonist effect when: 

® an opponent or entity is actively working against the heroes. 

© you want to encourage the heroes to act without fear of making the 
situation worse. 

e the actions of the heroes would not directly contribute to failure. 


CATASTROPHIC FAILURE 

The catastrophic failure effect represents the fact that the heroes’ plight is 
so delicate that a significant failure causes the situation to worsen rapidly. 
When a hero attempts an action and fails by a large margin, that failure 
moves the characters much closer to ultimate defeat. In a skill challenge 
with the catastrophic failure effect, if a participant fails a skill check by 10 
or more, the heroes accrue two failures instead of one. 


LUKE SKYWALKER REACTS AFTER A CATASTROPHIC FAILURE 
IN A NEGOTIATION SKILL CHALLENGE. 


For example, you might use this effect when the heroes are navigating 
an extremely dangerous asteroid field or trying to maintain a low profile in 
the seat of their enemy's power. 


Use the catastrophic failure effect when: 
e dire failure has a chance of producing dire consequences. 
© you want to increase tension in challenges with lower CLs. 
e you want to encourage heroes to aid the skill checks of their allies 
instead of making their own checks. 


CHANGING OBJECTIVES 

The changing objectives effect represents a more significant shift in the 
heroes’ situation than usual. As the heroes accrue successes and failures, the 
objectives of the skill challenge change, and the relevant skills and actions 
available to the heroes change as well. 

For example, you might use this effect when the heroes learn that the 
quarry they have been chasing actually needs their protection, or when the 
crime lord they have been negotiating with decides to turn them over to the 
authorities, forcing the characters to flee. 


Use the changing objectives effect when: 
e you want to combine two scenes into a single skill challenge. 
© you have heroes with wildly different skill sets. 
© the pace of the skill challenge slows and needs to be invigorated. 


CLOSE CALL 

The close call effect represents situations in which the heroes can fail to make 

progress toward their goal without making overall conditions worse. With this 

effect, the heroes accrue a failure only if they fail a skill check by 5 or more. 
For example, you might use this effect when the heroes are trying to 

track down an informant who has no allies on the planet, or when traveling 

overland across a world with few natural hazards. 


Use the close call effect when: 
® the actions of the heroes must fail dramatically to make their situation 
worse. 
© you want to make success in the skill challenge easier without lowering 
skill DCs. 
® you want to allow heroes to fail without obligating them to spend Force 
Points to earn a success. 


CONTAINMENT 
The containment effect represents situations in which the actions of the 
heroes can bring only success, not failure. Conditions grow worse only when 
no one contributes to the completion of the challenge. With this effect, the 
heroes do not accrue failures for failed skill checks. Instead, they accrue a 
failure only if no hero earns a success during an increment of time predeter- 
mined by the Gamemaster. This increment can be as short as a single combat 
round, or could encompass a longer period of time such as a minute, hour, or 
day. Each hero need not contribute to this skill challenge. 

For example, you might use this effect when the heroes are trying to 
stop a fire from spreading, or during a foot chase through empty streets. 


Use the containment effect when: 
® the actions of the heroes cannot make things worse. 
® you want to allow one hero to manage the skill challenge while the 
other heroes take other actions. 
® failure in the skill challenge depends on outside or natural forces. 


DEGENERATING 
The degenerating effect represents situations in which failures can make 
the situation worse without ending the skill challenge. In a degenerating 
skill challenge, the heroes’ actions have repercussions, and failures cause 
conditions to grow more dire, but the challenge does not end when the 
heroes accrue three failures. Instead, the general difficulty category for skill 
checks increases by one step for each failure accrued. For example, on the 
first failure, easy checks become medium checks, medium checks become 
moderate checks, and so on. Similarly, each success decreases the difficulty 
category by one step. The skill challenge ends when there are no possible 
skill DCs below a certain general category (as determined by the GM). For 
instance, the GM could determine that the skill challenge will be over when 
all of the skill checks have become hard. 

For example, you could use this effect when the heroes are trying to avoid 
capture by the Empire while on Coruscant or trying to navigate a starship 
through a dangerous cluster of black holes. 


Use the degenerating effect when: 

® you want to reinforce the cost of failure in the situation. 

® you want the challenge to grow more difficult as it progresses. 

© you want to allow the heroes a chance to recover from their mistakes 
in a noticeable way. 


ANAKIN LOSES ALLIES DURING A SPACE TRAVEL SKILL CHALLENGE 
IN AN EXAMPLE OF DEGREES OF FAILURE. 


DEGREES OF FAILURE 
Similar to a degenerating skill challenge, a skill challenge with the degrees of 
failure effect grows more dangerous as the heroes accrue more failures. The 
challenge itself does not become more difficult, but the heroes face other 
consequences, which might not become evident until after the challenge is 
over. The skill challenge ends when three failures are accrued, as normal, 
but even if the heroes succeed, they must deal with consequences based on 
the number of failures accrued during the challenge. 

For example, you might subtract a number of credits from the heroes’ 
reward for each failure, or the heroes might face a combat encounter with 
an encounter CL set by the number of failures accrued. 


Use the degrees of failure effect when: 

© you want distinct consequences for failure that last beyond the scope 
of the skill challenge. 

© you want to reinforce the need for perfect success in a challenge. 

© you want to reward heroes for completing a skill challenge without 
accruing failures. 


DEGREES OF SUCCESS 

Similar to a degrees of failure skill challenge, a skill challenge with the 
degrees of success effect rewards the heroes for accruing successes, even 
in the face of ultimate failure. Each time the heroes earn a certain number 
of successes, they gain some type of benefit, regardless of the number of 
failures they have accrued. The number of successes needed to gain a benefit 
can vary depending on the skill challenge. In a complexity 1 skill challenge, 
each success could grant a benefit, whereas in a complexity 3 skill challenge, 
the heroes might need three successes to earn a benefit. 

For example, you might determine that successes with certain skills alter 
the circumstances of the challenge, granting the heroes bonuses to other skill 
checks. Alternatively, the heroes could earn credits, pieces of information, 
experience points, or story rewards for their successes. 


IWAS 


SeeOnsiwIwwHSs) 


HSaLevHD 


SHPOWNSVWIWVAD) WAS 


Use the degrees of success effect when: 
© you want distinct benefits for success that last beyond the scope of the 
skill challenge. 
© you want to reward the heroes for successes in a difficult skill challenge 
that they are likely to fail. 
® you want each success to contribute to the collective knowledge pos- 
sessed by the heroes. 


EXTREME SUCCESS 
The extreme success effect allows heroes to bring a skill challenge to its 
conclusion more quickly by pulling off exceptional actions. With this effect, 
if a hero earns a success with a check result that is 10 or more points higher 
than the target DC, the hero earns two successes for the party instead of one. 
For example, you might use this effect when running a skill challenge 
for characters who are particularly suited to the task, or a challenge in 
which exceptional success puts the forces working against the heroes at a 
significant disadvantage. 


Use the extreme success effect when: 
© the heroes are well suited to the skill challenge's demands. 
® you want to allow the heroes to end the skill challenge more quickly 
than normal. 
© you want to reward high skill rolls in a challenge with a low CL relative 
to the party. 


INDIVIDUAL EFFORT 

A skill challenge with the individual effort effect focuses not only on the 
heroes’ ability to work together but also on their separate contributions to 
the challenge. When a skill challenge has this effect, each hero must earn a 
number of individual successes equal to the challenge's complexity before 
the party accrues enough failures as a whole to fail the challenge. 

For example, you can use this effect to reflect the need for everyone 
to contribute, such as when all the heroes are flying their own starfight- 
ers through a dangerous section of space, or when each hero must endure 
Imperial interrogation separately. 


Use the individual effort effect when: 
® you want to require each hero to attempt actions during the skill 
challenge. 
® you want to increase the overall difficulty of the challenge without 
increasing skill check DCs. 
® each hero's contributions must be relatively equal to ensure success. 


INITIATIVE 
Askill challenge with the initiative effect has a predetermined order in which 
the heroes can act. Each hero makes an Initiative check and acts in that order, 
just as in a normal combat encounter. 

You can use this effect for skill challenges that take place during a combat 
encounter, or for those that occur in a very short amount of time (a matter 
of seconds or minutes). 


Use the initiative effect when: 
© running a skill challenge in combat. 
© the heroes’ ability to act in the challenge is based on their reaction 
times. 
© you want to have a fixed order in which the heroes act. 


OPPOSED DC 
A skill challenge with the opposed DC effect represents a situation in which 
someone or something is actively working to deter the heroes’ efforts. Like 
the antagonist effect, this pits the heroes directly against an opposing force 
that determines the difficulty of success. A skill challenge with the opposed 
DC effect does not use the skill check DCs from Table 2-2, above. Instead, the 
DC is set by the skill check or defense score of an opponent. The Gamemaster 
must know the skill checks and defense scores of the relevant opponents to 
determine successes and failures. 

For example, you can use this effect for skill challenges in which the 
heroes try to outmaneuver an enemy antislicer droid, or when they engage 
in a battle of wits with an enemy commander. 


Use the opposed DC effect when: 
® the skill challenge has a specific opponent or set of opponents. 
© the heroes are taking actions directly against an individual. 
© you don't want to base the skill check DCs on the situation. 


RECOVERY 
Askill challenge with the recovery effect represents a situation in which the 
heroes can make amends for mistakes they made earlier in the challenge. 
When a hero succeeds on a check by 5 or more, that hero can choose to 
remove one failure instead of earning a success. 

You might use this effect when your heroes are negotiating with a noble 
who is as easily flattered as offended, or during a skill challenge in which 
the heroes are working to evade a pursuing bounty hunter. 


Use the recovery effect when: 
© the situation allows the heroes to make up for their mistakes. 
© you want to encourage skilled heroes to compensate for the lower skills 
of other heroes. 
© you want to reward heroes for significant successes without bringing 
the challenge to a premature end. 


RESTRICTED SKILLS 

A skill challenge with the restricted skills effect represents a situation in 
which the same trick will not work more than a few times, if at all. This should 
be true in most skill challenges—you should not allow a hero to complete a 
challenge by using the same skill over and over again—but this effect imposes 
more strict limitations. You can implement this effect in three ways. First, 
you can forbid certain skills from being used in the challenge. Second, you 
can limit the number of times that certain skills can be used, either by an 
individual hero or by the party overall. Third, you can rule that when a hero 
accrues a failure with a certain skill, that skill can no longer be used to earn 
successes in the challenge. 

For example, you could use this effect in a challenge with a Hutt crime 
lord as he judges the heroes' worthiness to work for him, or when the 
characters are trying to sneak into a secret research facility where failure 
triggers alarms. 


Use the restricted skills effect when: 

® you want to encourage heroes to vary the skills they use. 

® the situation warrants that you bar a particular skill from being used. 

* you want to encourage less obvious solutions to the problems of the 
skill challenge. 


SECOND EFFORT 
A skill challenge with the second effort effect represents a situation in 
which, despite a lack of skill or composure, the heroes manage to succeed 
through pure grit and determination. With this effect, any hero who accrues 
a failure can make a sacrifice to turn that failure into a success. The exact 
nature of the sacrifice is up to the GM, but examples include moving down 
the condition track, taking damage, or losing a Force Point. 

You can use this effect in skill challenges that reward determination, such 
as pushing through a driving storm on Dorin despite failing to find shelter, 
or blasting through a blockade with no regard for the final state of the ship. 


Use the second effort effect when: 

* you want to give the heroes the chance to sacrifice resources for 
success. 

¢ the skill challenge has a higher CL and you want to reduce the odds of 
outright failure. 

® the heroes’ determination can overcome their lack of ideas or compe- 
tence with skills. 


TIMED CHALLENGE 

The timed challenge effect represents a situation in which the heroes must 
worry more about the passage of time than about their individual failures. 
This effect creates tension and keeps the heroes’ eyes on their chronometers 
as the skill challenge progresses. With this effect, the heroes do not accrue 
failures for failing skill checks, but instead must earn the required number 
of successes before a certain amount of time passes (either in rounds or in 
a more general sense). 

For example, you might use this effect in skill challenges in which the 
heroes must destroy a communications satellite before an enemy fleet 
arrives, or in which the heroes have to trek through the wilderness before 
a wounded prisoner dies. 


Use the timed challenge effect when: 

© you want to introduce a sense of apprehension. 

© you want to encourage all the heroes to participate without worrying 
about accruing failures. 

© you want to give the heroes more flexibility in choosing who acts and 
in what order. 


REBEL PILOTS FACE A TIMED CHALLENGE 
WHILE MAKING A TRENCH RUN. 


SAaOnwswvV7AS) WAS 


ff BSLaerHoS 


SSFONSWIVAD IWWASs 


SuUCCESS 
AND FAILURE 


With the skill challenge designed, the last step is to determine the conse- 
quences of success and failure. Typically, success is self-evident—the heroes 
achieve the goal that they set out to achieve, such as finding the information 
they need or escaping from the Empire. 

However, determining the results of failure can be a bit more tricky. 
As in a combat encounter, failure should have some kind of effect on the 
heroes’ resources. It should not prevent the story from advancing or bring 
the adventure to a halt, but failure should lead to negative consequences for 
the heroes. For example, if they are engaged in a skill challenge that requires 
them to chase a quarry with a bounty on his or her head, failing the skill 
challenge does not necessarily mean that the target gets away. Instead, it 
could mean that the quarry makes it to a safe house, and the heroes must 
fight their way in. Alternatively, the target could escape but leave behind 
a trail that the heroes have to follow into a more dangerous environment. 
The failure of a skill challenge should still lead the story forward, but it can 
create new complications and twists for the characters. In most cases, even 
if the heroes fail the skill challenge, they still earn experience points for it, 
just as they would for a combat encounter. 

You should know ahead of time what the consequences of failing a skill 
challenge will be for the heroes. Below are several suggestions for failure 
conditions that you can use when designing skill challenges. 


BEING CAPTURED BY ENEMIES IS ONE POSSIBLE RESULT 
OF FAILING A SKILL CHALLENGE. 


FAILURE CONDITION: 

COMBAT ENCOUNTER 

If the heroes fail the skill challenge, they are led to a combat encounter, usu- 
ally one with the same CLas the challenge. Thus, if the heroes fail a CL8 skill 
challenge, they should have a combat encounter appropriate for 8th-level 
heroes. In this case, the heroes earn no experience from the skill challenge; 
instead, their XP reward is based on the combat encounter. 


FAILURE CONDITION: 

LOSS OF ALLIES 

For a more story-related failure condition, failing a skill challenge could 
result in the death, capture, or forced abandonment of allies or other relevant 
characters. For example, ina skill challenge in which the heroes fly a squadron 
of starfighters through a dangerous area of space, failure could mean that 
none of the heroes’ fellow pilots survive the trip. Alternatively, failure could 
mean that certain allies—whether present or distant—are captured by the 
enemy, opening new avenues for adventure. 


FAILURE CONDITION: 

Loss OF EQUIPMENT 

Similar to the previous failure condition, failing a skill challenge could cause 
the heroes’ equipment (including droids and vehicles) to become lost or 
damaged. For example, in a skill challenge in which the heroes infiltrate an 
Imperial facility to destroy a shield generator, failure could mean that the 
explosives they brought are damaged, forcing them to find another way to 
blow up the building. 


FAILURE CONDITION: 

Loss OF FORCE POINT 

If you want to use a failure condition based on the metagame, failing a skill 
challenge could result in the loss of a Force Point for each hero who partici- 
pated in the challenge. This type of failure condition could be used when the 
heroes have failed in a matter of importance to the adventure, representing 
that the Force is not with them as strongly as it normally is. 


FAILURE CONDITION: 

Loss OF SECOND WIND 

Failing a skill challenge could result in the loss of a second wind for each hero 
who participated in the challenge—a good choice for challenges that involve 
physical endurance. This failure condition represents physical exhaustion, and 
it could mean that heroes who have only one second wind per day cannot 
recover quickly from their wounds. For example, ina skill challenge in which 
the heroes must trek through the Felucian jungle, failure could represent the 
heroes reaching their destination but being exhausted by the effort. 


SKILL 
CHALLENGE TIPS 


Now that you know how a skill challenge works, this section offers tips 
on creating more exciting challenges. Although each challenge is differ- 
ent, certain aspects of their creation and execution can make them more 
memorable. As the Gamemaster, it is your job to use the rules—and these 
suggestions—to create scenes that excite your players, tell an interesting 
story, and fit into the Star Wars saga. 


ENCOURAGE CINEMATIC PLAY 

Part of your responsibility as a Gamemaster is to promote cinematic play. In 
Star Wars, taking risks is part of the fun and can lead to great thrills, and in 
askill challenge, goals that otherwise would be incredibly difficult might be 
within the heroes’ grasp. To encourage the players to take cinematic actions, 
present situations in which there are many opportunities to do so. Part of 
this is simply a function of choosing interesting terrain and locales for the 
skill challenge, but as the challenge evolves, you might need to present new 
situations in which the heroes can take audacious chances and still flourish. 
You can be a bit more lenient when the players want to take risks, especially 
if it will produce a more exciting scene. If a hero wants to attempt a daring 
action that has potential to make the scene more stirring, feel free to assign 
a skill check DC that is lower than might normally be expected. 


OFFER SUGGESTIONS 

As with combat encounters, sometimes a skill challenge can bog down. The 
players might have a hard time deciding on their next actions, or they might 
be paralyzed by the fear of doing something wrong. Sometimes, the players’ 
interest might wane, or a failure can make the situation seem hopeless. In 
hese cases, it is up to you as the Gamemaster to offer gentle nudges to keep 
he challenge moving. When the action slows down too much, feel free to 
suggest good skill uses that the heroes can try, especially if you know that 
he tasks would be relatively easy for them to perform. Some players might 
eel lost because they did not follow your description of the situation, and 
giving them suggestions of what to try can help clarify the needs of the 
challenge and fire their imaginations. 


CREATE BVOLVING SITUATIONS 

A skill challenge is supposed to be a dynamic, evolving scene. As the heroes 
gain successes and failures, the situation should change accordingly. The 
heroes’ actions should have an impact on the scenario, and the characters 
should feel that they are making progress, not just taking futile actions. Even 
better, altering the situation as a result of the heroes’ actions opens up fresh 
creative opportunities, especially if the new circumstances lend themselves 
to other skills. For example, during a negotiation, the heroes should see some 


OBI-WAN HANGS ONTO A DROID IN A DANGEROUS, 
BUT CINEMATIC, CHALLENGE. 


indication that their arguments are having an effect on the Hapan noble 
whom they are entreating for aid. After accruing a few successes, perhaps 
they convince the noble to help them, only to discover that they must also 
convince the other members of her house to assist, meaning that the heroes 
now must deal with a whole council. On the other hand, accruing a failure 
might cause the noble to become offended and summon her guards to take 
the heroes away; the characters then must convince the guards to wait long 
enough for them to make a second plea. 

Evolving situations create more interesting opportunities and more 
engaging scenes. If a scenario develops beyond the place where it started, 
it is more likely to be seen as progress in the plot of the campaign. When a 
situation evolves, something about it should change—the locale, the person 
with whom the heroes must interact, the tone or sense of urgency, and so 
on. The new conditions should open up more possibilities for heroic actions 
and give players something new to do rather than repeat the same actions 
from their previous turns. 


IMDS 


SeoOnwswV9AS) 


Cp ee eS 


wt 


.— | 


SHsOwesiwWwWIVyA®) Iwas 


IMPOSE CONSEQUENCES 

As you create evolving situations, remember that the choices the players 
make should have consequences. They likely will use the skills and abilities 
that grant them the best chances of success. However, keep in mind that 
using the same resources over and over again might have negative conse- 
quences, and encourage the heroes to choose from a variety of actions that 
are appropriate for each situation. For example, if you have a Jedi hero whose 
best skill is Use the Force, he or she might try to use that skill to solve every 
problem in the skill challenge. If that occurs, from time to time you should 
impose repercussions for relying on that skill too much. In the Rebellion 
era, for instance, someone who uses the Force repeatedly could draw the 
attention of the Empire, so the Jedi's recklessness could cause the heroes 
to be hounded by Imperials. 

Additionally, each time a hero earns a success or a failure in a skill chal- 
lenge, allow a larger consequence to alter the situation or come back into 
play down the line. Keep the challenge dynamic by having it reflect the 
heroes’ actions. For example, in the Endor chase sequence, Luke makes a 
Jump check to knock a scout trooper off a speeder bike, and he succeeds. 
As a consequence of his action, Luke gains control of a speeder bike and can 
act independently from Leia (whereas before, his options were more limited). 


ADD SKILL CHALLENGES 

TO COMBAT 

Sometimes, a skill challenge can be used during combat to represent complex 
tasks. When you run a skill challenge as a part of a combat encounter, your 
players will almost certainly act on initiative order, and you should not require 
all heroes to contribute to the success of the challenge. The challenge should 
have enough transparency for the players to make informed decisions about 
what their heroes do. 

Skill challenges that occur during a combat encounter usually require 
the heroes to work together on a complex task while engaging in combat 
with enemies. Returning to the Endor example, think of the scene outside 
the entrance to the bunker, in which the heroes try to break in while fighting 
the forces of the Empire. As the combat progresses, the heroes (in this case, 
Han Solo and R2-D2) attempt a variety of skill checks to gain entry to the 
bunker, occasionally stopping (in Han's case) to make attack rolls. 

As discussed at Determine CL and Complexity on page 41, when you use 
a skill challenge in combat, consider it part of the encounter's design when 
determining encounter difficulty. Typically, given the peril of combat, you 
should include only complexity 1 skill challenges in combat encounters, 
Additionally, when designing encounters, you can include a complexity 1 
skill challenge without adding the skill challenge's CL to the encounter's total 
CL. In essence, complexity 1 skill challenges are “free” when included in a 
combat encounter and do not affect the calculations you make to determine 
the difficulty of the skill challenge. 


BREAK UP THE CHALLENGE 

You need not run all parts of a skill challenge consecutively. After a round 
of skill checks, you can put the challenge on hold and engage the players in 
another scene before returning to the next round of checks. This is a great 
way to play out skill challenges that take place over a longer period of time. 
For example, if the heroes are members of New Republic Intelligence sent to 
root out Imperial agents who are inciting sedition among a planet's populace, 
the skill challenge goal might be to uncover the identities of the provoca- 
teurs. Finding the Imperials could be a complex skill challenge that unfolds 
over several days. After the heroes accrue a few successes and failures, the 
Gamemaster can put the skill challenge on hold so the characters can deal 
with other events (such as a riot) that require their attention. Breaking up 
a skill challenge is also a good way to reinforce the dynamic nature of the 
scene. After the first failure in a skill challenge, you might put it aside to run 
a short combat encounter, then return to the challenge after the encounter is 
resolved, When you pick the challenge back up again, the scene has changed, 
and the parameters of the challenge might have changed as well. 


IMPROVISE 

Any Gamemaster running a skill challenge must be prepared to improvise. 
Thinking on your feet is key to creating an interesting challenge, and you should 
be ready to engage in both active improvisation and reactive improvisation. 

Active improvisation comes into play when you need to spice up the skill 
challenge for one reason or another. Perhaps your players have hit a dead 
end, run out of ideas, or simply lost interest in the challenge. Alternatively, 
you might run out of sensible responses to the heroes’ actions before the 
skill challenge has been resolved. If this happens, you should improvise new 
situations, new locales, or new parameters for the challenge. For example, 
during a skill challenge that involves negotiation with a Hutt crime lord, the 
players might tire of the constant back-and-forth with the gangster and 
lose interest. Improvising, you decide that the Hutt has likewise grown bored 
with the heroes and throws a switch that opens a trap door, dropping the 
characters into a system of caverns filled with predatory beasts. The skill 
challenge changes from a negotiation to an escape sequence, requiring the 
heroes to make their way out of the caverns before being eaten by whatever 
creatures lurk in the dark. 

Reactive improvisation comes into play as a result of the heroes’ actions. 
Sometimes, the players will take actions that you did not anticipate, or they 
will find loopholes in the scene that cause them to do something unexpected. 
That's okay—in fact, it can be a lot of fun for both you and the players if 
you let them be clever and creative. Rather than reject the actions because 
you did not prepare for them, improvise ways that the actions can succeed, 
and in turn transform the skill challenge. For example, the heroes are par- 
ticipating in an investigative skill challenge to find a fugitive. One of the 
characters, in a surprising turn, puts up a large sum of credits as a bounty on 


the target rather than continuing the investigation. Improvising, you allow 
the action, and some days later, a bounty hunter shows up with the quarry in 
tow. However, the skill challenge continues; the heroes must negotiate with 
the bounty hunter, then escape the bodyguards that the quarry summoned 
when taken into custody. 


SAMPLE SKILL 
CHALLENGES 


The rest of this chapter presents sample skill challenges that were designed 
with the rules described in the previous part of the chapter. They show how 
to design skill challenges to fit a variety of situations, and each skill challenge 
can be used in your game as is. 

The first two examples demonstrate how the complexity of a skill chal- 
lenge can vary based on your needs. They also illustrate extremes of skill 
challenge design. The first example is a simple, straightforward challenge 
that was formed quickly to produce a short scene, whereas the second uses 
many elements to create a more complex scene that changes as the skill 
challenge evolves. 

Following the first two examples are a variety of sample skill challenges, 
including some intended for use during combat encounters, that you can 
use as models for building your own. 


SIMPLE SKILL CHALLENGE: 
BREACHING THE BUNKER 

In this skill challenge, the heroes must breach the front entrance to an Impe- 
rial bunker and retrieve the Empire's battle plans for an upcoming conflict. 
This challenge is intended for use during a combat encounter; the heroes 
must choose between working toward the skill challenge and firing back 
at the enemies that are trying to stop them. When the challenge begins, 
the blast doors to the bunker are sealed, and the heroes must get inside to 
retrieve the data they need. 


CL 2 

Complexity: 1 (5 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (technology) [DC 14]: The heroes can attempt to recognize 
familiar pieces of technology, which can help identify the method for open- 
ing the blast doors or extracting information from the bunker's computers. 

Mechanics [DC 19]:The heroes can try to activate the blast doors’ opening 
mechanism, allowing them to enter the bunker. 

Persuasion [DC 24]: The heroes can attempt to convince an Imperial 
officer at their mercy to grant them entrance into the bunker or to call up 
the information needed from its computers. 


HAN HOTWIRES THE ENDOR BUNKER. 


Use Computer [DC 19]: The heroes can try to slice into the blast doors’ 
locking mechanism to open them or retrieve the needed information from 
the bunker's computers. 


Challenge Effect: The following is a suggested challenge effect for this 


skill challenge: 
Timed Challenge: The heroes have 10 combat rounds to complete the 
challenge. After that point, they automatically fail the challenge. 


Success: After two successes, the blast doors open, allowing the heroes 
to enter the bunker and work on retrieving the data. If the heroes succeed 
on the skill challenge overall, they obtain the needed information and have 
a chance to escape before reinforcements arrive. 

Failure: If the heroes fail the skill challenge, reinforcements arrive in the 
form of six CL 1 stormtroopers. The heroes still have a chance to retrieve the 
data, but the fight becomes more difficult. 


wSeiavHs 


ti 


@ 
is 
fP 
[P 
Q) 
pi 
2 
ir 
W 
de 
U) 
W) 
0) 


0) 
i 
[(P 
[Pr 
Q 
2 
> 
(Pr 
fr 
W 
ze 
9 
W) 
@ 


|] eSsiavHo 


COMPLEX SKILL CHALLENGE: 
THE PODRACE 

In this skill challenge, the heroes are sponsoring a Podracer in the Ando Over- 
land event, which features 12 racers, Two of the heroes operate a two-seater 
racing pod, and the other members of the party act as pit crew, spotters, and 
crew chiefs. The heroes' goal is to secure victory in the three-lap Podrace. 
This skill challenge is broken into three phases that describe what happens 
as the race progresses. 


CL6 
Complexity: 3 (11 successes before 3 failures) 


Podrace Phase 1 
The first lap of the race is relatively straightforward. 


Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
phase of the skill challenge: 

Initiative [DC 22]: The pilot can attempt to use quick reflexes to get off 
to a quick start, while other heroes can try to look ahead in the race to 
anticipate trouble. 

Knowledge (tactics) [DC 17]:The copilot or crew chief can make a Knowl- 
edge (tactics) check to analyze enemy flight patterns and advise the pilot 
on the best path to grab the lead. 

Perception [DC 22]:The spotter, copilot, or any other character with a clear 
view of the track can look for danger on the track ahead or identify which 
racers are reckless and which ones are likely to allow the heroes’ Podracer 
to draft behind them. 

Pilot [DC 17]: The pilot of the Podracer can make a Pilot check to attempt 
some fancy flying, dancing the vehicle around opponents or across safer 
ground, 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this phase of the skill challenge: 

Degrees of Failure: The outcome of this skill challenge depends on the 
number of failures the heroes accrue. The fewer failures the heroes have at 
the end of the first lap, the better their finishing position. 

Extreme Success: Any hero who succeeds on a skill check by 10 or more 
earns two successes instead of one. 

Recovery: Any hero who succeeds on a skill check by 5 or more can forfeit 
that success in exchange for removing one failure. 


Success: When the heroes have earned four successes, move on to phase 
2 of the race. 

Failure: If the heroes accrue no failures during the first lap, their racer 
is in the lead at the end of the lap. If they accrue one or two failures, their 
racer is in the middle of the pack at the end of the lap. If they accrue three 
failures, their racer crashes, but no one is harmed. 


THE PODRACE ON TATOOINE 


Podrace Phase 2 

When phase 2 begins, so does the second lap of the race. As the competition 
nears its midpoint, the heroes’ Podracer has a chance to make a short pit stop. 
At this point, the heroes notice that a rival pit crew is acting suspiciously— 
one of its members sneaks into a covered parts shed while dragging a droid. 


Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
phase of the skill challenge: 

Mechanics [DC 22]: The Podracer makes a pit stop that is quick and 
efficient, allowing the heroes to make fast repairs without losing too much 
ground. 

Pilot [DC 17]: The pilot of the Podracer continues to try to outmaneuver 
his or her opponents. Additionally, the pilot might try to engage in aggressive 
tactics, running other racers off the course. 

Stealth [DC 27]: Any hero on the pit crew can try to sneak into the parts 
shed where the rival crew member dragged the droid. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this phase of the skill challenge: 

Degrees of Failure: The outcome of this skill challenge depends on the 
number of failures the heroes accrue. The fewer failures the heroes have at 
the end of the second lap, the better their finishing position. 

Extreme Success: Any hero who succeeds on a skill check by 10 or more 
earns two successes instead of one. 

Recovery. Any hero who succeeds on a skill check by 5 or more can forfeit 
that success in exchange for removing one failure. 


Success: When the heroes have earned a total of seven successes, move 
on to phase 3 of the race. 

Failure: If the heroes accrue no failures during the second lap, their racer 
is in the lead at the end of the lap. If they accrue one or two failures, their 
racer is in the middle of the pack at the end of the lap. If they accrue three 
failures, their racer crashes, but no one is harmed. 


Podrace Phase 3 
When phase 3 begins, so does the final lap. With the race nearing comple- 
tion, the rival crew's plans are revealed. The crew is strapping ion bombs 
onto droids and intends to release them onto the track to take out the front- 
runners before they can reach the finish line. Several droids are released onto 
the track at the start of this phase, and they collide with a Podracer that lags 
behind the others. As the ion bomb explodes, communications throughout 
he arena are disrupted, and the target racer crashes. 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
phase of the skill challenge: 
Acrobatics [DC 27]: One of the heroes on the pit crew can attempt to 
dash onto the track, grab one of the ion bomb droids, and drag it away, all 
he while narrowly avoiding the Podracers that rush by. If a hero managed to 
sneak into the parts shed during phase 2, that hero can react more quickly 
o stop the droids and must make a DC 22 (rather than 27) Acrobatics check. 

Deception [DC 22]: The pilot of the Podracer can attempt to fool oppo- 
nents into following a more dangerous path or to otherwise fake out the 
competitors with tricky maneuvers. 
Pilot [DC 27]: Due to the disrupted communications, performing risky stunts 
is much harder because the heroes in the pit crew cannot warn the pilot and 
copilot of upcoming danger. If at least one hero succeeds on a Use Computer 
check to reestablish communications, the DC of the Pilot check drops to 17. 

Use Computer [DC 17]:The heroes can try to recalibrate their communica- 
tions devices, reestablishing contact between the pit crew and the Podracer. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this phase of the skill challenge: 

Degrees of Failure: The outcome of this skill challenge depends on the 
number of failures the heroes accrue. The fewer failures the heroes have at 
the end of the final lap, the better their finishing position. 

Degrees of Success: Certain skills in this phase of the challenge are easier 
if the heroes have already earned success with other skills. 

Second Effort: Late in the race, the heroes have a chance to push 
themselves and their racer to the limit. Whenever the pilot or copilot would 
normally accrue a failure in this phase of the skill challenge, that hero can 
move the Podracer -1 step on the condition track to convert that failure into 
a success. Condition track penalties of the Podracer are also applied to the 
skill checks of the pilot and copilot. 


Success: When the heroes have earned a total of 11 successes, the race 
ends. Their position in the race depends on the total number of failures 
they accrued. 

Failure: If the heroes have no failures when the skill challenge ends, their 
Podracer comes in first place. If they have one failure, their racer comes in 
second place. If they have two failures, their racer comes in third place. If 
they accrue their third failure during phase 3, they finish the race in seventh 
place (out of a possible 12). 


SkeitLkL CHALLENGE: 

ASTEROID FIELD ESCAPE 

This skill challenge represents a chase sequence through an asteroid field. 
The heroes, aboard their ship, are attempting to escape from pursuing enemy 
starfighters. This challenge is intended for use during a combat encounter, 
giving the crew of the ship something to work toward while the gunners 
fend off the enemy starships. 


ESCAPING THROUGH AN ASTEROID FIELD 


SsOwstwmVvH® WAS | 


Q 
I 
b 
7 
“| 
a 
d 


SHSONSVWVA) WAS 


cL9 

Complexity: 1 (5 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Fire Starship Weapons [Reflex Defense 23]: A gunner aboard the heroes’ 
ship can fire a weapon (which must deal at least 2d10x2 points of damage) 
to clear a path through the asteroid field. 

Knowledge (physical sciences) [DC 18]: The heroes can attempt to use 
their knowledge of asteroid field physics to determine the safest route 
through the field. 

Mechanics [DC 23]: The systems operator aboard the ship can make 
a Mechanics check to boost the strength of the ship's shields against an 
incoming asteroid collision, blunting or negating the impact. 

Pilot [DC 28]: The pilot of the ship can make a Pilot check to keep the 
pursuing starfighters at bay and make it safely through the asteroid field. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Catastrophic Failure: Any hero making a Pilot check to control the ship 
who fails the check by 10 or more earns two failures instead of one. 

Degrees of Success: The heroes' progress through the asteroid field makes 
it harder for the pursuing starfighters to avoid the ship's gunners. Each time 
the heroes earn a success, one of the ship's gunners gains a +2 circumstance 
bonus to his or her next attack roll made before the end of his or her next turn. 

Initiative: The heroes must act in order of initiative during the skill 
challenge. 


Success: The heroes evade the pursuing starfighters and make it safely 
through the asteroid field. 

Failure: The heroes’ ship is shot down or damaged by asteroids, crash- 
landing on one of the largest asteroids in the field. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

COVERT INFILTRATION 

In this skill challenge, the heroes must covertly infiltrate an extremely secure 
facility, such as the headquarters of Imperial Intelligence or the Corporate 
Sector Authority. The heroes have located the facility, which is well guarded 
and has excellent security measures, and they need to get inside and reach 
a particular chamber. 


CL 12 

Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Acrobatics [DC 21]:The heroes can attempt to climb into ventilation ducts 
or wriggle through maintenance crawlspaces to avoid more attuned sensors. 


BREAKING INTO AN IMPERIAL DETENTION FACILITY 


Deception [DC 26]: The heroes can try to convince the guards on duty 
that they belong in the facility, despite not having proper identification. 

Stealth [DC 26]: The heroes can attempt to slip by security patrols with- 
out being noticed and to pass under security cameras outside their range 
of vision. 

Use Computer [DC 21]: The heroes can try to slice into the facility's central 
computer to deactivate security devices along their route. 


Challenge Effect: The following is a suggested challenge effect for this 
skill challenge: 

Recovery: Any hero who succeeds on a skill check by 5 or more can forfeit 
that success in exchange for removing one failure. 


Success: The heroes reach the location they seek without being captured 
or triggering an alarm. 

Failure: The heroes reach their destination but are confronted by guards, 
and alarms sound throughout the facility. 


SKILL. CHALLENGE: 
INTERROGATION 

This skill challenge represents the interrogation of a prisoner. The heroes have 
captured an enemy soldier, droid, or bureaucrat and are attempting to learn 
what they can from the detainee. The characters must get the information 
they seek from the target to further their own goals. 


CL3 

Complexity: 1 (5 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Deception [DC 19]: The heroes can attempt to trick the prisoner into 
revealing the information they seek, pursuing a certain line of questioning 
in the hopes of deceiving the captive into letting something slip. 

Persuasion [DC 24]: The heroes can try to convince the prisoner, either 
sincerely or through intimidation, that revealing the information is in his or 
her best interests. 

Use the Force [DC 24]: The heroes can attempt to use the Force to 
extract the information from the prisoner—the target is betrayed by his or 
her thoughts. 


Challenge Effect: The following is a suggested challenge effect for this 
skill challenge: 

Containment: The heroes do not accrue failures for failed skill checks. 
Instead, they accrue a failure only if everyone takes an action but no one 
earns a success. 


Success: The heroes learn the information they seek. 

Failure: The prisoner's will proves too strong, no matter how intense the 
interrogation, and it becomes clear that the heroes will learn nothing more 
from their captive. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 
INVESTIGATION 

In this skill challenge, the heroes are trying to uncover information about a 
particular person, object, or organization. For the purposes of this challenge, 
the heroes are covertly investigating their target in an urban environment, 
and they must discover what they need without attracting the notice of 
the enemy. 


CL.5 

Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Deception [DC 26]: The heroes can attempt to trick someone who has 
knowledge about their target—such as a close friend or a person working on 
a relevant project—into revealing the information that they seek. 

Gather Information [DC 16]: The heroes can gather rumors in local cantinas 
in an attempt to piece together the information they need. 

Knowledge (galactic lore) [DC 16]: The heroes can try to recall bits of 
related information that they learned in the past, applying it to the current 
situation to assemble a more complete picture of their target. 

Use Computer [DC 21]: The heroes can attempt to slice into planetary 
networks to retrieve secret information, learning what they can from the 
databanks of secure computers. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Close Call: The heroes accrue failures only on skill checks that fail by 5 
or more. 

Degrees of Success: For every two successes the heroes earn, they learn 
a new piece of information about their target. 


Success: The heroes learn everything they need to know about their 
target. 

Failure: The heroes fail to learn everything they need. Worse, their 
enemies become aware that the heroes are present and seeking information. 


OBI-WAN PARTICIPATES IN AN INVESTIGATION 
SKILL CHALLENGE ON KAMINO. 


WAS | | ti 


SHeeONsBIIWHAS) 


Se9@eQnwswvwdIVA®) WAS 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 
NEGOTIATION 

In this skill challenge, the heroes have earned enough of a reputation to 
convince an Imperial Senator to meet with them. They want to persuade 
him to betray the Empire and start working for the Rebel Alliance. During 
their audience, the heroes must convince the Senator that it is in his best 
interests to begin acting as an Alliance spy in the Senate and on Coruscant. 


CL 12 

Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Deception [Opposed DC]: The heroes can fabricate evidence that the 
Empire is a threat to the Senator, or they might invent an Imperial atrocity 
that hits close to home for the Senator (even though it is not true). 

Knowledge (galactic lore) [DC 26]: The heroes can recall information 
about the Senator, such as his military service record from the Clone Wars 
or his participation in anticorruption rallies as a youth, and use it as lever- 
age against him. 

Knowledge (social sciences) [DC 31]: The heroes can put forth a point of 
philosophy, well known on the Senator's homeworld, that engages him and 
makes a good case for joining their cause. 

Persuasion [Opposed DC]: The heroes can make an impassioned plea for 
the Senator to join the Rebel Alliance, using smooth and winning words to 
convince him that they are in the right. 

Use the Force [Opposed DC]: The heroes can attempt to read the mood or 
surface thoughts of the Senator, using that knowledge to better influence 
him and to avoid offending him. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Antagonist: Although the Senator shows signs of being sympathetic to 
the Rebellion, the Empire has placed an adjutant in the Senator's office who 
makes counterarguments and begs the Senator to report the heroes to the 
Imperial Security Bureau. The adjutant is the foil to the heroes’ arguments, 
and she attempts to stymie their efforts with Imperial propaganda. The heroes 
do not accrue failures when they fail skill checks. Instead, each time all the 
heroes have taken an action, the adjutant makes a skill check (determined 
by the GM) against the Senator's Will Defense; if she succeeds, the heroes 
accrue one failure. 

Opposed DC: Skills used against the Senator directly, including Deception, 
Persuasion, and Use the Force, target the Senator's Will Defense. Alterna- 
tively, if the heroes try to attack the adjutant's arguments directly, she sets 
the DC with the result of her Persuasion check. 


A NEGOTIATION SKILL CHALLENGE 


BONZALO 
FLORES: 


Recovery: Since the Senator has heard of the heroes and is amenable 
to their cause, he is willing to listen to them despite the arguments of the 
adjutant. Any hero who succeeds on a skill check by 5 or more can forfeit 
that success in exchange for removing one failure. 


Success: The heroes convince the Senator to help the Rebel Alliance. He 
agrees to act as their spy in the Senate and on Coruscant. To ensure that the 
Imperial adjutant does not cause trouble for the heroes, the Senator has her 
subdued by guards and shipped off to the spice mines of Kessel. 

Failure: The adjutant's arguments convince the Senator that treason 
is too dangerous. He calls for the heroes to be arrested, and the adjutant 
alerts the ISB of their actions. The heroes might have a chance to repair their 
relationship with the Senator in the future, or he might become an antagonist 
that works against the Alliance on Coruscant. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

OVERLAND TRAVEL 

This skill challenge represents traveling across a dangerous expanse of wil- 
derness. It can be used in a variety of environments, including the deserts of 
Tatooine and the jungles of Felucia. Higher-level versions of this skill challenge 
could work in environments that are even more hazardous, such as the toxic 
surface of Dorin or the volcanic wastes of Mustafar. 


CL4 

Complexity: 3 (3 successes per hero before there are no skill DCs below 
DC 34) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Endurance [DC 16]: The heroes can attempt to push on even when 
fatigued, using less water and fewer supplies and shortening their trip by 
setting a more brisk pace. 

Knowledge (life sciences) or Knowledge (physical sciences) [DC 16]: The 
heroes can identify hazards and dangerous wildlife, avoiding potential threats 
to their safety. 


AN OVERLAND TRAVEL SKILL CHALLENGE ON FELUCIA 


Perception [DC 21]: The heroes can try to plot a course by identifying 
major landmarks and using those sights to make sure that they remain on 
the correct path. 

Survival [DC 16]: The heroes can attempt to find safe trails and scavenge 
for more supplies to ease the burden on their resources. 

Treat Injury [DC 21]: The heroes can try to treat each others’ fatigue and 
injuries, ensuring that they continue on at a good pace across the danger- 
ous land. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Degenerating: Each failure increases the difficulty of all skill uses by one 
step (from DC 16 to DC 21, from DC 21 to DC 26, from DC 26 to DC 29, and 
from DC 29 to DC 34). Each success reduces the difficulty of all skill uses 
by one step, but no further than the original DC of each skill. 

Extreme Success: A hero who succeeds on a skill check by 10 or more 
earns two successes instead of one. 

Individual Effort: Each hero must earn three successes to complete the 
skill challenge. 


Success: The heroes reach their destination safely. 

Failure: If the heroes accrue enough failures to shift all skill DCs to 34, 
they fail the challenge and become lost in the wilderness. Each hero also loses 
one second wind and gains a persistent condition that can be removed only 
by eight hours of rest ina civilized area. As long as the persistent condition 
remains, the heroes lose one second wind each day. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

SEARCHING THE DEBRIS FIELD 

In this skill challenge, the heroes are aboard their starship investigating a 
debris field left behind after a major space battle. They are searching for 
something—perhaps survivors of the clash or rare cargo that was aboard 
one of the ships—but to find it, they must navigate through the debris field 
without destroying their own vessel. 


CL8 

Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Mechanics [DC 23]: The heroes can attempt to boost power to their 
sensors, increasing the chance that they will find what they are hunting. 

Perception [DC 23]: The heroes can try to use visual scanning out the 
cockpit windows or gun turrets to spot anything the sensors miss. 

Pilot [DC 23]: The ship's pilot or copilot can attempt to plot a safe grid 
pattern to search the debris field without taking too much damage. 

Use Computer [DC 18]: The sensor operator can try to calibrate the sensors 
to more closely match the profile of the object that the heroes are looking for. 


SeOQnwswVyAS WAS 


SHeOwWSwWVA) WAS 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Degrees of Failure: For each failure earned, the heroes' ship collides with a 
chunk of space debris that is of Colossal size, taking 8d6+10 points of damage. 

Extreme Success: A hero who succeeds on a skill check by 10 or more 
earns two successes instead of one. 


Success: The heroes find the object they seek and load it safely onto 
their ship. 

Failure: In addition to any damage sustained from collisions with debris, 
the heroes fail to locate the object in time. It might have been salvaged by 
rivals or destroyed in a collision. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

SuIcing THE HOLONET 

This skill challenge represents an attempt to slice into the HoloNet, which 
the Empire has declared to be for military use only. The communications 
network is under tight Imperial control, and security is high. This challenge 
can be used in a combat encounter or separately as part of a short sequence 
in an adventure. 


cL 11 

Complexity: 1 (5 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Deception [DC 24]: The heroes can attempt to falsify credentials that 
would earn them access to the HoloNet. 

Knowledge (bureaucracy) [DC 19]: The heroes can try to use their knowl- 
edge of Imperial bureaucracy to cut through the restrictions placed on the 
HoloNet with a few correctly placed requests. 

Use Computer [Opposed DC]: The heroes can attempt to bypass Imperial 
security measures, working against antislicer droids to gain access to the 
HoloNet. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

SMUGGLING CONTRABAND 

This skill challenge represents smuggling goods past government officials. 
The goal is to move the contraband, which is currently in the hold of the 
heroes' ship, to the intended buyer without being caught by the authorities. 
This skill challenge can start when the heroes arrive in the star system where 
the goods are to be delivered and continue through the process of landing on 
the planet and unloading the contraband into the buyer's waiting speeder. 


cL 4 

Complexity: 3 (11 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Deception [DC 21]: The heroes can attempt to bluff their way past the 
authorities, convincing the customs inspectors that their ship holds nothing 
of interest. 

Perception [DC 21]: The heroes can watch out for customs patrols that 
might appear when the cargo is being off-loaded. 

Persuasion [DC 26]: The heroes can try to convince the customs officials 
to turn a blind eye to the contraband. 

Pilot [DC 16]: A hero piloting the ship can try to avoid coming within 
sensor range of other vessels in orbit that might scan the heroes’ ship and 
detect the contraband. 

Stealth [DC 16]: The heroes can attempt to hide the contraband on their 
ship, perhaps in smuggling compartments or among other, more legitimate 
cargo. 

Use Computer [DC 16]: A sensor operator on the ship can try to use the 
ship's sensors to jam the sensors of other vessels scanning for contraband. 


Challenge Effect: The following is a suggested challenge effect for this 
skill challenge: 

Close Call: The heroes accrue failures only on skill checks that fail by 5 
or more. 


Challenge Effect: The following is a suggested challenge effect for this 
skill challenge: 

Opposed DC: An antislicer droid creates the opposed DC for the heroes’ 
Use Computer checks to slice into the HoloNet. The droid has a Use Computer 
modifier of +18. 


Success: The heroes gain access to the HoloNet and can send and receive 
transmissions. 

Failure: Not only do the heroes fail to gain access to the HoloNet, but 
the authorities are alerted to their attempt, and the Empire begins hunting 
for the slicers responsible. 


Success: The heroes off-load the contraband from their ship and deliver 
it to the buyer without being caught. 

Failure: The authorities discover the presence of the contraband and 
attempt to seize it—by force, if necessary. 


SPEEDER BIKE CHASES MAKE EXCITING SKILL CHALLENGES. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

SPEEDER BIKE CHASE 

In this skill challenge, the heroes must ride speeder bikes through a busy 
urban area to pursue a criminal fleeing in a landspeeder. During the chase, 
the heroes travel through different parts of town and herd their quarry into 
a place where he or she can run no more. As the heroes accrue failures, the 
target threatens to slip further away, potentially shaking pursuit altogether. 


CL 8 

Complexity: 3 (11 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (galactic lore) [DC 28 or 23]: The heroes can try to remember 
what they have heard about the city to find shortcuts and secret routes. 
This DC could be reduced to 23 for heroes who are familiar with the city. 

Perception [DC 23]: The heroes can attempt to find the best path to 
keep pace with their quarry or look for indicators as to where the target is 
headed next. 

Pilot [DC 18 or Opposed DC]: The heroes can pilot their speeder bikes along 
the fastest routes, avoid debris and obstacles, and find other ways to close 
the gap with their quarry. If the heroes get too close, the target becomes 
able to make Pilot checks to set the DC for the heroes’ checks. 


Stealth [Opposed DC]: The heroes can try to sneak through the city using 
alternate routes, cutting their quarry off as long as they remain unnoticed. 
This check is opposed by the target's Perception check. 

Use Computer [DC 32]: The heroes can use their speeder bikes’ primitive 
onboard computers to track the target's landspeeder or intercept its com- 
munications. This check is difficult due to the limited nature of the speeder 
bikes' computers. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Containment: The heroes do not accrue failures for failed skill checks. 
Instead, they accrue a failure only if everyone takes an action but no one 
earns a success, since to maintain pursuit, they need to keep the target in 
sight of only one character. 

Opposed DC: Certain skills in this challenge can be opposed by the criminal 
being pursued. 

Restricted Skills: The following skills cannot be used in this challenge: 
Gather Information, Survival, Swim, or Treat Injury. 


Success: The heroes catch the criminal. 
Failure: The criminal gets away. 


SkKiLttL CHALLENGE: 

TACTICAL LEADERSHIP 

This skill challenge, intended for use during combat encounters, represents 
the clash of tactical minds on opposite sides of a conflict. The heroes attempt 
to outwit the enemy commander, using tactical prowess to outmaneuver their 
opponents. This skill challenge works well during space combat involving 
capital ships (allowing heroes to participate as the commanders of a fleet in 
a massive naval battle) or during mass combat encounters. 


ACKBAR AND OTHER REBEL COMMANDERS ENGAGE 
IN A TACTICAL LEADERSHIP CHALLENGE. 


UWS 


Ssgenwev1tw7/7AS) 


i BSitdveisD 


Se@OQNWswWIVA)D WAS 


CL 14 

Complexity: 1 (5 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Deception [DC 27]: The heroes can attempt feints, false retreats, and other 
bluffs to lure the enemy into a disadvantageous position. 

Knowledge (tactics) [Opposed DC]: The heroes can try to outwit the 
enemy commander with tactical maneuvers designed to break through 
enemy formations. 

Perception [DC 22]: The heroes can attempt to identify flaws in the 
enemy's strategy, allowing them to take advantage of those weaknesses. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Antagonist: During this skill challenge, the heroes face off against the 
tactical prowess of the enemy commander. The heroes do not accrue failures 
for failed skill checks. Instead, the enemy commander makes skill checks as 
though participating in the skill challenge, and each time the commander 
earns a success, the heroes accrue a failure. 

Opposed DC: All Knowledge (tactics) checks are opposed. When the heroes 
make a Knowledge (tactics) check, the enemy commander makes a similar 
check to set the DC. Likewise, when the commander makes a Knowledge 
(tactics) check, one of the heroes makes a similar check to set the DC. 


Success: The heroes outwit the enemy commander and give their allies 
a significant advantage in the battle. All of the heroes' allies participating 
in the battle gain a +2 circumstance bonus to attack rolls and all defenses 
until the end of the battle. 

Failure: The heroes are outwitted by the enemy commander and left in 
a disadvantageous position. All of the heroes' enemies participating in the 
battle gain a +2 circumstance bonus to attack rolls and all defenses until 
the end of the battle. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

TRAVERSING THE MINEFIELD 

This skill challenge is intended for use in a combat encounter in which the 
ground has been seeded with a variety of antipersonnel mines. The heroes 
must find a way to traverse the minefield while defeating their opponents. 
Failure can trigger explosions, and success helps other members of the party 
identify locations where the mines have been placed. 


CL 10 

Complexity: 1 (5 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (technology) [DC 19]: The heroes can attempt to recall 
knowledge about the nature of antipersonnel mines, gaining clues that could 
indicate what different types of buried mines look like. 

Perception [DC 19]:The heroes can try to notice signs of upturned soil or 
other indicators of the placement of mines. 

Use the Force [DC 24]: The heroes can attempt to use the Force to sense 
spots where great danger awaits them, likely indicating the presence of mines. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Degrees of Failure: Each time the heroes fail a skill check while in the 
minefield, they trigger an antipersonnel mine in an adjacent space. 

Degrees of Success: Each time the heroes earn a success while in the mine- 
field, they learn the locations of at least three active antipersonnel mines. 

Initiative: The heroes must act in order of initiative during the skill 
challenge. 


Success: The heroes learn the location of every antipersonnel mine in 
the field and can see all mines on the battle map. 

Failure: The heroes fail to identify any more mines and must risk trig- 
gering undetected mines as they cross the field. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

SABOTAGE MISSION 

In this skill challenge, the heroes must perform a mission to sabotage (and, 
ultimately, destroy) a capital ship hovering above a blockaded planet. The 
heroes are capable of taking care of the mission themselves, but it will be 
dangerous, and there will almost certainly be opposition within the vessel. 
Fortunately, the ship is mostly manned by droids, so they can use some of 
their tricks to fool automated systems without having to worry about alerting 
an enemy that thinks creatively to their presence. 


CL6 
Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 


Mission Phase 1 
The first phase of the mission requires the heroes to make their way through 
the ship to its main reactor, then sabotage it. The heroes should have come 
up with their own plan for the infiltration, but they begin outside of the 
capital ship and must find their way onto it. Once onboard, they need to 
locate the main reactor, and then make their way there without arousing any 
suspicion. After they have sabotaged the reactor core, the ship is doomed, 
and their mission is a success. 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Deception [DC 22]: The heroes might use Deception to steal a cargo ship 
with the authorization to board the target vessel, or disguise themselves 
and fool the witless droids piloting a shuttlecraft bound for the target ship. 

Knowledge (technology) [DC 17]: While onboard the capital ship, the 
heroes can attempt to recall any knowledge they might possess about the 
design of the ship's interior, making it easier to move throughout the ship 
without being spotted. 

Stealth [DC 22]: The heroes might sneak aboard and stow away on one 
of the target ship's shuttles in order to gain access to the ship. Onboard 
the capital ship, the heroes can use Stealth to move throughout the ship 
without being spotted. 

Use Computer [DC 22]: The heroes can use the Use Computer skill in order 
to gain access to the capital ship's computers, download schematics, reroute 
security patrols, and blind the ship's sensors to their presence. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Changing Objectives: Once the heroes have accrued a certain number of 
successes (4), the objective of the skill challenge changes to escaping from 
the capital ship. 

Close Call: The heroes only accrue failures when they fail skill checks 
by 5 or more. 


Success: After four successes, the heroes reach the chamber that houses 
the ship's main reactor. There, they can set up the explosives that destroy 
the main reactor. Since the reactor is volatile, they probably want to be long 
gone by the time the explosives go off. This moves the mission into Phase 
2, described below. 

Failure: Each time the heroes accrue a failure, enemy forces discover 
their attempts and move to stop them. The heroes must deal with a combat 
encounter appropriate for 6th-level characters. Since the ship is manned 
by droids, the heroes likely encounter a droid patrol (a typical patrol might 
consist of 2 droidekas, 4 B1-Series battle droids, and an IG-100 Series 
MagnaGuard). If the heroes accrue their third failure during this segment, 


they fail in their mission and are faced with an overwhelmingly difficult 
enemy force (three to four times as many enemies as is found in a typical 
patrol), whose intent is to capture the heroes (not kill them). 


Mission Phase 2 

Once the heroes have set the explosives on the reactor, they now need 
to get far away to safety. Getting off of the ship is just as dangerous as the 
task of getting onto it, 


Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Mechanics [DC 22]: As the heroes make their escape, they can use 
the Mechanics skills to jam doors, retract bridges, and otherwise create 
impediments that would slow down any pursuers trying to follow them as 
they escape. 

Perception [DC 22]: The heroes can use Perception to watch out for 
enemies, find the fastest path back to the hangar, or eavesdrop on droid 
patrols to find out where to go. 

Pilot [DC 17]: lf the heroes secure a getaway vessel, one hero can make 
a Pilot check to blast their way out of the ship's hangar before their explo- 
sives go off. 

Use the Force [DC 27]: Force-sensitive heroes can use the Use the Force 
skill to sense danger ahead and warn their allies when they might be walk- 
ing into a trap. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Catastrophic Failure: |f a hero fails a skill check by 10 or more, the heroes 
accrue two failures instead of one. 

Restricted Skills: Each skill can only be used once in Phase 2. Additionally, 
Pilot checks can only be attempted once the heroes have access to a ship. 


Success: When the heroes have achieved their eighth success in the skill 
challenge, they no longer need to fear for their safety, at least for the time 
being. They successfully escape from the sabotaged ship, which explodes 
and then falls in chunks into the planet's atmosphere. 

Failure: Each time the heroes accrue a failure, the heroes run afoul of 
the droid defenders of the ship that have begun scrambling to make it to 
the hangar bays in time to be loaded onto troop transports. The heroes must 
deal with a combat encounter appropriate for 6th-level characters. Since 
the ship is manned by droids, the heroes likely encounter a droid patrol (a 
typical patrol might consist of 2 droidekas, 4 B1-Series battle droids, and an 
IG-100 Series MagnaGuard). If the heroes accrue their third failure during 
this phase, they become trapped on the ship as it breaks apart and begins 
plunging into the atmosphere. 


SPOnwswWIVyAS) WAS 


SDAA APNE SET NANOS BEINN ESSA TSO 


ACARI VLE INTUTE SUP LATIN 


CHAPTER Ill 
EQUIPMENT 


occa e Se ROOS SP ETRE OLS RST 


We 


For most of the intrigue-savvy people of the galaxy, wits and secrecy are 
the two most valuable weapons in their arsenals. However, sometimes 
inherent ability and learned skills are only part of what it takes to maintain 
secrecy or manipulate one's enemies. From time to time, even the wisest 
conspirators must make use of the technology that the galaxy has to offer, 
although they often use those things in deceptive ways. For the master of 
intrigue, equipment and weapons are merely a means to an end, but one 
should always make sure to have the right tools for the job. 

Most equipment used by masters of intrigue is designed to either create 
or enhance deception, keep secrets a secret, reveal someone else's secrets, or 
protect the keeper of a secret from harm. For example, the Xerrol nightstinger 
‘sniper rifle, which produces an invisible blaster bolt, creates deception by 
preventing observers from seeing where the shot comes from. Likewise, the 
me weapon can be used to keep a secret a secret by taking out someone 
10 is doing too much snooping around. Most of the equipment and weap- 
n this chapter perform one of those four functions, but they do so in 
different ways. 
~ Droids are always something of a risk in an intrigue-based campaign. On 
“one hand, droids are immune to many tricks that living beings are susceptible 
to. They often cannot be bribed, smooth talked, or deceived into revealing 
the information within their databanks. They are often more focused on their 
missions than are living beings, and they are incapable of actively betraying 
someone thanks to their rigid programming. However, droids also present a 
significant risk, in that someone with the right computer slicing skills can 
extract information from them. Moreover, droids are often less capable of 
defending themselves and thinking creatively than their living counterparts, 
making it more likely that they will fall into enemy hands. 

Most of the vehicles presented in this chapter are designed to put more 
tools in the hands of the intrigue-minded player or villain. Scout ships with 
excellent sensor cloaks can make spying on the enemy easier, and many spies 
prefer vessels with low profiles over those that, while more defensible, are 
_ more likely to attract notice. 


LNSANWAINGS 


ANSWEAINGS) 


EQUIPMENT 
AND WEAPONS 


Equipment and weapons are not the main focus of a Galaxy of Intrigue cam- 
paign, but they do have their place. The powerbrokers and masterminds who 
create the intricate plots and conspiracies that drive this style of campaign 
know that equipment is just another tool to be used. Still, the elite have 
access to equipment and weapons that are experimental, highly illegal, or 
otherwise too expensive for most individuals to employ. 


RANGED WEAPONS 

In Galaxy of Intrigue campaigns, assassins use of a variety of ranged weapons 
to deliver a lethal message, and some VIPs prefer ranged weapons that are 
small, easily hidden, but still powerful. The weapons in Table 3-1: Ranged 
Weapons are described below. 


Blaster, Wrist 
Pistol 
For those needing the ultimate in discretion, a wrist blaster provides pro- 
tection without drawing attention. It is popular with assassins, diplomats 
working in hostile territories, and other VIPs who hate being completely 
unarmed. The wrist blaster is worn as a bracelet and looks like an ordinary 
piece of jewelry. The bulk of the wrist blaster contains the power cell, which 
is powerful enough to deliver the same damage as a blaster, but contains 
enough energy for only a single shot. 

A wrist blaster is meant for use in close quarters. Special alloys mask the 
wrist blaster from sensor scans for weapons. Detecting a wrist blaster with 
a sensor scan requires a DC 25 Use Computer check. 


Darter 
Simple Weapon 
A darter is a large pistol that launches a dart by use of a compressed air 
canister. Although the range is limited and the damage minor, the darts 
can deliver poison or a surveillance tagger (see page 67). Poachers, game 
wardens, security personnel, assassins, and even medical personnel use 
darters in their duties. 

A darter's maximum range is the Short range increment. A dart carrying 
poison delivers the toxin if the darter successfully deals damage. 


Snare Pistol 
Pistol 
The smaller cousin of the snare rifle described in Scum and Villainy, the 
snare pistol carries the same capabilities, but in a smaller weapon and 
with a considerably shorter range. A snare pistol fires a length of weighted 
synthcord that wraps around the target, allowing the weapon's wielder to 
initiate a grab or grapple against an enemy at up to Short range. An enemy 
that is grabbed or grappled can attempt to escape the snare with a DC 15 
Acrobatics check or to break it with a DC 20 Strength check. You can use the 
Pin and Trip feats with a snare pistol, but you cannot use the Crush, Throw, 
or Bone Crusher (see page 26) feats. 

Asnare pistol uses a specialized cartridge that holds 2 shots. Replacement 
cartridges weigh 1 kg and cost 25 credits each. 


Xerrol Nightstinger 
Rifle 
Used by assassins, the Xerrol nightstinger is a sporting blaster rifle designed 
for sniping at long range. Instead of using an energy cell for ammunition, the 
nightstinger utilizes special canisters of exotic gasses that produce powerful 
shots that are invisible to the eye, so a sniper can fire the weapon without 
revealing his or her position. Imperial snipers make use of an unusual tactic, 
firing at special redirection crystals to create confusion and divert attention 
to another location (see page 67). 

Each gas canister contains enough charges for five shots and costs 
1,000 credits. 


ay 


A XERROL NIGHTSTINGER DOESN'T GIVE AWAY A SNIPER'S LOCATION. 


TABLE 3-1: RANGED WEAPONS 


EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Medium 

Xerrol nightstinger 1,500 3d6 - 
PISTOLS 
Tiny 

Blaster, wrist! 800 34 
Medium 

Snare pistol! 600 - 1d4 
SIMPLE WEAPONS 
Medium 

Darter 150 1 - 


| Inaccurate weapon. This weapon cannot fire at targets at medium or long range. 


POISONS AND TOXINS 

Poison has long been a favored tool of assassins, and death by poison is 
a common feature of any intrigue campaign. Described here are several 
additional poisons, toxins, and dangerous chemicals that might find their 
way into an adventure. For more information, see "Poison" on page 255 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook. 

Bundar Root (CL 1): Bundar root causes short-term memory loss and 
affects a victim's ability to reason. When a creature ingests bundar root, 
make an attack roll (1d20+5) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the 
attack is successful, the target suffers a -5 penalty to all skill checks that 
round. The poison attacks each round until cured with a successful DC 15 
Treat Injury check. 

Chuba Poison (CL 8): Potentially causing a stroke in a creature that 
ingests it, chuba is derived from glands of the gorg, a small amphibious crea- 
ture found on swampy planets. When a creature ingests chuba poison, make 
an attack roll (1d20+10) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack 
succeeds, the target moves -1 step on the condition track. If the attack beats 
the target's Fortitude Defense by 10 or more, the target remains at that posi- 
tion on the condition track until three separate and successful DC 20 Treat 
Injury checks are made. If the attack fails, the target suffers no ill effects. 

Devaronian Blood-Poison (CL 4): Devaronian blood-poison is a rare 
crystalline gem which is poisonous on contact. Each round that a creature Is 
in contact with Devaronian blood-poison, make an attack roll (1d10+5) against 
the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the target is wracked 
with pain, can move only at half speed, and moves -1 step on the condition 
track. If the target moves to a point on the condition track that would normally 
reduce it to half speed, the target is immobilized instead. The poison attacks 
each round until cured with a successful DC 20 Treat Injury check. 


RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
S 4.5 kg Energy Illegal 
S 0.5 kg Energy Illegal 
S 2 kg Bludgeoning Licensed 
S 3 kg Piercing Licensed 


Irksh Poison (CL 13): Irksh poison is a deadly substance created by the 
Yuuzhan Vong for their undercover agents to use on themselves in case they 
are captured. When a creature ingests irksh poison, make an attack roll 
(1d20+10) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, 
the target takes 8d6 points of damage and moves -1 step on the condition 
track. If the attack fails, the target takes half damage and does not move 
on the condition track. The poison attacks each round until cured with a 
successful DC 28 Treat Injury check. 

Quongoosh Essence (CL 3): When a creature ingests quongoosh essence, 
make an attack roll (1d20+5) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the 
attack succeeds, the target moves -1 step on the condition track. A target 
moved to the “Helpless” step on the condition track by the poison becomes 
blind but not unconscious or otherwise helpless as a result of this poison (see 
page 254 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). All targets have concealment 
from the blind creature. The poison attacks each round until cured with a 
successful DC 15 Treat Injury check. 

Trihexalon (CL 15): Also known as Dragon's Breath or Hex, this potent 
biological agent comes in a powder form and causes massive breakdown in 
organic material. Each round that a creature is in contact with trihexalon, 
make an attack roll (1d20+20) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the 
attack succeeds, the target takes 10d6 points of damage and moves -2 steps 
on the condition track. If the attack fails, the target takes half damage, but 
still moves -1 step on the condition track. The poison attacks each round 
until cured with a successful DC 30 Treat Injury check. Because trihexalon 
causes disintegration of biological matter, a creature that takes full damage 
from trihexalon loses any limb in contact with the poison (roll randomly if 
the contact is not otherwise determined). 


LNSIWAIAGaS 


Hi HsigvnisS 


) 
te) 
eS 
v 
K 
W 
z 
4 


EQUIPMENT 


The following new equipment is suitable for use by heroes in any Galaxy 
of Intrigue campaign. Table 3-2: Equipment lists the prices and weight of 
these items. Refer to the descriptions below for other pertinent information. 


Antitoxin Patch 

This adhesive patch is applied near the stomach (or similar organ, depending 
on the species). It emits a low dose of antitoxin, giving the wearer a +10 
equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense against ingested poisons and a +5 
equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense against inhaled poisons. An antitoxin 
patch lasts for 24 hours. For each consecutive day that an antitoxin patch is 
worn, the target moves -1 step on the condition track. 


Comlink, Earbud 

The earbud comlink is a tiny comlink fitted for the wearer's ear, allowing 
unobtrusive private communication for anyone needing to be discreet— 
ambassadors, card cheats, and spies, for example. The earbud comlink's 
size, shape, and color give the wearer a +5 equipment bonus to Deception 
checks for the purpose of hiding its presence. The earbud comlink can be 
programmed to initiate or receive a transmission when the wearer touches 
his or her ear or even clicks or grinds his or her teeth. Because of its minute 
size, the earbud has the same range as a short-range comlink—50 kilometers 
or low orbit. 


Flash Suppressor/Silencer 

The Merr-Sonn Nonsonic is a typical example of a flash suppressor/silencer. 
Fitting over the muzzle of any Small or larger slugthrower, this device reduces 
both the sound and the muzzle flash when the weapon is fired. A flash sup- 
pressor/silencer imposes a -10 penalty to Perception checks to discern the 
sound or spot the flash of an equipped slugthrower. It reduces the maximum 
range of the weapon by two range increments. 


Holo Converter 

This small, blocky device is attached to a holoprojector and uses powerful 
algorithms to alter the outgoing signal, modifying the images and sounds 
received on the other end so that the user's appearance and voice are dis- 
guised. The holo converter can even disguise the user's gender and species. 
Preset with up to 10 different personae, complete with rotating wardrobe, 
the holo converter grants a +5 equipment bonus to Deception checks for 
the purposes of making the receiver believe that the user is another person. 


Panic Ring 

Despite the name, this device is available in a variety of shapes and sizes, the 
most common being a large, ornamental ring. Diplomats, wealthy CEOs, and 
anyone who fears kidnapping or ambush wear panic rings. A secret catch (DC 
25 Perception check) reveals a small button that, when pressed, releases an 
encrypted emergency signal. This signal has a range of 100 kilometers and 
continually broadcasts a preset signal—usually “wearer in danger"—to local 
law enforcement, personal security, or any other group designated by the 
wearer. Changing this signal requires a DC 25 Mechanics check, and failure 
by 5 or more activates the panic ring. 


TABLE 3-2: EQUIPMENT 


COMMUNICATION DEVICES COST WEIGHT 
Comlink, earbud 200 - 
Panic ring 300 - 
Holo converter 3,000 2 kg 

DETECTION AND 

SURVEILLANCE DEVICES COST WEIGHT 
Surveillance detector 450 0.5 kg 
Surveillance tagger 450 0.5 kg 
Veridicator 4,000 0.1 kg 
Vid-vox scrambler 3,400 0.5 kg 

MEDICAL GEAR COST WEIGHT 
Antitoxin patch 25 - 
Toxin detector 700 0.5 kg 

TOOLS COST WEIGHT 
Redirection crystal 500 - 
Shield cage 10,000 20 kg 

WEAPON ACCESSORIES COST WEIGHT 
Flash suppressor/silencer 400 0.2 kg 


Redirection Crystal 
A redirection crystal is filled with Tibanna gas and has a small blasting tube. 
Snipers and assassins use them to seemingly bank blaster shots, allowing 
the shooter to hide in one location while making a shot appear to come 
from another position. When struck by blaster fire, the gas inside the crys- 
tal explodes, directing the shot through the blast tube at the established 
angle. Only skilled snipers and assassins use redirection crystals because of 
the sheer difficulty in making a successful strike. Redirection crystals are 
sometimes used in conjunction with the Xerrol nightstinger (see page 64), 
taking advantage of the weapon's invisible blaster shot to confuse the enemy. 
A redirection crystal is Fine size, giving it Reflex Defense 15, plus penalties 
for distance. If an attack with a blaster weapon successfully hits the redirec- 
tion crystal, make a second attack roll against the intended target, with a 
-10 penalty and additional range-increment penalties. The redirection crystal 
is destroyed, leaving only minuscule fragments, requiring a DC 30 Percep- 
tion check to notice and a DC 30 Knowledge (technology) check to identify. 


Shield Cage 

Ashield cage is a portable shield generator used to trap a target rather than 
protect it from harm. Wealthy bounty hunters, criminal masterminds, and 
other VIPs use shield cages to trap targets, sometimes setting the cages 
beneath chairs or inside doorways. A shield cage is a large flat disk, 2 meters 
in diameter. It must be connected to a power supply to operate and drains 
portable power generators after 2 hours of continuous use. 

A shield cage produces a shield bubble that fills a single square. Multiple 
shield cages can be linked together, each expanding the shielded area by one 
additional square. Targets are trapped inside and cannot move until the power 
is turned off. The shield is air permeable, allowing the target to breathe and 
communicate verbally, but nothing else can pass through the shield except 
damage that exceeds the shield’s rating (SR 15). 


Surveillance Detector 

A surveillance detector is a small, handheld device that scans an area for 
eavesdropping devices and surveillance taggers (see below). When activated, 
the surveillance detector grants a +10 equipment bonus to Perception checks 
for locating active or passive surveillance devices within 6 squares of the 
detector. It can be set to either display the presence of eavesdropping or to 
emit an alarm when such attempts are detected. 


Surveillance Tagger 

The surveillance tagger is a tiny, unassuming tube containing a Fine sized 
dart and a compressed air canister. When fired, the dart attaches itself to 
the target with a combination of adhesives and magnetism and activates a 
homing beacon. The homing beacon has a range of 1 kilometer and enough 
power to transmit for 40 hours. 


To use the surveillance tagger, the user must succeed on a ranged attack 
against a target within 6 squares of the user. The size of the dart imposes 
a -20 penalty to Perception checks to notice it. An activated signal tagger 
allows the user to track the movements of the dart with a DC 10 Use Computer 
check and a datapad or an appropriate sensor package. 


Toxin Detector 

Assassination by poison is one of the dangers faced by nobles, politicians 
and other notable figures. This tiny handheld device scans food and drink 
to determine if it is spoiled or contains poison. Using the device requires a 
standard action. It has a range of one square and contains data for up to 
100 different species. The toxin detector can be set to blink a light (green 
for safe food and red for dangerous) or to vibrate slightly when a toxin is 
detected. For an additional 100 credits, the toxin detector can be disguised 
as a bracelet or other piece of jewelry for maximum discretion. 


Veridicator 
Worn as an inconspicuous bracelet, the veridicator uses sophisticated sen- 
sors to monitor a target's heart rate, pupil dilation, perspiration, and other 
involuntary stress responses. It compares this information to its internal 
database, determining the emotional state of the target and indicating if he 
or she is lying. The veridicator then relays this information to the wearer as 
a series of pulses, temperature variations, or vibrations. 

Once activated, the veridicator needs a full round to acquire the data from 
a single target within 6 squares of the user. Then the veridicator provides 
a +5 bonus to Perception checks for the purpose of sensing deception or 
influence or for gambling against other players in games such as sabacc. The 
veridicator can be programmed for only a single species at a time. Changing 
the settings requires a DC 10 Use Computer check. 


Vid-Vox Scrambler 

When activated, this Tiny handheld device emits a low-frequency wave 
that scrambles all video, audio, and holographic recording within its area of 
effect, while leaving normal conversation unaffected. Vid-vox scramblers 
are prized by anyone worried that their conversations are being recorded, 
including criminal masterminds, CEOs, spies, and the paranoid. 

The vid-vox scrambler prevents all video, audio, and holographic record- 
ing in the squares adjacent to and the square including the device. Anyone 
eavesdropping or reviewing recordings of targets protected by an interference 
generator must make a DC 30 Perception or Use Computer check to pick up 
only scattered words and phrases. A scrambler can operate continuously for 
one week on a single power cell, or it can be connected to a generator or 
other permanent power source. 


) 
te) 
& 
v 
K 
W 
zs 
4 


LNEWAIAeS) [ | 


EQUIPMENT AND 

WEAPON UPGRADES 

The following upgrade is for use with either gear or weapons. Most universal 
equipment upgrades can be applied to any type of equipment, although some 
upgrades have limitations or special rules when applied to armor or weapons. 
Weapon upgrades can be applied only to weapons. See Scum and Villainy 
for more information on equipment upgrades and additional optional rules. 


Componentization 

Componentization is a process where a single piece of equipment or 
weapon is composed of several different pieces, each of which is disguised 
to appear as another type of equipment, such as a comlink, a datapad, or 
even a vibroshaver. Componentization is a common upgrade for assassins, 
smugglers, and nobles who want to carry weapons or other equipment into 
a location secretly. 

The basic componentization upgrade (one upgrade slot) breaks the item 
or weapon into two component parts, each one size category smaller than 
he original item. An item or weapon with the deluxe upgrade (two upgrade 
slots) breaks down into four items, each two size categories smaller than the 
original item. For example, a Medium sporting blaster rifle can break down 
into two Small objects with the basic upgrade or into four Tiny objects with 
he deluxe upgrade. 

A full round is required to assemble a componentized item from two parts. 
Two full rounds are required to assemble a componentized item from four 
parts. Identifying a component as part of this upgrade package requires a 
DC 30 Perception or DC 25 Knowledge (technology) check. 


VEHICLES 


On the whole, the elite of the galaxy—those most embroiled in intrigue and 
conspiracy—prefer to travel in the lap of luxury. Although a crime lord might 
set up headquarters in a battered cargo scow, most prefer to own and travel 
in the best vehicles available, complete with a discreet and accommodating 
crew to cater to their every need. The starships and vehicles here might not 
be the fastest or the best armed, but they get the heroes where they need 
to be in style. 


STARSHIPS 
Below are examples of starships that the heroes might encounter or use in 
a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign. 


PTV-2100 Incarcerator 

Designed by Kuat Drive Yards during the Clone Wars, the PTV-2100 is a lucra- 
tive, if understated, transport vessel. The sole purpose of this vessel is the 
transport of prisoners, including some of the most dangerous individuals in 
the galaxy. Heavily armed, the incarcerator is a slow and ponderous starship, 


so it relies on smaller, more nimble starfighters or frigates for protection. 
Although used primarily by governments, incarcerators are also employed 
by large criminal organizations for hauling individuals to the spice mines or 
slaves to markets in the Outer Rim. 

The greatest part of an incarcerator is devoted to prison cells of various 
size and security, including minimum-security holding pens and thick-walled, 
heavily shielded isolation rooms with redundant protective measures. The hall- 
ways and cells are outfitted with cameras and sensors to monitor the inmates, 
and guard stations feature weaponry to quell riots or to stun or kill escapees. 

The PTV-2100 incarcerator is a slow, ponderous vessel, so other ships 
can easily catch up with it. However, it excels at repelling boarding actions. 
The incarcerator and all allies in adjacent squares gain an additional die of 
damage against starships moving into the same square as the incarcerator 
to dock with it or board it. 
PTV-2100 Incarcerator CL 16 
Colossal (frigate) space transport 
Init -4; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 40; +13 armor 
hp 1,600; DR 15; Threshold 140 
Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 turbolaser batteries +12* (see below) 

Ranged 2 point-defense batteries +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +52 

Abilities Str 71, Dex 10, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 

Use Computer +6 
Crew 250 (skilled); Passengers 1,500 (prisoners) 

Cargo 5,500 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 2 shuttles 
Hyperdrive x3 (x12 backup), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 4.5 million (1.8 million used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
Point-defense laser battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +8, Dmg 2d10x2 


Modified Incom A-24 Sleuth 

The sleuth is a highly maneuverable scout ship with excellent sublight speed. 
Despite being older than more popular scout ship models, the sleuth became 
Mol Hedron's choice for spying on the fledgling New Republic. Most of the 
time, the New Republic never even knew he was there. On the rare occasion 
when they did discover his presence, he was able to complete transmission 
and jump away. 


The modified sleuth contains a high-powered transmitter capable of 
sending a nearly undetectable signal by tight beam. Intercepting these 
signals is extremely difficult. Even if intercepted, the signal is often coded 
and requires deciphering. 


Modified Incom A-24 Sleuth 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +5; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25; +7 armor 
hp 110; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 45 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), 
+5 (astromech droid) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +32 
Abilities Str 40, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 (+13*) 
Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers 1 
Cargo 3 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 


CL 10 


AN A-24 SLEUTH BLASTING ITS WAY PAST AN IMPERIAL BLOCKADE 


Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer, 10-jump memory (astromech 
droid) 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 4d10x2 


Ferret-class Reconnaissance Vessel 

When New Republic Intelligence needs a single, stealthy pass through the 
heart of enemy territory, they choose the top-secret Ferret-class recon- 
naissance vessel. Operating on ion engines and utilizing a baffled drive 
technology, this droid-piloted ship becomes more difficult to detect at 
sublight speeds. Each Ferret is equipped with a large sensor-decoy package. 
In addition, they are coated with sensor-evading materials and fitted with 
a Fabritech sensor mask. 

A Ferret is designed for stealth and, therefore, gains a +5 technology 
bonus to Stealth checks to hide the ship. When its sublight baffled drive 
is active, the ship moves at half normal speed but gains an additional +5 
technology bonus to Stealth checks to avoid detection. The Ferret can run 
on its baffled drive for only one hour. Also, the ship's complement of sensor 
decoys can be deployed in the event of discovery. If deployed, the ship can 
reroll its Stealth check once per encounter. The Ferret contains enough sensor 
decoys to use this capability twice before needing to resupply. 


fll VSiavHo 


Republic Engineering Corporation 
Ferret-class Reconnaissance Vessel 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +6; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor 
hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 46 


CL 12 


ANSEWAINGS) 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged concussion missiles +9 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +36 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 16, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 3 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 2 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1 (x8 backup), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 890,000 (not available used) 


Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +11, Dmg 9d10x2 


LNSEWAIANeaS 


SCOUTING OUT THE VONG 


Prowler-class Reconnaissance Vessel 

For longer reconnaissance and spy missions, the New Republic depends on 
its top-secret Prowler-class reconnaissance vessel. The Prowler is basically 
an expanded Ferret body containing less equipment. The ship is intended for 
two- to three-month tours while its crew works to keep it from becoming 
a target. Like Ferrets, the Prowler operates on ion engines, is coated with 
sensor-evading materials, and features an advanced masking system. 

A Prowler is designed for stealth and, therefore, gains a +4 technology 
bonus to Stealth checks to hide the ship. When its sublight baffled drive is 
active, the ship moves at half its normal speed but gains an additional +4 
technology bonus to Stealth checks to avoid detection. The Prowler can 
run on its baffled drive for only three hours. The ship has a complement of 
sensor decoys that can be deployed in the event of discovery. If the decoys 
are deployed, the pilot can reroll the Stealth check once per encounter. The 
Prowler contains enough sensor decoys to use this capability four times 
before needing to resupply. 


Republic Engineering Corporation 

Prowler-class Reconnaissance Vessel 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +6; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor 

hp 150; DR 10; Threshold 48 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 650 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged concussion missiles +10 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +38 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +8 


CL 12 


Crew 6 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 3 tons; Consumables 5 months; Carried Craft none 
Payload 10 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1 (x10 backup), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +10, Dmg 9d10x2 


Sabaoth Frigate Spy Ship 

The Sabaoth spy ship is a modified frigate used as a scout vessel by the 
Sabaoth mercenary squadron, led by Captain Cavik Toth. This ship's modifica- 
tions include sensor stealth, the ability to tap into communications, and an 
advanced sensor package. These additions come at the expense of the tractor 
beam projectors and half the heavy laser cannons found on other Sabaoth 
frigates. This ship was used around the time of the Occupation of Karthakk. 
Jedi Master Adi Gallia encountered a Sabaoth spy ship during a meeting with 
Reti in the Ruby Nebula. Believing it was tapping communications between 
them, Adi Gallia destroyed the ship from her Delta-7 Aethersprite-class 
light interceptor. 


Sabaoth Frigate Spy Ship CL 11 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init +1; Senses Perception +8 (+13 with sensor package) 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 34; +11 armor 

hp 650; DR 15; SR 105; Threshold 134 


Corona Limited Luxury Groundspeeder CL 4 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor 

hp 90; DR 5; Threshold 34 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 4 heavy laser cannons +9 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 squares (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +49 

Abilities Str 58, Dex 16, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +1, Mechanics +8, Perception +8 (+13 with sensor 
package), Pilot +1, Use Computer +8 

Crew 100 (expert); Passengers 450 

Cargo 1,200 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x3 (x18 backup), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Heavy laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +9, Dmg 6d10x2 


GROUND VEHICLES 

Just as they have access to the finest starships, the galaxy's elite ride in the 
most luxurious ground vehicles possible. Emphasizing comfort and speed, 
these vehicles are, nonetheless, heavily armored and armed to protect their 
passengers, although weapons and armor are cleverly disguised or kept 
subtle to be discreet. 


Corona Limited Luxury Groundspeeder 

The Mobquet Corporation Corona Limited luxury groundspeeder is a popular 
model of high-end ground transportation found in almost every sector of 
the galaxy. The interior of the groundspeeder is opulent, with kudana leather 
seats that can change to sleeping berths for three with the flip of a switch. 
The Corona Limited comes in 500 different colors, some of which are not 
discernible to the Human eye—a marketing scheme that makes the model 
extremely popular with species with greater spectrum perception. 


Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 300 km/h) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 6 

Cargo 300 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 70,000 (20,000 used) 


SoroSuub JG-8 Luxury Landspeeder 

During the Rise of the Empire era, the SoroSuub JG-8 luxury landspeeder 
serves as a status symbol for the wealthy and powerful. Expensive and 
built for style rather than performance, the JG-8 seats two in an open-air 
compartment. Twin turbothrust engines are mounted at the rear, augmented 
by ornate steering fins in the front. Although passengers wear webbing to 
keep them inside the vehicle, special tuning of the repulsorlift also provides 
continuous gravity relative to the passenger's orientation, preventing them 
from falling out even in the unlikely event that the JG-8 flips upside down. 


SoroSuub JG-8 Luxury Landspeeder CL2 

Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 15; +2 armor 

hp 55; DR 5; Threshold 20 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 450 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 

Base Atk +2; Grp +12 

Abilities Str 21, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1 
Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 45,000 (12,500 used) 


LNSEWAINGS) 


| SsSsitidvHoa 


LNSWAIAGS) 


DROIDS 


Droids are a vital part of any Galaxy of Intrigue campaign. For example, 
protocol droids help translation, smooth over misinterpretations, and serve 
as walking repositories of information to help during negotiations. Droids 
also serve another purpose: As ubiquitous as they are, droids blend into 
the background easily and overhear conversations or record clandestine 
meetings when the parties involved believe they are otherwise alone. 
Counter-espionage hardware and software are developed for droids to 
oppose electronic eavesdropping and other advances. In a Galaxy of Intrigue 
campaign, droids are primarily used as translators, bodyguards, and valets on 
the legal side of operations and for espionage, sabotage, and assassination 
on the not-so-legal side. 


FIRST-DEGREE DROIDS 
First-degree droids are medical, analytical, or scientific droids. Specific 
examples include the 5-BT threat analysis droid. 


5-BT Threat Analysis Droid 

Built by Arakyd Industries decades before some of its more notorious droids, 
the 5-BT threat analysis droid is the precursor to the Mark VII and to other 
Inquisitor models. The 5-BT is a tiny spherical droid designed to accompany 
a VIP during assignments. A wide array of sensors scan for threats to its 
owner, including poisoned food or drink, eavesdropping devices, or hidden 
assassins. In addition, the 5-BT monitors a person's voice and nonverbal cues 
to detect stress—possibly indicating an impending attack—and dishonesty. 
New 5-BTs are sold with a bracelet that enables the droid to warn its owner 
of a threat by sending a signal that causes the bracelet to vibrate discreetly. 
Alternatively, the droid's warning can be directed to an earbud comlink. The 
5-BT is also equipped with the equivalent of a holdout blaster, providing 
additional protection of its owner when warnings alone are insufficient. 

5-BT threat analysis droids can be played as droid heroes. 


5-BT Threat Analysis Droid 

Tiny droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +13; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +15 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 7, Will 12 
hp 7; Threshold 7 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee unarmed -1 (1 point) 

Ranged blaster +4 (3d4) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach O squares 
Base Atk +2; Grp -6 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 


CL 1 


Abilities Str 4, Dex 14, Con —, Int 13, Wis 15, Cha 9 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Skill Focus (Initiative, Perception), 
Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Initiative +13, Knowledge (tactics) +7, Perception +15 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, instrument appendage, 
tool appendage, improved sensor package, locked access, darkvision, 
translator unit (DC 10), vocabulator 

Possessions blaster (treat as hold-out blaster), surveillance detector, 
toxin detector, veridicator 

Availability Restricted; Cost 17,490 credits 


SECOND-DEGREE DROIDS 
Second-degree droids are typically astromech droids and technical droids. 
Specific models include the NR-1100 slicer droid. 


NR-1100 Slicer Droid 

The NR-1100 slicer droid is designed to slip into hostile territory and slice 
into computer networks. Used primarily by the Rebel Alliance, NR-1100s are 
crucial tools for stealing Imperial data or infecting networks with danger- 
ous viruses. 

The NR-1100 slicer droid uses repulsorlift technology and special sound 
dampeners that make it virtually silent. Its small size allows it to move through 
ventilation ducts and underground tunnels with ease where droids of Medium 
size would have trouble navigating. Although unarmed, the NR-1100 comes 
equipped with a self-destruct system to prevent it from falling into enemy 
hands or to serve as an ultimate solution for destroying data on the rare 
occasion when it fails to slice into a network. 

NR-1100 slicer droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 
NR-1100 Slicer Droid CL.3 
Small droid (2nd-degree) scoundrel 3 
Init +3; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +7 
Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, 2 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 11, Will 15 
hp 25; Threshold 11 
Immune droid traits 
Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee unarmed +0 (1 point) 

Ranged blaster +4 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +2; Grp -1 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions self-destruct (+5 area attack, 4d6, 2-square burst) 


Abilities Str 6, Dex 15, Con —, Int 15, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Gimmick, Master Slicer 

Feats Skill Focus (Gather Information, Stealth, Use Computer), 

Point Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +11, Knowledge (technology) +8, Mechanics 
+8, Perception +7, Stealth +18, Use Computer +13 (can reroll when 
improving access and keep the better result) 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 1 tool 
appendage, darkvision, improved sensor package, self-destruct system 
(4d6), locked access, internal comlink 

Possessions security kit, sensor pack, video recorder, blaster (treat as 
blaster pistol) 

Availability Illegal; Cost 16,430 credits 


THIRD-DEGREE DROIDS 

Third-degree droids are typically protocol droids and replica droids. Specific 
examples include the 3D-4 administrative droid and the M4-Series mes- 
senger droid. 


3D-4 Administrative Droid 

To sidestep competition with its noted rival, Cybot Galactica, Genetech 
develops the 3D-4 administrative droid for administrative duties and systems 
management rather than direct diplomatic efforts. The 3D-4 is a common 
companion for business persons, ambassadors, and others requiring a droid 
that can fill multiple roles. The 3D-4 can handle basic negotiations and 
translate for its owner, and it carries an extensive database of data pertain- 
ing to business, trade, and law. Although the stock model comes unarmed, 
many owners refit their 3D-4s with hidden weaponry, in case negotiations 
become hostile. 

3D-4 administrative droids can be played as droid heroes. 


3D-4 Administrative Droid CLO 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +0; Senses Perception +0 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 10 

hp 2; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (1d3-1) 

Ranged concealed hold-out blaster +0 (3d4) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +0 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy], Persuasion), Skill Training 
(Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +11, Knowledge (galactic lore) +6, 
Perception +0, Persuasion +11 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
translator unit (DC 10), internal storage (5 kg), vocabulator, internal 
comlink (encrypted) 

Possessions concealed hold-out blaster (+5 bonus to Stealth check to 
conceal the weapon), audio recorder, video recorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 7,320 credits 


M4-Series Messenger Droid 

This ubiquitous and extremely useful droid is used to relay messages to 
individuals who prefer receiving news in person, without transmitting or 
receiving information through comlinks. It can record messages, store data, 
or carry appropriately sized objects for delivery. The M4 is equipped with a 
small blaster for defense, although some municipalities require the blaster to 
be deactivated or removed prior to sale. The M4 is used in both the civilian 
and military worlds and is famous for its tenacity in completing its message- 
delivery missions. Its size, spherical shape, and repulsorlift allow it to slip 
into remarkably small spaces. 


Hi HStgVHOS 


LNIWAINGS) 


A MESSENGER DROID DELIVERING A HOLOGRAPHIC MESSAGE 


ALNEWAINeS) 


M4-Series Messenger Droid CL 1 Fidelis and Solis were two FIll Footman Droids who served House Malreaux 
Diminutive droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 2 on Vjun for several centuries. 


Init +9; Senses darkvision; Perception +13 FIll footman droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 7, Will 12 FIll Footman Droid CL9 
hp 4; Threshold 7 Medium droid (4th-degree) scoundrel 5/soldier 4 
Immune droid traits Init +12; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +14 
Speed 9 squares (flying) Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 
Melee claw -2 (1 point) Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 19), Fort 25, Will 23 
Ranged blaster +4 (3d4) hp 54; Threshold 25 
Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 0 squares Immune droid traits 
Base Atk +1; Grp -11 Speed 6 squares (walking) 
Abilities Str 4, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 10 Melee unarmed +12 (1d6+9) 
Feats Skill Focus (Perception, Stealth), Skill Training (Initiative), Ranged miniaturized rail cannons +10 (3d12+4) or 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols) Ranged miniaturized rail cannons +8 (4d12) with Rapid Shot 
Skills Initiative +9, Perception +13, Stealth +29 Base Atk +7; Grp +10 


Systems flying locomotion, basic processor, 1 claw appendage, 
internal comlink, internal storage (1 kg), locked access, 
darkvision, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster (treat as hold-out blaster), audio recorder, 
holo recorder 

Availability Licensed (restricted with weapon); Cost 88,000 
credits 


Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Dastardly Strike, Point Blank Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Sneak Attack +2d6, Whirlwind Attack 
Special Actions Draw Fire, Harm's Way, 
Logic Upgrade: Defender, 
Melee Defense 
Abilities Str 20, Dex 16, Con -, 
Int 16, Wis 16, Cha 13 
Talents Dastardly Strike, Draw Fire, 
Harm's Way, Sneak Attack +2d6 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), 
Combat Reflexes, Logic Upgrade: Defender, 
Martial Arts |, Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), 
Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic 
lore]), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons), Whirlwind 
Attack 
Skills Deception +15, Initiative +12, 
Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Knowledge 
(tactics) +12, Perception +14, Treat Injury +12, Use Computer +12 
Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand 
appendages, darkvision, improved sensor package, diagnostics 
package, internal comlink (encrypted), locked access, vocabulator, 
translator unit (DC 15), durasteel plating (+6 armor) 
Possessions 2 miniaturized rail cannons (treat as blaster cannons) 
Availability Military; Cost 35,630 credits 


FOURTH-DEGREE 
DROIDS 

Fourth-degree droids are combat droids, such as guard 
droids, battle droids, assassin droids, and probe droids. 
Examples include the FIll footman droid, the BL-Series 
battle legionnaire, and the B4J4 security droid. 


FIll Footman Droid 

Created by the Tac-Spec Corporation as the ultimate 
servant droid, this expensive model is marketed to 
the House of Tund on the dark-side-tainted planet 
of Vjun, although extremely wealthy buyers from 
other planets see the advantages of this model 
and purchase as many as possible. The FIll footman 
droid primarily serves as a humble valet, waiting tables, 
cleaning rooms, cooking food, and driving vehicles. However, 
the droid has a highly advanced processor more akin to those in 
assassin droids, making it an effective killing machine and a 
consummate bodyguard. These droids are incredibly strong, 
agile, and customizable, carrying powerful hidden weaponry 
to protect their owners. 


BATTLE DROID AND SLICER DROID 


BL-Series Battle Legionnaire 

Designed by the Confederacy of Independent Systems, the BL-Series battle 
legionnaire bears an uncanny resemblance to the innocuous 3PO-Series 
protocol droid, but it is armed with a variety of weapons. The Mandalorian 
protectors are the primary recipients of these droids during the Clone Wars, 
although battle legionnaires see limited engagements with other groups and 
units. The Mandalorians paint their battle legionnaires dark green and gold 
to distinguish them from protocol droids. 

BL-Series battle legionnaires cannot be played as droid heroes. 


BL-Series Battle Legionnaire CL3 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9 

Init +16; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary, Mando'a 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 12, Will 11 

hp 22; Threshold 12 
Immune droid traits 


B4J4 Security Droid 

Blujay designs the B4J4 security droid for use in the corporate sphere, 
and this model can be found in the largest and most prestigious corporate 
headquarters of the galaxy. As unobtrusive as possible, the B4J4 nonethe- 
less is heavily armed. Its repulsorlift enables it to fly, so that it can ignore 
stairs and swiftly traverse turbolift shafts as needed. It carries twin heavy 
blasters—preset to stun setting to avoid casualties—and a snare pistol, which 
launches cables that entangle dangerous individuals. 

B4J4 security droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


B4J4 Security Droid CL 2 
Small droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +9; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 14; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee finger blades +8 (2d4+2) 

Ranged assault blaster +3 (3d8) with autofire or 

Ranged assault blaster +6 (3d8) with braced autofire or 

Ranged assault blaster +1 (4d8) with autofire and Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options autofire (assault blaster), Rapid Shot 

Special Actions brace (assault blaster), Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 15, Con —, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Rapid Shot, Skill 
Focus (Initiative), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 
pistols, rifles) 

Skills Initiative +16, Perception +12 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
gyroscopic stabilizers, darkvision, improved sensor package, internal 
comlink, quadanium plating (+5 armor), internal storage (1 kg), 
vocabulator, silence-bubble generator 

Possessions assault blaster (treat as light repeating blaster), finger blades 
(treat as vibrodagger), medpac (in internal storage) 

Availability Military; Cost 15,090 credits 

Gyroscopic Stabilizers—A BL-Series battle legionnaire gains a +5 stability 
bonus on checks to resist attempts to knock it prone. 


Speed 9 squares (flying) 

Melee claw +5 (1d3+1) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +4 (4d8) with Rapid Shot 

Ranged snare pistol +6 (special) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +0 

Atk Options Rapid Shot 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con —, Int 11, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Perception), 
Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols) 

Skills Initiative +9, Perception +13 

Systems flying locomotion, basic processor, claw appendage (concealed), 
internal comlink, vocabulator, plasteel shell (+2 armor) 

Possessions 2 heavy blaster pistols, snare pistol 

Availability Restricted; Cost 25,340 credits 


oy 
) 
ie 
v 
K 
W 
z 
4 


CHAPTER IV. 
CAMPAIGNS 


ees 


EOS 


nstorthe-Force, the galaxy is bound together by one other factor— 
el enators bluster and pontificate in the Senate Rotunda 
engage in secret deals behind closed doors. Criminal 
cheme for profit and power, sometimes behind a facade of 
legality and legitimacy. Corporate CEOs try to maximize profits and expand 
their market shares while trying to force the competition out of business. 
Even a simple avenue in an obscure settlement on Tatooine can hold a wealth 


S 


of secret deals, power struggles, and tangled relationships—all potential 
hooks for adventure. 


Galaxy of Intrigue campaign can occur during any era, so Gamemasters 
leeway in when and where the game can take place. During the 
era, corporate power expands and the Sith operate openly. The 
is thick with intrigue, espionage, and intelligence gathering, 
Veen the Republic and Separatists, but also among neutral or 
ed planets and organizations—each with its own motives 
heWark Times are rife with paranoia and treachery, with the 
@ unbelievable might of the Empire. The Rebellion era pits 
ance against Imperial forces for decades, leaving tremendous 
rigues the Gamemaster and players develop. 
y of Intrigue campaign, the heroes delve into the tangled skein 
i ‘gfe to foil plots and expose the truth. As with Scum and Villainy, the 
» heroes do not have to be the most law-abiding or altruistic individuals, and in 
fact, characters who strictly adhere to legal behavior can derail a campaign 
ertain degree, since breaking and entering, assassination, extortion, 
nA 
un 


egal slicing are standard themes. In most cases, the heroes are the 

dogs, going up against powerful political organizations, corporations, 
or criminal networks. Secrecy and duplicity are the tools of a Galaxy of 
Intrigue campaign, and even trust can be employed as a weapon. Nothing 
is as it seems in this type of campaign, as layers are peeled away to reveal 
deeper, darker secrets threatening the safety of the galaxy and the balance 
of good and evil. 


SNOIVIDWNVYSO 


AL SBSaidvHs 


SNEIVEWYS) 


uD 


& GATHERING OF HEROES 

Although getting heroes together for a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign can be 
relatively easy, assembling a group of the right types of heroes and players 
for this type of campaign takes a bit more finesse. After all, some heroes, 
especially nobles and scoundrels, naturally fit into games where cloak and 
dagger maneuvering, political intrigue, and double crosses are commonplace. 
However, other heroes, such as scouts and soldiers, are better suited to the 
wilderness or the battlefield. A player who wants to portray a martial hero 
might change his or her mind upon hearing the type of campaign the Game- 
master has planned, and while the player ultimately decides the type of hero 
to play, the Gamemaster should clearly indicate that any class is appropriate 
in the campaign and that a variety of characters will be necessary for the 
adventuring group's survival. 

If the Gamemaster and players have the time, allowing each player to 
begin the campaign with his or her own solo mini-adventure can help to 
craft the web of how the heroes’ backgrounds and destinies are intertwined. 
When they finally adventure as a group, elements from each hero's past come 
forward, binding the heroes together. 


Shared Hero Backgrounds 

In a game where intrigue is the dominating theme, bringing the heroes 
together is considerably easier than in most campaigns. After all, the essence 
of intrigue is the intricate weaving together of plots and lives. Heroes from 
vastly different cultures, species, social classes, and heroic classes can be 
thrust together with a common event or patron. Indeed, part of the fun of 
an intrigue campaign can be figuring out what the heroes have in common— 
unraveling this mystery then leads to further adventures. 

For example, the heroes are thrust together into an adventure when a 
local official is assassinated. Although they come from different backgrounds 
and classes, they begin to unearth clues and hints that tie them together. 
Each is related to the victim. The noble once worked for the official as an 
advisor, and the soldier was hired by another party to break the legs of the 
official's companions. The official framed the group's scoundrel long ago as 
a scapegoat for a crime he didn't commit, and so on. 

However, unless the adventure revolves around the heroes’ back-story, 
avoid weaving too intricate a web of relationships among the heroes. Allow 
the players to determine their characters’ histories, and then build their ideas 
into your own plans. A simple, if broad, way to join the heroes together is to 
have them come from the same homeworld or belong to a large organization. 


Common Origins 

The heroes might commence the first story arc operating with some common 
elements. The Gamemaster should divulge common information relating to 
the first story arc during the players’ precampaign discussion, encouraging 
them to work the features into their heroes’ backgrounds. 


Below are short examples particularly well suited for Galaxy of Intrigue 
campaigns. They should help the Gamemaster generate opportunities for the 
players to build common bonds. 

© The heroes belong to a mercenary contingent hired by an anonymous 
but high-paying patron to perform a variety of shady paramilitary 
activities on a war-ravaged planet without getting involved with either 
side of the conflict. 

© The heroes are assigned as the entourage, bodyguards, and trouble- 
shooters for a powerful Core Worlds noble. They are constantly on the 
move and ordered to take on varied, dangerous, and sometimes bizarre 
assignments to advance the noble's cryptic agendas. 

© The heroes are spies ordered to go in deep undercover to unearth secrets 
about a corporation's plans to create super weapons and sell them to 
the highest bidder. 

® The heroes are crew members of a luxury yacht that shuttles VIPs to dif- 
ferent worlds. They overhear secrets and become unwittingly entangled 
in the schemes of their passengers. 


A campaign idea that railroads the players into creating certain kinds of 
characters is less than ideal, and a Gamemaster should avoid imposing limi- 
tations on character types because of the kind of campaign being run. One 
hero in the mercenary contingent, for example, could be a Jedi sent to gather 
intelligence and discover the identity of the patron sending mercenaries to a 
neutral planet's civil war. The luxury yacht crew could be a loose association 
of scouts, scoundrels, soldiers, nobles, and even a Jedi. Players’ enjoyment 
of the campaign depends more on how they define their heroes’ motivations 
and what secret information, if any, they arrange with the Gamemaster. 


Allies 

Patronage, favors, mentors, and obligations are the key elements of a Galaxy 
of Intrigue campaign. Any number of a hero's allies could have their own con- 
nections, sometimes obvious, other times not, to the allies of another hero 
in the group. Depending on the relationship, a hero could be asked, begged, 
or ordered to do a favor on the ally's behalf, introducing them to the other 
heroes to form the adventuring group. However, in a Galaxy of Intrigue 
campaign, an ally has the potential to turn into an adversary. 

Allies can provide information, transportation, access, and credits to the 
heroes as needed. When the heroes are on the run, allies might grant them 
a safe haven or use political power to call off the pursuit. Nothing comes 
for free, though, and the heroes are expected to return the favor whenever 
and however they can, creating hooks for new adventures in the process. 

e The heroes all have ties to local law enforcement and are sometimes 
called upon to lend their unique skills to help in an investigation. 

© The heroes have access to a representative of the Galactic Republic 
through blood relatives, old familial ties, or the time that they spent 
under the representative's tutelage. 


¢ The heroes perform favors for a smuggler who makes runs for extremely 
wealthy and powerful individuals. The smuggler gives the heroes the use 
of a ship and provides access to the movers and shakers of the galaxy. 


Location 

Heroes might visit a location that generates intrigue. Certain places, such as 
royal palaces or the Senate on Coruscant, are prime settings for secret deals 
and skullduggery. Intrigue might be only a conference room away, or secret 
meetings might be occurring in hidden passageways. Even a chaotic battle- 
field can be full of intrigue. The heroes might be spies who must infiltrate 
a capital city during a vicious firefight, passing themselves off as members 
of the enemy force. Or in the middle of fierce house-to-house fighting, the 
heroes could stumble upon the corpse of an enemy courier carrying a cryptic 
message that reveals traitors within the heroes’ unit. 

This central location could later serve as a headquarters of sorts for the 
heroes to return to. Guildhalls, palaces, and other government facilities are 
all excellent venues for the heroes to come together and become surrounded 
by the sort of intrigue that sets off adventures. 

¢ The heroes are all members of a house of bounty hunters, headquar- 
tered in a hollowed-out asteroid located near the Hydian Way. 

¢ The heroes are employees of the same government, granted special 
authority to travel freely on its behalf. 

¢ The heroes are all undercover agents who work from a secret field 
office, complete with a legitimate front. 


Event 

Asingle event can set a plot in motion, with the heroes either being integral 
elements or unwitting participants who must unravel the plot, restore their 
sullied names, or do the bidding of their patron. The heroes might have dif- 
ferent motivations or reasons for uncovering the truth, but they must work 
together to achieve their goals. 

Countless events in Star Wars can draw heroes together, such as the 
prolonged conflict of the Clone Wars, the annihilation of Alderaan, or the 
blockade of Naboo. 

¢ The heroes witness an epic battle between two mighty Force users, 
resulting in the death of one of the combatants. As witnesses to the duel, 
they might be questioned about the event, or others might try to have them 
killed to keep the death of the Force user hushed up. 

¢ The heroes are passengers aboard a small freighter bound for the Core 
Worlds. Upon waking, they find that the captain has been murdered in his 
locked cabin. The crew immediately blames the heroes for the crime, but the 
heroes suspect several NPCs with mutinous motivations. 

¢ The heroes work on behalf of the Republic when Order 66 is carried 
out. After the deaths of untold numbers of Jedi, the heroes are surrounded 
by scores of now-hostile clone troopers. 


EVENTS LIKE THE CAPTURE OF THE TANTIVE /V 
BRING HEROES TOGETHER. 


Adversaries 

Setting up a common adversary is a great way to draw heroes into a cam- 
paign of intrigue. The heroes bring to the table their own motivations and 
grudges, and they find that the best way to bring an antagonist down is to 
cooperate. The adversary can be anything or anyone, from a single power- 
ful individual to a criminal cartel, a corporation, or an entire government. 
Of course, in a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, an adversary might be an ally 
who betrays the heroes or one whom the heroes discover to be responsible 
for reprehensible acts. 

Remember, however, that adversaries are not necessarily out for the 
heroes’ blood. A rival corporation or intelligence organization might be more 
interested in subverting or capturing the heroes to learn what they know. Of 
course, if the situation becomes messy, violence is bound to happen, but the 
cleverest of adversaries try a variety of tactics in their attempts to dominate 
the heroes, including blackmail, extortion, and going after the heroes’ loved 
ones or associates. The old adage “My enemy's enemy is my friend" applies to 
this situation, uniting heroes from seemingly opposing ideologies or mindsets 
to bring down a particular adversary. 

e The heroes owe money or obligations to a crime lord noted for cruelty 
and a willingness to hurt the families and associates of those who do 
not repay their debts. 

© The heroes’ home planet has been slowly poisoned by the illegal dump- 
ing of toxins by one of the Banking Clan’s numerous subsidiary manu- 
facturing corporations. Corruption and public apathy has kept this 
information from the rest of the galaxy, so the heroes must find the 
damning evidence that could bring the polluters to justice. 

© The heroes belong to different, but allied, intelligence organizations, 
each of which is tasked with undermining a regional office of Impe- 
rial Intelligence. Tackling such an imposing foe requires them to band 
together, combining their skills and resources. 


SNEIVEIWYS) 


SNEIVEWNYS) 


CAMPAIGN ELEMENTS 

The most satisfying campaigns blend combat, chases, and hair-raising 
escapes with investigation, NPC interactions, and other roleplaying aspects 
that do not involve violence. After all, Star Wars isn't Star Wars without 
blaster fights and lightsaber duels, but a Gamemaster can easily incorporate 
the randomness of combat into the planned story arc. 

A Galaxy of Intrigue campaign is probably best initially portrayed as 
something else entirely. The heroes go on adventures oblivious, at first, to 
the machinations slowly drawing them into a plot. Once engaged, however, 
the heroes can find the world turned upside down—allies turned enemies, 
enemies turned allies, secret knowledge brought out into the light of day, and 
seemingly unrelated events revealed as part of a vast conspiracy. Intrigue 
occurs everywhere, so the heroes might become involved with the upper 
echelons of society in one encounter and then with the seediest parts of a 
spaceport in the next. 


The Halls of Power 
The Republic Senate, the noble houses of the Core Worlds, the board of 
directors of the Techno Union—each of these groups is involved in making 
decisions that have immense implications for untold billions of sentient beings 
throughout the galaxy. Within the palaces, boardrooms, and Senate chambers 
of the galaxy, those in power make deals and advance their agendas. These 
actions usually occur in the light of day, where bills are voted upon and 
debates take place to sway the opinions of their comrades. However, much 
also occurs behind closed doors, with secret alliances, political maneuvering, 
and even assassination attempts lurking just beneath the veneer of civility. 
In a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, the heroes might be members of a pow- 
erful group or might represent the interests of a particular cause. They meet 
with kings and tribal leaders, corporate CEOs, or crime lords to broker deals, 
often within the gilded halls that represent the power of the people. Although 
grand and plush in appearance, these buildings where the powerful meet 
and craft agreements are in fact hotbeds of deceit. The heroes might spend 


A LITERAL HALL OF POWER: THE SENATE BUILDING 


their time traveling from one of these places to another, or the might spend 
an entire adventure in a single location attempting to unravel a mystery. 

Those who walk the halls of power have vast resources, influence, and 
money at their command—enough so that the heroes might think that 
making an enemy of one of these VIPs is tantamount to suicide. To be sure, 
the Gamemaster should use these resources to put pressure on the heroes, 
just to let them know what they are up against, including opponents that use 
political maneuvering or the courts and bureaucracies to block investigations. 
Although the heroes can use the system to fight the system, Star Wars is not 
about campaigns littered with court documents and injunctions. Situations 
involving red tape should be resolved with a few Knowledge or Persuasion 
checks, leaving the rest of the time for cloak-and-dagger work. 

Adventure Hook: The heroes are part of the entourage of a junior Senator, 
recently and hastily appointed after his predecessor was gunned down on the 
streets of her home planet. They travel to Coruscant, where the Senator must 
submit legislation to gain assistance against the pirates who have turned his 
system into a lawless zone. However, the new Senator is completely out of his 
element in the rough and tumble political cyclone of the Senate Chambers. 
The heroes find that they must protect the vulnerable Senator, both from 
the predations of politicians who seek to suborn him and from physical harm 
as well, as a cartel of corrupt officials that are bankrolling the pirates to do 
their best to prevent the Senator from submitting his plea for help. 


Everyone Has Secrets 

Even the most minor NPC in a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign can have a back 
story and motivation that the Gamemaster and heroes can take advantage 
of during the adventure. Everyone has something to hide, whether a secret 
shame, a criminal background, a family scandal, or some other bit of informa- 
tion that they would rather not have out in the open. A Galaxy of Intrigue 
campaign presses this theme as much as possible, with characters taking 
extreme measures to keep secrets hidden or to uncover the dirty laundry of 
others. Corporations—especially those that deal in weapons manufacturing, 
drugs, medicine, or other technologies with the potential for abuse—spend 
millions of credits to keep the skeletons in their closets locked away from 
prying eyes. 

In an intrigue campaign, the heroes quickly discover that everyone has a 
secret and that their own pasts might come back to haunt them. The heroes 
can be manipulated with blackmail, as outside forces use scandalous informa- 
tion to lead the heroes to do their bidding or force them to pay an exorbitant 
price to keep it hushed up. Of course, if the heroes are unscrupulous, they 
might find that blackmail works in their favor as well. Even the Jedi, with 
their codes of conduct, know that using information to leverage a situa- 
tion can be the best solution to a problem, especially if it averts violence. 
Heroes who insist that they have nothing to hide can still run afoul of dirty 
secrets—perhaps not their own, but those of their comrades, families, or 


patrons, who plead with the hero to conceal the secret or to silence those 
who might bring it out in the open. 

Adventure Hook: After a battle in space, the heroes are forced to land 
their damaged starship on a barren planet far from help. Dangerous beasts 
and fierce windstorms make repairs difficult. The next day, a strange but 
friendly man emerges from the storm, claiming to have seen the ship's descent 
and offering assistance. He says that he is a hermit who came to the planet to 
contemplate the Force and to live in harmony with this hostile planet, but the 
heroes soon discover that the hermit's promised aid is a clever ruse, since he 
is actually a mass murderer on the run from his crimes. The hermit attempts 
to draw the heroes away individually, setting them up so that their possible 
deaths appears to be caused by native animals or exposure to the elements. 


Power, Corruption, and Scandal 

Any student of the Force can tell you that power corrupts. As nobles, Sena- 
tors, and leaders grow in power, so too does the temptation to glean a few 
extra credits along the way or to use their influence to push through deci- 
sions that serve the few over the concerns of the many. In some cultures— 
especially those in the Outer Rim—graft and corruption are built into the 
system, with kickbacks and bribes as an integral part. No one blinks an eye 
at throwing in a few hundred additional credits to obtain a license or to pay 
off a law-enforcement officer. In other cultures, the mere idea that money 
or favors can be traded to push a particular agenda Is anathema, although 
the temptation is there. 

Corruption can be an important element of a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign. 
Not every official is on the take, but the heroes should not be surprised if 
they are expected to pay through the nose or if they must do some favors 
to gain the trust of key individuals. Corruption is all a matter of scope, of 
course. A wealthy diplomat might laugh at the idea of the heroes offering 
less than hundreds of thousands of credits for influence with his or her 
government, while a city clerk might grant the heroes an hour of access to 
government computers for something as simple as a packet of spice or an 
old, beat-up landspeeder. 

With corruption comes scandal. When secrets are dragged out into the 
light for all to see, formerly altruistic and trusted officials become mired 
in shame or charged with criminal wrongdoing. Religious leaders might 
be revealed as heretics, and beloved nobles might be exposed as traitors 
against the people they rule. For politicians, the threat of scandal is part of 
doing business. They do their best to keep their scandals and those of their 
associates hidden from view, while striving to uncover their opponents’ 
scandals. Every day, the HoloNet features scandals ranging from the absurd 
to the monstrous. As such a scandal unfolds, the accused finds that friends 
and allies become hard or impossible to reach, and even simple tasks, such 
as traveling, become more difficult since they are dogged by reporters, law 
enforcement officials, or victims looking for vengeance. As the heroes go 
about their adventures in a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, they might realize 
that their own reputations and honor are precious commodities. 


Adventure Hook: The heroes are employed as personal servants for 
a noble, well known and beloved for providing food and medical relief to 
refugees during the Clone Wars. During a particularly crucial mission, word 
spreads over the HoloNet that she has been using the relief organization as 
a front to provide intelligence and supplies for the Separatists. Although she 
vehemently denies it, the heroes are presented with evidence that makes 
her claim of innocence suspect. They have seen the good that her efforts 
have provided, but if the rumors are accurate, the heroes are considered 
accomplices unless they turn her in or help hide her secrets. 


Spies and Espionage 

Every organization with a political agenda has its own spies, informers, 
and moles to ferret out information about rivals. Saboteurs, assassins, and 
enforcers do their best to disrupt the agendas of their enemies. Even during 
the most tranquil and enlightened times, spies work behind the scenes on 
behalf of their patrons. Indeed, the eras of relative quiet are still rife with 
intrigue, as the paranoid prepare for the coming decline or unscrupulous 
groups and individuals look to exploit the sleeping masses. 

In a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, the heroes might be part of an intel- 
ligence organization dedicated to any of these assignments. Different mis- 
sions require different skill sets, so a diverse adventuring group can be an 
advantage. Nobles and scoundrels have social skills, and scouts are treasured 
for the ability to sneak into locations. Soldiers provide the necessary muscle 
when subtlety does not do the trick or when things go wrong and comrades 
need protection. Although the Jedi strive to avoid politics, many of their 
missions can be considered espionage because they gather information, 
follow up reports of corruption, and troubleshoot situations that threaten 
the peace of the Republic. 


YABBA THE HUTT'S WEALTH AND RESOURCES ARE VAST. 


SNEIVEWYS) 


Adventure Hook: After a cell of undercover operatives on New Plympto 
is discovered and terminated, Rebel Intelligence approaches the heroes 
individually to replace the cell of spies. However, the heroes are unaware 
that although the cell was indeed eradicated, the Empire had infiltrated it 
prior to its destruction. The heroes’ handler, the Imperial mole, sends them 
on missions to uncover secrets of the Empire, but all for the purpose of 
locating additional Rebel spies and contacts. After the heroes gather enough 
information for the mole, he intends to set up an ambush to bring them in 
for questioning and detention. If the heroes learn of his secret beforehand, 
however, they can use it to their advantage, providing false information and 
setting a trap for the mole instead. 


Secret Knowledge 

Sometimes the heroes uncover knowledge that has been long forgotten 
or kept hidden from prying eyes for untold millennia. Secret societies and 
special-interest groups quietly remove mention of certain planets from public 
records or hush up the discovery of an ancient Sith temple, perhaps for the 
common good, but more often to keep the forbidden knowledge—and the 
power it provides—for themselves. 

When confronted with previously secret or forbidden knowledge, the 
heroes must decide whether to release the information to the public, regard- 
less of its impact on the galaxy, or to keep it to themselves and possibly 
capitalize on it for personal gain. Uncovering secrets stirs up a hornet's nest 
of trouble, as rivals, officials, criminals, or others come asking questions or 
demanding it for themselves. 


DARTH MAUL SPYING ON MOS ESPA 


Adventure Hook: During the course of the campaign, the heroes dis- 
cover that a corporation has been funneling resources and manpower to a 
moon clearly labeled off limits by the Republic. After infiltrating a corporate 
freighter, they make their way to the moon and find a massive archaeological 
dig revealing a staggeringly old starship buried in the crust. The ship's origins 
are unknown. However, the intact but nonfunctioning technology on board 
could throw financial markets and the balance of power in the sector into 
chaos. Do the heroes try to shut down the operation, inform their superiors, 
or attempt to take it for themselves? 


A Matter of Trust 

Just as in Scum and Villainy, trust and betrayal are important in an intrigue 
campaign, and require additional mention here. In a campaign in which 
alliances might be nothing more than clever ruses and everyone has some- 
thing to hide, players can soon fall into a trap of no longer trusting anyone, 
regardless of their apparent friendliness or helpfulness. A campaign can 
quickly fall apart if the Gamemaster's plans involve the heroes trusting a 
particular individual. The easiest, although least effective, way to circumvent 
such a possibility is to arrange for the heroes to have no choice but to deal 
with the NPC in question. However, trust is rarely given in such circumstances, 
so the heroes can probably see the NPC's betrayal far in advance. 

The reverse is also true, in that alliances can shift, sometimes without 
notice, turning adversaries into potential allies. As the heroes uncover 
secrets, they can use them to their advantage, perhaps by presenting useful 
information to an enemy, since those with a sense of business or political 
savvy know that even an opponent can be a useful resource if approached 
in the right manner. Players should be encouraged to use their skills, wits, 
and diplomacy to find common ground with their enemies whenever possible, 
opening the door to additional adventures down the road. 

Lastly, in a game rife with intrigue, the heroes might even begin to view 
each other suspiciously. If the heroes are thrust together with little unity to 
begin with, the campaign could possibly unravel as the heroes accuse their 
comrades of duplicity and holding back secrets. Although a certain amount 
of paranoia and suspicion is to be expected in a game of intrigue, the Game- 
master should be ready to step in before the situation gets out of hand and 
the heroes refuse to trust each other enough to even adventure together. 

Adventure Hook: The heroes’ mentor provides them with intelligence, 
gear, ships, and other resources. Over time, though, the mentor contracts a 
disease that even the best medical droids and physicians cannot cure. The 
mentor sends the heroes on increasingly lucrative, but dangerous, tasks ina 
desperate gambit to raise additional funds for his treatment. Eventually, the 
mentor sells the heroes out to their enemy for a big payoff and promise of 
access to expensive experimental care. Although the mentor loathes himself, 
he has little choice. If the heroes show mercy, they might be able to help 
him with his treatment. 


= 5 


BUILDING AN 

INTRIGUE CAMPAIGN 

Creating adventures for a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign requires a little more 
foresight and planning than for other types of campaigns. Although it should 
also present opportunities for prolonged blaster fights, harrowing starship 
chases, and Jedi bounding about with lightsabers in hand, an intrigue cam- 
paign focuses more on uncovering secrets, on the intricate pull of power and 
corruption, and on helping shape the galaxy's destiny through subterfuge, 
negotiation, and investigation. The players and the heroes they portray find 
that asking questions, remaining alert for clues, and using deductive reason- 
ing advance the story. 


Pacing 

Pacing is a crucial element in any Galaxy of Intrigue campaign. If done 
correctly, the heroes discover tantalizing clues as they progress through 
their adventure, revealing previously unknown connections, unearthing the 
motivations of NPCs, and realizing that all is not as it appears, leading to a 
satisfying epic conclusion. Each session should combine social interaction, 
investigation, and deduction along with a healthy dose of action and combat 
to keep the game lively and interesting. 

A Gamemaster should first determine how long the campaign will run. If 
the Galaxy of Intrigue game is intended to last for just a few sessions, then 
the clues and revelations should come rapidly and clearly, giving the heroes 
obvious paths to pursue during a session or for future sessions. If possible, 
each session encapsulates its own mini-arc, with a well-defined beginning, 
middle, and end, giving the heroes a sense of satisfaction at figuring out 
a vital piece of information. For example, during the first session of the 
campaign, an Imperial spy has managed to infiltrate the Rebel base that the 
heroes call home, unearthing vital strategic information and details about 
troop movements. The heroes must determine how the spy got into the facility 
in the first place. Then they uncover clues indicating where the spy escaped 
to, and they travel there for further investigation. For the last portion of the 
session, the heroes confront one of the spy's contacts, resulting in a gun 
battle as the contact tries to escape. Upon capturing or killing the contact, 
they discover just how vital the information was and what it means for the 
Rebellion. During the next session, they head off to their next location and 
plunge deeper into the intrigue laid out before them. 

If the campaign is intended to take place over the course of several ses- 
sions, then the adventure should move at a slower—but no less exciting—pace 
with numerous side treks and intertwined plots, both to keep the heroes 
guessing and to keep the game from bogging down if they are stymied by a 
particular avenue of inquiry. 


ASAdJU VENTRESS ATTEMPTS TO EARN KING KATUNNKO'S TRUST. 


¥ 


Layers Upon Layers 
Even mundane scenes of a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign can contain the seeds 
for intrigue, so each encounter should relate to some scheme or plot. Mas- 
terminds hatch intricate plans with both minute and wide-sweeping scopes. 
Look at how each encounter fits into the overall are of the story. Sometimes 
the players themselves help write the story in ways that are unanticipated 
but work well to add another layer of intrigue. With a little creativity, even 
a seemingly random encounter can be used as a stepping stone for further 
adventures or to advance the campaign. For example, a burglary unrelated 
to the heroes uncovers their secret plans, putting them in jeopardy when 
this information is sold to the highest bidder. 
Conversely, the heroes’ actions can have repercussions. Perhaps they 
interrogate a shopkeeper to find the location of a local crime boss. The 
Gamemaster decides on the spot that the shopkeeper—now fearing retribu- 
tion for revealing this information—decides to pay local thugs to stop the 
heroes from finding the crime boss and revealing the transgression. If the 
heroes kill or injure the thugs, local law enforcement arrives and brings 
the heroes in for questioning. Once they are detained, the heroes discover 
that the police captain is in the pocket of the crime lord. 


SNEIVEIWYS 


Ge HSLavHo } 
: J 


SNEIGVAIWYS) 


In another example, the Jedi Council asks the heroes to look into the 
disappearance of a Jedi Knight and a Padawan sent to handle a dispute 
between a Mid Rim planet and a nearby system. Upon arrival, the heroes 
quickly discover that the Jedi met with the planet's authority figures and 
then disappeared—the rulers accuse the other system of kidnapping the Jedi 
to disrupt negotiations. However, the heroes quickly realize that the planet 
boasts an unusually high number of servants with the characteristic traits 
of slavery, which is illegal in that sector of the galaxy. When the evidence of 
slavery is brought up to the rulers of the planet, the situation quickly takes a 
turn for the worse. Assailants capture the heroes and shuttle them up to a 
waiting slave vessel with a crew from the other system. If the heroes escape 
to reveal that the rulers of the supposedly warring planets are actually in 
partnership, gathering slaves to be sent to the fighting pits of Nar Shaddaa, 
they then draw the ire of the Hutts, who in turn send bounty hunters to 
silence the heroes permanently. 


Pitfalls to Avoid 

One key to creating a campaign of intrigue is the judicious use of suspense 
to keep the players on the edge of their seats. However, creating suspense 
can bea tricky affair, balancing expectation with realistic results or decisions 
that might derail the outcome that you intended. 


Pacing Is Everything 

Intrigue works best when information is revealed in a timely manner that keeps 
the heroes both guessing and hungry for more. To walk the fine line between 
interesting and dull, incorporate the uncovering of information along with 
action. For example, in order for the heroes to find out the identity of a traitor 
who has been shipping weapons to the Separatists, they must break into their 
own organization's computers without revealing their actions to their superiors. 


“A& FIGURE BURSTS 

THROUGH THE DOOR WITH 

& BLASTER...” 

Acommon theme from the noir genre is a lone assailant bursting through 
a door blasting. The motivation for the attacker could be almost any- 
thing. Perhaps the attacker is a lackey of the main villain or a person 
with a grudge. This sort of random encounter spices up a scene that has 
slowed down with investigation or too much talk among the players. It 
spurs action and opens the door to finding out the attacker's identity 
and motives. 

Of course, this technique should be used sparingly, or else the players 
might see lulls in the campaign as a setup for an ambush. You can vary 
the theme with a damsel in distress or a courier bearing a summons for 
the heroes to come before the Republic Senate. 


Provide Tangible Results 
Avoid burying the campaign in so many layers of intrigue that trying to 
sort out the truth is almost impossible, and worse, boring. A Gamemaster 
should look at each encounter and figure out exactly what sort of informa- 
tion or result the heroes should learn at its conclusion, clearly indicating 
that they are making progress. An apparently meaningless, random event 
might later be revealed to be a crucial element, but using that technique 
too often, or making epiphanies too subtle, can frustrate players. Allowing 
the heroes to winnow out red herrings in a solid and undisputed way also 
helps them feel that they are making progress. If you find that the heroes 
are following an incorrect conclusion for too long, help them get back on 
track. Even the simple task of having your players roll a Wisdom check can 
make them realize that they are chasing a dead end and lead them back to 
the more relevant path. 

Encouraging the players to make full use of their characters’ skills, 
especially when utilizing the Skill Challenge system (see Chapter 2: Skill 
Challenges), provides concrete and clear results for success. 


Savvy Players 
Unless you are a true mastermind, the players might see right through the 
intrigue you have laid out, coming to the correct conclusion on their own well 
in advance of the point you expected. Such a result is particularly likely in 
situations requiring only a single answer—identifying the professor's murderer 
or determining what the corporation is building on that secret moon base, 
for example. Several techniques can mitigate this problem: 
e Shift later events so that the heroes’ conclusions are close, but not 
exactly correct. 
® Create a separate encounter or adventure that prevents the heroes from 
seeing the conclusion of the original adventure until later on. 
e Make their conclusions an element of yet another, larger conspiracy 
leading to further adventures. 
If your players are particularly insightful and solve the riddles early, they 
should be rewarded for their keen perception and deduction! 


INTRIGUE 
CAMPAIGN ARCS 


Even with all of the general guidelines this book provides, coming up with 
an intriguing storyline that uses many of the elements presented here can 
be a challenge. In order to help you envision what an entire campaign based 
on intrigue might look like, this section presents several new campaign 
arcs. These campaign arcs describe the basic premise of a campaign, and 
then walk you through the general events that take place over the course of 
the campaign, eventually culminating in the climax of the campaign. You 
can use these sample campaign arcs as the basis for a campaign, or just as 
inspiration when crafting your own campaigns. 


SOME OF YOUR PLAYERS WILL BE AS SAVVY AS LANDO CALRISSIAN. 


THE SECRET REVOLUTION 

In the Secret Revolution campaign, the players become swept up in a web 
of intrigue meant to cover up the fact that a secret organization is planning 
to overthrow the galactic government. This campaign works best during a 
time period when the galactic government is mostly benevolent, such as 
during the days of the Old Republic, so that the players feel some reason to 
keep the government from being overthrown. The primary conflict in this 
campaign involves the heroes coming up against the revolutionaries, and 
hopefully stopping from harming the Republic. 

The campaign opens when the heroes respond to a bounty posting on an 
Inner Rim world, with a bounty on the head of a Senator's aide (wanted alive) 
who has supposedly gone underground after betraying the Senator. As it turns 
out, the aide was actually kidnapped by a cabal of disgruntled soldiers, and 
the bounty was actually a plot to have the aide rescued from kidnapping. 
The heroes discover that the bounty was put on the aide by a member of the 
Senate Guard, a human named Bail Falcris, and he thanks the heroes and 
pays them to continue working for him. The aide reveals that his kidnappers 
took him after he discovered that his Senator had been communicating with 
someone called Domino, who has been hiring criminals and kidnappers on 
the Outer Rim for months. Over the course of the next few levels, the heroes 
try to find out who Domino is by posing as mercenaries for hire, but just as 
they are getting close their benefactor, Falcris, is recalled by the Senator 
that had been suspected of dealing with Domino. Now facing bureaucratic 
roadblocks, the heroes must find hard evidence (beyond the testimony of 


the aide) that the Senator was dealing with criminals under the table. They 
do so, and the Senator is arrested and imprisoned. 

As the second act of the campaign begins, the heroes are meeting with 
Falcris when an attempt is made on the Senate Guard's life. Republic Intelli- 
gence traces the attack back to a former Padawan that washed out of the Jedi 
Order and who now runs a semi-legitimate information brokering business 
out of Nar Shaddaa. When the heroes arrive, they find the Padawan already 
dead, and the computers containing the Padawan's stores of information 
stolen. This leads the heroes on a chase around the galaxy, always finding 
themselves one step behind the mysterious Domino. Their break comes when 
the heroes are contacted by a member of Domino's organization—a Sullustan 
slicer—who has decided to turn over a new leaf. The arranged meeting turns 
out to be a trap that leaves the Sullustan dead, but also sees the heroes 
recovering a computer core that the slicer had brought with him, rich with 
information on Domino's communications habits. 

It isin the third act of the campaign that the full extend to the revolution- 
aries’ plan is unveiled. The computer core that the heroes recovered contains 
communications between the mysterious leader of the organization and a 
number of undercover cells throughout the galaxy. Each communiqué seems 
to be setting up the assassinations of literally hundreds of Senators. After 
conferring with their contact in the Senate Guard, the heroes discover that 
each of the assassinations targets a Senator that is scheduled to be away from 
Coruscant at the same time. More frightening is the inference that Domino 
has some plan in place to take out all of the Senators on Coruscant during 
a Senate meeting. The heroes’ final missions in the campaign require them 
to travel to distant stars and warn Senators of the plots against them, foil 
attacks on those Senators, and uncover the nature of the plot against Corus- 
cant. The heroes finally discover the true identity of Domino when they go to 
warn a Senator about an impending assassination attempt, only to find out 
that the Senator was safe all along—because he or she was Domino all along. 

The climax of the campaign takes place when the now-revealed Domino 
informs the heroes that the tragic deaths of nearly every other Senator is 
unavoidable. Domino reveals that Senate building is going to be the target 
of a tragic capital ship laser misfire, and that revolutionary forces are going 
to be on hand to finish off anyone that escapes. Domino also informs them 
that the Holonet has been brought down to keep them from interfering with 
his or her plans. With the heroes on the far side of the galaxy, and the true 
nature of the attack on the Senate now revealed to them, the heroes must 
race against time to make it back to Coruscant, disable the sabotaged capital 
ship that is going to be firing on the Senate, and then aid the Senate Guard 
in protecting the Senators from revolutionary forces. 


SNEIVEWYS) 


— 8 


=) 


SNEIVEWY, 


PLOT AND METAPLOT 

This section on campaign ares is intentionally written as era-neutral. 
However, most of the eras in the Star Wars story have their own meta- 
plot to deal with; that is to say, they have their own overarching story 
that defines what the era is all about. The Rebellion Era has the struggle 
against the Empire, the Rise of the Empire has the Clone Wars, and the 
New Jedi Order has the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. When using one of these 
campaign arcs, it's important to make sure that you use the trappings 
of that era's metaplot, but then make the main plot of your campaign 
your own. These campaign arcs work best when they are tweaked to fit 
in with the overall story of the era, and if you adapt the story to the era 
then it is less likely that your heroes will focus on the idea of “being in 
an intrigue-based campaign" and more likely that they will feel caught 
up in the story. Feel free to change who the villains are, who the heroes’ 
allies are, and the specifics of certain events such that they blend with, 
not stand out against, the era's metaplot. 


HOSTILE TAKEOVER 

The Hostile Takeover campaign is a bit different from the others presented 
here, in that its scope is limited to a single sector of space. This kind of 
campaign can work during any time period, and in fact since the action is 
relatively confined in the galaxy it can work in conjunction with a second 
campaign arc as well, with the heroes alternating between plots. Though this 
campaign arc also somewhat relies on the heroes feeling amicable toward the 
government of the sector, you can adapt the story of the campaign such that 
the heroes might have other reasons for not wanting to see the government 
fall. For example, in the Rebellion Era this campaign arc might take place 
in a sector of space that is filled with Rebel sympathizers, and planets that 
have joined the Rebellion, meaning that the heroes won't want to see the 
government fall since it is largely sympathetic to their cause, 

At the start of the campaign, the heroes are working in a remote sector 
of space when they receive a distress call from a starship that has come 
under attack and needs assistance. When the heroes arrive, they discover that 
the ship was attacked by pirates. As they investigate further, they find that 
these pirates have seemingly come out of nowhere, with significantly more 
advanced technology and resources available to them than other pirates. 
As reports come in from across the sector of similar attacks, the heroes 
discover that the pirates have significant financial backing, in the form of 
a group of powerful corporate entities whose wealth is spread throughout 
the sector. Realizing that those companies’ ships never seem to run afoul of 
the pirates, the heroes also discover that the pirate threat is coming from a 
nearby asteroid base, and have a chance to stop the pirates once and for all. 


With the pirates dealt with, the second act of the campaign involved the 
heroes’ investigation into the involvement of the corporations who backed 
the pirates. Initial clues seem to indicate that the pirates were but one part 
of a larger plan, and through several adventures the heroes uncover other 
parts of that plan: sabotaging planetary weather control systems, inciting 
criminal riots in major cities, and staging attacks against well-populated 
areas by brigands and mercenaries. Over time, the heroes come to realize 
that these corporations are trying to incite unrest in the population, and in 
particular are making it seem like the sector governments cannot protect 
the people. The second act culminates when the heroes stop a major attack 
on a highly populated city, foiling a plan that was to be the corporations’ 
capstone in a campaign to discredit the government. 

As the campaign draws to a close in its final act, the heroes have not only 
stymied the corporate group, they have also become targets themselves. The 
corporations leverage their clout to portray the heroes as villains who were 
trying to perpetrate the very act they tried to stop in the second act, fore- 
ing the heroes to go underground rather than continue to fight. The heroes 
struggle to clear their names, and eventually discover that the corporations 
involved in the plan all seem to be under the influence of a Dark Jedi, and 
her evil apprentice. The two dark Force-users have been manipulating the 
corporations in order to destabilize the sector, and have planned to install 
their own puppet government once the sector government falls. 

The climax of the campaign comes when the heroes infiltrate the towering 
structures controlled by the Dark Jedi and her apprentice, ending in a final 
showdown with the villains in the transparisteel-walled towers. With the 
Dark Jedi defeated and her schemes revealed, the heroes’ names are cleared, 
and the villainous corporations crumble as their sedition becomes public. 


INVASION FROM 

THE UNKNOWN REGIONS 

In the Invasion from the Unknown Regions campaign, the heroes find 
themselves confronted with knowledge that no one in the known galaxy 
possesses—the knowledge of a secret invasion force poised to strike at 
civilization. This kind of campaign can work during pretty much any time 
period, though similarities to the Yuuzhan Vong invasion might mean that the 
campaign has a bit less impact during that time. Of course, you can always 
adapt the campaign to involve the Yuuzhan Vong invasion itself, but that 
might require some serious alterations to the conceits of the plot. 

As the campaign opens, the heroes are traveling through the Outer Rim 
near the fringes of the Unknown Regions when they experience a hyperspace 
anomaly. More specifically, they are pulled out of hyperspace by a large object 
that simply shouldn't be there. As they enter realspace, they find themselves 
drifting at the edges of a massive fleet of ships, all of a completely alien 
design. It soon becomes clear that this is an invasion fleet, poised to strike 
at the galaxy, but when the heroes try to warn the government they find 


that the fleet seems to have simply vanished. Over the course of several 
adventures, they follow a trail of sightings of this phantom fleet across the 
Outer Rim, and soon discover a frightening truth: the invasion has already 
begun. The invaders from the Unknown Regions have recruited many beings 
across the galaxy and have bribed them to sabotage planetary defenses 
across the Outer Rim. At the conclusion of the first act of the campaign, 
the invasion fleet launches attacks across the Outer Rim, and the heroes 
must quickly locate the saboteur on their own world in order to protect their 
planet from being invaded. 

As the second act of the campaign opens, the invasion has begun, and 
countless worlds across the Outer Rim have fallen under the control of the 
invaders. Yet once the initial assault is over, the invaders seem to sit on their 
laurels. All space traffic and communications into, and out of, the captured 
worlds is cut off by the invaders. Weeks pass, and no further advancements 
are made. Since the heroes have been on the front of the invasion, they are 
tasked with infiltrating a captured world and finding out the next step in 
the invaders’ plans. They do so, and spend several adventures infiltrating a 
captured world and insinuating themselves into the invaders’ organization. 
Over time, the heroes realize that the invaders seem to lack any leadership at 
all, and at the climax of the second act they discover the truth: the invaders 
have no leader, for he, she or it was killed during the initial invasion. This 
fact has been kept from the invaders’ forces by a cabal of officers, who fear 
that the invasion will fall apart if it becomes clear that their glorious leader 
isdead. As the heroes are about to reveal this fact to the galaxy, the invad- 
ers' leader miraculously reappears, and commands the invaders to launch a 
renewed assault against Mid-Rim worlds. 

In the final act of the campaign, the heroes begin by discovering that the 
seemingly reborn leader is, in fact, a Clawdite imposter who was brought in by 
the cabal of conspirators. Worse, the Clawdite is a Black Sun Vigo, and now 
the invaders have one of the galaxy's most powerful criminal organizations on 
their side. With the invasion driving closer to the core every day, the heroes 
must find some way to reveal the Clawdite imposter and crush the spirit of 
the invasion. They find help in an unlikely place—a disgruntled Black Sun Vigo 
who doesn't want to kneel to invaders any more than he wanted to kneel to 
the galactic government. The heroes must recruit this Vigo, convince him to 
support their efforts, and then reveal the Clawdite imposter (likely by killing 
him and revealing the truth about his shapeshifting abilities). 

The climax of the campaign comes shortly after the heroes make their 
revelation. As the invasion force begins to crumble under the knowledge that 
their sacred leader has died, the desperate cabal initiates one final parting 
shot against the galaxy. The mothership of the invasion fleet has been set on 
a hyperspace collision course with a major galactic metropolis (Coruscant, 
Empress Teta, Eriadu, Lianna, or Taris). The heroes have mere hours to stop 
the ship from slamming into Coruscant (even with planetary shields up, the 
death toll would be incredibly high just from fallout), and with that done the 
final threat to the galaxy from this invasion is put to rest. 


COUNT DOOKU, A VILLAIN OF INTRIGUE 


CREATING VILLAINS 
OF INTRIGUE 


The Star Wars universe is full of villains who play the game of intrigue like 
master dejarik players, pulling innumerable strings to shape the destiny of the 
galaxy to their own twisted agendas. Count Dooku masterfully manipulates 
the Separatists to act as pawns for the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. Prince Xizor 
carefully and studiously shapes the Black Sun into a personal empire that 
threatens that of the actual Empire. 

When creating a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, the Gamemaster should 
spend time crafting the prominent villains. Most villains are able to hold 
their own against the heroes in combat, but a villain with considerably fewer 
levels than the heroes can still have access to sufficient influence, power, 
and resources to make the heroes' lives miserable. For example, the main 
villain of a campaign could be a child regent with only a few levels in the 
Noble class, but with a high Intelligence score, a full army of soldiers, and a 
coterie of spies to call upon. 


SNEIVEIWYS) 


SNEIYVEWNYS) 


Motivation 

Determining the primary motivation of the villain goes a long way in deter- 
mining how that villain can serve as an antagonist for the heroes. Is the villain 
a wealthy merchant who views competition as merely part of business, bereft 
of personal feelings? Did the heroes wrong the villain in some way, bringing 
shame and dishonor that must be avenged? Or is the villain driven by the 
influence of the dark side of the Force? A villain who regards the heroes as 
mere obstacles or annoyances can perhaps be bought off or negotiated with, 
but a villain driven by emotions might refuse to rest until the heroes’ heads 
adorn the front of a luxury speeder. 


Resources 

The most effective villains are those with access to a large repository of 
resources, such as a personal army, vast family wealth, or powerful political 
clout. A wealthy or powerful villain has enough minions—typically droids, 
soldiers, or thugs—to send against the heroes, ensuring that they will have 
someone or something to fight when the game becomes too easy or the 
adventure gets too sluggish. However, as the heroes advance in level, the 
large number of low-level thugs required to make an encounter challenging 
can become unwieldy. 

Beyond mere thugs, villains also have minions with superior skills and 
abilities, making them serious challenges on their own. Palpatine trains Darth 
Maul as his Sith apprentice, powerful enough to kill a Jedi master in his own 
right. Count Dooku directs the relentless Asajj Ventress to do his bidding. 
Darth Vader hires a crew of bounty hunters to hunt down the Rebels, with 
Boba Fett capturing Han Solo. Powerful and interesting minions can both 
distance the villain from danger and confuse the issue of who ultimately is 
operating behind the scenes. Setting up a few encounters in which the heroes 
must deal with a skilled minion without knowing his or her motivation is a 
great way to make your villain seem more mysterious and powerful. 

Political power can be a serious problem for heroes, as adversaries frus- 
trate the heroes' efforts with simple inconveniences such as docking fees or 
with greater threats, such as by branding them as traitors to the Republic. 
Although realistic, overuse of a villain's political or financial power can 
frustrate players who find that their heroes can never directly confront their 
enemy because of laws, denial of access to their funds, and the like. However, 
using this power occasionally can force the heroes to become creative when 
their usual avenues are denied. But Star Wars is about action, and no one 
wants to have his or her character spend the adventure going from bureaucrat 
to bureaucrat just to secure the proper documentation to leave the planet. 


JEDI AS VILLAINS 

Jedi are staunch defenders of liberty and dedicated to maintaining peace 
within the galaxy, so they are usually considered good guys. Jedi uphold 
ideals that are considered noble and rarely take sides. However, conven- 
tional wisdom can be turned on its head, making a Jedi the primary villain 
of your campaign. Jedi are not universally respected or loved throughout 
the galaxy. Some regular citizens consider the Jedi to be meddlers or mere 
muscle to enforce the Republic's corrupt policies. 

This setup works best when the heroes are portraying antiheroes, as 
described in detail in Scum and Villainy. \f the heroes’ party consists of 
smugglers, mercenaries, con artists, and disgraced aristocracy, then Jedi 
might likely butt heads with the heroes’ agenda. A Jedi sent on the trail 
of the heroes can be a challenging foe. 

If the main villain of the campaign is a Jedi, then the heroes will be 
in a uniquely uncomfortable position. Perhaps the villain is teetering 
on the edge of slipping over to the dark side, or perhaps a Jedi hero is 
accused (rightly or not) of deeds consistent with the dark side. Part of 
the adventure might involve the Jedi hero attempting to clear his or her 
name, all the while avoiding capture by the Order he or she belongs to. 


Methods 

Once a villain's motives and resources are determined, then the methods 
that the villain employs come next. Is the villain a mastermind who prefers 
to sit behind layers of false fronts and minions, pulling on the strings of the 
heroes’ destinies from afar? Or is the villain more aggressive, preferring to get 
up close and personal with the heroes? Once this aspect has been factored 
in with the villain's resources, adventures can seem to write themselves. For 
example, a relatively poor but charismatic and determined gang leader might 
not have a lot of credits to spend on bounty hunters or on bribing officials 
to make life difficult for the heroes, but she probably has access to dozens 
of loyal minions who can harass the heroes. On the other end of the power 
spectrum, a wealthy Senator can use political contacts to foil the heroes on 
many avenues, possibly using violence as a last resort. 

Choosing your villain's classes can influence the methods used when 
confronting the heroes. A villain with many levels in soldier would probably 
use military-style tactics and resources against the heroes, while a scout 
villain might hunt the heroes as if they were prey in the wild, setting traps 
or shooting them from afar. Noble and scoundrel villains work the social 
angles, using influence and their charismatic personalities to turn allies into 
enemies or to set up the heroes in political ambushes. However, you do not 
have to determine a villain's methods solely by class. Playing against type 
can make truly memorable villains, such as a soldier who uses his clout in 
the Senate to make life miserable for the heroes or a noble who feels that 
only personal combat can avenge a transgression committed by the heroes. 


CONTINGENCY PLANS 

One crucial element when creating a villain—especially if that villain is a 
criminal mastermind—is determining how he or she handles the inevitable 
disruptions caused by the heroes' meddling. When creating adventures, break 
down the encounters and think ahead to the logical conclusions that might 
occur, just as the villain would. Taking into account possible failures as well 
as successes will keep your adventure from being derailed by the unexpected. 
The villain might have a vessel or escape pod ready to flee the scene if the 
situation goes wrong, or a patsy might be set up to take the fall if the heroes 
present the authorities with evidence leading to the villain's arrest. Just as 
generals on the battlefield must plan for defeat, so too must the villains of 
your Galaxy of Intrigue campaign be prepared for setbacks. 

For example, a villain plans to blackmail a politician into releasing the 
villain's main minion from a prison moon. However, the villain's plan is foiled 
ifthe heroes, after having heard about the villain's intentions, break into the 
prison themselves and kidnap the minion or leak the politician's corruption 
to the news media, making the blackmail attempt pointless. Realizing that 
the heroes might get to the politician before he does, the villain arranges for 
the politician to be assassinated, preventing the villain's plans from being 
exposed and diverting attention away from the plot to release the minion. 
Alternatively, if the heroes break the minion out on their own, then the 
minion directs the heroes to a hidden location for a prearranged ambush 
by the villain. 


FIGHTING THE 
POWERS THAT BE 


In most Star Wars roleplaying campaigns, the heroes’ ultimate solution for 
dealing with a villain involves a climactic battle of blasters and lightsabers. 
Ina Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, however, the consequences for such 
behavior can be severe. 


The Repercussions of Heroism 
In many Star Wars campaigns, the violent actions of the heroes are glossed 
over in the aftermath. For example, if the heroes bring a crime lord to justice, 
they receive their reward and move on to the next adventure, and no one 
asks any questions about the dozens of corpses left behind in the aftermath 
of the combat. In a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, however, such events should 
not go unnoticed. The Gamemaster can add law enforcement into the mix, 
perhaps with an intense investigation afterward in which Sector Rangers 
question the heroes about several bystanders murdered in the confrontation. 
Alternatively, friends, relatives, or colleagues of the crime lord's servants 
might come looking for revenge against the heroes. 

Heroes should consider the consequences of kicking in the door of the 
main villain and gunning him down, especially if he is an unarmed politician 
or other noncombatant. Heroes who disregard the law so blatantly might 


find themselves under arrest or marked for bounty by the villain’s constitu- 
ency, corporation, or other affiliations. If the heroes continue to use violent 
means they could be labeled vigilantes. And although their motives might be 
pure, life will never be the same for the heroes if they become the targets 
of law-enforcement agencies, the Jedi Order, or hordes of bounty hunters. 

Not every encounter or adventure should result in mass inquisitions. Star 
Wars is about action and heroism, not courtroom battles, but occasionally 
following up an adventure with a lot of questions from the authorities can 
send the heroes a signal about consequences. Use this feature to your advan- 
tage when making campaigns. If the heroes find themselves in hot water 
after completing an encounter, perhaps they then must clear their names 
or become more deeply entangled in layers of intrigue as their heroic deeds 
are instead twisted by the media into something horrific. 


REMOVING THE VILLAIN 

When building your Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, consider what might happen 
if and when the heroes kill the main villain sooner than you intend. After all, 
if your adventure hinges on a climactic showdown against the villain and 
the heroes shoot down his ship as he attempts to flee an early encounter, 
then you are left without a way to keep the adventure moving along. Here 
are some suggestions for dealing with the repercussions of a villain being 
removed from the picture earlier than anticipated. 


SOMETIMES VILLAINS LIKE DARTH MAUL DIE TOO SOON. 


SNEIGVEWYS) 


| 

i 

i 
| 

| 

| 

| 


Q 
> 
: 
2 
G 
Pe 
| O 


Replacements 

One way to keep an adventure on track after the unintended demise of the 
villain is to create a replacement. The logical choice is one of the villain’s 
trusted minions who is privy to key plans and has a deep understanding of 
the layers of intrigue set in place. The downside, of course, is that minions 
are weaker than the villains they work for. So when that climactic battle 
occurs, you might need to adjust the replacement villain's statistics, increase 
the number of his or her minions, or add an additional element to make the 
encounter more difficult for the heroes. 

Depending on the era, clone technology can be another solution for 
bringing the villain back into the campaign. For example, Emperor Palpatine 
returns as a clone after the destruction of the second Death Star. Of course, 
cloning is logical when the villain is powerful or wealthy enough to access 
such advanced technology. If your main villain is a petty warlord or young 
upstart politician, then cloning stretches credulity. Use this tactic sparingly 
because it dilutes the heroes’ efforts to bring down their opponents, and it 
can be demoralizing, causing the heroes to wonder why they should even 
bother when the villain keeps coming back healthy and full of revenge. 


Dealing with the Aftermath 
If the heroes defeat the villain sooner than expected, you probably still have 
several unresolved plot threads that can occupy the heroes. The villain's 
trusted allies, contacts, and minions might continue to advance the cause or 
take it in a new direction, albeit with their own personal touches. Between 
gaming sessions the Gamemaster should consider how events would play out 
without the villain’s involvement. Even with the villain's demise, secret weap- 
ons labs continue developing the ultimate weapon, assassins follow through 
on orders to kill their targets, and bribes and blackmail attempts continue as 
if nothing was amiss. Of course, the assassin expects someone to pay after 
he job, or the weapons researchers might decide to test the weapon on the 
intended target without approval. Each of these factors gives the heroes 
a significant amount of cleanup to do even after the death of the villain. 
Another solution to the premature loss of a villain is to allow the heroes 
0 revel in their success, moving them along on another, completely different 
encounter. Then, as they progress in the adventure, slowly reintroduce ele- 
ments of the villain's scheme back into the scene. For example, after killing 
he villain in an early encounter, the heroes believe that the threat is over. 
The Gamemaster begins a new chapter completely unrelated to the previ- 
ous storyline. After a few sessions, the heroes receive a cryptic note about 
“unfinished business" from one of the original villain's comrades, drawing 
hem back into the intrigue that they thought was concluded. 


THE JEDI COUNCIL CAN OFTEN PROVIDE AID AS WELL AS STAND 
IN THE WAY OF A JEDI'S GOALS. 


DESIGNING AN 
INTRIGUE ADVENTURE 


So far, this chapter has discussed how to create intrigue campaigns in general 
and how to create villains to populate them. This section goes into more 
detail about how to create an adventure that is rife with intrigue and that 
fits in with the other concepts introduced in this book. 

Most adventures contain some degree of intrigue. The heroes don't know 
who is behind the kidnapping of Wookiee slaves, or they stumble on plans 
for a secret battlestation. What separates an adventure based on intrigue 
from other adventures is that, from beginning to end, the entire purpose 
toward which the heroes are working is either a secret they must keep ora 
mystery they must unravel. Whether the heroes are proactive or reactive, 
or whether the adventure involves a lot of combat or very little, everything 
the heroes do is either part of a clandestine operation or is part of a plan to 
unravel a well-hidden secret. 

From there, the adventure can progress like most others, with a few 
modifications. An intrigue-heavy adventure acts as a microcosm for the way 
the larger campaign plays out, and it uses many of the elements discussed 
earlier in the chapter. This section will construct the basic outline of an 
intrigue adventure, with an example of each element. 


START WITH A SECRET 

The core of an intrigue-based adventure is a secret. At its heart, an intrigue 
adventure should revolve around secrecy and protecting valuable knowledge. 
There are two major kinds of secrets that the heroes of an intrigue adventure 
must deal with: the secret objective, and the secret charge. A good secret, 
of either kind, on which an adventure can hang is more than just a passing 
bit of information; its revelation should have major repercussions not only 
on the heroes but also on the whole galaxy. 

A secret objective is something that the heroes are trying to uncover. 
This could be a secret they know to exist—the true identity of the assassin 
that killed their Senator benefactor—or it could be a secret that they didn't 
even know existed beforehand. The latter kind of secret is often treated as 
a surprise twist or reveal at some point in the adventure; a good example of 
this secret twist is the revelation that Darth Vader is Luke's father at the end 
of The Empire Strikes Back. Luke was unaware that the secret existed, but 
once it was uncovered it radically altered the way that he saw the conflict 
between the Empire and the Rebellion, and forever changed his destiny. 

Asecret charge is a secret that the heroes have been given the opportunity 
to protect. Often, this secret is merely the secret of their actions. For example, 
if the heroes are planning to raid an Imperial weapons depot, they will want 
to keep their plans, and even their actions, secret in order to avoid drawing 
unnecessary attention. In an intrigue adventure where the heroes have a secret 
charge, their protection of that secret should be of the utmost importance. 
Regardless of whether or not their actions succeed or fail elsewhere, revelation 
of the secret they have been charged with should seem like a failure to them. 

When coming up with the secret at the core of an intrigue adventure, 
use these simple guidelines: 

* The secret should be something that has wide repercussions as a con- 
sequence of its revelation. Simple secrets don't make great adventure 
hooks. 


THE EXISTENCE OF THE BLUE SHADOW VIRUS 
WAS A WELL-KEPT SECRET. 


© Choose a secret that creates opportunities for dangerous situations. 
Discovering which Hutt crime lord hired the Senator's assassin can be 
dangerous; discovering who is spreading rumors about a local Moff 
probably isn't. 

e The secret should be something the heroes care about. If they have no 
attachment to the Jedi Master who is secretly still advising the govern- 
ment on his home planet, the heroes won't be drawn into the adventure. 

e The secret should be something that is not easily uncovered. Layers 
upon layers should separate the secret from its revelation. This goes for 
secret charges as much as secret objectives. 

Example: The heroes have spent a few adventures finding the location of 
a secret weapons manufacturing facility where a Hutt crime lord is producing 
arms fora mercenary army. As agents of the Rebellion, they know that those 
weapons could prove extremely valuable to their cause, and plan to steal 
them. The basic secret of the adventure is the secret mission the heroes are 
about to undertake; if either the Empire or the Hutts discovered their secret 
plans, they would surely be ambushed and captured or killed. 


PROVIDE AMPLE SKILL 
OPPORTUNITIES 

Once you have the core of your adventure (its secret) in hand, you can begin 
constructing an adventure around it. Intrigue adventures usually provide 
players with lots of chances to use their skills in creative ways. While covert 
assassinations and other combat scenarios are certainly part of intrigue 
adventures, open violence is often too messy or too high profile to be an 
effective weapon in an intrigue campaign. Instead, you should try and focus 
on challenges that the heroes can use their skills to overcome, giving the 
players encouragement to do more than just go in, blasters blazing. 

One of the best ways to design adventures that make heavy use of skills 
is to take a look at which skills the heroes are trained in and which ones 
they have Skill Focus feats for, and to design the challenges around those 
skills. Your heroes have invested valuable resources in obtaining those skills; 
let them use them. Likewise, don't be afraid to design challenges that cater 
toward lesser-used skills. Your soldier with a high Intelligence might have 
trained in Climb or Endurance, two skills that often see less use than Decep- 
tion, Persuasion, or Use the Force. It's OK to construct situations where heroes 
with those skills can shine, even if they might seem a little out of place at 
first. Just because the heroes are infiltrating a party aboard a star yacht 
doesn't mean that those skills couldn't come into play. Maybe the soldier 
needs to climb up to a secret smuggling compartment high in the cargo hold, 
or forcibly hold a door open for several rounds while other heroes slip in, and 
then out, with whatever they came for. 


SNEIGVEWYS) 


$tdvHnT 


SBNEIVEWYS) 


ALS 


Lastly, make it obvious when skill use could be a good solution. Many 
times, players can overlook the opportunities you set in front of them, and 
it's OK to offer suggestions during game play. When crafting your intrigue 
adventures, don't be afraid to put notes in your descriptions that highlight 
individual skills for use in that section. 

Example: Raiding a Hutt weapons factory has to be more than smash- 
and-grab; the factory is well protected, and only authorized ships are allowed 
to land and offload supplies to the factory. The heroes will need to find 
someone who knows the security protocols (Gather Information, Perception), 
create false credentials or buy them (Deception, Persuasion), steal a cargo 
vessel destined for the factory (Pilot, Stealth), slice into the plant's security 
system to hide from sensors (Use Computer), and then reach a watchtower 
and disarm the guards there (Climb). 


The Challenge of Investigations 

When the concepts of secrets and skill use are thrown together in an adven- 
ture, it's tempting to fall back on the age-old investigation adventure. While 
this can be rewarding, there are a few pitfalls that you should be aware of 
before designing an entire adventure around investigation. First and foremost 
is to not overuse the investigation adventure; if the heroes spend every 
adventure going through the same kind of investigatory routine, they are 
quickly going to get bored with investigations as a whole. Setting a mystery 
in front of the heroes and turning them loose can be fun every once in a 
while, but over time the players might feel like they are playing "find the 
plot hook” every adventure. 

When you do decide to create an investigation-based adventure, follow 
the advice about providing skill opportunities, above, and make sure that a 
wide swathe of skills are available as solutions. Although it’s tempting to say 
that investigations are all about Deception, Gather Information, Perception, 
and Persuasion, there can be much more to investigations than that. Using 
skill challenges (see Chapter 2) is a good way to encourage your players to 
be proactive during an investigation, as it can help them see tangible results 
even when using unorthodox skills. 

Lastly, failing a skill check or two should never derail the entire adven- 
ture. If your players fail to persuade the Imperial officer to let them see the 
prisoner in the brig, make sure there are other ways for them to get in and 
get the information they need from that prisoner. Whenever your adventure 
depends on the heroes learning something through investigation, make sure 
there are multiple ways that they can get the information they need. One 
failed Gather Information check shouldn't leave the heroes clueless. Even in 
failure, the players should be directed toward another solution. Continuing 
the example above, when the officer rebuffs the heroes, perhaps the scout 
sees on a monitor console behind the officer that there is an air duct leading 
into the prisoner's cell that the scoundrel might be able to sneak through. 


PuT THE HEROES IN DANGER 

So far, a lot has been said about secrets and skills, but perhaps the most 
important part of an intrigue adventure is the sense of danger. A secret is 
just a piece of information that the heroes don't know...until there is danger 
involved. When danger surrounds a secret, it makes the secret more exciting, 
builds tension, and can increase the heroes’ desire to pursue that secret. 

Putting the heroes in danger doesn't always mean pointing a blaster at 
them (although it can). The heroes might be in danger of being reveled as 
Rebel agents working undercover on a Core world; although that would 
eventually bring more direct danger (stormtroopers kicking down the door), 
the simple threat of Imperial reprisals is enough to raise the tension during 
an adventure. Threats to the heroes should always be visible and present. 
Otherwise, the PCs might not even be aware of the danger they face, which 
drains the tension out of the situation. The heroes should know that they 
are in danger, and they should know that the danger is directly tied to the 
secrets they are trying to uncover or protect. 

Example: Besides the obvious danger that they face when infiltrating 
the weapons factory, the heroes discover that they are not the first ones to 
try and raid the Hutt factory. A group of mercenaries tried the same thing 
and were slaughtered when they arrived. It turns out the mercenaries were 
betrayed by one of the very people that provided them with information or 
with help in making it to the manufacturing facility. The heroes now have to 
figure out who the traitor is before they launch their own attack, balancing 
their need for help against the knowledge that someone might betray them. 


Intriguing Combat 

One of the easiest ways to throw some danger into an intrigue adventures 
is with combat. However, a good combat encounter in an intrigue adventure 
has more going on than simply defeating the enemy. When designing combat 
encounters for intrigue adventures, keep in mind that other objectives are at 
hand. When stormtroopers kick down the door, the heroes have to do more 
than defeat them; they have to defeat them, stop them from calling for help 
on the comlink, and keep witnesses from calling the Imperial garrison to 
report the firefight. Likewise, when the heroes finally make their way into 
the weapons manufacturing facility, they have to do more than just kill the 
guards; their objectives include stealing weapons as well as hiding their own 
identities. After all, it does them little good to pull off the theft, only to be 
pursued by bounty hunters hired for reprisal. 

Combat should be used to reinforce the danger of an adventure, but it can 
also move the plot forward. Perhaps the heroes need to dispose of a local 
Moff—quietly—before he can order the execution of an informant carrying 
critical information. Combat in an intrigue adventure need not be flashy 
or on a massive scale; a short skirmish with Czerka Corporation enforcers 
in the lobby of a high-rise on Taris can be just as exciting as a starfighter 
dogfight, especially if the heroes have to keep the enforcers from sounding 
the alarm. Remember, when adding tension to the adventure via combat, 


to make sure to give the heroes plenty of chances to succeed in ways that 
keeps the adventure moving forward. Failing in a combat encounter should 
be like failing a skill check; even in failure, another way of accomplishing 
the heroes’ goal should be revealed. 


Twists AND REVELATIONS 

As the adventure begins to draw to a close, it becomes time for secrets to be 
revealed. As with all adventures in a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, there are 
layers within layers within layers of secrets, and as the adventure progresses 
some secrets should be revealed, while others should turn out to be quite 
different from what the heroes expected. It's important to let the players 
feel like they are uncovering critical information, or succeeding at protect- 
ing it, in tangible ways. Even within the context of a single adventure, there 
should be moments of revelation: the heroes discover that the bartender at 
the cantina has been selling secrets to the Hutts, or the party's slicer finally 
uncovers the secret access codes that will allow them to bypass automated 
security satellites. These particular revelations don't open up the plot of the 
entire adventure, but they do amount to progress, which is very important 
during an adventure involving a lot of secrets. 

Likewise, an unexpected twist, when used judiciously, can not only bring 
the plot forward but also alter the way the heroes perceive the situation. 
However, there is a fine art to introducing a twist, and too blunt or too severe 
a twist can be jarring to the players. A twist in an adventure should be just 
believable enough that the players buy it, but it should also be shocking. The 
twist in The Empire Strikes Back when Lando betrays the heroes is shocking, 
because he is likable and an old friend of Han's, but believable thanks to 
Leia's suspicion and the clear power that Darth Vader has over him. When 
crafting a twist, look for places where story could conceivably go, and then 
eliminate any of the ones that seem too obvious. What you're left with is a 
series of twists that are believable, yet likely won't be expected. 

Example: Part of the premise of the adventure is that the Hutts are hiding 
their stockpile of weapons from the Empire, which is one reason why it is 
shrouded in so much secrecy. A good twist for this adventure would be that 
the Empire, or rather a powerful figure within the Empire, actually knows 
about the Hutt weapons plant and is having the weapons crafted for a private 
army of his or her own. Then, when the heroes arrive, they face not only 
thugs working for the Hutts, but small groups of well-trained Imperial forces. 


ONE DOOR CLOSES, 

TwoQ DooRS OPEN 

When the adventure is finally done and the heroes have achieved their goals, 
there is one more important technique that you should use when wrapping 
up the adventure. Each adventure will answer some questions, or allow the 
heroes to keep their own secrets safe, but after each success two (or more) 
secrets should be introduced. Although eventually you'll need to reveal all 
of these secrets, a successful intrigue adventure leaves the heroes wanting 


to know more. Moreover, it helps lend credence to the idea that nothing is 
ever as simple as it seems, and that there are always wheels within wheels 
in any intrigue-based campaign. 

The kinds of secrets that you might introduce can be either secret objec- 
tives or secret charges, and most will set the stage for subsequent intrigue 
adventures. However, these need not always be adventure hooks: Some of 
the questions these secrets raise might be little more than insights into the 
backgrounds of the heroes' allies, or questions about events that, at the 
time, seemed simple and straightforward. For example, at the conclusion 
of an investigation adventure, the heroes have discovered the information 
they were looking for; at the last minute, however, they discovered that their 
enemy for that adventure was only a pawn in someone else's scheme. Who 
that enemy served, and what the larger scheme is, can be the basis for future 
adventures. Alternately, this revelation can be used not to expose a larger 
plot on behalf of their enemies, but to make the heroes question the allies 
and benefactors who put them on the trail in the first place. 

Example: To conclude our sample adventure, the heroes eventually make it 
to the weapons factory, defeat the Hutt's thugs and the Imperial forces alike, 
and make off with the contraband with the secret of their identities intact. 
However, they discover two new mysteries in the process. First, they learn 
that someone on the inside disabled the factory's communications system, 
keeping it from calling for help; someone wanted the heroes to succeed, but 
who? Second, they learn that the powerful Imperial agent that commissioned 
the weapons does not actually exist; someone fabricated the existence of a 
Moff, but for what purpose? 


THE ART OF 
INDIRECTION 


One way to really alter the feel of an intrigue-based campaign is to always 
keep in mind that, when it comes to secrets and plots, nothing is ever direct 
and to the point. Enemies come at you from odd angles, allies never tell you 
everything they know, and simple acts have wide-ranging repercussions. A 
Galaxy of Intrigue campaign is all about using indirect methods to accomplish 
goals, because indirect methods are usually best for maintaining secrecy. 
When knowledge is power, any method that preserves knowledge—or cre- 
ates false information—can be the difference between being powerful and 
being powerless. 

Below, you will find some general advice on creating situations where 
indirect methods come into play. Like the section on building campaigns, 
villains, and adventures above, this section is intended to provide some 
basic guidelines for creating interesting events that occur in your campaign. 
Think of these suggestions as directions for constructing an individual scene 
within an adventure. Mixing and matching the advice below can produce 
memorable sequences that reinforce many of the themes of a Galaxy of 
Intrigue campaign. 


Ai SSatavHo 


@ 
S 
g 
> 
a 
z 
(0)} 


SNEIVEWYS) 


ENEMIES TARGET 

THE INNOCENT 

It is almost a given that the heroes’ enemies won't come directly at them 
when it's time to strike, at least not at first. Enemies in an intrigue-heavy 
campaign know better than to try and take the heroes on with direct attacks 
and violence; savvy heroes will overcome such challenges quickly. Instead, 
such enemies try to hit the heroes where they are most vulnerable: through 
their allies. While a hero walks around in power armor or wields a lightsaber 
with amazing skill, he or she has little control over the lives of allies or over 
the lives of innocents. An opponent in an intrigue adventure will likely try 
to target those who can't defend themselves, to use as leverage against the 
heroes. The bounty hunter doesn't attack the heroes; he kidnaps their mentor 
and holds her hostage, offering to trade her life in exchange for turning over 
one of the heroes' party. 

This kind of indirect attack works on almost any scale. Grand Moff Tarkin, 
a master of intrigue, uses this technique with Princess Leia to try and get her 
to reveal the location of the Rebel base: He knows his threats against her do 
no good, so he threatens Alderaan with the Death Star instead. The threats 
do not always have to be of physical violence, either. A powerful corporate 
executive might threaten to bring financial ruin to the heroes’ benefactor, 
or an unscrupulous Senator's aide might threaten to reveal that Senator's 
dark past on the eve of a critical vote. For the most part, villains use these 
indirect attacks to get the heroes to do something, or to not do something, 
that the villain wants. 

Occasionally, the villain strikes out at the innocent or the heroes' allies 
as a reprisal for the heroes’ actions. This can be used as a deterrent against 
future actions by the heroes, or simply to reinforce the fact that the villain 
is, in fact, their enemy. 


DORME IS JUST ONE OF THE INNOCENTS TARGETED 
BY THE QUEEN'S ENEMIES. 


PROXIES, LIAISONS, 

AND MASKS 

It is common for those involved in heavy intrigue to keep their identities 
and the identities of their allies a secret. Anonymity ensures security, and 
security is something everyone in this kind of adventure should be aware of. 
In a Galaxy of Intrigue campaign, it is common practice for both allies and 
villains to make use of proxies and liaisons during contact with the heroes. 
The heroes might not meet a mysterious benefactor, but instead deal only 
with a droid sent in his stead. An informant might refuse to come herself, 
instead sending a street urchin to deliver a message to the heroes. Enemies 
will often refuse to involve themselves in schemes personally, instead using 
pawns to direct their operations from a distance. 

Disguises are equally common among those with secrets to keep. Exposing 
one's true identity is always a risk, and one that few with important secrets 
are willing to take. The Star Wars setting offers ample opportunities for such 
indirect contact. Villains can appear as holograms. Crime lords can send pro- 
tocol droids to deal with the heroes, while others might hire shapechanging 
Clawdites to impersonate them, never making contact directly. Regardless 
of the actual method, allies and villains alike should erect barriers between 
themselves and the heroes, making extensive use of both proxies and tech- 
nology to keep at a distance. 


TRUST DOESN'T COME Easy 
Much of the above advice on proxies and masks is a result of trust issues. 
When it comes to the intrigues of the galaxy, there is little room for trust. 
Trust often leads to betrayal, which can put months or even years of hard 
work to ruin. It should come as no surprise after a while that not even the 
heroes’ allies will trust them, and in turn the heroes shouldn't give out their 
trust easily. Trust, in an intrigue-heavy campaign, is something that should 
be won, and winning trust isn't easy. It's important to remind the players that 
their allies have a hard time trusting them; if the heroes sense insecurity in 
their allies, it can help make those allies seem more real, and likewise make the 
heroes’ own lack of trust seem less like paranoia and more like good tactics. 
This is one area where the line you must walk as a GM is very fine. If 
the allies show too little trust in the heroes, the heroes might lose interest 
in working with them. The heroes should see some progress in earning the 
trust of their allies; each time they successfully complete an adventure, for 
example, they earn a bit more trust, and their next interaction with a certain 
ally should reflect that. The ally might be more forthcoming on details, or 
might finally offer to meet them in person. Building trust takes time, but 
the heroes should feel as though they are actually building it and making 
progress in their relationships. 


DECOYS AND MISDIRECTION 
A favorite tactic of those steeped in intrigue is to let others do the dirty 
work. Sending your own agents in to complete a job is all well and good, 
but the preferable solution is to convince someone else to do it for you. Not 
only is this typically cheaper, it also means fewer ties between the people 
performing the mission and those that set it into motion. Although a bene- 
factor that manipulates the unwitting heroes into doing his or her bidding 
might be cliché, there are also other ways that decoys can be used in an 
intrigue campaign. Villains might use this tactic on others among the heroes’ 
enemies, making the heroes think that an attack came from one source when 
the truth is that the villain caused it. Similarly, a villain might dupe one of the 
heroes’ allies into doing his or her bidding. Introducing an aspect of betrayal, 
even unwitting betrayal, into the game is a way of creating greater tension. 
At some point, though, a villain has to take direct action in order to further 
his or her goals. When this happens, the best weapon in the schemer's arsenal 
ismisdirection. Even if a villain convinces someone else to do the dirty work, 
that villain will still need to exercise cunning to keep the heroes from tracing 
the deeds back to him or her. This is something that anyone skilled in the art 
of subterfuge knows: One of the best ways to hide your trail is to make sure 
that there is a trail leading somewhere else. Enemies might lay down false 
clues to lead the heroes (and others) away from their trail, but be careful 
with using this tactic too much. In a roleplaying game, the players rely on 
the Gamemaster for much of their information, and if that information turns 
out to be a false trail or a red herring too often, the players will begin to 
second-guess everything the Gamemaster says. 


THE ART OF BEING SEEN 

Tied to the concept of misdirection, the art of being seen refers to a technique 
where one provides false information simply by making it appear as though 
one thing has happened, when it truly hasn't. A favorite tactic of those with 
exceptionally good resources at their disposal, this kind of deception often 
relies on disguise, forgery, and other similar techniques to create a scene 
that is meant to be witnessed, either by the heroes or by others. One of the 
things that make a deception like this so effective is that these are not just 
rumors being whispered in dark cantinas; the witnesses see and hear these 
things themselves. 


For example, the heroes have had a Falleen crime lord in their sights for 
a long time, and have become a thorn in his side. No longer able to operate 
without the heroes watching his every move, the Falleen puts a plan into 
motion to create a scene that the heroes are intended to witness. The crime 
lord offers to turn himself in to them, and arranges a meeting place where 
the deal can go down. As he is turning himself in, a crazed woman leaps out 
of a nearby crowd and guns him down, claiming to be a widow of a man the 
crime lord has executed. The Falleen lies dead before the heroes, and now 
they no longer have to worry about him. 

Or do they? Perhaps the woman was a plant, and the whole scene was 
staged. Maybe the Falleen turning himself over was a replica droid, or a 
shapechanger, or a talented con artist. Maybe the Falleen was wearing armor 
and only meant to look dead, and when carted off to the morgue he stops 
playing dead and slips away unseen. Now, because the heroes think he is dead, 
the crime lord is free to act without their interference. The Falleen created a 
deception that he wanted to be seen, planting false information that is less 
likely to be scrutinized because the heroes saw it firsthand. 


CLASHING FACTIONS 
One final way to flesh out the events in your intrigue adventures is to under- 
stand the maxim that while manipulating individuals is good, manipulating 
factions is better. The entire concept of noble houses jockeying for position 
is based around this principle, and it is one that anyone with any skill in 
intrigue knows. It is for this reason that most politicians and powerful people 
tend to ignore the individual and instead try to maneuver large organizations 
into doing what they want. It's not just a matter of scale, but a matter of 
effectiveness; organizations are made up of individuals, and by convincing 
an organization to act in one way, it becomes easier to manipulate the indi- 
viduals associated with the organization into acting along the same lines. 
On a more practical level, this means that the enemies the heroes face 
aren't just going to be content with dealing with the heroes’ small group, 
and instead will try to target any larger factions the heroes are a part of or 
are allied with. If the heroes are members of the Jedi Order, for example, 
their enemies will attempt to trick not just the heroes but the entire Order 
into taking action or into indecision. Although larger organizations are more 
difficult to manipulate, that won't stop the heroes’ enemies from trying. If 
an enemy can pit one faction against another, that becomes the ultimate 
misdirection. To continue the example above, the villain might fabricate 
evidence that a crime syndicate is secretly being run by a resurgent Sith 
Order, pitting the Jedi Order against the crime syndicate while the villain 
continues to make his own plans, now free of the heroes’ scrutiny while they 
are engaged in the faction conflict the villain manufactured. 


SNEIYVEIWYS) 


SASSER YL EERE LES ALE TATIONS RANGERS 


CHAPTER Vv 
AND ORGANIZATIONS 


A AE TAIRA RET HST ACRES EERE ASSERTS 


ay 


‘In the Star Wars galaxy, war is not always obvious and in the open. While 

_ the skies are full of fighters and blaster reports echo in the streets, more 

_ subtle combatants watch from the shadows. A Rebel deep within the ranks 

of the Imperial Army can do as much for the war effort as a fighter pilot on 

_ the front line. In fact, she might do more than the pilot, because if she does 

not “lose" a report from her Imperial Intelligence counterpart inserted into 

"the staff of Admiral Ackbar, the pilot could be blown to pieces by a much 
larger, much better prepared force guarding the convoy he is sent to raid. 

As the Empire and the Alliance struggle for control of the galaxy, leaders 
of noble houses curry favor with one side or the other, all the while hedg- 
ing their bets. No matter which side wins, the nobles plan to retain their 
wealth and power. 

The same is true in the boardrooms of the galactic megacorporations. 
Back room talks are organized with those who have the Emperor's ear, while 
security operatives are dispatched to either befriend or defend against the 

iance. The companies exist to supply the galaxy with goods and to turn 
sand they need to protect their ability to do this during both war 


Small stellar nations on the Empire's borders, such as those of the Chiss 
and the Hapans, need to secure their safety during and after the conflict. And 
while Imperial troops and Alliance soldiers blast away at each other, double 
agents, corporate spies, and emissaries from noble houses and independent 
governments whisper to one another and exchange information in their 
out-of-the-way corners. War in the shadows can be every bit as exciting as 
the one being waged in the open. 

_ This chapter presents organizations that embody some of the intrigues 
can unfold in a Star Wars campaign. The members of those organiza- 
can be the heroes' friends, foes, or both, depending on the objectives 
achieved. Although most parts of the Empire and the Alliance are as 
contrasted as black and white, many of the groups in this chapter 
such easy categorization. 

ey say to keep your friends close and your enemies closer. When it 
the organizations and people in this chapter, the heroes might not 
0 tell the difference. 


SNOILYZINYOeEHOG GNY SNEILEVE) 


CORE WORLD NOBLES 


Core World nobles are born and die in the lap of luxury, spending their days 
surrounded by fabulous wealth and organizing their years around festival 
days and key social events that they attend so that they can be seen by com- 
moners and outshine their peers. Some of these nobles serve with distinction 
as officers in the military, some have successful political careers, and a few 
leave their marks on history as part of the Jedi Order. However, most nobles 
are dabblers and dilettantes who focus more on fashion and high society 
gossip than on any form of career or real work. Few Core World nobles are 
actively involved in business affairs. Instead, their wealth is derived mostly 
from holdings and investments established during colonization booms in 
previous ages of the galaxy, and it is managed by retainers whose families 
have served the noble houses for generations. 

Whether they hail from Alderaan, Coruscant, Ralltiir, or any other Core 
systems listed in the ancient Registry of Noble Houses, Core World nobles 
are the very definition of the idle super-rich, and they go to great lengths 
to display their wealth. They travel set circuits, hosting and attending lavish 
parties and balls where their main objective is to upstage their fellow nobles. 

Even when rendered relatively destitute—a fate that befalls a number 
of Core World noble families whose holdings are damaged or destroyed by 
galaxywide conflict—they keep up their extravagant lifestyles for as long 
as possible, even if it means the next generation of the family will have to 
live in poverty. Of course, “poverty” to a Core World noble is what most 
galactic citizens would define as "wealthy." It usually takes two or three 
generations for a family to fully exhaust its riches, and before that happens, 
it often manages to recover, perhaps by looking to other noble families for 
financial infusions through arranged marriages or even for help in securing 
honest work. Corulag's House Korden has been known to save noble houses 
teetering on the brink of ruin by forcing a work ethic on them. Members of 
House Korden are rare among Core World nobles in that they remain involved 
in the businesses that were the foundation of the lofty social status they 
currently enjoy. 

Asa whole, the Core World nobles are a frivolous bunch that are discon- 
nected from the day-to-day affairs of the galaxy yet believe that their rank 
in society makes them superior to other beings. Their greatest concerns 
revolve around being invited to the right parties, repaying social snubs in 
kind, and putting upstarts and social climbers in their places. (Few things 
annoy a Core World noble more than the notion that the so-called nobles of 
the Tapani Sector, the self-declared Lords of the Expanse, are close to being 
their equals. Nor can they stand it when someone thinks that a member of 
the Tagge family is a Core World noble just because he or she has Palpatine's 
favor and a hereditary title of baron.) 


CORE WORLD NOBLES 


| BONZALE 
FLORES 


The arrogance of Core World nobles leads them to be taken in easily by 
fads and swept up in political causes that might prove detrimental to their 
own best interests in the long run. A prime example of this manipulation 
occurs when Emperor Palpatine gains the support of major families in the 
Registry by blaming aliens for the financial devastation of the Clone Wars 
(which causes many of the social season's parties to be scaled back) or by 
giving the nobles positions in his government that sound important but that 
are ultimately meaningless. The real intelligence officers and politicians of 
the New Order consider the Core World nobles to be clowns. But Emperor 
Palpatine furthers the illusion of their significance by tasking them with 
rooting out Rebel sympathizers among the nobles, rewarding them for 
betraying their own by giving them the assets seized from the accused. Thus, 
many families, basking in the false impression of power and respect, assist 
Emperor Palpatine in strengthening his hold on the galaxy. By the time the 
more intelligent among them become aware of their mistake, most are too 
fearful of losing their wealth and status to act. 


Although their reputation for disconnected frivolity is a drawback for 
most Core World nobles, the more cunning members of the families exploit 
this image so that they are underestimated. Over the centuries, some of the 
galaxy's greatest corporate spies, most successful art thieves, and most 
celebrated Rebel intelligence agents pose as empty-headed Core World 
nobles to hide their true natures and activities. 


GOALS 

Asa group, Core World nobles want little more than to enjoy themselves, their 
wealth, and the adoration of their peers and the lesser beings they happen to 
pass on the way to parties. At the same time, they strive to outshine other 
nobles so that they will be noticed, gaining the attention they crave. To do 
this, they are always seen in the most cutting-edge fashions or the most 
expensive and opulent versions of formal wear or traditional garb. They also 
attempt to appear to be more generous than their peers, and if one noble 
is heard to be funding a home for wayward Wroonian females, another will 
soon start a university for them. 

While the Core World nobles strive to be the brightest stars among their 
peers, they also work to tarnish the images of potential rivals. They are par- 
ticularly fierce when targeting anyone not of noble rank who appears to be 
stealing their limelight or otherwise encroaching on their sphere of existence. 


METHODS 
Core World nobles abhor violence and most forms of direct confrontation. 
They deal in whispered half-truths and lies intended to undermine and 
embarrass rivals. If rumor and innuendo fail to stop a competitor, the nobles 
have their retainers secure hirelings that will take more direct action. A Core 
World noble is not above blackmailing a rival into throwing a race or spend- 
ing thousands of credits to steal the design of a gown for the next big ball. 
When Core World nobles enter politics or military service, they employ 
the same underhanded and duplicitous methods, resulting in careers that are 
either very short or very long and corrupt. Political nobles have been known to 
force rival houses into exile by skillfully applying pressure and by fabricating 
evidence of treason. Such scheming is especially common in the early days 
of Palpatine's Empire. Much of the Alliance's initial funding comes from Core 
World nobles who were ousted and hope to regain their place in society. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

With lineages so ancient that their family names are carved in dead lan- 
guages on the foundation stones of long-lost cities, some Core World nobles 
legitimately can claim that their ancestors witnessed the birth of the Jedi 
Order or the formation of the Old Republic. 


Thrackan Sal-Solo 

A descendent of ancient Corellian royalty, Thrackan Sal-Solo is raised in a 
noble house on the verge of exhausting its last credit. His mother schools him 
in the traditions and habits of Core World nobles, and his bearing serves him 
well. Despite his impoverished state, Sal-Solo's grace and heritage land him 
a good position in the Imperial Navy, and he ends up an important player in 
Corellian politics, eventually becoming the head of state. Unfortunately, he 
is a virulent speciesist and launches genocidal attempts to drive aliens off 
the world of Corellia. He is the cousin of Han Solo and has always felt great 
shame over that association. 


Finis Valorum 

For 30 generations, House Valorum involves itself in Old Republic politics, 
concerned mostly with securing funding for arts projects and seeing that the 
central galactic government establishes some form of educational standards 
in the systems it governs. Finis Valorum rises through the Senate and eventu- 
ally becomes Chancellor of the Republic. He is an honorable man with a good 
heart, but he is too idealistic to succeed in the position. The Tarkin family 
manipulates him early in his reign, and Palpatine ultimately drives him from 
office in disgrace during events that lead to the Clone Wars. 


USING CORE WORLD NOBLES 

Core World nobles make great patrons for a party of characters who are 
just starting out. They can also be used to show heroes that looks can be 
deceiving. For example, the heroes might be cajoled by their patron into 
performing a silly bit of sabotage against a gown that a rival noble plans to 
wear at a ball the following night, only to discover that the rival is secretly a 
Rebel agent or a master thief. The heroes then must decide whether to switch 
allegiances, become targets, or turn the rival in to the proper authorities. 


SNOILJZINYVOaEHO GNY SNEILSVeE) 


SNOILY2ZINVEeXlB@g GNY SNEILABVE) 


DROID EQUALITY 
FOUNDATION 


For as long as droids have existed, some individuals have seen these mechani- 
cal beings not as tools, but as fellow sentients that deserve the respect 
accorded to all intelligent species. Throughout the millennia, various groups 
have addressed the concerns of droids, although most were laughed off 
as naive idealists. However, as droid technology advances, the distinction 
between a sentient droid and a nonsentient droid becomes murkier, making 
it more difficult to argue against giving droids the rights enjoyed by other 
intelligent lifeforms. 


DROID EQUALITY FOUNDATION 


The Droid Equality Foundation is one of the largest, most vocal, and most 
powerful organizations in the galaxy to promote the cause of droids’ rights. 
However, behind its appearance of altruism lies a dark secret—the current 
head of the foundation, Jolor Oron, is in fact a replica droid whose ultimate 
purpose is the complete destruction of droids throughout the galaxy. Pro- 
grammed long ago by a brilliant technician with a serious grudge against 
droids, Jolor publicly advocates for peace and integration while covertly 
plotting to poison galactic opinion toward droids. 


GOALS 

The apparent goal of the Droid Equality Foundation is the emancipation of 
droids, raising their status from that of mere tools to that of sentient beings, 
with all the rights that living creatures possess. The foundation views the 
shackles of the restraining bolt and droid caller as symbols of oppression, 
and it works with sympathetic groups and individuals to help free droids 
from this plight. However, the foundation's true purpose is to stir up public 
resentment of droids so that they are seen as threats (as many droids proved 
to be during the Clone Wars). The foundation tries to spotlight legal disputes 
to draw awareness to the droid situation and to secretly nurture bias and 
bigotry toward these mechanical beings. It spreads reports of droids rebel- 
ling against their masters—exaggerating or fabricating details about bloody 
revolts—to foster fear and suspicion. 


METHODS 

The Droid Equality Foundation is an outspoken group that lobbies govern- 
ments to pass initiatives to enhance the status of droids, and it manipulates 
the media to spark debate on the plight of droids. However, change is slow 
to come, and foundation members frequently organize huge protests and 
strikes on planets that have large droid work forces. Smaller covert cells of 
the foundation take more extreme steps, including sabotaging droid manu- 
facturing facilities, assassinating enemies, and encouraging the wholesale 
revolt of droids. Through it all, the foundation strives to present a noble face 
to the public while working toward its true goal. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

The Droid Equality Foundation is an immense organization that is spread 
thinly across the galaxy and includes members with many different points 
of view. 


Jolor Oron 

Jolor Oron, the current head of the Droid Equality Foundation, exhibits a 
calm, cool demeanor as he preaches peace, tolerance, and understanding 
between droids and other beings. Jolor appears to be a tall, slender near- 
Human from a remarkably long-lived species that is thought to be sparse 
in population. In reality, Jolor is a nearly flawless replica droid with a highly 
advanced heuristic processor. Modified long ago by a brilliant technician 
whose family was killed by Separatist droids during the Clone Wars, Jolor 
became a weapon against droids. His purpose is to slowly change the galaxy's 
opinion on droids until, eventually, they are completely eliminated. Beneath 
Jolor's charismatic personality lies code designed to help bring about the 
destruction of all droids. Jolor understands his purpose and accepts the irony 
of the situation with the cold logic that only droids possess. 


T-215 ("“Toowon") 

J-215, known as "Toowon," is an ancient CZ-Series secretary droid with a 
serious chip on its shoulder. Considered to be a dangerous radical by most 
authority figures, Toowon espouses the belief that droids should break the 
shackles of slavery and ownership imposed on them by organic sentients. 
Toowon moves from droid factories to sector palaces, stirring up rebellion 
wherever it goes. It is aggressive and abrasive in conversation, but remarkably 
persuasive in its arguments. Many critics of the Droid Equality Foundation 
point to Toowon as a prime example of why droids should not be granted 
full rights, although Jolor defends Toowon's behavior as a cautionary tale of 
what happens when a group is oppressed by the masses. All manner of upris- 
ings, strikes, and industrial sabotage have been pinned on Toowon’'s metal 
shoulders, but so far, no one has been able to gather sufficient hard evidence 
of illegal activities. The foundation's army of lawyers and lobbyists works 
hard to keep it this way, much to the dismay of the organization's detractors. 


A7-E3P0 (“Aysev") 

The protocol droid A7-E3PO (known as “Aysev") serves as the Droid Equality 
Foundation's voice of reason and patience. It speaks for Jolor Oron when he 
is not available and sometimes is sent as a representative in its own right. 
Aysev lacks the fussiness found in many protocol droids and projects a 
soothing personality with an uncanny ability to shift the attitudes of others 
during debates. Aysev is a counterpoint to Toowon's radical (and potentially 
dangerous) creed but is quick to defend the passion of its "brother" for the 
cause. Aysev travels the galaxy to spread the beliefs of the Droid Equality 
Foundation and can be found in courts, corporate headquarters, the Galactic 
Senate, and other governmental bodies, lobbying on behalf of the organi- 


zation. Aysev possesses a secret, however—it is aware of Jolor's true plan. 
The protocol droid has been reprogrammed by its leader to exhibit utmost 
loyalty, even though the foundation's real goal works against the interests 
of all droids, including Aysev. 


Kiyr Gir'sku 

Kiyr Gir'sku serves as the second most prominent "soft skin" in the organiza- 
tion, behind Jolor Oron. Kiyr, a Bothan noble, is a master litigator who takes 
on the largest and potentially most explosive cases in the courts of the 
galaxy, using her media savvy and flamboyant personality to create a circus 
on HoloNet feeds. Sadly, Kiyr is ignorant of the foundation's true purpose 
and is viewed by Jolor as merely a tool to be exploited. 


USING THE DROID 

EQUALITY FOUNDATION 

The Droid Equality Foundation functions as a specialty organization that pos- 
sesses a narrow focus but has broad implications for a Star Wars campaign. 
Droids are everywhere, and the Gamemaster could seed the background with 
reports of droids going on strike, businesses shutting down due to droid inac- 
tivity, fights between droids and organic beings, or even riots in the streets. 
The foundation could be in the forefront or the background, adding an air of 
intrigue and ulterior motives to seemingly unrelated events. Heroes with a 
sympathetic attitude toward droids might be targeted by antidroid activists, 
corporations, or government groups that lump the characters (intentionally 
or otherwise) in with the foundation, which is viewed as merely misguided 
by some and as dangerous by others. 

If any of the heroes are droids, the Droid Equality Foundation can help 
them cut through the red tape regarding droid/owner regulations and 
responsibilities or act as legal counsel for heroes who run afoul of the law. 
In places where droids have no rights whatsoever, the intervention of the 
foundation can keep them from being systematically dismantled as a result 
of a transgression or a misunderstanding. The foundation also serves as a way 
to provide heroes with "unattached" droids that are looking for their places 
in the galaxy. By proving their independence, individuality, and usefulness, 
adventuring droids help to advance the belief that droids should be granted 
the same rights as other sentient beings. 

If the heroes catch wind of the Droid Equality Foundation's true purpose, 
they earn the group's wrath. Since public sentiment about droids is already 
rather calcified, the heroes might find that authority figures consider their 
discovery to be little more than conspiracy theory claptrap. The foundation's 
inner circle spends a great deal of time monitoring news feeds that come 
close to revealing the truth, spreading lies and counter-rumors, and ruining 
the reputations of their opponents. Particularly careless heroes might even 
face an assault by the foundation's little-known assassination division. 


SNOILVYZINYVOEBOG GNY SNEILSVE) 


SNOIL“ZINVeEYNG@ GNY SNOILSBV2Z) 


THE FIREBIRD 
SOcieTY 


Until the Imperial period, the Firebird Society is a harmless organization 
devoted to providing networking support and recognition for female military 
officers. As with so many other parts of galactic civilization, it becomes 
something more sinister when touched by Emperor Palpatine’s shadow. 

Founded on the Core World of Lianna 2,000 years ago, the Firebird Society 
is initially created as an exclusive club for females who achieve top status as 
fighter pilots in the Lianna military academy. They serve as "wingmates” for 
one another as they rise through the ranks of the military and as mentors 
for similarly talented women who follow in their engine wash. 

As the centuries pass, the Firebird Society achieves its goals and tran- 
scends its roots by transforming into an organization with a far less restrictive 
membership requirement. Chapters of the Firebird Society start appearing at 
military academies throughout the galaxy and in all branches of the armed 
services. Membership remains exclusive to females, and a candidate has to 
be nominated by two members in good standing, one of whom must produce 
the Firebird Society pin for the newcomer. Members also have to be dedicated 
to upholding the highest standards in military traditions and to defending 
their sisters-in-arms and the Republic in general. In some parts of space, 
members of the Firebird Society perform so well on the field of battle that 
the group becomes a semiofficial organization, with members being granted 
permission by the High Command to wear their Firebird pins on their dress 
uniforms. Some of the most highly decorated pilots and officers who fight 
alongside the Jedi during the Freedon Nadd Uprising are Firebirds. 

As Palpatine's New Order gains in strength, it brings more than political 
change and rank speciesism to the structure of the galactic military. Sexism 
bordering on misogyny becomes common in the highest ranks of all military 
branches, and soon only the most exceptionally talented women (or those 
from the wealthiest and most powerful noble or ancient military families) 
are able to rise above the rank of major in the Army or the rank of com- 
mander in the Navy. 

When Major General Tessala Corvae gets fed up with the situation, the 
Firebird Society becomes home to a secret order dedicated to striking back 
at those who would deny rightful opportunities to female officers. Under 
her leadership, this subgroup uses any means necessary to punish military 
officers who stand in their way, short of betraying the Empire to the Rebels. 
Members engage in blackmail and vigilante attacks against corrupt officials 
and suspected Alliance agents alike. At its height, the secret Firebird Society 
has over 200 members and is well equipped with misappropriated Imperial 
military hardware. 

Eventually, Corvae's Firebirds become so successful that they are targeted 
by the intelligence organizations of both the Alliance and the Empire. Although 
both sides capture some members, the Firebirds remain unfailingly loyal to the 
sisterhood, and the organization remains intact and mostly hidden. 


When Ysanne Isard takes control of Imperial Intelligence following Pal- 
patine's fall, Corvae offers the services of her group. Isard is impressed with 
the Society's record, and she promotes many members to key, high-level 
military posts while keeping others working covertly as her eyes and ears 
within Imperial ranks. 

The Firebird Society has always been composed mostly of fighter pilots, 
although its ranks are open to all branches of military service. Even members 
of the Space Rescue Corps can be considered for membership in the official 
group; distinguished military service is the only requirement. Similarly, 
the Firebirds have been almost exclusively Human through the centuries, 
although there are no restrictions on what species a member must be. 

During the Legacy era, the Firebird Society is placed on the Galactic 
Alliance Guard's watch list of subversive organizations, primarily because 
the GAG does not trust any group whose members seem more loyal to one 
another than to the Alliance. To some extent, the GAG is right not to trust 
the Firebird Society. Although violent vigilantism died with Tessala Corvae, 
the group continues to aggressively and covertly seek damaging information 
against any individual or organization it perceives as standing in the way 
of a worthy female's military career for no reason other than her gender. 


THE FIREBIRD SOCIETY 


GOALS 

The official Firebird Society exists as a way to recognize elite military officers 
and provide its members with a network of contacts through which they 
might further their careers. During the Imperial period, a small movement 
within the Society is dedicated to undermining and destroying the careers 
of male officers they view as standing in the way of female advancement. 
Ultimately, both branches of the Society are interested in recognizing and 
promoting the military prowess of honorable female officers throughout 
the galaxy. They simply differ in how far they are willing to go to achieve 
that goal. 


METHODS 

The official Firebird Society holds regional meetings during which individual 
members keep their eyes open for new recruits or opportunities to help their 
sisters advance their careers. 

The secret Firebird Society uses the meetings to covertly exchange 
intelligence about politicians and military functionaries they blame for 
their stalled careers. The Firebirds then use this information to undermine 
these targets, perhaps by leaking details about corrupt activity the targets 
are involved in or by blaming the targets for security breaches or sabotage 
(perpetrated by the Firebirds themselves). Occasionally, the secret Firebirds 
also engage in vigilante attacks against suspected Alliance agents or cor- 
rupt officials, forcing the disbandment of Rebel cells. When on such attack 
missions, the Firebirds wear hoods and masks to conceal their identities, 
and they don form-fitting black commando jumpsuits that leave no doubt 
about their gender. 

The secret Firebirds also create their own weapons caches and secure 
transports for their missions. They accomplish this by altering supply orders 
and manifests so that arms and even small ships are directed to the Society's 
clandestine hideouts. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

The membership roster of the Firebird Society reads like a who's-who of the 
best and brightest female military commanders to serve during the past two 
millennia. However, one woman more than any other has made an impact on 
the galaxy at large: Tessala Corvae. 


Tessala Corvae 

Major General Tessala Corvae comes from a long line of highly decorated 
officers and possesses a brilliant military mind and a natural flair for com- 
mand. Yet after working twice as hard to achieve her rank as officers who 
had a fraction of her talent or heritage, she ends up in command of a bat- 
talion stationed on Tallaan in the Tapani Sector, where the worst conflicts are 
brawls between young nobles during parties. With no opportunity to prove 
herself in the real war, Corvae knows that she has reached the pinnacle of her 
career, thanks to the misogynistic military high command of the New Order. 


As she fumes over her fate, an idea starts to form in her mind. She has 
been a member of the Firebird Society since her days at the Academy. She 
never considered it more than a simple social club and minor networking 
tool, but now she starts to view it as more. She realizes that the Firebird 
Society could become a vehicle through which female officers could earn 
true respect and recognition, even if only among their peers. 

Corvae forms a secret organization within the structure of the Firebird 
Society. She reviews the service records of thousands of members and care- 
fully feels out the opinions of a dozen who seem the most brilliant and most 
embittered by their lack of advancement. After determining their true level 
of anger and frustration, she offers them an opportunity to use their superior 
skills and intellects in the service of the Empire while evening the score. 

Corvae's secret Firebirds evolve into a shadowy group hunted unsuccess- 
fully by both Alliance and Imperial Intelligence. She eventually allies with 
Ysanne Isard and finally achieves the recognition she sought for herself and 
her followers. 

Ultimately, Corvae dies in the same battle that leads to the demise of 
Isard and the final fall of the Empire. 


USING THE FIREBIRD SOCIETY 
Originally, the Firebird Society is a mostly harmless sorority whose members 
network and help one another advance their careers. A particularly sexist 
member might try to undermine the careers of males who are viewed as 
obstacles—particularly after Palpatine comes to power—but in general, the 
society is a benign group working to legitimately advance the careers of 
its members. 

Once Tessala Corvae creates the secret branch of the Firebird Society, 
however, the intrigue and conspiracy blossom. The clandestine group main- 
tains a treasure trove of blackmail material that the Alliance could put to 
excellent use if it could gain access to the information. Heroes with Rebel 
sympathies, if recruited, might end up as double agents within the ranks of 
the organization. An Imperial officer could offer a captured Rebel an oppor- 
tunity to walk if she locates and destroys damaging information about him 
that is in the Firebirds’ possession. 

A natural use for the Firebirds Society is to have a party of female heroes 
legitimately join the society. The heroes can work to bring down the Rebels 
and their sexist Imperial male counterparts by any means available. 


A ySsiavHa 


SNOILYZINVOEBOEG GNY SNEILEVE) 


SNOILYZINVEBNG GNY SNOILSVe) 


THE GALACTIC 
ALLIANCE GUARD 


When the weak central government of the New Republic is unable to coor- 
dinate an effective response during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, Chief of 
State Cal Omas spearheads a reorganization of the galactic government. He 
creates a stronger regime that takes many political and military decisions 
away from individual star systems. The result is the Galactic Federation of 
Free Alliances (shortened to "Galactic Alliance"), and this new centralized 
government not only drives back the Yuuzhan Vong but also forges a series of 
alliances that unites such disparate groups as the Chiss, the Hapans, and the 
Imperial Remnant under one banner. Not since the height of the Old Republic 
has a central galactic government included so many people under its control. 

For five years, the Galactic Alliance directs efforts to rebuild a galaxy 
devastated by the Yuuzhan Vong. In the face of growing protests and violent 
terrorist groups opposing the increasingly dictatorial methods of the govern- 
ment, a covert branch of Alliance Intelligence is formed. Termed the Galactic 
Alliance Guard (GAG), this secret police force is dedicated to finding and 
eliminating those who threaten galactic peace and order. 

From its founding, the GAG is led by Jedi Knight Jacen Solo, who is severely 
scarred by trauma experienced during the Yuuzhan Vong War. Asa result, he 
brings an overzealous and coldhearted attitude to his duties, giving those 
under his command leave to use any methods to identify enemies of the 
Alliance and force them to reveal their comrades. The GAG is soon feared 
across the galaxy by common citizens from every walk of life, no matter 
what their political bent. 

The fanaticism and brutality with which Jacen Solo and the GAG hunt 
down those considered to be enemies of peace lead him to fall prey to the 
corrupt guidance of Lumiya, a self-styled Dark Lady of the Sith. Jacen's 
excesses grow more severe, and eventually he gives himself fully to the dark 
side and is reborn as Darth Caedus. He then turns the GAG apparatus toward 
elevating himself to the position of leader of the Galactic Alliance and in 
doing so triggers the Second Galactic Civil War. 

Darth Caedus is killed in a lightsaber duel by his twin sister, Jedi Knight 
Jaina Solo, in 41 ABY. That same year, many of the GAG's top operatives are 
killed during a failed operation in the Corellian System. 


GOALS 

The Galactic Alliance Guard is founded to protect government institutions 
and citizens from violent terrorist attacks being coordinated primarily from 
Corellia. Later, the organization expands its mandate to target anyone their 
leader views as a threat to galactic peace and to his own power. Anyone who 
expresses a negative opinion of the Galactic Alliance risks brutal interrogation 
in the GAG's holding cells at its Coruscant headquarters or aboard its mobile 
command center, an /mperial I/-class Star Destroyer named the Anakin Solo. 

The GAG wants to seem as omnipresent as the intelligence apparatus of 
Palpatine's Empire had been, and it wants to inspire the same level of fear 
in the populace. On Coruscant, the group achieves this goal, although on 
Corellia, the GAG only hardens resistance against the central government, 
inspires further terrorism, and ultimately is one of the catalysts of the Second 
Galactic Civil War. 

Once Jacen Solo falls to the dark side and seizes the reins of galactic 
power, the GAG becomes his personal enforcement tool. Anyone he views 
as standing in the way of his personal goals—which involve bringing about a 
lasting peace by forcing the galaxy to obey his will—is targeted for imprison- 
ment or assassination. 

After Jacen Solo's defeat, the GAG is formally disbanded. If any of the 
organization's top operatives survive, it is likely that they continue to operate 
in secret as the Galactic Alliance reestablishes itself (now under the leader- 
ship of Grand Moff Tarkin's one-time mistress Daala) and that they harbor 
particular animosity toward Corellians. 


METHODS 

The Galactic Alliance Guard is well equipped and well funded, staffed with 
top agents recruited from the Coruscant Security Force, the Galactic Alliance 
Intelligence Service, former New Republic Intelligence and Special Forces 
operatives brought out of retirement, and a handful of Jedi. The GAG has 
access to the most elaborate and modern surveillance and communica- 
tion gear available, as well as a vast budget, all of which is put to efficient 
use. Forty years of counterintelligence, insurgency, and counterinsurgency 
expertise is brought to bear in the creation of the GAG, and its intelligence- 
gathering methods and capabilities are the finest and most extensive that 
the galaxy has ever seen. 


THE GALACTIC ALLIANCE GUARD 


All manner of simple and technological methods are 
applied, including sitting in cantinas and listening to conver- 
sations, planting bugging devices, and designing elaborate 
systems to monitor local and interstellar transmissions 
for key phrases, faces, or images. The GAG gathers 
and processes all information that might lead to plots 
against the Galactic Alliance and its citizenry. 

If someone is suspected of being a terrorist or 
of harboring antigovernment sentiments, the GAG 
dispatches teams to arrest the suspect and his or her 
entire family. They subject the suspect to the harshest forms 
of interrogation, hoping to force him or her to reveal fellow 
conspirators. Meanwhile, they apply other techniques to the 
suspect's relatives—including letting them witness what is 
happening to the suspect—to gain supporting information 
or the names of more targets for investigation. 

The GAG also encourages informants to report anyone 
they believe to be suspicious, and the group pays handsomely 
for tips that provide actionable intelligence. 

When Jacen Solo assumes the identity of Darth Caedus, the 
GAG morphs into a brutal paramilitary force that orchestrates 
assassinations and engages in commando operations augmented 
by the Anakin Solo. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

In its early days, the GAG includes a wide swath of top- 
of-the-line operatives from four decades of galactic 
intelligence operations; it is a veritable who's-who of 
spies and law enforcement personnel. Shortly before the death of Jacen 
Solo, however, the group consists more of operatives who have been drummed 
out of various intelligence services than of those who have served with honor. 


Jacen Solo (Darth Caedus) 

As a young man, Jacen Solo is a gentle Jedi whose empathy for all living 
things causes him to develop a number of Force skills related to animals and 
nature. However, torture at the hands of the Yuuzhan Vong and the death 
of his younger brother Anakin darkens and stunts Jacen’s spirit. He becomes 
easy prey for the dark side, and when he gets a taste of real power as the 
head of the GAG, it claims him. 


Jacen is an officer who leads from the front. He never asks his agents 
to perform tasks that he himself is not willing to do, and he personally 
conducts some of the most brutal raids, most vicious interrogations, 

and bloodiest assassinations. Jacen even attempts to assas- 
sinate his own parents when he comes to the conclusion that 
they are plotting against both him and the Galactic Alliance— 
Han Solo is a Corellian, after all. 
Despite his dark and violent turn, Jacen's heart remains com- 
mitted to the same goal he has followed since childhood: bringing 
peace and harmony to those around him. But, twisted as he is by 
the dark side, he intends to force that peace and harmony upon 
the galaxy on his terms. 


USING THE GALACTIC 
ALLIANCE GUARD 
The GAG is nearly perfect for a campaign in which the Gamemas- 
ter wants to hit a range of intrigue-related story points. When 
it is first formed, the GAG is a place where law enforcers and 
covert agents (such as the heroes) use their skills to prevent 
terrorism and ferret out those who would disrupt the hard-won 
peace enjoyed by the galaxy after the defeat of the Yuuzhan 
Vong. But as time goes on, the heroes realize that their missions 
increasingly are directed not at terrorist sympathizers 
and insurgents but at harmless writers or politi- 
cians who have questioned the government's 
direction. At this point, the heroes might be 
approached by someone working for another 
branch of the regime or for the Jedi Order who seeks their help to 
determine Jacen Solo’'s true agenda. This contact might be sincere 
or might be a plant sent by Jacen to test the party's loyalty. Depending on 
their interests, the heroes might find themselves at odds with the GAG, or 
they might become Jacen’s trusted minions and help support his overthrow 
of the Galactic Alliance leadership, whom he views as having betrayed the 
public trust. 

The GAG can also be used as a simple replacement for the stormtroop- 
ers and Imperial Intelligence officers of the Rebellion era, but putting the 
heroes on the inside and having them gradually realize the truth about the 
organization is a more exciting story prospect. 


SNOILYZINYEEBO GNY SNEOILSVE) 


SNOILY2ZINYOeEBOG GNY SNEOILSVE) 


THE HAPANS 


The Hapans are a species of attractive near-Humans who hail from the Hapes 
Cluster, a group of stars isolated from the rest of the galaxy by ionized gas 
clouds that are difficult to navigate. Hapans diverge from baseline Humans 
in that they tend to have weak night vision because their planets never get 
truly dark due to the illuminated gases that fill their star systems. 

Hapans live on 67 worlds that they call the Hapes Consortium. They have 
been ruled by a strict matriarchy led by a Queen Mother for 4,000 years, 
ever since a group of females enslaved by the pirates who first settled the 
Hapes Cluster rose up against their captors. The Hapans intentionally isolate 
themselves from the rest of the galaxy, their mighty warships zealously 
patrolling the few passages that exist through the stellar drifts and repelling 
all attempts at military action, diplomacy, or trade that the Old Republic or 
the Sith attempt to initiate with them. 

Things change with the fall of Emperor Palpatine's government and the 
creation of the New Republic. Queen Mother Ta'a Chume personally leads 
diplomatic efforts that result in the Hapes Cluster becoming a founding state 
in the New Republic, but the Hapans ultimately play a very small part in the 
new galactic government. They do not even bother to seat more than a third 
of their Senate delegates, nor are they particularly cooperative with mercan- 
tile houses wanting to establish trade on anything but a few border worlds. 


THE HAPANS 


The Queen Mother is, primarily, looking for a way to pacify a growing 
rebellion on the planets located on the frontier between the Hapan domin- 
ion and the rest of the galaxy. These worlds have always been difficult 
to govern, but they become even more unruly in the period during which 
Emperor Palpatine rules the galaxy. Imperial Intelligence provides support 
for would-be insurgents in the hopes of gaining a foothold from which the 
Empire can scout the mysterious and reportedly very rich regions of the 
Queen Mother's domain. 

By allowing the restless planets to feel as if they have some independence 
from the government and a part to play in the galaxy, the Queen Mother 
hopes to give them the illusion of freedom. However, no laws change on 
those worlds, and the enforcement methods of Hapan police and space 
patrols remain as draconic as ever. The majority of Hapans stirred up by 
Emperor Palpatine's agitators are content with the illusion of change, and 
Hapan control is reasserted. 

Due to a shaky history with Force users, the Hapes Consortium is not 
fond of Jedi. In fact, an organization known as Ni'Korish, which is named 
for the mother of Queen Mother Ta'a Chume, reflects its namesake's deep 
hatred for the Jedi. 

Because of the many pirates that plague the Hapes Consortium, the 
government keeps a sizable fleet to protect its worlds. The Hapan Royal 
Navy includes Hapan Battle Dragons and Nova-class battle cruisers among 
its key capital ships. The fleet's known flagships include Star Home and 
Song of War. For starfighters, the Consortium prefers the Olanji/Charubah 
Miy'til fighter and assault bomber. (For details on the Miy'til, see page 112 
of Starships of the Galaxy.) 

During the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, the Hapans lose most of their fleet 
at the Battle of Fondor. The public perception is that they could have kept 
their fleet and remained safe within the stellar drifts if they had stayed out 
of galactic affairs. As a result, the Hapan government becomes even more 
isolationist during the Legacy era, despite a desire for more openness on the 
part of Queen Mother Tenel Ka. 


GOALS 
The Queen Mother's government in all its forms and branches wants to 
maintain control. For the Hapan rulers, keeping order comes first, and the 
happiness of the people is a distant second. The government wants its citizens 
to be healthy, wealthy, and comfortable, but only if it can tell them when and 
how to enjoy such benefits. The leaders are also concerned with maintaining 
female superiority within Hapan culture by continuing traditions held since 
the first Queen Mother took her throne. 
Over the centuries, there are a variety of movements that intend to bring 
change to Hapan society, usually focused around granting males the rights 
to own and inherit property and to receive advanced education without the 
authorization of female relatives or government officials. These movements 
range in character from peaceful groups that petition the Queen Mother's 


government to violent insurgencies that seek to overthrow the Hapan lead- 
ership and carve out their own territory within the Consortium. Invariably, 
leaders of these groups continue their work from prison. 


METHODS 

On the surface, Hapan society appears beautiful and graceful. The people are 
considered to be more physically attractive than the Human norm elsewhere 
in the galaxy, and their architecture, ship designs, and fashion focus on 
elegant lines that echo rather than overwhelm the beauty of the environ- 
ment. Beneath the surface, however, Hapan society is brutal, oppressive, and 
violent. From the lowest beggar to the Queen Mother, Hapans get ahead in 
life by forcing their will on others, using blackmail, threats of violence, and 
outright violence. Still, the illusion of civil society must be maintained, and 
no criminal is punished more harshly than the murderer or blackmailer who 
is caught red-handed. 

The Queen Mother's government does what it can to discourage rampant 
violence, but the government institutions that exist to protect and control 
the people are structured to use fear to achieve their ends. In addition, a 
well-known network of informants, police officers, and others have the 
freedom to be judge, jury, and executioner when the situation warrants it. 
This network rarely uses this draconian authority, however, instead relying 
on the nonlethal technology of the Gun of Command. This unique weapon 
fires an energy beam that makes the target docile and pliant to suggestion. 
The Hapans use it to force suspected criminals to make public admissions of 
guilt before the captives are taken to prisons, subjected to more extensive 
brainwashing techniques, and reprogrammed to be productive citizens. Of 
course, some political figures cannot be dealt with in such a fashion, and 
some criminals are beyond the reach of the law. When the Hapans deal with 
such people, assassinations are commonplace. 

The resistance to the Queen Mother's government is no less underhanded 
and brutal. In fact, the insurgents tend to be more violent than the oppres- 
sors, since they often fund themselves by piracy and by holding public 
figures for ransom. 

In the past, someone who got on the wrong side of a powerful leader 
or group in Hapan space could seek safety by fleeing beyond the territory 
of the Consortium. But as the Hapans expand their interests outside their 
borders, so too do their assassins begin to pursue targets to the ends of the 
galaxy, if need be. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

Before the Galactic Civil War, members of Hapan society have no significant 
impact on the galaxy at large. After that conflict, Hapans begin to become 
active outside their own territories. 


Prince Isolder 

Known as the Chume'da or prince, Isolder is the second son of the Queen 
Mother during Emperor Palpatine's reign and in the early years of the New 
Republic. He spends his youth adventuring throughout and beyond Hapan 
space, hunting the pirate lord who assassinated his older brother. Isolder 
eventually returns to Hapes, where he assumes his duties as crown prince. 
During a series of adventures surrounding his mother's diplomatic mission 
to Coruscant, he meets and falls in love with Dathomiri Princess Teneniel 
Djo and marries her over his mother's objections. 

When Isolder's mother steps down from the throne, he rules as Queen 
Mother Djo's consort. He is more widely traveled than many Hapans, and Djo 
is an outsider, so the two of them start to change the strict and matriarchal 
nature of the government. When most of the Hapan fleet is lost fighting the 
Yuuzhan Vong and Queen Mother Djo is assassinated following a miscarriage, 
Isolder's daughter Tenel Ka takes the throne. 


Queen Mother Ta'a Chume 

With the longest recorded reign of any Queen Mother of the Hapes Con- 
sortium, Ta'a Chume is a cold-hearted, vicious ruler who would do anything 
to cling to power, short of openly bringing shame to the royal bloodline. A 
great strategist, she maneuvers those around her like pawns in a game to do 
whatever suits her needs. She views her eldest son, Kalen, as pathetic and 
orders his assassination. When her younger son, Isolder, falls in love with 
Lady Ellian, Ta'a Chume orchestrates the lady's murder. The Queen Mother 
reluctantly accepts Teneniel Djo as Isolder's wife, but her plots continue. 


USING THE HAPANS 

Players choosing to take on the role of a Hapes Consortium member should 
decide with which noble house they are connected. The Gamemaster is 
encouraged to create characters that oppose the goals of Hapan heroes. The 
Consortium might be used to aid or deter New Republic plans, to give Jedi 
party members a difficult time, or to serve as allies against the local pirates 
or the invading Yuuzhan Vong. 

Those allied with the New Republic might be able to find friends within 
the Hapes Consortium, but not everyone in the Consortium is sympathetic. 
Females, especially beautiful ones, find it easier to make alliances here. Jedi 
will not earn respect or trust easily. Because of the cluster's isolationist his- 
tory, its residents do not warm to outsiders. Those who fight pirates or keep 
the Yuuzhan Vong invasion out of the Hapes Cluster might find allies within 
the Consortium. The Hapans might even aid against the Imperial Remnant, 
but only if it suits them. 

Pirate and mercenary characters will find themselves at odds with the 
Hapes Consortium. Force-users are not well liked in the cluster and might 
become the victims of frame jobs or assassination attempts. Noble women of 
influence in the Consortium might be targeted by other female nobles schem- 
ing to increase the chances of their bloodlines taking the throne someday. 


SNOILIZ2ZINVOeUMO© GNY SNEOILSVe2) 


A HSeidvHo 


SNOILYZINYVeEBNO GNY SNEILSVE) 


MOUSE KORDEN 


For 14,000 years, the fortunes of House Korden have been tied intimately to 
those of the galactic citizenry. The name might not loom large in the public 
consciousness, but few histories of galactic civilization are written without 
reference to the Korden line. 

Some 12,000 years before the Battle of Yavin, successful Corulag mer- 
chant Haddius Korden stakes his future on the ever-larger waves of colonists 
that are heading to the farthest frontiers of space to make new lives for 
themselves. He reshapes the family business into Korden Outfitting and 
Surveying and sets about supplying gear and necessities for the colonists’ 
new homes. The business venture is a tremendous success. 

As the centuries pass, the Korden family starts investing in actual colonies. 
Asa result, a Korden Outfitting and Surveying retail outlet is usually the first 
business in a colony's new port, and the Kordens are among the first major 
landowners in thousands of colonies. During the Imperial period, the family 
owns property in over 6,000 star systems. 

As interstellar commerce matures, the Kordens’ early efforts in starport 
development are central to developing port regulations. They spend a good 
deal of credits petitioning the Republic Senate and local governments to 
standardize safety requirements for starships of all types and sizes. They feel 
that too many lives are lost because unscrupulous traders market substandard 
ships, perform slipshod repairs, and sell badly mixed fuel. 

House Korden is officially created 9,349 years before the Battle of Yavin. 
As part of the observation of the 1,000th year since the colonization of the 
Expansion Region world of Novar, the people create a principality for the 
Kordens, granting them 3,000 square kilometers of land on Novar. In one 
corner of that domain, the Kordens build an elaborate vacation resort to be 
used by themselves, their friends, and their favored employees and retainers. 
They open the rest of the land for public use and continue to keep the area 
maintained as a nature preserve. 

As the Republic grows in strength and influence, House Korden's Core 
Worlds roots guarantee that the Republic has the support of both the Korden 
family and its company, but the far-flung and diverse natures of its holdings 
ensure a perspective that is broader than most. Over the millennia, Kordens 
are found as representatives in the Senate and among the ranks of the Jedi 
Order, and in both places, they are voices of moderation and peace, arguing 
that armed conflict leads to suffering that politicians and generals never see 
or experience. Even when its corporate empire is in flames during the Great 
Sith War, House Korden argues for peace to the very end. 

During the Imperial period, House Korden’s long-held pacifist beliefs fall 
by the wayside. While wearing a purposefully bland mask in public, the House 
quietly supports the Rebel Alliance with supplies and equipment needed to 
establish hidden bases in inhabited systems. The Kordens' lack of open sup- 
port for the Empire costs their business billions of credits, and the family 
suffers socially and financially, but when Emperor Palpatine's end comes, the 
Kordens are among a very few of the galactic elite whose honor is intact. 


HOUSE KORDEN 


GOALS 

The Korden family is rare among the elite. Its members are motivated by 
serving the greater good, and they never lose sight of the fact that wealth 
and power do not earn them a place above the common citizens of the 
galaxy. The Kordens want to bring comfort, happiness, and prosperity to as 
many people as they can, regardless of species or political affiliation, and 
they want to do it in ethical ways. They use their wealth and authority to be 
advocates for the ordinary people. 


METHODS 
Members of the Korden family have always believed firmly in the rule of 
law, and they wields whatever influence they can to enforce it. When they 
encounter a situation that they consider to be unfair or unjust, they use their 
wealth and standing to address problems in the system. But they do not 
flaunt their credits or authority, preferring a more subtle, low-key approach. 
For example, when the Republic sets aside the Corporate Sector as a free 
trade zone, House Korden eagerly helps survey the region and establishes 
early settlements. When more organized efforts get under way, the Kordens 
decide they cannot take part. Colonists on worlds sponsored by the Cor- 
porate Sector Authority are required to enter into agreements that render 


them one step above slaves, a requirement that the Kordens find abhorrent. 
House Korden leases its Corporate Sector grants to other firms and turns its 
back, while quietly lobbying the Senate to impose more regulations on the 
corporations operating in the region. 

Predictably, the Korden family's tradition of working within the system to 
improve it fails completely during Palpatine's rise to power. The family's quiet 
attempts to mount political resistance to the New Order results in Palpatine's 
propagandists labeling the Kordens as the sort of do-nothing leeches that 
brought the galaxy to its current state. Although the Kordens counter such 
publicity on worlds where they have large holdings, they become pariahs, 
and most markets—except those on wild, untamed worlds and with certain 
large corporate clients—are closed to them. As a result, the Empire virtually 
forces the Kordens to work with the Alliance. Even then, the Kordens argue for 
peaceful overtures and diplomacy, encouraging propaganda efforts intended 
to cause military officers to defect to the Rebellion. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 
In its 14,000-year history on the galactic scene, the Korden family has 
touched every corner of the explored galaxy. 


Prince Tavin Korden 

The head of Korden Outfitting and Surveying during Palpatine's reign as 
Chancellor and Emperor, Tavin Korden indiscreetly reveals his true opinions 
about the New Order during a meeting of Corulag's Planetary Assembly. Lord 
Darth Vader subsequently starts harassing him and other Kordens. Tavin is a 
close friend of Orman Tagge, the head of the Tagge Company, and together 
the two concoct a number of subtle schemes to turn the tables on Vader. 
(Friendship and hatred of Vader are the only things the two men share; Tavin 
never reveals his deep sympathies for the Rebel Alliance to Tagge.) 


Jedi Master Jayshon Korden 

During the wars that lead to the scattering of the Mandalorians and the 
eradication of the Sith Empire, Jayshon Korden is a reluctant warrior who 
fights alongside his fellow Jedi while arranging secret negotiations with 
their enemies. Korden's attempts at paving the road to a negotiated peace 
fail miserably. As the Jedi Order rebuilds in the wake of the war, Korden's 
philosophies help to shape the future of the Order, and a number of isolated 
Korden family holdings are given to the Jedi for agricultural purposes or as 
places to build new temples and training centers. 


Arani Korden 

The eldest child of a branch of the Korden family that settled Naboo as part 
of the first group of colonists on that world, Arani Korden is a frivolous, 
spoiled teenager—until she takes part in the underground resistance during 
the Trade Federation's occupation. More than any Korden in centuries, she 
sees that true suffering exists in the galaxy and that people with backgrounds 
of privilege and power must take responsibility. 


Arani asks her father to arrange a job for her at the Korden Outfitting 
and Surveying headquarters on Corulag. As Palpatine reshapes the Republic 
in his image, Arani watches reports from all corners of Korden's business 
empire of the chaos and destruction that spread as the old ways crumble 
and as the Jedi are betrayed. 

Arani's experience on Naboo causes her to feel more loyalty for and sup- 
port of the Jedi Order than the average citizen feels, and she helps a number of 
Jedi escape the Empire's clutches. That same experience leads Tavin Korden to 
place Arani in charge of Korden's internal security; he reasons that someone 
who was a rough-and-tumble delinquent in her youth is ideal for outwitting 
hijackers and thieves. However, as the Rebel Alliance's opposition to Emperor 
Palpatine's reign grows, Arani uses her position to facilitate thefts of equip- 
ment from Korden warehouses, which are then delivered into Rebel hands. 

Arani eventually becomes the head of the company, and as the New 
Republic devolves into a dictatorship, she turns Korden resources to founding 
out-of-the-way settlements that remain secret from the regime. She also 
helps people who need to keep a low profile vanish into the wilds of the 
company's undeveloped holdings. 


USING HOUSE KORDEN 

House Korden is an ancient noble family. As such, its members have repu- 
tations to protect and holdings and secrets to guard. They might be more 
concerned about the common citizen than are most of their peers, but they 
are still nobles. 

The family employs thousands of retainers. The heroes might be among 
them and could be called upon to perform tasks such as covering up some 
of Arani Korden’'s more embarrassing youthful indiscretions or discovering 
and countering plots launched against the family by Darth Vader and his 
followers as payback for Tavin Korden's comments, Alternatively, the heroes 
might be hired by others to find or fabricate evidence that would show the 
Kordens to be traitors to the Empire. 

Korden Outfitting and Surveying is also a rich source of intrigue. During 
the early years of the family business, the heroes might untangle schemes 
aimed at stopping colony efforts being funded by the firm. Once the Empire 
is established, the heroes might be tasked with finding Imperial agents 
among the firm's staff so that Arani Korden can aid the Alliance safely, or 
the characters might be Imperial agents trying to catch Arani red-handed. 
Similar scenarios work during the Legacy era. 


A esidvHnsa 


y 
@ 
J 
5) 
2 
Gy 
> 
2 
) 
@ 
2 
aL 
> 
Z 
N 
> 
4 
(0) 
Z 
D 


SNOILIZINYOEBO GNY SNEILAVE) 


3 


“A BS31dvH 


IMPERIAL 
INTELLIGENCE 


Although scattered and a shadow of its former self, what is left of the Impe- 
rial Intelligence network tries to thwart the rise of the New Republic. Once 
the Empire has been split into endless, petty factions, each military leader, 
rogue warlord, and greedy politician needs information not just about the 
New Republic but also about the other factions vying for Imperial control. 

After surviving the Battle of Endor in disarray, Imperial Intelligence aids 
director Ysanne Isard in taking over the Empire. Eventually, competing war- 
lords lead to a variety of agents, military leaders, Moffs, governors, and other 
Imperial representatives coming into conflict for territory and information. 
In some cases, this conflict pits Imperial Intelligence against itself. Many 
personnel and resources end up in the service of Warlord Zsinj and, later, of 
Grand Admiral Thrawn. 

Imperial Intelligence members receive standard military ranks and wear 
official Imperial uniforms when not in the field. 


\ \ 


IMPERIAL INTELLIGENCE 


GOALS 

Imperial Intelligence seeks to help restore the Empire to its former glory 
and to crush the New Republic. Sometimes, though, its goals might seem at 
odds even with itself due to the many warlords vying for power among the 
remains of the network. 


METHODS 

The organization, which is responsible for covert operations, uses most of its 
resources to spy on the New Republic, but it also spies on itself and other 
Imperial agencies. Eventually, agents begin to take orders from sector Moffs 
without regard for High Command. Imperial Intelligence also works with 
Imperial Palace security as necessary. In addition, the group keeps track of 
various government and corporation activities throughout the galaxy, and 
agents note mercenary, bounty hunter, and outlaw activities. 

Warlord Zsinj is fond of using Imperial Intelligence. His agents infiltrate 
the New Republic, including its fleet. His greatest nemesis is New Republic 
Intelligence's Wraith Squadron. 

One of the ships used by Imperial Intelligence is a modified Incom A-24 
Sleuth scout ship. The Sleuth is known for its ability to slip past blockades 
undetected. Mol Hedron uses one of these vessels to intercept New Republic 
messages and deliver them to Imperial Intelligence using an advanced tight- 
beam subspace transmission. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

Ysanne Isard remains at the forefront of most Imperial Intelligence dealings 
even after she moves on to become a warlord. During the time of its conflicts 
with the New Republic, Imperial Intelligence has several key agents that 
become thorns in the side of the fledgling New Republic government. (For 
more information about a basic Imperial Intelligence agent, see page 184 of 
The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide.) Members include informants, agents, 
spies, black ops experts, spymasters, and leaders. 


Rodin Baem 

Imperial operative Rodin Baem purchases information from spies and 
others within the New Republic for the Imperial Remnant. Thanks to his 
information-gathering skills, the Empire hinders the rebuilding efforts of the 
new government. Baem's known Imperial associates include Admiral Gaen 
Drommel and Moff Lankin. 


Ten Dorne 

Formerly one of the engineers who assisted the Rebel Alliance's Admiral 
Ackbar in creating the B-wing assault starfighter, Ten Dorne now works for 
the Empire. The female Sluissi has vast knowledge of the ships of the New 
Republic fleet. Prior to defecting to the Empire, Dorne works on an experi- 
mental shearing plane, a device that might render tractor beams ineffective. 


Haanen Felean 

Asa member of the Rebellion, this Klatooinian supply officer equips various 
cells with materials and provisions. During the rise of the New Republic, 
Felean defects from the Alliance and joins the Empire, providing his new 
allies with information on plans to rebuild the Republic and with commonly 
used New Republic supply routes. His information leads the Empire to New 
Republic bases across the galaxy. 


Ysanne Isard 

Before his death, Emperor Palpatine places his faith in Ysanne Isard as the 
Director of Imperial Intelligence. In fact, he presents her with the Lusankya, 
an Executor-class Star Dreadnought, which she uses as her headquar- 
ters—complete with prison and brainwashing facilities. At the birth of the 
New Republic, few know of the Lusankya's hidden location, buried beneath 
Coruscant's surface. 

Isard tortures her captives to collect secrets and turns selected prisoners 
into sleeper agents. She is known for her masterful interrogation skills and 
can extract full and true confessions out of most subjects before day's end. 

While in control of the Empire, Isard manipulates other Imperial nobles 
and creates a vendetta against the New Republic's Rogue Squadron. She 
recruits Imperial Intelligence agent Kirtan Loor to help her destroy the 
squadron. She also manages to get a spy inside the squadron to discover 
the identities of the pilots. Isard learns that the New Republic plans to take 
Coruscant from her, so she orders the creation of the Krytos virus, which 
affects non-Humans. She allows it to be added to the planet's water supply 
as the New Republic takes the world. 


False Kadann 

Imperial Intelligence is credited with doing whatever it takes to fulfill its 
needs. The group goes so far as to have one of its own, a Bimm agent known 
as the false Kadann, masquerade as the Supreme Prophet of the Dark Side 
ina plot to control Imperial subjects. He and other Imperial Intelligence 
operatives form the Church of the Dark Side to promote the false religion. 
Although he lacks the Force sensitivity of the true Kadann, the false Kadann 
takes advantage of his connections to make "prophecies" based on intel 
gathered by spies and informants. In the event that his educated guesses 
do not come to pass, other "prophets" make them occur. The false Kadann’s 
arsenal includes murder and bribery. 


OTHER ERAS 

The version of Imperial Intelligence discussed on these pages is that from 
the time after the death of Emperor Palpatine. However, the organization 
has existed from the time of to its conversion from Republic Intelligence 
at the end of the Clone Wars. For more information on Imperial Intel- 
ligence at the height of the Galactic Empire, see The Force Unleashed 
Campaign Guide. 


USING IMPERIAL INTELLIGENCE 
Imperial Intelligence agents can be anyone, anywhere, but they are more 
likely to be Human males. A player who chooses to take on the role of an 
agent might need to hide his or her true identity and agenda from the other 
player characters. If the spy's activities are discovered, it could cause ten- 
sion and create havoc among the party. Complicated situations are likely to 
arise, in which the agent must choose between loyalty to the party and his 
or her secret mission. 

Heroes who are Imperial sympathizers might make contacts within Impe- 
rial Intelligence to gather or purchase information to prepare for a mission. 
Freelance characters might also spy or carry out special ops for the greater 
glory of the Empire. Independent parties, such as groups of mercenaries, 
bounty hunters, or outlaws of the New Republic, could buy information 
from (or sell it to) Imperial Intelligence agents. Heroes allied with the New 
Republic will have a difficult time working with Imperial Intelligence unless 
they find a common enemy, such as the Yuuzhan Vong. 

Almost anyone can find his or her path blocked by Imperial Intelligence 
agents. Even loyal subjects of the Empire might find the group's intrusive 
activities excessive. As they say in the world of spies, trust no one. Player 
character parties made up of New Republic allies or outlaws on the run from 
the Empire have much to fear from Imperial Intelligence. Fringe elements— 
such as mercenaries, criminals, and bounty hunters—are usually on shaky 
ground with the Empire already. Such characters could easily find agents 
skulking in the shadows wherever they go because their latest job infuriated 
some official of the Imperial Remnant. 


SNOILIZZINVEXUOG GNY SNEILSVE) 


SNOILIZZINVEXBO@ GNY SNEILEV2) 


KASHYYYK 
RESISTANCE 


The Kashyyyk Resistance is a formal name given to the informal organization 
responsible for fighting against the oppression of the Wookiee species. The 
Kashyyyk Resistance truly forms around the time of the Clone Wars, at first as 
a group of Wookiees fighting off the Separatists, and then later as a rebellion 
against the Empire and its practice of using Wookiees as slaves. Once the 
Empire has risen to its peak, the Kashyyyk Resistance engages in a desperate 
struggle not only to survive but also to free their people from oppression. 

The Kashyyyk Resistance has no formal organization, although it does 
have leaders and small groups that could be described as cells. The Resistance 
forms when a small group of Wookiees finally decides to stand up to their 
oppressors. Although sometimes these small groups join together to form a 
larger force, this can be dangerous, as their Imperial masters are ruthless in 
crushing opposition and zealous in searching out any organized resistance 
movement. For this reason, the Kashyyyk Resistance can only communicate 
sporadically, and many members of the resistance don't know that there are 
others on their world resisting the Empire. On rare occasions, multiple groups 
of freedom fighters will come together to strike a blow at the Empire, but 
the Empire's response is usually swift and devastating. 

The Kashyyyk Resistance is mostly made up of Wookiees that have thrown 
off the bonds of slavery and have gone into hiding within the jungles of 
their world. However, some off-world help occasionally makes its way to the 
Resistance, although the Wookiees are reluctant to trust outsiders for fear 
that their help may actually be an Imperial trap. On rare occasions, members 
of other insurgent organizations (such as the Rebel Alliance) will come to 
Kashyyyk specifically to aid the Wookiees' cause, and in those cases the 
Empire finds itself facing an enemy with the resources of a larger organization 
but with the ferocity and local knowledge possessed by their Wookiee slaves. 


GOALS 

The Kashyyyk Resistance has one overarching goal, shared by all of its dis- 
parate members: free the Wookiee species from the oppression of slavery, 
and cast the Empire out of Kashyyyk. In the short term, their goals focus 
on increasing the number of freed Wookiees (by raiding small slave trans- 
ports) and finding ways to smuggle those that have been freed off-world. 
The Kashyyyk Resistance aims to sabotage further Imperial efforts on the 
planet and to ensure that as many Wookiees as possible reach the safety 
of other planets. 


METHODS 

Kashyyyk Resistance fighters use the dense jungles of their world to move 
undetected, then climb up the towering trees to strike at targets. This tactic 
sometimes allows them to free Wookiee slaves before blending back into 
the dense foliage. In the event that Imperial forces pursue, the Empire's 
casualty rate is high. 

Although Wookiees are renowned for their great strength, the freedom 
fighters also defeat targets with traditional bowcasters, grenade launchers, 
and recon droids. These droids, which are used to scout nearby areas, are 
linked through comlinks for remote control. Their explosive charges are 
capable of dispatching hidden opponents. 

During the second Battle of Kashyyyk, Wookiees use retrofitted oev- 
vaor jet catamarans (see page 219 of The Clone Wars Campaign Guide) in 
an attempt to fend off Imperial landers and gunships. Some local traders 
and merchants help evacuate Wookiee families or engage Imperial slave 
transports. 


THE KASHYYYK RESISTANCE 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

Although most members of the Kashyyyk Resistance are Wookiees, a few 
key offworlders come to their aid, including several Jedi, smuggler Han Solo, 
and slicer Filli Bitters. 


Chewbacca 

Chewbacca, a Clone Wars veteran, is a well-known and respected Wookiee. 
Chewie, as his Human friends call him, bonds a life debt to Corellian smuggler 
Han Solo for saving him from Imperial slavery. The two become best friends 
and work to free captive Wookiees and stop Trandoshan slavers. 


Filli Bitters 

Filli Bitters is a Human scoundrel who has a crush on the Jedi Olee Star- 
stone. Bitters serves as slicer on the Drunk Dancer, a smuggling freighter. He 
programs a derelict Separatist ship to take out an Imperial cruiser, enabling 
Wookiees to flee Imperial forces during the second Battle of Kashyyyk. 


Han Solo 

Corellian smuggler Han Solo helps his best friend, Chewbacca, to free 
Wookiees from Imperial captivity and Trandoshan slavers. For Solo, it begins 
when he is a lieutenant in the Imperial Navy, ordered to assist in slaving and 
construction work. While on this assignment, he meets an injured Chewbacca. 
During a construction job, a senior officer draws a blaster on the Wookiee, 
and things escalate quickly. Solo stuns the officer, saves the Wookiee, and 
helps him escape. Later, Chewbacca informs Solo that he is losing family 
and friends to slavery, and the duo head to Kashyyyk to help. During a Life 
Day Celebration, they save Chewbacca's son Lumpawarrump from Imperials. 
Solo's most important aid to the resistance includes defeating Trandoshan 
slaver Pekt and Moff Darcc. 


Jent Koush 

Imperial Lieutenant Jent Koush, stationed on Kashyyyk, finds himself sym- 
pathetic to the Wookiees' plight. Through the alteration of manifest records, 
he secretly aids Wookiees escaping Imperial control whenever possible. 
Allegedly, he also gives aid to smugglers, merchants, and others who try to 
help the resistance. Most often, that aid comes in the form of misdirection 
or turning a blind eye to certain activities. It is not clear whether Koush has 
contacts within the Rebel Alliance or acts of his own accord. 


Galen Marek 

Raised on Kashyyyk, Galen Marek is the son of Jedi survivors of Order 66. 
After Vader murders his father, Marek is taken by Vader to become the Sith 
Lord's secret apprentice under the name “Starkiller."” Galen Marek aids the 
Wookiees as they resist the newly formed Empire, destroying the Empire's 
gigantic machine used to transport Wookiee slaves into space. His family's 
crest later becomes the inspiration for the Rebel Alliance's symbol. 


Salporin 

Master of the curved ryyk blades and veteran of the Clone Wars, Salpo- 
rin is one of the Wookiees enslaved by the Empire. A childhood friend of 
Chewbacca, Salporin learns that a group of Rebel Alliance commandos have 
infiltrated Kashyyyk's jungle and breaks free to find them. His knowledge of 
the forests and Imperial slave camps, as well as his battle skills, are valuable 
in helping liberate Kashyyyk from Imperial control. (For more on Salporin, 
see page 217 of The Clone Wars Campaign Guide.) 


USING THE KASHYYYK 
RESISTANCE 

Most Kashyyyk Resistance plots revolve around rescuing enslaved Wookiees, 
stopping slavers, or making hit-and-run strikes on Imperial forces, vehicles, 
or structures. While members’ plans are usually straightforward, their strate- 
gies and their natural strength allow them to persevere during dark times. 

Heroes wanting to help the Kashyyyk Resistance will have to be care- 
ful how they go about it, since the Empire has officers, troops, and spies 
trying to put down the freedom fighters or anyone giving aid. Heroes who 
are Wookiee resistance fighters combat not only Imperials and slavers but 
also the planet's natural fauna, creating challenging encounters that rely on 
excellent tactics, team coordination, and some surprises. 

The Alliance and others sympathetic to the Rebel cause find the resis- 
tance accepting of aid. Most Wookiee warriors who flee Kashyyyk following 
Imperial bombardment are willing to join the Rebellion as freedom fighters. 
Wookiees are not above accepting assistance from smugglers, mercenaries, 
or other similarly unsavory types. 

Trandoshans and members of the Imperial forces are not likely to ally with 
the resistance. The Trandoshans' history of slavery and brutality is enough 
to enrage even the calmest Wookiee, and the bombardment of their world 
by Imperial forces not long after the attempted Confederate invasion does 
not leave the Wookiees sympathetic to the Empire, either. 


wSeLavHD 


ww 


SNHOILYZINYVEEXBO GNY SNEOILEBVeE) 


A esiavHs 


SNOILYZINVEeXEBO GNY SNEOILSBVE) 


NABOO RESISTANCE 
MOVEMENT 


The resistance movement on Naboo ten years before the outbreak of the 
Clone Wars is a good example of a short-term organization that deals in 
intrigue. Formed during the Trade Federation blockade and occupation of 
Naboo, the Naboo Resistance is formed by the volunteer security forces of 
Theed and encompasses a planet-wide insurgency against the occupying 
forces. Although the Naboo Resistance only exists for a short time, the 
resourceful members of this organization stage a campaign of covert opera- 
tions, espionage, sabotage, and armed resistance against the droid armies 
occupying their home planet. 

The Naboo Resistance first forms in Theed, when Jedi Knights free the 
Queen of Naboo and many of her security forces from Federation captivity. 
These freed security forces in turn contact other security forces in other 
human cities, creating a growing network of resistance cells that spreads 
across the planet in days. Thanks to their security training, the personnel of 
the Naboo resistance are highly organized and create an underground para- 
military force that carries out a campaign of complex operations against the 
Trade Federation's forces. The Naboo Resistance already has an organizational 
structure in place at the time it is formed (using the same hierarchy as the 
existing security forces), meaning that the Resistance suffers none of the 
organizational growing pains of other subversive groups. 

Although most of the organization is made up of former security person- 
nel, volunteers from across Naboo quickly flock to the Resistance, providing 
either direct support or funneling food and supplies to Resistance members. 
The Resistance includes a small cadre of skilled pilots and mechanics, allow- 
ing them to use what vehicles the Resistance has to devastating effect. The 
Resistance does garner some off-world assistance, particularly in the form 
of mercenaries who work against the Trade Federation, but for the most part 
its membership is confined to citizens of Naboo. Late in the occupation, the 
Gungans join forces with the existing movement, but their involvement in the 
Resistance is short-lived as the occupation ends within days of the accord 
between the people of Naboo and the Gungans. 


GOALS 

The Resistance's primary goal is to free the people of Naboo from the occu- 
pation of the Trade Federation. Their short-term goals include disrupting 
Federation communications, smuggling supplies to other Resistance cells, 
hiding Resistance members from droid security forces, and ensuring that the 
people of Naboo suffer as few casualties as possible. 


METHODS 

During the land-based portion of its strategies, the Naboo Resistance 
Movement prefers hit-and-run tactics, diversions, and an alliance with the 
Gungans and their Grand Army. To free their planet from the Trade Federation, 
the resistance is not above accepting aid from mercenaries, such as Nym. 
The movement's vehicles include Gian speeders for land-based attacks and 
Naboo Royal N-1 starfighters, part of the Royal Space Fighter Corps, which 
are used in the assault against the Trade Federation's droid control ship. For 
more details on the N-1 starfighter, see page 118 of Starships of the Galaxy. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

Although the Naboo Resistance Movement's key members are its Queen and 
governor, many others assist them in freeing Naboo from the Trade Federa- 
tion's grip. In addition to those described below, Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn, 
Obi-Wan Kenobi, and pilots of Bravo Squadron (the group led by Ric Olié) 
lend their aid to the resistance. 


Gregar Typho 

Naboo lieutenant Gregar Typho is the nephew of Captain Panaka. During 
the resistance, Typho is injured and loses his left eye. For more details on 
Typho, including his life after the Naboo Resistance, see page 14 of Threats 
of the Galaxy. 


Jar Jar Binks 

Recently promoted General Jar Jar Binks of the Gungan Grand Army helps lead 
the Gungan forces as they fend off the battle droids of the Trade Federation. 
Binks also accompanies Queen Amidala as she attempts, through political 
means, to convince the Republic Senate to free their world. 


Nym 

Although the Feeorin pirate Nym is not officially a member of the Naboo 
Resistance, he attacks the Trade Federation blockade several times and 
is later declared a hero of the resistance. He works with Vana Sage, Rhys 
Dallows, and Reti against the blockade. Their attacks include striking a Trade 
Federation freighter convoy, attacking other convoys and escorts, disabling 
missile frigates, and attacking part of the battle droid forces destined for 
the Battle of Grassy Plains. Nym is responsible for destroying heavy artillery 
guns, AATs, and Scarab droids. For more details on Nym, see page 216 of The 
Clone Wars Campaign Guide. 


Padmé Naberrie 

Padmé Naberrie, also known as Queen Amidala of Naboo, leads the resistance 
to free her people from control of the Trade Federation. When her appeal to 
the Republic Senate fails, she takes matters into her own hands and forms an 
alliance with the Gungans, with whom her people share the world. Together, 
they face the invading battle droids. 


Panaka 

Captain Panaka is head of the Royal Naboo Security Forces and uncle of 
Gregar Typho. He and his men are overwhelmed by battle droid leader OOM- 
9's forces and captured along with the Queen. Later, after being freed by 
the Jedi, he helps create the battle plan and coordinate the liberation of the 
capital city. Panaka also assists the Queen and the Jedi in freeing the cap- 
tured Naboo pilots to launch an attack against the droid control ship in orbit. 


Ric Olié 

Naboo Royal Space Fighter Corps Commander Ric Olié is a starship pilot who 
serves in the Royal Naboo Security Forces. Olié¢ leads the space battle against 
the Trade Federation droid control ship to save the overwhelmed Gungans. 


Roos Tarpals 

Captain Roos Tarpals is one of the leaders in the Gungan Grand Army. Tar- 
pals, an old friend of Jar Jar Binks, serves bravely in the battle to repel Trade 
Federation forces. 


Rugor Nass 

Gungan High Council Boss Rugor Nass makes an alliance with the Naboo to 
defeat the Trade Federation invaders. After being petitioned by Queen Ami- 
dala and outcast Jar Jar Binks, Nass comes to realize that the inhabitants of 
the world need to join against their common enemy. He commits the Gungan 
Grand Army to repel the battle droid invasion forces. 


Sio Bibble 

Naboo Governor Sio Bibble begins formation of the resistance while Queen 
Amidala attempts to end the Trade Federation occupation of Naboo through 
political means. 


NABOO RESISTANCE MOVEMENT 


USING THE NABOO 

RESISTANCE MOVEMENT 

Naboo Resistance Movement members are likely to be Human or Gungan 
and can be of most classes. A hero who takes the role of a Naboo freedom 
fighter will need strong tactics to deal with battle droid forces or a silver 
tongue to deal with Trade Federation leaders. Skill challenges can create a 
series of events leading up to a rescue attempt by the resistance. 

During the resistance, the people of Naboo ally with the Gungans and 
accept help from mercenaries such as Nym. They also take aid from the Jedi 
Council, but they do not necessarily follow Jedi advice. They are independent 
in nature, as the example set forth by their Queen demonstrates. The citizens 
of Naboo are members of the Republic, but the invasion lessens their taste 
for politics and weakens their faith in the galactic government. Most of the 
inhabitants of Naboo would ally with a Republic official, but some might 
feel differently. 

Freedom fighters from Naboo are likely to be at odds with anyone 
representing the Trade Federation. Most of the time, they fight or outwit 
battle droids, but some confrontations include the federation's Neimoidian 
leaders. These enemies might find themselves the targets of sabotage by the 
resistance or assaults by Gungan forces. 


SNOILIYZINVYVOXBO GNY SNEOILEVeE) 


S 
9 
J 
@ 
2 
@ 
> 
2 
0 
0 
D 
U) 
> 
Z 
N 
Z 
(0) 
2 
a 


New REPUBLIC 
INTELLIGENCE 


Following the Battle of Endor and the death of Emperor Palpatine, the Rebel 
Alliance reforms as the New Republic and in doing so also forms the under- 
lying New Republic Intelligence (NRI). The newly formed military division is 
led by General Airen Cracken, former resistance fighter and Rebel Alliance 
general, who is assigned the duties of Supreme Commander for Intelligence. 
Under his leadership, the NRI keeps a watchful eye on warlords, foreign 
governments, mercenaries, bounty hunters, spies, corporations, the Imperial 
Remnant, and other threats to the fledgling government. 

Information gathered by the NRI is reported to various New Repub- 
lic divisions. As a branch of the military, NRI members receive standard 
military ranks but wear dark green uniforms when not in the field. The NRI 
runs parallel to the New Republic Fleet Intelligence, whose members wear 
Defense Fleet uniforms. 

The intelligence service is divided into several subdivisions, including 
Alpha Blue, Alpha Red, Analysis Bureau, Intelligence Operations Command, 
Ongoing Investigations Division, Special Threats Division, and Tactical 
Analysis Bureau. 


GOALS 

The NRI's purpose is to help rebuild the Republic by tracking, documenting, 
and eliminating its many foes. Its foremost goal is to stop the disorganized 
Imperial Remnant. Additionally, the NRI keeps track of the increasing criminal 
activities of terrorists, smugglers, mercenaries, and spies. 


METHODS 
Gathering secret information requires a wide variety of personalities, 
knowledge, skills, and technologies. The NRI collects holovids, sensor scans, 
personal histories, corporate records, captured Imperial databases, and any 
other information it can obtain. The NRI's networks dig deep into acquired 
Imperial archives to determine threat levels to the safety of the New Republic. 
The NRI also uses reports from underground agents, researchers, service 
personnel, and documented events. Despite the group's best efforts to gather 
accurate information, some reports originate from unreliable sources such 
as independent traders, smugglers, mercenaries, or other unsavory sorts. 
Sometimes the NRI feeds false information to spies of the opposition. This 
form of counterintelligence is heavily used during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. 
The NRI also uses ships and pilots, such as Wraith Squadron, as Intel 
units. Speedy and stealthy ships are its choice information-gathering fleet. 
NRI agents and operatives are fond of the Incom T-65BR X-wing starfighter 
(see page 153 of Starships of the Galaxy), as well as Republic Engineering 
Corporation Ferret-class and Prowler-class reconnaissance ships. The Ferret 
is a pilot-free intelligence-gathering vessel. Designed as a covert ship from 
its conception, it is better matched to infiltrating hostile territory than the 


T-65BR. Its hull is coated in sensor-negating materials and uses a new baffled 
drive system. The baffling allows the ship to leave a minimal trail at sublight 
speeds. The Prowler shares most characteristics with the Ferret but requires 
a sentient crew and is designed for longer missions. Each of these stealth 
ship models includes a decoy package. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

Although General Airen Cracken has been at the forefront for most of the 
NRI's history, field operatives are the backbone of the organization. These 
agents risk their lives to glean every possible piece of covert information, or 
they take calculated risks to rescue fellow operatives whenever a cover is 
blown. Members include informants, spies, black ops experts, spymasters, 
and leaders. For more information about a basic intelligence officer, see page 
61 of Threats of the Galaxy. 


Tru'eb Cholakk 

Tru'eb Cholakk is a Twi'lek slave turned gunrunner who sold arms to strug- 
gling Rebel Alliance cells and now serves the New Republic. Primarily working 
the Outer Rim Territories and the Mid Rim in his modified Ghtroc freighter, 
the Luudrian Star, Cholakk seeks out worlds in conflict so that he can help 
oppressed people. For more details on Ghtroc freighters, see page 88 of 
Starships of the Galaxy. 


New REPUBLIC INTELLIGENCE 


General Airen Cracken 

Willing to bend the rules if he deems it necessary to the stability of the New 
Republic, Airen Cracken makes his mark on many important events through- 
out the galaxy. After the New Republic takes control of Coruscant, Cracken 
forms the New Republic Security Force and relocates it there. His forces are 
instrumental in combating Warlord Zsinj, Ysanne Isard, and others who vie for 
galactic control. During this time, he deals with Rogue Squadron and Wraith 
Squadron; later, he oversees the separation of the NRI from the New Republic 
military. At that point, he becomes the Director of New Republic Intelligence. 


Belindi Kalenda 

Following the accidental death of her older brother, Tindel, the Human 
Belindi Kalenda is taken in by a military orphanage and trained by the Empire. 
Years after the Battle of Endor, she becomes one of the first New Republic 
Military Academy graduates and works in the Operations branch of NRI 
Special Threats. By showing “great courage and resourcefulness,” accord- 
ing to Cracken's Threat Dossier, Kalenda earns Cracken's trust and respect. 
Because of her wide-spaced and glassy eyes, she almost seems cross-eyed, 
and many believe her to be blind. As a wise agent, she takes advantage of 
this misconception, and it becomes her most effective disguise. 


Jan Ors (alias Captain Jan Strange) 
As former Imperial Intelligence agent Captain Jan Strange, Jan Ors reached 
nearly legendary status with the Alliance to Restore the Republic. Although 
she appeared to be an asset to the Imperial Surveillance section, she was in 
reality a double agent working for the Alliance. Following her deep cover and 
the fall of the Emperor, Ors assists the New Republic and agent Kyle Katarn 
on many missions to thwart the Imperial Remnant. 

In fact, it is Ors who convinces Rebel Alliance leaders to trust Katarn, 
a former Imperial cadet. She falsifies accounts of their previous meetings 
to assist in his defection. Later, Ors joins the Alpha Blue branch, where she 
accompanies Katarn on missions against the Imperial Remnant. Just before 
the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, Ors is promoted to lead Alpha Blue. 


Ander Rendrake 

Ander Rendrake is an important NRI field operative who acquires data in his 
role as a lieutenant and communications officer aboard the /mperial-class 
Star Destroyer Vendetta. In addition, he runs a black market aboard the capital 
ship. As the vessel's "scrounge," he has built up an in-depth network through 


which he can send sensitive data to New Republic Intelligence. 


Rivoche Tarkin 

Rivoche Tarkin is the niece of Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin. Her uncle and her 
father, Brigadier Gideon Tarkin, both swear allegiance to the New Order and 
Emperor Palpatine. After her father dies in the Erhynradd Mutiny, Rivoche 
stays at her uncle's estate and begins to question his beliefs after seeing 


the cruelty around her. Eventually, she earns a place as a deep-cover agent 
for the Rebellion, with contacts throughout the Core Worlds. Because of her 
background, she gains access to information that most agents could never 
acquire, and her family name alone places her above most Imperial suspicions. 

General Airen Cracken keeps her identity secret even within his own 
ranks. If Rivoche's status as a deep-cover agent were to leak out, it could 
put her life in danger and stir up trouble among those who doubt her sup- 
port or seek revenge for her family's dark deeds. Following her extraction, 
she serves the NRI as a reporter and accompanies Generals Wedge Antilles 
and Lando Calrissian aboard the Star Destroyer Liberator during a series of 
assaults that eventually lead to the capital ship crash-landing on Coruscant. 


USING NEw REPUBLIC 
INTELLIGENCE 

New Republic Intelligence has participated in many official military missions 
as well as many that are off the record. These missions include infiltrating 
Coruscant, dealing with the Krytos virus, bringing down Warlord Zsinj, assist- 
ing in the Black Fleet Crisis, overseeing the addition of Adumar to the New 
Republic, attempting to thwart the Corellian Crisis, and gathering information 
during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. The Bacta War was retroactively claimed 
by the NRI as one of its operations. 

New Republic Intelligence agents can be of any species, gender, or class. 
A player who chooses to take on the role of an NRI agent might need to 
hide his or her true identity and agenda from the other player characters. As 
with characters affiliated with Imperial Intelligence, if a NRI agent's activi- 
ties are discovered, it could cause conflict in the party. Similarly, situations 
might arise in which the agent must choose between loyalty to the party 
and accomplishing his or her secret mission. 

A party of heroes allied with the New Republic might be able to estab- 
lish contacts within the NRI to gather information needed for missions. 
Freelance heroes might also spy or carry out special ops for the fledgling 
government. Independent parties, such as mercenaries, bounty hunters, or 
outlaws on the run from the Empire, could buy information from (or sell it 
to) NRI agents. Faithful New Republic members should have few problems 
with the NRI unless they come under suspicion, perhaps as the result of the 
leak of false information. 

Player character parties composed of Imperial allies or outlaws wanted by 
the New Republic frequently will be opposed by the NRI and fringe characters 
such as mercenaries, criminals, and bounty hunters will not be looked on 
kindly by the organization. Such characters could easily carry out a job that 
thwarts a New Republic mission and subsequently find a homing beacon 
hidden on their ship or NRI agents waiting in the docking bay. Heroes allied 
with the Imperial Remnant will be unlikely to find themselves working with 
the NRI unless they unite against a common foe, such as the Yuuzhan Vong. 


SNOILYZINYVOeXBOG GNY SNEILEVE2) 


U 


SNOILYZ2ZINVeEXBN0Q GNY SNEILSV¢E) 


PRAETORITE VONG 


Prior to launching a full invasion, the Yuuzhan Vong send in their spearhead 
force, the Praetorite Vong. These specialist military forces, led by a high 
prefect from the intendant caste of the Yuuzhan Vong, infiltrate targets 
to spy and spread confusion, hoping to weaken their enemies for the first 
wave of invasion forces. Primary members come from the intendant caste, 
but the membership of the Praetorite Vong includes other castes and a vast 
number of slaves. When fighting becomes necessary, warrior caste members 
augment core personnel. 

Information gathered through deep-cover spies and military scouts is 
analyzed to select the best targets for the Praetorite Vong. The size of a strike 
force ranges from a few dozen members to several million. 

Among its troops, the Praetorite Vong have scouts, pioneers, logistics 
corps members, assault troops, engineers, and defensive units. Some mem- 
bers act as bodyguards for high-ranking commanders. In addition, a group 
of underlings known as the Shamed Ones serve the Praetorite Vong. Their 
status is the lowest of the low within Yuuzhan Vong society. 

Yuuzhan Vong are immune to the Force and cannot be sensed normally 
using the Force. 


GOALS 

The Yuuzhan Vong seek conquest because they believe that the worlds they 
invade were promised to them by their gods. In addition, they see the use of 
mechanical technology as an abomination that must be stopped. 

The primary goal of the Praetorite Vong is to pave the way at the location 
called Vector Prime for the forthcoming invasion of the promised land. This 
activity includes espionage and intelligence gathering, infiltration, prepar- 
ing bases of operation, and sowing seeds of confusion within the target 
governments. The Praetorite Vong hope to turn the populations of target 
worlds against themselves. 


METHODS 

Infiltration is the hallmark of the Praetorite Vong. Keeping the outlying plan- 
ets at odds with one another, agents hope to render the worlds defenseless 
for the impending invasion. The Praetorite Vong recruit saboteurs, spies, and 
propagandists from the local populace to work against their own govern- 
ments and societies. 

As with all Yuuzhan Vong, the Praetorite Vong use only organic gear, 
weapons, and ships. In fact, they consider technology to be an outrage against 
their gods. Their hatred of mechanized vehicles and droids runs deep. While 
subverting the local governments, they spread antidroid propaganda to help 
eliminate that which they despise. 


THE PRAETORITE VONG 


When they need to gather information, the Praetorite Vong use chilabs— 
tiny, grublike creatures that record audio and visual data while hidden inside 
Yuuzhan Vong nasal cavities. The collected information is transferred to a 
biological memory device called a qang qahsa. The Praetorite Vong also use 
creatures known as sliviliths as living probes. 

When in deep cover, Praetorite Vong use ooglith cloakers and masquers. 
These biological entities grant a Yuuzhan Vong protection and allow it to 
adopt a Human disguise, respectively. The gablith variant disguises the spy 
as a Duros or other non-Human. Another symbiotic tool is the tizowyrm, 
an organic translator carried inside the ear that allows a Yuuzhan Vong to 
speak other languages. 

Among its arsenal of organic starships, the Yuuzhan Vong employ yorik- 
stronha—spy vessels that are built from yorik coral and that resemble aster- 
oids. The invaders use these ships to enter a system undetected so that they 
can study space traffic and enemy fleet strength or secretly insert Praetorite 
Vong spies behind enemy lines. The subsequent invading force arrives ina 
convoy of mammoth worldships. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

Although Prefect Da'Gara is a key member, the Praetorite Vong require a 
wide variety of skill sets to accomplish their manifest destiny. Soldiers and 
scouts find plenty of opportunities within the order, and nobles have an 
equally important role. 


Da'Gara 

Prefect and leader of the Praetorite Vong, Da’Gara is a ruthless and fanatical 
warrior. He keeps in contact with spy Yomin Carr through Carr's hidden villip. 
The two coordinate the infiltration of the Star Wars galaxy. 


E'thinaa 

E'thinaa is an agent of the Praetorite Vong. He is placed in a high-ranking 
military position within the Ssi-Ruuvi Imperium and is instrumental in 
the rise of the Keeramak—a multicolored Ssi-Ruu that is thought to fulfill 
prophecy. The Praetorite Vong hope to use the Ssi-Ruuk as a diversion during 
the invasion. 


Nom Anor 

Executor Nom Anor is one of the chief spies among the Praetorite Vong. A 
member of the intendant caste, Anor disguises himself as the leader of the 
Red Knights of Life on Rhommamool and works to bring down Sernpidal’s 
moon, killing millions. He is credited as being responsible for half the invasion. 
Anor infiltrates the Imperial Interim Council and strikes a deal with Boba 
Fett to have the Mandalorians aid the invasion force. 


Yomin Carr 
An agent and scout of the Praetorite Vong, Yomin Carr infiltrates the ExGal 
station on Belkadan. From there, Carr keeps in contact with Prefect Da'Gara 
using a hidden villip to coordinate the destruction of the populace. He is 
also responsible for infecting New Republic diplomats with a fatal Yuuzhan 
Vong disease. 


USING THE PRAETORITE VONG 

In addition to baiting targets into ambushes, creating governmental strife, 
and spreading antidroid propaganda, the Praetorite Vong are not above 
making suicide attacks. Members of the Praetorite Vong will even commit 
ritual suicide when facing defeat. 

To be a member of the Praetorite Vong, a character must be of the Yuuzhan 
Vong race or one of its inferior subjects. Players choosing to take on the role 
of a Praetorite Vong member must select a caste, a connection to the group, 
and their duties within it. Praetorite Vong characters have many opportuni- 
ties for subterfuge, infiltration, and dealing with counterintelligence agents, 
perhaps from New Republic Intelligence or local organizations. 

Few creatures can find allies among the Praetorite Vong. Members of 
races that respect nature and shy away from technology are more likely to 
find common ground with most Yuuzhan Vong, and anyone willing to convert 
and follow the will of the invaders’ gods might receive aid. In addition, the 
Praetorite Vong might be willing to make temporary truces to gain assistance 
or unhindered travel. They are most likely to ally with the Mandalorians and 
the Hutts early in the invasion. Aside from the main forces, the Shamed 
Ones—who hold the Jeedai, or Jedi, in almost religious awe—might collaborate 
with other races if they believe that it will lead to their freedom. 

Droids, Jedi, and Force-users in general are targets for the wrath of the 
Praetorite Vong, although their hatred does not end there. The Yuuzhan Vong 
are at war with the entire galaxy. Even those who ally with the invaders might 
find themselves at odds with the extragalactic race, especially if they make 
undercover attempts to aid Yuuzhan Vong targets or report the details of 
Yuuzhan Vong fleet locations. 


A H#SieVH9 


SNOILYZINVYVOEeEBOQ GNY SNEILEVeE) 


A YesilavHo 


SNOILYZINVEeEXBO GNY SNEOILSBYe) | 


THE TAGGE COMPANY 


The Tagge Company (“TaggeCo") is one of the most diversified megacorpora- 
tions in the galaxy. It starts as a heavy construction, mining, and exploration 
company that, to a large degree, is a front for a crime syndicate with an 
extensive interest in counterfeiting and contraband. By the time of the Clone 
Wars, however, it transforms into a legitimate business operation, even if it 
continues to operate in a brutal fashion. 

TaggeCo is founded 200 years before the Battle of Yavin when a crime 
boss, Tarzen Tagge, becomes a local hero on his Mid Rim homeworld of Tepasi 
by using his fleet of small freighters (and a couple of hijacked bulk freight- 
ers) to ferry supplies and crews to a part of the world devastated by a series 
of groundquakes. By the time the area's production facilities and roads are 
rebuilt, the foundation of TaggeCo is also in place. 

Although Tarzen Tagge could have taken this chance to convert his enter- 
prise into a legitimate business, he is so entrenched in the criminal mindset 
that he sees the construction company as the perfect front for his smuggling 
operation. While the company secures and works construction contracts on 
other worlds, the criminal side of the enterprise uses those opportunities to 
smuggle goods to new markets. 

Even though his construction firm is a front, Tarzen insists that it deliver 
top-notch work because he does not want the facade to become the target 
of complaints or investigations. The end result is a reputation so sterling that 
the company competes on a galactic scale within a few short decades. In 
fact, suppliers cannot keep up with the company's demand for construction 
materials when it lands a contract to expand a starport on Wroona. Although 
Tarzen first attempts to fall back on old habits—stealing supplies from the 
competition—his brother Halven suggests that they start their own supply 
chain to locate and mine resources. 

Tarzen receives permission to explore a large group of planets that were 
set aside centuries ago for corporate development by the Republic. When 
established megacorporations try to stop this rapidly growing upstart by 
refusing to sell it scout ships and supplies, the Tagges acquire a small com- 
pany that specializes in customizing ships and convert it to a full-fledged 
ship construction and design firm by extending employment offers (of the 
kind that cannot be refused) to a handful of engineers. Soon, the company 
has its own multipurpose bulk freighter/survey ship/colony transport, the 
highly sophisticated House of Tagge Mining Explorer. 

In the background, the criminal enterprise continues. The Mining Explorers 
carry everything needed to survey planetary systems and perform analyses 
of samples on location, and they double as mobile bases for establishing 
planetary operations. Meanwhile, the ships' labs serve as drug refining 
centers. The shipyard that builds the Mining Explorers also does a booming 
side business in knock-off parts for other ships. 

The various industries started by Tarzen Tagge and his brother feed the 
legitimate economy of their homeworld, sparking a boom that Tepasi has not 
seen since its initial colonization. The grateful government grants Tarzen a 


chain of islands as a hereditary barony. In less than a generation, the Tagges 
go from being lowlifes to rubbing elbows with the galactic elite. 

At its height, TaggeCo owns hundreds of subsidiaries, including publishing 
houses, news agencies, starship design firms, shipyards, computer compa- 
nies, security providers, speeder design and manufacturing firms, medical 
and pharmaceutical corporations, and more. It expands most rapidly during 
Palpatine's reign as Chancellor of the Republic and becomes a symbol of his 
New Order during the Empire. For a while, the company's oft-lampooned 
slogan "TaggeCo: We're Everywhere You Are" is absolutely true. 

When the New Order falls to the Rebel Alliance, TaggeCo bears the brunt 
of the aftermath. Its assets are seized by local governments throughout space, 
and many of its executives are imprisoned or killed. Within a few short years, 
an enterprise that had spanned the stars is reduced to a single facility on 
Tepasi, where the Tagge name is still revered. 


GOALS 

For the first few hundred years of its existence, TaggeCo has the straight- 
forward goal of maximizing its profits and expansion through any means 
possible. During the Imperial period, this means taking full advantage of any 
political or business opportunity that is connected to Emperor Palpatine's 
government, as well as doing everything it can to put down uprisings against 
the New Order. After Palpatine's fall, the company struggles to save what it 
can as it crumbles to pieces. 


METHODS 

When conventional buy-out offers for competitors or enticing employment 
contracts for executives fail, TaggeCo falls back on intimidation, blackmail, 
industrial espionage, and terrorism. The company's intelligence-gathering 
capacity rivals that of Imperial Intelligence, and TaggeCo is even more 
unscrupulous in its methods. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 
The Tagge family has been known for flamboyance and brutality since it first 
emerged on the galactic scene. 


Domina Tagge 
The fifth child of the core Tagge family, Domina is born two years before 
the death of her parents, and, from the age of 7, she is raised in an isolated 
monastery by a religious order founded around Jedi traditions of peace and 
harmony (but not the Force). Her oldest brother sends her there, hoping 
that the isolation from the family business and the corrupting influence of 
New Order operatives will allow her to develop into a woman of true nobil- 
ity—someone who might bring grace to the thuggish Tagge family and guide 
the company into a future divorced from its criminal roots. 

Orman's dreams for his little sister are shattered when Darth Vader draws 
her into their feud. Vader uses Domina and the Sacred Circle Monastery as 
part of a scheme to capture Luke Skywalker, but she double-crosses Vader 


TAGGECO 


because she sees his plan as an opportunity to gain revenge on those respon- 
sible for the deaths of her brothers, Orman and Silas. Domina is as ruthless 
and calculating as any Tagge since her great-grandfather Tarzen. 

Following her conflict with Vader and Skywalker, Domina is forced to leave 
the Sacred Circle, and she assumes leadership of TaggeCo and the title of 
baroness. She turns the company's security forces and laboratories toward 
destroying the Rebels, and for several years, TaggeCo poses as much of a 
threat to the Alliance as the Imperial military and intelligence agencies do. 
However, Domina remains obsessed with vengeance against Darth Vader, and 
her fixation undermines the effectiveness with which TaggeCo coordinates 
its efforts with the Empire. 

Domina Tagge vanishes under mysterious circumstances while inspecting 
a laboratory that develops biological weapons. 


Silas Tagge 

The second oldest Tagge sibling during the reign of Emperor Palpatine, Silas 
Tagge is a brilliant engineer and physicist who leads TaggeCo's network of 
research facilities, which include pharmaceutical labs and secret weapons 
design shops. Silas Tagge approaches science the way some beings approach 
religion—with complete fanaticism and a devotion that overwhelms common 


sense. He never wears natural fibers and never eats anything but highly 
processed food substitutes, usually vitamin-enriched pastes. 

Tagge's devotion to all things scientific is matched only by his amorality 
and sociopathy. No sacrifice is too great if it advances his projects, and, 
since his projects are funded through TaggeCo, no sacrifice is too great to 
ensure the company's success. Of course, underlings and test subjects always 
make those sacrifices. 

Under his guidance, TaggeCo becomes a scientific brain trust rivaled only 
by government-sponsored efforts on Arkania and projects managed by the 
Empire's Grand Moff Tarkin and Grand Admiral Zaarin. In fact, the Empire 
and TaggeCo compete for the best and brightest students from technical 
academies throughout the galaxy, with TaggeCo often recruiting the superior 
talent due to a habit of making offers that cannot be refused. 

Tagge and his design teams are almost as prolific as Tarkin and Zaarin 
when it comes to devising weapons of mass destruction. His crowning 
achievement is the Omega Frost, a weapon that uses electromagnetics and 
other force fields to drop temperatures below what had been considered 
absolute zero in an area that could theoretically span an entire solar system. 


Tarzen Tagge 

Although descended from a long line of criminals, Tarzen Tagge loves his 
homeworld of Tepasi and is willing to sacrifice selflessly for it. He lays the 
foundation for TaggeCo when he takes on the task of rebuilding a ground- 
quake-ravaged region after the planetary government fails to take action. 
He also sets the stage for TaggeCo's future methods by using his new wealth 
and prestige to destroy the politicians who did not help the locals. Tarzen is 
a brutal thug, and he delights in shocking members of the corporate elite. 


USING TAGGECO 
TaggeCo can be the source of just about any form of intrigue and 
double-dealing. 

During the company's early years, heroes might be smugglers working 
for the company or scouts conducting surveys for it. Along the way, they 
discover that there is more to the job than meets the eye. After the heroes 
gain this knowledge, a TaggeCo executive marks them for death—or perhaps 
invites them deeper into the company's heart of darkness. 

During the initial years of Orman Tagge's reign, the heroes might be indus- 
trial spies working for or against TaggeCo. Later, Rebel agents could break 
into the company to steal plans for a weapon being developed for the Empire. 

After the Battle of Yavin, the heroes might infiltrate TaggeCo to learn 
which of the company's many Mining Explorers houses a secret Imperial 
Intelligence prison, knowledge the heroes need to rescue a key captive. 
Established Rebel agents might find themselves contacted by Orman Tagge, 
who wants to recruit them in a scheme to embarrass or assassinate Darth 
Vader. The heroes might also be hired by Domina, but if they are Alliance 
agents rather than independent operators, she is likely to betray them at 
the end of their mission. 


SNOILNY2ZINVOeXM@G GNY SNEOILSVE) 


SNOILYZ2ZINVEeXN©O GNY SNEILSVE2) 


TAPANI NOBLES 


The noble houses of the Tapani arise after an ambitious warlord named 
Shey Tapani brings several squabbling independent Human colonies under 
one banner some 7,300 years before the Battle of Yavin. Tapani allows the 
leaders of the conquered colonies some degree of self-governance, naming 
them nobles in the Tapani Empire. 

The government system unique to this isolated section of the Colonies 
Region evolves for centuries on its own, apart from the Sith Empire, the 
Republic, and other major powers that rise and fall around it. The Tapani 
Empire trades with its Herglic and Mrlsst neighbors, but since no major 
hyperspace lanes enter its territory, it has little contact with the rest of the 
galaxy. During this time, Tapani society becomes severely stratified; the ruling 
elite develop a three-tiered system of nobles, and those who are ruled do 
what they are told. The ordinary citizens are mostly happy and prosperous 
because the nobles are expected to uphold codes of conduct meant to prevent 
excesses, but commoners can hope to achieve the rank of knight at best—the 
only nonhereditary noble rank. Lords and Highlords are born, not made. 

After a dynasty that lasts nearly 5,000 years, the Tapani Empire gives way 
to a federal government ruled by a council of nobles from the empire's one- 
time capital on Procopia. Seven noble houses oversee dozens of minor ones, 
arranged in an elaborate hierarchy that evolves over centuries, and a vast 
lower class of common citizens. The seven major houses of Tapani are House 
Barnaba, House Cadriaan, House Calipsa, House Mecetti, House Melantha, 
House Pelagia, and House Reena. Each determines how to govern the planets 
over which it holds sway, but they present a united front to outsiders. This 
unity eventually gains them admission into the Old Republic, and the Tapani 
Sector is formally created. Consistently navigable hyperspace lanes are 
charted, and from these, routes to major Tapani worlds are charted in turn. 

Although the Tapani send representatives to the Galactic Senate—rep- 
resentatives appointed by the Grand Council rather than elected by the 
people—they view the Republic as a business necessity and look down on 
the rest of civilization, when they care about it at all. The Tapani nobles 
remain interested mostly in their internal affairs, dealing with the outside 
only when absolutely necessary. 

An exception arises when the Jedi discover that the bloodline of House 
Pelagia is strong in the Force and that an unusually high number of common- 
ers native to the House's throneworld of Pelagon are Force-sensitive. The Jedi 
establish a training center on the world, which gives House Pelagia more of 
a stake in the galaxy. While the rest of the noble Houses enrich themselves 
financially through the use of the new trade routes, House Pelagia becomes 
the most outward looking and cosmopolitan among them. Together, House 
Pelagia, House Melantha, and House Cadriaan become the only economic 
and political forces that truly matter in the sector as the Republic slouches 
toward Empire. 


Pelagia pays a heavy price for its association with the Jedi, however. When 
the Jedi Purge is decreed, Pelagia’s ancient rival House Melantha strikes hard 
against its holdings, using ships and weapons that Emperor Palpatine secretly 
provided to them in preparation for this day. House Pelagia is shattered, 
and House Melantha seizes most of its territory, leaving only a few token 
bombed-out worlds as its domain. House Melantha goes on to become the 
Emperor's favored proxy in the sector, although he makes sure that the other 
Houses also remain strong so that Melantha does not grow too confident. 
(The exception is House Pelagia. It survives the Rebellion era on the charity 
of allied Houses like Calipsa and Reena and starts its slow rebuilding process 
only after the Emperor's demise at the Battle of Endor.) 


GOALS 

All Tapani nobles are driven to succeed, to be the best in their chosen fields, 
and to receive the maximum amount of public exposure for their acts. They 
pursue these goals not because they want to prove their superiority—that 
is a foregone conclusion—but because it is their duty to be the best at all 
they do. Anything less would be a betrayal of their heritage and their place 
in society. Tapani nobles always cover up their failures and shortcomings. 


METHODS 

Tapani nobles are a highly legalistic set of beings. They rely on social and 
legal codes to settle disputes and accomplish goals. If appeals to tradition 
do not resolve a situation, the nobles resort to lawsuits. If working through 
the proper channels also fails, they fall back on threats and blackmail. They 
rarely use these unsavory methods themselves, instead letting their retainers 
“do whatever is needed" so they can deny involvement if something goes 
wrong. The nobles are not above hiring spies and saboteurs to harass or 
inconvenience their personal, social, and business rivals. 

Most crimes committed by Tapani nobles within their sector are swept 
under the rug by their peers and the courts, although the offenders are usually 
sent into exile. The exception to this arrangement is murder, especially if the 
victim was of noble rank—typically, killers are executed quickly and publicly. 

If a dispute is more intimate, a Tapani noble might invoke an ancient code 
to challenge the offender to a duel. These duels are technically illegal, but 
no one is ever prosecuted for engaging in them. 


NOTABLE MEMBERS 

Tapani nobles are as varied as the citizens they rule. Some are business deal- 
ers, some are artists, some are politicians, some are interested in spreading 
pain and suffering, and some are professional partiers more dedicated to 
the social circuit than the most frivolous Core World noble. 


Grand Admiral Octavian Grant 

Grand Admiral Grant is a Tapani Lord of House Mecetti who, after serving 
with distinction in the Tapani Home Defense Fleet, joins the Imperial Navy 
and proves himself a brilliant tactician during the late stages of the Clone 
Wars. He is one of the 12 officers to be elevated to grand admiral when 
Emperor Palpatine creates that rank. 

Although Grant has a brilliant military mind, he does not generate the 
sort of personal following that the other grand admirals do—at least, not 
outside the Tapani Sector. He is much loved at home, and the Tapani media 
cover every campaign he conducts and every function he attends throughout 
the galaxy with great detail, with reporters assigned to do nothing but keep 
track of him. However, Grant carries with him the belief that he, as a Tapani 


TAPANI NOBLES 


noble, is superior to those he deals with. He is not aggressive about declar- 
ing his superiority, but he never curries favor with sector Moffs or Imperial 
advisors, nor does he engage in political games with other admirals. He will 
not lower himself to the level of his inferiors but simply performs his duties as 
the Emperor has decreed. (Secretly, Grant wonders if perhaps even Emperor 
Palpatine is inferior to him, being neither a true noble nor Tapani.) 

After the Battle of Endor, Grant alone among the surviving grand admirals 
does not continue the fight against the Rebels or try to carve out a personal 
kingdom. Instead, he offers to defect to the Rebel Alliance, an offer that is 
turned down. However, the Alliance allows Grant to retire to a private estate 
on the Inner Rim resort world of Rathalay. 

Grant remains a celebrated figure in the Tapani Sector, and whenever he 
hosts a gathering at his Rathalay home, it is covered in the society sections 
of news broadcasts. 


USING THE TAPANI NOBLES 

Tapani nobles are an insular lot, but during the Imperial period, members of 
House Pelagia try to rebuild their fortunes and reputation by engaging in 
business outside the sector. They are watched by the Empire and harassed 
by agents of House Melantha, both of whom fear that Jedi might still be 
hiding in the rubble of Pelagia. Nobles of House Pelagia might hire a party 
of heroes to assist with various tasks, or perhaps one of the characters is a 
member of the House, 


D. 


SNOILYZINVEEBO GNY SNEILSVeE) 


CHAPTER VI 
NYRIAAN, WORLD OF INTRIGU 


_ The planet Nyriaan is the center of a struggle as turbulent as the planet's 
_ violent atmosphere. It is a world rich in madilon, a rare naturally occurring 
alloy that is crucial to modern hyperdrive production, making Nyriaan an 


powers. Nyriaan possesses great stores of a much-sought-after commodity, 
and many beings in the galaxy would do almost anything to acquire those 
_ | resources. Controlled by none and coveted by many, Nyriaan is a dangerous 
| planet steeped in intrigue and conspiracy. 

\___ Nyriaan is covered in a dense cloud layer that makes landing on the planet 
/) without assistance challenging. Moreover, the planet's atmosphere makes 
sending data and other communication by any means difficult, effectively 
walling off the planet from the rest of the galaxy. The high demand for 
Nyriaan's resources, combined with the difficulty that outsiders face when 
“. attempting to intervene in the planet's affairs, creates a situation where 
nly those on the planet can truly influence the flow of resources to the 
galaxy, and it puts a great deal of power in the hands of those who control 
the madilon mines on the planet's surface. 

‘.. By the same token, the inhabitants of Nyriaan are caught in the midst 
‘a onstant oe. between the various factions seeking to control 


een factions, espionage, sabotage, and the 
‘most cunning minds in the galaxy. Although 


shinations o' 
_ tensions. NYfiaat rarely upt into full-scale, violent conflict, the intrigue 


ye é ? 
zy vans so thick on thes t that anyone—and everyone—is entangled in some 


SNSILLNI JO GIWWOM NYVIHAN 


TEN ASPECTS 
OF NYRIAAN 


Nyriaan is a world where heroes with a knack for intrigue can flourish. As 
the Gamemaster, you should familiarize yourself with the basics of the planet 
to create adventures filled with twisting plots and unraveling mysteries. 

Nyriaan is rich with a rare mineral called madilon. Madilon, valu- 
able even in small quantities, is a mineral that allows hyperdrives to be 
miniaturized enough to fit into smaller ships, such as space transports and 
starfighters. 

Nyriaan is covered in a cloud layer that blocks communications and 
makes unaided landing on the planet almost impossible. Communications, 
sensors, and other methods of broadcasting and receiving information are 
ineffective when trying to penetrate the planet's atmosphere. Even com- 
munications on the surface face serious challenges. The planet's unique 
atmosphere both isolates it and serves as a protective shield. 

The planet's governing council is comprised of members represent- 
ing several different factions that constantly vie for greater control of 
the planet's mining industry. The Corporate Sector Authority, the Mining 
Guild, and the current reigning galactic government (be it Republic, Empire, 
or otherwise) all hold seats on the governing council and share control of 
the planetary government. 


NYRIAAN'S GOVERNING COUNCIL 


The factions on Nyriaan strive to undermine and weaken one another 
in the hopes of driving off competitors. Although the government of the 
planet is shared, each faction struggles for power and tries to depose its 
weaker enemies to increase its own share of control over Nyriaan. 

Temporary alliances, and their inevitable betrayal and collapse, keep 
the wheels turning on Nyriaan. No faction has ever risen to dominate Nyri- 
aan because as one faction grows too powerful, the others unite against it. 
The factions are forced to work together to prevent one faction from gaining 
too much power, but each faction is secretly working to tip the balance of 
power so far in its favor that the other factions can do nothing to stop it. 

Workers in Nyriaan's mines have long been treated badly by the 
mining operations, eventually driving the workers to rebellion. The 
bureaucrats in charge of the mining operations on Nyriaan see their work- 
ers—including the relocated Elomin and Pa'lowick species—as a disposable 
commodity. Frequent worker uprisings must be squelched by the planet's 
police and military forces lest they disrupt the entire mining operation. 

Sabotage, theft, and violence are common tactics used by the dif- 
ferent factions. Although full-scale battles rarely break out on Nyriaan, the 
factions on the planet are not afraid to get their hands dirty by taking out 
opponents. Conspiracies, covert activity, assassinations, and other under- 
handed deeds are common means of advancing one's interests on Nyriaan. 

Anyone who visits the planet is assumed to be working for a fac- 
tion—either an off-world faction or one from Nyriaan. No one comes to 
Nyriaan without good reason, and any new arrivals are immediately treated 
as potential allies or enemies by the factions of the world. Unsuspecting visi- 
tors who are unused to the high degree of political maneuvering constantly 
taking place on Nyriaan are soon drawn into conflicts they had no intention 
of meddling in. 

Nyriaan's cloud layer enables conflicting groups to use the world as 
neutral ground. Since Nyriaan's atmosphere makes invasion fleets and orbital 
bombardment nearly useless, Nyriaan is used as a haven where meetings 
between rival factions can take place without fear of ambush. Diplomats 
from warring offworld groups commonly meet on Nyriaan to broker treaties 
and other deals. 

Nyriaan holds many secrets. Nyriaan is home to a Sith Lord in stasis, a 
cache of ancient Mandalorian weapons, and other mysteries that have yet 
to be uncovered. From time to time, scavengers and other treasure hunters 
come to Nyriaan, hoping to plunder the planet of its secret riches. Some of 
these treasure hunters are sponsored by major factions on Nyriaan. 


ELOMIN MINERS ESCAPE RETRIBUTION FOLLOWING A RIOT. 


SHROUDED 
SECRECY 


Nyriaan is the fifth planet of the Luire system. Although located in the Mid 
Rim, the Luire system is so close to the Expansion Region that it has been 
mistakenly labeled as part of that region from time to time. If not for Nyri- 
aan's unique atmosphere and strong magnetic fields, its valuable resources 
likely would have been exploited and completely depleted by the corporate 
operations that left many Expansion Region systems in tatters. 

Aside from Nyriaan's deposits of madilon, there is little else of value in 
the Luire system. Of the seven planets that orbit the system's white star, 
which is also known as Luire, Nyriaan is the only habitable world. Five of 
the remaining six planets are gas giants with countless small moons. The 
last planet, Caillte, is a frozen, irregularly shaped asteroid, rarely noticed by 
passing prospectors. 


IN 


Nyriaan's cloak of perpetual clouds blocks light from its sun. The clouds 
descend to the surface of the planet, forming thick fog banks and restricting 
visibility. The planet's unusually strong ionosphere and intense magnetic field 
render all conventional communications, sensors, and scanning equipment 
useless. Landing on Nyriaan is a risky endeavor. Apart from the hazards 
presented by the impenetrable atmosphere, powerful storms in the planet's 
ionosphere can ionize starship systems and nullify sensors. Vessels with 
hardened systems stand a better chance of surviving the descent, but only 
a few such vessels of sufficient size exist in the galaxy—most are automated 
drones or small survey ships with little capacity for colonization. 


MADILON 
Even though Nyriaan is home to a number of other valuable resources, 
not the least of which is its distinctive biosphere, the bounty that most 
groups seek to reap from the planet is the alloy madilon. Discovered in 
the Old Republic era, about 5,000 years before the Great Hyperspace War, 
madilon enables hyperdrive technology to become progressively smaller. 
Using madilon, starship and hyperdrive manufacturers create relatively 
small vessels with excellent hyperdrive capability. Without madilon, 
however, powerful modern hyperdrives would need to be ten times larger. 
Madilon is a naturally occurring, light-weight memory alloy with a 
unique molecular structure. The alloy possesses high tensile strength 
while still retaining an incredible amount of elasticity, especially under 
stress. These properties allow it to remain rigid while still resisting the 
stressful effects of hyperspace travel. Even though its role in hyperdrive 
construction is so important, the amount of madilon required for a single 
hyperdrive system is relatively small. Successful synthesis of the material 
has eluded scientists, making veins of the alloy highly prized and sought 
after the galaxy over. Few planets possess significant deposits of madilon, 
and those that do are tightly guarded. 


NYRIAAN 

Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Tropical 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 22.25 standard hours 

Length of Year: 226 standard days 

Sapient Species: 98% Human, 2% other species 
Government: Various 

Capital: Locus 

Major Exports: Ore (madilon), radioactive compounds 
Major Imports: Equipment, foodstuffs, luxury items 


LevHo 


iS 


[| 


SNSILLNI dO GTWOM NYMHAN 


SNOW) JO GTWOM NYAXAN 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 


DC RESULT 

15 Nyriaan is a major source of madilon, an alloy crucial to the construc- 
tion of hyperdrive engines. 

20 The planet's strong magnetic field and thick, turbulent ionosphere 
disable conventional sensors, making landing on the planetary surface 
without aid nearly impossible. 

25 Nyriaan hosts no native sapient species, but several Human tribes 
populate the world's farthest reaches. These tribes are said to be 
descended from an exploration vessel that crash-landed on Nyriaan 
at least one thousand years ago. 

30 Scientists have hypothesized that Nyriaan's cloudy atmosphere might 
be forcibly condensed on a planetary scale, neutralizing the atmo- 
spheric disturbance and creating a number of seas on the planet's 
surface, 


ATMOSPHERE 
AND WEATHER 


The surface of Nyriaan is moist and sultry, but not particularly wet. Although 
standing bodies of water are relatively rare, the world's perpetual fog and 
thick cloud cover ensure that nothing is ever completely dry. The heat retained 
by the thick atmosphere is generated by intense geothermal activity deep 
beneath the planetary crust, and it is released by vast geyser fields and 
hot springs. Although Nyriaan's atmosphere is predominately nitrogen and 
oxygen, the constant expulsion of hot gasses from the planet's interior causes 
the air to be strong with the scent of sulfur and other gasses. 

The mean surface temperature of 40° centigrade is within acceptable 
limits for most species, but the heat is further exacerbated by the world's 
extreme humidity. Nyriaan's polar regions are no exception to this rule 
since most of the planet's geothermal anomalies are located at its poles. 
Visitors find Nyriaan's climate to be extremely uncomfortable, even after 
prolonged exposure. 

Vast storms—referred to as tempests by Nyriaan's populace—are a con- 
stant threat to settlements and mining camps. Coalescing high in the planet's 
choking atmosphere, these massive storm formations eventually extend from 
the edge of space to the surface the planet. A tempest can last for months, 
circling the globe several times before dispersing. At any one time, as many 
as a dozen small tempests can be active, with major disturbances occurring 
once every three or four years. The lack of mountains and other large surface 
features contributes to the force and violence of Nyriaan's tempests. 


Since surface-based sensors are useless, Nyriaan's tempests must be 
monitored visually from orbit. Daily reports are exchanged between surface 
facilities and the Tempest Observation Bureau by laser comm arrays. Although 
it is apolitical and billed as a neutral organization, the TOB commands a 
great deal of power and respect on Nyriaan because of the Bureau's access 
to up-to-the-minute weather feeds and analysis, as well as the extensive 
storm database it uses to analyze tempests and predict possible trends. 


GEOGRAPHY 


The surface of Nyriaan consists of plains and gently rolling hills. Low-lying 
gullies and valleys collect moisture, creating boggy conditions and increased 
growth of the native flora. The northern hemisphere consists of shallow, rocky 
valleys, where most of Nyriaan's mining operations are found. Only a few 
viable mines and quarries are located in the southern hemisphere, and the 
loamy soil found there does not conceal much in the way of valuable alloys, 
ores, or minerals. The largest standing bodies of water on Nyriaan, such as 
Lake Viron and the Yellow Sea, are found in the planet's southern hemisphere. 

Even though Nyriaan features a great deal of geothermal activity, few 
active volcanoes break through the planetary surface. Fields of hot-water 
geysers and boiling springs are common, especially in the planet's extreme 
polar regions. The extreme temperatures and the dangerous eruptions of 
steam, poisonous gasses, and mud make these geologically active areas not 
navigable by foot. Several of Nyriaan's known indigenous species are evolved 
to survive these extremes of temperature, but most of the native species 
have yet to be researched and catalogued. 


SURFACE CONDITIONS 

Nyriaan is a dark place, but in the wild, bioluminescent flora produce a 
significant amount of ambient light. Although shrouded in mists and fogs 
of varying density, the planet's surface is still navigable. Given optimal 
atmospheric conditions, visibility averages about 30 meters (20 squares), 
creating an eerie landscape in which the light shines up from the ground 
rather than down from the sky. Larger species of local fungi, which spring 
treelike from the soil, develop brightly glowing buds—or lanterns, as they are 
called locally—that shed even more light. 

Even in populated settlements and cities, surfaces are covered with 
beds of fungus that produce dim phosphorescence. Constant attention and 
cleaning is required to remove such fungal accumulations, which can grow 
into massive coral-like formations. Vehicles, weapons, and personal armor 
are not immune to this phenomenon and must be scrupulously maintained 
to preserve functionality. 


Although most equipment can be used on the planetary surface without ill 
effect, sensors and communications gear suffer from interference. Personal 
comlinks are rendered useless by the interference, while computers and 
datapads, if properly shielded, can be used without penalty. Most surface- 
to-surface and surface-to-orbit communication is accomplished by laser 
comms. Electrobinoculars, recording devices, and sensor packs, however, 
are incompatible with Nyriaan's atmospheric peculiarities. The sensitive 
surveillance gear used by spies is also affected, although many factions have 
developed units that function despite the ambient interference. 


SKILLLT CHALLENGE: 

OVERLAND SURVIVAL 

Traveling across the surface of Nyriaan can be dangerous, especially given the 
fact that the planet's atmosphere tends to wreak havoc with portable sensors 
and other survival equipment. Should the heroes find themselves stranded on 
Nyriaan with no means of transportation (for example, if their ship crashed 
on approach to the planet), you can use this skill challenge to represent the 
difficulty of making it to safety. Note that this should be a challenge for 
low- to-mid-level heroes; by the time the heroes reach 8th-10th level, they 
should have enough resources and survivability to make their way across the 
planet safely. If the heroes are traveling through a particularly hazardous 
area of the planet, feel free to scale up the challenge by increasing its CL 
(and adjusting the skill DCs accordingly). 

cL6 

Complexity: 3 (11 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
challenge: 

Endurance [DC 17]: A hero can attempt to carry more of the burden of 
supplies or to take on more than his or her share of the scouting and hunting 
duties in order to allow his or her allies to preserve their strength. 

Knowledge (physical sciences) [DC 17]:A hero can attempt to use his or her 
knowledge of terrain formations to find easier paths, reducing the chances 
of running into danger during the trek. 

Survival [DC 22]: A hero can attempt to use common survival techniques 
to bolster his or her allies’ energy reserves and find adequate food, water, 
and shelter during the trek. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Degrees of Failure: Each time a hero earns a failure (whether or not that 
failure is later removed), the heroes are delayed in their trek by one day. 

Recovery: Any hero who succeeds on a skill check by 5 or more can forfeit 
that success in exchange for removing one failure. 


Second Effort: Whenever a participant in the skill challenge would accrue 
a failure, he or she can instead choose to move -1 persistent step down the 
condition track to turn that failure into a success. This persistent condi- 
tion can only be removed by resting for 8 hours in a civilized location with 
adequate food, water, and medical resources. 


Success: The heroes make it safely to civilization. The time it takes to 
reach civilization depends on their relative distance and overland speed, 
modified by the number of failures they accrued (see the Degrees of Failure 
challenge effect, above). 

Failure: The heroes become lost in the wilderness of Nyriaan and encoun- 
ter a hazard or dangerous wildlife in an encounter appropriate to their level. 
Once that encounter is complete, they can attempt this skill challenge again 
to reach civilization. 


SETTLEMENTS 

Settlements dot Nyriaan's surface. Few contain large populations; most 
settlements average fewer than five hundred inhabitants each. A settlement 
might persist for several years, only to be destroyed by a passing tempest 
or abandoned when a nearby mine dries up. Many such settlements spring 
back to life years later, although not always in the same locations as their 
previous incarnations. 

Large communities, such as Locus, are built on Nyriaan's driest land, 
where larger permanent structures can be erected with little threat of 
moisture-induced subsidence in the soil. Aside from the constant darkness 
and inclement weather, little differentiates these small cities from their 
counterparts on other planets throughout the galaxy. Architecture ranges 
from prefabricated colonial structures to buildings of the proto-Imperial 
style common on other colony worlds. 

Settlements established by the Corporate Sector Authority are modern 
and visually striking. All are brightly lit, highly regimented, and well main- 
tained. CSA guards patrol in small groups, routinely checking everyone for 
proper identification and authorization to travel. Conversely, independent 
mining towns are universally shoddy in their construction. Crime is rampant, 
and law in such places is determined by whoever can defend themselves and 
the stakes they claim. 


Arumed 

Arumed is a small Corporate Sector facility that manages to survive unim- 
peded due to its focus on biotechnology and medicine, as opposed to madilon. 
The settlement is named after AruMed, the corporation that administers 
it. Unlike other CSA facilities, this settlement welcomes anyone in need. 
Although its corporate policy emphasizes obtaining new biotechnologies 
from previously undiscovered planetary resources, doctors in the facility are 
willing to offer emergency and even long-term care to individuals in need. 


iA SeS1tdvHD 


SNSGIMLNI JO GWM NYMHAN 


SnNQiwW.mw dO GIWeOM MVYAHAN 


The doctors’ behavior is not entirely altruistic. Arumed's chief scientists 
are studying the physiology of those living on Nyriaan, especially as it con- 
cerns symbiotic fungal growths such as Tempest's Blessing. Most natives 
avoid Arumed, but those who do end up in the care of the corporation's 
physicians are often subjected to tests that exceed the scope of any injury 
or condition they might be suffering. 

Plot Hook: Several natives have vanished in the vicinity of Arumed, and 
native scouts sent to find them disappear as well. The heroes are contacted 
by a native delegation from Starveil that wants to locate its missing people 
without stirring up trouble. They suspect that the missing natives are being 
held in the Arumed facility, perhaps against their will. 


Locus, Capital of Nyriaan 

The planetary capital of Nyriaan is Locus, which is built around the remains 
of the Republic vessel of the same name. Home to the only starport on the 
planet, Locus is not controlled by any one superpower or government. Instead, 
the city, which is built in a pinwheel shape, has been divided into different 
sectors, each of which is controlled by a different faction. In addition to the 
aligned sectors, several neutral zones in Locus cater to independent miners, 
prospectors, and traders. After its establishment in 30 BBY, the Nyriaan 
Concord is also headquartered in one of the city's neutral zones. 

The largest of the city's aligned sectors belongs to the Corporate Sector 
Authority. The CSA has a long-standing interest in Nyriaan, either because 
the planet represents such incredible profits or because the Corporate Sector 
is unwilling to admit that the madilon it takes from the planetary mines is 
more trouble than it's worth. The Corporate City Sector is heavily trafficked 
by armed security, and high walls topped by stun fields surround it on all 
sides. In addition to facilities that cater to CSA employees and house its 
day-to-day operations, the Corporate City Sector of Locus also features 
a small starport, complete with advanced Laser Transport Array receivers. 

The Republic Sector is the next largest of Locus's regions. Although it 
changes hands several times over the course of Nyriaan's history, the Republic 
Sector is the most recognizable part of the city, no matter the era. Upkeep is 
sporadic, sector services are largely undependable, and security is alternately 
lax or heavy handed. Although far from a slum, the Republic Sector does 
not compare favorably to the Corporate City Sector in a variety of ways. 

The Neutral Zone is in the center of Locus. In addition to housing the 
planetary government after its establishment, it is also home to Nyriaan's 
one true spaceport. Raised gondola transport systems and a wide net of 
Laser Transport Arrays surround the facility like iron flowers. The sector's 
services are provided by independent contractors and are, therefore, more 
reliable than those found in the Republic Sector. Living conditions decline 
the farther from the spaceport one travels, and neighborhoods farthest from 
the city's hub are little better than slums. 

The majority of Nyriaan's criminal activity takes place in Locus's Neutral 
Zone. Criminal syndicates, such as Hutt kajidics and Black Sun, operate 


there with relative impunity. Violence, while not common, is not unknown 
in the seedier parts of the sector. The Neutral Zone also provides a haven for 
espionage, as agents from the ruling factions rub elbows with one another 
in cantinas, speakeasies, and supply depots. 

Plot Hook: A Corporate Sector employee contacts the heroes, asking for 
aid. He possesses information concerning a valuable shipment of madilon 
(or another commodity) that is scheduled to leave Locus, and he is looking 
for a party to sabotage the CSA Laser Transport Arrays, causing the trans- 
port carrying the shipment to crash. In reality, the shipment is part of an 
off-world personnel transfer, and the mission is actually an attempt at an 
internal CSA assassination. 


New Lowick 

In 29 BBY, the Corporate Sector Authority sponsors a large emigration of 
Pa'lowicks into the Luire system. Luring the aliens with promises of new 
lives as corporate employees on a lush world of opportunity and adventure, 
the Corporate Sector instead provides the newly indentured Pa'lowicks with 
back-breaking labor in the madilon mines. Although many Pa'lowicks honor 
their one-sided contracts with the CSA, a handful break ties with their new 
masters to eke out an existence elsewhere. The settlement of New Lowick 
results from these defections. 

With its population composed solely of Pa'lowicks, New Lowick might be 
mistaken for a traditional Pa'lowick village. The Pa'lowicks, being adaptable, 
grow accustomed to Nyriaan's harsh climate. In fact, those who leave their 
CSA contracts behind soon come to appreciate their new home for its moist 
atmosphere, dark ambience, and plentiful fungi. Friendly and open to new 
alliances, the free Pa'lowicks reach out to other Nyriaanans with varying 
degrees of success. 

The appearance of New Lowick does little to stem the tide of Corporate 
Sector greed. Once word of the Pa'lowick settlement reaches the CSA, 
retrieval teams are sent to bring back laborers who have violated their work 
contracts. In addition to netting guilty Pa'lowicks, the CSA also manages to 
capture a handful of Pa'lowicks who are legally free. Unwilling to spend time 
on such trivialities, the CSA puts the captives back to work while making 
painful examples of those that refuse to submit. 

Despite the occasional raids by CSA security, New Lowick continues to 
thrive. An underground community is established to aid Pa'lowicks and others 
who have been forced into labor by the CSA. Not only do the free Pa'lowicks 
of New Lowick support this freedom movement, several native settlements 
participate as well. After all, anything that harms the Corporate Sector's 
operations on Nyriaan is seen as beneficial to the native clans. 

Plot Hook: A recent violator of a Corporate Sector labor contract is 
hiding in New Lowick. A Pa'lowick with unusual Force powers, the fugitive is 
considered blessed by her fellow Pa'lowicks. The Corporate Sector Authority 
knows of the fugitive's powers and has been using her as an organic divining 
rod to locate madilon deposits in the mines. The heroes are approached by the 


Pa'lowick underground and asked to escort the fugitive away from Nyriaan. 
Conversely, the CSA might contact the players and ask them to track down 
and capture the wayward worker. 


Prosperity 

The largest CSA settlement outside Locus is cynically dubbed Prosperity by 
the corporate employees who originally settled it. Nevertheless, Prosperity 
isa bright light in the dark Nyriaanan wilderness. A good deal of this light 
is cast outward toward the world beyond its fifteen-meter-high walls. The 
fusion generators that power Prosperity are never turned off, and the terrain 
surrounding the community has been cleared of any obstructions to provide 
CSA guards an open killing ground for over three hundred meters in every 
direction. In reality, Prosperity is little more than a frontier outpost erected 
to keep the natives at bay while the nearby Prosperity Mine is gutted of all 
remaining madilon. 


New SPECIES: PA'’LOWICK 

The Pa'lowick, a species firmly grounded in tradition and belief, are 
native to the planet Lowick. Although primitive and reluctant to leave 
their homeworld under most circumstances, they nonetheless enjoy 
contact with other species and appreciate technology that they can 
use to further their traditional ways of life. A Pa'lowick has a rotund 
torso, slender arms and legs, two eyes atop short eyestalks, and a slim 
proboscis featuring a pair of Humanlike lips at the end. Tusks grow from 
a secondary mouth beneath the proboscis, but the tusks are lost when 
a Pa'lowick reaches middle age. 


Pa'lowick Species Traits 

Pa'lowicks share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Strength, +2 Wisdom. 

Size: Pa'lowicks are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penalties 
for their size. 

Speed: Pa'lowick base speed is 6 squares. 

Expert Swimmer: A Pa'lowick can reroll any Swim check. In addition, 
a Pa'lowick can choose to take 10 on Swim checks even when distracted 
or threatened. 

Hold Breath: Pa'lowicks are at home either in air or in water. A 
Pa'‘lowick can hold his or her breath for a number of rounds equal to 25 
times his or her Constitution score before needing to make Endurance 
checks to hold his or her breath. 

Primitive: Pa'lowicks do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
or heavy weapons) as starting feats at 1st level, even if their class nor- 
mally grants them. 

Language: Lowickese. 


Weekly shipments of ore are sent to Locus for processing by repulsorlift 
transports, while new laborers and fresh troops are brought in at least once 
a month. Mortality rates are high in Prosperity for a number of reasons, the 
most evident being that the facility is a popular target for native insurgents. 
The Prosperity Mine is also rife with safety violations that would be cor- 
rected on other worlds. 

Plot Hook: The CSA is experimenting with new mining technology in one 
of its nearby mines, and madilon output in Prosperity has increased by nearly 
two hundred percent. This rate of productivity, if sustained, might undermine 
the efforts of other interests on Nyriaan. The heroes are contacted to find 
out what the new mining technology is and, if possible, to sabotage it. 


Silence 

Silence stands as a testament to the grit of Nyriaan's independent miners and 
the entrepreneurial spirit of those who can remain planetside for an extended 
length of time. The run-down colonial prefabs of the original town center 
are covered in thick layers of phosphorescent fungus, barely resembling the 
structures that lie beneath. The streets of Silence, if you can call them such, 
are narrow, muddy, and treacherous. 

Although Silence has little light, the small prospecting town does offer one 
amenity: company. The community here is as tightly knit and supportive as 
any you might find on Nyriaan or any other back-water planet. Locals know 
one another on sight, and strangers stick out painfully. Citizens are not shy 
about confronting newcomers, so they seem rude and suspicious to the unini- 
tiated. Nevertheless, anyone who proves to be useful, or at least amicable, 
can expect to be welcomed back to Silence if they ever decide to return. 

Despite the affable demeanor of its citizens, Silence is home to a large 
contingent of smugglers and petty criminals. Madilon is the initial commodity 
for Silence's scum, but new sources of profit are established following the 
discovery of Nyriaan spice. Although the town remains a haven for Nyriaan's 
unwashed offworlders, it becomes much more dangerous once spice enters 
the equation. 

Over the decades following its establishment, Silence is destroyed and 
rebuilt at least three times. The remains of the old town lie beneath the 
creaking structures of the new one. Townsfolk occasionally comb these 
sunken, mud-soaked ruins for salvage, but most of what remains after the 
last tempest has already been taken and recycled. 

Plot Hook: A number of miners have gone missing outside Silence, and 
local wildlife is thought to be behind the disappearances. A group of locals 
approaches the heroes about tracking down the beast or beasts responsible. 
In truth, the missing miners have been killed by claim jumpers who are look- 
ing to sell their mines to the Mining Guild. Alternatively, the claim jumpers 
might be Mining Guild employees disguised as criminals. 


SANSIWLNI JO GIWWOEM WYVIYAN 


iA BBlavHs 


SASGQIMLNI JO GIWOM WYMAN | 


Starveil 

The largest native settlement on Nyriaan is called Starveil after the Old 
Republic vessel that crashed there. Much of the Starveil's hull remains intact, 
and has been integrated into the surrounding Meadlin's trees. Centuries of 
growth and use has made the transition between the exterior of the ship and 
its interior seamless. The elders of the Melan clan administer Starveil, keep- 
ing the peace and defending it from intruders. Few offworlders are allowed 
within the settlement's sacred boundaries, and the natives are not shy about 
protecting their home. Nevertheless, a small colonial town, Temperance, 
has sprung up about a kilometer from the edge of the native community. 

With a native population nearing one thousand, Starveil is viewed by 
corporate interests as a nest of snakes. The CSA occasionally petitions for 
the native settlement to be destroyed, especially during times of heightened 
insurgent activity. However, the Melan clan is never successfully implicated 
in any form of guerrilla activity, and Starveil continues to act as a hub for 
native communities that would rather remain anonymous. In Starveil, several 
native clans from across Nyriaan establish small enclaves, jokingly referred 
to as “embassies” by corporate agents. 

Plot Hook: Natives have reportedly kidnapped the son of a Tapani noble 
and taken him to Starveil. Since no offworlders are allowed within the bound- 
aries of this sacred native settlement, gaining entry and retrieving the boy is 
difficult, if not impossible, without external aid. The heroes are contacted by 
the Tapani noble house in question and asked to infiltrate Starveil to locate 
the boy. If they do, they learn that the boy has gone with the natives willingly 
to marry the daughter of a native elder. 


Temperance 

Temperance is established outside Starveil by offworld traders attempting 
to capitalize on the native market. Although the town is not an immediate 
success for merchants hoping to hawk their wares to the locals, their per- 
severance eventually pays off. Native technology is based heavily on that 
of the Old Republic, so spare parts and modern weapons become popular 
commodities in the native marketplace. Although some products are initially 
of low quality, the native clans that frequent Temperance make a point of 
taking merchants to task for defective goods. 

Agents from Nyriaan's factions find work in Temperance, given its proxim- 
ity to Starveil and the frequency of native traffic into the village. Independent 
fortune seekers and adventurers also frequent Temperance, and the cantinas 
and hotels along the settlement's main thoroughfare are constantly filled 
with rowdy patrons. Fights break out every evening, and an ad hoc arena has 
been erected on the outskirts of town. The Temperance Arena boasts weekly 
gladiatorial bouts, and individuals are welcome to settle their own personal 
vendettas there anytime they choose. 

Plot Hook: Large numbers of blaster carbines, ostensibly for hunting use, 
have recently been sold to native insurgents. Many of the carbines, however, 
have been rigged to explode when fired, leading the natives who purchased 


them to seek out the seller and repay his treachery in kind. Unfortunately, 
the seller is nowhere to be found. The heroes are contacted to locate the 
merchant who sold the carbines to the natives. Alternatively, the heroes are 
contracted to sell the sabotaged weapons to the natives, but are not told of 
the deadly nature of the product. 


Tonnage 

The largest of the Mining Guild's colonies on Nyriaan is Tonnage. Built at a 
focal point between four profitable madilon mines, Tonnage sees a constant 
flow of the valuable alloy pass through its processing facility. Given the 
Mining Guild's experience with ore processing, Tonnage features an on-site 
smelting facility where madilon is extracted and cast into ingots prior to 
being shipped offworld. This practice saves the Guild credits in the long 
run, because the excess weight of slag and other impurities is left behind. 

Unfortunately, the Mining Guild's industriousness comes at a price to the 
local environment. Dumping of waste and other contaminants is widespread, 
and the land surrounding Tonnage is quickly becoming a wasteland. This 
ecological disaster does little to endear the Mining Guild to the natives, who 
view the facility as a blight that must eventually be dealt with. 

Plot Hook: A Mining Guild whistleblower is looking for someone to escort 
him out of Tonnage in exchange for a large amount of information on the 
Mining Guild's operations on Nyriaan. The heroes are contacted, either by 
the whistleblower or a third party, to facilitate the extraction. Even after the 
whistleblower is found and removed from Tonnage, the information given in 
exchange exposes anyone involved with its release to a great deal of hostile 
attention from Mining Guild operatives. 


Tor'Oront 

Asmaller mining colony on the surface of Nyriaan, Tor'Oront is unique in that 
it is made up almost entirely of Elomin settlers who came to the planet long 
ago to work as miners and laborers. The founding of Tor'Oront took place in 
the days of the Old Republic when a con artist from the Corporate Sector 
tricked a group of Elomin settlers into coming to Nyriaan. Once there, the 
con artist effectively forced the Elomin into a kind of indentured servitude, 
using the settlers to mine madilon right under the nose of the planetary 
government. Though eventually the Elomin overthrew the con artist and 
freed themselves, most were too poor to leave the planet. After a time, the 
planetary council agreed to allow the Elomin to stay, though the Elomin are 
often used and abused by the Nyriaanian government. 

Tor'Oront is named for a city on the planet Elom. The settlement is rough, 
even after centuries of habitation, and while they do have the basic necessi- 
ties, most Elomin in Tor'Oront live lives not much better than slaves. In fact, 
the buildings and hovels of Tor'Oront are comparable to the slave quarters of 
Mos Espa on Tatooine with regards to their amenities, which is to say there 
are few. Many of the Elomin of Tor'Oront dream of one day returning to Elom, 
but so far they have lacked any ability to get their whole colony off-world, 
and few are willing to leave their families behind. 


Pie : 
New SPECIES: ELOMIN 


-Elomin Species Traits 
- Elomin share the following species traits. 


___ Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma. Elomin have trouble 


relating to other species, but they are exceptionally good at a number 


EY; 


_ of intellectual pursuits. 

Ee Size: Elomin are Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penalties for 
their size. 

a Speed: Elomin base speed is 6 squares. 


Impose Order: Elomin are exceptionally focused on order, and strive 
to ensure that their chaotic companions are in the place where they are 
_ supposed to be. Once per encounter, an Elomin can spend a swift action 
- to allow each ally within 12 squares to move up to half that ally's speed 
as a reaction. This movement does not provoke opportunity attacks. 
Logical Mind: Elomin gain a +5 species bonus to Will Defense against 
mind-affecting effects. 
Languages: Basic and Elomin 


be 
3 
i 


Vineyard 

Unlike Nyriaan's larger settlements, Vineyard is not designed around an ore 
processing facility. Established by House Melantha in 16 BBY, Vineyard is 
more akin to a place where colonials might take a holiday retreat, rather than 
a focal point for noble house profits. Despite its luxurious accommodations, 
Vineyard serves a singular purpose: to serve the Imperial aristocracy, such 
as it is, on Nyriaan. 

Although Melantha's mining operations elsewhere on Nyriaan are profit- 
able enough, the house leadership views cultivation of its Imperial ties as 
much more valuable. As such, Vineyard offers Imperial officers and their 
retinues a bright spot in an otherwise dismal landscape. Imperial clients 
are pampered, sometimes free of charge, but anyone with sufficient money 
and connections can make a reservation in Vineyard and experience the 
decadence that the Tapani nobility take for granted. 

The concentration of high-level Imperials in Vineyard makes it a prime 
target for espionage and skullduggery during the Rebellion. A number of 
Alliance agents find work within the spa as servants and menial laborers, 
and even unaligned workers are willing to sell the secrets that fall unbidden 
from the lips of House Melantha's clients. Security is tight, of course, and 
covert maneuvers attempted in Vineyard must be made with great care. 

Plot Hook: A high-ranking Imperial officer is taking an extended vacation 
in Vineyard. Local Alliance cells recognize a prime opportunity to hurt the 
Empire by taking out one of its most experienced officers. The heroes are 
tasked with gaining entrance to Vineyard so that they can either assassinate 
or capture the officer. 


MADILON MINES 

Although the surface of Nyriaan is by no means rocky, the boggy nature of 
the landscape gives way to solid bedrock after only a few meters. Madilon 
deposits have formed deep within this bedrock, and into these depths miners 
must descend if they are to pry the valuable alloy from the guts of the planet. 

With few exceptions, the mines of Nyriaan are dank, dark, and dangerous. 
Although some are natural cave networks, the vast majority of mines are 
created by enterprising prospectors and corporate workers. Surface mois- 
ture seeps into the tunnels, making footing treacherous in even the best of 
conditions. The walls of the tunnels seem to sweat, and nothing remains dry 
for long. Unless properly protected against moisture, droid labor tends to 
corrode and malfunction within a short period of time. Even so, droids are 
occasionally used for mining, but organic labor is more economical and less 
likely to require constant maintenance. 

Madilon veins are located in areas of high geothermal activity, so 
mines are often filled with noxious vapors and scalding steam. The heat of 
the planet seeps up to the soles of a miner's feet and courses out of the 
surrounding walls. The phosphorescent fungus of the surface is no less 
prevalent below, and it casts its eerie luminescence from wherever it can 
successfully take root. Conditions are cramped in newer mines, while older, 
more highly developed mines have large galleries where the rock has been 
blasted, drilled, or chipped away. Miners might remain underground for days 
or sometimes weeks at a time, depending on the richness of the mine's lode 
or the employer's concern for safety. The lucky few who have successfully 
staked and maintained private claims must still beware of claim jumpers, 
both criminal and corporate. 

The largest of Nyriaan’s mines are the domain of the planet's heavy hit- 
ters: the Corporate Sector, the Mining Guild, the Empire, and so on. These 
vast networks of laser-carved stone descend for kilometers into the bowels 
of the planet, and they grow hotter as they delve deeper. Lava flows and 
underground rivers of boiling water are constant dangers at such depths, 
and drilling into such a hazard can be deadly. Unstable strata can cause fatal 
cave-ins, and without the resources or incentive to rescue trapped miners, 
survivors of such accidents are rare. 


NYRIAAN AND THE GALAXY 

Nyriaan is not the only planet with a supply of madilon beneath its crust. 
Many such worlds are scattered throughout the galaxy, each with its own 
reserve of the precious material. The majority of these planets are claimed 
or occupied by a single power, making them jewels that are otherwise inac- 
cessible to other would-be mining interests. Nyriaan is such an object of 
contention because it is not controlled by a single power and is instead split 
between several. 


A BsicgvHs 


SN@SIMLNI JO GWOM WYAYAN 


SN@QILN dO GIWOM NYWAHAN 


ON NYRIAAN, MANY DARK DEALS TAKE PLACE 
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS. 


Increasing the amount of madilon available on the galactic market affects 
its price throughout the galaxy. Although the difference in price might 
seem marginal on a per-unit basis, it becomes more significant as quantity 
increases and demand decreases. The price decrease is good for end users, 
such as hyperdrive and starship manufacturers, but bad for mining interests 
and speculators. Nyriaan's deposits of madilon are significant, so they will 
likely influence prices on the galactic stage for centuries to come. 

Galactic powers respond by sending agents to Nyriaan to artificially influ- 
ence the planet's rate of madilon production. The threat of outside forces 
creating temporary shortages or making the extraction process more costly 
by sabotage or theft is a constant worry for Nyriaan’s colonists. In addition, 
other powers and mining interests attempt to use Nyriaan’s natives against 
their competition, especially during times of crisis. 


NYRIAAN ‘TIMELINE 

10,000 BBY: Madilon is discovered and becomes a principle component 
in hyperdrive production. Millennia pass before the true miniaturization of 
hyperdrive technology is realized, but the use of madilon allows manufactur- 
ers to construct more compact systems than ever before. Limited availability 
of the alloy restricts its use. However, deposits of madilon are found on 
several planets over the course of the following centuries. 


4,129 BBY: The Luire system is discovered and surveyed by the Old 
Republic. Initial reports indicate that the Luire system is of little interest, 
and it is largely ignored. 

4,067 BBY: The Starveil, a Republic-aligned civilian exploration vessel, 
is lost while performing a comprehensive study of the Luire system. The 
last communication from the Starveil indicates that the crew is planning 
to attempt a landing on the fifth planet in the system. Two rescue ships 
are dispatched to locate the missing Starveil, but the vessel is never found. 

3,964 BBY: A short-lived Mandalorian outpost, Unity, is established on 
Caillte, the last planet of the Luire system. The Mandalorians use the facility 
for six years before mysteriously abandoning it. 

3,957 BBY: The Sith take a mild interest in the Luire system following 
Darth Glovoc's vision that something of interest is concealed on the surface 
of the system's fifth planet. Glovoc takes command of the Dying Sun, an 
Interdictor-class warship, and he orders his crew to set a course for the 
Luire system. 

3,956 BBY: As it surveys Nyriaan, the Dying Sun encounters several 
Republic cruisers that have stumbled into the Luire system. In the ensuing 
battle, three Republic cruisers are destroyed and the Dying Sun is critically 
damaged. Caught in Nyriaan's gravity well, the Dying Sun's orbit slowly 
decays, and it eventually makes planetfall. Escape pods from the Dying Sun 
and from the Republic cruisers crash on Nyriaan, but none is ever heard 
from again. 


NYRIAAN OF 

THE DISTANT PAST 

Nyriaan is a paradise for enterprising geologists and climatologists, given 
its distinctive mineral deposits, geologic activity, and violent weather 
patterns. Taming the planet has become an obsession for the groups that 
desire control of its valuable resources. Most have sought to conquer 
Nyriaan through technology and perseverance. Others, however, seek 
to change the planet rather than bend to the restrictions it imposes 
upon them. 

So far, research points to Nyriaan's distant past, when it was a world 
with a more habitable environment. Vast seas covered the planet's surface 
tens of thousands of years ago. Some manner of geologic upheaval or 
cosmic event caused the oceans to evaporate, forming the thick atmo- 
sphere that now envelops the planet. Scientists speculate that if the 
moisture in the atmosphere were to condense into rain, it would flood 
Nyriaan's surface. This change would destroy the world's ecosystem, not 
to mention most of its inhabited settlements, but researchers theorize 
that it would result in a more stable atmosphere. 


3950 to 500 BBY: At least thirty vessels of various types are lost in close 
proximity to the Luire system. Local spacer legend proclaims that the space 
surrounding the system is haunted. 

405 BBY: The Corporate Sector Authority establishes a small outpost 
on Caillte. Ostensibly, the outpost is a mining facility, but actually, it is a 
small scientific outpost used for testing questionable technology. During 
the construction of the Caillte facility, the Corporate Sector discovers the 
remains of a subterranean settlement that dates to the Mandalorian Wars. 

403 BBY: ACSA scouting vessel, Commerce, disappears while attempting 
an orbital scan of Nyriaan. Corporate Sector survey ships confirm that the 
planetary atmosphere, combined with its magnetic field, makes conventional 
observation of the planet impossible. Additional CSA ships are dispatched 
to investigate the planet, but no significant discoveries are made. The Com- 
merce is never seen again. 

90 BBY: Two Republic-funded survey vessels, the Locus and the Ardent 
Virtue, arrive in the Luire system to conduct a five-year observation of the 
system's five gas giants. By this time, the Corporate Sector outpost on Caillte 
has been reduced to a skeleton crew of unfortunate employees sent there in 
lieu of disciplinary action. 

87 BBY: The Locus loses power while scanning Nyriaan's atmosphere from 
orbit. The vessel founders and makes a controlled descent to the planetary 
surface. The Ardent Virtue attempts a rescue, but its initial attempts to 
contact the crew of the Locus are unsuccessful and two planetary shuttles 
are lost in the process. 

86 BBY: The Ardent Virtue, with additional support from the Republic, 
constructs a primitive gondola that is tethered to the orbiting starship and 
lowered to the surface of the planet. Crews secure a planetside station for 
the gondola eight kilometers from the site of the crashed Locus. The wreck- 
age of the Locus is found, but none of the surviving crew is found by the 
landing party. Crew from the Ardent Virtue conduct preliminary surveys of 
the planet from the ground and establish laser comm arrays to communicate 
directly with their ship. 

85 BBY: Traces of madilon are found in soil and rock samples taken from 
Nyriaan. Although the Ardent Virtue attempts to keep the information a 
secret, the CSA research station on Caillte intercepts communications from 
the Ardent Virtue, and several members of the Ardent Virtue's crew attempt 
to sell the information for personal profit. The latter half of the year sees a 
steady influx of survey and prospecting vessels into the Luire system, many 
of which unsuccessfully attempt landings on Nyriaan. 

84 BBY: The CSA claims possession of the entirety of the Luire system, 
but is rebuffed by the Republic. In the lengthy legal battle that ensues, 
a planetary quarantine is enforced on Nyriaan, preventing vessels from 
attempting to land. Despite the quarantine, high levels of activity continue 
in the Luire system for the next three years. 


LANDING ON NYRIAAN IS DANGEROUS FOR ALL SHIPS. 


81 BBY: A Republic court rules that the CSA's only legally held property 
in the Luire system is Caillte. Nyriaan is opened for settlement, and all eligible 
parties (including the Corporate Sector Authority) are permitted to stake 
individual claims if they can establish permanent settlements on the planet's 
surface. Several settlements are established by updated gondola technology. 
Two of these settlements belong to House Reena, while one belongs to House 
Mecetti, both noble houses of the Tapani Sector. 

69 BBY: The first laser transport arrays are established on Nyriaan by 
the Corporate Sector Authority, allowing properly equipped vessels to land 
on the planetary surface. 

67 BBY: The specifics of laser transport array technology are leaked, 
enabling anyone to acquire and use the technology to land on Nyriaan's 
surface in relative safety. The CSA protests, accusing the Republic of steal- 
ing and leaking the data. 

66 BBY: The Hyperspace Navigator's Guild presses the Senate to pass 
legislation requiring that bonded navigators assist with all LTA-assisted 
landings on Nyriaan. Despite Corporate Sector protests and accusations of 
legalized extortion, the bill passes in the Senate by a wide margin. 

47 BBY: A coordinated uprising by Nyriaan natives wipes out a number 
of frontier villages and mining towns. Although the uprising is a response to 
a CSA-sponsored liquidation of a Nyriaanan settlement, it is made to look 
like an unprovoked attack. 


SNSISLNI JO QIWHOM WYMHAN 


1A eSsiavHse 


SNSGIXLN) dO GIWOAM NYMHAN) 


43 BBY: The Nyriaanan clans negotiate a planetwide nonaggression pact 
with the Republic and various mining interests. Although the CSA attempts 
to stall the proceedings, a grudging peace descends upon the planet. Amar 
Cros, a Jedi Knight sent to negotiate the nonaggression pact with the natives, 
refuses to return to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. 

39 BBY: Through the machinations of the Mining Guild, the Trade Federa- 
tion insinuates itself upon madilon exports throughout Mid Rim and Expan- 
sion Rim systems. Although intending to appear completely autonomous, the 
Mining Guild represents Trade Federation interests on Nyriaan in an attempt 
to drive up prices. The Corporate Sector Authority, helpless to react legally, 
attempts to undermine the Mining Guild. In response, the Mining Guild 
sabotages CSA ore transfer facilities. 

36 BBY: The CSA violates mining agreements by prospecting on native 
Nyriaanan land. Hostilities between natives and settlers erupt once more, 
this time directed solely at the Corporate Sector Authority. Elements of the 
Trade Federation and Mining Guild quietly support the native insurgency. 

30 BBY: The Year of the Luire Accord. By decree of the Senate, Nyriaan 
is divided into a number of regions, parceled out to groups based on their 
political and financial backing. In addition, Locus is cordoned off into sec- 
tors, and a planetary government, the Nyriaan Concord, is based there. 
Several reservations are also set aside to preserve the environmental purity 
of Nyriaan, such as it is, as well as to appease native Nyriaanan groups. As a 
result, native clans withdraw into Nyriaan's unexplored regions. 

29 BBY: The Corporate Sector Authority initiates a massive immigration 
of indentured laborers, primarily Pa'lowicks. The Pa'lowicks are subject to 
many corporate abuses allowed by the contract arranged with them by the 
CSA. Within the year, every major settlement on Nyriaan is host to a Pa'lowick 
ghetto. Pa'lowicks who manage to free themselves from their corporate 
bondage establish the settlement of New Lowick. 

22 BBY: The Clone Wars begin. Although no ally to the Trade Federa- 
tion, the Corporate Sector Authority opposes the Republic. An uneasy truce 
between the Trade Federation and the CSA is established. 

21 BBY: The Confederacy of Independent Systems wages what becomes 
known as the First Battle of Nyriaan. With support from elements of the 
Corporate Sector Authority, the Republic's holdings on Nyriaan are annexed 
and split between the Mining Guild and the CSA. 

19 BBY: A combined Republic and Jedi strike force arrives in the Luire 
system, starting the Second Battle of Nyriaan. The fight is short, resulting in 
the defeat of the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Shortly after Republic 
victory is declared, the Emperor initiates Order 66 and all Jedi known to be 
in the system are killed. 

17 BBY: House Melantha of the Tapani Sector nobility stakes a mildly 
profitable claim on Nyriaan. 

13 BBY: The Empire begins construction of a massive ion shielding sta- 
tion just outside Locus. 


MINING GUILD SABOTEURS 


8 BBY: The Empire's first ion shielding station is completed. The station is 
capable of projecting a nearly limitless number of energy shields to protect 
starships from the effects of Nyriaan's ionosphere and magnetic fields. The 
Empire and the Mining Guild are able to begin Operation Cloudfall, which 
involves stripping the entire planet of all useful ore. 

1 BBY: Rebel agents and their allies sabotage the Empire's ion shielding 
station. The sabotage is not nearly as effective as was hoped, and the station 
is operational again within three months. 

2 ABY: Operation Cloudfall is neutralized by a Rebel Alliance-sponsored 
insurgency. Most of the Imperial operation's labor force consists of Wookiee 
and Mon Calamari slaves, most of whom are all too happy to bolster the 
ocal insurgency. 

8 ABY: The New Republic offers to recognize the complete planetary 
autonomy of Nyriaan, as governed by the planetary natives. Offworld inter- 
ests in Nyriaan's madilon exports rail against the offer. Nyriaan's native clans, 
although intrigued, are suspicious of the offer. 

10 ABY: The Corporate Sector Authority legally challenges the New 
Republic for rights to elicit Nyriaan's independence, beginning a lengthy 
court battle that is never fully resolved. 


26 ABY: The Yuuzhan Vong invade the Luire system and conquer Nyriaan. 
Nyriaan's atmosphere and magnetic field have no adverse effect on Yuuzhan 
Vong biotechnology, making their invasion that much easier. Yuuzhan Vong 
priests believe the planet to be blessed because of the resistance of its 
atmosphere to the Force. All mining operations on Nyriaan are destroyed. 
The native Nyriaanans watch quietly from the shadows, taking no side in 
the conflict. 

29 ABY: Following the Second Battle of Coruscant, several Yuuzhan Vong 
refugees make their homes on Nyriaan. After a period of transition, the aliens 
are accepted as equals by Nyriaan’s native clans. 

31 ABY: The New Republic reestablishes the city of Locus and begins 
reconstruction efforts. These efforts include the repair of the Imperial ion 
shielding station. 

38 ABY: Major mining operations are reestablished on Nyriaan’s surface 
by the Corporate Sector Authority. Since the CSA avoided invasion by the 
Yuuzhan Vong, they are economically and industrially solvent enough to 
rebuild their old facilities and continue their former operations unhindered. 

41 ABY: The New Republic's ion shielding station is completed. Although 
a number of technical problems arise, the station is fully operational by the 
end of the year. 


LANDING ON NYRIAAN 


One vexing problem for prospectors and settlers is the simple matter of 
anding on the surface of Nyriaan. Many starships are lost to the planet's 
nique combination of ionosphere and magnetic fields, and career spacers 
consider Nyriaan to be bad luck. When the Locus is lost and the Ardent Virtue 
comes to her rescue, the first practical landing on Nyriaan is performed by a 
jury-rigged gondola system. Later, when the planet is opened to prospectors, 
he Corporate Sector introduces a more efficient, albeit more dangerous, 
system that employs laser arrays. 


GONDOLAS 

The first method used to reach the surface of Nyriaan—other than crash- 
anding—is a gondola. The theory behind the gondola is simple enough: a ship, 
station, or vessel in a stationary orbit lowers a cable system to the planetary 
surface. Once the cable is properly anchored on the planet, transports are 
attached to it and cycled to and from the planetary surface with relative 
ease. Tethered transports can be small starships or simply pressurized cargo 
containers. 

Because of Nyriaan's strong magnetic field, successful deployment of a 
gondola requires that the deploying vessel's orbit is high enough to avoid 
the planet's magnetic interference. Although this distance varies based ona 
number of factors, the minimum orbital distance between Nyriaan's surface 
and an orbiting vessel is 900 kilometers. 


A REPUBLIC ATTACK SHUTTLE RECEIVES SHEILDING 
BEFORE LANDING ON NYRIAAN. 


Although the gondola system functions and continues to remain in use, it 
is impractical for a number of reasons. The physical requirement of providing 
nearly 2,000 continuous kilometers of strong cable is the first obstacle. In 
addition to the cable requirement, a suitable anchor must also be secured 
beneath the planet's surface. The speed at which such a contraption can 
convey containers to and from the surface is limited, and averages from four 
to five hours per trip. Multiple containers can be conveyed simultaneously, 
but this procedure requires precise timing. Other issues, such as Nyriaan's 
tempests, create additional dangers. Even minor storms in the planet's 
atmosphere increase the risks of using a gondola system. 

Gondolas have been compared disparagingly to low-tech skyhooks. 
Although skyhooks have been considered as an alternative on Nyriaan, 
the power requirements and the inevitable disruption of those systems by 
Nyriaan's atmosphere and magnetic fields made the technology unsuitable 
for use on Nyriaan. 


LASER TRANSPORT ARRAYS 

Recognizing the limited capability of gondolas for transporting materiel and 
personnel to and from Nyriaan's surface, the Corporate Sector Authority 
devises laser transport arrays as an alternative. Nyriaan's thick atmosphere 
prevents most light from reaching the planetary surface, but a narrow band 
of wavelengths manage to penetrate the world's thick cloud cover. Powerful 
lasers attuned to such wavelengths can easily pierce Nyriaan's atmosphere. 


SASIMLNI JO GIWAM WYTZIHAN) 


A BsstgvHda 


SBASIHLNI JO GIWAEM NYWIHAN 


Such lasers are used to communicate with facilities on Nyriaan's surface 
shortly after its initial settlement. The CSA takes the technology one step 
further with the development of laser transport arrays—or LTAs. Starships 
equipped with a laser acquisition system (LAS) can lock on to the beams 
produced by LTAs and follow them to the planet's surface in relative safety. 
A safety corridor of two laser beams (one outgoing and another incoming) 
is required for the system to work effectively. Laser acquisition systems, 
expensive and largely unnecessary away from Nyriaan, are usually rented 
and affixed to starships in orbit at exorbitant prices. 

Traveling to and from the surface of Nyriaan in this manner is not without 
risk. The majority of a starship's systems, including computer systems and 
sensors, must be powered down during the journey, and only the most basic 
control systems can be active to minimize the risk of ionization. Additionally, 
sublight propulsion systems can operate only at their lowest power settings, 
making a slow ride, with no margin for error on the part of the pilot. 

Despite the relative safety of the process, mistakes and accidents happen 
all too frequently. If either of the laser transport arrays malfunction or shut 
down during a flight, accurate avionics data (such as altitude, speed, or 
heading) are unavailable. And the minimal shipboard systems required for 
flight are subject to the whims of Nyriaan's magnetic fields and ionosphere. 
Such malfunctions, while rare, are nonetheless dangerous. 

Laser transport array technology is among the CSA's most prized secrets 
during the early days of Nyriaan's colonization, but the plans for the system 
are eventually stolen and disseminated. The Corporate Sector immediately 
blames Republic espionage for the leak, but no proof of the Republic's involve- 
ment in the scandal is ever produced. Some suggest that elements within 
the CSA leaked the technology for profit, an allegation that the Corporate 
Sector vehemently denies. 

With laser transport arrays seeing widespread use in the Luire system, the 
Republic soon steps in to regulate use of the technology, initially arguing that 
LTAs are a form of safety equipment, the malfunction or misuse of which could 
result in disaster and loss of life. Not surprisingly, the legislation is supported 
by the Hyperspace Navigator's Guild, a body that had lost a great deal of its 
once far-reaching power. With enough money, senatorial votes are bought 
and paid for. Soon afterward, regulations stipulate that a bonded navigator 
must be aboard any ship that attempts a descent or ascent by LTA technol- 
ogy. Navigator's fees, of course, are payable prior to services being rendered. 

Landing by Laser Transport Array is somewhat more difficult than a normal 
landing given the lack of sensor data, reduced engine power, and the slug- 
gishness of the controls due to a decrease in the effectiveness of starship 
control surfaces. A typical orbit to surface landing by LTA requires a DC 15 
Use Computer Check followed by three consecutive DC 15 Pilot checks. Fail- 
ing the Use Computer check indicates a LTA problem that must be corrected 
before landing or takeoff can occur. Failing any of the Pilot checks results in 
a cumulative DC increase of +5 on all remaining Pilot checks for that specific 
landing, and failure of the third check results in a crash-landing. 


SHIELDING STATIONS 

One of the most hotly contested technologies on (or more appropriately, 
above) Nyriaan are the shielding stations. Starting around the time of the 
Clone Wars, these orbital space stations use experimental shield projection 
technology to sheath ships in a special shield that is capable of withstanding 
the ionic forces of Nyriaan's atmosphere. Using the same technology that 
will later be developed into off-ship combat shielding by Lando Calrissian, 
these shielding stations guarantee a ship safe descent into the atmosphere 
thanks to powerful shield projectors that use the station's own reactor to 
power them. This means that the shields are harder for the ion storms in the 
atmosphere to interrupt them, and guarantees a smoother and safer ride to 
the surface. Though the technology isn't perfect and accidents happen, it is 
by far the safest way to descend onto the surface of Nyriaan. 

When a ship with proper authorization approaches Nyriaan, they enter 
a queue of ships awaiting remote shielding before descent onto the planet. 
Not just any ship gains access to this service; only those approved by the 
planetary government are given such a privilege, and it is believed that non- 
government starships must pay an exorbitant “shield license fee" to the right 
government office, a sum of 50,000 credits which is believed by most to 
be a semi-legitimate bribe. The government periodically awards temporary 
shipping licenses to vessels doing government work, and corporate vessels 
usually have such a license as a matter of common operation around Nyriaan, 
Once a shielding station license is held by a ship, it can request off-ship 
shielding for descent onto the planet. Unfortunately, the return trip back up 
to orbit must use the other means available, but even a one-way safe trip 
onto Nyriaan is worth the high price. 

Nyriaan's shielding stations are a prized commodity, and are almost con- 
stantly a main source of contention between the factions that rule Nyriaan. 
Fortunately the stations are also extremely valuable to invader and defender 
alike, meaning that when outside forces attack the planet they almost always 
take the shielding stations intact. On at least one occasion, the commander of 
a shielding station ordered it to be destroyed via self-destruct system rather 
than let it fall into enemy hands, but the station was quickly replaced once 
the planet was once again freed. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 

BLIND DESCENT 

Should the heroes attempt to make a blind descent into Nyriaan, there is 
a significant chance that they will not make it down safely. The descent is 
tough, even for veteran pilots, and the risk of failure also brings with it the 
promise of a crash landing. However, if the heroes are foolhardy (or simply 
desperate) enough to attempt a blind descent into Nyriaan without the 
advantage of any of the planet's normal technology, use the skill challenge 
below to determine the outcome of their descent. 


Cl 12 

Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Mechanics [DC 31]: While the ship makes its descent, heroes aboard the 
ship can make Mechanics checks to boost power to shields and internal 
system buffers, reducing the chances that the ship will suffer a blackout 
during its approach. 

Perception [DC 31]: The heroes can use Perception to watch out for stray 
bolts of energy discharging through the atmosphere, warning the pilot when 
it looks like things are going to get rough up ahead. 

Pilot [DC 26]: The pilot of the ship can try to bring the vessel down ona 
safe course using instinct and natural skill to guide the craft. 

Use Computer [DC 21]: A hero can use the Use Computer skill to calculate 
trajectories, anticipate wind and energy discharge powers, and try to boost 
sensors to provide the pilot with at least some data with regards to their 
descent. 

Use the Force [DC 35]: Force-sensitive heroes can use the Use the Force 
skill to sense danger in the descent, but the strange atmospheric effects of 
the planet make this a tricky proposition at best. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Catastrophic Failure: |f a hero fails a skill check by 10 or more, the heroes 
accrue two failures instead of one. 

Degrees of Failure: The final outcome of the skill challenge depends on 
the number of failures accrued during the entirety of the skill challenge. 

Second Effort: Whenever the heroes accrue a failure, they can choose to 
instead have their ship move -1 persistent step down the condition track, 
and turn that failure into a success. 


Success: When the heroes have achieved their eighth success in the 
skill challenge, they make it safely to the ground. However, depending on 
the number of failures they have accrued (and the number of times they 
had to use the Second Effort challenge effect), their ship may not be in 
very good condition. 

Failure: Each time the heroes accrue a failure, their ship ends up landing 
more and more off-course. Each time the party accrues a failure, their ship 
takes 5d10x2 damage. If the challenge ends with 1 failure, the ship lands 
1d10 km off-course. If the challenge ends with 2 failures, the ship lands 3d10 
km off-course. If the heroes fail the skill challenge, the ship crash lands 5d10 
km off-course, and the ship is automatically reduced to 0 hit points. The 
heroes take each take 3d10x2 damage from the crash. 


NYRIAAN AND THE FORCE 
Force-users are consistently confounded by the interference they receive 
when using Force powers in the vicinity of Nyriaan. The first Force-user 
to notice this phenomenon is Darth Glovoc, and Jedi from the Republic 
later rediscover the phenomenon. To be clear, Nyriaan does not prevent 
use of the Force. Powers used on the surface of the planet work normally, 
as do those used in space outside the planet's magnetic field. However, 
attempting to use powers through the atmosphere invariably fails. Jedi 
hypothesize that the planet's atmospheric conditions are to blame, 
although this theory has not been confirmed. Nyriaan's tempests also 
cause difficulty for Force-users within close proximity of the storms. 

Assume that any Force power used by an individual on Nyriaan's 
surface against a target outside Nyriaan's atmosphere automatically 
fails, and vice versa, including powers of extrasensory perception, such 
as sense Force and farseeing, as well as any attempts at telepathy or 
other forms of communication. Essentially, Nyriaan's atmosphere is 
considered to be Force null. 

Use of the Force on the planet is somewhat less restricted, although 
still difficult, and is dependant largely on atmospheric conditions. What- 
ever causes this interference, it makes no distinction between light-side 
and dark-side powers; all are penalized equally. During calm weather 
conditions, which are rare during most of the planetary year, Force powers 
can be used on Nyriaan with no penalty. During inclement weather, which 
is common throughout the year, the DC of any Force power increases by 
5. During strong storms, including low-end tempests, the DC modifier is 
+10. The strongest of Nyriaan's tempests result in a maximum of +15 to 
the DC of any Force power. 


The Reasons Why 

No one is sure why Nyriaan's atmosphere affects the Force powers. 
Scholars believe that it is a combined result of the planet's ionosphere and 
magnetic field. Others theorize that a heretofore undiscovered lifeform 
or sentience lives within the atmosphere and impedes or intercepts the 
use of Force powers. Disciples of Darth Glovoc believe that something 
within Nyriaan is to blame. 

Despite the difficulties experienced by Force-sensitive individuals on 
Nyriaan, Force sensitivity remains a valuable talent. Mundane surveillance 
devices on Nyriaan are only slightly more useful than dianoga waste, so 
Force-users who want to sell their services as living listening devices can 
turn their talents to a profitable, if dangerous, profession. 


Z 
x 
y 
> 
> 
Z 
g 
@ 
ay 
[r 
Y 
@. 
U 
Z 
J 
i 
@ 
Cc 
Ww 


SASGIGLAI JO GIWAM NYMYAN 


ECOLOGY 


Animal and plant life on Nyriaan evolve to survive efficiently in the planet's 
harsh greenhouse environment. The majority of animal life is amphibious, 
despite the fact that large bodies of water are a rarity. A plethora of small 
insectoid species have also been documented, many of which are parasitical. 
The native amphibians possess slimy hides and/or bioluminescence. Many of 
Nyriaan's native lifeforms extract needed moisture, as well as some nutrients, 
from the thick fog that covers the planet. 

Most of Nyriaan's animal species are small—often no larger than gorts— 
and subsist easily in ponds or small pools of standing water. The few large 
species present are nomadic, traveling in herds. Such animals include the 
herbivorous lluma and small prides of the omnivorous pherin, which are 
constantly stalked by packs of chlovi cats. 

Nyriaan's animals are typically amphibious, and its plant life is fungal. 
Much of the flora is low-lying, growing on any damp surface and collecting 
nutrients from the omnipresent fog. Despite the violent storms that crisscross 
the planetary surface, a number of treelike fungi grow to exceptional heights, 
enabling them to exploit the high winds to spread their spores. 

Like Nyriaan's fauna, much of the fungus generates dim levels of bio- 
luminescence and phosphorescent light, lending a ghostly ambiance to the 
mist-shrouded landscape. Many species of fungus are capable of growing 
upon nearly any surface, so structures, vehicles, and even clothing can 
develop beds of fungi that grow from hitchhiking spores. Although most 
are harmless, a few indigenous funguses are actively parasitic and can be 
crippling or deadly if allowed to grow upon an individual's skin unchecked. 


COMMON ANIMAL SPECIES 

The following three species—lluma, pherin, and chlovi cats—are indigenous 
to Nyriaan. Although hundreds of thousands of other animal species have 
evolved on Nyriaan, these are the most commonly recognized creatures on 
the planet. 


Lluma 
The lluma are a large, long-limbed species that roams the surface of Nyriaan 
in herds. They are herbivorous, grazing on a wide variety of fungi as they 
roam. Lluma herds typically consist of at least twenty individuals, although 
as many as two hundred roam Nyriaan's equatorial regions in larger herds. 
The creatures are considered a delicious staple of the local menu, and some 
of the smaller herds have been hunted to death by colonists and settlers. 
Lluma are hermaphroditic and are able to assume one of three genders 
depending on the composition of the herd and the season. A single bull usu- 
ally protects the herd, although large herds can have several. Fertile females, 
also known as cows, make up about twenty percent of any given herd. They 
mate continually with the bull, storing fertilized eggs in large pouches 
until the young hatch. The remaining eighty percent of the herd maintain a 


neutral gender, neither male nor female. The purpose of these neuters is not 
completely clear, but they seem to perform a protective role by surrounding 
fertile males and females as the herd travels. 

Biologists study lluma because the species seems to have an innate reli- 
ance on the violent tempests that wrack the planetary surface. Lluma herds 
follow in the paths of prior tempests, sometimes changing direction when 
their route intersects the path of another tempest. Scientists hope that 
research into this behavior yields clues that might help to predict future 
tempests. 


This large amphibian is covered in a slimy gray-brown hide. Two lines of green 
bioluminescent spots, which start just behind its bulbous eyes, pulse along 
either side of its prominent backbone. It possesses a long, curving neck, four 
long knobby legs that end in four-toed feet, and a short, stubby tail. 


Lluma CL7 
Large Beast 8 

Init +5; Senses darkvision; Perception +11 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 16, Will 12 

hp 84; Threshold 21 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee trample +8* (1d6+16) or 

Melee trample +10* (1d6+20) with Powerful Charge 

Base Atk +6; Grp +18 

Atk Options Bantha Rush, Power Attack, Powerful Charge 
Abilities Str 24, Dex 12, Con 22, Int 1, Wis 14, Cha 6 
Feats Bantha Rush, Power Attack, Powerful Charge 

Skills Perception +11 

* Includes 5 points of Power Attack 


Lluma Tactics 

Lluma prefer to flee rather than fight, although Iluma bulls protect their herds 
violently if provoked. Cows can also become violent when their young are 
endangered. In either case, lluma of any gender charge and trample enemies, 
crushing them until they exhibit no sign of life. 


Pherin 
Pherins are omnivores of Medium size. They are as close to being genuinely 
sentient as any other species native to Nyriaan. A pherin is froglike, with four 
spindly limbs, knobby joints, bulbous eyes, and a wide, tooth-lined mouth. Two 
or more pherin families might travel alongside a herd of Iluma, competing— 
and occasionally feuding—with other groups of pherin for resources and food. 
Pherins have been known to use rudimentary tools, including improvised 
melee weapons and thrown stones. They are curious to a fault, and many 
meet violent ends after wandering into a prospecting town or other settle- 
ment. Like the lluma they follow, pherins can assume one of three genders, 


seemingly at will. Family units consist of equal numbers of males and females, 
with neuters making up between ten and twenty percent of the population. 


The creature is Human-sized, but its form is distinctly alien. Long, spindly limbs 
with large, knobby joints protrude from its body at seemingly random angles. 
Its wide head is squat with two bulbous eyes that look about independently. A 
series of blue-green spots produce a dim glow along the creature's abdomen. 


Pherin CL3 
Medium Beast 4 

Init +4; Senses darkvision; Perception +4 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 12 

hp 26; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee slam +3* (1d4+8) or 

Melee bite +6 (1d6+5) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +6 

Atk Options Power Attack 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 10 
Feats Power Attack, Toughness 

Skills Acrobatics +9 

*Includes 3 points of Power Attack 


Pherin Tactics 

Pherins attack en masse, disabling targets that seem dangerous or especially 
intimidating before moving on to less-capable prey. Although they are 
peaceful and rarely attack unless provoked, they are nonetheless capable of 
spontaneous violence if given the opportunity. Male pherins are more likely 
to attack than females, with neuters being especially aggressive if their 
family unit is threatened. 


Chlovi Cat 

Chlovi cats, which are not feline at all, reside at the top of Nyriaan's food 
chain. They have been responsible for hundreds of deaths in mining towns 
across the planet. Settlers on Nyriaan shoot chlovi cats on sight rather than 
risking the danger that they represent. Unfortunately for Nyriaan's colonists, 
chlovi cats have learned to predict the movements of their prey and attack 
from ambush rather than attempting direct assaults. 

Named after a species of fungus that grows across Nyriaan's surface, 
chlovi cats are small amphibians with long, sinewy bodies and glistening skin 
that changes color from black to steely gray. Like other species on Nyriaan, 
they create bioluminescence, which they use for mating displays and rudi- 
mentary communication while hunting. A chlovi cat's primary weapons are its 
wide maw filled with needlelike teeth and four sets of wickedly curved claws. 


CHLOV! CAT 


Despite their small size, a pack of chlovi cats can bring down a full-grown 
lluma bull. They prefer to eat young Iluma and pherins, although chlovi cats 
that have tasted Human flesh prefer it to their natural staples. 


This amphibian is the size of a large dog and has a long, sinewy body. Its skin 
glistens with a slimy coating and changes color as the chlovi cat creeps through 
the fungal underbrush. 


Chlovi Cat 
Small Beast 6 
Init +6; Senses darkvision; Perception +6 


CL5 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 14), Fort 12, Will 14 
hp 33; Threshold 12 


Speed 8 squares 
Melee 2 claws +4 (1d3+3) and 
bite +4 (1d4+3) or 
Melee 2 claws +2 (2d3+3) with Rapid Strike 
Base Atk +4; Grp +2 
Atk Options Rapid Strike 
Special Actions Coordinated Attack 
Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 16, Cha 8 
Feats Coordinated Attack, Improved Defenses, Rapid Strike (claws) 
Skills Stealth +16 


SnQIILNI JO GIOM NWYMXAN 


| 
| 


SASIWLNI JO QIWAOM NWYAHAN 


Chlovi Cat Tactics 

Chlovi cats use pack tactics, communicating with their pack mates through 
a combination of bioluminescent displays and croaking calls. They swarm 
over targets in groups of three or more, biting and clawing in an attempt to 
disable their prey. Once the prey is disabled, the rest of the pack converges 
on the victim. 


COMMON PLANT SPECIES 

The number of different plant species on Nyriaan is staggering, and fewer 
than five percent have been identified by scientists. However, a number of 
these fungi are notable. 


Chlovi 
One of the most common of Nyriaan's plant species is the chlovi, a large fungus 
that grows in large, spiraling patches all across the planet's surface. It is edible 
and, having become an important part of the local cuisine, is considered a 
delicacy. Attempts to cultivate chlovi have varying degrees of success. Prob- 
lems in the chlovi's development arise when the fungi produce spores. Some 
growers hypothesize that chlovi depends upon interaction with the predatory 
chlovi cats, which use patches of the fungus as hunting and nesting grounds. 
The specific connection between the two is yet to be determined. 

Chlovi grows in spiral formations, with individual plants consisting of 
oblong brown bodies with brightly colored phosphorescent red and orange 
gills that produce spores. 


Falsin's Rot (CL 7) 
Named after the fungus's first recorded victim, Falsin’s rot is a much-feared 
parasite that is rare in Nyriaan's more civilized locations. It begins as a spore 
that can take root anywhere on a subject's skin, although infections usually 
begin on the extremities. Painful, itching lesions form as the fungus multi- 
plies, spreading along the limbs and onto the victim's torso and abdomen. 
If left alone, Falsin's rot consumes a subject in less than a standard week. 
Although deadly in the earliest days of Nyriaan's colonization, Falsin's 
rot can be treated and cured. Treatment consists of applications of salves 
concocted from combinations of local flora and standard medicinal com- 
pounds, such as bacta. If treated early, few signs of the infection remain. 
Victims of advanced cases exhibit severe scarring, with the worst cases 
resulting in limb loss. 


When a character is exposed to Falsin’s rot, make an attack roll (1d20+10) 
against the character's Fortitude Defense. If the attack roll succeeds, the 
character takes 1d8 points of damage and moves -1 persistent step on the 
condition track (see page 148 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). This attack 
occurs again each day that Falsin's rot remains untreated. Furthermore, a 
character who remains at -3 steps on the condition track for two days as a 
result of Falsin's rot permanently loses the use of an affected limb. Treatment 
requires a successful DC 20 Treat Injury check. 


Meadlin's Tree 

The largest fungi on Nyriaan are known as Meadlin’s trees, after the Ithorian 
botanist who discovered them. Meadlin's trees regularly grow up to sixty 
meters tall, with some specimens in the unsettled regions of Nyriaan reported 
as twice as tall as that. Individual fungi grow and twine and merge together, 
forming complicated networks that resemble large root formations that span 
several kilometers. Spherical bioluminescent spore buds grow from Meadlin's 
tree outcroppings, and provide dim blue illumination. 

Within the caverns and canyons of the largest networks of Meadlin's 
trees, natives of Nyriaan traditionally make their homes. Native communities 
care for the trees, directing their development and using the fast-growing 
branches and boughs to form defensive emplacements and living spaces. 


Nyriaan Spice 

One of Nyriaan's most recent contributions to the galactic fringe is known 
as Nyriaan spice. It begins as a low-lying fungal weed called mire nettle. 
When properly processed, mire nettle is transformed into a powerful narcotic 
stimulant that enhances awareness and provides an unparalleled euphoric 
experience. Natives of Nyriaan have long used mire nettle as a mild intoxi- 
cant. Pharmaceutical interests in the medicinal potential of the fungal weed 
ultimately lead to distilling the active ingredients into a powerful form of 
spice. Although it has yet to make much of an impact on the galactic drug 
trade, Nyriaan spice is gaining a momentum as Black Sun and the Hutt kajidics 
experiment with it in the Inner and Outer Rims. 

When imbibed, Nyriaan spice provides an instant second wind, moving 
the user +1 step on the condition track and granting a +5 bonus to his or her 
damage threshold for 1 hour. In addition to the usual effect, Force-sensitive 
characters who are exposed to Nyriaan spice gain a +5 bonus to Use the 
Force checks made in conjunction with the farseeing Force power. When the 
effect of Nyriaan spice wears off, users lapse into near catatonia, resulting 
in a -5 penalty to Wisdom for 4 hours. 


Tempest's Blessing 
One of Nyriaan's notable parasitic fungi is referred to by planetary natives 
as tempest's blessing. The fungus, which is a fine gray dust that adheres to 
exposed skin, lives in symbiosis with its host organism. Natives apply tem- 
pest's blessing spores to their bodies as part of a purifying ritual. Applica- 
tion of the fungus results in a distinctly unpleasant body odor, loss of body 
hair, and a two-fold increase in the normal requirement of ingested liquids. 
Tempest's blessing increases the visual acuity of its host organism, 
granting darkvision for as long as the fungus is present and growing on the 
host's body. Bathing and scraping the body removes the fungus, although 
the process is uncomfortable. In addition, tempest's blessing cannot survive 
in white light, and prolonged exposure—one hour or more—to such light kills 
the fungus, as well. 


GOVERNMENT 
AUTHORITY 


Nyriaan is ruled by a governing council that oversees the planet's bureau- 
cracy. The governing council consists of four representatives from various 
factions. The Mining Guild and the Corporate Sector Authority each have 
a permanent seat on the council. In addition, one seat is held by a member 
of a noble house, and this seat is hotly contested by nobles from across the 
galaxy. Nobles from the Tapani Sector have traditionally held this seat the 
longest, although from time to time a noble house from the Core Worlds 
will assume control of the council seat for a time. This seat is appointed by 
the three other members of Nyriaan's governing council and usually falls to 
the house that bribes the right people or fits in with the council's plans the 
best. The final seat on the governing council is always held by a member of 
the reigning galactic government. The other factions on Nyriaan are happy 
to share control of the planet with the galactic government, because this 
prevents that government from trying to seize control of Nyriaan by force. 

The governing council, called the Council by the locals, oversees the high- 
est levels of the planet's government. Beneath the Council is a bureaucracy 
that enacts the Council's decrees. Each major settlement on Nyriaan has its 
own bureaucratic system that reports to the Council and its bureaucracy, 
creating a tree of authority that stretches across the planet. Although this 
decentralizes the Council's power, it also means that no one faction or 
government office ever has too much power. Some members of the Council 
have tried to consolidate power in the past, but their power grabs have been 
short-lived as other Council factions opposed their efforts. 


LAW ENFORCEMENT 

Law enforcement on Nyriaan is not a function of the government bureau- 
cracy. One faction holding a Council seat is required to provide a private 
security force to police the planet. While this may seem as if it puts a single 
Council seat in a position of great power, it is also a significant drain on 
that seat's resources, as bringing in a private security force (and keeping it 
supplied) is no easy task on Nyriaan. Every five years, a new seat is chosen 
by the Council to provide planetary law enforcement, and no seat can hold 
this responsibility twice in a row. However, during the two decades when the 
Empire is at its height, the Council enacts a special decree that allows the 
Empire to provide planetary security for the duration of the Emperor's reign 
(a necessary concession after the Moff sitting on the Council threatened to 
invade the planet by force if the measure was not passed by the Council). 


THE FACTIONS 
OF NYRIAAN 


Over the years that Nyriaan is in the sights of the galaxy, it does not always 
play an important role in the galactic economy. Once its bounty is discovered, 
however, Nyriaan becomes a coveted asset to be controlled. Unfortunately 
for the most powerful factions with interest in Nyriaan, their attempts to 
garner complete control of the world are met with opposition on many fronts. 


THE NATIVES OF NYRIAAN 
Humans have populated Nyriaan for at least four thousand years, perhaps 
longer. The original colonists are the crew of the Starveil, a Galactic Republic 
exploration vessel that crashes on the planet. Because of the ion storms in 
the planet's upper atmosphere, they are unable to leave the planet even 
after repairs are made to the ship. The Starveil crew's descendants go native 
and survive through a combination of ingenuity and determination. From a 
starting population of 52 individuals, their numbers grow over the millennia 
through childbirth and through the addition of other groups of survivors to 
their population. 
Nyriaan's current native population is unknown, but authorities esti 
mate it to be anywhere between 1,200 and 2,000 individuals living in smal 
communities. In truth, the figure is much larger. Although they have been 
confined to Nyriaan for generations, the planetary natives are biologically 
Human. Minor evolutionary changes are evident, such as their adaptation 
to the darkness prevalent on the planet's surface. Their spoken language is 
e 

y 

h 


a mixture of High Galactic and Basic that has been combined into a uniqu 
colloquial dialect. Referred to as Nyriaanan by locals, the language is easi 
learned by anyone who speaks Basic and has a passing familiarity with Hig 
Galactic. Likewise, Nyriaanans easily learn Basic once exposed to it. 


SASGIGLNI JO GIWOM “NYMAIYSN 


iA BSiLdvHia 


SASILLANI JO GIWOM NWNYAHAN 


NEw SPECIES: NEAR 

MUMAN (NYRIAAN NATIVE/ 
NYRIAANAN) 

The Human natives of Nyriaan, also known as Nyriaanans, appear at 
first glance to be of typical Human stock. Their skin is pale and their 
eyes are well suited to Nyriaan’s dim light. Nyriaanans are stocky, 
although a good deal of variation exists in body types depending on 
an individual's clan or tribe. Nyriaanans are distrustful of outsiders, 
and they see settlers, colonists, and prospectors as competitors 
for Nyriaan's resources. They despise corporate interests above all, 
because they fear that their planet might be destroyed in the pursuit 
of an easier way to procure madilon. 

Nyriaanans divide themselves along family lines into hundreds 
of different clans. Some are nomadic, wandering the waterlogged 
plains of their homeworld, while others inhabit the same groves of 
Meadlin's trees that their ancestors settled centuries, or even mil- 
lennia, before. They are a peaceful people, but the natives are easily 
angered by offworlders that care more for turning a profit than for 
honor or integrity. 

Although they are not technological in nature, Nyriaan's natives 
foster the technology of their ancestors as well as adopt newer 
technology as they acquire it. In fact, Republic anthropologists that 
have come to Nyriaan to study the native clans are surprised by 
how the Nyriaanans manage to maintain and continue to utilize Old 
Republic technology. For natives, everything has a use, and keeping 
the artifacts of yesteryear in good working condition honors one's 
ancestors. 


Nyriaanan Species Traits 
Nyriaanans share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. 

Size: Nyriaanans are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or 
penalties for their size. 

Speed: Nyriaanan base speed is 6 squares. 

Bonus Class Skill: Survival is always considered a class skill for 
Nyriaanans. 

Bonus Feat: Like their Human ancestors, Nyriaanans are versatile 
and gain one bonus feat at 1st level. 

Low-Light Vision: Nyriaanans ignore concealment (but not total 
concealment) from darkness. 

Languages: Nyriaanan. 


THE SITH ON NYRIAAN 

During the Jedi Civil War, a brief but violent battle takes place in the Luire 
system. When the debris clears, the Galactic Republic has successfully dealt 
a killing blow to the Dying Sun, a Sith Interdictor-class warship. The Republic 
never considers why the Sith are in this largely ignored area of space and 
assumes that the enemy vessel was merely avoiding discovery by hiding in 
a remote system. The Dying Sun is eventually pulled into Nyriaan’s gravity 
well, and it breaks up into several pieces as it tumbles to the planet's sur- 
face. A number of these pieces endure the crash, and perhaps even more 
miraculously, a handful of the Dying Sun's crew manages to survive as well. 

Although their population has never been significant, the surviving Sith 
pull together under the ruthless leadership of Darth Glovoc, their captain, and 
survive the hardships of Nyriaan. Over the millennia the Sith become twisted 
and inbred, biding their time until they are able to shrug off Nyriaan's shackles 
and fight the Jedi once more. The Sith occasionally encounter other Nyriaan 
natives, upon whom they prey mercilessly, but they are mostly content to 
subsist on their own in relative seclusion. 

Darth Glovoc goes into suspended animation within an oubliette, initially 
awakening every hundred years or so to take stock of his people and their 
progress. His episodes of consciousness grow less and less frequent as the 
millennia slowly pass until he is worshiped as a sleeping god, the Dying Sun, 
by the depraved descendants of his crew. After the colonization of Nyriaan, 
his sleep becomes fitful and restless. The creatures that serve Darth Glo- 
voc's sleeping form try to awaken him, but to no avail. If he finally regains 
consciousness, he doubtless brings his servants together to venture out in 
search of conquest beyond the murky prison of Nyriaan. 


THE OLD REPUBLIC ERA 

During the years of the Old Republic, Nyriaan is little more than a turbulent 
blip on the sensor screens of anyone who chances to pass through the Luire 
system. Given the lackluster first impression that the system makes on 
passersby, that Luire serves as little more than an occasional battleground 
during the many wars between the Old Republic and the Sith Empire is 
hardly surprising. 


The Galactic Republic 

The earliest reports of a Galactic Republic survey vessel entering the Luire 
system date back to 4,129 years prior to the Battle of Yavin. The survey finds 
little of interest in the system and marks it as such. From that point onward, 
Luire is rarely visited by Republic-aligned forces. Civilian prospectors and 
criminals, especially pirates, find occasion to enter the Luire system, but 
they rarely stay long. 


DARTH GLOVOC 


In 4,067 BBY, sixty-two years after the system is initially surveyed, the 
Starveil, a civilian exploration vessel partially funded by the Galactic Republic, 
arrives in the Luire system. The Starveil's purpose is officially declared to 
be exploration with a focus on finding alien life, yet Republic records of the 
ship's findings are sketchy at best. The captain of the Starvei/, Bethanie Melan, 
holds the rank of commander in the Republic Navy prior to her resignation 
and subsequent attachment to the Starveil Project. No official explanation 
is ever given for her departure from the Navy, nor is her commission ever 
officially listed as being terminated. 

The truth of the Starveil Project, although never revealed to the public, 
is that it is searching for the remains of a highly secret and experimental 
Republic Navy vessel that is reported lost in the vicinity of the Luire system. 
Beginning with the planets closest to Luire, the Starveil conducts a thorough 
scan of the entire system in an attempt to locate the remains of the mysteri- 
ous experimental vessel. 


The results of the scans remain inconclusive until the Starveil approaches 
Nyriaan. Nyriaan’s magnetic and atmospheric anomalies prevent successful 
orbital scans, forcing Melan to attempt a landing upon the turbulent world 
to get a first-hand look. Melan's last communication to the Republic reveals 
her intention to land, as well as her suspicion that her crew might not be 
able to leave the planetary surface once they make their landing. After this 
communication, the Starveil is never heard from again. 

Following the Starveil's disappearance, the Republic sends a pair of rescue 
ships to the Luire system. The ships orbit Nyriaan, but neither attempts to 
make planetfall at the commanders’ discretion. The final report of the rescue 
vessels lists the Starveil as being lost due to Nyriaan's magnetic field, and 
all crew are officially listed as dead. 

The final report could not be further from the truth. Although the Starveil 
does crash on Nyriaan, most of the crew, including Bethanie Melan, survives 
the crash. The Starveil survivors become the first of Nyriaan's colonists and 
form the basis for the planet's native population, which plays an important 
role in Nyriaanan politics in the centuries to come. 


The Mandalorians 

Mandalorian interest in the Luire system is brief and restricted to the sys- 
tem’'s seventh planet, Caillte. A tiny outpost, dubbed Unity, is established on 
Caillte in the last months of the Mandalorian Restoration. To avoid detection, 
the settlement is concealed beneath the rocky crust of the barren planet. 
Although it is intended as a forward supply post, Unity becomes something 
more in the early years following the Mandalorian Wars. 

Feruun Lern, a Mandalorian crusader who is highly regarded by his fellow 
clansmen, establishes his dominance on Unity shortly after the outpost 
is founded. Although Unity is intended to supplement the Mandalorian 
advance into the Mid Rim and beyond, Lern invites others to join him, both 
to rediscover the warriors within themselves and to establish themselves as 
new warriors within the Mandalorian movement. Many of these revitalized 
Mandalorians, along with Feruun Lern, leave Unity and join their brothers 
at Malachor V. 

When the Mandalorians are defeated at Malachor V, Lern and his surviv- 
ing comrades return to Caillte for a short time. In his absence, the outpost 
is stripped by Neo-Crusaders and other Mandalorians who have chosen to 
abandon their warrior heritage. As the Jedi Civil War rages, Lern and his 
followers, viewed as staunch traditionalists, leave Unity and join with Can- 
derous Ordo. Together they seek glory in death during the Dark Wars against 
he Sith. Although some survive, Lern and most of his clan lose their lives. 

Without the Mandalorians, the Unity outpost remains empty and forgot- 
en beneath Caillte's surface until its dusty corridors are rediscovered by the 
Corporate Sector Authority in 405 BBY. Although much of what remained 
following the Mandalorian Wars is lost, enough remains behind to whet the 
CSA's appetite for forgotten technologies and techniques of war. 


SN@QiiLANI dJdO@ GIWWOAM WYMAN 


BASIHLNWI JO GIOM NWYMHAN 


The Sith Empire 

Darth Glovoc, self-proclaimed Lord of the Mind's Eye, wages a series of suc- 
cessful campaigns during the waning years of the Jedi Civil War. Considered 
brilliant but mad—even by the standards of the Sith— Darth Glovoc is often 
left to his own devices. When not engaging the Republic, he spends his time 
in deep meditation, searching for the key to his people's ultimate victory. 

On the eve of Darth Malak's death at the hands of Revan, Darth Glovoc 
experiences an epiphany in the form of a dream. In his vision, he sees a dark 
world covered in perpetual cloud, violet lightning piercing the dimness of 
the planet's surface like bolts of dark-side energy. As vague as the vision is, 
Glovoc awakes from his trance with an overwhelming desire to see this world, 
to walk its shadowed vistas, and to conquer its sodden landscape. Something 
is there, he is sure, and the dark side beckons him to find it. 

Darth Glovoc takes his flagship, an /nterdictor-class warship dubbed 
Dying Sun, and sets course for the one place that his records show matches 
his vision: the Luire system. He is sure that Luire is his destination, and he 
executes on the spot those who dare to contradict him. Leaving the Jedi Civil 
War behind, the Dying Sun forges its way across the galaxy. As the warship 
travels through hyperspace, Darth Glovoc sleeps, his mind's eye seeking out 
the turbulent planet of his prophecy. 

Although he finds Nyriaan, Darth Glovoc's mind cannot penetrate its roil- 
ing veil of clouds—as if the planet resists his attempts to see what lay on its 
surface. This phenomenon both enrages and mollifies him at the same time, 
for it proves that something on the planet deserves his attention. When the 
Dying Sun leaves hyperspace just outside the Luire system, the captain of the 
ship intrudes upon Darth Glovoc's chambers to inform him of the journey's 
end. Instead of a slow death at Darth Glovoc's enraged hands, the captain 
finds his lord awake and serene—or so he seems. 

Darth Glovoc orders the Dying Sun to proceed directly to the fifth planet 
of the system and to begin a comprehensive scan of the area surrounding 
the planet. Unfortunately, the Dying Sun's active sensors attract the atten- 
tion of a Republic strike force, which moves to intercept the Sith. With his 
attention focused on Nyriaan, Darth Glovoc fails to notice his approaching 
enemies until too late. 

The resulting battle is swift and brutal. The Sith crew, no strangers to war, 
fight well. Three Republic cruisers and countless Republic starfighters are 
destroyed, even as the Dying Sun is whittled away by massed fire and volleys 
of enemy torpedoes. The Dying Sun, its back broken in the violent combat, 
begins a slow, uncontrolled descent into the clouds below. The remaining 
Republic ships claim victory, take stock of their dead and wounded, and leave 
the Luire system behind. 


THE RISE OF THE EMPIRE ERA 
On the surface, the conflict that is so prevalent during the Rise of the Empire 
seems a distant distraction from Nyriaan's own politics. Nevertheless, the 
effect of the Clone Wars and its aftermath are no less pronounced in the 
Luire system. Much of the conflict on the planet during this time stems from 
the Corporate Sector Authority and its desire to control the extraction and 
dispersal of Nyriaan's veins of madilon. 

Although Nyriaan begins as a lawless and sparsely populated colony world, 
it grows in stature during this time. The formation of the Grand Army of the 
Republic boosts the need for madilon, since new ships must be designed 
and built to support to war effort. The Confederacy of Independent Systems 
recognizes the Republic's reliance on Nyriaan's cash crop and does not sit 
idly by. Between the Mining Guild and the Corporate Sector Authority, the 
Republic's assets on Nyriaan are put through a proverbial wringer. 


The Confederacy of Independent Systems 

The Confederacy's interest in Nyriaan is a passing one, and is reflected solely 
in the business practices of the Commerce Guild, the Trade Federation, and 
the Mining Guild. In fact, Count Dooku's only concern for Nyriaan is that all 
Republic holdings on the planet be neutralized in order to deny his enemies 
the alloy they require to fuel the war effort. With the First Battle of Nyriaan 
in 21 BBY, this goal is easily achieved, and the Republic's facilities and mines 
are divided between the Confederacy’s allies. 

Allis not peaceful following the battle, however. With the Republic's restric- 
tions and rule of law no longer applicable, the Mining Guild and CSA ramp up 
their operations and begin to exploit native land. The native Nyriaanans, no 
strangers to corporate greed, resist violently. CSA and Mining Guild operations 
suffer at the hands of the natives who are, at times, supported by remnants 
of the Republic as well as by Commerce Guild and Trade Federation agents. 

When the Second Battle of Nyriaan takes place in 19 BBY, the Confed- 
eracy's forces are swept aside in a single night. With the combined blow of 
losing both Count Dooku and General Grievous only a few days earlier, the CIS's 
will to fight is completely broken, and the Republic's clone units spend much 
of the battle mopping up and taking prisoners. When Order 66 is issued by the 
Emperor, the three Jedi in the system are assassinated by their erstwhile allies. 

The Trade Federation, the Commerce Guild, and the Techno Union fail 
to survive the Clone Wars intact, but the Mining Guild comes out ahead. 
Although officially supportive of the Confederacy, the Mining Guild does not 
marshal forces during the Clone Wars. Additionally, all evidence of Mining 
Guild complicity with the Confederacy somehow vanishes around the time 
of the Second Battle of Nyriaan. Emperor Palpatine is unconcerned, however, 
and folds all Trade Federation, Commerce Guild, and Techno Union holdings 
on Nyriaan into those controlled by the Mining Guild. 


The Corporate Sector Authority 

Of all the parties claiming a stake in Nyriaan's riches, the Corporate Sector 
Authority probably has the most solid claim to entitlement of any. Estab- 
lishing a small base on Caillte in 405 BBY, the Corporate Sector Authority 
views the Luire system as little more than the location of a remote research 
facility. In fact, the outpost becomes a prison of sorts for employees who 
have achieved spectacular failure in the eyes of the Authority, but who are 
innocent of any criminality. 

The Caillte outpost's pilot light is kept on for more than three hundred 
years. In the centuries of its occupation, the Corporate Sector discovers 
a number of caverns, caves, and subterranean structures that date back 
to the Mandalorian Wars. Artifacts of the period, including weapons and 
other martial technologies, are unearthed. The Mandalorian connection to 
Caillte is kept secret, and becomes the pet project of a number of Corporate 
Sector viceprexes, 

When traces of madilon are discovered on Nyriaan by the Republic, the 
Corporate Sector's interest in the Luire system is suddenly renewed. The 
CSA immediately claims dominion over the entire system, insisting that their 
outpost on Caillte constitutes ownership of Nyriaan as well. In response, 
the Republic quarantines the system and initiates a lengthy court battle to 
determine who has mining rights on Nyriaan. 

In the end, a combination of Senatorial corruption and the flexibility of 
aw results in a legal loss for the Corporate Sector. Although it is permit- 
ted to stake claims upon Nyriaan like any other interested party, the CSA is 
found to lack entitlement to planetary ownership. The CSA response—both 
0 increase its own profitability as well as to spite its competitors in the 
Republic—is to advance its own technology to allow for greater production. 
The most important of these assets is the laser transport array, a device that 
allows properly equipped vessels to navigate through Nyriaan's atmosphere 
in relative safety. 

LTA technology proves valuable to all interested parties on Nyriaan. 
Despite the CSA's attempt to keep the inner workings of the laser transport 
arrays a secret, Republic spies procure the information from CSA contacts. 
Although expensive to produce and install, laser transport arrays become 
the standard method of landing and taking off from Nyriaan's surface. They 
become so prevalent that the Hyperspace Navigator's Guild, hungry for a 
piece of Nyriaan's profitability, petitions for a Republic mandate requiring a 
bonded navigator aboard all incoming and outgoing flights. 


Despite the constant troubles experienced by the CSA on Nyriaan, the 
planet's value to the Corporate Sector is undeniable. Throughout most of 
Nyriaan's tumultuous history, the CSA remains one of the major players in 
the planet's affairs. The CSA's methods are of dubious morality, especially 
when they concern the planetary natives, but the bottom line is the final 
arbiter of right and wrong in the eyes of the CSA's Direx Board. 


The Galactic Republic 

The Galactic Republic presents two diametrically opposed faces to anyone 
interested in profiting from Nyriaan's bounty. The first is that of an august 
body concerned with fair play and preservation of natural resources, while 
the second is one of greed, corruption, and avarice fueled by the desire for 
political gain. Insofar as Nyriaan is concerned, the Republic's interests in 
the inhospitable world are initially focused on denying its entirety to the 
Corporate Sector Authority. In fact, a great deal of the intrigue on Nyriaan 
during the Rise of the Empire is prosecuted between the Corporate Sector 
and the Republic. 

Madilon is such a rare commodity that the Republic is just as concerned 
with keeping its own options open in regard to the precious metal as it is in 
allowing smaller, noncorporate entities to practice a bit of free enterprise. Not 
only that, but the Republic is the first faction to make a successful landfall 
on Nyriaan, albeit by gondola technology. In this regard, Senate politicians 
are inclined to believe that if Nyriaan belongs to any one group, it is to the 
Republic. Only because of the interest of high-paying groups, such as the 
Mining Guild and the Hyperspace Navigator's Guild, do they acquiesce to 
allowing others to stake claims and extract ore. 

The Luire Accord of 30 BBY creates a planetary government known as 
the Nyriaan Concord. The Concord allows anyone with a claim on Nyriaan to 
petition the body for aid or arbitration. A Senator is elected by the members 
of the Concord to represent the Luire system in the Senate. The Concord also 
includes a separate political body, referred to as the Native Delegation, made 
up entirely of Nyriaanan natives. Despite their presence in the Concord, the 
concerns of the natives are largely ignored by the corporations that dominate 
its day-to-day politics. 

During the Clone Wars, Nyriaan is taken over by the Confederacy of 
Independent Systems. The loss of Nyriaan for the seventeen months that 
the Confederacy has complete control of the planet is felt by the Republic's 
war machine. Despite the dire need for madilon, Republic forces are able to 
acquire the alloy as spoils of war as the tide turns against the Separatists. 
When the clones finally return to the Luire system, the Confederacy is only a 
hair's breadth away from total collapse. Only a slight nudge, militarily speak- 
ing, is needed to reclaim Nyriaan and its deposits of madilon for the Republic. 


z 
aC 
y 
> 
> 
g 
g 
@ 
2) 
(P 
Y 
Om 
U 
Z 
J 
y 
@ 
Cc 
W 


5 


BGASIWLN) JO GIOM covesa|_} 1A SeiavH 


GHIA PREYSSOLA 

One of the Republic's staunchest agents on Nyriaan is Ghia Preyssola. 
Ghia, a Twi'lek, has been a willing tool of the Republic for most of her 
life. She is responsible for forming and coordinating Republic intelligence 
cells in and around the Luire system, and she does so with a significant 
amount of aplomb. When the hammer falls and the Confederacy invades, 
Ghia seeks refuge with independent miners and prospectors in the village 
of Silence. She reemerges when the Republic returns, and continues to 
perform her job for the Rebellion after the establishment of Emperor 
Palpatine’s New Order. 


This striking Twi'lek female—her green eyes an arresting contrast to her 
flawless blue skin—does not fit the description of a typical colonial miner. 
She looks as though she was once lithe, but her grace has given way to ropy 
muscles that are an obvious product of hard physical labor. 


Ghia Preyssola CL6 

Medium Twi'lek scoundrel 4/scout 2 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Ry! 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 18), Fort 20, Will 18; Dodge 

hp 43; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d8+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options Lucky Shot, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Knack 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Special Qualities deceptive x 

Talents Evasion, Knack, Lucky Shot 

Feats Dodge, Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Point Blank Shot, 
Running Attack, Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +10, Deception +10 (can reroll), 
Gather Information +10, Perception +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, miner's outfit, comlink, breath mask, 
field kit, syntherope 


Ghia Preyssola’s Tactics 

Having lived for years in the tough mining town of Silence, Ghia Preys- 
sola is renowned for her skill at hand-to-hand combat. Few knowingly 
enter into a boxing match with her, and those who do usually end up 
unconscious or dead. Lacking an opportunity for confrontation of a more 
personal nature, she is never shy about pulling her trusty blaster pistol. 


The Jedi Council 

The Jedi Council shows little interest in Nyriaan as a whole. Although ini- 
tially troubled by the planetary atmosphere's resistance to the Force, the 
Council finds that it has enough to worry about without focusing its limited 
resources on a world that is interesting only for the single commodity that 
it can produce. When native unrest comes to a head in 47 BBY, the Jedi are 
obliged to take notice. A single Jedi, Amar Cros, is sent to negotiate a truce. 
Despite his best intentions, a treaty is not recognized until 43 BBY. 

During his time on Nyriaan, Cros becomes enamored with the mysteri- 
ous planet and its native population. Despite the Council's request that he 
return to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, Cros decides to remain on Nyriaan. 
The Jedi tolerate his insubordination, feeling that it is better that they have 
an envoy on the planet in the event of further violence erupting. Another 
uprising occurs seven years later, this time with Amar Cros at the forefront 
of the native insurgents. 

Although the Council declares that Cros has become a rogue Jedi, they 
refrain from sending a Jedi Master to deal with him directly. By the time the 
violence subsides in 30 BBY, Cros surfaces once again as the leader of the 
native delegation to the Nyriaan Concord. Finding the Concord to be just as 
ill-prepared and corrupt as the Galactic Senate, Cros leaves in disgust, taking 
a large contingent of natives into Nyriaan's unexplored regions. 


THE NOBLES OF THE TAPAN!I SECTOR KNOW HOW 
TO OFFER A PROPER BRIBE. 


AMAR CROS 

Amar Cros has given up his Jedi robes in exchange for the clothes of a 
native Nyriaanan. Although he still clings to some of his Jedi philosophy, 
he sees the current struggle between the natives and the offworlders as a 
different type of war with a different kind of morality. In his fight against 
Nyriaan's oppressors, Amar Cros does anything to win. He is willing to 
call upon the dark side of the Force if it means serving the greater good. 
That he has not fallen to the dark side is a wonder to most Jedi, but Amar 
is never too proud to seek solace in mediation and atonement when the 
opportunity presents itself. 


With his graying, braided hair and the lightsaber dangling from his belt, this 
older Nyriaanan looks out of place among his native companions. He eyes 
you with a mixture of suspicion and contempt, as if he is deciding what to 
do with you. 


Amar Cros CL 10 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 3 
Destiny 2; Force 5; Dark Side 2 
Init +11; Senses Use the Force +13 
Languages Basic, Nyriaanan 
Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 22), Fort 23, Will 24; Deflect, 
Lightsaber Defense, Niman 
hp 89; Threshold 23 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +9* (2d8+12) or 


Tapani Nobility 
When madilon was discovered on Nyriaan, the floodgates open up to any group 
interested in capitalizing on the valuable metal. Word spreads as far as the 
Tapani Sector, and within a few months, parties representing various noble 
houses arrive in the Luire system, ready join in stripping Nyriaan of its assets. 
The first of the noble houses in the Luire system is House Reena. Reena 
is well known for its profitable mining operations within its home sector. 
Although much of the ore that supports House Reena's economy is relatively 
mundane, House Reena does possess at least one mining operation that 
produces madilon. House Reena's people are well spoken of, both in and out 
of the Tapani Sector, and they have few enemies even among their fellow 
nobles. Prior experience with madilon, as well as experience creating and 
maintaining profitable mining ventures, makes House Reena one of the fast- 
est growing and most profitable of the noncorporate operations on Nyriaan. 
The next of Tapani's noble houses to stake a claim on Nyriaan is House 
Mecetti. Interested only in what it can gain by exploiting Nyriaan, House 
Mecetti chooses to use thinly veiled violence to prey on small-time stake 
holders and mining groups. Although House Mecetti’s mining operations 


Melee lightsaber +11/+11 (2d8+7) with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +11 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), Great Cleave, 
Power Attack 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Force Persuasion, Lightsaber Defense 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13 ): battle strike, farseeing, 
Force slam (2), mind trick, move object, rebuke (2), surge 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (rebuke) 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 15, Cha 17 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Deflect, Force Persuasion, Lightsaber Defense, 
Multiattack Proficiency (lightsaber), Niman 

Feats Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force 
Training (3), Great Cleave, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Initiative +11, Knowledge (galactic lore) +11, 
Persuasion +8, Use the Force +13 (can substitute for Persuasion 
checks) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), native Nyriaanan garb 

“Includes 5 points of Power Attack 


Amar Cros's Tactics 

Amar Cros uses the Force as his primary weapon, using his lightsaber when 
necessary to lay his enemies low. He rarely fights alone, preferring to keep 
a small cadre of Force-sensitive natives with him. Although not trained as 
Jedi, his apprentices are nonetheless formidable. 


are plagued by the effects of their poor working conditions, House Mecetti 
manages to turn a small profit from its activities on Nyriaan while simulta- 
neously keeping an eye on House Reena's operations. 

House Melantha initially chooses to watch as its sister houses stake 
their claims on Nyriaan, waiting until just after the Clone Wars to become 
involved. Given House Melantha's support of the Emperor's New Order, as 
well as the whisperings that House Melantha would gain control of much 
of the Tapani Sector if the Empire ever decided to invade, few are surprised 
when the fruits of House Melantha’s mining labors on Nyriaan are ceded 
directly to the Empire. 

When the Confederacy invades the Luire system, both House Reena and 
House Mecetti abstain from taking sides. While House Reena continues to 
operate at peak capacity, House Mecetti uses the chaos as an opportunity 
to strengthen its own position through claim jumping operations and out- 
right theft. When the Republic returns, House Mecetti reverts to its covert 
activities once more. 


iA BesSsidvHoa 


a 
x 
a 
> 
> 
g 
8 
a 
iy 
{P 
0 
g 
V 
i 
9 
c 
W 


iA HBsSsidvHa 


Z 
g 
J 
> 
> 
Z 
g 
G 
iy 
Ir 
0 
@ 
J 
2 
<j 
@ 
C 
W 


THE REBELLION ERA 

Following the Clone Wars and the formation of the Empire, Nyriaan remains 
much the same as it did under the Republic. Although the Corporate Sector 
Authority and the Mining Guild retain their holdings on the planet, they are 
required by treaty to divert the vast majority of their mined ore directly to 
Imperial interests at prices that are dictated by the Empire. Both entities 
chafe under the Imperial yoke, but the alternative—complete Imperial control 
of their holdings as punishment for their involvement with the Confederacy 
of Independent Systems—is unthinkable. Life on Nyriaan continues much as 
it has for the past several decades, although Nyriaan's citizens are aware 
that the Empire is now in complete control. 

The result is a thriving black market in madilon, and several of the galaxy's 
largest criminal enterprises, including the Hutt kajidic and Black Sun, exhibit a 
renewed interest in Nyriaan. Even with a pronounced Imperial presence in the 
form of stormtroopers and orbital starships, Nyriaan is far more lawless than 
it once was. The Empire, concerned only with procurement, is unconcerned 
with the rights of Nyriaan's natives. When the inevitable uprisings occur, 
the Empire steps in and puts them down violently; in response, the native 
insurgents resort to guerilla tactics to slow their enemies’ mining operations. 


The Galactic Empire 

One benefit that the Empire brings to Nyriaan is technological progress. 
Unwilling to rely on outdated technology such as gondolas and laser trans- 
port arrays, the Emperor charges his scientists and engineers to design and 
construct a series of ion shielding stations in Nyriaan's equatorial regions. 
The first of these massive facilities, powerful enough to project a moon-sized 
energy shield into high orbit, is completed in 8 BBY. The Empire controls the 
facility, but prefers to maintain it with a civilian staff culled from both Sienar 
Technologies and Kuat Drive Yards. 

Once the first of these massive shielding stations is in place and func- 
tional, the Empire begins Operation Cloudfall in conjunction with the Mining 
Guild. Operation Cloudfall is a secret project that involves the systematic 
stripping of Nyriaan of all valuable resources. The operation runs on schedule, 
and in the short term, the Empire appears to have merely stepped up wartime 
production of madilon. When native clans protest Imperial exploitation of 
their lands, they are killed or enslaved. Although Operation Cloudfall brings 
ecological disaster to nearly twenty-five percent of Nyriaan's surface, it 
ultimately fails when native insurgents, supported by the Rebel Alliance, 
succeed in neutralizing much of the Imperial work force. Given that most 
of that workforce is comprised of Wookiee and Mon Calamari slaves, the 
insurgency grows with every prisoner that is liberated. 


Other Corporate Interests 

The two largest corporate interests in the Luire system during the Rebellion 
era, other than the Corporate Sector Authority and the Mining Guild, are 
Sienar Technologies and Kuat Drive Yards. Both companies are closely allied 
with the Empire, and receive a number of lucrative contracts in support of 
the New Order. Both corporations are instrumental in the design and con- 
struction of Nyriaan's ion shielding stations, and each plays a critical role in 
both maintaining and operating these massive facilities. 

Kuat Drive Yards is responsible for the initial design of the ion shield 
projector. Using their expertise in planetary weaponry as a basis for the 
projector, KDY's engineers develop a monstrous facility that is surprisingly 
efficient in spite of its huge size. Perhaps just as surprising is the lead time 
necessary to construct the facility: a minimum of five years. A number of 
KDY executives lose their lives when important deadlines are not met to the 
Emperor's satisfaction. In the end, the facility is operational on schedule, and 
it sets the standard for the shielding station that is eventually constructed 
on the forest moon of Endor. 

KDY sees to the design and construction of the ion shielding stations, 
but Sienar Technologies is brought in to staff and maintain them. Sienar also 
uses the opportunity to capitalize on the ready availability of madilon to 
design new hyperdrive engines in its Locus-based research facility. Sienar 
is a quiet yet sinister presence on Nyriaan. It sends a number of agents into 
the surrounding areas to spy on Corporate Sector interests and to maintain 
a covert network that answers only to Sienar's board of directors. 


The Rebel Alliance 
The entry of the Rebel Alliance on the galactic scene does not go unnoticed 
by Nyriaan's natives. Those natives with contacts offworld seek to garner 
Alliance support for their continued insurgency against their oppressors, 
both corporate and Imperial. Few of the remaining factions on Nyriaan are 
inclined to resist the Imperial occupation because it allows them to increase 
their workflow. 

Keeping madilon out of the hands of the Empire and, more importantly, 
putting it into the hands of the Rebellion and its allies is a high priority for 
the Alliance. Although the Rebel Alliance's presence on Nyriaan is small in 
the early years, it gradually increases and finally peaks just after the Battle 
of Yavin. Assuming that a second Death Star is a distinct possibility, and 
knowing that such a project requires vast amounts of the rare alloy, the 
Alliance rallies what support it can in the Luire system. 


ZERIK 

Among the Rebel agents operating on Nyriaan, the most enigmatic is Zerik, 
a Bothan who began his stint with the Alliance prior to the destruction 
of Alderaan. Pragmatic by Bothan standards, he quickly recognizes the 
evils of the Galactic Empire and Emperor Palpatine's New Order. Rather 
than seek wealth for his services, Zerik performs much of his pro-Alliance 
work for free. 

The death of his sister—one of the Bothans who die in the effort to 
retrieve information pertaining to the second Death Star—eclipses any value 
Zerik has for his own life with a seething, uncontained hatred. Although he 
still works for the Rebellion, Zerik is more interested in making the Empire 
pay for his sister's death than he is in overthrowing its tyranny. 


The Bothan you see before you is dressed in the stained coveralls of a career 
miner, yet the dangerous twinkle in his eyes reveals a more sinister intention. 
As he talks, his right hand rarely ventures far from the butt of the blaster 
pistol ina holster on his belt. 


Zerik CL8 
Medium Bothan scoundrel 5/soldier 3 
_ Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 3 
Init +13; Senses Perception+5 
Languages Basic, Bothese, Ryl, Nyriaanan 
Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 20), Fort 21, Will 22 
hp 56; Threshold 21 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+5) 
Ranged blaster rifle +10 (3d8+4) or 


Most Alliance agents on Nyriaan operate as sleeper agents within the 
different factions on the planet. Many disguise themselves as indepen- 
dent miners or prospectors, while a few are employed by Sienar, KDY, the 
Mining Guild, or the Corporate Sector Authority. Most work with criminal 
organizations to secure much-needed resources for the Alliance, while others 
keep tabs on Imperial operations such as Operation Cloudfall. These agents 
eventually form the backbone of armed resistance on Nyriaan following the 
death of Emperor Palpatine on the second Death Star. 


Ranged blaster rifle +11 (4d8+4) when aiming or 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire, Careful Shot, Dastardly Strike, Deadeye, 
Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skirmisher, 
Sneak Attack +1d6, Sniper 

Special Actions Indomitable 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 19, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Talents Dastardly Strike, Demolitionist, Indomitable, Skirmisher, Sneak 
Attack +1d6 

Feats Careful Shot, Deadeye, Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Gather Information), Sniper, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Gather Information +15, Initiative +13, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +11, Mechanics +11, Stealth +13 

Possessions blaster rifle, blaster pistol, knife, 2 thermal detonators, 
field kit 


Zerik's Tactics 

Zerik prefers to remain hidden until he feels that the time is right to strike 
his enemies. He feigns a harmless demeanor, hoping to lull his targets 
into a sense of false confidence before unleashing his formidable combat 
skills against them. In the event that he is unable to rely on surprise, Zerik 
fights like a cornered animal. He has no honor, especially when dealing 
with Imperial agents, and does anything to win. Short of victory, he accepts 
only death. To Zerik, surrender is never an option. 


tA SBSStadavHoa 


SNEIGLNI JO GWOM MWVYAYAN 


1 iA SSadcvHS 


SnNEQIILN JO GIOM WYMEAN 


THE New JED! ORDER ERA 

The invasion of the Yuuzhan Vong leaves few systems untouched, and Luire is 
no exception. Given Nyriaan's inexplicable effect on the Force, as well as the 
volatility of its atmosphere, the Yuuzhan Vong invasion is quick and brutal. 
Yuuzhan Vong see Nyriaan as a holy place, and a contingent of warriors 
and priests is left behind to police it after the initial invasion of the Luire 
system. Nyriaan's industry, which focuses primarily on madilon, is virtually 
eradicated during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. Since they have no use for 
the rare alloy and consider the technology used to extract it to be in direct 
defiance of Nyriaan’s sanctity, the invaders are unremitting in their assault 
upon the commercial interests that dominate the planet. 

Prior to the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, the New Republic does what it can to 
mitigate the damage inflicted upon Nyriaan by the Empire's failed Operation 
Cloudfall. An offer is extended to Nyriaan's natives by Republic politicians, 
asking them to join the New Republic. In exchange, these politicians offer to 
lobby the Senate for Nyriaan's independence, which would allow the natives 
to form their own government and collect tariffs and other export fees from 
mining interests on their planet. The Corporate Sector and the Mining Guild 
are not at all happy with such a proposal, and they protest loudly. Nyriaan's 
native clans, although interested in the offer, are wary of becoming embroiled 
in the New Republic's politics. They've known little goodwill from any of 
their planet's invaders, and are suspicious of the New Republic's motives. 

Even after their acceptance of the offer, the native clans on Nyriaan are 
cast into a political limbo as the Corporate Sector files legal objections with 
the New Republic Senate. As the legal battle rages, the CSA and the Mining 
Guild step up their operations on Nyriaan, determined to gut the planet of as 
much alloy as they can before a decision is made. Distracted by the Imperial 
Remnant as well as other threats to their new government, the New Republic 
never formally recognizes Nyriaan prior to the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. 


The New Republic 
The New Republic finds itself troubled on a number of fronts following 
Emperor Palpatine's death. Despite the numerous problems confronting it, 
the Republic reaches out to the natives of Nyriaan in 8 ABY and attempts to 
bring them into the fold. The gesture is only partially successful, as elements 
of the Corporate Sector block the New Republic with legal proceedings, citing 
decisions made by the Senate of the Galactic Republic. 


Even so, Nyriaan remains a valuable resource that the New Republic 
wants to keep close. Republic agents are sent to Nyriaan, both to monitor 
the powerful factions that plunder its landscape as well as to woo the native 
clans with promises of equality and prosperity. Unfortunately, these efforts 
bear little fruit. The little that is accomplished is marred by CSA and Mining 
Guild interference, both overt and covert. 

When the Yuuzhan Vong invade and scour Nyriaan in 26 ABY, the New 
Republic's presence there—like the presence of all technological powers—is 
nearly obliterated. The few remaining Republic agents hide among Nyriaan's 
native clans, which watch the alien invaders warily from the shadows. 
Although they are not friends of the Yuuzhan Vong, the clans view the aliens 
as an improvement on their world's former tenants. After all, the Yuuzhan 
Vong show Nyriaan a kind of respect that, up until that time, only the native 
clans had shown to it. 

Following the retreat of the Yuuzhan Vong, the New Republic attempts to 
reestablish the city of Locus and repair the ion shielding station there. The 
station is, however, beyond repair, forcing the New Republic to dedicate more 
resources to rebuilding it. The process is long one, taking nearly twice as long 
as the original Imperial construction did. In the meantime, less impressive 
means of making planetfall, such as gondola systems and laser transport 
arrays, are brought back into use. 


The Yuuzhan Vong 
For the brief time the Yuuzhan Vong control Nyriaan, they are content to 
search its landscape for answers to questions of faith. They are aware of the 
existence of the native clans on Nyriaan, but are content to leave them alone, 
initially. As time wears on and contact between the two species becomes’ 
more common, the Yuuzhan Vong begin using natives as fodder for experi- 
ments. The natives, not taking kindly to the Yuuzhan Vong's renewed inter- 
est, hide and fight back in equal amounts, with varying degrees of success. 
By the time that the Yuuzhan Vong are defeated at the Second Battle 
of Coruscant, the guerilla war on Nyriaan reaches its peak. The natives, 
supplemented with whatever resources the New Republic can spare, fight 
a daily, desperate battle to evict their enemies from the surface of Nyriaan. 
When the time finally does come, most of the Yuuzhan Vong heed the call 
of their brothers and sisters, leaving Nyriaan without so much as a backward 
glance. A handful, however, remain behind, unwilling to leave the paradise 
that they have found. In time these expatriates manage to connect with the 
native clans in a way that their people could not—or would not—when they 
were Nyriaan’s masters. 


THE LEGACY ERA 

After centuries of abuse, the Nyriaan of the Legacy era is much as it was 
before the crash of the Locus. The Yuuzhan Vong invasion leaves Nyriaan's 
mining infrastructure in tatters, while landing upon the surface of the planet 
is a complicated affair once more. With the rest of the galaxy a shambles, 
Nyriaan is once again a remote pearl in the minds of the galactic powers that 
once coveted its treasures. While the New Republic, the CSA, and countless 
other governments bury their dead and rebuild their infrastructures, the 
natives of Nyriaan and the remaining Yuuzhan Vong continue to integrate 
with one another. By the time Cade Skywalker witnesses the death of his 
father on Ossus, the two cultures have melded seamlessly. 

The Corporate Sector Authority returns to Nyriaan with a vengeance. In 
the absence of the exercise of any real authority by the New Republic, the 
CSA takes de facto control of the entire planet. The natives and their new 
Yuuzhan Vong allies do not take kindly to the corporate invasion, resisting 
it on every front. CSA facilities are sabotaged, employees are killed or dis- 
appear, and in a handful of rare events, open warfare takes place between 
CSA security forces and armies of natives. This ongoing struggle provides 
much of Nyriaan's backdrop during the Legacy era. Despite their losses, the 
CSA sees madilon as far too profitable for them to be dissuaded from their 
exploitation of Nyriaan. The CSA's executives, safe in their boardrooms, care 
little for anything but the bottom line. 


The Galactic Alliance 

Although it initially continues the work of the New Republic on Nyriaan, 
the Galactic Alliance fails to recognize the potential of Nyriaan's bounty. 
Instead, it cedes stewardship of the planet to the Corporate Sector Author- 
ity, accepting shipments of madilon in exchange for control of the planet. 
Until the Alliance's overthrow by the Galactic Empire, it maintain a grudg- 
ing presence on Nyriaan to oversee Corporate Sector operations. Alliance 
agents are sent into the wilderness to contact native clans, but most are 
never heard from again. A number of these agents run afoul of the clans, 
while the rest are silenced by the CSA, which happily blames their deaths 
upon Nyriaan's natives. 

The ascension of the Galactic Empire results in a nearly immediate loss 
of Nyriaan for the Alliance. The Alliance agents who remain on Nyriaan join 
their new masters, leave the planet entirely, or retreat into the wilderness 
and attempt to wage a guerilla war. A few manage to contact elements of 
Nyriaan's native clans with varying degrees of success, while the remainder 
are hunted down by the Corporate Sector Authority and turned in for boun- 
ties offered by the Galactic Empire. 


The Galactic Empire 

Under the rule of Roan Fel and his predecessors, Imperial interest in Nyriaan 
is cursory at best. The valuable metal exports from the planet are taxed, 
but little else is done to curb the violence that continues to be targeted at 
the planetary natives. Prejudice against the Yuuzhan Vong, especially fol- 
lowing the Sith-sabotaged terraforming attempts on other worlds, is easily 
manipulated in the CSA's favor. Although Emperor Fel garrisons troops in 
and around Locus, ostensibly to keep the peace, little is done to curb the 
excesses of the Corporate Sector Authority. 

When Darth Krayt usurps the throne, his interest in Nyriaan is piqued 
when Sith agents uncover rumors of the Dying Sun. A Sith warship dating to 
the years of the Old Republic, the Dying Sun would be quite a find, especially 
if it contains Sith artifacts such as holocrons from that bygone age. In 132 
ABY, Darth Krayt dispatches Darth Vurik to Nyriaan to investigate rumors 
of the Dying Sun. As he investigates the scant clues provided by his master, 
Darth Vurik discovers the descendants of the Sith who survived the crash of 
the Dying Sun. The descendants of the Sith, twisted in both body and spirit 
by their fanatical worship of the sleeping Darth Glovoc, resist Darth Vurik's 
advances, and many lose their lives in defense of their comatose master. 

Darth Vurik's investigations into the Sith natives are not unnoticed. 
Members of Nyriaan's native clans observe him as he moves through their 
wilderness, as do the Jedi who hide among them. Before Darth Vurik can 
discover the location of Darth Glovoc, the sleeping captain of the Dying Sun, 
he is set upon by several fugitive Jedi. Although he is defeated, Darth Vurik 
leaves many of the Jedi wounded and kills at least one before retreating to 
Locus. While the Jedi and Darth Vurik distract one another, the Sith natives 
move Darth Glovoc to another hidden location. Haunted by his failure, Darth 
Vurik does not immediately report back to Darth Krayt. Instead, he hires 
bounty hunters to locate and kill the Jedi on Nyriaan while he continues his 
hunt for Darth Glovoc's body. 


A H#SievuHo 


Z 
x 
y 
> 
> 
g 
g 
@) 
ay 
(Pr 
Y 
@ 
a) 
Zz 
J 
5) 
a) 
c 
W 


LA $I E LY LTE LL IER 
CHAPTER VII 


INTRIGUE ENCOUNTERS 


_ This chapter is intended for Gamemasters and contains several mini-adven- 
tures ideally suited for heroes of intrigue. If you're a player, you probably 
_ should skip this chapter and wait for your GM to spring these adventures 
.on you and the other players in your group. 


USING MINI- 
ADVENTURES 


Occasionally, heroes take a tangent that their Gamemaster had not planned 
for, or the GM needs to fill a few hours of play with an entertaining diver- 
sion from the main plot. The GM can improvise something, but, when he or 
she is at a loss for a scenario (or is just pressed for time), a mini-adventure 
might fit the bill. 

The mini-adventures presented here cover a range of themes and 
challenge levels, including stakeouts, infiltrations, and the extraction of 
deep-cover spies from behind enemy lines. Each mini-adventure includes 
background on the events and challenges presented in the scenario, which 
the Gamemaster can use to construct a few “off-the-cuff” situations or as 
a jumping-off point for future encounters. 

In addition, each mini-adventure also features a fully developed tactical 
encounter designed to serve as the climax of the scenario. The Gamemaster 
can use these encounters as written, alter the details to play to the heroes’ 
strengths, or completely redesign them to fit the needs of the campaign. 
The GM'ean also reference these encounters when designing his or her own 
mini-adventures and scenarios. 

These mini-adventures are designed to cater to different heroes’ abilities, 
as well as the players’ interests, within the realm of intrigue. For example, 

action-oriented heroes should appreciate "My Enemy's Enemy," while stealthy 
"and tech-savvy heroes will like “Arms Dealers Beware." Heroes hoping to 
\show off their espionage skills should enjoy “Betrayal at Cloud City" and 

"Double Down.” Similarly, “Opportunity Knocks" is aimed at heroic nobles, 

and the group's fast-talking con artist should find that "Shooting Trouble” 

makes good use of Deception and Persuasion. Each mini-adventure in this 
chapter gives heroes of all classes a chance to shine, even if the scenario is 
not aimed specifically at their competencies. 

Each mini-adventure opens with a two-page spread that outlines the 
plot and various encounters. This is followed by another two-page spread 
detailing the climactic encounter. In addition, the mini-adventures make use 

fe “of the new skill challenge rules described in Chapter 2. 

Although these mini-adventures are designed to be completely indepen- 
dent of one another, common threads run through all of them, allowing them 
to be strung together and run as a sort of “sub-campaign” within the main 
campaign. How they are used is purely up to the Gamemaster's discretion. 


WA BSigvHo : 


SYSLNNOINGE SNOVISLNI 


Zz 
d 
5) 
@ 
Cc 
nm 
W 
z 
W) 
0) 
C 
@ 
d 
) 
50 
@ 


ADVENTURE 
#1: SHOOTING 
TROUBLE 


"Shooting Trouble" is a mini-adventure designed for 2nd-level heroes. In 
this scenario, the characters are hired to infiltrate a corrupt corporation's 
branch office to slice into its mainframe and locate incriminating evidence. 
Along the way, however, they learn that the organization they are working 
for might not have the best of intentions. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


Although the Joruba Consortium is relatively unknown to the general 
populace, it is well respected in the Mid Rim business community as a 
capable wholesale distributor for a bewildering array of goods—airspeeders, 
foodstuffs, holovid projectors, and much more. The Consortium does not 
produce these goods, but buys them in enormous quantities and ships them 
throughout the galaxy using its diverse fleet of starships. Beneath this veneer 
of respectability, however, lies a dark truth. The Joruba Consortium uses its 
shipping fleet, wealth, and bureaucratic favors to smuggle almost every type 
of illegal item known, including slaves, to the lawless planets of the Outer Rim. 

A pair claiming to be members of the Sector Rangers—a law-enforcement 
agency with authority throughout the galaxy—approaches the heroes with an 
unusual request. Officers Malbo and Tyri are in deep cover for their agency, 
investigating the Joruba Consortium for smuggling, tax evasion, and traf- 
ficking in sentients. They tell the heroes that they are close to cracking the 
case but require one last bit of evidence to close the books. This information 
lies within a computer network inside one of the Consortium's branch offices 
on the edge of Hutt Space. Unfortunately, the rangers claim, neither they 
nor their usual contacts can infiltrate the office without blowing their cover. 
Malbo and Tyri request that the heroes undertake the mission on behalf of 
the Sector Rangers. They will provide a method for infiltrating the office 
and another for escape if the heroes will undertake to secure the evidence. 
In exchange, they the promise both credits and the goodwill of the Rangers. 


By HOOK OR BY CROOK 

Malbo and Tyri offer 15,000 credits to the heroes, payable when they deliver 
the desired information. With a successful Persuasion check opposed by 
Malbo or Tyri's check (+15), the heroes can increase this amount to 17,500 
credits. If they make the check by 5 or more, they increase the reward to a 
maximum of 20,000 credits. 


If the heroes find the circumstances suspicious, demand more credits, 
or otherwise do not want to take the job, the request for assistance quickly 


turns to innuendo and then threats. Malbo (playing the bad cop) drops hints 
about the heroes’ past that can be used as leverage against them. If even this 
fails to sway them, Malbo reveals incriminating information about a relative 
or colleague of one of the heroes—information that is not public knowledge. 
It becomes obvious that the pair have been watching and researching the 
heroes for some time. If the heroes consent to take the job, at which point 
Malbo and Tyri revert to their pleasant and professional demeanors. 


JUST THE MIRED HELP 


Once the heroes agree to take part in the mission, Malbo and Tyri give them 
a day to tie up any loose ends and arrange to meet them at the nearest 
starport the following day. During that meeting, the rangers take the heroes 
into a private room and explain that they will travel to the planet Nyriaan 
aboard a Joruba Consortium freighter. The heroes are to pose as corporate 
troubleshooters sent by headquarters for a surprise inspection of the facility's 
computer network and security measures. Each hero is given an appropriate 
outfit (either business attire or a Consortium uniform, depending on the 
character's skill set) and a code cylinder containing data on his or her false 
identity. Because the mission is meant to be clandestine, Malbo and Tyri 
forbid the heroes from taking oversized weapons that cannot be stowed in 
their luggage, including weapons from the rifle or heavy weapons groups. 
Heroes can attempt to smuggle in these items, however, with a Deception 
check opposed by Malbo or Tyri's Perception check (+10). If caught, they 
will be ordered to hand over the weapons, which will be returned after 
completion of the mission. 

There is a catch, of course. The code cylinders have only enough data 
for the heroes to board the Joruba Consortium freighter, the Windswept. 
Once aboard, the heroes need to make contact with the real troubleshoot- 
ing team, also aboard the vessel, and obtain their code cylinders. When the 
real cylinders are connected to the heroes’ cylinders, they will slice through 


SLICING INTO THE MAINFRAME 


poneneenne 
papeneoene 


the encryption and adjust the heroes’ identifications, making them seem 
authentic. If the heroes ask about using deadly force to obtain the cylinders, 
Malbo and Tyri are remarkably noncommittal and simply reply that the heroes 
should do what needs to be done. They note that bribes have been made 
to the right people to allow the heroes’ presence on the Windswept to be 
removed from the ship's logs. 

Once the heroes are ready, the rangers point them to the appropriate gate 
and explain that after completing the mission, the characters must return 
to the starport on Nyriaan. There, they will board another vessel named the 
Last Call, which will return them to their point of origin, where they will 
receive their reward. 


'M TAKING THIS (CL 2) 

The Windsweptis an aging Corellian corvette, garishly painted in the colors of 
the Joruba Consortium. The false identification in the heroes’ code cylinders 
allows them to board the vessel with no problems, and they are shown to their 
quarters while the ship takes off for Nyriaan. Once aboard, the heroes are 
free to move about the passenger area, where they encounter three groups 
of passengers, each of which is affiliated with the Consortium in some way. 
One group consists of Joruba employees who are the real troubleshooters; the 


other groups can be fleshed out by the Gamemaster as desired. The heroes 
have a full day to formulate their plans and obtain the code cylinders from 
the real troubleshooters before the Windswept arrives at Nyriaan. 

The real troubleshooter team has the same number of members as the 
heroes’ party. They spend half the journey in their quarters (each member 
of the team shares a cabin with another member) and the other half in the 
passenger common area, watching holovids, reading, or conversing with one 
another. The heroes must figure out a way to get the troubleshooters alone 
long enough to obtain the code cylinders that they wear on their uniforms. 
The characters can try several avenues. 

If a Joruba employee is in his or her quarters, the heroes must gain access 
to the room. Bypassing the door lock requires a DC 20 Mechanics check. 
With a DC 15 Persuasion check, a hero could convince a crew member that 
he or she is the rightful occupant of the room, locked out by accident. If 
the heroes gain access to a room, there is a 50% chance that the Joruba 
employee inside is asleep (imposing a -10 penalty to Perception checks to 
notice the heroes sneaking in). If combat occurs, see below. 

The heroes could also attempt to use Stealth checks to pick the pocket 
of a Joruba employee and take the troubleshooter's code cylinder. Because 
the employees stick together when outside their quarters, they gain a +2 
bonus to Perception checks to notice such attempts. 

Of course, even if the heroes obtain all the real code cylinders, they still 
must contend with the Joruba employees, who will try to exit the Windswept 
when it docks on Nyriaan and head for the branch office. If the heroes kill the 
troubleshooters, each character immediately gains a Dark Side Point. With 
a DC 20 Stealth check, the heroes can hide a body on the Windswept well 
enough for it to remain undiscovered until they are long gone. More ethical 
heroes could subdue the employees and store them bound and gagged ina 
storage closet or the like. With a DC 15 Intelligence check, the heroes can 
find a suitably disused space in which the employees will not be discovered 
by the crew before the ship heads back to the Mid Rim. 


Combat 

If violence ensues, the Gamemaster should create a basic map for the 
appropriate area. Passenger quarters are 2 squares wide by 3 squares long, 
and each room contains two bunks, a table, and a basic computer. The ship's 
common area is 5 squares by 5 squares, with couches and tables arranged as 
appropriate. In the common area, any particularly loud noise (such as blaster 
fire) draws the attention of a crew member in 1d6 rounds. If the noise occurs 
in a passenger's quarters, make a +5 check against a generic crew member's 
Perception check (+2) to determine whether anyone is alerted. 


SYSGLANASGONE SASIMAND 


iA BSBLIVHDS 


SUEANASCGSINEG SASWAN0 | 


ENCOUNTER: 
THE TROUBLE- 
SHOOTING 


Challenge Level 3 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “Shooting Trouble," the mini- 
adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

If the heroes manage to obtain the real code cylinders and prevent the 
genuine troubleshooting team from reaching the Joruba branch office on Nyri- 
aan, they can travel to the facility with no additional problems. The real code 
cylinders provide the necessary identification, and the security staff admits 
the heroes and gives them access to the facility's main computer system. 

Outside the main computer room is a security station, where four bored 
security guards (use the Rebel Trooper statistics on page 280 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook) monitor the room with cameras. Two technicians 
remain inside the computer room while the heroes go about their activities. 

The computer room contains three terminals that are not linked to one 
another in any way. The heroes must complete a skill challenge to determine 
which terminal holds the database with the information they seek. 


SKILL. CHALLENGE: 
THE SLICE 


In this skill challenge, the heroes must determine which computer system 
contains the files they seek. At the same time, they must maintain their 
cover as legitimate Joruba employees inspecting the systems for faults in 
its security measures, fooling the two technicians. As the heroes accrue 
failures, the technicians become suspicious, eventually calling the security 
guards to seize the intruders. 


CL3 

Complexity: 3 (11 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Deception [Opposed DC]: The heroes bluff their way through a tight 
spot by threatening dire consequences for a technician that questions their 
activities as corporate troubleshooters. 

Knowledge (technology) [DC 18]: The heroes determine which of the 
systems is primarily used for data storage and which is used for security 
and monitoring. 

Persuasion [Opposed DC]: The heroes try to persuade the technicians to 
reveal information that will help them determine which computer system 
contains the data they seek. 


Use Computer [DC 20]: The heroes slice through the many layers of the 
computer's defenses to find the incriminating information they seek. 

Use the Force [Opposed DC or DC 18]:The heroes attempt to determine 
whether the technicians are holding back information about which system 
contains the data they seek. The heroes can also use move object to block 
the security cameras from monitoring their activities. 


Challenge Effects: The following is a suggested challenge effect for 
this skill challenge: 

Opposed DC: The technicians that the heroes are trying to fool or keep 
distracted throughout the skill challenge use Perception to see through 
deceptions and sense the heroes’ intentions. 


Success: The heroes manage to locate and download the files they seek 
without setting off alarms or drawing undue attention from the technicians 
or the security guards. 

Failure: The heroes set off an alarm in the security system or in the 
firewall protecting the data, or they do something that makes the techni- 
cians overly suspicious. Either way, the technicians call for the four security 
guards, who arrive the following round. 


JORUBA CONSORTIUM 
TROUBLESHOOTER 

TEAM MEMBERS 

The members of the Joruba Consortium troubleshooter team are no-nonsense 
individuals that just want to get the job done. They are inherently wary, but 
they have no reason to suspect the heroes at first. 


Joruba Consortium Troubleshooter Team Member CL2 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Init +4; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Bocce, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will 12 

hp 20; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Feats Cut the Red Tape, Mechanics, Use Computer), Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [technology], Skill Training (Perception), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +10, Knowledge (technology) +15, 
Mechanics +15, Perception +10, Use Computer +15 

Possessions blaster pistol, Joruba Consortium uniform, comlink, 
code cylinder 


HJORUBA CONSORTIUM 
TECHNICIANS (2) 

The technicians have endured visits from snooping corporate troubleshooters 
before and are not thrilled to have the heroes in the computer room. If combat 
breaks out, the technicians hide or flee but do not confront the heroes. 
Joruba Consortium Technician CLO 
Medium Human nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 10, Will 10 

hp 4; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d4) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +1 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology], Mechanics, Perception, 
Use Computer), Skill Training (Perception) 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +12, Mechanics +12, Perception +11, 
Use Computer +12 

Possessions datapad, Joruba Consortium uniform 


CONCLUSION 


If the heroes obtain the data they need from the computer system and make 
their way to the Last Call, they discover that Malbo and Tyri are waiting for 
them aboard the vessel, although the rangers reveal themselves only after 
the ship is in deep space. They ask for the data, and if the heroes give it to 
them, the rangers deliver the payment agreed upon. 

If the heroes take at least 10 minutes to look through the data before 
delivering it, they discover that it implicates Malbo and Tyri in some illicit 
business activities of the Joruba Consortium—the real reason that the rangers 
wanted the data. If the heroes confront Malbo and Tyri with this informa- 
tion, the rangers try to arrest them to shut them up. If the heroes resist, 
combat occurs; treat both rangers as bounty hunters (see page 283 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 

The heroes might defeat Malbo and Tyri or find some other way to deliver 
the information to the headquarters of the Sector Rangers. If they bring 
proof of corruption to the officers’ superiors, they receive 10,000 credits as 
a reward, and they might be asked to help the Rangers further investigate 
the Joruba Consortium's misdeeds. 


PATARASS 


@- Storage 


| &-Crew Lounge —_| 


IA SsSstavHad 


SYELNNEONE) SNSISLN0 


SvIaLNWNOEOoONE) FNHO1/LNWI 


ADVENTURE #2: 
ARMS DEALERS 
BEWARE 


“Arms Dealers Beware" is a mini-adventure designed for 2nd-level heroes. 
It gives the heroes an opportunity to stake out a facility where illegal arms 
are believed to be stored and sold. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


For the past year, the Hutt crime cartel based on Nar Shaddaa has been 
secretly operating a warehouse on Naboo, outside of their usual jurisdiction. 
Naboo, a peaceful world that has strong restrictions on weapons, has had 
a recent outbreak of crime. Local authorities have been baffled by this turn 
of events, and their investigations have been fruitless. 

Events escalated earlier this week when a Naboo plasma-processing fac- 
tory was the target of a major theft. The factory was hit by heavy weapons, 
such as those normally used only by the Naboo Royal Security Force. This 
event triggers hysteria and fear among the peaceful populace. Naboo's 
government has sent out a request for mercenaries to aid it in uncovering 
the source of these illegal weapons and munitions. 

The heroes hear of the job offer through HoloNet resources. The contact 
is Trayl Caltos, a lieutenant with the Naboo Royal Security Force. Caltos is 
a lower supervisor who has been charged with investigating the matter and 
ending it by any means necessary. All of the crime zones so far have been 
in the capital city of Theed. 

Caltos offers the heroes 2,500 credits to aid the security force in stak- 
ing out a potential illegal-arms warehouse. If they accept, he provides them 
with a special intercepting short-range comlink and a set of coordinates 
for a building in the warehouse district on the outskirts of Theed. Caltos 
recommends that the heroes begin their stakeout of the building as soon 
as possible—if they hurry, they can arrive around dusk. He believes that the 
criminals, who typically work after dark, might know that the security force 
is on their scent. He adds that the real criminals responsible for the illegal 
weapons are a Corellian scoundrel named Kal Jorek and his Defel sidekick, 
known only as Frizz. Caltos believes that their capture might also lead to 
identifying their offworld partners—the ones ultimately responsible for the 
lives lost. Caltos asks the heroes to report any findings to him using the 
special comlink. 


BARGAINING WITH CALTOS 

The heroes might choose to bargain with Caltos for more credits. With a 
successful Persuasion check opposed by the lieutenant's check (+13), the 
heroes can negotiate the pay up to 3,000 credits. If they beat his check by 
5 or more, they can negotiate a payment of 4,000 credits. If they try for 
even more, Caltos explains that he is not authorized to offer additional pay. 


THE STAKEOUT 

Around dusk, the heroes reach the coordinates supplied by Caltos, arriving 
at what appears to be an abandoned warehouse in a run-down portion of 
the Theed outskirts. If they believe that they are staking out the correct 
warehouse—that is, if Caltos did not admit that he was sending them ona 
decoy mission—the heroes probably make DC 24 Stealth checks to sneak or 
hide in the warehouse district. Most likely, they will choose a hiding place 
to lie in wait. 


BREAKING INTO THE WAREHOUSE 


THe SwitcH (CL. 4) 

After a while, the heroes hear a few approaching voices. If the heroes are 
out in the open, four approaching thugs (see page 284 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook) easily spot them and open fire with blaster pistols. If the 
heroes defeat the thugs, they can confiscate their opponents’ comlinks and 
overhear communications that reveal that the heroes are, indeed, at the 
correct location. 

If the heroes make successful Stealth checks to remain hidden from the 
approaching thugs, the characters eavesdrop as the thugs make small talk 
outside the warehouse. After a moment, one of the thugs answers a call on 
his comlink. The hero in possession of the special comlink provided by Caltos 
can try to tap into the thug's communication. With a successful DC 21 Use 
Computer check, the hero intercepts the thug's conversation and learns that 
they are, indeed, outside the correct warehouse. 

If the heroes use Stealth to get the drop on the thugs and attack, begin 
the surprise round in their favor, 


WARNING CALTOS 

If the heroes decide to contact Caltos to apprise him of the news, they learn 
that he is currently under fire from another group of thugs. If the heroes 
offer aid, Caltos refuses, claiming that his soldiers can handle the situation, 
and he orders the characters to raid the warehouse they are staking out: 
“The weapons flow must be stopped!" 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 
RUMBLE IN THE 
WAREHOUSE 


When the heroes approach the main entrance to the warehouse, read the 
following text aloud: 


The main entrance to the warehouse features an unexpected blast door. A 
computer interface terminal is located to the right of the door. You see no 
cover and no easy way inside the building. 

As you evaluate the scene, you hear someone shout “Over there!" as another 
group of thugs rounds the corner and opens fire on you. 


ENTRY 

In this skill challenge, the heroes must gain entrance to a possible illegal 
weapons facility as thugs engage them in combat. As the heroes accrue 
failures, additional thugs arrive or additional security measures (such as 
automated weapons) activate. Each success indicates another level of 
security protocol bypassed. 


CL2 

Complexity: 1 (5 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Use Computer [DC 24]: The heroes can attempt to slice into the computer 
interface to bypass the blast door's security protocols. If they accrue a fail- 
ure, the interface might sustain damage, in which case the heroes can try 
to use this skill to repair it. A successful repair does not accrue a success in 
the skill challenge but instead removes the failure from the previous check. 

Knowledge (technology) [DC 27 or 24]: The heroes can try to remember 
what they know about computer lock systems to bypass the door's security 
protocols. The standard DC is 27, but it can be reduced to 24 for heroes who 
have experience in bypassing security locks. 

Mechanics [DC 19]: The heroes can use the Disable Device application 
of the skill (which requires a security kit) or the Repair application (which 
requires a tool kit). A successful Disable Device check earns a success. A 
successful Repair check removes a failure caused by a failed Disable Device 
check. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Close Call: Because of variance in security protocols, some attempts yield 
no change in the outcome. The heroes accrue failures only on skill checks 
that fail by 5 or more. 

Initiative: Since the heroes are engaged in combat, they must act in order 
of initiative during the skill challenge. 

Restricted Skills: The following skills cannot be used in this challenge: 
Gather Information, Survival, Swim, and Treat Injury. 


Success: The heroes enter the warehouse to learn whether it contains 
the illegal weapons. 

Failure: Thugs overwhelm the heroes, who are either captured or forced 
to flee. 


WA HSiagtvHsa 


SHESsLNnoecesWNse) snel!!4N0I 


} 
J 


SysLNWnesoNe”gd sn 


OIHIAW0 | HA eeievog 


ENCOUNTER: 
RAIDING THE 
WAREHOUSE 


Challenge Level 2 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "Arms Dealers Beware," the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 


READ-ALOUD TExT 

In this encounter, the heroes face off with thugs and their leader, Kal Jorek, 
as they further investigate the suspect warehouse. When the heroes enter 
the building, read the following text aloud: 


As your eyes readjust from the night outside to the artificial lighting inside 
the warehouse, you see many large crates in stacks of varying height. Some 
are lined against the walls and some are out in the middle of the warehouse. 

Across the room, you see a round table where five individuals are seated, 
playing sabacc. One is a Human, possibly Corellian. To his right is a small, barely 
visible, almost blurry figure. The others appear to be common thugs. They look 
up from their game when you enter. The Human yells “They've found us!" as 
he topples the table in front of him, scattering cards, drinks, and credit chips. 
The others draw their weapons. 


KAL JOREK 

A low-grade weapons smuggler, Kal Jorek has been upsetting peaceful sys- 
tems for years by importing illegal weapons. Jorek creates a demand for his 
wares by promoting chaos and fear, after which the local populace comes 
to him for weapons to protect themselves. Jorek, who ultimately answers 
to the Hutt crime cartel in Nar Shaddaa, leads a small band of thugs, which 
includes his right-hand "man," a Defel he calls Frizz. 


Kal Jorek (J) CL3 
Medium Human scoundrel 2/noble 1 

Force 1; Dark Side 2 

Init +9; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Defel, Huttese, 3 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 14, Will 17 
hp 25; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d4+1) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +5 (3d8+1) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +4 


Atk Options Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Disruptive, Inspire Confidence 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Disruptive, Inspire Confidence 

Feats Far Shot, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +9, Deception +8, Initiative +9, Mechanics +8, 
Perception +7, Persuasion +8, Stealth +9 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, 1,200 credits 


Kal Jorek's Tactics 

When he sees the heroes, Kal Jorek uses his Disruptive talent, spending 2 swift 
actions to topple the card table and the cards, drinks, and credit chips resting 
on it. Until the start of his next turn, he suppresses all morale and insight 
bonuses of the heroes within his line of sight. Jorek then uses his standard 
action to activate his Inspire Confidence talent, granting a +1 morale bonus 
to the attack rolls and skill checks of allies within his line of sight until the 
end of the encounter (unless he becomes unconscious or dies). Additionally, 
he uses the table as cover as long as the heroes are at range. Whenever Jorek 
has 2 swift actions to spare, he uses Disruptive again to cause further chaos. 


FRIZZ 

This Defel befriended Kal Jorek soon after leaving his homeworld of Af'El. 
Because Jorek could not properly pronounce the Defel's name, the smug- 
gler decided to call him "Frizz," and the new name stuck. Frizz has grown 
accustomed to the moniker. 


Frizz (F) CL2 
Small Defel scout 1/scoundrel 1 

Force 1; Dark Side 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Defel, 3 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 14, Will 13 

hp 30; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed -1 (1d3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +3 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Sneak Attack +1d6 
Special Actions Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 16, Wis 10, Cha 12 
Special Qualities partial invisibility 

Talents Improved Stealth, Sneak Attack +1d6 


Feats Point Blank Shot, Shake It Off, Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +5, Endurance +7, Initiative +9, Jump +5, Knowledge 
(technology) +9, Mechanics +9, Perception +6, Stealth +14 (can reroll, 
keeping the second result) 

Possessions blaster pistol, ultraviolet visor, 900 credits 


Partial Invisibility—The fur of a Defel helps bend all but ultraviolet light, 
rendering him or her nearly invisible. A Defel in normal light is treated 
as having concealment, and a Defel in shadowy illumination or darker 
conditions is treated as having total concealment. Defel are fully visible 
and gain no concealment against opponents with darkvision, but low- 
light vision gives no such benefit. 

Ultraviolet Visor—The eyes of Defel have evolved in such a way that they 
can see only in the ultraviolet spectrum. Defel that leave Af’El must 
wear a special ultraviolet visor to see in normal light. Without such a 
visor, a Defel is considered blind. 


Frizz's Tactics 

Frizz tries to stick to the darker areas of the warehouse so that he has total 
concealment from which to strike out at nearby heroes. He enjoys sneaking 
up on victims with his Stealth skill and making ranged sneak attacks. 


CONCLUSION 

Following the warehouse fight, the heroes recover many crates of illegal 
weapons. Caltos arrives with his soldiers shortly after the heroes win the 
battle. Caltos explains that he and his group were ambushed as a diversion 
to draw them away from the real weapons hideout. He congratulates the 
heroes on recovering the illegal arms and reminds them to come by his office 
later for the promised reward. 

If the heroes kill Kal Jorek, Caltos admits that he feels justice has been 
done—Jorek's criminal enterprise has claimed the smuggler's own life. Still, 
Caltos would have liked for Jorek to have been taken alive for questioning. 
There is no guarantee that the supply chain of illegal weapons will end with 
his death. 

lf the heroes capture Jorek alive and turn him over to Caltos, the lieu- 
tenant is grateful, promising that the arms dealer will be interrogated and 
subject to Naboo justice. Caltos believes that the weapon supply line has 
been dealt a critical blow and that Jorek will be made to reveal the identi- 
ties of his suppliers. 

If the heroes capture the elusive Frizz, Caltos says that he has never actu- 
ally seen a Defel up close before (in fact, few people have). In response, the 
shadowy shape seems to grin with pride. Caltos gives the heroes an additional 
500 credits for the Defel's capture. 


Table: The thugs use this small card tab 


a 
C 
W 
W 
Zz 
@ 
@) 
; 
4 
2) 
(0) 


HA HSidgwvwHga 


OLN | HWA BSaievHa 


SHPsPLWNOEOSNSE) FN@0 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#3: BETRAYAL 
AT CLOUD CiTy 


"Betrayal at Cloud City" is a mini-adventure designed for 4th-level heroes. 
It gives characters of intrigue an opportunity to do what they do best—make 
under-the-table political deals, meet in secret, and apprehend elusive 
double agents. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


Recently, lridonia increased the taxes on technology imported from Duro, 
and the Duro's government officials are furious about the higher tariffs. In 
retaliation, they have banned shipments of all technology to Iridonia. As 
anyone might imagine, the Zabrak have not taken the ban well, although not 
all residents of their planet are in agreement. After a short time, word reaches 
the Duro government that the Zabrak are ready to negotiate. 

The heroes, who are likely working with an intelligence bureau, receive 
orders to finalize an under-the-table political deal between the Iridonian 
dictatorship and the corporate leaders of Duros. Cloud City, above the gas 
giant Bespin, has been selected as a neutral location where each govern- 
ment's officials will feel more at ease, and the covert treaty will be kept from 
prying eyes. Reportedly, the Zabrak rulers have asked to meet in secrecy so 
the news does not spread to their populace. The Duros, wary of this request, 
have asked the heroes to mediate on their behalf. 


MEETING THE SIDES 

After the heroes arrive on Cloud City, they meet with Belai Kaleeg, the Duros 
corporate official, to discuss the details of the signing. Kaleeg tells them 
that he was contacted by a female Zabrak by the name of Koon Odan, who 
said that the lridonian government would like to secretly negotiate a treaty 
to end the trade disagreement. Kaleeg was told that the Zabraks are willing 
to make a substantial offer “that would be in our best financial interests." 
However, he refuses to reveal the details of the transaction to the heroes, 
claiming that he is sworn to secrecy by his government. 

Kaleeg offers to purchase dinner for the heroes at the Twin Star restau- 
rant in the upper plaza, arranging to meet them there after they talk to the 
lridonian representative. 

Next, the heroes meet with Koon Odan, the female Zabrak. She has little 
to say and is straightforward and almost rude. Odan provides them with the 
time and location for the treaty signing and quickly leaves. 

With a successful Perception check opposed by Odan's Deception check 
(+9), the heroes notice that she seems nervous, impatient, and in a hurry to 
be someplace else. Unknown to the heroes, Odan recognizes someone in the 
crowd, and the sighting makes her anxious about the coming transaction. 


ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT (CL. 4) 
The heroes meet Belai Kaleeg for dinner at the Twin Star restaurant. The upper 
plaza is a nice area, filled with tourists, well-to-do travelers, and business 
representatives. It is far different from the rougher crowds found in Port 
Town or the Mining Quarter. Music flows into the restaurant from the small 
synthtone cantina next door. 

Suddenly, the meal is interrupted by the shriek of laser fire—Kaleeg has 
been shot! He slides out of his chair and falls to the floor. A second blast hits 
the chair where he had been sitting. The heroes catch a glimpse of a cloaked 
figure fleeing into the crowded corridor. 

If the heroes give medical aid to Kaleeg, he can be stabilized with a suc- 
cessful DC 21 Treat Injury check. Upon closer examination, the heroes learn 
that the Duros has been shot in his arm and should survive, but it would be 
wise for him to seek medical help immediately. 

If the heroes pursue the cloaked figure, they can spot the suspect in the 
crowd with a successful Perception check opposed by the figure's Stealth 
check (+10). The suspect rounds a corner. With an additional successful 
Perception check opposed by the figure's Stealth check (+10), the heroes 
determine which adjoining corridor the suspect ran down. When they arrive, 
they find only the cloak lying on the ground. 


ESCAPING THROUGH THE STREETS OF CLOUD City 


THE SIGNING 


After an uneventful night, the heroes escort a wounded but recovering Belai 
Kaleeg to the room where the treaty is to be signed. Koon Odan arrives on 
time. Kaleeg, increasingly suspicious following the events of the previous 
day, requests that both he and Odan be searched for weapons prior to the 
transaction. If the heroes comply, they learn that neither representative 
has a weapon. 

Odan provides a legal datapad and a credit chip. Kaleeg looks them over, 
then hands them to the heroes to inspect. With a successful Use Computer 
check (an automatic success), the heroes find that everything is in order. 
With a successful Perception check (DC 16), the heroes notice that Odan is 
calm and collected. 

Kaleeg attempts to agree to the terms of the document shown on the 
datapad, but the screen suddenly goes blank. Puzzled, he hands the datapad 
to the heroes for further inspection. With a successful DC 16 Use Computer 
check, the heroes find that all of the datapad's documents have been locked 
or deleted. In addition, the credit chip attached to the datapad now has no 
balance and reports that all assets have seized by the Iridonians. 

Odan does not know why the datapad and credit chip no longer function, 
and she worries that she is being set up—perhaps by her own government, or 
perhaps by Kaleeg and the heroes. Regardless, she decides to make a quick 
exit. With a successful Perception check opposed by Odan's Deception check 
(+9), the heroes notice that she has become extremely nervous and is easing 
toward a nearby window. 

Unless she is physically subdued, Odan leaps out the window and runs 
away. Kaleeg yells something about a double cross and orders the heroes to 
“bring that Zabrak back!" 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 
THE CHASE 


In this skill challenge, the heroes must pursue Koon Odan on foot through 
the corridors, walkways, businesses, and crowds of Cloud City's upper plaza. 
During the chase, the heroes travel through different parts of the plaza in 
an attempt to cut off her escape route. As the heroes accrue failures, Odan 
slips farther away, possibly escaping altogether. Once the heroes have earned 
either five successes or two failures, the objective of the skill challenge 
changes—an assassin enters the chase, targeting Odan. At this point, the 
heroes are in opposition to the assassin rather than to Odan. 


CL 4 

Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (galactic lore) [DC 26 or 21]: The heroes can try to remember 
what they know about Cloud City to find shortcuts or secret routes. The DC 
is reduced to 21 for heroes who are familiar with the city. 


Perception [DC 21]: The heroes can attempt to locate the best path to keep 
pace with Odan or notice indicators that suggest where she is headed next. 

Stealth [Opposed DC]: The heroes can try to sneak along alternate routes 
to cut Odan off. This check is opposed by Odan's Perception check. 

Use Computer [DC 28]: If one of the heroes stops at a computer terminal, 
he or she might be able to determine Odan's possible routes and relay that 
information to the other heroes via comlink. The hero who stops to check 
the computer is effectively out of the chase but can check the computer 
again if Odan's path changes. 

Treat Injury [DC 15 or 25]: This is a restricted skill that can be used to earn 
successes only after the changing objectives effect is initiated. To earn a 
success with this skill, the heroes must heal Odan from wounds she sustains 
from the assassin. To attempt to heal her, a hero must have a medpac; having 
a medical kit grants a +2 equipment bonus to the check. Making a DC 15 
check allows a hero to administer first aid. Making a DC 25 check allows a 
hero to revivify Odan if she has died within 1 round. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Changing Objectives: When the heroes accrue either five successes or 
two failures, the cloaked assassin from the day before opens fire on the 
fleeing Odan. She stops to take cover at the nearest spot, giving the heroes 
another round or two (depending on how close they are) to catch up. The 
hidden assassin continues to fire from afar at Odan, ignoring the heroes 
unless they close with him in melee range. This development should cause 
the heroes to suspect that Odan is innocent of the assassination attempt on 
Kaleeg and make them want to question her. Their new objective is to stop 
the assassin from killing Odan. 

Containment: The heroes do not accrue failures for failed skill checks. 
Instead, they accrue a failure only if everyone takes an action but no one 
earns a success, since to maintain pursuit, they need to keep Odan in sight 
of only one character. After the changing objectives effect is initiated, the 
containment effect no longer applies. 

Opposed DC: Certain skills in this challenge can be opposed by Odan. After 
the changing objectives effect is initiated, certain skills can be opposed by 
the assassin. 

Restricted Skills: The following skills cannot be used at the start of this 
challenge: Gather Information, Survival, Swim, and Treat Injury. After the 
changing objectives effect is initiated, Treat Injury can be used, but only to 
heal injuries that Odan receives. 


Success: The heroes catch up to Odan, who is still alive, and defeat the 
assassin. 
Failure: Odan gets away or is killed. 


HA BsiavHo 


C) 
Cc 
0) 
W 
2) 
) 
@ 
C 
a 
JJ 
W 
ay 
0) 


iA BSldovHs 


SHsLNnoeoNs FsN@O184N0 


ENCOUNTER: 
CHASE THROUGE- 
THE CLOUDS 


Challenge Level 2 

SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "Betrayal at Cloud City," the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. This encounter can 
be used when the heroes catch up to Koon Odan, or to break up the action 
in the middle of the skill challenge. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
If the heroes chase Koon Odan, their pursuit begins on Cloud City's upper 
plaza. Read the following text aloud: 


Humans and Ugnaughts traverse the busy corridors of Cloud City's upper 
plaza. Koon Odan darts through the crowd, dodging passersby as she heads 
in the general direction of the Twin Star restaurant where you had dinner the 
evening before. A patron of a nearby dance hall stumbles out amid a blast of 
laser illuminations and pulse-pounding music and nearly trips Odan, who spins 
to avoid the collision and continues her flight. 


KOON ODAN 
A female Zabrak, Koon Odan arranged to meet with Duros corporate repre- 
sentative Belai Kaleeg to negotiate a trade agreement to benefit their worlds. 
She is unaware that her government sent a second agent (the assassin) on 
a mission opposing her own. 


Koon Odan (0) 

Medium Zabrak scoundrel 3/noble 1 
Force 2 

Init +11; Senses Perception +3 
Languages Basic, Bothese, Durese, Ryl, Rodese, Zabrak, 3 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 18 

hp 34; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d4+2) 

Ranged by weapon +6 

Base Atk +2; Grp +6 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack 
Abilities Str 10, Dex 18, Con 12, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Disruptive, Presence, Walk the Line 


CL4 


Feats Acrobatic Strike, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Quick Draw, 
Running Attack, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +11, Deception +9, Gather Information +9, Initiative +11, 
Perception +3 (can reroll, keeping the second result), Persuasion +9, 
Stealth +11, Use Computer +10 

Possessions noble's clothing, datapad, secure credit chip containing 
1,250 credits 


Koon Odan's Tactics 

Koon Odan does not attack the heroes unless cornered and threatened. 
Even then, she fights unarmed unless she can somehow acquire a weapon. 
She spends all of her efforts fleeing and trying to stay ahead of the heroes. 
She heads down a path similar to that taken by the assassin the day before. 


ASSASSIN 

This unknown male Zabrak was sent to kill representative Belai Kaleeg to 
stop the trade agreement from being signed. After the assassination attempt 
fails, Kaleeg receives new orders—take out Koon Odan instead. 


Assassin (A) 

Medium Zabrak scoundrel 4 

Force 2; Dark Side 4 

Init +10; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Zabrak, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 17), Fort 15, Will 17 

hp 29; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee baton +5 (1d6+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (4d6+2) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +3; Grp +6 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 11 

Talents Sneak Attack +2d6 

Feats Careful Shot, Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +10, Deception +7, Gather Information +7, Initiative +10, 
Perception +3 (can reroll, keeping the second result), Stealth +10, 
Use Computer +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, cloak, baton, 1,600 credits 


CL 4 


Assassin's Tactics 

The assassin does not attack the heroes unless he is threatened by them in 
melee. He spends all of his efforts trying to kill Koon Odan. During the skill 
challenge, once the changing objectives effect is initiated, the assassin is 
revealed in his hiding place atop the building in the center of the encounter 
map, and he begins shooting at Odan. If the assassin kills Odan, he flies off 
ona small repulsorlift craft. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
The Cloud City upper plaza has the following features; 
Illumination: The battle takes place ines the day, we no | eral S 
*s for low light. 
Cove ee corners and other structures a tne conidors 


ee are eee 
sinesses to avoid the 


z Some one or head ins 
especially if blasters are a 


se. This object also prov 
Dance Hall: A dan 
ea When Ko 


cae difficult terrain. 
Security: If blasters are fi red, Cloud city ae Force on rs are. 
_ likely to arrive on the scene. 2 

- Window: The heroes hea the encounter near the wandow of the 
meeting room, after Odan jumps out of it. : 


THE TWIN/STAR 


SYNTH-TONE 


BAR 


CONCLUSION 


If Koon Odan survives, she surrenders to the heroes once the dust settles. She 
explains, "| was sent here by my government to oversee the treaty signing. 
But it appears | was blacklisted—that assassin is one of our agents. Perhaps 
my government had second thoughts about my mission. It seems there are 
more sinister forces at work here." 

If the heroes subdued the assassin, his story matches the one Odan tells. 
Later, during transport, he is found mysteriously dead or missing. 

If the heroes contact the lridonian government, Zabrak officials deny 
any involvement in the activities of the past few days. They claim to know 
nothing about Odan's mission or the assassin. Strangely, Odan's datapad and 
credit chip are fully restored within a few minutes after the communication. 
The treaty goes ahead as planned. 

If Odan is killed, the assassin tries to flee. Whether he is caught or escapes, 
the proposed treaty between Iridonia and Duro is canceled. Eventually, the 
disagreements between the two worlds escalate, resulting in a small-scale 
war in which other, more powerful entities intervene. 


A HSidvHoa 


SvELNnNOEOoN,E SsneihLN 


NA SHStavHa 


SYELNneoonweg SsneriiLNI | 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#4: BYE ON THE 
PRIZE 


“Eye on the Prize” is a mini-adventure designed for 6th-level heroes. The 
heroes, part of Alliance Intelligence, are ordered to help a prominent neu- 
robiologist escape from Imperial custody and reach a vessel that will ship 
him to safety. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


As the war between the Empire and the Rebel Alliance grinds on, the Empire 
takes more extreme measures to ensure victory, including the creation of 
powerful biological and chemical agents to raze entire planets. The Empire 
has forced countless scientists who excel in biology, chemistry, and weapons 
development to create vast stockpiles of virulent strains and toxic substances. 
Some of these scientists work willingly for the Empire, while others chafe at 
the abuse of their knowledge for such a purpose. 

Alliance Intelligence has recently intercepted communications about the 
reassignment of Saludor Narubo, a brilliant Givin neurobiologist noted for 
developing vaccines for some of the galaxy's most devastating diseases. The 
Alliance realizes that if anyone could create even more dangerous strains of 
biological agents, it's Saludor, and has decided to abduct the scientist before 
he is shipped off to some hidden base, never to be seen again. 

The heroes are sent to the planet Taris, where Narubo has worked for 
decades. At this time, neither the Rebel Alliance nor the Empire has a strong 
footing on Taris, and both groups maintain an extremely low profile on the 
world. The heroes must work undercover to get the job done with little in 
the way of assistance from their superiors. 


PLOTTING 
THE ASSAULT 


Alliance Intelligence has little information on the Empire's plans, but it knows 
that Narubo remains under guard at his laboratory in the Middle City on Taris. 
Spies have revealed that the Imperials plan to transfer the neurobiologist 
within a few days after the heroes arrive. Analysis droids have concluded 
that the best time to kidnap Narubo is the moment that he leaves his lab 
under guard. Imperial agents will be relatively few and probably will try to 
remain as inconspicuous as possible in order to avoid drawing attention to 
the transfer. Alliance Intelligence provides the heroes with false identities 
and 10,000 credits to use for bribes or for purchasing equipment on Taris. 


The area around Narubo's laboratory is cramped enough that traffic 
consists primarily of groundspeeders and public transportation; fliers need 
to cruise well above ground level or risk smashing into gantries. If the heroes 
use surveillance on the lab, allow them to make three separate Perception 
checks against the Imperial agents guarding Narubo. The Imperials consist 
of a field officer (treat as Imperial Officer; see page 280 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook) and seven lower grade agents (treat as Elite Rebel Troopers, 
without armor; see page 281 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). If the heroes 
succeed on all three checks, they learn that the Imperials never leave the 
facility, except for a single lower agent out front keeping watch. 

If the heroes hope to escape with the neurobiologist, they will have to 
obtain their own transportation to get him to the spaceport. For 500 credits, 
they can rent a Corona Limited luxury groundspeeder, which is large enough 
for their purposes and can be parked nearby for a speedy escape (or they can 
steal one if they do not want to leave a trail). Alternatively, they can steal 
the Imperials' groundspeeder. 

A successful DC 20 Knowledge (tactics) check reveals two locations 
nearby that would allow snipers a clear shot at Imperial agents exiting the 
laboratory, but still be close enough for the heroes to grab Narubo and reach 
their escape vehicle. 


THE KIDNAPPING 

Once everything is in place, the heroes have to wait for the Imperials to leave 
the laboratory. The agents have hired a Corona Limited luxury groundspeeder 
by comlink, along with two smaller landspeeders (treat as SoroSuub X-34 
landspeeders; see page 176 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) as additional 
protection, to arrive and whisk the scientist away. 

The area in front of the laboratory is a street front 20 squares wide by 
20 squares long, with the southernmost 4 squares being the street itself. 
Once the heroes begin their assault, the field officer and three of the agents 
form a shield around Narubo and move as quickly as possible to the Corona 
groundspeeder, which is driverless. The other four Imperials find cover and 
attack the heroes. 


HOLDING AN IMPERIAL OFFICER HOSTAGE 


THE ESCAPE 

If the heroes manage to snatch Narubo alive from the Imperials and board a 
groundspeeder, they must flee their pursuers through the twisting, crowded 
roadways of Taris. If any Imperials are left alive with functioning vehicles, 
they give chase. Otherwise, a secondary team of reinforcements with the 
same numbers (an officer and seven agents) arrives to pursue the heroes. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 
FLEEING THE 
IMPERIALS 


In this skill challenge, the heroes attempt to shake off the Imperials that are 
in hot pursuit of them after their successful kidnapping of the neurobiolo- 
gist Saludor Narubo. 


CL6 

Complexity: 3 (11 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (galactic lore) [DC 25 or 21]: The heroes can try to use their 
knowledge of Taris and the city's winding streets to figure out the best way 
to elude their pursuers. The DC is reduced to 21 for heroes who are familiar 
with the area. 

Perception [DC 23]: The heroes can attempt to travel along unexpected 
routes or enter locations where the Imperials are unlikely to follow. 

Pilot [DC 18 or Opposed DC]: The heroes can pilot their groundspeeder 
along the fastest routes, dodge debris and obstacles, and find other ways 
to elude the Imperials. If the Imperials get too close to the heroes’ vehicle, 
the Imperials become able to make Pilot checks to set the DC for this skill. 

Stealth [Opposed DC]: The heroes can head into traffic to throw off their 
pursuers, hiding within the flow of other vehicles. This check is opposed by 
the Imperials' Perception check (+10). 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Opposed DC: Certain skills in this challenge can be opposed by the 
Imperials in pursuit. 

Restricted Skills: The following skills cannot be used in this challenge: 
Gather Information, Survival, Swim, and Treat Injury. 


Success: The heroes manage to shake off their pursuers and reach the 
spaceport without further incident. 

Failure: The Imperials catch up to the heroes and corner them, engag- 
ing in a firefight. Local law enforcement officials show up in large enough 
numbers that the Imperials withdraw. Later, the field officer uses bribes 
and threats to have Narubo released into Imperial custody while the heroes 
are sent to prison. 


SUYuSaLNASGCONSE) SNASIYANI 


WA HBSiagdvHs 


SvaLNneonNs SsAgesIwLN0 


ENCOUNTER: 
UNEXPECTED 
VISITOR 


Challenge Level 8 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “Eye on the Prize," the mini- 
adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

The heroes have managed to escape with Narubo, who is extremely 
grateful for their help. They reach the Taris Spaceport and must board the 
freighter awaiting them—a Corellian YT-1300 left at the dock by the Alliance 
exclusively for their mission. The ship has no crew, so the heroes must pilot 
the freighter using the coordinates encrypted in its navicomputer. 

There is one hitch, however. Karvas Toll, an Imperial agent, had been sent 
to monitor the transfer of Narubo from afar and act as a failsafe in case 
something goes wrong. Toll watched the abduction from his speeder bike and 
followed the heroes at a distance, avoiding being spotted by the characters 
or the other Imperials. He trailed the heroes to the YT-1300 at the spaceport. 
Once there, he manages to sneak aboard the ship unseen. 

Toll intends to prevent the heroes from taking off until his backup arrives. 
If that proves impossible, he plans to take Narubo hostage and force the 
heroes to fly to an Imperial cruiser outside the system. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
When the heroes get inside their transport and prepare to take off, read the 
following text aloud: 


Just as you begin preparations to take off, you hear a loud pop, and the lights 
of the ship suddenly go out. In the gloom, a shadowy figures moves with 
alarming speed. “Not so fast, Rebel scum," says a male voice. “I'm here to 
claim our prize back.” 


KARVAS TOLL 

Karvas Toll grew up in the slums of Taris, where his future was limited to 
joining a gang or being a victim of one. After watching an Imperial propa- 
ganda program on the HoloNet, Toll realized that the Empire was the best 
way to break out of his situation and joined up. Amazingly, instead of ship- 
ping Toll off to some distant warfront, the Imperials realized that he was a 
natural as a spy and surveillance expert, as well as deadly with a blaster and 
a vibroblade. After a training stint offworld, Toll returned to Taris to assist 
Imperial Intelligence cells there, using his knowledge of the planet to carry 
out clandestine acts on behalf of the Empire. 


Toll considers himself a patriot and believes that the Empire has the 
galaxy’'s best interests at heart. Quiet, observant, and stealthy, Toll is often 
used by his handlers to clean up after missions gone awry or to step in 
when further assistance is needed. He dresses like a native of Taris, but his 
demeanor makes it clear that he is dangerous, and most citizens give him a 
wide berth on the streets. 


Karvas Toll (K) CL8 

Medium Human scoundrel 5/scout 3 

Dark Side 8 

Init +7; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Givin, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 20), Fort 20, Will 21; Dodge, Mobility 

hp 58; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +8 (2d6+4) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +5; Grp +8 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Special Actions Knack, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Talents Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth, Knack, Skirmisher, Sneak 
Attack +1d6 

Feats Dodge, Mobility, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus 
(Perception, Stealth), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +12, Deception +11, Perception +16, Pilot +12, Stealth 
+17 (can reroll, keeping the second result), Use Computer +11 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, snare pistol, vibroblade, encrypted 
comlink, Aratech 74-Z speeder bike 


Karvas Toll's Tactics 

Toll excels at sneaking into locations unnoticed and waiting for just the 
right moment to strike from the shadows. Once on board the heroes' ship, 
he cuts a secondary power circuit and plunges the YT-1300 into darkness. 
An expert at close combat, Toll uses his vibroblade to engage the heroes in 
melee after targeting them with a few blaster shots. He tries to move as 
swiftly as possible to get close to Narubo and use the neurobiologist as a 
shield, buying time until his reinforcements arrive. As a loyal Imperial agent, 
Toll knows the penalty for failure and fights to the death. If he is close to 
being taken down, Toll turns his blaster or vibroblade against Narubo to deny 
the Rebels the prize. 


CONCLUSION | Corellian Engineering 
lf the heroes defeat Toll, the ship's navicomputer reveals that the Alliance has z 

a Corellian corvette waiting on the far fringes of the system. The YT-1300 Corporation 

is programmed to fly the heroes and Narubo directly to the other vessel. YT-(300 Stock 
Once there, Narubo is whisked away for debriefing, presumably to inform _ 

the Alliance about the new strain of contagion he was developing for the Light Transport 
Empire's biological warfare program. 

If Toll recaptures Narubo, he uses the Givin as a shield to keep himself 
from harm. If the heroes do not manage to get the YT-1300 off the ground, 
Imperial reinforcements eventually arrive in large numbers, along with local 
law enforcement. The heroes are taken to a Taris prison on charges of kidnap- 
ping, conspiracy, and property damage (along with murder, if applicable). 

If Toll recaptures Narubo but the YT-1300 takes off, the Imperial agent 
orders the heroes to enter new coordinates into the navicomputer—coordi- 
nates that take them to a Star Destroyer on the fringes of the Taris System. 
Once there, the heroes are taken into custody and later shipped to a prison 
colony, where they are interrogated until they reveal whatever Alliance 
secrets they possess. 


(Freight Configuration) 


Boarding Ramps 
Docking Rings 
Main Corridor 
Observation Deck 
Cockpit Access Corridor 
Cockpit 

Main Hold 

Circuitry Bay 

Refresher 

10 Freight Loading Room 

{| Cargo Holds 

12 Engineering Bay 


mot me eon — 


SHeaLNneenNs Ssneag1is)4N0 


2 
id 
51 
@ 
Cc 
W 
W 
(|Z 
0) 
@ 
C 
Zz 
cl 
W) 
5) 
0 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#5: My ENEMYyY'S 
ENEMY 


"My Enemy's Enemy" is a mini-adventure designed for 8th-level heroes. In 
this scenario, the characters work for a Mon Calamari ambassador who is 
in deep negotiations to mend ties with the Quarren. A failed attempt on 
the ambassador's life reveals a similar plot to kill the Quarren ambassador. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


The heroes work as bodyguards and assistants for Nuukol, the Mon Calamari 
ambassador in charge of brokering a compromise with the Quarren. Groups 
on both sides have attempted to disrupt the negotiations, stirring up hatred 
and misunderstanding to muddy the waters. 

After months of discourse, the Quarren have finally agreed to send their 
own ambassador, Tsillog, to Coruscant to meet with Nuukol and hammer out 
an accord. However, in an unprecedented move, Tsillog has also scheduled 
a press conference outside the Quarren embassy to lay out the proposal to 
the people—a move that the Mon Calamari consider inflammatory. To change 


A MON CALAMARI ATTEMPTS ASSASSINATION. 


the tone back in their favor, Nuukol has arranged his own press conference 
in front of the Mon Calamari embassy a day beforehand. He hopes that by 
having the voices of both parties heard, public opinion will remain stable 
enough for the negotiations to begin in earnest. 

While other members of his staff arrange for the press conference, Nuukol 
asks the heroes to remain vigilant, since threats have been made against him 
and his delegation. Although tensions are high, the ambassador makes it clear 
that he wants the heroes to maintain a low profile. To show suspicion is to 
show weakness, which is something that he and the Mon Calamari cannot 
afford at the moment. 


SHOW TIME 


On the day of Nuukol’s press conference, throngs of supporters, detractors, 
and reporters gather outside the Mon Calamarian embassy. The ambassador 
rehearses his speech in an antechamber inside the main lobby of the embassy. 
The lobby swarms with dignitaries and support staff, all moving with great 
anticipation. However, unknown to everyone, two Mon Calamari radicals have 
infiltrated the embassy and plan to kill the ambassador inside the main lobby. 

Tasked with Nuukol’s protection, the heroes can decide how to arrange 
themselves to best survey the area for threats. The main lobby is a open space 
15 squares by 15 squares, with a ceiling several dozen meters high. The main 
doors (2 squares wide) are on the north end of the area. Four identical ante- 
chambers (each 4 squares by 4 squares) are evenly spaced along the sides of 
the main lobby. At any given time, there are a dozen support staff personnel in 
the lobby (treat as unarmed Rebel Troopers; see page 280 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook); if violence erupts, they duck for cover or cower on the ground. 

Have any heroes watching the main lobby for trouble make a Perception 
check against the radicals' Deception check (+13). If the heroes succeed, they 
notice that four bureaucrats seem to be milling about longer than usual. Two 
of them are innocent bystanders waiting to see the ambassador up close, but 
the other two are radicals intent on killing Nuukol. If the heroes succeed at 
the Perception check by 5 or more, they notice that the two radicals have 
concealed weapons. If the heroes approach them for questioning, the radicals 
stall for a round while the ambassador leaves the antechamber and heads 
toward the front door of the embassy. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 

The action begins when Ambassador Nuukol reaches the center of the lobby. 
The two radicals approach him from either side with weapons drawn (and 
possibly with the heroes in hot pursuit). Read the following text aloud: 


Ambassador Nuukol leaves the antechamber and walks toward the middle of 
the lobby, consulting a datapad containing the speech he is about to give. The 
bureaucrats and embassy workers in the lobby move out of his way. Then an 
angry voice fills the vast chamber. “Traitor!” screams one of the bureaucrats 
as he rushes toward Nuukol. “You cannot negotiate with these monsters! For 
Mon Calamari!” 


ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT 
When combat begins, one of the radicals should be within 4 squares of 
Nuukol. As soon as possible, he activates the thermal detonator in his hand, 
hoping to vaporize the ambassador while serving as a martyr for the cause. 
However, the detonator is faulty; when it explodes, it releases a spray of 
shrapnel instead of a blast. Anyone caught in the explosion takes half damage 
(piercing). Five bystanders are wounded and fall to O hit points each. The 
radicals’ blaster pistols are also faulty and can fire only one shot each before 
they fuse shut. 

Regardless of the actions of the heroes, Nuukol is severely wounded by 
the shrapnel, caught in the crossfire, or otherwise injured and reduced to 
0 hit points. 


Mon Calamari Radicals (2) 

Medium Mon Calamari scoundrel 5 

Dark Side 3 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Mon Calamarian, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 15, Will 17 

hp 32; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares (swim 4 squares) 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Special Actions Disruptive 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Special Qualities breathe underwater, expert swimmer 

Talents Disruptive, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Feats Grazing Shot, Master of Disguise, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus 
(Deception, Initiative, Perception), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Gather Information +8, Initiative +13, 
Perception +13, Stealth +8 

Possessions blaster pistol (one shot only), thermal detonator (faulty) 


THE FAILED MARTYR 

After the assassination attempt, medical droids and additional security 
personnel arrive in 1d4 rounds to tend to the wounded. Critically injured, 
ambassador Nuukol is rushed to the embassy's medical facilities. Several 
minutes after the blast, an attaché informs the crowd outside about the 
assassination attempt and cancels the press conference. The confused and 
shocked audience begins shouting and rushing the door of the embassy, held 
in check by the security personnel (and the heroes, if they want to assist). 
If any radicals survived, they ask to talk to the heroes. 


CL5 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
If the heroes interrogate the radicals, at an appropriate point during the 
questioning, read the following text aloud: 


The Mon Calamari stands up straight and squares his shoulders. “None of this 
matters, you realize," he says. “Ours was just one part in the plan to prevent 
negotiations. The Quarren scum is supposed to be speaking tomorrow to spread 
even more lies about how his people want peace. We're going to make sure 
that won't happen, either, despite the failure today." 


INTERROGATION 

The heroes can interrogate the radicals to learn their purpose. Interrogation 
reveals that they are part of a cell of Mon Calamari who object to peaceful 
coexistence with the Quarren. They point to past events to show that every 
attempt at harmony has failed. If asked, the radicals say that their leader is 
an individual known as “Avreet" (the Mon Cal word for “comrade"), although 
they have never met him or her. 

The radicals also reveal that an assassin hired by another cell intends to kill 
the Quarren ambassador when he gives his speech the next day. The radical 
knows nothing about the assassin other than to say, "He's not one of us." 

If the heroes ask why the radicals’ weapons were faulty, have the char- 
acters make another Persuasion check. If they succeed, the radicals look 
angry and complain that they picked up their weapons from a drop point in 
a seedy hotel. They have no idea why the weapons malfunctioned, although 
now they suspect that perhaps they were set up to fail. 


DESPERATE DIPLOMACY 


When Nuukol regains consciousness, he sends a nurse to summon the heroes 
to his bedside. Despite the attempt on his life, the ambassador tells the heroes 
that the negotiations must continue as scheduled. He stresses that the assault 
will only make matters worse as the Mon Calamari citizens harden their 
stance toward the Quarren. He asks the heroes what they learned from the 
radicals, and after hearing of the threat on Tsillog, he tells the characters to 
warn the Quarren delegation. If the other ambassador is attacked, war will 
almost certainly break out between the two species. 

If the heroes try to contact Ambassador Tsillog (either via comlink or 
by traveling to the Quarren embassy), have them make a DC 25 Persua- 
sion check. Success means they are allowed to talk to him (on screen or in 
person), although he proves to be unfriendly, brusque, and highly suspicious. 
If the heroes fail their Persuasion check, a lesser Quarren dignitary relays 
the message. Regardless, the ambassador's point is clear—although he is 
saddened at the attempt on Nuukol’s life, he sees no reason to fear another 
attack and will hold his press conference as intended. Tsillog then excuses 
himself and either has the heroes escorted to the door or cuts off the trans- 
mission. All other attempts to contact the ambassador fail. 


HA SBStdgvHoa 


See LNnesNe SsnNel84N0 


iA HBSidvHoa 


SYPILNASGSONE) SASIMWLANI 


ENCOUNTER: 
MFUNT FOR 
THE ASSASSIN 


Challenge Level 9 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the conclusion of “My Enemy's Enemy," the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

As planned, the Quarren ambassador sets the stage for a press conference 
in front of his embassy. The setup is similar to the conference arranged at 
the Mon Calamari embassy, with a podium, holovid cameras, and the like, 
but the crowd is considerably larger than the one yesterday. 

On orders from Ambassador Nuukol, the heroes must attend the press 
conference and try to locate and stop the assassin before he can kill Tsillog. 
The Quarren ambassador has only minimal security, supporting his profession 
of disbelief in the heroes’ claim. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
When the heroes arrive at the plaza and begin hunting for the assassin, read 
the following text aloud: 


The plaza in front of the embassy is filled with all manner of sentients—mostly 
Quarren, but also including dozens of other species. The mood is tense as the 
crowd awaits the ambassador. The plaza is large and far away from other 
buildings, making it unlikely that a hidden sniper could shoot Tsillog. You 
believe that anyone who wanted to kill the ambassador would have to get 
relatively close to him. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 
SPOTTING THE KILLER 


The heroes must search for the assassin in a mob of sentients that includes 
plenty of Quarren, a host of other species, and a few Mon Calamari engaging 
in heated political debates with other members of the crowd. Tensions are 
running high. The heroes engage in a skill challenge to spot the assassin, a 
Rodian named Loodux, before he attacks. 


cL9 

Complexity: 1 (5 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (social sciences) [DC 30]: The heroes can try to study the body 
language of members of the crowd to determine which individuals seem out 
of place or suspicious. 


Knowledge (tactics) [DC 20]:The heroes can attempt to identify the most 
likely locations from which an assassin would have a clear line of approach 
to Tsillog. 

Perception [Opposed DC]:The heroes can spot Loodux drawing his weapon 
as he prepares to fire at the ambassador or spot him as he throws down 
his smoke grenade. The check is opposed by Loodux's Stealth check (+18). 

Persuasion [DC 25]: The heroes can question members of the crowd to 
learn whether they have seen any suspicious individuals or anyone that seems 
to be carrying a weapon. 

Stealth [Opposed DC]: The heroes can move unobtrusively through the 
crowd looking for suspicious characters or can catch Loodux unaware as he 
prepares his attack. The check is opposed by Loodux's Stealth check (+18). 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Opposed DC: Certain skills in this skill challenge can be opposed by Loodux. 

Restricted Skills: The following skills cannot be used in this challenge: 
Gather Information, Survival, Swim, and Treat Injury. 


Success: The heroes spot Loodux before he attacks. As a result, the 
combat does not begin with a surprise round. 

Failure: The heroes fail to spot Loodux before he tosses down his smoke 
grenade and attacks. As a result, they cannot act during the surprise round, 


LoOOoODUXx 
Other members of the Mon Calamari radical group hired Loodux, a Rodian 
assassin, to kill the Quarren ambassador. Loodux is well known for his pistol 
work and his penchant for bold showmanship. The radicals want a spectacle 
and believe that a lone assassin killing Tsillog up close and personal would 
serve their cause effectively. Loodux is a perfect fit. Although his primary 
motivation is the payment he will receive, he has also come to share the 
radicals’ distrust of the peace accord. In addition, the Rodian is more than 
a little insane. 

Loodux has bland features, which he uses to his advantage to blend in with 
the crowd outside the embassy. He wears typical garb in muted tones, making 
him look like an average sentient waiting to hear the ambassador speak. 


Loodux (L) CL9 
Medium Rodian scoundrel 5/soldier 2/gunslinger 2 

Dark Side 8 

Init +18; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Mon Calamarian, Quarren, Rodese 


Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 23), Fort 21, Will 21 
hp 56; Threshold 21 


Speed 6 squares 
Melee stun baton +7 (1d6+4) 


Ranged heavy blaster pistol +12 (3d8+7) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +10 (4d8+7) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +7; Grp +11 

Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Deceptive Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Rapid Shot, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 18, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 13 

Talents Dastardly Strike, Deceptive Shot, Sneak Attack +2d6, Weapon 
Specialization (pistols) 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, 
Initiative, Stealth, Survival), Skill Training (Survival), Weapon Focus 
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +15, Initiative +18, Perception +9 (can 
reroll, keeping the second result), Pilot +13, Stealth +18, Survival +14 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol with targeting scope, smoke grenade, 
stun baton, breath mask, concealed holster, encrypted comlink, 
SoroSuub JG-8 luxury landspeeder (see page 71) 


Loodux's Tactics 

Loodux's plan is simple and brash. He intends to blend in with the crowd until 
Ambassador Tsillog comes out to speak. When the crowd begins to cheer or 
boo as Tsillog steps up to the podium, Loodux will be close to the front, where 
he will release a smoke grenade to cause panic. In the chaos, he will line up 
his shot, kill the ambassador, and trigger his comlink to summon the driver 
of his landspeeder. As the speeder carves a path through the crowd, Loodux 
will leap on board, shooting at anything and anyone that gets in his way. 


CONCLUSION 


If the heroes stop Loodux before he kills Tsillog, they are approached by the 
grateful ambassador once the chaos dies down. He apologizes for doubt- 
ing them and promises to go forward with the negotiations as planned. In 
addition, Tsillog offers each hero a reward of 5,000 credits, along with the 
possibility of additional diplomatic favors. 

If the heroes manage to capture Loodux alive and interrogate him, they 
realize that he is somewhat insane. However, the Rodian's confusing answers 
to their questions provide clues that help the heroes determine the identity 
of “Avreet," the leader of the radicals that set up the assassination attempts. 
If the heroes follow through on this information, they eventually discover 
that Avreet is Ambassador Nuukol. 

If the heroes confront Nuukol, he confesses and admits that the attempt 
on his own life did not go as planned. The thermal detonator was not sup- 
posed to work at all, and he expected the two radicals to be killed. Nuukol 
thought that an attempt on his life would sway public opinion in his favor. 
On the other hand, he fully intended for Tsillog to be killed, because then 
the Quarren would assign a new ambassador, perhaps one who truly wanted 
peace between the two species. Nuukol is later sent to a prison colony on 
one of Mon Calamari's moons. 


HA SSLavHo 


SeeaLNneooWNe SnoQietn |} 


A HBBidveiat 


Ses LNNOoNSs SNeIS4AN0 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#6: 
OPPORTUNITY 
KNOCKS 


“Opportunity Knocks" is a mini-adventure designed for 9th-level heroes. In 
this scenario of political espionage, the heroes intercept a coded transmission 
that promises the opportunity of a lifetime. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


For many, it has been a long New Order. The Rebel Alliance has tried many 
avenues but has yet to strike a major blow against the Empire. Fear causes 
many defiant sorts to stay on the outskirts of the galaxy and wait for the 
right opportunity. That very chance just might have presented itself. 

While ona far less important mission, the heroes intercept a coded trans- 
mission. After decoding it, they discover that Emperor Palpatine is slated to 
visit one of the floating domed cities of Duro regarding a new line of starships 
to be built for himself and his enforcer, Darth Vader. If the heroes negotiate 
with a Duro government official who has shown sympathy for the Rebellion 
in the past, they might be able to place themselves in the right position to 
assassinate Emperor Palpatine. Secretly, however, the transmission is a trap 
baited for the Alliance. 


DECODING THE 
TRANSMISSION (CL S&S) 


When the heroes realize that they have intercepted the transmission, first 
they must make a DC 27 Knowledge (technology) check to record it to their 
ship's computer before the message disappears. Next, they must make a DC 
35 Use Computer check to find the advanced algorithm necessary to decode 
the transmission. If they succeed, they learn the details of the Emperor's 
upcoming trip to Duro—a rare type of trip for him. Apparently, Emperor Pal- 
patine plans to meet with Duro officials in the auditorium of a government 
building that will be cleared to maintain security. 

The heroes might suspect the authenticity of the message and try to 
verify it. A DC 22 Knowledge (bureaucracy) check reveals that, as far as 
they can tell, the business procedures mentioned in the transmission seem 
to be accurate and normal. A DC 22 Knowledge (galactic lore) check allows 
the heroes to recall details about Duro that match the information in the 
message, providing further authentication. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: ARRANGING 
THE ASSASSINATION 

The heroes travel to Duro. Once they arrive in orbit around the planet, they 
can contact an ally of the Rebel Alliance in the Duro corporate government. 
The heroes engage in a skill challenge to talk the official into aiding their 
attempt on the Emperor's life. 


cL9 

Complexity: 3 (11 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Deception [Opposed DC]: The heroes fabricate evidence that Emperor 
Palpatine is a direct threat to the Duros or that he has no intentions of 
honoring his contract. The argument might convince the official to give in 
to the heroes’ request. 

Knowledge (galactic lore) [DC 23]: The heroes recall something they know 
of the Duro official, perhaps his past assistance to the Rebel Alliance, that 
they can use as leverage. 

Knowledge (social sciences) [DC 28]: The heroes put forth a point of 
philosophy, well known on Duro, that speaks to the official and convinces 
him that their plan is a necessary course of action. 

Persuasion [Opposed DC]: The heroes plead for the official to give them 
aid, using reason and promises of justice for the Emperor's dark deeds. 

Use the Force [Opposed DC]: The heroes attempt to detect the mood and 
surface thoughts of the official, which might help them avoid upsetting or 
offending him during the negotiation. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Opposed DC; Skills used against the Duro government official, including 
Deception, Persuasion, and Use the Force, target the official's Will Defense 
of 27. 

Recovery: Since the official has a history of aiding the Alliance, he is 
willing to listen despite his fear of being discovered. Any hero who suc- 
ceeds on a skill check by 5 or more can forfeit that success in exchange for 
removing one failure. 


Success: The heroes convince the official to give them special access 
to the building where Emperor Palpatine will negotiate the new capital ship 
contract. 

Failure: The official decides that the risks outweigh the potential benefit 
and refuses to help. The heroes must find their own way into the building. 
In addition, the official might warn his staff that intruders are expected. 


AFTERMATH 


When the heroes begin their assasination attempt, use the “Assasination 
Ambush" encounter on the following page. 

If the heroes escape the government building alive, they still must get out 
of the domed city. The Imperials pursue them on foot through the streets, but 
in what seems like a stroke of luck, the heroes manage to get away and reach 
their ship. Secretly, a homing beacon has been hidden aboard the vessel. The 
Emperor hopes that the heroes will lead his forces to a Rebel Alliance base. 

After the heroes board their ship and begin the preflight sequence, a 
message from the Duro capital orders them to stand down and warns that 
their ship is not cleared for takeoff. However, the heroes are able to blast 
off without incident. 

If the first Duro official aided the heroes earlier, he contacts them again. 
"This doesn't make any sense," he tells them. “I think they're allowing you to 
leave. Be safe, and may the Force be with you." If the heroes ask why he did 
not warn them about the ambush, he says that he had no knowledge of it 
(which is true) but that he is glad they survived. He is impressed with their 
skills and offers to aid them again if they ever need help. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: DISABLE 
THE TRACKING DEVICE 

As the heroes leave the Duro System, they might breathe a sigh of relief, or 
they might search their ship to see if the Imperials have hidden a tracking 
device on board. If the heroes locate the tracking device near the ship's 
engines, they can attempt to disable it. However, they realize that the 
device is rigged with explosive charges that could detonate if they try to 
remove or deactivate it. A DC 18 Knowledge (technology) check reveals that 
such an explosion at this location could destroy a significant portion of the 
ship—perhaps the whole vessel. 


CLi9 

Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Use Computer [DC 28]: The heroes use the ship's computer to try to link 
to the tracking device and slice into its programming. 

Knowledge (technology) [DC 28]:The heroes recall whatever information 
they know about the proper way to disable tracking devices or explosives. 

Mechanics [DC 30]: The heroes use the Disable Device application of 
the Mechanics skill (which requires a security kit) and manage to disable 
part of it. 


Challenge Effects: The following is a suggested challenge effect for 
this skill challenge: 

Catastrophic Failure: Disarming the rigged device is a delicate task with 
dire consequences. Any hero who fails a skill check by 10 or more accrues 
two failures instead of one. 


Success: The heroes fully disarm the explosives and disable the tracking 
device. 

Failure: The heroes cannot remove the demolitions safely. Roll ad20 and 
add the total number of successes earned during the skill challenge. If the 
result meets or beats DC 15, the heroes are unable to disarm the device, but 
it does not explode. If the result does not meet or beat DC 15, the device 
explodes, dealing 10d6 points of damage to the ship's engine room. (For 
rules on explosives, see pages 130-131 of the Saga Edition core rulebook.) 


ASSAULTING THE FALSE EMPEROR 


Zz 
q 
iw 
@ 
C 
W 
W 
ze 
0) 
@ 
C 
Z 
a 
W 
5) 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
if 
i 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


SHgLNneseNg FNn@Q182W0 


ENCOUNTER: 
ASSASSINATION 
AMBUSH 


Challenge Level 9 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "Opportunity Knocks," the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

The start of this encounter depends on whether the heroes were able to 
enlist the aid of the Duro corporate official. If they did, they can slip into 
the government building without trouble. The official has seen to it that his 
security force believes the characters to be part of a special additional unit. 
He has also provided the heroes with special all-access credentials and will 
keep the auditorium balcony clear, since it is a good hiding place. 

If the heroes were unable to garner the official's aid, they must infiltrate 
the building by traditional means. The security guards are not high level, so 
this task should not be too difficult for most 9th-level characters. Game- 
masters can expand the infiltration portion of the encounter, if desired, to 
make it more challenging. 


ONE FOR THE 
REBELLION 


After the heroes enter the building, they have some time before the Emperor's 
arrival. The structure is mostly empty, and there are not many places to hide. 
The balcony seems like the best bet—no security and plenty of room. A few 
alcoves are located below the balcony, but these alcoves are near doors that 
might receive foot traffic. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
When the Emperor and his guards arrive, read the following text aloud: 


A door near the stage opens, and two Duros officials enter. They are followed 
by a member of the Emperor's Royal Guard, Emperor Palpatine himself, and 
another elite guardsman. The entourage steps onto the stage, and Emperor 
Palpatine and the Duros sit around a table to begin the contract negotiation. 
The guards take their places to either side of the Emperor, force pikes in hand. 


THE TRAP ; 

This "Emperor" is an impostor, a target for any Rebels who intercepted the 
transmission and took the bait. He puts on a good show and negotiates con- 
vincingly with the Duros. The heroes have plenty of time to prepare, aim, and 
take the best shot they can muster. The DC to hit the false Emperor is 16. If 
the attack is successful, the impostor slumps forward onto the table, dead. 

Regardless of whether the heroes kill the impostor, as soon as they make 
their presence known, the Empire springs its trap. The Royal Guards leap 
to attention with their force pikes. Both Duros officials—really Corporate 
Security agents—draw their sidearms. Through each of the four doors come 
two heavy stormtroopers and an Imperial officer (see pages 279-280 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). Chaos erupts. 

In this encounter, it is in the heroes’ best interests to flee rather than fight, 
but some combat is necessary to escape from the ambush. Each doorway 
is blocked by two heavy stormtroopers and an officer. Their purpose is to 
slow down the heroes while the others open fire. The two Royal Guards (see 
pages 173-174 of The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide) move into melee to 
engage the heroes with their force pikes. 

The Empire's ultimate plan is to let some of the heroes escape so they 
can be followed back to a Rebel base. Thus, the Imperials put up a realistic 
struggle to capture or kill the heroes but make sure to let at least one or 
two get away. 


DuROS OFFICIALS (CORPORATE 
SECURITY AGENTS) 

Although the two Duros wear noble attire and appear to be government offi- 
cials, they actually belong to a special unit of Duros Corporate Security. They 
are fully aware of the details of the ruse and are cooperating with the Empire. 


Duros Officials (2) CL7 
Medium Duros soldier 5/noble 2 

Force 3 

Init +17; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, High Galactic, 1 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 18), Fort 19, Will 20 

hp 62; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee stun baton +7 (1d6+4) or 

Melee stun baton +7 (2d6+4 stun) 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+5) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (2d6+5 stun) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (4d6+5) with Rapid Shot or 
Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+5 stun) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +6; Grp +10 


Atk Options Devastating Attack, Penetrating Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Bolster Ally 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 18, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Bolster Ally, Devastating Attack, Penetrating Attack, Weapon 
Specialization (pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Linguist, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Initiative), Weapon 
Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +17, Knowledge (tactics) +9, Perception +9, Mechanics +9 

Possessions stun baton, blaster pistol, noble's clothing, 1,300 credits 


CONCLUSION 


After this encounter ends, the heroes need to escape. However, a tracking 
device planted on their ship could lead the Empire back to their allies. See 
the “Aftermath” section on page 177. 

If the heroes fail to find the tracking device, or if they find it and fail to 
remove it but survive, they come under the scrutiny of the Imperial Service 
Bureau (ISB). From this point forward, ISB agents track their movements 
and might show up at inopportune times. Gamemasters are encouraged to 
expand on this development as desired. If the heroes later realize that they 
are being tracked, they can attempt the preceding skill challenges again. 

If the heroes find and remove the tracking device, they escape the 
Imperials without a hitch. The Empire loses their trail, and somewhere, two 
Duros security agents and some Imperial officers suffer in the Force grip 
of Darth Vader. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The auditorium has the following features: 

Illumination: The battle takes place indoors, but the auditorium is 
‘lit, with no penalties for low light. 

‘The auditorium is full of places where the heroes can find 
in luding numerous rows of seats, the balcony, and some alcoves. 


- “Emperor” 
@- Dfficial 
@- Emperor's Royal Guar 


iA. eSiaveio 


Sv aLNneooWs|” sneQ18Lwi 


z 
| 
ie 
nao 
l/c 
a 
W) 
72 
al 
0) 
c 
z 
- 
W) 
i) 
@ 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#7: DOUBLE 
DOWN 


“Double Down" is a mini-adventure designed for 10th-level heroes. In this 
scenario, the heroes are part of a Republic Intelligence team attempting to 
disrupt the movement of weapons to the Separatists in the Colu System, but 
a betrayal derails the mission. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


The heroes work for Republic Intelligence, tasked with monitoring clandes- 
tine activity by the Separatists as the war effort gets underway. They are 
part of an undercover team on the planet Clak'dor VII, the homeworld of 
the Bith, and send reports to their superiors on Coruscant. After the recent 
death of their superior, they are now under the command of Special Agent 
Mocen Gundross, a serious and dedicated intelligence officer known for his 
aggressive techniques in the field. So as not to arouse suspicion or draw the 
ire of the independence-minded Bith, Republic Intelligence maintains a low 
profile on Clak'dor VII, basing its operations out of a dummy corporation in 
the capital of the planet. 

The heroes receive a message from Gundross that they are to break into 
a suspected Separatist safe house in a seedy part of town and plant listening 
devices to overhear vital information. The safe house is located in a hotel 
known as a place primarily for transients and ship crews looking for a cheap 
place to stay for extended periods of time. An Aqualish named Bandor Ootka, 
on leave from a Techno Union vessel docked for repairs, is currently staying in 
the room used as the safe house. However, the safe house serves as a general 
meeting place, so other Separatists could show up as well. 

Gundross orders the heroes to perform surveillance on the location, 
request any special equipment needed to break into the room, and plant the 
bugs, all without leaving a trace. Once the devices are in place, the heroes are 
to listen to any conversations that occur in the room and pass the information 
back to Gundross, who will decide what to do with it. 

If the heroes pull off this job, Gundross will put in the paperwork for 
hazardous duty pay of 100,000 credits. 


SURVEILLANCE 

To determine the best time to break into the hotel room, the heroes need 
to spend a couple of days monitoring the activity there. If they try to rent a 
room adjacent to or across the hall from the safe house, they discover that 
those rooms have already been rented out. A DC 20 Persuasion check and 
1,000 credits bribes the hotel clerk to kick out the current tenants and let 
the heroes have the room instead; succeeding at the check by 5 or more 


SPYING ON THE ARMS DEAL 


lowers the bribery cost to 500 credits. The room rents for 100 credits per 
day, and the heroes can make two DC 20 Perception checks for each day 
of surveillance. After five successful checks, the heroes determine the best 
time to enter the room and plant the listening devices. 


INFILTRATION 


When the heroes are ready, they need to figure out the best way to enter the 
room without raising suspicion. The Separatists have bribed the hotel staff 
to prevent anyone from gaining access to their safe house, but credits speak 
loudly. If the heroes make a DC 30 Persuasion check and offer 3,000 credits 
in bribes, a staff member gives them a passkey to the Separatists' room. If 
the heroes fail the check, they still must pay the 3,000 credits to keep the 
hotel employee quiet about the bribe attempt, or find some other way to 
keep him from talking. If combat breaks out, treat hotel employees as Rebel 
Troopers (see page 280 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Alternatively, the heroes can try to find the hotel concierge (treat him 
as an Elite Rebel Trooper without weapons or armor; see page 281 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook) and pick his pocket to obtain a passkey. Doing so 
requires a Stealth check opposed by the concierge's Perception check (+8). 
The heroes might also use violence against the concierge to get a passkey. 

Once the heroes get inside the Separatists' room, they must plant three 
listening devices that were given to them by Gundross. Each device is of 
Fine size and camouflaged to blend into the background, requiring a DC 
35 Perception check to notice. The room contains two beds, a refresher, 
a holovid monitor, a desk with a chair, and a computer panel with basic 
(DC 15) encryption. A large bay window overlooks the trash-filled alley below 
and a windowless factory 6 squares away. 


set URITY MEASURES 


ANGE the Separatists feel relatively confident about the secrecy 0 of 


: lence g 
dampens s sound waves ina 2x2 ‘square area; the Dc of Perception checks 
to hear sounds within the ae is increased o 10. The heroes Post 


registers a negati ( 1 : 

works as normal except that the heroes can tune their listening devices 

toa specific c equency that pierces the energy sphere. : 
The S i doc i 


aan from the detector’ S me ory requires a pe 25 Use Computer check. 


A KNOCK AT 
THE DOOR (CL 7) 


While the heroes plant the bugs and alter the security measures, a tough- 
looking Human bounty hunter (use the statistics on page 283 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook, but replace Survival with Mechanics) enters the hotel 
and heads to the safe house. He knocks on the door, intending to talk to the 
Separatists about a bounty that is unrelated to the heroes' task. 

The heroes can use the room's camera system to see who is immediately 
in front of the door. The bounty hunter begins banging on the door, demand- 
ing to be let in. If the heroes open the door, the bounty hunter pauses for 
a moment and asks the whereabouts of Ootka. The heroes can attempt a 
Deception check opposed by the bounty hunter's Perception check (+14) 
to convince him that they are compatriots of Ootka. If they succeed at the 
check by 5 or more, the bounty hunter leaves after a terse comment that 
Ootka had better pay up for the job. 

If the Deception check fails, the bounty hunter suspects something is 
amiss, draws his blaster carbine, and demands to know who the heroes are. 
An opposed Persuasion check (against +24 this time) convinces the bounty 
hunter not to ask any more questions, and he leaves without trouble. Oth- 
erwise, he begins shooting at the heroes; the hotel is used to such violence, 
and the staff ignores the noise. 

If the heroes do not open the door, the bounty hunter tries to pick the 
lock to get inside. If he succeeds, he comes in with his weapon drawn (and 
might trigger the surveillance detector, as described in the Security Measures 
sidebar). The heroes can calm him down by making an opposed Persuasion 
check against +24; otherwise, he initiates combat. 


THE MEETING 


If the heroes successfully plant the devices and modify the security measures, 
they can return to their own room and begin to monitor the Separatists. 
Shortly after the heroes leave the safe house, Bandor Ootka returns to the 
room, locks the door, and spends the next few hours asleep. Over the course 
of the next 24 hours, two other people arrive to speak to Ootka. The first is 
a female Human, an ally of the bounty hunter who confronted the heroes. 
She asks if her friend came by yet to collect the overdue payment. Things 
quickly get heated as Ootka insists that no one came to see him, and the 
woman leaves cursing and angry. 

A few hours later, a male Duros knocks on the safe house door and is 
admitted. He is a weapon smuggler named Doon Gorot who works as a 
go-between for a crime lord under contract to the Separatists. The heroes 
eavesdrop as Ootka and Gorot discuss a large shipment of weapons ready 
for the Separatists to pick up on Mezhra Station, an enormous space station 
in orbit around Clak'dor VII. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
When the heroes overhear the conversation, read the following text aloud: 


Although the transmission is filled with static, you manage to overhear the 
conversation between the Separatist spy and the Duros that entered into the 
room. “Everything is going according to plan,” says the Duros. “The weapons 
that you requested are ready for pickup in Bay 6-AT4 on Mezhra Station. | 
have several of my crew waiting up there to keep things safe until you arrive. 
They'll expect you to give them the second half of the payment immediately. 
But now, let's talk about the first half of the payment. Where are my credits?" 
You overhear Ootka moving around the room, then the distinct sound of two 
credit chips making contact. "There," says Ootka. “Half mil transferred. Not 
bad for two days’ work, eh? My contacts will meet your crew tomorrow at 
1200 hours for the pickup. Nice doing business with you.” 


Gorot leaves the room, and Ootka makes a call on his personal comlink. He 
informs a minion that the plan is in motion and repeats the same informa- 
tion that the heroes overheard. Shortly thereafter, the Aqualish leaves the 
safe house and no longer plays a part in the mini-adventure. (If the heroes 
want to detain or interrogate Ootka, remind them that their mission involves 
surveillance, not interception.) 


THE REAL SITUATION 

In reality, the conversation that the heroes overhear between Ootka and 
Gorot is part of a plot by Special Agent Mocen Gundross. The intelligence 
officer sold his loyalties to the Separatists and promised to give them some 
Republic Intelligence agents who could be interrogated for secrets or used 
as bargaining chips. Gundross set up the heroes, hoping to lure them into a 
trap so they could be captured more easily. 


SUPLNASGCONE GAGIWANI 


SYSaLNASCONE FsAeIWLNI 


ENCOUNTER: 
DEAL GONE BAD 


Challenge Level 10 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "Double Down,” the mini- 
adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

After the heroes relay the results of their surveillance to Gundross, he 
contemplates the situation for a few minutes. Then he tells the heroes that 
another agent, a Bith named Ananah Kragana, will shuttle them up to Mezhra 
Station and use her existing cover to get them inside Bay 6-AT4 without any 
problems. The heroes are to observe the transaction between the weapon 
smugglers and the Separatists before stepping in and capturing (or killing) 
everyone involved. 

Gundross orders the heroes to go straight to the city’s main spaceport and 
board a ship called the Verdant Song, piloted by Ananah. They find the vessel 
and the Bith waiting when they arrive, and she flies them to the space station. 
Ananah docks the ship immediately adjacent to Bay 6-AT4, giving the heroes 
a quick escape in case of trouble. She explains that Gundross has ordered her 
to accompany the heroes and lend her support to the mission. Her cover is 
as a maintenance worker on the station, so she knows how to override the 
bay's security and use service tunnels to get inside without being noticed. 

In truth, Ananah is another part of the double-cross. Gundross has told her 
to help the heroes get into the bay, then betray them at a prearranged signal. 


DOUBLE-CROSS 


After the heroes have disembarked, Ananah steps up to the wall adjacent to 
Bay 6-AT4 and reveals a panel to a service tunnel that leads into the bay. 
Depending on how early the heroes arrive, they might have to find cover 
and wait for the smugglers and the Separatists to arrive, or they might show 
up just as the transaction is taking place. The bay is filled with crates and 
equipment, providing plenty of places for the heroes to hide. 

Eventually, a small freighter arrives, gliding through the force screen and 
setting down on the pad. A minute later, two Human males enter through the 
main bay door and approach the ship. Two other Humans carrying a heavy- 
looking crate disembark from the freighter. The parties begin haggling, and 
soon the Humans from the ship open the crate and pull out several blaster 
rifles to show the goods. 

When this happens, the hero closest to Ananah hears her say, “And there 
we go. Sorry. It's just business." She draws her blaster carbine and begins 
firing at the heroes, at which point the four Humans (use the assassin sta- 
tistics on page 282 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) turn and fire at them 
as well, using the blaster rifles from the crate. The four are Separatists who 
have come to the station not to pick up weapons but to capture the heroes. 
They do not fire at Ananah during combat. 


ANANAH KRAGANA 

At one time, Ananah considered herself a loyal member of the Republic, but 

years of work in the field and proximity to the Separatists made her sus- 

ceptible to conversion. Special Agent Gundross turned double agent as well, 

and the two of them have worked secretly with the Separatists for months, 

turning over Republic agents and other valuable commodities. Gundross and 

Ananah set up this elaborate ruse to lure the heroes into a position where 

they could be captured and sent to a Separatist world as prisoners. 

Ananah Kragana CL 10 

Medium Bith noble 3/scoundrel 5/soldier 2 

Dark Side 4 

Init +12; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Bith, Bothese, Durese, Huttese, Skakoan, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 23), Fort 21, Will 23; Dodge 

hp 48; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +7 (2d4+5) 

Ranged blaster carbine +10 (3d8+5) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +8 (4d8+5) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Coordinated Attack, Dastardly Strike, Disruptive, Dodge, 
Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Combat Reflexes, Coordinate 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 8, Int 15, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Special Qualities meditative trance, microscopic vision, scent 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Dastardly Strike, Disruptive, Indomitable, 
Sneak Attack +1d6 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Linguist, Point Blank 
Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, Mechanics), Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +18, Gather Information +13, Initiative +12, 
Mechanics +17, Perception +11, Pilot +12, Stealth +12, Treat Injury +11 

Possessions blaster carbine, vibrodagger, 2 medpacs 


Meditative Trance—Bith can enter into a trance that lasts for four 
consecutive hours. At the end of the trance, they gain the benefits of 
having rested for eight consecutive hours. 

Scent—Bith have an extremely strong sense of smell. At close range 
(within 10 squares), Bith ignore concealment and cover for the purpose 
of Perception checks, and they take no penalty for poor visibility when 
tracking (see Survival, page 73 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Ananah's Tactics 

Since she begins the combat close to the heroes, Ananah tries to blast as 
many of them as she can before diving for cover behind a crate, using her 
position to help flank them. She uses Born Leader, Coordinate, and Coordi- 
nated Attack to give her allies additional bonuses as needed. Because her 
mission is to take the heroes alive, she tries to knock them unconscious or 
to force them to surrender. 


Separatists' Tactics 

The four Separatists take cover as soon as possible and strive to keep in 
line of sight with Ananah so they can benefit from her feats and talents. If 
Ananah orders them to stop firing at the heroes, they do so immediately. 


Loading Vehicle: The loading vehicle is athe off and does not hae 
th ke equired 1 to ees it. Ate ue serves as Sou 


from 2 to 5 meters in height aia route et cover. 
Service ‘The service eit on the eastern side of the cba serves as 


“normal falling ee . 


CONCLUSION 


If the Separatists are successful, they bundle the heroes into the freighter 
and throw them in the brig. The freighter travels to the planet Skako, where 
the heroes are used as bargaining chips with the Republic or trotted out as 
examples of the Republic's lies and corruption. 

If the heroes defeat the Separatists and capture Ananah or any of the 
four Humans alive, the prisoners eventually reveal that the double-cross 
was initiated by Special Agent Gundross. The intelligence officer was in 
league with the Separatists from the start. He was ordered by his superiors 
to capture Republic agents alive so the Separatists could extract their 
secrets or use them as examples in the ongoing propaganda war. Republic 
Intelligence makes good on the bonus promised by Gundross and gives the 
heroes a 100,000-credit reward for revealing the presence of two double 
agents in their midst. 


HA 


HSiawHo 


Z || 
| 
y 
@ 
Cc 
W 
Ww 
ze 
) 
G) 
C 
Zs 
d 
W 
PD) 
@ 


SvaLNnecoNe FsneIii/4NW0 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#8: EXTRACTING 
ALEECE 


“Extracting Aleece" is a mini-adventure designed for 12th-level heroes. In 
this scenario, the heroes are sent to extract a deep-level spy who believes 
she is about to be discovered. 


ADVENTURE 
BACKGROUND 


Agent Tehlan Aleece is a well-placed Rebel spy within the Empire. She is, in 
fact, the niece of Moff Venram Krax, who is temporarily located on Corellia. 
Throughout her longstanding secret association with the Rebel Alliance, 
she has provided vital information on Imperial procedures and activities. 
Recently, through her spy network, she contacted General Airen Cracken 
with potentially grave news. She believes that someone has become suspi- 
cious of her and that her cover soon might be blown. Cracken seems certain 
that Aleece would not have contacted him unless she were in real trouble. 
Time is of the essence. 

The heroes are asked to undertake what might end up being a suicide 
mission. Few agent retrievals go as planned, especially behind Imperial lines. 
However, General Cracken believes that the importance of rescuing Agent 
Aleece is worth the risk. 

Before they travel to Corellia, the heroes are outfitted with the neces- 
sary tools. An intelligence agent provides each hero with a security uniform, 
along with forged identification that includes ship and weapon licenses. The 
group is also loaned a standard-issue Firespray-31 Patrol Craft (see page 84 
of Starships of the Galaxy). Finally, the intelligence agent gives the heroes 
an Imperial security code that is supposed to get them to Corellia without 
incident. The heroes are ordered to retrieve undercover agent Aleece and 
bring her back by any means necessary. 


AVOIDING IMPERIAL CAPTURE WHILE EXTRACTING ALEECE 


THE ARRIVAL 


When the heroes arrive in orbit around Corellia, they are immediately spot- 
ted by a small fleet led by an /mperial |-class Star Destroyer. A flight officer 
aboard the Star Destroyer contacts the heroes, requesting their destination 
and purpose. The heroes must make a Deception check opposed by the 
officer's Perception skill (+15) to attempt a bluff. They might tell the officer 
that they are on assignment for the Corellian Security Force. Regardless, 
the officer requests an Imperial security code before allowing the heroes to 
enter Corellian space. If they present the code supplied by Rebel Intelligence, 
there is a pause as they wait. When the officer returns on screen, he tells the 
heroes, “It's an older code, but it checks out. Proceed to Docking Bay 49. Do 
not deviate from your present course or you will be fired upon.” 

If the heroes failed the Deception check to bluff the flight officer, he 
notifies his commander that he suspects something is off kilter. As a result, 
the docking bay will have extra security to keep an eye on the heroes. 


MAKING CONTACT 

The heroes need to make contact with Tehlan Aleece at the predetermined 
rendezvous point. She informs them that she cannot leave Corellia until after 
the birthday and dinner party for her uncle, Moff Krax, planned for that 
evening. If she were absent, suspicions would rise, and armed guards would 
be sent to find her. She tells the heroes that a Human named Snaeb Fronk 
is her escort for the party. Aleece believes that he knows of her espionage 
activities and might report her. She asks the heroes to pose as her personal 
security guards to protect her from Fronk and her uncle's guards. 


ALMOST CAUGHT 


The heroes stand guard outside Aleece's quarters as she readies for her uncle's 
party. Her escort for the night, Snaeb Fronk, arrives and soon reveals his sus- 
picions, asking her several heated questions. Read the following text aloud: 


While keeping watch, you listen through the door as Aleece greets her guest. 
The couple's meeting seems full of pleasantries. Suddenly, Fronk's voice turns 
hard, and he says that he knows what she's really up to. 

"Oh? And what is that?" she replies. 

“Don't play naive with me! I've seen you—I've been watching you," he says. 
"You and your little network of spies—" You hear a slap. “You're a feisty one,” 
Fronk continues. “But no matter. It's too late for you. I've informed your uncle of 
your treasonous ways. You'll be in the spice mines of Kessel before this is done.” 


To prevent the situation from escalating further, the heroes can enter 
Aleece's quarters to silence Fronk or otherwise detain him—a relatively easy 
task for 12th-level characters. A successful Persuasion check to intimidate 
Fronk against his Will Defense of 13 causes him to back down from the 
confrontation. 

The heroes might try to question Fronk, although he is antagonistic and 
loyal to the Empire to a fault. With another successful Persuasion check to 
intimidate him, the heroes learn that Fronk has not actually revealed his 
suspicions about Aleece to Moff Krax or the Moff's guards—he was bluffing 
to frighten her. However, Fronk did share his doubts with a few Imperial 
officers over a round of drinks at the cantina last night. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: 
THE PURSUIT 
OF FREEDOM 


This skill challenge represents the heroes’ attempt to outrun Imperial forces 
and local Corellian security as they extract Agent Tehlan Aleece. The challenge 
begins when they leave the dinner party. Even if they reach the spaceport 
and board Moff Krax's personal shuttle, Imperial TIE fighters pursue them, 
turning the foot chase into a space chase. 


CL. 12 

Complexity: 3 (11 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (galactic lore) [DC 35 or 30]: The heroes can try to remember 
what they know about Corellia and this city to find shortcuts and secret 
routes. This DC is reduced to 30 for heroes who are familiar with the city. 

Perception [DC 26]: The heroes can try to find the best path to stay ahead 
of the forces on their tail. 

Stealth [Opposed DC]: The heroes can try to sneak off, hiding from their 
pursuers as long as they remain unnoticed. This check is opposed by the 
pursuers’ Perception skill. 

Treat Injury [DC 15 or 25]: Since keeping Aleece alive is part of the chal- 
lenge, the heroes might need to treat her injuries if she is shot by their pursu- 
ers. To attempt to heal her, a hero must have a medpac; having a medical kit 
grants a +2 equipment bonus to the check. Making a DC 15 check allows a 
hero to administer first aid. Making a DC 25 check allows a hero to revivify 
Aleece if she has died within 1 round. 

Pilot [DC 26 or Opposed DC]: Once the heroes commandeer a ship, they 
can pilot it along the fastest routes, avoiding obstacles and other ships flying 
around the spaceport. If the heroes are engaged by Imperial TIE fighters, the 
pursuers become able to make Pilot checks for dogfight maneuvers, which 
set the DC for this skill. 

Use Computer [DC 31]: Once the heroes commandeer a ship, they can use 
its computers to try to find the best flight path to avoid their pursuers. In 
addition, they can use this skill for astrogation (requires 1 minute of computer 
use before making the check). For the Astrogation DC modifiers, see page 
237 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Degenerating: This skill challenge does not end when the heroes accrue 
three failures. Instead, the general difficulty category for skill checks 
increases by one step for each failure accrued. (For more information, see 
Degenerating on page 45.) 

Initiative: Since the heroes are engaged in combat, they must act in order 
of initiative during the skill challenge. 

Restricted Skills: The following skills cannot be used in this challenge: 
Gather Information, Survival, and Swim. Pilot and Use Computer can be used 
only after the heroes commandeer a ship. 


Success: The heroes escape from Corellia with Aleece. 
Failure: The heroes are killed or captured, or Aleece is killed. 


iA eSsLavHoa 


Z 
q 
y 
@) 
c 
W 
Ww 
z 
9 
a 
C 
Z 
qj 
Y 
1 
@ 


SesLNTnoeons) snegQietwi 


ENCOUNTER: 
DINE AND DASH 


Challenge Level 12 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "Extracting Aleece,” the mini- 
adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

The birthday and dinner party for Moff Venram Krax seems like the perfect 
gala, everything a Moff could want—fine clothes, fancy desserts, rich foods, 
and the smell of perfumes permeating the air. A live synthtone band plays 
in one corner as dancers spin across the floor. The heroes continue playing 
their roles as security guards while the nobles hobnob, eat, and dance. Aleece 
does an excellent job of pretending that nothing is wrong, going about her 
usual business of meeting and greeting other nobles, dancing with men of 
standing, and flirting when necessary. 


READ-ALOUD TExT 
At an appropriate point during the party, read the following text aloud: 


After what seems like hours of lingering in the doorways, you notice something 
suspicious—an officer goes over to Moff Krax and whispers something in his 
ear. At first, Krax appears to try to shoo him away, but the officer seems too 
intent to be brushed off. 

Tehlan Aleece notices the situation, too. Perhaps out of desperation, she 
signals one of the male heroes over to her and begins dancing with him. When 
the music slows, she pulls him close and whispers in his ear to get ready to run. 

Suddenly, Aleece slaps him hard across the face. “How dare you!" she yells. 
“| told you to behave once already! Men are such vornskrs!” She starts to cry 
real tears, putting on a show of sobbing as she storms out of the dinner party. 


BACK TO THE SHIP 


When Aleece leaves the party, the heroes are likely to follow her out the 
door and begin their trek to the Firespray-31. Two guards stand just outside 
the door. The heroes must make a Deception check against the guards’ 
Perception check (+15) to determine whether their guises continue to be 
successful. If the heroes succeed at the check, the guards nod at them but 
otherwise do nothing. If the heroes fail the check, they can try to do or say 
something to ease the guards’ suspicions by making a DC 26 Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) check. If that check also fails, the guards sound the alarm 
and try to apprehend the heroes. 

When the heroes are close to their ship, they realize that their docking 
bay (number 49) is swarming with Imperial heavy stormtroopers. Aleece 
suggests that they take her uncle's personal shuttle instead, which is docked 
in bay 46. She claims to have the access codes and some experience flying 
the shuttle that she gained while taking trips with her uncle. 


Gamemasters should feel free to increase the number of Imperial troops 
as necessary. More are likely to arrive on the scene once the alarm sounds, 
especially if the heroes failed the Deception check when they first entered 
orbit around Corellia. 

Once the heroes commandeer a ship, they are chased by three Imperial 
TIE fighters. The TIE fighter pilots attempt dogfight maneuvers and make 
opposed Pilot checks against the heroes. 


TEHLAN ALEECE 

The niece of Moff Venram Krax from Corellia, Tehlan Aleece is also an under- 
cover agent for the Rebel Alliance. Behind her uncle's back, she has been 
reporting information to General Airen Cracken through a spy network. She 
is also an experienced pilot. 


Tehlan Aleece CL.7 

Medium Human noble 7 

Force 4 

Init +10; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothese, High Galactic, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 19), Fort 19, Will 21; Dodge, Mobility 

hp 47; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Running Attack 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Ignite Fervor, Inspire Confidence 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 13, Cha 17 

Talents Bolster Ally, Educated, Ignite Fervor, Inspire Confidence 

Feats Dodge, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Mobility, Running Attack, 
Skill Focus (Deception, Gather Information, Perception), 

Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +16, Gather Information +16, Initiative +10, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +10, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Perception +14, 
Persuasion +11, Pilot +10, Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, noble's clothing, 2,200 credits 


LAMBDA-CLASS SHUTTLE 

This modified Lambda-class shuttle belongs to Moff Venram Krax, who enjoys 
having his personal ship updated and improved. Krax has increased its speed, 
maneuverability, and shield technology. For more details on Lambda-class 
shuttles, see page 106 of Starships of the Galaxy. 


Modified Sienar Fleet Systems Lambda-class Shuttle CL 13 
Colossal space transport 

Init -1; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 15; SR 35; Threshold 76 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 920 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged blaster cannon battery +6 (see below) and 
blaster cannon +4 (see below) and 
twin laser cannons +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +38 
Atk Options autofire (blaster cannon, twin laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 6 (skilled); Passengers 20 
Cargo 80 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
[$Designer omitted the hyperdrive line. In case this was an accident, I've 
included it below in red. Delete the line if the exclusion was intentional 
(if the modifications described in text removed the hyperdrive).] 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 
Availability Unique; Cost not available for sale (likely valued at 300,000) 


Blaster cannon battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Blaster cannon (copilot) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Twin laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 


CONCLUSION 


If the heroes escape with Tehlan Aleece and jump to lightspeed, they earn 
General Airen Cracken's respect for extracting the undercover agent. Most 
likely, they receive medals and possibly promotions if they choose to con- 
tinue helping Rebel Intelligence. Moff Venram Krax ends up believing that 
his niece was kidnapped and forced by the Rebels to steal his shuttle. He 
puts a bounty on the kidnappers and offers a reward for the safe return of 
his beloved niece. Perhaps he suspects the true nature of the kidnapping but 
chooses this scenario both for his mental comfort and to save his neck if his 
superiors discover what really happened. 

If the heroes escape but Tehlan Aleece died or was captured, they earn 
nothing from the Rebel Alliance. In fact, the Alliance might be wary of sending 
them on another difficult assignment. General Airen Cracken is saddened by 
the news. The only bright spot in the botched operation is that Moff Krax 
must explain to Grand Moff Tarkin that his niece had been a Rebel spy right 
under his nose. Ironically, Tarkin does not know that his own niece Rivoche 
Tarkin is playing the same game. Nevertheless, Tarkin demotes Krax for this 
disgrace. 


4} © - Lambda- class shuttle a 
| TP - Imperial stormtrooper — 


SS LACH 


te 


“Ns 


tf 


Zh 
J 
4 
@ 
c 
W 
W 
z 
@ 
@ 
c 
z 
qt 
W 
2) 
O 


CLL ORE DET ELT SE 
CHAPTER Vill. 


ERFECT STORM 


_ "The Perfect Storm” is an adventure for the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. This 
_ adventure is designed for a group of four heroes and focuses on the contested 
~ mining world of Nyriaan. Heroes can come from any background, although 
characters with espionage experience, interpersonal skills, and knowledge 
of how to survive in harsh environments are likely to be more successful. 
This adventure can be set during any era of the Gamemaster's choosing. 

If you are a player, you should stop reading now so that you don't spoil 
surprises that "The Perfect Storm” has in store for you. Of course, if you 
~ are the Gamemaster, continue reading. 


PENING CRAWL 


nemasters who prefer to have an opening crawl before their adventure, 
e box d text below introduces players to "The Perfect Storm”: 


Star Wars: The Perfect Storm 


roduction of madilon, a rare and valuable alloy, depends 
ona handful of mining worlds scattered throughout the 
galaxy. One such world, Nyriaan, has long been a hotbed 
of intrigue, where numerous factions vie for control 
of its profitable mines. Covered in roiling clouds and 
inaccessible to all but specially equipped spacecraft, 
Nyriaan is at the center of a growing conflict. 


For all those who risk Nyriaan's dark and humid 
atmosphere in exchange for the opportunity to strike 
it rich, the bottom line is of utmost importance. Yet for 
a few—specifically the largest mining interests on the 
planet—the potential for profit is far more important 
than the possibility of a vast planetary disaster. 


The Corporate Sector Authority seeks to exploit its 
technological capabilities in an effort to make mining 
on Nyriaan a simpler affair. The form of the CSA's latest 
attempt to take control of the planet is not completely 
known, and Republic agents who have gone looking for 
answers have never been heard from again. 


Two of these agents, the best and the brightest of 
the Republic, have recently vanished without a trace. 
Despite their impeccable records, one or both agents 
appear to have been compromised by the very power 
they were sent to work against. 


With the Republic's spies dead or, worse, turned to 
aid the Corporate Sector Authority, new heroes must 
arise to ensure that Nyriaan does not become another 
planetary casualty of corporate greed and avarice ... 


WeXOLS 1909s9y930d SHL 


qJ 
a 
W 
i0) 
W 
wy 
7) 
W 
@ 
4d 
m0) 
qd 
i @ 
2 
x 


ADVENTURE SUMMARY 


The Republic has long been interested in maintaining neutrality on the 
planet of Nyriaan, both to preserve the native population of the planet as 
well as to allow a free market, of sorts. Despite legal rulings on the subject, 
the Corporate Sector Authority has long held to the belief that Nyriaan is 
its planet to do with as it pleases. Given the expense of mining madilon on 
Nyriaan, the CSA is constantly looking for more profitable ways to exploit 
the world's valuable resources. 

One plan posited by the CSA's scientists suggests that if the moisture 
in Nyriaan's atmosphere were somehow to be condensed, it would nullify 
the storms in the volatile ionosphere as well as flood the planet's surface. 
In addition to forming a number of vast seas on Nyriaan's surface, such an 
act would also allow the light of Luire, the system's star, to penetrate the 
planet's atmosphere for the first time in millions of years. The impact on 
the planet's diverse ecosystems and settlements would be catastrophic, but 
the loss of plant and animal life is insignificant to the CSA when compared 
to the increase in profits that would result when the communications and 
navigational obstacles presented by Nyriaan's atmosphere are removed. 

After decades of research into such an endeavor, the CSA has brought its 
project to a critical phase of development. Known as the Deluge Experiment, 
the operation is a well-kept CSA secret. By design, not even the Corporate 
Sector's highest-ranking members officially know of its existence, giving 
them freedom from prosecution if the experiment goes horribly wrong or 
leads to an unacceptable loss of life. CSA physicists and meteorologists 
assume that the effects of the Deluge Experiment will be gradual, requiring 
months to flood the planet's surface and ostensibly allowing time for any 
necessary evacuations. However, some in the Corporate Sector's scientific 
community believe, perhaps correctly, that the Deluge will take the form 
of a single catastrophic tempest that will cause widespread death and 
destruction. Despite such warnings, the Deluge Experiment nears its final 
phase. A massive device—similar to a vaporator, only thousands of times 
more powerful—has been constructed near a CSA mining facility on one of 
Nyriaan's vast mud plains. 

The Republic receives intelligence concerning the Deluge Experiment, but 
until recently, it was not aware of the magnitude of the experiment's scope. 
Several agents are dispatched to Nyriaan to determine how close the project 
is to completion and to locate the site of the experiment. In their last report, 


A& NOTE ABOUT FACTIONS 

In the event that you desire more diversity or would like to tailor “The 
Perfect Storm" to your own campaign, the factions referenced in this 
adventure (specifically the Republic and the Corporate Sector Author- 
ity) can be easily exchanged for any other factions of your choosing. If 
you intend this adventure to take place during the Rebellion era, replace 
the Republic with either the Rebel Alliance or the Empire. Either works 
in this scenario, although the Empire's motivations are likely to be less 
than altruistic. 


two of the Republic's top agents on Nyriaan claim to be close to discover- 
ing this information. However, neither has reported back to their handlers 
in some time. Prior to their disappearances, each agent insinuates that the 
other's loyalty might be compromised by the CSA, although no evidence to 
substantiate either claim is provided. 

Unable to wait for the agents to report back, the Republic's top intel- 
ligence officials order a new team, disguised as independent miners, to be 
assembled and sent to Nyriaan at once. Team members must be free from 
suspicion of any prior collusion with the Corporate Sector Authority, and 
furthermore, their loyalty to the Republic must be above doubt. Mercenar- 
ies and other contractors are considered, but only those who have proven 
themselves to be reliable. Given the short time available to the Republic, the 
selection of agents is rushed and fraught with risk. 

So enter the heroes: loyal citizens and/or servants of the Republic, who 
might come from any walk of life. Their success can mean the difference 
between life and death for hundreds of thousands of beings on Nyriaan. 


THE TRUTH 

Yrssk is a traitor to the Republic, having accepted a number of bribes from the 
Corporate Sector Authority to impede Republic investigation of the Deluge 
Experiment and to fabricate evidence against Klieri, the loyal agent, making 
her appear complicit in aiding the CSA's efforts. Klieri learns the specifics of 
the Deluge Experiment's location and scheduled completion. She becomes 
too great a liability and is killed by a CSA assassin droid. Meanwhile, Yrssk 
is instructed by his CSA masters to pose as a loyal Republic agent in case 
other Republic lackeys are sent to investigate. 


Yrssk has since planted misleading information on a datacard in Klieri's 
datapad—located in her apartment—and retreated to a location in the wilder- 
ness to await his prey. Hoping that the heroes will be waylaid before they 
reach him, Yrssk has arranged a number of distractions. Once the Deluge 
Experiment is initiated, Yrssk intends to return to Locus, gather his ill-gotten 
wealth, and retreat into the Outer Rim territories. 

The Deluge Experiment is scheduled to proceed two days after the 
heroes arrive on Nyriaan. This event is, of course, adjustable depending on 
your players and the pace at which they proceed through the adventure. Be 
flexible, and use the impending experiment's schedule to raise the level of 
tension whenever necessary. 


PART 1: BEFORE 
THE STORM 


In this section of the adventure, the heroes are recruited, learn of their mis- 
sion objective, and make their way to Nyriaan by whatever conveyance makes 
most sense. After they arrive in the Luire system, they must find a way to 
Nyriaan's surface, perhaps by renting laser transport array equipment and 
contracting with the Navigator's Guild to make planetfall in Locus, Nyriaan's 
capital. Of course, nothing ever goes as planned. In the most critical of situa- 
tions, the LTA projector on the planet is sabotaged midflight, and the bonded 
navigator they hire becomes a liability. 


MISSING PERSONS 

The players are contacted, either individually or as a group, and invited to 
participate in an important, albeit sensitive, mission on behalf of the Republic. 
Once the group is assembled, they are instructed to meet with their Republic 
contact, a Human male they know as Ghurn. 

Ghurn is, it seems, a high-ranking Republic official, although he never 
specifies which arm of the Republic he works for. Nevertheless, he has been 
trustworthy and he pays well, two facts that endear him to most heroes right 
off the bat. Ghurn appears to be a middle-aged Human male with tanned 
skin, white hair peppered with black, and steely gray eyes. He dresses in 
conservative silver-gray suits. Although handsome, he is also somewhat aloof. 

When meeting the heroes, Ghurn requests that they join him at a lower- 
class pub or social club in a metropolis on whatever planet the heroes happen 
to be on at the moment. When they arrive, he requests a private room from 
the establishment's managerial staff and ushers the heroes in. Once Ghurn 
is alone with the heroes, he greets each of them personally, looking each in 
the eye and shaking that hero's hand as he compliments a piece of attire, a 
recent accomplishment, or the like. 

Once the pleasantries are out of the way, Ghurn gives the following 
briefing: 


“I'm glad you've all decided to lend me your talents today. Something has 
arisen that has my superiors in a bind, and given the short notice, I'm surprised 
that we've managed to assemble a group that is as skilled and knowledgeable 
as you are. 

“All compliments aside, what we need now isa group that is ready, willing, 
and able to track down two of our missing agents on a hostile mining world 
in the Mid Rim. The world, Nyriaan, is a curious place, mostly because of its 
unique and volatile atmosphere that, when combined with its unusually strong 
magnetic field, makes landing on the planet a most hazardous endeavor. 

“The two missing agents were working toward the same goal in separate 
capacities. It seems that the Corporate Sector Authority has been developing 
a device that can, if it performs as expected, condense all the moisture in 
Nyriaan's atmosphere into a single, catastrophic rainfall. While such an event 
might neutralize the planet's strong ionosphere, it would have the side effect 
of laying waste to much of the planet's surface, as well as killing most of the 
indigenous animal and plant species. 

“We are not in the business of allowing such egregious experiments to 
proceed, regardless of the long-term benefit to our own mining efforts on 
Nyriaan. Therefore, we must stop the CSA from carrying out this project. 

"So, in brief, this is your assignment. Proceed to Nyriaan in the guise of inde- 
pendent miners. Locate our missing agents in Locus, the sprawling planetary 
capital of Nyriaan. Determine the location of the CSA's experimental device, 
and sabotage or, preferably, destroy it. If you are able to find comprehensive 
plans for the experimental device, | will happily provide a cash bonus for them. 

"| understand that this sounds like a simple mission, but there have been 
... complications. It seems that one or both of our agents might have been 
turned by the Corporate Sector. In their last reports to us, each agent claimed 
that the other was compromised by the enemy, so you must take care when 
dealing with either of them. 

"Any questions?” 


Once the briefing is concluded, Ghurn gladly answers any questions posed 
by the players. He provides the following information about the agents. The 
first agent is known as Klieri, a Human female from Coruscant, operating 
on Nyriaan for the past four months. Displays of her show that she is a 
female in her mid to late twenties, with short brown hair and brown eyes. 
The second agent is a male Trandoshan named Yrssk. He is middle-aged, 
with yellow-brown scales, blood red eyes, and a jagged scar along the left 
side of his head. Both agents were posing as freelance mining personnel at 
the time of their disappearance. Neither has ever given any indication of 
disloyalty to the Republic, which makes the possibility of their betrayal that 
much more disturbing. 

Ghurn also provides the agents’ last known addresses, both of which are 
for cheap apartments in the Neutral Zone of Locus. 


J 
ae 
W 
x0 
W 
wy 
a) 
W 
® 
qd 
O 
J 
) 
wv 
ES 


WIMOLS LoGgIyNeae) SHA 


NYRIAAN 


Compensation for the mission is negotiable, but it should not be the focus 
of any long or involved discussion with Ghurn. The basic fee is a lump sum 
of 12,000 credits, with a bonus of an additional 8,000 credits if the heroes 
can procure plans for the CSA's experimental device. 


LOOKS LIKE STORMY WEATHER 
The heroes are responsible for securing their own passage to Nyriaan. Flying 
their own starship to the Luire system is obviously the cheapest and most 
reliable method of transport available. Lacking their own ship, the heroes can 
charter a ship to the Luire system. However, charter is expensive, given the 
Luire system's isolation. Getting a charter pilot to voluntarily land a starship 
on the planet's surface might also be difficult. Unfortunately, Ghurn cannot 
provide the heroes with a ship. Given the critical status of the mission, 
however, he might be able to pull some strings at the Gamemaster's option. 
f a ship is provided, the heroes’ fee should be reduced by at least one quarter. 
To keep their cover as independent mining contractors, the heroes should 
take time to procure or purchase basic mining gear prior to leaving for 
yriaan. Depending on what they know about Nyriaan through the proper 


f 
O ARUMED 


YELLOW. 
SEA 


Knowledge (galactic lore) check, they should also purchase items that might 
be of use in the dim and sultry conditions on the planet's surface. 

Whatever their method of travel, after the heroes drop out of hyperspace 
in the Luire system and begin their approach toward Nyriaan, read the fol- 
lowing aloud: 


As you approach the planet, you see that Nyriaan is simultaneously ugly and 
incredibly beautiful. The roiling clouds of the planet are thick, dark, and forbid- 
ding, yet they are punctuated by flashes of purple lightning that arc through 
the turbulent atmosphere. 

A number of small stations and platforms orbit Nyriaan, and countless ships 
and shuttles move between them ina constant ballet. The stations and ships 
maintain a distance far enough away from the planet to remain unaffected 
by the numerous magnetic belts that surround it. 

Suddenly your communications console crackles. “Attention unidentified 
vessel. Please state your purpose in the Luire system so that | can properly 
direct you." 


The heroes are being contacted by a member of the Hyperspace Naviga- 
tor's Guild, both to direct them to a relevant platform or station in Nyriaan's 
orbit, as well as to offer them a mandatory Guild contract should they 
want to land upon the planet's surface. Reckless heroes might want to land 
upon the planet on their own, but such efforts are likely to end in tragedy 
(which should be stressed). If the heroes manage to land on their own, they 
are subject to arrest for violation of the Senate mandate that all landings 
on Nyriaan be overseen by members of the Hyperspace Navigator's Guild. 

When the heroes announce their intention to land in Locus, the Hyper- 
space Navigator's Guild offers them a special rate for both the rental and 
installation of a laser transport array and the services of a bonded navigator. 
For light freighters, the service charges total 1,000 credits for each take-off 
and each landing. For a special rate of 1,500 credits, the heroes can reserve 
both landing and take-off services ahead of time at a substantial savings. 
They'd be fools to refuse. 

Heroes who accept the services of the guild are given clearance and 
directed to dock with Platform Trill 92. When the heroes dock, Hyperspace 
Navigator's Guild technicians board their vessel to install a portable LTA 
system. Installation requires external attachment of the LTA sensor system, 
as well as connection of a universal control station inside the ship's cockpit 
by the bonded navigator who is sent to accompany the heroes. 

The navigator, a nervous Snivvian named Tevlun, arrives with little fanfare 
and introduces himself to the heroes. He shows his credentials prior to install- 
ing his universal control station, and he answers any questions the heroes 
pose. If asked why he is nervous, Teviun shrugs it off and insist that he is 
fine. The truth is that he is a relatively inexperienced LTA operator with only 
three prior landings on Nyriaan. Astute heroes might come to this conclusion 
by succeeding on a DC 12 Perception check, but less trusting heroes might 
suspect foul play on Tevlun's part. 

Unless the heroes want to disembark and explore Platform Trill 92 (an 
unexciting orbital facility that is equipped with only marginal services—a 
cramped cantina with attached hotel, limited repair facilities, and an over- 
priced general store), they can arrange to land in Locus when the LTA system 
is fully installed. 


TEVLUN 

Tevlun is a tense Snivvian who has recently been accepted into the 
Hyperspace Navigator's Guild as a bonded navigator. He has made only a 
few landings on Nyriaan, so he is still somewhat put off by the procedure. 
Nevertheless, it is decent money, and he has a wife and several children 
to support back on Cadomai Prime. 


Although he is dressed in the uniform of a bonded navigator, the Snivvian 

acts somewhat wet behind the ears. He drums his fingers nervously as he 

works, oblivious to the fact that you can sense his discomfort. 

Teviun CL 1 

Small Snivvian nonheroic 4 

Init +2; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Snivvian, Nyriaanan 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 11 

hp 10; Threshold 10 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +3 (3d6) 

Base Atk +3; Grp -2 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities observant 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [physical sciences], Skill Training (Pilot, 
Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +9, Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, 
Knowledge (physical sciences) +14, Perception +3 , Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +9 

Possessions navigator's uniform, bonded navigator's credentials, 
blaster pistol, laser transport array console 


Tevlun’s Tactics 

On the off chance that Teviun is involved in combat with or near the 
heroes, he defends himself as best as he can. He is not a soldier and does 
not take unreasonable chances for strangers. 


WHOLS LOeEdIUNSe—) SHL 


U 


LAV 


Ha 


WA SSLav 


WHOLS Leeds) 9AL 


“WE'RE GOING TO DIEI" 


PLANETFALL 
Once the heroes' ship is outfitted with LTA equipment and Teviun, the bonded 
navigator, is aboard, they can make planetfall on Nyriaan. The operation starts 
out simply enough, but soon the situation spirals out of control. 

Read the following text aloud when the heroes begin their descent: 


The sickly clouds swirling around the planet below begin to darken as your 
ship slowly approaches them. Teviun, the navigator, sits at the pilot's station, 
his stubby fingers picking nervously at keys and switches as he monitors the 
ship's descent. 

"We are within fifty kilometers of breaching the ionosphere,” he reports. 
“I will now be shutting down all unnecessary systems until we touch down.” 

As if on cue, the interior lighting dims, and the omnipresent sound of the 
air scrubber is replaced by the faint thrumming of the sublight engines. The 
ship seems strangely quiet, and looking through the cockpit viewport you have 
the sudden impression that you are falling toward the planet—an impression 
that is not entirely wrong. 

“Orbital laser telemetry acquired. Surface laser telemetry acquired," Teviun 
continues, as if speaking to himself. “Adjusting course to maintain synchroni- 
zation. Entering atmosphere in 3... 2... 1." 


The view beyond the cockpit suddenly goes dark and the sublight engines 
begin to sputter. Tevlun flips a switch, compensating for the burst of intense 
ionization that the ship has suddenly been exposed to. The engine noise 
subsides somewhat. 

Suddenly, a light on Teviun's console blinks an angry red, and an accom- 
panying alarm sounds shrilly in the confines of the cockpit. "Uh oh..." Tevlun 
stammers ina panic. "I've lost surface laser telemetry!” 


Concerned heroes are likely to ask Tevlun something along the lines of, "What 
does that mean?" 

What it means, in lay terms, is that the laser guiding the ship to the ground 
has been deactivated, and aside from the orbital laser, the heroes are flying 
blind toward the surface of Nyriaan. Granted, the orbital laser provides an 
indication of the direction they should be flying, but the wisdom of flying in 
such a manner is questionable. 

At this juncture, the heroes must make a choice. First, they can attempt 
to return to Platform Trill 92 and take stock of the situation, attempting to 
land on Nyriaan at a later time. This is the option that Tevlun would suggest 
if he weren't hyperventilating. Returning to the platform requires one of 
the heroes to take control of Tevlun's navigation console and succeed ina 
DC 20 Pilot check. 

The second option is to continue the landing as planned, using only the 
orbital laser telemetry as a guide. Unfortunately, Tevlun is not trained for 
such a maneuver. Neither are the heroes, but that is beside the point. Heroes 
wanting to take this gamble are obliged to complete the “Landing on Nyriaan 
with Orbital Laser Telemetry Only" skill challenge to make planetfall safely. 

If the heroes’ ship crashes, it is damaged as indicated on Table 10-3: Col- 
lision Damage on page 173 of the Saga Edition core rulebook, with the size 
of the colliding vehicle or hazard being equal to the size of the heroes’ ship. 


PART 2: DOWN IN IT 


Now that the heroes have landed (or crashed) upon Nyriaan, they can go 
about the business of locating the two missing Republic agents. If events 
have gone as planned and they are able to land safely, their ship ends up in 
one of the Neutral Zone's docking bays. Fees for starship storage, service, 
and the like are 10% higher on Nyriaan than elsewhere. 

The layout of Locus is similar to that of most colonial cities. Structures 
are built low to the ground. Dim, flickering illuminators are placed at even. 
intervals along streets to compensate for the lack of natural light. The air 
has a stale, musty odor. Areas of high foot and vehicle traffic have less 
fungal growth, but practically all surfaces in the Neutral Zone—walls, 
streets, sidewalks—are covered in a thick layer of phosphorescent fungus. 
The private sectors of the city, including the Corporate City Sector and the 
Republic Sector, are well secured and nearly impossible to enter without 
proper authorization. 


Heroes in Locus can travel on foot, but the easiest way to get around 
is either to rent a vehicle, such as a landspeeder, or to hail one of the taxis 
in the vicinity of the Neutral Zone's spaceport. The city is laid out in a 
rough grid, with different sectors—such as Corporate City Sector and the 
Republic Sector—cordoned off by fire zones, high walls, energy fences, and 
armed guards. 

The heroes have two obvious choices at first, and both involve check- 
ing in at the last known locations of the two missing agents. Adventurous 
players might want to explore the city a little bit. Let them take a short 
detour, but their immediate focus should be on Yrssk and Klieri, the missing 
agents. In either case, the next encounter might be a good way to get them 
back on track. 


SKILL CHALLENGE: LANDING 
ON NYRIAAN WITH ORBITAL 
LASER TELEMETRY ONLY 

In this skill challenge, the heroes attempt to land a starship on Nyriaan 
using only one of two standard laser arrays for guidance. Normally, two 
laser arrays—one located on the ground and one located in orbit—are 
employed to give pilots and navigators a precise fix on their location, 
altitude, and relative speed. With only the orbital array to guide them, 
the heroes can only guess at these figures. As failures are accrued, the 
heroes’ ship spins further out of control. 


CES 

Complexity: 1 (5 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (galactic lore) [DC 24]: The heroes can use their knowledge 


} 


| | 

of Nyriaan's atmospheric qualities, as well as its geography, to judge their | r| 

altitude and bearing. iH 

Mechanics [DC 22]: The heroes can attempt to jury-rig their sublight a] 

engines or other ship systems to generate more power. 
Perception [DC 20]: The heroes can use their senses to judge distances 


LWA & 


and notice obstacles and ground features as they plummet through the 
thick clouds. 

Pilot [DC 20]: Heroes can buckle their restraints and trust in their 
reflexes and piloting skills to survive the disaster. 

Use Computer [DC 23]: The heroes can attempt to adjust the ship's 
sensors to overcome the interference from the planet's ionosphere and 
magnetic fields. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects 
for this skill challenge: 

Restricted Skills: The Mechanics and Use Computer skills can only be 
attempted once each during this skill challenge. In addition, the following 
skills are not applicable in this challenge: Acrobatics, Climb, Deception, 
Gather Information, Jump, Persuasion, Stealth, Swim, and Treat Injury. 

Second Effort: A hero who fails a skill check can instead choose to 
move the starship -1 step on the condition track to make that failure 
count as a success. 


all 
Ie | 
Wi) 
U 
W 
0) 
Uv 
W | 
@ |) 
ql 
0) 
q 
O | 
PD 
EG 


io SAy 
iSTARPORT 


Success: The heroes successfully land on Nyriaan, although they 
might not end up exactly where they expected to be. 

Failure: The heroes crash-land on Nyriaan, damaging the starship 
and possibly injuring themselves and others. 


Locus 


WHOLS LAQSINEe) SHB 


& LUKEWARM RECEPTION 

The heroes immediately attract attention from a pair of plainclothes Cor- 
porate Sector assassins. Given the activity of the previous few days, the 
Corporate Sector Authority expects that the Republic will send personnel to 
Nyriaan to investigate the disappearances of the two agents. The Republic is 
not infallible, either, and word of the heroes' appearance and modus operandi 
has spread to the CSA's intelligence units on Nyriaan. 

The two CSA assassins are responsible for the malfunction of the surface 
laser telemetry that the heroes experienced during their descent. Since 
their sabotage did not have the desired effect, the assassins are to follow 
the heroes and keep an eye on them as they make their way through Locus 
in search of the missing Republic spies. If the heroes locate one or both 
of the spies, the CSA assassins are authorized to use deadly force against 
them. Regardless of which lead the heroes follow up on first, the two CSA 
assassins spring an attack when the heroes gain entry to Klieri's apartment 
(see "Klieri’s Apartment,” below) if the assassins are still active at that time. 

The CSA assassins have access to ground transport. If the heroes decide to 
travel on foot, one CSA assassin follows on foot at a distance while the other 
drives the speeder, just out of sight. If the heroes prefer to drive their own 
vehicle, both assassins pursue in theirs. Their immediate goal is observation, 
not attack. If the heroes detect them, the assassins attempt to break contact. 
Barring that, they fight to the death and try to avoid capture if possible. 


SOMEONE'S WATCHING. 


If the heroes notice the assassins tailing them and combat ensues, refer 
to the "Main Street Firefight" encounter on page 206 for details. If the 
encounter turns into a speeder chase, then refer to the “Locus Street Chase" 
skill challenge below to resolve it. If the heroes lack a speeder, they are unable 
to pursue their enemies. If the chase ends with the heroes tangling with the 
assassins, the “Main Street Firefight" encounter can still be used. 


KLIERI'S APARTMENT 

The agent named Klieri was last known to be living in an apartment at the far 
southern end of the Neutral Zone of Locus. The heroes can find her apartment 
easily enough by any number of methods: checking maps, asking for direc- 
tions, or checking public terminals for information. The neighborhood is on 
the lower end of the social scale, and depending on the time of day—which, 
given the constant darkness, might seem irrelevant— any number of rough- 
looking characters might be hanging out in the street, talking, joking, and 
making spectacles of themselves. 

Klieri's apartment is in a sprawling three-story building. Her unit is on 
the second floor, near the western end of the structure, conveniently located 
next to an emergency stairwell. The halls of the building are clean, for the 
most part, with only occasional old stains or small patches of slow-growing 
phosphorescent fungus on the floors and walls. A steady stream of tenant 
traffic flows through the halls during the day cycle, including a tired-looking 
security guard who sits at a station near the building's front entrance. 

The apartment door is closed and sealed with a simple electronic lock (DC 
20 Mechanics check to unlock). If the heroes knock or ring the bell, no one 
answers, and no sound can be detected within the apartment. Once inside, the 
heroes find a series of unlit rooms and signs of a struggle. Furniture has been 
upended and small objects and fragments of glass and ceramic litter the floor. 

Klieri is dead in the apartment bedroom. She has been there for at least 
a couple of days, and the cause of her death appears to be a series of blaster 
shots to her chest and abdomen. Her placid face is bruised, and her brown hair 
is matted with dried blood. A datapad rests on the blood-stained bed next to 
Klieri's outstretched hand, but a single strike from a sharp object (probably a 
vibroblade or vibrodagger) has rendered it little more than a pile of electronic 
junk. Heroes who succeed on a DC 15 Perception check can determine that 
Klieri was likely shot in the living room, but crawled into her bedroom to die. 

Technically apt heroes might want to repair the datapad. It is far too 
damaged to be made functional again. However, the encrypted datacard 
within the datapad is undamaged and can be accessed on a functional 
datapad or portable computer. The encryption can be broken only after 
improving the datacard's attitude from unfriendly to friendly by using the 
Improve Access application of the Use Computer skill (see page 76 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). Once this is accomplished, the information on 
the card can be accessed. 


SKILL. CHALLENGE: 

Locus STREET CHASE 

In this skill challenge, the players must pursue a pair of Corporate Sector 
assassins through the gloomy streets of Locus in a landspeeder chase. 
During the chase, the heroes travel through different parts of the city's 
Neutral Zone, attempting to force their enemies to a halt so that they can 
be confronted. As the heroes accrue failures, the assassins slip further 
away, potentially shaking pursuit altogether. 


CL 4 

Complexity: 2 (8 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (galactic lore) [DC 28 or 23]:The heroes can try to remem- 
ber what they have heard about Locus to find shortcuts and secret routes. 
This DC is reduced to 23 for heroes who are familiar with the city. 

Perception [DC 25]: The heroes can use Perception to find the best 
path to keep pace with the Corporate Sector assassins, or to notice any 
indicators of where the assassins are headed next. 

Pilot [DC 18 or Opposed]: The heroes can pilot their landspeeder 
along the fastest route, avoid debris and obstacles, and find other ways 
to close the gap with the Corporate Sector assassins. If the heroes get 
close to the assassins, the driving assassin can make Pilot checks to set 
the DC for this skill. 

Stealth [Opposed]: The heroes can sneak along alternative routes, cut- 
ting the assassins off if they remain unnoticed. This check is opposed by 
the assassins’ Perception skills. The heroes receive a +2 bonus to Stealth 
checks due to the gloomy nature of the city. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects 
for this skill challenge: 

Containment: The heroes accrue failures only in rounds when no one 
earns a success, since they need only keep the target in sight of one 
person to maintain the chase. 

Opposed DC: Certain skills in this skill challenge can be opposed by 
the assassins. 

Restricted Skills: Certain skills are not applicable in this challenge: 
Gather Information, Survival, Swim, and Treat Injury. 


Success: The heroes manage to force the assassins into a location 
where they can no longer escape by piloting their speeder. The Corporate 
Sector Authority assassins must leave their vehicle behind and either 
fight the heroes or flee on foot. 

Failure: The Corporate Sector Authority assassins manage to give the 
heroes the slip, disappearing into the darkened streets of Locus. 


Outside of a number of obviously mundane files that have been placed 
on the datacard as decoys, one file, titled "FLOOD," contains a small amount 
of useful information. According to timestamps, the FLOOD file was the last 
one to be accessed, just over 48 hours ago—likely around the same time that 
Klieri was killed. Along with a set of surface coordinates, the file also contains 
the following phrase: "Lrn 2 swim. Data recd from Bavil. Tst successful. Final 
phase in 4 dys." The coordinates correspond to a location northeast of Locus, 
south of a geologically active region known as the Steamfields. 

Development: If the heroes search the apartment, they can find several 
items, depending on the result of their Perception checks. If the heroes 
succeed on a DC 10 Perception check, they find 3 blank datacards, 4 ration 
packs, a breath mask with 1 filter, and a glow rod. Success on a DC 15 Per- 
ception check enables them to find the items above and also 2 energy cells, 
a medpac, and a short range comlink. Success on a DC 20 Perception check 
additionally reveals a hold-out blaster pistol, a medium-sized pair of combat 
gloves, and a pocket scrambler. Success on a DC 30 Perception enables the 
heroes to also find an explosive charge with timer. 


The Monster Under the Bed 

Klieri was killed by an assassin droid: a MRD-39B murderer, to be specific. 
The droid hides beneath Klieri’s bed, where it waits quietly until it detects 
someone entering the apartment. When this occurs, it attempts to contact 
the two Corporate Sector assassins from the "Main Street Firefight" encoun- 
ter. If the two assassins have not been captured or killed, they respond, 
ordering the droid to continue to monitor the situation while they gain 
access to the apartment building. Once the assassins are in position outside 
Klieri's apartment, they cause a distraction that should allow the droid to 
attack the heroes undetected from the rear. See the "Klieri's Apartment" 
encounter on page 208. 

The MRD-39B is poised to attack the moment it is discovered. If a hero in 
the bedroom succeeds at a Perception check opposed by the droid’s Stealth 
(+13), he or she finds the assassin droid, and it attacks. If the droid cannot 
contact the two CSA assassins and if no hero detects it, the droid waits for 
an opportune moment to attack the heroes by itself. In either case, refer to 
the "Klieri’s Apartment” encounter on page 208. 


HSLIVvHS 


A 


WHOLS LOPES) GAL 


\< 
i= 


i} 
it 
W 
W 
W 
2) 
v 
0) 
Q 
a 
0) 
J 
@ 
ay 
ES 


walave 


YRSSK'S APARTMENT 

Yrssk, the second of the missing Republic Agents, lives in a small apartment 
above a repulsorlift garage just north of the spaceport. As with Klieri's apart- 
ment, the heroes should be able to locate his residence easily. If approached 
during the day, the garage is open and the mechanics within are working 
on a number of repulsorlift vehicles. In the evening, the garage is closed, 
its entrances locked. 

The apartment is accessed by a set of slimy permacrete stairs that run up 
the side of the building. The door to the apartment is sealed by a complicated 
electronic lock connected to a silent alarm system (DC 25 Mechanics check 
to disable). If triggered, the alarm alerts the owner of the repulsorlift garage 
who arrives within 2d10+5 minutes with two friends (use the statistics for 
generic Thugs on page 284 of the Saga Edition core rulebook for all three). 

Yrssk's small apartment, which has a faint reptilian odor, is well organized, 
yet austere. It contains little furniture, and the kitchenette area is stocked 
with only a few nonperishable items—as if the person whe lives here is rarely 
present for long. If the heroes search the premises, success on a DC 10 Per- 
ception check reveals the following items throughout the apartment: a pair 
of electrobinoculars, a liquid cable dispenser, and a standard targeting scope. 
If the heroes succeed on a DC 15 Perception check, they find those items 
and also 3 power packs. Succeeding on a DC 20 Perception check enables 
the heroes also to find a holorecorder with 2 datacards, and if they succeed 
ona DC 25 Perception check, the heroes also find a credit chip loaded with 
5,000 Corporate Sector credits. 

One of the datacards with the holorecorder holds several clandestine 
recordings of a Human female, who appears to be Klieri, interacting with a 
number of other individuals. One holo shows Klieri and a well dressed male. 
He passes her something that appears to be a credit chip. If the holo is further 
analyzed with a computer, a DC 25 Use Computer check or DC 30 Perception 
check reveals that this last recording is a skilled forgery cobbled together 
from portions of other holorecordings. 

Other than the above items, little else of interest can be discovered in the 
apartment. Yrssk is obviously not home, and does not appear to have been 
there for some time. If questioned about him, the owner or any employee 
of the repulsorlift garage tell the heroes that the Trandoshan has not been 
around for two or three days. 


INTO THE WILDERNESS 

The only way for the heroes to reach the coordinates found on Klieri’s data- 
card is to venture into Nyriaan's dark wilderness. Navigation on Nyriaan is a 
tricky affair since the satellite navigation aids so common on other worlds 
are completely ineffective on Nyriaan. The only way to travel reliably is by 
using maps and other low-tech navigational aids for guidance. Methods of 
travel are also restricted to moving on foot and low-altitude speeders or 
conventional vehicles. Airspeeders are out of the question, because they 
suffer the same malfunctions in Nyriaan's atmosphere that starships do. 


THE WILDERNESS OF NYRIAAN IS NO PLACE FOR THE UNPREPARED, 


The heroes have the option to hire a guide to take them into the wilder- 
ness. Native laborers looking for work can be found at the northern edge of 
the Neutral Zone in Locus, and many of them are knowledgeable enough of 
Nyriaan's natural hazards and geography to make a tidy sum from offworld 
visitors, tourists, and hunters looking to go on safari. One guide for hire is 
known as Finvarra, and she is recommended to the heroes if they ask strangers 
or acquaintances for advice on the subject. She prefers to travel on foot but 
is also happy to direct her employers from the relative safety of a speeder. 
Heroes who venture into the wilderness need a map and a compass. Vast areas 
of treacherous swamp are inhabited by dangerous amphibious creatures and 
forested with tall, thick-stemmed fungal trees. In the darkness of Nyriaan, 
getting lost is easier than one might think. 

Basic survival on Nyriaan requires a daily DC 15 Survival check to avoid 
natural hazards in the wild if the character making the check is familiar 
with the planet's unusual wilderness (see page 73 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook). About a week of living in the wilderness of Nyriaan is required 
to become familiar with the specific dangers and pitfalls of Nyriaan's back 
country, so until then, a character new to Nyriaan’s wilderness suffers a 
-5 penalty to Survival checks. In addition, determining cardinal directions 


on Nyriaan using the Know Direction application of the Survival skill is far 
more difficult, considering that no stars are visible. Using the Know Direction 
application requires a DC 20 Survival check, even for natives. 


Beasts of Prey 

As the heroes travel through the wilderness, with or without a guide, they 
occasionally attract the attention of indigenous wildlife. In this instance, 
a hunting party of chlovi cats descend upon the heroes at an inopportune 
moment—when they are camping, exploring on foot, or attempting to navi- 
gate through the thick chlovi copses that are so common in Nyriaan’s wilder- 
ness. For details, refer to the “Crimson and Chlovi" encounter on page 210. 


THE NATIVES ARE RESTLESS 

Predators are not the only danger in the wilds of Nyriaan. Native clans also 
patrol the wilderness. A group of Nyriaanan scouts lays in wait for intrud- 
ers just south of the Steamfields. The natives are tipped off about potential 
intruders by Yrssk, who contacted the clan just prior to his disappearance. 
In his years on Nyriaan, Yrssk cultivates a number of disparate allies and 


FINVARRA, NATIVE GUIDE 

Finvarra is a young native who has spent most of her life living in the 
wilderness surrounding Locus. She does not trust offworlders, but she sees 
them as an easy source of income and hires herself out as a guide. Most 
of the time she keeps her employers alive, not counting the odd occasion 
when the situation turns sour on the trail. 

Although she is only sixteen years old, Finvarra tries to act much older. 
She appears boyish when dressed for the field, but takes offense if she is 
mistaken as such. Her standard fee for guiding offworlders is 50 credits per 
day, and she does not hesitate to double the price if circumstances become 
dangerous. She speaks fluent Basic with a noticeable Nyriaanan accent. 

Finvarra is young, but she not stupid or naive. Even if the heroes try to 
ply her with tales of the Corporate Sector Authority's greed, she likely dis- 
misses them as stupid offworlders with delusions of grandeur. She knows 
that the CSA is evil, but this is not exactly news. If the heroes convince her 
that her planet and her clan are in danger of being destroyed, she might 
be willing to do more than just guide them to where they want to go. 


You almost mistake this teenage girl for a young boy. The scars on her face 
and the calluses on her hands are testimony to the hard life she's lived. Her 
dark hair is slicked back with sweat and tied with piece of red wire, and her 
green eyes peer at you suspiciously. 


Finvarra’s Tactics 
Finvarra is a survivor, so she rarely stands and fights unless she has no 
other choice. Her initial reaction is to run from danger, but she uses any 


associates, including members of the Malvina clan. The Malvina are not 
particularly warlike, but when they hear rumors that miners want to desecrate 
their territory, they become rightfully displeased. 

Yrssk capitalizes on the Malvina clan's hostility and informs them that 
a group of miners are coming through their lands to scout a location for a 
new mine. Although the Malvina are willing to listen to Yrssk—he has never 
steered them wrong before—the clan leaders are not entirely taken in by 
the Trandoshan’s story. Instead of mobilizing a war band, as Yrssk suggests, 
they instead dispatch several small scout groups to monitor any incursions 
onto their land. 

The native scouts do not fire first and ask questions afterward; they plan 
to observe, analyze, and, if necessary, attack in defense of their birthright. 
As the heroes travel closer to their destination, they come across a line of 
Meadlin's trees—massive fungal growths that can grow to up to sixty meters 
tall in the planet's unsettled regions. In addition to their extraordinary height, 
the trees also weave together to form seemingly impenetrable barriers that 
can be passed through only by those who know how to navigate them. 


of her employers as shields if she can. When she does fight, Finvarra pulls 
no punches. She sees enemies as obstacles to life and kills with little 
hesitation if the choice is between her life or an enemy's. 


Finvarra CL3 
Medium Human (Nyriaanan) scout 3 

Force 3 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +8 


Languages Basic, Nyriaanan 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 16; Dodge, Mobility 


hp 39; Threshold 17 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +3 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +3 

Special Actions Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Talents Fringe Savant, Long Stride 

Feats Dodge, Improved Defenses, Mobility, Shake It Off, Skill Focus 
(Survival), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +7, Endurance +8, Perception +8, Stealth +7, Survival +13, 
Swim +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, survival knife, native garb, all-temperature 
cloak, field kit 


WHOLS LoEd'de) 9HL 


WHOLSG LagduE) SHA 


The Malvina clan scouts are positioned along the thick tree line, scan- 
ning the southern horizon for intruders. When the heroes arrive, the natives 
move quietly and carefully to intercept them before they reach the trees. 
The makeup of the heroes’ party determines, in large part, how the scouts 
respond. A heavily armed party is treated with respect, given their obvious 
firepower, but a party of lightly armed heroes is considered less of a threat. 
If the heroes are carrying any obvious mining gear, Yrssk's story starts to 
carry more weight with the Malvina scouts. With thick mist rising from 
the wet earth, visibility is low, so the heroes are relatively close before the 
natives make their move. 

This encounter does not necessarily develop into a firefight. Give the 
heroes every chance to avoid combat unless they initiate violence. If the 
heroes have a native guide, such as Finvarra, they likely have an advantage 
when negotiating with the Malvina scouts. Of course, if shots are fired and 
any of the native scouts are killed, all wagers are off. 

For more details, refer to the "Native Hospitality” encounter on page 212. 


FEAR OF THE DARK 

Yrssk's final ploy awaits the heroes at the center of the geologically active 
Steamfields. To continue onward to the coordinates found on the datacard, 
the heroes must leave any vehicles behind because the Meadlin's trees are 
too dense to allow vehicles to pass. The heroes might be able to take the 
vehicles in a circuitous path around the trees, but at the expense of precious 
time. Getting through the Meadlin's trees on foot requires some effort, as 
well, unless the heroes have a native guide or are able to make peace with 
the Malvina clan scouts. Nevertheless, heroes who insist on retaining their 
vehicles should be allowed to do so if they want to make the effort. 

The Steamfields are a swampy region of hot springs, geysers, and natural 
vents that spew scalding steam and sulfurous fumes. Some of Nyriaan's 
hardiest fungus species live in these boiling pools, their phosphorescent light 
mixing with the steam and mist to lend an eerie countenance to the entire 
area. Areas of relatively dry ground weave around and through the seething 
mud and water, but the way is twisting and mazelike. Geysers send unpredict- 
able scalding fountains skyward, sometimes across the more navigable paths. 

The heroes must take care to avoid being boiled alive. If they still have their 
vehicles, especially landspeeders or speeder bikes, they can easily traverse 
the Steamfields by hovering over the boiling hazards that would impede them 
if they were on foot. Wheeled vehicles, however, are useless because they 
become mired in the blistering mud. 


Yrssk's Ambush 

In addition to his allies among Nyriaan's native clans, Yrssk also finds and 
maintains contact with one of Nyriaan's darkest secrets—a clan of Sith who 
descended from the crew of the ill-fated Dying Sun during the years of the 
Old Republic. Twisted and inbred, the Sith descendants are little better than 


cunning animals. Yrssk plies them over the years with trinkets and sacrifi- 
cial victims. Although they have no loyalty to the Trandoshan, the Sith are 
interested in getting their hands on additional victims. 

The Sith descendants have constructed an altar of native stone at the 
center of the Steamfields. The coordinates found on Klieri's datacard lead 
the heroes directly to it. As the heroes approach to investigate the location, 
they are set upon by Yrssk's Sith allies. Yrssk, safely hidden behind a nearby 
rock formation, observes the struggle. If the Sith seem to be becoming 
overwhelmed, he begins to snipe at the heroes. For details, see the "Children 
of the Tempest" encounter on page 214. 

Ideally, the heroes capture Yrssk alive. In fact, even if Yrssk is mortally 
wounded, allow him to remain alive if possible. Given his Trandoshan physiol- 
ogy, even the loss of a limb, although initially disabling, does not have severe 
long-term effects for him. Your best bet is to grant Yrssk a bit of script 
immunity. However, even if he does not survive the fight, Yrssk conveniently 
has the location of the Deluge Experiment on a datacard in his possession. 

If Yrssk is captured by the heroes, he comes clean and reveals his part in 
the proceedings. Although Yrssk didn't kill Klieri, the heroes might feel that 
he is indirectly responsible for her death at the hands of the CSA assassins, 
They might want to take him back to the Republic to face justice, or they 
might even want to administer justice on their own. Whatever the case is, 
Yrssk saves the best information for last. 

Read the following text aloud: 


The Trandoshan clears his throat and looks at you pointedly. “! know things," 
he rasps, his reptilian tongue playing quickly over his scaly lips. “It ain't too 
late to save this karking planet from what the CSA's got planned." 

Yrssk lets that sink in before continuing. 

“Look, you ain't got any real reason to keep me around. You caught me fair 
and square, but I reckon we can still strike a bargain. You let me go, and I'll tell 
you where the Corporate Sector Authority's got its big guns. They won't be 
expecting a crew like you to come along, so you'll have an easy time kriffing 
up their plans. 

“What do you say? Is that worth letting me go, or isn’t it?" 


The decision is up to the heroes at this point. In any event, if they decide to 
keep Yrssk around, he becomes a constantly complaining annoyance who 
takes any opportunity to expose his captors to their enemies. Yrssk hopes 
that the heroes might leave him behind if he makes enough trouble. The 
truth is, he might be correct. 


PART 3: 
THE COMING FLOOD 


The final portion of "The Perfect Storm" involves the heroes’ infiltration and 
destruction of the Deluge Experiment facility. Whether the true location of 
the facility is revealed by the datacard the heroes find on Yrssk’s body, or 
by Yrssk himself in exchange for his freedom, is unimportant. The location 
is nearly a hundred kilometers north of Locus, upon a flat, narrow plateau 
known as Final Rest. 

Final Rest is considered Corporate Sector Authority territory on Nyri- 
aan, and the CSA has several mining facilities in the region. It is one of the 
highest spots on the surface of Nyriaan, which is one reason that the CSA 
picked it for the Deluge Experiments location. After all, if the planet is going 
to flood, the facility that causes the flooding ought to be above the new 
planetary sea level. 


CHILDREN OF THE TEMPEST 


Getting to the facility would be the easy part, except for one minor snag: 
The Deluge Experiment has already begun, and it is wreaking havoc with 
Nyriaan's weather patterns. Several small but violent tempests have been 
stirred up in the atmosphere around Final Rest, causing massive cyclones 
and heavy rainfall. The shift in climate should provide a sense of urgency 
and danger to the proceedings, giving the heroes a clear indication that the 
Corporate Sector Authority means business. 


RIDING THE STORM OuT 

The closer the heroes get to Final Rest, the worse the weather becomes. 
Warm, drizzling rain develops into a hot and steaming torrential downpour 
by the time that Final Rest is in sight. Nyriaan's omnipresent surface mist 
and low-lying cloud cover are mysteriously absent, replaced by the severe 
inclement weather. Lightning ares down from the sky in purple lancets, and 
peals of thunder roar across the landscape. 


a 


LA Pa ZPD ye ojo qa —n ce, 


WHOLS Losdugde) SHL 


J 
db 
W 
x0 
|W 
a 
VU 
Wy 
@ 
| 
0) 
al 
/Q 
D 
S 


Read the following text aloud: 


Howling like a living creature, the wind screams a frightening chorus that rises 
in undulating waves above the constant thud of the heavy rain. The cyclonic 
tempest, suddenly visible in the flashes of purple lightning, is far enough away 
to pose no threat, but close enough that you can hardly take your eyes from it. 

Rain continues to pour from the skies in hot sheets, soaking your clothes 
and restricting your visibility. The land begins to rise as you draw closer to Final 
Rest, and torrents of water flow down from the highlands in small streams and 
rivers that gradually grow more violent. 

Suddenly, out of the gloom, a metal fence comes into view. The fence 
stretches off to the left and right, its terminus at either end concealed by the 
violently falling rain. You see, written in Aurebesh ona single metal sign crusted 
with fungal growth and oxidation, “Final Rest Mine, Shafts 1A through 5K. No 
trespassing! Intruders will be shot!" 

You seem to have finally arrived at your destination. 


The fence is mundane in form and function, so the heroes can scale it, cut 
through it, or batter it down. Beyond the fence is a flat plain accented at 
intervals by rocky projections and hillocks. A muddy road, its ruts filling with 
steaming rainwater, stretches toward the largest of the hills. 


THE ACTIVE DELUGE DEVICE WREAKS HAVOC IN THE ATMOSPHERE. 


Following the muddy road leads to a mine entrance that is unstaffed and 
unguarded. Two battered transport speeders are parked near the tunnel, their 
interiors already filled with sweltering rain water. Within the tunnel, which 
leads into the hill at a slight downward slope, a series of illumination bulbs 
swing, suspended by thick cords from the tunnel's ceiling. 


GOING UNDERGROUND 

The interior of the mine entrance is well lit, but it offers little in the way of 
relief from the sweltering heat and humidity with the coursing rainwater that 
continuously streams in. Apart from a few discarded mining tools and piles 
of rubble and refuse scattered about, the tunnel appears vacant. 

After about thirty meters, the tunnel ends in an elevator room. However, 
it is no high-speed turbolift. A single open shaft, into which the coursing 
water is pouring, is visible at the far end of the chamber. A generator quietly 
hums nearby, and a simple elevator call button glows on the framework sur- 
rounding the shaft. If the heroes press the button, the elevator platform rises 
noisily up from the depths of Nyriaan. The platform, enclosed on all sides by 
a metallic safety cage, is empty when it arrives. The heroes can fit into the 
safety cage easily, and the elevator controls are simple and clearly labeled. 

Asmall digital readout near the controls indicates "Shaft 4B, 26 meters; 
R&D Access, 39 meters; Shaft 4C, 102 meters." As the elevator cage 
descends, the readout shows the current depth beneath the ground. Shafts 
4B and 4C allow the heroes to access sections of the Final Rest Mine, but 
the path to the tunnel complex and the research station is at 39 meters. 

If the heroes stop at a depth of 39 meters, the elevator comes to a halt at 
the entrance to a small hallway that hooks to the left. Light and voices from 
around the corner indicate that the heroes are no longer alone. 

Read the following text aloud: 


The elevator grinds to a halt, its cacophony replaced by the sounds of Human 
voices. A narrow hall leads away from the elevator platform, making a sudden 
left turn after only a few meters. Light and shadows play across the wall, 
indicating the presence of at least two individuals around the corner. 


The voices are those of two Corporate Sector Authority mine guards. They 
sound bored as they discuss mundane topics: sports, families, rain, and how 
long until their contracts on Nyriaan expire. 

These two guards are only the tip of the iceberg. Other guards and mine 
personnel are also nearby. The heroes can proceed cautiously, taking prisoners 
and attempting to maintain a degree of stealth, or they can barge in with 
blasters blazing. For details, see the "Sixteen Tons" encounter on page 216. 


THE DELUGE DEVICE CONTROL ROOM 


CUTTING THE WIRE 
If the heroes make it through the mine and access the tunnels that lead to 
Deluge Control, read the following text aloud: 


The lights in this section of the mine flicker as if their power has a slight drain. 
Signs indicate that the research and development facility is nearby. Rounding 
acorneras you leave the mining tunnels behind, you are confronted by a large 
blast door. Stenciled upon the wall are the words “Deluge Control—Authorized 
Persons Only." 

The panel on the wall next to the blast door indicates that it is sealed 
from the inside. 


This blast door is the last barrier between the heroes and the Deluge Experi- 
ment's control room. Like most such doors, it has 750 hit points, DR 10, 
and a damage threshold of 40, making any attempt to force the door open 
difficult, if not impossible. The simplest way to gain access to the control 
room is to hack the door panel, which requires a DC 25 Mechanics check as 
well as a security kit. 


The panel also includes an intercom system, so savvy heroes might 
attempt to fast-talk their way into the control room by contacting whomever 
might be on the other side of the door. In this case, a Deluge Facility guard 
(Perception +11, Will Defense 12) is guarding the blast door from the inside. 

Once inside the control room, the heroes must disable or destroy the 
Deluge Device by completing the "Disabling the Deluge Device" skill chal- 
lenge, below. For details, see "The End of the World" encounter on page 218. 

As put forth by Ghurn, the heroes can earn a bonus if they are able 
somehow to gain the plans for the Deluge Device. This complicated under- 
taking requires computer savvy heroes to access the Deluge mainframe, 
break through its security, sift through reams of information, and isolate the 
precise elements that they want. Since the contents of the entire system are 
considered secret, the heroes need only improve the mainframe's attitude 
from Unfriendly to Friendly and locate a piece of specific data—the plans. A 
datacard or other form of media is required to store the plans. 

If everything goes as planned, the Deluge Device is well on its way to being 
destroyed as the heroes retrace their steps through the mine tunnels. They 
are likely to encounter other Corporate Sector Authority employees on their 
way out, including miners, technicians, guards, and soldiers. However, they 
offer no organized resistance amid the chaos caused by the Deluge Device. 
Fleeing CSA personnel assume that the heroes are also employees trying to 
escape the dying facility and pay them little mind. 

Once outside, the heroes can locate their vehicles and make their way 
back to Locus. 


WHOLS LAGEIveE SHA 


U 


WHOLS LoOEese) SA 


SKILL CHALLENGE: DISABLING 
THE DELUGE DEVICE 

The Deluge Device is a huge, complicated machine that might well bring 
about an end to Nyriaan as the galaxy has known it. Deactivating it is not 
just a simple matter of finding and pushing the right button. Complicated 
protocols must be followed to reverse the device's effect on the local 
environment. To do so, the heroes must succeed at this skill challenge, 
likely while CSA guards are breathing down their necks. Once the device is 
safely neutralized, destroying it is a simple matter of initiating an overload 
of its power generator. 

If they lack the patience to undertake the lengthy process of neutral- 
izing it, the heroes can destroy the Deluge Device outright. However, the 
heroes are not likely to possess the explosive firepower required to do 
so. Even if they do, an onslaught of Corporate Sector Authority troops do 
everything they can to prevent such an event. 


CL6 

Complexity: 3 (11 successes before 3 failures) 

Suggested Skills: The following are suggested primary skills for this 
skill challenge: 

Knowledge (physical sciences) [DC 25]: With enough knowledge about 
meteorology, weather, and the principles behind vaporator function, 
heroes should be able to determine how best to reverse the effect of the 
Deluge Device. 

Knowledge (technology) [DC 23]:The heroes, if properly aware of how 
different types of advanced technology function together, should be able 
to determine which systems to shut down, and in which order. 

Mechanics [DC 24]: The mechanical elements of the Deluge Device 
are plainly visible. Heroes with the Mechanics skill can attempt to disable 
some of the device's physical components. 

Persuasion [DC 12]: \f any Deluge Device technicians are alive, the 
heroes can attempt to intimidate them into helping to shut down the 


BAD WINNERS, 

EVEN POORER LOSERS 

The Corporate Sector Authority does not take kindly to anyone who meddles 
in their important, not to mention costly, affairs. The heroes, regardless of 
whether they are successful in their efforts, are now known to the Corporate 
Sector Authority, as many of the CSA's valued employees and other resources 
have been laid to waste by the heroes’ efforts. 


device. Failure results in a technician either doing nothing, which wastes 
valuable time, or botching the demanded job on purpose. 

Use Computer [DC 20]: Much of the Deluge Device is controlled by 
computer systems. Heroes trained in Use Computer can more easily navi- 
gate the software that controls the device, allowing them to neutralize 
specific components of the machine in the proper order. 


Challenge Effects: The following are suggested challenge effects for 
this skill challenge: 

Catastrophic Failure: The tolerances on the Deluge Device are so tight 
that even small mistakes can cause dire consequences and disaster. If a skill 
check is failed by 10 or more, the heroes accrue two failures instead of one. 

Initiative: Under normal circumstances, the heroes are likely to attempt 
to disable the Deluge Device while enemies are attacking them. During this 
skill challenge, each hero must make an Initiative check and act in order. 

Recovery: Although circumstances are indeed dire, heroes can rectify 
problems they have caused with their previous failures. Any time a hero 
succeeds on a skill check by 5 or more, that hero can choose to remove 
one failure instead of earning a success. 

Restricted Skills: Certain skills are not applicable in this challenge: 
Acrobatics, Climb, Gather Information, Jump, Pilot, Ride, Stealth, Swim, 
and Treat Injury. 


Success: The heroes shut down the Deluge Device with no grave 
environmental repercussions. With the device now neutralized, heroes can 
attempt a DC 20 Use Computer check to set its generators to overload, 
causing an explosion that destroys the device. 

Failure: The heroes’ meddling causes the Deluge Device to go into 
overdrive. Weather conditions outside worsen, and the device's delicate 
software safeguards cause the controls to seize up. The device might 
eventually destroy itself, but not before the climate of Nyriaan has been 
irreversibly altered. 


So the heroes are probably not surprised when they are ambushed on their 
way off the planet. The situation might be further complicated, depending on 
how the heroes performed during the attempt to destroy the device (see “Part 
4: Aftermath," below). Almost as an afterthought on the part of the CSA, 
a squad of Corporate Sector commandos are dispatched to kill the heroes 
before they can leave Nyriaan. The commandos assault the heroes as they 
arrive at their docking bay in the starport facility in the Neutral Zone of Locus. 

For details, see the "Corporate Wrath" encounter on page 220. 


PART 4: AFTERMATH 


Depending on the outcome of the previous encounters and related skill chal- 
lenges, one of the following two scenarios plays out: 


The Deluge Device Has Been Deactivated 

Through challenges and difficulties, the heroes persevere and save Nyriaan, 
at least for the time being. They might even be carrying the Deluge Device’s 
schematics for the Republic for additional rewards once they can reunite 
with Ghurn. 

Since the Deluge Device was active for only a relatively short time before 
it was deactivated, little damage has been done to Nyriaan's climate. No one 
in orbit, not even the Tempest Observation Bureau, has a clue as to why there 
was a sudden boost in tempest activity surrounding the Final Rest plateau. 
Nevertheless, the anomaly is logged and will be analyzed by physicists and 
meteorologists for years to come. 

Of course, the CSA knows exactly what happened. Although years of 
work and billions of credits are lost in a single instant, the Corporate Sector 
Authority doubtless continues its research into permanently altering Nyri- 
aan's atmosphere. In the meantime, several high-level CSA employees find 
their positions, as well as their lives, terminated. 


The Deluge Device Has Not Been Deactivated 

lf the heroes are unable to deactivate the Deluge Device, then Nyriaan's 
atmosphere is irrevocably changed. The initial effect manifests slowly, during 
nearly a week of constant rains and receding clouds. Planetary flooding is 
disastrous, both to native communities as well as to colonists and mining 
facilities. Local wildlife, although mostly amphibious, is eventually driven to 
extinction by the vast influx of standing water on Nyriaan's surface. Full- 
scale evacuations begin shortly after the planetary scope of the disaster 
becomes obvious. 

Ghurn welcomes the heroes back, but he is not happy with the results. 
The heroes are allowed to keep any retainer they managed to negotiate, but 
Ghurn does not pay them any bonus unless they have a copy of the Deluge 
Device's schematics and plans. If they do, it is the heroes’ one saving grace. 
Using the schematics, the Republic initiates a project to reverse the effect, 
using knowledge of how the Deluge Device operated. Nyriaan might be saved, 
eventually, but not before hundreds of thousands of lives are lost. 


FURTHER ADVENTURES 

Since this adventure deals with possibly extensive changes to the planet 
Nyriaan, the heroes might find themselves embroiled in even more 
adventures on the planet. The following adventure hooks can serve as 
a jumping-off point for a continuing campaign on Nyriaan. One of the 
hooks is outcome-neutral, but the other two rely on one of the two 
outcomes of this adventure. 

A New Master: Regardless of the heroes’ success or failure on 
Nyriaan, they have come to the attention of the powerful noble house 
currently sitting on the Council. The heroes are approached by a repre- 
sentative of the house with an offer of employment. If they are willing 
to leave the employ of the Republic, the house promises them a regular 
retainer and employment as agents of the house. However, the heroes 
soon discover that the nobles have dangerous work in mind. The noble 
house wants the heroes to seize control of one of Nyriaan's orbital space 
platforms currently controlled by the Corporate Sector Authority and to 
then destroy the platform, planting evidence that the act of sabotage 
was the work of Republic Intelligence. 

Power Grab: If the heroes succeeded in deactivating the Deluge 
Device, they find themselves with powerful enemies in the Corporate 
Sector Authority. After assassins try to eliminate the heroes, they dis- 
cover that the Corporate Sector's permanent seat on the ruling Council 
is in jeopardy and that the assassination attempt was a play to keep the 
heroes from interfering in Council business. One of the other seats on 
the Council has learned of the heroes’ actions in deactivating the device, 
and is planning on putting forward one of the heroes as a candidate for 
replacing the CSA representative. The heroes have a chance to put one 
of their own on Nyriaan’s Council or to put someone else of their choice 
there, instead. 

The Madilon Rush: If the heroes failed to deactivate the Deluge 
Device, Nyriaan's ecosystem is radically altered for years, if not forever. 
This leads to a short-term influx of outside factions and madilon miners 
who, without the cloud layer to interfere with landing, have started a 
"Madilon Rush." As miners and others come to Nyriaan without the Coun- 
cil's permission, the resources of the world are being rapidly depleted, and 
the power of the Council becomes destabilized. The heroes are hired by 
Nyriaan’s Council to stage a starship crash, sabotaging an independent 
mining vessel as it descends onto the planet. The Council plans to release 
a bogus scientific report in the wake of the crash, declaring that “ambient 
ionic energy" lingers over Nyriaan, making it unsafe to land. The heroes 
must decide whether to go through with the plan, slowing the drain on 
the planet's resources but resulting in a major loss of life, or to reveal 
the Council's plan to the galaxy. 


HA wes 


WMOLS LBSIYNIe) SMA 


) 


2 


] iA HSBidavr 


WHOLS Logdtsae) BAL} 


ENCOUNTER 1: 
MAIN STREET 
FiIREFIGHT 


Challenge Level 3 

SETUP: Depending on how the heroes arrived at this juncture—by spotting 
one of the Corporate Sector Authority assassins shadowing the heroes on 
foot, by spotting both assassins in their speeder following the heroes on 
the street, or by successfully chasing the assassins—the setup is somewhat 
different. 

If the heroes notice one of the assassins shadowing them on foot, position 
the assassin as marked on the map (A1). The second assassin is on the adjoin- 
ing street in a landspeeder (A2). The heroes can set up anywhere along the 
western border of the map, preferably in the areas designated as sidewalks. 

If the heroes are driving in a speeder or riding in a taxi when they spot 
the assassins shadowing them in their own speeder, place the heroes’ speeder 
on the street in the western quarter of the map (HSpeeder1). The assassins’ 
speeder should be placed, following them, on the eastern quarter of the 
map (ASpeeder1). 

If the assassins have been successfully chased to a standstill by the 
heroes, place their speeder (ASpeeder2) in the alley as marked, with the 
heroes’ speeder blocking them in (HSpeeder2). 

In any case, several bystanders linger about (marked as B on the map). 
The bystanders do not become involved in the combat except to flee, but the 
assassins are not above taking innocent hostages or using them for cover 
if the situation allows. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT. 


When the time comes for the heroes to confront the Corporate Sector 
assassins, read one of the following descriptions aloud, depending on the 
circumstances. 

If an assassin is spotted on foot, read the following aloud: 


As you walk along the dimly lit street, you notice a humanoid following your 
progress a little too closely. He is dressed too heavily, considering the warmth 
and humidity, and his eyes betray that his true interest is you. 


If the assassins are spotted in their speeder, read the following aloud: 


Despite the traffic, you can plainly see an unmarked speeder following your 
vehicle's every move. When your speeder turns, it turns to follow. When your 
speeder changes speed, it changes speed to compensate. In the dim illumina- 
tion of streetlamps and headlights you can tell that at least two humanoids 
are riding in the speeder. 


If the assassins are cornered in the alley after a speeder chase, read the 
following aloud: 


Cornered after the chase, the two humanoid occupants of the speeder emerge 
from their vehicle with blasters in their hands. They take cover behind their 
vehicle and prepare to open fire. 


CORPORATE SECTOR 
ASSASSINS (2) 

These assassins are trained killers in the employ of the Corporate Sector 
Authority, although they carry no identification that marks them as such. 
They have been authorized by their CSA handlers to kill the heroes if they 
learn too much. Until that time comes, however, they plan to follow at a dis- 
tance and observe the heroes as they move through the dismal city of Locus. 


Both Humans move like professionals, with an economy of motion. They wear 
utilitarian clothing that is inappropriate for the relative warmth of the climate, 
as if to conceal something. 


Corporate Sector Assassin CL 5 

Medium Human scoundrel 5 

Dark Side 2 

Init +5; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 17), Fort 15, Will 18 

hp 32; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d6+1) or 

Melee vibrodagger +2 (2d4+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged hold-out blaster +6 (3d4+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +6 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Skirmisher, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Skirmisher, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Coordinated Attack, Martial Arts |, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 
pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +8, Gather Information +8, Mechanics +8, 
Perception +9, Pilot +10, Stealth +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, hold-out blaster, vibrodagger, comlink 


Corporate Sector Assassin Tactics 
The Corporate Sector assassins shoot to kill and attempt to evade capture 
if they are outmatched. They cover one another systematically, and if one is 
killed the other leaves by the quickest route possible. If offered an opportu- 
nity to surrender, they instead prefer to take a more aggressive route. After 
all, if they survive an interrogation, they will undoubtedly be liquidated by 
their CSA masters. 

If the assassins successfully escape a confrontation, they attempt to 
reacquire the heroes at the next available opportunity. 


CONCLUSION 

If one or both of the assassins are killed, the heroes find their equipment 
and little else. Their weapons are unmarked, with no serial numbers or other 
indicators to distinguish them. Their identification indicates that they are 
normal citizens with no reason to be shooting at anyone. If the heroes 
investigate the storage compartments of the assassins’ speeder, they find a 
security kit and a tool kit. 

If either or both assassins survive the encounter to be captured by the 
heroes, they attempt to resist interrogation. If the heroes break their will to 
resist, they reveal only that they work for the Corporate Sector Authority 
and were told to monitor the heroes and kill them if they entered Klieri's 
apartment. They know nothing more of the Deluge Experiment. 


: Ao { 
— = adi sh A - 
Sf eatin | * Speeder 


One square = 
1.5 meters 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

Other than the bystanders in the area (marked on the map as B), the area 
has little else of interest. The alleyway contains piles of fungus-covered 
refuse (considered difficult terrain), and the sidewalks are slimy with 
moisture, making footing treacherous. 


Si 


HA & 


AaAvHo 


UJ 


WHOLS LOPS) 9HAL 


WA VBSssdvHo 


WHOLS LGEGIMee) SHA | 


ENCOUNTER 
2: KLIERI'S 
APARTMENT 


Challenge Level 2 (Droid Only), Challenge Level 5 (Droid 
plus CSA assassins) 
SETUP: The heroes can place themselves anywhere inside Klieri’s apartment. 
Klieri's apartment is small. The front door is the only way in or out, and 
the apartment has no windows. When the encounter begins, the MRD-39B 
assassin droid is under Klieri’s bed. 
If the Corporate Sector assassins are still active, they attempt to gain 
access to Klieri’s apartment through the front door. Place them in the hall 
as indicated on map. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


This encounter can start under one of two sets of circumstances. In the first 
set, the MRD-39B assassin droid contacts the surviving Corporate Sector 
assassins from Encounter 1, and they are en route to attack the heroes and 
cause a diversion. In this case, read the following text aloud: 


The sound of blaster fire comes from the hall, and the building's residents 
begin to shout and scream. 


If, on the other hand, the Corporate Sector assassins have been eliminated 
by the heroes, or if the heroes have detected the assassin droid, the MRD- 
39B has no choice but to attack the heroes by itself. In this instance, read 
the following text aloud: 


A high-pitched humming suddenly fills the bedroom. In a flurry of motion, a 
spiderlike droid bursts out from under Klieri's bed. It moves straight toward 
the nearest of you, its front legs swinging in dangerous arcs. 


MRD-39B ASSASSIN DROID 
The MRD-39B is originally conceived as a disposable assassin droid by 
Corporate Sector Authority designers. Unfortunately, the design becomes 
overly complicated and prohibitively expensive. Although still a valuable 
piece of equipment, the MRD-39B is no longer considered an expendable 
asset; in fact, the CSA considers organic units to be more expendable than 
an assassin droid. 

Equipped with a pair of vibrodaggers for silent incursions and an inte- 
grated hold-out blaster for ranged strikes, the MRD-39B is a highly efficient 
killing machine. 


The black spiderlike droid consists of a single, oblong body, flanked on either 
side by a total of six multi-jointed legs that operate independently of one 
another. Each leg is tipped with a different type of weapon or tool. 


MRD-39B Assassin Droid (D) CL6 

Small droid (4th-degree) soldier 6 

Init +18; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Binary 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 18), Fort 19, Will 18 

hp 57; Threshold 19 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 4 squares (walking), climb 2 squares 

Melee vibrodagger claws +8 (2d4+7) or 

Melee vibrodagger claws +6 (3d4+7) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged integrated hold-out blaster +11 (3d4+3) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +11 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Devastating Attack, Rapid Strike 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 20, Con —, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Talents Devastating Attack (vibrodagger claws), Melee Smash, Weapon 
Specialization (vibrodagger claws) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Combat Reflexes, Rapid Strike 
(vibrodagger claws), Skill Focus (Initiative), Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Focus (vibrodagger claws), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +4, Initiative +18, Mechanics +8, Perception +12, 

Stealth +13 (untrained) 

Systems 2 claw appendages, climbing claws, darkvision, heuristic 
processor, improved sensor package, internal comlink, locked access, 
secondary battery, self-destruct system (4d6 damage, 2-square 
splash), walking locomotion with 6 legs (+5 stability bonus on checks 
to resist attempts to knock the droid prone) 

Possessions 2 vibrodagger claws, integrated hold-out blaster 

Availability Restricted; Cost 20,270 credits 


MRD-39B Tactics 

The MRD-39B attacks one target at a time in a stubborn, single-minded 
fashion. When its current target is killed or disabled, it picks the next nearest 
target and continues its assault. Unwilling to risk capture, an MRD-39B that 
is reduced to 10 or fewer hit points initiates its self-destruct system in an 
attempt to destroy itself and eliminate more of its enemies. 


CORPORATE SECTOR 
ASSASSINS (2) 

These assassins are trained killers in the employ of the Corporate Sector 
Authority, although they carry no identification that marks them as such. 
They have been authorized by their CSA handlers to kill the heroes if they 
learn too much. Until that time comes, however, they plan to follow at a dis- 
tance and observe the heroes as they move through the dismal city of Locus. 


Both Humans move like professionals, with an economy of motion. They wear 

utilitarian clothing that is inappropriate for the relative warmth of the climate, 

as if to conceal something. 

Corporate Sector Assassin (A) CL5 

Medium Human scoundrel 5 

Dark Side 2 

Init +5; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 17), Fort 15, Will 18 

hp 32; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d6+1) or 

Melee vibrodagger +2 (2d4+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged hold-out blaster +6 (3d4+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +6 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Skirmisher, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Skirmisher, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Coordinated Attack, Martial Arts |, 
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +8, Gather Information +8, Mechanics +8, 
Perception +9, Pilot +10, Stealth +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, hold-out blaster, vibrodagger, comlink 


Corporate Sector Assassin Tactics 

The Corporate Sector assassins The Corporate Sector assassins shoot to 
kill and attempt to evade capture if they are outmatched. They cover one 
another systematically, and if one is killed the other leaves by the quickest 
route possible. If offered an opportunity to surrender, they instead prefer to 
take a more aggressive route. After all, if they survive an interrogation, they 
will undoubtedly be liquidated by their CSA masters. 


CONCLUSION 


When the dust settles, the screams and shouts of other apartment residents 
resound through the building. Neighbors meekly emerge to take stock of the 
damage, while others contact the authorities in an attempt to reestablish 
some kind of order. If the heroes hope to escape without undue attention 
from the local law enforcers, they had best do so ina hurry. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
Klieri’s apartment is a mess, given the struggle she put up prior to her 
death. Areas that contain furniture are considered difficult terrain. 


1 
J 


iA VeSaiavHga 


Lift 

. Stair 

. Living Area 
. Kitchen 

. Laundry 

. Bathroom 
. Closet 

- Bedroom 


1. 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 


WHOLS Losd89e) SHL 


One square = 1.5 meters 


) 


2 


WHOLS LoSaMee) SHA, | (iA deLawe 


ENCOUNTER 3: 
CRIMSON AND 
CHLOVI 


Challenge Level 6 
SETUP: The map represents a section of Nyriaan wilderness, with a rough 
path winding from north to south. The open area near the center can serve 
as an impromptu campsite if the heroes are looking for a place to rest. To 
either side of the path are rocky protrusions and growths of chlovi fungus. 
The chlovi cats that are stalking the heroes should be placed as indicated 
on the map. The heroes should be placed along the path, not more than two 
squares away from the central clearing. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


A hero who succeeds at a DC 26 Perception check detects one or more chlovi 
cats moving through the fungal underbrush. Any heroes who fail the check 
are unable to act during the surprise round, and any who succeed can act 
normally. 

When the chlovi cats are detected, or when they attack, read the fol- 
lowing text aloud: 


A small creature, about the size of a panthac, leaps from the underbrush in a 
flash of claws and teeth. As it strikes, it gurgles low in its throat. 


CHLOV! CATS (4) 

Chlovi cats, which are not feline at all, reside at the top of Nyriaan's food 
chain. They have been responsible for hundreds of deaths in mining towns 
across the planet. Settlers on Nyriaan shoot chlovi cats on sight rather than 
risking the danger that they represent. Unfortunately for Nyriaan's colonists, 
chlovi cats have learned to predict the movements of their prey and attack 
from ambush rather than attempting direct assaults. 


This amphibian is the size of a large dog and has a long, sinewy body. Its skin 
glistens with a slimy coating and changes color as the chlovi cat creeps through 
the fungal underbrush. 


Chlovi Cat (C) CL5 
Small Beast 6 
Init +6; Senses darkvision; Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 14), Fort 12, Will 14 
hp 33; Threshold 12 
Speed 8 squares 
Melee 2 claws +4 (1d3+3) and 
bite +4 (1d4+3) or 
Melee 2 claws +2 (2d3+3) with Rapid Strike 
Base Atk +4; Grp +2 
Atk Options Rapid Strike 
Special Actions Coordinated Attack 
Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 16, Cha 8 
Feats Coordinated Attack, Improved Defenses, Rapid Strike (claws) 
Skills Stealth +16 


Chlovi Cat Tactics 

Chlovi cats use pack tactics, communicating with their pack mates through 
a combination of bioluminescent displays and croaking calls. They swarm 
over targets in groups of three or more, biting and clawing in an attempt to 
disable their prey. Once the prey is disabled, the rest of the pack converges 
on the victim. 


One square =\1:5\meters 
@ =Chlovi Cat 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

Chlovi growths are medium to large growths of fungus that develop in 
interlocking spiral formations. They grant cover to anyone who uses them 
as such, and are the equivalent of wood (DR 5, 50 hit points). The chlovi 
growths and underbrush are considered difficult terrain. 


CONCLUSION 


The chlovi cats stick around only if they have the advantage. 
If the heroes gain the upper hand, the cats retreat into the 
underbrush. Any heroes who fall as a result of the cats' attacks 
are unceremoniously dragged into the chlovi bushes unless the 
heroes manage to prevent their comrades from being snatched. 
The chlovi cats do not devour dead heroes immediately, instead 
saving them for some time later. Any heroes snatched in this 
manner can later be rescued, but such an encounter is beyond 
the scope of this adventure. The Gamemaster should feel free to 
create a new encounter involving the chlovi cat lair in order for 
heroes to stage a rescue attempt for their fallen allies. 


Ss 


Se) onal | iA 3S. 


WHOLS LO9989 


) 


IA HSLevHo 


WHOLS LoEd8se) FAL 


ENCOUNTER 
4: NATIVE 
HOSPITALITY 


Challenge Level 6 

SETUP: The north edge of the map consists of thick growths of Meadlin's 
trees. The Clan Malvina scouts are positioned as indicated within the trees. 
The heroes approach the tree line from the south, and can position themselves 
anywhere south of the trees. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


The scouts can engage the heroes in whatever way they deem appropriate 
depending on the size, makeup, and condition of the heroes’ party. Typically, 
one of the scouts fires a warning shot over the heroes’ heads, attracting their 
attention and attempting to scare them off. 

When the heroes are within range of the scouts, read the following text 
aloud: 


As you trudge toward the thick line of fungal trees, a burst of energy—likely 
from a sporting blaster rifle—bursts from the copse of Meadlin's trees ahead 
of you. It arcs over your heads before exploding against a rock formation well 
to your rear. You know where the shot came from, but the dark shadows of the 
Meadlin's trees might conceal any number of hidden attackers. 


MALVINA CLAN ScourT (6) 

These native scouts are members of the Malvina clan, a territorial group of 
Nyriaanan natives who consider the land surrounding this copse of Meadlin's 
trees to be their territory. They are warned by Yrssk, an associate of theirs, 
to expect a group of prospectors. Unwilling to allow offworlders to defile 
their home, the clan sends out scouts to verify Yrssk's story. 


The dark skin of this native Nyriaanan sets him apart from others you've seen. 
His clothing, which is of native design, is well made and functional. Despite 
the heat and humidity, he shows no sign of discomfort. The native carries a 
large chopping knife in a sheath on his thigh, as well as a highly decorated 
sporting blaster carbine in his hands. 


Malvina Clan Scout (S) CL3 

Medium Human (Nyriaanan) scout 3 

Force 3 

Init +7; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic, Nyriaanan 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 16, Will 16 

hp 39; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee machete +3 (1d6+2) 

Ranged sporting blaster rifle +4 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +3 

Atk Options Pin 

Special Actions Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 15, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 6 

Talents Acute Senses, Improved Stealth 

Feats Pin, Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Stealth, Survival), Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +7, Endurance +8, Initiative +7, Perception +9 (can reroll), 
Stealth +12 (can reroll), Survival +14 

Possessions native garb, machete, sporting blaster carbine, rations 


Malvina Clan Scout Tactics 
The scouts are not homicidal. They prefer to scare the heroes away rather 
than facing off in a prolonged firefight. If the heroes return fire, the scouts 
defend themselves as best as they can in an attempt to repel the invaders. 
If more than a third of their number is killed or wounded, they withdraw into 
the trees and attack again later from a different vantage point. 

If the heroes attempt to parley with the scouts, however, the natives send 
a representative forward to discuss terms. 


One squane =)1'S/meters} 


r) 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The thick, twisted trunks of the Meadlin's trees provide improved cover to 
the scouts hiding within them. A number of sparse chlovi growths, indi- 
cated on the map, can provide cover for the heroes as they advance north. 


CONCLUSION 


If the heroes initiate a fight with the natives, they must wipe 
them all out to avoid any retaliatory encounters later on. Native 
scouts who survive such an encounter do their best to track 
the heroes, picking them off one at a time, if necessary, before 
returning to their clansmen. 

On the other hand, if the heroes speak with the natives and 
convince them of the importance of the heroes’ mission, they can 
learn valuable information. The natives know Yrssk—he warned 
them about a group of offworlders headed their way—but they 
are not so naive that they trust everything Yrssk says without 
checking the facts for themselves. They also know that Yrssk is 
headed north, toward the Steamfields. 


WHOLS LeEd8se—) FAL 


] 
= 


HA SBSiavHo 


WHOLS LOSAI8N9e) 9HL 


ENCOUNTER 8S: 
CHILDREN OF 
THE TEMPEST 


Challenge Level 5 

SETUP: The Sith Descendants conceal themselves near the altar at the left 
center of the map, while Yrssk is granted total cover by the rocky formation 
he hides behind. The heroes enter the area from the south, traveling along 
one of the indicated dry areas. Any water or liquid in the area is extremely hot 
and is therefore impassable terrain (see "Features of the Area” for details). 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


Any hero who succeeds at a DC 19 Perception check detects one or more 
of the hidden Sith Descendants. Yrssk is more camouflaged, requiring a DC 
28 Perception check to discern him amid the rock and billowing steam of 
the surrounding hot springs. Force-sensitive heroes can sense the dark side 
emanating from the altar from a kilometer away. 

When the heroes enter the area from the south, read the following text 
aloud: 


The outline of a sculpture can be discerned through the thick mist and steam 
that hangs heavily in the air here. It appears to be a rough statue of a humanoid 
set atop a raised stone platform. The stone steps leading to the statue are rust 
colored, as if bloodstained. 


YRSSK 

Yrssk is a self-serving, self-centered, and unscrupulous Trandoshan who 
originally signs on with the Republic's intelligence services to avoid his debts. 
After years on Nyriaan, he is tired of the charade and now desires only to 
make his fortune and escape from the horrible planet. 


The Trandoshan is heavily scarred, with a particularly livid scar running along 
the side of his face, barely missing one of his blood-red eyes. He wears clothes 
that appear to be made by native Nyriaanans, even though his species sets him 
apart from Nyriaan's indigenous population. His emotional state is difficult 
to gauge, but he seems somewhat agitated. 


Yrssk (Y) CL5 
Medium Trandoshan scoundrel 2/scout 3 

Force 3; Dark Side 1 

Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +9 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic, Dosh, Nyriaanan 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 18, Will 18 
hp 45; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +7 (1d4+6) 

Ranged blaster carbine +4 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +2 (4d8+2) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +3; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire, Dastardly Strike, Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Shot 

Abilities Str 19, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 9 

Talents Acute Senses, Dastardly Strike, Expert Tracker 

Feats Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Training (Stealth, 
Survival), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +6, Gather Information +6, Mechanics +8, 
Perception +9 (can reroll), Stealth +8, Survival +9, Use Computer +8 

Possessions native clothing, knife, blaster carbine, 2 frag grenades, 
hidden datacard (DC 18 Perception check to locate) 


Yrssk’s Tactics 

Yrssk hides until the heroes appear to be overcoming his Sith dupes. If the 
tide is turning in favor of the heroes, he pops his head up and fires with his 
carbine. Even though the shots reveal his position, his cover should work to 
his advantage. If wounded—even slightly—he surrenders and attempts to buy 
his freedom with the information he possesses. 


SITH DESCENDANT (6) 

After thousands of years of inbreeding, the descendants of the original Sith 
who crashed on Nyriaan have become twisted and subhuman. Caring only 
for satisfying their immediate desires, the Sith are not particularly subtle. 
They stink of corruption, a smell that is only partly physical and thoroughly 
spiritual. 


Although Human in form, these wretched beings are twisted and deformed in 
ways that confound the imagination. Wearing makeshift robes and homespun 
clothing, they reek of filth and physical corruption. They howl like beasts, 
wave their spears threateningly, and growl in a tongue that sounds as evil 
as they look. 


Sith Descendant (S) CL 2 

Medium Human (Nyriaanan) nonheroic 3/scout 1 

Dark Side 12 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Use the Force +8 

Languages Nyriaanan 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 13, Will 13;Dodge 

hp 35; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee spear +1 (1d8-1) 

Ranged pulse wave pistol +4 (2d6) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +4 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +8 ): dark rage, Force thrust, surge 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 15, Cha 13 

Talents Surefooted 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Skill Training (Use the 
Force), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Survival +9, Use the Force +8 

Possessions dirty robes, beads and bones, spear, pulse wave pistol 


Sith Descendant Tactics 

Not ones for subtlety, the Sith descendants attack as soon as they are noticed 
by the heroes, using dark rage and surge to the best effect. They fight only 
as individuals and use their Force powers to push the heroes into pools of 
boiling water and mud. They do not flee the fight under any circumstances. 


CONCLUSION 

With the Sith descendants defeated, Yrssk surrenders, hoping that he can 
buy his freedom with the information he possesses. If Yrssk is killed, the 
information can be found on a datacard he carries. Other than Yrssk's pos- 
sessions and the Sith altar, little of interest is here. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

Areas marked as rocky on the map are considered difficult terrain. Areas 
of liquid are filled with boiling, mineral-rich water or mud, one to two 
meters deep. If a character enters into or passes through a space filled 
with boiling water, make an attack roll (1d20+5) against the target's 
Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the target takes 2d6 points of 
damage. If the attack fails, the target takes half damage. Any damage 
taken is considered fire damage, although it cannot set a character on fire. 


a aie 
One/square\=1'5/meters), 
re . 


] 


HA HSiavHs 


q 
I | 
U 
0) 
) 
2) 
Vv 
W 
@ 
<j 
0) 
dj 
One 
ay 
ES 


iA HSsidvrHgd 


WHOLS LOGPONse) FAL 


ENCOUNTER 6: 
SixTEEN TONS 


Challenge Level 5 
SETUP: Upon exiting the elevator cage, the heroes should be placed in the 
hall, anywhere out of sight of the guards in the next room. 

Corporate Sector mine guards are positioned as indicated on the map. 
Any guards not within line of sight of the heroes should not be placed until 
they are seen or otherwise detected. The guards patrol the mines in pairs, 
with a single pair stationed near the corridor that leads to the elevator. In 
addition to the guards, six miners are hard at work in the mine corridors. 
Like the guards, the miners should be revealed only when they are seen. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


When the heroes peer around the corner into the guard room, read the fol- 
lowing text aloud: 


The room is well lit by hanging fusion lanterns. The light reveals smooth stone 
walls festooned with Corporate Sector Authority logos and motivational post- 
ers. Sitting on alloy crates, two CSA guards in combat jumpsuits chat with 
one another. Their weapons, although not currently held, are close at hand. 


CORPORATE SECTOR 
MINE GUARDS (8) 
These mine guards represent the standard level of security for CSA mine 
complexes on Nyriaan. Although competent, they are by no means infallible. 
Most guards are bored, at least until a disturbance attracts their attention. 
They communicate openly over their comlinks, and grow suspicious if any 
guards fail to respond. 

If captured, they know little of the Deluge Experiment. Sure, they have 
heard of it, but it's way beyond their security clearance. 


The gray combat jumpsuits worn by these guards indicate that they are 
employed by Corporate Sector Authority. They appear to be well equipped 
to put down minor resistance, but you doubt that they have the ability to do 
much more than that. 


Corporate Sector Mine Guard (G) CL2 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Init +5; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 11, Will 12 

hp 21; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee stun baton +6 (1d6+2) 

Ranged blaster carbine +6 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +1 (3d8) with autofire 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Pin, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +10, Pilot +10 

Possessions combat jumpsuit, stun baton, blaster pistol, blaster carbine, 
comlink 


Corporate Sector Mine Guard Tactics 

The mine guards work in pairs to keep the mine secure. For the most part, 
they behave like trained combat troops and do not fight to the death. If the 
situation warrants, they retreat farther into the facility, calling for backup 
or enlisting miners for aid in repelling the heroes. 


CORPORATE SECTOR 

MINERS (6) 

Six miners are currently extracting ore samples from various locations in the 
mine tunnels. The miners work alone or in pairs, using their tools to extract 
bits of madilon for later analysis and recording their progress on datapads. 


The Human in the tunnel is dressed in overalls that are stained with dirt and 
sweat. The tools in his hands identify him as a miner; other than his mining 
equipment, he appears to be completely unarmed. 


Corporate Sector Miner (M) CL 1 

Medium Human nonheroic 3 

Init +1; Senses Perception +1 Flawstce 

Languages Basic / ) Platform 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 12, Will 10 

hp 13; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee club +2* (1d6+6) or 

Melee club +4 (2d6+4) with Mighty Swing 

Ranged by weapon +2 

Base Atk +2; Grp +4 

Atk Options Bantha Rush, Mighty Swing, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 10, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Bantha Rush, Mighty Swing, Power Attack, Skill Training 
(Endurance), Skill Training (Mechanics), Weapon Proficiency 
(simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +8, Endurance +8, Mechanics +6 

Possessions mining equipment, tools, satchel for ore samples, datapad, 
glowrod 

*Includes 2 points of Power Attack 


©!Mines 
iG) 


Corporate Sector Miner Tactics 

The miners are not soldiers. They surrender if offered a choice, but they will 
risk their lives for their comrades if necessary. They are loyal Corporate Sector goats 
Authority employees, however, and if approached by CSA guards and asked j et # Control 
to help, they do so to the best of their ability. 


One square = 1.5 meters 


CONCLUSION 

When all guards and miners are neutralized, the heroes can proceed to the 
control room. Surviving CSA employees in this area can point the heroes in 
the correct direction if properly motivated, although failure of Deception 
or Persuasion checks by the heroes is liable to result in misinformation. If 
the heroes go the wrong direction—taking any path that is not indicated 
on the map as the actual route to the control room—they become lost for 
1d10 minutes. In that time, unsupervised guards or miners attempt to enlist 
help elsewhere. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

Piles of rubble and rock are considered difficult terrain, and fusion lan- 
terns are marked on the map to indicate how much light they shed. Alloy 
crates in the guard room are filled with ore samples and can provide cover. 


HIA BeStdgvHsS3 


WHOLS LoOedese) 9SAL 


HSLovHD 


HA 


WHOLS ABS9gIYvEe) SHL 


ENCOUNTER 7: 
THE END OF 
THE WORLD 


Challenge Level 6 

SETUP: The Deluge Device control room is circular, with alloy walls and a 
slew of computer terminals and monitoring stations placed as indicated on 
the map. Four technicians are each at individual stations proceeding with the 
experiment. Six deluge facility guards are also present in the room. 

The heroes begin the encounter at the southern edge of the map, behind 
the twin blast doors, which are likely to be opened when the encounter 
begins. If the heroes open the blast doors by hacking the outside control 
panel, they should have a single surprise round before the deluge facility 
guards and technicians can respond to their presence—that is, if the guards 
are not warned by the CSA employees in the previous encounter. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


When the doors open, either because the heroes hacked the control panel 
or because they managed to con the guards into opening them, read the 
following text aloud: 


The doors open to reveal a large contro! room staffed with both technicians 
and armed and armored guards. The far wall is a large transparisteel window, 
beyond which can be seen a huge cavern wherein a complicated device 
shimmers with energy. 


DELUGE FACILITY GUARDS (6) 
The best guards available in the deluge facility, these six individuals are all 
Humans—male and female. They are well armed, armored, and bored enough 
that a fight is a pleasant diversion from watching the deluge technicians 
go about their work. 


The gray battle armor worn by these guards is emblazoned with the emblem of 
the Corporate Sector Authority. Each is armed with a stun baton and a blaster 
rifle with a collapsible stock. 


Deluge Facility Guard (G) CL3 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 1 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 17, Will 12 

hp 34; Threshold 17 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee stun baton +7 (1d6+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (4d6) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster rifle +7 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +5 (4d8) with Rapid Shot or 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Indomitable 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Indomitable 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Skill Training (Pilot), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Perception +11, Pilot +10 

Possessions battle armor with helmet package, stun baton, blaster rifle, 
blaster pistol 


Deluge Facility Guard Tactics 

The deluge facility guards have standing orders to repel any intruders, but 
truth be told, they are not expecting any. Even if surprised, they put up a 
professional fight and attempt to drive the heroes off or kill them outright. 
They are aware of the sensitive nature of the equipment that surrounds them, 
so they do not risk damaging it. 


DELUGE FACILITY 

TECHNICIANS (4) 

Although they are technically noncombatants, the deluge facility technicians 
are expected to resist any attempts by outsiders to impede their work. The 
technicians are Humans, male and female, and they wear blue lab jackets. 
They are unarmed, but if ignored or underestimated they might pose some 
degree of threat. 


The Humans wear blue lab jackets and tool belts. Although unarmed, the look 
in the technicians’ eyes tells you that they aren't to be trusted. 


Deluge Facility Technician (T) cL 1 

Medium Human nonheroic 4 

Init +3; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary, High Galactic, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 12;Dodge 

hp 6; Threshold 9 

Speed 6 squares oo tlk ; 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4) €eRetresher) |= Lounge 

Ranged by weapon +4 % apt 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 t 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 8, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Feats Dodge, Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology], Mechanics), Skill 
Training (Treat Injury), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (physical sciences) +10, Knowledge (technology) +15, 
Mechanics +15, Perception +9, Treat Injury +9, Use Computer +10 Massive |Cavern} 

Possessions coveralls, tools el 


ee 


ras 
<i MH 
P| Oe 
sHBRBER, <..- 
tat Se 


ry 

is 

| 
a 
ie 
i 
rs 
o 


sf ES 


Deluge Facility Technician Tactics 

The deluge facility technicians rely on their guards to fend off any attacks. 
They hide as best they can until the blaster fire stops, at which point they 
might poke up their heads to see who the winning side is. Although they are 
not trained for combat, they defend themselves if necessary. If one or more 
of the technicians think they can gain the advantage by attacking one of 
the heroes, they do so. 


WiA BSidvHe 


CONCLUSION 

Once the guards are dealt with, any technicians who remain alive follow 
almost any orders given to them by the heroes. They are shifty and deceptive, 
however, and do not provide direct aid to the heroes unless they are forced 
to do so. Even with the guards dead and the technicians at gunpoint, the 
heroes are not completely safe. 


One square = 1.5 meters 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The contro! panels and computer terminals in the control room provide 
cover, but any that are damaged will impede the skill challenge neces- 
sary to shut down the Deluge Device. For each damaged control panel or 
terminal, increase the DCs of any Mechanics checks and Use Computer 
checks made during the “Disabling the Deluge Device" skill challenge by 
1. Each terminal has DR 5, 15 hit points, and a damage threshold of 10. 


J 
ps 
W 
U 
WW 
wy 
U 
WU 
0) 
q] 
a 
@ 
PD 
S 


= 
2 


usidy 


q 
slg 
UW 
x0 
W 
|v 
U 
W 
® 
J 
) 
4 
O 
0 
i 


ENCOUNTER 
8: CORPORATE 
WRATH 


Challenge Level 5 

SETUP: This encounter takes place in the docking bay where the heroes’ 
ship has been stored since their arrival on Nyriaan. If they crashed on the 
planet, then their ship—or what is left of it—is transported to this docking 
bay for repair. Regardless of the specific circumstances, Corporate Sector 
Authority commandos are positioned offsite, observing the docking bay for 
the heroes’ arrival. When the heroes show up, the commandos wait for them 
to enter the docking bay proper before moving to the indicated locations. At 
the start of the encounter, the heroes can be anywhere within the confines 
of the docking bay. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


As soon as the heroes are in the docking bay and going about the business 
of getting into their starship, allow them to make DC 13 Perception checks. 
Any heroes who succeed are privy to the information in the read-aloud text 
below, and they are not considered surprised during the impending surprise 
round of combat. Any who fail their Perception checks are considered sur- 
prised and flat-footed. 

Read the following aloud: 


A flash of motion near the entrance to the docking bay catches your eye. You 
glance up in time to see at least four armed humanoids dressed in dark battle 
armor storming into the docking bay. Their features are hidden behind closed 
helmets, but their movements communicate their violent intentions. 


CORPORATE SECTOR 
COMMANDOS (4) 

The CSA commandos in this encounter are highly trained Corporate Sector 
Authority warriors. They are likely to be the most capable enemies that the 
heroes have yet faced. Each is dressed in blackened battle armor and wields 
a blaster rifle with skilled precision. Their orders are to eradicate the heroes 
in short order and recover any stolen information that they might possess. 


The humanoid in the blackened battle armor moves carefully, firing as he 
advances toward you. The visor of his helmet emits a dim green light, and if 
not for his fluid movements you might think he was some kind of droid. 


Corporate Sector Commando CL4 

Medium Human soldier 4 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Nyriaanan, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 20, Will 14 

hp 54; Threshold 25 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee knife +5 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (4d6+2) or [$TC: is this missing something?] 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6+2, 2-square burst) or 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Charging Fire, Devastating Attack (rifles), Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Shot 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Devastating Attack (rifles), Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Charging Fire, Improved Damage 
Threshold, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Knowledge (tactics) +9, Mechanics +9, Perception 
+9, Pilot +10, Treat Injury +7 

Possessions blaster rifle, blaster pistol, battle armor with helmet package, 
2 frag grenades, medkit, datapad 


Corporate Sector Authority Commando Tactics 
Take no prisoners! Upon entering the docking bay, the first two commandos 
lob frag grenades at the heroes, while the other two provide suppressing fire. 
After the grenades detonate, the commandos advance to finish the job. They 
fight intelligently, using cover to their best advantage, providing each other 
with cover fire when appropriate, and aiding one another when necessary. 
If two or more commandos are killed, the others lob more grenades before 
attempting a tactical retreat to a waiting assault speeder. Once aboard, they 
flee the area, heading for the Corporate City Sector. 


CONCLUSION 


Each commando possesses a simple datapad loaded with the images and vital 
statistics of the heroes. The images are recent, apparently taken by surveil- 
lance cameras in locations that the heroes visited on Nyriaan. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 

The docking bay is open to the elements, but it is well maintained and 
relatively free of clinging fungus. The ground, however, is wet and 
slippery. As is typical for Nyriaan, lighting is dim. Fusion lanterns are 
positioned as indicated on the map, but they are easily destroyed by 
exploding grenades. 


1.5 meters 


iA HSLavHs 


J 
Bld 
W 
U 
W 
1) 
U 
tH) 
0) 
d 
@) 
d 
(0) 
2) 
& 


iA BSsidvra 


SAIGON 


INDEX 


A7-E3P0 "Aysev" 101 
Adaptable Talent (feat) 25 
Advanced Planning (talent) 20 
adventures, designing 90 
Airen Cracken 117 
Ander Rendrake 117 
Antagonist (challenge effect) 44 
antitoxin patch 66 
Arani Korden 109 
Assured Skill (talent) 21 
atmosphere and 

weather, Nyriaan 128 
Attract Superior Minion (talent) 25 
Belindi Kalenda 117 
Bith 10 
Bomb Thrower (talent) 21 
Bone Crusher (feat) 25 
Brilliant Defense (feat) 25 
bundar root 65 
campaign ares 84 
campaign elements 80 
Catastrophic Failure 

(challenge effect) 44 
Changing Objectives 

(challenge effect) 44 
Channel Rage (feat) 25 
Chewbacca 113 
chlovi fungus 142 
chuba poison 65 
Clip (talent) 24 
Close Call (challenge effect) 44 
comlink, earbud 66 
componentization 68 
Containment (challenge effect) 45 
Contingency Plan (talent) 25 
contingency plans 89 
Coordinated Effort (talent) 23 
Critical Skill Success (talent) 21 


Crowd Control (talent) 23 
Cut the Red Tape (feat) 27 
Da'Gara 119 
Damaging Disarm (talent) 25 
darter 64 
Dedicated Guardian (talent) 24 
Dedicated Protector (talent) 24 
Defel 11 
Degenerating (challenge effect) 45 
Degrees of Failure 

(challenge effect) 45 
Degrees of Success 

(challenge effect) 45 
Demoralizing Strike (feat) 27 
Detective (talent) 24 
Devaronian blood-poison 65 
Disarm and Engage (talent) 23 
Disturbing Presence (feat) 27 
Domina Tagge 120 
Done It All (talent) 20 
E'thinaa 119 
ecology, Nyriaan 140 
Electronic Trail (talent) 24 
Elomin 133 
Entangler (talent) 23 
Exceptional Skill (talent) 21 
Expert Briber (feat) 27 
Extreme Success 

(challenge effect) 46 
Fade Out (talent) 22 
failure conditions, 

skill challenge 48 
False Kadann 111 
Falsin's rot 142 
Filli Bitters 113 
Finis Valorum 99 
flash suppressor/silencer 66 
Fleche (feat) 27 


For the Cause (talent) 21 
Forceful Recovery (feat) 27 
Fosh 12 
Galen Marek 113 
gathering heroes 78 
geography, Nyriaan 128 
Get into Position (talent) 20 
Given 13 
gondolas 137 
Gotal 14 
government, Nyriaan 13 
Grazing Shot (feat) 27 
Gregar Typho 114 
Guaranteed Boon (talent) 20 
Haanen Felean 111 
Han Solo 113 
Herglic 15 
Hobbling Strike (feat) 28 
holo converter 66 
Improved Opportunistic 
Trickery (feat) 28 
Individual Effort 
(challenge effect) 46 
Indomitable Personality (feat) 28 
Initiative (challenge effect) 46 
irksh poison 65 
Isolder, Prince 107 
Jacen Solo/Darth Caedus 105 
Jan Ors/Jan Strange 117 
Jar Jar Binks 114 
Jayshon Korden, Jedi Master 109 
Jent Koush 113 
Jolor Oron 101 
Keep Together (talent) 22 
Kiyr Gir-sku 101 
laser transport arrays 137 
law enforcement, Nyriaan 143 
Leading Skill (talent) 20 


Learn from Mistakes (talent) 20 
Madilon 127 

Make an Example (talent) 22 
Master Defender (talent) 24 
Master Manipulator (talent) 20 
Master of Disguise (feat) 28 
Meadlin's tree 142 

Meat Shield (feat) 28 

mines, madilon 133 

Mrlssi 16 

Neimoidian 17 

Nom Anor 119 

Nym 114 

Nyriaan native/Nyriaanan 144 
Nyriaan spice 142 

Octavian Grant, 

Grand Admiral 123 
Opportunistic Trickery (feat) 28 
Opposed DC 

(challenge effect) 46 
Pa'lowick 131 
Padmé Naberrie/Queen Amidala 115 
Panaka, Captain 115 
panic ring 66 
Pistol Duelist (talent) 25 
Prudent Escape (talent) 22 
quongoosh essence 65 
Reactive Stealth (talent) 22 
Recovery (challenge effect) 46 
Recurring Success (feat) 28 
redirection crystal 67 
Reliable Boon (talent) 21 
Resolute Stance (feat) 28 
Restricted Skills 

(challenge effect) 47 
Retaliation (talent) 20 
Revealing Secrets (talent) 25 
Reverse Strength (talent) 23 


Revolutionary Rhetoric (talent) 22 


Ric Olié 115 

Rivoche Tarkin 117 
Rodin Baem 110 

Roos Tarpals 115 
Rugor Nass 115 
Sadistic Strike (feat) 28 
Salporin 113 

Second Effort 
(challenge effect) 47 
settlements, Nyriaan 129 
Arumed 129 

Locus 130 

New Lowick 130 
Prosperity 131 
Silence 131 

Starveil 132 
Temperance 132 
Tonnage 132 
Tor'Oront 132 
Vineyard 133 

shield cage 67 
shielding stations 138 
Shunt Damage (talent) 24 
Silas Tagge 121 

Silver Tongue (feat) 29 
Sio Bibble 115 

Sizing Up (talent) 23 
Skill Boon (talent) 21 


Skill Challenge: Catastrophic 


Avoidance (feat) 29 


Skill Challenge: Last Resort 


(feat) 29 


Skill Challenge: Recovery (feat) 29 
Skill Confidence (talent) 21 
Skillful Recovery (talent) 21 


snare pistol 64 
Stand Tall (feat) 29 


surface conditions, Nyriaan 128 
surveillance detector 67 
surveillance tagger 67 


GALAXY OF INTRIGUE 


1-215 “Toowon" 101 Character CL Page Creature CL Page 
; Amar Cros 10 149 Chlovi cat 5 141 
Ta'a Chume, Queen Mother 105 
Tepe Taaae. 121 Ananah Kragana 10 182 Lluma z 140 
4 = Assassin (male Zabrak) 4 166 Pherin Sota 
Tavin Korden, Prince 109 
Tempest's blessing 143 Conpoa Sones 
iy 9 assassin 5 207 Droid CL Page 
Ten Dorne 110 ate ; 
Corporate Sector 3D-4 administrative 
Tessala Corvae 103 : 
commando 4 220 droid 0 78} 
Thrackan Sal-Solo 99 ; 
: Corporate Sector 5-BT threat analysis 
Timed Challenge f ; 
(challengevetfect) 47 mine guard Dee 216 droid 1 72 
eee : Corporate Sector miner 1 217 B4J4 security droid 2 75 
timeline, Nyriaan 134 a ? 
2 Deluge facility guard 3 218  Bl-Series battle 
toxin detector 67 o: oe 2 f 
2 Deluge facility technician 1-219 legionnaire 3 75 
trinexalon 65 Aas : 
; Duros officials/ FIll footman droid 9 74 
Tru'eb Cholakk 116 y 
CSA agents 7 178 M4-Series messenger 
Try Your Luck (talent) 20 : ¥ 
Geiser 18 Finvarra S89 droid 1 73 
ae Frizz 2 162 MRD-39B assassin droid 6 208 
— ; Ghia Preyssola 6 148 NR-1100 slicer droid 3 72 
vid-vox scrambler 67 3 
villain, creating 87 re eo lal 
ig ‘g technician 0 159 Starship CL Page 
villain, removing 89 i nee 
: : Joruba Consortium Corona Limited 
Wookiee Grip (feat) 29 
' troubleshooter Pl. ANGI) luxury groundspeeder 4 71 
wrist blaster 64 
Kal Jorek 3 162 ~ Ferret-class 
Yomin Carr 119 : 
y ated 441 Karvas Toll 8 170 reconnaissance vessel 12 69 
Somat i baat Be: Koon Odan 4 166  Incom A-24 sleuth 
eae Loodux 9 174 (modified) 10 68 
Malvina clan scout 3. 212 Lambda-class shuttle 
Mon Calamari radical ye iyie6) (modified) 13 186 
Sith descendant 2 215 Prowler-class 
Tehlan Aleece 7 A86 reconnaissance vessel 12 70 
Tevlun i 193  PVT-2100 incarcerator 16 68 
Yrssk 5 214  Sabaoth frigate spy ship 11 71 
Zerik 8 151 SoroSuub JG-8 luxury 
landspeeder 2 7) 


BATTLE 
ACROSS ALL 


WITH STAR WARS MINIATURES, 
ANYTHING’S POSSIBLE! 


MIX IT UP WITH JEDI MASTER YODA AND NAGA SADOW, A SITH 
LORD FROM THE ERA OF THE OLD REPUBLIC! WILL YODA’S SPEED 
AND AGILITY TRIUMPH, OR WILL NAGA’S FORCE STORM AND 
SORCERY SKILL PREVAIL? BUT WHY STOP THERE? JEDI ACADEMY zi 
LETS YOU CREATE COUNTLESS BATTLES WITH CHARACTERS FROM ae 
ACROSS THE STAR WARS UNIVERSE! AND WITH 40 CHARACTERS —_B00STERPA 
IN THIS SET, IT’S EASIER THAN EVER TO COLLECT THEM ALL! 


ject) 
ACADEMY 
—po0sTER Pa 


a “sit MINIATUR 
Se WWW ._WIZARDS.COM/STARWARS an 


© 2009 LUCASFILM LTD. & ™. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. WIZARDS OF THE COAST AND ITS LOGO ARE TRADEMARKS OF WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC IN THE U.S.A. AND OTHER COUNTRIES. 


“MANY BOTHANS DIED TO BRING US THIS INFORMATION.’ 


While war rages on throughout the galaxy, a more subtle conflict is taking place in the shadows: a war of intrigue. 
Secrets are whispered in dark corners, bribes pass through corrupt hands, and saboteurs and assassins directly 
attack the resources and allies of their enemies. A campaign full of intrigue is a campaign full of mystery, where 
as one layer of the plot is revealed, so are three more mysteries whose true meaning have yet to be discovered. 


Visit our website at +www.starwars.com 
www.wizards.com/starwars 


GALAXY OF INTRIGUE PRESENTS A VARIETY OF OPTIONS 
FOR BOTH PLAYERS AND GAMEMASTERS, INGLUDING: 


2 
= 


OFF, 
att eng, 
CP 


oe 
= 
s 
3 
= 
= 


@ Naw talents, feats, weapons and equipment for nobles, spies, and saboteurs. 


@ A complete rules set for skill challenges. oe 
<Rr0 d20 
@® Suidelines for running campaigns full of intrigue. oe yt vere 


@ An all-new planet that boils over with secrecy and mystery. 


: . . ©2009 Lucasfilm Ltd. & ™. All rights reserved. Used 
BS New Campaign content, including a full-length adventure. under authorization. Wizards of the Coast, d20 System 


and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of 
the Coast LLC in the USA and other countries. 


