Re RE ne ND N\G’M 
py pit = \s 
PATRICK STUTZMAN 


ROBERT WIELAND 


> -ROONEY THOMPSON ERIC CAGLE 


JEDI ACADEMY™ 
TRAINING MANUAL 


RODNEY THOMPSON, ERIC CAGLE, PATRICK STUTZMAN, ROBERT WIELAND 


CGREBITS 


Rodney Thompson, Eric Cagle, 
Patrick Stutzman, Robert Wieland 


PRODUCTION MANAGER Cynda Callaway 


DeVveLoreR Rodney Thompson GRAPHIC DESIGNERS Jino Choi, Breanne Miller 


ART DIRECTOR Ryan Sansaver PRE-PRESS MANAGER Jefferson Dunlap 


EDITOR Christopher Perkins QRAPHIC PRODUCTION Christopher Tardltf 


Gonzalo Flores 


LUCAS LICENSING EDITOR | Frank Parisi COVER ARTIS: 


Steve Argyle, Dan Brereton, Jeff Carlisle, Joe Corroney, 
DESIGN MANAGER Christopher Perkins Tommy Lee Edwards, Scott Fischer, Adam Gillespie, 

D. Alexander Gregory, Ron Lemen, William O'Connor, 
rk post, Jim Pavelec, Vinod Rams, Wayne Reynolds, 
Francis Tsai, Franz Vohwinkel, Ashley Wood, Ben 
Wootten, Lucasfilm Ltd. 


DIRECTOR OF RPG R&D Bill Slavicsek 


SPECIAL THANKS Leland Chee IMAGING TECHNICIAN Ashley Brock 


AWEaVSaY IGSP 


‘Some rules mechanies are based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C Stephens, and Rodney Thompson, the original Dungeons ft Dragons® rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave 
‘Arneson, and the 3" Edition Dungeons Et Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Sip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. 


‘This Wizards ofthe Coast® game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission. 
US, Canada, Asa, GREAT BATTAN eunoPe 
Paci, Latin America Hasbro Ux is Wards ofthe Coast, Belgian 
Wieards of the Coast LLC aswel ay ‘ndustalaan 1 
P.O, Box 707 Newport Gwent NPSOMH 1702 Groot Bignarden SYSTEM 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRTTAN Begun worn wZAR0S.COM Wi STARWARS.COM 
(Questions? 1-800-324-6496 Please beepthis address for your records +32 070233277 (SBN: 978-0-7869-51833 

{620-25012720-001-84 

987654321 $ 


First Printing: May 2009 
(©2009 LUCASFILM LTD. & © OR ™ WHERE INDICATED. AL RIGHTS RESERVED. 
USED UNDER AUTHORIZATION. 


Dungeons & Dragons, ¢20 Stem, Vizard ofthe Cast. and their respective logs are trademark of Wizards of the Coast inthe US A and ather counties. This materials protected under the copyright laws ofthe United Sats of America. Ary reproduction or unathoried ust 
‘ofthe materi or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express writen permission of Wards ofthe Coast LC. Tis produc a work fiction. Any sinlariy to actual people, organizations, places, or eventsis purely coincidental, Printed inthe USA 


CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION... 4 


Courses of Study.......ec.20. 6 


CHIR: POWER OF 
THE Force....8 


Skills... 
Force Regimens 
Jedi Talents. 
Force Talents 
Prestige Class Talents . 


Convection 
Cruciton 
Cryokinesis 
Drain Energy. 25 
Fold Space. 
Force Light 
Force Storm . 
Force Track 
Hatred 
Inertia 
Inspire 
Intercept...... 
Memory Walk 
Mind Shard. . 
Plant Surge. . 

Thought Bomb . 
Lightsaber Form Powers 
Force Techniques. 
Cure Disease. 
Extended Blind. 
Extended Force Disarm . 
Extended Force Grip ... 
Extended Force Thrust. . 
Extended Move Object . 
Improved Convection. 
Improved Crucitorn 
Improved Cryokinesi 
Improved Fold Space. 
Improved Force Light. 


Improved Force Storm 
Improved Plant Surge 
Improved Thought Bomb. 
Force Secrets. .. 


CHAPTER | 
PHILO: 


What is the Force? 
Aspects of the Fore 
Padawans and Apprentices. 
Applications of the Force 


Control 
Sense... 
Influence of the Dark Side. 


CHAPTER Is EQUIPMENT & 
ARTIFACTS . 


Melee Weapon: 
Advanced Lightsaber 

Construction .. . 
Lightsaber Accessories 

& Modifications. 
Ranged Weapons. . . 
Armor. 
Other Equipment. 


CWIRN: APFILIATED 
PROGRAMS ...70 
Aing-Tii Monks . 
Baran Do Sages... 


Fallanassi . i 
Iron Knights . 78 
Matukai 80 


Seyugi Dervishes. 


Wardens of the Sky. 
Zeison Sha 


CHER: INSTRUCTOR: 
& ALUMN 


Instructors of the Force 
Anoon Bondara . 
Arca Jeth. . 
Cay Oel-Droma 
Cilghal... 
Corran Horn 
Dace Diath . 
Grand Master 

Luke Skywalker, 
Kieran Halcyon. 
Kyle Katarn... 
Mara Jade Skywalke 
Nomi Sunrider . 
Odan-Urr. 
Ooroo. . 
Oss Willum .. . 
Shoaneb Culu. 
Thon. .. 
Tott Doneeta. . 
Vodo Siosk-Baas. 


CWIRVI: DANGER: 
oF STUDY 


Dark Siders... 13 
Azrakel, the Dark Warrior. ..114 
Blackguard, The 15 
Brakiss. 


Irek Ismaren (Lord Nyax)....121 
Kueller... 
Massassi Abomination. 
Nightsister of Dathomir 
Prophet of the Dark Side. 
Sedriss 
Shadow Academy Student ... 
Sorcerer of Tund. 


Beasts... 
Battle Hydra. 
Beck-tori.... 
Chrysalis Beast. 
Derriphan ... 


Dxun Tomb Beast... 
Hssiss (Dark Side Dragon). 
Marsh Haunt. 
Nighthunter . 
Shyrack. 
ilooth 
Sith Warbird. 
Sith Wyrm. 
Storm Beast 
Taozin .. 
Terentatek.... 
Tuk'ata Sith Hound, 


CHIEN: STUDYING 
ABROAD 


Places in the Light... 
Areas of Darkness 
Chu'unthor... 
Notable Locations . 
Inhabitants a 
Jedi Temples and Academies . 


Notable Locations . 
Inhabitants... 
Valley of the Jedi. 
Ruusan 


Dxun .. 
Korriban . 
Inhabitants . 


SinsiNoD 


wap 


ANAGVOY 


ae \ 


" 
INTRODUCTION | 


are about to take your first steps into a larger world. Following the Galac- 
il War, Luke Skywalker, the first of a new generation of Jedi Knights, 
blishes the Jedi Order and begins training new students in the ways 
Force. This new Jedi Order starts out on Yavin 4, and then eventually 
n other locales, including the Jedi Academy on Ossus. Many years 
ter Loke's time, his descendant, Kol Skywalker, rises to the rank of Jedi 
faster and becomes one of the preeminent leaders of the Jedi Order. 
om this perspective, that of students at the Jedi Academy on Ossus, 
is book is written. The Jedi Academy Training Manual is a quide to 
and the Sith. Inside this book, you will find a wealth of 
ertaining to all aspects of the Force found in the Star Wars 
me. This book provides many new options for players of Jedi 
other Force traditions, designed to enhance your game 
uch of this content is geared toward players, Game- 
this material just as useful in crafting NPCs, 
ing a Jedi than just Force powers and lightsabers. The 
eped in history, and the Jedi are as much soldiers of an 
lasters of incredible Force power. Likewise, the Sith are 
y dimensional villains; most every Sith Lord is cunning, devious, 
and complex. Throughout this book, players and Gamemasters alike are 
encouraged to look beyond the surface and see the motivations that make 
these characters memorable parts of the Star Wars saga. 
This book has different kinds of thematic sidebars, as introduced on the 


‘t two pages. These sidebars provide extra information, adventure hooks, 
jeas to enhance the Saga Edition experience. Sometimes these sidebars 
ew rules elements; other times they simply provide a bit of story 
stimulate the imaginations of players and Gamemasters. Pay 

ion to these sidebars, for they often enhance the text of the 


AWSavoy lasr 


NolisnGouant 


NoWwSnooeLNT 


ear 


AnNEaVvaY 


COURSES OF STUDY 
This book contains information for both Gamemasters and players. Below is 
a brief summary of the material contained herein. 

Chapter 1: Character Options presents new talents, feats, and Force 
powers for heroes and villains. The bulk of the new mechanics in the book 
appear here, including the lightsaber combat powers, Force regimens, and 
the new material for the Jedi class and for the Force adept, Jedi Knight, and 
Sith apprentice prestige classes. 

Chapter 2: Philosophy discusses the philosophical side of apprenticeship. 
This in-depth look at the philosophy of the Jedi covers the basics of Jedi life 
as well as the dangers that all apprentices face, including temptation from 
the dark side. This chapter also introduces several variant rules for how to 
use the dark side of the Force. 

Chapter 3: Equipment & Artifacts includes an in-depth look at the 
physical objects that are key elements of the Jedi and Sith traditions. This 
chapter includes a comprehensive guide to lightsaber creation, lists many 
of the variant lightsabers available for use, and provides a close look at 
holocrons, including the holocron creation process (which is tied to the 
destiny system). 

Chapter 4: Affiliated Programs takes a look at several Force traditions 
that differ from the Jedi. These alternate Force traditions can serve as a basis 
for the creation of characters who use the Force but do not adhere to the 
tenets of the Jedi or the Sith. 

Chapter 5: Instructors & Alumni looks at some of the most influential 
beings in the history of the Jedi Order. This chapter covers many major figures 
stretching back as far as the Great Hyperspace War and as far forward as the 
founder of the new Jedi Order, Grand Master Luke Skywalker. 

Chapter 6: Dangers of Study introduces some of the threats that a Jedi 
apprentice might face during his or her career. This chapter includes many 
new beasts that threaten Jedi students, as well as a rogues gallery of those 
who have succumbed to the dark side of the Force. This chapter presents 
antagonists that Gamemasters can use to spice up their campaigns. 


WHAT YOU NEED TO PLAY 

As with any Star Wars game supplement, you need the Saga Edition core 
rulebook to make full use of the information in the Jedi Academy Training 
Manual. This book also uses material from other supplements, including 
the Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide and The Force Unleashed 
Campaign Guide, but those supplements are not essential. Also be sure 
to visit the official Star Wars Roleplaying Game website at www.wizards. 
com/starwars for the latest updates and official errata. 


MESSAGE FROM THE FACULTY 
Welcome to the Jedi Academy. As a new student, you will find the faculty 
and staff here interested in helping you adjust to your new environment. 
Periodically, new students will be issued memorandums and messages 
from faculty members, intended to guide you in your quest for knowledge. 
Each of the faculty members here at the Academy has taken a personal 
interest in seeing that you receive the attention that you deserve, and 
the messages they send you will likely reveal essential information. Pay 
close attention to these messages, as they will make your apprentice- 
ship much easier. 


Chapter 7: Studying Abroad covers the various sites and locations that 
are of historical significance to the Jedi Order, Though only a few individual 
locales are of great significance to the Jedi Order or the Sith, this chapter 
takes a look at what makes those locations special, and how they can be 
used in adventures. 


EXCHANGE COURSES 

Though much of this book discusses Force-users in terms of Jedi and Sith, 
the book is equally useful to those who follow other Force traditions. With 
an entire chapter devoted to new Force traditions, players who don't want to 
play a traditional Jedi have much to draw upon for inspiration and character 
concepts. Additionally, this book features two new Force traditions that have 
never before appeared elsewhere. Both the Shapers of Kro Var and the War- 
dens of the Sky were designed from the ground-up to fill particular niches 
in the Saga Edition roleplaying game rules and include open-ended stories 
so that they can be dropped into any campaign, regardless of era. Several 
other traditions, including the Baran Do Sages, the Matukai, the Tyia adepts, 
and the Zeison Sha, originally appeared in previous editions of the game and 
are included in this book, as they make excellent choices for heroes looking 
for alternatives to the Jedi. 


INDEPENDENT STUDY 

This book introduces a number of new mechanics and mechanical subsystems. 
Most of these systems are contained in Chapter 1 and Chapter 3, with a few 
scattered appearances elsewhere in the book. For example, Chapter 1 intro- 
duces a new subsystem known as Force regimens that give Jedi characters 
something to do in their downtime. Likewise, Chapter 3 introduces advanced 
rules for crafting lightsabers, helping to tailor each weapon to the Jedi who 
wields it. This book also describes how a character might come to possess a 
Force spirit mentor (as Obi-Wan Kenobi was to Luke Skywalker) or how one 
can devise monstrous beasts created using forbidden Sith alchemy. 


Chapter 1 also introduces a new type of Force power that draws upon the 
various lightsaber forms practiced by the Jedi, and serves not only to provide 
interesting new combat options but also to make lightsaber forms a greater 
part of the character. Each lightsaber form power is tied to a particular light- 
saber combat technique, and possessing the correct talent from the Lightsa- 
ber Forms talent tree (from the Jedi Knight prestige class) further enhances 
these Force powers. The lightsaber form powers also allow Jedi characters to 
make use of certain iconic abilities of the films and comics without having 
to invest precious resources such as talents into such abilities. 


HOLOCRON LESSONS 

Greetings, student. | am the gatekeeper of this holocron, Jedi Master 
Tedryn. | shall assume that you obtained this holocron from one of your 
instructors and did not simply steal it from the archives when none of 
your Jedi Masters were watching them. Within this holocron you will 
find a wealth of knowledge that even your own Jedi Masters may not 
have. Given the enduring nature of the holocron, | can provide you with 
complete historical records of events from my time, likely the distant past 
to you, and instruct you on the ways that we “ancient” Jedi went about 
things. However, be forewarned that not all of the knowledge | possess is 
for students just beginning down the path to enlightenment; many of the 
techniques within this holocron are intended only for advanced students. 
Please take the proper precautions when using any of the techniques that 
| share with you, as they can be quite dangerous. 


BEWARE THE DARK SIDE 

Though this book is intended to be used by heroes, much of the mate- 
rial herein covers mechanics and information more suitable for villains. 
Gamemasters should, of course, feel free to rule that any of the Sith or 
dark side mechanics are simply unavailable to heroes However, this book 
also provides ample material for running campaigns in which the heroes 
are dark siders. Though these campaigns can be tricky, the information in 
this book should make it easier to create a variety of dark Force-users, just 
as this (and other books) have expanded upon the Jedi to create a greater 
diversity of archetypes. 

Additionally, Gamemasters should also be sure to peruse the first few 
chapters for new mechanics for their villains in heroic games. Many of 
the mechanics for dark side Force-users were designed to help facilitate 
more interesting encounters, and while some of the sample characters and 
creatures in Chapter 6 make use of these mechanics, there are far more 
combinations waiting to be explored than can be found ina single character 
or creature. 


WHISPERS OF THE SITH 

SPIRIT 

Ah, young student. | see you have come in search of knowledge. Did you 
know that the Jedi are not the only source of knowledge of the Force at 
the Academy? It is true. The dark side of the Force holds much for you, 
my young apprentice, and in time, if you heed my instructions, you could 
become a powerful master of the Force. These Jedi do not know that a 
powerful Sith spirit lurks in their midst, and, if you wish to seek out the 
true way to control the power of the Force, you would be wise to heed 
my words and keep my teachings to yourself. 


Nomoncoulnt 


& 
Wy 
Y 
> 


CHAPTER | 
POWER OF THE FORCE 


oes from all eras are as varied in their skills and abilities as any 
‘ind of hero. Some Jedi are warriors, born to use the Force on the 


_ battlefield to banish the dark side. Others are born to be introspective seek- 
ets of knowledge, using meditation to peer into the secrets of the universe 


in search of truth. Regardless of what kind of Jedi your hero might be, this 
chapter presents many new talents, feats, and Force powers to help bring 
your Jedi’s unique skills to the forefront. The mechanics presented in this 
chapter cover a variety of Force powers and methods, some meant for all 
and others meant only for those who embrace the dark side. 

This chapter also takes a look at many character archetypes within the 
ranks of the Jedi and the Sith. Among the Jedi Knights, many Jedi are clas- 
sified by their specialties; there are Jedi healers, Jedi investigators, Jedi 
battlemasters, Jedi instructors, and so forth. These Jedi might be described 
by their archetype, but these archetypes do not necessarily define them. The 
nature of talent trees, the Jedi class, and the Jedi Knight prestige class gives 
each hero's player the choice of just how closely to follow the archetype. 
You can choose to make your Jedi a master of one aspect of Jedi knighthood, 
‘embodying the archetype you have chosen in every talent choice. Alternately, 
you can dabble in two, three, or even more talent trees, creating a Jedi who 
chooses to be more cosmopolitan about his areas of study. 

Additionally, many of the mechanics in this chapter can be used to flesh 
out Force adepts of other traditions, including those presented in Chapter 4: 
Affiliated Programs. Some of the Force powers in this chapter are specifically 
the domain of those Force traditions, such as the Aing-Tii monk's fold space 
power, or the intercept power favored by the Zeison Sha warriors, The talents 
for the Force adept prestige class also create their own sub-archetypes, 
many of which may not be appropriate to certain Force traditions. Players 


» of non-Jedi Force-users should consult with their Gamemasters to determine 


‘exactly which powers and talents are appropriate for creating a character 
‘from a particular Force tradition. 


S904 SHi sO usmMod 


1 esigvno 


0 


Saved SHA dO UEMG) 


SKILLS 


This section introduces new applications of the Use the Force skill. 


USE THE FORCE 
The following new applications of the Use the Force skill can be used by any 
character trained in the Use the Force skill. 

Breath Control (Trained Only): You can use the Force to hold your breath 
for an extended period of time. A successful DC 15 Use the Force check 
allows you to hold your breath for a number of rounds equal to twice your 
Constitution score before you need to make Endurance checks to continue 
holding your breath, 

Move Light Object (Trained Only): You can use this application of the 
skill to catch and move a thrown object, such as a grenade, that lands within 
your reach, redirecting its attack against another target. The object can weigh 
no more than 5 kg, and you must ready an action to catch the object on your 
turn, before the object is thrown. Moving the object requires a Use the Force 
check, with a DC equal to the attack roll of the thrown object. If you suc- 
ceed on this check, you catch the object with the Force and can immediately 
move the object up to 6 squares away from you, to a point within your line 
of sight; otherwise, resolve the attack as normal. If the object you catch is 
an explosive, such as a grenade, it explodes at the end of its movement. You 
can use the object caught as a projectile weapon, as normal, 

Place Other in Force Trance (Trained Only): Asa full-round action, you 
can place an adjacent willing ally that you touch into a Force trance with 
a DC 15 Use the Force check. In this state, the target ally rests as though 
in a deep coma and is considered helpless. Each hour the target remains in 
the trance, it regains a number of hit points equal to its character level. You 
can bring an adjacent ally you touch out of a Force trance as a swift action, 
but the target cannot otherwise emerge from the Force trance on his or 
her own. If the target remains in the Force trance for 4 consecutive hours, 
the target emerges from the trance fully rested (as though the target had 
rested for 8 hours). 

While the target ally is in a Force trance, it can go ten times as long as 
normal without air, food, or water (see the Endurance skill on page 66 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). Unwilling targets cannot be placed in a 
Force trance. 


FORCE REGIMENS 

Force regimens are training techniques used by the Jedi, the Sith, and other 
Force traditions to hone their skills and enhance their sensitivity to the Force. 
Even Jedi Masters, who have spent years working to achieve a level of Force 
mastery that others cannot, still meditate and train on a regular basis. Force 
regimens are ritualistic exercises that Force-users can perform during their 
downtime to keep themselves at peak performance. 


Most regimens are designed to focus on one particular aspect of Force 
training. The benefits of a Force regimen last for 24 hours, and only one Force 
regimen’s effects can be active in a given 24-hour period. 

For story purposes, you can perform as many regimens as you like; you 
only benefit from the first one performed, however. If you fail to complete 
a Force regimen, you cannot gain the benefits of that regimen for 24 hours, 
though you can attempt another Force regimen you know. 

You learn Force regimens by taking the Force Regimen Mastery feat (see 
page 23). Once you learn a Force regimen, you can use it any time you have 
enough spare time to do so. Most Force-users perform their regimens in 
the morning each day, though there is no rule to say when a regimen must 
be performed. 


FORCE TRAINING 
REGIMENS 


The following Force regimens can be learned by any Force-sensitive character 
and enhance Force use in a variety of ways. 


AWAKEN FORCE SENSITIVITY 

This training regimen is used to awaken another character to the larger world 
of Force sensitivity. You and the beneficiary of this regimen practice medita~ 
tion, quieting your minds and listening to the Force. Time: 1 hour, Target: 
One willing ally who does not possess the Force Sensitivity feat. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC 13:You gain the benefit of the Gauge Force Potential talent (if you 
do not already have it). 

DC 18:As DC 13, and you awaken the first glimmers of Force sensitivity 
in the target. For the next 24 hours, the target can make untrained Use the 
Force checks as though he or she possesses the Force Sensitivity feat. 

DC 23:As DC 18, except the target also gains a +1 Force bonus on Use 
the Force checks. 

DC 28: As DC 18, except the student also gains a +2 Force bonus on Use 
the Force checks. 


EBYes OF THE FORCE 

This regimen trains you to sense images that you cannot normally see by 
reading the surface thoughts of others. During this regimen, an assistant 
holds a two-dimensional image viewer so that you see the images being 
displayed on the screen. As the image viewer cycles through different images 
of common objects, you must read the surface thoughts of the assistant to 
determine what image is being displayed on the screen at that time. Tim 
1 hour. Target: You. Requirements: A two-dimensional image display and 
an assistant 


Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC 13:You successfully read one-third of the assistant’s surface thoughts. 
You gain a +1 Force bonus on Use the Force checks made to use the Telepathy 
application of the Use the Force skill. 

DC 18: You successfully read two-thirds of the assistant’s surface 
thoughts. You gain a +2 Force bonus on Use the Force checks made to use 
the Telepathy application of the Use the Force skill. 

DC 23:You successfully read all of the assistant's surface thoughts. You 
gain a +2 Force bonus on Use the Force checks made to use the Telepathy 
application of the Use the Force skill. In addition, if you successfully use 
Telepathy against an unwilling target, you can also sense the target's surface 
emotions and stray thoughts (as determined by the Gamemaster). 


OXYGEN BOTTLE 

This difficult regimen trains you to master environmental manipulation 
through the Force. You must first empty a glass bottle of air, creating a 
perfect vacuum inside. Then you must allow only oxygen to slip past the seal 
created by the Force, eventually filling the bottle with pure oxygen before 
placing the vac-seal stopper. This regimen requires you to use the Force ina 
nearly molecular level, as well as the Sense aspect of the Force to determine 
what molecules are making their way into the bottle. Time: 1 hour. Target: 
You. Requirements: A glass bottle with a vac-seal stopper 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC26:You fail to create a vacuum in the bottle before the regimen begins, 
resulting in an imperfect mixture. You gain a +2 Force bonus to your Fortitude 
Defense against inhaled poisons and non-corrosive atmospheric hazards. 

DC 32: You create a vacuum in the bottle, but let other molecules enter 
through your Force seal, creating an imperfect mixture. You gain a +5 Force 
bonus to your Fortitude Defense against inhaled poisons and non-corrosive 
atmospheric hazards. 

DC 38: You complete this regimen perfectly, resulting in a bottle full of 
nothing but pure oxygen. You become immune to inhaled poisons and non- 
corrosive atmospheric hazards. 


QuieT THE MIND 
This regimen trains you to block out distractions and stray thoughts. It 
requires little more than finding a quiet, secluded spot and slipping into 
a meditative trance to clear your mind of doubt, questions, fear, and the 
chaos of the galaxy. Jedi use this technique to open themselves to the flow 
of the Force, allowing them to see distant places and events. Time: 1 hour. 
Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 


DC 13:You meditate, but your mind is still clouded by external stimuli. 
You can add one use of the farseeing power to your Force suite, but once it 
is used, it cannot be regained by any means. 

DC 18:You meditate, quieting your mind except for but a few small dis- 
tractions. You can add one use of the farseeing power to your Force suite. 

DC 23:You meditate, quieting your mind entirely. You can add one use 
of the farseeing power to your Force suite, and you gain the benefits of the 
Visions talent (if you do not already know it). 


TELEKINETIC PRACTICE 

This regimen hones your skill with the Alter aspect of the Force and enhances 
telekinetic precision. You begin by placing a deep bowl on the ground, with an 
orb at the bottom of the bowl. First, you must use the Force to hold the bow! 
perfectly still and pin it to the ground. Then you roll the ball slowly up the side 
of the bowl, keeping it in contact with the bow! at all times, until it reaches the 
upper rim. The orb is then held in place for 5 minutes, and must remain perfectly 
still. You then roll the orb slowly back to the bottom of the bowl, moving it with 
the Force and not allowing the orb to move under gravity's power. Time: 1 hour. 
Target: You. Requirements: A deep bowl and a polished stone orb. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC 18:You let the bow! move during the regimen. You gain 1 temporary 
Force Point which you can apply only to a Use the Force check to activate a 
power with the /telekinetic] descriptor. 

DC23:You let the orb roll under gravity's power back to its starting posi- 
tion. You gain 2 temporary Force Points which you can apply only to Use the 
Force checks to activate powers with the [telekinetic] descriptor. 

DC 28:You complete the regimen perfectly. You gain 2 temporary Force 
Points which you can apply to Use the Force checks to activate powers with 
the [telekinetic] descriptor or use to reroll a Use the Force check made to 
activate a power with the /telekinetic] descriptor (you must keep the second 
result, even if it is worse). 


LIGHTSABER TRAINING 
REGIMENS 


The following Force regimens focus on the art of lightsaber combat. Each one 
is a training routine that enhances a different aspect of lightsaber combat, 
and can be used by practitioners of any lightsaber combat form. 


SPARRING PRACTICE 

This simple regimen allows you to practice against another living opponent, 
simulating one-on-one combat. During sparring practice, each combatant 
attempts to strike the other while exercising restraint and control. If you use 
a training lightsaber (see page 56), you can spar without fear of harming 
your opponent. Time: 2 hours. Target: You. Requirements: Lightsaber (or 
training lightsaber) and a sparring partner. 


0) 
@ 
& 
0) 
a 
z) 
O 
PD} 
@) 
W 


1 esiavHo 


gavued SHA dO VSEME2) 


Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC 18:You hone your lightsaber skills but see little in the way of improve- 
ment. You can spend a Force Point to add to the result of a Use the Force 
check made to activate the Block talent. This does not count toward the “one 
Force Point per round” limit. 

DC23:You hone your lightsaber skills, improving your technique by small 
degrees. You can spend a Force Point to add to the result of a Use the Force 
check made to activate the Block talent. This does not count toward the 
“one Force Point per round" limit. You also gain 1 temporary Force Point, 
which can only be used to add to the result of a Use the Force check made 
to activate the Block talent. 

DC28:You hone your lightsaber skills and see significant improvement in 
your technique. You can spend a Force Point to add to the result of a Use the 
Force check made to activate the Block talent. This does not count toward 
the “one Force Point per round" limit. You also gain 2 temporary Force Points, 
which can only be used to add to the results of Use the Force checks made 
to activate the Block talent. 


TRAINING REMOTE 
You hone your skill at deflecting blaster bolts using your lightsaber. This Force 
regimen is performed blind, often with the help of a helmet equipped with an 
opaque blast shield, Time: 1 hour. Target: You. Requirements: Lightsaber, 
training remote, and a helmet with a blast shield. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 


DC 18:You hone your lightsaber skills, but the training remote gets several 
hits on you. You can spend a Force Point to add to the result of a Use the 
Force check made to activate the Deflect talent. This does not count toward 
the “one Force Point per round” limit. 

DC23:You hone your lightsaber skills, and the remote gets in a few small 
hits on you. You can spend a Force Point to add to the result of a Use the 
Force check made to activate the Deflect talent. This does not count toward 
the “one Force Point per round” limit. You also gain 1 temporary Force Point, 
which can only be used to add to the result of a Use the Force check made 
to activate the Deflect talent. 

DC 28:You hone your lightsaber skills, and the remote never harms you. 
You can spend a Force Point to add to the result of a Use the Force check 
made to activate the Deflect talent. This does not count toward the “one 
Force Point per round’ limit. You also gain 2 temporary Force Points, which 
can only be used to add to the results of Use the Force checks made to 
activate the Deflect talent. 


VoO'REN'S FIRST CADENCE 

Vo'ren's first cadence teaches precision through control of one's body and 
sensory awareness. You set up 19 wax cylinders at 10-degree intervals around 
your body, each one approximately 1.5 meters away, forming a semicircle. 
Atop each cylinder, one metal ball bearing is placed. You must then use your 
lightsaber to strike each ball bearing without making contact with the wax 
cylinder beneath it. You must place the cylinders and ball bearings one at a 
time until all 19 have been placed. Time: 1 hour. Target: You, Requirements: 
Lightsaber, 19 wax cylinders, and 190 ball bearings. 

Make a Use the Force check. You take a penalty on your Use the Force 
check equal to your Dark Side Score. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC 13: You damage two cylinders. You gain a +1 Force bonus to your 
Will Defense. 

DC 18: You damage one cylinder. You gain a +2 Force bonus to your Will 
Defense. 

DC 23:You complete the cadence without damaging any cylinders. You 
gain a +2 Force bonus to your Will Defense, and you gain the benefits of the 
Severing Strike talent (if you do not already know it). 


VO'REN'S SECOND CADENCE 

Vo'ren's second cadence teaches not only control but also spatial awareness. 
You must set up 72 wax cylinders at 5-degree intervals around your body, 
each one approximately 1.5 meters away. Atop each cylinder, one metal ball 
bearing is placed. Like in the first cadence, you must place the cylinders and 
ball bearings one at a time until all 72 have been placed. However, unlike 
the first cadence, you must strike at all of the cylinders in a full 360-degree 
arc without turning your body to face the cylinders to the rear, honing your 
ability to strike at enemies coming from all sides. Time: 2 hours. Target: You. 
Requirement: Lightsaber, 72 wax cylinders, and 2,701 ball bearings 


Make a Use the Force check. You take a penalty on your Use the Force 
check equal to your Dark Side Score. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC 18:You damage two cylinders. You gain a +1 Force bonus on lightsaber 
attack rolls against creatures that flank you. 

DC23:You damage one cylinder. You gain a +2 Force bonus on lightsaber 
attack rolls against creatures that flank you. 

DC 28: You complete the regimen without damaging the cylinders. You 
gain a +2 Force bonus on lightsaber attack rolls against creatures that flank 
you, and you gain the benefits of the Whirlwind Attack feat (if you do not 
already know it). 


VO'REN'S THIRD CADENCE 
Vo'ren's third cadence teaches precision through control of one's body and 
sensory awareness, You set up 180 wax cylinders at 2-degree intervals around 
your body, each one approximately 1.5 meters away. Atop each cylinder, one 
metal ball bearing is placed. Unlike the second cadence, in the third cadence 
you must strike every fifth ball bearing, making a rotation around your body 
several times over the course of the regimen. This prepares you for irregular 
attack patterns from all sides. Time: 3 hours. Target: You. Requirements: 
Lightsaber, 180 wax cylinders, and 16,290 ball bearings 

Make a Use the Force check. You take a penalty on your Use the Force 
check equal to your Dark Side Score. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC 23:You damage two cylinders. You gain a +1 Force bonus on ranged 
attack rolls made when using the Redirect Shot talent. 

DC 28: You damage one cylinder. You gain a +2 Force bonus on ranged 
attack rolls made when using the Redirect Shot talent. 


DC 33: You complete the regimen without damaging the cylinders. You 
gain a +2 Force bonus on ranged attack rolls made when using the Redirect 
Shot talent, and you can spend Force Points to enhance Use the Force checks 
to Block and Deflect (as per the talents), even when it is not your turn. Fur- 
thermore, Force Points spent to enhance Use the Force checks to Block and 
Deflect do not count toward the “one Force Point per round" limit normally 
applied to spending Force Points. 


VO'REN’'S FOURTH CADENCE 
Vo'ren’s fourth cadence teaches composure and quick thinking amid the chaos 
of battle. It begins by setting up 360 wax cylinders at 1-degree intervals 
around your body, each one approximately 1.5 meters away. No ball bear- 
ings are required for this cadence. You must strike the cylinders according 
to a complex mathematical formula. By the time the cadence is completed, 
you will have learned to perform incredibly taxing mental tasks while also 
focusing on the external chaos of combat. Time: 3 hours. Target: You. 
Requirements: Lightsaber and 360 wax cylinders, 

Make a Use the Force check. You take a penalty on your Use the Force 
check equal to your Dark Side Score, The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC 26: You make a mistake during the first hour. You gain a +1 Force 
bonus on Use the Force checks made to continue maintaining a Force power 
whenever you take damage. 

DC 32:You make a mistake during the second hour. You gain a +2 Force 
bonus on Use the Force checks made to continue maintaining a Force power 
whenever you take damage. 

DC 38: You make no mistakes during the regimen. You gain a +2 Force 
bonus on Use the Force checks made to continue maintaining a Force power 
whenever you take damage, and if you are damaged while maintaining a 
Force power, you can spend a Force Point as a reaction to not have to make 
a new Use the Force check. 


VO'REN'S FIFTH CADENCE 
In Vo'ren's fifth and final cadence, you must demonstrate true mastery over 
yourself and your lightsaber. No wax cylinders are required; you simply know 
when you have made a correct strike. Unlike the other cadences, this regimen 
requires you to use the Force to manipulate your lightsaber, an act of pure 
telekinetic power in which your hands never touch the weapon. This technique 
brings together the Control, Sense, and Alter aspects of the Force into one 
training regimen. Time: 3 hours. Target: You. Requirement: Lightsaber. 

Make a Use the Force check. You take a penalty on your Use the Force 
‘check equal to your Dark Side Score. The result of the check determines the 
benefits of the regimen: 

DC31:You make a mistake during the first hour. You gain a +1 bonus on Use 
the Force checks made to use the Move Light Object application of the skill. 


1 eslawHS 


U 
@ 
g 
W 
a) 
U 
@ 
2) 
@ 
W 


ry 


SSHed FHL dO VSEMEc) 


DC37: You make a mistake during the second hour. You gain a +2 bonus 
on Use the Force checks made to use the Move Light Object application of 
the skill. 

DC 43:You complete the cadence without making a single mistake. You 
gain a +2 bonus on Use the Force checks made to use the Move Light Object 
application of the skill, and you add the Kinetic Combat Force power (see 
page 51 of the Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide) to your Force 
suite, Additionally, you can spend a Force Point to reroll any Use the Force 
check made to activate a Force power with the [telekinetic] descriptor, 
keeping the better result. 


JEDI TALENTS 


The following new talents are intended for use with the Jedi class. 


New JEDI CONSULAR TALENTS 
The following talents belong to the Jedi Consular talent tree (see page 39 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Adversary Lore: As a standard action, you can peer into the Force and 
search for weaknesses in the defenses of your enemies. Make a Use the Force 
check against the Will Defense of a target creature within 12 squares of you 
and in your line of sight. If the skill check equals or exceeds the target's Will 
Defense, that target takes a -2 penalty to Reflex Defense against you and all 
allies who can hear and understand you until the end of your next turn. 

Know Weakness: Whenever you use Adversary Lore on a target suc- 
cessfully, that target also takes an additional 1d6 points of damage from 
any successful attack made against it by you or an ally who can hear and 
understand you until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Adversary Lore. 


NEw JEDI GUARDIAN TALENTS 
The following talents belong to the Jedi Guardian talent tree (see page 40 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Grenade Defense: You can use the Move Light Object application of 
the Use the Force skill to cast aside grenades that are thrown at you. As 
a reaction when you are attacked by a grenade of any kind, you can make 
a Use the Force check with a DC equal to the attack roll of the incoming 
grenade attack. If your check equals or beats the DC, you hurl the grenade 
toa location where it explodes harmlessly, negating the attack. Whether or 
not you are successful, you take a -5 penalty on Use the Force checks until 
the start of your next turn. 

Hold the Line: When you make a successful attack of opportunity against 
a target leaving your threatened area, you stop the target's movement, 
ending its action. 


New JEDI SENTINEL TALENT 
The following talent belongs to the Jedi Sentinel talent tree (see page 40 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Master of the Great Hunt: You gain a +1 Force bonus on attack rolls 
and deal +1 die of damage on lightsaber attacks made against a beast with 
a Dark Side Score of 1+. 


New LIGHTSABER 
COMBAT TALENT 
The following talent belongs to the Lightsaber Combat talent tree (see page 
41 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Shoto Focus: Whenever you wield both a one-handed lightsaber and 
a shoto (or guard shoto), you gain a +2 competence bonus on attack rolls 
made with the shoto. 


FORCE TALENTS 

When a character who has the Force Sensitivity feat would normally gain a 
talent (such as from advancing to an odd-numbered level in a heroic class), 
he or she can instead select a Force talent from among those in Chapter 6 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook, those presented below, and those presented 
in other game supplements, If a character who has the Force Sensitivity feat 
is a member of a Force-using tradition (see Chapter 4 of this book and page 
103 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), he or she can instead select a Force 
talent from that tradition's individual Force talent tree. 

The Force Disciple, Jedi Master, and Sith Lord prestige classes all state 
that they can select talents from any Force talent tree. A Force talent tree is 
any talent tree that isn’t limited to a particular class and requires the Force 
Sensitivity to access its talents. This means that the talent trees belonging to 
the various Force traditions (such as those presented in Chapter 4 of this book) 
are considered Force talent trees, as they are non-class-specific but require 
Force sensitivity to access. Other talent trees that fulfill these criteria include 
the Alter, Control, Dark Side, Light Side, and Sense talent trees, as well as the 
new Guardian Spirit talent tree presented in this chapter. Class talents, such as 
those belonging to the Jedi class, are not considered to be Force talents. 


New Alter Talents 
The following talents belong to the Alter talent tree (see page 100 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Illusion: As a standard action, you can spend a Force Point to create an 
illusion that seems perfectly real to anyone who views it. You designate the 
form and complexity of the illusion, as well as its size and location. 

Make a Use the Force check. When a creature views the illusion, compare 
the result of your Use the Force check to the creature's Will Defense. If your 
check result equals or exceeds its Will Defense, it believes the illusion to be 
real. Any physical interaction with the illusion (such as touching it, passing 


through it, or shooting it with a blaster) immediately reveals the true nature 
of the illusion to all who can see it, and the creature is no longer deceived 
The illusion lasts for a number of minutes equal to your heroic level. 

The illusion's size also affects your Use the Force check, applying a pen- 
alty for exceptionally large illusions. The penalties are -1 for Huge illusions, 
-2 for Gargantuan illusions, -5 for Colossal illusions, and -10 for Colossal 
(frigate) or larger illusions. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Illusion Bond: Whenever you create an illusion of a humanoid using 
the Illusion talent, you are able to see and hear as though you were 
standing in the space occupied by your illusion. 

Prerequisite: Illusion. 

Influence Savant: Once per encounter as a swift action, you can return 
‘one Force power with the [mind-affecting] descriptor to your Force suite 
without spending a Force Point. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you select it, you can 
use it one additional time per encounter. 

Link: You can lend your strength in the Force to another character, 
creating a bond between you through which the Force flows. As a standard 
action, you can designate one willing ally within 12 squares of you and in 
your line of sight, This ally must be trained in the Use the Force skill. As long 
as you remain within 12 squares of each other, you can aid each other on 
Use the Force checks as a reaction. However, the character using the aid 
another reaction takes a -5 penalty on all Use the Force checks until the 
end of his next turn. 

This link lasts until the end of the encounter, or until you or your ally ends 
the link (a free action). You can have only one active link at a time. 


HOLOCRON LESSON: 

THE GREAT HUNT 

An event that took place after the Great Sith War, the Great Hunt was 
a crusade begun by Jedi shadows but eventually undertaken by many 
in the Jedi Order to wipe out dark side beasts. With Sith alchemists 
creating all manner of vile creatures, including chrysalis beasts and Sith 
abominations, the galaxy had become filled with creatures that spread 
the taint of the dark side of the Force wherever they went. Chief among 
the creatures sought out by participants in the Great Hunt were the 
terentateks (see page 146), which were not only dangerous but also 
posed an incredible threat to the Jedi. Several Jedi of the age made it 
their primary goal to seek out terentateks and other dark side creatures, 
with the sole purpose of exterminating them. Unfortunately, the effort 
proved futile, and many of these creatures still exist for centuries and 
even millennia afterward. 


MASQUERADE To HIDE HER TRUE APPEARANCE. 


Masquerade: You can use the Illusion talent to create a disguise for 
yourself. You use the result of your Use the Force check made to create 
the illusion for the purposes of creating a deceptive appearance, as per the 
application of the Deception skill. All other rules and restrictions for using 
the Illusion talent still apply. 

Prerequisite: Illusion. 

Suppress Force: You can convince others that they have been cut off 
from the Force, even if that is not the case, preventing them from making 
Use the Force checks. Whenever a target with an Intelligence of 3 or higher 
within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight attempts to make a Use the 
Force check for any reason, you can spend one use of the mind trick Force 
power as a reaction. You make a Use the Force check, and if your Use the 
Force check equals or exceeds the target's Use the Force check result, that 
target's skill check is negated, and the action it was attempting fails. 

Prerequisite: Influence Savant, mind trick. 


v 
Q 
8 
@ 
a) 
8 
é 
5) 
a) 
Q 
W 


gavVed SHA dO YVAME 


) wSievHoS 


A KEL DOR SITH LORD CHANNELS THE ENEROY 
FROM BLASTER BOLTS, TURNING THEM INTO FORCE LIGHTNING. 


New Control Talents 
The following talents belong to the Control talent tree (see page 101 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook) 

Channel Energy: Whenever you use the negate energy Force power to 
successfully negate the damage from an energy weapon attack, you can 
spend a Force Point as a reaction to immediately activate any Force power 
currently in your Force suite. 

Prerequisite: Negate energy. 

Force Harmony: Once per encounter, you can activate one Force talent 
that requires a Force Point to use without spending a Force Point 


New Dark Side Talents 
The following talents belong to the Dark Side talent tree (see page 101 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Dark Side Savant: Once per encounter as a swift action, you can return 
one Force power with the [dark side] descriptor to your Force suite without 
spending a Force Point. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you select it, you can 
use it one additional time per encounter. 

Transfer Essence: When you die, you become a dark side spirit (see page 
118) until the end of the encounter. You continue to occupy a space in this 
form, but other creatures can occupy the same space or move through your 
space without impediment. As a standard action, you can attempt to possess 


an adjacent target. You must succeed on a Use the Force check against an 
adjacent target's Will Defense. If your check result equals or exceeds the 
target's Will Defense, you deal 8d6 points of stun damage to the target; if 
you reduce the target to 0 hit points or move it to the bottom of the condi- 
tion track with this attack, you possess the target as though it were a willing 
host (see the dark spirit template for details). 

Alternately, as a standard action, you can transfer your essence into a 
single adjacent object, such as a holocron or a lightsaber. If you 
do so, you lie dormant within the object until another creature 
attempts to use that object, at which time you can emerge and 
attempt to possess the creature, as described above, 

\f you do not possess a creature or object within 10 rounds 
of manifesting as a dark spirit, your spirit dissipates and ceases 
to exist. 

Prerequisite: Dark Side Score equal to your Wisdom score. 


GUARDIAN SPIRIT TALENT TREE 
You have a spirit watching over you, providing advice and con- 
tinuing your training in the Force. Although Force spirits cannot 
physically aid you, their guidance is critical to your success. 
Guardian Spirit: You have a guardian spirit watching over you 
from the realm of the Force, providing you with insight and advice. You guardian 
spirit might be an old mentor or an ancient member of your Force tradition who 
has chosen to guide you to your destiny. When you use the Search Your Feelings 
application of the Use the Force skill, you can instead choose to consult your 
guardian spirit. When you do so, you learn more than just whether the results 
of your actions will be favorable or unfavorable; you also learn the nature of 
any immediate consequences, including potential encounters, and whether or 
not certain actions will bring you closer to achieving your destiny. 
OPTIONAL RULE: DAILY 
FORCE POINTS 


Some Gamemasters may wish to have Force Points refresh more often 
than once per level, creating a game that allows for more incredible 
stunts. This optional rule allows you to use Force Points as a daily resource 
instead of a per-level resource, encouraging players to spent Force Points 
more freely. With this optional rule, characters no longer gain Force Points 
for leveling. Instead, each day each character has a number of Force 
Points to spend based on character level: 1st- to Sth-level characters 
have 1 Force Point; 6th- to 10th-level characters have 2 Force Points; 
UIth- to 15th-level characters have 3 Force Points; characters of 16th 
level or higher have 4 Force Points. Unused Force Points do not carry 
over to the next day. 

When using this optional rule, the Force Boon feat should give one 
additional Force Point per day instead of its normal effect. 


A SITH GUARDIAN spiniT ON KORRIBAN 


Additionally, you gain one bonus Force Point each day (available after 
you rest for at least 6 hours). This bonus Force Point can only be used to 
improve a Force power or activate a Force technique or a Force secret. If 
you do not spend your bonus Force Point in a given day, it is lost at the start 
of the next day, 

Crucial Advice: Once per encounter, when you fail a skill check, you 
can reroll the skill check with a +2 circumstance bonus. (In the case of skill 
checks with multiple possible results, such as when activating a Force power 
with multiple effects, failing a skill check is defined achieving less than the 
minimum DC for that check.) 

Distracting Apparition: When you have a manifested guardian spirit, 
the spirit also discourages your enemies and distracts them from their goals. 
Any enemy within 3 squares of your guardian spirit takes a -2 penalty to Will 
Defense and a -2 penalty on attack rolls against you. 

Prerequisite: Manifest Guardian Spirit. 

Manifest Guardian Spirit: You can spend a Force Point as a swift action 
to have your guardian spirit manifest for the duration of the encounter. Your 
guardian spirit appears in any square within 6 squares of you. A guardian 
spirit occupies a space, but creatures can move through the guardian spirit 
without obstruction. As long as the guardian spirit remains within 12 squares 
of you, you gain a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls, a +2 morale bonus on Use 
the Force checks, and a +2 morale bonus to Will Defense. You can move the 
guardian spirit up to 6 squares as a swift action once per turn. 

Vital Encouragement: Once per encounter, your guardian spirit offers 
you vital encouragement, urging you to press on despite adversity. As a free 
action, you gain bonus hit points equal to 10 + one-half your heroic level. 
Damage is subtracted from bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points 
remaining at the end of the encounter are lost. 


New Sense Talents 
The following talents belong to the Sense talent tree (see page 101 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook) 

Instinctive Navigation: You can substitute your Use the Force skill for 
any Use Computer check made to astrogate or operate sensors while you 
are the pilot of a vehicle. 

Prerequisite: Force Pilot. 

Motion of the Future: As a swift action, you can peer into the future 
in search of signs of danger, removing one use of the farseeing Force power 
from your active suite (as though you had just activated the power). Any 
time before the end of your next turn when you are the target of an attack 
or Force power, you can force your attacker to reroll the attack roll (or Use 
the Force check) against you, keeping the second result. This counts as using 
the farseeing Force power against the attacker, but this talent replaces the 
normal rules and effect of that power. 

Prerequisite: Force Perception. 


PRESTIGE CLASS 
TALENTS 


This section introduces several new talents for the prestige classes presented 
in the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


FORCE ADEPT TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the Force adept prestige class (see 
page 212 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


New Dark Side Devotee Talents 
The following talents belong to the Dark Side Devotee talent tree (see page 
213 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Dark Side Talisman: You can spend a Force Point to imbue a weapon or 
some other portable object with the dark side of the Force, creating a talisman 
that grants you protection from the light side. Creating the dark side talisman 
takes a full-round action. While you wear or carry the talisman, you gain a 
+2 Force bonus to one of your defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, or Will) against 
Force powers with the [light side] descriptor. You can have only one dark 
side talisman active at a given time (though you can have both a dark side 
talisman and a Force talisman active at the same time), and if your dark side 
talisman is destroyed, you cannot create another one for 24 hours. 

Greater Dark Side Talisman: As Dark Side Talisman (above), except that 
the talisman’s Force bonus extends to all three of your defenses (Reflex, 
Fortitude, and Will). 

Prerequisite: Dark Side Talisman. 


1 esidvnS 


eaVued HL dO VSME 


0 
a 
> 
a 
4 
5 
bi 


BEASTWARDEN TALENT TREE 
You have learned to use the Force to touch the minds of beasts, soothing 
them and convincing them to do your bidding. 

Charm Beast: You can make a Use the Force check in place of a Persua- 
sion check when attempting to change the attitude of an undomesticated 
creature with an Intelligence of 2 or less. Additionally, you do not take the 
normal -5 penalty on the check if the creature can’t speak or understand 
your language. (This talent is identical to the Dathomiri Witch talent of the 
same name, and both are considered to be the same talent for the purposes 
of satisfying prerequisites). 

Bonded Mount: Whenever you encounter a domesticated beast with 
a friendly or helpful attitude toward you, you can spend a Force Point as 
a full-round action to bond the beast to you as a mount. A bonded mount 
shares an empathic link with you, allowing you to sense its emotions as a 
free action. When you ride a bonded mount, your mount uses your Reflex 
Defense and Will Defense instead of its own, Additionally, if your mount has 
any special senses (such as scent, darkvision, or low-light vision) that you 
do not possess, you gain the benefits of its special senses as long as you 
are riding that mount. 

Prerequisite: Charm Beast. 

Entreat Beast: You can use the Force to convince a small beast to carry 
objects, deliver messages, or perform other minor tasks for you. If you are 
near a beast that is at least indifferent to you (whether this be a pet you bring 
with you or a beast encountered in the wild), you can make a Use the Force 
check against the beast's Will Defense as a swift action. If your skill check 
equals or exceeds the beast's Will Defense, the beast performs one task for 
you from the following list: deliver one object from your person to another 
target within 30 squares of you; retrieve one unattended object within 30 
squares of it and in its line of sight and bring it to you; or press a button, 
pull a lever, or otherwise perform some minor activation of an unattended 
item within 30 squares, 

Prerequisite: Charm Beast. 

Soothing Presence: Whenever you encounter a beast with an unfriendly 
attitude toward you, you automatically shift its attitude to indifferent (no 
skill check required). 

Prerequisite: Charm Beast. 

Wild Sense: As a swift action once per turn, you can make a Use the Force 
check to touch the mind of a beast with an indifferent or better attitude 
toward you, provided it is within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight. 
When you do so, the beast makes an immediate active Perception check, 
and you are considered to perceive everything that the beast does, including 
noticing targets, as though you had made the check. 

Additionally, until the end of your turn, you are considered to have line 
of sight to anything the beast has line of sight to. 

Prerequisite: Charm Beast. 


MYSTIC TALENT TREE 
You have studied the Force in a radically different way from other Force- 
users, relying on rituals and mystic lore to harness its power. 

Channel Vitality: You can fuel your mastery of the Force with your own 
vitality. As a swift action, you can move -1 step down the condition track 
to gain a temporary Force Point. This temporary Force Point lasts until the 
end of your turn, at which point it is lost if it has not been used. 

Closed Mind: Whenever a creature uses a mind-affecting effect on you 
that targets your Will Defense, it must roll the attack roll or skill check twice, 
taking the lower result. 

Esoteric Technique: When you spend a Force Point to activate a Force 
technique or Force secret, you gain bonus hit points equal to 10 + your class 
level until the end of the encounter. 

Mystic Mastery: Whenever you gain a level, you also gain a number of 
additional Force Points equal to the number of Force talents you possess 
(maximum +6). 

Regimen Aptitude: You gain a +5 Force bonus on skill checks made to 
perform a Force regimen (see page 10). 

Prerequisite: Force Regimen Mastery (see page 23). 


TELEPATH TALENT TREE 
You have mastered the art of mental manipulation, using the Force to touch, 
read, and affect the minds of others with ease. 

Mind Probe: When you touch a living creature with an Intelligence of 3 
or higher, you can use the Force to probe its mind for secrets. You must be 
adjacent to the target, and using the mind probe is a full-round action. If 
the target is unwilling, you must succeed on a Use the Force check, equal 
ing or exceeding the target's Will Defense. This ability otherwise functions 
exactly as the Gather Information skill's Learn News and Rumors, Learn 
Secret Information, and Locate Individual applications. Your Use the Force 
check must still exceed the base Gather Information skill DCs in order to 
retrieve the information you seek, but you need not pay anything in bribes, 
and you retrieve the information as a part of the full-round action. Failing 
the skill check by 5 or more does not cause someone to notice that you are 
seeking the information. 

Perfect Telepathy: You can communicate in full sentences and complete 
thoughts when you use the Telepathy aspect of the Use the Force skill, instead 
of just in basic phrases. However, the target of your telepathy can still only 
communicate in basic emotions or single thoughts. 

Psychic Citadel: You gain a Force bonus to your Will Defense equal to 
your class level. 

Psychic Defenses: Whenever another creature targets you with a Force 
power with the [mind-affecting] descriptor, it automatically takes Force 
damage equal to 146 x your Wisdom modifier (minimum x1). 

Prerequisite: Psychic Citadel. 


Telepathic Intruder: Whenever you use a Force power with the [mind- 
affecting] descriptor successfully against a target, until the end of your 
next turn you gain a +2 Force bonus on skill checks made to activate mind- 
affecting Force powers and talents against that same target. 


JEDI KNIGHT TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the Jedi Knight prestige class (see page 
217 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


New Duelist Talents 
The following talents belong to the Duelist talent tree (see page 218 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Lightsaber Form Savant: Once per encounter as a swift action, you can 
return any one spent Force power with the [lightsaber form] descriptor to 
your Force suite without spending a Force Point. You can select this talent 
multiple times, Each time you select it, you can use it one additional time 
per encounter. 

Shoto Master: When you wield both a one-handed lightsaber and a 
shoto (or guard shoto), you can consider the one-handed lightsaber to be 
a light weapon. Additionally, if you have the Lightsaber Defense talent, you 
can activate the talent as a free action on your turn (instead of a swift 
action) whenever you wield both a one-handed lightsaber and a shoto (or 
guard shoto) 


A MeO! ARTISAN TEACHES THE Basice 
OF LIGHTSABER CONSTRUCTION. 


JEDI ARTISAN TALENT TREE 
You have dedicated yourself to the art of creation, learning how to craft 
weapons and other items used by the Jedi with exquisite detail. 

Call Weapon: You can use the Move Light Object application of the Use 
the Force skill to call a lightsaber you built into your hand and ignite it as a 
free action. The weapon must be in your line of sight to call it to your hand, 

Lightsaber Specialist: Whenever you are armed with a lightsaber that 
you built, you gain a +2 morale bonus on Use the Force checks made to use 
the Block and Deflect talents. 

Prerequisite: Masterwork Lightsaber. 

Masterwork Lightsaber: Whenever you build a lightsaber, you do so with 
such expertise that it makes the weapon even more refined and elegant. 
When you build a lightsaber, you can choose to add one extra accessory to the 
lightsaber at the time of creation, and when you hit a target with a lightsaber 
that you built, you can always choose to reroll one damage die from your 
damage roll, but you must keep the second result, even if it is worse. 

|n addition, you can mentor another character while he constructs his 
own lightsaber. When you do so, you reduce the Use the Force check DC for 
constructing the lightsaber by -5. 

Perfect Attunement: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to an 
lightsaber attack roll made with a lightsaber that you built, you can add that 
same amount to the damage if the attack hits. 

Prerequisite: Masterwork Lightsaber. 

Quick Modification: You can spend 1 minute modifying a lightsaber you 
have built, removing one accessory and putting a different one in its place. 
Gamemasters may rule that some modifications cannot be added or removed 
in this way due to rarity of materials or the difficulty of the modification 
(such as adding or removing the electrum detail) 

Prerequisite: Masterwork Lightsaber, 


JEDI INSTRUCTOR TALENT TREE 
The role of teacher is vital to the success and strength of the Jedi Order. 
Though all Jedi Masters take the time to instruct their apprentices, a certain 
few excel at the art of instruction. 

Apprentice Boon: Whenever an ally within 12 squares with a lower Use 
the Force skill bonus than you makes a Use the Force check, you can spend 
a Force Point as a reaction to add to that Use the Force check. Use your level 
to determine how many dice to roll for the Force Point. 

Share Force Secret: When you take this talent, choose one Force secret 
that you know. Once per turn as a swift action, you can grant the use of 
this Force secret to one ally within 12 squares of you who is trained in the 
Use the Force skill. The target gains the benefit of this secret until the end 
of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Must know at least 1 Force secret. 


\o 
I 
> 
1 
4 
o 
2 


g98Ocd SHA AO aor) 


wsiawnS 


Share Force Technique: When 
you take this talent, choose one Force 
technique that you know. Once per turn 
asa swift action, you can grant the use 
of this Force technique to one ally within 
12 squares of you who is trained in the 
Use the Force skill. The target gains the 
benefit of this technique until the 
end of your next turn. You cannot 
choose the Force Point Recovery 
technique for this talent. 

Prerequisite: Must know at 
least 1 Force Technique. 

Share Talent: Choose a talent 
that you already possess. The 
talent must be from the Lightsa- 
ber Combat talent tree, the Duel- 
ist talent tree, or the Lightsaber 
Forms talent tree. Once per day 
as a standard action, you can 
spend a Force Point to impart 
the benefits of the chosen 
talent to one or more allies, 
effectively granting them the 
talent (even if they don't meet 
the prerequisites), An ally must be 
within 12 squares of you and must be 
able to see and hear you to gain the 
talent; once gained, its benefits last 
until the end of the encounter. 

You can share the talent with a 
number of allies equal to one-half 
your class level, rounded down. Only 
allies who are trained in the Use the 
Force skill can gain the benefits of 
the shared talent. 


A Twi'Ler Jeo! INsTRUCTOR. 


You can take this talent multiple times. Each time you do so, you must 
select a different talent to share with this ability. You can share each talent 
with your allies only once per day. 

Prerequisite: At least one talent from the Lightsaber Combat, Duelist, or 
Lightsaber Forms talent tree. 

Transfer Power: As a standard action, you can spend any one use of a 
Force power currently in your Force suite, adding a use of that power to the 
Force suite of any ally trained in the Use the Force skill. The ally must be 
within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight. When your ally uses that 
power, it disappears from his or her Force suite. If the ally does not use the 
Force power before the end of the encounter, it is permanently removed 
from his or her Force suite. 

Prerequisite: Force Training feat. 


JEDI INVESTIGATOR TALENT TREE 

You are one of the Jedi Order's most trusted investigators, tasked with 
ferreting out the truth through a combination of detective work and Force 
divination. 

Echoes in the Force: You can use the farseeing power on a location 
instead of on an individual creature, peering into the location's past to view 
events that occurred there. Unlike the normal use of the farseeing power, you 
are actually looking into the location's past (at a time you designate), and 
you must be standing in the location being viewed. The target DC for your 
Use the Force check is 20, +1 for each day into the past that you attempt to 
scry. When you look into the past, you need only specify a time in a number 
of days, as you can sense tremors in the Force that focus your visions on 
meaningful events that day. 

Jedi Quarry: As a swift action, you designate a single target creature as 
the focus of your attentions. You gain a +2 bonus to your speed any time 
you spend a move action to move, provided that you end your movement 
adjacent to the target. You retain this bonus (and may not use this talent 
again) until your target surrenders, is reduced to 0 hit points, or moves to 
the bottom of the condition track, or until the encounter ends. 

Prepared for Danger: Whenever you have at least one unspent farseeing 
power in your Force suite, you can spend that farseeing power to regain any 
one other Force power as a swift action, 

Sense Deception: Whenever someone makes a Deception or Persuasion 
skill check against your Will Defense, you can make a Use the Force check, 
replacing your Will Defense with the result of your Use the Force check if 
it is higher. 

Unclouded Judgment: Whenever you are the target of a mind-affecting 
Force power or talent, you can spend a Force Point as a reaction to negate 
the effects of that Force power or talent (no skill check required). 

Prerequisite: Sense Deception. 


JED] WEAPON MASTER TALENT TREE 
You have learned to use the Force to 
master a variety of weapons, and have 
expanded your martial prowess to cover 
more than just lightsabers. 

Combat Trance: Whenever 
you use the battle strike power, 
you gain the power's bonus on 
attack rolls on your first melee 
attack made each round until 
the end of the encounter. If 
you do not attack in a round, 
this effect ends. 

Improvised Weapon 
Master: You take no penalty 
on attack rolls with improvised 
weapons. 

Twin Weapon Style: As 
a standard action, 
whenever you are 
wielding two weapons 
(or a double weapon), 
you can make one attack 
with each weapon (or 
each end of a double- 
weapon). Each attack must be 
against a different target 

Twin Weapon Mastery: 
Whenever you use the Twin 
Weapon Style talent, you 
can move 2 squares between 
each attack. This movement 
does not provoke attacks of 
opportunity. 

Shoto Pin: Whenever you 
are wielding a shoto and success- 
fully use the Block talent to negate a 
melee attack, the attacker can make no 
further melee attacks until the start 
of its next turn or until you are no 
longer adjacent to it. 

Prerequisite: Block. 


A RODIAN Jeo! WEAPONMASTER. 


SITH APPRENTICE TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the Sith apprentice prestige class (see 
page 222 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


SITH ALCHEMY TALENT TREE 
You have learned the alchemical arts of the ancient Sith Lords and can create 
objects and creatures that are filled with the power of the dark side. 

Cause Mutation: You can use your mastery of Sith alchemy to create 
mutated abominations. You must have access to a willing (or unconscious) 
creature to which you will apply the Sith Abomination template (see the side- 
bar) or the Chrysalis Beast template (see page 133). You also need a medical 
lab outfitted for the process, which requires a number of days equal to the 
creature's modified CL. You must spend a Force Point at the completion of 
the process to complete the transformation. A creature you have mutated 
is considered to be a domesticated creature, but for you only (unless it was 
already a domesticated creature before its mutation). 

Prerequisite: Sith Alchemy. 

Rapid Alchemy: Asa standard action, you can perform minor alchemical 
alterations to a melee weapon you wield. For the remainder of the encounter, 
you gain a +2 equipment bonus on attack rolls with that weapon, Addition- 
ally, once before the end of the encounter, you can sacrifice this bonus as a 
free action to gain a +5 equipment bonus on a single damage roll you make 
with that weapon. 

Sith Alchemy: Your knowledge of Sith alchemy allows you to imbue 
certain objects with the power of the dark side. You can perform any of the 
following alchemical transformations, though each time you do so, increase 
your Dark Side Score by 1 

Create Sith Amulet: You can create a Sith amulet. The creation of a Sith 
amulet requires 25,000 credits’ worth of gems and other raw materials, and 
the creation process takes 1 week (this work can be spread out over several 
sessions and need not be consecutive). At the end of the process, you must 
spend a Force Point to complete the Sith amulet, after which point it func- 
tions exactly as a Sith amulet (see page 68). 

Create Sith Armor: You can transform a suit of normal battle armor into 
the dark armor worn by Sith Lords. You must have a suit of battle armor to 
transform into the dark armor (light battle armor becomes light dark armor, 
medium battle armor becomes medium dark armor, and heavy battle armor 
becomes heavy dark armor). The transformation process takes 1 day for light 
dark armor, 2 days for medium dark armor, and 3 days for heavy dark armor. 
You must spend a Force Point at the end of the creation process to complete 
the armor's transformation. 

Create Sith Talisman: You can spend 1 Force Point to imbue a portable 
object with the dark side, creating a Sith talisman that provides offensive 
strength to a Force power. Creating the talisman takes a full-round action. 
While you wear or carry the talisman on your person, you add 1d6 to your 


BHaHed SHA dO VSME) 


9 
ir 
> 
a 
4 
fy 
b 


damage with Force powers. You increase your Dark Side Score by 1 when 
you first wear or carry a Sith talisman. You can have only one Sith talisman 
active at any given time, and if it is destroyed, you cannot create another 
one for 24 hours. 

Create Sith Weapon: You can alchemically treat a simple melee weapon or 
an advanced melee weapon, turning it into a Sith weapon. You must spend 
a Force Point and spend 1 hour imbuing the weapon with the properties of 


DARK ARMOR TRAIT BENEFIT 

Cortosis Weave Automatically deactivates any lightsaber 
that strikes the wearer 

Dark Side Energy Grants the wearer a +2 equipment bonus on 
Use the Force checks made to activate 
powers with the [darkside] descriptor 

Dark Side Stealth Grants the wearer a +2 equipment bonus 
‘on Use the Force checks made to avoid 
detection 

Imposing Form Grants the wearer a +2 equipment bonus 
on Persuasion checks made to intimidate 

SITH ABOMINATION TRAIT — BENEFIT 

Damage Reduction A Sith abomination gains DR 5 or increases 
its existing DR by +5 

Iron Will ASith abomination gains a +2 equipment 
bonus to its Will Defense 


A Sith abomination's natural weapons are 
laced with Sith poison (see page 69) 


Vile Natural Weapons 


‘SITH WEAPON TRAIT 
Jagged Weapon 


BENEFIT 

Any time the Sith weapon damages a living 
creature, that creature takes 1d4 points of 
damage at the start of its next turn 

The Sith weapon grants a +2 equipment 
bonus on Use the Force checks to Block and 
Deflect 

The Sith weapon is always considered to be 


Master's Weapon 


Vile Weapon 
laced with Sith poison (see page 69) 


a Sith alchemical weapon. A lightsaber does not ignore the Sith weapon's 
DR, and characters who are proficient in the weapon's use can treat it as a 
lightsaber for the purposes of the Block, Deflect, and Redirect Shot talents 
(and any talents that have those Jedi talents as a prerequisite). 

Additionally, as a swift action, the wielder of a Sith weapon can spend a 
Force Point to gain a bonus equal to his Dark Side Score to the damage of 
his next attack made with the weapon before the end of the encounter. This 
increases the wielder’s Dark Side Score by 1. 

Sith Alchemy Specialist: You can modify an object with Sith alchemy 
so that it gains a specific trait. Specific traits are listed on Table 1-1. You 
can only perform one modification at a time. Unless otherwise noted, you 
cannot grant more than one benefit to a single object, and you cannot apply 
the same benefit more than once. You must spend a Force Point and devote 1 
hour of uninterrupted work to apply a trait to the relevant object, and when 
you do so, you increase your Dark Side Score by 1. 

Prerequisite: Sith Alchemy. 


WHISPERS OF THE SITH 
SPIRIT: SITH ABOMINATION 
(TEMPLATE) 


The Sith alchemists of the past were not just content to create power- 
ful weapons and suits of armor—they also wanted living weapons. The 
ancient Sith who first discovered alchemical secrets learned to manipu- 
late the genetic structure of living creatures, even sentient species. The 
‘Sith abomination is the result, the Massassi abomination (see page 123) 
but one example. 

To create a Sith abomination, make the following changes to a crea- 
ture's statistics: 

Challenge Level: Increase the base creature's CL by +1. 

Dark Side Score: A Sith abomination always has a Dark Side Score 
‘equal to its Wisdom score. 

Ability Scores: Increase the base creature's Constitution score by 
+4, Decrease the base creature's Intelligence and Wisdom scores by -2 
each. 

Abominable Presence: Any creature that starts its turn within 6 
squares of a Sith abomination is subject to an attack (1420 + the base 
creature's Strenath or Constitution bonus, whichever is higher) against 
its Will Defense. If the attack succeeds, the ‘creatures moves ~1 step 
down the condition track. This is a fear effect. Other Sith abominations 
are immune to this effect. 

Force Sensitivity: All Sith abominations gain the Force Sensitivity 
feat as a bonus feat. 


SITH ABOMINATIONS CREATED FROM COMMON SPECIES. 


FEATS 

Feats provide game mechanics for core character concepts. They allow 
characters from any class to access significant special abilities, as long as 
certain prerequisites are met. 


FOLLOW THROUGH 
You have learned to take down an enemy with an attack and then use your 
momentum to dash across the battlefield. 

Benefit: If you deal enough damage to your opponent with a melee attack 
to reduce it to 0 hit points, you can immediately move up to your speed. You 
can use this ability once per turn. 

Special: If you have the Cleave feat, you can move up to your speed before 
making the extra melee attack granted by the Cleave feat. 


FORCE REGIMEN MASTERY 
You learn one or more Force regimens, which you can use to enhance your 
regular training. 

Prerequisites: Force Sensitivity, trained in the Use the Force skill. 

Benefit: You learn a number of Force regimens (see page 10) equal to 1 
+ your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1). 

Special: You can take this feat more than once. Each time you take 
this feat, you learn a number of additional Force regimens equal to 1 + 
your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1). If your Wisdom modifier permanently 
increases, you immediately gain a number of Force regimens equal to the 
number of Force Regimen Mastery feats you have taken. 


LONG HaArT TRIKE 
You have learned to take advantage of oversized lightsabers, turning them 
into double weapons. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon used. 

Benefit: When you use a lightsaber pike or a long-handle lightsaber, you 
can attack with both ends of the weapon, treating it as a double weapon. See 
the description of the individual weapon for more information on attacking 
with both ends of the weapon. 


RELENTLESS ATTACK 
You ensure the demise of your foe by turning misses into opportunities. 

Prerequisites: Proficient with weapon used, Double Attack with weapon 
used 

Benefit: Choose one weapon group or exotic weapon for which you have 
the Double Attack feat. Whenever you miss a target with that weapon, you 
gain a +2 competence bonus on your next attack roll made before the end 
of your next turn against the missed target. 

Special: You can select this feat multiple times. Each time you select this 
feat, it applies to a different weapon group or exotic weapon. 


e8hOd SHL Jo YAMOE) 


1 esiavno 


UNSWERVING RESOLVE 
You stand your ground in the face of terrifying or domineering opposition. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +2. 

Benefit: Whenever you are targeted by a fear effect or mind-affecting 
effect that fails to affect you (such as when the skill check required to use the 
effect fails to beat your Will Defense), you gain a temporary Force Point. If 
this Force Point is not used before the end of your next turn, it goes away. 

If you negate the contingent effect in any way (such as by using rebuke 
to negate a mind-affecting Force power), you do not gain the benefit of 
this feat. 


FORCE POWERS 
The following Force powers are available to any character who has the Force 
Sensitivity feat (see page 85 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). These Force 
powers represent the variety of powers available to Jedi and other Force 
traditions, light and dark. 5 

Telekinetic Power: Powers with the [telekinetic] descriptor are included 
among the powers affected by talents such as Telekinetic Power and Tele- 
kinetic Savant. 


BLIND [TELEKINETICI 

You hurl dirt, dust, and debris at your foe, affecting its perception. Time: 
Swift action, Target: One creature within 12 squares of you and in your 
line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force Check. Make one roll and compare the result to 
the target's Reflex Defense. Of the result equals or exceeds the target's Reflex 
Defense, the target is considered flat-footed, and all other creatures have 
concealment from your target until the start of your next turn. Creatures 
that do not rely on eyesight to perceive (such as Miraluka) are immune to 
this effect. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to use this power as a free action, 
instead of as a swift action. 


CONVECTION 
You alter your body chemistry, causing your skin to burn with incredible heat. 
Time: Swift action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: Until the start of your next turn, all of your unarmed melee attacks 
deal +1d6 points of fire damage. Any target that takes fire damage also 
catches on fire (see page 255 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

DC 20: As DC 15, except your melee attacks deal +2d6 points of fire 
damage. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except your melee attacks deal +3d6 points of fire 
damage. 


DC 30: As DC 15, except your melee attacks deal +4d6 points of fire 
damage. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to deal the bonus fire damage to 
any creature that strikes you with an unarmed attack or makes a grab or 
grapple attack against you, for as long as the power is in effect. 

You can maintain convection from round to round, extending the normal 
duration, Maintaining the convection power is a swift action, and you must 
make a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage while 
convection, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 
15 + damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. 


CRUCITORN 
You can ignore the debilitating effects of physical pain and focus despite 
great physical trauma. Time: Reaction (to an attack or Force power). 
Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15:You gain a +5 Force bonus to your damage threshold against any 
damage you take from the attack or Force power. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the Force bonus increases to +10. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the Force bonus increases to +15. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except the Force bonus increases to +20. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the bonus to your 
damage threshold by an additional +5. 


CRYOKINESIS 

You can use the Force to draw heat away from an object, causing its tem- 
perature to drop rapidly. Time: Standard action. Target: One unattended 
object within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC20:The object becomes cold to the touch and more fragile. Reduce the 
object's DR by 5 until the end of your next turn. Additionally, if the object 
is a mechanical or electronic device, it automatically moves -1 step down 
the condition track. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except the object's DR is reduced by 10. 

DC30: As DC 20, except the object's DR is reduced by 15. 

DC35:As DC 20, except the object's DR is reduced by 20. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the penalty to the 
object's DR by 5. An object moved to the bottom of the condition track by this 
power ceases to function until it is repaired, but is otherwise unharmed, 

You can maintain cryokinesis from round to round, extending the normal 
duration of the DR reduction (though the object does not move farther down 
the condition track). Maintaining the cryokinesis power is a swift action and 
you do not make a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage 
while maintaining cryokinesis, you must succeed on a Use the Force check 
(DC = 15 + damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. 


DRAIN ENERGY 

You can draw the energy out of a powered object, such as a blaster’s power 
pack or a power generator. Time: Standard action. Target: One powered 
weapon or object within 6 squares of you and in your line of sight. 


Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC20:You drain the energy from the energy cell or cells powering a Small 
or smaller weapon or powered object. You completely drain the object of its 
energy, and it cannot be used until its energy cells are replaced. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except you drain a Medium or smaller weapon or 
object. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except you drain a Large or smaller weapon or object. 

DC 35: As DC 20, except you drain a Huge or smaller weapon or object. 
If the object is being powered by a power generator, you drain all of the 
power from that instead. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the size of the object 
that can be drained by one size category (up to Gargantuan). 


FOLD SPACE 

You can use the Force to bend space, transporting an object almost instan- 
taneously from one place to another. Time: Full-round action. Target: One 
held or unattended object within 6 squares and line of sight or one vehicle 
you occupy. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
maximum size of the object you can transport and the distance you can 
transport it. 

DC 20: You can move a Medium or smaller object up to 6 squares. 

DC 25: You can move a Large or smaller object up to 12 squares. 

DC30: You can move a Huge or smaller object up to 18 squares. 

DC 35: You can move a Gargantuan or smaller object up to 24 squares. 

DC 40: You can move a Colossal or smaller object up to 30 squares. 

Special: If the object you are transporting contains other objects or 
creatures (such as a starship), everything contained within the object is 
transported as well. 

You can spend a Force Point to increase the maximum size of the object 
you can move by two categories, up to Colossal (cruiser) in size, or double 
the distance the object is transported. 


FORCE LIGHT [LIGHT SIDE] 
You can draw the Force into yourself, turning you into a beacon of light that 
purges the taint of the dark side. Time: Standard. Targets: See text. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 20: Until the end of your next turn, any creature with a Dark Side 
Score of 1+ that begins its turn within 6 squares of you automatically takes 
1d6 points of Force damage and takes a -1 penalty on attack rolls. This is 
an area effect. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except the damage increases to 2d6 points. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except the damage increases to 3d6 points. 

DC35: As DC 20, except the damage increases to 4d6 points. 


1 esiavaS 


Sah@d SHA dO VSIMOE) 


Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the damage dealt by 
+146 points. 

You can maintain Force light from round to round, extending the normal 
duration. Maintaining the Force light power is a standard action, and you 
must make a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage while 
maintaining Force light, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 
15 + damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. 


FORCE STORM [DARK SIDE] 
You create a storm that draws upon the dark side of the Force, focusing 
its malicious intent on a certain area. Time: Standard action. Target: One 
designated area within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 20: You create a Force storm that covers a 3x3 square area. At least 
one square within that area must be within the given range of this power. All 
squares within the Force storm are filled with driving’acid rain that provides 
concealment and deals 2d6 points of acid damage to any creature that enters 
the Force storm or begins its turn within the area. The storm also imposes 
a -5 penalty on Perception checks to listen, as the storm howls loudly. The 
Force storm lasts until the end of your next turn. This is an area effect. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except the Force storm covers a 4x4 square area. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except the Force storm covers a 5x5 square area. 

DC 35: As DC 20, except the Force storm covers a 6x6 square area. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the damage dealt by 
the acid rain by +2d6 points. 

You can maintain Force storm from round to round, extending the normal 
duration. Maintaining the Force storm power is a standard action, and you 
must make a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage while 
maintaining Force storm, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 
15 + damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. 


FORCE TRACK 
You peer into the Force for guidance, picking up the trail of your quarry. 
Time: Swift action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15:You determine the path taken by a specific creature you designate, 
provided you are within line of sight of the creature's trail. You can track the 
creature (as per the Track application of the Survival skill) without needing to 
make Survival checks for up to 1 hour, provided the creature you are tracking 
passed through the area within the last minute. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the creature you are tracking need only have 
passed through in the last 10 minutes. 


AN IKTOTCH! SITH LORD Uses FORCE TRACK IN PURSUIT OF A JED! 


DC 25: As DC 15, except the creature you are tracking need only have 
passed through in the last hour. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except the creature you are tracking need only have 
passed through in the last day. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to track up to two targets 
simultaneously. 


HATRED [DARK SIDE] 
You give yourself over to the dark side, letting your hate radiate out from your 
body in palpable waves. Time: Standard action. Targets: See text. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: Until the end of your next turn, any creature that starts its turn 
within 6 squares of you takes 1d6 points of Force damage and takes a -1 
penalty to all defenses. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the damage increases to 2d6 points, 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the damage increases to 3d6 points. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except the damage increases to 4d6 points. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the damage dealt by 
+106. 


You can maintain hatred from round to round, extending the normal 
duration. Maintaining the hatred power is a swift action, and you must make 
a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage while maintain- 
ing hatred, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 15 + damage 
taken) to continue maintaining the power. 


INERTIA 
You can use the Force to shift your body's inertia, allowing you to perform 
impossible stunts. Time: Move action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: You move up to half your speed along a wall as though it were 
the ground, ignoring the normal effects of gravity for the duration of this 
movement. If you are not on the ground when you end this movement, you 
fall to the ground. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except you can move at your normal speed along the 
wall. : 

DC 25: As DC 15, except you can move at your speed + 2 squares along 
the wall. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except you can move at your speed + 4 squares along 
the wall. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the speed you move 
along the wall by +2 squares. 


INSPIRE [LIGHT sSiDe] 

You fill your allies with hope and courage, allowing them to face even the 
most daunting of odds. Time: Swift action. Targets: All allies within 6 squares 
of you and in your line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 20: The targets gain a +2 Force bonus to Will Defense against mind- 
affecting and fear effects until the end of your next turn. 

DC 25; As DC 20, except bonus increases to +5. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except the bonus increases to +10. 

DC.35: As DC 20, except the targets are immune to mind-affecting and 
fear effects. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to grant each target 246 bonus 
hit points when the power is first activated. Damage is subtracted from the 
bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining at the end of the 
encounter go away. 

You can maintain inspire from round to round, extending the normal 
duration. Maintaining the inspire power is a swift action, and you must make 
a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage while maintain- 
ing inspire, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 15 + damage 
taken) to continue maintaining the power. 


INTERCEPT [TELEKINETICI 

You use the Force to telekinetically hurl a small object in the path of an 
incoming projectile, preventing it from striking you. Time: Reaction. Target: 
One incoming ranged attack targeting you. 

Make a Use the Force Check. If your Use the Force check equals or 
exceeds the attack roll result of the incoming ranged attack (including all 
modifiers), you negate the attack against you. 

‘Special: You can use this power to negate an object being used as a pro- 
jectile weapon with the Move Light Object application of the Use the Force 
skill, or the move object Force power. In both cases, the DC for your Use the 
Force check is equal to the Use the Force check made by the enemy target- 
ing you with the projectile. If you are successful, the object being used as a 
projectile weapon does not hit you and deals no damage to you. Additionally, 
if the object was moved with the move object power, the activator of that 
power can no longer maintain the move object power on that object. 

You can spend a Force Point to use this power to intercept some of the 
barrage of shots from a ranged weapon set on autofire. If you succeed on 
the Use the Force check, you take half damage if the autofire attack hits 
and no damage if the attack misses. 


MEMORY WALK [DARK SIDE, 
MIND-AFFECTING] 

You torment an enemy by causing him to relive his most horrible memories. 
Time: Standard action. Target: One creature with an Intelligence of 3 or 
higher within 6 squares of you and in your line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 20:Compare the result to the target's Will Defense. If the skill check 
equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, the target takes 2d6 points of 
Force damage and loses its swift action on its next turn. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except the target loses its move action on its next turn. 

OC 30: As DC 20, except the target loses its standard action on its 
next turn, 

DC35:As DC 20, except the target loses its standard action and its swift 


Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the damage by +2d6. 

You can maintain memory walk from round to round, extending the normal 
duration. Maintaining the memory walk power is a standard action, and you 
must make a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage while 
maintaining memory walk, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC 
= 15 + damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. 


eed SHA dO VaMmed 


SgHVed SHA JO VAME 


MIND SHARD [MIND-AFFECTINGI 
You use the Force to splinter the mind of an opponent, wracking it with pain 
Time: Standard action. Target: One creature within 12 squares of you and 
in your line of sight 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: Compare the result to the target’s Will Defense. If the skill check 
equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, the target takes 28 points of 
Force damage and moves -1 step down the condition track. Furthermore, the 
target cannot improve its condition until the end of your next turn (although 
other creatures may use abilities to improve its condition). 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the damage increases to 348. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the damage increases to 4d8. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except the damage increases to 5d8. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the damage by +2d8. 


PLANT SURGE 
You reach out with the Force to entreat the aid of plants, causing them to 
ash out at your enemy. Time: Standard action. Target: One creature within 
12 squares of you and in your line of sight 

Make a Use the Force Check. Compare the result of the Use the Force 
check to the Fortitude Defense of the target. If the skill check equals or 
exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the target's speed is O until the 
end of your next turn. A creature can escape (restoring its normal speed) 
by making a grapple check as a standard action, opposed by your Use the 
Force check. 

Special: There must be one or more plants adjacent to the target, or else 
this power fails automatically. 


THE FORCE 
THROUGH THE AGES 


Not every Force power or talent is well known in all eras. Knowledge is 
gained and lost over time, and techniques that are common during the 
Great Sith War are all but forgotten by the time of the Clone Wars. Though 
all Force powers and talents in the core rulebook are assumed to be 
applicable in all eras, some of the powers found in the various campaign 
guides and within this book may be restricted by era. Gamemasters should 
feel free to rule that some Force-related abilities just cannot be found in 
some eras. In particular, Force powers are likely to be extremely restricted 
during the Dark Times and the Rebellion era, as they represent a time 
when Emperor Palpatine tightly controls knowledge of the Force and the 
Jedi have become all but extinct. In eras where the Jedi are commonplace, 
a wider variety of techniques may be available for use, but even then 
much knowledge has been lost, or is yet to be discovered. 


A GITH Jeo! SCHOLAR Use PLANT SURGE ON A ORGID COMMANDO 


You can spend a Force Point to impose a -10 penalty to the target's 
grapple checks made to escape the plant surge. 

You can maintain plant surge from round to round, extending the normal 
duration. Maintaining the plant surge power is a swift action, and you must 
make a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage while 
maintaining plant surge, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 
15 + damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. 


THOUGHT BomB 
[MIND-AFFECTINGI 

You use the Force to radiate out harmful waves of telepathy, damaging the 
minds of nearby foes. Time: Standard action. Targets: All enemies within 
2 squares of you. 

Make a Use the Force Check. Compare the result of the skill check to 
each target's Will Defense. If the result equals or exceeds the target's Will 
Defense, the target takes 2d6 points of Force damage and loses its swift 
action on its next turn. This is an area effect. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the damage dealt by 
this power by +246 points 


LIGHTSABER FORM 
POWERS 


The following Force powers are part of a new group of abilities called 
lightsaber form powers. These powers are tagged with the [lightsaber form] 
descriptor. Each power represents a single technique associated with one of 
the Jedi lightsaber combat forms. Each power uses some Force manipula- 
tion, and most also involve a lightsaber attack; additionally, each power has 
an special added benefit that you gain as a result of having the appropriate 
lightsaber form talent for that power. You must be wielding an activated 
lightsaber to use any power with the [lightsaber form] descriptor. You 
cannot rebuke a lightsaber form power, with two exceptions: draw closer 
and pushing slash 

Lightsaber form powers are intended to help Jedi (and Sith) characters 
make use of special attacks associated with the various lightsaber forms 
well before they are able to take the talent. They are also a good way for a 
character to say that he or she is a practitioner of a certain form without 
necessarily having spent a precious talent on that form. Many famous Jedi 
are regarded as students of multiple forms, and with these lightsaber form 
powers, your heroes can dabble in several different forms, even if they are 
only considered masters of a small few, 


ASSURED STRIKE 

[LIGHTSABER FORM] 

You trade power for accuracy. Time: Standard action, Target: One enemy 
within your reach, 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

OC 15: You make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against the 
target, rolling twice and keeping the higher result. However, you take a -5 
penalty on your damage roll. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except you take a -2 penalty on your damage roll. 

DC.25: As DC 15, except you take a -1 penalty on your damage roll. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except you take no penalty on your damage roll. 

Lightsaber Form (Juyo): If you have the Juyo talent and miss with both 
attack rolls, this power remains in your Force suite instead of being spent 
as normal. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to roll your attack roll three times, 
keeping the highest result. 


BARRIER OF BLADES 
[LIGHTSABER FORMI 

You whip your lightsaber around you, creating a barrier through which blaster 
fire rarely penetrates. Time: Swift action. Target: You. 


Make a Use the Force Check. Until the start of your next turn, you can 
use the result of your Use the Force check in the place of your Reflex Defense 
against incoming non-area ranged attacks. 

Lightsaber Form (Shien): If you have the Shien talent, you can redirect 
(as per the Redirect Shot talent) one blaster bolt that misses you while this 
power is in effect. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to have the benefits of this power 
also apply to attacks from ranged weapons set on autofire, If such an attack 
hits you while this power is in effect, you take half damage; if it misses you, 
you take no damage. 


CIRCLE OF SHELTER 
[LIGHTSABER FORMI 

You create a protected area around yourself, through which enemies have 
difficulty reaching you or your allies. Time: Standard. Targets: You plus all 
allies adjacent to you. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 20: Until the end of your next turn, you and all adjacent allies gain a 
+1 deflection bonus to Reflex Defense. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except the bonus increases to +2. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except the bonus increases to +5. 

Lightsaber Form (Soresu): If you have the Soresu talent, you can add 
the deflection bonus on Use the Force checks made to use the Block and 
Deflect talents until the end of your next turn. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to also apply the deflection bonus 
from this talent to the Fortitude Defense of all adjacent allies. 


CONTENTIOUS OPPORTUNITY 
[LIGHTSABER FORMI 
You seize the moment when your opponent gives you an opening, darting 
in to strike, Time: Free action (when you make an attack of opportunity). 
Target: One enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 20: If you hit with your attack of opportunity, you deal an additional 
+1 die of damage. 

DC25: As DC 20, except you deal an additional +2 dice of damage. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except you deal an additional +3 dice of damage. 

DC 35: As DC 20, except you deal an additional +4 dice of damage. 

Lightsaber Form (Makashi): If you have the Makashi talent, you gain 
a +2 Force bonus on attacks of opportunity (including this one) until the 
end of your next turn. 

Special: If you hit with the attack of opportunity, you can immediately 
spend a Force Point to reduce the target's speed by 2 squares until the end 
of its next turn. 


1 walawHo 


© 
& 
W 
2) 
@ 
an) 
i 
U 
: 
0) 
W 


DEFLECTING SLASH 
[LIGHTSABER FORMI 

You use the momentum from your effort to deflect a projectile to strike at 
an adjacent opponent. Time: Reaction (when targeted by a non-area ranged 
attack). Targets: You plus one enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15:Compare the result of your Use the Force check against the attack 
roll of the incoming attack. If your Use the Force check equals or exceeds 
the incoming attack roll, the attack deals half damage on a hit. Additionally, 
you can make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against any one target 
within your reach after the damage is resolved. 

DC 20; As DC 15, and you deal +1 point of damage to the target of your 
lightsaber attack on a hit. 

DC 25:As DC 15, and you deal +3 points of damage to the target of your 
lightsaber attack on a hit.. 

DC 30: As DC 15, and you deal +5 points of damage to the target of your 
lightsaber attack on a hit. 

Lightsaber Form (Soresu): If you have the Soresu talent, you can spend 
a Force Point to redirect the incoming attack (as per the Redirect Shot talent) 
at any other target within 6 squares of you 


A GRAN Jeo! Uses 4 DerLecTING BLAsH. 


You can spend a Force Point to take no damage from the incom- 
ing attack if your skill check equals or exceeds its attack roll 


DISARMING SLASH 

CLIGHTSABER FORM] 

You strike at your opponent's weapon, attempting to rip it from his grasp. 
Time: Standard action. Target: One enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: Make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against an adjacent 
opponent. If the attack deals damage, you can use your Use the Force check 
result in place of an attack roll to make an immediate disarm attempt against 
the target. If you succeed at your disarm attempt, you can have the weapon 
drop to the ground or call it to your own hand (assuming you have a free 
hand with which to hold the weapon). 

OC 20: As DC 15, except your target gains only a +5 bonus to Reflex 
Defense to resist being disarmed (instead of a +10 bonus). 

DC 25: As DC 15, except your target gains only a +2 bonus to Reflex 
Defense to resist being disarmed (instead of a +10 bonus). 

DC30: As DC 15, except your target gains no bonus to Reflex Defense to 
resist being disarmed (instead of a +10 bonus). 

Lightsaber Form (Shii-Cho): If you have the Shii-Cho talent, you can use 
this power as a reaction to being attacked by an adjacent opponent, 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to deal damage to the target's 
weapon equal to the damage you dealt to the target, provided you success- 
fully disarm that opponent 


DRAW CLOSER 

[LIGHTSABER FORM, TELEKINETICI 
You grab an opponent with the Force, drawing him into the path of your 
weapon. Time: Standard action. Target: One enemy within 6 squares of you 
and in your line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: If your target is Medium or smaller in size and is neither grabbed 
nor grappled, you immediately pull it into the nearest unoccupied space 
adjacent to you (if no space adjacent to you is a legal space for the target 
due to its size, the power fails). You can then make a single melee attack 
with a lightsaber against the target. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except your target may be Large or smaller. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except your target may be Huge or smaller. 

DC30: As DC 15, except your target may be Gargantuan or smaller, 

Lightsaber Form (Niman): If you have the Niman talent, you can target 
a creature within 12 squares (instead of 6 squares). 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to pull the target into any adjacent 
space. 


A CATHAR JED! USES ORAW CLOSER ON 4 SITH ASSASSIN. 
+ 


FALLING AVALANCHE 
CLIGHTSABER FORM] 

You raise your lightsaber above your head and then bring it crashing down 
on your opponent with incredible force. Time: Standard action. Target: You 
plus one enemy within your reach 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15:You can make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against the 
target, provided that is no more than one size category larger than you. 
If your attack deals damage, you can push the target 1 square away from 
you, and then move into the space that enemy just vacated. Neither your 
movement nor the target's movement provokes attacks of opportunity. You 
cannot move a target that is grabbed or grappled. 

DC20:As DC 15, except you can push the target 2 squares and can move 
through spaces your target passed through to end adjacent to your target. 

DC 25:As DC 15, except you can push the target 3 squares and can move 
through spaces your target passed through to end adjacent to your target. 

DC30:As DC 15, except you can push the target 4 squares and can move 
through spaces your target passed through to end adjacent to your target. 


Lightsaber Form (Djem So): If you have the Djem So talent, after suc- 
cessfully activating this power you gain one temporary Force Point which 
can only be used to activate the Djem So talent. If this temporary Force Point 
is not used before the end of the encounter, it is lost. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to knock your opponent prone at 
the end of its forced movement. 


Fuiuip RIPOSTE 

[CLIGHTSABER FORM]! 

You smoothly turn aside an opponent's melee attack, stepping in to deliver 
your own attack. Time: Reaction (when an adjacent opponent makes a melee 
attack against you). Targets: You plus one enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. Compare the result of your Use the Force 
check against the attack roll of the incoming attack. If your Use the Force 
check equals or exceeds the incoming attack roll, the attack deals half 
damage ona hit. You can then immediately move to any other square adjacent 
to your attacker and make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against it. 
This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Lightsaber Form (Djem So): If you have the Djem So talent, after suc- 
cessfully activating this power you gain one temporary Force Point which 
can only be used to activate the Djem So talent. If this temporary Force Point 
is not used before the end of the encounter, it is lost. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to treat the attacker as flat-footed 
for purposes of your lightsaber attack. 


HAWK-BAT SwooP 

CLIGHTSABER FORM] 

You leap into action against your foe, striking with your lightsaber before 
other enemies have a chance to react. Time: Action. Targets: You plus one 
enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15:You move up to 2 squares; this movement does not provoke attacks 
of opportunity. If you end your movement adjacent to a target, you can make 
a single melee attack with a lightsaber against that target. 

DC20: As DC 15, except you can move up to 4 squares. 

DC25:As DC 15, except you can move up to 6 squares. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except you can move up to 8 squares. 

Lightsaber Form (Ataru): If you have the Ataru talent, you can also move 
up to 2 squares after you resolve your lightsaber attack. This movement does 
not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to deal +2 dice of damage with 
your lightsaber attack. 


1 eaigvnS 


i) 


esVed SHA dO YVaEMed 


TesievHo 


v 
ig 
i 
U 


ANAKIN AND OBI-WAN IN A SABER Lock. 


HIGH GROUND DEFENSE 
[LIGHTSABER FORMI 

You know how to take advantage of the terrain and gain a defensive advan- 
tage from it. Time: Swift action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15; Until the start of your next turn, if you are standing on a low object 
or in difficult terrain, any creature that moves adjacent to you provokes an 
attack of opportunity from you. 

DC 20:As DC 15, except you gain a +1 Force bonus on attacks of oppor- 
tunity until the start of your next turn. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except you gain a +2 Force bonus on attacks of oppor- 
tunity until the start of your next turn. 

DC30: As DC 15, except you gain a +5 Force bonus on attacks of oppor- 
tunity until the start of your next turn. 

Lightsaber Form (Sokan): If you have the Sokan talent, you deal +1 die 
of damage with attacks of opportunity until the start of your next turn. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to move 1 square each time you 
make an attack of opportunity until the start of your next turn. This move- 
ment does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 


MAKASHI RIPOSTE 

[LIGHTSABER FORM] 

You are trained in a Makashi technique that allows you to slightly change 
the angle of an opponent's attack before striking with a decisive riposte of 
your own. Time: Reaction (when an adjacent opponent makes a melee attack 
against you). Target: You plus one enemy within your reach. 


Make a Use the Force Check. Compare the result of your Use the Force 
check against the attack roll of the incoming attack. If your Use the Force 
check equals or exceeds the incoming attack roll, the attack deals half 
damage on a hit. Additionally, you can make a single melee attack with a 
lightsaber against your target after the damage is resolved. You deal half 
damage to the target on a miss. 

Lightsaber Form (Makashi): If you have the Makashi talent, until the 
end of your next turn the target provokes an attack of opportunity from you 
if it makes an attack and is within your reach. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to take no damage from the 
incoming attack if your skill check equals or exceeds the attack roll of the 
incoming attack. 


PASS THE BLADE 

[LIGHTSABER FORM] 

You deactivate your lightsaber as your opponent attempts to block it, reac 
tivating it just after it passes by his blade. Time: Standard action. Target: 
You plus one enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: You can make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against the 
target. Your opponent takes a -2 penalty on Use the Force checks made to 
block the attack, as per the Block talent. (This penalty also applies to the 
Primitive Block talent from The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide.) 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the target takes a -5 penalty on its Use the 
Force check, 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the target takes a -10 penalty on its Use the 
Force check. 


DC30:As DC 15, except the target cannot use the Block talent to negate 
the attack. 

Lightsaber Form (Trakata): If you have the Trakata talent, you also ignore 
any deflection bonus the target has from the Lightsaber Defense talent. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to deal +2d6 points of damage with 
your lightsaber attack if it hits. 


PUSHING SLASH 

[LIGHTSABER FORM, TELEKINETICI 
You strike at your target with your lightsaber, then hurl him away from 
you with the Force. Time: Standard action. Target: One enemy within 
your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any, 

OC 15: You can make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against 
the target. If the attack hits, in addition to dealing damage, compare 
the result of your Use the Force check to the target's Fortitude Defense. 
If your Use the Force check equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude 
Defense, you push the target 2 squares away from you. This movement 
does not provoke attacks of opportunity. You cannot move the target if 
it is grabbed or grappled 

DC 20: As DC 15, except you push the target 3 squares away from you 

DC 25: As DC 15, except you push the target 4 squares away from you. 

DC 30: As DC 15 except you push the target 5 squares away from you. 

Lightsaber Form (Niman): If you have the Niman talent, you also com- 
pare the result of your Use the Force check to all other adjacent enemies; if 
your Use the Force check equals or exceeds an enemy's Fortitude Defense, 
it is pushed 1 square away from you. This is an area effect 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to knock the target prone at the 
end of its forced movement. (This applies only to the target of your light- 
saber attack.) 


MESSAGE FROM 

THE FACULTY: SABER LOCKS 
Many times two lightsaber combatants will strike at one another, locking 
their lightsabers together in a test of strength and skill as their blades 
crackle with contact. As an optional rule, whenever a Jedi with the Block 
talent rolls his Use the Force check to negate the attack and the skill 
check result is exactly equal to the incoming attack roll, the attack is 
negated and a saber lock occurs. Both characters lock their lightsabers 
together, and both the original attacker and the blocking Jedi make an 
opposed Initiative check. The character with the higher result may make 
an immediate unarmed attack against the other character asa free action, 
at which point the saber lock ends. 


A SELKATH JED! Uses 4 PUSHING BLAH. 


RISING WHIRLWIND 

CLIGHTSABER FORMI 

You swing your lightsabers around your body, creating a brilliant whirlwind 
of deadly light. Time: Standard action. Targets: Two enemies within your 
reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: You can make two lightsaber melee attacks, each one against a 
different target. If both attacks hit, you gain 10 bonus hit points. Damage is 
subtracted from bonus hit points first, and any remaining bonus hit points 
disappear at the end of the encounter. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except you gain 15 bonus hit points 

DC 25: As DC 15, except you gain 20 bonus hit points 

DC 30: As DC 15, except you gain 25 bonus hit points. 

Lightsaber Form (Jar'Kai): If you have the Jar’Kai talent, you can move 
up to 2 squares between the two attacks. This movement does not provoke 
attacks of opportunity. 

Special: You must be wielding two lightsabers to use this power. You can 
spend a Force Point to deal an +1d6 damage to each target you hit. 


BHaHed SHA dO YVIMEG2) J 


SABER SWARM 

(LIGHTSABER FORMI 

You slash at your opponent rapidly, aiming many short strikes at the target's 
body. Time: Standard action. Target: One enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC20:You can make two lightsaber melee attacks against a single target. 
Each of these attacks is made at a -5 penalty. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except the attacks are made at a -2 penalty. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except the attacks are made at a -1 penalty. 

DC.35:As DC 20, except the attacks suffer no penalty. 

Lightsaber Form (Ataru): If you have the Ataru talent, your opponent 
takes a -5 penalty on all Use the Force checks made to block your attacks 
using the Block talent or the Makashi riposte power (see page 32). 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to move up to 2 squares before 
or after you use this power. This movement does not provoke attacks of 
opportunity. 


SARLACC SWEEP 

[LIGHTSABER FORM] 

You lash out at multiple enemies, striking them with a sweeping motion. Time: 
Standard action. Targets: One enemy within your reach (the primary target) 
plus one other enemy within your reach (the secondary target). 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15:You can make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against the 
primary target. The attack deals normal damage to the primary target and 
5 points of damage to the secondary target if the attack hits. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except increase the damage to the secondary target 
by +1d6 points. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except increase the damage to the secondary target 
by +2d6 points. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except increase the damage to the secondary target 
by +3d6 points, 

Lightsaber Form (Shii-Cho): If you have the Shii-Cho talent, you can 
use this power in the place of a melee attack roll at the end of a charge. You 
gain the benefits of the Powerful Charge feat on the initial lightsaber attack 
only if you use this power in this way. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to affect two secondary targets, 
provided both enemies are within your reach and adjacent to the primary 
target of your lightsaber attack. 


SHIEN DEFLECTION 
[LIGHTSABER FORM] 

You deflect an incoming attack and leap toward your attacker with fierce 
abandon. Time: Reaction (when an enemy makes a non-area ranged attack 
against you). Targets: You plus one enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15:Compare the result of your Use the Force check against the attack 
roll of the incoming attack. If your Use the Force check equals or exceeds 
the incoming attack roll, the attack deals half damage ona hit. You can then 
move up to your speed toward your attacker, and if you end your movement 
within reach of your attacker, you can make a single melee attack with a 
lightsaber against that target. 

DC20:As DC 15, except you can move up to your speed + 2 squares. 

DC25: As DC 15, except you can move up to your speed + 4 squares. 

DC30: As DC 15, except you can move up to your speed + 6 squares. 

Lightsaber Form (Shien): If you have the Shien talent, until the start 
of your next turn you take no cumulative penalties on your Use the Force 
checks for multiple Deflect attempts. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to take no damage from the 
incoming attack if your skill check equals or exceeds the attack roll of the 
incoming attack. 


Swift FLANK 

CLIGHTSABER FORMI 

You leap over or dash around your opponent, striking before he has time to 
react. Time: Standard action. Targets: You plus one adjacent enemy. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 20: You can move up to half your speed; this movement does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity. You can then make a single melee attack 
with a lightsaber against an adjacent target. If the space you occupy and 
the space you started in are spaces that flank the opponent, the opponent 
is considered to be flanked for your attack. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except you can move up to your speed. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except you can move up to your speed + 2 squares. 

DC 35: As DC 20, except you can move up to your speed + 4 squares. 

Lightsaber Form (Vaapad): If you have the Vaapad talent, your target is 
considered flat-footed against you until the end of your turn. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase your movement by 2 
squares. 


A GAND JED! Uses & Twin STRIKE 


TEMPERED AGGRESSION 

[DARK SIDE, LIGHTSABER FORM] 

You throw yourself against an opponent, controlling your aggression to 
prevent it from getting the better of you. Time: Standard Action. Target: 
One enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 30: You can make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against the 
target. If you beat the target's Reflex Defense by 10 or more, the attack is 
treated as a critical hit. 

DC 35: As DC 30, except you must beat your target's Reflex Defense by 
5 or more. 

DC 40: As DC 30, except you must beat your target's Reflex Defense by 
2 or more 

Lightsaber Form (Vaapad): If you have the Vaapad talent, this Force 
power does not have the [dark side] descriptor for you 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to deal +2 dice of damage with the 
attack if it hits. These additional dice of damage are added after damage is 
doubled, if it is a critical hit. 


TWIN STRIKE 

[LIGHTSABER FORM] 

You swing both of your lightsabers in an arc toward the target, slamming 
them home with great force. Time: Standard action. Target: One enemy 
within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: You can make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against your 
target. If this attack hits, add the base damage dice of your other lightsaber 
to the damage roll. 

DC 25: As DC 15, and you gain a +1 Force bonus on the attack roll. 

C30: As DC 15, and you gain a +2 Force bonus on the attack roll. 

Lightsaber Form (Jar'Kai): If you have the Jar‘Kai talent, you triple 
your deflection bonus to Reflex Defense from the Lightsaber Defense talent 
instead of doubling it until the end of your next turn 

Special: You must be wielding two lightsabers to use this power. You 
can spend a Force Point to add +1 die of damage to the damage from your 
lightsaber attack. 


UNBALANCING BLOCK 
[LIGHTSABER FORM] 

You catch an opponent's weapon on your blade before deactivating your blade 
momentarily, causing him to stumble. Time: Reaction (when an adjacent 
enemy makes a melee attack against you). Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force Check. Compare the result of your Use the Force 
check against the attack roll of the incoming attack. If your Use the Force 
check equals or exceeds the incoming attack roll, the attack deals half 
damage on a hit. Additionally, if your Use the Force check equals or exceeds 
the target's Will Defense, the target is considered flat-footed until the end 
of your next turn. 

Lightsaber Form (Trakata): If you have the Trakata talent, you deal +2 
dice of damage with the first attack you make on your next turn against 
your attacker. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to take no damage from the 
incoming attack if your skill check equals or exceeds the attack roll of the 
incoming attack. 


eHved SHA dO VaMmec) 


Syed SHA Zo BAAS) 


UNHINDERED CHARGE 
[LIGHTSABER FORMI 

You move quickly to your opponent, ignoring difficult terrain and obstacles. 
Time: Standard action. Targets: You plus one enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

DC 15: You can move up to your speed toward an enemy, ignoring dif- 
ficult terrain and low obstacles. If you end your movement within reach of 
your enemy, you can make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against 
that target. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except you can move up to your speed + 2 squares. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except you can move up to your speed + 4 squares. 

DC 30; As DC 15, except you can move up to your speed + 6 squares. 

Lightsaber Form (Sokan): If you have the Sokan talent, you gain a +5 
Force bonus to your Reflex Defense against attacks of opportunity made 
against you during this movement. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to move an additional 2 squares. 


VORNSKR'S FEROCITY 
[DARK SIDE, LIGHTSABER FORM] 
You walk the thin line between darkness and light as you ferociously attack 
your foe. Time: Standard action. Target: One enemy within your reach. 

Make a Use the Force Check. The result of the check determines the 
result, if any. 

C20: You make a single melee attack with a lightsaber against the target, 
dealing +1 die of damage if you hit. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except you deal +2 dice of damage. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except you deal +3 dice of damage. 

DC 35: As DC 20, except you deal +4 dice of damage. 

Lightsaber Form (Juyo): If you have the Juyo talent, this power does not 
have the [dark side] descriptor for you 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to use this power at the end of a 
charge. 


FORCE TECHNIQUES 
Force techniques represent a deeper understanding of the Force and, like 
martial skills, usually come with years of practice. A few gifted or devoted 
Force-users learn to master them more quickly. In general, Force techniques 
are only available to characters with levels in certain Force-using prestige 
classes (such as Force adept, Jedi Knight, and Sith apprentice). 

Whenever you gain access to a new Force technique, select it from the 
available options presented here, in the core rulebook, or in other game 
supplements. Once selected, a Force technique cannot be changed. 


CuRE DISEASE 

When you use the vital transfer power, if your Use the Force check equals or 
exceeds the Treat Injury DC of a disease currently ailing the target, you can 
spend a Force Point to cure that disease. 


EXTENDED BLIND 
The base range for your blind power increases to 18 squares (instead of 12 
squares). 


EXTENDED FORCE DISARM 
The base range for your Force disarm power increases to 18 squares (instead 
of 12 squares). 


EXTENDED FORCE GRIP 
The base range for your Force grip power increases to 18 squares (instead 
of 12 squares). 


EXTENDED FORCE THRUST 
The base range for your Force thrust power increases to 18 squares (instead 
of 12 squares). 


EXTENDED MOVE OBYECT 
The base range for your move object power increases to 18 squares (instead 
of 12 squares). 


IMPROVED CONVECTION 

When your target takes fire damage from convection, the fire attacks the 
target's Fortitude Defense using your base attack bonus instead of the 
normal +5 bonus (see page 255 of the Saga Edition core rulebook for more 
information on fire damage). 


IMPROVED CRUCITORN 
IF you use crucitorn and the attack or Force power still deals more damage 
than your damage threshold, you do not expend this use of the power, and 
it remains in your Force suite. 


IMPROVED CRYOKINESIS 

You can use cryokinesis on occupied vehicles within range; however, the 
vehicle only moves down the condition track if your Use the Force check 
also exceeds the vehicle's Fortitude Defense. 


IMPROVED FOLD SPACE 
Whenever you use fold space, you can spend a Force Point to move the object 
anywhere within line of sight. Alternately, you can spend a Destiny Point to 
move the object anywhere within the same star system. 


IMPROVED FORCE LIGHT 

You can spend a Force Point to cause your Force light to blind those it harms; 
any creature that takes damage from Force light grants concealment to all 
other targets until the end of its next turn. You can spend a Destiny Point 
to change this to total concealment instead. 


IMPROVED FORCE STORM 

You can spend a Force Point when you activate Force storm to fill the storm 
with Force lightning. When you activate the power, and again whenever you 
spend a standard action to maintain the power, compare the results of your 
Use the Force check to the Reflex Defense of one target within the storm's 
area, If the skill check result equals or exceeds the target's Reflex Defense, 
the target takes 3d6 points of Force damage. You can spend a Destiny Point 
to increase the damage to 6d6 points. 


IMPROVED PLANT SURGE 

You can spend a Force Point to have plant surge target all enemies in a 5x5 
square area; at least one square must be within the power's range. Alternately, 
you can spend a Destiny Point to target all enemies in a 10x10 square. 


IMPROVED THOUGHT BomMB 

You can spend a Force Point to have thought bomb target all enemies within 
5 squares of you. Alternately, you can spend a Destiny Point to target all 
enemies within your line of sight. 


FORCE SECRETS 

Skilled Force-users can learn to manipulate their Force powers in intriguing 
ways. Force secrets represent a sublime connection of the Force and are 
usually available only to powerful Force-users such as Force disciples, Jedi 
Masters, and Sith Lords. 

Activating a Force secret costs either a Force Point or a Destiny Point (as 
noted in its description), and the normal limits on spending Force Points and 
Destiny Points during a round apply. 

Whenever you learn a new Force secret, you can select it from the follow- 
ing options, as well as those presented in the core rulebook and other game 
supplements. Once selected, a Force secret cannot be changed 


HOLOCRON LOREMASTER 
Whenever you activate a Force power, you can spend a Force Point to add one 
use of any Force power known by any ally within 12 squares of you (whether 
you know that power or not) to your Force suite. Once used, the power cannot 
be regained by any means, and if the power is not used by the end of your 
next turn, it is lost. You can spend a Destiny Point to have the power lost at 
the end of the encounter instead of the end of your next turn. 
Additionally, you can enhance any holocron you possess, adding your 
knowledge to its memory. You can create a holocron gatekeeper in your 
own image in that holocron. See page 67 for more information on holocron 
gatekeeper creation. 


MENTOR 
Whenever you activate a Force power, you can spend a Force Point to add 
‘one use of that power to the Force suite of one ally within 12 squares of you 
and in your line of sight. Once used, the power cannot be regained by any 
means, and if the power is not used by the end of the ally’s next turn, it is 
lost. You or the ally can spend a Destiny Point to have the power lost at the 
end of the encounter, instead of the end of the ally’s next turn. 

You can take this Force secret only if you have successfully trained 
an apprentice to knighthood (or the equivalent rank for other Force 
traditions). 


eaHed SHA dO 


CHAPTER I! 
PHILOSOPHY 


ig: 
sr is the Force, Without it, Palpatine would have no power to put 
lotion as effectively as he did. Without it, the Sith-controlled 


“abilities to help them accomplish their goals, Without the Force, we would 
‘not have Anakin Skywalker, destined to fulfill an age-old prophecy. 
Throughout the Star Wars saga, we have heard the Force referred to as 
‘an energy field created by all living things, the source of power for all Jedi, 
and that which unites all life in the galaxy. Although the Force is all that and 
more, we do not have very specific information about it. This chapter delves 
into the beliefs held by the Jedi, the Sith, and other Force-using traditions 
an attempt to answer pertinent questions about the Force. 


AT IS THE FORCE? 

¢, by its nature, is one of the most enigmatic concepts of the Star 
ixy. It can empower an individual. It can both heal and harm. It 
n or a detriment. Depending on which philosophy of the Force 
lows, the interpretation of what the Force is and what it can do 

varies widely. 

SR OF all the Force traditions in the galaxy, the Jedi Order probably has 
the best understanding of the Force. Even within the ranks of the Jedi, 
the Force takes on different roles and works in different ways. While they 
might seem similar in scope, the beliefs behind these interpretations can 
be vastly dissimilar. 

The Living Force, as accepted by Jedi throughout the ages, is believed to 
exist in most living creatures. Jedi who believe in the tenets of the Living 
Force rely on their instincts and become attuned to the living things around 
them. They are mindful of the future and what might result from their current 
actions, but they remain focused on the present. The Living Force has both a 
light side and a dark side, and Force-users must be mindful of their emotions 
lest they succumb to the temptation of the dark side. Those who adhere to 
the doctrines of the Living Force believe that life creates the Force and that 
the Force is an omnipresent field of energy that surrounds and permeates 
living things, and that living things are connected by it. Through the Living 
Force, certain Jedi are able to retain their identities after death, manifesting 
as Force spirits while still becoming one with the Force. 

Jedi who adhere to the Living Force view recognize the existence of midi- 
chlorians in all living beings. The higher the concentration of midichlorians 
in a life form, the stronger that life form's connection is to the Force, and 
the greater its potential is to use it-for good or evil. 


v 
Z 
r 
0 
0 
0 
a] 
I 
< 


1 eslavno 


x0) 
z 
P 
©) 
(a) 
i) 
x0} 
ae 
E 


The Unifying Force, garnering less support among the Jedi than the Living 
Force, teaches that the Force is a single power and has neither a light side 
nor a dark side. The Unifying Force has no sides and does not take sides, 
treating all living creatures equally. This view has been supported by the likes 
of Vergere and Emperor Palpatine. (The only significant difference between 
the Jedi view and Palpatine’s view is that the Sith see the Force as a means 
to an end, while the Jedi see it as an end in itself.) Those who follow the 
Unifying Force tend to keep their eyes on the future and possibilities, leading 
them to act in ways to fulfill a destiny instead of focusing on the here and 
now, like those who follow the Living Force. 

One particular view of the Force that is often confused with the Unify- 
ing Force is known as the Potentium. While both philosophies believe that 
there is only one Force, the Potentium's take on the matter differs by stating 
that the Force is inherently good and what is perceived as the dark side is 
actually a twisted perversion of the Force. By that standard, anyone follow- 
ing the Potentium way of thinking could perform any action and use the 
Force in any way they see fit, as long as the intention behind it is good. The 
Jedi Order does not support this belief at all, acknowledging its existence 
as nothing more than a means of misguiding people to the dark side and 
subverting Jedi teachings. 

Other traditions offer even more interpretations of the nature of the 
Force, providing further argument that the Force still remains a mystery for 
most of those who choose to study it. 

The Aing-Tii monks, based out of the Kathol Rift, view the Force in much 
the same way as the Jedi. However, they see it as not having a light side or a 
dark side. They believe that the Force has varying levels, much like a rainbow, 
and can manifest itself in many different ways. People who use the Force 
are not strictly good or purely evil when they use it. What they choose to 
do with it helps determine the color of the Force's spectrum in which they 
engross themselves. 

The Fallanassi believe in a power that works very similar to the Force, but 
they call it the White Current. The White Current flows like a river through the 
galaxy and all living beings. As such, a single person attempting to tap into it is 
like trying to divert a raging river with one's hand; it cannot be done. Instead, 
the Fallanassi immerse themselves in the Current and let it flow through them 
like a conduit. They do not impose their will on it, but they merely shape the 
flow of the Current into whichever form is needed for the task at hand. 

The Sorcerers of Tund use the Force in much the same manner as the 
Sith, but they portray the source of their power as magic. They have crafted 
a litany of arcane symbols and languages that permit them wield their Force 
powers as spells. They use these spells to create illusions and alter their forms. 
Their belief in the Force as a magical power is so strong that even the most 
influential Jedi cannot hope to convince them otherwise. 

Many beings beyond the Kathol Rift tap into a Force-like power called 
the Ta-Ree. The Ta-Ree is actually a twisted manipulation of the Force 
in that region of space. It was created when a group of ancient Kathol 
entered an immense crystalline structure to protect themselves from death; 


unfortunately for them, the structure's guardian decided to trap them inside. 
After a time, the survivors were absorbed by their crystal prison and twisted 
the Force and the fabric of space around it. 


ASPECTS 
OF THE FORCE 


It's safe to say that throughout the galaxy, different Force-using traditions 
interpret and view the Force differently. This section focuses on the phi- 
losophies accepted by the Jedi Order, since the Jedi offer the most widely 
accepted and practiced viewpoints. 

Throughout the Jedi Order's history, the endless struggle against the Sith 
has revealed that the Force breaks down into two commonly opposed aspects: 
the light side and the dark side. While the majority of Jedi believe that the 
light side must prevail for order to be maintained, others acknowledge that 
the dark side's influence cannot be erased and will always be around,affecting 
those who call upon it. 


THE LIGHT SIDE 

The part of the Force known as the light side deals mainly with the ideals 
pertaining to the preservation and advancement of life: good, benevolence, 
and healing, Those who hold themselves to the tenets of the light side strive 
to establish harmony with their surroundings and the creatures that dwell in 
it. They act out of wisdom and logic, making decisions based on knowledge 
and peace instead of emotion and haste. 

The Jedi, as champions of the light side of the Force, take this view very 
seriously and have incorporated a variety of values and techniques to help 
promote this way of thinking and nurture the emotions that promote the 
light side. These values have culminated into what is known as the Jedi 
Code, the modern version of which was documented and commented upon 
by Master Odan-Urr. 


THE JEDI Cope 

While the Jedi Code dictates a number of issues relating to understanding and 
mastering the Force, itis not entirely about that. A Jedi must feel the Force 
to know it, and ancient texts and rules cannot substitute for that experience. 
At the same time, a Jedi's social behavior cannot be learned by applying the 
Force to it. The Jedi Code also gives a set of expectations and guidelines by 
which a Jedi must conduct himself. By following the Code, anyone can open 
up and allow the light side of the Force to flow freely through them and gain 
a better understanding of the universe and everything around them. 

A closer examination of the Jedi Code helps to provide some insight not 
only into the way Jedi behave but also into the way following such stric- 
tures helps to foster a way of life conducive to averting the temptations of 
the dark side. The Code is categorized into three subjects: self-discipline, 
ity, and public service. 


LUKE SKYWALKER LEARNS SELF-DISCIPLINE ON DAGOBAH. 


The Jedi Code: Self-Discipline 

Self-discipline is one of the key factors of Jedi behavior, and many lessons 
taught to the Jedi from a very young age focus on this basic doctrine. At 
first, the lessons are simple and no different than the lessons taught to other 
children throughout the galaxy. But as the young Jedi grows, the lessons 
increase in complexity to emphasize the importance of a disciplined life. 

Conquer Arrogance: A Jedi is taught that he is no better than another 
being who cannot touch the Force. A Jedi is not a Jedi simply because of 
his strong connection with the Force; he is a Jedi because somebody taught 
him to be one. 

Conquer Overconfidence: As young Jedi pupils learn of their Force-using 
abilities, they start to take on the behavior that they can do anything with 
that power. Jedi instructors teach these students to realize their limits so 
that they can accurately measure how far they can go, as well as understand 
their own limitations. 

Conquer Defeatism: Possibly the greatest enemy a Jedi must face is the 
unshakable belief that nothing can be accomplished, regardless of the size of 
the task, A Jedi should plan for success before contemplating failure. Plan- 
ning to fail increases the chance to fail, and expecting to lose encourages 
one to put forth insufficient effort. 

Conquer Stubbornness: A Jedi who focuses too much on a single goal 
or perspective loses sight of other possibilities, including ones that might 
yield better results. A Jedi must learn that staying on one path or clinging 


to one point of view can be costly. A Jedi must keep her mind open and not 
be afraid to change with the situation. 

Conquer Recklessness: Young Jedi always seem too anxious to master 
their lightsabers and charge into battle without thinking ahead and develop- 
ing some form of plan. These Jedi lack self-restraint. Acting impulsively has 
many times led to the loss of life or limb and placed easily obtained goals out 
of reach. A Jedi must learn to pace himself at all times, be aware of unseen 
dangers and obstacles, and not tumble headlong into them. 

Conquer Curiosity: All people, no matter how public their lives are 
entitled to their privacy. A Jedi who pokes into somebody's business unnec- 
essarily not only invades an individual's private life but also brings shame 
upon the Jedi for acting so rudely and creating distrust. Using the Force to 
do so only complicates matters further. The Force does not exist to serve 
one's curiosity. 

Conquer Aggression: For those less experienced in the ways of the Force, 
knowing the difference between attack, defense, and aggression does not 
come easily. A Jedi can attack and even kill without aggression, especially 
if she is calm, at peace, and not filled with anger or hatred. However, killing 
one's opponent should not become a common act, and a Jedi must explore 
every alternative before employing lethal force. 

Conquer External Loyalties: A Jedi is free to have connections with 
others outside of the Order, but divided loyalties can compromise a Jedi's 
effectiveness. Other loyalties can distract him from the task at hand and 
cause undue hardship for others. For this reason, the Jedi Order recruits 
students at a very young age and actively discourages relationships early in 
life that can create problems in the future. The Order also prohibits marriage 
without special permission from the High Council. A Jedi’s loyalties should lie 
with the Force, the Jedi Order, the Republic, and himself, in that order. 

Conquer Materialism: Like external loyalties, possessions can also be a 
distraction. A Jedi doesn't need to lead a ascetic life, but she learns to travel 
light, carrying with her only the bare essentials. Very few Jedi own more 
than what they can carry. 


The Jedi Code: Responsibility 

Once the ideals of self-discipline are learned, a Jedi becomes more open to 
the light side of the Force and can more successfully listen to its will. In 
addition, a Jedi can begin taking responsibility for his actions. Any Jedi that 
does not take responsibility for his actions lacks the discipline expected of 
him as a member of the Jedi Order. 

Practice Honesty: Honesty is the first responsibility of the Jedi, and 
recognizing its importance is vital to becoming a valued member of the 
Order. Although certain situations might require a Jedi to stretch the truth 
or create falsehoods within a particular situation, a Jedi must remain honest 
with himself, his Master, and the Council. Continually creating lies or sub- 
jecting others to delusions invites suspicion and incites anger from others 
upon discovery of the truth. 


T wsiavHS 


a0] 
ib 
8 
(0) 
( 
i 


T eaiaenS 


v 
x 
- 
Q 
(i) 
@ 
0} 
xf 
Ki 


Honor Your Promises: A Jedi that makes a promise should be prepared 
to follow through with that promise or make amends, if necessary. One who 
makes promises that he does not intend to keep creates dishonesty and is 
less likely to be trusted. 

Honor Your Padawan: Every Jedi Master that takes a Padawan under her 
wing has a responsibility toward helping that pupil complete his training. A 
Padawan should be treated with dignity and respect. A Master should not 
reprimand her Padawan in front of others, but she should commend him 
in public when he does something worthy of praise. Doing this helps build 
his confidence and helps improve the relationship between the Master and 
her apprentice. 

Honor Your Master: Likewise, a Padawan should honor his Master at all 
times. Although disagreements might occur, taking it to the point of argu- 
ment is not wise. When dealing with others apart from his Master, a Padawan 
should speak only when spoken to. At all other times, the Padawan should 
wait for his Master to address the issue. By doing so, the Master will not have 
to worry about the need to apologize for his apprentice’s behavior. 

Honor the Jedi Council: Within the Jedi Order, the High Council is the 
final authority in all matters. However, it cannot watch over every single 
Jedi in the galaxy. Therefore, a Jedi dispatched on a mission represents the 
Jedi Order and the Council through his words and actions. At the same time, 
the Council must answer for what the Jedi says and does during his mis- 
sion, and putting the Council in a difficult situation brings dishonor upon 
its members. 

Honor the Jedi Order: A Jedi’s words and actions represent the Order 
as a whole. Positive words and deeds reflect positively, while negative ones 
damage the Order's reputation. Billions of people inhabit the galaxy, and 
only a small fraction of them have ever encountered a Jedi. The words and 
deeds of a single Jedi often create a first (and often lasting) impression of 
the Order as a whole. 


Honor the Law: The Jedi Order was appointed by the Galactic Republic 
to be the protectors of peace and justice throughout the galaxy. As the 
Republic's enforcers of the law, the Jedi must also be bound by that same 
law. Any Jedi that is sent out to perform missions for the Republic must strive 
to avoid breaking the law. When venturing into areas of space outside the 
Republic's jurisdiction, a Jedi must exercise extreme care, for local govern- 
ments might operate differently than the Republic, and a incident in which 
the Jedi breaks local laws might cause delays in resolving the situation 
through Republic channels. 

Honor Life: Since life is what strengthens the light side of the Force, 
honoring life in all forms is one of the highest priorities of the Jedi Order. 
Care must be taken to protect life and avoid unnecessary death, for killing 
someone gives strength to the dark side of the Force. If a situation arises 
where a life must be taken after all other options have been contemplated, 
a Jedi should make sure that the reason is justified. Typically, this should 
be done in self-defense or the defense of others incapable of defending 
themselves. A Jedi should never assume that the taking of a life is no cause 
for concern. Once a Jedi does not care about committing murder, then he 
has begun walking down the path to the dark side. 


The Jedi Code: Public Service 

Even as the Jedi Order strives to expand its knowledge of the Force, it also 
exists to serve the public's needs. If the Jedi did not have the ability to use 
the Force, they would still serve as protectors of peace and justice, for doing 
50 is one of the main reasons why the Order was appointed by the Republic. 
The fact that Jedi can and do use the Force merely accentuates the principle 
of serving the general public. 

Many of the ideals set forth for Public Service meld easily with promotion 
of the light side of the Force, but one must carefully weigh his options when 
seeking to uphold these ideals to make sure that as few people as possible 
are adversely affected by doing so. 

Duty to the Republic: Despite misconceptions held by some of the 
populace, the Jedi Order is not a part of the Galactic Republic. Nevertheless, 
the Jedi serve the Republic to uphold its laws and protect its citizens. When 
they are not needed, they are asked to stand aside, which the Jedi willingly 
do. This long-standing arrangement between the two organizations was 
created long ago, for reasons that have been long forgotten. 

Render Aid: In conjunction with promoting the ideals of the light side of 
the Force, all Jedi endeavor to provide aid to those in need whenever possible. 
However, a Jedi should not forego his other ideals to do so. 

Defend the Weak: A Jedi should defend those that are unable to defend 
themselves. At the same time, a Jedi must be aware that what might seem 
to be oppression in one culture might not necessarily be so in another. The 
morals and ethics of other cultures need to be carefully considered before 
taking action, lest a Jedi insinuate herself into a situation where her help 
is not desired. 


Provide Support: Although a Jedi toils to help others in need, he must 
sometimes suspend his wishes and let others impart assistance instead, 
even if the Jedi could perform the act more quickly or easily. The Jedi should 
assist only as the situation requires, offer advice upon request, warn when 
necessary, and argue if proper reason fails. 


PADAWANS AND 
APPRENTICES 


Upon reaching knighthood, some Jedi seek to take on apprentices, passing 
on their knowledge to future generations. Some Jedi have apprentices thrust 
upon them, as Ahsoka Tano was thrust upon Anakin Skywalker, and some Jedi 
choose to train apprentices out of a sense of obligation, as Obi-Wan Kenobi 
trained Anakin Skywalker and, later, Luke Skywalker. 

Jedi heroes in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game can also take on appren- 
tices, training them in the ways of the Force. There are two methods that 
can be used to adjudicate such an apprenticeship. The first is to simply have 
the Gamemaster introduce the Padawan as an NPC, attached toa particular 
hero who is serving as the Padawan's Master. In this case, the Gamemaster 
simply crafts the statistics for the low-level Padawan and has the Padawan 
join the party, going on adventures as normal. The Padawan remains under 
the control of the Gamemaster, and no new game mechanics are needed, 

The other method is to treat the training of an apprentice as an impor- 
tant step for a Jedi Knight, both in terms of character development and also 
mechanically. This situation uses the new rules presented below to make an 
apprentice more than just an NPC that tags along on adventures, and helps 
to circumvent the difficulties presented by adding NPCs to the party of 
higher-level characters. Under these rules, the Padawan joins the Jedi on his 
or her adventures, all the while helping his or her Master learn more about 
the nature of a Jedi Knight's responsibilities. 

For the purposes of these rules, the phrases "Padawan" and “Jedi Knight” 
are interchangeable with the equivalent ranks in other Force traditions, 
such as Sith apprentices and Sith Lords, Jensaarai apprentices and Jensaarai 
Defenders, and so forth. 


OBTAINING A PADAWAN 

You must be at least 8th level to obtain a Padawan. Provided an apprentice 
is available (the Gamemaster is free to determine whether or not training 
a Padawan is appropriate for the campaign), the player need only declare 
that he or she wishes to take on a Padawan. At this point, the Gamemaster 
should craft an appropriate Padawan for the hero to train, using the fol- 
lowing guidelines. 

A Padawan obtained in this manner is a nonheroic character. The Padawan 
begins at 1st level, with the following starting feats: Force Sensitivity, Skill 
Training (Use the Force), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers), and Weapon 
Proficiency (simple weapons). 


Padawans are likewise limited in their feat selection. Padawans cannot 
take the Skill Focus feat (representing the fact that the apprentice has yet to 
master any particular skill), except for those that are granted as conditional 
bonus feats by the Padawan's species. 

The Gamemaster chooses the Padawan's species, other trained skills, and 
feats. Padawans are also given a lightsaber and cannot build their own until 
7th level. Human Padawans should probably take Force Training as their 
‘species bonus feat, and all Padawans should take Force Training as their 3rd 
and 6th level feats as well. The Gamemaster chooses Force powers for the 
Padawan that are also known by the Padawan's Master. 


PADAWANS IN ADVENTURES 

Since a Padawan is a nonheroic character that is likely significantly lower 
in level than the rest of the party, certain special benefits are conferred 
upon the Padawan while she undergoes training. Whenever the Padawan 
is within 12 squares of her Master, she adds her Master's heroic level to all 
of her defenses. Additionally, when the Padawan takes damage that would 
reduce her to 0 hit points and that exceeds her damage threshold (that is, 
damage that would kill her), she does not die but instead falls unconscious. 
While unconscious, the Padawan can still be killed by all of the normal means, 
including the coup de grace action. Lastly, if the Padawan is adjacent to her 
Master, she can redirect any attack made against her to her Master as a 
reaction, provided the player is willing. 

A Padawan is not directly under the control of the hero that trains her, 
though Gamemasters should have the Padawan obey her Master's commands. 
In combat, a Padawan can be used to set up flanks or to aid on attack rolls, 
or use Force powers when appropriate to help out in the battle. Outside of 
combat, the Padawan typically uses the aid another action to help her Master 
‘on skill checks, or occasionally provide skill checks for skills in which no one 
else in the party is trained. 

Padawans do not take their own cut of the XP earned by a party; instead, 
a Padawan simply gains as much XP as her Master whenever XP is awarded, 
In this manner, Padawans gain levels much faster than their Masters, though 
this does allow a Jedi to train multiple apprentices over the course of a 
single campaign. 


BENEFITS OF TRAINING 

A PADAWAN 

Each time a Padawan gains a level, her Master gains the 24-hour bonus 
from the Education destiny (see page 114 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), 
regardless of whether the Master has that destiny or not. In addition to the 
traditional help that a Padawan can provide over the course of an adventure 
(such as aiding in combat, assisting on skill checks, and so forth), a Padawan 
can act as a method for delivering Gamemaster advice and suggestions to 
the Jedi hero that is training her. 


T eaiavHS 


AFISOSOMHE) 


i SaiavHS 


v 
bs 
i 
0) 
@ 
0) 
U 
x 
Ed 


ACHIEVING KNIGHTHOOD 
When a Jedi Padawan achieves 7th level, she continues to gain XP but cannot 
reach 8th level until certain circumstances are fulfilled. The Padawan must 
undergo her Jedi Trials—which typically involve undertaking some danger- 
‘ous mission during which all of the lessons she has learned as a Jedi come 
into play—and then be granted the rank of Jedi Knight by her Master and 
the Jedi Council. Once this happens, the apprentice is no longer considered 
to be a Padawan and ceases to be under the tutelage of the Jedi hero. All 
of her nonheroic levels are traded in for heroic levels, and the Gamemaster 
should rebuild the Padawan as a full-fledged Jedi Knight (with one level in 
the Jedi Knight prestige class). Upon achieving knighthood, the character 
is no longer a member of the party, but the Gamemaster should feel free to 
include that character as a recurring NPC. 

Once a Padawan reaches knighthood, the hero who trained that Padawan 
becomes eligible to take the Mentor Force secret (see page 37). 


THE DARK SIDE 

Always seductive is the dark side of the Force. It tempts even the most pure 
souls to take the quick and easy path. It gives the impression that it is more 
powerful than the light side, creeping into the minds of those seeking short- 
cuts to gaining more power. However, the dark side is only easier, not more 
powerful, Instead of gaining strength from life like the light side, the dark side 
thrives on destruction and negative emotions such as fear, anger, and hate, 
Succumbing to these emotions leads one down the dark path to ruin. 

The dark side promises a rapid rise in power. But as time goes on and one’s 
reliance on the dark side increases, it in turn demands more from he who 
uses its power, Its corruption slowly overtakes the individual trapped within 
its grasp and wears away at his life force until he cannot possibly escape its 
grasp without some form of outside intervention. 


The Order of the Sith is the one Force tradition most recognized as having 
embraced the dark side of the Force. The Sith hate the fact that the Jedi Order 
has corrupted the galaxy with its false teachings, and its members struggle 
to destroy the Jedi and rule the galaxy forever. Although they do succeed 
for a time under Darth Sidious and his apprentice, Darth Vader, their rule of 
hatred and fear only lasts until Luke Skywalker redeems his father and helps 
him eradicate the last of the Sith to finally bring balance to the Force. 


THE DARK PATH 
Those who walk the path toward the dark side of the Force go through four 
different stages: temptation, imperilment, submission, and atonement or 
redemption. Most users of the Force, even the purest of the Jedi, can go 
through at least one of these stages as they walk through life. Those who 
are ambitious, power-hungry, filled with hatred, overly passionate, or just 
outright evil will experience two or more of these stages during their descent 
into darkness. Anakin Skywalker went through all four stages during his 
life: temptation as a Jedi Padawan, imperilment while he served as a Jedi 
Knight during the Clone Wars, submission when he served Darth Sidious as 
his apprentice Darth Vader, and redemption when he hurled Sidious to his 
death and restored freedom and order to the galaxy. 

Force-users can face these stages in a variety of different ways. Pupils 
and apprentices can grope with these stages as they learn about the Force, 
their sense of morality, or their affinity with the Jedi Code. 


The Dark Path: Temptation 

To those who can feel it, the Force offers great power. An individual sensitive 
to the Force views the galaxy in a much different way than those who cannot 
connect to the Force. Through that insight, one can learn to use the Force in 
many ways but also runs the risk of having a brush with the dark side. 

As a Jedi begins to learn to wield the Force and master its techniques, 
she opens herself to the temptations that come with it. Those who show 
impatience or eagerness to engage in combat are especially susceptible to 
the dark side's lure, as they quickly take an aggressive stance and often give 
in to fear or anger. If this course of action is what the Jedi prefers, then he 
should expect the dark side to tempt him in some way. 


The Dark Path: Imperilment 

A Force-user who has been tempted by the dark side enough to be on the 
verge of completely falling under its influence is considered imperiled, and 
great strength of will is required to pull them back from the edge of the abyss 
‘on which they stand. While some show little concern about taking that last 
step to becoming a full dark sider, others resist the dark side's call and try to 
use its power sparingly, They hear the voice inside their head warning them 
to not perform an act that will push them over the edge. Sometimes that 
voice is a whisper; other times it roars like thunder. 


The Dark Path: Submission 

Once a Jedi has completely submitted to the dark side (that is, once his Dark 
Side Score equals his Wisdom score), all bets are off. He no longer has any 
need, let alone desire, to monitor his actions, for he has become a full-fledged 
dark sider whose agenda has totally changed from what it was at the begin- 
ning of his descent. Those who once worked with him now see what he has 
become and might choose to take appropriate action, including trying to kill 
him. More than likely, the dark sider will leave the group to pursue his own 
goals and never see them again except as an adversary. 


The Dark Path: Atonement or Redemption 

Most of the time, one who is steeped in the dark side has no desire to return to 
the life he once led, wishing instead to continue along the dark path. However, 
exceptions exist. Those who are tainted might atone for their actions and are 
able to go through the effort to redeem themselves. Those who have fully 
submitted to the dark side cannot atone and can only be redeemed through 
an act of dramatic heroism. 


VARIATIONS ON THE DARK SIDE 
The dark side of the Force is usually presented as the driving force behind the 
Sith, the darkest evil in the galaxy. However, ather Force traditions have been 
known to walk the dark path or wield the dark side from time to time and still 
avoid falling under its influence. Groups such as the Jensaarai have members 
that occasionally tap into the dark side and walk away seemingly untouched. 


According to the Jedi, these individuals become tainted and carry the dark 
side's influence with them, whether they realize it or not. Some people claim 
to have witnessed a slow metamorphosis of these persons’ personalities over 
time as a result of their flirting with the dark side. 

Force-using Jedi who meddle with the dark side without totally sur- 
rendering to it are sometimes referred to as Gray Jedi. A Gray Jedi taps into 
the light side and the dark side equally. Members of the Jensaarai outwardly 
deny such claims that they are Gray, but the Jedi and the Sith do not hesitate 
to say that the Jensaarai refuse to admit the truth to themselves. There are 
those in the galaxy who are not affiliated with any tradition that delve into 
both the light side and the dark side that are true Gray Jedi. These people 
cause concern for the Jedi, since these Gray Jedi often portray themselves 
as holding full knowledge of the Force, sometimes claiming to know more 
than the Jedi, and often actively recruit other Force-sensitive people to join 
their cause. 


APPLICATIONS OF 
THE FORCE 


Having knowledge of the Force provides a good foundation to being an 
outstanding Jedi. But, having that knowledge is only half of what is required 
to fulfilling your purpose. Being able to take that knowledge and apply it in 
everyday life completes the expectations of a Jedi. 

Everything that a Jedi can do with the Force can be broken down into 
three broad categories: alter, control, and sense. Some abilities work in such 
@ way that they span two or even all three categories. These abilities are not 
widely known, especially the ones that fall under all three groups, and the 
secrets to learning these powers have been locked away, to be revealed only 
to those who truly need them. 


Tt eaLawHo 


AAAOSOMWHAE) 


ALTER 
Alter talents are undeniably the most easily observable but least understood 
applications of the Force known by the Jedi Order. That is not to say that the 
Jedi know very little about this area, but a more appropriate phrase would be 
that the true nature of this use is still highly speculated. Using the Force to 
affect anything outside the body or the senses is considered an Alter ability, 
since it is used to “alter” someone or something. Control abilities cannot be 
considered in the Alter category because they affect only the Force-user's 
body and nothing beyond that. Sense abilities do not make any effort to 
manipulate anything within the Force-user's environment, only detect it. 
Alter abilities (be they powers, talents, or whatever) have a variety of 
applications, from moving objects without physically touching them to creat- 
ing a sound on the other side of a room to forming an illusion of something 
that is not really there. Several Force traditions, including the Sith Order and 
the Zeison Sha, rely heavily on Alter applications of the Force to accomplish 
much of what they do. 


How Do Alter Abilities Work? 
The theories behind how Alter abilities work are as numerous as the theories 
of the Force. Science cannot explain them. 

The most widely accepted theory is that the Force reacts to a Force-user's 
strength of will, allowing the individual to apply the Force with her mind to 
some other space or object. 

Moving objects through the Force involves stretching out one’s feelings 
through the Force to mentally seize the object in question and exerting one's 
will on it so that it performs as he wishes. Opponents of the Living Force ques- 
tion how this is possible on nonliving things, such as weapons and starfighters. 
But, the official answer from the Jedi states that the Force is created by all 
living things and permeates the galaxy, even around nonliving things. An 
individual lifts a starfighter off the ground by mastering the space around it 
and not thinking of it as lifeless object but as part of the greater universe. 

At the same time, using powers where the Force is used as a telekinetic 
attack, such as when a Jedi pushes an opponent away through the Force, 
calls upon the same basic technique of stretching out his feelings. But 
instead of seizing the opponent, he shoves against the enemy and propels 
him backward, 

Another common application is known as the mind trick, where a Jedi 
changes a person's perceptions or plants a suggestion into another's mind. 
Pushing the suggestion or desired effect through the Force, the Force-user 
superimposes his will onto the target's mind. Accomplishing this task might 
be more difficult with some races, such as the Hutts or the Toydarians. Many 
Jedi scholars believe that this is due to the races’ physiologies being drasti- 
cally different than most other races in the galaxy. Others believe that this 
could be because members of those races have a lower midichlorian count 
than what other races typically have. 


ACTUAL NUMERICAL ADVANTAGE: 


Healing other living creatures is one of the least common but most valued 
applications of the Force. Documented cases reveal that the Force can be 
used to close wounds, cure diseases, detoxify poisons, and heal other ail- 
ments. Despite the fact that races’ anatomies differ widely, the Force helps 
tend to the sick and wounded, leading many Jedi to support the notion that 
the Force values life above all else. This also explains why healing works on 
different races when the mind trick does not, since the mind trick does not 
perform any actions to help support life. 

Arare but known technique is the ability to create illusions through the 
Force. Though many people speculate on different methods to accomplish this 
task, including implanting the illusion into the minds of those the Force-user 
wants to see it, a number of Force-users that have mastered this practice 
state that they envision the image they want to create in their mind and push 
it out through the Force to manifest at the desired location. Both theories 
are sound with the caveat that neither is grounded in science. 


CONTROL 

The abilities that fall under the Control category are those that involve 
tapping into abilities hidden within one’s body and spirit to expand and 
enhance what can be already done or to open new doors to talents that 
the Force-user did not originally have. Powers and talents that improve a 
Force-user's speed, strength, or combat prowess fall under this category as 
well as healing one’s own wounds. 


How Do Control Abilities Work? 

Allowing the Force to manipulate the body and its systems is probably one of 
the most easily understood applications of the Force and one of the easiest to 
master. In fact, most other Force traditions beside the Jedi, such as the Matukai, 
have mastered Control abilities to a better extent than the Jedi and are able to 
do far more with their bodies than some of the greatest Jedi Masters. 

Using the Force in this capacity requires more than just channeling it 
through the body. Knowing how the body works and its limitations is key 
to mastering Control abilities. Countless incidents have been documented 
where anxious Jedi younglings have tried to do too much at one time and 
injured themselves with broken limbs and strained muscles in the process, 
Like with any other lessons, starting small is the best approach. Also, know- 
ing where to apply the Force is important to achieve the maximum result. A 
Jedi wishing to leap to a ledge several stories higher should know to focus 
the Force on certain muscles to reach the desired height. 


SENSE 
While some would argue that Sense abilities actually apply to improving 
the body and are more appropriately placed with Control, the truth is that 
Sense powers expand one's awareness and ability to perceive one's sur- 
roundings in more ways than just by sight and sound, Since Sense powers 
deal entirely with perception and awareness, they deserve to be classified 
in their own category. 

Force-using organizations such as the Baran Do are known to master 
Sense abilities to levels beyond some of the more prominent traditions, 
including the Jedi Order. 


How Do Sense Abilities Work? 
Depending on your outlook on the Force, how Sense abilities work can be 
approached from two different angles: internally or externally. The internal 
theory states that the abilities exhibited by a Force-user are a result of apply- 
ing the Force to your own sensory organs to enhance the way they work. The 
external theory asserts that those same abilities result from the Force-sensitive 
individual picking up signals from other life forms through the Force. 
Looking at the internal theory, Sense abilities increase the efficacy of 
‘one's sensory organs, passing new information on to the brain for interpreta- 
tion. Sometimes, it involves opening the eyes to locate an object outside a 
person's normal sight range or to examine details too small for the naked eye 


to perceive. Other times, it allows the ear to detect sounds whose frequencies 
are too high or too low for normal hearing or hear sounds so soft that even 
electronic equipment can barely detect them. And at other times, the Force 
opens the mind to perceive signals in other spectrums not normally allowed 
by the mind, such as picking up other people's thoughts, transmitting one’s 
‘own thoughts through the Force to another person halfway across the galaxy, 
or perceiving disturbances in the Force caused by the sudden extermination 
of life on a massive scale. In these situations, applying the Force to the 
specific sensory organ is all that is needed. Just a small application is enough 
to achieve the desired effect. While no documented cases exist of Force- 
induced blindness or deafness, pushing too much of the Force on one single 
area is highly discouraged. 

Taking a closer look at the external theory, Sense abilities do not truly 
enhance the individual's senses. However, the person stretches outward 
through the Force to look for indications of other life forms around him and 
what they are doing. No power is applied to the Jedi’s eyes, ears, or any of 
his other senses. Instead, the signals broadcasted by other living beings are 
delivered through the Force to his brain to be interpreted as the mind would 
normally process sights and sounds received through normal means. As with 
the internal theory, not much of the Force is required to use these abilities, 
‘but one should not overdo it. 


INFLUENCE OF THE DARK SIDE 
Those allied with the dark side of the Force find ways to use every aspect 
of the Force to their advantage, Dark siders twist the Force to apply it in 
ways that are unnatural and self-serving. Even though the Jedi struggle to 
end these practices, some manage to avoid being caught and pass their 
knowledge along to students willing to learn their dark secrets and expand 
‘on what they have been taught. 

The methods used by dark siders fall under the same three categories 
established by other Force-users in the galaxy: Alter, Control, and Sense, 
While the Jedi have not examined how these dark abilities manifest, the fol- 
Jowing theories and speculations about how they work are the most popular 
explanations within the Jedi Order. 

Many of the abilities that are grouped under Control and Sense work much 
the same as those used by the Jedi and other organizations; the ability to 
improve what the body already does and perceives cannot vary too much. 
However, certain powers categorized under the Alter classification seem to 
be more easily recognized as originating from the dark side. 

By focusing their anger and hatred, many dark siders are able to fly intoa 
berserker rage, increasing their battle prowess as they give themselves over 
to the dark side. Using the Force in this way can sometimes push the body's 
capabilities beyond what it can normally handle, often leading to physical 
deformities or alterations (not unlike those witnessed in Darth Sidious). 
Observations indicate that these extreme boosts last for only a short time. 


T wSsiavnS 


x0) 
lg 
A 
0) 
@ 
@ 
U 
x 
x 


CHAPTER Ill 
ARTIFACTS 
1? oO 


EQUIPMENT & 


Force-users, especially the Jedi and the Sith, need little in the way 
special accoutrements beyond their robes and their lightsabers. Still, 
f the millennia that the Jedi have roamed the galaxy, certain objects, 
jpons, and suits of armor have gained popularity among members of the 
ind, in many cases, have subsequently faded into obscurity. However, 
= item has never gone out of style since its creation: the lightsaber. This 
“chapter provides an in-depth look at lightsabers, including their construc- 
tion, and includes information on a variety of other objects of significance 
to,Force-users. 
Not all items are available in all eras. In the days of the Jedi Civil War, 
the galaxy is filled with Sith artifacts and weapons of strange construction, 
“as the Jedi and the Sith try to outdo one another in a Force-assisted arms 
race. However, by the time of the Rebellion against the Empire, Emperor 
Palpatine had already confiscated and, in many cases, destroyed ancient Jedi 
and Sith artifacts, meaning that very few such objects survive in that time 
period and beyond. By the time that Luke Skywalker founds the new Jedi 
Academy, the search for Jedi artifacts unearths a few items of significance. 
A Gamemasters must decide which weapons and objects are available in 
q his or her campaign, and should feel free to rule that some items simply no 
longer exist in the galaxy. 
With that in mind, there are many ways to reintroduce lost objects ard 
artifacts in games set farther forward in the Star Wars timeline. The Sith are 
notorious for creating tombs and mausoleums for their dead, honoring great 
Sith Lords with temples of epic size and complexity. Within these tombs lie 
many undiscovered secrets, among them lost artifacts (or, perhaps, merely 
the secret lore of how to recreate them). Gamemasters who rule that some 
objects are not available for general purchase or construction might dole 
out those same objects by placing such relics in undisturbed tombs, in the 
remains of Sith and Jedi ships of war that crashed onto remote, unknown 
worlds long ago, or in vessels and space stations that have drifted derelict 
Wkrrough space for thousands of years. 


=) 


Sidvailyy Y INSWaInos é 


ii SsievHo 


SAgvlLsy | ansncaines 


MBELEE WEAPONS 

Jedi primarily wield lightsabers, though there are variants of the lightsaber 
that work better with particular fighting styles. The weapons given on Table 
3-1 are described below. 


Guard Shoto 

Lightsaber 

A rare variant of the short shoto style of lightsaber, the guard shoto (also 
referred to as the lightsaber tonfa) has a second handle that sticks out from 
the main hilt at a. 90-degree angle. It is possible to hold a guard shoto by 
either the main hilt or the second handle. If it is held by the second handle, 
the lightsaber blade can be held parallel to the forearm, allowing it to easily 
be used for blocks. 

Because a guard shoto is designed primarily to block other lightsabers, 
it is most useful when its handle is laced with phrik (a lightsaber-resistant 
metallic compound), which can be an expensive process. 

Acharacter proficient with the guard shoto gains a +2 equipment bonus 
‘on Use the Force checks to block melee attacks or deflect ranged attacks 
using the Block or Deflect talent. Additionally, lightsabers do not ignore the 
DR of a guard shoto with a phrik-laced handle. 

A guard shoto requires an energy cell to operate. 


Lightfoil, Archaic 
Lightsaber 
Lighter than the average lightsaber and more delicately balanced, the archaic 
lightfoil is wielded with only one hand and was once the favored weapon of 
many Jedi dueling masters. Originally created by Sith agents in the Tapani 
Sector, lightfoils promote a more graceful fighting style and are favored 
by practitioners of the Makashi style of lightsaber combat. Popular in the 
years leading up to the Great Sith War, the lightfoil in its original form was 
created in much the same way as other lightsabers and benefitted from the 
builder's mastery of the Force. 

An archaic lightfoil is delicately balanced, and its wielder can choose 
to consider it a Small weapon whenever it would be beneficial. However, a 
lightfoil cannot be wielded two-handed. 

An archaic lightfoil requires an energy cell to operate. 


Lightfoil, Modern 

Lightsaber 

After the decline of the Sith in the Tapani Sector, the art of creating a true 
lightfoil was all but lost. However, craftsfolk in the employ of the nobles 
from the Tapani Sector continued to try and meet the demand for the archaic 
weapon millennia after the secrets of building the original lightfoil died with 
the Sith who had mastered them. The modern lightfoil, still popular among 


young Tapani Sector nobles, is less potent than its original form but can be 
built even by those who have no training in the Force. 

A modern lightfoil is delicately balanced, and its wielder can choose to 
consider it a Small weapon whenever it would be beneficial. However, a 
lightfoil cannot be wielded two-handed. 

A modern lightfoil requires an energy cell to operate. 


HOLOCRON LESSON: 

ARCHAIC POWER PACKS AND 
“RETROSABERS"” 

The archaic lightsaber is an example of how ancient technology evolved 
into an object of great importance in modern times. Though few examples 
of archaic lightsabers still exist in the galaxy, Jedi historians have pre- 
served a few of these ancient weapons and have even devised ways of 
recharging their failing power packs. 

The archaic power pack has one advantage over its modern analogs. 
The fact that the lightsaber is physically attached to the power pack by 
‘a power cord means that the weapon doesn't go far or roll away on its 
‘own when dropped, though any kind of force applied to the power cord 
(such as a disarm attempt) immediately disconnects the lightsaber from 
its power source. 

For modern Jedi, there is almost no reason to use an archaic lightsa- 
ber with its special, belt-mounted power packs other than for nostalgic 
reasons. However, Jedi artisans have spent years examining archaic power 
packs, in search of a way to turn its disadvantages into advantages. At 
least one Jedi Master claims to have found a way to reconstruct the 
archaic power cell using modern technology, creating a version of the 
archaic lightsaber that uses the most cutting edge components. Though 
still possessing the form of an archaic lightsaber—a blade-emitting hilt 
connected to a belt-mounted power pack—this weapon takes advantage 
of thousands of years of technological achievement to produce a weapon 
that is not only as potent a the modern lightsaber but also possesses some 
unique advantages that Jedi artisans have sought for decades. 

Construction of an archaic lightsaber using modern components— 
dubbed the retrosaber by its creators—follows much the same process 
as construction of a normal lightsaber. A retrosaber has a base construc- 
tion DC of 25 and deals 28 damage (instead of the archaic lightsaber's 
usual 2d6). As a swift action, the wielder can dial up the lightsaber's 
power, increasing the base damage to 2d10 until the end of the wielder's 
next turn. At the end of the wielder’s next turn, the lightsaber begins to 
burn out, decreasing the weapon's base damage to 2d4 for one round. 
During that round, the lightsaber’s damage may not be dialed back up 
to 2d10. 


Lightsaber, Archaic 

Lightsaber 

Before the Great Sith War, lightsabers required significantly higher power 
output to maintain the stable, solid blade that makes the weapon useful both 
for offense and defense. As a result, lightsabers required large power cells, 
some larger than a human hand, to function at full capacity. These power 
cells were worn on the belt or on the back and were connected to the hilt 
of the lightsaber via a long, slender cord. Around the same time that pulse- 
wave weapons were phased out in favor of modern blasters, lightsabers 
underwent a design revolution that miniaturized the power cells required 
to fuel the energy blade. With the development of this new technology, the 
Jedi devised methods of lightsaber creation that integrated these drastically 
smaller power cells into the hilt of the lightsaber, eliminating the need for 
the external power pack. With this revolution, the archaic lightsaber design 
was almost entirely abandoned. 

An archaic lightsaber is somewhat weaker than the classic lightsaber due 
to the lack of a sophisticated power supply and the distance of the energy 
cell from the lightsaber's main body. 

An archaic lightsaber requires a special power pack (which costs 600 
credits) to operate. 


BLADED LIGHTSABER. 


A VARIETY OF LIGHTS. 
QUARD SHOTOS, AND A DOUB! 


MESSAGE FROM THE 

FACULTY: DUAL-PHASE 
LIGHTSABER VARIANTS 

Some Jedi adapt the technology behind dual-phase lightsabers to allow 
them to wield a weapon that uses two different lightsaber crystals with 
different effects. When constructing a dual-phase lightsaber, you can 
choose a lightsaber crystal as normal for the default weapon setting and 
also apply its properties to its extended blade setting. 

However, instead of gaining the extended blade setting of a normal 
dual-phase lightsaber, you can instead choose a second lightsaber crystal 
with a different effect to add to your lightsaber. If you do this, you create 
two settings for your lightsaber with mutually exclusive effects. When 
you use a swift action to change the setting of the lightsaber, you then 
gain the benefits of whichever crystal is attuned to that setting. 

For example, you might choose an Ilum crystal for your default crystal 
(gaining the +1 Force bonus on attack rolls), and then a Bondar crystal 
for the second phase crystal (which converts the weapon's damage to 
stun damage). If you switch from the default setting to the Bondar crystal 
setting, you lose the +1 Force bonus on attack rolls but gain the ability 
to convert the weapon's normal damage to stun damage. 


Lightsaber, Dual-Phase 

Lightsaber 

Adual-phase lightsaber is a lightsaber variant that, at first glance, appears to 
be identical to a standard lightsaber, with a small handle emitting an energy 
blade about 1.3 meters long. However, dual-phase lightsabers include a com- 
plex array of multiple lightsaber crystals within the handle of the weapon, 
allowing the user to switch the blade's length from the standard length out 
toa length of nearly 3 meters. Dual-phase lightsabers are extremely popular 
during the days of the Jedi Civil War and the surrounding time periods due 
to the large number of lightsaber-wielding opponents a Jedi is likely to face 
The longer blade setting allows the wielder to keep an opponent at a distance 
during a duel, but lightsabers on this setting are also more unwieldy, making 
it difficult to defend against enemies that get up close to the wielder. 

In its basic setting, a dual-phase lightsaber functions as a normal 
lightsaber. As a swift action, the wielder can switch to the extended blade 
setting. While on this setting, the lightsaber increases the wielder’s reach by 
1 square, but the wielder also takes a -2 penalty to Reflex Defense against 
attacks made by adjacent targets. 

If you use a lightsaber crystal with a special effect when constructing a 
dual-phase lightsaber, that crystal’s effect applies to both the default set- 
ting and the extended blade setting (see also the Message from the Faculty: 
Dual-Phase Lightsaber Variants sidebar). 

A dual-phase lightsaber requires an energy cell to operate. 


tii BSisvHD 


SLEVAILEY | ANEWAINGS) 


fy 
I 
> 
v 
4 
Im 
D 


ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS cost DAMAGE STUN DMG WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
San-ni staff 4,500 2d6/2d6 Yes 2.2 kg Energy and bludgeoning Rare 

LIGHTSABERS cost DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Shoto, guard 7,000 2d4 - 1kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightfoil, archaic 4,500 2d8 - 0.5 kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightfoil, modern 2,500 246 - 0.5 kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightsaber, archaic 2,000 2d6 - 1.0 kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightsaber, crossguard 4,000 248 = 0.7 kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightsaber, dual-phase 6,000 2d8 - 0.5 kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightsaber, dueling 3,000 248 - 0.3 kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightwhip 5,000 204 = 1kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightsaber, great 5,000 2410 - 5kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightsaber, long-handle 4,500 2d8 - 2kg Energy and slashing Rare 
Lightsaber pike 4,000 2d8 oo 2kg Energy and slashing Rare 

‘SIMPLE WEAPONS cOsT DAMAGE STUNDAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Wan-shen 1,000 2d6/2d6 - 2kg Slashing and bludgeoning Rare 

Lightsaber, Dueling Lightsaber, Crossguard 

Lightsaber Lightsaber 


The dueling lightsaber isn't so much a variant lightsaber as it is a hilt style 
engineered specifically to enhance lightsaber duels. Count Dooku and his 
apprentices, Komari Vosa and Asajj Ventress, wield dueling lightsabers that 
feature a curved hilt designed to maximize the potential of a one-handed, 
finesse-based fighting style. 

When you wield a dueling lightsaber one-handed, you gain a +1 equip- 
ment bonus on attack rolls whenever you make an attack of opportunity 
with the weapon. 

A dueling lightsaber requires an energy cell to operate. 


An extremely rare lightsaber variant that is usually only found in the hands 
of skilled lightsaber duelists, the crossquard lightsaber (sometimes referred 
to asa forked lightsaber) has a special hilt that emits two lightsaber blades. 
The first blade is the standard, full-length blade common to all lightsabers. 
The crossquard lightsaber also emits a second blade, less than a human 
handspan in length and narrower than the standard blade, at an angle 
away from both the hilt and the main blade. This secondary blade is used 
to protect the wielder’s hand from lightsaber attacks that slide down the 
blade. The crossquard lightsaber also enables the wielder to parry incoming 
lightsaber attacks between either of the two blades, making it easier to 
block lightsaber attacks. 


When using a crossguard lightsaber with the Block talent, each successive 
Use the Force check made to block n incoming attack incurs only a cumula- 
tive -2 penalty, instead of the normal -5 penalty. However, a crossquard 
lightsaber can be difficult to master against ranged opponents, and as such 
the wielder takes a -2 penalty on all Use the Force checks made to use the 
Deflect talent. 

A crossguard lightsaber requires an energy cell to operate. 


Lightsaber, Great 
Lightsaber 
Favored by Large species, the great lightsaber produces an oversized light- 
saber blade. The blade of a great lightsaber is much longer and thicker than 
that of a normal lightsaber, and the handle itself is nearly as long as that of 
a double-bladed lightsaber. Only Large (or larger) creatures can use the great 
lightsaber in conjunction with feats that affect light weapons or lightsabers 
(such as the Weapon Finesse feat or talents from the melee duelist prestige 
class in the Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide). 

A great lightsaber requires an energy cell to operate. 


Long-Handle Lightsaber 

Lightsaber 

The long-handle lightsaber caters to a particular fighting style. The handle 
where the weapon is gripped is several times larger than the standard light- 
saber handle, providing a much larger surface area upon which the wielder 
can place his hands. Likewise, this longer grip makes it easier to swing the 
weapon around the body, using arms, legs, shoulders, hips, and other joints 
as fulcrums upon which the lightsaber can be levered. 

The fighting style used with a long-handled lightsaber takes advantage 
of the larger grip to allow the wielder to rotate the weapon around his body. 
When you wield the lightsaber two-handed, you can choose to forego dou- 
bling your Strength bonus to damage and instead increase the lightsaber's 
base damage to 2d10. Additionally, a character with the Long Haft Form feat 
(see page 23) can use the long-handle lightsaber as a double weapon. If you 
have this feat, you can attack with both ends of the weapon as a full-round 
action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty; certain feats and talents can 
reduce these penalties. The haft end of the lightsaber deals 1d6 damage. 

A long-handle lightsaber requires an energy cell to operate. 


Lightsaber Pike 

Lightsaber 

The favored weapon of the Emperor's Shadow Guard, the lightsaber pike 
resembles a conventional polearm in many respects. The long haft of the 
Weapon is made of phrik alloy, meaning that a lightsaber does not ignore 
the pike's damage reduction. At the end of the handle is a slightly shorter 
and thicker lightsaber blade, which can be activated as a swift action using 
a switch about midway down the weapon's haft. A lightsaber pike increases 


the wielder’s reach by 1 square but imposes a -2 penalty on Use the Force 
checks to use the Block or Deflect talent. 

A character with the Long Haft Form feat (see page 23) can use the 
lightsaber pike as a double weapon. If you have this feat, you can attack 
with both ends of the weapon as a full-round action, but both attack rolls 
take a -10 penalty; certain feats and talents can reduce these penalties. The 
non-lightsaber end of the pike deals 146 damage. 

A lightsaber pike requires an energy cell to operate. 


Lightwhip 

Lightsaber 

A lightwhip is similar to a lightsaber in that it emits a beam of energy from its 
handgrip. The device differs, though, in that the "blade" is long and flexible, 
giving it the properties of a whip. Although a lightwhip has a greater reach, 
it lacks the power of a more traditional lightsaber. 

A lightwhip has a reach of 2 squares. When you hit a target with a light- 
whip, it deals normal damage and you can initiate a grab or a grapple against 
the target. A target that is grabbed or grappled can attempt to escape the 
lightwhip (requiring a DC 15 Acrobatics check). You can use the Pin and 
Trip feats with a lightwhip, but you cannot use the Crush or Throw feats. 
Any character that ends its turn in a grab or grapple from a lightwhip takes 
damage equal to the weapon's base damage (you do not add your Strength 
bonus, half your heroic level, or any other modifiers to this damage). 

A lightwhip requires an energy cell to operate. 


San-Ni Staff 

Advanced Melee Weapon 

The san-ni staff is favored by martial artists throughout the galaxy, includ- 
ing Jedi weapon masters looking for more variety than the lightsaber of fers. 
Consisting of three metal rods held together by power couplings, the san-ni 
staff is a flexible weapon that can be whipped around the wielder's body in 
combat, both for leverage and to confuse an opponent. Moreover, a san-ni 
staff's power couplings are made of pure energy that are impervious to 
lightsaber damage (much as lightsaber blades are). 

The san-ni staff is a double weapon. You can attack with both ends of a 
san-ni staff as a full-round action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty; 
certain feats and talents can reduce these penalties. Additionally, the san-ni 
staff can be used in conjunction with the Block talent as though it were a 
lightsaber. Also, the wielder of a san-ni staff can designate (at the time 
the attack is made) that he or she is striking the opponent with the power 
couplings, dealing stun damage instead of normal, lethal damage. 

A san-ni staff requires two energy cells to operate. 


in BSiayHo 


Wan-Shen 
Simple Weapon 
The wan-shen is a tall polearm wielded by the Matukai as their weapon of 
choice and their external focus for the Force. The weapon consists of a single- 
edged blade at the end of a long, metal shaft, both of which are made of a 
hard but lightweight metal. The blade is forged and sculpted with assistance 
from the Force, making it extraordinarily resilient. Although all wan-shen are 
constructed the same, each weapon is customized by the individual Matukai 
who uses it in the form of engraved symbols and artwork on the blade, usually 
symbolizing something meaningful to the wielder. Wan-shen are designed to 
break down into smaller parts to allow the weapon to be more easily stored 
and carried; a disassembled wan-shen breaks down into four Small objects. 
Assembling or disassembling a wan-shen is a full-round action. 
Awan-shen increases the wielder’s reach by 1 square. The wan-shen isa 
double weapon, You can attack with both ends of a wan-shen as a full-round 
action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty; certain feats and talents 
can reduce these penalties. > 


ADVANCED 
LIGHTSABER 
CONSTRUCTION 


For some Jedi and Sith, a lightsaber is not just a weapon; it is a personalized 
‘emblem of one's life and philosophy. Similarly, some players may wish to 
customize their Jedi hero's lightsaber to reflect the character's philosophy 
and fighting style, beyond the basic lightsaber construction rules found in the 
Saga Edition core rulebook. This following section includes a wealth of new 
options for players and Gamemasters looking to customize their lightsabers 
to better fit the characters who wield them. 

The lightsaber construction process begins when a hero reaches 7th level. 
First, the player or Gamemaster must decide what kind of lightsaber to build, 
The standard lightsaber is the most common lightsaber in the galaxy, and 
it is not only the easiest to build but also requires no special training to use 
effectively in combat (besides the standard Weapon Proficiency feat). Once 
a particular kind of lightsaber has been selected, the next step is to choose a 
lightsaber crystal. Any character can build a lightsaber from Adegan crystals, 
llum crystals, or synthetic crystals; the default assumption is that Jedi (and 
other lightsaber-wielding traditions) have ample access to these crystals 
and need perform no special quest to obtain one. However, if you wish to 
use a lightsaber crystal of another kind, the character may need to undergo 
a special adventure to obtain the crystal. 

Once the desired crystal has been chosen and obtained, the next step is 
to choose any special accessories or modifications to be made. With that 
in mind, the construction process can begin. Special lightsaber crystals 
and lightsaber accessories can modify the DC to construct the lightsaber; 
when construction begins, using the rules on page 40 of the Saga Edition 


core rulebook, applying these modifiers to the standard Use the Force 
check DC before the check is made (the base DC is determined by the kind 
of lightsaber being built, as presented on Table 3-2). Once the lightsaber is 
complete, the Jedi attunes the weapon as normal, gaining whatever benefit 
the attunement provides (based on the kind of lightsaber crystal that was 
used) for that wielder. 


LIGHTSABER BUILD DC 
Lightfoil, archaic 20 
Lightfoil, modern 15 
Lightsaber (standard) 20 
Lightsaber pike 20 
Lightsaber, archaic 18 
Lightsaber, crossquard 25 
Lightsaber, dual-phase 25 
Lightsaber, dueling 25 
Lightsaber, great 20 
Lightsaber, long-handle 20 
Lightwhip 25 
Shoto 20 
Guard shoto 20 


LIGHTSABER CRYSTALS 
One of the most critical elements in a lightsaber's construction is its light- 
saber crystals. These crystals come from a variety of sources, but in the 
end they are a crucial part of the mechanism that creates and focuses the 
lightsaber blade. It is to the crystal that a Jedi attunes herself, giving her 
the benefit of the crystal’s bond. Lightsaber crystals come in many varieties, 


CRYSTAL BLADE COLOR _ BUILD DC MODIFIER 
Ankarres Sapphire Blue +5 
Barab ingot Varies +5 
Bondar crystal Varies - 
Compressed crystal Red or varies +5 
Corusea gem Varies = 
Dantari crystal Varies -* 
Dragite crystal Varies +5 
Durindfire crystal Silver - 
Firkraan crystal Varies - 
Heart of the Guardian Orange +10 
Hurikane crystal Blue or violet +5 
llum crystal Blue or green - 
Jenraux crystal Varies - 
Kaiburr Crystal shard Crimson +5 
Kasha crystal Varies - 
Kathracite crystal Varies -5 
Krayt dragon pearl Varies +10 
Lambent crystal Varies +10 
Mantle of the Force Cyan +10 
Mephite crystal Varies - 
Opila crystal Varies - 
Phond crystal Varies - 
Pontite crystal Blue or green +5 
Rubat crystal Varies - 
Sigil crystal Varies S 
Solari crystal Varies - 
Standard synthetic crystal Red or varies - 
Unstable crystal Red or varies +5 


and the crystal determines not only the lightsaber blade’s color but also the 
blade's special properties. Available lightsaber crystals are described below 
and summarized in Table 3-3. 

Some crystals modify the build DC of a lightsaber, representing how easy 
or difficult itis to incorporate the crystals into the weapon's design. 


EFFECT 

Improves one’s healing ability while wielding the lightsaber 
Lightsaber deals fire damage instead of normal damage 

Lightsaber deals stun damage instead of normal damage 

Increases the difficulty of Block attempts 

+1 die of damage against a target with damage reduction 

Reflects the light or darkness within the wielder 

+1 die of sonic damage on critical hits 

Casts a glow as bright as a fusion lantern 

Lightsaber deals ion damage instead of normal damage 

+2 Force bonus on attack rolls against lightsaber-wielders 

+2 Force bonus on attack rolls against. targets in armor 

+1 bonus on attack rolls 

+2 Force bonus to Block attempts 

Increases Force Point die type by one step when adding to attack rolls 
+2 Force bonus to Will Defense 

Reduces the weapon's damage die type by one step; +1 bonus on attack rolls 
+3 Force bonus on damage rolls 

Ignore restrictions on sensing Yuuzhan Vong 

+2 Force bonus on Use the Force checks to activate Personal powers 
+1 bonus on attack rolls 

+1 die of damage on critical hits 

+1 die of damage against targets with shields 

Take no penalty on Persuasion checks against unfriendly or indifferent creatures 
Reroll one damage roll once per encounter 

+2 Force bonus on damage rolls 

+2 Force bonus to Deflect attempts 

+1 bonus on attack rolls 

+1 die of damage on critical hits; deactivates on a natural 1 


SasvelTy © anemainee [iH 


SLEVAILNY |E LNEWAINGES) 


i Saleen 


Adegan Crystals 

The most common lightsaber crystals in the days of the Old Republic, Adegan 
crystals are harvested from the Outer Rim, specifically the Adegan system 
in the Auril Sector. These crystals have been used by Jedi for thousands of 
years, and they come in a variety of colors. Before the discovery of Ilum, the 
vast majority of lightsaber crystals come from the Adegan system. 

Kathracite Crystal: One of the most common crystals in the Adegan 
system, kathracite is frequently used in the creation of Jedi apprentice 
lightsabers. When used asa lightsaber crystal, kathracite produces a weaker 
blade with less cutting power. Many Jedi Masters recommend that their 
Padawans use lightsabers with kathracite blades during their first few years 
of training, allowing them to still have a fully effective weapon while reducing 
the amount of damage they can do with an errant strike. A lightsaber with a 
kathracite crystal reduces the weapon's die type by one step (from d8 to d6, 
or d6 to d4). A weapon with a base d4 die type becomes dés, but has one less 
die of damage (for example, 2d4 becomes 146). A kathracite crystal grants 
the standard +1 bonus on attack rolls to its attuned wielder. 

Mephite Crystal: Mephite crystals are considered the standard by which 
all lightsaber blades are judged. Almost all lightsabers wielded by Jedi Knights 
in the days of the Old Republic incorporate mephite Adegan crystals. Mephite 
crystals are similar in structure to both pontite crystals and llum crystals, 
even to the point where some xenogeologists have misidentified crystal 
growths on llum as mephite crystals. A mephite crystal grants the standard 
+1 bonus on attack rolls to its attuned wielder. 


MESSAGE FROM THE 

FACULTY: CRYSTALS IN 
TRAINING LIGHTSABERS 

There are two effective ways to build a less lethal lightsaber, sometimes 
known as a training lightsaber: Use a bondar crystal or a kathracite 
crystal. 

A bondar crystal is used in the creation of the safest lightsabers, 
given to younglings for basic weapon training in the Jedi Temple. Bondar 
crystals create wholly nonlethal lightsabers that merely shock the target 
and do not actually cut into it. Typically, lightsabers with bondar crystals 
see use during sparring sessions between Padawans, as they allow the Jedi 
to actually strike the target with what would be a serious blow without 
doing any permanent harm. Kathracite, on the other hand, produces a 
more traditional lightsaber blade, albeit a weaker one that is less likely 
to cause serious harm in case of an accident. 

By the time an adventuring Jedi begins his career, he has likely aban- 
doned training lightsabers entirely and uses a full-strength lightsaber, 
albeit not one of her own creation, Lightsabers with bondar or kathracite 
crystals usually appear in the hands of younglings, or are kept safely 
in reserve by the Jedi temples and academies for when new students 
come of age. 


Pontite Crystal: The rarest of all Adegan crystals, pontite produces 2 
relatively standard lightsaber blade. However, unlike blades of mephite, a 
lightsaber blade emitted by a pontite crystal produces subsonic waves that 
most sentient species find soothing. While wielding an active lightsaber 
with a pontite crystal to which you are attuned, you take no penalty on 
Persuasion checks made to change the attitude of unfriendly or indifferent 
creatures within 6 squares (see page 71 the Saga Edition core rulebook for 
more information on attitudes). 


llum Crystals 
The discovery of the planet llum was a landmark event in the history of the 
Jedi Order. Up until its discovery, finding crystals to generate the full-strength 
blades that the Jedi Order required could be tedious and time-consuming. 
Mephite and pontite made for the best lightsaber blades, but even in the 
Adegan system, those crystals were rare. The discovery of Ilum brought with 
it entire caves filled with crystals whose structure was so similar to mephite 
and pontite that the Jedi took them to be the same, at first. Jedi who undergo 
the ritual of lightsaber creation seek out the caves of Ilum, as their crystals 
are considered the highest quality. 

llum crystals produce a full-strength lightsaber blade that is either blue 
‘or green in color. An llum crystal grants the standard +1 bonus on attack 
rolls to its attuned wielder common to most lightsabers. 


Synthetic Crystals 

To many Jedi, the idea of using a synthetic crystal is anathema; in their eyes, 
Jedi should use crystals found naturally throughout the galaxy. However, 
sometimes there is no choice but to create a synthetic lightsaber crystal, 
particularly when a weapon is needed and no naturally occurring crystals 
can be found to do the job. In the wake of the destruction of the Jedi Order 
by Emperor Palpatine, Luke Skywalker was forced to create a synthetic 
lightsaber crystal since he had no knowledge of the caves at Ilum or the 
significance of Adegan crystals. 

For eons, Sith Lords have created synthetic crystals due to a need to stay 
in hiding and avoid crossing paths with the Jedi. Over time, it became a part 
of the Sith tradition to create synthetic lightsaber crystals, and many Jedi, in 
turn, associate the process with choosing the quick and easy path. Addition- 
ally, in the days of the Old Republic, many Jedi constructed lightsabers from 
inferior Adegan crystals when mephite and pontite crystals were unavailable, 
and as such the Sith considered synthetic crystals, which produced the stron- 
ger and more reliable blade, to be a sign that the Sith method of mastering 
the Force was far superior to the Jedi's more passive methods. 

Compressed Crystal: The process of crafting a synthetic lightsaber crystal 
attempts to replicate millennia of geological compression and crystallization 
using machines and computers, which can sometimes fail. On occasion, the 
crystal's structure comes out far more compressed than a standard lightsaber 
crystal. Compressed crystals function perfectly well as lightsaber crystals, 
producing a blade that is far thinner and more precise than the standard 


So, my young ig anette you have decided Pe aitnk ‘own lightsaber 
crystal rather than relying on the untamed wilds of space to provide you 
with one? Very good. You may yet ascend to the rank of Dark Lord of the 
Sith. First, you must obtain the machinery and raw materials necessary 
to create your lightsaber crystal. The machinery is known as a geological 
compressor and is commonly used by xenogeologists to replicate geo- 
logical conditions on distant worlds inside a laboratory. This device is 
available with a license for a fee of 2,000 credits. The raw materials can 
be gathered from nearly any world with a high carbon concentration. 
Once you have placed the raw materials inside the compressor, you must 
guide the formation of the crystal with your mastery of the Force. After 
24 hours, make a DC 20 Use the Force check; success indicates that the 
lightsaber crystal is created correctly. Failure produces a ores that 
cannot be used for lightsaber construction. 

When you remove the crystal from the compressor, you will find that 
itis crimson in color; synthetic crystals produce the blood-red blades that 
the Sith have used for millennia. It is possible to create synthetic crystals 
of other colors, requiring only the desire to do so and the knowledge 
required to alter the compression process during crystal formation. You 
may need to create a synthetic crystal of a different color to hide your 
adherence to my Sith teachings, but there will come a day when you can 
wield the crimson blade of the Sith openly as you stand over the bodies 
of your so-called Jedi Masters. 


crystal. When you are attuned toa lightsaber with a compressed crystal, the 
targets of your lightsaber attacks take a -2 penalty on Use the Force checks 
made to negate the attack with the Block talent. 

Standard Synthetic Crystal: The standard synthetic lightsaber crystal is 
created by replicating the geological structure of more traditional crystals 
using advanced technology, effectively crafting a crystal from other, exist- 
ing materials. A standard synthetic crystal grants the standard +1 bonus on 
attack rolls to its attuned wielder. 

Unstable Crystal: Like compressed crystals, unstable crystals are usually 
the result of the machinery used to synthesize the crystal failing to accurately 
replicate the natural crystallization process. Unstable crystals create light- 
sabers with blades that crackle with energy at erratic intervals, sometimes 
causing sparks to fly from the blade or streaks of electrical energy to run 
from the hilt to the tip of the blade, and back. When you wield an attuned 
lightsaber with an unstable synthetic crystal, the lightsaber deals an extra 
die of damage on a critical hit (this damage is added after the damage is 
multiplied for the critical hit). However, on an attack roll that is a natural 1, 
your lightsaber deactivates and may not be reactivated until after the end 
of your next turn. 


Traditional Jewels 

Though Adegan crystals, llum crystals, and synthetic crystals are the most 
common lightsaber crystals in the galaxy, many traditional jewels can also 
serve as focusing crystals if properly cut and molded. The crystals below are 
rare enough to be extremely valuable in most civilized parts of the galaxy, 
and finding a specimen of one of these crystals that can serve asa lightsaber 
crystal should require a quest of some kind, rather than just buying one on 
the open market. 

Bondar Crystal: Bondar crystals convert the eneray of a lightsaber blade 
into a different form of energy. A lightsaber constructed with a bondar crystal 
deals stun damage instead of normal damage. Training lightsabers are usually 
made with bondar crystals. 

Corusca Gem: Corusca gems are harvested from the depths of the gas 
giant Yavin, and they are renowned for their hardness and the strength of 
the blade they create. When you wield an attuned lightsaber with a Corusca 
gem, the lightsaber deals +1 die of damage against a target with DR. 

Dragite Crystal: Dragite is a rare crystal that possesses special sonic 
properties, causing lightsaber blades focused by dragite crystals to resonate 
loudly in combat. When you wield an attuned lightsaber with a dragite crys- 
tal, you deal +1 die of sonic damage on critical hits with the lightsaber (this 
die of damage is added after damage is multiplied for the critical hit) 


A JED! APPRENTICE CONSTRUCTS HER LIGHTSABER 


WITH THE Force. 


li eaiavnS 


0) 
&) 
v 
x 
0) 
@ 
Jj 
® 
/ 
3 
F 
10) 


il SSLavHO 


Durindfire Crystal: This crystal is found only on the remote Outer Rim 
world of Tatooine. Durindfire crystals give the lightsaber blades they focus 
a distinctive silver glow. Additionally, when you wield an attuned lightsaber 
with a durindfire crystal, the lightsaber emits a glow comparable to a fusion 
lantern, illuminating the area brightly. 

Firkraan Crystal: Like the bondar crystal, a firkraan crystal absorbs the 
energy that creates a lightsaber blade and converts it into a different kind 
of energy, altering the effect of using the weapon. A lightsaber constructed 
with a firkraan crystal deals ion damage instead of normal damage, making 
lightsabers constructed with firkraan crystals more effective against droid 
enemies (see pages 159-160 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Hurikane: Found only on the distant world of Hurikane, hurikane crystals 
create lightsaber blades that easily penetrate the defenses of its targets. 
When you wield an attuned lightsaber with a hurikane crystal, you gain 
a +2 Force bonus on lightsaber attack rolls against targets with an armor 
bonus to Reflex Defense. 

Jenraux Crystal: Like the solari crystal described below, the jenraux 
crystal widens the blade of a lightsaber. Unlike the solari crystal, however, 
it also causes the blade to absorb kinetic energy, making it exceptionally 
effective at defending against incoming melee attacks. When you wield an 
attuned lightsaber constructed with a jenraux crystal, you gain a +2 Force 
bonus on Use the Force checks made to block incoming melee attacks with 
the Block talent. 

Kasha Crystal: Found only on the planet Cerea, kasha crystals have 
great cultural significance to the Cerean people. During meditation sessions, 
Cereans use kasha crystals as a focus for their thoughts, sharpening their 
minds in the same way that a lightsaber crystal focuses an energy beam into 
a lightsaber blade. Kasha crystals help clear the mind and focus the person 
using the crystal, blocking out distracting sights, sounds, and other stimuli. 
When you wield an attuned lightsaber with a kasha crystal, you gain a +2 
Force bonus to Will Defense. 

Opila Crystal: The opila crystal increases the destructive power of the 
lightsaber against weak or unprotected targets, though it does little to get the 
blade past most defenses. When you wield an attuned lightsaber with an opila 
crystal, you deal +1 die of damage on critical hits made with the lightsaber 
(this die of damage is added after damage is multiplied for the critical hit). 

Phond Crystal: A phond crystal reduces the cutting power of the lightsa- 
ber blade but solidifies the energy beam, making it more effective at battering 
down an opponent's energy shield. When you wield an attuned lightsaber 
with a phond crystal, you deal +1 die of damage when using the lightsaber 
against targets that have active shields (that is, when the attack’s damage 
would be reduced by SR). 

Rubat Crystal: The rubat crystal causes the energy frequency of a 
lightsaber blade to fluctuate slightly, allowing the weapon to have a greater 
potential for damage. Once per encounter, when you wield an attuned light- 
saber with a rubat crystal, you may reroll one damage roll made with that 
lightsaber, keeping the better result. 


Sigil Crystal: A sigil crystal focuses the energy of a lightsaber blade 
with incredible efficiency, causing it to have a more devastating effect on a 
target. When you wield an attuned lightsaber with a sigil crystal, you gain a 
+2 Force bonus on damage rolls made with that lightsaber. 

Solari Crystal: The solari crystal changes the width of the lightsaber 
blade, making it easier to intercept blaster bolts and other incoming ranged 
attacks. When you wield an attuned lightsaber with a solari crystal, you 
gain a +2 Force bonus on Use the Force checks to deflect incoming ranged 
attacks with the Deflect talent. 


HOLOCRON LESSON: 
CREATING New CRYSTALS 

There are other types of lightsaber crystals besides the ones covered 
in this chapter, but their effects are identical to the crystals described 
herein. Beyond those, there is the potential to have entirely new crystals 
that have yet to be discovered and used in lightsabers. 

Creating unique crystals that can be used in the creation of a light- 
saber can be a good way to reward Jedi heroes, who typically are less 
interested in the accumulation of credits and other wealth. A unique 
crystal as a reward for completing a major story arc (or fulfilling one's 
destiny) can be a compelling motivator for a Jedi hero, and though most 
Jedi eschew possessions, an enhancement to a Jedi's weapon of choice 
is often worth undergoing a difficult quest, mirroring the Jedi Trials they 
face in the transition from apprenticeship to knighthood. 

For Gamemasters looking to create a unique lightsaber crystal, first 
come up with an interesting story behind the crystal. Why is it renowned? 
Who possesses it now, and what are they doing with it? If possible, 
weave the story of the crystal into the larger tapestry of your campaign's 
storyline. Additionally, if you are designing an entire adventure around 
obtaining this crystal, make sure to get the entire party involved; maybe 
the crystal is in the possession of your scoundrel hero's crime lord arch- 
nemesis, and getting it back means dealing with that crime lord once 
and for all. Maybe the crystal was stolen from the family of the party's 
noble, and retrieving it is a point of honor. Whatever the story behind 
the lightsaber crystal, do not hesitate to make sure that it is of interest 
to the entire party and not just the Jedi character in the group. 

Once you are satisfied that the crystal has a suitable history, you 
can decide what effect(s) to grant the wielder of a lightsaber with that 
crystal. A unique crystal can be slightly more powerful than the crystals 
presented in this chapter, though not much more so. In general, a unique 
crystal should confer a bonus about on-par with most standard crystals’ 
bonuses, or maybe a little more powerful. Any bonuses the weapon 
confers should be typed as Force bonuses, and skill bonuses and damage 
bonuses should be around +2 for unconditional bonuses, or around +5 
for highly conditional bonuses. 


Extremely Rare Crystals 

Over the course of history, there have been several exceedingly rare crystals 
that have attained a certain amount of power and destiny, far beyond that of 
normal lightsaber crystals. These crystals have been at the center of galactic 
events, and finding one has been the subject of many epic adventures over the 
ages. Some of these crystals are one-of-a-kind, like the shard of the Kaiburr 
Crystal or the Ankarres Sapphire; others are simply so rare that finding one 
is an event worthy of being an individual hero's destiny. 

Ankarres Sapphire: The Ankarres Sapphire is a valuable gem that has 
passed through many hands over the years, including the hands of the bounty 
hunter 4-LOM around the time of the Battle of Yavin. Legend has it that 
the Ankarres Sapphire possesses incredible healing powers and that, when 
used as a lightsaber focusing crystal, it grants the wielder similar powers. 
Moreover, the legends say that only those who embody the light side of the 
Force can use the Ankarres Sapphire effectively. 

If you wield an lightsaber attuned with the Ankarres Sapphire and you 
have a Dark Side Score of 0, you gain a +5 Force bonus on Treat Injury checks 
or Use the Force checks made to activate the vital transfer power. 

The Ankarres Sapphire is thought to be unique, although it's possible that 
other such sapphires exist. 

Barab Ingot: Found on Barab |, a Barab Ingot is a special crystal found 
inside ore littering the planet's radiation-baked surface. Though the radia- 
tion on the surface of the planet makes it difficult to find these crystals, a 
few Jedi have managed to locate Barab ingots suitable for use as focusing 
crystals, However, the constant infusion of radiation on the surface of Barab 
| causes a Barab ingot to produce a lightsaber blade that burns like fire. A 
lightsaber constructed with a Barab ingot deals fire damage instead of energy 
and slashing damage. Any target that takes damage from the weapon also 
catches on fire (see the rules for catching on fire on page 255 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). 

Dantari Crystal: Found on the planet Dantooine, Dantari crystals origi- 
nate in the eggs of the kinrath, creatures native to the planet. Dantari crystals 
were harvested in the ancient days of the Jedi, but once Ilum became a source 
of lightsaber crystals, few Jedi saw the need to deal with the deadly kinrath. 
Crystals harvested from kinrath eggs supposedly reflect the true disposition 
of their wielders. If you wield an attuned lightsaber with a Dantari crystal 
and roll a natural 19 on a Use the Force check made to activate a Force 
power, you regain some of your spent Force powers. If you have a Dark Side 
Score of 0, you regain all spent Force powers with the [light side] descriptor. 
If you have a Dark Side Score of 1+, you regain all spent Force powers with 
the [dark side] descriptor. If you roll a natural 20 on a Use the Force check 
made to activate a Force power, you still regain all spent Force powers (see 
Page 96 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Heart of the Guardian: Once a subject of both Jedi and Sith prophecy, 
the Heart of the Guardian is one of two legendary lightsaber crystals that 
surfaced in the days of the Old Republic. Though the origins of these crystals 


is unknown, it is likely that they were used in the lightsabers of powerful Jedi 
as far back as the Great Hyperspace War. If you wield an attuned lightsaber 
with the Heart of the Guardian, you gain a +2 Force bonus on attack rolls 
against targets that are also currently wielding an active lightsaber. 

Kaiburr Crystal Shard: A unique artifact found on the world of Mimban, 
the Kaiburr Crystal glows with a sinister crimson light. The crystal has the 
power to amplify the flow of the Force through an individual. Though the 
crystal itself is too large to be used in the construction of a lightsaber, several 
shards of the crystal have broken off over the years, and they have been used 
in the construction of lightsabers . If you wield an attuned lightsaber with a 
shard of the Kaiburr Crystal, whenever you spend a Force Point to add to an 
attack roll with your lightsaber, you increase the die type by one step (from 
d6 to d8, and d8 to d10 if you have the Strong in the Force feat). 

Krayt Dragon Pearl: Krayt dragon pearls are found in the bellies of mas- 
sive krayt dragons that roam Tatooine. Krayt dragon pearls come into being 
when existing gemstones deep in the desert sands of Tatooine are consumed 
by the krayt dragon; in the creature's belly, they are further compressed and 
refined until they reach a new level of clarity and beauty. Though obtaining 
one is usually a monumental task, a krayt dragon pearl can be refined into a 
lightsaber crystal of great potency. If you wield an attuned lightsaber with a 
krayt dragon pearl, you gain a +3 Force bonus on damage rolls. 

Lambent Crystal: Grown by the Yuuzhan Vong as a part of their biotech- 
nology, lambent crystals are used as biological light sources. If you wield an 
attuned lightsaber with a lambent crystal, you ignore the normal penalties 
when using the Sense Force and Sense Surrounding applications of the Use 
the Force skill to sense Yuuzhan Vong. 

Mantle of the Force: The companion crystal to the Heart of the Guard- 
ian, the Mantle of the Force is an ancient crystal that increases one's self- 
awareness while sharply attuning the wielder to the flow of the Force. If 
you wield an attuned lightsaber with the Mantle of the Force, you gain a +2 
Force bonus on Use the Force checks made to activate Force powers that 
have you as the sole target. 


SLEVALEY OF LNINAINGS 


0 
IT 
> 
iy 
EI 
n 
2 


LIGHTSABER 
ACCESSORIES & 
MODIFICATIONS 


A lightsaber is more than just a hilt and a blade. Some Jedi like to customize 
their lightsabers to best fit their needs. Most Jedi choose simple, functional 
accessories and modifications that enhance their fighting styles, and as such 
modifications such as blade lacks and pressure grips are common. At the time 
a lightsaber is created, the crafter can choose one of the following lightsaber 
accessories or modifications to apply to his lightsaber at no additional cost 
in time or credits. A character with the Tech Specialist feat (see page 21 of 
Starships of the Galaxy) can add one additional accessory or modification, 
which counts toward the weapon's one-modification limit. 


Beckon Call 

A beckon call is a small communications device that links up with the slave 
circuits on a starship. When activated, the beckon call transmits a signal to 
the starship it is linked to, activating its autopilot programming and sum- 
moning the ship to the nearest safe spot close to the wielder. A beckon call 
functions only when connected to a starship with a slave circuit. 


Blade Lock 

This simple modification is usually added only to lightsabers whose wielders 
frequently throw the lightsaber as a ranged weapon. As a swift action, the 
wielder can lock the blade in place; when doing so, this prevents the lightsa~ 
ber from being accidentally deactivated when the weapon is jarred, such as 
during the impact of being thrown. A swift action unlocks the blade, meaning 
that it takes two swift actions to deactivate a locked lightsaber blade. 


Concealed Compartment 
This lightsaber accessory is little more than a small storage compartment 
capable of holding a single object of Fine size. Typically, this compartment in 
the weapon's hilt is used to store a useful item such as a comlink, hand-held 
holoprojector, or code cylinder. 


Electrum Detail 

A modification generally allowed only to high-ranking members of the Jedi 
Order, electrum detailing is usually a prestigious honor bestowed upon Jedi 
Masters asa sign of their rank and skill. A purely cosmetic accessory, electrum 
detail decorates the lightsaber handle with the rare metal electrum, giving it a 
distinctive gold color. Though electrum detail does not modify the mechanics 
of the lightsaber in any way, having a lightsaber with electrum detail grants 
favorable circumstances on Persuasion checks against all targets familiar 
with the electrum detail tradition. 


Fiber Cord 

One end of this small cord of metal fibers attaches to the hilt of a lightsaber. 
The other end is attached to a piece of armor or a metal gauntlet, making it 
more difficult to disarm the wielder. When the wielder of a lightsaber with 
a fiber cord is disarmed, the disarming character cannot catch the weapon 
{or call it to their hand, if using Force disarm). The weapon is still considered 
“dropped” and the wielder must spend an action to pick it up, though it hangs 
by its fiber cord until the wielder does so. 


Force-Activated 

This rare lightsaber modification removes the activation button from the 
lightsaber's exterior. To activate the lightsaber, the wielder must make a 
OC 5 Use the Force check as a swift action (this can be done as a part of 
drawing the lightsaber, as with normal lightsaber activation). If this check 
fails, the lightsaber does not activate, Typically this modification is used to 
ensure that untrained Force-users and those who have no sensitivity to the 
Force cannot effectively use the lightsaber. 


Interlocking Hilt 

This accessory is usually applied to pairs of lightsabers and intended for 
users who prefer to wield two lightsabers simultaneously. The creator of 
the lightsaber grafts a small, interlocking mechanism to the base of each 
lightsaber. As a swift action, the hilts of the two lightsabers can be locked 
together, turning the weapon into a double weapon (considered to be one 
size category larger than the largest of the two weapons). 


Pressure Grip 

One of the most popular lightsaber accessories, the pressure grip is a staple 
of most Jedi who prefer simple, straightforward lightsaber construction. The 
pressure grip senses when the wielder's hand no longer grips it, deactivating 
the lightsaber immediately when it is dropped or disarmed. 


Trapped Grip 

A trapped grip requires the wielder to perform some free action (usually 
pressing down on a hidden sensor, twisting a nondescript knob, or some 
other mundane task) before activating the lightsaber safely. If the wielder 
does not perform this task at the time the weapon activates, the wielder 
takes 146 points of energy damage, and again at the start of his or her turn 
until the trap is deactivated. Deactivating the trap is a free action that is 
performed asa part of activating the weapon, and a DC 20 Perception check 
can reveal the trap mechanism and the disarming action. 


Waterproof Casing 

Favored by aquatic lightsaber-users , waterproof casing allows a light- 
saber to function normally underwater. Without this modification, a 
lightsaber submerged in water shorts out and must be repaired (taking 
1 minute of work) before it will activate. 


EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE 
Small SE ; Saye: = haan 
Diseblade 2,000 248 - 
SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE 
Tiny : 
R-9 flash canister! 100 Special - 


1 Area attack weapon (see page 155 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


RANGED WEAPONS 

Though the lightsaber is the only weapon most Jedi need, some other weapons 
occasionally see use among members of the Jedi Order. The two weapons 
given on Table 3-4 are described below. 


Discblade 

Exotic Weapon 

The discblade, the preferred weapon of the Zeison Sha, is a small metal ring with 
handles on the top and bottom of the disc and four slender blades that tightly 
curve back as they extend from the sides. When thrown, the discblade flies 
straight due to its aerodynamic design, but a trained Zeison Sha warrior can 
se the Force to return the weapon to his hand after it has been thrown. 


R-9 Flash Canister 
Simple Weapon 
Typically used in the combat training of Jedi apprentices, the R-9 flash 
canister is an explosive device that causes dozens of tiny shells within the 
canister to burst forth and then detonate, creating a blinding flash of white 
light and piercing sound. The R-9 flash canister has a 3-square burst radius, 
and like other grenades it is designed to explode on contact after it is thrown, 
effectively causing the bright flash of light in the same round it is hurled. 
When you make an area attack with an R-9 flash canister, you make a 
single attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target 
in the grenade’s burst radius. Creatures hit take no damage, but all targets 
have total concealment against the creature until the start of the attacker's 
next turn. Blind creatures are immune to this effect. 


ARMOR 

Though Jedi don't typically wear armor, in some dire cases it becomes neces- 
sary. Of course, the Sith and other dark side Force-users are not so reluctant, 
and many famous Sith Lords are practically defined by their armor. The armor 
given on Table 3-5 is described below. 


Rae ae 
RATE OF FIRE AVAILABILITY 
Spr ad he ye EL REG 
Ss 1.25 kg Slashing Rare 
RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
s 0.5 kg Energy Restricted 
Dark Armor 


Light, Medium, and Heavy Armor 
Dark armor is the generic name given to various suits of armor possessed and 
worn by the Sith. Each suit of dark armor is unique, having been created for 
and often modified by an individual Sith Lord. These suits of armor may look 
like they originated as other stock models, but they are modified through 
various processes, including Sith alchemy. 

Dark armor is not just another piece of protective gear; to many Sith 
Lords, the armor is nearly as important as their lightsabers. A suit of dark 
armor defines a Sith Lord's appearance, and is frequently made to be as 
frightening as possible. 

Asuit of dark armor automatically comes with a single enhancement from 
the Sith Alchemy Specialist talent, as defined on page 22. 


i SSiavHo 


SLEVAIILEYG ©— LNSEWEINGS 


it SsiavHo 


SLOVAILUY | ANENEINeES) 


ARMOR BONUS ARMOR BONUS MAX DEX SPEED SPEED 


ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) cost TO REF DEFENSE TO FORTDEFENSE BONUS (6SQ.) (4SQ.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 
Dark armor, light 10,000 - 10kg ——Rare 
Jedi battle armor, light 4,000 +3 +3 +4 - - 6 kg Rare 
WJ-880 blinding helmet = 2kg Rare 
Dark armor, medium 15,000 4 na 3 sq. 16 kg Rare 
Jedi battle armor, medium 3 sq. 12 kg Rare 
Dark armor, heavy 25,000 4sq. 35g. © 30kg_-—séRare 
Orbalisk armor - , +10 +2 +1 459. 3sq. 26 kg Rare 


Jedi Battle Armor 

Light and Medium Armor 

Designed to match the needs of the individual Jedi who wears it, a 
suit of Jedi battle armor is a rare sight in the galaxy. Mostly popular- 
ized during the days of the Great Sith War and the Jedi Civil War, Jedi 
battle armor protects vital areas while not hindering the movements 
of the wearer. 

Two variants of this armor exist, one light and one medium, giving 
Jedi who choose to wear battle armor some options in determining 
how much training they want to devote to wearing such armor. 
Orbalisk Armor 
Heavy Armor 
Orbalisk armor is unique in that it can only be obtained by subject- 
ing oneself to parasites known as orbalisks, native to Dxun. The 
orbalisks bond with the host and usually drain the host of energy; 
however, someone with sufficient strength in the dark side of the 
Force (that is, possessing a Dark Side Score equal to his or her 
Wisdom score) can prevent the orbalisks from killing him, instead 
forming a symbiotic relationship with the parasites. 

Acharacter with orbalisk armor gains DR 10; unlike normal 
DR, a lightsaber does not ignore the DR of the orbalisk armor. 
Since orbalisk armor is bonded directly to the skin of the wearer, 
it cannot be removed except through complex medical proce- 
dures (requiring surgery, as per the Treat Injury skill). However, 
since orbalisk armor is not worn in the traditional sense, the 
wearer takes no armor check penalty on skill checks for not being 
proficient in heavy armor. 


Yeo! BATTLE ARMOR 


WJ-880 Blinding Helmet 

Light Armor 

Typically used during Jedi training, the WJ-880 blinding helmet covers the 
wearer's eyes, requiring the wearer to rely on the Force for a sense of his 
or her surroundings. Though technically considered armor, few Jedi would 
wear the blinding helmet into combat, as doing so grants all targets total 
concealment from the wearer. 


OTHER EQUIPMENT 

Although the Jedi have little need for material possessions, there are a few 
items of importance that they keep at hand for training purposes. The following 
new pieces of equipment are available in most eras in which Jedi are prevalent. 
During the time of Palpatine's Empire, and during the time of Darth Krayt's 
reborn Empire, these objects are more scarce, and perhaps even illegal. 


8-2A Medical Bundle : 

The standard medical kit carried by most Jedi, the 8-2A medical bundle 
contains the basic items needed to treat ailments and diseases in a package 
small enough to fit in a utility belt. Since Jedi can rely on the Force to speed 
up their healing processes, many common items—such as bacta patches and 
synthetic flesh—are absent from the medical bundle. An 8-2A medical bundle 
counts as a medical kit for the purposes of using the Treat Injury skill, but 
only on targets currently in a Force trance. 


MEDICAL GEAR cosT WEIGHT 
8-2A medical bundle 200 1kg 
Subelectronic converter 23,000 2 

SURVIVAL GEAR cost WEIGHT 
Sith battle harness 5,000 90 kg 

TOOLS cosT WEIGHT 
Force detector 2,000 9kg 
Force training aid 25 1kg 
Universal energy cage 20,000 3 tons 


Force Detectors 

A blanket term used to cover a variety of devices, Force detectors are pieces 
of equipment designed to detect Force sensitivity, or the potential for it, 
within a living being, Force detectors can take many forms; the Jedi Order 
prior to the Clone Wars used Force detectors that relied on blood samples 
to determine midichlorian counts. During the height of the Empire, Force 
detectors were built using thaissen crystals from the planet Mimban that 
glow in the presence of Force-users. 

Regardless of the specific form, most Force detectors function in a similar 
manner. Using a Force detector requires 5 rounds and a DC 15 Use Computer 
check to successfully activate the device. If the target of the Force detector 
has the Force Sensitivity feat, the Force detector indicates that the target 
is Force-sensitive. 


Force Training Aids 

Young Jedi use a variety of training aids in the course of their studies. These 
can take many forms, including some that resemble toys and puzzles. Others 
are designed to clear the mind and make concentration easier, focusing one's 
connection to the Force by helping to block out other stimuli. Most Force 
training aids are abandoned by the time the apprentice becomes a Padawan 
learner, as the training aids teach very basic techniques that must be mas- 
tered by the time the Master chooses the Padawan. 

Though Force training aids are typically designed to focus on one aspect 
of Force training, they all follow similar rules. Each Force training aid focuses 
on one of the basic uses of the Use the Force skill. Any character untrained in 
the skill can spend 1 hour training with a Force training aid. After that time, 
for the next 24 hours, the character can use any one “trained only” aspect 
of the Use the Force skill as though he or she was trained in the skill. Force 
training aids confer no bonus on Use the Force checks. 


in SaiavnD 


fy) 
F 
» 
i 
Fi 
5 
a 


Sith Battle Harness 

When riding large beasts such as Sith warbirds, the Sith frequently use 
special battle harnesses, turning the beasts into mobile weapon platforms. 
The harness features a cockpit that provides the rider improved cover, and 
the special reins grant a +2 equipment bonus on Ride checks. In addition, the 
mount gains a +4 equipment bonus to its Reflex Defense and its Fortitude 
Defense. The Sith battle harness also has a built-in blaster cannon, powered 
by an onboard fusion generator providing unlimited ammunition. 


Subelectronic Converter 

Designed by Imperial scientist Nasdra Magrody, the subelectronic converter 
is a computerized device that, when implanted into a subject's head, allows 
the subject to control droids through the Force. One such recipient of the 
implant, Irek Ismaren, could mentally visualize a droid’s programming and 
use his mind trick power on them, which normally cannot be done. 

Asubelectronic converter translates the signals from the subject's brain 
into binary commands understood by droids; likewise, it converts droid signals 
into a language that the brain can understand. 

Asubelectronic converter is just like any other cybernetic enhancement, 
in that it must be installed by a character with the Cybernetic Surgery feat 
and imposes a penalty on Use the Force checks. A creature with a subelec- 
tronic converter may use mind-affecting Force powers on droids, despite the 
droids' immunity to mind-affecting effects. However, there's a trade-off: 
The recipient of the implant takes a -2 penalty to Will Defense due to side 
effects of the implant. 


Universal Energy Cage 

The universal energy cage was designed by Umak Leth specifically to contain 
a Force-user. A vaguely spherical cage with energy flowing throughout its 
bars, the universal energy cage delivers a shock to prisoners attempting to 
free themselves. Prisoners in the cage can, however, use the Force at very 
low levels, such as to heal themselves. The cage's functions are controlled 
by a handheld remote. The cage has no visible controls, and the only way to 
open it (other than using the remote) is to destroy it, which endangers the 
life of the prisoner within. 

The reinforced durastee! cage has DR 20, 150 hit points, and a damage 
threshold of 25. The cage is also built with a contact shock field, and every 
time it takes 15 points of damage or more, the prisoner inside receives a 
shock that deals 4d8 points of stun damage. 


HOLOCRONS 

There are few artifacts in the galaxy that are more highly valued and more 
unique than holocrons. Holocrons are, essentially, special computers with 
built-in holoprojectors that contain vast knowledge of the Force. Each holo- 
cron is a small, hand-held device (usually taking the form of some common 
geometric shape). Holocrons use ancient construction methods to combine 
powerful crystals with other technological elements to enhance its storage 
capabilities and durability. Though the Jedi Order does not allow the study 
of holocrons by outside technicians, most technological experts agree that 
the nature of the holocron indicates that its inner workings are vastly more 
complex than most modern technologies, and that the components and 
workings of the holocron follow few, if any, contemporary theories of how 
computers and other electronic machinery should work. 

In truth, a holocron is more of an artifact than a technological device. 
Each holocron is imbued with at least one "gatekeeper" personality, which 
serves as the user interface to the library of knowledge stored within. A holo- 
cron’s gatekeeper is far more than a simple voice-interactive user interface; 
the gatekeeper has its own personality and is usually based on an individual 
Jedi Master (or Sith Lord) who was instrumental in creating the holocron. 
Most holocrons have only a single gatekeeper, as the holocron represents 
the sum total of the knowledge of its creator. Some rare holocrons have 
multiple gatekeepers, each one acting as a means of obtaining subsets of 
knowledge. For example, a Jedi holocron might have a Jedi weapon master 
gatekeeer to impart knowledge of fighting styles, while also having a Jedi 
investigator gatekeeper responsible for all of the holocron’s knowledge of 
farseeing techniques. 

The depth of a holocron’s knowledge varies, but suffice to say that every 
holocron has within it a vast amount of information on Force powers, Force 
techniques, and Force secrets. Any given holocron usually contains the sum 
total of all knowledge of the Force gleaned by an individual Sith Lord or Jedi 
Master, and in many cases it can contain more than that. Many Jedi Masters 
of the Old Republic, as well as Sith Lords from all eras, see the creation of a 
holocron as a crucial part of preserving their legacies. Though Sith sometimes 
linger as dark spirits and some Jedi can remain as Force spirits, a holocron 
is a far more permanent representation of their legacies. Though the art 
of creating a holocron is among the rarest secrets in the galaxy, the most 
powerful Sith Lords and Jedi Masters of old create holocrons to spread their 
influence and preserve their knowledge for the ages. 


USING A HOLOCRON 

Holocrons respond to voice activation. Some holocron gatekeepers are stingy 
when it comes to dispensing information, however, and refuse to impart their 
secrets to those they find untrustworthy or unworthy. This mostly depends 
‘on the personality of the holocron's creator, but a few holocron gatekeep- 
ers refuse to impart their knowledge unless certain conditions are met as a 


precaution against abuse. For example, a holocron containing the secrets of 
dangerous Force techniques might only respond to the commands of a proven 
Jedi Master who can demonstrate a significant mastery of the Force. 

Once the gatekeeper is willing to impart its knowledge, the possessor of 
a holocron can simply ask the holocron for information on whatever topic 
is needed. Holocrons usually have a Use the Force skill bonus, which is used 
in place of all Knowledge skills for information related to Jedi or Sith lore. 
A holocron's Use the Force bonus is equal to its creator's skill bonus at the 
time the holocron is created. A character in possession of a holocron whose 
gatekeeper is willing to impart information can use the holocron’s Use the 
Force skill modifier in place of any Knowledge skill bonus on any check related 
to Jedi or Sith lore. The holocron normally cannot use its Use the Force skill 
for any other purpose, though Gamemasters are free to make exceptions if 
it fits the story of the campaign. By default, though, a holocron is still just 
an object and has no connection to the Force itself. 


Mechanically speaking, most holocrons can stand in for a Jedi Master 
with regard to providing basic Force training to a student. For example, if a 
non-Jedi hero wishes to multiclass into the Jedi class, or merely pick up the 
Force Sensitivity feat and training in the Use the Force skill, a holocron can 
provide a basis for the character's transition and basic Jedi training. This is 
especially useful in time periods when the Jedi are all but extinct, including 
during the Dark Wars, the Dark Times, the Galactic Civil War, and the time 
following the Sith-Imperial War. Though there is no mechanical restriction 
that prevents a character from learning the ways of the Force without a 
master, possession of a holocron can offer a good backstory as to how the 
character learns to manipulate the Force. 


INTRODUCING New oR 

Lost POWERS 

Not every Force power presented in the Saga Edition core rulebook or its 
various supplements (including this one) exist in every era. Many powers 
considered commonplace in the days of the Jedi Civil War might be long 
forgotten by the time the Clone Wars comes around. Gamemasters who 
choose to rule that certain Force powers are unavailable by default can use 
holocrons to reintroduce these “lost” powers from the past, Alternatively, 
some mechanically inclined Gamemasters might wish to create new Force 
powers of their own; a holocron provides an excellent vehicle for introducing 
brand-new Force powers into the game. 

Typically, a holocron can include as many new Force powers as the 
Gamemaster feels necessary. Possession of a holocron doesn't necessarily 
guarantee access to the Force powers within, but when a hero in possession 
of such a holocron takes the Force Training feat, the Gamemaster can choose 
to open up one or two new powers for the hero to add to his or her Force 
suite. Though the Gamemaster is free to make all of the new powers within 
the holocron available at once, doling out new powers one at a time over a 
series of levels can help maintain the holocron's presence as an important 
aspect of the hero's study of the Force, and can prolong the rewards for 
continued training. 


RETRAINING 

A holocron can also be used to introduce retraining for existing heroes. 
Tutelage under a holocron can represent a hero rebuilding his or her knowl- 
edge of the Force from the ground up; in essence, one “unlearns what one 
has learned” as the gatekeeper of the holocron rebuilds the hero's Force 
skills at a fundamental level. A holocron gatekeeper can be used to retrain 
a character's Force talents and Force powers. Perhaps a player is unhappy 
with her character's selection of Force powers, or has decided to take her 
character in a different direction. Whatever the reason, the player of a Jedi 
hero might need to rebuild the character using different mechanics, and the 
holocron can provide a good reason for doing so. 


waiavHS 


FS) 


SLEVALET 2 ANEW 


SLSVALLNY | ANSWAINGS 


ti SSievHo 


Periods of downtime between adventures can provide the opportunity for 
retraining (much as the heroes of the films evolve significantly between each 
episode). However, holocrons can offer more immediate rebuilding methods. 
In general, a character in possession of a holocron should be able to trade 
out one Force power for another (or one Force talent for another) during a 
significant period of downtime. The exact time needed for the character to 
study the new ability is up to the Gamemaster, but it should take longer to 
retrain a Force power than to make a jump through hyperspace. 


HOLOCRONS IN COMBAT 

Typically, holocrons are of little use in combat. Though they can sometimes 
provide insightful information, practically speaking most combat encounters 
are too frantic and dangerous for a Jedi to consult the gatekeeper of the 
holocron for information on a particular enemy. However, there might be 
times when the Gamemaster wishes to integrate a holocron into an encounter. 
There are two primary ways of doing so: using the holocron as a device, and 
using the gatekeeper as a hazard or boon. 2 

The first method is much like including a computer console or an object 
to be obtained during the course of a combat encounter. The holocron might 
have vital information within it that the heroes need to extract while under 
fire, or the holocron might be in the possession of an enemy and the heroes 
need to obtain it. When designing an encounter that uses a holocron in this 
way, the holocron can be treated as a datapad or computer console. 

Including a holocron's gatekeeper as a hazard or boon in an encounter 
isa bit trickier. For one, it's not something that should happen during every 
combat; possessing a holocron shouldn't become a permanent boon to the 
heroes any more than possessing any other single piece of equipment should 
drastically shift the tide during an encounter. Likewise, an enemy in posses- 
sion of a holocron should be a rare circumstance, and one that really has 
an impact on the story of the campaign. If every Sith Lord the heroes fight 
has a holocron providing beneficial enhancements during every encounter, 
holocrons become less special and more of an annoyance. 

Including a holocron gatekeeper in a combat encounter should be part 
of a significant event. For example, facing a Jedi Padawan who has turned 
to the dark side thanks to a holocron might warrant the presence of a 
gatekeeper in combat. Similarly, a hero in possession of a holocron might 
use the holocron to learn new abilities, but it is only when the hero reaches 
the final showdown with a Sith Lord who was once the apprentice of the 
holocron gatekeeper that the gatekeeper's true benefits come into play. The 
Gamemaster ultimately decides when a holocron gatekeeper becomes an 
important element of a combat encounter. 

A holocron gatekeeper is projected onto the battlefield like any other 
hologram. While the holocron gatekeeper is active, it has its own suite of 
actions and functions just like any other participant in combat, even acting 
on its own initiative. On its turn, the holocron gatekeeper can use skills and 
communicate information as normal, but it doesn't make physical attacks or 


use Force powers. Likewise, it cannot be damaged, though the holocron itself 
can be (as per normal rules of attacking objects). For the most part, holocron 
gatekeepers will use their Instructive Bond special quality, which is explained 
in the stat blocks of the two sample holocron gatekeepers below. 


Jedi Master Holocron Gatekeeper cL5 
Medium holocron gatekeeper Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 3 
Force 6 

Init +12; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, one other 

Defenses Ref — (flat-footed —), Fort —, Will 31 

hp —; Threshold — 

Immune fear effects, physical damage 

Speed 6 squares (must remain within 6 squares of the holocron) 
Base Atk —; Grp — 

Abilities Str —, Dex —, Con —, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Special Qualities holocron gatekeeper, instructive bond 

Skills Initiative +12, Use the Force +19 


Holocron Gatekeeper—While a gatekeeper occupies a space, it cannot 
make physical attacks or use Force powers because it is merely a 
hologram. The gatekeeper takes no damage from attacks (weapons 
and Force powers just pass through it), though it is subject to mind~ 
affecting effects. Other creatures can occupy the same space as the 
holocron and move through the holocron’s space without impediment, 

Instructive Bond—A gatekeeper can instruct an ally in combat, imparting 
helpful knowledge. As a standard action, the holocron gatekeeper can 
grant one of the following benefits to a single ally within its line of 
sight until the beginning of the gatekeeper's next turn. The target must 
spend a Force Point as a reaction to gain the benefit of this power. 

* +1 Force bonus on attack rolls 

© +2 Force bonus to any single Defense score (ally's choice) 

© +1 die of damage with lightsaber attacks 

© +5 Force bonus on Use the Force checks made to negate incoming 
ranged attacks with the Deflect talent 

© +5 Force bonus on Use the Force checks made to activate the rebuke 
power 


Sith Lord Holocron Gatekeeper cL6 
Medium holocron gatekeeper noble 7/Sith apprentice 8/Sith Lord 4 

Force 7; Dark Side 16 

Init +14; Senses Perception +22 

Languages Basic, five others 

Defenses Ref — (flat-footed —), Fort —, Will 34 

hp —; Threshold — 

Immune fear effects, physical damage 


Speed 6 squares (must remain within 6 squares of the holocron) 
Base Atk —; Grp — 


Abilities Str —, Dex —, Con —, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Special Qualities holocron gatekeeper, instructive bond 

Talents Force Perception, Gauge Force Potential 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Use the Force) 

Skills Deception +17, Initiative +14, Knowledge (galactic lore) +16, 
Perception +22, Persuasion +17, Use the Force +22 


Holocron Gatekeeper—While a gatekeeper occupies a space, it cannot 
make physical attacks or use Force powers because it is merely a 
hologram. The gatekeeper takes no damage from attacks (weapons 
and Force powers just pass through it), though it is subject to mind- 
affecting effects. Other creatures can occupy the same space as the 
holocron and move through the holocron’s space without impediment. 

Instructive Bond—A gatekeeper can instruct an ally in combat, imparting 
helpful knowledge. As a standard action, the holocron gatekeeper can 
grant one of the following benefits to a single ally within its'line of 
sight until the beginning of the gatekeeper's next turn. The target must 
spend a Force Point as a reaction to gain the benefit of this power. 

* +1 Force bonus on attack rolls 

* +2 Force bonus to any single Defense score (ally’s choice) 

* +1 die of damage with lightsaber attacks 

* +5 Force bonus on Use the Force checks made to negate incoming 
ranged attacks with the Deflect talent 

* +5 Force bonus on Use the Force checks made to activate the rebuke power 


CREATING A HOLOCRON 

When a player decides that his hero wishes to create a holocron, the cre- 
ation of the holocron should become a major element of the hero's story. 
Creating a holocron is no simple task, and it can even be the primary drive 
and motivation for a hero. Holocron creation shouldn't just be something 
that is approached casually, nor should it just be something that happens 
between adventures. Creating a holocron requires time, devotion, and 
sometimes resources from any hero who wishes to pass on information to 
future students of the Force. 

When crafting adventures for a hero who is seeking to create a holocron, 
Gamemasters can break up the steps toward creating the holocron over 
the course of several adventures, giving the hero milestones as they work 
toward their final goal of holocron creation. What these steps are, and how 
prominently they figure into the adventures, is up to the GM, but knowing 
that a hero wishes to create a holocron gives the GM several opportunities 
for rewards specific to that hero's quest. 

For example, a Gamemaster learns that the Kel Dor Jedi in her campaign 
wishes to create a holocron. Over the course of several levels, the Gamemaster 
Creates adventures that feature rewards for the Jedi hero that bring him closer 
to creating the holocron; perhaps in one adventure the hero comes across 


an ancient Jedi tome that details the basics of holocron creation, and then 
in a later adventure the Jedi comes into possession of a crate of thaissen 
crystals that once belonged to a now-vanquished crime lord. As the campaign 
progresses, that Jedi gets closer and closer to creating the holocron, keeping 
the player's interest in the campaign and giving the Gamemaster a good set 
of rewards for the Jedi hero. 

Below are eight sample steps in the holocron creation process that Game- 
masters can use as a basis for determining adventure rewards, These steps are 
by no means comprehensive, and the GM is free to use as many (or as few) 
of these steps as she likes during the design of an adventure, Each step is a 
milestone in the process of creating a holocron, and the reward for the Jedi 
at the end of an adventure can be achieving one of these milestones. 

1. The Jedi must discover the method of creating the basic crystal casing 
that houses the holocron’s inner workings. This crystal casing is what gives 
the holocron its distinctive geometric shape, and it can only be crafted out 
of certain kinds of rare crystals. The process of creating the case is precise, 
and failure means that the internal components will not function. 

2. The Jedi must obtain special crystals to create the casing for the holo- 
cron. Only very rare kinds of crystals will work, and among those crystals only 
a small fraction are large enough to be shaped into a holocron’s casing. 

3. The Jedi must discover thaissen crystals of the precise size and shape for 
inclusion in the holocron. Thaissen crystals are found on the planet Mimban, 
and the holocron requires thaissen crystals to allow it to detect the strength 
of the user's Force sensitivity. 

4. The Jedi must obtain special, malleable crystals that can be shaped 
into the inner workings of the holocron. The mechanisms that allow the 
holocron to function normally are arcane and esoteric, and they require 
special crystals to function at all. 


i eaiavHo 


SLEVALYY | ANEWAIAGE) 


SLBVAILEY 2 ANSWAINGS) 


Ti SSiavHoS 


5. The Jedi must obtain a self-revitalizing power source capable of fueling 
the holocron for millennia. Though modern technology has produced power 
sources capable of lasting that long, they are rare, large, and expensive. 
Ancient holocrons use power sources that are self-replenishing, though the 
secrets behind creating such a power source are all but lost to the ages. 

6. The Jedi must learn the method of piecing together and molding the 
inner mechanisms of the holocron. This is perhaps the most difficult step 
in the process, as this knowledge is one of the most tightly kept secrets of 
Jedi Masters and Sith Lords. 

7. The Jedi must gain access to a locale that is suitably strong in the Force 
asa site where the holocron can be built. Constructing a holocron requires the 
hero to precisely manipulate the crystals that form the inner mechanisms of 
the holocron using the Force, similar to how a Jedi assembles a lightsaber with 
the Force. However, holocron creation is an order of magnitude more complex 
and more precise, and even Jedi Masters who are strong in the Force need 
a place of power to help fuel the creation process. With this step complete, 
the physical structure of the holocron can be constfucted. 

8. The Jedi must discover the Force secret required to transfer a replica 
of one's consciousness into the gatekeeper program (see Holocron Loremas- 
ter, page 37). Once the holocron's mechanisms are finished, the malleable 
crystal interiors must be manipulated to reproduce the Jedi’s knowledge and 
consciousness. Doing so requires a meditative technique that transcends 
conscious thought and is similar in concept, if not the details of execution, 
to the dark side technique known as Transfer Essence. 


Destiny Bonus 
The creation of a holocron replaces the normal destiny bonus that you 
receive for fulfilling your destiny. Typically, this destiny bonus only comes 
from destinies that can be tied to the creation of a holocron, such as the 
Discovery and Education destinies from the core rulebook, and the Creation 
destiny from The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide. When you fulfill your 
destiny, your reward is the preservation of your legacy by creating a holocron 
with a gatekeeper modeled after your hero. The holocron contains all of the 
knowledge your hero accumulated over the course of his or her career, which 
can be passed on to future generations. 

When you fulfill your destiny, you create a holocron with a gatekeeper 
modeled after you. 


Holocron Gatekeeper Statistics 
To create the statistics for the holocron gatekeeper, follow these steps based 
on your hero's statistics at the time you fulfill you destiny: 

© The gatekeeper’s CL is equal to your Cl divided by three. 

© The gatekeeper has no special senses, such as darkvision or scent. 

© The gatekeeper has no Reflex Defense or Fortitude Defense and cannot 

be targeted by attacks or powers that target those defenses. 
© The gatekeeper has no hit points or damage threshold. 


The gatekeeper retains any immunities that you possess and also gains 
immunity to all fear effects as well as physical damage, Physical damage 
includes damage from acid, atmospheric hazards, disease, extreme tem- 
peratures, fire, poison, radiation, smoke, gravity, and any effect that 
targets Reflex or Fortitude Defense. 

The gatekeeper cannot attack. Therefore, it has no attacks, no base 
attack bonus, and no grapple bonus. 

The gatekeeper is merely a holographic projection and has no Strength, 
Dexterity, or Constitution score. 

The gatekeeper gains the holocron gatekeeper and instructive bond spe~ 
cial qualities, as presented in the stat blocks above. 

The gatekeeper loses all talents and feats that enhance attacks, move- 
ment, or other physical interactions. Talents and feats that pertain to 
skill use or other effects remain. 

The gatekeeper loses skill bonuses related to the following skills: Acro- 
batics, Climb, Endurance, Jump, Mechanics, Pilot, Ride, Stealth, Survival, 
Swim, Treat Injury, Use Computer. 

The gatekeeper may use only the following aspects of the Use the Force 
skill: Search Your Feelings, Sense Force, and Telepathy (at the Game- 
master's discretion, and usually only in special cases), 

The gatekeeper has no equipment. 


SITH ARTIFACTS 

Several artifacts of great power and significance were created in the time 
of ancient Sith Lords. Though most Sith of the modern eras tend to eschew 
the arcane and esoteric knowledge used to create these artifacts, remnants 
of these dark objects still lie undiscovered in forgotten tombs across the 
galaxy. Sith artifacts are considered priceless; thus, they have no costs 
associated with them. 


Sith Amulet 
Ancient relics of the Great Hyperspace War and other conflicts between the 
Jedi and Sith of the Old Republic, Sith amulets are weapons of the dark side. 
Each Sith amulet, which is embedded in a jewel-encrusted gauntlet worn on 
the forearm, is made of crystals imbued with dark Force energy that focus 
the user's telekinetic power, allowing the wearer to unleash powerful attacks. 
Though most Sith amulets were destroyed by Jedi shadows in the wake of 
the Great Sith War, a few remain, hidden away in Sith burial chambers on 
Korriban and elsewhere throughout the galaxy. 
The wearer of a Sith amulet gains several benefits: 
© When the wearer uses the Move Light Object application of the Use 
the Force skill, the object being used as a projectile deals 2d6 points of 
damage instead of 146 points. 
© When the wearer activates a Force power with the [telekinetic] descrip- 
tor, the wearer can increase his Dark Side Score by 1 to reroll the Use 
the Force check made to activate the power, keeping the better result. 


* Asa standard action, the wearer can increase his Dark Side Score by 1 
and select a target within 12 squares. The wearer unleashes a razor-thin 
bolt of telekinetic energy at the target, making a Use the Force check; 
if the Use the Force check result equals or exceeds the target's Reflex 
Defense, the target takes 3d8 points of slashing and Force damage. 


Sith Poison 

A favorite of the Krath and of the Mecrosa Order, Sith poison is the most 
insidious of inventions. Once the toxin is introduced into a Force-user's 
bloodstream, whether through injection or ingestion, exposed individuals 
become quicker to anger, and more likely to call on the dark side, slowly 
perverting servants of the light into agents of evil. 

Sith Poison (CL 10): When a creature takes damage from a weapon 
coated with Sith poison or ingests a substance tainted with the poison, make 
an attack roll (1d20+12) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack 
succeeds, the target takes 4d6 points of damage and moves -1 persistent 
step down the condition track. If the attack fails, the target takes no damage. 
Whether it succeeds or fails, the poison feeds the target's anger, drawing 
it closer to the dark side until the effect is negated. Every time the target 
spends a Force Point, make an attack roll (1d20+12) against the target's Will 
Defense. If the attack succeeds, the character calls upon the dark side and 
increases its Dark Side Score by 1. Every time an attack made by the Sith 
poison fails, a character can make a DC 25 Use the Force check to neutral- 
ize the poison. If the poison attack fails 5 consecutive times, the poison is 
neutralized automatically. 


Sith Scrolls and Tomes 

Before holocron technology was developed, and sometimes even after, the 
Sith recorded much of their dark knowledge in traditional forms. Locked away 
in the mausoleums dedicated to ancient Sith Lords are thousands of scrolls, 
tomes, and tablets bearing instructions on how to master a variety of Sith 
techniques. Like Sith holocrons, these ancient writings describe the methods 
of using lost dark side Force powers, the construction of Sith weapons and 
artifacts, information on Sith alchemy, and treatises on the domination and 
destruction of others. 

Sith scrolls, tomes, and tablets function in much the same was asa holocron 
for the purposes of learning new Force powers and talents. However, these 
writings have no gatekeeper, and as such their knowledge is open to anyone 
who can master them, given time. Searchers should beware; many ancient Sith 
writings are imbued with the madness of their creators, and the knowledge they 
contain has been known to drive the unprepared student to insanity. 

The Madness of Knowledge (CL 6): The first time a character reads 
an ancient Sith tome, scroll, or tablet, make an attack (1d20+8) against the 
character's Will Defense. If the attack succeeds, the character moves -2 
persistent steps down the condition track, and until the persistent condition 


is removed the character takes a -5 penalty to Will Defense (on top of the 
normal penalties for being moved down the condition track). Also, until the 
persistent condition is removed, the character is filled with paranoia and 
creeping insanity, and any time the character rolls a natural 1 on an attack 
roll, his next attack roll made before the end of the encounter must be against 
an ally, not an enemy. The persistent condition can be removed after 8 hours 
of rest with a DC 25 Treat Injury check; the character affected by the Madness 
of Knowledge cannot make this Treat Injury check on himself, 


Sith Talismans 

ASith talisman enhances its wearer's Force attacks. When Jedi first discover 
Sith talismans, they find the trinkets can be made to serve the light without 
adverse consequences. However, to counteract this exploitation, later Sith 
purposely infuse talismans with malignant energy, making them anathema 
to Jedi. The Jedi Council subsequently ban their use, and following the 
Great Hyperspace War, Jedi shadows willfully target the Sith artifacts for 
annihilation. A bitter argument breaks out as Galactic Museum of Coruscant 
curators fiercely assert that Sith artifacts, like any historical curios, belong 
in @ museum. Brokering a compromise, the Chancellor's office grants the 
museum rights to display Sith artifacts, except for Sith holocrons, which are 
to be surrendered to the Jedi Temple. 

For more information on Sith talismans, see page 21. 


li Salavn, 


% 


CHAPTER IV. 
Loscdaw tle dle PROGRAMS 
§  £f = R " =)" ware 


he Jedi and Sith are just two of the many Force-using traditions found 
oughout the galaxy. Every sentient species with the ability to utilize the 
has its own groups and philosophies, although only a tiny fraction have 
documented by the Jedi Order. Young students are taught about some 
hihese groups, to show the various ways that the Force manifests itself in 
1€ Galaxy and how it's expressed by different cultures. 

“The different programs described here are included to show some of the 
alternate beliefs, thoughts, and techniques practiced by outlying traditions. 
Although many of these groups have similar agendas as the Jedi, most have 
Unique requirements for entry that prevent large numbers of students from 
Joining. For example, entry into the Baran Do Sages is limited to Kel Dor 
initiates with sensitivity to the Force. Over the millennia, the Jedi have set up 
“exchange programs” with some of these groups, sending both students and 
Jedi Masters alike to study these alternate traditions and learn from them. 
The Jedi do their best to shield students from some of the more controversial 
beliefs, but realize that part of understanding the Force, particularly the dark 
side, is to ask questions and witness different beliefs firsthand. 


Al eaiavno 


SWNYHOON”d Gsiviniasy 


74 


SWVESOUE) GHIA 


AING-TII! MONKS 

Patrolling the area of space near the Kathol Rift in large, organic ships and 
wielding advanced weaponry is a mysterious race known as the Aing-Tii. 
Their homeworld is hidden somewhere within the Rift, and many people 
believe that the entire race is sensitive to the Force, since the rest of the 
galaxy has only encountered Force-using members of the race. In truth, not 
all of the Aing-Tii are Force-sensitive, but they do have a higher percentage 
of Force-users compared with other races. 


HISTORY 

Very little is known about the Aing-Tii. Their existence is a secret shared 
by relatively few individuals who have met Aing-Tii monks. Even then, the 
meetings take place aboard their ships. In recent history, the Aing-Tii are 
known to patrol the space known as the Kathol Rift and do not interact very 
much with the other inhabitants of the region. 

By the end of the Clone Wars, the Jedi Order learns of the monks’ exis- 
tence and knows that the Aing-Tii are decidedly uninterested in the Jedi. A 
few years before the Battle of Yavin, Master Yoda sends a former smuggler 
named Jorj Car'das to the Aing-Tii to ask for their help in countering his fail- 
ing health. The monks agree to assist on the condition that Jorj stays with 
them to learn their ways. Several years pass before the monks allow Jorj 
Car'das to leave their company and spend the rest of his life on Exocron, a 
world in the Kathol Outback, 

Four years after the Battle of Endor, the Aing-Tii begin a search for what 
they call the Codex, an ancient piece of Darkstryder technology they believe 
to be sacred, Convinced that they cannot physically touch it, they abduct a 
Human navigator named Makezh, erase his memories, and implant a sub- 
conscious command to seek out and obtain the Codex for them. The monks’ 
knowledge of human physiology is limited, however, and Makezh becomes 
mildly insane as a result of the operation. The search concludes on the planet 
Demonsgate, a lone world beyond the Kathol Rift. The Aing-Tii take the Codex, 
Makezh, and several Imperial stormtroopers for study. 

After the conclusion of the Yuuzhan Vong War in 25 ABY, the Jedi Knight 
Jacen Solo travels to the Kathol Rift and studies with the Aing-Tii monks. 
Although the monks view Solo as a unsound student, they teach him about 
flow-walking and how to use the ability. Though Solo files a report of his 
time spent with the Aing-Tii monks, much of the information Solo learned 
is deliberately withheld. 


LOCATION 

The Aing-Tii monks can be found almost exclusively within the nebulous 
clouds that form the Kathol Rift, near the edge of the galaxy. They actively 
patrol the area, looking for slaver ships or vessels in distress that they aggres- 
sively target and destroy. The location of their homeworld is unknown, despite 
many attempts over the years by several individuals to find it. However, it 
is believed to be located somewhere within the Rift. Very rarely are any 
Aing-Tii found alive outside the Rift, and those that dare venture outside 
do not stray very far. 


PHILOSOPHY 

The Aing-Tii believe in the same Force as the Jedi and the Sith, but their 
fundamental principle about it differs greatly in scope. Instead of merely 
two sides of the Force, the light side and the dark side, the Aing-Tii believe 
that the Force has multiple aspects very much like a rainbow. Within these 
aspects, the Force moves and acts in ways that guide and help life in all of 
its forms, and no single aspect is more important than the others. In order 
for one to truly understand the nature of the Force, one must experience a 
little of each facet and gain a semblance of the entire spectrum. 

Since the Aing-Tii believe like the Jedi that life creates the Force, they also 
believe that life can manipulate the Force as well, and even those who are 
not sensitive to the ebb and flow of the Force have some measure of control 
over it. Despite this idea, the Aing-Tii do not seek to take advantage of their 
special “gifts.” They use their abilities for a more practical reason: moving 
themselves through space. Over the centuries, the Aing-Tii have learned to 
use the Force to bend space and even time to transport themselves to various 
destinations. Beyond this application, they use the Force for little else. 

Membership: Only a few beings who are not members of the Aing- 
Tii species have been indoctrinated by the Aing-Tii monks, but they are 
nevertheless considered part of this tradition. Those who are not Aing-Tii 
must demonstrate a willingness to learn the “true nature of the Force" and 
demonstrate that they have something to teach the monks as well. 


BUILDING AN AING-TI! MONK 

Playing a hero that has been trained in the philosophies of the Aing-Tii monks 
can be somewhat trickier than playing members of other Force traditions. 
Since the Aing-Tii species does not lend itself easily to heroic adventuring, 
your hero is more likely to be a member of another species that came across 
the Aing-Tii and convinced them to train you. Decide how you came into 
contact with the Aing-Tii. Was your ship marooned on a world in Aing-Tii 
space or saved from slavers by an Aing-Tii patrol? Did you seek out the 
Aing-Tii on purpose, making contact with the species and requesting their 
instruction, or did they single you out through some sort of mystic selection 
process? After completing your training with the Aing-Tii monks, what did 
you do? For what destiny did the Aing-Tii give you their precious knowledge 
of the Force? 


In game terms, the powers of the Aing-Tii monks are best represented in 
those abilities that bend the rules of time and space. Your hero will want to 
make sure he has the fold space Force power, as well as some talents from 
the Aing-Tii monk talent tree. If your character has the farseeing Force 
power and the Visions talent, you might interpret that when you use those 
abilities you are actually practicing the secret art of flow-walking (whereby 
you transport yourself back to witness images from the past, rather than just 
seeing them from the future). Your hero might describe using the surge power 
as bending space to let you move more quickly, or your character might be 
a master of the phase Force power (from The Clone Wars Campaign Guide), 
allowing you to pass through walls. 

Other considerations for building your Aing-Tii monk might include class 
and non-Force talent selection. The Aing-Tii are adamant in their war on 
slavers, and as such you might build your hero to do the same. You might 
have studied under an Aing-Tii navigator aboard one of their living starships, 
and as such you would be trained in the Pilot skill. Perhaps you spent some 
time breaking up slaver convoys, and have taken the Vehicular Combat feat 
or Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons). Since the Aing-Tii are careful to 


AN AING-Til MASTER OF THE FORCE 


guard their secrets, you might take talents and feats that make you less 
susceptible to mental influence, boosting your Will Defense or discouraging 
others from making skill checks against your Will Defense at all. 


AING-TIl MONK TALENT TREE 

The Aing-Tii monks have an understanding of the Force that is different from 
the Jedi and most other Force traditions. The Force has many more aspects 
than just a light side and a dark side, and it is most useful for facilitating 
freedom of travel. 

Aura of Freedom: All allies within 6 squares of you gain a +5 Force 
bonus on skill checks or grapple checks made to escape grapples or other 
immobilizing hazards. Additionally, whenever an ally within 6 squares of 
you is moved against its will (such as by the move object Force power or the 
Bantha Rush feat), you can spend a Force Point as a reaction to negate the 
forced movement entirely. 

Folded Space Mastery: While you are the pilot of a vehicle, you can use 
the fold space Force power (see page 25) to move the vehicle across long 
distances. If your Use the Force check to activate the power is sufficient to 
move an object of the same size as your vehicle (or larger), you can use the 
power to move your vehicle and all of its occupants safely to the desired 
destination. You use your Use the Force check result instead of a Use Com- 
puter check, as though calculating a hyperspace jump. This otherwise uses 
the normal rules for hyperspace travel, though travel is instantaneous and 
requires no hyperdrive. 

Prerequisite: Fold space. 

Liberate: You can spend a Force Point as a swift action to designate one 
ally within 12 squares of you and in line of sight that is currently grabbed, 
grappled, or immobilized; that target automatically escapes from the grab or 
grapple (or the immobilizing effect is removed), and the target can move up 
to half its speed immediately as a reaction. This movement does not provoke 
attacks of opportunity. 

Prerequisite: Aura of Freedom. 

Many Shades of the Force: Choose one Force power with the [dark 
side] or [light side] descriptor in your Force suite. That power is no longer 
considered to have that descriptor for you. 

Prerequisite: Force Training. 

Spatial Integrity: While you are aboard a vehicle, you can spend a Force 
Point as a reaction to the vehicle taking damage; you make a Use the Force 
check and reduce the damage the vehicle takes by the check result. This 
reduction occurs after both DR and SR are applied to the damage. 


SWwYVESSCMd) GELvinkway 


Al yaiavHoS 


SWYHSSOUd GELAVINMSY 


BARAN DO SAGES 

The Baran Do Sages are an obscure group of Kel Dor seers and mystics who 
engage in deep contemplation with the Force to look into the future and 
assist their people. They empty their minds to allow the Force to provide its 
wisdom and secrets. These quiet masters of the Force sit in silence, listen- 
ing to the ebb and flow of the Force, before leaping into action. Although 
humble and introspective, the Baran Do are full of confidence, relying on 
the Force to guide their deeds. 


HisTORY 

This Kel Dor Force tradition has lasted for thousands of years. The Baran Do 
Sages serve as seers and advisors to leaders, using their talents to discern 
the best path to take for the good of the species. They are called upon to 
also help investigate crimes, reveal secrets that only the Force could uncover, 
and even help predict the weather so farmers can better raise their crops. 
Time and time again, the insights of the Baran Do Sages help avert disaster 
for the Kel Dor. 

Upon entry into the Galactic Republic, increasing numbers of Baran Do 
Sages and Force-sensitive Kel Dor younglings are indoctrinated into the 
Jedi Order. Although the Baran Do never entirely go away, their numbers 
dwindle to such a degree that eventually the group becomes little more than 
a remnant in Kel Dor consciousness, remembered only for being mystics and 
sorcerers. Despite this, the teachings of the Baran Do made a huge impact 
on the study and understanding of the Force by the Jedi, who incorporate 
various Baran Do techniques into their own teachings. Faded into obscurity, 
the Baran Do manage to survive the Great Jedi Purge by Darth Vader, and 
their numbers slowly increase again during the time of the New Republic, once 
more providing wisdom and insight for the good of the Kel Dor people. 


LOCATION 

The Baran Do Sages are found almost exclusively on Dorin, the homeworld of 
the Kel Dor, contemplating the nature of the Force and advising their people 
‘on important matters. However, because of their ability to discern the future, 
the sages sometimes depart from their home planet, following the will of the 
Force. In this way, they can be found almost anywhere in the galaxy. Consum- 
mate investigators, these traveling sages find themselves on bustling worlds 
and backwater planets alike, seeking knowledge or following slender threads 
of information provided by the Force. Although capable fighters, they often 
travel with well-armed bodyguards or native guides to ensure their safety. 
Heroes might be asked to protect a Baran Do Sage on a mission or to help 
return him safely to Dorin along with his vital information. 

Heroes might be drawn to the temple of the Baran Do Sages on Dorin, 
searching for specific information or advice on the best way to proceed. 
The Baran Do maintain good relations with the Jedi and willingly provide 
assistance to them or their allies as needed. During the time of the Great 


Jedi Purge, renegade Jedi could also find safe haven at the temple, although 
getting there is fraught with danger. 


PHILOSOPHY 

The Baran Do Sages emphasize contemplation and insight over brash impulse. 
Every thought, deed, and action of a sage is carefully deliberated, using the 
Force to help guide him. A Baran Do Sage seeks peace and stillness, for a 
quiet mind is when the Force speaks the clearest. Powerful Baran Do use 
the Force to look into the past, the present, and the future for answers and 
receive visions about individuals to which they have no other connection. 
They are also used to investigate “unsolvable” crimes using the Force, which 
lets them see the perpetrator in the act or to locate missing evidence. 

The Kel Dor believe that children born with silver irises are unusually 
strong in the Force. The Baran Do seek out these younglings, along with any 
other children who show potential. Raised in the peaceful surroundings of the 
Baran Do temple, young recruits are taught patience and stillness, including 
different meditation techniques and exercises to expand the mind, Sensory 
depravation is a common technique, forcing a pupil to rely on other senses 
(or none at all), or sensory overload, where the youngling must solve puzzles 
or deduce patterns while bombarded with loud noises, jostling crowds, or an 
overpowering stench. The training is neither rigorous nor physically taxing, 


BARAN Do Saces. 


but encourages introspection and thoughtfulness at all times. The Baran 
Do Sages are not averse to opening their doors to any Kel Dor with Force 
sensitivity and a willingness to learn and achieve calmness. 

Baran Do Sages never rush to judgment or action, weighing every conse- 
quence with equal care. Outsiders may misconstrue this inaction as indeci- 
sion, fear, or even laziness, but nothing is further from the truth. When a 
Baran Do Sage acts, he does so with utter confidence and purpose—days of 
silent meditation replaced by a flurry of activity and movement. Baran Do 
Sages are constantly on the hunt for solid facts to back up their visions and 
might range far into the galaxy to seek answers, 

Membership: Any Kel Dor with the Force Sensitivity feat is eligible to 
join the Baran Do Sages. 


BUILDING A BARAN DO SAGE 

True Baran Do Sages are members of the Kel Dor species, so to build a Baran 
Do Sage you will want to make your hero a Kel Dor. That being true, it is 
possible that your hero is an exception to the rule, and that somehow you 
convinced the Kel Dor to train you despite being a member of another species. 
(If you choose this background, you'll need your Gamemaster's permission, 
and you should probably find a way to explain how you survived in the 
poisonous atmosphere of Dorin). There are some questions you might want 
to answer when coming up with you're hero’s background. Why were you 
trained as a Baran Do Sage instead of a Jedi? Did you seek out the training, 
or did the Sages choose you? What destiny have you seen for yourself in the 
future? What knowledge of the future and the past do you now possess, and 
how might that motivate you? 

Since the Baran Do focus many of their efforts on attuning themselves to 
the flow of the Force, when building your hero you will likely want to choose 
talents from the Sense talent tree. Chief among those is Visions, which in 
turn requires the farseeing Force power. Likewise, the Baran Do Sage ability 
to see into the future is well represented by the Foresight talent, as well as 
the Motion of the Future talent. Given that the Baran Do Sages use esoteric 
techniques, the Mystic talent tree for the Force adept (see page 18) could 


HOLOCRON LESSON: 
ON THE FORCE, VISIONS, 


Many young Jedi v ne ¢ ability to gain glimpses of the past, present, or 
future often become c ned with the best way to utilize this informa- 
tion. Having such nn jight reveal information hitherto unknown by 
the rest of the Jedi and mi night contain personal, embarrassing, or even 
dangerous knowledge. A Padawan should be mindful of another being's 
feelings and privacy, but discovering information that disturbs the Force 
should be acted upon. When in doubt, turn to your Master to determine 
the best course of action. 


reflect the methods your hero uses to tap into the Force. Lastly, the Baran 
Do Sages are masters of introspection and meditation; many of their tech- 
niques are suitably represented by the standard Force regimens presented 
in Chapter 1, and these can reflect your hero's dedication to the techniques 
taught by Baran Do masters. 

When building a hero that is a Baran Do Sage, you should consider your 
class and talent selection carefully. The Baran Do are the consummate Force 
adepts, so levels in the Force adept prestige class are practically a necessity. 
Before going into a prestige class, your hero is likely to take levels in the 
noble class (reflecting the hero's dedication to skill over combat technique) 
or the scout class (reflecting the hero's ability to survive on the harsh world 
of Dorin). You hero is more likely to take feats that enhance skill use or pro- 
vide durability and protection, such as Improved Defenses or Toughness, as 
opposed to more offense-oriented feats such as Weapon Focus. 


BARAN DO SAGE TALENT TREE 

Kel Dor who become Baran Do Sages are contemplative and insightful, 
using the Force to unravel the skeins of the past, present, and future to 
determine the best course of action. They are masters of farseeing and other 
Sense-related Force abilities, making them excellent as both investigators 
and advisors. 

Enhanced Danger Sense: You gain a +10 bonus on Perception checks 
made to avoid being surprised. Additionally, you can spend a Force Point to 
act in the surprise round, even if you are surprised. 

Expanded Horizon: Whenever you use the Search Your Feelings applica- 
tion of the Use the Force skill, you can sense the consequences of your actions 
out to 1 hour into the future (instead of the normal 10 minutes). You can 
spend a Force Point when you do so to expand this window out to 8 hours, 
or a Destiny Point to expand this window out to 24 hours. 

Knowledge and Defense: You add your Wisdom bonus to your Reflex 
Defense whenever your Dexterity bonus would normally be denied to you, 

Prerequisite: Enhanced Danger Sense. 

Planetary Attunement: Whenever you arrive on a new planet, you can 
spend 10 minutes and a Force Point to acclimate yourself to the planet's 
unique ebb and flow of Force energy. While on the planet, you gain a +2 Force 
bonus to all defenses against naturally occurring hazards on the world, your 
speed increases by 1 square, and you can sense what the weather will be like 
in the immediate area up to 24 hours in advance as a full-round action. 

Precognitive Meditation: Once per day, you can spend 10 minutes 
meditating to seek visions of the future. At that time, you can spend a Force 
Point as a part of this meditation. Once during the rest of the day, whenever 
you or a vehicle you pilot are the target of an attack, you can choose to 
negate that attack provided the attack roll is not a natural 20. At the end 
of the day, if you did not use this ability, you regain the Force Point spent 
‘on the meditation. 


Al SsiavHo 


SWVESOUSD GELvItwIy 


Al SsLevHo 


SWwYEOeSUd GIAmiiiddY 


FALLANASS!I 

Every Force tradition in the galaxy has its own way of looking at the Force 
and how to channel its energies. The Fallanassi is unique among these 
traditions, for its members believe that the Force is not the Force at all. 
Instead, members of the Fallanassi believe in the White Current, an energy 
field strikingly similar to the Force to those untrained in their ways. To the 
Fallanassi, however, the White Current differs from the Force in many ways. 
Where other Force traditions tap into the Force and use its power, the Fal- 
lanassi approach it from the other direction by immersing themselves in the 
White Current. 

The Fallanassi dedicate their lives to keeping their existence secret and 
do not involve themselves in galactic events. Why they choose to hide from 
the galaxy at large is unknown; they claim that they have seen the results 
of events caused by those that use the Force for their own personal gain 
and choose to not involve themselves in such incidents. Some people believe 
that a tragedy in the past that was caused by one or,more of their members 
spawned this behavior, but proof of such a theory is lost in time. 

As a means to preserve their isolationist policies, the Fallanassi keep their 
communities small and own few possessions. One main reason for this is 
to allow them to migrate easier when they decide to move. For this reason, 
many people consider them nomadic. In many ways, they are correct. But, 
the Fallanassi are not true nomads, since they move to protect their secrecy, 
not to find resources. 


HIsTORY 

According to their own stories, the Fallanassi have existed for a long time 
and are perhaps older than even the Republic itself. Due to their desire to 
keep out of the public eye and their lack of records, much of their history 
is unknown. 

What little that is known about them was scarcely chronicled by Jedi 
Master Luke Skywalker after his encounter with them during the Black 
Fleet Crisis, when the New Republic clashed with the Yevethans. In fact, the 
New Republic defeated the Yevethans with the assistance of the Fallanassi 
through their use of an illusory space fleet that led the Yevethans to believe 
that the New Republic fleet was larger than it actually was. The Fallanassi 
maintained their confidentiality during the conflict and retreated back into 
obscurity after the battle was over by moving to a new home. 

Other than Skywalker, only one other individual has spent any length of 
time with the Fallanassi. Jacen Solo, five years after the end of the Yuuzhan 
Vong War, visited and trained under them for a short period of time. He 
learned about the White Current and how to immerse himself in it before 
traveling into the Unknown Regions to find the source of a call for help. 


A WriTe CURRENT AOEPT 


LOCATION 

Most people have never even heard of the Fallanassi, let alone know that they 
are a group of Force-users. Those who have heard of them find it extremely 
difficult to find them, due to the fact that they move every time they are 
discovered and leave no clue behind indicating the location of their new 
home. That said, each generation of Fallanassi appoints one representative 
to wander the galaxy to determine the current state of affairs outside their 
own civilization and report back if any threat to their existence is present, 
so they can move yet again to preserve their way of life. 


PHILOSOPHY 
According to Fallanassi doctrine, the White Current is like a river instead of 
an energy field. The Fallanassi believe that, in order to manifest their powers, 
they must submerge their essence into this river and let the Current flow 
through them instead of attempting to shape the Force like the Jedi and other 
Force-using traditions. This basic tenet of their philosophy affects all aspects 
of their lifestyle and society. As a result, they are generally nonaggressive 
and maintain a “go with the flow” attitude. 

Privacy, both as individuals and asa society, is prized above all else within 
the Fallanassi. Consequently, they take great strides to protect and preserve 
their isolation. They prefer to keep to themselves and hide from the rest of 


the galaxy, while events take place around them without their involvement. 
They choose not to take action, let alone use their powers, against another 
sapient being, which also helps them to maintain their hidden presence and 
let the galaxy follow its own path without them. 

While they live their daily lives, the Fallanassi grow, marry, and have 
children, unlike most Jedi. The Fallanassi pass their knowledge and training to 
their children as the primary means of continuing the traditions to the next 
generation. Beyond teaching their progeny the ways of the Fallanassi, living 
their lives in isolation, and moving to a new home when they are discovered, 
these people do little else. 

Membership: The Fallanassi are insular, but they do occasionally cross 
paths with other cultures and members of other Force traditions. It's con- 
ceivable, however unlikely, that an outsider might be indoctrinated into the 
ranks of the Fallanassi, but only under exceptional circumstances, and only 
if the White Current guides the Fallanassi to do so. 


BUILDING A WHITE 

CURRENT ADEPT 

Building a hero that is a member of the Fallanassi tradition means building a 
hero with a mysterious background. No other Force organization is as secre- 
tive or as distrustful of outsiders. Your White Current adept hero is likely to 
be Human, although you could be a member of some other species raised 
by the Fallanassi from birth. As such, you will need to decide a few things 
about your hero to determine where he or she fits in with the rest of the 
galaxy. Why did your hero leave the Fallanassi to become an adventurer? Did 
you leave on your own, or were you exiled? How do you preserve the secrets 
of the Fallanassi, if at all? Are you looking for other Force-sensitive beings 
to train in the ways of the Fallanassi, or do you seek to accomplish some 
other goal before returning to your people? With answers to these questions 
prepared, your hero will not only have an appropriate background but also 
should behave quite differently from other Force-users. 

The Fallanassi view the White Current from quite a different perspective 
than the Jedi view the Force, and as such you might choose more uncon- 
ventional Force powers and talents. The Fallanassi represent one of the few 
Force traditions to retain the knowledge of creating illusions with the Force, 
So the Illusions talent (and all the talents that count it as a prerequisite) 
make excellent choices for the White Current adept. Since the Fallanassi 
are so concerned with preserving their secrets, you might wish to choose 
abilities that enhance your stealth; you might take the cloak power (from 
The Clone Wars Campaign Guide) or, if your Gamemaster agrees to let you 
take levels in the Jedi class, work toward the Force Haze talent and other 
talents that augment it. 


You will almost certainly want your hero to be trained in the Stealth skill, 
as many of the talents in the White Current Adept talent tree require you to 
be trained in Stealth. This means beginning play as a scout or scoundrel, or 
multiclassing into one of these classes and spending a feat on Skill Training. If 
you are looking to take some talents from your base class (and not just spend 
your talents on Force talents), consider taking the scout class, as many of the 
scout’s talents help with Stealth and subtlety, as well as survivability. 


WHITE CURRENT ADEPT TALENT TREE 

The White Current guides the Fallanassi to use its power to benefit every- 
thing and everyone around them, as well as to protect themselves. Those 
who succeed in channeling the White Current often display powers with 
surprising effects. 

Force Immersion: You can use the sneak application of the Stealth skill 
to hide from electronic surveillance and sensors. Any opponent attempting 
to detect you with sensors or electronic surveillance must beat your Stealth 
check with a Use Computer check. You need only roll a single Stealth check 
to avoid both electronic notice and notice by conventional means, using the 
same result as the DC for both Perception checks and Use Computer checks 
made to detect you. 

Prerequisite: White Current Adept, trained in Stealth. 

Immerse Another: Whenever you make a Stealth check to sneak, you can 
use your check result in the place of one adjacent ally’s Stealth check to sneak 
(additionally, if you have the Force Immersion talent, that talent applies to 
the designated ally as well). Similarly, you can use your Use the Force check 
result in the place of an adjacent ally’s Use the Force check result to avoid 
detection by the Sense Force application of the skill. 

You can spend a Force Point to have this ability apply to all adjacent 
allies instead of just one. 

Prerequisite: White Current Adept, trained in Stealth. 

Ride the Current: As a reaction to being damaged by an attack or Force 
power, you can spend a Force Point to gain total concealment from all targets 
until the end of your next turn. Additionally, if you have not yet taken your 
second wind, you can do so immediately as a part of this reaction. 

Surrender to the Current: As a swift action, you can choose to sur- 
render to the White Current and allow it to flow around you and fuel your 
Force powers. Until the end of the encounter, you cannot use Force powers 
that do not have "You" as the sole target. However, once per turn as a swift 
action, you can recover one spent Force power that has “You" as the sole 
target without spending a Force Point, adding that power back to your 
Force suite. 

White Current Adept: You can make a Use the Force check in place of 
@ Stealth check. You are considered trained in the Stealth skill. If you are 
entitled to a Stealth check reroll, you can reroll your Use the Force check 
instead (subject to the same circumstances and limitations). 


Al waiavHS 


0} 
} 
0) 
oy 
0) 
@) 
2) 
> 
sg 
0) 


SWYESSU) GELVINMAY 


Al S3iavHD 


IRON KNIGHTS 

The Iron Knights is a highly unusual Force tradition comprised solely of 2 
race of silicon-based creatures called Shards. The Shards are both sentient 
and Force sensitive. The Iron Knights are Shards that have placed themselves 
inside of droid bodies, allowing them to interact with their surroundings much 
like other sentients would. The Iron Knights use the combination of the Force 
and their droid bodies to pursue their agendas, which are very much in line 
with the Jedi. Despite persecution and the occasional misunderstanding, the 
Iron Knights prove to be stalwart and loyal defenders of peace and justice. 


hHiIsTORY 

In order to talk about the Iron Knights, one must discuss the Shards. Native to 
the planet of Orax, Shards appear as small, immobile clusters of multifaceted 
crystals. Shards pulse with faint internal light, giving hints of their sentience. 
These individual Shard clusters bunch together into large colonies, which 
communicate through a band of electromagnetic energy. A Shard can live 
for thousands of years in this environment. Humans colonizing the planet 
eventually realize that the Shards are sentient and communicate with them 
using devices that translate their electromagnetic pulses into speech. Some 


AN IRON KNIGHT 


Shards volunteer to be implanted inside droids, enabling them to leave their 
colonies and explore the rest of the galaxy. The Shards use their newfound 
mobility to meet with representatives of the Galactic Republic, sending 
their droid-bodied ambassadors to establish relations with other cultures 
and species. 

For unknown reasons, some Shards are Force sensitive, a fact discovered 
by Jedi Master Aginos. During the Arkanian Revolution, Master Aqinos takes 
many Shards as Padawans, teaching them about the Living Force. Calling 
themselves the Iron Knights, several of their number join in that conflict 
and help win the day. The Jedi Council excommunicates Aginos for sharing 
knowledge of the Living Force with the Shards, and he goes into exile, taking 
several of the Shard Jedi along. This decision saves the Iron Knights from 
extinction. When the Great Jedi Purge happens, most of the Shards on Orax 
are destroyed and the planet is heavily mined. Droids are banned from the 
surface of Orax, and few Shards manage to escape. Now refugees and fugi- 
tives, the majority of the Iron Knights go into hiding on the planet Dweem. 

The Iron Knights lay low for decades, until they are rediscovered by a 
band of students from the New Jedi Order. Realizing their potential, the Order 
accepts the Iron Knights into its ranks. During the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, 
the Iron Knights prove an instrumental part of the New Jedi Order's defenses, 
although the Yuuzhan Vong's hatred of technology makes the Iron Knights 
favorite targets for destruction. Numerous Iron Knights serve with honor 
and distinction during the conflict 


LOCATION 

Iron Knights are most commonly encountered in two different eras. The 
first is around the time of the Arkanian Revolution, roughly 50 years before 
the Battle of Yavin. At this time, the Iron Knights are new to the galaxy at 
large and just beginning to learn the ways of the Force. What they lacked in 
experience, they made up for in enthusiasm. 

The Iron Knights rise to prominence again during the time of the New Jedi 
Order, after surviving the Great Jedi Purge by hiding in their droid bodies and 
using their mechanical shells to conceal their covert anti-Empire activities. 
By the time of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, the Iron Knights are entrenched 
elements within the New Jedi Order. 


PHILOSOPHY 

Shards are deeply contemplative and curious creatures. Their unusual method 
of communication is ponderously slow, meaning that discussions can take 
days to play out and decisions up to years. The Iron Knights are different— 
their connection to their droid hosts allows them to interact with the galaxy 
in much the same way as other sentients. They are fascinated with the both 
the speed and short lives of other creatures. They find the galaxy a dynamic, 
vibrant place and go to great lengths to protect others from harm or to stop 
injustice when encountered. 


Despite their zeal, the Iron Knights are as likely to succumb to the dark 
side as any Force-user. Iron Knights take such transgressions very seriously 
and spend much of their downtime in deep contemplation of the nature of 
the Force to recognize and ward off the dark side's temptations. 

The Iron Knights are Jedi and train with lightsabers. However, they are 
quite capable of defeating enemies using the weapons built into their droid 
bodies. The Iron Knights prefer droid bodies that are built for battle, such as 
the Juggernaut war droid or the FLTCH Series droid. 

Iron Knights are considered part of the Jedi tradition for the purposes of 
qualifying for the Jedi Knight and Jedi Master prestige classes. 

Membership: Only Shards can become Iron Knights. 


BUILDING AN IRON KNIGHT 

Building an Iron Knight is much like building a Jedi. Since only Shards can 
become Iron Knights, all you really need to worry about are which talents, 
feats, and Force powers to take. Since Iron Knights are likely to be wading 
into the thick of combat, one of your best choices is the Force Repair talent. 
Similarly, your hero should consider talents and feats that bolster your hit 
points, ability to catch a second wind, and so forth. Likewise, defensive talents 
such as Block and Deflect can keep you from relying as much on healing. 
Otherwise, build your Iron Knight just as you would any other Jedi—after all, 
the Iron Knights consider themselves to be Jedi, and so should your hero. 


IRON KNIGHT TALENT TREE 

The Iron Knights are truly unique, in that they are silicon-based creatures that 
use droids as their physical bodies to interact with the galaxy. As a result, 
they view and utilize the Force in ways that seem unusual to the Jedi. Most 
of their powers involve their ability to affect droids and other machinery. 

Droid Duelist: Whenever you are wielding a lightsaber, you can spend a 
Force Point as a swift action to cause an opponent to be flat-footed against 
your next attack made with a lightsaber before the end of your turn. 

Force Repair: You can use the Force Trance application of the Use the 
Force skill to recover hit points through natural healing. You can also receive 
hit points from the vital transfer Force power. Whenever you receive bonus 
hit points from any source, you gain additional bonus hit points equal to 
your Charisma modifier (minimum +1). 

Heal Droid: You can use the vital transfer Force power to heal droids 
(including Shard-inhabited droids), which are normally immune to this 
power, 

Prerequisites: Vital transfer. 

Mask Presence: As a swift action, you become immune to the Sense 
Force application of the Use the Force skill, and appear to be nothing more 
than a regular droid in the Force. If you make a Use the Force check or use 
any Force power or Force talent, this effect immediately ends. 


New SPECIES: SHARDS 

Shards are crystalline beings native to the planet Orax. Although immobile 
and silicon-based, Shards are sentient and can communicate with others 
through computers and other electronic receivers. Some Shards, like the 
Iron Knights, have themselves placed inside droid bodies that they can 
manipulate telepathically. Many, if not all, Shards are Force-sensitive. 
The following statistics are for use by players wishing to create Shard 
characters. These statistics assume that the Shard is implanted in a 
humanoid droid body, as this is likely the only way that the Shard can 
interact with the rest of the party effectively. 


Shard Species Traits 
Shards share the following species traits, 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Dexterity, +2 Wisdom. Shards have powerful 
minds but must rely on somewhat clumsy droid bodies. A Shard retains 
its Constitution score even while inside a droid body. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Shards have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Bonus Skill: Shards gain Use Computer as a bonus trained skill, 
regardless of their class. 

Droid Shell: Shards must inhabit droid bodies to travel and function 
in the galaxy at large. In this form, they gain the following traits. 

—Shards must undergo maintenance as per a droid. 

—Shards are immune to poison, disease, radiation, noncorrosive atmo- 
spheric hazards, and vacuum. They can regain hit points only through the 
Repair Droid application of the Mechanics skill. They do not benefit from 
natural healing unless they have the Force Repair talent. 

—Shards are considered cybernetic creatures for the purposes of being 
damaged by ion weapons. 

—Shards can make use of droid systems and accessories, subject 
to some limitations. Shards can have the following droid accessories: 
appendages, armor, communications devices, internal storage, sensors, 
and translator units. Shard bodies have a cost modifier of x1. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Binary. Shards can communi- 
cate with other creatures only when connected to a computer or a 
vocabulator. 


Silicon Mind: Other Force-users have a difficult time knowing how to 
influence you. You can spend a Force Point as a reaction to gain a bonus to 
your Will Defense equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum +1) against all 
Use the Force checks until the end of your next turn. 


Al SaiavHo 


[Areszavas 


MATUKAI 

Throughout the galaxy, many Force-users rely on something to focus their 
minds and power. Usually, the focal object is a piece of jewelry or a weapon, 
such as a lightsaber. The Matukai are different in that the objects through 
which they focus the Force are their own bodies. 


HisTORY 

The Matukai trace their origins back to the “glory days” of the Old Republic, 
sometime after the Great Sith War when the Jedi Order was at its peak and 
stretched its influence across the galaxy. During this time, the Jedi Order 
allowed other Force-using sects to practice their beliefs on the condition 
that they did not delve into the dark side of the Force. 

Starting with a single Force-user, a Human female from Karvoss Il whose 
name is lost to history, the Matukai sect grows from a small band of students 
to about 60 members. Drawing from a pool of Force-users who did not qualify 
for Jedi training, they carry on the group's teachings from generation to gen- 
eration. As time goes on, the Matukai grow in power and influence. The Jedi 
eventually recognize the organization and send representatives to negotiate 
an affiliation with them, but they are met with disinterest and contempt. 

Although the Matukai try to avoid being drawn into the conflict between 
the Republic and the Separatists, they do not go unnoticed. Once Order 66 
is issued by Emperor Palpatine and the Jedi are swept aside, the Matukai 
become one of the first Force-using traditions to fall under the new Empire's 
hammer, and most of its members are killed at the hands of Lord Vader and 
his contingent of Imperial troops. 


LOCATION 

Encountering a Matukai Adept anywhere in the galaxy is a rare event indeed, 
However, they are not hard to find if you know where to look. During the 
days of the Old Republic, the Matukai can be found anywhere space travelers 
might frequent. After the end of the Clone Wars, any Matukai who survives 
the backlash of the Jedi Purge goes into hiding and remains there until after 
the New Republic governs for several years. Some travel to Luke Skywalker's 
Jedi Academy after he expresses an interest in learning from other tradi- 
tions. During the Yuuzhan Vong War, several Matukai fall at the hands of the 
invaders and the Peace Brigade, but its members are widespread enough to 
ensure the continued survival of the sect. 


PHILOSOPHY 

Matukai philosophy centers on achieving a balance between the physical 
aspects of the body and the spiritual aspects of the Force. All facets of 
Matukai life reflect this basic belief, even down to the clothes they wear. 
Their doctrines demand that the body be kept fit and clean while the mind 
focuses on the Force through personal rituals, avoiding the dark side of the 
Force through all of it. 


Achieving balance between the physical and the spiritual also includes 
‘one’s mental and emotional aspects as well. The Matukai believe that by 
remaining calm and relaxed without letting fear, anger, or other negative 
mental energies cloud the mind, the body becomes the greatest possible 
conduit for the Force. 

Many of the people the Matukai recruit have little inherent strength 
in the Force. The fact that these pupils become masters of the Force is a 
testament to the effectiveness of Matukai instruction. The training each 
student undertakes involves a regimen of physical and mental techniques 
with a strong emphasis on the physical aspects. Trainees frequently push 
themselves to the limits of their physical capabilities in the early stages 
and, as they learn to tap into the Force, push beyond those limits while 
using the Force to fortify themselves. Each lesson hones some part of the 
student's strength or endurance and also teaches about an aspect of the 
Force. Those who complete their training are in peak physical shape and in 
extremely good health. They also receive a special tattoo that covers part of 
the forehead and the sides of the face near the eyes as a symbol that they 
are fully trained Matukai Adepts. 

Membership: Any character with the Force Sensitivity feat can become 
‘a member of the Matukai by being accepted as the pupil of a Matukai 
Adept. 


BUILDING A MATUKAI ADEPT 

Like members of many Force traditions, the Matukai are willing to accept 
initiates of all species and backgrounds, provided that each would-be 
apprentice adheres to the Matukai philosophy. As such, you need only decide 
how your hero came to be under the tutelage of the Matukai. Were you born 
into the tradition, or did you seek it out? Was your master eager to take you 
under his or her wing, or reluctant? How thoroughly do you embrace the 
philosophies of the Matukai? 

Your selection of Force powers and talents will likely focus on abilities 
that revolve around body control as well as the mastery of the wan-shen, 
Talents from the Control talent tree, such as Equilibrium and Damage Reduc- 
tion 10, are excellent choices to reflect the Matukai mastery of their own 
bodies. Similarly, Force powers such as vital transfer or battle strike make 
good choices for the Matukai, both to help reflect their mastery over their 
own life forces as well as to enhance their combat prowess. 

Since the Matukai are a decidedly martial tradition, the soldier class is 
an excellent choice for your hero. The Martial Arts feats not only improve 
your Reflex Defense but also provide an excellent reflection of the physical 
training that the Matukai endure. Likewise, feats such as Improved Defenses, 
Improved Damage Threshold, and Toughness can give your hero a resilience 
that many other characters do not have, representative of your hero's mastery 
over both body and Force. 


A MaTUKA! ADEPT 


MATUKAI ADEPT TALENT TREE 

All Matukai strive to achieve perfect harmony between the physical and the 
spiritual aspects of their lives. As a result, they find ways to use the Force 
to improve their bodies. 

Body Control: You can add your Charisma modifier instead of your Con- 
stitution modifier to your Fortitude Defense. Additionally, you can spend a 
Force Point as a swift action to become immune to poison, radiation, and 
disease until the end of the encounter. 

Physical Surge: Whenever you roll an Initiative check at the start of 
combat, you can spend a swift action immediately, regardless of whether 
or not you are surprised. 

Soft to Soli S$ a reaction when you are damaged by an attack, you 
can spend a Force Point to increase the rigidity of your skin, gaining DR 10 
until the end of your next turn. 

Wan-Shen Defense: As a swift action, you can use your wan-shen to 
parry your opponents’ attacks, gaining a +1 deflection bonus to your Reflex 
Defense against melee attacks until the start of your next turn. You must have 
your wan-shen in hand to use this talent, and you do not gain the deflection 
bonus if you are flat-footed or otherwise unaware of the incoming attack. 

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent, 
the deflection bonus increases by +1 (to a maximum of +3) 

Prerequisite: Proficient with the wan-shen (see page 54). 

Wan-Shen Kata: You treat the wan-shen as a Medium weapon instead 
of a Large weapon. You can use the Pin and Trip feats with a wan-shen, 
substituting your attack bonus with the wan-shen for your grapple check 
You must have your wan-shen in hand to use this talent. 

In addition, when you use the wan-shen as a double weapon, you reduce 
all attack penalties for attacking with both ends of the weapon by 1 

Prerequisite: Proficient with the wan-shen (see page 54) 

Wan-Shen Mastery: As a standard action, you make two attacks with 
your wan-shen, each one against a different target within your reach. You 
must have your wan-shen in hand to use this talent 

Prerequisites: Proficient with the wan-shen, Wan-Shen Kata, base attack 
bonus +5. 


Al waLevHS 


SWYHESGU?) GELAVINMAY 


Al BSsiavHo 


> 
sy 
4 
Cc 
: 
to) 
v 
» 
@ 
@ 
ey} 
> 
x 
o 


SEYUG!I DERVISHES 

Not every Force tradition teaches peace and serenity. The Seyugi Dervishes 
train in the arts of unarmed combat, stealth, and subterfuge. However, it is 
their mastery of the Force that makes them deadly assassins. They terrorize 
the Core Worlds, hiring themselves out as contract killers specializing in 
eliminating nobles, corporate heads, and other important individuals. Seyugi 
Dervishes are so named for their confusing, whirling movements, which rare 
survivors would proclaim a “beautiful dance of death.” 

Clad in red cloaks and white masks, unarmed Seyugi Dervishes can slip 
unnoticed into heavily defended compounds and murder their targets quietly 
and with alarming speed. The Dervishes spread rumors about their prowess, 
so that mere mention of the Dervishes instills dread in the populace. Seyugi 
Dervishes rarely employ weapons, relying on their unarmed combat skill and 
the Force to complete their missions. 


HISTORY 

Seyugi Dervishes get the first part of their 

name from a now extinct culture that 

populated the planet Recopia. The Seyugi 
were nomads who traversed the hazy 
skies of that planet on massive repulsorlift 
barges. Shunned by the rest of the populace 
as a culture of thieves, cutthroats, and 
pickpockets, the Seyugi kept to themselves. 
Several hundred years before the Battle 
of Yavin, a Force-sensitive Seyugi leader 
named Karrh gathered together the war- 
riors of the various clans who also showed 
potential in the Force. After generations of 
prejudice and scorn, Karrh trained these 
warriors in the arts of stealth and silent 
killing, teaching them his own version of 
the Force. These warriors became the first 
Seyugi Dervishes and were sent on missions 
to eliminate threats and bring justice to 
those who disparaged the Seyugi people. 

Over time, the Seyugi spread throughout 

the Core, establishing themselves as assas- 
sins who will work for anyone with the 
credits to pay their outlandish fees. 

The Seyugi Dervishes eventually attract 
the attention of the Jedi Order, which 
views them as a menace to the galaxy. The 
Jedi send ships and Jedi Knights to bring 
down the Dervishes, who have established 


numerous bases throughout the Core and beyond. The hunt takes decades, 
and by the end of it the Jedi believe that the Seyugi Dervishes are no more. 
However, ina desperate act of survival, the last few hundred Seyugi Dervishes 
retreat to a secret temple-fortress on Recopia. Amazingly, the Jedi fail to 
locate this last cell. These Seyugi Dervishes place themselves in carbonite 
hibernation, waiting for the right moment to return. A few descendants of 
the Seyugi, called the Mallif, are strange religious monks who sometimes 
broadcast their odd philosophies on hijacked HoloNet transmissions. The vast 
majority of these religious malcontents are unaware of the slumbering evil 
on Recopia. Those who do know help maintain the fortress, keeping it safe 
until the time is right to awaken the slumbering Seyugi. 


LOCATION 

Seyugi Dervishes are most prominent during the era of the 
Old Republic, Although most of their activities are limited 
to the Core, Seyugi Dervishes venture widely to perform 
their missions and can be encountered just 
about anywhere, Seyugi Dervishes have 
bases on nearly every major planet within 
the Core and several outposts located on 
distant worlds in the Mid Rim. However, 
the Jedi eventually realize the threat of the 
Dervishes and nearly wipe out the tradition 
By the time of the Clone Wars, the only 
remaining Seyugi Dervish stronghold is a 
temple-fortress on the sulfuric planet of 
Recopia in the Core. 
‘Any number of events might release 
the Seyugi Dervishes from their carbonite 
hibernation, allowing them to regroup and 
terrorize the galaxy once more. 


PHILOSOPHY 
Force adepts or Force disciples of the Seyugi 
Dervish tradition ignore many of the theories 
of the Force put forth by the Jedi. For the 
Dervishes, the Force is a way to master 
one's body, honing it into a weapon. 
Although their actions could definitely 
be considered evil, the Seyugi Dervishes 
do not ascribe to many of the tenants of the 
dark side either. They deplore random chaos 
and violence, and their goals are motivated 
by greed and personal achievement, not 
power. Still, their deeds and beliefs are 


such that many Seyugi Dervishes find themselves in the service of other 
powerful dark siders. 

Like the Jedi, Seyugi Dervishes seek out infants who possess Force 
sensitivity, preferring these “unspoiled templates” to older younglings. 
When a potential initiate is found, the Dervishes send one of their number 
to kidnap the youngling and bring her back to one of their many temples to 
begin a lifelong study of the tradition, sequestered with monastic discipline. 
After fifteen years of training, a Seyugi Dervish is sent on her first mission, 
usually under the watchful eye of a master who monitors the situation from 
a distance and removes any trace of the attack if the apprentice fails. Upon 
graduation, Seyugi Dervishes are free to wander the galaxy, receiving orders 
through encrypted communiqués and via the Force. Assassinations performed 
by the Dervishes are incredibly expensive, but clients can rest assured that 
the job will be done quietly, quickly, and discreetly. 

Seyugi Dervishes are masters of unarmed combat. Unless a mission 
requires specialized equipment, a Dervish rarely carries anything, including 
weapons, which might trigger sensors or cause unwanted noise. They wear 
traditional garb of red cloaks and white masks, both to conceal their identities 
and to capitalize on the terror these costumes engender. In addition to their 
training in unarmed combat and the Force, Dervishes study the anatomies of 
various species, allowing them to pinpoint central nerve clusters and cause 
other debilitating wounds. 

Seyugi Dervishes prefer to work alone, but two or more will sometimes 
band together to complete particularly dangerous assignments. On rare 
occasions, a Dervish will employ specialized contractors to help them out, 
especially slicers and demolitions experts, although in many cases, the "hired 
help" has no clue who they were working for and are eliminated afterward 
to conceal the Dervish’s cover and identity. 

Membership: Anyone can be a Seyugi Dervish, provided he or she has the 
Force Sensitivity feat. Initiates are abducted and indoctrinated at a young age 
so that they become fanatic in their devotion to the Seyugi tradition. 


BUILDING A SEYUG! DERVISH 

As a Seyugi dervish, your background is pretty much determined for you; 
all Seyugi dervishes are trained assassins kidnapped as infants and raised 
in Seyugi training compounds. However, you can decide where your hero is 
going, and how he or she fits into the larger galaxy. As a trained assassin with 
mastery of the Force, what motivates you to be more than just a mercenary? 
What binds you to the rest of the party? If there are other Force-users in your 
group, how do you reconcile your immersion in the dark side of the Force 
with your actions on the party's behalf? When building your Seyugi dervish, 
keep in mind that you will need to function as a member of an adventur- 
ing party, and as such will need to make sure that your hero doesn't create 
unnecessary conflict. 


As a Seyugi dervish, you not only want to take Force powers and talents 
that augment your combat skill but also powers that reflect your decision to 
embrace the dark side of the Force. Dark side powers that augment combat 
prowess are the most likely to help realize your hero's training. Additionally, 
when considering prestige classes, you can choose either to focus more 
on the Force training your hero received (in which case you take the Force 
adept prestige class and focus on talents from the Dark Side Devotee talent 
tree), or to focus on your hero's assassin training (in which case you might 
consider the assassin prestige class from Scum and Villainy).. 

To reflect your skill in unarmed combat, the Martial Arts feats are a logi- 
cal choice for your Seyugi dervish. Additionally, your Seyugi dervish might 
wish to take feats or talents that improve mobility, such as the Longstrider 
talent belonging to the scout. 


SEYUGI DERVISH TALENT TREE 

Seyugi Dervishes are masters of unarmed combat augmented by their control 
over the Force, and they traditionally hire themselves out as contract assas- 
sins. Their Force powers allow them to move unseen and to make devastating, 
lightning-quick assaults on their targets. 

Seyugi Cyclone: If you are wielding no weapons (other than combat 
gloves or stun gauntlets), you can use the Whirlwind Attack feat as a 
standard action by spending a Force Point even if you do not posess the 
Whirlwind Attack feat. Additionally, this talent satisfies the prerequisites 
for the Whirlwind Attack feat. 

Mobile Whirlwind: Whenever you use the Whirlwind Attack feat, you 
can move up to your speed after the attack is resolved. 

Prerequisite: Seyugi Cyclone. 

Repelling Whirlwind: You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex 
Defense against any target hit by your Whirlwind Attack until the start of 
your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Seyugi Cyclone. 

‘Sudden Storm: Instead of a normal melee attack at the end of the charge, 
you can spend a Force Point to make a Whirlwind Attack (as per the feat) 
at the end of a charge, provided you are not wielding any weapons (except 
combat gloves or stun gauntlets). 

Prerequisite: Seyugi Cyclone. 

Tempest Tossed: When you damage a target with a Whirlwind Attack, 
you can choose to move that target 1 square in any direction as a free action. 
You can't move a target that's being grabbed or grappled, and you can’t move 
the opponent into a solid object or another creature's fighting space. This 
forced movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Prerequisite: Seyugi Cyclone. 


PAresiaves ) 


SWYVHSSUd GEavinway 


Al esLevHo 


0} 
0 
x0) 
2 
@) 
@ 
1) 
> 
x 
0) 


SHAPERS OF KRO VAR 
Some Force traditions view the Force as a form of magic or power that comes 
from deities. The Shapers of Kro Var represent one such group, channeling 
the Force into showy displays of power that are keyed to the four classic 
elements of nature—air, earth, fire, and water. Master Shapers can evoke 
huge windstorms, earthquakes, or bursts of flame to destroy their enemies. 
Although primitive and superstitious, the Shapers of Kro Var are dangerous 
opponents who wield the Force like a blunt weapon. 


HISTORY 

The Shapers of Kro Var hail from the planet of the same name, located deep 
within the Unknown Regions. Their originate at a point in history a thousand 
years before the Battle of Yavin, when a damaged cruiser filled with refugees 
from the battles that ravaged the planet Ruusan emerges from hyperspace at 
the wrong coordinates and crash lands on Kro Var. The survivors do their best 
to make the barely hospitable world their new home. The planet is covered 
with jagged rock deserts, churning seas, and vast windswept canyons. After 
several generations, the population breaks up into various clans and spread 
out to different parts of Kro Var. These clans spend most of their time fighting 
each other for rare and valuable resources, causing the general technological 
level of the planet to decline to barbaric levels. 

Over time, various members of the populace begin to show signs of Force 
sensitivity. These Force-sensitive people are called “Shapers” because of their 
ability to shape the elements of the world. As the clans grow more warlike 
and aggressive, the Shapers of Kro Var become major players in the resulting 
conflicts, using the Force to command the elements. 

When a Republic trading vessel arrives in the Kro Var system, it throws 
the planet's power structure into chaos. A Jedi contingent is deployed to help 
restore order, reintegrate the planet back into modern society, and investigate 
the reports of sorcerers and "battle wizards.” The Shapers are very suspicious 
and hostile toward the Jedi, primarily based on distorted myths and legends 
from the war between the Jedi Order and the Sith a thousand years prior. 
‘Some Shapers and Jedi perish before peace is eventually restored to Kro Var. 
The Jedi eventually determine that the Shapers are not agents of the dark side, 
and the Jedi Order commits to periodically sending envoys back to the planet 
to monitor its progress and learn the techniques of the Shapers. Shapers and 
other natives of Kro Var are also afforded the chance to leave their planet 
and integrate back into galactic society, which many of them do. 


LOcaTION 

Shapers are still found on their home planet, but since their discovery by 
the Republic, they have spread throughout the galaxy in small numbers, in 
search of new knowledge and techniques to work into their own beliefs, 
Fearful of the Jedi and their “mind-altering ways," the Shapers have come 
into conflict with the Jedi Order on more than a few occasions. However, not 
all Shapers are quite so superstitious and actively seek out the Jedi to learn 
more about their interpretation of the Force. Shapers are bold, brash, and 
proud of their powers and are more than willing to use them when threatened 
or to intimidate or impress non-Shapers. They are also slowly overcoming 
their primitive status and distrust of technology. 


PHILOSOPHY 

The Shapers of Kro Var serve as battle shamans for their various clans. They 
are proud and aggressive, using their powers to terrify enemies as they blast 
them with elemental fury. Each Shaper specializes in a particular element, 
usually the one corresponding to his or her clan's territory. For example, the 
Shapers of the Ungoth Valley wield fire effects more often than not, due in 
part to their clan's affinity for the lava flows that surround their homes. How- 
ever, Shapers can and do manifest different forms of elemental control—true 
masters can summon the power of all four, making them terrifying opponents, 
In addition to their Force powers, they are experts with clubs, spears, and 
swords—these, too, are perfectly good tools for dealing with enemies. 

When a youngling is discovered to possess the Force, he is sent to study 
with one of the many Shaper cabals and is subjected to tests that determine 
which element is strongest within the pupil. Once this is determined, the 
student is then sent to the appropriate temple to begin their studies of the 
Force. Training is arduous and brutal, with Shapers learning both the ways to 
manifest the Force and the arts of war. Their warlike tendencies are further 
shaped by the elements they study. For example, if a Shaper is strong with 
air, he'll tend to be mobile on the battlefield, whereas a Shaper attuned to 
earth is likely to stand her ground. 

Shapers are highly superstitious and suspicious of Force-users who use 
“invisible” powers, including telepathy, Force thrust, and the like. Although 
these attitudes are slowly changing, Shapers are more likely to challenge a 
Jedi to a duel than to engage in diplomacy. Jedi who study the Shapers have 
noticed that there are far fewer instances of “intangible” manifestations of a 
Shaper's power, mainly because on Kro Var, people who possess these kinds 
of powers are persecuted as warlocks and witches. 

Membership: Any native of Kro Var can become a Shaper provided he or 
she has the Force Sensitivity feat. It's also possible for non-natives to become 
Shapers by studying under a Master Shaper who travels abroad. 


BUILDING A SHAPER 
OF KRO VAR 
When creating a Shaper of Kro Var, you have a great deal of freedom in deter- 
mining the origin story of your hero. Not all Shapers are restricted to coming 
from the world of Kro Var, as encounters with the Republic have spread the 
Shapers throughout the galaxy. Your hero might have been trained on Kro 
Var, or your hero might have been trained by a displaced Shaper somewhere 
in recognized Republic space. If you choose to be from Kro Var itself, you can 
do almost anything you like with your hero's background, Information on Kro 
Var, much less the Unknown Regions, is spotty at best, and there is little in 
the way of continuity to restrict your character background 

Given that the Shapers focus their Force use on the manipulation of 
nature, you should consider describing your particular use of various powers 
and talents in terms of environmental effects. For example, if you use Force 
slam on a group of enemies, you can describe it as a mighty wind roaring from 
your back to pick them up and hurl them bodily through the air. Similarly, your 
description of the Force disarm power might involve the very rodts of plants 
and trees reaching up to snatch the weapons out of your enemies’ hands, 

For your Shaper of Kro Var, you should consider talents and feats that 
reflect your ability to survive in harsh environments. The scout class is a 
natural choice for the Shaper, and both the Survivor and Fringer talent trees 
reflect the Shaper's background on Kro Var. Since several of your tradition's 
Force talents require the expenditure of a Force Point, you should consider 
Force Boon as one of your first feats, to maximize the use of your talents, 
Similarly, you might want to take the Force Harmony talent (see page 16) for 
one free use of those talents and the Force Point Recovery Force technique 
once you begin taking levels in the Force adept prestige class. 


SHAPERS OF KRO VAR TALENT TREE 

The Shapers of Kro Var are deeply in touch with the four classic elements of 
air, earth, fire, and water. They use the Force to manipulate these elements at 
a fundamental level, creating impressive effects, such as rippling stone, walls 
of solid wind, and gouts of flame. The talents listed here are a small fraction 
of the “spells” that these primitive Force-users are capable of using. 

Combustion: You can spend a Force Point as a swift action to add 146 
points of fire damage to any Force power that causes damage to a single 
target. A target that takes fire damage also catches on fire (see page 256 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Prerequisite: Force Training, 

Earth Buckle: You can spend a Force Point as a swift action to create a 
3x3 square area of difficult terrain centered on you. You ignore any penalties 
for moving on difficult terrain that you create using this talent. 


A SHAPER OF KRO VAR DEFENDS HIMSELF AGAINST 
THE FORCES OF THE SEPARATISTS. 


Fluidity: You use your Use the Force check modifier instead of your Acro- 
batics check modifier when making Acrobatics checks. If you are entitled to 
an Acrobatics check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check instead 
(subject to the same circumstances and limitations). Additionally, when you 
attempt a grapple or attempting to break free of a grapple, you can spend a 
Force Point to be treated as if you were one size category larger. 

Thunderclap: When you use a Force power that deals damage, you can 
use the Bantha Rush feat against that target as though you had made a 
melee attack 

Prerequisite: Bantha Rush, Force Training, 

Wind Vortex: You can spend a Force Point as a swift action to surround 
yourself with whirling winds. You gain concealment from all other targets and 
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against thrown weapons. 
This effect lasts until the end of the encounter. 


Al weLavHS 


SWVESSHE) GIANNI 


[AresravHo 


SWVMSSONE GAAMUMIIT 


TYIA 

The practitioners of Tyia, a relatively peaceful sect of Force-users, have only 
been widely known in the galaxy since the rise of Palpatine’s Galactic Empire. 
One of the few Force traditions to practice openly during the reign of the 
Empire, Tyia adepts spread their beliefs in the space lanes through peaceful 
discourse and meditation. Unlike many Force traditions, practitioners of Tyia 
rarely come into conflict with the Empire, prolonging their freedom from 
the Emperor's Jedi hunters. 


HiIsTORY 

The Revwien are a sentient plant species hailing from a distant planet beyond 
the Outer Rim, Revwia is temperate world with long rolling plains and an 
equatorial jungle belt. The Revwien revere the jungle belt as a holy site. Those 
Revwien who display talent with the Force are sent to the jungle to develop 
their abilities and study the Tyia. For much of the galaxy's history, Revwien 
Force-users studied the Tyia and developed a kind, of religion around it, 
spreading the word of their beliefs to any who would believe it. 

The masters on Revwia sensed the deaths of the Jedi from the nefarious 
Order 66. The discord caused by the deaths of so many Force-sensitive beings 
sent the masters into a panic. They gathered their best and brightest in a 
temple grown from the largest trees on the planet. The mission was laid out 
plainly. The students were to leave their homeworld and seek out the Jedi 
to help them in the wake of the Great Jedi Purge, to help return the galaxy 
toa state of harmony. 


LOCATION 

The practitioners of Tyia can be found anywhere, from the Deep Core to the 
Outer Rim. They branched out from the Revwien homeworld in force during 
the days of the Galactic Empire, traveling the space lanes as passengers 
aboard tramp freighters, sharing their thoughts and wisdom with other beings 
that seem interested in or strongly connected to the Force. Practitioners of 
Tyia can be found anywhere in the galaxy that tramp freighters fly, but during 
the time of the Empire, they are more likely to be found in shadowports. 


PHILOSOPHY 

“Tyia” is the Revwien word for “breath.” Tyia is the spark of life that all living 
creatures have. All creatures that breathe have some measure of power in 
the Tyia. As long as there is life in the galaxy, there will be Tyia. Students 
of the Tyia spend their time in the wilderness to experience how all life is 
connected. The prey eats the plant. The predator eats the prey. The predator 
dies and his remains feed the plant. All things reflect this cycle. Students of 
the Tyia learn to reach out through these connections and alter the world 
around them. 


Things moving normally are referred to as "Harmony." Harmony is akin to 
the light side, and most students of the Tyia strive for Harmony. They mediate 
disputes, heal those not ready to die, and do what they can to keep peace in 
the galaxy. When the dark side intervenes, the Tyia falls into Discord. The Fall 
of the Republic was hastened by the Discord of Palpatine. Anakin Skywalker 
succumbed to his Discord because he could not be both a Jedi and husband 
to Padmé Amidala. 

Conflict is part of life. Though students of the Tyia do not carry lightsabers, 
they know that predators hunt prey and war is a natural step in the evolu- 
tion of the galaxy. While those who study the Tyia revere all life, they also 
battle those who would destroy it. They prefer to use Force abilities such 
as Force thrust and Force slam to knock down and immobilize opponents 
rather than pick up a blaster to do so. If there is no alternative, the Tyia 
would still rather stun and enemy than kill it. Killing, even in defense, is a 
quick path to Discord. 

Those students who fall from the path of the Tyia are given no name, 
They are believed to have lost the right to call themselves anything because 
of their Discord. Revwien who fall to the dark side take on a shriveled cast. 
Their voices become whispers of fallen leaves. They long to break out of the 
endless cycle of the Tyia and often want to take as many others with them 
as possible. The fallen student of Tyia looks to destroy and disrupt. There are 
places on Revwia where the earth is black and nothing grows. These are the 
places where Harmony and Discord have battled, Discord never fully wins in 
the end, but it often extracts a great price when it loses. 

Membership: Although practitioners of Tyia are usually Revwien, Force- 
sensitive members of other species can embrace the philosophies of the Tyia 
and become practitioners of this Force tradition as well. 


BUILDING A TYIA ADEPT 

Since those who follow the way of Tyia tend toward pacifism, your Tyia adept 
is more likely to come from a species where pacifism is at least occasionally 
acceptable; for example, you will find very few Gamorrean or Trandoshan 
Tyia adepts in the galaxy. That is not to say that they do not exist, but if you 
choose to create a Tyia adept from a violent species, be prepared to answer 
why your hero would reject cultural norms and become an advocate for peace 
and tranquility. That being the case, Tyia adepts might be pacifists, but they 
are not always passive. A Tyia adept might be reluctant to fire a blaster or 
lash out with the Force slam power, but the adept will not stand by while 
their allies are harmed. Tyia adepts tend to take steps to blunt anger (and 
attacks) and diffuse conflict, and as such you might look toward abilities that 
let you accomplish these objectives readily. Species that grant bonuses when 
healing (such as the Selkath from the Knights of the Old Republic Campaign 
Guide), those skilled at neutralizing conflict (such as the Caamasi from The 
Force Unleashed Campaign Guide), or those with Wisdom score bonuses are 
likely to make good Tyia adepts. 


A Tyia adept's Force abilities focus on healing, the reduction of damage 
to allies, and breaking up violent conflict. Tyia adepts prefer Force powers 
such as vital transfer for healing the wounds created by discord, as well 
as powers such as sever Force that do no direct harm but, instead, inflict 
penalties when the target attempts to attack. Tyia adepts are more likely to 
pursue talents that augment healing (such as Force Treatment from the Force 
adept prestige class) or that grant boons to their allies, such as the Force 
Perception and Foresight talents from the Sense talent tree. While you are 
less likely to choose damage-dealing powers when building your Tyia adept, 
you can certainly choose ones that intercede on your allies’ behalf, such as 
the inspire power (see page 27) 

Since a Tyia adept is trained to avoid violent entanglements and overcome 
enemies without resorting to brutality, the noble and scoundrel classes make 
good choices. For your Tyia adept, you might consider picking up a few noble 
talents that let you boost your allies (as opposed to harming your enemies), 
such as Bolster Ally or Inspire Confidence. Moreover, if you choose not to 
invest many of your talents in Force talents, you might go as far into the noble 
talents as to pick up Rally, which can help many of your allies get back on their 
feet. The scoundrel is also a good choice for your Tyia adept, as scoundrels 
have many indirect ways of wreaking havoc with the enemy's actions, such as 
the Disruptive and Walk the Line talents. Such talents allow you to participate 
in combat without necessarily having to make attack rolls. 


TYIA ADEPT TALENT TREE 

The masters of the Tyia seek our Harmony while eschewing Discord. A Tyia 
adept connects to the Force in search of unity, and attempts to align his 
body and his spirit with the galaxy. 

Cycle of Harmony: When an ally within 12 squares of you and in your 
line of sight takes damage or moves down the condition track by any means, 
you can designate a different ally within 12 squares of you and in your line 
of sight as a reaction. The ally you designate gains bonus hit points equal 
to 5 + your Charisma modifier (minimum +1). Damage is subtracted from 
bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining at the end of the 
encounter are lost. 

Prerequisite: Tyia Adept 

Force Stabilize: You can designate an ally within 12 squares of you and 
in your line of sight once per turn as a swift action; that ally immediately 
takes its second wind if it has not yet done so in this encounter. 

Prerequisite: Tyia Adept. 


A HUMAN JEDI CONSULTS A REVWIEN TIA ADEPT. 


Repel Discord: Whenever you are targeted by a Force power with the 
[dark side] descriptor, you can spend a Force Point as a reaction to give the 
creature using that Force Power against you a penalty on its Use the Force 
check to activate the power equal to its Dark Side Score. 

Stifle Conflict: You can choose to have any Force power you activate 
deal stun damage instead of normal damage. 

Tyia Adept: As a swift action, you can spend a Force Point to designate 
one nondroid ally within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight. Until 
the end of your next turn, whenever you or the targeted ally takes damage 
from any source, you take half of the damage and your ally takes half of the 
damage. This halving of damage takes place before the damage is compared 
to your respective damage thresholds. 


Al weiavaS 


SWVESSU GEAvIIMIYy 


Al esiavHo 


W) 
0) 
U 
ay 
@ 
@ 
20 


WARDENS OF THE SKY 
Attached to no planet, system, or sector, the Wardens of the Sky are a small 
group of Force-users who have made it their goal to keep the space lanes safe 
for travelers. They are found in spaceports and cantinas from the Deep Core 
to the Unknown Regions, walking silently among the travelers and acting as 
subtle guardians to protect those who cannot protect themselves. Scattered 
and with little in the way of organization, the Wardens of the Sky are almost 
‘a myth, the subject of stories told by spacers in seedy shadowports over a 
drink. They speak of chance encounters with guardians that slip away into 
the masses when their work is done. 


HisTORY 

Little is known about the Wardens of the Sky. Unlike the Jedi, the Wardens 
have no central organization, iconic uniform, or famous members. The story 
of the Wardens of the Sky begins thousands of years ago around the time of 
the outbreak of the Great Hyperspace War. In these ancient days, hyperspace 
explorers are still scouting the space lanes in search of new routes, and it 
is two such explorers (the Daragon siblings) who accidentally connect the 
Sith Empire to the Republic once more. War breaks out, drawing the entire 
galaxy into conflict. 

As the Republic fends off the Sith invasion, many people blame the 
Hyperspace Navigators Guild for the conflict. In this time, the Jedi are scat- 
tered, and many Force-sensitive children slip through the cracks, growing 
to adulthood with only a rudimentary knowledge of the Force. One such 
overlooked child grows into a masterful pilot and hyperspace explorer who 
uses his knowledge of the Force to sense new routes, rather than rely on 
computers and astronavigation charts. When the Guild comes under fire, 
this Force-sensitive explorer uses his self-taught Force powers to patrol the 
space lanes, seeking out those who would make space travel unsafe for the 
average citizens of the galaxy. 

In time, this navigator, who becomes the first Warden of the Sky, discovers 
other Force-sensitives. He trains them and creates the first generation of 
Wardens of the Sky, sending them out into the galaxy to protect those who 
cannot help themselves. 

At least, that's the commonly held story. In truth, most spacers believe 
that the Wardens are a nice bit of fiction told in cantinas where pilots gather. 
The Wardens are few in number and hide among the denizens of spaceports 
and starship crews, rarely revealing their true nature. 


LOCATION 
The Wardens of the Sky can be found almost anywhere in the galaxy. Most 
tend to move from place to place frequently, like vagabond watchmen. The 
Wardens do their best to appear as ordinary folk and prefer to act in subtle 
ways to protect others from harm. Wardens of the Sky make it their goal to 
protect space travelers of all kinds, even those that operate outside of the 
law. Additionally, each Warden interprets this core philosophy in their own 
way; one Warden might work as the pilot of a smuggling vessel, believing 
that the smugglers are defying tyrants of the space lanes, while another 
might choose to wage a silent war against pirates throughout an entire 
sector of space. 


PHILOSOPHY 

The basic goal of the Wardens is simple: use their knowledge of space and 
of the Force to make the space lanes safe. The Wardens of the Sky believe 
that it is their responsibility to oppose those who would prey upon space 
travelers, which might include everything from fighting against pirates to 
helping smugglers get past the sentries of an oppressive government. The 
Wardens believe that everyone has a right to travel safely between the stars, 
and that with their knowledge of the Force they have a responsibility to see 
that safe space travel becomes a reality. 

The Wardens live a solitary lifestyle, Each Warden of the Sky operates 
individually, relying on his or her training and knowledge of Warden philoso- 
phy for guidance. There is no overarching council to rebuke the Wardens for 
their decisions, only their own deeply held beliefs. Wardens tend to have 
certain space lanes that they patrol, moving from one spaceport to another 
along a particular route, keeping vigilant for space travelers in need of help. 
Sometimes a Warden will come across another Force-sensitive being who 
might make an excellent addition to the Force tradition; in this case, the 
Warden is likely to approach the individual and offer to take them on as an 
apprentice. Once the apprentice’s training is complete, the student becomes 
a Warden and seeks out his or her own corner of space to patrol. This is the 
only way in which the Wardens of the Sky increase their number. 

Wardens of the Sky live subtle, secluded lives. They walk among the 
masses in spaceports and shadowports across the galaxy, never revealing 
their allegiance. When they act, they rarely do so in an overt way unless it 
is truly necessary. One of the reasons that the Wardens are able to avoid 
notice by the Empire and the Sith is that they make themselves specters 
that drift among the populace, appearing to be nothing more than ordinary 
denizens of the space lanes. Many Wardens take jobs as pilots and navigators 
on starships, allowing them to better patrol their section of the stars, while 
appearing as nothing more than typical crew members. 


The Wardens of the Sky are also masters of unarmed combat. Given 
the dangers of firing blasters on starships, the Wardens have developed 
their own combat style that relies on a combination of Force prowess and 
martial arts. Additionally, this makes it much easier for the Wardens to do 
their job; they never have to worry about being disarmed, and they do not 
carry identifying weaponry that their opponents can search for. As drifters 
and silent sentinels, being able to fight with nothing more than one’s own 
body is a major advantage. 

Membership: Anyone from any species can become a Warden of the 
Sky. A candidate must have the Force Sensitivity feat, and he or she must be 
trained by another Warden of the Sky. Once the training is complete, the new 
Warden must rely on his or her own wits to survive; there is no organization, 
per se, that exists to support the Wardens in times of need. 


BUILDING A WARDEN 

OF THE SKY 

As a tradition without ties to any particular location, the Wardens of the 
Sky make a good choice for any Force-using hero. Since they focus on 
protecting the space lanes, Wardens of the Sky tend to hail from worlds 
with spaceports. Very few Wardens of the Sky belong to species with the 
Primitive quality, as primitive worlds tend to be far removed from the space 
lanes. Otherwise, there are few limitations on the species and background 
choices for your Warden, 

Since Wardens of the Sky focus their efforts on protecting the space lanes, 
many choose to take the Force Pilot talent from the Sense talent tree. Beyond 
that, Wardens try to blend into the background, so any Force abilities that 
enhance stealth are excellent choices. You certainly want to take at least a 
few combat-focused Force powers, and battle strike is an especially good 
power that works well in conjunction with your unarmed attacks. Talents 
that enhance the Warden's defenses can allow your hero to get into the 
thick of combat without having to worry about wearing heavy armor; after 
all, an armored hero is much more likely to attract attention than a drifter 
in a nondescript poncho. 

The scoundrel and scout classes both offer Stealth asa class skill, making 
them ideal for slinking unnoticed around the spaceports of the galaxy. They 
also offer Pilot as a class skill if you choose not to take the Force Pilot talent, 
and both offer talents that make it easier to hide. Since the Warden of the 
Sky is a master of unarmed combat, the Martial Arts feats are appropriate, 
as are talents from the soldier class that focus on melee combat. Weapon 
Specialization, Devastating Attack, and many of the talents from the Brawler 
tree are exceptionally good for the unarmed combatant. 


WARDEN OF THE SKY TALENT TREE 
Wardens of the Sky use a combination of martial arts and Force powers to 
help keep the space lanes safe. As a Warden of the Sky, you rely on nothing 
more than your own body to serve as a weapon against predators 

Brutal Unarmed Strike: Whenever you roll the damage for an unarmed 
attack, you reroll any dice that come up with a result of 1. 

Prerequisite: Telekinetic Strike. 

Martial Resurgence: You recover all spent Force powers, adding them 
to your Force suite again, whenever you roll a natural 20 on an unarmed 
attack. 

Rebound Leap: Whenever you reduce an opponent to 0 hit points with 
an unarmed attack, you can make a Jump check as a free action, moving a 
distance as determined by the results of your Jump check. You can use the 
surge power as normal to enhance this Jump check, increasing the distance 
you move. 

Simultaneous Strike: As a standard action, you can make two unarmed 
attacks, each against different targets. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +5. 

Telekinetic Strike: Whenever you make a successful unarmed attack, you 
can add the result of a Force Point roll to the damage instead of the attack roll 
(see “Using Force Points" on page 93 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Telekinetic Throw: Whenever you successfully use the Throw feat, your 
opponent falls prone in any space you desire up to 3 squares beyond your 
reach. 

Prerequisite: Throw feat. 


A WAROEN OF THE SKY TAKES OUT 4 PAIR OF STORMTROOFERS. 


Al waiavHo 


SWYESOHS) GE.vinikigy7 


AlesiavHo 


SWYHSOSONE) GELNINAYT 


ZEISON SHA 

Although many sects claim to have endured rough times throughout their 
history, none have as much truth to their claim as the Zeison Sha. However, 
they learned to adapt, becoming rugged and self-sufficient through their 
training and self-reliances. In addition, the Zeison Sha vehemently opposes 
the Jedi Order, viewing them as cold and indifferent to the population of 
the galaxy. 


HISTORY 

About two thousand years before the fall of the Galactic Republic, a group of 
families with ties to the Jedi Order flee from the war that rages on between 
the Jedi and the Sith to a forlorn world in the Outer Rim called Yanibar. Their 
plan is to set up a temporary refuge for the families to avoid being targeted 
by the Sith until the war ends, with the understanding that the Jedi would 


return them to their homes. Unfortunately, the Jedi who established the 
sanctuary are killed during the war. Knowledge of the colony is lost, and the 
families are left to fend for themselves. 

Yanibar is, by many people's standards, uninhabitable. Due to extreme 
seasonal changes, most of the people left on the planet die within the first 
few years. The survivors adapt to the harsh environment and overcome it, 
learning to use the Force through their own methods in the process. 

As time passes through generations, the original reason for coming to 
Yanibar is forgotten, and the survivors believe that the Jedi, their so-called 
protectors, abandoned them. They grow to despise the Jedi. The Force tradi- 
tion known as Zeison Sha develops over this time, adopting a philosophy of 
self-reliance and rejecting the perceived ideals of the Jedi Order. 

A few hundred years later, Yanibar is discovered again by fringe traders. 
After opening relations with these traders and learning about the galaxy 


A ZeISON SHA WARRIOR 


around them, the population of Yanibar grows, becoming an outpost between 
the Outer Rim and the Unknown Regions. The small outpost expands to 
become a highly populated city and starport in a matter of decades with 
a diverse mixture of races, including Humans, Duros, Twi'leks, and Rodians. 

As travel to and from the planet increases, several members of the Zeison 
Sha venture forth to explore the galaxy and find the Jedi all too eager to wrest 
their Force-sensitive children from them and train them as Jedi. Outraged, 
the Zeison Sha return home only to reinforce their anti-Jedi beliefs. 


LOCATION 

For the most part, Zeison Sha never stay in any one location for a long 
period of time, preferring to travel around the galaxy helping those in need 
whenever possible. From the last days of the Old Republic through the Dark 
Times and even into the early days of the New Republic, they struggle to avoid 
contact with the Jedi and Darth Vader's hunting squads. The Zeison Sha who 
live during the Yuuzhan Vong War, seeing the danger threatening the Jedi, 
silently cheer for the invaders’ victory over the Jedi Order. But at the same 
time, they also wish that the Yuuzhan Vong do not find their homeworld and 
eventually leave the galaxy in peace. 


PHILOSOPHY 

The Zeison Sha concentrate their instruction on the ideals of independence 
and self-reliance as a direct result of the tribulations they endured after their 
supposed abandonment by the Jedi Order. Focusing their lessons on taking 
care of oneself and one's family, they teach not only self-sufficiency but also 
ways to use the Force to defend those under their care. 

The Zeison Sha are masters of telekinetic powers. As a result, their training 
in these powers far surpasses the training the typical Jedi receives. The extent 
of their superior training becomes evident when they use their discblades, a 
unique weapon of their own design. 

Although the Zeison Sha strive to help those in need, the tradition’s 
emphasis on self-reliance has caused a few members to fall to the dark side 
of the Force, Being self-sufficient sometimes leads to selfishness, passionate 
independence from the Jedi can quickly change to bitterness and hatred, and 
their telekinetic skills are easy to use for attacks instead of defense. Those 
who follow this path become Dark Zeison Sha. 

In the society in which the Zeison Sha live, a Force-sensitive child is 
trained by one or both of his parents. If neither parent is Force-sensitive, 
another member of the tradition with a bond of friendship to the family steps 
in to lead the training. The child trains at the Zeison Sha temple on Yanibar, 
otherwise known as the Sha Kalan, but continues to live at home with his 
parents to help the child grow in a normal family setting. 


Much of the physical training involves mastering the use of the discblade, 
which serves not only as the chosen weapon of the Zeison Sha but also as 
a focus for their discipline and telekinetic ability. The discblade, being a 
unique weapon design, defines a Zeison Sha in much the same manner that 
the lightsaber defines a Jedi. 

Membership: The Zeison Sha accept members from any species, provided 
they are Force-sensitive and have some connection to the tradition, either 
through the bonds of family or friendship. 


BUILDING A ZEISON SHA 

Since the Zeison Sha were founded by refugees with ties to the Jedi Order, 
it is no surprise that many Zeison Sha have abilities similar to those of the 
Jedi. Given that the colony on Yanibar was composed of many species, your 
Zeison Sha can be a member of nearly any species you want. The Zeison Sha 
favor thrown weapons, in particular the discblade, and their talents and Force 
powers usually reflect the tradition’s telekinetic prowess. As such, you will 
want to choose not only Force powers with the [telekinetic] descriptor but 
also the talents from the Alter tree that enhance such powers. 


ZEISON SHA WARRIOR TALENT TREE 

Zeison Sha talented enough to become warriors focus their powers on 
manipulating the objects around them. They are also masters of their sig- 
nature weapon: the discblade (see page 61). 

Discblade Arc: As a full-round action, you can make an area attack with 
your discblade, striking three targets, all of which must be within point blank 
range for your discblade. This attack uses the area attack rules; you make one 
attack roll and apply the result to every target you designate. 

Prerequisite: Proficiency with the discblade. 

Distant Discblade Throw: When you use a discblade, you treat it as a 
pistol (instead of a thrown weapon) for the purpose of determining range. 

Prerequisite: Proficiency with the discblade. 

Recall Discblade: When you make a ranged attack with a discblade (or 
use the Discblade Arc talent above), after the attack is resolved you can 
make a DC 15 Use the Force check to call the weapon back to your hand as 
a free action. 

Prerequisite: Proficiency with the discblade. 

Telekinetic Vigilance: You can return the intercept Force power to your 
Force suite as a swift action without spending a Force Point. 

Prerequisite: Intercept. 

Weapon Specialization (discblade): You gain a +2 bonus on melee 
damage rolls with your discblade, 

Prerequisite: Proficiency with the discblade, Weapon Focus (discblade). 


| Al esiavHs ) 


SWYVH@SUE GAMA 


CHAPTER V 
INSTRUCTORS & ALUMNI! 


ghout history, the Jedi Order has worked hard to preserve life in all 


; throughout the galaxy while expanding its knowledge of the Force. 
Jedi do not seek to place any great importance on a single person, 
dividuals are recognized by their peers as well as those in authority 
ering the cause of the Jedi and helping others become decent mem- 
Order. These individuals are the masters and teachers of the Jedi 
owledge and wisdom have passed down through the generations 

red for their contributions that have helped guide the Order in 
to bring peace and order to the galaxy. 


NSTRUCTORS OF THE 
-ORCE 


The Jedi Order strives to preserve its ideals, doctrines, and knowledge to 
ensure the success and survival of the generations that follow. For that 
reason alone, the Jedi revere those who have dedicated their lives to teach- 
ing the ways of the Force to those who follow them, This reverence extends 
to members who train Padawans to become Jedi Knights and even Jedi 
Masters, as well as those who are fixtures in Jedi temples or academies, 
instructing younger pupils within a classroom setting. Both services are 
equally important and vital to the survival of the Order. Within this group 
of Jedi instructors, a few have set themselves apart from the rest with their 
in studies and insights into the nature of the Force and become immor- 
talized for the precedents they've set, the wisdom they've expounded, and 
foundation they've laid. 


TEACHING THROUGH 
EXAMPLE 


Not all Jedi are gifted instructors. A few become sources of inspiration within 
The Jedi Order for their deeds and accomplishments outside of the train- 
ing arena. Becoming the example by which all others are judged is almost 
cektainly not the intention of those few Jedi Knights and Jedi Masters who 
becyme exemplars of the Order through their actions abroad. Many of these 
jons simply follow the will of the Force and adhere to the teachings of 
their old Masters, ignorant of the legendary status thrust upon them. The 
simple gct of serving the Order and helping those in need inspires future 
generations of Jedi to pursue their own destinies and make the galaxy a 
better plate for all. 


WAAIY ~— SYUOLSNSLSNI 


ANOON BONDARA 


Anoon Bondara CL16 

Medium Twi'lek Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 6/Jedi Master 3 

Destiny 2; Force 9 

Init +10; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings, low-light vision, Use the 
Force +14 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Lekku, Ry 

Defenses Ref 33 (flat-footed 29, Lightsaber Defense 35), Fort 33, Will 31; 
Deflect 

hp 119; Threshold 33 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +18 (1d8+9) or 

Melee lightsaber +20 (2d8+9) or 

Melee lightsaber +15/+15 (2d8+9) with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +18 

Base Atk +16; Grp +17 

Atk Options Double Attack, Juyo 

Special Actions Acrobatic Recovery, Combat Reflexes, Force 
Fortification, Lightsaber Defense, Redirect Shot, serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +14): battle strike, Force thrust, 
mind trick, move object, rebuke, surge 

Force Secrets Force Point Recovery, Improved Force Trance, Improved 
Sense Surroundings 

Force Techniques Multitarget Power, Quicken Power 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Talents Acrobatic Recovery, Deflect, Force Fortification, Force Perception, 
Greater Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Juyo, Lightsaber Defense (2), 
Redirect Shot 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Double Attack, Dual Weapon Proficiency |, Dual 
Weapon Proficiency Il, Force Sensitive, Force Training (2) , Martial Arts 
|, Martial Arts Il, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +15, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, Use the Force +14 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


Renowned for his skill with the lightsaber, Jedi Master Anoon Bondara is 
regarded by many of his peers and all of his apprentices as a role model whose 
combat prowess is unmatched in the Jedi Order. Bondara would disagree 
with this assessment. During his tenure at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, 
he spars with superior lightsaber duelists such as Qui-Gon Jinn and even 
Mace Windu. Although he humbles himself when compared to their skills, 
Bondara’s prowess is nonetheless considerable. Throughout his career, he 
strives to pass his knowledge and skill along to his students. Through all of 
this, he emphasizes one particular lesson: Rely on the Force in all things. He 


espouses the philosophy that a Jedi has nothing to fear in combat as long 
as he allows the Force to guide him. 

Master Bondara specifically selects Padawans who demonstrate a willing- 
ness to learn and great enthusiasm as well. His selection method proves to be 
highly successful, with his first three apprentices moving on to be renowned 
Jedi Knights in their own right. His fourth apprentice, Darsha Assant, shows 
great promise as well. 

Taking his pupils all over the galaxy, Bondara exposes them to various 
experiences to give them a broader insight than they would have staying on 
Coruscant. However, he hesitates to venture into Hutt Space. Being a Twi'lek, 
he expresses disappointment at the fact that too many of his people are 
willing slaves of the Hutts, including members of his own clan. That said, he 
never lets his feelings interfere with his actions, even when dealing directly 
with the Hutts. 


Anoon Bondara Encounters 

Anoon Bondara can be found almost anywhere in the galaxy before the Battle 
of Naboo, Since he spends much of his time traveling with his apprentice, he 
can be particularly helpful in relaying information to the campaign's heroes or 
even helping them reach a particularly difficult destination. If the situation is 
particularly dire, he might even be able to lend a hand for a short while. 


ANGON BONDARA 


ARCA JETH 


Arca Jeth cL15 
Medium Arkanian Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 3 

Destiny 2; Force 6, Strong in the Force 

Init +8; Senses darkvision, Perception +15 

Languages Arkanian, Basic, High Galactic 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 29), Fort 31, Will 32; Block, Deflect 
hp 137; Threshold 31 
Immune fear effect 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+8) 

Melee lightsaber +16 (3d8+8) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged by weapon +16 

Base Atk +15; Grp +16 

Atk Options Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Whirlwind Attack 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, flash of genius, serenity, Share 
Force Technique (Improved Move Light Object), Telekinetic Savant, 
Transfer Power 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): battle strike, Force slam, 
inspire, move object, rebuke (2), surge, vital transfer 

Force Secrets Distant Power, Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move Light Object 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 15, Int 13, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Special Qualities fearless, flash of genius (see below), 
intellectual reputation, serenity 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Block, Deflect, Disciplined Strike, Force 
Persuasion, Redirect Shot, Share Force Technique (Improved 
Move Light Object), Telekinetic Savant, Transfer Power 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved Defenses, 
Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), 
Strong in the Force, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons), Whirlwind Attack 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, Perception +15, 
Persuasion +20, Use the Force +20 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, comlink 


Flash of Genius—Once per encounter, Arca Jeth can add a 
+5 circumstance bonus to the result of one Knowledge, 
Mechanics, or Use Computer check. 


The incredible combat abilities of the Jedi are well documented, but Arca 
Jeth is arguably the first Jedi to use the Force in battle on a large scale. 
Jeth first uses his mastery of the Force to defeat the Nelori Marauders in 
the Hyabb-Twith Corridor. He concentrates on an image of victory and gives 
himself over to the Force. Soon enough, the battle is won, and Master Jeth 
contemplates the new ability he’s discovered. Arca Jeth was the first to call 
this ability Battle Meditation. 

Master Arca is sent to Onderon because of his success. His ability helps 
to settle the Beast Wars on the planet as well as help his fellow Jedi defeat 
the Freedon Nadd Uprising. His mastery of the ability grows with each use, 
but he is not foolish enough to think himself invincible. Much as lightsaber 
combat has evolved over the centuries, Arca Jeth knows there will be others 
who will build upon his knowledge, someday bringing together entire fleets 
as one. He understands that he will be defeated one day and he knows the 
folly of looking into the future to see his own destiny. Better Jedi than he 
had tried, and all of them met with unfortunate ends. 

Master Jeth is humble in victory and introspective in defeat. He is a 
master strategist who is well versed in lightsaber combat, though he rarely 

fights in duels. He communicates mainly through 
telepathy during battle and is a man of few 
words outside the combat zone. Other Jedi 
Masters respect him, but very few truly 
know him. His Padawans respect his 
privacy and point out that he gener- 
ally only speaks when a Padawan has 

made a mistake. 


Arca Jeth Encounters 
Arca Jeth can be found wherever 
Jedi diplomacy has failed. He is a 
cool customer on the battlefield, 
whether he's leading a group of 
Jedi Knights or a battalion of 
soldiers. Master Jeth maintains 
his calm even as explosions rock 
around him. Jedi heroes could 
be assigned to be his honor 
guard. 


ARCA JeTH 


A esisvno 


[A warevns 


INWIAITY | SUOLSNYLSENI 


Cay QEL-DROMA 


Cay Qel-Droma cL9 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 2 

Force 4 

Init +11; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Arkanian, Basic, Binary (understand only), Ry! 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 23, Will 22 

hp 92; Threshold 23 

‘Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +13 (2d8+6) 

Melee lightsaber +11 (348+6) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged by weapon +11 

Base Atk +9; Grp +11 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Rapid Strike, Running Attack 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): battle strike, mind trick, 
move object, rebuke 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 17, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Ataru, Block, Deflect, Elusive Target, Redirect Shot 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Rapid Strike, 
Running Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +11, Initiative +11, Mechanics +12, 
Perception +10, Pilot +11, Use the Force +15 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), cybernetic arm, Jedi robes 


Cay Qel-Droma and his brother Ulic Qel-Droma were born to Lien-Tsai Qel- 
Droma, a Jedi Master on Alderaan. Concerned that she would be unable to 
separate her duties as a mother from her duties as a Jedi Master, she sends 
her boys to Master Arca Jeth to train together. Lien-Tsai worries that the 
brothers’ emotional attachment to each other might be detrimental to their 
training, but Master Arca sees strength where Lien-Tsai sees weakness. The 
boys’ strength in the Force grows as their connection deepens. Cay is the 
more light-hearted brother, always armed with a ready joke or funny story, 
whereas Ulic focuses on his training and is easily frustrated when things 
don't go his way. 


Cay's easy-going nature makes him many friends among Master Jeth's 
other students, and over time he develops an interest in droids and cybernet- 
ies. He finds a sense of peace surrounded by the whirring and clicking of the 
droids in his workshop. Master Jeth sends for the Qel-Droma brothers and 
their close friend Tott Doneeta when he is named Jedi Watchman of Onderon, 
a world in the grip of the dark side. While the Jedi manage to depose the 
corrupt leadership, Cay is terribly wounded in a battle with the palace guards 
and loses his arm. Cay decides to install a droid arm as a replacement rather 
than wait for the medics to tend to him. 


Cay Qel-Droma Encounters 
Cay Qel-Droma is one of the first Jedi to use a cybernetic arm. It affects his 
Force-using ability slightly but also augments his strength. Despite his injury, 
he leaps into battle with abandon and enjoys a good fight. PCs might find 
themselves fighting alongside Cay or, more likely, helping Cay out of 
a jam. If the PCs succeed in helping him, he tries to reciprocate the 
next time the PCs are in trouble, 


Cay QeL-DROMA 


CILGHA 


Cilghal cL 13 
Medium Mon Calamari noble 1/Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 4/Jedi Master 1 
Destiny 2; Force 4 

Init +7; Senses low-light vision, Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Ithorese, Kel Dor, Mon Calamarian, Quarren, Rodese, 
Zabrak 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 26), Fort 27, Will 29 

hp 112; Threshold 27 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares, swim 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +13 (248+5) 

Ranged by weapon +13 

Base Atk +12; Grp +11 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Battle Meditation, Equilibrium, 

Force Recovery, serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): Force stun, mind trick, rebuke, 
sever Force, surge, vital transfer (3) 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (vital transfer), Improved 
Force Trance 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 12 

Special Qualities breathe underwater, expert swimmer, fearless, low-light 
vision, serenity 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Battle Meditation, Block, Equilibrium, Force 
Perception, Force Recovery, Lightsaber Defense, Skilled Advisor 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Linguist, 
Skill Focus (Perception, Treat Injury, Use the Force), Surgical Expertise, 
Weapon Finesse (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, Knowledge 
(life sciences) +13, Perception +19, Persuasion +13, Treat Injury +19, 
Use Computer +12, Use the Force +17 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, utility belt with medpac, 
medkit, surgery kit 


The niece of the famed General Ackbar, Cilghal becomes one of Luke 
Skywalker's first students in his fledgling New Jedi Order. Starting out as 
a simple ambassador, Cilghal discovers her talent for healing while train- 
ing on Yavin 4. She proves instrumental in saving the life of New Republic 
Chief-of-State Mon Mothma, who is possessed by the dark side spirit of Exar 
Kun. Upon graduation from the Jedi Academy, Cilghal follows in her uncle's 
footsteps and drifts into politics, becoming the Mon Calamari Senator for 
the New Republic, Years later, she returns to the academy and resumes her 


duties as a Jedi Knight, becoming an instructor and taking on a Chadra-Fan 
apprentice named Tekli. 

With the Yuuzhan Vong sweep through the galaxy, Cilghal’s skills as a 
healer are in great demand. She eventually becomes the obstetrician and 
midwife to Mara Jade Skywalker and a loyal friend to that family, in addition 
to being a dedicated Jedi Master. 

Cilghal has a noble and gentle spirit. Although trained in the lightsaber 
and more than willing to use it in defense of the injured and helpless, Cilghal 
prefers using her skills as a diplomat and healer to serve the will of the Force. 
Her combination of medical knowledge and Force powers means that there 
are few ailments or injuries that she cannot cure. 


Cilghal Encounters 

Depending on the time period, Cilghal is commonly found at the Jedi Academy 
‘on Yavin 4 or in the New Republic Senate. She travels extensively with both 
Luke and Mara Jade Skywalker and could either be encountered alongside 
them or performing some mission on their behalf. If one of the heroes 
becomes poisoned or contracts a supposedly incurable disease, they might 
seek out Cilghal, based on her reputation as an amazing healer. 


Chonan 


INWAITY YE SYOLSAYASNI 


CORRAN HORN 


Corran Horn cL 13 
Medium Human soldier 3/scoundrel 2/Jedi 3/ace pilot 3/Jedi Knight 2 
Force 5 

Init +9; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27), Fort 26, Will 28; Deflect, 
Vehicular Combat 
hp 95; Threshold 26 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +16 (248+7) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +14 (3d8+6) 

Base Atk +11; Grp +14 

Atk Options Expert Gunner, Quick Trigger, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Draw Fire, Indomitable, Influence Savant 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18): battle strike (2), mind trick (2), 
negate energy, rebuke (2), surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Talents Deflect, Draw Fire, Expert Gunner, Fringe Savant, Indomitable, 
Influence Savant, Quick Trigger, Redirect Shot 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Pilot), Skill 
Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Persuasion), Skill 
Training (Use the Force), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +11, Perception +14, Persuasion +13, Pilot 
+19, 
Use Computer +11, Use the Force +18 

Possessions dual-phase lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, 
comlink 


The CorSec uniform seemed like a natural fit for Corran. As a 
CorSec officer, he develops a sense of justice by protecting Corel- 

lians. Unfortunately, some of the biggest threats he must overcome 

are the very officials who had sworn an oath to uphold the law. 
Corran finds corruption in the halls of power at every turn, leading 
to with a conflict with Kirtan Loor, the Imperial liaison to CorSec. 
Corran reluctantly flees his home after Loor's interference becomes 
too much to bear. 


Rogue Squadron offers Corran a new home, which he accepts. He learns 
during his time as a pilot that one man can truly make a difference. Rogue 
Squadron becomes key to securing the New Republic's stability after the 
Battle of Endor. While General Wedge Antilles is often credited with Rogue 
Squadron's success, Wedge will be the first one to admit that success could 
not be achieved without individuals such as Corran Horn. Corran spends a 
lot of time in and out of his X-wing and even meets the love of his life and 
eventual wife, Mirax Terrik—the daughter of his father's greatest rival. 

Mirax leads Corran to discover hidden secrets about himself. Her disap- 
pearance puts Corran on her trail and the trail of his own childhood, enabling 
him to discover his hidden Jedi heritage. Corran learns that he is part of the 
famous Halcyon Jedi bloodline—a secret maintained by his father to protect 
the family from Palpatine’s purge of the Jedi, Horn puts his newly discovered 
Jedi abilities to the test, destroying the Invid pirate gang and rescuing his 
wife in the process. 

At this point in history, with the galaxy at peace nearly 20 years after 
the destruction of the first Death Star, Corran returns to the Jedi Praxeum 
to teach others—including his own children—the ways of the Force. 


Corran Horn Encounters 
Corran Horn has enjoyed a broad range of careers. He has been a 
police officer, a soldier, a spy, and a Jedi, giving him a diverse skill 
set that makes him dangerous on many battlefields. He can serve as 
a mentor for Jedi pilots, a contact for information, or an advisor 
for particularly delicate missions. The PCs might be assigned to 
accompany Corran to troubled worlds and complete missions 
under his supervision to help stabilize the situation, 


CORRAN HORN 


DACE DIATH 


Dace Diath cLs 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 1 

Force 4 

Init +16; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 21, Will 22; Block, Deflect, 
Vehicular Combat 

hp 75; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsabers +13 (2d8+8) 

Ranged by weapon +9 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Rapid Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): battle strike, Force light, Force 
slam, move object, rebuke, surge 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Deflect, Force Intuition, Greater Weapon Focus (lightsabers), 
Force Pilot, Redirect Shot 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Rapid 
Shot, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +10, Initiative +16, Perception +11, Pilot +16, 
Use the Force +16 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


Growing up in the Jutland Wastes on Tatooine, Dace Diath is the product 
of an unusual upbringing. He is not only a son, but he is also his father's 
Padawan. This leads to a closeness few share with their Master but also has 
its problems. Dace is often wracked with self-doubt over his abilities. He 
often wonders whether he'll be a good enough Jedi to make his father proud. 
Fortunately, he finds the strength to overcome these fears. 

Piloting is Dace's true passion. He falls in with some Republic pilots during 
his first assignment and easily bridges the gap between the Jedi and Republic 
personnel. After volunteering for a number of starfighter missions, Dace earns 
the respect of his peers for his skill in battle. Some of the missions are so 
dangerous that Dace is the only pilot to make it back. 

His abilities and training prove useful on Onderon during the Freedon Nadd 
Uprising. He fights shoulder-to-shoulder with Nomi Sunrider, Cay and Ulic Qel- 
Droma, and other great Jedi and is comfortable sharing the glory of victory. 
What matters to him is that order is restored and the dark side defeated once 
again. His friendships with the Jedi on Onderon give his father some relief, as 
strong connections to other people make resisting the dark side easier. 

Dace is a quiet, contemplative man. The easiest way to get him to engage 
in conversation is to talk about ships and piloting. These are subjects he 
is more comfortable discussing. Most Jedi find a quiet room to meditate. 


Dace's notion of “meditating” is to go to the hangar bay and take apart a 
hyperdrive motivator. His best thoughts came to him while under an engine 
and trying to get it to fire up. 


Dace Diath Encounters 

Dace shows that while the Force is an important facet in every Jedi’s life, it 
is not the only thing. Most of his feats are devoted to vehicular combat, and 
he is well on his way to becoming an ace pilot. His Jedi talents make him 
a valuable ally on the ground as well. With his love of piloting, he makes a 
great NPC for games that want the excitement of starship battles without 
worrying about leaving one of the PCs back to guard the ship. He'll make 
sure the bad guys don't mess with the PCs’ vessel during a mission and can 
act as the cavalry should the PCs get over their heads planetside. 


Dace DlATH 


WAANTIY | SYOLSNHVLSNI 


1S. 


ILEASPLSN0 a 


INmNAIY © Sue 


GRAND MASTER 
LUKE SKYWALKER 


Grand Master Luke Skywalker CL 20 
Medium Human scout 1/Jedi 7/ace pilot 2/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 5 
Destiny* 3; Force 7, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 3 

Init +18; Senses Perception +18 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Shyriiwook (understand only) 


Defenses Ref 36 (flat-footed 33), Fort 35, Will 36; Block, Deflect, 
Vehicular Combat 

hp 167; Threshold 36 

Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +25 (2d8+15) or 

Melee lightsaber +20/+20 (2d8+15) with Double Attack or 

Melee shoto +25 (2d6+15) 

Ranged by weapon +21 

Base Atk +18; Grp +21 

Atk Options Djem So, Double Attack (lightsabers), Melee Defense, 
Severing Strike 

Special Actions Redirect Shot, Shake It Off 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +29): battle strike, farseeing, 
fluid riposte, Force disarm, Force grip, Force slam, inspire, mind trick, 
move object, rebuke (2), surge 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power, 
Quicken Power, Shaped Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move Light Object 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 17, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 18 

Special Qualities fearless, serenity, vehicle dodge +1 

Talents Ataru, Block, Deflect, Djem So, Elusive Dogfighter, Evasion, 

Force Pilot, Immerse Another, Redirect Shot, Severing Strike, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers), White Current Adept 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3) 
Melee Defense, Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the 
Force, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +17, Initiative +18, Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, 
Mechanics +17, Perception +18, Pilot +29, Ride +18, Stealth +29, 
Survival +18, Use the Force +29 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), shoto (self-built), Jedi robes, comlink 

* Luke Skywalker is considered to have fulfilled both the Education and 

Redemption destinies (see page 114 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) 


In most epic sagas, the destruction of the Galactic Empire would be the end 
of the story. For Grand Master Luke Skywalker, it is just the beginning. Many 
threats align against the New Republic. The first involves an attempt by Grand 
Admiral Thrawn to sow discord among the newly reformed Galactic Senate. 
Skywalker is faced with two threats related to Thrawn. One is a mad clone 
of the old Jedi Master Jorus C’Baoth. The clone “Joruus” tempts Skywalker 
toward the dark side but is defeated. The other threat is Mara Jade, an assas- 
sin with her sights set on Luke Skywalker. 

Luke faces an even greater challenge in the form of the reawakened clone 
of Emperor Palpatine. This clone organizes an assault on the New Republic and 
pushes the former Rebel Alliance to the breaking point. The Emperor's clone 
succeeds where Palpatine failed and turns Skywalker to the dark side for a 
brief time. However, the intervention of his sister, Leia Organa-Solo, brings 
Luke back from the darkness, whereupon he defeats Palpatine’s clone. 

As Luke sets about rebuilding the Jedi Order, a new threat appears from 
beyond the galaxy. The Yuuzhan Vong arrive, and their immunity to the Force 
makes them a great threat to the Jedi, 

Luke reluctantly takes the title of Grand Master, but to everyone he 
meets, from the most respected senator to the lowliest droid, he is still 
simply "Luke." Luke hopes for a lasting peace but is ever vigilant. Whatever 
the next crisis might be, Luke plans to be at the forefront, ready to use his 
abilities to protect the galaxy once again. 


Grand Master Skywalker Encounters 
This is Luke Skywalker at the height of 
his powers. Although he is the most 
powerful Jedi in the galaxy after the 
Yuuzhan Vong invasion, the battles 
with the Yuuzhan Vong humble him. 
Heroes meeting Grand Master 
Skywalker should be awed by 
his power but impressed by 
his humility. Deep down, 
he is still that wide-eyed 
Tatooine farm boy, but 
he is fast on his way to 
becoming a legend. 


GRAND MASTER LUKE SkyWaLKeR 


KIERAN HALCYON 


Kieran Halcyon 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 2 

Destiny 1; Force 3, Strong in the Force 

Init +10; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Rodese 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 21, Lightsaber Defense 23), Fort 22, Will 22; 
Deflect 

hp 90; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee dual-phase lightsaber +11 (2d8+10) or 

Melee dual-phase lightsaber +6/+6 (2d8+10) with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +10 

Reach 1 square (2 squares with extended dual-phase lightsaber) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +10 

Atk Options Double Attack 

Special Actions Combat Reflexes, Equilibrium, Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): mind trick (2), negate energy, 
surge 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (surge) 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Talents Deflect, Equilibrium, Lightsaber Defense, Redirect Shot, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitive, 
Force Training (2), Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training 
(Persuasion), Strong in the Force, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Knowledge (galactic lore) +11, Perception +10, 
Persuasion +11, Pilot +10, Use the Force +16 

Possessions dual-phase lightsaber (see page 51), Jedi robes, utility belt 


Kieran Halcyon is the ancestor of several notable Jedi, including Nejaa 
Halcyon and Corran Horn. His greatest adventures take place on Corellia, 
where he helps unravel a terrorist sect known as the Afarathu and thwarts 
its attempts to rid the Corellian government of its Human dominance. 

Kieran comes from a long line of Force-users and Jedi, each of whom 
possessed an unusual trait: They are unable to use telekinetic Force powers. 
However, most Force-sensitive members of the Halcyon line, including Kieran, 
make up for this flaw by having additional talents in some other aspect of 
the Force. Kieran is also famed for creating a dual-phase lightsaber with 
a blade that could extend from 1.3 meters to 3 meters with the flick of a 
switch. He perfected his own fighting style to take advantage of this unusual 
silver-bladed lightsaber. 


THE HALCYON BLOODLINE 

The Halcyon bloodline illustrates one of the unique ways that the Force 
can manifest itself within a family. Members of the Halcyon bloodline 
have great difficulty manifesting telekinetic Force powers. 

Characters of this bloodline should rarely choose Force powers 
with the [telekinetic] descriptor, or talents that enhance such powers. 
To make up for this deficiency, members of the Halcyon bloodline 
gravitate toward Force powers with the [mind-offecting] descriptor and 
talents that create illusions. 


Kieran Halcyon Encounters 

Kieran is most commonly encountered on Corellia, dealing with numerous 
problems there, or on Yavin 4, where he is briefly a student under Luke Sky- 
walker. Heroes are most likely to encounter Kieran while he's on a mission for 
Master Skywalker or while he's stirring up trouble on Corellia. If the heroes 
are unlucky enough to get into a fight with Kieran, they'll have to contend 
with his dual-phase lightsaber as well 


KIERAN HALCYON 


INWIANTY | SYOLSNSLSNI 


INWATY © SYSLOALLSNI 


KYLE KATARN 


Kyle Katarn, Jedi Battlemaster cL 14 

Medium Human soldier 3/scoundrel 3/Jedi 5/Jedi Knight 3 

Destiny 1; Force 6 

Init +15; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 26), Fort 30, Will 28 

hp 151; Threshold 30 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+9) or 

Melee lightsaber +16 (348+9) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +15/+15 (2d8+9) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +13/+13 (3d8+9) with Double Attack and Rapid Strike 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +16 (348+7) 

Base Atk +13; Grp +16 

Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Devastating Attack (lightsabers), Double 
Attack, Hyperdriven, Melee Smash, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Strike, 
Running Attack 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18): battle strike, mind trick, 
move object, rebuke, saber swarm, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 17, Con 18, Int 11, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Talents Ataru, Block, Dastardly Strike, Deflect, Devastating Attack 
(lightsabers), Hyperdriven, Melee Smash, Multiattack Proficiency 
(lightsabers), Redirect Shot 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack (lightsabers), 
Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Strike, 
Running Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Use 
the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +15, Mechanics +12, Pilot +15, Use Computer +12, 
Use the Force +18 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), heavy blaster pistol, Jedi robes, comlink 


Kyle Katarn’s origin has interesting parallels to another famous Jedi: Luke 
Skywalker. Katarn is born on a farm planet but has dreams of attending the 
Imperial Academy. He also has untapped potential in the Force. Kyle discov- 
ers his Force potential much later in life, long after becoming a disillusioned 
gun-for-hire. His involvement with the destruction of the Dark Trooper Initia 
tive brings him to the attention of the Rebel Alliance, but his discovery of 
the legendary Valley of the Jedi is what brings him to the attention of Luke 
Skywalker. Katarn eventually agrees to be taught by Skywalker and goes on 
to be an instructor at the Jedi Academy. 

Kyle Katarn brings a different perspective on the Force, one that occasionally 
conflicts with the teachings of Master Skywalker. While Skywalker mastered the 
force through empathy and feeling, Katarn did so through discipline and will 
Skywalker appreciates the difference and Katarn’s counsel in matters affecting 


the Academy. While Luke's journey gives him much wisdom, Kyle's pragmatism 
and plain speaking offer Luke an alternate viewpoint to consider. 

Kyle's life on the fringe puts him in the middle of villains of all stripes. 
His connections and knowledge of the underbelly of the galaxy serves Sky- 
walker and the Republic well. As the old saying goes, the womp rats only 
sing when the hull is breached, and Katarn uses his seedy connections to 
help the Republic anticipate the Imperial Remnant's next move. Kyle relishes 
missions that send him back to the trenches, and he often takes a student 
or two along to give them a feeling for life outside the safe confines of the 
Academy. The classroom is one thing, but practical application of the Force 
is worth the advice of a hundred holocrons. 

Katarn holds the rank of Battlemaster at the Jedi Academy on Yavin 4, 
a title he accepts humbly. He studies many forms of lightsaber combat, but 
rather than shift from one form to another, he takes elements from each 
and integrates them into his own style, 


Kyle Katarn Encounters 

Kyle is an excellent character to show PCs the dirtier side of the Star Wars 
universe. He also works as a bridge for those characters already part of the 
underbelly looking to make connections with the Rebel Alliance or the Jedi 
Of course, he also knows the importance of a favor, and getting an introduc- 
tion to Luke Skywalker might mean that the heroes have to do something for 
Kyle first 


KYLE KATARN 


MARA JADE SKYWALKER 


Mara Jade Skywalker CL 17 
Medium Human soldier 7/Force adept 5/Jedi Knight 3/Jedi Master 2 
Destiny 2; Force 4 

Init +17; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 34 (flat-footed 30), Fort 32, Will 34 

hp 160; Threshold 32 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +22 (2d8+16) or 

Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+16) with Double Attack or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +22 (3d6+10) 

Base Atk +17; Grp +18 

Atk Options Double Attack 

Special Actions Attune Weapon, Empower Weapon 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): battle strike (2), Force thrust 
(2), mind trick, move object (2), surge 

Force Secrets Devastating Power 

Force Techniques Improved Force Trance, Improved Move Light Object, 
Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 18, Con 14, Int 17, Wis 16, Cha 19 

Special Qualities fearless, serenity 

Talents Ataru, Attune Weapon, Double Attack (ightsabers), Empower 
Weapon, Force Power Adept (move object), Foresight, Greater Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Greater Weapon Specialization (lightsabers), 
Weapon Specialization (lightsaber, pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(2), Skill Training (Acrobatics), Weapon Finesse (lightsabers), Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers, pistols), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, heavy weapons, lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +17, Deception +17, Initiative +17, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +16, Perception +16, Pilot +17, Use Computer +16, 

Use the Force +17 
Possessions lightsaber, heavy blaster pistol 


Mara Jade Skywalker has a history as long and rich as her husband's. She 
begins her career as one of the Emperor's personal Force-trained assassins, 
although, unlike most of his servants, she only kills out of necessity. Highly 
talented, Mara trains in combat with the Imperial Royal Guard and receives 
personal tutelage in the Force from the Emperor himself. She performs dozens 
of missions on his behalf until his demise at the hands of Darth Vader. The 
Emperor's dying telepathic command to kill Luke Skywalker sets her destiny 
ina different direction. 


After the Emperor's death, Mara Jade flees to the Outer Rim and engages 
in numerous adventures, joining up with the smuggler baron Talon Karrde 
while living with the Emperor's final command pounding in her skull. She 
manages to “complete” her mission by killing a clone of Luke Skywalker. She 
and Luke part ways for a while, but they periodically cross paths and eventu- 
ally fall in love, marry, and have a child, Ben Skywalker. Mara Jade Skywalker's 
adventures continue for many years after the birth of their son. 


Mara Jade Skywalker Encounters 

Mara Jade Skywalker can be used as either a hero or a villain, and she can be 
dropped into campaigns set before the death of the Emperor into well past 
the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. Her skills as an infiltrator and assassin, combined 
with her formidable skills with the Force and the lightsaber, make her an 
extremely dangerous opponent. If your campaign is set before the death of 
the Emperor, Mara could be sent to kill someone the heroes are required to 
defend, in which case they have a fight 

on their hands. During the time of the 
New Jedi Order, the heroes might be 
asked to escort Mara or assist her 

in battles against the Yuuzhan 
Vong or other threats to the 
New Republic. 


MARA JADE SKYWALKER 


Nom! SUNRIDER 


Nomi Sunrider cL9 

Medium Human scout 1/Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 1 

Destiny 2; Force 5, Strong in the Force 

Init +11; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 22, Will 23 

hp 77; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber (self-built) +11 (2d8+4) 

Ranged by weapon +10 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Special Actions Battle Meditation, Jedi Quarry 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): Force light, Force slam, move 
object, rebuke, sever Force, surge 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 11, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Talents Battle Meditation, Block, Deflect, Evasion, Jedi Quarry, Redirect 
Shot 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill 
Training (Use the Force), Strong in the Force, Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +9, Perception +11, Pilot +11, Stealth +11, 
Survival +11, Use the Force +17 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


Nomi first picks up a lightsaber after her husband Andur is killed by criminals on 
their way to Ambria. She defends herself and kills two of the criminals. Although 
she saves her own life and the life of her daughter, she vows never to pick up a 
lightsaber again. The guardian spirit of her husband appears and urges her to 
continue on and take his place under Master Thon's tutelage. Nomi does so to 
appease the last wish of her late husband and to protect their daughter. 


MESSAGE FROM THE 
FACULTY: JEDI MARRIAGE 
Romantic entanglements are one of the most challenging aspects of being 
a Jedi. Maintaining a balance between the light side and the dark side is 
hard enough without the problems of a married life coming into play. 
The Jedi Order's views on the rules of marriage have fluctuated over 
time. The Council has final say, but often as the members of the Council 
are replaced, the current views are challenged and the rules debated 
again. Depending on the era of play, a Jedi hero might be married. The 
Gamemaster also has the option of introducing romantic subplots, such 
as the starry-eyed young Padawan who falls for a Sith apprentice who 
wishes to turn the fledgling Jedi to the dark side. 


Nomi surprises herself with how quickly her training under Master Thon 
progresses. She always viewed the life of a Jedi as arduous and tough. While 
there are hardships, she finds herself drawing on reserves of fortitude and 
wisdom she never thought she had. She even carries a lightsaber, built under 
the guidance of Master Thon. 

Her biggest challenge is one of the heart. She grieves for her husband and 
accepts his death, but her heart reaches out to another. She meets Ulic Qel- 
Droma during the Freedon Nadd Uprising and grows fond of him. It doesn't 
take Jedi powers to see his feelings growing for her as well, but she fears 
getting too close. What if he dies as well? Is she strong enough to handle the 
death of another love? Only the Living Force knows for sure. 


Nomi Sunrider Encounters 

Nomi Sunrider achieves the rank of Jedi Knight for her actions during the 
Beast Wars of Onderon. She is an example of a character who starts off in | 
one class and switches over to another. Her scout abilities prove useful on 
occasion, but she now devotes herself to the Jedi Order, Nomi can serve as 

a mentor to a younger Jedi-in-training, or she can use her scouting skills 

to help the PCs complete 
a mission on some hos- 
tile world. Conversely, 
the PCs might interact 
with Nomi after suc- 
cessfully completing 
a mission with Ulic 
Qel-Droma. It's even 
possible that a hero 
might become the 
third side of a love 
triangle involving 
Nomi and Ulic Qel- 
Droma. 


Nomi SUNRICER, 


ODAN-URR 


Odan-Urr cL 16 
Medium Draethos Jedi 9/Jedi Knight 4/Jedi Master 3 

Destiny 3; Force 8, Strong in the Force 

Init +8; Senses low-light vision, Perception +10 


Languages Basic, Draethos 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 31), Fort 30, Will 32; Deflect 
hp 85; Threshold 30 
Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+9) 

Ranged by weapon +16 

Base Atk +16; Grp +15 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Battle Meditation, Clear Mind, 
Equilibrium, Force Persuasion, Force Recovery, serenity, Skilled Advisor 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): farseeing, Force slam, rebuke 
(2), sever Force, vital transfer 

Force Secrets Multitarget Power, Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Force 


Abilities Str 9, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Special Qualities natural telepath 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Battle Meditation, Clear Mind, Deflect, 
Equilibrium, Force Persuasion, Force Recovery, Skilled Advisor, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), 
Improved Defenses, Improved Disarm, Melee Defense, 
Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic lore], Use the Force), 
Strong in the Force, Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +19, 
Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, various 
scrolls, holocron 


Until the time of the Jedi Purge, the teachings of one Jedi 
impact the Order greatly and form the foundation of the 
Jedi Code, and that Jedi is Master Odan-Urr. Although he 
does not create the Code, his research and meditations 
on its philosophy and texts influence the countless 
Jedi that follow him. 


Odan-Urr trains as an apprentice five thousand years before the Battle of 
Yavin. Rather than spend his time honing his lightsaber skills or techniques 
to use the Force, he pores over ancient texts and researches the Force. Only 
when Master Ooroo implores him to step away from his studies does he 
reluctantly do so. One instance sends Odan-Urr on a mission to the Koros 
system to help Empress Teta end a civil war between her government and 
a group of Kirrek rebels. With the assistance of the empress's Jedi advisor, 
Memit Nadill, Odan-Urr uses the Battle Meditation technique to defeat the 
rebels and negotiate a treaty with them. 

Unfortunately for Odan-Urr, he is not able to return to his studies, as 
he is assigned to the Koros system to continue assisting Empress Teta in 
strengthening her alliance of seven worlds. During his time there, he and 
Memit Nadill rescue two young siblings, Jori and Gav Daragon, from assas- 
sins. Little does he know that the two children would eventually bring much 
hardship and devastation to the Republic after bringing the Sith into contact 
with the Republic by accident. Odan-Urr is unable to stop the onslaught, 
forcing Master Ooroo to forfeit his life to guarantee victory. 

Afterward, Odan-Urr returns to the libraries of Ossus to continue his 
research. During this time, he ascends to the rank of Jedi Master and leads 
the Jedi assembly for six hundred years. Many of his teachings are passed 
along to generations of Jedi Masters. 

Although his life is filled with successes and misfortunes, 
the legacy and principles that Odan-Urr leaves behind 
influence all Jedi who follow him and help to shape the 

Jedi Order into a stronger organization. 


Odan-Urr Encounters 

Most of the time, Odan-Urr is entrenched in the Jedi 
library on Ossus, where he can be found reading 
documents. Although reluctant to peel himself away 
at first, he can offer some piece of knowledge 
or advice to the heroes or help them locate the 
information they seek. He might even go so far 
as to call in a favor to help them along, mainly as 
a way for him to return to his studies as quickly 
as possible. 


OoAN-URR 


A wala 


i) 
d| 
i) 
iS 
Q) 
| 
0 
5) 
@ 
® 
> 
€ 
& 
& 


INWIATIY Y SYOLSAYLSNI 


OorRoo 


Ooroo cL15 

Large Celegian Jedi 12/Jedi Master 3 

Destiny 2; Force 4 

Init +7; Senses Perception +20 

Languages Basic (understand only), broadcast telepathy 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 27), Fort 35, Will 31 

hp 150; DR 10; Threshold 40 

Immune fear effects 

Speed fly 8 squares (hover), swim 10 squares 

Melee slam +13 (1d6+7) 

Ranged by weapon +13 

Base Atk +13; Grp +18 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Battle Meditation, serenity, 
Skilled Advisor 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): farseeing, Force slam (2), 
Force thrust (2), mind trick, move object (2), rebuke, sever Force, 
vital transfer (2) 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Multitarget Power 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 11, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Special Qualities fearless, serenity 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Force Perception, Gauge Force Potential, Battle 
Meditation, Skilled Advisor, Telekinetic Power 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[galactic lore], Perception, Use the Force), Skill Training (Gather 
Information, Persuasion, Treat Injury), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +14, Knowledge (galactic lore) +19, 
Perception +20, Persuasion +15, Pilot +12, Treat Injury +15, 
Use the Force +20 

Possessions life-support chamber (DR 10, +5 equipment bonus to 
Fortitude Defense, increases fly speed by +2 squares) 


Jedi Master Ooroo trains students in the ways of the Force nearly 5,000 
years before the Battle of Yavin. As a Celegian, Ooroo breathes cyanogen, a 
toxic gas, and can only travel on other planets using a special crystalline life 
support chamber. Despite this, Ooroo is both wise and powerful in the Force 
and tutors numerous students, including his premier pupil, Odan-Urr. 

In his final battle, Ooroo joins together with Odan-Urr in the Koros system. 
Sith warships blacken the sky and dispense countless Massassi troops and war 
beasts. Ooroo foresees this threat. He gives his own life and defeats the army 
by shattering his life-support chamber, releasing its poisonous gas upon the 
unsuspecting enemy. For his valor, Qoroo is named the Martyr of Kirrek. 


HOLOCRON LESSON: ~~ a 
CELEGIAN SPECIES TRAITS 
All Celegians share the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Dexterity, +2 Intelligence. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Celegians have no a fl 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

‘Speed: Fly 6 squares (hover), swim 10 squares. 

Cyanogen Breather: Unless encased in a special environment chai 
ber, Celegians suffocate. ¥ 

Expert Swimmer: A Celegian may choose to reroll any Swim cht 
taking the second result. In addition, a Celegian can take 10 on Swim 
checks even when distracted or threatened. 

Broadcast Telepath: Celegians can use the Telepathy aoplcetanl 
of the Use the Force skill untrained, even if they do not possess the 
Force Sensitivity feat. A Celegian automatically succeeds on this check — 
to communicate with willing targets within 60 squares of it and in its 
line of sight. 

Languages: Basic (understand only). 


Ooroo Encounters 

Ooroo is active during the Great 
Hyperspace War, instructing 
young pupils in the ways of 
the Force when the Jedi Order 
was still young. While lacking 
much of the martial prow- 
ess possessed by other 
Jedi, Ooroo is a skilled 
Force-user. Ooroo pre- 
fers diplomacy to battle 
and is famous for making 
compelling arguments to 
‘sway stubborn minds 
over to the side of 
negotiation. Ooroo 
is rarely encountered 
alone and typically 
has two or more 
apprentices or 
companions in his 
company. 


Oss WILLUM 


Oss Willum cL 10 

Medium Vultan noble 1/Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 2 

Force 3 

Init +11; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothan, Dromnyr, Durese, Huttese, Tchuukthese 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 22, lightsaber defense 23), Fort 22, Will 21 

hp 68; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +9 (248+5) 

Ranged by weapon +9 

Base Atk +8; Grp +8] 

Special Actions Battle Meditation, Bolster Ally 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +10): Force thrust, move object 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 9, Cha 10 

Talents Battle Meditation, Block, Bolster Ally, Deflect, Lightsaber Defense 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Linguist, Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [galactic lore], Pilot), Skill Training (Mechanics), Weapon 
Finesse (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +10, Initiative +11, Knowledge (galactic lore) 
+12, Mechanics +12, Perception +9, Persuasion +10, Pilot +16, 
Use Computer +12, Use the Force +10 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, utility belt 


Oss Willum begins his career as a simple trader, literally living out of his 
ship. The day he heroically rescues a Republic courier ship changes his life 
and opens him up to the Force. Oss eventually finds tutelage first under Jedi 
Master Garnoo and then under Jedi Master Thon. 

Oss is most noted for his ill-fated encounters with Exar Kun. When Oss is 
sent to rescue Ulic Qel-Droma from Krath war droids on Deneba, he receives 
a vision that he would someday train under Exar Kun, and so he assumes 
that Kun is a great and powerful Jedi. Exar Kun convinces Oss and several 
other impressionable Jedi that the Jedi Order has denied them the key to 
victory in battle. Along with some of his companions, Oss travels with Exar 
Kun to Yavin 4, where Kun smashes a Sith holocron he had stolen from Jedi 
Master Odan-Urr. The fragments pierce Oss Willum’s flesh, causing him to 
be possessed by Sith spirits. Oss commits unspeakable acts while under the 
influence of the Sith, but is eventually subdued by Jedi Knights Nomi Sunrider 
and Sylvar and restored to the path of the light side. 


Oss Willum Encounters 

Although a relatively unremarkable Jedi, Oss Willum gets caught up in many 
important events and could be found in the same places as Jedi Master Thon 
or Jedi Knight Nomi Sunrider. Heroes might encounter Oss during the time 


HOLOCRON LESSON: 
VULTAN SPECIES TRAITS 
All Vultans share the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, -2 Wisdom. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Vultans have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: 6 squares. 

Bonus Trained Skill: Vultans can choose one additional trained skill 
from their class skill list at Ist level. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: A Vultan with one or more Knowledge skills 
as trained skills gains a bonus Skill Focus feat for one Knowledge skill in 
which they are trained. 

Languages: Basic, Dromnyr. 


when he is possessed by the Sith spirits, providing them the dilemma of trying 
to stop his actions without having to kill him. They could also be asked by 
Nomi Sunrider or other Jedi to help with Oss Willum's rehabilitation once 
the Sith spirits are purged. 


Oss wittum 


SHOANEB CuULU 


Shoaneb Culu cL7 

Medium Miraluka Jedi 7 

Force 7 

Init +4; Senses Force sight, Perception +4 

Languages Basic, Dromnyr, Miralukese 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18, Lightsaber Defense 20), Fort 19, Will 19; 
Deflect 

hp 70; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +7 (2d8+2) or 

Melee lightsaber +5 (3d8+2) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged by weapon +8 

Base Atk +7; Grp +7 

Atk Options Improved Disarm, Power Attack, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Equilibrium, Force Intuition, Lightsaber Defense, 
Vehicular Combat 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +14): farseeing, Force light, move 
object, sever Force 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 12 

Special Qualities Force sight 

Talents Deflect, Equilibrium, Force Intuition, Lightsaber Defense 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved Disarm, Power 
Attack, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, Pilot +9, Use the Force +14 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


Early in her life, Shoaneb Culu leaves her home on Alpharidies to seek out 
the Jedi Order, against her parents’ wishes. Feeling that she is destined to 
become a Jedi Knight, she vows to return home one day and, after learning 
all she can about the Force, establish a Jedi training center to help her people 
realize their potential with the Force. Despite initial troubles dealing with the 
new surroundings away from her homeworld, Shoaneb finds her way to Jedi 
Master Vodo-Siosk Baas on Ossus, who eventually agrees to train her. 

Enthusiastic and eager to learn, Culu spends many hours studying the 
library archives and asking thought-provoking questions of Master Baas 
and other Jedi Masters. Troubled by her inquisitive nature, Baas mistakes 
her curiosity as a lust for power. After learning of her desire to return home 
and help her people, Baas’s feelings quickly change, and dedicates a portion 
of his time assisting with her research. Although her desire to learn about 
the Force and the history of the Jedi hurtles her beyond her peers in under- 
standing the Force, her ability to use the Force and build her own lightsaber 
suffers as a result. 


Sudden turmoil in the galaxy inspires Culu to volunteer for a task force 
headed to Onderon. When Master Baas expresses misgivings, Shoaneb's 
calm explanation that she feels the Force calling her to duty convinces him 
to support her decision. After quelling the forces behind the Freedon Nadd 
Uprising and the Krath cult at Koros Major and Cinnagar, Culu and several 
other Jedi travel to Coruscant to warn the Galactic Senate of recent events, 
but Krath forces led by the Jedi-turned-Sith Lord Ulic Qel-Droma attack, 
forcing her to help defend the capital world 


Shoaneb Culu Encounters 

In the years preceding the Freedon Nadd Uprising, heroes can find Culu 
eagerly studying at the library on Ossus. From the Uprising through the First 
Sith War, she is most likely encountered at Onderon, helping the Jedi confront 
the Beast Lords and the Krath. She might lend a hand and fight alongside 
the heroes, or she could provide some key piece of information that leads 
them to their next stop in their adventure. 


SHOANES CuLU 


THON 


Thon cL15 

Large Tchuukthai Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 3 

Destiny 1; Force 6, Strong in the Force 

Init +7; Senses Low-light vision, Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Tchuukthese 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 28), Fort 33, Will 32 

hp 167; Threshold 38 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee bite +20 (1d8+12) 

Melee bite +16* (1d8+16) with Power Attack or 

Melee bite +24 (1d8+19) with Powerful Charge or 

Melee bite +20° (1d8+23) with Power Attack and Powerful Charge 

Ranged by weapon +15 

Base Atk +15; Grp +25 

Atk Options Cleave, Power Attack, Powerful Charge 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Battle Meditation, Share Force 
Secret (Quicken Power), Share Force Technique (Improved Sense 
Surroundings), Skilled Advisor, Transfer Power 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): battle strike, Force light (2), 
Force slam, inspire, mind trick, move object (2), rebuke (2), sever Force, 
surge, vital transfer 

Force Secrets Distant Power, Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 11, Con 18, Int 11, Wis 17, Cha 15 

Special Qualities fearless, natural weapons, quadruped, serenity 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Apprentice Boon, Battle Meditation, Force 
Harmony, Force Persuasion, Share Force Secret (Quicken Power), 
Share Force Technique (Improved Sense Surroundings), Skilled Advisor, 
Transfer Power 

Feats Cleave, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Improved Defenses, 
Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in 
the Force, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Persuasion +19, Use the Force +19 

Quadruped—Master Thon gains a +5 bonus to all defenses against effects 
that trip or knock him prone. 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack. 


Thon arrives at the Praxeum on Ossus already possessing great skill as a Jedi 
and speaks little about his time before coming to the attention of the Jedi 
Order. He is the last remaining member of his race, a species known as the 
Tehuukthai. He promises to tell more about himself when the time is right, and 
the Jedi respect his desire for privacy. While no other Jedi pierce the mysteries 
of his past, they respect his abilities as a teacher and as a warrior. 

Thon runs a training camp on the world of Ambria in the Stenness system. 
Ambria was once a world claimed by the dark side of the Force. Thon trapped the 


Dark Side spirits in the massive Lake Natth and built his training camp nearby. 
He and his students work daily to restore the planet to its former beauty. Being 
so close to a place strong in the dark side teaches a student how to resist and 
quell it. The greatest falls come from those who confront the dark side with no 
previous exposure. The Order follows Thon's lead and often sends Jedi to dark 
side sites throughout the galaxy to cleanse them of their taint. 

Thon's unorthodox views on the Force and training techniques extend 
to one other unusual area. Thon often bears his students on his back like a 
bantha or tauntaun. While new students are often confused by this seeming 
debasement, it is the first lesson Thon teaches. Even such a great master is 
but a beast of burden to the Force. Arrogance can come to a master all too 
easily, while humility is something that every Jedi struggles with daily. By 
literally bearing his students on his back, Thon reminds himself that even a 
Jedi Master such as himself serves greater powers daily, 


Thon Encounters 

Master Thon is an example of a Jedi Master devoted to the martial side of the 
Force. Thon is a great master for PCs who want to excel in combat. He puts 
PC students through some rough paces. His academy is half boot camp, half 
environmental reclamation project. Thon knows that the fate of the galaxy 
hangs on the edge of a lightsaber blade. As long as that blade belongs to 
one of his students, the galaxy will be safe. 


A eaiavnS 


4 
@ 
d) 
a) 
€ 
0) 
| 
@) 
» 
@ 
® 
> 


A BalavnS 


0) 
5 
3) 
@ 
® 
E 
g 


TOTT DONEETA 


Tott Doneeta cL9 

Medium Twi'lek Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 2 

Force 4 

Init +6; Senses Low-light vision, Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Ryl 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 26, Will 24 

hp 92; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +13 (2d8+8) 

Ranged by weapon +11 

Base Atk +9; Grp +11 

Special Actions Battle Meditation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): battle strike, Force light, move 
object, rebuke, surge, sever Force 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Special Qualities deceptive 

Talents Ataru, Battle Meditation, Block, Deflect, Redirect Shot 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved 
Defenses, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +11, Deception +6 (can reroll, must take second result), 
Pilot +11, Use the Force +16 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


Tott Doneeta finds himself in the chains of slavery at a young age. His parents 
book passage aboard a ship fronting for a slaving ring. Luckily, Jedi Master 
Arca Jeth had been tracking the slavers and struck shortly after the Doneeta 
family had signed on, Tott's parents give Tott to Master Jeth in gratitude for 
saving their lives. Tott, for his part, is excited to go. He had seen the Arkanian 
in the thick of the fight. The Jedi Master showed no fear, and young Tott 
wanted to be like him some day. 

Tott takes to the Jedi training well, but he is a quiet boy and one of the few 
aliens in Master Jeth's class. The young Cay Qel-Droma draws Tott out of his 
shell, and Tott is soon accepted as part of the Qel-Droma family. Tott and the 
Qel-Droma brothers are inseparable throughout their youth, and Tott grows 
into a promising young Jedi. He follows Master Jeth's example as best as he 
can. He only speaks when spoken to and rarely draws his lightsaber. 

Doneeta develops a rare Force ability while spending time on the out- 
skirts of a Jedi camp. He finds that he can speak with the creatures of the 
forests and the plains. Master Jeth finds this ability fascinating. While the 
Jedi often use telepathy to communicate, the young Twi'lek’s telepathy is 
able to touch creatures of lesser intelligence. Tott develops this ability at the 
urging of Master Jeth. Tott can now communicate with almost any beast he 
encounters through out the galaxy. 


Tott eagerly accompanies Master Arca Jeth and the Qel-Droma brothers 
to the planet of Onderon. His Beast Speech proves useful in the battles on 
the planet, and his lightsaber skill helps to turn the tide against the Freedon 
Nadd Uprising. Tott always looks forward to his next battle, especially if it's 
fought at the side of his friends. 


Tott Doneeta Encounters 

What makes Tott Doneeta unique is his ability to communicate with beasts of 
any intelligence. This ability allows him to communicate with everything from 
his own mount to an attacking pack of Sith hounds. Tott feels better when 
he's sent out into the wild to communicate with the natural creatures on a 
planet. His unique talent means he’s in demand across the galaxy, though he 
will often be found in Master Thon's entourage. Heroes might encounter him 
alongside one or both of the Qel-Droma brothers on a mission, or he might 
help them talk their way past a dangerous beast to reach some objective. 


ToTT DoneeTA 


Vobo SiosK-BAAS 


Vodo-Siosk Baas 

Medium Krevaaki Jedi 8/Jedi Knight 4/Jedi Master 3 
Destiny 1; Force 7, Strong in the Force 

Init +9; Senses Use the Force +13 

Languages Basic, Kreva, Tchuukthese 


cCL15 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 29), Fort 30, Will 30; Resist the Dark Side 
hp 112; Threshold 30 
Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee quarterstaff +18/+18 (1d6+7) or 

Melee quarterstaff +16/+16 (2d6+7) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged by weapon +17 

Base Atk +15; Grp +15 

Atk Options Dual Weapon Mastery, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Acrobatic Recovery, Battle Meditation, Combat Reflexes, 
Damage Reduction 10, Dark Side Sense, Force Fortification, Melee 
Defense, serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13): battle strike, farseeing, Force 
slam, move object, sever Force, surge 

Force Secrets Distant Power, Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (farseeing), Improved 
Sense Force 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Special Qualities grasping tentacles, stoic 

Talents Acrobatic Recovery, Battle Meditation, 
Damage Reduction 10, Dark Side Sense, Force 
Fortification, Force Perception, Resist the Dark 
Side, Visions 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Dual Weapon Mastery 
|, Dual Weapon Mastery Il, Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (2), Melee Defense, Rapid 
Strike, Strong in the Force, Weapon Finesse, 
Weapon Focus (quarterstaff), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Knowledge (galactic lore) 
+13, Use the Force +13 

Possessions quarterstaff, Jedi robes 


As the Jedi Watchman of Dantooine, Master 
Baas spends much of his time on the planet 
and trains multiple apprentices at a time. His 
strongest apprentice, however, is a young pupil 
named Exar Kun. Kun’s skill with a lightsaber 
is so great that he claimed victory over his 
master many times when they sparred together. 


HOLOCRON LESSON: — i 
KREVAAK! SPECIES earre ; 
All Krevaaki share the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Krevaaki have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

‘Speed: 6 squares. 

Carapace: Krevaaki gain a +1 natural armor bonus to Reflex Defense 
and @ +1 bonus to Fortitude Defense. 

Stoic: Any creature attempting to use the Sense Motive application of 
the Perception skill on a Krevaaki takes a -5 penalty on the skill check. 

Grasping Tentacles: Krevaaki gain a +2 species bonus on Climb. 
checks and a +2 species bonus on grapple checks. 

Languages: Basic, Dromnyr. 


& 


Growing restless with Master Baas’s instruction, Kun believes that he can 
become an even mightier Jedi by learning more about the dark side of the 
Force, but Baas would only teach him so much. Desperate to discover more, 
Kun ventures to Dxun and enters the tomb of Freedon Nadd. The dark spirit 
of Freedon Nadd directs Exar Kun to travel to Korriban, where Nadd attacks 
Kun and shatters every bone in his body. At that point, 
Baas feels Kun’s pain through the Force and stretches 
out to aid him, but he is also attacked by Nadd and 
prevented from assisting his apprentice. 
Experiencing Exar Kun's descent to the dark side 
gives Baas a unique understanding on the balance of the 
Force. When Nomi Sunrider and Cay Qel-Droma request 
to lead the mission to rescue Ulic Qel-Droma from the 
Krath during the Great Sith War, Baas warns against 
taking such action, but the request is granted by the 
Jedi Assembly. Despite the task force's efforts, Ulic 
is not extracted until after he leads the Krath and 
their Mandalorian warrior allies in an assault aimed 
at the heart of the Republic. When the former Jedi 
is captured and put on trial for his crimes, Exar Kun 
interrupts the proceedings and challenges Baas in 
combat—a duel that costs Master Baas his life. 


Vodo-Siosk Baas Encounters 

Jedi Master Vodo-Siosk Baas typically spends his time 
between Dantooine and Ossus, keeping in touch with 
the students with which he has been charged and 
the rest of the Jedi Order. His growing knowledge 
of the Force, particularly the subtle temptations of 
the dark side, can prove to be a useful resource for 

heroes seeking wisdom. 


Vooo Sicsk-Baas 


INWATITY © SYOLONYLSNI 


CHAPTER VI 
picdemiol Lda OF STUDY 


gal 
fraction of the planets, species, and beasts that it contains have been dis- 
“covered, much less studied. Jedi Padawans are warned of the untold dangers 
_that await them in the galactic vastness, which is not to say that the Jedi 
uld destroy every dangerous beast that they encounter. However, if one is 
fulfill the role of galactic peacekeeper, one must be aware of the dangers 
" that the galaxy abides. 
The creatures and individuals described here are but a sample of the 
strange, exotic, and lethal dangers that a Jedi might encounter during an 
i -. Some creatures are relegated to a single planet or even a single 
4 wai others have managed to spread across the galaxy. In rare cir- 
4 stances, the Jedi have deemed some of these creatures, notably those 
ee en by the dark side, as grave threats that must be eliminated to help 
__ bring harmony to the galaxy. 
The Jedi are interested in beasts that have sensitivity to the Force and the 
ability to wield it in some manner. The Jedi Council has numerous ongoing 
programs in place to discover, catalog, and study Force-sensitive creatures, 
both to learn more about them and to gain a greater insight into their own 
assumptions on how the Force manifests itself. One thing is for certain—most 
creatures are dangerous in their own right, but those that can command the 
Force tend to be smarter, faster, tougher, or deadlier than normal. 


DARK SIDERS 

The following section presents a rogues’ gallery of Force-sensitive villains 
who might cross paths with the heroes during their exploits. These villains 
range from low-level lackeys to unique, named characters with sinister 
motives and evil agendas. Because of their strong ties to the dark side of 
the Force, these NPCs make great enemies for groups of heroes containing 
‘one or more Jedi characters, 

A Gamemaster who has no intention of using the villains described 
herein is still encouraged to use the villains’ statistics. With a simple name 
substitution, any of the dark siders presented here can fit into a GM's home 
campaign. 


aqgnis 40 susOoNva | 1A SaievHo 


wsssse_ = ~=—S 


G 


AGALE JO SuEONVE 


AZRAKEL, THE DARK WARRIOR 
Azrakel cL6 
Medium Human Jedi* 6 

Force 4; Dark Side 9 

Init +9; Senses Perception +4 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 19, Will 18; Block 
hp 68; Threshold 19 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +8 (2d8+7) or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +3/+3 (2d8+7) with Dual Weapon 
Mastery | 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Dual Weapon Mastery 

Special Actions Clear Mind 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +9): battle strike, dark rage, rebuke, 
vital transfer 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Talents Block, Clear Mind, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon 
Mastery I, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +9, Initiative +9, Use the Force +9 

Possessions double-bladed lightsaber, blaster pistol, combat jumpsuit 

*Azrakel is not a Jedi in the strict sense. His levels in the Jedi class 
reflect special training. He is not part of the Jedi Order, however. 


Discovered by Emperor Palpatine, Azrakel is spirited away to a secret 
facility and used as a test subject in the Emperor's dark side experi- 
ments. Session after session, Palpatine exposes the young man to the 
dark side of the Force, hoping to mold him into a warrior to serve his will. 
After several years with no real results, Palpatine abandons his work, leaving 
Azrakel to die in the facility. 

Although the Emperor sees no point to continuing the experiments, 
Kadann, the Supreme Prophet of the Dark Side, sees something in Azrakel 
that Palpatine does not and nurses the subject back to health. Azrakel's 
mind is wiped clean by the experiments, giving Kadann the perfect oppor- 
tunity to create an apprentice of his own 


After mending Azrakel's mind, Kadann teaches his new pupil to hate the 
Emperor for what he did to him and, in turn, hate his servant Darth Vader. 
As time goes on, Azrakel grows to hate Kadann as well, and he cuts himself 
off from the Prophets of the Dark Side and the Empire some time before 
Palpatine’s death. 

Azrakel hides himself and his dark powers from the galaxy at large by 
staying away from the Core Worlds. He becomes a mercenary, which proves 
to be a lucrative career as well as a means to vent his hostility. He gives no 
quarter, cutting down his targets with a level of zeal that concerns even his 

most coldblooded employers. 


Azrakel Encounters 

From the end of the Rebellion era to the early days of the New Republic, 
Azrakel operates mostly in the Outer Rim Territories, the Corporate 
Sector, and even Wild Space as a ruthless mercenary. He can 
be a dangerous enemy, working as a hired henchman 
for a powerful crime lord, or even as the primary 
antagonist bent on the destruction of the Jedi 
Order before it has time to rebuild after the fall 
of the Empire. 


AZRAKEL, THE DARK WARRIOR 


BLACKGUARD, THE 


Blackguard Minion cua 
Medium Human nonheroic 3 

Dark Side 4 

Init +2; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 12, Will 11 
hp 7; Threshold 12 


Speed 4 squares 
Melee unarmed +3 (144+1) 
Ranged blaster rifle +3 (348) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +3 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 12 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Skill Training (Endurance), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +6, Perception +7, Survival +7" 

Possessions blaster rifle, battle armor 

" Human bonus trained skill or feat. 


Blackguard Wilder cL4 
Medium Human nonheroic 3/Jedi* 3 

Force 3; Dark Side 8 

Init +4; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 14, Will 15; Block 
hp 28; Threshold 14 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +7 (2d8+2) 

Ranged by weapon +6 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Power of the Dark Side 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +10): battle strike, dark rage 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Talents Block, Power of the Dark Side 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Skill 
Training (Endurance’, Use the Force), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +9, Endurance +7, Perception +9, Survival +9", 
Use the Force +10 

Possessions lightsaber, black robes 

*A wilder is not a Jedi in the strict sense. The levels in the Jedi class reflect 
special training. The wilder is not part of the Jedi Order, however. 

" Human bonus trained skill or feat. 


The Blackguard is a dark side cult that seeks to increase its knowledge and 
power by searching for secrets held by Force traditions all over the galaxy. 

Shortly before the Battle of Ruusan, a dark apprentice of Kaan named 
Vulta Daanat comes to the belief that the Force not only serves as a source 
of personal power but also as a means to understand the universe. Kaan 
disagrees, intent on exterminating the Jedi and conquering the Republic. 
Their disagreement turns physical, and the subsequent lightsaber duel leaves 
Daanat badly injured, and Kaan leaves him for dead. Daanat nurses his wounds 
and escapes from the Brotherhood of Darkness. After a time, he searches 
the galaxy, following rumors and leads to various Force-related artifacts. 
He learns many secrets about the dark side, settles within the Southern Jedi 
Ruins on Mustafar, and takes on several apprentices to pass his knowledge 
to a new generation of dark siders. 

Over time, the dark side cult fluctuates in size, at times growing to 
mammoth proportions, and shrinking at other times to a mere handful of 
apprentices. San’sii the Kursk, the most recent leader of the Blackguard, feels 
the need for more people under his command to help the cult survive. He 
adopts the practice of recruiting non-Force-sensitive people into the cult’s 
ranks. Donning black armor and bearing blaster rifles, these minions act as 
soldiers and become the most visible members of the faction, leading many 
to believe that the Blackguard is a paramilitary organization. 


Blackguard Encounters 

The Blackguard is found almost exclusively on Mustafar in or near the Southern 
Jedi Ruins, but a few are occasionally located wandering between the ruins 
and the planet's only remaining city of Fralideja. Elite minions and wilders exist 
and act more as squad leaders, giving evidence that the Blackguard might be 
better organized than most people think possible of a dark side cult. 


BRAKISS 


Brakiss cL 

Medium Human Noble 1/Jedi 7, 

Force 7; Dark Side 10 

Init +6; Senses Use the Force +18 

Languages Basic, Paec 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-foote 

hp 77; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +12 (2d8+6) or 

Melee lightsaber +7/+7 (2d8+6) w 

Ranged by weapon +10 

Base Atk +9; Grp +10 

Atk Options Channel Aggression, D 

Special Actions Channel Anger, Presence, Resilience 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18): Force 
move object, rebuke (2), vital transfer 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 16 

Talents Channel Aggression, Channel Anger, Deflect, Elusive Target 
Force Perception, Presence, Resilience 

Feats Double Attack, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Skill Focus 


an 


Double Att. 


juble Attack 


lightning, mind trick 


(Persuasion, Use the Force), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 


Proficiency (lightsabe 
Skills Deception +13, Gather Information +13, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +11, Perception +11, Persuasion +18, Stealth +11 
Use the Force +18 
Possessions lightsaber (self-built), s 


, pistols, simple weapons) 


ver robes 
When Luke Skywalker establishes his academy on Yavin 4, many students 
arrive to begin their training under his tutelage. A few are actually spies s 
by the Empire and other interested parties that Skywalker quickly discovers 
and removes. Brakiss, on the other hand, actually holds true potential with 
the Force, and, despite having already begun down the path to the dark side 
Skywalker allows him to stay, convinced that he can lead Brakiss down the 
path of the light side. Despite all of Skywalker’s efforts and training, Brakiss 
proves Luke wrong and flees from the academy. 

Brakiss has a difficult time dealing with his situation and is emotionally 
distraught until he joins forces with Kueller, another former student of the 
new Jedi Academy who had turned to the dark side. After Kueller's death on 
Almania, Brakiss wanders the galaxy for a while with no purpose, until he 
gains the attention of the Second Imperium. Brakiss immediately swears his 
allegiance to the Second Imperium and begins building an academy equal 
to Skywalker's but devoted entirely to the dark side. Within a few years, the 


w Academy, housed within a torus-shaped space station equipped 
hyperdrive and a cloaking device, was completed and placed under 
The Shadow Academy attracted many ts. Those without sensitivity 


to the Force were immediately placed in the station's stormtrooper corps, 
le those who passed a Force sensitivity test began training as Dark Jedi 
Assisting Brakiss was Tamith Kai, a member of Dathomir's Nightsister clan 
of F 


hes. 
Academy comes to Skywalker's attention when Tamith Kai 
abducts Jacen and Jaina Solo along with their classmate, Lawbacca. They are 
rescued, and after several more failures at the hands of the Jedi, Brakiss is 
ordered by Palpatine to destroy the Jedi once and for all. Once again Brakiss 
dies shortly after returning to the Shadow Academy when Pal- 


patine’s Royal Guards set off explosive charges planted in the station 


Brakiss Encounters 
Du 
busy establishing the Shadow Academy. He soon makes his presence known, 


ring the days of the New Republic, Brakiss cannot be easily located, as he is 


ver, as he opposes the Jedi time and again, Brakiss can be a major villain 


a long campaign in which the heroes struggle against a string of Dark Jedi in 


an attempt to locate and bring down the Shadow Academy 


CARNOR JAX 


Carnor Jax CL 16 
Medium Human soldier 6/elite trooper 6/Force adept 4 

Destiny 1; Force 9; Dark Side 14 

Init +21; Senses Perception +15 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 33 (flat-footed 30), Fort 31, Will 32; Dodge 

hp 154; DR 3; Threshold 31 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +17 (1d6+10) or 

Melee double vibroblade +19 (2d6+12) or 

Melee double vibroblade +14/+14 (2d6+12) with Dual Weapon Mastery | 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +18 (348+8) 

Base Atk +15; Grp +17 

Atk Options Channel Aggression, Devastating Attack (advanced melee 
weapons), Dual Weapon Mastery, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Delay Damage, Follow Through, Harm 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +14): battle strike, Force slam, mind 
trick, move object, rebuke, vital transfer 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 15, Cha 12 

Talents Armored Defense, Channel Aggression, Crippling Strike 
Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons), Greater Weapon Focus 
(advanced melee weapons), Harm's Way, Improved Armored Defense 


Way, Quick Draw 


Weapon Specialization (advanced melee weapons) 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Follow 
Through, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Martial Arts |, Point 
Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Initiative), Weapon Focus (advanced melee 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, 

rifles, simple weapons) 
Skills Initiative +21, Mechanics +13, Perception +15, Use the Force +14 
Possessions double vibroblade, heavy blaster pistol, Royal Guard 
armor (+7 armor; ceremonial armor with helmet package), comlink 
(encrypted), utility belt with medpac 


Carnor Jax begins his career as an enlisted Imperial stormtrooper. He stands 
out among his peers as one of the best and quickly advances to train as a 
Royal Guard on Yinchorr. While there, he meets another trainee named Kir 
Kanos. The two of them survive to the end of their training and become Royal 
Guards after slaying their assigned partners in personal combat. 

Though Jax serves the Empire with distinction, his loyalties lie with himself 
and his carefully chosen allies. When Palpatine travels to Endor to oversee 
the construction of the second Death Star, Jax is left behind on Coruscant 
Learning the ways of the dark side of the Force from Lumiya, the Dark Lady 
of the Sith, he eliminates the last few Prophets of the Dark Side as well as 
the last of Palpatine’s cloned bodies in a daring attempt to seize the throne 


for himself. Unfortu 


ely, his bid for power is quashed when Sate Pestage 


assumes control, soon to be followed by Ysan 


k Lady Lumiya by Isard, and Lumiya quickly 


Jax’s unit is assigne 
recognizes his Force potential. She pulls him out of the unit to personally 
train him as her new apprentice. Shortly thereafter, he forms an alliance 
vith Sarcev Quest, a member of the Imperial Ruling Council who grants Jax 


military task force. When Palpatine returns in one of his cloned bodies, 


¢ Royal Guard to better arrange the clone's assassination and 
g clones. After 


rejoins 
bribes the Emperor's physician into sabotaging the remain 
Palpatine’s last clone dies on Onderon, Jax prepared to take the throne and 


finally become Emperor. 

When word leaks of Jax’s treachery, the surviving Royal Guards on Yinchorr 
try to stop him, The arrival of a legion of stormtroopers under Jax's command 
squelches those plans, but Kir Kanos escapes the slaughter. Kanos goes into 
hiding, but Jax tracks him back to Yinchorr. The stormtrooper contingent he 


brings along does not survive very long, and Jax is forced to face Kanos alone. 
After a long and arduous battle, Kanos slays Jax with his vibroblade. 


Carnor Jax Encounters 

For most of his career as a Royal Guard, Carnor Jax can be found either on 
Coruscant or with the Emperor. Aff 
where within the Core Worlds, usually on Coruscant. Given his status within 


1 Palpatine’s death, Jax is located some: 


the Empire, Jax proves hard to reach, Heroes who target Jax must contend with 
the legions of stormtroopers and other Imperial forces that surround him 


4 


AGNLS SO SVION" 


DARK SIDE SPIRIT (TEMPLATE) 
Whether through the influence of the dark side of the Force or just by sheer 
willpower, strong dark siders have been capable of influencing events long 
after their physical deaths. Naga Sadow, Freedon Nadd, and Exar Kun are 
just a few examples of former Sith Lords who have maintained a spiritua 
presence in the galaxy years and even centuries after they were thought to be 
dead. Even Emperor Palpatine manages to avoid permanent death for a while 
through means unknown to the vast majority of the galaxy's populace 

A dark side spirit is anchored to some point or object that allows it to 
remain connected to the physical realm. Usually, this site or object is closely 
related to the individual's death. For example, the Sith Lords buried on Kor- 
riban use their individual sarcophagi as their focus. Freedon Nadd never 
strayed too far from his remains buried on Onderon and the moon of Dxun 
after his remains were moved there. Exar Kun was almost always found on 
Yavin 4 within the Massassi ruins, where he absorbed the life force of the 
entire Massassi race. In any case, some sort of connection to the physical 
realm appears to be vital to the existence of a dark’side spirit 


Modifications 
To create a dark side spirit, make the following changes to an existing 
character. 

Dark Side Score: Unchanged. This score can never be reduced below the 
spirit’s current total through atonement or an act of dramatic heroism. 

Defenses: A dark side spirit is immune to all melee and ranged attacks, 
as well as Force powers with the [telekinetic] descriptor. 

Speed: Unchanged, except that the spirit is not hindered by terrain and 
can pass through solid objects regardless of hardness 

Attacks: A dark side spirit can make no melee or ranged attacks against 
a physical target. Some Force powers allow the spirit to cause damage to 
a physical object 

Special Actions: A dark side spirit gains the following special actions. 

Dark Spiritual Travel: Using the Force, a dark side spirit can move virtually 
instantaneously to any point in the galaxy that has some amount of dark 
side energy present. The spirit must already be familiar with the destination 
and cannot jump blindly to someplace that it has never visited or only heard 
of. Traveling in this manner is a standard action. A dark side spirit under the 
effects of the sever Force power cannot use this ability. 

Manifestation: Being an incorporeal creature, a dark side spirit cannot 
affect anything in the physical realm directly. However, when it manifests, 
it can be seen and heard while still remaining nonphysical 

Possession: When dark Force-users open themselves up to the dark side 
through certain rituals, they run the risk of becoming possessed by a dark 
side spirit. As a standard action, a dark side spirit can possess the body of 
a willing adjacent creature with a Dark Side Score of 1+. A dark side spirit 
inside another creature's body uses that creature's Strength, Dexterity, and 
Constitution scores. The dark side spirit loses its immunities to attacks and 
Force powers, can no longer pass through solid objects and is hindered by 
terrain, and can make melee and ranged attacks. Additionally, the dark side 
spirit cannot use any of its special actions granted by this template, and it 
regains all of its talents and feats with a Constitution prerequisite. 

A creature possessed by a dark side spirit can take no actions while it is 
possessed. In effect, the dark side spirit acts in its stead. 

Abilities: +4 Charisma. A dark side spirit has no Constitution score. 

Talents and Feats: A dark side spirit is unable to use any talent or feat 
with a Constitution prerequisite. 

Skills: Any skill with Constitution as its relevant ability score uses Cha- 
risma as its relevant ability score instead. 


The following is an example of a dark side spirit, created by adding the dark 
side spirit template to Freedon Nadd. 


Freedon Nadd, Dark Side Spirit cL15 

Medium Jedi 7/Sith apprentice 5/Sith Lord 3 

Force 8; Dark Side 14 

Init +13; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Sith 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 29), Fort 33, Will 31; Deflect 

hp 98; Threshold 33 

Immune fear effects, melee and ranged attacks, telekinetic Force powers 

Speed 6 squares; ignores difficult terrain, walls, and objects 

Base Atk +15; Grp +17 

Atk Options Double Attack, Dual Weapon Mastery I, Power Attack, Power 
of the Dark Side, Triple Crit 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Dark Presence, dark spiritual travel, 
Lightsaber Defense, manifestation, possession, temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +21): battle strike, dark rage, Force 
grip, mind trick, move object, rebuke 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con —, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 19 

Special Qualities dark side spirit traits 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Dark Presence, Dark Side Adept, Dark Side 
Master, Deflect, Force Deception, Force Persuasion, Lightsaber Defense, 
Power of the Dark Side 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Double Attack, Dual Weapon Mastery |, 
Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved Defenses, Power Attack, 
Skill Focus (Use the Force), Triple Crit, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +16, Initiative +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, 
Perception +14, Use the Force +21 


HOLOCRON LESSON: 
DESTROYING A DARK SIDE 
SPIRIT 
Since a dark side spirit has no physical presence, destroying one is a dif- 
ficult task at best, but it is not impossible. Such an undertaking could 
be the ultimate goal in a long campaign, where the dark side spirit is the 
influential force behind the heroes’ enemies and eradicating the spirit is 
the only way to stop its evil plans once and for all. Doing so should always 
be within the heroes’ capabilities but not too easy to accomplish. 

The method of destroying a dark side spirit varies from spirit to spirit, 
but a few suggested methods are listed below. 


* Destroy the spirit's source of power. Since most dark side spirits 
are connected to the physical realm through some sort of anchor in 
an object or location, annihilating that anchor can sever the spirit's 
ties to the universe. In order for a dark side spirit to remain after its 
anchor is destroyed, it must expend a number of Force Points equal 
to its Dark Side Score or be wiped out forever. 

Use the power of the light side. A dark side spirit can be destroyed 
using the light side of the Force. To do so, a Force-user must make 
a Use the Force check (with a penalty equal to its Dark Side Score) 
as a standard action against a dark side spirit within 12 squares and 
line of sight. If the check equals or exceeds the spirit's Will Defense, 
the spirit takes 2d6 points of Force damage. Several Force-users 
attacking in this manner carries a much greater chance of ridding 
the galaxy of the spirit's dark presence. 

Use the power of the dark side: Fighting fire with fire can effec- 
tively eradicate a more powerful dark side presence. By using a Sith 
amulet, a Force-user can channel the dark side of the Force into a 
blast of energy to destroy the spirit. As a standard action, a char- 
acter with a Sith amulet can make a Use the Force check against 
‘the Will Defense of a dark side spirit within 12 squares and line of 
sight. If the result of the check equals or exceeds the target's Will 
Defense, the dark side spirit takes 2d6 points of Force damage. How- 
ever, doing so also opens one up more fully to the dark side; until 
the start of its next turn, the creature wielding the amulet takes a 
-2 penalty to all defenses against Force powers with the [dark side] 
descriptor. 


1A BaLavHS 


0) 
D 
Z 
@ 
w 
1) 
0) 
@ 
dj 
CG 
0) 
Ed 


U 


A eaidvHo 


A4GNLS AO SvGewnva 


HETHRIR 


Hethrir cL7 

Medium Firrerreo (near-Human) noble 2/Jedi* 5 

Force 4; Dark Side 13 

Init +4; Senses Perception +15 

Languages Basic, Firrerreo 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 20, Will 21; Deflect, Dodge 

hp 61; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +7 (2d8+4) 

Ranged by weapon +7 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Inspire Confidence, Melee Defense 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +10): Force grip, mind trick, 
move object 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Force Persuasion, Inspire Confidence, Suppress 
Force 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Melee Defense, Skill Focus 
(Perception, Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Gather Information +10, Knowledge (galactic lore) 
+10, Knowledge (social sciences) +10, Knowledge (technology) +10, 
Perception +15, Persuasion +15, Use Computer +10, Use the Force +10 

Possessions lightsaber 

*Hethrir is not a Jedi in the strict sense. His levels in the Jedi class reflect 
special training. He is not part of the Jedi Order, however. 


Lord Hethrir first gains infamy by serving Emperor Palpatine as Procurator 
of Justice, overseeing the entire judicial system and passing sentences on 
individuals and groups, some as large as entire worlds. 

Darth Vader chooses Lord Hethrir and his mate, Rillao, to train under him 
after learning that they have Force potential. However, only Hethrir wields 
the Force in the way Vader desires. After pushing Rillao and their unborn 
son out of his life, Hethrir develops his abilities and proves his commitment 
by destroying his own homeworld of Firrerre. 

Hethrir foresees the Empire's demise at Endor and develops a plan for 
its revival called the Empire Reborn, with him as the new Emperor. After 
cementing his power base in the Crseih system and gaining the assistance of 
an extradimensional being called Waru, Hethrir finances the Empire Reborn 
through a slave trade created using political prisoners and his own people, 
the Firrerreo, that are stored in sleeper ships. With the funds from the slave 
trade, he outfits the Empire Reborn with arms and ships. 


After establishing the armed forces for the Empire Reborn, Hethrir 
approaches a Chistori named Desann to create an army of Dark Jedi. By 
selecting only Humans with Force potential and cleansing them through 
Waru, Hethrir and Desann create the Reborn. However, the Reborn are 
defeated by Luke Skywalker and Kyle Katarn. 

After his defeat, Hethrir has one chance to redeem himself to Waru and 
return to power. He abducts Jacen, Jaina, and Anakin Solo with the inten- 
tion of sacrificing them to Waru. However, Han Solo, his wife Leia, and Luke 
Skywalker join with Rillao and manage to rescue the abductees, although 
Anakin is nearly lost. Enraged by Hethrir's failure, Waru consumes him and 
returns home to its own dimension. 


Hethrir Encounters 

With Hethrir's slave trade in full swing during the early days of the New 
Republic, any number of people might find themselves abducted and 
imprisoned, especially those who are Force-sensitive, to be used either as 
test subjects for his experiments or as sacrifices to Waru. If any heroes find 
themselves pursuing Desann or the Reborn, they might choose to take their 
goal one step further and try to bring down Hethrir as well. 


HeTHRIn 


IREK ISMAREN (LORD NYAx) 


lrek Ismaren (as Lord Nyax) cL 12 

Large mutated Human scoundrel 1/Jedi* 6/Force adept 5 

Force 9; Dark Side 13 

Init +7; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings, Use the Force +12 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 24, Lightsaber Defense 26), Fort 25, Will 27; 
Deflect 

hp 90; Threshold 30 

Immune disarm attempts 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+9) or 

Melee lightsaber +6/+6 (2d8+9) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +1/+1/+1 (2d8+9) with Triple Attack 

Ranged by weapon +10 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 2 

Base Atk +9; Grp +15 

Atk Options Channel Aggression, Double Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Power Attack, Triple Attack 

Special Actions Disruptive, Lightsaber Defense 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +12): battle strike, mind trick, 
move object, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Force Power Mastery (mind 
trick), Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Special Qualities Subelectronic converter 

Talents Channel Aggression, Deflect, Disruptive, Force Perception, Force 
Power Adept (mind trick), Lightsaber Defense, Weapon Specialization 
(lightsabers) 

Feats Double Attack, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Point Blank 
Shot, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Triple Attack, Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, Mechanics +14, Persuasion +12, 
Use Computer +11, Use the Force +12 

Possessions 6 lightsabers (implanted in wrists, elbows, and knees), 
implanted subelectronic converter (see page 64) 

* Irek is not a Jedi in the strict sense. His levels in the Jedi class reflect 
special training. He is not part of the Jedi Order, however. 


A native of Alderaan, Irek Ismaren moves with his mother, Roganda, to the 
isolated planet Belsavis. When Irek turns five, an Imperial scientist named 
Nasdra Magrody implants a subelectronic converter in the boy's head mainly 
as an experiment. As a consequence, Irek learns to tap into a droid’s systems 


and affect it with the Force in much the same way as a Jedi would implant a 
suggestion into an organic being’s mind. For the next several years, Irek learns 
about the dark side from his mother and about droids from Magrody. 

When Irek turns fourteen, Roganda executes her plan to summon the Eye of 
Palpatine to Belsavis as a means to destroy the New Republic and reinstitute the 
Empire. Irek uses his subelectronic converter to summon the ship to Belsavis, 
but the Eye of Palpatine is destroyed shortly before it reaches the planet. After 
its destruction, Roganda and Irek flee into the planet's dense jungle. Later, they 
book passage from Belsavis to Coruscant, where Roganda hires Lord Cronal, a 
former Prophet of the Dark Side, to continue Irek's Force training. However, Irek 
loses his temper during a lesson, triggering a lightsaber duel with Cronal that 
almost costs Irek his life. Irek is forced to flee. However, a wound to his head 
causes a total loss of his memories and ability to speak, but his Force abilities 
remain intact. Roganda saves Irek by placing him in stasis. 

While Irek is in stasis, his mother has his cranial memory chips upgraded 
and his body's growth rate accelerated, pushing his height to 3 meters. In 
addition, lightsabers are implanted in his wrists, elbows, and knees. Before 
the process can be completed, Irek breaks free and, robbed of his memories, 
kills his mother. Without the ability to speak or recall his identity, Irek takes 
the name Lord Nyax from a Corellian myth, locates an abandoned Jedi temple, 
and taps into the Force wellspring there, increasing his power, While on Corus~ 
cant as part of a reconnaissance team, Luke 
‘Skywalker, Mara Jade Skywalker, 
and Tahiri Veila encounter Lord 
Nyax and seal him in a pit, but 
he escapes. 


Irek Ismaren (Lord 
Nyax) Encounters 
Although encountering Irek 
Ismaren might be pos- 
sible during the time 
of the New Republic, 
he is more likely 
to be encoun- 
tered as Lord 
Nyax on Cor- 
uscant before 
or during the 
Yuuzhan Vong 
invasion. 


LORD NYAx, WHO WAS ONCE KNOWN AS IREK ISMAREN 


(y] 
Ea 
> 
it 
4 
0 
BT 
4 


(3) 
I 
> 
v 
4 
0 
a 
i< 


KUELLER 


Kueller cL9 

Medium Human Jedi 9 

Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 12 

Init +5; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 21), Fort 26, Will 21; Block, Deflect, Dodge 

hp 90; Threshold 26 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+5) or 

Melee lightsaber +12 (2d8+5) or 

Melee lightsaber +7/+7 (2d8+5) with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +10 

Base Atk +9; Grp +10 

Atk Options Double Attack, Power of the Dark Side, Relentless Attack 

Special Actions Force Intuition, Swift Power 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +11): battle strike, dark rage, Force 
thrust, move object 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Block, Deflect, Force Intuition, Power of the Dark Side, 
Swift Power 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Double Attack, Force 
Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Martial Arts I, Relentless Attack, Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Mechanics +10, Perception +10, Use the Force +11 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), heavy battle armor, ceremonial 
Hendanyn death mask, remote detonator 


Born under the name Dolph on the planet Almania, Kueller is identified as 
being sensitive to the Force and sent to Yavin 4 to train under Luke Sky- 
walker, After less than a year, Dolph receives the news of his parents’ death 
by the Je‘har regime, the new government on Almania. After returning to his 
homeworld and confirming the news, he falls to the dark side and blames the 
New Republic for its inaction. Seeking revenge, he dons a suit of armor along 
with a Hendanyn death mask and changes his name to Kueller, the name of a 
long-dead Almanian general. He forms an army, attracting members of the 
local population, and overthrows the Je‘har regime. 

Several months later as Kueller prepares to attack the New Republic, he 
encounters Brakiss, who also trained under Skywalker and was emotionally 
torn when forced to confront his inner demons. Kueller repairs Brakiss's 
damaged psyche and brings him into the fold by assigning him to supervise 
a droid factory on Telti. Over the next two years, Kueller sells many of his 
droids to the New Republic and wealthy families on Almania's moons of 
Pydyr and Auyemesh. After wiping out the vast majority of the population 


of Pydyr by detonating the droids he sold there, he consolidates his wealth 
and becomes Almania’s undisputed ruler. 

Kueller sets a trap for Luke Skywalker and lures him to Pydyr. After defeat- 
ing Skywalker in a lightsaber duel on Pydyr and imprisoning him to use as bait 
for Leia Organa-Solo. He issues demands that he become the new leader of 
the New Republic after displaying footage of Luke and detonating the explo- 
sives on Auyemesh as a demonstration of his power. After the Senate issues 
a Vote of No Confidence in her leadership, Leia resigns her position to Mon 
Mothma and leads an attack force against Almania to free her brother, 

Shortly after the New Republic fleet reaches Almania and engages the 
Almanian fleet, Leia flies to the planet's surface to free Luke, only to find 
that he has already escaped and is dueling Kueller. Kueller defeats the Jedi 
Master again and is about to strike him down when the untimely arrival of 
a ysalamir cancels his Force abilities. With most of his defenses down, Leia 
shoots and kills Kueller. 


Kueller Encounters 

Any heroes on Almania between 13 and 17 ABY will find Kueller as the planet's 
leader, rallying his people to support his campaign against the New Republic, 
Heroes might be dispatched to investigate sudden discord with the population 
of Almania or to track down a strange device found in a broken-down droid 
that was manufactured on Telti 


Massassi ABOMINATION 


Massassi Abomination CL 10 

Medium Massassi (mutated) soldier 7/Force adept 3 

Force 3; Dark Side 10 

Init +15; Senses low-light vision; Perception +6 

Languages Massassi 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 19), Fort 24, Will 22 

hp 127; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee Massassi lanvarok +11* (1d8+23) 

Ranged Massassi lanvarok +15 (3d4+7) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +15 

Atk Options Channel Aggression, Cleave, Devastating Attack, 

Power Attack 

Special Actions Damage Reduction 10, Power of the Dark Side 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +10): dark rage (2) 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 20, Con 20, Int 8, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities duty bound, low-light vision, terrifying presence, 
warrior's awareness 

Talents Channel Aggression, Damage Reduction 10, Embrace the Dark 
Side, Devastating Attack (simple weapons), Power of the Dark Side, 
Weapon Specialization (simple weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Cleave, Follow Through, Force 
Sensitivity’, Force Training, Power Attack, Skill Training (Use the 
Force), Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency (simple 
weapons) 

Skills Endurance +15, Initiative +15, Jump +16, Use the Force +10 

Possessions Massassi lanvarok 

Terrifying Presence—Any enemy that starts its turn within 6 squares of 
‘one or more Massassi abominations takes a -2 penalty on attack rolls. 
This is a fear effect. 

Duty Bound-Once per encounter, when a Massassi abomination receives a 
morale bonus of any kind from any source, it gains 40 bonus hit points. 
Bonus hit points from multiple sources do not stack and last until the 
end of the encounter. 

Warrior's Awareness-Once per encounter, as a reaction, a Massassi 
abomination gains the benefit of the Uncanny Dodge | and Uncanny 
Dodge II talents until the beginning of its next turn. 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack. 

® Bonus feat. 


Massassi abominations are created by Exar Kun using Sith alchemy. Using 
primitive Massassi warriors from Yavin 4 as “stock,” Exar Kun infuses his 
hideous creations with some of his own physical makeup. 


Massassi abominations exude a raw, malign aura. Both Force-sensitive 
and non-Force-sensitive creatures alike are filled with fear in the presence of 
these creatures, although those strong in the dark side are less troubled. 

Primitive and superstitious, Massassi abominations typically wield an 
exotic weapon known as the lanvarok, a hybrid polearm capable of making 
ranged attacks. 


Massassi Abomination Encounters 

Massassi abominations are most commonly found on Yavin 4. However, it is 
known that Exar Kun took several Massassi abominations with him on his 
journeys, making it possible that they continue to exist on other planets. 
During the time of the Old Republic, Massassi abominations are used as both 
guards in dark side temples on Yavin 4 and as shock troops, relying on their 
abominable presence to terrify the enemy. 


A MASSASS! ABOMINATION (RIOHT) 


1A SSiavHD 


AGALS JO SUEONVE 
Banna we 


AGALS JO SUEONVE 


NIGHTSISTER OF DATHOMIR 

Nightsister of Dathomir cL 12 

Medium scout 7/Force adept 5 

Force 6; Dark Side 16 

Init +8; Senses Perception +19 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 25), Fort 26, Will 30 

hp 86; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee whip +12 (2d4+5) 

Ranged by weapon +10 

Reach 1 square (2 squares with whip) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Running Attack 

Special Actions Charm Beast, Damage Reduction 10, Dark Side Savant, 
Shake It Off ij 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): battle strike, dark rage, Force 
grip, Force lightning, Force slam, move abject, rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Improved Move Light Object, Improved Sense 
Surroundings 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Talents Attune Weapon, Charm Beast, Command Beast, Damage 
Reduction 10, Dark Side Savant, Empower Weapon, Wild Sense 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved Defenses, Running 
Attack, Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Use the 
Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +12, Perception +19, Ride +13, Stealth +13, Survival +14, 
Use the Force +19 

Possessions whip (attuned and empowered), Nightsister robes 


Witches of Dathomir who veer too closely to the dark side are dealt with in 
a very simple way: They are exiled. These exiles are called Nightsisters, and 
they are completely shunned by the people of Dathomir. Most are left in 
the wilds to die, but some manage to survive. They learn to use their Force 
powers to thrive in the dark wilderness. However, their reliance on the dark 
side takes a toll on their bodies: The blood vessels burst around their eyes, 
giving their face a bruised, sleep-deprived cast. 

Arecently established prison colony on Dathomir brings the Nightsisters 
to the attention of Emperor Palpatine, who gauges the possibility of them 
being a threat to his reign. After the Emperor's rumored visit to Dathomir, an 
Imperial blockade is established around the planet, and all spaceworthy craft 
on the planet's surface are destroyed. The planet itself becomes an Imperial 
prison-world, and the fate of those on Dathomir remains unknown throughout 


the Emperor's reign. During this time, the Empire keeps a small fleet around 
the planet, and any traffic through the system is closely monitored. 

There are rumors that a handful of Nightsisters manage to escape the 
blockade. They quietly move about the galaxy, looking to free their sisters 
from their imprisonment. Stories are told of Nightsisters looking for smugglers 
brave or greedy enough to run the blockade. The smugglers in these tales 
always seem to meet grisly ends, with the crew dead and the ship stolen. The 
veracity of these fringer stories are understandably hard to ascertain, 


Nightsister Encounters 

The Nightsisters only allow women into their ranks and rebuff any men who 
attempt to join. They often oppose the Sith, believing that only they truly 
understand the dark side fully. This philosophy might convince a Jedi to ally 
with the Nightsisters against the Sith, but such a alliance can only end in 
failure and temptation. 

The heroes might encounter a Nightsister when he tries to secure pas- 
sage aboard their ship. If she is rebuffed, she might try to take control 
of their vessel by force. The heroes might also be hired to track down a 
Nightsister wanted for crimes against the Empire or sought after by some 
other benefactor, 


A NIGHTSIGTER OF DATHOMIR 


PROPHET OF THE DARK SIDE 


Prophet of the Dark Side cL9 

Medium human noble 9 

Force 4; Dark Side 16 

Init +10; Senses Perception +17 

Languages Basic, Bocce, High Galactic, Huttese, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 19, Will 24 

hp 46; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +7 (248+3) 

Ranged by weapon +7 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Melee Defense 

Special Actions Motion of the Future, Swift Power 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): farseeing (2), Force storm (2), 
mind trick, move object, rebuke (2) 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Talents Force Perception, Motion of the Future, Power of the Dark Side, 
Swift Power, Visions 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Linguist, Melee Defense, Skill 
Focus (Deception, Knowledge [galactic lore], Use the Force), Weapon 
Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +17, Gather Information +12, Initiative +10, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +11, Knowledge (galactic lore) +16, Perception +17, 
Persuasion +12, Pilot +10, Use Computer +11, Use the Force +17 

Possessions lightsaber, dark robes 


It is a common misconception within the greater galactic community that 
all of the Jedi are wiped out by the infamous Order 66. While this eliminates 
the bulk of the Jedi Order, the Sith Lord known as Darth Sidious knows that 
he cannot wipe out the Jedi with a single decisive blow. He plots the exter- 
mination of the remaining Jedi by forming a group he calls the Prophets of 
the Dark Side. 

Palpatine uses various agents to seek out disgruntled Force-users 
tempted by the dark side. He eliminates the ones that could become rivals 
but spares the handful who demonstrate an aptitude for prophecy or farsee- 
ing. He gathers these Force-sensitive fortune tellers, some of them former 
Jedi, and gives them a new mission. They are to use their gifts to protect 
the Empire from unknown threats and to help Lord Vader hunt down the 
remaining Jedi. Palpatine entrusts these seers to two of his closest agents, 
Jedgar and Kadann. 

The Prophets of the Dark Side seek out others like themselves—beings 
sensitive to the Force who might aid the Emperor's quest to bring order to 
the galaxy. Those who cannot be molded into Prophets are trained to become 


other dark side servants. If they resist the wiles of the Prophets, they are 
eliminated. In fact, their gift for prophecy snuffs out quite a few bright lights 
in an otherwise dark time. 

Much as Darth Sidious operates for years under the watch of the Jedi, so 
do the Prophets act within the Empire. Secretive and hidden from view, they 
have access to the highest levels of Imperial Intelligence and consult with 
Lord Vader himself. Troublesome individuals who appear in their visions are 
visited by an Emperor's Hand and dealt with accordingly. Although various 
Moffs are aware of the existence of the group, most of them dismiss the 
Prophets as sycophants and bootlicking political advisors of the Emperor. 


Prophets of the Dark Side Encounters 

The Prophets operate during the reign of Emperor Palpatine, but they cling 
to the shadows and rarely make their presence known. The are visionaries 
who settle the fates of individuals. The heroes might oppose the Prophets 
when they are assigned to eliminate one or more of them, to keep Force-users 
hidden from Darth Vader and the Emperor. 


A PROPHET OF THE DARK SIDE, KAOANN 


1A BSLavHS 


U 


TA BSievHS 


SGNLS IO SUSonwva 


SEDRISS 


Sedriss CL 14 

Medium Human soldier 6/Jedi* 2/Force adept 6 

Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 14 

Init +8; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Sith 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 27), Fort 29, Will 30; Deflect 

hp 126; Threshold 29 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +15 (2d8+11) 

Ranged by weapon +13 

Base Atk +12; Grp +14 

Atk Options Channel Aggression, Cleave, Power Attack 

Special Actions Channel Anger, Embrace the Dark Side, Unswerving 
Loyalty 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13): battle strike, dark rage, Force 
grip, Force slam, mind trick, move object 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery (2), Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 13. 

Talents Armored Defense, Channel Aggression, Channel Anger, Deflect, 
Embrace the Dark Side, Improved Armored Defense, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Cleave, Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (3), Improved Defenses, Power Attack, Unswerving 
Loyalty, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, Mechanics +13, Pilot +13, 

Use Computer +13, Use the Force +13 

Possessions lightsaber 

*Sedriss is not a Jedi in the strict sense. His levels in the Jedi class reflect 
special training. He is not part of the Jedi Order, however. 


Before changing his name to Sedriss, the Human known as Qaga Lok serves 
Imperial Intelligence as a gun-for-hire. However, he proves insubordinate, 
ends up killing a few Imperial agents, and is marked for death. When members 
of the Inquisitorium learn that he is Force-sensitive, Qaga Lok's life is spared 
and he is brought before Emperor Palpatine. Subjected to the Emperor's 
unique style of persuasion, Qaga Lok vows to serve Palpatine for the rest of 
his life and changes his name to Sedriss. 

Sedriss completes extensive training under the Emperor, learning to 
master his Force abilities. When the Emperor dies at the Battle of Endor, 
Sedriss flees to Byss. While on Byss, Sedriss takes command of the planet's 
military defenses even as other Imperial military commanders fight among 
themselves to replace Palpatine as the new Emperor. Five years after the 


Battle of Endor, a clone of Palpatine arrives on Byss, and Sedriss helps the 
Emperor regain his strength. Palpatine rewards him by making Sedriss his 
Executor, charged with ensuring that nobody else gains control of the clone 
vats and prevents the Emperor from returning again 

Shortly after regaining his health, the Emperor prepares to execute Opera~ 
tion Shadow Hand to recapture his throne. When the Emperor is killed aboard 
the Eclipse, Sedriss takes over the operation. He returns to Byss and kills two 
treacherous courtesans attempting to destroy the Emperor's clone bodies. 
The last of the Emperor's clones orders Sedriss to bring Luke Skywalker to 
Byss alive. Sedriss eventually tracks Luke to Ossus, only to be killed by Jedi 
Master Ood Bnar. 


Sedriss Encounters 

Reaching Sedriss on the Deep Core world of Byss is virtually impossible. How- 
ever, after the Battle of Endor his influence is far-reaching, particularly during 
the execution of Operation Shadow Hand. Heroes might come to Sedriss's 
attention after foiling Imperial plans to seize weapons and production plants 
on various worlds. However, Sedriss is more likely to send agents after them 
than deal with the heroes personally, 


scones 


SHADOW ACADEMY STUDENT 


Junior Student of the Shadow Academy cL2 
Medium Human Jedi 2 

Force 3; Dark Side 4 

Init +2; Senses Perception +1 


Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 14, Will 13; Deflect 
hp 38; Threshold 14 


Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +3 (2d8+1) 

Ranged by weapon +3 

Base Atk +2; Grp +2 

Special Actions Quick Draw" 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +7): battle strike 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Talents Deflect 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Quick Draw", Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +7, Endurance +7", Use the Force +7 

Possessions lightsaber, dark-colored Jedi robes 

“ Human bonus trained skill or feat. 

Senior Student of the Shadow Academy cL6 

Medium Human Jedi 6 

Force 4; Dark Side 6 

Init +9; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 18, Will 17; Deflect 

hp 62; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +8 (2d8+6) 

Ranged by weapon +7 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Special Actions Quick Draw" 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +9): battle strike, dark rage, 
Force thrust 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 13 

Talents Deflect, Force Intuition 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Quick Draw", Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons), 
Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Skills Acrobatics +9, Endurance +9", Use the Force +9 

Possessions lightsaber, dark-colored Jedi robes 

* Human bonus trained skill or feat. 


One of Luke Skywalker’s early failures as leader of the New Jedi Order is 
Brakiss. The young student's fall to the dark side of the Force forces him to 
leave the academy and pursue training elsewhere. With the assistance of a 
group of witches from the Nightsister clan of Dathomir, Brakiss establishes 
the Shadow Academy for the Second Imperium. 

The Shadow Academy becomes the dark side equivalent of Skywalker's 
Jedi Praxeum on Yavin 4. Unlike the doctrines of the Nightsisters, the Shadow 
Academy allows both male and female members. The students undergo a 
rigorous training regime to push them toward graduating as full-fledged Dark 
Jedi, ready to fight and eliminate the Jedi under Skywalker's tutelage. 

The students of the Shadow Academy serve to defend their school, much 
like the Jedi students on Yavin 4, as well as help achieve the goals of their 
masters, Brakiss and Tamith Kai. Time and again, Brakiss uses his students 
as pawns in his plans to eradicate the Jedi 

The students of the Shadow Academy harass Skywalker and his students 
for several years through one plan or another. However, much of the influ- 
ence of the Shadow Academy comes to a close after the destruction of the 
space station where it is housed, and Brakiss's subsequent death aboard it 
Many students survive the station's destruction by being elsewhere at the 
time and pursue the secrets of the dark side on their own. 


Shadow Academy Student Encounters 

The students of the Shadow Academy provide a good supply of low-level Dark 
Jedi to throw at heroes during the New Republic era and can provide a legitimate 
source of future villains in campaigns set during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion and 
the Legacy era (the period before, during, and after the Sith-Imperial War). 


v 
0) 
G 
Q 
x 


1A BSLavHo 


9 
> 
23 
@) 
W 
2) 
) 
@ 
dj 
c 
1} 
Ed 


SORCERER OF TUND 


Sorcerer of Tund cL 
Diminutive Croke noble 7/Force adept 4 

Force 4; Dark Side 10 

Init +3; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Croke, 7 others 


Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 27), Fort 21, Will 29 
hp 35; Threshold 21 
Immune vacuum 


Speed 4 squares 

Base Atk +8; Grp -11 

Atk Options Melee Defense 

Special Actions Equilibrium, illusory form 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): farseeing, Force slam, Force 
stun (2), Force thrust, mind trick (3), move object (3), rebuke 

Force Techniques Improved Move Light Object, improved Telepathy 


Abilities Str 2, Dex 6, Con 6, Int 16, Wis 16, Cha 18 

Special Qualities illusory form 

Talents Equilibrium, Force Perception, Force Power Adept, Force Talisman, 
Telekinetic Power, Visions 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Improved Defenses, Melee 
Defense, Skill Focus (Deception, Knowledge [galactic lore], Use the 
Force), Linguist, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +14, Knowledge (galactic lore) 
+18, Knowledge (life sciences) +13, Knowledge (physical sciences) +13, 
Knowledge (social sciences) +13, Perception +13, Persuasion +14, 

Use the Force +19 

Possessions Force talisman 


Illusory Form—A Croke can hide its true appearance behind an illusion. As 
a swift action, it can appear as a Small or Medium creature that can 
vary in appearance depending on who views it, and it can maintain this 
illusion indefinitely. The illusion has no effect on the Croke's statistics. 
A creature can pierce the illusion by making a Perception or Use the 
Force check against the Croke’s Will Defense as a standard action, but 
only while the Croke is stunned or unconscious. The illusion otherwise 
looks and feels absolutely real. 


The Sorcerers of Tund are powerful Force-users who view the Force as a 
form of magic, studying and practicing their art within monastic enclaves 
on their backwater planet. The Jedi maintain relations with the Sorcerers of 
Tund, watching their progress to ensure that they do not fall to the power of 
the dark side. Over time, other pressing matters distract the Jedi, who send 
fewer representatives to Tund. The Sorcerers begin to use the Force without 
observation, and some of them fall to the dark side. 

The Sorcerers of Tund seem to include a variety of species. In reality, all 
Sorcerers of Tund belong to a species called the Croke, who possess the abil- 
ity to cloak themselves in a powerful illusion. Croke are actually diminutive 
snaillike creatures, easily held in the hand of a Human. They make up for 
their small size with their mastery of the Force, 


Sorcerers of Tund Encounters 

The Sorcerers of Tund make excellent villains but are not themselves Sith, 
Shrouded in mystery and the trappings of magic, the Sorcerers work well 
in campaigns that emphasize the supernatural side of the Force, They are 
expert liars and maintain dozens of different aliases and disguises, all used 
for their own secret agendas. While the Sorcerers of Tund are no match 
physically in a fight, their command of the Force makes them threats to be 
reckoned with 


SORCERER OF TUND 


TAMITH KAI 


Tamith Kai cL 10 

Medium Human scout 7/Force adept 3 

Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 10 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Paecian 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 23), Fort 24, Will 25; Dodge, Evasion 

hp 71; Threshold 24 

Speed 8 squares; Surefooted 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d6+7) or 

Melee whip" +9 (244+7) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+5) 

Reach 1 square (2 squares with whip) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Special Actions Adept Spelicaster, Charm Beast, Extreme Effort 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +11): dark rage, Force grip, Force 
slam, Force storm, mind trick, move object 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (move object) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Talents Adept Spellcaster, Charm Beast, Evasion, Extreme Effort, 
Long Stride, Surefooted 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Martial Arts |, Skill 
Focus (Climb, Ride), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Climb +12, Jump +12, Knowledge (life sciences) +10, Ride +12, 
Survival +11, Use the Force +11 

Possessions blaster pistol, whip 


After Gethzerion, an exiled Nightsister of Dathomir, is killed aboard her trans- 
port by two of Warlord Zsinj's Star Destroyers, her Nightsister followers are 
left directionless, prompting them to return to Dathomir to seek redemption. 
‘Some of them fail in their quest and are exiled again after a few years. They 
form a new Nightsister clan, using Gethzerion's Book of Shadows to quide 
them philosophically. To ensure their survival, they forge alliances and even 
allow men to learn their secrets. 

One of these new Nightsisters is Tamith Kai. After creating a pact with the 
Second Imperium, Kai volunteers to serve as a liaison between the Second 
Imperium and the Nightsisters and assists Brakiss with running the Shadow 
Academy. Brakiss would identify students in need of discipline before turning 
them over to Kai to handle. 


One student assigned to Kai is Lowbacca. Kai decides to take advantage 
of the young Wookiee's short temper and use it to fuel his hatred, thus 
expediting his fall to the dark side. Her teaching methods are vicious but 
highly effective. Though the plan seems to work for a while, it ultimately 
backfires. Lowbacca ceases to trust her, and before long he’s rescued from 
the Shadow Academy by Luke Skywalker and his fellow Jedi. 

Ashort time later, Tamith Kai leads a direct assault on the Jedi Praxeum 
‘on Yavin 4, where she falls in a duel against Tenel Ka, one of Luke Skywalker's 
students. 


Tamith Kai Encounters 

Although she acts as Brakiss’s assistant at the Shadow Academy, Kai is more 
visible than her leader, mainly due to her position as field commander when 
the students of the Shadow Academy venture forth to enact the plans devised 
by their master. She always has at least two senior students with her, usually 
the ones she trusts the most to protect her from harm. 


Tr 


1A SsiavHD 


AGNLE JO SYSenva 


AQNLS IO SYEONVE 


1A BSLawHS 


XANATOS 


Xanatos cL9 

Medium Human noble 4/Jedi 3/crime lord 2 

Force 5; Dark Side 8 

Init +9; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary, Huttese, Mon Calamarian, Quarrenese, Rodese, 
Ryl, Shyriiwook (understand only) 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 21), Fort 20, Will 24 

hp 56; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +8 (248+5) 

Ranged hold-out blaster +8 (3d4+4) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +12): mind trick, move object 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 17, Wis 13, Cha 16 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Attract Minion, Connections, Educated, Impel 
Ally, Master Negotiator 

Feats Force Boon, Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Linguist, Quick 
Draw, Skill Training (Use the Force), Strong in the Force, Weapon 
Proficiencies (pistols, simple weapons, lightsabers) 

Skills Deception +12, Gather Information +12, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +12, Initiative +9, Perception +10, Persuasion +12, 
Pilot +9, Ride +9, Treat Injury +10, Use Computer +12, 

Use the Force +12 
Possessions lightsaber, hold-out blaster, fine clothes 


Xanatos is the eldest child of Crion, a politician on the planet Talos IV. The 
young boy proves strong in the Force, a fact that Qui-Gon Jinn notices during 
a mission to the world. He encourages Crion to let the boy go to study the 
ways of the Jedi at the Temple on Coruscant. Crion agrees, knowing that 
having a son who could influence the Jedi Council might someday help 
his political career. However, the boy does not want to go. These seeds of 
resentment are planted early and, while Xanatos takes to the Jedi training, 
he blames Qui-Gon Jinn for forcing upon him a destiny he never wanted. 

The time comes when Xanatos is ready to become a Jedi Knight. He 
accompanies Qui-Gon back to Talos IV to settle a civil war initiated by his 
father, now governor of the planet. Settling the dispute is the young Jedi’s 
final test. Unfortunately, the son remains loyal to his father, siding with him 
in the conflict. 


Qui-Gon js forced to kill Crion and leave Xanatos behind. Xanatos vows 
revenge against his former master and the Jedi Council. He scars himself with 
his father’s ring and uses this scar as the symbol for the Offworld Corporation, 
The former Jedi relies on his father's former connections, his own training in 
the Force, and devious manipulation to build a power base. Xanatos availed 
himself on every opportunity to strike at the Jedi, his former master, and 
Qui-Gon’s new Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi. Yet for all his plotting, Xanatos 
is revered on Talos IV as a hero and a great leader. 


Xanatos Encounters 

Xanatos failed as a Jedi, and though he has never been attracted to the Sith 
tradition, his Force abilities compliment his scheming nature. He works best 
a5 a puppet-master, hiring other, lower-level characters to do is bidding while 
keeping his hands clean. His undermines the efforts of the Jedi Order in subtle 
ways while remaining a “man of the people” on his homeworld of Talos IV, 
While he has some combat skill, he is not the type of villain to square off in 
a lightsaber duel. Xanatos values his own life too greatly and would rather 
flee to the nearest escape pod and live to plot another day. 


XANATOS 


BEASTS 

The following section presents a menagerie of dangerous beasts, all of which 
have some connection to the Force (and, in many cases, the dark side of the 
Force). The Gamemaster can use these creatures to populate worlds and 
locations visited by the heroes during their adventures. The beasts included 
here are designed to challenge heroes of every level. 

Although some beasts, such as the Dxun tomb beast and the shyrack, 
are associated with specific locations, a Gamemaster need only change a 
beast's name to use it anywhere he or she wants. For example, a Dxun tomb 
beast could be renamed the "shadow stalker” and encountered in a ruin on 
the planet Ossus or anywhere else the Gamemaster wishes 
BATTLE HYDRA 
Battle Hydra, Two-Headed cL9 
Large airborne beast 9 
Init +15 (roll twice, keep the better result); Senses low-light vision, 

Perception +9 
Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 23), Fort 22, Will 19 
hp 67; DR 5; Threshold 27 
Speed 6 squares, fly 10 squares 
Melee 2 bites +12 (1d8+7) and 2 claws +12 (1d6+7) or 
Melee sting +12 (1d6+7 plus poison) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square (2 squares with sting) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +14 

Atk Options poison, Running Attack 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 24, Con 16, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 13 

Special Qualities low-light vision 

Feats Running Attack, Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Finesse 

Skills Initiative +15 (roll twice, keep the better result), Perception +9 

Dual Mind—Whenever an effect targets the battle hydra's Will Defense, 
the originator of the effect must roll twice and take the lower result. 

Poison—If the battle hydra’s sting deals damage to a living target, make a 
follow-up attack roll (1d20+9) against the target's Fortitude Defense. 

On a hit, the target takes 3d6 points of damage and moves -1 step 

down the condition track. The poison attacks each round at the start 

of the battle hydra's turn until cured with a successful DC 15 Treat 

Injury check. 


Battle hydras are the result of Sith Lord Exar Kun's experimentation with Sith 
alchemy. Battle hydras usually have two heads, although varieties with more 
than two heads are also possible. In addition to their multiple heads, battle 
hydras have leathery wings and a whiplike tail ending in a barbed stinger 
that drips with poison. The skin of a battle hydra is infused with ancient Sith 
alloys, granting damage reduction. 

Battle hydras spend most of their time aloft, riding thermal currents in 
search of prey or threats. When something is spotted, the battle hydra dives 
through the air, attacking with its teeth, claws, and poisoned stinger. Once 
prey succumbs to its attacks or poison, it scoops up the corpse and hauls it 
back to its lair, where it is torn apart and devoured. 

Battle hydras are susceptible to the commands of Force-sensitive 
dark siders, many of whom use battle hydras as their own personal 
shocktroopers. 


Battle Hydra Encounters 

Battle hydras are most commonly encountered on Yavin 4, where they prowl 
the skies above its steamy jungles. However, Exar Kun traveled far and wide, 
and it's possible that they might be found anywhere that has an abundant 
food supply. Battle hydras are particularly attracted to sites closely connected 
to the dark side, perhaps drawing some kind of sustenance from them. A dark 
side character looking to acquire a battle hydra minion usually seeks out these 
sinister places, knowing that battle hydras are likely to be found nearby. 


1A BBisvHo 


AGNLS AO SYvaewnva 


1A SSiavHo 


0 


A2QNLS AIO SYSONVE 


BeECK-TORI 


Beck-tori cL 13 
Huge aquatic beast 13 
Force 2 


Init +11; Senses low-light vision, Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 30), Fort 28, Will 22 
hp 123, fast healing 5; Threshold 38 


Speed 6 squares, swim 8 squares 
Melee bite +15 (246+12) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +9; Grp +25 

Atk Options Crush, devour, Pin 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +12): battle strike (2) 


Abilities Str 22, Dex 10, Con 20, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Special Qualities fast healing 5, low-light vision 

Feats Crush, Force Sensitivity®, Force Training, Pin, Skill Training 
(Initiative, Survival) 

Skills Initiative +12, Survival +12, Use the Force +12 

Devour—lf a beck-tori hits with its bite attack against a Large or 
smaller opponent, it can make a grapple check (+15) as a free 
action. If the grapple check succeeds, the beck-tori begins 
devouring its target. The creature being devoured takes 1d8+12 
points of damage each round at the start of its turn, 
before it takes any actions. When the creature reaches 0 
hit points, it is swallowed by the beck-tori and continues 
to take 1d6 points of acid damage each round at the start 
of its turn. The beck-tori cannot make bite attacks until it 
releases the creature (a free action) or swallows it. 

Fast Healing 5—A beck-tori regains 5 hit points every round 
at the end of its turn, up to normal maximum, until it is 
killed. 

® Bonus feat. 


Beck-tori are aquatic, Force-sensitive parasites that grow to 
extreme size. A beck-tori resembles a flat, elongated leech, 
with a raspy underside covered in spines used to flay flesh 
The beck-tori uses the corpse of its prey as a host for its eggs. 
When they hatch, beck-tori larvae pose little threat. Left undis- 
turbed, however, beck-tori can live for centuries and grow that 
entire time. Colossal beck-tori have been spotted on water-rich 
planets such as Naboo and are grave threats to any seafaring 
community. An accidental infestation on Mon Calamari decimated 
entire ecosystems and took nearly 50 years to repair. They are brutish, 
aggressive creatures that blindly attack anything that moves. Reports © 


indicate that beck-tori even assault boats or repulsorlift craft that skim too 
closely to the surface. 

Beck-tori use their Force abilities to sense prey and bolster their fighting 
prowess. They are subconsciously drawn to other Force-sensitive creatures, 
making them dangerous opponents against Jedi. 


Beck-tori Encounters 

Beck-tori are usually found in aquatic environments, where their ability to 
use the Force throws an added twist to the hazards in or near water. The 
beck-tori shown here represents a healthy adult, which is usually more than 
a match for any opponent. Juveniles are typically Medium size, and ancient 
beck-tori are Gargantuan or bigger. 


Beck-Tor! 


CHRYSALIS BEAST (TEMPLATE) 
Research into Sith holocrons and archaeological expeditions to known 
Sith worlds such as Korriban have uncovered secrets about chrysalides, or 
chrysalis beasts, originally thought lost to time. 

Among those Sith known to create and deploy chrysalis beasts is Emperor 
Palpatine. He did so at his Imperial citadel on Byss. Prior to this, chrysalis 
beasts were widely used in the early days of the Sith Empire as pets and 
guardians for high-ranking officials and powerful nobles. Although Palpatine 
transformed rancors for his own use, findings tell of other creatures being 
changed through Sith alchemy to become chrysalis beasts, including gun- 
darks, katarns, and vornskrs. 

Observations of chrysalis beasts in action indicate that they are vicious 
predators that relentlessly attack anything in sight 


Modifications 
To create a chrysalis beast, make the following changes to an existing crea- 
ture (referred to as the base creature). 

Challenge Level: Increase the base creature's CL by 2 

Size: Increase the size of the base creature by one size category. Adjust 
the creature's Strength, Constitution, Reflex Defense, Stealth skill modifier, 
damage threshold, and carrying capacity accordingly, based on Table 16-2 
Size Modifiers on page 274 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. If the base 
creature is Colossal, its size category remains Colossal; however, increase its 
Strength and Constitution by 8 and its damage threshold by 50, and double 
its height or length: 

Hit Points: Increase the base creature's hit points by 25% 

Damage Reduction: Increase the base creature's DR by 4 or to 10, 
whichever is higher. 

Speed: Increase all of the creature's speeds by 2 squares. 

Fighting Space: Increase the base creature's fighting space based on its 
adjusted size; Large, 2x2; Huge, 3x3; Gargantuan, 4x4; Colossal, 6x6. 

Reach: Increase the creature's reach by 1 square. 

Special Qualities: The chrysalis beast gains the following special 
qualities. 

Vicious Natural Weapons: Each of the base creature's natural weapons 
deals an extra die of damage. 

Terrifying Presence: Any enemy that starts its turn within 6 squares of 
one or more chrysalis beasts takes a -2 penalty on attack rolls. This is a 
fear effect. 


The following is an example of a chrysalis beast, created by adding the 
chrysalis beast template to a rancor. 


Chrysalis Rancor CL 13 
Gargantuan beast 12 

Init +7; Senses low-light vision, Perception +9 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 20, Will 8 

hp 219, fast healing 5; DR 10; Threshold 40 

Speed 10 squares 

Melee 2 claws +16* (2d8+25) or 

Melee bite +16* (3d6+25) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Reach 3 squares 

Base Atk +9; Grp +37 

Atk Options Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack 
Abilities Str 34, Dex 13, Con 31, Int 2, Wis 7, Cha 15 
Special Qualities fast healing 5, terrifying presence 
Feats Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack, Toughness 
Skills Perception +9 


Terrifying Presence—Any enemy that starts its turn within 6 squares of 
one or more chrysalis rancors takes a -2 penalty on attack rolls. This is 
a fear effect. 

* Includes 6 points of Power Attack 


A4GNLGE JO SYSONVaE 0 usic 


BEEEEs 


AGALS 39 SUBONVa 


DERRIPHAN 


Derriphan cL9 

Tiny airborne beast 8 

Dark Side 16 

Init +8 (can reroll, must keep second result); Senses darkvision, 
Perception +7 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 11, Will 14 
hp 36; DR 10/Force; Threshold 11 
Immune fear effects, mind-affecting effects 


Speed fly 8 squares (hover) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +0 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +8): Force grip, Force slam, mind 
trick 


Abilities Str 6, Dex 18, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 16, Cha 8 

Special Qualities consume Force, dark backlash, possession 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Improved Defenses 

Skills Initiative +8 (can reroll, must keep second result), Stealth +8, 
Use the Force +8 


1A BSLavHO 


Consume Force—Whenever a derriphan is targeted by a Force power 
without the [light side] descriptor, it immediately regains one spent 
Force power as a reaction 

Dark Backlash—-Whenever a derriphan is targeted by a Force power with 
the [mind-affecting] descriptor, the creature activating that Force 
power immediately takes 3d8 points of Force damage. 

Possession-As a standard action, a derriphan can attempt to 
possess the body of an adjacent creature. The derriphan makes 
an attack (1d20+9) against the Reflex Defense of the target; — 
if the attack succeeds, the derriphan enters the target's body. 

Once inside, the derriphan cannot be targeted by attacks or skill 
checks. Each round on its turn, the derriphan makes a single attack 
(1d20+9) against the possessed creature's Will Defense; a successful 
attack deals 3d8 points of Force damage to the target, and a failed 
attack deals half damage. If the target is reduced to 0 hit points 

by this attack, the derriphan seizes mental control of the creature, 
restoring it to full hit points. While the derriphan possesses a creature, 
the derriphan controls all of its actions. The derriphan-possessed 
creature has access to the derriphan's Force suite in addition to its 
own Force suite. The derriphan uses whichever Use the Force skill 
bonus is higher, either its bonus or its host's bonus, and the derriphan- 
possessed creature's Dark Side Score equals its Wisdom score for as 
long as it is possessed. If a derriphan-possessed creature is reduced to 
O hit points, the derriphan exits that body as a reaction, appearing in 
an adjacent square of its choosing. 


Many consider the derriphan a mythical creature, while others assume it went 
extinct before the Great Sith War. In truth, it still survives in the darkest cor- 
ners of the galaxy. A semi-corporeal creature that is a physical manifestation 
of dark side energies, the derriphan is thought to have originated in the Deep 
Core, near the center of the galaxy on worlds whose suns burned out eons ago. 
The derriphan is, in a literal sense, the dark side of the Force given physical 
form; much as the dark side can influence physical sites, the derriphan was 
likely once a living creature consumed by the dark side and transformed. 

What makes the derriphan so dangerous is its ability to temporarily 
convert itself fully into dark side energy. When it does so, the derriphan 
enters the body of another creature, feeding on its life force and seizing 
control of its mind. Some Jedi speculate that there are far more derriphan 
in the galaxy than most suspect, and that the majority of derriphans reside 
within host bodies, making them impossible to detect. Since derriphans are 
strongly drawn to creatures sensitive to the Force, many believe that some 
powerful Dark Jedi were not seduced to the dark side but rather possessed 
by derriphans, though the Jedi Council dismisses this theory as little more 
than an excuse to defend the Dark Jedi against their own actions, 


Derriphan Encounters 
Derriphans are rarely encountered openly, at least initially. It is more likely that 
a derriphan will reveal itself after casting off its host. Perhaps a Sith apprentice 
opposed to the heroes is actually under the control of a derriphan, and once 
the derriphan is defeated, the apprentice is free of its dark side influence, 
Ifand when a derriphan possesses a hero, the Gamemaster should consult 
with the player of that character to determine how to proceed. If the 
player is willing, the derriphan-possessed hero could work against the 
other heroes in secret, either for 
a short while or throughout the 
rest of the campaign. 


DERRIPHANS ATTEMPT TO 
SEIZE CONTROL OF 4 KEL BoA Jeol. 


DROCH 


Droch cL1 
Diminutive beast 1 
Init +5; Senses darkvision, Perception -1 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 13), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 4; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee bite +1 (1d4 plus burrow) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +0; Grp -14 

Abilities Str 2, Dex 20, Con 10, Int 1, Wis 9, Cha 2 

Special Qualities light susceptibility 

Feats Skill Focus (Stealth), Weapon Finesse (bite) 

Skills Stealth +20 

Light Susceptibility—When exposed to light, a droch moves ~2 persistent 
steps down the condition track. This persistent condition is removed 
the moment the droch is no longer exposed to the light. 

Burrow—When a droch hits with its bite attack, it makes a free attack 
against the target's Fortitude Defense. On a success, the droch burrows 
into the target's flesh, infecting the target with death seed plague (see 
below). A burrowed droch can be removed with a successful DC 25 
Treat Injury check. A creature infected with death seed plague moves 
-1 persistent step down the condition track and takes a -5 penalty 
to its Fortitude Defense. If the initial attack is successful, the attack 
‘occurs again each day the disease remains untreated (the penalty to 
Fortitude defense is not cumulative). If the plague moves the creature 
to the bottom of the condition track, the creature dies. The persistent 
condition remains as long as the disease is untreated, and treating the 
disease requires a successful DC 25 Treat Injury check. Using a bacta 
tank reduces the Treat Injury DC to 15. 


Droch Swarm cL3 
Tiny beast 1 

Init +5; Senses darkvision, Perception -1 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 13), Fort 11, Will 10 
hp 8; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee bite +1 (1d4 plus burrow) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +0; Grp -14 

Abilities Str 2, Dex 20, Con 10, Int 1, Wis 9, Cha 2 
Special Qualities light susceptibility, swarm traits 
Feats Skill Focus (Stealth), Weapon Finesse (bite) 
Skills Stealth +20 


Light Susceptibility—When exposed to light, a droch swarm moves -2 
persistent steps down the condition track. This persistent condition is 
removed the moment the swarm is no longer exposed to the light. 

Burrow—When a droch swarm hits with its bite attack, it uses the burrow 
ability as per the Droch ability of the same name. 


Droch are plague-bearing insects from the planet Nam Chorios. Droch detest 
light from any source. When exposed, they become sluggish and infertile. 
The moment they are returned to darkness, however, they move quickly and 
reproduce at an alarming rate. As if this weren't bad enough, a droch has the 
ability to burrow inside a host, rapidly killing it from the inside. The corpse 
then becomes a safe lair and a source of food for the droch and its brood. 


Droch Encounters 

Droch can be found almost anywhere, including abandoned buildings, tunnels, 
and starships, provided the area is completely dark and there is access to food. 
For thousands of years, strict guidelines have been in place to keep droch 
from spreading, but even draconian measures have not been sufficient to 
completely wipe out this dangerous vermin. A ship that has been exposed to 
a droch infestation is usually blasted out of space before it can reach port. 


Droch 


iA Saieve—) 


4GNLS IO SyuPenwnva 


Lavo 


iA 


vq) 


AGALS gO suse 


DxXUN TOMB BEAST 


Dxun Tomb Beast cls 
Large subterranean beast 7 
Init +4; Senses darkvision, Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 12 
hp 67; Threshold 20 


Speed 8 squares 
Melee gore +12° (1d8+17) with Powerful Charge or 
Melee bite +12 (1d8+10) and 
2 claws +12 (1d6+10) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +5; Grp +17 
Atk Options Power Attack, Powerful Charge 
Special Actions dark saturation, mutant rage, shadow cloak 


Abilities Str 25, Dex 12, Con 21, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 13 
Special Qualities darkvision, shadow cloak 

Feats Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Skill Focus (Stealth) 
Skills Stealth +9 


Dark Saturation—Once per encounter as a free action, a Dxun tomb beast 
can infect a target that it has just damaged with the dark side. Treat 
this as Sith poison (see page 69). 

Mutant Rage—Once per encounter as a swift action, a Dxun tomb beast 
can enter a rage, gaining a +4 rage bonus on melee attack rolls and 
melee damage rolls until the end of its turn. 

Shadow Cloak—As a standard action, a Dxun tomb beast can surround 
itself with dark shadows, gaining total concealment from all targets 
until it makes an attack or until the end of its next turn, whichever 
comes first. 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack. 


After the destruction of Freedon Nadd, Jedi Master Arca Jeth is 
faced with a problem. He knows that any location where Nadd's 
remains are interred will be twisted by the dark side, but hiding 
the remains in an isolated place meant that Nadd could some- 
day be rediscovered and reborn. Luckily, Arca finds a solution 
in one of the moons of the Onderon system. Known as the 
beast moon or the demon moon, Dxun isa hostile place that 
deters trespassers, yet is closely monitored by the Jedi 


The dark side energies pouring out of Freedon Nadd's tomb took one of 
Dxun's deadliest predators and made it even more dangerous, giving rise 
to what Jedi refer to as the Dxun tomb beast. A jagged horn juts from just 
below the creature's lower jaw, and the beast uses this horn to impale prey. 
It often hunts the cliffs near the tomb, jumping down upon unsuspecting 
trespassers and spiking them with this horn. The beast then uses its claws 
and teeth to tear flesh while toxic bacteria infect the wound 


Dxun Tomb Beast Encounters 

Tomb beasts are fiercely territorial and remarkably cunning. They defend 
their nests to the death and mate for life. Parents force their young out into 
the world soon after the young beasts have made their first kill. Attempts to 
breed tomb beasts offworld have proven unsuccessful. The creatures thrive 
in the dark side energies of Dxun. Yet many unsavory offworlders continue 
to capture these beasts, eager for a deadly pet or status symbol. Much as 
a blue milk run is seen as an easy job with many benefits and few dangers, 
a Dxun egg run is just the opposite. In fact, if a smuggler is sent on a Dxun 
egg run, chances are the time to pay back his loan has run out 


DxuN Tome Beast 


Hssiss (DARK SIDE DRAGON) 


Hssiss cL5 

Large aquatic beast 5 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision, Perception +3 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 19, Will 15 

hp 47; Threshold 24 

Speed 8 squares, swim 8 squares 

Melee bite +6* (1d8+11 plus Improved Grab) and 
2 claws +6° each (1d6+11) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +3; Grp +14 

Atk Options Pin, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 14, Con 20, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities drag away, improved grab, low-light vision 

Feats Pin, Power Attack 

Skills Stealth +9 

Drag Away—Whenever a hssiss successfully pins a target using the Pin 
feat, it can immediately move its speed as a free action and pull the 
target along with it. The target ends its movement in a space adjacent 
to (and chosen by) the hssiss. This movement does not provoke attacks 
of opportunity. 

Improved Grab—Whenever a hssiss hits a target with its bite attack, the 
target is automatically grabbed. 

* Includes 3 points of Power Attack. 


Hssiss are savage, crocodilian predators transformed into abominations 
by the dark side energies of a slain dark sider. The transformation is never 
instantaneous but comes as a result of lingering dark energies tainting the 
creatures’ habitat. Hutt crime lords sell captured hssiss to collectors and the 
occasional dark side devotee. Many have escaped capture or been released 
back into the wilderness, spreading their numbers throughout the galaxy. 
The Jedi refer to hssiss as “dark side dragons.” 

Hssiss bear few of the markings common to most abominations affected 
by the dark side. They are fierce, predatory beasts, with thick scaly green 
hides and long tails used for balance. Low slung and muscular, they excel 
at lurking just beneath the water's edge, their eyes rimmed with prominent 
horns and watching for the next meal. A hssiss uses its powerful bite to hold 
struggling prey in place while it rips it apart with razor sharp claws. 


Hssiss Encounters 

Hssiss inhabit swamps, marshes, and wetlands and are usually found at 
the top of the local food chain. Hssiss are drawn to the dark side locations 
that spawned them and can cluster in impressive numbers. Crime lords and 
dark siders also buy or round up hssiss for use as guard beasts, fodder for 
gladiatorial arenas, or pets. 


10) 
> 
@ 
I) 
2 
10) 
Q 
v 
(0) 
Q 
gl 


MARSH HAUNT 


Marsh Haunt cli 

Huge aquatic beast 11 

Force 3 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision, Perception +12 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 23), Fort 28, Will 23 

hp 126; Threshold 38 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee slam +13* (1d8+20) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +8; Grp +28 

Atk Options Mighty Swing, Power Attack 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +10): battle strike, mind trick 
(2 terror only) 

Abilities Str 30, Dex 11, Con 25, Int 3, Wis 15, Cha 11 

Special Qualities camouflage, low-light vision, paralyzing fear 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Power Attack, Skill Training 
(Perception, Survival) 

Skills Perception +12, Stealth +15, Survival +12, Use the Force +10 

Camouflage—A marsh haunt ignores its size modifier when it makes 
Stealth checks. 

Paralyzing Fear—Any creature that starts its turn within 6 squares and 
line of sight of the marsh haunt is subject to an attack (1d20+10) 
against its Will Defense. If the attack succeeds, the creature is 
immobilized until the start of its next turn. This is a fear effect 

* Includes 5 points of Power Attack. 

® Bonus feat. 


A marsh haunt is a monstrous, Force-using beast found far from civilization 
and is the source of many wild tales regarding "Force demons.” The marsh 
haunt is a vaguely humanoid creature that inhabits fens, marshes, and other 
wetlands. Its green-grey skin is dull and peeling, which helps it blend into its 
marshy surroundings. The head of a marsh haunt is set deeply between its 
shoulders, with gleaming red eyes that, while not sentient, hold an instinctual 
cunning. Marsh haunts create shambling, headless silhouettes as they prow! 
through the dank swamps and jungles, hunting for food. 

Marsh haunts acquired their horrible reputation due to their ability to 
instill overwhelming fear in their victims, causing them to flee and making 
them easy prey. They prefer to attack using ambushes, but are fearsome and 
relentless once engaged, Like other creatures that naturally draw upon the 
Force, the marsh haunt has learned its Force powers by instinct, much in the 
same Way that traditional predators learn to hunt 


Marsh Haunt Encounters 
Marsh haunts are native to the world of Abraxin in the Tion Cluster, but can 
be found throughout the Mid Rim and Outer Rim. As befitting the name, 
marsh haunts are usually found in swampy areas. 

Marsh haunts often work together in packs of two to eight creatures, 
with half of the creatures using mind trick to terrify prey while the other 
half waits in ambush 


MARSH HAUNT 


NIGHTHUNTER 


Nighthunter cL9 
Medium beast 9 

Force 3 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision, scent, Perception +12 


Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 23, Will 22 
hp 76; Threshold 23, 
Resist energy 10, fire 10 


Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +8 (1d4+6) and 
bite +8 (1d6+6) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +9 

Atk Options Pin 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +9): battle strike (2), negate energy, 
surge 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con 18, Int 2, Wis 17, Cha 10 

Special Qualities low-light vision, scent 

Feats Force Sensitivity®, Force Training, Pin, Skill Focus (Stealth), 
Skill Training (Perception) 

Skills Perception + 12, Stealth +16, Survival +7, Use the Force +9 

Scent—Nighthunters ignore concealment and cover when making 
Perception checks to notice opponents within 10 squares, and 
they take no penalty from poor visibility when tracking. 

® Bonus feat. 


A nighthunter is a quadrupedal predator with long claws, powerful 
fanged jaws, and a tail. Its hide is composed of thousands of tiny, 
reflective scales that are capable of diffusing energy attacks, including 
blaster fire and normal fire. Nighthunters are believed to stem from 
some mutant offshoot of another species and, as a result, they can 
vary in coloration and form, but all retain the same basic shape. 

It's unknown how the nighthunter developed its Force powers. Its 
abilities are primarily focused on hunting and tracking. Because their 
hide reflects blaster fire as well as normal fire, hunting nighthunters 
is a troublesome endeavor. Unscrupulous poachers 
or hunters are prone to using poison to eradicate 
these pests. 

Nighthunters are nearly impossible to train and 
cannot be domesticated or controlled. However, a 
nighthunter's wildness is offset by its strange tendency 
to bond with a single sentient being. Although this bond- 
ing does not result in the sentient being able to control 
the creature, it does allow the individual to interact with 


the nighthunter in a friendly manner. Over time, a nighthunter eventually 
accepts the bonded sentient's friends or allies as “members of the pack,” 
although this usually translates to the nighthunter simply not attacking 
them on sight. Nighthunters are incredibly protective of their young, which 
they produce in small litters every couple of years. A nighthunter’s bonded 
friend can safely handle these young, but a nighthunter will lash out at any 
perceived threat from someone else. 


Nighthunter Encounters 
The Old Republic sought to have nighthunters exterminated. However, many 
of the nighthunters that were originally captured for breeding or training 
escaped or were otherwise released back into the wild, and their numbers 
have rebounded. Nighthunters can be found on almost any planet. Pirates 
and other unsavory types sometimes relocate nighthunters to the terrain 
around their planetside bases, allowing them to roam the grounds freely in 
search of interlopers. 

While nighthunters are never be found traveling with a sentient being 
as a pet, heroes might encounter a nighthunter living alongside some 

hermit or exile, having claimed him or her as a member of the 

pack. The relationship between a nighthunter and its bonded 
sentient is one of allies—the person may not have any 
way to control the beast. 


NIOHTHUNTER 


10} 
> 
2 
@ 
W 
29 
0) 
@ 
j 
c 
1} 
Ed 


1A SaLavHS 


AGNLE JO SUBONVE 


SHYRACK 


Shyrack cL4 

Medium subterranean beast 4 

Init +1; Senses scent, Perception +15 (may reroll, must keep the second 
result) 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 17 
hp 26; Threshold 16 


Speed fly 6 squares 
Melee bite +6 (146+3) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +3; Grp +6 


ies Str 16, Dex 9, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 16, Cha 4 

Special Qualities overwhelm, scent 

Feats Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Survival) 

Skills Perception +15 (may reroll, must keep the second result), 
Survival +10 


Overwhelm—A shyrack gains a +2 bonus on melee attack rolls for each 
allied shyrack adjacent to both it and its target. 

Scent—Shyrack ignore concealment and cover when making Perception 
checks to notice opponents within 10 squares, and they take no 
penalty when tracking. 


PACKS AND SWARMS 

Aswarm or pack of beasts is treated as a single creature for the purpose 
of combat. To create a pack or swarm, make the following changes to 
the stat block of any beast: 


* — Increase the creature's CL by 2 and its size by one category. | 

© Double the creature's hit points. ill 

© Increase the creature's damage threshold by 10. 

© All melee attacks are considered melee area attacks, affecting 
all squares within reach. An adjacent allied pack or swarm is not 
affected by a pack or swarm's melee area attack. 4 

* All ranged attacks made by the pack or swarm are considered to 
have a 1-square splash. 

© Area attacks deal an extra 2 dice of damage against the pack or 
swarm. 


Shyrack Swarm cL6 

Large subterranean beast 4 

Init +1; Senses scent, Perception +15 (may reroll, must keep the second 
result) 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 17 

hp 52; Threshold 26 

Speed fly 6 squares 

Melee bite +6 (1d6+3) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +3; Grp +6 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 9, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 16, Cha 4 

Special Qualities overwhelm, scent, swarm traits 

Feats Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Survival) 

Skills Perception +15 (may reroll, must keep the second result), Survival +10 

Overwhelm—A shyrack swarm gains a +2 bonus on melee attack rolls for 
each allied shyrack swarm adjacent to both it and its target. 

Scent—Shyrack ignore concealment and cover when making Perception 
checks to notice opponents within 10 squares, and they take no 
penalty when tracking. 


Shyrack are terrible creatures that roam the caves and tombs of the Sith world 
of Korriban. This avian predator vaguely resembles a bat, with large leathery 
wings and sharp teeth. Shyrack are blind and get around their caves with a 
combination of scent and echolocation. Individually, shyrack are clumsy and 
slow moving, and individually, they are considered relatively easy vermin to 
eradicate. However, shyrack sometimes gather and hunt in swarms which 
are exceedingly dangerous. 


Shyrack Encounters 

Shyrack are most commonly found on Korriban but have been found on 
planets throughout the Outer Rim. A single shyrack is a threat for low-level 
heroes, but the encounter can be made more challenging by turning it intoa 
Huge swarm. Shyrack are consummate hunters, undeterred by the darkness 
of their cavern homes. 


SitooTH 


Silooth CL 13 

Huge beast 12 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision, Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 19), Fort 25, Will 15 

hp 162; DR 5; Threshold 35 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee bite +19 (2d6+16) or 

Melee bite +19* (2d6+26) with Powerful Charge 

Ranged acid spray +8 (1d8+6 acid, 6-square cone) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +9; Grp +29 

Atk Options Bantha Rush, Crush, Pin, Powerful Charge, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 30, Dex 8, Con 28, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 13 

Special Qualities acid spray, limited vision 

Feats Bantha Rush, Crush, Pin, Powerful Charge, Power Attack 

Skills Endurance +10 

Acid Spray—Whenever a creature takes damage from the silooth's acid 
spray, it becomes coated in acid (see page 252 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook) 

Limited Vision—A silooth can see well in the dark but has poor long-range 
vision. Any creature 12 squares away from the silooth is considered to 
have total concealment from the silooth. 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack. 


Silooths were once docile swamp creatures no larger than womp rats. Sith 
experiments on these creatures made them grow as large as banthas and 
thickened their carapaces. These experiments also heightened their ferocity. 
Silooths clack their mandibles loudly; the only time they fall quiet is when 
their jaws have found something to crush. The only thing that stops a silooth 
attack is death—either the victim's or the silooth’s. 

Silooths have poor ranged vision and are unable to see anything past 12 
squares. Nevertheless, they possess acid sacs that allow them to spew acid 
at enemies within their sight. 

The Sith first unleashed these creatures during the Battle of Kalsunor 
thousands of years before the Battle of Yavin. The silooths annihilated 
everything in their path, ravaging Kalsunor. The Sith left the planet to the 
silooths and never looked back. While the Jedi archives refer to the planet 
as Kalsunor, no planet by that name exists in the Republic's thousands of 
years of records. The true name and location of the planet may exist some- 
where, perhaps in a Sith holocron yet to be found. There is an old fringer's 
tale about a planet overrun with such creatures. Were someone to stumble 
upon a silooth colony, capture some live specimens, and introduce them into 
another ecosystem, the results could be devastating. 


Silooth Encounters 

Silooths represent an extreme example of Sith alchemy. They are worthy 
adversaries for Jedi Knights. Because the existence of the planet Kalsunor has 
been hidden, adventures could be devoted to discovering this lost world rav- 
aged by creatures the Sith themselves could barely control. A crash-landing 
on the uncharted planet of Kalsunor is a terrifying adventure of survival. The 
PCs would have to fend off the creatures while they repair their ship. 


nN 


AGALS JO SVEaonvag 


1A BaLavHD 


LGNLS AO Syuaenva 


SITH WARBIRD 


Sith Warbird cL7 

Huge beast 8 

Init +5; Senses Perception +9 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 22), Fort 24, Will 18 

hp 84; DR 5; Threshold 34 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee gore +9* (2d6+15) or 

Melee gore +11* (2d6+19) with Powerful Charge 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +6; Grp +23 

Atk Options Power Attack, Powerful Charge 

Abilities Str 25, Dex 13, Con 22, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Skill Training (Endurance) 

Skills Endurance +15, Survival +9 

Trample—As a move action, a Sith warbird can move up to its speed 
and through enemies’ spaces. This movement provokes attack of 
opportunity as normal, and the Sith warbird must end its movement 
in an unoccupied space. When it enters an enemy's space, the Sith 
warbird makes a trample attack: +13 vs, Reflex Defense; on a hit, the 
attack deals 148+10 points of damage and knocks the target prone. 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack, 


The Sith warbird is just one of the many domesticated creatures pressed 
into military service, Instead of wings, the Sith warbird has two small arms 
ending in claws. Its hide is remarkably thick, capable of having hooks or spikes 
securely embedded without harming the beast. The Sith warbird relies on its 
massive size to ram and trample prey, although it can also gore enemies to 
death with its huge, blunt beak. 

Sith warbirds are notoriously bad-tempered and prone to attack nearly any 
perceived threats. The Sith would mount specially designed battle harnesses 
to these creatures, providing protection for the rider and allowing the warbird 
to carry a powerful weapon, typically a blaster cannon. The Sith would then 
deploy these mobile weapon platforms at the front of infantry assaults, 
using them to soften up enemy targets. 


Sith Warbird Encounters 
Sith warbirds were common sights during the Great Sith War, around 4,000 
years before the Battle of Yavin. Their primary purpose was to spearhead 
assaults, providing heavy firepower for accompanying infantry. Sith warbirds 
were also used for scouting missions and reconnaissance, as living creatures 
are less likely to show up on detection devices 

Sith warbirds still exist in later eras, with survivors breeding on planets 
that once hosted long-forgotten battles and terrorizing local fauna that 
poses no threat to them. 


SiItTH WYRM 


Sith Wyrm cL18 

Colossal subterranean beast 16 

Init +8; Senses darkvision, Perception +12 (may reroll, keep the better 
result) 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 26), Fort 40, Will 25 

hp 296; DR 15; Threshold 95 

Speed 10 squares 

Melee bite +27° (4d6+38) or 

Melee bite +29° (4d6+46) with Powerful Charge 

Fighting Space 6x6; Reach 4 squares 

Base Atk +12; Grp +54 

Atk Options Crush, devour, Pin, Powerful Charge 

Abilities Str 44, Dex 10, Con 38, Int 1, Wis 8, Cha 10 

Special Qualities darkvision 

Feats Crush, Improved Damage Threshold, Pin, Power Attack, Powerful 
Charge, Weapon Focus (bite) 

Skills Perception +12 

Devour—If a Sith wyrm hits with its bite attack against a Gargantuan or 
smaller opponent, it can make a grapple check (+35) as a free action 
If the grapple check succeeds, the Sith wyrm begins devouring its 
target. The creature being devoured takes 4d6+30 points of damage 
each round at the start of its turn, before it takes any actions. When 
the creature reaches 0 hit points, it is swallowed by the Sith wyrm and 
continues to take 3d6 points of acid damage each round at the start of 
its turn. The Sith wyrm cannot make bite attacks until it releases the 
creature (a free action) or swallows it. 

* Includes 8 points of Power Attack. 


The Sith wyrm is the result of Naga Sadow’s experimentation on a larval 
space slug that had attached itself to the hull of his battleship en route to 
Yavin 4. He mutated the creature, and it eventually became worshiped as 
a living god by the primitive Massassi people who guarded the temples on 
the moon's surface. 


A Sith wyrm is an enormous creature capable of devouring smaller crea- 
tures whole. It relies on base instincts and simply eats anything that gets in 
its way. Like the space slug on which it was derived, a Sith wyrm can survive 
for thousands of years on a modest diet. The huge tunnels that it creates by 
burrowing through the ground can undermine structures and riddle a planet 
with meandering passageways, some of which might open up to secret war- 
rens and forgotten underground structures. 


Sith Wyrm Encounters 

Only one Sith wyrm has been encountered to date, but it's possible that 
other Sith Lords have created similar monstrosities. The Sith wyrm can serve 
as a template for other enormous creatures designed to serve as living war 
machines, terrorizing entire ecosystems with their ravenous hunger. 


SiTH WyRM 


1A SSiavHS 


AGNLE 429 SUBONVEa 
Baaaee 


STORM BEAST 


Storm Beast cls 

Medium beast 8 

Dark Side 8 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 14, Will 

hp 76; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee 2 claws +10° (1d4+14) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach | square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +13 

Atk Options Mighty Swing, Power Attack, sonic blast 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 12, Con 19, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Mighty Swing, Power Attack 

Skills Endurance +13 

Sonic Blast—As 
cone of destructive sonic energy originating at a point adjacent to 
it. It makes an attack roll against each creature in the cone: +8 vs. 


standard action, a storm beast can emit a 6-square 


Fortitude Defense. The attack deals 246+4 points of sonic damage on a 
hit and half damage on a miss. This is an area effect. 
* Includes 3 points of Power Attack 


Storm beasts are hulking monstrosities that roam the surface of Malachor 
V. Savage reptilian predators that stand about 2 meters tall, they possess 
vicious demeanors and abilities have been augmented by the dark side of 
the Force. 

Storm beasts are possibly the only native species of Malachor V to sur 
vive after the Jedi Civil War, since they are the only species found living on 
the world's surface. Their existence on Malachor V stretches back as far as 


recorded history and beyond, though not much information is known about 


the planet before the war. Many historians believe that the storm beasts lived 
as natural creatures near the top of their food chain until the Trayus Academy 
was built by the group known as the True Sith. While the Sith who inhabited 
the academy conducted their sinister experiments, the energies they used 
affected the creatures around them, warping them into menacing beasts. The 
storm beasts, along with the other creatures in their ecosystem, continued 
to be immersed in the dark power well after the True Sith withdrew from 
Malachor V. Over time, the storm beasts eradicated competing predators, 
leaving themselves as sole masters of their world. 


Storm Beast Encounters 
Around the time of the Jedi Civil War and especially after the use of the Mass 
Shadow Generator by Bao-Dur and the Jedi Exile, storm beasts remain one 
he last surviving species on the planet Malachor V. With fewer creatures 
available for them to sustain themselves, the population of storm beasts on 
has dwindled significantly. Those that remain harry visitors to the world 
Storm beasts tend to be solitary creatures except during mating seasons, 
Outside of that timeframe, banding more than one together usually results 
in the beasts fighting ea 


ch other until only one remains alive 


TAOZIN 


Taozin CL 13 

Gargantuan beast 13 

Init +4; Senses darkvision, Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 32, Will 22 

hp 175; Threshold 57 

Immune mind-affecting Force powers, telepathy 

Resist energy 15 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee bite +14° (3d6+21) 

Ranged web +7 (special) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Reach 3 squares 

Base Atk +9; Grp +34 

Atk Options Power Attack 

Abilities Str 30, Dex 7, Con 28, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 2 

Special Qualities darkvision, invisible to the Force, lightsaber diffusion 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Stealth), 
Skill Training (Stealth, Survival) 

Skills Climb +21, Stealth +9, Survival +10 

Invisible to the Force—A taozin cannot be detected using any Force power, 
Force talent, or the Use the Force skill. This includes all talents on the 
Sense talent tree as well as the Sense Force, Sense Surroundings, and 
Telepathy applications of the Use the Force skill. 

Lightsaber Diffusion—When a taozin is hit by a lightsaber, it makes an 
attack roll against the attacker as a reaction: +10 vs. Reflex Defense. If 
the attack hits, the target takes 2d8 points of energy damage. 

Translucent—A taozin ignores its size modifier when it makes Stealth 
checks. In addition, the taozin is always considered to have 
concealment in normal lighting conditions and total concealment in 
low-light conditions against creatures more than 6 squares away. 

Web-As a standard action, a taozin can spew an adhesive substance from 
its mouth and make an area attack against the Reflex Defense of every 
creature in a 4x4 square area, no square of which can be farther than 
20 squares from the taozin. Targets hit by this attack are immobilized 
until they escape. A character can escape by making a DC 20 Strength 
or Acrobatics check as a standard action. If any square with webbing in 
it takes energy or fire damage, the webs in that square are destroyed 
and any creature immobilized by the webs in that space takes 146 
points of damage and is no longer immobilized. 

* Includes 5 points of Power Attack. 


A taozin is an enormous, wormlike invertebrate whose skin and internal 
organs are translucent, allowing it to blend into the background with surpris- 
ing ease. In addition, the creature possesses a unique ability to evade being 
detected or located by the Force. This Force “invisibility” combined with its 
camouflage makes it difficult to perceive before it strikes. The taozin's flesh 
is impregnated with tiny, crystalline structures that diffuse light energy— 
blasters barely have any effect, and lightsabers actually reflect some of their 
energy on contact, creating a discharge that damages the wielder. 

Despite their size and strength, taozin are remarkably slow. To compen- 
sate, a taozin is capable of spewing a silky gray adhesive from glands inside 
its mouth, which is used to. 
immobilize prey. 


Taozin Encounters 
Taozin are native to the jungle 
moon of Va'art near the 
Roche asteroid field, but they 
have also been sighted on 
other planets. How they moved 
to other locations is unknown, 
although some Jedi scholars 
believe that it could be paral- 
lel evolution or some unknown 
breeding program. Taozin nest in 
dense jungles, caves, and other thick 
terrain. Similar to spiders, taozin use 
their webs to further constrict their 
surroundings, trapping prey for later 
consumption. Taozin are able climb- 
ers and have been known to cling to 
ceilings and spew webs once prey 
comes into range. 


AGNLS 


TERENTATEK 


Terentatek 

Huge subterranean beast 15 

Init +11; Senses darkvision, Perception +12 (may rero 
result) 

Defenses Ref 34 (flat-footed 34), Fort 33, Will 25; Force resistance 

hp 187, fast healing 5; Threshold 43 

Immune mind-affecting Force powers 


Speed 8 squares 
Melee 2 claws +12* (1d8+24) and 
bite +12" (2d6+24) or 
Melee bite +14° (2d6+31) with Powerful Charge 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 
Base Atk +11; Grp +30 
Atk Options Crush, Pin, Power Attack, Powerful Charge 
Abilities Str 29, Dex 9, Con 26, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 15° 
Special Qualities darkvision, fast healing 5, Force resistance 
Feats Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Skil 
(Initiative) 
Skills Initiative +11, Perception +12 (may reroll, keeping the better result) 


raining 


Fast Healing 5—A terentatek automatically regains 5 hit points every 
round at the end of its turn, up to its normal maximum, until it is killed. 

Force Resistance—A terentatek gains a +5 bonus to defenses against Use 
the Force checks. 

* Includes 8 points of Power Attack. 


The dreaded terentatek greatly resembles the rancor, with large spines jutting 
from its back and an additional set of mandibles sprouting from its mouth. It 
has been theorized that terentateks were once rancors that were subjected 
to experimentation by the Sith. They are typically found in locations tainted 
by the dark side, such as the tombs on Korriban. Because of their remarkable 
immunity to the Force, terentateks are also known as “Jedi Killers.” 

When the dark side is weaker in the galaxy, terentateks go into hiberna- 
tion, which can sometimes last for hundreds or even thousands of years 
When the dark side increases in power, terentateks emerge from their slumber 
to threaten their surroundings. Jedi are known to hunt in small teams to 
eliminate the terentatek menace. 


Terentatek Encounters 

Terentateks are rarely encountered alone. They usually patrol their territory 
in mated pairs, making encounters with them all that more dangerous. Ter- 
entateks are not subtle and simply charge opponents. Despite their Force 
immunity, terentateks do not favor Jedi or other Force-users over other prey 
and attack the closest or more aggressive targets first, although the bright 
ight and noise from a lightsaber quickly grabs their attention 


TUK'ATA SITH HOUND 


Tuk'ata Sith Hound cL4 

Medium beast 3 

Dark Side 14 

Init +8; Senses scent, Perception +3 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 12, Will 13 

hp 17; Threshold 12 

Speed 7 squares 

Melee bite +5 (1d6+4) and 
2 claws +5 (1d4+4) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +5 

Atk Options Running Attack 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Special Qualities cunning beast, pack tactics 

Feats Improved Defenses, Running Attack 

Skills Initiative +8 

Cunning Beast—Whenever a tuk’ata Sith hound takes damage from a 
melee attack, as a reaction it can move 2 squares. This movement does 
not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Pack Tactics—When a tuk’ata is adjacent to an enemy, all of the tuk’ata's 
allies gain a +2 circumstance bonus on melee attack rolls against that 
enemy. 


The tuk'ata Sith hounds were native to Korriban, the infamous necropolis 
world of the Sith. The hounds made excellent subjects for the ancient Sith 
Lords' experiments. They gained additional horns, their size doubled, and 
their masters imbued them with greater brain mass, increasing their animal 
cunning. The new creatures guarded the tombs of Korriban with deadly 
efficiency, 

The beasts are later seen in other Sith strongholds as well. They become a 
favorite of Exar Kun, who often assigns the creatures to protect Sith holdings 
across the galaxy. The hounds are strangely loyal to those attuned to the 
dark side, The Sith know the fragile state of trust all too well, making the 
Tuk'ata the perfect guardians 


The gleam of malevolence in the yellow eyes of a tuk’ata Sith hound 
is enough to give any Jedi pause. Beast packs often use tactics much too 
sophisticated for beasts. The worst mistake a Jedi can make is to underes- 
timate them and treat them as common beasts. 


Tuk'ata Sith Hound Encounters 

One or two tuk’ata Sith hounds are enough to discourage low-level characters 
from snooping around Sith sites. The Sith alchemical process has forever 
transformed these beasts into evil guardians assigned to watch over the 
darkest places in the galaxy. A pack of tuk’ata hounds is a worthy threat for 
higher-level PCs. They could be encountered in the wild, or they could be 
sent by an unrevealed Sith adversary wishing to observe how the PCs handle 
themselves in a fight against the beasts 


THE SITH HOUND, ALSO KNOWN AS A TUKIATA 


1A SSLavRS 


AGNLE JO SYEONVE 


“CHAPTER VII 
STUDYING ABROAD 


“SSS 

mt a Theos Wars universe contains many locations that have some importance 
7 eae 's various Force sects, especially the Jedi. Some of these locales 
~ are hubs of activity where the Jedi come together, while others are places 
" ed in the dark side that tempt any Jedi lured into them. Regardless of 
origins and histories, all of the following locations have been significant 

ne way or another to the Jedi Order throughout its history. 
LACES IN THE LIGHT 
as where the light side of the Force holds prominence are held in high 
d by the Jedi as well as most other religions and Force-using organi- 
r rvation of life and balance in the Force. 
quent, and these locations hold within them 


EAS OF DARKNESS 

se who are consumed by the dark side of the Force strive to gain power 

fuel their own agendas, but they also know that there are individuals in 

the galaxy who will oppose them at every turn. For this reason alone, many 

dark siders choose places far away from the activities of the Core Worlds 

to pursue their covert studies and develop their secret plans. As these dark 

siders are found and defeated by the Jedi and other champions of the Force, 

the places where they lived become tainted by the dark powers they used 

while they lived and worked there. Although efforts are taken to reduce or 

~ eliminate the amount of influence the dark side has over these locales, the 

dark power that thrived there for so long puts a permanent stain on the 

place that continues to affect everything around it for a long time. Because 

of this, the Jedi continue to search for ways to cleanse these areas and rid 
the galaxy of the evil that dwells there. 


avousy Oniaanis 


U 


GVOuUSY BNIAGALS 


CHU'UNTHOR 

Although the Jedi Temple on Coruscant is easily the largest and most famous 
Jedi training facility, the Order does train students in other locations. 
Chu'unthor is one such place. However, it's not a planet or temple, but an 
enormous ship designed by the Jedi both as a mobile training facility and 
as a symbol of the Republic's long reach and goodwill toward its citizens. A 
veritable army of engineers and shipbuilders from the Republic Fleet Systems 
built Chu'unthor (an old Cerean word, meaning “academy") four hundred 
years before the Rise of the Empire era. 

Chu'unthor serves the Jedi for nearly one hundred years until a series of 
catastrophic malfunctions forces the ship to crash land on the hostile planet 
of Dathomir, home of a mysterious group known as Force witches. Although 
unable to fly again, the ship holds untold secrets and information about 
the Force and the Jedi Order. Recovery of this precious history helped Luke 
Skywalker create the foundation for his New Jedi Order. 


MESSAGE FROM THE 

FACULTY: CHU'UNTHOR 

ADVENTURE HOOKS 

Chu'unthor is large enough to serve as the hub for an entire campaign. 

Here are some ways to incorporate Chu'unthor into a home campaign: 
* During what should have been a routine training exercise, one of 
Chu'unthor's new students is found dead inside a lightsaber spar- 
ring room. It's soon discovered that the unthinkable has occurred: 
murder. The student, a headstrong Rodian with a chip on his shoul- 
der, was generally disliked by the student body, but who, especially 
Jedi, would take this to such an extreme end? 
* While a section of the Starboard Instructional Wing is refitted, the 
crew discovers several secret passageways. One such passageway 
leads to a hidden meditation chamber. A holocron sits upon a pedes- 
tal in the middle of the chamber, holding the spirit of a Jedi Master 
whose existence had been long forgotten. 
© If the campaign is set in the time of the New Jedi Order, the heroes 
are sent to Dathomir to help the Jedi recover some of the archives 
that have been sitting inside the downed Chu'unthor for decades. 
Although the heroes are allowed freedom to explore the ship by the 
Witches of Dathomir, the ship has become infested with the danger- 
ous flora and fauna of the planet. 


Notable Locations 

Chu'unthor is a massive ship that dwarfs even the Imperial I-class and Vic- 
tory-class Star Destroyers of the Empire. The ship is divided into three primary 
sections corresponding to the ship's primary missions of learning, teaching, 
and scholarship. Shaped like a lopsided ‘Y’, Chu'unthor had an unusual design, 
mainly because it was considerably larger than most vessels of the era. As 
befitting its mission of peace, knowledge, and training, Chu'unthor did not 
sport any weapons beyond two batteries of tractor beams. 

The forward section of the ship is known as the Instruction Wing, The front 
of the vessel sprouts hundreds of sensors, arrays, communication clusters, 
and observation decks. Many of the ship's scientists and researchers are 
found here, studying new worlds and stellar phenomena. Two massive wings, 
known respectively as the Port Training Wing and the Starboard Training 
Wing, contain all of the classrooms, sparring rooms, meditation chambers, 
and dormitories required for the students. 

The central hull holds the Hospital Wing and the primary archives. The 
Hospital Wing is large, well appointed, and capable of handling thousands 
of patients from a variety of species at a time. Jedi healers, as well as mem- 
bers of the Medical Corps (a branch of the Jedi Service Corps) train here. 
The medical facilities on board Chu'unthor are superb and on par with the 
infirmary at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. Numerous libraries and archive 


rooms are scattered throughout the central hull, holding a vast repository of 
Jedi teachings, as well as information about the sciences, arts, history, and 
literature of a thousand of different species and cultures. 

The rear of the ship contains the ship's enormous ion engines and hyperspace 
drives, plus numerous docking clamps and bays. Chu'unthor is large enough to. 
dock with up to ten frigate-sized vessels at a given time. This design allows 
Chu'unthor to receive a constant stream of supplies from support ships. 


Inhabitants 

For such a large ship, Chu'unthor has a relatively small crew and relies heavily 
‘on automation and droids. Most of the crew are veterans of the Republic 
Navy, Jedi with an eye toward mechanics and technology often request 
assignment on Chu'unthor to help keep its engines in repair and to learn 
from its elegant, if obsolete, design. 

Chu'unthor also carries a huge contingent of scientists, researchers, 
librarians, and other scholars, most of whom are not affiliated with the Jedi 
Order. The University of Sanbra, for example, established a "braich campus” 
aboard Chu'unthor, allowing tremendous advancements to occur in the fields 
of xenobiology and xenosociolology. 


Chu'unthor CL15 

Colossal (station) capital ship 

Init -4; Senses Perception +12 

Defenses Ref 18, Fort 195; +18 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 2,800; DR 20; SR 300; Threshold 695 

Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 tractor beam batteries" +8 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +107 

Abilities Str 180, Dex 10, Con —, Int 22 

Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot -4, Use 
Computer +12 

Crew 4,000 (skilled); Passengers 10,000 

Cargo 40,000 tons; Consumables 5 years; Carried Craft various 
shuttlecraft 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x18), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (unique) 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +8 (-12 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg — (grapple 
+107) 


yED!I TEMPLES AND 
ACADEMIES 


For over twenty-five thousand years, the Jedi Order has established centers 
for learning to sustain its tradition. Many times, these centers are nothing 
more than structures that house historical information and philosophical 
texts, but the primary locales serve more as monasteries than libraries. In 
addition to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, the temples and academies on 
Dantooine, Ossus, and Yavin 4 have all served as important centers for the 
Jedi throughout their history at one time or another. 


DANTOOINE 
Region: Outer Rim 
Climate: Temperate 
Gravity: Standard 


Moons: 2 
Length of Day: 25 standard hours 
Length of Year: 378 local days 


Sapient Species: 35% Humans, 18% Dantari (native), 47% other species 
Government: Tribal 

Capitals: Garang and Khoonda 

Major Exports: Foodstuffs 

Major Imports: Luxury items, technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC RESULT 

10 Dantooine is an Outer Rim world positioned near the Hydian Way 
hyperspace route. The temperate climate supports a multitude of flora 
and fauna and makes it an ideal planet for agriculture. 

15 The Jedi enclave on Dantooine trains many Jedi during the times of 
the Great Sith War and the Jedi Civil War. Although the Jedi work hard 
to keep its location secret, the Sith Empire attack the facility several 
times while it is active. 

15 Dantooine is the site of a significant battle between the Republic and 
the Separatists during the Clone Wars. During this battle, Jedi Master 
Mace Windu almost single-handedly defeats a droid army consisting 
of B2 Series super battle droids, even though he is without his lightsa- 
ber for most of the fight. 

20 Ruins of an ancient Jedi temple exist that predate the Jedi enclave 
created by Jedi Master Vodo-Siosk Baas. 

25 The planet was one of the subject worlds of the Infinite Empire. 
Ancient Rakata built several structures on the planet's surface, one 
of which is believed to house a Star Map. By the time of the Jedi Civil 
War, several droids of Rakata design still operate within the ruins of 
these ancient structures. 


WA Saiavno 


GveUsY SNIAGALS 


GVOUSY SNAGALS 


TA SSiavno 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 
DC RESULT 


10 


20 


The Human farmers who inhabit the planet live in single-family set- 
‘tlements and small communities that are mostly isolated from each 
other. 

The population of Dantooine has no planetary militia of its own and 
depends on the Jedi Order for protection during the days of the Repub- 
lic. When the Empire replaces the Republic, Imperial forces station a 
garrison at the ruins of the Jedi enclave. 

Although Humans make up the largest percentage of the world popu- 
lation, the Dantari race has claimed Dantooine as their homeworld for 
many centuries. Records dating back to the early days of the Repub- 
lic confirm their existence on the planet. The Dantari are wiped out 
during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. 


Ossus 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 31 standard hours 
Length of Year: 231 local days 
Sapient Species: 99% Ysanna (native), 1% other species 
Government: Tribal 

Capital: Knossa 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 
DC RESULT 


10 


15 


20 


25 


Ossus is a desolate world. Its harsh environment makes survival a con- 
stant struggle. 

In the past, Ossus had a rich ecosystem teeming with life, but a nearby 
supernova caused by the Sith wiped out almost all life on the planet. 
Large pockets of radiation continue to ravage the planet. 

The Jedi Order once held a vast library on Ossus. Some believe that the 
first Jedi came from Ossus, but in the absence of proof, this is mere 
speculation. 

The Great Library of Ossus houses a vault underneath it that stores 
many artifacts from all over the galaxy, including some powerful 
items once used by the ancient Sith. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 
DC RESULT 


15 


20 


25 


The only native sapient species on Ossus are the Ysanna, a race of 
nomadic near-Humans who wander the deserts to survive. 

Some Ysanna believe that they can wield magic, and they use their 
magic to help their people endure the planet's harsh climate. The Jedi 
believe that Ysanna magic is tied to the Force. 

The Ysanna are survivors of the supernova that ravaged the planet 
several millennia ago. They are the descendants of the Jedi who inhab- 
ited the Great Library when the shock wave hit the planet. 


YAVIN 4 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate to tropical 
Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 24 standard hours 
Length of Year: 4,818 local days 
Sapient Species: Varies 
Government: None 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 
DC RESULT 


10 


25 


Yavin is typical gas giant in the Outer Rim Territories. Twenty-six 
moons orbit the planet, and a few of them are able to sustain life. 
The fourth moon of Yavin, where the Rebellion launched their attack 
against the first Death Star, hosts many species of plant and animal 
life. 

The Rebellion uses ancient structures as their base on Yavin 4. These 
same structures were used by Luke Skywalker to house his Jedi Acad- 
emy after the fall of the Empire. 

Two other moons in orbit around Yavin are habitable as well: the 
eighth moon and the thirteenth moon. Yavin 8 is a cold and arid moon 
populated by a sentient species called the Melodies until Emperor 
Palpatine orders the entire population exterminated. Yavin 13, a hot 
moon with deserts and rocky plains, is home to the rodentlike Gerbs 
and the serpentine Slith. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 

DC RESULT 

20 An ancient culture called the Massassi built the ancient structures on 
Yavin 4 and are believed to have been created by the Sith. 

25 The Massassi were subjected to cruel Sith experiments that trans- 
formed many of them into horrid abominations and servitors. 


Notable Locations 

All of the locales maintained and operated by the Jedi Order have certain 
elements in common with each other. Each one houses a significant amount 
of knowledge stored in a library. Each one holds great significance to the 
Order for one reason or another. Each one contains training facilities for those 
who serve the Order. Even with these similarities, these structures also have 
differences that make them significant in their own right. 


The Jedi Temple on Coruscant 

Over one kilometer high, the Jedi Temple on Coruscant stands proud against 
the world-city skyline and is probably the most recognized structure asso- 
ciated with the Jedi. From this temple, the Jedi dictate the administrative, 
strategic, and spiritual needs of the Order while safeguarding its members 
as well as the citizens of the Republic. 

The Jedi Temple focuses on more of the practical applications of the Force 
and Jedi training, but it also houses one of the greatest libraries in the galaxy, 
drawing thousands of researchers each year to the facility. The temple also 
serves as the central office for the discovery, testing, and indoctrination of 
new students to the Order and as a dormitory for those students while they 
train. Five spires grace the top of the temple: The ones at the corners are 
dedicated to each of the Jedi councils, while the central tower contains the 
Jedi Order's rich archive of ancient lore and artifacts. 


The Jedi Enclave on Dantooine 
The Jedi enclave on Dantooine carries a troubled past. Established by Jedi 
Master Vodo-Siosk Baas shortly before the Great Sith War, the enclave quickly 
gains a reputation as a quality training center. Many Jedi, including some of 
the great Jedi Masters of the time, base themselves from Dantooine to further 
their training and continue their research into the ways of the Force. Many 
great Jedi who serve during the Great Sith War complete their training on 
Dantooine as well. At the same time, many of the era's worst dark siders come 
from the enclave, including Exar Kun, Darth Revan, and Darth Malak. 
Despite its strong contingent of Jedi, the enclave is attacked numerous 
times by Sith forces. The Sith even manage to occupy the compound for a 
year before the empire's collapse in 3,956 BBY. The Jedi Order strive to rebuild 
and maintain the facility for the next few decades and even decide to house 
the reformed Jedi Council there. However, it is finally abandoned after Darth 
Traya kills the entire Jedi Council a few years later. 


MESSAGE FROM THE 
FACULTY: JEDI TEMPLE 
ADVENTURE HOOKS 
Adventure and excitement accompany the Jedi Order wherever it goes, — 
Since the Jedi Order maintains only one key temple at any particular time, 
adventure ideas should be easy to focus and implement, depending on 
‘the era of your campaign. 

* A viral outbreak has created a pandemic within the population of 
a heavily populated planet in the Outer Rim, and knowledge of the 
cure is believed to be held within one of the holocrons stored in the 
Chamber of Antiquities at the Great Library of Ossus. The heroes 
must race against time to Ossus and obtain the cure from the holo- 
cron. However, they soon learn that someone has removed it from 
its rightful place. 

News of an attack on the Great Library of Ossus reaches the heroes, 
and they take steps to thwart the attack or warn the Jedi before the 
assault happens. 

The heroes hear rumors of strange activity at the ancient ruins of 
the Jedi enclave on Dantooine. Perhaps pirates are using the loca- 
tion as a base for raids in the sector, or Sith agents are looking for 
artifacts hidden in the ruins. 

Working to gain support for the Rebellion, a dignitary representing 
a prominent Outer Rim world promises to join the Rebel cause if a 
prominent artifact from his planet's past is returned. The artifact 
was last reported to be stored in a secret vault in the central spire of 
the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. Heroes must obtain the artifact and 
return it safely its home while dodging Imperial agents. 

Luke Skywalker asks the heroes to investigate some Massassi ruins 
near the Jedi Temple on Yavin 4. Rumors are that these ruins are 
haunted by dangerous creatures, including some Massassi abomina- 
tions left behind by the ancient Sith. 


The Great Library of Ossus 
The Great Library of Ossus reportedly holds the largest repository of knowl- 
edge the galaxy has ever known. Its appearance is said to have inspired the 
design of the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, with its ziggurat-style base and four 
spires that surmount each corner of the structure. The library contains infor- 
mation relating to every field of study, contained in numerous forms ranging 
from reader tapes and holographic media to ancient books and paper scrolls. 
All documents are carefully preserved within the library's archives. 
Beneath the library proper lies the Chamber of Antiquities, an area with 
many different vaults to store the most valuable artifacts from worlds and 
cultures all across the galaxy. Within these chambers also lie Sith holocrons 
and other dark side relics recovered from those who used them for their own 
dark purposes. Access to these items is understandably restricted. 


WA SSiavHo. 


@GVOEEUSY GNIAGNLS 


TA SSLaWAS 


GvVEUSY ONMIAGALS 


THE Jeo! ACADEMY ON YAVIN + 


The Jedi Academy on Yavin 4 

The Jedi Academy on Yavin 4 stands out from the other sites mentioned above 
due to its proximity to a major source of the dark side of the Force. Yavin 4 
is where the Sith Lord Naga Sadow created the Massassi people as merciless 
dark side warriors and Exar Kun corrupted several Jedi Knights and brought 
the wrath of the Republic down upon the moon, Luke Skywalker chooses 
the moon as the location of the New Jedi Order because of these dark side 
influences, as a means to test his students. 

The academy is housed inside the Great Temple of the Massassi, a large 
pyramid surrounded by smaller ziggurats. The temple, previously used by 
the Rebel Alliance as a base of operations, contains a multitude of rooms 
and chambers that were once used by the Sith for their dark rituals and 
ceremonies. After a little more than a decade, the academy is abandoned 
after the Yuuzhan Vong attack and forced the Jedi to flee. 


Inhabitants 
To say that only Jedi could be found at these locations would be a fair 
but incorrect assumption. The Jedi Temple on Coruscant had not only the 
younglings and Jedi Knights with their Padawan learners but also a staff of 
non-Jedi providing important administrative and technical services. During 
the Clone Wars and other times of heightened alert, the Republic stations a 
sizeable group of agents there to help coordinate their plans with the Jedi 
involved in the conflict 

Dantooine's Jedi enclave employs many individuals from the local popula- 
tion to help maintain the facility, provide services, and keep the campus in 
top working order. Arakyd Industries operates a company store and repair 
facility at the enclave, servicing the Jedi as well as the local population 

During its height, the Great Library of Ossus sees many non-Jedi using the 
facility for research into a variety of subjects. Republic personnel involved in 
the war against the Sith Empire are sent to Ossus to aid in its defense. 


VALLEY OF THE JEDI 
The Valley of the Jedi, located on the planet Ruusan, remains one of the most 
unusual of sites, due to its association with both sides of the Force. Although 
the place once exhibited a significant dark side presence, the defeat of the 
Sith there also makes the valley important for the light side as well. 


RUUSAN 

Region: Mid Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 3 

Length of Day: 23 standard hours 
Length of Year: 335 local days 
Sapient Species: 60% Bouncers (native), 25% Ruusanians (native), 10% 
Humans, 5% other species 
Government: None 

Capital: Olmondo 

Major Exports: Ore 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC RESULT 

15 Ruusan is dominated by dry deserts and canyons, It used to have lush 
forests and a wide variety of fauna. The planet has mostly been for- 
gotten by the rest of the galaxy, since the hyperspace routes to the 
planet were erased due to shifting nebulae nearby. 

20 The planet's native population consists of two species: the Bouncers 
and the Ruusanians. While the Ruusanians are a near-Human species, 
the Bouncers are globe-shaped creatures with tentacles. 

25 An explosion transformed the planet into a desert wasteland, 

30 Artifacts discovered on the planet's surface lend credence to the idea 
that the Ruusanians might have originated on another world. The 
Bouncers that live near the Valley of the Jedi helped support and com- 
fort the suffering warriors during the Battle of Ruusan, 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 

DC RESULT 

10 Ruusanian and Bouncer societies have remained largely unchanged 
over the past several millennia. 

15 Ruusanian society is largely composed of nomadic tribes that wander 
the deserts in search of food sources. Bouncers tend to stay close to 
mountainous regions. 

25 Bouncers communicate with each other through a series of whistles 
and warbles, though some believe that they might also be telepathic. 


Notable Locations 

The Valley of the Jedi is made up of two distinct areas: the valley itself and the 
canyon where the Battle of Ruusan happened. Topographically, the canyon 
is nothing more than a naturally created crevasse that once had a mighty 
river running through it, but the river has dried up. The deep canyon (over a 
kilometer deep in places) is rather unstable, and rockslides occur on a regular 
basis. Caves also line the walls of the canyon; they are mined by the natives 
and plundered by looters looking for artifacts from the battle. 

The valley proper lies at the base of the canyon and stands out from 
the rest of its surroundings, since its crater-shaped area is almost entirely 
composed of worked stone and other artificial materials. This area is a monu- 
ment built to commemorate the Battle of Ruusan. The perimeter is ringed 
by large number of solemn statues depicted Jedi Knights who fought in the 
battle, including Master Hoth. 

In the middle of the valley lies a long, thin building built from the same 
stone as everything else in the memorial. It once served as a meditation 
complex for pilgrims and travelers visiting the site. Stairs once circled up the 
building's northern tower to an observation platform, where visitors could 


THe VALLEY OF THE Jeo! 


MESSAGE FROM THE 

FACULTY: VALLEY OF THE 

YEO! ADVENTURE HOOKS 

Adventure ideas abound in the Valley of the Jedi after the Battle of 
Ruusan. Since the planet fails to achieve any galactic importance until 
after the defeat of the Brotherhood of Darkness a thousand years before 
the formation of the Empire, little chance exists of events taking place 
before then, especially with the original hyperspace routes being wiped 
away. After the rise and fall of the Empire, however, there are several 
likely reasons for heroes to travel to the valley. 

© Sith agents seek to reclaim some ancient lore or technology hidden 
with the Sith base on Ruusan. The Jedi Order catches wind of this 
and sends the heroes to intercept them. 

* During the early days of the Empire, the heroes are hired to search 
for the lost planet of Ruusan and plot a hyperspace course, not 
knowing that their benefactor is an Imperial agent. 

© From the Jedi Academy at Yavin 4, Luke Skywalker sends the heroes 
to the Valley of the Jedi to investigate the rumors that Jedi and Sith 
spirits roam the area. 

* Anew dark sider emerges and seeks out the valley to tap into the 
ambient Force power there, intent on strengthening his power. 


survey the entire valley. After centuries of being left unattended, the building 
has fallen into disrepair: The stairs have crumbled and collapsed, making the 
observation platform almost impossible to reach without the help of some 
technological or Force-related assistance. 

Set into the floor of the tower is a large Adegan crystal that pulses with 
Force energy. Originally intended to serve as a focus for meditation, its exis- 
tence attracts Jedi scholars as well as those with less noble intentions. 

Not far from the Jedi monument lies an abandoned Sith base. Entrenched 
in the western side of the canyon, the two-floor complex holds several rooms 
that once served as barracks and training areas for Sith troops, as well as a 
small observation balcony that gives a remarkable view of the valley below. 
Ashaft that once held a cargo lift connects the base to the surface, but the 
elevator platform has broken down 


Inhabitants 
During the days of the Old Republic, Ruusan is not largely populated. The 
planet, though colonized and claimed for the Miner's Guild, never supports 
more than three thousand miners and colonists at any given time. The native 
Ruusanians live peacefully with the colonists and trade local commodities 
with them in exchange for imported foodstuffs and minor technologies. 
The Battle of Ruusan changes everything. The detonation of Kaan's thought 
bomb devastates the world’s ecosystem, transforming the surface from 
verdant forests to an arid wasteland almost overnight. Though many of the 
colonists and natives die in the cataclysm, some survive and adapt, allowing 
them to rebuild their societies. Despite the Jedi Order's inability to prevent the 
thought bomb, the Ruusanians still hold the Order in high regard. 


GVOEUSY BNIAGALS 


A BSigvHS 


==} 


SSeCgcegce 
GVEUSY ONIAGALS 


HHOLOCRON LESSON: THE 
CAVE ON DAGOBAH 
The cave on Dagobah is a major dark side site rumored to have been 
created by a Dark Jedi. The cave sits beneath the roots of an ancient and 
massive gnaritree. This is the place that Luke Skywalker visits as part of 
his training under Jedi Master Yoda. Luke feels compelled to enter the 
cave and there, he confronts his worst nightmare—Darth Vader. After 
cutting the head off his enemy, he sees his own surprised face resting 
within Vader's black helmet. 

The cave is an insidious place that preys on the fears and misgivings 
of all who enter it. It corrupts from within, fueling doubts and holding a 
person's shortcomings in front of their eyes. No two people experience 
the same visions while inside the cave, but those who come out are 
changed forever. 


The other sapient species on the planet, the Bouncers, live a simple exis- 
tence near the mountain ranges. Like the Ruusanians, the Bouncers organize 
themselves into small tribes. However, they do not roam like the Ruusanians 
do, They are patient beings with a great respect for life, bringing healing and 
comfort whenever possible to those in need. 

Ruusan also hosts a large number of resilient creatures, including a 
number of predatory beasts as well as the descendants of Sith-bred mon- 
strosities that roam the planet freely. 


DARK SIDE SITES 

The power of the dark side is an insidious thing, which many Jedi liken to a 
disease or poison—its presence is subtle and weak at first, but eventually it 
corrupts everything around it. Dark side sites represent this analogy well 
Although the Force touches all places, there are places where the dark side 
holds more sway. These places of evil and corruption tempt those who enter 
with promises of unlimited power and lures of greatness. Those connected 
to the light side of the Force find their powers diminished in these places, 
while those who wield the dark side are amazed at the strength that they 
gain, even as that energy overwhelms them 

There are several reasons why a dark side site mig 
The most common is when a great act of evil or violence occurs, corrupting 
a location with a jolt of dark side energy. The sheer vileness of the event 
“traumatizes" the location, much like a wound, although unlike an injury, 
healing a dark side location is no simple matter. Dark side sites also come into 
being slowly by the corrupting influence of an individual or group associated 
with the dark side. Sith alchemical labs, the inner sanctum of a Sith Lord 
ora torture chamber of dark side witches can leave an indelible mark in the 
very walls and stone of a place. 

The dark side degrades locations that it pervades. Walls begin to crumble, 
water turns brackish and poisonous, shadows seem longer and darker, and so 
forth. Animals are either driven away, die off completely, or are mutated by 
the foul presence, creating new species notorious for their vicious and cruel 


come into being 


nature. The power of the dark side is such that even if every stone of a building 
tainted by the dark side crumbles and turns to dust, the spot would continue 
to hold its corruption for hundreds or even thousands of years to come. 
For individuals corrupted with the dark side, these locations stand out like 
beacons, calling them with the lure of easy power and greater understanding 
of the Force. Dark siders feel more energized in a dark side site. However, like 
anything affiliated with the dark side, the more power that it grants, the more it 
corrupts. Only the most strong-willed can survive, and an individual who relies 
too much on the power of the dark side quickly succumbs to its degenerative 
influence. These sites are particularly dangerous for anyone with the Force 
Sensitivity feat. Force-sensitive beings who enter a dark side site are haunted 
by whispering voices, ephemeral touches, and other maddening events that 
eventually cause them to lose their minds or succumb to their temptations. 


Dark Side Site Power Levels 

Not every dark side site is equal, and each is rated as a minor site, major site, 
or extreme site. Minor sites include the ancient tomb of a Sith Lord or the lair 
of a particularly powerful Sith creature. Major sites include the Valley of the 
Sith Lords on Korriban or the Cave on Dagobah. Extreme sites are very rare 
and reserved for the most horrible of places, such as the demon moon of Dxun 
or battlefields where thousands of innocents were slaughtered or the blood 
of untold Sith and Jedi mingled, such as Ruusan. A dark side site can grow 
in power, particularly as dark siders are drawn to it and commit unspeakable 
acts within its confines, adding to the raw energy of the place. 


THE CAVE ON DAcoBAH 


Dark Site Sites and Non-Force Sensitives 

Those without a connection to the Force find dark side sites filled with linger- 
ing dread and malice, similar to what they would feel in an old battleground, 
a “haunted” building, or a crumbling structure where a murder took place. 
Dark side sites are creepy, to be sure, but have little impact on a non-Force 
sensitive character. Dark side sites are noted for being “unlucky,” where 
confidence fails, equipment breaks, and concentrating on the task at hand 
becomes considerably more difficult. 


Dark Side Sites and Force-Sensitives 

Dark side sites have a corrupting effect on characters with the Force Sensitiv- 
ity feat. In these places, the dark side goes beyond the spooky and becomes 
both intrusive and dangerous. 

Whenever a character with the Force Sensitivity feat spends a Force 
Point within a dark side site, it must either increase its Dark Side Score by 1 
or move ~1 step down the condition track. If the character spends a Destiny 
Point in a dark side site, it must increase its Dark Side Score by 2 or move 
-2 steps down the condition track. 


Dark Side Sites and Dark Siders 
A character with a Dark Side Score equal to one-half or more of his Wisdom 
score is bolstered and energized while within the confines of a dark side site. 
The character gains a bonus on Use the Force checks made to activate Force 
powers with the [dark side] descriptor. The bonus depends on the power of the 
dark side site: minor, +1; major, +2; extreme, +5. Furthermore, the character 
can activate Dark Side talents requiring one to spend a Force Point without 
actually expending one; doing so, however, increases the character's Dark 
Side Score by 1. 

For these reasons, many dark siders build lairs or temples on dark side 
sites. However, though these places enhance one's power, they also corrupt 
much more quickly. 


DXxXUN 

Region: Inner Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 
Length of Year: 298 local days 
Sapient Species: None 
Government: None 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC RESULT 

10 Dxun is the largest of four moons that orbit the planet Onderon. Some 
people consider the moon a sister planet to Onderon, since both have 
similar environments. 

15 Dxun’s orbit brings it dangerously close to Onderon, so close that 
their atmospheres overlap for a few weeks each year, During this time, 
some of the creatures that live on one planetoid migrate to the other, 
whether they mean to or not. 

20 The creatures that live on Dxun are some of the most vicious predators 
that exist in the galaxy, so much so that no permanent colony has ever 
been established on the moon. 

25 Studies that have been done about the creatures of Dxun speculate 
that some outside force manipulates their development and behavior. 
While scientists try to find a logical explanation, some believe that the 
dark side of the Force is to blame. 


WA SsiavnS 


GVOUSY OGNIAGALS 


TA SSLavnS 


eGVveuUSY SNIAGALS 


Notable Locations 

Unlike its mother planet of Onderon, Dxun shows no signs of a large-scale 
civilization ever being present. However, the moon has been inhabited in the 
past by the Sith and the Mandalorians. 

The remains of Freedon Nadd, Dark Lord of the Sith and last king of 
Onderon, were relocated to Dxun shortly after his death to prevent his dark 
essence from being used by others seeking to gain power through the dark 
side of the Force. His tomb, made from nearly indestructible Mandalorian 
iron, stands as the only artificial structure on the planet. 

Nadd's tomb, a black and dark gray spire that starkly contrasts the green 
jungles and lighter gray mountains that surround it, stands atop a hill that 
looks over the entire valley in which it rests. A large landing pad extends 
from the tomb's foundation, providing plenty of space for a transport to set 
down. Much to the surprise of archaeologists and scholars across the galaxy, 
no vegetation has touched any part of the structure, let alone grown over 
it, in over four thousand years, Though the scientist have not speculated an 


MESSAGE FROM THE 

FACULTY: KORRIBAN 
ADVENTURE HOOKS 

Korriban is full of dangerous locations suffused with the insidious power 
of the dark side. Ancient evil and forbidden knowledge can be found 
‘throughout the planet, and it's quite possible to set an entire campaign 
based around the secrets of Korriban. Here are some ways to incorporate 
Korriban into your campaigns. 

* During the time of the Old Republic, the Sith reestablish an acad- 
emy on Korriban. After a student expedition uncovers a tomb from a 
previously unknown Sith Lord, members of the Jedi High Council begin 
receiving strange visions of planets in flame. The heroes are sent by the 
Jedi Council to infiltrate the academy and join the expedition in hopes 
of discovering what secrets this new tomb might hold and find a way to 
prevent its evil from escaping, To succeed, the heroes must also maintain 
their cover as cruel students of the Sith philosophy. 

* The Jedi Council authorizes a number of hunting expeditions to Kor- 
riban to eliminate the terentatek (page 146) from the galaxy. The heroes 
are part of one such hunting expedition and must traverse through the 
labyrinth-like catacombs of the Valley of the Sith Lords to find their prey. 
The massive creatures they are sent to hunt might become the least of 
their problems. 

* During an adventure, one of the heroes comes across an unique 
amulet that once belonged to a Sith Lord interred on Korriban. The amulet 
begins whispering to the hero, alternating between maddening words 
and tempting thoughts—power could be had if the hero goes to Korriban 
and returns the amulet to its resting spot. 


answer to why, many Jedi scholars explain that Freedon Nadd’s spirit has 
tainted the area and destroyed the local flora. 

Within the tomb lie several rooms, including the burial chamber and the 
Sith repository. The burial chamber, simply put, houses the sarcophagus where 
Nadd’s remains are stored. The walls remain largely unadorned, while the plat- 
form on which the sarcophagus sits includes a large statue of Nadd and two 
lesser statues that also serve as lamp posts to light the cavernous chamber. 

The Sith repository holds many of the Sith artifacts owned or used by 
Nadd during his tyrannical reign over Onderon, many of which have been 
permanently deactivated or destroyed by the Jedi. Over the years, several of 
the artifacts regain their power and are able to be used by the likes of Exar 
Kun and Darth Bane. 


Inhabitants 
To say that Dxun is home to some of the most evil creatures the galaxy has 
known is a grave understatement. 

Some of the moon's flora has taken on more of a predatory nature due to 
Freedon Nadd’s dark influence, attacking anyone approaching Nadd's tomb 
on foot. One such plant, called the crasna, stretches forth its tentacle-like 
vines and grabs invaders, pulling them into the canopy above to never be 
seen alive again. 

The moon's fauna consists of creatures that seem to be pulled from 
children's nightmares. The boma, for example, have a reputation of viciously 
attacking people, including Mandalorian warriors, and easily slaughtering 
them, and the zakkeg is a hulking reptilian creature known to strike fear in 
even the bravest of warriors. Dxun tomb beasts prowl the valley containing 
Nadd's tomb, hunting visitors in ferocious packs. 

One peculiar inhabitant of Dxun stands out from the rest: the orbalisk. 
The orbalisk is a parasitic creature whose diet mainly consists of the dark 
side of the Force. Whether this occurred naturally or as a result of Nadd's 
influence is not known. However, beings strong in the Force can attract 
swarms of orbalisks and allow them to attach to their skin to create a form 
of natural armor. 


KORRIBAN 
Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 7 

Length of Day: 28 hours 

Length of Year: 780 local days 
Sapient Species: None (formerly Sith) 
Government: None (formerly Dictatorship) 
Capital: Dreshdae 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC RESULT 

20 Korriban is a harsh and desolate planet located in the Outer Rim. It has 
an ill reputation and is avoided by most right-thinking people. 

25 Thousands of years ago, Korriban was populated by the Sith species. 
The Sith species created an academy to help train their numbers and 
teach them the ways of the dark side. 

30. Korriban is covered with ancient necropoli, vast cemeteries each con- 
sisting of hundreds of tombs, some located on the surface and others 
hidden underground. These tombs contain the remains of ancient Sith 
Lords and other powerful individuals associated with the dark side. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 

DC RESULT 

20 The citizens of Korriban were cruel and opportunistic. They considered 
themselves superior to other cultures, but were prone to infighting. 

25 Almost all of the inhabitants of Korriban belonged to the Sith species, 
and the population had a larger-than-average number of individuals 
sensitive to the Force. 

30 Korriban has a corrupting effect on those who stay too long on the 
surface, The dark side pervades the entire planet. 


Notable Locations 

Ancient and forbidding, Korriban has long been synonymous with the dark 
side. As the former homeworld of the Sith, Korriban is riddled with thousands 
of tombs, catacombs, caves, and temples dedicated to fallen Sith Lords from 
ages past. The planet is harsh and desolate, continually under the pall of the 
dark side, which has tainted every rock, plant, and animal. Its long history is 
full of evil acts, forbidden knowledge, and other terrible things. Depending on 
the era of the campaign, Korriban could either be bustling with activity or a 
desolate and lonely wasteland, haunted by the whispers of the dark side. 

When Korriban was populated, its capital was Dreshdae, a violent and 
despicable place where survival of the fittest held sway. After the Great Sith 
War, mercenaries were common in Dreshdae, in addition to smugglers and 
bounty hunters who found the lawless nature of the place suitable to their 
taste. During the time of the Old Republic, the notorious Czerka Corpora- 
tion established their sector headquarters on Korriban, instituting harsh 
discipline for their employees. Korriban became a hub of weapon smuggling 
during this time as well. 

The Sith Training Academy was located on the outskirts of Dreshdae, close 
to the Valley of the Dark Lords. It was a place where Sith were trained ina 
similar manner as the Jedi, with hundreds of students receiving instruction 
from Sith Masters. However, training was exceedingly dangerous; cheat- 
ing, subterfuge, and elimination of rivals was not only accepted but highly 
encouraged. Young students would often travel to Dreshdae during their down 


time, anxious to start fights with the locals or the bands of mercenaries that 
frequented the spaceport. 

The Valley of the Dark Lords is the most infamous place on Korriban. 
Closely located to the Sith Training Academy and the capital, Dreshdae, the 
valley is filled with huge, ominous statues and cyclopean tombs, many of 
which are partially buried in sand. Known tombs include those of the Sith 
Lords Tulak Hord, Ludo Kressh, Ajunta Pall, Marka Ragnos, and Naga Sadow. 
A tomb was even created for Darth Vader, although it was never used and 
was offered instead to the clone of Emperor Palpatine, These tombs are filled 
with all manner of traps, dangerous beasts, and the spirits of Sith Lords who 
take tremendous umbrage with tomb raiders. The Valley of the Dark Lords is 
a minor dark side site; however, the actual tombs themselves are major dark 
side sites, or in the case of Naga Sadow's tomb, extreme dark side sites. The 
tombs hold tremendous treasure, as well as temptation and corruption for 
all who enter. As one of the most sacred sites for the Sith, the Valley of the 
Dark Lords is a common destination for Sith seeking knowledge and power. 
The spirits of the Sith Lords are fickle and demanding, however, and few of 
these seekers have the willpower and command of the dark side to be deemed 
worthy for such instruction. More than a few aspiring Sith wind up entombed 
along with the moldering bones of the Sith Lords, their essence feeding the 
dark side that permeates the very foundations of the place. 


Inhabitants 

At one point, Korriban was the home to billions of Sith. Over the millennia, 
its population dwindled to nothing, as wars, infighting, and other conflicts 
tore the Sith apart. Although the Sith were notoriously xenophobic, large 
numbers of other species came to the planet, primarily composed of merce- 
naries, bounty hunters, and smugglers. Most of their activity was relegated to 
Dreshdae, however. Archaeologists, scientists, and other academics returned 
to the Valley of the Dark Lords several times over the millennia in order to 
excavate the tombs from the ever-encroaching sand. The Sith allowed this 
activity to take place, usually under heavily security and scrutiny. 

Korriban is notable for its aggressive and dangerous fauna. Due to the 
harshness of the planet, most of the planet's animals have migrated below 
ground, slowly mutating in the subterranean caverns and catacombs that 
riddle Korriban’s crust. The overall pall of the dark side has further corrupted 
these creatures, making them smarter, faster, and deadlier than would be 
expected. The dreaded terentatek (page 146) sits at the top of the food chain, 
while swarms of shyrack (page 140) pose a threat to most other species. Sith 
hounds (page 147) once employed by Sith Lords to serve as eternal guard- 
ians of their tombs and temples are sustained by the persistent power of the 
dark side. Hssiss (page 137) inhabit the rare swampy regions of Korriban, 
supporting the belief that vicious beasts inhabit every ecological niche of 
the planet. 


WA SSigvHo 


ONIAGALS 


evexrey 


“MIND WHAT YOU HAVE LEARNED. SAVE YOU, IT CAN.” 


Students come from all corners of the galaxy to study the ways of the Jedi. Under the guidance of talented Jedi Masters, 
these students gain knowledge of the Force and become the guardians of peace and justice. Yet the power of the dark side 
is ever-present, tempting reckless students to walk the path of evil. Your destiny is in your hands. Will you grow to become 
a powerful Jedi Knight, or succumb to the lure of the dark side? 


Visit our website at ~www.starwars.com 
www.wizards.com/starwars 


THE JEDI ACADEMY™ TRAINING MANUAL PRESENTS 
A VARIETY OF OPTIONS FOR BOTH PLAYERS AND 
GAMEMASTERS, INCLUDING: 


@ New talents, Force powers. and other options for Force-using heroes. 
@® [ypanded rules for lightsaber creation and customization. 
@® Descriptions of various Force-using traditions 


@® [Information on famous Jedi and dangerous villains that threaten the Jedi Order 


