Zo ROL 


& kt » 
- Pe 
Me 
KNIGHTS OF THE OLD 


ROONEY THOMPSON STERLING HERSHEY 


JOHN JACKSON MILLER 


KNIGHTS OF THE OLD REPUBLIC™ 
CAMPAIGN GUIDE 


RODNEY THOMPSON, STERLING HERSHEY, JOHN JACKSON MILLER, ABEL PENA 


CSARSPITS 


| Sapa By ) Sterling Hershey, John Jackson Miller, 


\ Abel Peria, Rodney Thompson 


| DEVELOPERS Rodney Thompson, Stephen Radney- 
. MacFarland, Peter Schaefer 


i 
| EDITOR Bradley Will 
f 
| EprrorSs Frank Parisi 
ila 
| DESIGN MANAGER 3 Christopher Perkins 
Neon eae eee — 


PRODUCTION MANAGERS 


ART DIRECTOR 


COVER DESIGNER 


GRAPHIC DESIGNER 


PRE-PRESS MANAGER 


Shari Overbay, Cynda Callaway 


Ryan Sansaver 


Soe Murayama 


Jino Choi, Breanne Miller 


Jefferson Dunlap 


5 GRAPHIC PRODUCTION 
MANAGING EDITOR Kim Mohan SPpEc Aties, ] Christopher Tardiff 
| DIRECTOR OF RPG R&D Bill Slavicsek Brian Snoddy, Christopher West, Drew Baker, Francis 
Xen chi : INTERIOR ARTISTS | 


Tsai, Franz Vohwinkel, Gonzalo Flores, Jonathan Hill, 
Miguel Coimbra, Rebecca A. Wrigley, Steve Argyle, 
Steve Ellis, Udon 


Paul Alexander Jacob, Mark Anderson, Tom Bowman, Christopher 

Bradshaw, Christina Bradshaw, Jeff Cain, Joe Carfley, lames Dale 

Bok, Oscar Cisneros, Sean Dearing, Brian Dupuis, Rob Farnsworth, 

| [PLayTesTeRs| Gregory Ferguson, Michel Fiallo-Perez, Ron Galicia, Tammy Gouker, 

———- / Brandon Gracyalny, Jeffrey Hole, Greg Jacob, Scott Jacobowitz, Elisa 

Jaeger, Kristin Karfley, Sean Kelley, Robert LeBeau, Craig 
Levengood, Constantin Lorenz, Steven Mading, Thomas Maguire, 
Andy Pete, Matt Pete, Mark Quinto, Bradley Rinehart, Isaiah Roggow, 
Barton Scott, Matthew Thompson, Paul Whitman, Roger Wilberg 


IMAGING TECHNICIAN Carmen Cheung 
} 


SPECIAL THANKS Leland Chee, Gary Sarli, Chris Tulach 


penne 


OIEGAGISs GAS BHA dO ShLHoiwa 


7 Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Ecilion Core Rulebook by 6 
Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip William's, Richard Baker, and Peter Ace 


erking, Owen K.C. Stentens, and Rodney Th 


npson. the original Dungeons & Dragons® rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Br 


This Wizards of the Coast* game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work mey be repraduce itt a 


U.S.. Canada, Asia, GREAT BRITAIN 

Pacific, & Latin America Hasbro UK Ltd © Coast. Be'gium 

Wizards of the Coast, Inc, Caswell Way 280 

P.0, Box 707 Newport, Gwent NP9 OYH ad 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRITAIN WWW. WIZARDS COM 
Questions? 1-800-324-6496 Pre: address for your records 


Dungeons & Dragons. d20 Sysie 
use of the material or ar 
© 2008 Wizards 


of Wizards of the Coast, inc. 
on of Wizards of tie Coast. inc 


ted States of Amecica. Any 
places, or events is purely caincide 


© logos are tr 
© eIpress Wi 


reproduction or unauthorized 
al. Printed in the U.S.A. 


CONTENTS 


[INTRODUCTION -..3 }| CHAPTER Vs: WEHICLES AND Peragus Il ...........-..-. 121 Senator Haydel Goravvus ...176 
° ~ I STARSHIPS ...90 Tails: + savcanciaeavareaneas 122 Commander Carth Onasi....177 
f Telerath.......--2..00005 122 ton Rand............... 17 
CHAPTER: SPeces ....8 Ground Vehicles.............. 92 one eran . 
Speeder Bik 99 TelOS Wis oe sen tneideteiom tes 123 AQMD s.g2hetiadd aad eu duegies 179 
Species Characteristics......... 9 p a i ak Planetary Updates........... 123 Weapons................00- 180 
: AITSQCCUEIS ies cra rinewna ns 95 . 
Arkanian. c.cccesevck ca veeees 10 Startiqht. gs : Starships.............0.000- 180 
Cathar... 0. .cceecceeeeee ees 12 ee ees | CHIRK: THe Yeo. 128 ; 
S-100 Stinger-class : J ; f) 
Draethos..............0.204. 12 : i CHAPTER Xll: 
Feeorin 3 Starfighter ............. 95 Knights of the og ele ye 
Weil elec 1 Star Saber XC-01........... 96 Galactic Republic ........ 131 —— » 
uahenee uber ie Space Transports............. 96 Guardians of Using the Mandalorians...... 188 
Kissai and Massassi..........- 15 . : 
pivaluies 16 578-R Space Transport ...... 98 Peace and Justice ........ 134 The Scattering. ............. 191 
aes ape Fee = G-Type Light Shuttle........ 98 Ulic Qel-Droma...........- 134 Mandalorian Personnel....... 191 
Sel ath ee an 18 Lethisk-class Zayne Carrick............. 135 Mandalorian Personalities ....194 
aay ee ee ek 19 Armed Freighter......... 99 Lucien Draay...........05. 136 Bendak Starkiller.......... 194 
een sens Pelagia Duplex Command BastilaShan..............137 Demagol.................195 
ary: } Assault Gunship........ 100 Glee: BindOiss wasmieyscied 138 Rohlan Dyre.............- 196 
| CHAPTER: HEROIC | ; 
) es son Quartermaster-class UREN. ctignriencecamidiies 138 Cassus Fett............... 197 
‘ a ae : Supply Carrier.......... 100 Vandar Tokare............, 139 Mandalore the Indomitable .198 
The Heroic Classes............ 24 | Capital Ships ............... 101 he Jedt Exile: occ ccsiesys 140 Mandalore the Ultimate ....199 
ShillS nw Aadawenertbondawens 30 Praetorian-class Frigate ....101 Visas Marr...........-.005 140 Canderous Ordo, Mandalore 
FeatSyaaiicanrs ede scams 2 31 : US ex. Ge a senad circ s i eoneones 141 the Preserver......... 200 
’ ( CHAPTER VII: CAMPAIGN Celeste Morne ............ 142 AtMOfina aioe eeagueiacrece 201 
| CHAPTER II: PRESTIGE i GUIDELINES. . 102 StarshitS.. cil aaveeeatwns 143 Melee Weapons............. 202 
CLASSES..... 36 DiOld Sis sci Adnwals cane nes 202 
Abundance of Force-Users....103 , 
; eerie : CHAPIERX: THe S . 144 StarshiPSanciaceedaseanceund 
New Prestige Class Talents. .... 38 1 Civilization Under Siege...... 105 pena: ] cue ave 
ige Classes 22... ing the Sith .............. 1 eR ae — a a 
New Prestige Classes 4 Constant Warfare Nrbadees 28 106 Using t ne Sith 46 | | CHPERYI: ALLIES AND 
Corporate Agent............ 4 Mysterious Enemies ......... 108 The Legions of the Sith....... 147 Se cpolictoee ane 
Gladiator... 0... eee 43 New Powers on the Rise...... 110 Agents of Evil............04. 152 : 
Melee Duelist.............. 46 Timeline ............ee eee 112 EXAC KUN seta cia keene 153 Notable Personalities ....... 209 
, | High Lady Brezwalt ........ 153 Lord Arkoh Adasca........ 209 
__ CHAPTER W's THE FORCE. 48 iH CHAPIERVII: GALACTIC Darth Revan.............. 154 Brianna 
re iF GAZETTEER... 114 Darth Malak.............. 155 {The Last Handmaiden) . .210 
Force Powers... .......000008 50 | 
Darth Bandon............. 156 Cale NOt. ccccerecennae ae 211 
Force Talents................ 52 Planets of the Old Republic ...115 ; i " 
: fe Admiral Saul Karath........ 157 Marn “The Gryph 
Force Techniques............. 53 Alpheridies 115 F 
: eee : Darth Traya............0-. 158 Hierogryph............ 211 
Jedi Organizations............ 54 Arkania............ ....116 : 
Other Faree-Using Taditione... 57 Relnar ie Darth Sion..........20000, 159 GO-T0 (Goto) ............. 212 
_ oo Darth Nihilus ............. 160 Ae eee ee ee eee 212 
= Cadomai Prime............ 117 Starshing 161 Jara 913 
CHAPTER Y: EQUIPMENT Cathar..... 2... cece eee 17 ae Ne an a oe Pi te ee aid 
AND DROIDS ..62 Draethos........-....000. TR) 0 ee Ne Cee ee 
-_ 7 Hantowine 18 = en Mission Va0 ............05 215 
Melee Weapons.............. 64 Stes ae eee 118 CHAPTER Xt | Dob and Del Moomo....... 215 
Ranged Weapons............. 67 ai eee pn 119 THE REPUBLIC 166 TO AM 4 ist che etvedy gates 216 
ae we eti le gi tet eN . Lehon..........055- »...119 Using the Republic .......... 169 Po were gee eee 
enone . Sie ee 46 Malachor V 2.2119 The Senate...............4. 171 St - pee 220 
se EMPALE Pee eine ts 4 Manaan 120 Republic Personnel .......... 171 D a Meee east rng aaa 
rae ea ene a? OdF YR paws ebee ben ceetess 120 Republic Personalities........ 176 ee op ee 994 
| Onderon .........- 0.0.0 es 121 BAO-DOb se oat cess tia sine 176 es ee 


+ 


= 


LNaLNOD 


= 


assaf 


SNe) 


eee 


NASH G0 sht deo shh 


Sia 


INTRODUCTION 


>. 


ty ae 
. ae oy 

" - 
| 
= 


: SS a 

During the era of the Old Republic, Jedi battle against Sith Lords, Mandalo- 
rian warriors raid Outer Rim worlds, and the Republic struggles to fight off 
enemies at every turn. Smugglers dodge Sith warships and bluff their way 
past Republic customs agents, while bounty hunters and mercenaries play 
both sides of every conflict for the greatest profit. Soldiers fight on distant 
battlefields and defend planets close to home. Vast empires rise, fall, and 
are reborn. This is the time of the Knights of the Old Republic campaign, and 
it is one of the most exciting periods in all Star Wars continuity. 

In these years of conflict, your heroes have limitless opportunities to 
become part of the galaxy's salvation—or its destruction. It is a time of 
constant warfare, when peace has become little more than a memory and 
survival is threatened by armies in all parts of the galaxy. It is a time when 
the Jedi are in abundance, fighting on all fronts, only to be whittled down 
to near extinction over the course of several conflicts. It is a time when 
civilization is under siege; warlords and Force-users struggle to unmake the 
Republic and sow the seeds of chaos. It is a time of mysterious enemies and 
sudden betrayals, when allies turn to foes, and you never see the lightsaber 
until it is buried in your back. It is a time when new powers are on the rise, 
and anyone can ascend to greatness. 

A Knights of the Old Republic campaign calls for heroes. A hero might be a 
Jedi Knight, sworn to protect the Republic but reeling from losses in previous 
wars. Another hero might be a Republic soldier on the front lines of battle, 
fighting with every ounce of effort to hold the line against Mandalorian 
invaders. One hero might be an arms dealer smuggling weapons to resis- 
tance cells on Sith-controlled worlds, while another might be a hyperspace 
explorer that stumbles across a secret rallying point for the forces of the 
Republic. A hero might be a corporate agent overseeing the construction 
of vital defense systems, or a Jedi Shadow working behind the scenes to 
bring down a sinister villain. Whatever your hero's history and specialty, 
the Knights of the Old Republic campaign is rife with opportunities to send 
ripples of influence throughout the galaxy. 


THE OLD REPUBLIC 
ERA 


The Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide focuses on the period 
between the Great Sith War and the final destruction of the old Sith Empire. 
During this time, the galaxy is embroiled in one war after another, and the Jedi 
are all but wiped out. Gamemasters have several choices for when, specifi- 
cally, they might set a Knights of the Old Republic campaign. The following 
section describes the major conflicts and eras of this time. 


NOILINGOMLNI 


DINSNAasy A210 SHA AO SLHOING 


Sein) 


NOPLINGOeLMNt 


w 
z || 
@ > 
a0 
J 
0) 
9) 
a) 
J 
x 
W 
@ 
PP 
7) 
PD 
W 
7 
ie 
D 
C 
Q 


THE GREAT SITH WAR 
(4,000-3,996 BBY) 

The Great Sith War begins with the fall of two Jedi students to the dark 
side: Exar Kun and Ulic Qel-Droma. The spirit of an ancient Sith Lord, Marka 
Ragnos, tempts the two Jedi and trains them in ancient teachings of the Sith. 
Flush with power, the two new Sith Lords lead the forces of the Krath—a 
dark-side cult founded on the Deep Core world of Empress Teta—in a war 
against the Republic. As the galaxy becomes embroiled in a conflict between 
the Sith and the Republic, many Jedi fight on either side of the battle. Some 
defend the Republic from their former comrades, while others are tempted 
by the lure of the dark side. 

The Great Sith War takes an interesting turn with lasting repercussions 
when Ulic Qel-Droma vanquishes Lord Mandalore in single combat. This 
binds the Mandalorian clans to the Sith Lord, and he uses their prowess 
and numbers to redouble the Sith war effort. With both the Krath and the 
Mandalorians at their command, the Sith ravage the galaxy and deal the 
Republic blow after blow, staggering their forces. As more and more Sith 
train on the planet Korriban, thousands of Jedi die at the hands of Krath 
and Mandalorian forces. 

The tide turns once more in favor of the Republic as the brothers Ulic 
and Cay Qel-Droma engage in a vicious duel on Ossus. After slaying Cay, a 
despondent Ulic surrenders to the Jedi Nomi Sunrider. Following his capture, 
the Republic begins an offensive that drives the forces of the Sith back, 
eventually shattering the Krath forces, routing the Mandalorians, and scat- 
tering the few remaining Sith to the farthest reaches of the galaxy. Crippled 
by the prolonged war effort, the Republic cannot pursue the Sith forces, and 
Korriban remains under Sith control. 


THE RESTORATION PERIOD 
(3,995-3,966 BBY) 

The Great Sith War is a devastating event that causes more damage than 
any conflict since the Great Hyperspace War a thousand years before. 
The Jedi Order, greatly depleted, turns inward to heal itself, increasing the 
responsibilities of a Republic that is barely standing. Piracy is rampant. Trade 
routes, which had been blazed and developed over centuries at enormous 
cost, require redevelopment at nearly every stop. Nearly one quarter of the 
civilized worlds in the Republic have been devastated by the conflict, and 
most worlds are left on their own to rebuild as the Republic's resources are 
depleted. 

With the Republic itself on the verge of collapse for over a decade fol- 
lowing the war, a group of politicians put into motion a series of events that 
eventually restores the Republic to its prior strength. By guaranteeing the 
various corporations throughout the galaxy safe passage and trade along 
the space lanes in exchange for commercial investment in the Republic's 
infrastructure, the Republic is able to rebuild its military and provide much- 


needed goods to the devastated people of the galaxy. Hyperspace explorers 
once again began scouting the galaxy in earnest, discovering newer and safer 
routes. Across the galaxy, planets begin to rebuild, commerce resumes, and 
the Republic's military might is reestablished. 

The enemies of the Republic are far from inactive during this time, how- 
ever. The Sith who had fled back to Korriban bide their time and keep a low 
profile, while those who had fled to the Unknown Regions practice their dark 
arts in secret. The Mandalorians continue their nomadic existence, rebuilding 
their ranks and continuing the Mandalorian tradition. Though the Sith would 
remain silent for a time, the Mandalorians marshal their forces in secret for 
a return to the galactic stage. 


THE MANDALORIAN WARS 
(3,965-3,960 BBY) 

The first battles of the Mandalorian Wars begin nearly a year before the 
Mandalorians' major invasion. The nomadic mercenary army begins testing 
the rebuilt Republic's defenses by raiding Outer Rim worlds and interrupting 
trade routes, forcing the Republic to push its resources further than they were 
prepared for. When the Republic has been stretched thin across the Outer Rim, 
the Mandalorians launch a major offensive, invading worlds and devastat- 
ing the Republic military in battle after battle. As the Mandalorians launch 
focused strikes against the Republic's poorly defended targets, chaos spreads 
throughout a Republic that fears the devastation of the Great Sith War. 

After a series of military failures, the Republic once again turns to the 
Jedi Order for aid. Having been hit tne hardest by the casualties of the Great 
Sith War, the Jedi Order refuses, at first, to join the military effort. How- 
ever, among the Jedi are a few who cannot stand by while the Mandalorian 
invasion batters at the Republic's defenses, including a powerful Jedi called 
Revan. Revan leads other like-minded Jedi into battle once more, despite the 
Order's directive that they should not be involved. After victories against the 
Mandalorians, even more Jedi flock to Revan's call. Over time, the Republic 
cedes control of many of its military assets to the Jedi, and the Mandalorian 
Wars begin in full. 

As battles rage across the galaxy, Mandalorians win victories against 
the Republic and the Republic reclaims territories lost to the Mandalorians. 
Quickly, Jedi such as Revan and his apprentice, Malak, become war heroes. 
After years of violent conflict, the Republic finally manages to repel the Man- 
dalorians with a devastating victory at Malachor V. There, the Mandalorian 
forces are nearly wiped out. The surviving Mandalorians go into exile, and 
the Jedi are heralded as saviors of the Republic. Surprisingly, though, Revan 
and Malak gather the remnants of their fleets and flee into the Unknown 
Regions. For a short few months, peace reigns in the Republic once more, 
but questions surround the departure of the Jedi. 


THE JEDI CiviL WAR 
(3,9859-3,93956 BBY) 

Celebration of victory over the Mandalorians soon turns bitter when Revan 
and Malak return from the Unknown Regions at the head of a massive Sith 
Armada. Darth Revan and Darth Malak, now Dark Lords of the Sith, quickly 
reclaim the planet Korriban, seize control of a large swath of Republic 
space and declare themselves the leaders of a new Sith Empire. While in the 
Unknown Regions, Revan and Malak steep themselves in the teachings of 
those Sith who had been defeated in the Great Sith War, and empowered by 
the Jedi victories in the Mandalorian Wars they set out to conquer the galaxy. 
The Sith military continue their assaults on Republic worlds, conquering one 
planet after another, embroiling the galaxy in conflict once more. 

Even though the Republic military that travel with Revan and Malak have 
long since been corrupted by the dark side, upon their return they are joined 
by many other Republic loyalists. Former comrades-in-arms now fight one 
another in desperate battles. A Republic already damaged by the Mandalorian 
Wars struggles to fight of f a new enemy made up of their former allies. Many 
worlds voluntarily join the Sith, believing that because Revan and Malak saved 
them from the Mandalorians they are more fit to lead than the Republic. 
Revan recruits to his cause those Jedi who will follow him, and he attacks 
the rest, forcing the Jedi to choose between joining the Sith or death. 

A Jedi strike force alters the course of the Jedi Civil War by boarding 
a starship controlled by Revan and Malak, engaging the two Sith Lords in 
combat. Malak turns on his master, and Revan is struck down, only to be 
saved by a young Jedi named Bastila Shan. A captive of the Jedi, Revan’s 
memory is erased and his identity rebuilt as a loyal agent of the Republic. 
This ruse does not last long, and soon Revan rediscovers who he is and what 
he has done. Rejecting his former self and embracing the way of the light, 
Revan retraces his steps and discovers a massive artifact known as the Star 
Forge, aboard which he duels and vanquishes his former apprentice, Malak, 
ending the Jedi Civil War. 


THE DARK WARS 
(32,955-3,95!1 BBY) 
After Darth Malak's defeat at the Battle of Rakata Prime, the forces of the 
Sith fall into chaos. Retreating from continued attacks by the Republic, 
the Sith Empire fragments into hundreds of smaller territories ruled over 
by Sith warlords. The few remaining Dark Lords of the Sith fight with one 
another over the scraps of their Empire, damaging themselves as much as 
the Republic. While the Republic rebuilds its forces, the Sith seem content 
to eradicate themselves, as each Dark Lord of the Sith becomes determined 
to be the new leader of the Sith Empire. 

Though the Sith are at war with themselves, a small number of Sith Lords 
band together to form new leadership for their crumbling Empire. Three Sith 
Lords, Darth Nihilus, Darth Sion, and Darth Traya, decide to restore their 


former power by eliminating. the greatest threat facing the Sith: the Jedi 
Order. Over the course of several months, these Sith Lords dispatch assas- 
sins and strike forces to eliminate the few remaining members of the Jedi 
Order. In the middle of the Dark Wars, the Jedi order collapses and only a 
few survivors escape death at the hands of the Sith. 

The Sith Triumvirate eliminates the Jedi and seizes control of the failing 
Sith Empire, planning to reclaim lost territory and launch a united offensive 
once more. However, these plans are dashed when a Jedi survivor slays all 
three members of the Sith Triumvirate and helps eliminate the last of the 
Sith threat. At the end of the Dark Wars, the Jedi survivors begin to rebuild 
their Order, the Republic solidifies its forces, and the galaxy is once again 
peaceful and prosperous. 


“LOOK, EVERYBODY 
ALWAYS FIGURES 
THE TIME THEY 
LIVE IN IS THE 
MOST EPIC, MOST 
IMPORTANT AGE 

TO END ALL AGES. 

BuT TYRANTS 

AND HEROES RISE 
AND FALL, AND 

HISTORIANS SORT 

OUT THE PIECES." 


—-JOLEE BINDO 


"NOILONGGULNI. 


~ 
Z 
@ 
: 
@ 
U 
qt | 
alg 
W) 
Om: 
PrP 
0 
y 
W 
9 
Cc 
O 
c 
Q 


CHAPTER I: 
SPECIES 


In the days of the Old Republic, as in all Star Wars eras, a variety of species 
thrive throughout the galaxy. Even though Humans dominate the galactic 
governments and corporations, many other species hold prominent positions 
of power. The colonization of the galaxy expands during this era, however the 
number of inhabited worlds is comparatively fewer than in the classic era. 
Less common species live on Republic worlds, but they are likely to be fewer in 
number, and reside in their own enclaves. 

Relations between species are more varied than during the classic era. Some 
worlds have few conflicts, with each species considering others more or less 
their equal. On other planets, species in the minority might be restricted to 
certain areas or have fewer rights than the dominant species. This might be true 
even on planets that consider themselves to be among the most civilized in the 
galaxy. Non-Human species on the planet Taris, for instance, are not welcome 
in the Upper City during certain periods of this era. Characters might find their 
efforts and adventures hampered by such attitudes, but players might find such 
conflicts useful points for their character backgrounds. 

Any of the common species available during the Rise of the Empire era are 
suitable for a Knights of the Old Republic campaign. However, primitive species 
such as Gungans and Ewoks leave their homeworlds only in rare and unusual 
circumstances. The remaining species presented in the Saga Edition core rule- 
book, along with the species presented in this chapter, are all appropriate for 
a Knights of the Old Republic campaign. 


SPECIES 
CHARACTERISTICS 


Your character's species determines some of his or her qualities. 


ABILITY ADUUSTMENTS 

Find your character's species on the table below and apply the adjustments 
indicated to your character's ability scores. Use the last two tables to help 
determine age, height, weight, and any related adjustments to your character. 
See the Saga Edition core rulebook for additional information. 


KNOWN LANGUAGES 

In addition to the languages described in the Saga Edition core rulebook, 
Arkanian and Snivvian are considered common languages in the galaxy. Other 
languages might be more common in specific regions of the galaxy. For instance, 
the Mandalorians bring Mando'a to the worlds they conquer. Except for the 
earliest period of the original Sith Empire, the Sith of this era rely on Basic and 
their own native languages rather than any common Sith tongue. 


| eSastcagvHo 


ssais3s¢ds . 


TABLE i-1: SPECIES TABLE 1-2: AVERAGE 


ABILITY ADUUSTMENTS HEIGHT AND WEIGHT 
SPECIES ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS SPECIES HEIGHT WEIGHT 
Arkanian +2 Int, -2 Cha Arkanian 1.8 m 75 kg 
Arkanian Offshoot +2 Str or +2 Dex, -2 Con Arkanian Offshoot 1.8m 75 kg 
Cathar +2 Dex, -2 Int Cathar 17m 85 kg 
Draethos +2 Con, -2 Cha Draethos 8m 70 kg 
Feeorin +2 Str, -2 Dex, +2 Con, -2 Wis, -2 Cha Feeorin 2.2m 125 kg 
Khil -2 Con, +2 Int, +2 Cha Khil 1.5m 60 kg 
Kissai -2 Wis, +2 Cha Kissai 1.8m 90 kg 
Massassi +4 Str, -2 Int, -2 Wis, -2 Cha Massassi 1.9m 95 kg 
Miraluka -2 Dex, +2 Int Miraluka 1.8m 75 kg 
Rakata +2 Int, -2 Wis Rakata 2.0m 85 kg 
Selkath +2 Cha Selkath 1.5m 60 kg 
Snivvian +2 Wis Snivvian 14m 55 kg 


TABLE 1-3: AGE BY SPECIES 


YOUNG MIDDLE 

SPECIES CHILD ADULT ADULT AGE OLD VENERABLE 
Arkanian ]-12 years 13-18 19-44 45-76 Wd=99) 100+ 
g Arkanian Offshoot 1-8 years 9-13 14-30 31-45 46-55 56+ 
Ww Cathar 1-10 years 11-15 16-40 41-62 63-79 80+ 
| : Draethos ]-12 years 43-17 18-399 400-699 700-780 781+ 
im) Feeorin 1-11 years 12-16 17-194 195-324 325-399 400+ 
| Khil 1-10 years 11-15 16-49 50-74 75-89 90+ 
Kissai 1-10 years 11-15 16-30 31-42 43-59 60+ 
Massassi 1-10 years 11-13 14-25 26-35 36-50 51+ 
| Miraluka 1-11 years 12-15 16-44 45-69 70-84 85+ 
UW Rakata 1-11 years 2-16 17-50 51-69 70-79 80+ 
Selkath 1-10 years 11-15 16-54 55-84 85-99 100+ 
Snivvian 1-11 years 42-17 18-49 50-79 80-105 106+ 


academicians and scientists. It is therefore not surprising that Arkania would 


ARKANIAN become a main repository of the history of the Sith Empire, as well as home 
Arkanian society and history are among the most complex in the Old Republic. to vast libraries of information from across the galaxy. 

At different times in its history, Arkania has belonged to both the Republic Arkanians are not afraid to profit from their research and high intelligence. 
and the Sith Empire and played important roles in each. Knowledge and Arkanian corporations amass wealth by bringing key medical treatments and 


research are extremely important to the Arkanians, and they are highly skilled technology to the market at opportune times. Many in the galaxy find the 


Arkanians arrogant and aloof. 
They are horrified by the 
direction of some Arkanian 
research, particularly their 
work in genetic engineering. 
Indeed, the Arkanians are 
known to have transformed 
entire species over the course 
of generations, often to the 
detriment of the species. 

Even the Arkanian species 
itself has not been off-limits 
to research and genetic engi- 
neering. Specific subspecies, 
such as Arkanian Offshoots, 
were engineered for specific 
tasks. However, the Offshoots 
are less hardy and shorter 
lived than the original Arka- 
nians—a trait not helped by occasional attempts by racist Purebloods to wipe 
them out. They also differin physical appearance, typically in skin tone, eyes, 
and ears. Reactions to Offshoots vary within Arkanian society. Much to the 
horror of the occasional outsiders who visit Offshoot communities, some 
Arkanians regard them as merely tools or as a slave species. However, such 
feelings are not universal. Many regard the Offshoots as an example of the 
cruel consequences of Arkanian corporate greed. 

Personality: Arkanians are arrogant and regard themselves superior to 
all other species. Even those with a more moderate viewpoint still believe 
themselves to be among the more intelligent beings in the galaxy. As such, 
they prefer the company of fellow Arkanians. Arkanian Offshoots do not 
share this arrogant attitude. They are highly confident in their own abilities, 
nonetheless. 

Physical Description: Both Arkanians and Offshoots are bipedal human- 
oids with near Human appearance. Arkanian eyes have no visible iris or pupil, 
a trait not shared by the Offshoots. The Offshoots have pure white skin and 
might display other lesser genetic anomalies. The Arkanians also have only 
four clawed digits, whereas the Offshoots’ hands have five fingers. 

Homeworld: The frigid and inhospitable world of Arkania, in the Perave 
System of the Colonies Region. Offshoots who have left Arkania are scattered 
across the galaxy, hiding in the lower reaches of society. 

Languages: Arkanians speak their native tongue of Arkanian, as well as 
Basic. Offshoots speak Basic and a slightly different Arkanian dialect based 
on an older version of the language. 

Example Names: Arkoh Adasca, Dolvan Genarik, Jaro Salaban, Kalor 
Nelprin, Marael Kortva, Sulan Bek. 

Example Offshoot Names: Edessa, Gorman Vandrayk, Jarael, Zadawi. 


Adventurers: Arkanian heroes are typically nobles, scouts, or scoundrels. 
Many attempt to counter the reputation that all Arkanians are greedy, out-of- 
control scientists out to change the galaxy to benefit Arkanian corporations. 
Even Jedi Arkanians meet with skepticism and distrust, despite their position. 
Arkanian Offshoots are typically any non-Jedi class that complements the 
task they were engineered for. However, most offworld Offshoots soon gain 
levels in scoundrel, just to survive. 


ARKANIAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Arkanians share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, —-2 Charisma. 

Medium Size: As medium creatures, Arkanians have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Arkanian base speed is 6 squares. 

Darkvision: Arkanians ignore concealment (including total concealment) 
from darkness. However, they cannot perceive colors in total darkness. 

Intellectual Reputation: Arkanian prominence in the galaxy makes 
many individuals more willing to go along with their ideas. An Arkanian can 
use his or her Intelligence modifier in place of the Charisma modifier on 
Persuasion checks. 

Flash of Genius: Arkanians have moments of brilliance. Once per 
encounter, an Arkanian can add a +5 circumstance bonus to the result of 
one Knowledge, Mechanics, or Use Computer skill check. 

Automatic Languages: Arkanian and Basic. 


ARKANIAN OFFSHOOT SPECIES 
TRAITS 
Arkanian offshoots share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity or +2 Strength, -2 Constitution. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Arkanian Offshoots have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Arkanian Offshoot base speed is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Arkanian Offshoots are typically engineered 
for specific industrial tasks. They gain the Skill Focus feat for one of the 
following skills in which they are trained: Endurance, Mechanics, Pilot, 
Survival, or Treat Injury. 

Determination: Arkanian Offshoots are particularly determined and 
driven. Once per encounter, they can reroll one failed skill check with a 
trained skill. This reroll can be declared after the success or failure of the 
roll is known. The Arkanian offshoot must take the result of the second roll. 
A skill check is considered a failure only when the check fails to meet the 
minimum DC for any kind of success. 

Automatic Languages: Arkanian and Basic. 


| 
| 


Qo 
I 
> 
% 
4 
ah 
7 


Seledas 


| SStadvuend 


SHesAs 


CATHAR 


The Cathar are a proud, passionate, and loyal species of bipedal feline 
humanoids, well known for their long-standing friendships and ferocity in 
battle. They dwell in large city-trees, each meticulously carved with friezes 
depicting the city’s heroes and history. The planet Cathar is a wild place, 
with many ecological nichés and huge insect predators. The Cathar easily 
hold their own, aided by their natural claws and passionate combat ability. 
Physically, the Cathar vary greatly in size and features. Some are muscular, 
with pronounced manes and beards, but others have Humaniike proportions, 
with fine, short hair covering their bodies. 

Cathar have high moral values, learned from family and society. As such, 
Force-sensitive Cathar often become Jedi, though they know the Jedi way 
to be in direct opposition to their natural instincts. Cathar know all too well 
the story of Crado’s fall to the dark side under Exar Kun. However they might 
find strength in fact that Crado’s mate was able to turn away from the dark 
path and regain the Jedi way. 

How Cathar are viewed in the galaxy depends on the exact time frame of 
the game. A nonaligned Rimworld, Cathar is devastated in the Mandalorian 
Wars prior to the Mandalorian invasion of the Republic. Remnants of the 
species flee offworld to survive. The extent of the massacre on this remote 
world remains unknown to the Republic until an expedition led by Revan 
brings the atrocity to the attention of the galaxy at large, winning him the 
support of many Jedi. The Cathar begin resettling their planet after the 
Mandalorian Wars, working to rebuild their society. Cathar survivors find 
sympathy on Republic worlds after Revan’s discovery, but many are too 
proud to use defeat to their advantage. Prior to the battle, the Cathar are 
treated as any other species 
in the galaxy. 

Personality: Cathar are 
moral and passionate crea- 
tures with strong ties to tra- 
dition and family. They have 
great passion in all emotions, 
with love and hate holding 
equal strength. Despite their 
reputation, Cathar are even~ 
tempered, but do not hesitate 
to act when needed. 

Physical Description: 
Cathar have leonine features, 
the distinctiveness of which 
varies by individual. Males 
have large manes, short 
beards, and tusks jutting from 
the lower jaw. Females have 


smaller manes but impressive fangs along the upper jaw. Cathar coloration 
ranges from light yellow to dark beige, sometimes accented with dark 
stripes. 

Homeworld: Prior to the Battle of Cathar, most hail from their Cathar 
itself. After the battle, Cathar find refuge on most any Republic world. 

Languages: Cathar speak Catharese and Basic, using low growls and 
similar sounds to emphasize their point. 

Example Names: Crado, Elashi, Feeth, Ferroh, Juhani, Larducias, Marn- 
shara, Nodon, Nonak, Stragos, Sulvar, Tinisho. 

Adventurers: Cathar adventures can be of any heroic class. Force- 
sensitive Cathar often become Jedi. Cathar scoundrels are relatively rare, 
for even they cannot escape their own instinctive morals. Such scoundrels 
create their own rules to live by. 


CATHAR SPECIES TRAITS 
Cathar share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Intelligence. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Cathar have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Cathar base speed is 8 squares. 

Natural Weapons: A Cathar has natural weapons, in the form of razor- 
sharp claws. When a Cathar makes an unarmed attack, it may choose to use 
its natural weapons, dealing 1d6 points of slashing damage with that attack 
instead of normal unarmed damage. Cathar are always considered armed 
with their natural weapons. 

Reactive Claw: Once per encounter when a Cathar damages an opponent 
with a melee attack, the Cathar can make a single melee attack with its 
natural weapons against that target as a swift action. The Cathar must have 
one hand free at the time to make this attack (and thus cannot be wielding 
a weapon two-handed]. 

Cathar Instincts: Climb and Stealth are class skills for Cathar. 

Automatic Languages: Catharese and Basic. 


DRAETHOS 
Draethos are long-lived humanoids from a little known, largely secret world 
in the Outer Rim. When on their homeworld, Draethos are fierce and unrepen- 
tant warriors. They are ruled by haughty, spoiled aristocrats more interested 
in local affairs than galactic politics. The warriors spend their time perfecting 
their skills and hunting fierce predators on their homeworld of Thosa. 
Draethos residing offworld are usually exiles who chose not to become 
warriors, each for his or her own reason. Thus, they are highly intelligent 
and pacifistic. Exiled Draethos become enthralled with learning as much as 
they can, though they might never practically apply their detailed knowl- 
edge of a given subject. They distike debate—even on subjects they know 
extremely well—because Draethos fear overlooking details or being unable to 


adequately explain what they 
have learned. Older Drae- 
thos eventually overcome this 
barrier. 

Partly due to their long 
ives, Draethas society is slow 
to evolve and relies heavily on 
radition. Attitudes developed 
before the Knights of the Old 
Republic era remain central to 
Draethos society thousands 
of years later. The stabil- 
ity of the Draethos culture 
cause exiled Draethos to have 
trouble understanding the 
complex and relatively rapid 
changes in alien societies. 

Personality: The typical 
personalities of the Draethos 
vary greatly between offworld residents and those remaining on Thosa. 
Exiles are highly intelligent, but socially inept. They avoid conflict whenever 
possible. Draethos living on their homeworld live up to their fierce and 
aggressive reputations. 

Physical Description: A Draethos’s most prominent feature is a lipless 
mouth, which creates the illusion of a large overbite. Their tightly muscled 
humanoid bodies are covered in a scaly skin ranging from violet to mauve 
to gray. Their hands are clawlike, contributing to the Draethos’s skeletal 
appearance, 

Homeworld: Few offworlders know the exact location of the Outer 
Rim world Thosa, the Draethos homeworld. It features jagged, windswept 
mountains and deep, sprawling cave systems. 

Languages: Draethos is an erratic-sounding language full of harsh clicks 
and sighs. Exiled Draethos also quickly learn Basic and any other languages 
common to the region. 

Example Names: Odan-Urr, Omal-Zan, Uval-Nor, Shal-Orl, Tyan-Ruu. 

Adventurers: Draethos on Thosa are primarily soldiers, with a few noble 
leaders. Force-users follow ancient and mysterious Draethos force traditions. 
Exiled Draethos can belong to any class, and a few have gone on to join the 
ranks of the Jedi. 


DRAETHOS SPECIES TRAITS 
Draethos share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Charisma. 

Medium Size: As medium creatures, Draethos have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 


Speed: Draethos base speed is 6 squares. 

Natural Armor: The Draethos's tough skin provides a +1 natural armor 
bonus to their Reflex Defense. 

Natural Telepath: A Draethos gains a +5 species bonus using the Telepa- 
thy aspect of the Use the Force skill and can make untrained Use the Force 
checks to use this application even without the Force Sensitivity feat. 

Bonus Feat: Draethos gain Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weap- 
ons) as a bonus feat. 

Low-Light Vision: Draethos ignore concealment from darkness (but not 
total concealment). 

Automatic Languages: Draethos. Exiled Draethos also gain Basic for 
free. 


FEEORIN 
In the Knights of the Old 
Republic era, the Feeorin 
are known to come from the 
planet Odryn, a planet of 
severe climatic extremes. 
Little else is known about 
the world, given the closed 
nature of Feeorin society. Few 
Feeorin venture from their 
homeworld, and those few 
outsiders who have survived 
a visit there tell of a world 
well suited for the Feeorin but 
nobody else. 

Feeorin are massive 
humanoids whose aging pro- 
cess allows them to grow 
stronger and more powerful 
until they die, dropping dead 
suddenly of old age. Because they are long-lived, they have ample time to 
gather and use their strength. Feeorin who travel offworld typically select 
careers compatible with their self-serving and aggressive nature. Feeorin 
encountered on their homeworld display a greater range of personality 
and motivation. In either case, Feeorin do not seek out acquaintance with 
members of other species. 

Personality: Feeorin are reputed to be brutal and dangerous. While 
this is not entirely the case, they are quick to anger and highly impersonal. 
They typically place their own affairs above others, causing other species 
to regard them as Selfish. 

Physical Description: Feeorin are massive, highly muscled humanoids 
standing over 2 meters tall. Their skin tones vary wildly, from coal black to 


ets) 


0 
I 
> 
u 
4 
WI 
2 


Snogdes 


1esaeres 


Salesges 


pale white but are more commonly green, yellow, or blue. Half-meter-long 
tendrils hang from the sides and backs of their head. They also have bright 
red eyes. 

Homeworld: The harsh Quter Rim world of Odryn, but this knowledge is 
lost by the classic era. 

Languages: Feeorin speak and read their own language, as well as 
Basic. : 

Example Names: Brai, Crayl, Dod, Dreyla, Feln, Kren, Nor, Nym, Pryn, 
Sayla, Zun. 

Adventurers: Feeorin adventurers are typically soldiers or scoundrels. 
Force-users are uncommon, though some have become Jedi Knights and 
Masters. 


FEEORIN SPECIES TRAITS 
Feeorin share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity, +2 Constitution, -2 
Wisdom, -2 Charisma. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Feeorin have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Feeorin base speed is 6 squares. 

Brutal: Feeorin are vicious combatants who do not hesitate to strike 
vulnerable areas or fight dirty. Once per encounter, after making a successful 
melee attack, a Feeorin may treat its opponents damage threshold as though 
it were 5 points lower when determining the result of the attack. 

Great Fortitude: Feeorin gain a +2 species bonus to their Fortitude 
Defense, accounting for their great physical condition. 

Inborn Resilience: Feeorin are highly resilient to physical attack. A 
Feeorin can use Second Wind even when unconscious (no action required, 
but the Second Wind can only be taken when the Feeorin would normally 
get a turn). Taking a Second Wind while unconscious also move the Feeorin 
+3 steps on the condition track. 

Low-Light Vision: Feeorin ignore concealment from darkness (but not 
total concealment). 

Stronger by Age: At middie age, a Feeorin adds a +1 species bonus to 
all Strength or Constitution checks. At old age, this bonus increases to +2. 
Feeorin do not increase their Intelligence, Wisdom or Charisma or decrease 
their Strength, Dexterity or Constitution as they age. 

Automatic Languages: Feeorin and Basic. 


KRIL 


Even in the Knights of the Old Republic era, the Khil are considered to be 
one of the oldest species of the Republic. They are avid travelers and set- 
tlers, spreading colonies and settlements throughout the galaxy. During 
this era, the Khil are particularly active colonizers. They respect planets 
already inhabited by native sapient species or other colonists, preferring to 


use worlds without significant 
major threats, be they intel- 
ligent or highly predatory. 
However, once a colony is 
established, the Khil become 
fully dedicated to its suc- 
cess. They are a peace-loving 
species, but they are also 
highly driven and can become 
vindictive when impeded or 
crossed by an enemy. 

The Khil are technologi- 
cally advanced. Their cosmo- 
politan cities attest to their 
willingness to live in harmony 
with other peaceful species. 
They are enthusiastic sup- 
porters of the Republic and 
the peaceful order it repre- 
sents. Unfortunately, in these days of interstellar warfare, the Khil find they 
cannot follow their peaceful ideals. While they greatly prefer a political 
solution when possible, they recognize that the Mandalorians and the Sith 
are unlikely to be swayed by negotiation. Khil deviousness and vindictive- 
ness become especially apparent when they defend their homeworld and 
colonies. They have no desire to see their hard work destroyed, especially 
by a war-loving enemy. 

Personality: Khil are highly intelligent and dedicated to their tasks, hating 
to leave projects unfinished. They become especially frustrated with those 
who would impede their progress, regardless of whether an individual or 
government blocks their way. Their vindictive side surprises many who know 
them only as peaceful creatures. They view music as high art; it pervades 
their culture and society. 

Physical Description: To Humans, Khil faces are ghastly. Their skin is a 
sickly green, and they have fleshy strands (hullepi) hanging were one would 
expect a mouth. 

Homeworld: The Colonies world of Belnar features dank, marshy environ- 
ments with wide open spaces. Khil can also come from one of their many 
colonies, or live in most any civilized area of the galaxy. 

Languages: Khilese is a melodious language, pleasing to other species. 
They “speak” or sing the language by breathing through their hullepi, which 
are of different lengths, and therefore produce different tones. It is impos- 
sible for other species to speak Khilese, though they can learn to understand 
it. Not surprisingly, their written language is also ornate and resembles 
poetic prose. 

Example Names: Geld Bernar, Greldo Farnor, Tarlo Ganar, Revel Mallinor, 
Xamar. 


Adventurers: Though they are avid colonizers, they are not willing explor- 
ers. Khil prefer to follow in the tracks of others, when possible. However, 
their compulsive nature drives them in unusual directions. Khil adventurers 
can be of any class, and a few Khil become Jedi. 


KHIL SPECIES TRAITS 
Khil share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Constitution, +2 Intelligence, +2 Charisma. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Khil have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Khil base speed is 6 squares. 

Dependable Worker: Khil reliably achieve good results. Once per 
encounter, a Khil can treat one skill check with certain skills (detailed below) 
as though he or she had taken 10, even after the roll has been made (but 
before the result of the check is known). The Khil may only use this ability on 
checks with one of the following skills: Climb, Endurance, Gather Informa- 
tion, Jump, Knowledge (any), Mechanics, Pilot, Ride, Survival, Swim, Treat 
Injury, or Use Computer. 

Cooperative Spirit: Khil work with others easily. They can aid another on 
skill checks made by adjacent allies as a swift action, and others can likewise 
aid Khil on skill checks as swift actions when adjacent to the Khil, with the fol- 
lowing skills: Climb, Endurance, Gather Information, Jump, Knowledge (any), 
Mechanics, Pilot, Ride, Survival, Swim, Treat Injury, or Use Computer. 

Hullepi: Khi! are able to absord nutrition through the tentacles on their 
faces, called hullepi, drawing nourishment from almost any environment. Khil 
do not suffer the effect of starvation, except in sterile environments. 

Automatic Languages: Khilese and Basic. 


KISSAI AND MASSASS! 


The Massassi and Kissai are two subspecies of the original Sith race of Kor- 
rioan. The Kissai are the priests and spiritual leaders who indoctrinate their 
comrades in the teachings of the Sith. The Massassi are ferocious, selfless 
soldiers led by the great Sith Lords. When the Sith Empire goes to war with 
the Republic for the first time, the Massassi fill the ranks of the Sith armies 
and starfleets. 

The Massassi are fearsome, ruthless and efficient soldiers. They use 
traditional Sith weapons and armor—primarily tne lanvarok and alchemically 
hardened armor. They also prefer to use simple martial weapons. In addition 
to their focus on war and fighting, the Massassi are also loyal and organized. 
Even though they are not extremely intelligent, they can be trained well 
enough to carry out complex battle plans and maintain their equipment, 
starships, and weaponry. 

The Kissai are just as ruthless as the Massassi, but they are more intelligent 
and observant. Their strict cultural standards demand that they serve their 
masters well, a trait instilled in them by the Dark Jedi who first enslave their 


species. When the Massassi 
and Kissai flee Korriban (well 
before the arrival of the even- 
tual Sith Lords) to resettle on 
Ziost, the Kissai oversee the 
rebuilding efforts. 

The Kissai serve the Sith 
directly, but the Sith Lord 
Naga Sadow has other ideas 
for the Massassi caste. The 
Kissai are largely left on Ziost 
as the servants of other Sith 
Lords, but Sadow uses Sith 
alchemy to transform the 
Massassi into his hulking, 
brutish soldiers. His Massassi 
crews labor under his com- 
mand on Yavin 4, building 
temples and providing the 
means for him to hide his ship and practice his dark arts. After Sadow’s 
death, they become a primitive, tribal society worshiping one of Sadow’s 
creations as a dark god. 

A thousand years after Sadow and the Massassi arrive on Yavin 4, Exar 
Kun discovers the ancient Sith secrets in the temples. He uses the Massassi 
to fight the Jedi across the galaxy. Eventually, Kun consumes the life force 
of every Massassi on Yavin 4 in his transformation into a dark side spirit. 
A few Massassi are taken offworld prior to Kun’s final decimation of their 
society. Some remain loyal and find their way back to the new Sith Empire, 
but a few resentful individuals drift into the darker fringes of society, looking 
to live their own lives or seeking revenge against the Sith. 

Personality: Massassi are fearsome, loyal, and formidable fighters. They 
live to serve their Sith masters. On their own, Massassi dedicate themselves 
strongly to whatever life they choose. Kissal are loyal and capable allies who 
prefer to work with others, making them excellent aides and assistants. They 
respond well to instruction and are adaptable despite great adversity. 

Physical Description: Massassi and Kissai have glowing yellow eyes and 
crimson hides. They are humanoid with distinctly sharp, predatory features. 
The Massassi are large, hulking beings who appear brutish—a trait that 
disguises their intelligence. 

Homeworld: Korrioan, later Ziost. 

Languages: Massassi and Kissai speak the Sith language. Kissai also 
speak Basic. 

Example Names: Baelgren, Kelgath, Vissrar, Zythmnr. 

Adventurers: Massassi adventurers are rare in the Republic, even during 
the fall of the Sith Empire. Most beings in the galaxy would not recognize 
a Massassi or a Kissai on first glance, even though adventurers from these 
subspecies draw attention to themselves. Massassi and Kissai do not become 


eqieseas 


Geet 


| danogves 


Saleasas 


Jedi during this time, but one might have received formal Force training at 
the hands of a Sith Master. Such training is forbidden, though, even among 
the Sith. Kissai are nobles and scoundrels, and Massassi prefer the soldier 
and scout classes. 


KISSA! SPECIES TRAITS 
Kissai share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Wisdom, +2 Charisma. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Kissai have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Kissai base speed is 6 squares. 

Inspired: Kissai make the best of any inspiration or information provided 
to them. Whenever a Kissai receives a morale or insight bonus from any 
source, the bonus increases by 1. 

Warrior's Awareness: Kissai grow up in a violent and warlike society, 
so they constantly watch for threats. Once per encounter as a reaction a 
Kissai can gain the benefit of the Uncanny Dodge | and Uncanny Dodge II 
talents (see page 49 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) until the beginning 
of the Kissai's next turn. 

Weapon Familiarity: Kissai treat the lanvarok as a simple weapon instead 
of an exotic weapon. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Sith. 


MASSASS! SPECIES TRAITS 
Massassi share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +4 Strength, -2 Intelligence, -2 Wisdom, -2 
Charisma. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Massassi have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Massassi base speed is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Massassi are skilled trackers. A Massassi with 
Survival as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Survival) as a bonus feat. 

Duty Bound: Once per encounter when the Massassi receives a morale 
bonus of any kind from any source, the Massassi gains bonus hit points equal 
to 4 x the Massassi’s level until the end of the encounter. 

Primitive: Massassi do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, or 
heavy weapons) as starting feats at Ist level, even if their class normally 
grants them. 

Warrior's Awareness: Massassi grow up ina violent and warlike society, 
so they constantly watch for threats. Once per encounter as a reaction a 
Massassi can gain the benefit of the Uncanny Dodge | and Uncanny Dodge 
II talents (see page 49 of the Saga Editioncore rulebook) until the beginning 
of the Massassi’s next turn. 

Weapon Familiarity: Massassi treat the lanvarok as a simple weapon 
instead of an exotic weapon. 

Automatic Languages: Sith. 


BONUS HIT POINTS 

Bonus hit points can come from a variety of sources, like the Massassi's 
duty bound species trait or the noble’s Bolster Ally talent. When a crea- 
ture gains bonus hit points, they gain a temporary pool of hit points 
that acts as a short-term damage buffer for that creature. Damage is 
subtracted from bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remain- 
ing at the end of an encounter go away. If a creature gains bonus hit 
points from multiple sources, the creature uses only the larger amount 
of bonus hit points from the two sources. For example, if a creature 
has 10 bonus hit points and another ability gives it 15 bonus hit points, 
that creature then has 15 bonus hit points. If the new ability would only 
give the creature 5 bonus hit points, it keeps the 10 bonus hit points it 
already has instead. 


MIRALUKA 


Miraluka are remarkably similar to Humans, except for two important and 
distinctive differences. Miraluka have no eyes, but they have a natural abil- 
ity to “see” by using the Force. Since they appear Human—including their 
speech and mannerisms—Miraluka attempt to blend with Humans when 
traveling throughout the galaxy. Thus, estimating how often they travel 
or how many live off their home planet of Alpheridies is difficult, but the 
number is relatively low. To make matters worse, the Sith Lord Darth Nihilus 
consumed the colony of Katarr after the Jedi Civil War. Currently, no major 
centers of Miraluka life exist outside their homeworld and colonies, though 
individuals might be encountered anywhere in the galaxy. 

It is highly unusual for an 
entire sapjent species to be 
Force-sensitive. Given their 
connection to the Force, it is 
common for Miraluka to join 
the Jedi Order. In fact, sev- 
eral Miraluka become central 
figures in shaping the Jedi 
traditions during this era. 
The strength of a Miralu- 
kan’s connection to the Force 
varies by individual. Miraluka 
who are not powerful enough 
to become full-fledged Jedi 
serve the order in supporting 
roles. Most live lives similar to 
that of a normal Human. 

Miraluka and Humans tend 
not to intermarry, given the 


unpredictable and often unhappy genetic results. A rare exception is Krynda, 
daughter of a Miralukan father and Human mother. She was born with both 
Force Sight and functioning Human eyes. 

Personality: Miraluka are a thoughtful, cautious, and deliberative spe- 
cies. They have little interest in personal gain or glory. Some have a strong 
desire to follow their own path, because of their connection to the Force. 
They remain committed once a course of action is selected. 

Physical Description: Miraluka are similar to Humans. They cover their 
featureless eye sockets with cloth or visors, especially when traveling. 

Homeworld: The terrestrial world of Alpheridies in the Abron system, in 
the Expansion Region. 

Languages: Miraluka speak Miralukese and Basic. 

Example Names: Damaya Guru, Embrul Joff, Jerec, Q'Anilia, Snoaneb 
Culu, Visas Marr, Zebron Tadro. 

Adventurers: Miraluka adventurers are almost always Force-sensitive. 
They can be of any class, but are often Jedi. 


MIRALUKA SPECIES TRAITS 
Miraluka share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Dexterity, +2 Intelligence. Miraluka have keen 
minds, but their reliance on the Force to perceive their surroundings prevents 
them from reacting quickly. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Miraluka have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Miraluka base speed is 6 squares. 

Force Sight: Although blind, Miraluka can “see” by using the Force. They 
act normally without taking any penalties for blindness when in the pres- 
ence of living creatures or life of any kind. This trait enables them to make 
Perception checks, and read and write as a sighted person. They can ignore 
the effect of darkness as if they had darkvision. Miraluka cannot, however, 
detect creatures that are “invisible” to the Force such as the Yuuzhan Vong 
and the ysalamiri. These creatures have total concealment from Miraluka, 
as do creatures in areas that dampen or suppress the Force. Additionally, the 
Miraluka ignores all penalties to Perception checks from cover and conceal- 
ment (but not total cover or total concealment). Miraluka do not increase 
the DC of Use the Force checks made to Sense Surroundings against targets 
with total cover. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: A Miraluka who has Use the Force as a trained 
skill gains Force Training as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Miralukese. 


RAKATA 

The Rakata are an ancient species, whose society once stretched from the 
unknown regions to distant parts of the galaxy, such as Corellia and Manaan. 
They called it the Infinite Empire. At the height of their civilization, they built 


a massive space station fac- 
tory called the Star Forge that 
enabled them to create the 
machinery and ships needed 
to manage their massive, 
interstellar empire. The Force 
powered their technology, and 
they relied on their connec- 
tion to the Force to control 
it. For unknown reasons, the 
Rakata eventually lost their 
ability to use the Force. As 
their grasp over their machin- 
ery and technology weakened, 
so did their control over their 
subjugated worlds. The native 
species managed to throw 
off their masters and regain 
control of their own destinies. 
However, the impact of Rakata technology would be felt by some of these 
worlds for thousands of years to come. 

The Rakata and their planet became fost to history, perhaps purpose- 
fully erased by the newly freed societies. Their former subjects eliminated 
their former masters, or forced them to leave. Rakata civilization on their 
homeworld of Lehon deteriorated until all that remained were small, primitive 
tribes. Eventually, the Rakata are rediscovered by Darth Revan, whoa learns 
the secret of the Star Forge and uses it to build a massive military force to 
attack the Republic. He and the Republic are also responsible for the destruc- 
tion of the Star Forge. After the battle to destroy the Star Forge, the Rakata 
join the Republic. Some leave their homeworld to rejoin a technologically 
advanced society. Though they spread stories of their ancient society, few 
believe or take notice. The Rakata that remain on Lehon eventually die out 
because they are too few to maintain the species. 

Personality: Rakata are primitive, and are driven by a great desire to 
restore their species to its former, powerful glory. They know they were once 
much more powerful. Some Rakata obsess over discovering new ways to try 
to reconnect to the Force. Other tribes disregard their past, allowing their 
society to become even more primitive. 

Physical Description: The Rakata resemble humanoids with tall, cone- 
like heads. Their eyes are located on the sides of their head, attached by a 
short eye stalk. Their clawlike hands have only three digits. Their skin is gray 
or gray-brown. 

Homeworld: Lehon, also known as Rakata Prime, is a temperate terrestrial 
world in the Unknown Regions. 

Languages: Rakata speak their own language, also called Rakata. 

Example Names: Bandra, Daneel, Fralee, Orsaa, Vareen, Wauula 


15 


Salades 


Adventurers: Until the destruction of the Star Forge, almost all the 
living Rakata are still on Lehon, and do not leave. After the end of the Jedi 
Civil War, the Rakata become curious about life away from Lehon, and a few 
explore the galaxy. Players wishing to play a Rakata prior to these events 
might create heroes who grew up ina remote, abandoned Rakata colony in 
the Unknown Regions, far from Lehon but still isolated to the point of being 
completely unknown. Though at a distinct disadvantage because of their 
primitive upbringing, Rakata are intelligent and can learn to use advanced 
technology. 


RAKATA SPECIES TRAITS 
Rakata share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, -2 Wisdom. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Rakata have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Rakata base speed is 6 squares. 

Ancient Knowledge: Rakata retain many of the qualities that led their 
ancestors to create great technological works in the distant past. Rakata 
reduce the penalty for not being proficient in a weapon from -5 to -2 and 
reduce the armor check penalty for armor they are not proficient in by one 
step (-5 for heavy armor, -2 for medium armor, and no penalty for light 
armor) All other penalties for not being proficient still apply. 

Additionally, once per encounter the Rakata can use a trained-only 
application of the Mechanics, Pilot, Treat injury or Use Computer skill even 
if untrained in that skill. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Rakata with Weapon Proficiency (simple weap- 
ons) or proficient in an Exotic melee weapon gain the Weapon Focus feat (for 
simple weapons or a chosen Exotic melee weapon] as a bonus feat. 

Force Blind: For reasons unknown, the Rakata have lost their connection 
to the Force. Rakata cannot take the Force Sensitivity feat. They can still 
increase their Dark Side Score and are still affected by Force powers, talents, 
and the Use the Force skill as normal. 

Primitive: Rakata do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, or 
heavy weapons) as starting feats at 1st level, even if their class normally 
grants them. 

Rage: Once per day, a Rakata can fly into a rage as a swift action. While 
raging, the Rakata temporarily gains a +2 rage bonus on melee attack rolls 
and melee damage rolls but cannot use skills that require patience and 
concentration, such as Mechanics, Stealth, or Use the Force. 

A fit of rage lasts for a number of rounds equal to 5 + the Rakata’s Consti- 
tution modifier. At the end of its rage, a Rakata moves -1 persistent step along 
the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). The penalties imposed by this 
condition persist until the Rakata takes at least 10 minutes to recuperate, 
during which time the Rakata can’t engage in any strenuous activity. 

Automatic Languages: Rakata. 


SELKATH 


The Selkath are amphibious 
beings native to the planet 
Manaan. During the era of the 
Knights of the Old Repubiic, 
Manaan is one of the most 
important planets in the galaxy. 
As the sole source of kolto 
(a naturally occurring healing 
agent much more effective 
than bacta), Manaan is able to 
retain its neutrality by supply- 
ing all sides of a conflict with 
this vital substance. The Selkath 
leaders might favor one side 
over another if it is in the long- 
term interests of the planet. However, Selkath closely guard their neutrality, 
lest they fall prey to powerful corporations or oppressive invaders. 

Few Selkath travel offworld, preferring the habitat of their homeworld. 
They have never joined the Republic or any other Galactic organization, so 
most have little reason to leave. They enjoy the technology and wealth pro- 
duced by the sale of kolto. All contact with offworlders occurs in Ahto; the 
Selkath live in underwater cities and settlements scattered around the planet. 
As amphibious creatures, they are equally at home in either locale. However, 
those areas closer to Ahto are home to more sophisticated and technologi- 
cally advanced Selkath settlements. Historically, Selkath settlements were 
divided by clan affiliation. However, these affiliations have become less 
pronounced due to the importance of kolto production. 

Personality: Selkath prefer negotiation and diplomacy to direct, possibly 
rash actions, especially where influential governments are concerned. They 
are not pacifists so much as pragmatists, being less reserved when dealing 
with other Selkath. 

Physical Description: Selkath are amphibious humanoids, with large eyes 
on each side of their wide, flat heads. They have concealed gill slits that work 
equally well in air or water. They have natural poisoned retractable claws, 
but it is socially unacceptable (and illegal on Manaan) to use them against 
an opponent. Nevertheless, highly enraged Selkath occasionally disregard 
this restriction. 

Homeworld: Manaan is a temperate ocean world in the Mid Rim. 

Languages: Selkath speak their own language, also called Selkath. 

Example Names: Qual, Shasa, Shaelas, Shelkar. 

Adventurers: Selkath adventurers are normally scouts or nobles. Few 
Selkath are known to have joined the Jedi Order, though some are Force- 
sensitive. 


SELKATH SPECIES TRAITS 
Selkath share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Charisma. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Selkath have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Selkath base speed is 6 squares. Their swim speed is 4 squares. 

Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Selkath cannot drown 
in water. 

Expert Swimmer: A Selkath can choose to reroll any swim check, but 
the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. In addition, 
Selkath can choose to take 10 on swim checks even when distracted or 
threatened. 

Able Healer: Whenever a Selkath restores hit points to another character 
by any means, or aids another who is doing So, the target regains an additional 
5 hit points. Additionally, once per encounter as a swift action the Selkath 
can grant an adjacent ally bonus hit points equal to 10 + the Selkath’s level, 
which last until the end of the encounter. 

Automatic Languages: Selkath. 


SNIVVIAN 


Snivvians are short, stocky humanoids whose hardships have produced 
some of the galaxy’s best artists and authors. The Snivvian homeworld has 
extremely cold temperatures and long winters, forcing the Snivvians to live 
long periods of time in subterranean caverns. During those long days, Sniv- 
vians develop their artistic talents and sensibilities. Although technology 
would eventually lessen the need for this form of hibernation, Snivvians still 
feel the need—biologically and culturally—to continue the tradition. 

Historically, Snivvians 
have withstood numerous 
hardships that they channel 
into their impressive artis- 
tic works. After gaining the 
ability to travel between the 
Stars, the Snivvians attracted 
the attention of the brutal 
Thalassian slavers. Snivvian 
culture was nearly destroyed 
before the Republic discovered 
the practice and stepped in to 
protect the Snivvians. This 
protection has been reduced 
during this era of warfare, but 
combined Republic and Sniv- 
vian forces remain sufficient 
to hold off lesser threats. 


During this era, the Snivvians are still rebuilding the damage cone to their 
society by the slavers and other threats. They proceed with the intent to 
colonize other worlds. Many Snivvians travel throughout the galaxy attempt- 
ing to live the lives of the subjects of their future artistic works, even when 
it is dangerous. Snivvian enclaves made up of escaped slaves and refugees 
are scattered through the systems near their homeworld. 

Personality: Snivvians are insightful and gentle. They contemplate and 
seek out life lessons to incorporate into their art. However, not all follow 
artistic pursuits, though the exceptions are occasionally dangerous to Sniv- 
vian society. 

Physical Description: The short Snivvians have tough skin and sparse 
hair. They have a large, short snout and large canines protruding from their 
lower jaw. Their thick skin protects them from harsh winters and also aids 
them in warmer climates. 

Homeworld: The Outer Rim world of Cadomai Prime is located near the 
Corporate Sector. It is a cold planet with many subterranean caverns. 

Languages: Snivvians speak their own lanquage, also called Snivvian. 

Example Names: Bakken, Dezzen, Dezirdna, Elinselor, Geezum, Marn 
Heirogryph, Nejet, Prinzan, Rachalt Hyst, Rincholar, Seerna, Snagletooth, 
Takeel, Thasca Knarr, Wiorkettle, Zereldspidar, Zutton. 

Adventurers: Snivvian adventurers are often scoundrels, but can be of any 
class. They often multiclass to broaden their experiences and knowledge. 


SNIVVIAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Snivvians share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom. 

Small Size: As Small creatures, Snivvians gain a +1 size bonus to their 
Reflex Defense and a +5 size bonus on Stealth checks. However, their lifting 
and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of medium characters. 

Speed: Snivvian base speed is 4 squares. 

Observant: Snivvians are highly aware of their surroundings, giving them 
an advantage when dealing with others. Once per encounter, a Snivvian can 
use the Perception skill modifier in place of the Deception or Persuasion 
skill modifier. 

Cold Resistance: The Snivvians’ thick skin provides protection from 
extreme cold. Snivvians add a +5 species bonus to Fortitude Defense to 
resist extreme cold. 

Automatic Languages: Snivvian. 


| HStevHo 


Sleds 


c APTER i 
HEROIC RAITS 


rere’ = 


= PE 4 ; 
> x : : 
pe - ¢ =~ fey 3 ees ee = 
: Stig : : } ee Selous = 
s . >) = 3 ° pikis 3 7 } 
\ 


ANS. 


The Knights of the Old Republic era provides exciting story opportunities 
for all character types, especially Jedi and other Force-users. This chapter 
contains information for creating heroes tailored to this era, including story 
considerations, new ideas and talents for the standard classes, plus new 
feats and expanded skills usable by all classes. These volatile times—when 
it is difficult to distinguish friend from foe—also call for new heroes to 
fulfill their destinies. 

In the Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide, characters are 
assumed to be good, fighting against the forces of evil. It is a time of wide- 
ranging open warfare, with shifting fronts and loyalties. Heroes can face 
off against Mandalorian or Sith invaders. Other enemies might not be so 
clear-cut, especially if the campaign takes place during the Jedi Civil War. 
Although it is possible to play darker characters using these rules, the forces 
of good remain the focus of this book. 


CHARACTER CREATION 
IN THE OLD REPUBLIC 


In a Knights of the Old Republic campaign, exciting character and plot devel- 
opment are integral to creating the feel of an era previously establis.ved by 
computer games, comics, and novels. Much as a classic-era campaign strives 
to re-create the feel of the movies, a Knights of the Old Republic campaign 
should capture the atmosphere of its earlier incarnations. Your campaign will 
feel more authentic if the Gamemaster and players give their characters rich 
backstories that develop over the course of the game. Gamemasters should 
see later chapters for suggestions on attaining the right plot and feel. This 
section focuses on character creation and development. 

You can spend as much or as little time as you wish on your character's 
background, but answering the following questions will give you a sound 
foundation to build upon. 

What is your view of the Republic? The Republic of this era is not an 
all-powerful bureaucratic machine. It does not dominate the galaxy. You 
might be a citizen of the Republic, but if you are not, where do you come 
from? You might regard the Republic as static and ineffectual in the face 
of dire enemies, or you might view it as the galaxy's best hope for victory, 
regardless of its flaws. You might take pride in fighting for the Republic, or 
resent its ineffectual responses. The answer to this question should impact 
how you relate to your fellow heroes, as well as Gamemaster characters such 
as government officials, Jedi Knights, or the many invaders of the era. 

How do you feel about current events? In times of war, you must decide 
which side to support. Supporting the Republic might seem natural. However, 
you might be operating in regions outside of their sphere of influence, and it 
might be more practical or beneficial to support another side. Your answer 
might depend on your view of the Republic, as above, or on the results of a 
specific battle or other major event. 


SLIVYL DOYUSH Y i H¥SidwvwHS ] 
f 


i} 


ShVtf aoveh 


| esiavHo 9 


If you are a Jedi, do you support the Jedi Council? Given that the Jedi 
Order is more fragmented in philosophy and organization, its influence over 
all Jedi is weaker than in later eras. This is especially true if your campaign 
takes place when the Jedi Council is withholding support from the Republic 
war effort. Jedi characters should decide whether to support the Jedi Coun- 
cil's positions or to strike out on their own. This affects how they deal with 
other Jedi and with the Council itself. If you are playing during the Jedi Civil 
War, you will need to decide how you feel about Revan and Malak’s break 
with the Council. 

How do the recent wars affect your species? Were they devastated 
by a Mandalorian invasion? Did Sith governance alter their society? Did the 
Republic safeguard them, or were they forced to fend for themselves? Plus, 
unlike the latter days of the Republic, not al! species are looked upon as 
equals on all worlds. Chapter 1: Species and Chapter 8: Galactic Gazet- 
teer later in this book provide additional clues and hooks you can use to 
help answer these questions. 

How strong are your loyalties to your current affiliation? Are you a 
fanatical supporter? Do you question their authority? Are you disillusioned 
with your leadership? How likely are you to switch sides? What would happen 
if your government abandoned you, or if your leaders completely failed you? 
Alternatively, what would happen if you are saved by one side or another? 
How likely are you to swear loyalty to one side or another? 

What is your tolerance of the dark side? Will the dark side tempt you? 
Do you want its power? ls it a threat to be wary of, or a tool to be used? In 
the Knights of the Old Republic video games, every decision pushes you closer 
to the light side or the dark side. Your tolerance of the dark side can influence 
your relationship with your fellow party members. Unlike later eras, you will 
likely battle directly against Sith with the full power of the dark side at their 
disposal. They are not hidden away, or dismissed as myth. They are real; they 
are here, and they are a threat to the Republic. However, you might not see 
this as black and white, especially because many Republic citizens do not 
discern a great difference between the Sith and the Jedi, in many cases. 

How does your character class fit into this era? Look for ways to tie 
your class and character into the organizations and events unique to this 
era. Instead of being a simple smuggler, specialize in smuggling between 
the Republic and Sith Empire. A scout might be a clandestine Mandalorian 
advance reconnaissance scout, traveling incognito. A noble might work 
directly for the Czerka Corporation. A Jedi might serve as a Jedi Watchman 
over a single world or in a Jedi Covenant. Look for ideas in the different 
organizations discussed throughout this book. You might be a member of 
one of the groups, or you might turn out to be an enemy instead. 

What is your relationship with the other characters? Character con- 
nections are important in a Knights of the Old Republic game, perhaps more 
than in a typical Star Wars campaign. Even if your characters do not know 
each other before play begins, you should seek to develop strong bonds 


Bao-DuUR, A HERO OF THE REPUBLIC 


between them during the game. These relationships might change as each 
of you makes decisions based on the answers to the questions above. 

That is not to say that characters with diametrically opposed views on 
certain subjects cannot get along; it just might take more compromises or 
a concerted effort to agree on a course of action. Additionally, characters 
might have feats or abilities that influence your character through their 
actions. Since having two or more characters who argue all the time becomes 
uninteresting or disruptive to the game, you are encouraged to have the 
characters change their stance over time. After all, character development 
and evolution can make for dramatic moments in a campaign. 

One option is to create the characters as a group, with a specific concept 
in mind. Most gaming groups already create parties with characters that 
complement each other's abilities. By taking that one step farther, you can 
strengthen the party and the game by incorporating character interaction 
into the common group concept. Group concepts can include the crew of a 
single starship, friends or associates from a specific homeworld, members of 
a military team, or any other strong reason for a group to work and remain 
together through tough times. 

If you want to raise the stakes even further, and your Gamemaster 
approves, consider creating characters with large amounts of political, 
military, or other power. The Star Wars movies and the events of the Knights 
of the Old Republic video games and comics depict characters involved in 


the most important events in the galaxy. That is possible in this game as 
well. You might find it easier to restrict this concept to a single star system, 
planet, or corporation. The characters’ positions of power will make their 
decisions more dramatic over the course of the game. 

For instance, consider a party with the following characters: a Republic 
Senator, an elected planetary leader, a couple of Jedi Knights, a general of 
the Republic military forces, and the vice president of a interstellar corpora- 
tion. Placed against the backdrop of an impending Mandalorian invasion, the 
decisions of such a party will have far-reaching consequences for themselves 
and thousands of others, producing a high degree of drama. There should 
also be plenty of action, especially if the Mandalorian forces penetrate the 
Republic defenses, putting the heroes’ lives in direct danger. 

Regardless of your answers to these questions, you should also reference 
the class updates below. 


SAMPLE GROUP CONCEPTS 

Below are some examples of the kinds of heroes you will find in a Knights 
of the Old Republic campaign. Each of these examples ts centered around a 
theme that can be used to create a cohesive party with existing connections 
between the heroes. 


Corporate Investigations Team 

Specialist investigators can deal with corporate issues such as fraud, theft, 
kidnappings, and other threats to a major company. This team should be 
noble-heavy and supported by scouts and soldiers. Jedi are unlikely to be 
involved. 


Corporate Security Team 

Corporate muscle can be used on demand to intervene and combat piracy, 
large-scale theft, rioting laborers, or even invading forces such as a Man- 
dalorian strike team. This team relies on soldiers and scouts, perhaps with 
a noble commander. 


Gladiator Team 

A gladiator team might fight as professionals out to make some credits, 
or the team might be forced to fight together, such as captives held in an 
Outer Rim gladiatorial pit. In the first instance, such a group is likely to be 
comprised mainly of soldiers and highly talented scouts. Otherwise, they can 
be made up of most any class. 


Jedi Covenant 

Made up exclusively of Jedi, the Covenant watches over specific areas 
or aspects of Galactic life. See Chapter 6: The Force for additional 
information. 


Military Reconnaissance Force 

A small reconnaissance team can operate as advance scouts for a military 
force, such as the Republic, Sith Empire, or Mandalorians. This group is made 
up primarily of scouts and scoundrels, with soldiers for additional protection, 
and possibly a Jedi supporting the Republic. 


Military Search-and-Rescue Squad 

This team is out to Jocate wayward pilots or military survivors from large- 
scale battles. Much like the recon force, this team is made up of scouts and 
soldiers, with classes specializing in medical treatment. 


Postbattle Emergency Security Force 

This team is sent into a battle-damaged area, such as a city or large space 
station, when local security has been destroyed or scattered. Soldiers secure 
the area while scouts search the surroundings for remaining threats. 


Rescue Crew 
This crew specializes in rescuing civilians in space or on most any world. They 
operate out of their own ships and can be of any Class. 


Revanchists (Mandalorian Wars) 

These Jedi support the work of Revan and Malak—against the will of the 
Jedi Council. Most do not realize the dark path ahead of them, but others 
embrace it. 


Republic Negotiating Team 

This team represents the Republic government in negotiating military settle- 
ments, planetary treaties, and other complex situations, large or small. Such 
teams are mainly nobles, supported by scoundrels while other characters 
provide security. 


Republic Special-Forces Strike Team 

Republic special forces carry out surgical strikes against the Sith Empire and 
Mandalorians. Soldiers, scouts and scoundrels make up the majority of these 
forces, with noble officers and the occasional Jedi. 


Scavenger Crew 

A fringe group out to make credits by scouring terrestrial battlefields and 
debris-strewn regions of space after one of the many battles in this era. The 
crew can be made up of any class, and might even be officially sanctioned 
by one side or another to salvage certain equipment, ships or items. 


Smuggling Ring 

This is another fringe group, this time smuggling goods between planets of 
opposing sides, or at least unfriendly sides. Scoundrels and unscrupulous 
nobles lead these groups, with brutish soldiers for protection. 


1 HSBLarHD - 


SHVSL GH0ox8eF) 


a 


WUHANI AND DARTH BANDON CROSS LIGHTSASERS 


THE HEROIC CLASSES 


Each of the heroic classes from the Saga Edition core rulebook is presented 
here as it relates to the Knights of the Old Republic era. Each class update 
features new talents added to existing talent trees, or wholly new trees. These 
talents can be used in other eras with your Gamemaster’s approval. 


JEDI 
Jedi can play a major role in any Knights of the Old Republic campaign. They 
are at the forefront of the critical events during this era. However, the Jedi 
Order of the Knights of the Old Republic era is different from that of the clas- 
sic era in several crucial ways. First, many more Jedi are active throughout 
the galaxy. They are not as reserved and bureaucratic as in later times, and 
the Jedi Council does not yet dominate the Order. Even though the Council 
a exerts control, it does not necessarily interfere with semiautonomous Jedi 
enclaves or non-Jedi Force traditions that might view their connections to the 
Force differently. Jedi training is decentralized. Jedi academies and enclaves 
are scattered throughout the galaxy, using their own training methods 
and philosophies. However, the majority still use the master-and-Padawan 
pairing as the primary training tool. Jedi are not officially prohibited from 
marrying during this era. Some factions promote a ban, but their influence 
varies within this time. 

Jedi philosophy and Jearning is still evolving in this era, but one thing 
remains the same: Practitioners of the dark side are not tolerated. Some 
might be redeemable, but those beyond hope and help are hunted down and 
eliminated. At times, such as during the Jedi Civil War or the Sith wars, dark 
side Force-users are much more common than in.other eras. Dark Jedi, Sith 
Lords, Dark Side Adepts, and Sith apprentices are common foes. The dark 
side threat is real, and the Jedi must counter it directly. 

In this era, Jedi training is dependent on the teachings of a specific orga- 
nization or enclave within the Order. Many Padawans are trained just as their 
Republic-era counterparts. Others are exposed to another Force tradition 
before joining the Order. They might struggle with reconciling their original 
} teachings with that of the Order. Some are even exposed to Sith teachings 
before becoming aware of the benefit of following the light side. 

The many wars of this era compel large numbers of Jedi to become 
experts in lightsaber and Force-related combat. Some become masters on 
the battlefield; others become highly skilled duelists, able to battle dark Jedi 
and Sith in single combat. 

The Jedi operate in a variety of ways specific to this era. A single Jedi 
might serve as a Watchman over a particular sector or planet. A group of 
Jedi might form their own Covenant, finding their tasks through the guid- 
ance of the Force. Of course, the traditional master-and-Padawan duo is 
used extensively. 

Sample Jedi Concepts: Exiled Jedi, Jedi Battlemaster, Jedi Covenanter, 
Jedi Shadow, Jedi Watchman, Revanchist Jedi. 


} 
| 


0 
Ti 
4 
101 
j4| 
Riuh 
Di 


New JEDI TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the Jedi class. 


New Jedi Consular Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Consular talent tree, which 
is available to members of the Jedi class. Any character that can normally 
choose talents from the Jedi Consular talent tree can choose from these 
talents as well. 

Collective Visions: Developed by Krynda Draay, this talent is used by Jedi 
Covenant WatchCircles to sharpen their visions through the Force. When you 
use farseeing or a Force power or talent that has farseeing as a prerequisite, 
other Force-users with farseeing in their Force-power suite can aid another 
(page 151 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) on your Use the Force check as 
a reaction if they are within 6 squares of you. 

Prerequisite: farseeing. 

Visionary Attack: As a reaction, you can make a Use the Force check 
after you or an ally within 12 squares misses with a melee or ranged attack, 
removing one use of the farseeing Force power from your active suite (as 


SlveL sever) 


though you had activated the power). If your check result equals or exceeds 
the Will Defense of the target of that missed attack, the attacker can reroll 
the missed attack roll. This counts as using the farseeing Force power against 
that target, but this talent replaces the normal rules and effect of that power. 
Any attack can only be affected by this talent once (thus, multiple characters 
cannot use this talent on the same attack to allow multiple rerolls). You take 
a cumulative -5 penalty on Use the Force checks until the beginning of your 
next turn when you use this talent. 

Prerequisites: farseeing, WatchCircle Initiate. 

Visionary Defense: As a reaction, you can make a Use the Force check 
after you or an ally within 12 squares is the target of a melee or ranged 
attack (but before the results of the attack roll are known), removing one 
use of the farseeing Force power from your active suite (as though you had 
just activated the power). If your check result exceeds the Will Defense of 
the attacker, you grant the target of the attack a +5 Force bonus to Reflex 
Defense against that attack. This counts as using the farseeing Force power 
against the attacker, but this talent replaces the normal rules and effect of 
that power. Any attack can only be affected by this talent once (thus, mul- 
tiple characters cannot use this talent on the same attack to allow multiple 
rerolls). You take a cumulative -5 penalty on Use the Force checks until the 
beginning of your next turn when you use this talent. 

Prerequisites: farseeing, WatchCircle Initiate 

Renew Vision: Once per encounter, you can regain all expended uses of 
the farseeing power as a swift action. 

WatchCircle Initiate: As a reaction, you can make a Use the Force check 
(DC 15) and remove one use of the farseeing Force power from your active 
suite (as though you had activated the power). You subtract 1 from your 
Force Point total (this cannot be subtracted from temporary Force Points, 
and does not count as spending a Force Point) and add 1 to the Force Point 
total of an ally within line of sight. This counts as using the farseeing Force 
power against that target, but this talent replaces the normal rules and 
effect of that power. 

Prerequisites: farseeing. 


New Jedi Guardian Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Guardian talent tree. Any 
character who can normally choose talents from the Jedi Guardian talent 
tree can choose this talent as well. 

Improved Battle Meditation: You may activate your Battle Meditation 
talent as a swift action instead of as a full-round action. The range of the 
Battle Meditation extends out to 12 squares. Enemies within the radius of 
your Battle Meditation suffer a -1 penalty to all attack rolls. 

Prerequisite: Battle Meditation. 


New Jedi Sentinel Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Sentinel talent tree. Any char- 
acter who can normally choose talents from the Jedi Sentinel talent tree can 
choose from these talents as well. 

Dark Retaliation: Once per encounter, you can spend a Force Point to 
activate a Force power as a reaction to being targeted by a power with the 
[dark side] descriptor. 

Prerequisite: Sentinel Strike. 

Sentinel Strike: Any time you attack a flat-footed opponent (or one 
who is denied its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense against you) with a 
damage-dealing Force power or attack with a lightsaber, you deal an extra 
106 damage with that attack. This talent does not affect Force powers with 
the [dark side] descriptor. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you select it, your 
Sentinel Strike damage increases by 1d6 (maximum +5d6). 

Sentinel's Gambit: Once per encounter, as a swift action, you can desig- 
nate an adjacent enemy with a Dark Side Score of 1 or higher as the target of 
this talent. The designated enemy loses its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense 
against your attacks until the end of your next turn. 


New Lightsaber Combat Talents 

The following new talent belongs to the Lightsaber Combat talent tree. Any 
character who can normally choose talents from the Lightsaber Combat 
talent tree can choose this talent as well. 

Riposte: As a reaction once per encounter, make a lightsaber attack 
against a being whose attack you negate using the Block lightsaber combat 
talent (page 41 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Only non-area melee 
attacks can be riposted in this manner; you cannot use this talent when 
negating the damage from melee area attacks (such as those made with 
the Whirlwind Attack feat). 

Prerequisites: Block, base attack bonus +5. 


NOBLE 

This is an era of action. As the warlike Mandalorian and Sith invaders provide 
fewer opportunities for negotiation, nobles of this era are more likely to be 
drawn to leadership and action, rather than diplomacy and rhetoric. Inspir- 
ing officers are needed to keep up the morale of Republic and planetary 
forces fighting against the relentless Mandalorians or the mysterious and 
dangerous Sith. Charismatic leaders are required to bolster the spirit of the 
war-weary Citizenry. 

Many nobles create successful careers by serving a major interstellar 
corporation. Even though this might not keep them out of the wars, such a 
position is often better compensated and, depending on the corporation and 
position, nobles might find themselves with a great degree of autonomy. In 
other cases, nobles serving large companies that own or operate a significant 


 #aLarnoa 


SUVEL Hes, 


it BSlLavHo 


region of the galaxy might find working for a corporation similar to working 
for a government agency. Ultimately, they will find that the reputation of 
their corporation often overrides their own personal reputation—for better 
or worse. 

Despite the focus on action, negotiation is not dead. Much must be settled 
internally within the Republic, as different factions and worlds argue for 
their own piece of the Republic defense or for funds for rebuilding. Corpora- 
tions must negotiate among themselves and with government entities. Even 
criminal elements must make deals on occasion. Nobles help facilitate many 
deals, large and small. 

Sample Noble Concepts: City or planetary leader, corporate negotiator, 
corporate operative, Republic agent, Republic diplomat. 


New NosBLre TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the noble class. 


New Influence Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Influence talent tree, which is 
available to members of the noble class. Any character who can normally 
choose talents from the Influence talent tree can choose from these talents 
as well. 


Fluster: You get under an enemy's skin. Once per encounter, make a 
Persuasion check to intimidate one creature within line of sight as a standard 
action. On a success, instead of the normal effect of an intimidate applica- 
tion of the Persuasion skill, the affected creature can take only a single swift 
action on its next turn. If the target is higher level than you, it gains a +5 
bonus to its Will Defense against the skill check. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisites: Presence, trained in Persuasion. 

Intimidating Defense: Once per encounter, as a reaction, you can make a 
Persuasion check to intimidate one creature that has made a melee or ranged 
attack against you if that creature is within line of sight. If you succeed, you 
impose a —5 penalty to that attack roll. If the target is higher level than you, 
it gains a +5 bonus to its Will Defense against the Intimidating Defense. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisites: Presence, trained in Persuasion. 


New Leadership Talent 
The following new talent belongs to the Leadership talent tree, which is avail- 
able to members of the noble class. Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Leadership talent tree can choose this talent as well. 
Reactionary Attack: Once per encounter, as a reaction to an attack 
made against you or an ally, you can direct an ally within 6 squares to make 
an immediate attack as a reaction against the attacking enemy. The ally you 
choose must be capable of making an attack against the target. 
Prerequisites: Born Leader, trained in Persuasion. 


Fencing Talent Tree 
In the days of the Old Republic, the fine art of swordplay was stylish among 
nobles. A particular style arose mixing martial precision with forceful 
panache. 

Demoralizing Defense: As a reaction, you can designate an enemy you 


have just hit with a melee attack. The enemy takes only half damage from 
the attack, but takes a -5 penalty on attacks made against you until the 
end of your next turn. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisites: Noble Fencing Style 

Leading Feint: Whenever you successfully damage an opponent with a 
melee attack, you can make a Deception check to feint against that target 
as a swift action. If successful, you designate an ally within 12 squares; your 
target is treated as flat-footed against the first attack that ally makes against 
your target before the beginning of your next turn. 

Prerequisites: Noble Fencing Style 


SUYSEL Hieovseh 


Ges 


LORO ARKOH AD4SECA, ARKANIAN NDSLE 


Noble Fencing Style: This style of swordplay uses wit and force of 
personality to increase accuracy, taunting and distracting an opponent with 
feints, misdirection, and deception. When using a light melee weapon or a 
lightsaber that you are proficient with, you can use your Charisma modifier 
instead of your Strength modifier on attack rolls. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Deception and Persuasion. 

Personal Affront: Once per encounter, as a reaction, you can make a 
single melee attack against an adjacent enemy who just damaged you. 

Prerequisites: Noble Fencing Style, base attack bonus +5. 

Transposing Strike: When you hit a character with a melee attack, you 
can choose to have the attack deal only half damage and switch places 
with that foe. Your foe must be no more than one size category larger than 
you, and you must end up occupying a space that was previously occupied 
by your target (and vice versa) to use this talent. This movement does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Prerequisites: Noble Fencing Style, base attack bonus +5, 


SCOUNDREL 

Asin all eras of uncertainty, scoundrels thrive throughout the galaxy. Scoun- 
drets dealing in the gray areas of commerce find a wide variety of opportu- 
nities, especially as large populations move throughout the galaxy, trying 
to avoid war zones. People so uprooted are in need of difficult-to-obtain 
information and material. They often require less-than-legal transport, or 
any transport available in an emergency. Scoundrels meet these needs. 

Smugglers find the Outer Rim wide open to their illicit deals, but they 
must contend with powerful criminal organizations such as the Exchange. 
Move in on the wrong market or planet, and a smuggler might end up at the 
wrong end of a blaster—or pirate fleet. Smugglers work across the front lines 
of the many wars of the era. Though they risk running into an unexpected 
battle or being arrested for treason or sedition, the economic rewards can be 
great. Many passengers desperately want to escape back to their homeworld 
from an occupied planet. 

Not all scoundrels are smugglers, however. Some are opportunistic busi- 
nessmen, trying to keep their ship flying or their skin intact in a dangerous 
time. More have been displaced by war, forced to follow paths they would 
never have dreamt of in more peaceful times. Scoundrels share one common 
feature: Survival is the number one priority. 

Sample Scoundrel Concepts: Battlefield scavenger, ex-swoop gang 
member, professional pazaak player, resource acquisition specialist, Sith 
deserter, undercover agent or spy. 


NEw SCOUNDREL TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the Scoundrel class. 


New Fortune Talent 

The following new talent belongs to the Fortune talent tree, which is available 
to members of the scoundrel class. Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Fortune talent tree can choose this talent as well. 

Lucky Stop: A successful hit against you is mitigated by an item you just 
happen to be wearing or carrying, or glances off your armor or clothing in just 
the right way. Once per encounter, as a reaction, you can negate the damage 
from a single attack that would normally reduce you to 0 hit points. 

Prerequisite: Knack. 


Run and Gun Talent Tree 
Scoundrels find ways to slip through fights 
of any size, even when the odds are 
against them. 

Cheap Shot: Once per encounter, 
you can make an attack of opportunity 
against an opponent that takes the 
withdraw action to withdraw from a 
space threatened by one of your allies 
within point-blank range. 

Prerequisite: Opportunistic 
Strike. 

No Escape: Whenever an 
opponent uses the withdraw 
action to leave your threat- 
ened space, that opponent 
is considered flat-footed 
against you until the end 
of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Oppor- 
tunistic Strike. 

Opportunistic Strike: 
Once per encounter, you can 
make an attack of opportunity 
against an opponent within 
point-blank range (even using a 
ranged weapon) if that opponent 
provokes an attack of opportu- 
nity from one of your allies. 

Slippery Strike: Once per 
encounter, you can designate 
an opponent you have just 
damaged as a reaction; that 


MIRA, HUMAN SCOUNDOREL 


— 
} 


Wh HalLawvwHa J 


SLVYA, Hevea) 


} 


li BesaLavHo 


SLAVE D08Ee 


Opponent cannot make attacks of opportunity against you until the end of 
your next turn. You may use this in conjunction with the Strike and Run talent, 
allowing you to benefit from both talents as a single reaction. 
Prerequisite: Strike and Run. 
Strike and Run: Once per encounter, as a reaction after successfully dam- 
aging an opponent with a melee or ranged attack, you can move your speed. 


Scout 

Many scouts find that they have two major services to offer during this era. 
One is reconnaissance. Government forces can always use an extra source of 
information during these volatile times. News of fleet movements, uncertain 
alliances, and secret corporate activities is interesting to certain parties. 

The second major service is that of the scout's traditional role: explora- 
tion of space and new worlds. Despite widespread warfare, this is also an 
era of rapid colonization. Many species are seeking suitable planets for 
new colonies, and corporations are willing to pay for information regarding 
natural resources. Scouts might be commissioned specifically to discover 
new worlds for a specific patron. 

A scout’s intimate knowledge of specific regions of space gives him a 
valuable commodity: astrogation information. Because scout ships are often 
the most recent to travel certain routes, especially in remote areas of the 
galaxy, they might find that their astrogation data is worth a high price. 
Whether vast battle fleets or single colonization ships, every starship requires 
the best data available. In remote areas of the galaxy, this information can 
be difficult to come by. In fact, corporations and military organizations hire 
scout ships to map specific paths before moving a large fleet into unknown 
space. Though such mapping expeditions are risky, they are exactly what 
many scouts live for. 

Sample Scout Concepts: Colony scout, corporate scout, hyperspace 
scout, military reconnaissance specialist, search and rescue specialist (ter- 
restrial or space-based), swoop racer. 


New ScouT TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the scout class. 


New Awareness Talent 
The following new talent belongs to the Awareness talent tree, which is avail- 
able to members of the scout class. Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Awareness talent tree can choose this talent as well. 
Weak Point: Once per encounter, you can use a swift action to ignore 
the Damage Reduction of a single target within your line of sight for the 
rest of your turn. 
Prerequisites: Acute Senses, Keen Shot. 


ZAALB4AR, WOOKIEE SCOUT 


Hyperspace Explorer Talent Tree 
You are an experienced deep-space explorer who has learned a few tricks 
along the way that help you survive both in space and planet-side. 

Deep-Space Gambit: Once per encounter, when you or a vehicle you 
occupy are the target of an attack roll, you can force your opponent to reroll 
the attack. The opponent must take the worse result. 

Guidance: You know how to guide others through treacherous terrain. 
You may use a swift action to point out to an ally the path of least resistance 
to an ally within line of sight who can see, hear, and understand you. The 
ally ignores the effect of difficult terrain on its next turn. You may not use 
this talent on yourself. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Perception. 


Hidden Attacker: Your shots seem to come from nowhere. Whenever 
you use the snipe application of the Stealth skill, you do so as a swift action 
instead of a move action. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Stealth. 

Hyperspace Savant: You can substitute your Pilot skill for any Use 
Computer check made to astrogate or operate sensors while you are the 
pilot of a vehicle. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Pilot. 

Vehicle Sneak: You know how to fly and operate your vehicle in order 
to hide its approach visually, decrease the noise it produces, and minimize 
its sensor signature. Treat your ship as two size categories smaller when 
attempting Stealth checks. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Pilot. 


SOLDIER 
With the galaxy in the midst of several major 
wars, soldiers are a common class in the 
Knights of the Old Republic era. Even 
between the wars, soldiers and former 
fighters can be found in most any locale 
and social class. Soldiers might serve in 
the Republic armed forces or another 
major military group, or they might 
be freelance mercenaries for hire. 
They might be veterans, trying 

to redeem themselves for their 
actions during the war, possibly 
regretting the side that they 
served. 

Shifting loyalties might cause 
soldiers to become caught up in 
difficult situations. A commander or 
government serving one side might 
suddenly shift to support the enemy 
or even oppose all others. During 
the Jedi Civil War, for example, 
Republic ships and entire fleets 
join Revan in the Sith. Dissent- 
ing soldiers might be unable to 
detach themselves from their 
unit or starship, and unable to 
follow their own paths with- 
out risking their lives. Once 
they seize an opportunity 


ATTON RAND, HUMAN SOLOIER 


to jump ship, they might be stranded on a remote planet or in a hostile 
environment. 

Soldiers of this era specialize in combat techniques different from those 
of the classic era. With the advent of personal shields, melee combat has 
come to the fore, requiring acquisition of new skills. Some soldiers receive 
training specific to their military service, with Republic soldiers specializing 
in techniques different from their Sith military counterparts. Whatever their 
training, soldiers remain as deadly as ever. 

Sample Soldier Concepts: Corporate security, Mandalorian soldier, 
Republic soldier, ex-Sith soldier, gladiator, personal bodyguard. 


New SOLDIER TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the soldier class. 


New Armor Specialist Talent 
The following talent belongs to the Armor Specialist talent tree. 

Shield Expert: You are an expert in using personal shields for maximum 
effectiveness. Once per encounter, you can spend a swift action to regain 10 
points of SR (up to the shield’s maximum) on an active personal shield. 

Prerequisite: Armor Proficiency (tight). 


New Brawler Talent 

The following talent belongs to the Brawler talent tree. 

Devastating Melee Smash: Once per encounter, you can attempt 
a devastating melee smash. You must declare this special melee 
attack before making the attack roll. If the attack roll succeeds 
add half your level to the damage instead of the normal +1 
for Melee Smash. The damage from this talent does 
not stack with any damage bonus provided by 
the Powerful Charge feat. 

Prerequisite: Melee Smash. 


New Weapon Specialist Talent 
The following talent belongs to the Weapon Specialist talent tree. 
Disarming Attack: Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon 
group with which you are proficient. You ignore a target's armor 
bonus to Reflex Defense when disarming with such a weapon. Addi- 
tionally, as a free action, once per encounter, you can grant yourself a +10 
bonus on your attack roll when attempting to disarm an opponent while 
using such a weapon. 
Prerequisites: Improved Disarm, Intelligence 13, Weapon Specializa- 
tion with the chosen weapon. 


SHV, aexusF 


HW HS LavHD 


C SESE | 
Shiv sana ll YalavHo a) 


Rocket Jumper Talent Tree 
You are an expert in the use of jet packs. You can use this form of transport 
to perform specialized aerial assaults and maneuvers. 

Burning Assault: As a standard action you can expend one of your jet 
pack’s charges to make an attack with the jet pack, treating it as a flame 
thrower {see page 128 of the Saga Fdition core rulebook). You cannot use 
this talent when you are flying. You are considered proficient in the flame 
thrower for the purpose of making this attack. 

Prerequisite: Jet Pack Training. 

Improved Trajectory: You always use the proper trajectories to maximize 
efficiency of your rocket-pack burn rates. You increase your fly speed by 2 
squares when using a jet pack. 

Prerequisite: Jet Pack Training. 


CANDEROUS OROG, MANDALORIAN SOLOIER 


Jet Pack Training: You can activate a jet pack as a free action on your 
turn. You need not make Pilot checks to land safely with a jet pack. 

Jet Pack Withdraw: Once per encounter, as a reaction when an opponent 
moves adjacent to you, you can expend one charge of your jet pack to fly 
and move your speed or withdraw. 

Prerequisite: Jet Pack Training. 


SKILLS 


Below are new uses for the skills described in the Sage Edition core rulebook. 
These additional uses can be used in any era. 


ACROBATICS 

Long Falls: When falling great distances, you can attempt to use your 
Acrobatics skill to guide your descent. Make a DC 20 Acrobatics check to 
land on a target near a square you would normally land in. You can adjust 
your target by 1 square for every 60 meters fallen. Gamemasters can give 
favorable or unfavorable circumstance adjustments to the check based on 
mitigating circumstance—for example, the amount of wind or the favorable 
use of equipment, such as baggy clothing. 


CLIMB 

Climbing in Low or High Gravity: When climbing in low-gravity envi- 
ronments, Climb DCs are halved and movement is double. When climbing 
in high-gravity environments, DCs are doubled and climb speed is halved 
(minimum 1 square). 


USE THE FORCE 

Breath Control (Trained Only): You can use the Force to help you hold 
your breath for an extended period of time, A successful DC 15 Use the 
Force check allows you to hold your breath for a number of rounds equal to 
twice your Constitution score before having to succeed Endurance checks 
to continue to hold your breath. 


“THE MANDO’'ADE 
USUALLY PREFER 
& MORE DIRECT 
APPROACH. WE'RE 
PRAGMATIC, NOT 
TREACHEROUS.” 


—-ROHLAN DYRE 


FEATS 


Feats provide game mechanics for core character concepts. They allow 


characters from any class to access significant special abilities, as long as ob — TAY OUT OF MY 
they meet certain prerequisites. This section provides new feats common ; 
to the Knights of the Old Republic era, as well as new ways to use some WAY — | : VE GOT 
existing feats. A MISSION TO 


be] 
COMBINED FEATS COMPLETE! 


Characters can use their existing feats in new ways, as noted below. Essen- —-CELESTE MORNE 
tially, certain feats allow characters to benefit from combining their use. 

A character wishing to use one of the combinations described below must 

have all the required feats to do so. 


DODGE + CHARGING FIRE 
You can reduce your penalty to your Reflex Defense against all opponents 
to -1 when making a ranged attack at the end of a charge. 


DODGE + RUNNING ATTACK 

You can add your Dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense against anyone who 
makes an attack of opportunity against you while using the Running Attack 
feat. 


10 
2 
(iP 
TV: 
of 
0 
2 


DUAL WEAPON MASTERY | + 
Quick DRAW 

You can draw or holster two weapons with a single swift action; you must 
have both hands free to draw both weapons, and each weapon must be able 
to be held in one hand. 


FORCE TRAINING + IMPROVED 
DISARM 

When you use the Force disarm Force Power, you gain the +5 bonus from 
Improved Disarm on your Use the Force check as though you were making 
an attack roll. 


ShIVaL AGYUsH 


Quick DRAW + WEAPON 
PROFICIENCY (LIGHTSABERS) 
You can draw and ignite your lightsaber as a single swift action. 


WEAPON FOCUS + WEAPON 
FINESSE 

When you are wielding a single one-handed weapon for which you have 
Weapon Focus, you can treat that weapon as a light weapon for the purpose 
of Weapon Finesse. 


& SITH TROOPER IS NO MATCH FOR CALO NORD 


a 
I 
p 
t 
4 
G 
\2 


SLVHL, DSOYUSE | 


TABLE 2-1): FEATS 


FEAT NAME 
Accelerated Strike 
Conditioning 
Critical Strike 


Echani Training 

Force Readiness 

Flurry 

Gearhead 

Implant Training 
Improved Rapid Strike 
Increased Agility 

Logic Upgrade: Self-Defense 
Logic Upgrade: Tactician 
Mandalorian Training 
Poison Resistance 

Power Blast 

Quick Skill 

Republic Military Training 
Sith Military Training 
Sniper Shot 

Tumble Defense 
Withdrawal Strike 


PREREQUISITES 

Base attack bonus +6 

Str 13, Con 13 

Base attack bonus +9, proficient with 
melee weapon used, Weapon Focus 
Dex 13, Martial Arts | 


Dex 13 

Possess a cybernetic implant 
Rapid Strike, light melee weapon 
Conditioning 

Droid 

Droid, base attack bonus +4 
Charging Fire 

Con 13 

Dex 13 


Proficient with ranged weapon/group 
Dex 13, proficient with melee weapon 
Base attack bonus +5, proficient with 


melee weapon used 


New FEATS 


The new feats presented below are available in any era. 


ACCELERATED STRIKE 
Your melee attack is exceptionally quick. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +6. 


Benefit: Once per encounter, when using only weapons with which you 
are proficient, you can take a full attack action as a standard action. 


CONDITIONING 


You are in excellent physical condition, enabling you to extend physical activi- 
ties. You might not have great strength, but you have a lot of stamina. 


Prerequisites: Strength 13, Constitution 13. 


BENEFIT 
Once per encounter, make a full attack as a standard action 


Reroll Strength- and Constitution-based skill checks 
Increase critical threat range of an attack 


n unarmed combat, increase damage, knock opponent down on critical hit 

Spend Force Points even if it is not your turn 

ncrease attack bonus, with penalties to Reflex defense 

Make Mechanics and Use Computer checks quickly 

You take no penalty to Will Defense with cyberntetic implant 

Trade -5 penalty on attack roll for +2 dice of darmage when using light melee weapon 


ncrease Climb speed, Swim speed, and Jump distance by 2 squares 
Grant yourself +2 to the defense of your choice for 1 round 


Grant a +5 bonus to attack with a successful aid another attempt 

Gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls when using Charging Fire feat 

You are inherently more resistant to poison 

Trade attack bonus for damage on ranged attacks (up to your base attack bonus) 


Take 10 on skill checks when rushed, take 20 in half normal time 

When behind cover, you can reduce the damage of an incoming attack 

Upon debilitating an enemy, you can cause other enemies to lose heart 

Increase accuracy at a -5 Reflex Defense penalty 

Your martial ability makes it harder for opponent to tumble past 

You can make attacks of opportunity against enemies using the withdraw action 


Benefit: You can reroll any Strength- or Constitution-based skill checks 
for skills that you are trained in. The result of the reroll must be accepted 
even if it is worse. Additionally, once per encounter you can add your Strength 
bonus to your Fortitude Defense as a reaction; this bonus lasts until the 
beginning of your next turn. 


CRITICAL STRIKE 
At the cost of speed, you can make a devastating attack. 

Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +9, proficient with melee weapon used, 
Weapon Focus for the melee weapon used. 

Benefit: You can take two consecutive swift actions in the same round 
to increase the critical range of your next melee attack by 1. Thus, if a 
weapon scores a critical hit on a natural 20, it can score a critical hit on a 
natural roll of 19 or 20 instead. However, any roll other than a natural 20 


is not considered an automatic hit; if you roll a natural 19 and miss the 
target, you do not score a critical hit. You lose the benefits of Critical Strike 
if you lose line of sight to your target or if you take any other action before 
making your attack. 


E CHAN! TRAINING 
You are trained in Echani unarmed fighting techniques, giving you an advan- 
tage in hand-to-hand combat. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Martial Arts |. 

Benefit: You can double the damage bonus provided by your Strength 
bonus to unarmed attacks (minimum +1) provided you make only one 
unarmed attack this turn. Once per encounter when you deal damage to a 
target with an unarmed attack you may make an immediate unarmed attack 
against the target's Fortitude Defense as a free action; If successful you knock 
your opponent to the ground (prone) in their current square, provided they 
are one size larger than you or smaller. 

Special: Targets gain a bonus to Fortitude Defense against being knocked 
prone based on their size: Large +5, Huge +10, Gargantuan +20, Colossal +50. 
Unusually stable creatures (such as those with four legs) gain a +5 bonus to 
their Fortitude Defense against being knocked prone as well. 


FORCE READINESS 
The Force is always with you, and you have a knack for succeeding even 
when the odds are against you. 

Benefit: You can spend Force Points as a free action, even if it is not your 
turn. All other restrictions to Force Point use still apply. 

Normal: Unless otherwise specified, you can spend Force Points only 
on your turn, preventing you from enhancing attacks and skill checks made 
as reactions. 


FLURRY 
You attack using a series of quick strikes, sacrificing defense in the 
process, 

Prerequisite: Dexterity 13. 

Benefit: When wielding only light weapons or lightsabers, you can make a 
flurry of attacks. You take a -5 penalty to your Reflex Defense, but you gain 
a +2 bonus on your melee attack rolls. The bonus on attacks and penalty to 
Reflex Defense apply until the start of your next turn. 

Special: You can use this feat in the place of the Point Blank Shot feat 
to qualify for the elite trooper prestige class. 


GEARHEAD 
You are naturally talented with machines and electronics. 

Benefit: Once per encounter, you can make Mechanics and Use Computer 
checks more quickly than normal. A check requiring a full-round action can 
be attempted as a standard action, a check requiring a standard action can 
be attempted as a move action, and a check requiring a move action can 
be attempted as a swift action. Checks requiring multiple swift actions can 
be reduced by one swift action. Checks requiring more than a full round 
action can be attempted in one-half the amount of time required at a -10 
penalty. 


IMPLANT TRAINING 
You have acclimated your mind and body to the presence of a cybernetic 
implant. 

Prerequisite: Must possess a cybernetic implant. 

Benefit: You are not moved an extra step down the condition track when 
you would normally be moved down the condition track. 

Normal: Characters with an implant move one extra step down the condi- 
tion track when moved down the condition track for any reason. 


IMPROVED RAPID STRIKE 
Your Rapid Strike is more effective with light melee weapons. 

Prerequisites: Rapid Strike, light melee weapon 

Benefit: When using a light melee weapon or lightsaber with the Rapid 
Strike feat, you can take a -5 penalty to your attack roll to gain +2 dice of 
damage on a successful strike. This does not stack with the Rapid Strike feat 
or extra damage provided by any source that does not stack with the Rapid 
Strike feat (such as Mighty Swing). 

Special: If you do not have a Dexterity of 13 or higher, the penalty to 
your attack roll is -10. 


INCREASED AGILITY 
Due to your own natural abilities or specific training, you move faster or 
farther than normal when climbing, jumping and swimming. 

Prerequisite: Conditioning 

Benefit: You increase your Climb speed, Swim speed and Jump distance 
by 2 squares and do not lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense when 
climbing. 


|o 
Ti 
> 
v 
= 
q 
2 


SUV Sever) | 


Posen 


it ealavHS 


SHV, HSeveH) al 


DARTH NIHILUS, SITH LORD 


LOGIC UPGRADE: SELF 
DEFENSE 
You can use your acquired knowledge and experiences to increase your 
defenses. 

Prerequisite: Droids only. 

Benefit: Once per encounter, as a reaction, you can grant yourself a 
+2 morale bonus to the defense score of your choice until the end of your 
next turn. 


LOGIC UPGRADE: TACTICIAN 
You nave learned to use your systems and equipment to arm yourself. 
Prerequisites: Droids only, base attack bonus +4. 
Benefit: Once per encounter, you can use the aid another action to grant 
a single ally a +5 bonus to their next attack roll against an opponent. 
Normal: Successfully aiding an attack roll grants a +2 bonus to the ally’s 
next attack roll against the opponent. 


MANDALORIAN TRAINING 
You are trained in Mandalorian fighting techniques, giving you an advantage 
in many types of combat. 

Prerequisite: Charging Fire. 

Benefit: When using the Charging Fire feat, you gain a +2 bonus to a 
ranged attack made at the end of a charge. As with a normal charge, you 
still take a -2 penalty to your Reflex Defense, but you also gain a +2 morale 
bonus to your Will Defense until the beginning of your next turn. 

Normal: You gain no bonus to a ranged attack made at the end of a 
charge with the Charging Fire feat. 


POISON RESISTANCE 
You are naturally more resistant to the effect of poison. 

Prerequisite: Constitution 13. 

Benefit: You gain a +5 bonus to your Fortitude Defense when attacked 
by poison. If the attack succeeds, you take only half damage. 


POWER BLAST 
You can make exceptionally powerful ranged attacks. 

Benefit: As a swift action, before making an attack roll, you can choose 
to subtract a number from all ranged attack rolls and add the same number 
to all ranged damage rolls. This number cannot exceed your base attack 
bonus. The penalty on attacks and bonus on damage applies until the start 
of your next turn but you gain no bonus to damage with area attacks or 
when attacking objects or vehicles from this feat. 

Special: If you do not have a Strength of 13 or higher, you take a -5 
penalty to attacks when using this feat with non-vehicle weapons. 


Quick SKILL 
Your cautious nature provides a bonus to accomplishing extremely dangerous 
tasks. You are steady and confident. 

Benefit: Once per encounter, you can take 10 when rushed on a single 
skill check for a skill you are trained in, unless the skill description explicitly 
forbids it. Alternatively, you can take 20 when using a skill you are trained 
in at half the normal time required. 

Normal: Taking 20 normally requires 20 times the amount of time needed 
by a regular skill check. 


REPUBLIC MILITARY TRAINING 

You are trained in Republic military fighting techniques, giving you an 
advantage in ranged combat. This training is generally given to members of 
the Republic military forces. 

Benefit: Once per encounter, as a reaction, you gain DR 10 against an 
incoming attack if you have cover from the attacker. You can gain the DR as 
long as you have cover, even if your opponent uses aim to ignore your cover 
bonus to Reflex Defense. 


SITH MILITARY TRAINING 
You are trained in Sith military fighting techniques, giving you an advantage 
in melee combat. This training is generally given to rank and file military 
members of the Sith Empire regardless of their Force training. 

Benefit: Once per encounter, as a reaction when you reduce a target to 
O hit points or deal damage that exceeds the target's damage threshold, you 
can activate this feat to cause all enemies within 6 squares of that target to 
take a -2 to defenses until the end of your next turn. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. 


SNIPER SHOT 
You make a precision attack at the expense of your own defense. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with ranged weapon used (other than 
heavy weapons). 

Benefit: When wielding only weapons with which you are proficient, 
you can gain a +2 bonus on your ranged attack, but you take a -5 penalty 
to Reflex Defense until the beginning of your next turn. 

Special: This feat cannot be used with vehicle weapons or heavy 
weapons. 


TUMBLE DEFENSE 
You can use your melee weapon to hinder acrobatic enemies. 

Prerequisites: Proficient with melee weapon used. 

Benefit: When an opponent attempts to tumble through a square you 
threaten with a melee weapon, add your base attack bonus to the DC of the 
Acrobatics check made to tumble. If the target fails the Acrobatics check 
to tumble, you can make an attack of opportunity against that opponent 
as normal. 

Special: You cannot use this feat when you are flat-footed. 


WITHDRAWAL STRIKE 

Your enemies do not escape easily. ; 
Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +5, proficient with melee weapon used 
Benefit: When taking this feat, select a single exotic weapon or weapon 

group. When wielding a melee weapon from the chosen weapon group, 

adjacent opponents may not withdraw from squares you threaten. They may 

still make Acrobatics checks to tumble as normal. 


BONUS FEATS 

Some of the feats in this chapter can be selected as bonus feats by 
members of certain classes. Each class mentioned below adds the following 
feats to its list of available bonus feats. 


Class Bonus Feats 

Jedi Accelerated Strike, Critical Strike, Force Readiness, 
Flurry, Improved Rapid Strike, Tumble Defense, 
Withdrawal Strike 

Noble Flurry, Quick Skill 

Scoundrel Gearhead, Implant Training, Poison Resistance, 
Quick Skill, Sniper Shot 

Scout Conditioning, Gearhead, Increased Agility, 
Poison Resistance 

Soldier Accelerated Strike, Conditioning, Critical Strike, 


Flurry, Improved Rapid Strike, Increased Agility, 
Power Blast, Sniper Shot, Tumble Defense, 
Withdrawal Strike 


i] HStcgVvHO 


B 


SLVHL AeH%eH) 


ee 


i i 
LASSES 


a's's 


hel 


DDD 
4s : 2 ee 


BE RE KR RK 


De ee 


PRESTIGE 


Prestige classes enable characters to specialize by gaining new talents and 
abilities unavailable to other classes. Prestige classes allow players to develop 
their characters around specific concepts, roles, or character types. Prestige 
classes are optional, and the Gamemaster has the final say on which, if any, 
are allowed in the campaign. 

All prestige classes are suitable for player or Gamemaster use. To qualify 
for a prestige class, a character must meet all prerequisites, including story 
factors and statistical requirements. Players and Gamemasters should work 
together to generate adventures and storylines that allow a player to take 
advantage of these classes. 


NEw TALENTS 
FOR EXISTING 
PRESTIGE CLASSES 


This chapter features three new prestige classes suitable for a Knights of 
the Old Republic campaign and also includes several new talent trees for 
existing prestige classes. Like those new talent trees for core classes (Jedi, 
noble, scoundrel, scout, soldier) in the previous chapter, any character taking 
a level in the designated prestige class that would normally grant the talent 
can take one of these talents. Even though a prestige class description might 
not mention these talent trees specifically, they are considered to be a part 
of the list of suitable talent trees for that prestige class. 

For example, in the description of the talents granted to the elite trooper 
prestige class that appear in the Saga Edition core rulebook, the text states 
that a character can choose talents from the Weapon Master talent tree, the 
Commando talent tree, or the Camouflage talent tree. This chapter presents 
the Mandalorian Warrior talent tree for the elite trooper, which is considered 
to be on the list of talent trees for the elite trooper just like the other three. 
Any talent that relies on a character's class level considers the levels of all 
classes that have access to that talent cumulative. 

However, none of the new talent trees granted to core classes by this book 
are added to the list of approved talent trees for that prestige class unless 
specifically noted in that talent tree’s description. Though the elite trooper 
has access to the Commando talent tree of the soldier class, he does not 
gain access to the Rocket Jumper talent tree from the previous chapter even 
though it is considered a soldier talent tree. New talents for existing talent 
trees are treated no differently from any other talent in that tree. 


i) SeStagvyHg 


Sassv1g 3011.ss¢d 


i} BSaBtavHgd 


B9SS8V7I0) FdeOILSE8e) 


0 


New PRESTIGE CLASS 
TALENTS 


This section presents new talents for several of the prestige classes in the Saga Edi- 
tion core rulebook. 


EuvITe TROOPER TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for use with the elite trooper prestige 
class. 


MANDALORIAN WARRIOR TALENT TREE 

Mandalorians are talented and ferocious warriors. Their skillful training, 
warrior culture, and advanced combat abilities make them formidable foes 
in any era. The following talents are particularly suited to the Knights of the 
Old Republic era. 

Armored Mandalorian: Mandalorians wear armor constantly and learn 
to adjust to take an impact on the strongest section of their armor. You add 
your armor’s Fortitude Defense bonus as an equip- 
ment bonus to your elite trooper 
damage reduction (with a maxi- 
mum bonus equal to your base 
elite trooper DR). Additionally, if a 
lightsaber does not ignore the DR of 
the armor you are wearing (such as 
cortosis weave/phrik alloy armor), 

a lightsaber does not ignore your 
damage reduction. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, 
Mandalorian Glory, proficient in 
armor worn. 

Mandalorian Advance: 
Veteran Mandalorians 
know how to move on 
the battlefield. Once 
per encounter, on 
your turn, you 
can move up to 
your speed as 
a free action 
before any 
other action. 


ROHLAN DYRE, MANDALORIAN ELITE TROOPER 


Mandalorian Ferocity: Mandalorians can be ferocious fighters. Select 
one weapon group or exotic weapon you are proficient with. Once per 
encounter, when making more than one attack in a round, you can add 
one damage die to each successful hit with the selected weapon group or 
exotic weapon. You can take this talent more than once, selecting a different 
weapon group each time. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, proficient in selected exotic weapon or 
weapon group. 

Mandalorian Glory: Above everything else, Mandalorians fight for glory 
in battle. Once per encounter, when you reduce an opponent's hit points 
to 0, you gain a +5 attack bonus with your next attack during the same 
encounter. 


FORCE ADEPT TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the Force adept prestige class. 


New Force Item Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Force Item talent tree, which is 
available to members of the Force adept prestige class, Any character that 
can normally choose talents from the Force Item talent tree can choose 
from these talents as well. 

Primitive Block: As a reaction, you may negate a melee attack by making 
a successful Use the Force check. The DC of the skill check is equal to the 
result of the attack roll you wish to negate, and you take a cumulative -5 
penalty on your Use the Force checks to use this talent for every time you 
have used Primitive Block since the beginning of your last turn. You must 
have a weapon you have empowered drawn to use this talent, and you must 
be aware of the attack and not flat-footed. You may spend a Force Point to 
use this talent to negate an attack against an adjacent character. 

You may use the Primitive Block talent to negate melee area attacks, 
such as those made by the Whirlwind Attack feat. If you succeed on the Use 
the Force check, you take half damage if the attack hits and no damage if 
the attack misses. 

Prerequisite: Enpower Weapon. 

Force Throw: You can hurl a simple or advanced melee weapon your size 
or smaller as a standard action, treating it as a thrown weapon. You are con- 
sidered proficient with the thrown weapon. The thrown weapon deals normal 
weapon damage if it hits. If the weapon deals piercing or slashing damage, it 
becomes embedded in your target, remaining there and causing an additional 
die of damage each round at the end of the target's turn, and also when it is 
removed (removing the embedded weapon is a swift action and an adjacent 
ally can remove the embedded weapon for you). Your target must be within 
6 squares of you. The weapon does not automatically return to you, but you 
can retrieve it with move object (dealing an additional die of damage in the 
process, if the weapon is embedded in the target, as above). 

Prerequisite: Empower Weapon. 


GUNSLINGER TALENT 
The following talent is for use with the Gunslinger prestige class. 


New Gunslinger Talent 

The following talent is for use with the Gunslinger talent tree, which is 
available to members of the gunslinger prestige class. Any character that 
can normally choose talents from the Gunslinger talent tree can choose 
this talent as well. 

Mobile Attack (pistols): Immediately after making a full attack where 
you attack with two pistols, you may move up to your speed as a free 
action. 

Prerequisites: Multiattack Proficiency (pistols), Dual Weapon Mastery I, 
Weapon Focus (pistols). 


WJED!t KNIGHT TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the Jedi Knight prestige class. 


New Duelist Talents 

The following talents are for use with the Duelist talent tree, which is avail- 
able to members of the Jedi Knight prestige class. Any character that can 
normally choose talents from the Duelist talent tree can choose from these 
talents as well. 

Improved Riposte: Once per turn, when you successfully make a riposte 
attack using the Riposte talent, you do not count the Block use that triggered 
the riposte (thus, you take no cumulative penalty to Use the Force checks 
from that Block attempt). Subsequent Block attempts before the beginning 
of your next turn impose penalties as normal. 

Prerequisites: Block, Riposte. 

Improved Redirect: Once per turn, when you successfully redirect an 
attack with the Redirect Shot talent, do not count the Deflect use that trig- 
gered the redirected attack (thus, you take no cumulative penalty to Use 
the Force checks from that Deflect attempt). Subsequent Deflect attempts 
before the beginning of your next turn impose penalties as normal. 

Prerequisites: Deflect, Redirect Shot. 


JEDI BATTLEMASTER TALENT TREE 
Jedi Battlemasters are highly trained in Jedi combat techniques. They serve as 
the head combat trainers for Jedi organizations and as Jedi commanders on 
the battlefield. Many Battlemasters begin their careers as Jedi Guardians. 
Defensive Circle: As a swift action, you and any allies affected by your 
Battle Meditation gain a +2 insight bonus to Reflex Defense, lasting as long 
as they are affected by Battle Meditation. Additionally, you gain a +1 bonus 
to your Use the Force checks to Block and Deflect (as per the talents) for 
each adjacent ally wielding a lightsaber. 
Prerequisites: Battle Meditation, Block or Deflect, Jedi Battle 
Commander. 


Force Revive: When an ally affected by your Battle Mediation is reduced 
to O hit points, you can spend a Force Point as a reaction, allowing that ally 
to take its Second Wind as a reaction immediately (though the target still 
falls unconscious before the Second Wind is triggered). 

Prerequisites: Battle Meditation, Jedi Battle Commander. 

Jedi Battle Commander: You are trained to direct Jedi in pitched battles. 
Your battle meditation grants a +2 insight bonus on attack rolls instead of 
the normal +1. 

Prerequisite: Battle Meditation. 

Slashing Charge: Once per encounter, while making a charge, you take 
no cumulative penalty to Use the Force checks for each Block attempt you 
make during the charge. When performing slashing charge, you can apply 
the attack bonus granted by the charge to all Riposte attacks as well. You 
can declare the use of this ability after you begin the charge but before you 
make your first Riposte attack. 

Prerequisite: Block, Riposte, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Pro- 
ficiency (lightsabers). 

Mobile Attack (lightsabers]: Immediately after making a full attack 
where you attack with two lightsabers (or both ends of a double-bladed 
lightsaber), you may move up to your speed as a free action. 

Prerequisites: Multiattack Proficiency (lightsabers), Dual Weapon Mastery 
|, Weapon Focus (lightsabers). 


JEDI SHADOW TALENT TREE 

Jedi Shadows are often elite Jedi Sentinels who specialize in abilities that 
aid them in pursuing dark side users in all forms and locations. These talents 
are also utilized by Jedi Covenant Shadows. 

Dark Deception: You can cloak your intentions with a veil of anger and 
hate. When another character attempts to sense you through the Force in 
any way, you can choose to act as though your Dark Side Score equals your 
Wisdom score. 

Additionally, Deception is now a class skill for you. 

Improved Sentinel Strike: Increase the damage dice of your Sentinel 
Strike to d8 instead of d6. 

Prerequisite: Sentinel Strike. 

Improved Sentinel’s Gambit: You can use Sentinel’s Gambit an additional 
number of times an encounter equal to half your class level (minimum 1). 

Prerequisite: Sentinel’s Gambit. 

Rebuke the Dark: When using the rebuke Force power against a Force 
power with the [dark side] descriptor, roll two dice for the rebuke attempt 
and take the better result. 

Taint of the Dark Side: Add one Force power with the [dark side] descrip- 
tor to your Force suite. Once per encounter you can use that Force power with 
the [dark side] descriptor without increasing your Dark Side Score. 

Prerequisite: Dark Deception. 


i YatavHg. 


i 
E 
1 
1 


T 
ay) | 
W 
d 
8 
“W 
Q 
Pr 
> 
@ 
(i) 
Ww) 
0) 


a) 


HW eSLavHoS 


SessSsevi1) FoILSEe) 


JEDI WATCHMAN TALENT TREE 

Jedi Watchmen are elite Jedi tasked with protecting and watching over a 
specific world or region of space. They seek out and destroy threats to the 
Republic and the Jedi Order. As such, they have enhanced their abilities to 
blend in and covertly investigate threats at their source. All Watchmen are 
appointed and approved by the Jedi Council before training; many begin 
as Jedi Consulars. A Watchman's assignment might change, as directed by 
the Council. 

Force Warning: Allies within 12 squares can choose to reroll their Initia- 
tive checks at the start of combat but must take the second result, even if 
it is worse. Furthermore, if any allies within 12 squares are surprised at the 
start of an encounter, but you are not, you can designate a number of those 
allies equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1); those allies are no longer 
considered surprised and can act normally on the surprise round. 


MaSTER 4TRIG, JEDI WATCHMAN 


Improved Quick Draw (lightsabers): If you are carrying a lightsaber 
(either in your hand or at your belt), you can draw the lightsaber, ignite it, 
and make a single attack during the surprise round even if you are surprised. 
If you are not surprised, you can take any single action of your choice, as 
normal. 

Additionally, once per turn you may draw and ignite a lightsaber as a 
free action on your turn. 

Prerequisites: Quick Draw, Weapon Focus (lightsabers). 

Sheltering Stance: Whenever you are adjacent to an ally, you may use 
the Block or Deflect talents on attacks that target that ally without the need 
to spend a Force Point. 

Prerequisite: Block or Deflect, Vigilance 

Vigilance: As a swift action you may designate one adjacent ally as 
the target of this talent. That target gains a +1 deflection bonus to Reflex 
Defense as long as you remain adjacent to them. You may change the target 
of this talent as a swift action. 

Watchman's Advance: When acting in the surprise round, you and your 
allies can take an extra move action. Any character can gain only one extra 
move action during the surprise round regardless of the number of Jedi with 
this talent in your group. 

Prerequisites: Force Warning. 


SITH TALENTS 
The following talents are for use with the Sith apprentice prestige class. 


New Sith Talents 

The following talents are for use with the Sith talent tree, which is available 
to members of the Sith apprentice prestige class. Any character that can 
normally choose talents from the Sith talent tree can choose from these 
talents as well. 

Affliction: Your Force power carries the taint of the dark side more so 
than even other dark side users. When you damage a single opponent with 
one of your Force powers, that target also takes 2d6 points of Force damage 
at the beginning of its next turn, before taking any actions. 

Dark Healing Field: You can spend a Force Point to heal wounds by 
drawing life energy from up to three targeted creatures within 12 squares of 
you. Once per encounter, make a Use the Force check. If the attack equals or 
exceeds a target's Fortitude Defense, the target takes 1d6 damage per class 
level. You heal half the total damage dealt (cumulative from all targets). If 
the attack fails, the targets take half damage and you heal that amount. 

Prerequisites: Dark Healing, Improved Dark Healing. 

Drain Force: Once per encounter, as a reaction when you damage a Force- 
sensitive opponent, the dark taint of your power allows you to sap some of 
the opponent's strength and covert it to personal power, regaining one spent 
Force power. Additionally, the target loses one Force Point. 

Prerequisite: Affliction. 


Sith Alchemy: Your knowledge of Sith sorcery allows you to imbue 
talismans and other objects with the power of the dark side. 

Create Sith Talisman:You can spend one Force Point to imbue a portable 
object with the dark side, creating a Sith talisman that provides offensive 
strength to a Force power or lightsaber attack. Creating the talisman takes 
a full-round action. While you wear or carry the talisman on your person, 
add 1d6 to your damage with Force powers. You gain a Dark Side point 
when you first put on or carry a Sith talisman. You can have only one Sith 
talisman active at any given time, and if it is destroyed, you cannot create 
another one for 24 hours. 

Create Sith Weapon: You can alchemically treat a properly prepared 
weapon to become a Sith weapon. You may spend a Force Point to imbue 
the weapon with the properties of the Sith alchemical weapon template 
(this process takes one hour to complete). See Chapter 5: Equipment and 
Droids for information on Sith alchemical weapons. 

Prerequisite: Dark Side Adept, Dark Side Master. 


New PRESTIGE 
CLASSES 
This following new prestige classes are available in the Knights of the Old 


Republic era. In later eras, the Gladiator is less common, and most often 
found in systems outside direct Imperial control. 


he’, 


PRESTI 


é. we 


GE CLASS BASIC DESCRIPTION 


Corporate agent Governmentlike agents working for corporations 
Gladiator Underworld combatants who fight for cash or prizes 
Melee duelist Individuals specialized in single combat 


CORPORATE AGENT 

Interstellar corporations hold a huge amount of power in all eras of play. In 
some regions, the corporations control enough systems to operate as the 
de facto government. However, most are spread across countless worlds 
throughout the galaxy. Their presence varies, ranging from near dominance 
of a local market, to only a single office, store, or facility. Major corpo- 
rations have agents of their own, looking after company interests. These 
agents might specialize in security, fraud, exploration, administration, or 
many other aspects of management and production. [hey operate in the 
open or covertly, normally restricting their activities to keeping an eye on 
their own company, but corporations can use agents for corporate espionage 
or even sabotaging competitors. 


A CZERKA CORPORATE ENFORCER 


it HBLavHo 


Ssenc) ial 


SESssSseVvI7©@ PGeSvuwzs 


LavHo ) 


lil HaL.avHD 


E 

e) 

Bi 
U 


Seseeyvie gOiLASEe) 


BASE ATTACK 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 

1st +0 Defense bonuses, talent 

2nd +1 Executive Leadership (1/encounter) 
3rd +2 Talent 

4th +3 Executive Leadership (2/encounter) 
5th +3 Talent ; 
6th +4 Executive Leadership (3/encounter) 
7th +5 Talent 

8th +6 Executive Leadership (4/encounter) 
9th +6 Talent ; 
10th +7 Executive Leadership (5/encounter) 


Corporate agents might wield as much or more power than government 
agents. Some agents find that the company is their life. Indeed, with each 
promotion they might find that the company demands more and more of 
their time in exchange for increased status, power, and pay. 


EXAMPLES OF CORPORATE 
AGENTS IN STAR WARS 
Fiolla of Lorrd, Haydel Goravvus, Jana Lorso, Odumin. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a corporate agent, a character must fulfill the fol- 
lowing criteria. 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Trained Skills: Gather Information, Knowledge (bureaucracy). 

Feats: Skill Focus (Knowledge [Bureaucracy]. 

Special: Must be employed by a major interstellar corporation. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Corporate agents have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, corporate agents gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution 
modifier. 


Force Points 

Corporate agents gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their 
character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this 
class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the corporate agent prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +4 class 
bonus to your Will Defense. 


Employment Required 

You must retain employment by a major interstellar Corporation to gain new 
levels of corporate agent. If you leave the company for any reason, you cannot 
take additional corporate agent levels until you join a new one. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on}, you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Leadership or Lineage talent trees in the 
Saga Edition core rulebook, or from the Corporate Power talent tree, below. 
You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can 
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


CORPORATE POWER TALENT TREE 
You are an extension of your corporation and wield their power as your 
own. 

Competitive Drive: You are driven to compete and succeed. Once per 
encounter, you can reroll any Wisdom-, Intelligence-, or Charisma-based skill 
check (except Use the Force) and take the better result. 

Competitive Edge: When you and your allies are not surprised, you and 
a number of allies equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1) that you 
designate on your first turn gain the benefit of the Quick Draw feat for the 
remainder of the encounter. 

Corporate Clout: You are adept at making deals that make enemies 
question which side they should be on. Once per encounter, as a standard 
action, you can make a Persuasion check against the Will Defense of an 
enemy within line of sight. If your check equals or exceeds the target's Will 
Defense, the target cannot attack you for the remainder of the encounter. 
If your check exceeds the Will Defense by 5 or more, the target will not 
attack you or your allies for the remainder of the encounter, and retreats 
from the encounter. If your check exceeds the Will Defense by 10 or more, 
the target's attitude toward you is now Friendly, and the target becomes 
your ally for the remainder of the encounter, remaining under the control of 
the Gamemaster. If you or one of your allies attacks the target, the target 
once again becomes hostile. 

lf the target is higher level than you, it gains a +5 bonus to its Will 
Defense. 

This is a mind-affecting fear effect. 

Prerequisites: Impose Hesitation, Wrong Decision. 


Impose Confusion: Increase the area of Impose Hesitation toa 12-square 
cone. Also, once per encounter, after making the Persuasion check for Impose 
Hesitation, you can instead choose to have the targets lose a standard action 
on their next turn. 

Prerequisite: Impose Hesitation. 

Impose Hesitation: As a standard action, make a Persuasion check tar- 
geting all opponents in a 6-square cone. If you equal or exceed the target's 
Will Defense, the target loses a swift action on its next turn and cannot take 
full-round actions. This is a mind-affecting effect. Targets need to see, hear, 
and understand you to be affected by this attack. 

Willful Resolve: Once per encounter, you can negate the effect of a single 
attack roll or skill check made against you that targets your Will Defense. 

Wrong Decision: Each time you are attacked, the opponent that attacked 
you takes a -2 morale penalty to its Will Defense until the end of your next 
turn. This penalty is not cumulative, so if a target makes multiple attacks 
against you it only incurs the penalty once per turn. 


Executive Leadership 

As aswift action, as many times an encounter equal to half your corporate 
agent level, you can grant an ally within line of sight a temporary boost to 
theirspeed, attacks, or defenses. Until the end of their turn they can gain one 
of the following benefits (your choice): increase base speed by 2 squares, a 
+2 morale bonus to attack rolls, or a +2 morale bonus to all defenses. 


GLADIATOR 

Though the most violent forms are officially banned in the Republic and 
on most civilized planets, gladiatorial combat remains an entertaining and 
lucrative combination of business and entertainment. In more civilized 
locales, such contests are held using nonlethal weapons—such as blasters 
on stun—with strict rules, resulting in a fight more like a sparring match 
than lethal combat. However, a more dangerous form of the sport flour- 
ishes in underground matches and on the wilder planets of the galaxy. For 
instance, cantinas on the planet Taris host gladiator contests as entertain- 
ment, allowing spectators to gamble on the results. Tne contests might be 
to the death, but they are more often fought until one side is unconscious 
or unable to continue. 

The gladiators have diverse backgrounds. Some are former soldiers look- 
ing to make a few credits using the only skills they have. Others are thrill 
seekers looking for fame and notoriety, as well as money. Still others have 
been captured, forced to fight and are looking to escape. The best of these 
fighters eventually go on to become professionals that are extremely good 
fighters and incredibly dangerous both in the arena and on the streets. 


BENDAK STARKILLER, GLADIATOR 


In YaLevHo 


Ue 
Ww 
@ 
J 
Cm 
WU 
(e) 
(P 
> 
0 
o 
Wy) 
o 


ft daiavHa 


SeseseVvieg BOILSEIe) 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
Ist +1 Defense bonuses, talent 
2nd 42 Unflinching (1/encounter) 
3rd +3 Talent 
4th +4 Unflinching (2/encounter) 
5th +5 Talent 
6th +6 Unflinching (3/encounter) 
7th +7 Talent 
8th +8 Unflinching (4/encounter) 
3th +9 Talent 
10th +10 Unflinching (5/encounter) 


ExAMPLES OF GLADIATORS IN 
STAR WARS 
Bendak Starkiller, Twitch. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a gladiator, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria. 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Minimum Base Attack Bonus: +7. 

Feats: Improved Damage Threshold, Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons}. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Gladiators have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, gladiators gain 1d10 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


Force Points 
Gladiators gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their character 
level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the gladiator prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At ist level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +2 class 
bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Awareness or Armor Specialist trees in 
the Saga Edition core rulebook, or from the Gladiatorial Combat talent tree 
below. You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent 
can be selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


GLADIATORIAL COMBAT TALENT TREE 

You have learned the tricks of fighting in the gladiatorial arena. These tal- 
ents represent your knowledge of this specialized combination of combat 
and showmanship. 

Brutal Attack: Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon group you are 
proficient with. Attacks with such weapons that deal damage that exceeds 
an opponent's damage threshold deal +1 die of damage on that attack. 

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent, 
it applies to a different exotic weapon or weapon group. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus with the chosen weapon. 

Call Out: When you use the Personal Vendetta talent, you may designate 
one target of that talent to take a -5 penalty to attacks against targets other 
than you instead of the normal -2. 

Prerequisite: Personal Vendetta. 

Distracting Attack: When you deal damage to a target with a melee or 
ranged attack, compare the attack roll to the target's Will Defense. If the 
attack roll also meets or exceeds the target's Will Defense, the target takes 
a -2 penalty to Reflex Defense until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Brutal Attack with the weapon used. 

Exotic Weapons Master: You treat all exotic weapons as a single weapon 
group (exotic weapons). If you already have feats that grant proficiency with 
or augment the use of one exotic weapon, those feats grant proficiency 
with or augment all exotic weapons. For example, if you already had Exotic 
Weapon Proficiency (shyarn) and Weapon Focus (shyarn) you now how 
Weapon Proficiency (exotic weapons) and Weapon Focus (exotic weapons), 
and the effects of both feats apply to all exotic weapons. 

Prerequisite: Proficiency in at least one exotic weapon. 

Lockdown Strike: When you hit a moving opponent that is one size 
category larger than you or smaller with an attack of opportunity, you 
immediately end its current movement. 


Multiattack Proficiency (exotic weapons): Whenever you make multiple 
attacks with exotic weapons as a full attack action, you reduce the penalty 
on your attack rolls by 2. 

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent, 
you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by an additional 2. 

Prerequisite: Exotic Weapons Master. 

Personal Vendetta: As a swift action, you can taunt all enemies within 12 
squares and line of sight; on their next turn, these enemies take a -2 penalty 
on attack rolls made against any target other than you. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Unstoppable: You can sometimes shrug off the effect of debilitating 
attacks, Once per encounter, if you are hit by an attack that would normally 
knock you down the condition track, you can reduce the number of steps you 
move down the condition track by 1 step (to a minimum of 0}. 


GLADIATORIAL COMBAT 
Circuit 

Gladiatorial combat and formalized duels are popular spectator sports 
in much of the galaxy, particularly the Outer Rim planets and planets 
outside Republic control. Whether they are fights to the death, or the 
more common fight to first blood or unconsciousness, these displays 
of combat attract spectators far and wide, particularly over secured 
video links. Profits are generated through ticket sales, but more money 
comes from gambling. Promoters secure both the combatants and the 
profits taken on the contest. 

The size and type of arena varies by planet, and most permanent 
facilities employ a number of regulars to fight among themselves, or 
against challengers from other worlds. Some contestants travel from 
arena to arena and world to world, following an informal circuit of 
legitimate and underground facilities. The legality of such combat varies 
drastically from planet to planet. 

One of the better-known dueling arenas is run by Ajuur the Hutt 
through the Upper City Cantina on the planet Taris. Through much of 
this era, Ajuur can be found arranging battles, no matter the state of the 
planet, or who is in charge of it. He pays well for skilled combatants, and 
is willing to take a chance on newcomers. For most battles, he sticks to 
the laws of Taris, However, he arranges fights to the death if he believes 
it might bring in enough credits to be worth the risk. 


Unflinching 

At 2nd level your training as a gladiator has made you very difficult to 
intimidate or deter, Once per encounter, you may add your gladiator level 
to your Fortitude Defense (and damage threshold) or Will Defense until 
the start of your next turn as a reaction; you choose which defense to 
apply the bonus to when you use the ability, but you must declare the use 
of this feature before you know the outcome of the effect targeting you. 
At each even-numbered class level thereafter, you gain one additional 
use of this ability per encounter. 


CROWD RESPONSE 

Crowds of spectators at a gladiatorial contest or duel can have a notice- 
able influence on the outcome of the event. Positive crowd responses 
give bonuses, and negative responses result in penalties to combat- 
ants. A character can attempt to gain crowd support through his or 
her actions, mannerisms and combat prowess. Likewise, they can lose 
support through unpopular moves or poor fighting skills. 

Crowd attitudes follow the same attitude steps as the Persuasion 
skill (see page 71 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). At the start of a 
contest, the Gamemaster determines the attitude of the crowd toward 
each participant, supporting some while opposing others. Their attitude 
shifts when a character is reduced to 0 hit points or the bottom of the 
condition track, or in response to combatant actions and attempts to 
sway the crowd. 

To sway a crowd, a participant must make a DC 25 Persuasion check, 
with applicable adjustments for the crowd's current attitude as specified 
for the Persuasion skill. If successful, the crowd moves one step in the 
fighter’s favor. Gamemasters can apply other modifiers to the crowd 
response DC for additional circumstances, such as a favorite champion, 
hated opponent, or partisan crowd. 

Characters reducing an opponent to 0 hit points or the bottom of the 
condition track also move the crowd one step in their favor. 

Crowd response grants a bonus or penalty to one attack each round 
to each combatant. Characters whom the crowd regards as helpful gain 
a +2 morale bonus. Those regarded as friendly gain a +1 morale bonus 
instead. Indifferent grants no bonus or penalty. Unfriendly gives a -1 
morale penalty, and hostile results in a -2 morale penalty. 


r 
> 
v 
4 
li 


io | 


SssevI® seiv.Ss9ave) 


13) 
I 
> 
v 
4 
0 
2} 


SESssevi1S) SQ1ASSVMe) 


MASTER DUELIST 


— 


q 


MELEE DUELIST 

Throughout the history of the galaxy, dueling has seen many degrees of 
acceptability, militarily, legally, and socially. Some cultures or subcultures 
regard dueling as an honorable and civilized method of settling disputes, 
but others see dueling as barbaric. During the Knights of the Old Republic 
era, melee combat has resurged, forcing many to study dueling as a means 
to survive on the battlefield. In addition, dueling is still regarded as a sport 
on many planets. In fact, dueling is allowed on more civilized worlds than 
gladiatorial combat, given the higher cultural status dueling enjoys. 

The melee duelist specializes in fighting a single opponent. The melee 
duelist selects a primary weapon of choice, studying and practicing maneu- 
vers, feints, and tricks to perfection. Competitive duelists train with several 
types weapons because they may not know ahead of time which types of 
weapons will be used in a duel. Battlefield duelists expand their abilities to 
take on small groups because they cannot depend on the luxury of fighting 
a single opponent in the middle of a skirmish. Jedi can also become melee 
duelists to improve their lightsaber combat and expand their knowledge 
beyond the standard Jedi lightsaber forms. Sith of all ranks and types can 
specialize in melee duelist, as many of them do not have direct access to 
learning lightsaber forms. 


BASE ATTACK 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 

Ist +1 Defense bonuses, talent 

2nd +2 Master of Movement (1/encounter) 
3rd +3 Talent 

4th +4 aster of Movement (2/encounter) 
5th +5 Talent 

6th +6 Master of Movement (3/encounter) 
7th +7 Talent 

8th +8 Master of Movement (4/encounter) 
9th +9 Talent 

10th +10 aster of Movement (5/encounter] 


EXAMPLES OF MELEE 
DUELISTS IN STAR WARS 
Ice, Marl, Qesya Vth'naar, Tabor 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a melee duelist, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria. 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Minimum Base Attack Bonus: +7. 

Feats: Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Weapon Focus with exotic melee 
weapon or advanced melee weapons. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Melee duelists have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, melee duelists gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution 
modifier. 


Force Points 
Melee duelists gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their char- 
acter level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the melee duelist prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +2 class 
bonus to your Will Defense. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, Sth, and so on), you select a talent. 
The talent can be selected from the Brawler or Weapon Specialist talent tree 
in the Saga Edition core rulebook or from one of the talent trees below. You 
must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be 
selected more than once unless expressly indicated. 


MELEE DUELIST TALENT TREE 
You are lethal when fighting with one or more melee weapons. 

Advantageous Strike: You take advantage of your opponent's haste. 
You gain a +5 bonus on attacks of opportunity with melee weapons you 
are proficient with. 

Dirty Tricks: You are not above using a few dirty tricks to win. You can 
use the feint application of the Deception skill as two swift actions against 
an opponent you threaten. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Deception. 


Dual Weapon Flourish I: When wielding only two light melee weapons 
or two lightsabers, whenever you make a single attack as a standard action 
with one weapon you can make a single attack with the other weapon as 
a free action against the same target. You apply the normal penalties for 
fighting with two weapons with this attack. 

Prerequisites: Dual Weapon Mastery !|, Weapon Finesse. 

Dual Weapon Flourish I]: When you are wielding only two light melee 
weapons or two lightsabers, you can make a full attack as a standard action 
instead of a full-round action, provided you attack with both weapons during 
the attack. You apply the normal penalties for fighting with two weapons 
to both of these attacks. 

Prerequisites: Duel Weapon Mastery |, Duel Weapon Mastery II, Dual 
Weapon Flourish |, Master of Elegance, Weapon Finesse. 

Master of Elegance: You may add your Dexterity bonus [instead of your 
Strength bonus) on damage rolls when wielding a light melee weapon. When 
you wield a light melee weapon two-handed, you may apply double your 
Dexterity bonus (instead of double your Strength bonus) to the damage. 

Prerequisites: Dual Weapon Flourish | or Single Weapon Flourish |, Weapon 
Finesse. 

Multiattack Proficiency (advanced melee weapons): Whenever you 
make multiple attacks with advanced melee weapons as a full attack action, 
you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by 2. 

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent, 
you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by an additional 2. 

Out of Nowhere: Once per encounter, as a free action on your turn, 
you can make an attack with a light melee weapon or lightsaber after a 
successful feint. 

Prerequisites: Trained in Deception, Weapon Finesse. 

Single Weapon Flourish I: When you wield only a single light melee 
weapon or a Single lightsaber and make a full attack, you can move up to 
your speed as a free action at any time during your turn. 

Prerequisites: Double Attack (advanced melee weapons, exotic melee 
weapon, or lightsabers), Weapon Finesse 

Single Weapon Flourish li: When you wield only a single light melee 
weapon ora Single lightsaber, you can make a full attack as a standard action 
instead of a full-round action. 

Prerequisites: Double Attack (advanced melee weapons, exotic melee 
weapon, or lightsabers), Master of Elegance, Single Weapon Flourish |, 
Weapon Finesse. 


Master of Movement 

You know how to take advantage of whatever terrain you are fighting in. A 
number of times per encounter equal to half your melee duelist level, you 
can either ignore the movement penalty for moving through difficult ter- 
rain or over low objects on a single move action, or reroll a single Jump or 
Acrobatics check, taking the better result. 


1) HSLdavHo 


Sessviqg) PBelLSEe) | 


- 


CHAPTER IV | 
THE 


AS 


—$—$——— Es 


The Force and its practitioners have an enormous impact on the galaxy 
during this era. Jedi travel throughout the galaxy pursuing their own mis- 
sions and those of the Republic. Non-Jedi Force traditions are active in many 
societies, both primitive and technologically advanced. The resurgence of 
the Sith and the dangers of the dark side become all too apparent during 
the Jedi Civil War. 

Most beings have never personally seen a Jedi, but they are aware of their 
exploits and have opinions about the nature of the Force. In fact, especially 
during the Jedi Civil War, many regular folks do not know or understand 
the differences between the Sith and Jedi philosophies, despite Jedi efforts 
to educate them. However, Republic citizens regard the Jedi as a good and 
helpful force, if unpredictable and occasionally misguided. 

This chapter presents new Force Powers, Force Talents, Force Techniques 
and Force Secrets used specifically in this era. Some of these powers can 
be available to characters in other eras, at the Gamemasters discretion. 
Many of these powers are powerful compared with some of the powers 
used in the classic era, so the Gamemaster should carefully consider which 
ones to allow. 

This chapter also includes new Force traditions active during this time. 
These traditions can be restricted to specific cultures or certain planets, but 
they might be extremely influential in those areas. Additionally, the Jedi have 
been known to add to their own body of knowledge by studying other tradi- 
tions, and even accepting members of other traditions into the Jedi ranks. 


Al H3aLtavy7gD 


S5y00gd SHL 


eevee 9hL4 


0 
Ms 
> 
+] 
4 
0 
2 
- 


FORCE POWERS 


The following Force powers are available to any character who has the Force 
Sensitivity feat (see page 85 of the Saga Editian core rulebook). These Force 
powers represent the variety of powers available to Jedi and other Force 
traditions, light and dark. 

Telekinetic Power: Powers with the [te/ekinetic/ descriptor are included 
among the powers affected by talents like Telekinetic Power and Telekinetic 
Savant (SE 100). 


ENERGY RESISTANCE 
You use the Force to protect you from damage caused by energy, sonic, fire, 
cold and electrical sources. Time: Standard action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any: 

DC 20:You gain DR 5 against energy damage until the beginning of your 
next turn 

DC 25:As DC 20, except DR increases to 10. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except DR increases to 15. 

DC 35: As DC 20, except DR increases to 20. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to use this power as a swift 
action. 

You can maintain energy resistance from round to round, extending the 
normal duration. Maintaining the energy resistance power is a swift action. 
If you take damage while maintaining energy resistance, you must succeed 
ona Use the Force check (DC = 15 + damage taken) to continue maintaining 
the power. 


FEAR [DARK SIDE, MIND- 
AFFECTING! 

You summon the power of the dark side to instill fear in your enemies. 
Time: Swift action. Target: One creature within 12 squares and within line 
of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any: 

Compare the result to the target’s Will Defense. If the check result equals 
or exceeds the target's Will Defense, the target is affected as determined by 
the results of your Use the Force check. This is a fear effect. 

DC 15:The target can take only one standard action on the next turn. 

DC 20:The target can take only one move action on the next turn. 

DC 25:The target can take only one swift action on its next turn. 

DC 30: The target can take no actions on its next turn. 

Special: When you successfully use this power on an opponent, you can 
spend a Force Point to impose a -2 penalty to all of the opponent's Defenses 
until the beginning of your next turn. 


DARTH Ma4LA4K, SITH LORD 


FORCE SCREAM [DARK SIDE] 
You create an intense sonic scream, amplified by the Force. Time: Standard 
action. Target: All creatures that are within 12 squares and can hear you. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to the target's For- 

titude Defense. If the check result equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude 
Defense, the target sustains damage as determined by the results of your 
Use the Force check. 

DC 15:The target takes 1d6 points of Force damage this round and the 
target’s damage threshold is reduced by -5 until the end of your 
next turn. 

DC 20:As DC 15, except the target takes 2d6 points of Force damage. 

DC 25:As DC 15, except the target takes 3d6 points of Force damage. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except the target takes 4d6 paints of Force damage. 

The target adds a size modifier to its Fortitude Defense: Colossal, +50; 

Gargantuan, +20; Huge, +10; Large, +5; Medium and smaller, +0 
Special: You can spend a Force Point to reduce the target's damage 
threshold by -10 instead of -5. 


FORCE WHIRLWIND 
[TELEKINETICI 

You call upon the Force to surround an enemy in a swirling vortex of Force 
energy. The whirlwind lifts them about a half a meter off of the ground, spin- 
ning them in the air and buffeting them with Force energy. Time: Standard 
action. Target: One creature or droid within 12 squares and within line of 
sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any. 

Compare the result to the target's Fortitude Defense. If the check result 
equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the target is captured within 
the whirlwind and immobilized until the beginning of your next turn. Any 
attack rolls or skill checks the target attempts while within the whirlwind 
are at a —5 penalty. The target falls prone when the effect ends. The target 
also sustains damage at the end of your turn as determined by the results 
of your Use the Force check. 

DC 15: The target takes 1d6 points of Force damage. 

DC 20: The target takes 2d6 points of Force damage. 

DC 25: The target takes 3d6 points of Force damage. 

DC 30: The target takes 4d6 points of Force damage. 

The target adds a size modifier to its Fortitude Defense: Colossal, +50; 
Gargantuan, +20; Huge, +10; Large, +5; Medium and smaller, +0 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the penalty to the 
target's attack rolls and skill checks from -5 to-10. 

You can maintain Force whirlwind from round to round, extending the 
normal duration, Maintaining the Force whirlwind power is a move action, and 
you must make a new Use the Force check each round. If you take damage 
while maintaining a Force whirlwind, you must succeed on a Use the Force 
check (DC = 15 + damage taken] to continue maintaining the power. If a 
target within a Force whirlwind is attacked or otherwise damaged or moved 
down the condition track by you or one of your allies, the effects of the Force 
whirlwind end immediately. 


IONIZE 

You call upon the Force to overload electronic systems and droids, damaging 
or even destroying the unit. Time: Standard action. Target: One target within 
6 squares and within line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to the target's Reflex 
Defense. If the check result equals or exceeds the target's Reflex Defense, 
the target takes damage as determined by the results of your Use the Force 
check: 

DC 20: The target takes 4d6 points of ion damage. 

DC 25: The target takes 5d6 points of ion damage. 

DC 30: The target takes 6d6 points of ion damage. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the ion damage dealt 
by this Force Power by 2d6. 


KINETIC COMBAT [TELEKINETICI 
You use the Force to manipulate your chosen weapon, allowing it to operate 
independent of your grasp. Time: Standard action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. If you succeed on a DC 20 check, you can 
telekinetically move a one-handed melee weapon you hold up to 12 squares 
and make an attack with it. The weapon is considered held by you, even 
if it is hovering nearby and not in your hands. The attack uses your base 
attack bonus modified by your Charisma modifier as the attack bonus for 
the attack. A successful attack deals normal melee weapon damage, adding 
one-half your heroic level to damage as normal and substituting your Cha- 
risma modifier for your Strength modifier for damage. Talents and feats that 
would normally enhance a weapon's use do not do so while you are using 
kinetic combat to wield the weapon (for example, you cannot use Mighty 
Swing or Power Attack while wielding the weapon). The weapon threatens all 
squares adjacent to it, and it can be used to make an attack of opportunity 
ifa target provokes one from the weapon. Any attacks of opportunity made 
by the weapon count as though they were made by you. 

Special: You can maintain kinetic combat from round to round, extending 
the normal duration. Maintaining the kinetic combat power is a swift action, 
and as a standard action each round you maintain it you can direct the 
weapon to move up to 6 squares and make a single attack against a target 
adjacent to the weapon, though the weapon must remain within 12 squares 
of you or the power's effect ends. If you suffer damage while maintaining 
kinetic combat, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 15 + 
damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. 

You can spend a Force Point to gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls with a 
weapon wielded using kinetic combat. 


RESIST FORCE 
You use the Force to protect yourself from an enemy's Force powers. Time: 
Standard action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any. 

DC 15: You gain +1 to the Defense score of your choice against Force 
powers used against you until the beginning of your next turn. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the Defense bonus increases to +2. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the Defense bonus increases to +5. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to apply the bonus provided by this 
power to any two Defense scores of your choice. 

You can maintain resist Force from round to round, extending the normal 
duration. Maintaining the resist Force power is a swift action. If you suffer 
damage while maintaining resist Force, you must succeed on a Use the Force 
check (DC = 15 + damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. You may 
have multiple instances of resist Farce active at once, but maintaining each 
one requires a swift action each round, and each one must be activated by 
a separate use of resist Force. 


J 


HoaLSYHD 


Al 


eewe¢) cna 
rate a : 


Al #alevHo 


SvtOw [TELEKINETICI 

The Force enables you to slow your targets as if they are encumbered by an 
extremely heavy load, making it difficult for them to move. Time: Standard 
action. Target: One creature or droid within 12 squares and within line of 
sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. If your result equals or exceeds your 
target's Fortitude Defense, they take the following effects as determined 
by your check result: 

DC 15:Target’s speed is reduced by 1 square until the beginning of your 
next turn, The target is also encumbered, as though carrying a heavy load, 
taking a -10 penalty on Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, 
Stealth, and Swim checks. 

DC 20:As DC 15, except speed is reduced by 2 squares. 

DC 25:As DC 15, except speed is reduced by 3 squares. 

DC 30:As DC 15, except speed is reduced by 4 squares. 

The target adds a size modifier to its Fortitude Defense: Colossal, +50; 
Gargantuan, +20; Huge, +10; Large, +5; Medium and smaller, +0. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point impose a -5 penalty to your target's 
Fortitude Defense against the use of this power. 


VALOR [LIGHT SIDE] 

You call upon the strength of the Force, reaching out to your ally and sharing 
your strength with them. Time: Standard action. Target: One ally within 12 
squares and within Jine of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any: 

DC 15:The target gains a +1 bonus to Will Defense against mind-affecting 
and fear effects until the start of your next turn. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the bonus increases to +2. 

DC 25:As DC 15, except the bonus increases to +5. 

DC 30:As DC 15, except the bonus increases to +10. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point when you activate this power to 
have the bonus apply against all effects that target Will Defense (not just 
mind-affecting and fear effects). 

You can maintain valor from round to round, extending the norma] dura- 
tion. Maintaining the valor power is a swift action. If you suffer damage while 
maintaining vafor, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 15 + 
damage taken) to continue maintaining the power. You may have multiple 
instances of valor active at once (affecting different allies), but maintaining 
each one requires a swift action each round, and each one must be activated 
by a separate use of valor. 


WOUND [DARK SIDE] 

You cause spasms in the lungs of your target, painfully injuring them. Time: 
Standard action. Target: One creature within 6 squares and within line of 
sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. Make one roll and compare the result to 
the target's Fortitude Defense. If the result equals or exceeds the taraet's 
Fortitude Defense, it takes 4d6 points of Force damage. The target adds a 
size modifier to its Fortitude Defense: Colossal, +50; Gargantuan, +20; Huge, 
+10; Large, +5; Medium and smaller, +0 

Special: If the target moves 1 or more steps down the condition track, 
the condition becomes persistent until the target is treated with a DC 20 
Treat Injury check to perform surgery. 

You can spend a Force point to increase the damage by 2d6. 


FORCE TALENTS 


When a character who has the Force Sensitivity feat would normally gain a 
talent (such as from advancing to an odd-numbered level in a heroic class), 
he or she can instead select a Force talent from among those in Chapter 6 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook or those presented below. If a character who 
has the Force Sensitivity feat is a member of a Force-using tradition (see page 
57 of this book and page 103 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), he or she 
can instead select a Force talent from that tradition’s Force talent tree. 


ALTER TALENT TREE 
The following new talents belong to the Alter talent tree. 

Force Flow: For reasons unknown to you, the Living Force flows through 
you in an irregular fashion. Whenever you roll a natural 1 on an attack roll 
or Use the Force check, you gain one temporary Force Point. If you do not 
spend this Force Point before the end of the encounter, it is lost. 

Illusion: As a standard action, you can spend a Force Point to create 
an illusion that seems perfectly real to anyone who views it. You designate 
the form and complexity of the illusion, as well as its size and location, and 
make a Use the Force check. When a creature views the illusion, compare 
the result of your Use the Force check to the creature's Will Defense; if your 
check result exceeds its Will Defense, it believes the illusion to be real. Any 
physical interaction with the illusion (such as touching it, passing through 
it, or shooting it with a blaster) immediately reveals the true nature of the 
illusion, and the creature is no longer deceived. The illusion lasts for a number 
of minutes equal to your heroic level. 

The illusion’s size also affects your Use the Force check, applying a pen- 
alty for exceptionally large illusions. The penalties are -1 for Huge illusions, 
-2 for Gargantuan illusions, -5 for Colossal illusions, and ~10 for Colossal 
(frigate) or larger illusions. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisite: Mind trick. 


Telepathic Influence: You naturally and unconsciously influence those 
who are regularly around you. Whenever you roll a natural 20 on an attack 
roll or Use the Force check, instead of regaining all your spent Force powers 
you may instead choose to grant one ally within 12 squares a temporary 
Force Point. If your ally does not use this temporary Force Point before the 
end of the encounter, it is lost. 

Prerequisites: Telepathic Link, trained in Use the Force. 

Telepathic Link: You form an enhanced telepathic link with a willing 
ally with the Force Sensitivity feat as a swift action. The link is maintained 
until you choose to remove it (no action required). As long as you remain 
within one kilometer or your target, you and the target can communicate 
telepathically as though you were speaking. Once per encounter, you may 
use a Force power from your target’s Force suite (if the target consents), 
or you may allow the target to use one of your Force powers. You may only 
have one telepathic link active at a time. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Use the Force. 


CONTROL TALENT TREE 
The following new talents belong to the Control talent tree. 

Beast Trick: You can use the mind trick Force power on creatures of 
Intelligence 2 and lower. However, a beast with an Intelligence of 2 or less 
still cannot perform any complex action or understand complex commands 
it wouldn't otherwise be able to understand; an affected beast might under- 
stand “Attack those Sith troopers!” but it would not comprehend, “Break into 
the command center and disable the communications array." 

Force Suppression: If you use the rebuke Force power to attempt to 
negate or redirect a Force power used against you but fail to overcome your 
opponent's Use the Force check result, you instead lessen the effect of the 
Force power by one step. For example, if an opponent attempted to use the 
slow Force power on you and rolled a 21, if you fail to rebuke the power you 
only suffer the DC 15 effect instead of the DC 20 effect. This talent only 
affects Force powers that have variable effects based on your opponent's 
Use the Force checks, and powers with static DCs without variable effects 
(such as Force lightning) are unaffected. 

Prerequisite: rebuke Force power. 


HOLEE BINDO USES BEAST TRICK ON A CREATURE FROM KORRIBAN 


FORCE TECHNIQUES 


Force techniques represent a deeper understanding of the Force and, like 
martial skills, require years of practice. A few gifted or devoted Force-users 
learn to master them more quickly. In general, Force techniques are available 
only to characters with levels in certain Force-using prestige classes (such 
as Force adept, Jedi Knight, and Sith apprentice). 

When you gain access to a new Force technique, you can select it from 
those on pages 102-103 of the Saga Edition core rulebook or from the 
techniques described below. Once selected, a Force technique cannot be 
changed. 


Dominate Mind 

When using mind trick, if you exceed your target's Will Defense by 10 or 
more points, your can choose what your target does with its standard action 
on its next turn. 


Improved Energy Resistance 
When you activate energy resistance, you can choose to have it affect one 
of your allies within 6 squares instead of you. 


y 


Al HSLlavHo 


Bseee¢d SsAL 


po 


es. 
€ Seued ent, | 


Improved Force Stun 
Your successful Force stun also temporarily immobilizes the target for one 
round. 


Improved Force Slam 

When you use the Force slam power, you can change the time it takes to 
activate to a full-round action in order to target all targets within a 2-square 
radius originating in your square. You can spend a Force Point to increase the 
area to a 4-square-radius burst that originates from your square. 


Improved lonize 

When you use the fonize power, you can spend a Force point to have the 
target take full ion damage (instead of halving the ion damage after compar- 
ing it to the target's damage threshold, as normal). 


Improved Kinetic Combat 

You can wield up to three weapons simultaneously using the kinetic combat 
power, though moving and attacking with one of the weapons is still a 
standard action. 


Improved Resist Force 
When you activate resist Force, you can choose to have it affect one of your 
allies within 6 squares instead of you. 


Improved Valor 
When you activate valor, you gain the benefits of this power as well. 


Improved Vital Transfer 
You can use the vital transfer power against a target within 6 squares and 
line of sight. 


Language Absorption 

You can use telepathy to forcibly learn a language from another creature. If 
the target is unwilling, you must succeed ona Use the Force check against the 
target's Will Defense, as with the telepathy aspect of the Use the Force skill. 
You retain the ability to speak and understand this language for 24 hours. 


HED! ORGANIZATIONS 


Throughout the Knights of the Old Republic era, the formal organization of the 
Jedi Order adjusts and changes more frequently than in other eras. Some of 
these adjustments occur as the Jedi Council attempts to exert more control 
over the Order, but many are in response to external forces, such as the many 
wars of the era that directly impact all Jedi. See Chapter 9: The Jedi for the 
status of the Order during particular years. Some organizations included here 
might be available or fully functional only at specific times. 


MASTER VANDAR TOKARE 


et 


JED! ACADEMIES AND 
ENCLAVES 

Throughout this era, Jedi training continues to be largely decentralized. For 
many, training takes place at academies and enclaves scattered through out 
the galaxy. Even though these organizations recognize the direction of the 
Jedi High Council on Coruscant, they operate independently and promote 
their own philosophical views on the Force. The terms academy and enclave 
are sometimes used interchangeably. However, academies are educational 
facilities, whereas enclaves provide living quarters and support for fully 
trained Jedi. An enclave might house its own Jedi Council, and might have 
an attached academy. In either case, academies and enclaves are communal 
facilities, providing living quarters, meeting space, and safe haven to mem- 
bers. Examples of academies and enclaves include: 


Jedi Temple on Coruscant 

The most prominent Jedi Academy is located at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, 
under the auspices of the Jedi High Council. This academy is usually the larg- 
est in the order, but its size and overall influence fluctuates with political 
and military events that impact Coruscant. Training methods vary, but the 
Master and apprentice model is most often used. 


Jedi Enclave on Dantooine 

The Jedi enclave on Dantooine is one of the oldest enclaves and academies in 
the Order. A satellite Council here manages Jedi affairs on nearby worlds in 
the Outer Rim, and the chambers serve as a meeting place for the Coruscant 
High Council when the Council is in the area. Many prominent Jedi students 
of the era study here. The enclave is completely destroyed by Darth Malak 
during the Jedi Civil War. The site is abandoned and in ruins for many years 
after the Sith attack, but it is eventually rebuilt. 


USING ACADEMIES, ENCLAVES 
AND PRAXEUMS 

The decentralized and wide variations in Jedi teaching techniques and 
organizations during this era provide Gamemasters with a lot of flex- 
ibility in their own games. The Gamemaster might place the campaign in 
a familiar setting, such as the Jedi Enclave on Dantooine or Jedi Temple 
on Coruscant, and find plenty of material in this book to support it. The 
Gamemaster can also create a Jedi training facility populated with char- 
acters and backstories of his or her own devising, giving the Gamemaster 
the advantage of full control over the characters’ fate and interaction 
with the player characters. Examples include: 

The Solo Master: A single Jedi Master provides training for one or 
more apprentices, often on an isolated planet. The Master might be a 
Jedi Watchman for the planet, or a freethinking Jedi, promoting his own 
view of the Force without disruptions from the Jedi Council. His views 
are not likely to be radically different from other Jedi, such as promot- 
ing the dark side, but might be thought of as subversive or dangerous 
to the Council itself. 

The Satellite Academy: A smail teaching facility run by several Jedi 
Masters and Knights with a small number of students. A satellite acad- 
emy is attached to a larger or more prominent facility, such as the Jedi 
Temple on Coruscant or the Jedi Enclave on Dantooine. Students might 
train at this smaller facility for a limited time, or they might be permanent 
residents, making short trips to the main academy for additional training. 
These satellites might also provide other Jedi services. The Jedi Tower on 
Taris is an example of a satellite academy. 

The Regional Enclave: A moderately sized Jedi enclave that serves 
as a regional center for Jedi personnel and major contact point for area 
governments and other organizations to work directly with the Jedi 
Order. The enclave might not have a Jedi Council of its own, but it will at 
least have one Jedi Master who is recognized as the leader. The enclave 
might promote its own view of the Force, or might support one of the 
other major academies or the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. It might have 
an educational component, either as a satellite facility or a full-fledged 
academy with many students. The enclave might have considerable 
influence in the area, ranging from a local presence to planetary or 
sectorwide influence. 


Taris Academy 

The Taris Academy, housed in the Jedi Tower on the planet Taris, is an example 
of a smaller training facility. Early classes vary in size, but in the years 
immediately before the Mandalorian Wars, it is home to five Masters with 
a single student each. In addition to teaching, the Masters there contribute 
to planetary security, with their Padawans keeping justice as part of their 
training. The Jedi order and local officials do not know that the five Masters 
are also the First WatchCircle of Krynda’s Covenant, sent there to investigate 
possible Sith threats to the galaxy. When these Masters perceive such a threat 
from their own students, they murder them and blame the lone surviving 
student, Zayne Carrick. The academy is closed, and the Jedi are recalled to 
Coruscant. The building is later used as a headquarters for the Mandalorian 
invaders until its destruction by the planetary resistance. 


THE JEDI COVENANT 

An example of the limited reach and effectiveness of the Jedi High Council, 
the Jedi Covenant is a secret organization established within the Jedi Order. 
The Jedi High Council on Coruscant is unaware of its existence. The Covenant 
is wholly dedicated to preventing the return of the Sith. Covenant members 
depend heavily on visions and farseeing for guidance. Their fanatical dedi- 
cation to this task leads them down paths that most Jedi would never find 
acceptable. However, they have been able to operate and grow without sig- 
nificant interference for twenty years before the Mandalorian onslaught. 

Krynda Draay establishes the Jedi Covenant after her perceived failure 
to recognize the threat Exar Kun represented to the Jedi and the galaxy. 
Funded by the assets of her dead husband's fortune, she dedicates herself 
and her new organization to defeating the Sith. To achieve this goal, the 
Covenant recruits Jedi of many traits and talents. At its core, the Covenant 
depends on Jedi Consular vision techniques developed by Krynda. She trains 
other Consulars, organizing them into WatchCircles. They passed significant 
information on to Jedi Guardians and Jedi Shadows within the Covenant, 
enabling them to carry out any tasks necessary to support or prevent the 
Consulars’ visions from coming true. 

At least, that is the theory. In reality, the situation is more complex and 
fluid. Those involved in the Covenant are on constant guard to keep the 
greater Jedi Order from discovering their activities. Many also have influ- 
ential connections that they wish to protect or wield, in addition to their 
own ambitions within the Jedi Order. As such, the flow of information is not 
as direct as planned, and those acting upon the information are not always 
those intended in the structure of the Covenant. This produces conflict and 
stress within the organization, because some individuals act in their own 
interest or as they see fit, even though others see such actions as a risk to 
the entire Covenant. In some cases, a WatchCircle revealed to the Jedi Order 
or of the general public can be severed from the organization, framed as a 
single group of fanatics or wayward Jedi. 


Al BSatdvHoa 


gave, SAL 


Ai eaiavHo 


BehOc FgAL 


The Jedi Covenant Hierarchy 

Krynda Draay and Haazen: Krynda Draay has the power, finances, and 
will to build the Covenant. She works with Haazen to establish the details 
and organization. In the years before the Mandalorian Wars, Haazen directs 
the day-to-day operations of the Covenant, leaving Krynda to concentrate 
on visions and WatchCircle training. 

WatchCircles: WatchCircle cells are groups of three to eight Consulars, 
called Seers of the Circle. They typically use farseeing, visions, and Krynda's 
group techniques to foresee the future. Over time, WatchCircles are quietly 
installed across the galaxy, particularly near locations where Sith threats 
have been foreseen. Some are devoted to early warnings on various aspects 
of galactic life, such as the Economic WatchCircle. The WatchCircle of 


<a 


KRYNDA DRAAY'S JED! COVENANT 


Lucien Draay is known as the First WatchCircle. Other WatchCircles are 
named for fallen Jedi heroes of the Sith War, such as WatchCircle Vodo for 
Vodo Siosk-Baas. 

Executors: Each WatchCircle has a single Jedi Guardian who acts as 
an Executor, the facilitator who manages logistical details so the Watch- 
Circles can do their job. The Executor is also responsible for reporting the 
WatchCircle’s findings and activities back to Haazen. Executors also operate 
individually, providing general security for the Covenant. In all cases, these 
individuals are selected for their inability to use farseeing or other significant 
precognitive abilities, so that they do not taint or influence the findings of 
their WatchCircles, 


Covenant Shadows: The Covenant Shadows operate at the direction of 
Haazen, at the request of an Executor, to carry out assignments and missions 
that a WatchCircle or Executor should not be associated with. When under- 
taking a mission, the Shadow operates under the Executor's authority, but 
the Shadow is detached from the Executor’s group once the task is complete. 
Missions include investigating possible Sith-influenced individuals, as well 
as locating and acquiring Sith artifacts. They operate alone in most cases. 
The Shadows are removed from the rolls of the Jedi Order, either through 
bureaucratic subterfuge, or by being falsely reported dead. They give up their 
former lives in their dedication to the eradication of the Sith. The only full list 
of Shadows is kept at the Draay Estate and is maintained by Haazen, Lucien 
Draay, and a small number of other Guardians involved in logistics. 


OTHER FORCE-USING 
TRADITIONS 


The mysteries and manipulations of the Force have never been solely the 
province of the Jedi and Sith. These two groups dominate the galactic stage 
for thousands of years, but many worlds and cultures establish their own 
traditions based on their own cultures and understanding of the Force. 
Unlike the Jedi and Sith, these traditions rarely seek dominance of all Force 
teaching. 

In the Knights of the Old Republic era, most Jedi view non-Jedi traditions 
as misguided at best, or downright threatening if the tradition embraces the 
dark side. As always, dark side threats are sought out and eliminated where 
possible. Other traditions are tolerated, even embraced, especially when the 
Jedi believe they can learn something new. However, the Jedi still attempt to 
convert practitioners of these other traditions to the Jedi Order. 

The Sith, on the other hand, attempt to dominate all other traditions. 
Exactly how they view a specific tradition depends on the strength of the 
Sith. When the Sith number in the thousands, such as during the Sith wars, 
they attempt to eradicate all other traditions. They corrupt and convert those 
open to their teachings, and eliminate all others. When the Sith numbers are 
reduced, or are operating under Darth Bane's rule of two, they rarely take 
on another tradition directly. However, they might still attempt to recruit 
apprentices from these traditions. 

In the Knights of the Old Republic era, many more traditions are operating 
throughout the galaxy than in the classic era. Practitioners of these traditions 
are most likely found on their homeworlds, or within their home cultures. 
However, individual practitioners might travel to other worlds on occasion. 


wZdAL SHEY 

The Jal Shey is one of the oldest known Force traditions, and one of the most 
wide-ranging. Unlike other traditions, the Jal Shey study the Force from 
an intellectual, scientific point of view, rather than a spiritual journey. The 


Jal Shey are regarded as effective and sincere diplomats, on par with the 
greatest Jedi negotiators. Unlike the Jedi, the Jal Shey spend less effort on 
physical pursuits, even where the Force is involved. But their understanding 
of the Force is considerable, enabling them to create items that improve 
their abilities simply by wearing them. Force-users from other traditions are 
able to imbue the Force into weapons for their own personal use, but the Jal 
Shey have perfected a method of extending their improvements to anyone 
who wields their items. 

The origins of the Jal Shey remain lost to the mists of time. They are 
nomadic by nature and do not settle for long on any particular world. Instead, 
they seek out places that might improve their knowledge of the Force. They 
might research a dark side nexus or study another tradition or seek to learn 
the history of a particular species if it could lead to new insight. However, the 
Jal Shey are not only scholars and observers of the Force. They also participate 
in the society around them, using their knowledge to help improve the lives 
of others. They are especially adept at diplomacy, negotiation, and spirited 
debate. They act as intermediaries in disputes ranging from simple arguments 
to negotiated settlements of great complexity—even wars. 

The Jal Shey are not great in number. They fall into three categories: 
neophytes, advisors, and mentors. Advisors’ diplomatic missions make them 
likely to be encountered traveling throughout the galaxy. Neophytes typically 
study with mentors until they are ready to accept investigative and diplomatic 
missions of their own, The Jal Shey recruit Force-users from many worlds 
and many species, but they are highly selective, choosing only those they 
believe will accept the Jal Shey way of life and contribute to their scholarly 
and diplomatic efforts. Thus, those tainted with the dark side and those who 
present an affinity for combat are not normally selected. 

Many Jal Shey learn basic lightsaber techniques for defense, but they 
rarely specialize in them. Their defenses are not as strong as many Jedi 
techniques, hence their desire and ability to create armor, belts, and other 
items to augment their abilities. It is believed that they achieve this through a 
combination of imbuing the item with the Force and applying technology that 
helps enhance the Force for the user. The nomadic Jal Shey have been creating 
such items for uncounted years, and many of their creations have found their 
way into shops and military stores scattered throughout the galaxy. 


Jal Shey Talent Tree 

The Jal Shey concentrate on studying the Force, improving their diplomacy, 
and applying their knowledge to their trappings. You must be a member of 
the Jal Shey tradition to use any of these talents. 

Action Exchange: Whenever you successfully use Force Delay, you grant 
one ally within six squares and line of sight the ability to trade a move action 
for another standard action on his next turn. 

Prerequisite: Force Delay. 

Force Delay: Jal Shey verbally startle opponents with a little help from 
the Force. Once per encounter, make a Persuasion check against the Will 


AP SSLdvHo 


aeVved aHL 


Al usiavHo 7) 


2Suyecd SH 


Defense of a target of Intelligence 3 or higher that can understand you as a 
reaction. If successful, the target loses its move action on its next round. If 
you spend a Force Point, the target loses its standard action instead. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Persuasion. 

Imbue Item: You can spend a Force Point to imbue a specially crafted 
weapon, item, armor, or article of clothing with the power of the Force. 
Imbuing the item requires a full round action. As a full-round action, the 
wearer of such an item can open himself to the Force, transferring one of 
their Force Points into the item. You can then use a swift action to spend a 
stored Force Point at any later time, even in the same round that you spend 
a Force Point of your own. You can attune only one item per 24 hours, the 
item functions only for you and a given item can only store one Force Point 
at a time. You cannot wear more than one attuned item at a time, and you 
can spend only up to a maximum of two Force Points in a round (one of your 
own plus one from an item). 

Knowledge of the Force: You can use your scholarly knowledge of the 
Force to help others reach their full potential. You can spend a Force Point 
as a reaction to aid another ally within 6 squares on a Use the Force check, 
following the normal rules for the aid another action as usual. 


KEETAEL 
On the Draethos homeworld of Thosa, warriors and hunters dominate the 
culture. Unsurprisingly, the Draethos Force tradition of Keetael uses the Force 
to increase fighting and hunting prowess. The Keetael do not teach strict 
adherence to using either the light side or the dark side of the Force. Instead, 
they use aspects of each to improve their combat, hunting, and fighting abili- 
ties. The Keetael recognize the light and dark sides of the Force, but counsel 
against following either exclusively. Following solely the light side might 
prevent victory in battle, and exclusively following the dark side leads to 
vengeful and selfish warriors who put their own importance over those they 
defend. Those Draethos more aligned with the light side of the Force seek to 
join the Jedi ranks, because their pacifistic tendencies make them unwelcome 
in Draethos society. Keetael fallen to the dark side are often destroyed by 
their fellow warriors, who recognize true threats to their existence. 
Keetael is a mysterious but not secretive tradition. They are relatively few 
(only in the hundreds), as are the number of Draethos Force-users. Many 
practitioners choose to conceal their abilities and membership, not out of 
fear of reprisal, but to maintain a significant advantage over their opponents 
in battle. When a Force-user is identified by a member of the Keetael, they 
receive intense training to hone and control their abilities. However, they do 
not live or train in isolation. Instead, Keetael initiates participate in extended 
training hunts, called Ube-tel. These hunts last for weeks on end, with one 
or more Keetael Masters leading up to a dozen initiates on ancient trails 
through the brutal Thosa wilderness. Early hunts focus on discovering the 
inherent abilities of the Keetael initiates. Later hunts increasingly focus on 
controlling abilities and learning how to use them efficiently, even when 


attempting other tasks. The Ube-tel has no set schedule. Once an initiate 
completes a hunt, months or years may pass before another is undertaken, 
especially after an initiate reaches adulthood. 

Initiates are also taught the customs and history of the Keetael. Rather 
than carrying lightsabers, they use the same weapons as the rest of Draethos 
society. Though few wear few trappings that identify them as members 
of the order, each initiate receives a small silver disc upon completion of 
training. One side is inscribed with an elaborate series of circles, the symbol 
of the order, and the other side carries the symbols and signatures of the 
Keetael masters and initiates involved in the individual's training. The disc 
is asymbol of membership in the order. However, members are not required 
to display it or even carry it. 

Because the Draethos live for hundreds of years, a Keetael master might 
teach thousands of initiates over a lifetime. The Keetael operate as a loose 
fellowship, focusing on the training of new members. They do not act or live 
in large numbers. Keetael regard themselves as regular members of their 
families and clans, albeit with unusual abilities. Keetael who lean more toward 
the dark side occasionally band together to became a potent mercenary or 
criminal group. Keetael Masters might live among a single community, but 
most travel the lands, seeking new initiates and leading Ube-tel, especially 
in regions where no established masters operate openly. 


Keetael Talent Tree 

Keetael learn to efficiently and secretively manipulate the Force in combat. 
Because of their long lives, they gain certain advantages when attempting 
to view the past through Force. You must be a member of the Keetael tradi- 
tion to use these talents. 

Conceal Force Use: You have learned to use the Force without telltale 
gestures, reducing the disturbance created in the process. Whenever you 
make a Use the Force check, as a swift action you can make a Deception check 
to convey deceptive appearances in order to conceal the effects of your Force 
use. Normal modifiers for the deception’s complexity still apply. 

Force Direction: You use the Force to guide your ranged attacks to 
their target. Whenever you spend a Force point to add to a ranged attack 
roll, you can always add +3 (or +4, if you roll d8s for Force Points) instead 
of rolling the die. 

Force Momentum: You use the Force to add to the impact of your melee 
weapon, increasing your damage. Whenever you spend a Force point to add 
to a melee attack roll, if the attack hits you can also add the Force point’s 
result to the damage roll. 

Past Visions: The long-lived Draethos are particularly adept at search- 
ing and understanding the past. When using farseeing to look into the past, 
reduce your DC numbers by half. Also, you are able to see everything within 
6 squares of your target clearly without spending a Force Point. 

Prerequisite:Visions. 


THE KRATH 

The Krath is a Sith-inspired organization created by the cousins Satal and 
Aleema Keto, heirs to the Empress Teta system (formerly the Koros system of 
the Unification Wars). The two cousins and a number of other rich and spoiled 
aristocrats teach themselves a bit of Sith magic from artifacts recovered by 
Jedi Master Odan-Urr during the Great Hyperspace War a thousand years 
earlier. The group call themselves the Krath, a name based on a fearsome 
creature of legend. After recovering a book of Sith secrets from a museum on 
Coruscant, the cousins proceed to the planet Onderon, which is in the midst 
of a revolt by supporters of the ancient Sith Lord Freedon Nadd. 

The spirit of Freedon Nadd has been working with Onderon's King Ommin 
to sustain the Sith ways. However, Nadd realizes that the King is on the brink 
of defeat by Jedi and Republic forces, so he transfers his support to Satal and 
Aleema, promising to guide them into a new Sith Golden Age. The cousins 
escape Onderon and return to the Empress Teta system, where they stage 
a coup to take control of the seven worlds. However, the populace revolts, 
resulting in a systemwide struggle in which the Krath unleash their new Sith 
powers, including impressive Sith sorcery and large-scale illusions. The Krath 
also skirmish with Jedi forces, using their Krath war droids in a preemptive 
strike that results in the death of Master Arca. 

The death of Master Arca has a profound impact on Jedi Ulic Qel-Droma. 

He pledges to bring down the Krath from the inside, by posing as a fallen 
Jedi. Ultimately, Ulic is seduced into joining the dark side by Aleema, killing 
Satal in the process and taking his place as one of the rulers of the Krath. 
In his new position, he finds himself battling the Jedi forces who sought to 
save him from the Krath deceptions. During a climactic battle, Exar Kun 
appears and engages Ulic in lightsaber combat. At that moment, the spirit of 
the Dark Lord of the Sith Marka Ragnos appears, drawn by the Sith amulets 
both combatants wear, The Sith spirit orders the two to join forces so that 
they can bring about the predicted return of the Sith. 
The two become allies. Exar Kun follows his own path to create Sith 
converts from the Jedi. Ulic leads the military forces of the Krath, joining 
them with the Mandalorians after defeating Mandalore the Indomitable 
in single combat. The battles rage across the galaxy, including Coruscant. 
Aleema falls as she triggers the destruction of Ossus, betrayed by Ulic for 
her lack of loyalty. Eventually, Ulic realizes his mistake in following the dark 
side, but only after he kills his brother Cay, and Nomi Sunrider blinds him to 
the Force. Ulic leads the Jedi to Yavin 4, in an attempt to stop Exar Kun. They 
are successful, though unaware that Kun's spirit survives, trapped within one 
of his temples. The remaining Krath forces are destroyed or scattered. Some 
Sith forces retreat to the outer rim, near Korriban. 

The Krath are an unusual combination of reclaimed Sith learning and 
direct influence from Sith spirits. None of the early Krath receive formal 
Sith training. Instead, they piece together techniques and Sith magic from 
artifacts and occasional input from powerful Sith spirits. Rather than 


& KRATH DEATH WITCH IS NOT TO BE TRIFLED WITH 


avoiding the dark side, the Krath have no such inhibitions and follow their 
investigations in any direction they deem worthy. They learn how to use 
ancient Sith amulets, project massive and destructive Sith illusions, and 
wield Sith sorcery. 

Those Krath that survive the end of the Sith war are scattered in the Outer 
Rim, mainly in the regions around Korriban. Some Krath are absorbed into 
older Sith settlements, but others continue on their own, with little outside 
influence. These Krath continue to delve the depths of the dark side, but 
without the benefit of ancient Sith teachings or access to the technology 
left behind in the Empress Teta system. During the following decades, Jedi 
and Republic forces occasionally clash with these isolated pockets. 


The Krath Talent Tree 

The Krath specialize in experimenting with the dark side and Sith sorcery. 
You must be a member of the Krath tradition to take any of the talents 
described here. 

Dark Side Manipulation: Your Sith sorcery experimentation has provided 
you with a method of manipulating the dark side. Once per encounter, when 
using a Force Point in an act that would give you a dark side point, you may 
treat the Force Point as though you had rolled the maximum on the die. 


Al H3iLeavHO 


BgoHed FHL 


an 18) 


Al esiavHa 


f 
a 
WwW q 
v 
G) 
2) 
® 
W) 


Krath Illusions: As a swift action, you can reduce the penalty for large 
illusions by one half (rounded down, minimum -1). 

Prerequisite: ||lusion. 

Krath Intuition: You have a natural ability to use dark-side artifacts, 
such as Sith talismans and alchemical weapons. Once per encounter, you may 
spend a Force Point to treat the damage from a Sith alchemical weapon as 
though you had rolled the maximum damage on the dice. 

Krath Surge: Once per encounter, using rudimentary Sith sorcery, you 
channel dark side energy in a manner that boosts one use of a Force power. 
As a swift action, you can add 1 die of damage (if the power deals damage) 
or extend the range of the power by 6 squares (if it has a range beyond 
yourself or a single target). Using this talent automatically adds the {dark 
side] descriptor to the power used. 


LUKA SENE 

Connection to the Force is far more common among Miralukans than other 
species. Miralukans also rely on the Force more than any other species 
because they depend on the Force to sense their surroundings in lieu of 
their lost eyesight. Thus, Miralukans do not regard beings with Force as 
seers or mystics, and mystically based Force traditions have few supporters 
in Miralukan society. 

However, some Miralukans do present an increased aptitude with the 
sense-based aspects of the Force. Once identified, Miralukan educators 
and leaders encourage such individuals to join the Luka Sene, a formal 
organization, with meditation and education chambers in most cities on their 
homeworld. The Luka Sene concentrates first and foremost on developing 
the powers of their membership, particularly sense-related powers. Luka 
Sene is academic in atmosphere and culture. Mysticism is still present, but 
used by most members as a basis for more practical application of Force 
powers. Offworlders regard the Luka Sene as a university for Force-users, 
a place where classes and education take place, but not a tradition that 
dominates an attendee’s personal life to the degree seen in the Jedi, Sith, 
or other traditions. 

Members of the Luka Sene participate in all aspects of society and all 
fields. Most have only small degrees of increased sensitivity, which they 
use to improve their own lives, careers and Miralukan society. Those more 
gifted in the Force might become Administrators, Masters, or Mentors in 
the Luka Sene organization. A few eventually leave to join the Jedi Order. It 
is uncommon to encounter a Luka Sene member off of their homeworld, but 
some travel to meet with the Jedi Order, or at the uncommon request of an 
off-world family seeking advice on a talented child. 

The Luka Sene provides guidance to protect Miralukans from falling 
prey to the dark side, Miralukans' inherent sensing abilities are not normally 
regarded as a threat, but they can still provide a path to the dark side, 
especially in the talented individuals targeted for Luka Sene training. Some 
Miralukans seek to develop powers contrary to the Luka Sene's emphasis on 


the light and practical sides of Force use. When a Miralukan is suspected 
of falling to the dark side, a Luka Sene team called the Sene Seekers might 
search him or her out to alter the individual's path. If redemption is hope- 
less, these teams are accompanied by security personnel to help capture or 
eliminate the dark sider. 


The Luka Sene Talent Tree 
The Luka Sene build upon the natural Miralukan sense-based abilities. You 
must be a member of the Luka Sene to take the talents described below. 

Field Detection: As a swift action, make a DC 15 Use the Force check. 
If tne check succeeds, you can detect the presence, general strength, and 
origin (or direction of origin if the source is out of range) of electromagnetic 
and energy fields within 12 squares of you. You can also determine the type 
of field, allowing you to detect communications devices, sensors, and other 
electronic equipment. When dealing damage to a person or droid using a 
personal shield, or to a vehicle with shields active, a successful check allows 
you to detect minute fluctuations in the shield, reducing their SR by -5 
against your attacks until the end of your turn. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Use the Force. 

Improved Force Sight: Your natural Force sight is more precise than that 
of your fellow Miraluka. You can use the Search application of the Perception 
skill as a swift action. Additionally, you always succeed when using the Sense 
Surroundings application of the Use the Force skill (no roll required). 

Prerequisite: Force sight species trait, trained in Use the Force. 

Luka Sene Master: You are a master of Luka Sene techniques and an 
expert in using sense-related talents and powers. Once per encounter, you 
gain a temporary Force Point that you must spend when activating a talent 
from the Sense or Luka Sene talent trees, using the farseeing Force power, 
or on a Use the Force check made to use the Search Your Feelings or Sense 
Force applications of the skill. The Force Point is lost if not used before the 
end of the encounter. 

Prerequisites: Field Detection, farseeing. 

Quickseeing: As a free action on your turn, you can make a Use the Force 
check against a living creature within 12 squares, removing one use of the 
farseeing Force power from your active suite (as though you had activated 
the power). If your check result equals or exceeds the Will Defense of the 
target you gain a +2 insight bonus on attack rolls against that target until the 
end of your turn. This counts as using the farseeing Force power against that 
target, but this talent replaces the normal rules and effect of that power. 

Prerequisites: Trained in Use the Force, farseeing. 


ORDER OF SHASA 

The Order of Shasa is a new Force tradition, formed just after the end of the 
Jedi Civil War. Named for its founder, the Order is exclusive to the planet 
Manaan and its native species, the Selkath. Toward the end of the Jedi Civil 
War, Shasa and a number of other young Selkath are lured to the Sith Embassy, 


where they receive Sith training. Their training is short-lived. Revan intervenes, 
proving to Shasa and the others that the Sith are distorting the truth and 
setting them up to serve as a puppet government under Sith control. 

After the war ends, Shasa realizes that if Manaan is to remain truly neutral 
in the coming years, the Selkath must not rely on the Jedi anymore than they 
rely on the corrupt Sith. However, Force-sensitive Selkath still need training 
and guidance to develop their powers and avoid the dark side. Shasa and the 
other Sith-trained Selkath develop a doctrine of peace and defense, creating 
an organization initially known as the Order. With few members formally 
trained in the ways of the Force, the Order rapidly discovers that dark side 
temptations are a constant threat. Those with Sith training have difficulty 
disregarding their early lessons, especially when they were so powerful, 
useful, and tempting. 

The Order of Shasa struggles to resolve the conflict oetween ideals 
derived from the light and techniques based on the dark side, seeking a path 
of moderation between the light and dark. The Sith deception fresh in her 
ming, Shasa has avoided contacting the Jedi or any other Force-using tradi- 
tion for aid. However, if dark side proponents make significant advances or 
begin to influence new members of the Order, she will not hesitate to seek 


THE ORDER OF SHASA KNOWS HOW TO DEAL WITH THE SITH 


advice from a Jedi she trusts, or from another Force tradition with a good 
reputation, such as the Jal Shey. 

Because the Order Is so new, initiates undergo little formal training. 
Those teaching have little more experience than those learning. However, 
Shasa has instituted one formal initiation requirement—the Rite of Fira. 
Stucents deemed ready to become full members of the Order are sent ona 
special quest that serves as a final test of their abilities, reminding them of 
the reason the Order was founded and providing them with a weapon for 
personal defense. The Rite of Fira requires the initiate to swim to the wreck 
of the kolto harvester destroyed by Revan in the Hrakert Rift. After removing 
a piece of metal from its cortosis-laden hull plating, the initiate must then 
use the heat from volcanic vents on the ocean floor to craft the cortosis into 
a fira—a curved, lightsaber-resistant sword, which members of the Order can 
use to defend themselves against possible Sith—or even Jedi—threats, 


Order of Shasa Talent Tree 
The Order is still developing training techniques and abilities. You must be a 
member of the Order of Shasa to take any of the following talents. 

Deception Awareness: Realizing how the devastating the consequences 
would have been if the Sith had successfully deceived her and her companions 
during the Jedi Civil War, Shasa has developed a technique for using the Force 
to detect deceptions. You gain +5 to your Will Defense against uses of the 
Deception skill. Additionally, you can make a Use the Force check instead of a 
Perception check to sense deception and sense influence. You are considered 
trained in Perception for the purpose of using this talent. If you are entitled 
toa Perception check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check instead 
(subject to the same circumstances and limitations). 

Greater Weapon Focus (Fira): You have mastered the chosen weapon 
of the Order of Shasa. You gain a +1 bonus on melee attack rolls with a fira. 
This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by the Weapon Focus feat. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus (fira). 

Progenitor's Call: You have learned to sense the call of your ancestors 
and wield it through the Force. Once per encounter, you can telepathically 
disrupt an enemy by making a Use the Force check against the target's Will 
Defense. If you succeed, the target is confused by the call, moving -1 per- 
sistent step down the condition track and losing its standard action on its 
next turn. A creature can only be affected by this power once per encounter, 
and the persistent condition can be removed with a DC 15 Treat Injury check 
or by resting for 8 hours. This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Waveform: Taking cues from Manaan’'s oceans, you know how to emulate 
wave action using the Force. As a swift action, when you use a telekinetic 
Force power (that is, a power affected by the Telekinetic Power or Telekinetic 
Savant talents}, you manipulate the particles of the environment around you 
to add to the force of impact, allowing you to add your Charisma modifier 
ta any damage dealt (minimum +1). 


“i CHAPTER V 
EQUIPMENT AND DROIDS 
q . ——F 


Bibi 


SS 

A Knights of the Old Republic campaign takes place during a time of techno- 
logical innovation. New weapons and armor appear on the galactic market 
every day, and the constant warfare requires arms makers to keep abreast 
of the latest technological trends. Despite the rapidly advancing pace of 
technology, relics of older eras remain in active use. As some planets race 
toward the cutting edge of technology, others are blasted back to the past 
by widespread devastation. 

This chapter presents new weapons, armor, equipment, and droids that 
can be used to populate your campaign. In this chapter you will find both 
advanced and archaic technologies that can add diversity to the equipment 
found in your campaign. These weapons and equipment are designed to 
supplement (but not replace) those found in the Saga Edition core rulebook. 
Heroes still wield blasters and lightsabers, and those weapons’ statistics 
change little through the ages. 

The droids in this chapter, on the other hand, are meant to replace the 
droids from the core rulebook in a Knights of the Old Republic campaign. For 
this reason, the chapter presents a wide variety of droids from all degrees, 
making it possible to use only the droids in this book (and those you create 
yourself) throughout your campaign. Players already familiar with the setting 
of a Knights of the Old Republic campaign might recognize some of these 
droids, helping to reinforce the feel of the setting for those players. 

Stun Weapons: Weapons that have the word YES in their stun damage 
column deal stun damage equal to normal weapon damage when set to 
stun. 


A uslavHo 


Saiova GNY LNSaWaAINoOS 


A BaidvHoa 


n 
b 


W 
ra) 
U 
J 
i 
Z 
J 
> 
Z 
g 
9 
5 
@ 
Gg 
® 


ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Dire vibroblade 60 2d6 - 2 kg Slashing or piercing Licensed 

Double vibroblade 550 2d6/2d6 - 4kg Slashing Licensed 

Shockstaff 3500 . 2d6/2d6 YES 3 kg Bludgeoning and energy Restricted 
EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Shyarn 40 3d4 - 1 kg Slashing or piercing Rare 


Fira 100 1d8 - 2 kg Slashing or piercing Rare 
Arg'garok 150 2d12 - 2 kg Slashing Rare 
Zhaboka- 165 2d6/2d6 = 2 kg Slashing Rare 
LIGHTSABERS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Lightfoil 4,500 2d8 - 0.5 kg Energy and slashing Rare 
SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Short sword 


S 

oO 

a 

a 
I 


1.5 kg Slashing or piercing 


on 

.— 

= 

=e 

Cc 
r 


War sword 2 kg Slashing or piercing 


Dire sword 100 1d10 - 4kg Slashing or piercing - 
Double-bladed sword 120 1d6/1d6 - 2 kg Slashing or piercing - 
¢ 
MELEE WEAPONS oe aan 


Exotic Weapon 

The arg'garok isa rarely seen weapon created by the Gamorrean species and 
prized by their greatest warriors. The arg'garok resembles nothing more than 
a huge axe, balanced so that only the strongest and best-trained warriors can 
use it effectively. Any character attempting to wield an arg'garok without 
a Strength of 15+ suffers a -5 penalty on attack rolls with the weapon. 
Gamorreans treat the arg'garok as an advanced melee weapon instead of 
an exotic weapon. 


During the time between the Great Sith War and the final fall of the Sith 
Empire, melee weapons see a resurgence in popularity. The presence of per- 
sonal shields and the abundance of lightsaber-wielding foes in the galaxy 
lead many soldiers to become more adept in melee combat. The weapons 
given on Table 5-1 are described below. 


DiIReE SworRo 

Simple Weapon 

This archaic weapon is a favorite of duelists and other students of classic 
fighting styles. Unpowered, this weapon is little more than a refinement of 
the classic longsword, crafted with tradition in mind but using the most 
modern technology. 


DIRE VIBROBLADE 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
A larger version of the vibroblade that first came into service during the Great 
Sith War, the dire vibroblade is merely a vibroblade with a larger hilt, making 
it easier to wield in two hands (and thus allowing Medium characters to gain 
double their Strength bonus to damage with the weapon). 

A dire vibroblade requires an energy cell to operate. 


DOUBLE-BLADED SwoOrRD 
Simple Weapon 
This two-bladed version of the war sword allows those proficient in the use of 
two weapons to take advantage of their skills while wielding only one weapon. 
Typically the two blades are connected in the middle by a short length of 
metal, providing a safe place for the wielder to grip the weapon. 

A double-bladed sword is a double weapon. You can attack with both ends 
of the weapon as a full-round action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty 
{although certain feats and talents can reduce these penalties). 


DOUBLE VIBROBLADE 

Advanced Melee Weapon 

The double vibroblade is essentially two curved vibroblades (designed exclu- 
sively for slashing attacks) attached to a central, twisted hilt. Though difficult 
to control, when used properly it is an effective close-combat weapon. 

A double vibroblade is a double weapon. You can attack with both ends of 
the weapon as a full-round action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty 
(although certain feats and talents can reduce these penalties). 

A double vibroblade requires two energy cells to operate. 


FIRA 

Exotic Weapon 

The fira is a traditional weapon used by Selkath warriors belonging to the 
Order of Shasa. Constructed from the wreckage of a kolto harvester and 
forged in underwater volcanic vents, fira are tough, curved swords made 
out of an alloy containing cortosis (thus benefiting from the cortosis weave 
general template, presented below). If an attack roll with the fira against a 
living creature equals or exceeds both the target's Reflex Defense and For- 
titude Defense, the target takes half damage again on the following round 
from the grievous wound. 


LIGHTFOIL 

Lightsaber 

If the lightsaber is an elegant weapon for a more civilized age, then this is 
that age and the lightfoil is the pinnacle of elegant design. More lightweight 
and balanced than a lightsaber, the lightfoil is wielded with just one hand, 
as its petite and elegantly designed handles attest. Assembled in secret by 
Mecrosa's Sith Knights of the Tapani Sector, each lightfoil is a work of art. The 
combination of these weapons and the graceful Makashi form of lightsaber 
combat produces a graceful and deadly fighting style. 

Up until the Cleansing of the Nine Houses, the quality of Mecrosa lightfoil 
construction is on par with Jedi lightsabers. However, after these Sith are 
eliminated, mediocre copies of diminished efficacy spring up due to the lack 
of Force abilities on the part of their makers. Many nobles in the Tapani Sector 
pay huge sums of money to obtain lightfoils, and for centuries to come the 
lightfoil is a favored weapon of Tapani duelists. 

A lightfoil is delicately balanced and its wielder may choose to consider 
it a Small weapon whenever it would be beneficial. However, a light foil may 
not be wielded two-handed. A lightfoil requires an energy cell to operate. 


SHOCKSTAFF 

Advanced Melee Weapon 

The Old Republic equivalent of the electrostaff, this weapon is laced with 
phrik alloy, so lightsabers do not ignore the shockstaff's damage reduction. 
The shockstaff does stun damage equal to its normal damage, and can be 
set to stun as a swift action. 

A shockstaff is a double weapon. You can attack with both ends of the 
weapon as a full-round action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty 
(although certain feats and talents can reduce these penalties). 

A shockstaff requires two energy cells to operate. 


SHORT SworRD 

Simple Weapon 

A weapon of ancient design, the short sword is a simple weapon used to 
deflect incoming melee attacks. Short swords are often used by warriors 
wielding two weapons. 


SHYARN 

Exotic Weapon 

The shyarn is a rare weapon of Cerean design. |ts blade is magnetically 
charged, which (in the hands of one trained in its use) can make the blade 
accelerate toward the weapons and armor of the enemy. A character wielding 
a shyarn takes no penalty to attack rolls when using the Rapid Strike feat. 


AW YeeidvHg 


SqGieugd EGNY LWeENWAInweSE 


{_A s3lavHo 


SQOug GNY LNAWAINeES 


WAR SworRD 

Simple Weapon 

Also known as the longsword in most cultures, the war sword is a heavy, 
durable blade made of the finest metals. Before the advent of the lightsaber, 
war swords were the weapon of choice for both the Sith and the Jedi. Most 
Sith swords are war swords. 


ZHABOKA 
Exotic Weapon 
A ceremonial weapon of the Zabrak, the zhaboka is a long wooden pike 
with a sharpened blade on each end. The blades of a zhaboka are smaller 
and lighter than those on a double-bladed sword, allowing the wielder to 
swing the weapon with increased speed, generating more momentum for 
each attack. A character wielding a zhaboka takes no penalty to attack rolls 
when using the Rapid Strike feat. 

A zhaboka is a double weapon. You can attack with both ends of the 
weapon as a full-round action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty 
(although certain feats and talents can reduce these penalties). 


ALTERNATE LIGHTSABER 
CRYSTALS 

During the days of the Old Republic, Jedi experiment with different kinds 
of crystals as key components to their lightsabers. In later years the Jedi 
use crystals from the caves at Ilum because of their stability and their 
connection to the Force. However, during the tumultuous period following 
the Great Sith War, Jedi and Sith alike experiment with different kinds of 
lightsaber crystals. 

Jedi heroes can use alternate crystals in the construction of their light- 
saber, gaining certain benefits, depending on the crystal. However, a Jedi 
using an alternate lightsaber crystal instead of a standard lightsaber crystal 
does not gain the usual +1 bonus on attack rolls fora personally constructed 
lightsaber. Essentially, the new benefit of the alternate crystal replaces 
the normal +1 bonus on attack rolls. Lightsaber construction is handled as 
normal, even with an alternate crystal, though any crystal that provides any 
kind of Force bonus does so only for the person building the lightsaber. 

Alternate lightsaber crystals are rare, and finding one could be the focus 
of a small adventure or even a special prize for a Jedi character completing 
a difficult quest. These crystals are not for sale on any market, and have no 
purchase value. Only Jedi who specifically seek out or earn them can use 
one of these crystals for lightsaber construction. 


Bondar Crystal 
Bondar crystals convert the energy 
of a lightsaber blade into a different 
form of energy. A lightsaber constructed 
with a bondar crystal deals stun damage instead 
of normal damage. Training lightsabers are 
made with bondar crystals. 


——/- 


Firkraan Crystal 

Like the bondar crystal, a firkraan crystal 
absorbs the energy that creates a lightsa- 
ber blade and converts it into a different 
kind of energy, altering the effect of using 
the weapon. A lightsaber constructed with 
a firkraan crystal deals ion damage instead 
of normal damage, making lightsabers con- 
structed with firkraan crystals more effective 
against droid enemies. See “lon Damage” on 
pages 159-160 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. 

Luxum crystals also have the same effect. 


A JUGGERNAUT WAR DROID (LEFT) EXCHANGES FIRE WITH & K-xIZ PROBE DROID (RIGHT) 


Jenraux Crystal 

Like the solari crystal (described below), the jenraux crystal widens the blade 
of a lightsaber. Unlike the solari crystal, it also causes the blade to absorb 
kinetic energy, making it exceptionally effective at defending against incom- 
ing melee attacks. A lightsaber constructed with a jenraux crystal grants its 
user a +2 Force bonus to Use the Force checks to block an incoming melee 
attack with the Block talent. 


Opila Crystal 

The opila crystal increases the destructive power of the lightsaber against 
weak or unprotected targets, though it does little to allow the blade past 
most defenses. A lightsaber constructed with an opila crystal deals +1 die 
of damage on a critical hit (this die of damage is added after damage is 
multiplied for the critical hit). 


Phond Crystal 

A phond crystal reduces the cutting power of the lightsaber blade but 
solidifies the energy beam, making it more effective at battering down an 
opponent’s energy shield. A lightsaber constructed with a phond crystal deals 
an extra die of damage against a target with active shields. 


Rubat Crystal 

The rubat crystal causes the energy frequency of a lightsaber blade to fluc- 
tuate slightly, allowing the weapon to have a greater potential for damage. 
Once per encounter, a lightsaber constructed with a rubat crystal allows the 
wielder to reroll one damage roll made with the lightsaber, keeping the better 
result. Eralam and upari crystals also have the same effect. 


Sigil Crystal 

A sigil crystal focuses the energy of a lightsaber blade with incredible effi- 
ciency, causing it to have a more devastating effect ona target. A lightsaber 
constructed with a sigil crystal gains a +2 Force bonus to damage rolls. 
Other crystal types have the same effect, including the daminia, nextor, 
and sapith crystals. 


Solari Crystal 

The solari crystal changes the width of a lightsaber blade, making it easier 
to intercept blaster bolts and other incoming ranged attacks. A lightsaber 
constructed with a solari crystal grants its user a +2 Force bonus to Use the 
Force checks to deflect incoming ranged attacks with the Deflect talent. 


RANGED WEAPONS 


The Great Sith War saw the transition from primitive energy weapons to the 
more advanced blaster weapons that would become common in the galaxy 
within just a few short years. Though primitive weapons remained, the major- 
ity of the galaxy was using blaster weapons by the time of the Mandalorian 
Wars. The weapons given on Table 5-2 are described below. 


ADHESIVE GRENADE 

Simple Weapon 

Designed as a method of riot control, the adhesive grenade explodes with an 
incredibly sticky substance that anchors a target to the ground and slowly 
dissolves so as not to trap targets for long periods of time. Any targets in the 
blast radius must succeed on a grapple check against the attacker's ranged 
attack roll or they will be unable to move. This effect lasts for 3 rounds, and 
once a character has broken free he or she need not make another grapple 
check to move through the blast radius. 


AURIAL BLASTER 

Exotic Weapon 

Designed by a weapons manufacturer called Systech, this weapon is awk- 
ward and difficult to wield without special training. Shaped like a pistol 
with auxiliary sonic emitters attached to either side of the barrel, the aurial 
blaster can deafen a target with a successful hit. When a target is struck by 
an aurial blaster, if the attack roll beats the target’s Fortitude Defense the 
target takes a -5 penalty on all Perception checks made until the end of the 
attacker's next turn. An aurial blaster is treated as a pistol for the purpose 
of determining range. 

An aurial blaster requires a power pack. After 50 shots, the power pack 
must be replaced. 

BLASTER CARBINE, REPEATING 
Rifle 

The repeating blaster carbine is an autofire weapon that functions best at 
short range. The repeating blaster carbine has difficulty hitting targets at 
longer ranges, and is ineffective against distant targets. 

A repeating blaster carbine requires a power pack. After 30 shots, the 
power pack must be replaced. 
BLASTER RIFLE, ASSAULT 
Rifle 
A precision weapon used by military units the assault blaster rifle is one of 
the most precise weapons in existence. The original design of the assault 
blaster rifle comes from the Mandalorians, but is perfected by the Czerka 
Corporation. 

An assault blaster rifle requires a power pack. After 50 shots, the power 
pack must be replaced, 


aA HeaLSvHo 


SQIOYVEG ENY ANENANASS) 


EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Aurial blaster 2,500 3d6 = S 1 kg Energy (sonic) Restricted 
Lanvarok, Sith? 4,000 3d4 - S 5.8 kg Bludgeoning Rare | 
Lanvarok, Massassi’ 250 3d4 or 18 - s 9.8 kg Bludgeoning Rare 

HEAVY WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Carbonite rifle 1,200 - 3d10 S 6 kg Energy Licensed 

PISTOLS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Needler? 650 204 = § 1 kg Piercing Licensed 
Pulse-wave pistol? 200 2d6 - Ss 1kg Energy Licensed ¥ 
Ripper? 750 2d4 - S 1 kg Slashing Licensed 
Sonic disruptor 1,000 2d6 = Special 1kg Energy (sonic) illegal 
Sonic pistol 900 2d6 - S 1 kg Eneray (sonic} Licensed 
Heavy sonic pistol 1,250 2d8 - S 1kg Sonic Licensed 

RIFLES COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
lon carbine? 800 3d8 ion - S.A 3 kg Energy (ion) Restricted 
Pulse-wave rifle? 550 2d8 - S.A 4kg Energy Restricted 
Sonic rifle 900 2d8 - SA 5 kg Energy (sonic) Restricted 
Blaster rifle, assault? 1,750 3d8 YES S.A 5 kg Energy Military 
Blaster carbine, repeating’? 2,000 3d10 YES A 6 kg Energy Military 

SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Adhesive grenade 200 - = $ 0.5 kg Energy Restricted 
CryoBan grenade 500 3d6 = S 0.5 kg Energy Restricted 


1 Area arrack weapon 
2 Inaccurate weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at long range. 
3 Accurate weapon: This weapon takes no penalty when firing at targets at short range. 


CARBONITE RIFLE 
Heavy Weapon 
A weapon crafted by scientists from the planet Empress Teta, the carbonite 
rifle fires a short stream of liquid carbonite that solidifies on contact with 
a target. Any target moved down the condition track by this weapon is also 
immobilized until the end of its next turn. 

A carbonite rifle requires special carbonite cartridges, which each cost 
50 credits and weigh 1 kg. After 20 shots, the carbonite cartridge must be 
replaced. 


IMMOBILIZED 

When a creature is immobilized it cannot move by its own volition. 
An immobilized creature can take move actions, but it cannot move 
from its current space, and it cannot make skill checks associated with 
movement (such as Acrobatics, Climb, Jump, or Swim). An immobilized 
creature can still be moved by other effects, such as being the target 
of a Bantha Rush or the Force thrust power. 


CRYOBAN GRENADE 

Simple Weapon 

Using technology adapted from the carbon freezing process, the CryoBan 
grenade coats those in its blast radius with supercooled chemicals, causing 
pain and making movement difficult. If the grenade’s attack roll also beats 
the target's Fortitude Defense, the target's speed is reduced to 2 squares 
until the end of its next turn. 


iON CARBINE 
Rifle 
The prevalence of assassin droids and war droids during and after the Great 
Sith War necessitates the creation of advanced ion weapons to combat them. 
The ion carbine is similar to an ion rifle, but is autofire-capable, allowing the 
wielder to take down several droids at once. 

An ion carbine requires a power pack. After 30 shots, the power pack 
must be replaced. 


LANVAROK 

Exotic Weapon 

The lanvarok is an ancient weapon that comes in two varieties: the Sith 
lanvarok, and the Massassi lanvarok. The Sith Janvarok is a wrist-mounted 
weapon that fires small discs at the target, dealing damage comparable to a 
blaster pistol. A Sith lanvarok is worn, not held, freeing up the wielder’s hands 
for melee weapons. A Sith lanvarok is treated as a pistol for the purpose of 
determining range, and a wielder can fire a Sith lanvarok as though it were 
a second weapon for the purpose of two-weapon fighting. 


A Massassi lanvarok is a large, polearmlike weapon that can be used to 
hurl the same discs fired by a Sith lanvarok. A disc flung from a Massassi 
lanvarok is treated as a thrown weapon for the purpose of determining range. 
After the disc is hurled, the weapon can be used as a normal two-handed 
slashing weapon (dealing 1d8 damage on a successful hit). Massassi treat 
the Massassi lanvarok as an advanced melee weapon instead of as an exotic 
weapon. 

A Massassi lanvarok requires disc ammunition, and only holds one disc 
at a time. A Sith lanvarok can hold up to 5 discs at a time; after 5 shots, the 
discs must be replaced. Each disk weighs 0.1 kg and costs 5 credits. 


NEEDLER 
Pistol 
Designed to be effective against personal shields without sacrificing range, a 
needler fires tiny, ultra-sharp darts that penetrate energy shields and drill into 
the target's body. A needler's ammunition can be laced with contact poison, 
delivering the pcison to its targets. 

A needler requires an ammunition clip (20 credits, 0.1 kg). After 10 shots, 
the clip must be replaced. 


PULSE-WAVE PISTOL 
Pistol 
The technological predecessor to the blaster pistol, the pulse-wave pistol 
is an energy weapon that was largely abandoned when blaster technology 
became common, Pulse-wave blasters are particularly devastating at point 
blank range (granting a +4 equipment bonus to the weapon's damage) even 
though the energy bolt is ineffective at long ranges. 

A pulse-wave pistol requires a power pack. After 100 shots, the power 
pack must be replaced. 


PULSE-WAVE RIFLE 
Rifle 
A large version of the pulse-wave pistol, the pulse-wave rifle operates on the 
same principles as its smaller cousin. Pulse-wave rifles grant a +5 equipment 
bonus to damage rolls at point biank range. 

A pulse-wave rifle requires a power pack. After 50 shots, the power pack 
must be replaced. 


RIPPER 

Pistol 

The ripper is designed to bypass personal shields by dealing physical damage. 
The ripper is a pistol that fires a variety of oddly shaped pieces of shrapnel, 
similar to the flechette weapons that will be used during the Galactic Civil 
War. A ripper's irregularly shaped ammunition penetrates deep into the 
target's body, damaging it severely. If a ripper moves a target at least 1 step 
down the condition track by dealing damage exceeding the target's damage 


0 
It 
> 
v 
4 
\o 
\D 
I< 


SQICUEG ONY LNANWAIAGS | 


PRE 


o) 

9 

I 

> 

a 

4 

0 

a 

<|. 
CAEN 

] 


SQIowNagd GWY LNEWAIAReaS) 


threshold, shrapnel embedded in the target's body immediately does an 
additional 1d4 damage. 

A ripper requires an ammunition clip (20 credits, 0.1 kg). After 10 shots, 
the clip must be replaced. 


SOnNic DISRUPTOR 

Pistol 

One of the most violent sonic weapons on the market, the sonic disruptor is 
outlawed by the Republic, even for use against the Sith. The sonic disruptor 
not only deals devastating sonic damage to a target, it also atomizes any- 
thing it harms, leaving few traces of a victim behind. Like all weapons that 
deal sonic damage, a sonic disruptor's attacks cannot be negated using the 
Deflect talent (or any talents with Deflect as a prerequisite). 

As a disruptor weapon, the sonic disruptor treats all targets as if their 
damage threshold was 5 lower than it is. If damage from the sonic disruptor 
kills a Creature or destroys an object, vehicle, or droid, that target is dis- 
integrated and ceases to exist. Because of the massive energy required to 
create a sonic disruptor beam, the sonic disruptor can fire only once every 
other round. You cannot use any feat, talent, or other special ability that 
consumes more than one shot from the weapon per round (such as Double 
Attack or Rapid Shot) with a sonic disruptor. 

A sonic disruptor requires a power pack. After 10 shots, the power pack 
must be recharged. 


SONIC PISTOL 
Pistol 
Designed as the civilian response to Jedi and Sith using lightsabers to deflect 
their attacks, the sonic pistol fires compressed bolts of pure sound at its 
target. Though slightly less powerful than standard energy weapons such 
as blasters and pulse-wave weapons, the sonic pistol is particularly effec- 
tive against Jedi and Sith because the weapon's sonic bolt bends around a 
lightsaber, striking the target despite the intervention of the lightsaber's 
energy blade. Like all weapons that deal sonic damage, a sonic pistol's attacks 
cannot be negated using the Deflect talent (or any talents with Deflect as 
a prerequisite). 

A sonic pistol requires a power pack. After 100 shots, the power pack 
must be recharged. 


SONIC DAMAGE 

Sonic damage is considered to be energy damage in all ways. However, 
ranged weapons that deal sonic damage cannot be deflected with a 
lightsaber. If a weapon deals bonus sonic damage (such as those with 
certain gear templates) in addition to its normal damage and is not 
purely an energy attack, the attack can be deflected by a lightsaber, but 
the target still takes the sonic damage regardless (just not the weapon's 
normal energy damage) if the attack would normally hit. 


SONIC PISTOL, HEAVY 
Pistol 
The heavy sonic pistol enhances the sonic pistol’s design, dealing greater 
damage. A heavy sonic pistol creates more intensely compressed bolts of 
sonic energy, which are far more devastating than those generated by a 
standard pistol. Unfortunately, this extra compression unravels quickly, and 
by the time the bolt has reached a great distance it dissipates ineffectively. 
Like all weapons that deal sonic damage, a heavy sonic pistol’s attacks 
cannot be negated using the Deflect talent (or any talents with Deflect as 
a prerequisite). 

A heavy sonic pistol requires a power pack. After 50 shots, the power 
pack must be recharged. 


SONIC RIFLE 
Rifle 
The sonic analogue to the blaster rifle, a sonic rifle is a larger weapon capable 
of striking targets from a greater range than the heavy sonic pistol while 
still maintaining the same damage. Like all weapons that deal sonic damage, 
a sonic rifle’s attacks cannot be negated using the Deflect talent (or any 
talents with Deflect as a prerequisite). 

A sonic rifle requires a power pack. After 50 shots, the power pack must 
be recharged. 


ARMOR 


Though many heroes choose not to wear armor, relying only on their own 
speed and cunning to keep them safe, soldiers and warriors don armor to 
protect themselves in such dangerous times. Some factions, most notably 
the Mandalorians, make extensive use of various types of armor and are 
exceptionally adept in their uses. The types of armor given on Table 5-3 are 
described below. 

BATTLE ARMOR, LIGHT 

Light Armor 

Similar to denser suits of battle armor, this stripped-down battle armor is 
frequently used by soldiers who lack extensive armor training but need a 
slight edge in combat. 


BATTLE ARMOR, 
POWERED 

Light Armor 

Designed to be augmented with additional components and weapons, light 
powered body armor comes prewired with special connections to power 
auxiliary accessories. Light powered battle armor comes with a helmet 
package preinstalled. If you are using the equipment modification rules 
from Scum and Villainy, light powered armor has 2 free upgrade slots (as 
does all powered armor). 


LIGHT 


ARMOR BONUS EQUIP BONUS MAX DEX — SPEED SPEED 


ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TOREFDEFENSE TOFORT DEFENSE BONUS (6SQ.) (4S50.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 

Energy shields, light - - - +4 - - 1kg - 
Fiber armor 3,000 +4 +1 +2 - - 10 kg Licensed 
Battle armor, light powered 6,500 +4 +2 +3 - = 12 kg Military 
Battle armor, light 3,500 +5 +2 43 - - 10 kg Military 
Energy shields, medium - - - +3 - - 1 kg - 
Mesh armor 6,000 +6 +2 +2 4 sq. 3 sq. 13 kg Restricted 
Weave armor 5,000 +6 +2 +3 4 sq. 3 sq. 15 kg Restricted 

~ Battle armor, powered 11,000 +7 +2 +2 4 sq. 3 sq. 17 kg Military 
Energy shields, heavy - - - +2 - - 1 kg - 
Matrix armor 9,000 +9 +3 +1 4 sg.’ 3 sq.’ 25 kg Restricted 
Battle armor, heavy powered 19,000 +9 +4 +7 4 sq.! 3 sq." 32 kg Military 


1 When running in heavy armor, you can move up to only three times your speed (instead of four times). 


BATTLE ARMOR, POWERED ENERGY SHIELDS 

Medium Armor Light, Medium, and Heavy Armor 

The powered armor variant of standard battle armor, powered battle armor Rising to prominence in the days after the Great Sith War, personal energy 
is frequently used by those warriors who see their armor as an extension shields project a thin layer of shielding over an individual character or 
of their combat prowess and not just their defenses. Powered battle armor creature. The popularity of energy shields sparks a revolution in combat 
comes with a helmet package preinstalled. If you are using the equipment tactics, including a surge in the popularity of melee weapons and non-energy 
modification rules from Scum and Villainy, powered battle armor has 2 free projectile weapons. Just as the spread of energy shields is a response to the 
upgrade slots (as does all powered armor). prominence of energy weapons, they in turn cause warriors to adjust their 

tactics to deal with personal energy shields. 

BATTLE ARMOR, HEAVY Energy shields give a character a Shield Rating, which functions exactly 
POWERED as vehicle and starship shields. An energy-shield generator is typically worn 
Heavy Armor on the forearm or upper arm and must be activated as a swift action. Energy 
Utilized by warriors who define their fighting style by the gear they carry, shields typically have 5 charges, and energy shields can only be activated 
heavy powered battle armor resembles standard heavy battle armor but once per encounter (the stress on the shield generator causes the device to 
comes prewired for augmentation. Heavy powered battle armor comes with overload otherwise, so the manufacturers build in failsafes to prevent such 
a helmet package preinstalled. If you are using the equipment modification an occurrence]. Each activation consumes one charge and lasts through the 
rules from Scum and Villainy, heavy powered battle armor has 2 free upgrade end of the encounter. An energy shield only protects against weapons that 
slots (as does all powered armor). deal energy damage; a weapon that deals any other type of damage bypasses 


the shield's SR entirely. 

Energy shields come in three varieties: light, medium, and heavy. Each 
energy shield type corresponds to an armor type. A Character with an active 
personal shield without the relevant Armor Proficiency feat takes a -5 penalty 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
AO 
2 
< 


SGevgd GNY ANANWEAINGS 


to Reflex Defense, and the wearer is denied its Dexterity bonus to Reflex 
Defense, though he or she still gains the benefit of the shield. Regardless of 
whether or not the character is proficient in the personal shield, the character 
always takes the armor check penalty associated with the shield while it is 
activated. Additionally, each type of energy shield imposes its Maximum 
Dexterity Bonus restriction only when activated, not when worn and inert. 
An energy shield can be added to a suit of armor as an accessory. An energy 
shield can be modified by armor templates (see below) only if the template 
specifically states that it can be used on energy shields, and the shield confers 
that benefit only when it is activated. 

The SR provided by the energy shield determines the shield’s price, as well 
as the type of Armor Proficiency feat required to operate the shields without 
penalty. SR 5 and SR 10 energy shields require Armor Proficiency (light); SR 
15 and SR 20 energy shields require Armor Proficiency (medium); SR 25 and 
greater energy shields require Armor Proficiency (heavy). See Table 5-4 for 
prices of energy shields. 


FIBER ARMOR 

Light Armor 

Initially used on worlds where traditional armor plating was in short supply, 
fiber armor is specially designed to channel energy-weapon attacks away 
from the body. The various metal fibers woven into the exterior of this armor 
cause it to absorb and harmlessly disperse energy damage. However, fiber 
armor is far from perfect, and lucky shots manage to hit. Once per encounter, 
a character fighting defensively while wearing fiber armor can gain DR 10 
against a single ranged energy attack as a reaction. 


MATRIX ARMOR 

Heavy Armor 

Though few military engineers would call matrix armor a pretty design, it 
is effective. Matrix armor takes armor plating from starships, bonding it to 
the outside of a suit of heavy armor. With the matrix armor plating in pat- 
terns similar to those used by fiber and mesh armor, the wearer of a suit of 
matrix armor can turn aside energy-weapon attacks that would otherwise 
be devastating. Once per encounter, a character fighting defensively while 
wearing matrix armor can gain DR 30 against a single ranged energy attack 
as a reaction. 


MESH ARMOR 

Medium Armor 

A more advanced form of fiber armor produced by military contractors 
across the galaxy, mesh armor uses the engineering principles of fiber armor, 
enhancing them with high-quality materials and extensive research. Mesh 
armor is heavier and more cumbersome than fiber armor and confers many 
of the same benefits of fiber armor and traditional suits of armor. Once per 
encounter a character fighting defensively while wearing mesh armor can 
gain DR 20 against a single ranged energy attack as a reaction. 


WEAVE ARMOR 

Medium Armor 

A civilian model of armor worn by military units throughout the era, weave 
armor is a relatively flexible and yet durable suit of armor that provides 
excellent protection to the wearer while restricting movement by only a 
small amount. Weave armor is favored by warriors whose combat style calls 
for fast and flexible movements, and is the armor of choice for duelists and 
gladiators. 


MIxED DAMAGE TYPES 

Some weapons and effects deal damage with multiple damage types; 
for example, lightsabers deal energy and slashing damage, and bow- 
casters deal energy and piercing damage. Whenever a weapon or effect 
has multiple damage types, if the effect deals both types of damage 
simultaneously (see Damage Types, SE 120) then any other ability that 
depends on one of the effect's damage types applies to the full damage 
from that effect. So, for example, the negate energy Force power can 
be used to negate the full damage from a lightsaber attack since it can 
negate energy damage. Similarly, the special function of fiber armor 
(presented above) can be used to grant the wearer DR 10 against an 
attack from a bowcaster, since the bowcaster is considered to be a 
ranged energy weapon. 


EQuUIPMENT 


A sample of common equipment available in a Knights of the Old Republic 
campaign is given on Table 5-5. Refer to the descriptions below for other 
pertinent information. 


TABLE S-S: EQUIPMENT) 


COMPUTERS AND STORAGE DEVICES COST WEIGHT 
Computer interface visor 1,200 0.5 kg 
DETECTION AND SURVEILLANCE DEVICES COST WEIGHT 
Aural amplifier 2,000 0.5 kg 
Demolitions sensor 1,000 0.5 kg 
Motion sensing visor 2,500 0.5 kg 
Neural band 3,500 0.5 kg 
Stealth field generator 5,000 0.2 kg 
IMPLANTS COST WEIGHT 
Bio-stabilizer implant 1,750 - 
Cardio implant 4,000 7 
Combat implant 5,000 - 
Memory implant 2,000 - 
Nerve reinforcement implant 5,000 - 
Regenerative implant 4,250 = 
Sensory implant 2,500 - 
LIFE SUPPORT COST WEIGHT 
Vacuum mask 650 0.3 kg 
MEDICAL GEAR COST WEIGHT 
Medical Interface visor 1,500 0.5 kg 
TOOLS COST WEIGHT 
Mechanical interface visor 1,250 0.5 kg 


AURAL AMPLIFIER 

The aural amplifier is a device worn on the head, allowing the wearer to 
hear from a great distance. By amplifying sound waves originating from the 
direction of the wearer's interest while dampening ambient noise, the aural 
amplifier grants the wearer a +5 equipment bonus on Perception checks to 
eavesdrop. An aural amplifier cannot be worn at the same time as armor 
with a helmet or any other device worn on the head. 


COMPUTER INTERFACE VISOR 

Worn across the eyes and connected to a computer system, the computer 
interface visor provides the wearer with a heads-up display that displays 
relevant data laid over one's normal vision. A computer interface visor 
translates complex computer algorithms into easy-to-understand symbols 
and words, allowing the wearer to attempt trained-only applications of the 
Use Computer skill even if untrained. The computer interface visor also pro- 
vides a +2 equipment bonus on Use Computer checks. A computer interface 
visor cannot be worn at the same time as armor with a helmet or any other 
device worn on the head. 


DEMOLITIONS SENSOR 

Resembling a pair of goggles, the demolitions sensor can detect doth 
the explosives and triggering mechanisms of mines, grenades, and other 
explosive devices, highlighting them in the wearer's vision. The demolitions 
sensor grants the wearer a +5 equipment bonus on Perception checks made 
to find mines and other planted explosives. A demolitions sensor cannot be 
worn at the same time as armor with a helmet or any other device worn 
on the head. 


MECHANICAL INTERFACE VISOR 
This visor translates images received through its visual sensors and scans 
them for common mechanical designs. The visor then provides the wearer a 
heads-up display of basic information and tips on dealing with those designs. 
The mechanical interface visor allows the wearer to attempt trained-only 
applications of the Mechanics skill even if untrained, and grants a +2 equip- 
ment bonus on Mechanics checks. A mechanical interface visor cannot be 
worn at the same time as armor with a helmet or any other device worn 
on the head. 


MEDICAL INTERFACE VISOR 

This visor contains thousands of preprogrammed medical training tutorials. 
It analyzes visuals and provides tips and assistance in a variety of medical 
situations. The medical interface visor allows the wearer to attempt trained- 
only applications of the Treat Injury skill even if untrained, and grants a +2 
equipment bonus on Treat Injury checks. A medical interface visor cannot 
be worn at the same time as armor with a helmet or any other device worn 
on the head. 


A BSLlLAaAVvHo 


SqQievGgd GNY ANWEWEIAGSSs | 


SEGIOUMG @ANY LNFIWAINeS) 


* BALAVYHO 


MOTION SENSING VISOR 

The motion sensing visor tracks movement and highlights moving objects 
with color-coded warnings. This allows the wearer to see moving enemies 
with ease, even those attempting to be stealthy. The wearer of this visor 
gains a +5 equipment bonus to Perception checks against targets that have 
moved at least one square since the end of the wearer's last turn. However, 
a motion sensing visor can be disorienting, especially in the heat of combat, 
and a character must spend two additional swift actions to use the recover 
action when attempting to move up the condition track. A motion sensing 
visor cannot be worn at the same time as armor with a helmet or any other 
device worn on the head. 


NEURAL BAND 

Developed in response to both Sith and Jedi using the Force to manipulate 
soldiers and security personnel, the neural band reinforces various synapses 
throughout the brain and provides alternate conduits for electrical impulses 
within the mind, making the wearer's thoughts difficult to affect. Neural 
bands grant their wearers a +2 equipment bonus to Will Defense, but lower 
the wearer's damage threshold by -2. A neural band cannot be worn at the 
same time as armor with a helmet or any other device worn on the head. 


STEALTH FIELD GENERATOR 

A small and unobtrusive device worn on the belt, the stealth field generator 
emits a sound-dampening field around the wearer that makes sneaking up on 
an opponent easier. Additionally, the stealth field generator uses technology 
similar to that of a personal energy shield to bend light around the wearer, 
making them harder to see. The stealth field generator grants concealment 
(but not total concealment) to the wearer when activated. Activating a 
stealth field generator is a swift action, and it lasts for the duration of the 
encounter, until the wearer takes damage or until the wearer attacks or uses 
a Force power, whichever comes first. A stealth field generator requires a 
power pack to operate. After 5 uses, the power pack must be replaced. 


VACUUM MASK 

Worn or carried by individuals who spend a great deal of time aboard star- 
ships and space stations, the vacuum mask is a short-term solution to a 
loss of atmosphere while aboard a spacecraft. The vacuum mask provides 
the wearer 10 minutes of breathable air, which automatically begins to 
flow when sensors on the mask detect a lack of breathable air. Though the 
vacuum mask is no replacement for a space suit, it has saved crews trapped 
in compartments aboard ships after the atmosphere has vented. A vacuum 
mask cannot be worn at the same time as armor with a helmet or any other 
device worn on the head. 


IMPLANTS 

Seeking to gain an edge against their enemies, military forces experiment 
with mechanical implants designed to augment a character's efficiency. 
These implants, which are inserted directly into the brain and integrated 
into a character's neural pathways, alter bioelectrical and chemical impulses 
controlling everything from reaction times to the release of adrenaline. 

Due to the complex nature of this technology, living creatures can have 
only a single implant at any given time, though they can be switched out as 
needed. If an implant is removed, the character immediately loses all benefits 
and penalties associated with the implant. Installing or removing an implant 
follows the same rules as installing a cybernetic prosthesis, requiring a 
surgeon with the Cybernetic Surgery feat, although unlike some cybernetic 
parts an implant cannot be installed by the recipient. A character with an 
implant is considered to have a cybernetic part, making them vulnerable to 
ion damage and imposing the same penalties on Use the Force checks as 
other cybernetic body parts. 

Additionally, characters without the Implant Training feat take a -2 
penalty to their Will Defense due to the implants interference with normal 
brain functions. Implants can disrupt the body’s ability to deal with system 
shocks, and a character with an implant moves 1 additional step down the 
condition track when another effect would normally move them down the 
condition track, regardless of the source of the effect. 

Below are several sample implants. 


Bio-Stabilizer Implant 

The bio-stabilizer implant stores and transmits basic knowledge of various 
poisons and toxins into the mind of its user, teaching the brain to synthesize 
antidotes. The user of a bio-stabilizer implant is immune to poison. 


Cardio Implant 

A cardio implant encourages the brain to send vital chemicals to the heart and 
other organs, revitalizing them and giving the user greater physical reserves. 
The user of a cardio implant gains +1 hit point per level. 


Combat Implant 

The combat implant stores and transmits basic knowledge of a variety of 
weapons into the mind of its user. A combat implant eliminates penalties to 
attack rolls for weapons the user is not proficient with. 


Memory Implant 

A memory implant reinforces and augments the synapses in the memory 
centers of the brain, making it possible to recall knowledge locked away 
in the user's mind. The user of a memory implant can reroll any Knowledge 
check, keeping the better result. 


Nerve Reinforcement Implant 

The nerve reinforcement implant augments the signals sent from the brain 
through the central nervous system, making the body's senses difficult to 
overload through conventional means. The user of a neural-reinforcement 
implant gains a +5 equipment bonus to Damage Threshold against stun 
damage. 


Regenerative Implant 

The regenerative implant coaxes the healing sections of the brain, causing 
them to work harder to repair damage. The user of a regenerative implant 
recovers twice as many hit points as normal from natural healing, 


Sensory Implant 

The sensory implant augments the mind's natural ability to process visual 
data, enhancing the user's ability to perceive targets under difficult condi- 
tions. The sensory implant grants a user low-light vision; if the character 
already has low-light vision, he or she gains darkvision from the implant 
instead. 


WEAPON AND ARMOR 
ACCESSORIES 

The following off-the-shelf accessories can enhance weapons and armor in 
a variety of ways. Most pieces of equipment can have only one accessory, 
though in some cases Gamemasters might allow them to have more. Each 
weapon and armor accessory listing on Table 5-6 also lists the upgrade slot 
cost of each accessory (for use with the gear enhancement system in Scum 
and Villainy). 


ACCESSORY COST UPGRADE SLOT COST 
Armor reinforcement 3,000 1 
Beam splitter 1,200 2 
Durasteel bonding 2,000 1 
Enhanced energy projector 3,000 1 
Hair trigger 1,200 1 
Improved energy cell 4,000 2 
Mesh underlay 2,500 2 
Tremor cell 1,000 1 


Armor Reinforcement 
The armor reinforcement accessory increases armor's ability to harmlessly 
deflect incoming attacks by coating the interior of the armor with tough 


materials, adding an extra layer of defense. Reinforced armor grants the 
wearer DR 2 against piercing damage. 


Beam Splitter 

A modification made only to pistols, rifles, heavy weapons, and exotic ranged 
weapons that deal energy damage, the beam splitter accessory makes it 
easier to fire a powerful energy bolt by increasing the size of the bolt fired. 
Once per encounter, the wielder of a weapon with a beam splitter that uses 
the Power Blast feat to modify an attack roll deals 2 points of damage for 
every 1 point subtracted from the attack bonus. 


Durasteel Bonding 

The durasteel bonding accessory coats an advanced melee weapon, a melee 
exotic weapon, or a melee simple weapon with a thin layer of durasteel, 
making it more resistant to damage and ensuring that it retains its keen edge 
over time. A weapon with durasteel bonding increases its own DR by 5 and 
deals an extra die of damage on a critical hit (this die of damage is added 
after damage is multiplied for the critical hit). This accessory can only be 
placed on a weapon that deals slashing damage. 


Enhanced Energy Projector 

The enhanced energy projector accessory smoothes the flow of power to an 
advanced melee weapon or a melee exotic weapon that requires a power 
pack, making it less likely to produce unpredictable results. A weapon with 
an enhanced energy projector allows to wielder to reroll a natural 1 on any 
attack roll once per encounter, keeping the second result. 


Hair Trigger 

A modification made only to pistols, rifles, heavy weapons, and exotic ranged 
weapons that use a trigger mechanism to fire, the hair trigger accessory 
makes it easier to fire several shots in quick succession by reducing the 
amount of pressure that must be placed on the trigger. Once per encounter, 
the wielder of a weapon with a hair trigger that uses the Rapid Shot feat to 
modify an attack roll may reroll the damage from the attack, keeping the 
better result. 


Improved Energy Cell 

A modification made only to pistols, rifles, heavy weapons, and exotic 
ranged weapons that require a power pack, the improved energy cell acces- 
sory increases the efficiency of the energy flow between a power pack and 
the weapon's firing mechanism. A weapon with the improved energy cell 
modification doubles the number of shots it can fire on a single power pack. 
Additionally, if the weapon has the increased weapon damage modification 
from the Tech Specialist feat (see page 21 of Starships of the Galaxy), the 
equipment bonus to damage increases to +3. 


ony scree HSLaovHoa ) 


SQIEev8E) 


pea) 


A HeSlavHo 


SqQeorgd @GNY LNWNEWANReS 


Mesh Underlay 

Designed with the same principles as mesh armor, the mesh underlay acces- 
sory helps channel certain types of energy away from the wearer's body, 
reducing the effectiveness of a potentially devastating blow. A character 
wearing a suit of armor with the mesh underlay accessory gains a +5 equip- 
ment bonus to his damage threshold against stun damage. 


Tremor Cell 

An advanced melee weapon or a melee exotic weapon that requires a power 
pack can be augmented by a tremor cell accessory, allowing the wielder to 
subdue rather than kill an opponent by dazing it. A weapon with a tremor 
cell can be set to stun as a swift action, and does stun damage equal to its 
normal damage. Weapons larger than Medium cannot be fitted with this 
accessory. 


GEAR TEMPLATES 


In a Knights of the O/d Republic campaign, a hero might have access to a wide 
variety of exotic gear with special properties not found in more common 
types of equipment. Rather than list individual pieces of equipment from 
dozens of worlds in the galaxy—such as a Bothan heavy blaster pistol or a 
suit of Arkanian battle armor—this section presents several gear templates 
that can be applied to normal equipment statistics to produce an unusual 
version of an item. 

To create an item using a gear template, choose a basic piece of equipment 
(such as a blaster rifle), then choose one of the templates from the sections 
below. Apply the changes to the equipment’s statistics and effect as described 
in the template. Some templates have restrictions, either because of the tem- 
plate type (for example, weapon templates can be applied only to weapons) 
or because of specific prerequisites (for example, only weapons that deal 
stun damage can have the Bothan Weapon template applied). Gamemasters 
might rule that some weapons cannot be altered due to cultural or logical 
prerequisites; for example, since a bowcaster is a weapon unique to Wookiee 
culture, it makes little sense for there to be an Echani bowcaster. 


GENERAL TEMPLATES 

Templates denoting a particular place or method of manufacturing might 
cover both weapons and armor. The following general templates can be 
applied to suits of armor or weapons, using the rules described in the tem- 
plate’s entry. 


Arkanian Manufacture 

Developed on the frozen tundra world of Arkania, weapons and armor of 
Arkanian manufacture are engineered to function in extremely cold environ- 
ments. Arkanian weapons deal energy and fire damage (see "Fire" on page 
255 of the Saga Edition core rulebook); however, if an Arkanian weapon is 


INTRODUCING GEAR 
TEMPLATES 
Introducing gear templates into your campaign takes a major step away 
from the simplicity of equipment design, purchase, and use that the Saga 
Edition rules provide. The gear templates presented in this section balance 
out the benefit of the templates with drawbacks, so heroes still have a 
reason to pick up a standard heavy blaster pistol rather than an Iridonian 
heavy blaster pistol. Items that have had a gear template applied repre- 
sent rare samples that are found only once in a great while. All templated 
items have the Rare tag applied to their Availability, since they are found 
only on one planet or in the possession of one particular group. 
Gamemasters should be cautious when introducing gear templates 
into the game. Items with templates applied should not be included in the 
list of items a character can buy; rather, they must be found or earned. 
Items with gear templates applied make great rewards for completing 
missions or defeating important villains, but if they can be found in every 
shop or purchased off of a computer shopping network then they are no 
longer special. Even when these items are available for purchase, such 
as buying a suit of Eriadun flex armor on Eriadu, only one such item will 
be available, since they are above and beyond the weapons and armor 
found commonly throughout the galaxy. Unlike the heroes in the Knights 
of the Old Republic video games, your heroes probably should not walk 
around with unique items on every part of their bodies. Instead, treat 
these special weapons as exceptional rewards or prized finds. 


used with an ability that consumes more than one shot in a round (such as 
Rapid Shot or Double Attack) the weapon overheats and cannot be fired for 
one round as it cools down. 

Arkanian armor doubles its equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense against 
cold weather hazards, but has no equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense” 
against heat-based hazards. Arkanian items cost 10% or 1,000 credits 
(whichever is higher) more than other items of their kind. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to armor or to ranged 
energy weapons. 


Cinnagaran Manufacture 
Cinnagaran items are manufactured on the sprawling metropolis world of 
Empress Teta, which has been at the center of galactic wars for over a thou- 
sand years. Cinnagaran armor and shields grant DR 5 against weapons that 
deal sonic damage, but its Maximum Dexterity Bonus is reduced by 1. 
Cinnagaran weapons deal energy and bludgeoning damage. Cinnagaran 
items cost 10% or 1,000 credits (whichever is higher) more than other items 
of their kind. 
Restrictions: This template can be applied only to armor or to ranged 
energy weapons. 


Cortosis Weave/Phrik Alloy 

Weapons and armor made of cortosis weave or phrik alloy share a special 
property that prevents lightsabers from slicing through them with great ease. 
A lightsaber does not ignore the DR of a weapon or suit of armor made of 
cortosis weave or phrik alloy. A piece of equipment with this template costs 
20% more than the base item. 

During this time, almost all melee weapons are coated with a cortosis weave 
due not only to an abundance of the materia! but also the presence of large 
numbers of lightsaber-wielding combatants; as a result, they are not given the 
Rare availability tag during this era. During other eras, however, these materials 
are far more difficult to find, and are given the Rare tag as normal. 

Restrictions: None. 


Echani Manufacture 

Extremely rare, items of Echani manufacture are hand-crafted by the 
powerful and skilled Echani warriors, and each individual item is unique. 
Echani armor weighs half as much as other armor of its kind, and once per 
encounter the wearer can move at their normal speed (not the adjusted speed 
for wearing the armor) for one round, though the armor's bonus to Reflex 
Defense is reduced by 1. 

Once per encounter the wielder of an Echani weapon can declare that the 
critical range of his weapon is increased by one (thus scoring a critical on a 
19 ora 20 on most weapons). However, any roll other than a natural 20 is not 
considered an automatic hit, and if you still miss the target you do not score 
a critical hit. The use of this ability can be declared after the attack roll is 
made, but before the attack is resolved. However, Echani weapons have half 
as many hit points as other weapons of their kind. Echani-manufactured items 
cost 10% or 1,000 credits (whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to armor or to weapons 
that deal slashing or piercing damage (no lightsabers). 


GenoHaradan Manufacture 
A secretive guild of assassins and bounty hunters, the GenoHaradan have 


items specially crafted to suit their darker purposes. GenoHaradan armor ~ 


provides a +2 equipment bonus on Stealth checks to sneak but reduces the 
equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense by one (minimum +0). GenoHaradan 
weapons grant a +2 equipment bonus to the attack roll of a contact poison 
applied to the weapon (for melee weapons), or a +1 equipment bonus on 
attack rofls with weapons set to stun (for ranged weapons). GenoHaradan 
weapons are somewhat fragile, and become disabled until repaired when the 
wielder rolls a natural 1 on an attack roll. GnoHaradan-manufactured items 
cost 10% or 1,000 credits (whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template cannot be applied to melee weapons that deal 
energy damage or to ranged weapons without a stun setting. This template 
can be applied only to a suit of armor that provides an equipment bonus to 
Fortitude Defense. 


lridonian Manufacture 

The lridonians are a mysterious species known for their savagery and aggres- 
siveness. lridonian armor and shields provide DR 2 against bludgeoning 
damage. Iridonian weapons gain a +2 equipment bonus to damage rolls when 
using either the Power Attack or Power Blast feats. However, all lridonian 
weapons are considered Illegal, and visibly displaying an lridonian weapon 
or wearing lridonian armor always imposes unfavorable circumstances on 
Deception or Persuasion checks against law enforcement officials and other 
authority figures. lridonian-manufactured items cost 10% or 1,000 credits 
(whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: None. 


Krath Manufacture 
Items created by the Krath typically have a cruel and dangerous twist. Krath 
armor and shields provide DR 2 against energy damage. If an attack roll with 
a Krath weapon equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense as well as 
Reflex Defense, the target takes 1d4 damage at the beginning of its next 
turn. Krath-manufactured items cost 10% or 1,000 credits (whichever is 
higher) more than the base item. However, Krath weapons and armor hold 
the taint of the dark side within them, and any character wielding a Krath 
manufacture weapon or wearing Krath armor treat their Dark Side Score as 
one higher than it actually is for the purposes of being targeted by effects 
that only affect targets with a Dark Side Score. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to armor or to melee 
weapons that deal slashing or piercing damage, and cannot be applied to 
lightsabers. 


Mandalorian Manufacture 

A Mandalorian warrior is made great by his or her equipment, and each piece 
of Mandalorian equipment is unique in some way. Mandalorian items are 
made with customization in mind; any character making a Mechanics check 
to repair or modify a weapon or suit of armor of Mandalorian manufacture 
gains a +5 equipment bonus on the check. However, Mandalorian technol- 
ogy is often based on the designs of other cultures, causing some unusual 
interaction between technologies; if a Mandalorian item is disabled all of 
the modifications to that item are destroyed (and much be purchased anew, 
not merely repaired). Mandalorian-manufactured items cost 10% or 1,000 
credits (whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: None. 


Massassi Manufacture 

Built by primitive creatures for use in the service of the Sith, Massassi items 
are designed to take advantage of the strength of their wielders. Massassi 
armor allows a critical hit against the wearer to be turned into a normal hit 
once per encounter as a reaction. However, if a character does not have a 
sufficient Strength score (13 for light armor, 15 for Medium armor, or 17 


A Sa tevHo 


i) 
5) 
G 
7 
K 
W 
24 
qj 
> 
24 
@ 
g 
2 
g) 
Y 
0) 


z) 


A BAL 


SqQrev%EG GNY ANEWAIASS) } 


for heavy armor) they take armor-check penalties even when proficient in 
the armor. 

When a character scores a critical hit with a Massassi weapon held in two 
hands, that character triples his Strength bonus to damage (before multiply- 
ing for the critical hit); like armor, if a character does not have a sufficient 
Strength score (15 for Medium weapons, 17 for Large weapons, or 19 for 
Huge and bigger weapons) then he takes a -2 penalty to attack rolls with 
that weapon, even if proficient. Massassi-manufactured items cost 10% or 
1,000 credits (whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to armor or to melee 
simple weapons. 


Prototype 

Prototype items are unstable and not ready for release to the general public, 
but they might have properties that other items do not. A prototype item 
can have two modifications from the Tech Specialist feat (see page 21 of 
Starships of the Galaxy) instead of just one. However, a prototype weapon 
treats a natural roll of 1, 2, 3, or 4 as though it were a natural 1 (thus, 
automatically missing), and the weapon becomes disabled until repaired. A 
wearer of prototype armor takes 1 more die of damage from a critical hit 


4nN HK-5SO0 488ASSIN DROID (LEFT) AND 4 KELLENECH SENTINEL 
DROID (RIGHT) PREPARE THEIR UPGRADED WEAPONS 


(before multiplying); thus, a heavy blaster pistol that scores a critical hit 
against a target wearing prototype armor deals 4d8 damage base, which is 
then doubled. 

Restrictions: None. 


Verpine Manufacture 
The insectoid Verpine are technological masters who can create items with 
exceptional characteristics. Verpine armor and shields provide DR 10 against 
ion damage. As a swift action, a Verpine weapon can be switched to ion fire 
mode, changing the weapon to deal ion damage instead of normal damage 
(at the same damage dice}. However, Verpine items are designed for their 
unique physiologies, and they require the owner to have a minimum Dexterity 
of 13+ to wear their armor effectively (otherwise the wearer takes armor- 
check penalties} or a minimum Intelligence of 13+ to operate their weapons 
properly (otherwise the wielder takes a -2 penalty to attack rolls with that 
weapon). Verpine-manufactured items cost 10% or 1,000 credits (whichever 
is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to armor or to ranged 
weapons that deal energy damage. 


WEAPON TEMPLATES 
The following templates function the same way as general templates, but 
can be applied only to weapons. 


Baragwin Weapon 
Weapons manufactured by the Baragwin can be nasty, because the species 
has perfected the creation of deadly weapons through centuries of serving 
as galactic arms dealers. On a successful critical hit, Baragwin weapons 
grant their wielders +1 die of damage (after multiplying for the critica! hit). 
However, Baragwin weapons are considered illegal. Baragwin weapons cost 
10% or 1,000 credits (whichever is higher) more than the base item. 
Restrictions: None. 


Bothan Weapon 
Bothan society is well known for its penchant for espionage, and the 
Bothans have developed methods of subduing targets without killing them. 
Bothan weapons deal +1 die of damage when set to stun or when dealing 
ion damage, but deal -1 die of damage when not set to stun or dealing ion 
damage. Bothan weapons cost 10% or 1,000 credits (whichever is higher) 
more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to weapons that deal 
stun damage or ion damage. 


Dashade Weapon 

The Dashade species specializes in creating weapons capable of inflicting 
great pain—if not great damage—upon an opponent. A target moved down 
the condition track by an attack from a Dashade weapon can only spend 2 
swift actions per turn to recover. This effect lasts until the target returns to 
its normal state (all conditions removed). Dashade weapons are considered 
Illegal, and take a -2 penalty to damage rolls. Dashade weapons cost 10% 
or 1,000 credits (whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: None. 


Gand Weapon 
The Gand species, peculiar and often incomprehensible, specializes in crafting 
weapons that immobilize opponents. If a Gand weapon moves a target down 
the condition track with its stun damage, that target has its speed halved 
until it returns to its normal state (all conditions removed); a target that is 
-4 steps down the condition track (at the -10 step) is immobilized instead. 
Gand weapons are sometimes difficult to operate, and all Gand weapons 
are considered exotic weapons for the purposes of proficiency (except to 
members of the Gand species). Gand weapons cost 10% or 1,000 credits 
(whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to weapons that deal 
stun damage. 


Quick Draw Weapon 
These weapons are specially designed to be pulled quickly, whether by 
modification to the blaster or to its holster. A quick draw weapon wielder 
that possesses the Quick Draw feat can draw or holster the weapon once 
per round as a free action. A quick draw weapon costs 10% more than the 
cost of the base weapon. 

Restrictions: None. 


Rakatan Weapon 

Crafted by an ancient and extremely advanced species known as the Rakata, 
weapons with this template are powerful and extremely alien to modern 
species. Rakatan weapons increase their die type by one step (from d4 to 
d6, dé to d8, d8 to d10, or d10 to a maximum of d12) and grant the wielder 
a +1 equipment bonus on attack rolls. Rakatan weapons are considered 
exotic weapons, except to Rakatan characters (who treat them as weapons 
of their normal weapon group). Rakatan weapons cost 30% or 3,000 credits 
(whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

“Restrictions: None. 


Sith Alchemical Weapon 

Sith alchemical weapons are items that have undergone an arcane enhance- 
ment process using ancient Sith techniques. Favored by the Sith in the days 
prior to the spread of lightsabers, Sith alchemical weapons are not only 
resistant to damage but also channel the dark side through them. Ancient 
Sith Lords used alchemy to fundamentally alter the chemical makeup of 
their weapons, resulting in something far more dangerous than the typical 
sword or lanvarok. 

A lightsaber does not ignore a Sith alchemical weapon's DR, and char- 
acters who are proficient with the Sith alchemical weapon can treat it as 
a lightsaber for the purpose of using the Block, Deflect, and Redirect Shot 
talents (and any talents that have those Jedi talents as a prerequisite). 

Additionally, a Sith alchemical weapon becomes more powerful in the 
hands of a character who is steeped in the dark side of the Force. A character 
proficient in Sith alchemical weapon use can spend a Force Point as a swift 
action to gain a bonus to damage rolls with the Sith alchemical weapon equal 
to his or her Dark Side Score. This bonus to damage applies to the next attack 
made with the weapon before the end of the encounter, and activating this 
ability increases the wielder’s Dark Side Score by 1. 

Sith alchemical weapons cost 20% or 2,000 credits (whichever is higher) 
more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to advanced melee 
weapons and simple melee weapons. 


STACKING TEMPLATES 

The templates presented in this chapter are meant to represent the unique 
products of various societies and cultures. Stacking one template on 
top of another will inevitably produce weapons and armor far superior 
to other weapons, possibly creating confusing results (what is a suit of 
Massassi Eriadun armor?). Therefore, with the exception of the prototype 
template, the quick-draw weapon template, and the cortosis-weave/ 
phrik-alloy template, no items should have more than one template 
added. Gamemasters might remove this restriction for special items, 
but this can quickly affect the way mundane equipment is perceived in 
your campaign. 

Additionally, when determining the costs for items with multiple 
templates, apply each template one at a time, starting with the most 
expensive template and adding new ones after determining the new price 
for the item based on the previous template. 


| 


13] 
I 
> 
at} 
4 
0 
1 
< 


Sqlevad G@NwY LNeaWwaInes 


to 


ct 


SGIGUE GNY ANENaIRNeS |] 


A HslavHo 


ARMOR TEMPLATES 
The following templates function the same way as general templates, but 
can be applied only to armor. 


Bonadan-Alloy Armor 
Although weapons are illegal on the crowded world of Bonadan, armor crafted 
from a unique alloy created on that planet is second to none. Bonadan-alloy 
armor provides DR 2 against slashing damage, but any equipment bonus to 
Fortitude Defense provided by the armor is reduced by one (to a minimum of 
+0). Bonadan-alloy armor costs 10% or 1,000 credits (whichever is higher) 
more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to a suit of armor that 
provides an equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense. 


Bronzium Cast Armor 

An extremely solid and durable metal, bronzium can be used in the produc- 
tion of armor that can protect the wearer from suffering great harm. Once 
per encounter, the wearer of bronzium cast armor can redirect the damage 
from a successful incoming attack to the armor; the armor takes the damage 
from the attack (armor has the same DR, hit points, damage threshold, and 
break DC as a weapon of the same size category as the wearer). If the armor 
is disabled or destroyed, it no longer provides any bonuses to the wearer. A 
suit of armor pushed down the condition track imposes its condition penal- 
ties to the wearer's Reflex Defense only. Bronzium cast armor costs 10% or 
1,000 credits (whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: None. 


Durasteel Cast Armor 
A thin and lightweight metal, durasteel is used in the construction of armor 
when extra protection is needed. Durasteel cast armor grants DR 1 to the 
wearer, but any equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense provided by the armor 
is reduced by one (to a minimum of +0). Durasteel cast armor costs 10% or 
1,000 credits (whichever is higher) more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to a suit of armor that 
provides an equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense. 


Environmental Bastion Armor 
Environmental bastion armors are designed to protect the wearer from harsh 
environments—including vacuum—and provide a comfortable environment for 
whatever species they are made for (for example, Ubese wear environmen- 
tal bastion armor that produces atmosphere similar to their homeworld’s). 
Environmental bastion armor acts as a sealed environment suit, providing a 
number of hours of breathable air to the wearer equal to the armor's equip- 
ment bonus to Fortitude Defense. Environmental bastion armor costs 10% 
more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to a suit of armor that 
provides an equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense. 


Eriadun Armor 
Crafted on the Human-dominated world of Eriadu, Eriadun armor helps 
soldiers avoid being taken prisoner and interrogated by enemy forces. A suit 
of Eriadun armor or an Eriadun energy shield provides DR 5 against stun 
damage, but any equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense provided by the 
armor is reduced by one (to a minimum of +0}. Eriadun armor costs 10% or 
1,000 credits (whichever is higher] more than the base item. 

Restrictions: This template can be applied only to a suit of armor that 
provides an equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense. 


DROIDS 


Droids play an important part in any Knights of the Old Republic campaign. 
Droids are just as prominent during the days of the Old Republic as they are 
in later years, and many models are the obvious predecessors of droids used 
during the Galactic Civil War. This chapter presents a good cross-section of 
the droids used in this era, providing droids that can fill a variety of roles in 
any Knights of the Old Republic campaign. 


FiRsT-DEGREE DROIDS 
First-degree droids are medical, analytical, or scientific droids. Specific 
examples include the ET-74 communications droid. 


ET-74 COMMUNICATIONS DROID 
Developed by Automata Galactica to handle communications in automated 
facilities and coordinate the efforts of labor droids, the ET-74 communica- 
tions droid is a multipurpose droid that handles electronic communication and 
logistics for several different industries. The ET-74 communications droid is 
programmed with an excellent mastery of computer systems and networks, 
as well as a variety of data transmission and receiving systems. Additionally, 
this droid has several routines that enable it to communicate effectively with 
its biological masters, making it an excellent liaison between a large droid 
worker force and their living owners. 

ET-74 communications droids are smaller and are often found on space 
stations and capital ships. Though they are no match for a living communica- 
tions officer, these droids can temporarily replace crew members by manning 
the communications and sensor stations for a short while. ET-74 droids are 
put in charge of mining, construction, and excavation droids whose tasks are 
menial (requiring droids with only a marginal intelligence) but which require 
coordination to ensure that a task is completed. As a result, some beings 
confuse ET-74 communications droids for worker droids of various types, 
though in truth they are merely directing those droids under their charge. 

ET-74 communications droids can be played as droid heroes. 


AN ET-74 COMMUNICATIONS DROID 


SECOND-DEGREE DROIDS 
Second-degree droids are typically astromech droids and technical droids. 
Specific models include the GO-TO infrastructure planning droid and the 
T3-Series utility droid. 


ARATECH GO-TO 
INFRASTRUCTURE-PLANNING 
DROID 

Following the devastation of the Great Sith War and during the rebuilding 
years leading up to the Mandalorian Wars, the Republic is in dire need of 
assistance to rebuild the galaxy's infrastructure. The Aratech Repulsor 
Company steps in to provide that much-needed assistance. As a part of the 
company’s investment in the Republic's rebuilding efforts under the Cor- 
uscant Financial Exchange Establishment Act, Aratech begins research and 
development of the GO-TO infrastructure-planning droid. The first prototype 
models help with the reconstruction efforts after the Great Sith War, but 


in 3,955 BBY Supreme Chancellor Cressa puts the droids to greatest use 0 
Automata Galactica ET-74 Communications Droid cLo rebuilding the galaxy after the Jedi Civil War. FS 
Small droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 1 GO-TO infrastructure-planning droids are designed and programmed to ui 
Init +1; Senses Perception +0 serve as a central organizational hub for planetary rebuilding efforts. A GO-T0 7 
Languages Basic, Binary, plus 5 unassigned droid, which is given a unique identifier that corresponds with the planet it < 
Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 8, Will 10 assists, can plug directly into a planet's information network and immediately 
hp 3: Threshold 8 begin coordinating reconstruction and relief efforts, using its specialized 


software to maximize efficiency and minimize mistakes. Unfortunately for 
the Aratech company (and for the galaxy), the massive amounts of data 
flowing through a GO-TO infrastructure-planning droid can corrupt the droid's 
memory, causing it to rapidly develop both a personality and independent 
motivations. As a result, many GO-TO droids seized control of planetary assets 
or struck out on their own to organize and run their own tiny empire. 

For example, GO-TO-Telerath temporarily seized control over one of 
the galaxy'’s most prominent financial institutions, causing an economic 
emergency when it demanded control of the Coruscant Financial Exchange. 
Similarly, a number of GO-TO droids stationed in the Gordian Reach declared 
their intentions to secede from the Republic and set themselves up to be 
dictatorial rulers of the independent territory 400100500260026. 

GO-TO infrastructure-planning droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -2 (1d2)} 

Base Atk +0; Grp -4 

Abilities Str 7, Dex 12, Con —, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology]], Skill Focus (Use 
Computer), Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic lore]] 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore} +7, Knowledge (technology) +12, 
Persuasion +4, Use Computer +12 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
translator unit (DC 10}, vocabulator : 

Possessions comlink, datapad, portable computer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,700 


SGIOVE GNY ANSWEINGS | . | 


“SO MANY NEW RECRUITS. DIFFERENT 
SPECIES, DIFFERENT ARMORS, DIFFERENT 
LANGUAGES —- AND NOT ENOUGH TIME TO 

LEARN OUR WAYS.” 


—-MANDALORE THE ULTIMATE 


(A S31gVHS 


Aratech GO-TO Infrastructure-Planning Droid CL 1 
Tiny droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 4 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision, Perception +4 

Languages Basic, Binary, plus 3 unassigned 


Duwani Mechanical Products T3-Series Utility Droid CLO 
Small droid (2nd-degree)} nonheroic 2 

Init +2; Senses darkvision, Perception +3 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, 2 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 9, Will 11 
hp 10; SR 10; Threshold 9 
Immune droid traits 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 10 
hp 5; Threshold 9 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares [fly) 

Melee electroshock probe +1 (1d8-2 ion) 

Base Atk +3; Grp -5 

Abilities Str 6, Dex 15, Con —, Int 16, Wis 10, Cha 14 

Feats Improved Defenses, Skill Focus (Knowledge [social sciences]]), Skill 
Focus (Knowledge [technology]}, Skill Focus (Use Computer), Weapon 
Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (social sciences) +15, Knowledge (technology) +15, 
Persuasion +9, Use Computer +15 

Systems hovering locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 tool appendages, 
electroshock probe, holorecorder, holoprojector, improved sensor 
package, locked access, integrated comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions planetary infrastructure management software 

Availability Military; Cost 60,000 


T3-SERIES UTILITY DROID 

One of the earliest known predecessors to the astromech droid, Duwani 
Mechanical Products’ T3-Series utility droid is designed to function as a 
maintenance droid for a variety of mechanical and electronic systems. Though 
adept at dealing with computers and machines of all types, T3-Series utility 
droids do not boast vocabulators, since they are not required to interact with 
organic denizens of the galaxy. The sophisticated mechanical and computer 
training software loaded into the T3-Series utility droid allows it to function 
in the capacity of an engineer or even a copilot aboard a starship, making it 
a favored purchase for traders and smugglers alike. 

The T3-Series utility droid boasts a squat body with a disc-shaped head 
and a single photoreceptor gleaming brightly on one end. T3-Series droids 
come with enough tools and equipment to perform the functions required 
of it, but some tinkerers have modified their T3 units to better serve their 
individual needs. One common modification is the addition of a starfighter 
interface package, allowing the droid to plug directly into a specialized slot 
ona starfighter, granting starfighter pilots the same benefit that transport 
pilots have come to expect from the T3. Though this after-market modifi- 
cation is not endorsed by Duwani Mechanical Products, some fighter pilots 
insist that their ships and droids receive these modifications on the grounds 
that they increase pilot survivability. 

T3-Series utility droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee electroshock probe +1 (1d8-1 ion) 

Ranged stun ray +1 (3d6 stun) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp -3 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14, Wis 11, Cha 7 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Weapon 
Proficiency (simple weapons, pistols) 

Skills Mechanics +13, Pilot +7, Use Computer +13 

Systems wheeled locomotion, magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 5 tool 
appendages, diagnostics package, internal storage (2 kg), improved 
sensor package, darkvision 

Possessions stun ray (as blaster pistol set to stun), astrogation 
buffer (storage device, 10 memory units), electroshock probe, fire 
extinguisher, electric arc welder, holorecorder, holoprojector 

Availability Licensed; Cost 3,500 credits 


THIRD-DEGREE DROIDS 
Third-degree droids are typically protocol droids. Specific models include the 
GE3-Series protocol droid and the GG-Series hospitality droid. 


GES-SERIES PROTOCOL DROID 
One of the best-selling droids in the galaxy, the Czerka Corporation's GE3- 
Series multipurpose protocol droid is found everywhere from Coruscant to 
Tatooine and beyond. One of the most common humanoid droid models, the 
GE3-Series protocol droid primarily serves as an agent of Human-cyborg 
relations but can be programmed to fill a variety of roles. Some GE3-Series 
droids are used as liaisons between farmers and their machinery; others 
serve as personal secretaries and errand-runners for busy citizens on urban 
worlds. These droids serve a variety of tasks, from menial chores to assisting 
in galactic negotiations, and as such they are highly valued by citizens both 
high and low on the power ladder. 

The GE3-Series programming is geared specifically toward social interac- 
tion. They are extremely knowledgeable about the customs, cultures, and 
histories of species throughout the galaxy, and serve as the standard for 
protocol droids for decades. GE3 protocol droids are used in domestic and 
political environments, and the Czerka Corporation has a longstanding policy 
of selling these droids to planetary governments in bulk at a discounted rate, 


ensuring that their droids are found on nearly every planet in the Republic. 
Though technically all GE3-Series droids share the same suffix to their names 
(GE3), most shorten their designation to contain only their unique identifier; 
thus, a protocol droid whose full designation would be S-OD3-GE3 would 
drop the GE3 and would go by only S-0D3. 

GE3-Series protocol droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Czerka Corporation GE3 Protocol Droid CLO 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +0; Senses Perception +2 

Languages Basic, Binary, plus one unassigned; translator unit (DC 5) 
Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 9}, Fort 10, Will 11 

hp 5; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +0 (1d3-1)} 

Base Atk +1; Grp +0 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 8, Con —, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 15 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy]}, Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[galactic lore]), Skill Training (Knowledge [social sciences], Skill 
Training (Persuasion) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (galactic lore} +12, 
Knowledge (social sciences) +7, Persuasion +8 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, translator unit (DC 10), 2 
hand appendages, vocabulator 

Possessions audio recorder, comlink 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,500 


GG-SERIES HOSPITALITY DROID 
Designed to act as a receptionist, host, and greeter, the GG-Series hospitality 
droid is a new take on the traditional role of the protocol droid, focusing 
less on raw knowledge and more on interacting with living beings. Manu- 
factured on Arkania by Adascorp, the GG-Series hospitality droid is slightly 
more expensive than the standard protocol droid but is favored by large 
corporations and other entities wishing to provide customer service with- 
out taking up the time of executives or other biological employees. Though 
their introduction heralds a new level of Human-cyborg relations that the 
traditional protocol droid could not live up to, consumer response to the 
GG-Series hospitality droid turns lukewarm. Customers find that GG-Series 
hospitality droids are only a partial solution to the difficulties of dealing with 
large corporations. They resent the presence of these droids because they 
are yet another wall between a company and its consumers. 

The GG-series protocol droid is best received in environments where it 
serves as host, receptionist, or greeter that then escorts visitors to deai with 
a living representative of the company. On the banking world of Telerath, 


& GG-SERIES HOSPITALITY DROID (LEFT) AND A GES-SERIES 
PROTOCOL DROID (RIGHT) OISCUSS MATTERS OF ETIQUETTE 


Enc) 


q A BSlavrHo 


Sqeovrad Gwy LNEwAIAes, 


A HaLavHg 


4 


Sqeovg GNY LNEWANneSs) 


GG-Series hospitality droids greet newcomers and usher them to a banking 
representative, an experiment in customer service that proves exceptionally 
popular because the GG-Series droids do not replace biological employees and 
instead act as go-betweens. Corporations use GG-Series hospitality droids 
in their corporate offices as receptionist and communications specialists, 
even as secretary droids for high-ranking executives. However, corpora- 
tions stop using GG-Series hospitality droids when a scandal reveals that 
Adascorp has planted command routines in the processors of droids sold to 
other companies, allowing the hospitality droids to spy on their owners and 
report back to Adascorp. 
GG-Series hospitality droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Adascorp GG-Series Hospitality Droid 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +3; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Binary; translator unit (DC 10) 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 11 

hp 5; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +0 (1d3-1) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 13, Con —, int 10, Wis 12, Cha 15 

Feats Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), 
Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Training (Perception) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Knowledge (galactic lore) +6, 
Perception +7, Persuasion +13 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
vocabulator 

Possessions comlink 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,000 


CLO 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROIDS 


Fourth-degree droids are combat droids. Specific models include assassin 
droids, probe droids and war droids. 


HK-SERIES ASSASSIN DROIDS 

Designed to disguise themselves as protocol! droids to lull targets into a false 
sense of security, HK-Series assassin droids represent one of the deadliest 
innovations in droid technology of this time. The Czerka Corporation’s first 
major success in assassin-droid production came with the release of the 
HK-24 assassin droid, which the company hoped to sell in large quantities 
to the Republic and planetary governments during the run-up to the Man- 
dalorian Wars. Many HK-24 assassin droids are purchased by Lord Adasca to 
hunt down one of his former employees hiding on Taris. Even with red armor 


plating and glowing orange eyes, the HK-24 appears, to the untrained eye, to 
be nothing more than a slightly sinister-looking servant droid. Unfortunately, 
the Czerka Corporation never finds success with the HK-24 (since most people 
in the galaxy have no use for an assassin droid), and soon their factories are 
shut down and abandoned. 

During the Jedi Civil War, Darth Revan constructs an HK-Series assas- 
sin droid based on the HK-24 design, but with several of his own upgrades. 
This droid, HK-47, in turn becomes the basis for a new model of HK-Series 
assassin droids: the HK-50. After seeing HK-47’s abilities first-hand, Revan 
becomes convinced that the droids will make excellent agents. The Sith Lord 
is captured before his plans come to fruition, however, and production on 
the HK-50 model ceases for several years. Eventually, the droid crime lord 
Goto (a GO-TO infrastructure planning droid) discovers the HK-50 produc- 
tion facility and reactivates it, disseminating the new model assassin droids 
throughout the galaxy. 

HK-24 and HK-50 assassin droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 
Czerka Corporation HK-24 Series Assassin Droid CL7 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 5 
Init +12; Senses low-light vision, Perception +8 
Languages Basic, Binary; translator unit (DC 5) 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 19], Fort 19, Will 16 
hp 43; Threshold 19 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d3+4) 

Ranged blaster rifle +13 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +11 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+14) with Power Blast 

Base Atk +9; Grp +12 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (rifles), Point Blank Shot, Power Blast, 
Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 17, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Talents Devastating Attack (rifles), Tough as Nails, Weapon Specialization 
(rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Point Blank Shot, Power Blast, 
Rapid Shot, Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, Persuasion +11 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
2 tool appendages, improved sensor package, translator unit (DC 5), 
vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle, durasteel battle armor 

Availability Illegal, Rare: Cost Not available for sale (estimated value 
24,000 credits) 


PLAYING AN HK-SERIES 
DROID. 

Though the HK-24 and HK-50 model assassin droids are unsuitable for 
heroes, players might want to play as a droid such as HK-47; that is, 
a droid from the HK series but independent and with a developed (or 
developing) personality. Gamemasters that wish to allow HK-Series 
assassin droids can use the following statistics as the baseline for the 
droid hero. Gamemasters should encourage their heroes to come up 
with a history and unique designation for their HK-Series droid. Which 
model is the unique droid hero based on? Why has the droid developed 
a personality? What motivates the droid to overcome its assassination 
protocols, or does the droid even try? By answering questions such as 
these, a heroic HK-Series droid can be an interesting and valuable addi- 
tion to the group. 

Independent HK-Series Droid CL 1 
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 1 

Force 5 

Init +8; Senses low-light vision, Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Binary; translator unit (DC 5) 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 15, Will 12 

hp 30; Threshold 15 

immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d3+2) 

Ranged blaster rifle +5 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +4 

Special Actions Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 17, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +8, Perception +8, Use Computer +5 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
2 tool appendages, improved sensor package, translator unit (DC 
5), vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle, durasteel battle armor, comlink 


HK-50 Series Assassin Droid 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 6/elite trooper 4 
Init +15; Senses Jow-light vision, Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned; translator unit (DC 5) 


CL 12 


Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +16 (1d4+7) 

Ranged blaster rifle +19 (3d8+7) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +17 (5d8+7) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged blaster rifle +14 (3d8+17) with Power Blast 

Base Atk +14; Grp +17 

Atk Options Burst Fire, Careful Shot, Controlled Burst, Devastating Attack 
(rifles), Point Blank Shot, Power Blast, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Tough as Nails 


Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 22), Fort 26, Will 21 
hp 75; DR 2; Threshold 26 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 17, Con —, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 13 

Talents Controlled Burst, Devastating Attack (rifles), Greater Weapon 
Focus (rifles), Tough as Nails, Weapon Specialization [rifles] 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Careful Shot, Martial 
Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Power Blast, Precise Shot, Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +15, Persuasion +14 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
2 tool appendages, improved sensor package, translator unit (DC 5), 
vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle, durasteel battle armor 

Availability Illegal, Rare; Cost Not available for sale (estimated value 
33,000 credits) 


SUGGERNAUT WAR DROID 

The Juggernaut war droid by Duwani Mechanical Products is designed spe- 
cifically for use by the Republic's Rocket Jumper corps. Intended for use as 
a remote resupply and combat assistance droid, the Juggernaut war droid 
is a valuable aid to the Rocket Jumpers, whose far-ranging missions carry 
them outside the normal military supply lines. During the Great Sith War, 
Juggernaut war droids provide Republic soldiers with much-needed materiel, 
and thanks to the versatility of their jet packs, which also serve as underwater 
propulsion systems, these droids are able to reach Republic personnel well 
behind enemy lines. 

The Juggernaut war droid is equipped with a shatter beam (designed to 
penetrate enemy bunkers and other defensive positions) as well as a sonic 
weapon to protect the droid from lightsaber-wielding foes. However, the 
droid's primary weapon is a pulse-wave rifle; the other weapons are to be 
used only in emergency situations. Many of these droids are retired after 
taking part in a droid uprising on Coruscant during the Great Sith War, having 
been reprogrammed by the original HK-01 assassin-droid prototype. 

Juggernaut war droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


AustavHo  _) 


SQIENEG GNY LNEWEANNAa|” 


A oeSaLdIVvHoD 


Selevad GNY ANWEWANINe@E€ 


Duwani Mechanical Products Juggernaut War Droid CL 4 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 2 
Init +12; Senses Perception +6 


Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 14 
hp 26; Threshold 16 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (fly, walk, or swim) 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d3+3) 

Ranged pulse-wave rifle +10 (3d8+3) or 
Ranged heavy sonic pistol +9 (2d8+1) or 
Ranged shatter beam +9 (3d8+1) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +9 

Atk Options Charging Fire, Running Attack 
Special Actions Coordinated Attack 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con —-, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Talents Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Charging Fire, Coordinated Attack, 
Running Attack, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 2 tool 
mounts, vocabulator 

Possessions pulse-wave rifle, shatter beam (as heavy blaster pistol, deals 
double damage to unattended objects), heavy sonic pistol, durasteel 
plating, jet pack (also provides swim speed) 

Availability Military; Cost 20,000 credits 


K-xXIZ PROBE DROID 

Though officially billed as a probe droid, the K-X12 model droid from Mer- 
enData becomes popular because of its ability to fulfill multiple roles. The 
hovering droid is good at getting into and out of dangerous or confined 
locales, and its three clawed appendages allow it to twist, move, and other- 
wise manipulate objects that would block other droids. Though MerenData 
claims that the blaster appendage is used only to clear away debris, owners 
of K-X12 probe droids use them as security and patrol droids because of 
their offensive capabilities. 

MerenData's probe droids come into widespread use during the Jedi Civil 
War, when the Republic, Sith, and private citizens alike use the droids for 
security and observation. Many of the droids are reprogrammed and sent 
out as espionage droids, slipping into enemy facilities through unusual points 
of entry. These probe droids are loaded into hollowed-out concussion mis- 
siles and fired into the atmosphere of enemy-controlled planets; the droid 
is programmed to destroy the missile from the inside before impact, then 
float away to avoid slamming into the planet. 

K-X12 probe droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


MerenData K-X12 Probe Droid CL 2 

Small droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3/scout 1 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision, Perception +17 (can reroll, must take 
second result} 


Languages Binary 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 13, Will 16 
hp 12; Threshold 13 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares (fly) 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d3-1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6) 

Ranged self-destruct system +5 (4d6, 2-square splash) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +0 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 15, Con —, Int 13, Wis 16, Cha 9 

Talents Acute Senses 

Feats Improved Defenses, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Stealth), 
Skill Training (Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +17 (can reroll, must take second result), Stealth +14, 
Use Computer +9 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 3 claw appendages, 1 tool 
appendage, improved sensor package, self-destruct system 

Possessions blaster pistol, holorecorder 

Availability Restricted; Cost 6,000 credits 


PATROL DROID MARK 1 

Designed as a law enforcement assistant droid for urban environments, the 
Municipal Patrol Droid Mark | is a small, lightweight droid, which packs a 
bit more firepower than the average patrol droid. Engineered by Automata 
Galactica to serve as a droid partner for law enforcement officials operat- 
ing without assistance, the Municipal Patrol Droid Mark | quickly becomes 
popular among private security companies and wealthy individuals (such as 
corporate executives) who use the droids to bolster their firepower without 
adding personnel. 

During the Jedi Civil War, the Municipal Patrol! Droid Mark | is frequently 
used by the Sith on conquered worlds to reinforce their troops and help keep 
the peace. Unlike their Sith troopers, these droids can be mass produced by 
the Star Forge and sent out to worlds where the Sith presence is only tenu- 
ously keeping an oppressed populace under control. The Sith variety of the 
Municipal Patrol Droid Mark | is reprogrammed to no longer require a living 
officer's authorization to fire. This makes the droids extremely dangerous 
since they could be the first to fire shots during a conflict. 

Mark | patrol droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Automata Galactica Municipal Patrol Droid Mark | CL2 
Small droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 
Init +11; Senses Perception +10 


Languages Basic, Binary 


Ubrikkian Steamworks Devastator War Droid 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9/soldier 2 
Init +13; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary 


CL5 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 9, Will 13 
hp 12; Threshold 9 
Immune droid traits 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 16, Will 13 
hp 46; Threshold 16 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (fly) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +3 (3d6) and 
blaster pistol +3 (3d6) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 6, Dex 17, Con —, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 9 

Feats Dual Weapon Mastery I, Improved Defenses, Skill Training 
(Acrobatics), Skill Training (Use Computer}, Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Acrobatics +11, Initiative +11, Perception +10, Use Computer +9 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 2 tool mounts 

Possessions 2 blaster pistols 

Availability Restricted; Cost 4,700 


DEVASTATOR WAR DROID 

Designed by Ubrikkian Steamworks as an upgrade to the popular sentinel 
droid by Kellenech Technologies, the Devastator war droid has been called 
an assassin droid by those who have faced it. The Devastator war droid is a 
dangerous and tough droid that is difficult to bring down. Redundant sys- 
tems help reduce the effect of damage on the droid's combat readiness. A 
Devastator war droid is capable of continuing to fight at over 85% combat 
efficiency even after losing a limb or other significant system, making it the 
perfect droid to operate on the front lines of battle. 

Although Ubrikkian Steamworks expects to sell the droid to the private 
security market, the Republic designates the Devastator war droid too sophis- 
ticated and dangerous to be in private hands, declaring that only individuals 
and organizations with special permission frem the Military Arms Regulatory 
Bureau can purchase these droids. Asa result, the massive profits that Ubrik- 
kian expected to make (based on estimates that one third of sentinel droid 
owners would upgrade to the Devastator droids) never come, and Ubrikkian 
is forced to cut production of the droids almost as soon as it begins. As a 
result, only a few of these droids can be found anywhere in the galaxy, most 
in the hands of mercenaries and crime syndicates. 

Devastator war droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d3+3) 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (3d8+1) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +10 (4d8+1) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Indomitable 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 9 

Talents Indomitable 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Toughness, 
Weapon Focus (rifles}, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons} 

Skills Initiative +13, Perception +11 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle, durasteel shell 

Availability Military; Cost 12,000 


SENTINEL DROID 

Possibly one of the most popular and widely owned combat droids in the 
galaxy, the Kellenech Technologies sentinel droid was designed for personal 
security, but it is also used for other purposes. Though many models of this 
droid can be found throughout the galaxy, the Mark | version of the sentinel 
droid is by far the most common. With a humanoid structure and a solid 
physical build, the sentinel droid can be an imposing figure for anyone who 
goes up against it. However, unlike other combat-capable droids, the sentinel 
droid functions best when used in large numbers, similar to the battle droids 
that would become popular thousands of years later during the Clone Wars. 
Though a single Kellenech sentinel droid might not be much of a threat, a 
half dozen of the droids can be a dangerous security detail. 

Sentinel droids can be played as droid heroes. 


SQevag Gny Lweweane|” 


a. See 


BaaLdgvHS 


<| 


—— 


Gaus 


SQieallaGd Guy LNIWEINeSs 


BERG) 


A asiarvHa 


Kellenech Technologies Sentinel Droid CL 1 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +8; Senses Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 16 [flat-footed 14], Fort 13, Will 10 

hp 8; Threshold 13 


Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking} 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d3+3) 

Ranged blaster rifle +4 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +2 (4d8) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +2; Grp +5 

Atk Options Rapid Shot 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 15, Con —, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 9 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Rapid Shot, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +8 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle, durasteel shell 

Availability Restricted; Cost 2,400 


FIFTH-DEGREE DROIDS 


Fifth-degree droids are typically utility droids with low-level functions. 
Specific models include maintenance droids and loader droids. 


SECURITY/MAINTENANCE DROID 

The MerenData S6-Series security and maintenance droid is one of the more 

common security observation droids found throughout the galaxy. Though 

the droid features little more than repulsorlifts, a camera, and a processing 

unit, the S6-Series droid provides constant surveillance over a wide-ranging 

area, making it one of the predecessors to later models of patrol and seeker 

droids. S6-Series droids boast advanced sensors and security cameras, and 

have the ability to make repairs to other droids and vehicles. Most citizens of 

the galaxy do not even notice these droids as they go about their business, 

making them prime targets for espionage attempts. 
S6-Series droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 

MerenData S6-Series Security/Maintenance Droid cLo 

Diminutive droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision, Perception +15 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 15), Fort 7, Will 12 

hp 5; Threshold 7 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 9 squares (fly) 
Base Atk +1; Grp -9 


Abilities Str 4, Dex 20, Con —, Int 13, Wis 15, Cha 6 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Use 
Computer), Skill Training (Mechanics) 

Skills Mechanics +12, Perception +15, Use Computer +12 

Systems flying locomotion, basic processor, 2 tool appendages, improved 
sensor package, internal comlink 

Possessions security camera, tool kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,000 


Ti BULK LOADER DROID 

The T1 bulk loader droid is an older model droid still in use through the Jedi 
Civil War and beyond. Built by Kellenech Technologies for menial tasks and 
heavy lifting, the T1 bulk loader droid is one of the most durable and reliable 
droids on the market. The only major drawback to the T1 bulk loader droid 
is its size. The droid has difficulty working in tight spaces, such as aboard 
starships. Tt bulk loader droids are exceptionally diligent and do not stop 
performing an assigned task except by the command of their masters or until 
the droid stops functioning. 

The Ti bulk loader droid is referred to as the LB series droid. However, 
the LB designation indicates a primary function of this particular subtype 
of the T1 model (loader, bulk}, not the model name itself. Kellenech Tech- 
nologies originally produces several series of T1 droids, each with different 
programming and functions; the T1-CW is the “construction worker” model, 
and the T1-EX is the emergency excavation model (used in clearing rubble 
from the scenes of accidents). However, these other T1 droids see limited 
production and quickly fade from memory. Eventually, Duwani Mechanical 
Products obtains the T1-series trademark, which they rebrand for their first 
run of utility droids. 

T1 bulk loader droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 
Kellenech Technologies T1 Bulk Loader Droid cL 1 
Large droid (5th-degree} nonheroic 2 
Init +1; Senses Perception +1 
Languages Basic, Binary 
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 17, Will 10 
hp 15; Threshold 22 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+7) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +13 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 10, Con —, Int 6, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Skill Focus (Endurance), Weapon 
Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
internal storage (5 kg) 

Possessions duranium armor plating 

Availability Licensed; Cost 6,000 


4& T-1 SERIES BULK LOADER DROID (LEFT) LABORS ALONGSIDE ITS 
R-8009 UTILITY DROID COMPANION (RIGHT) 


UTILITY DROID 

The Serv-O-Droid R-8009 utility droid is the standard labor droid used during 
the days of the Old Republic. This utility droid can perform a number of 
functions, including basic maintenance and cleaning. The droid is outfitted 
with varying equipment, depending on the role it is intended to fulfill. Cheap, 
relatively skilled, and capable of operating quietly and subtly around living 
beings, the R-8009 can be found everywhere from the Deep Core to the Outer 
Rim. Unlike other utility droids, the R-8009 has the skills and hardware to 
enable it to interface with other droids and computers. This allows the owner 
to program the utility droid to return to a designated computer terminal and 
receive new instructions on a regular basis, eliminating the need for another 
droid to constantly update the R-8009's programming. 

The R-8009 is the model that made Serv-O-Droid a household name, 
raking in untold billions of credits and enabling the company to swallow up 
many of its competitors, including Delban Electrodyne—its chief competitor. 
Though Serv-O-Droid never reaches the level of fame that Cybot Galactica 
or Industria Automaton would, the company establishes itself firmly in the 
galaxy for thousands of years, though it eventually goes bankrupt with the 
establishment of the Corporate Sector. 

R-8009 utility droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Serv-O-Droid R-8009 Utility Droid CLO 
Small droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init -2; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 10 
hp 4; Threshold 9 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares 
Base Atk +0; Grp -5 


ne i) 


G 
I 
> 
v 
4 
a 
a 
Kt: 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 8, Con —, Int 4, Wis 10, Cha 6 
Feats Skill Training (Knowledge [technology]), Skill Training (Mechanics), 
Skill Training (Use Computer), Toughness 
Skills Knowledge (technology) +2, Mechanics +2, Perception +5, 
Use Computer +2 
Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 4 tool appendages 
Availability Licensed; Cost 800 


SQeugd any LNEWwENINeS 


ff Ca Ga ca Ga 


“CHAPTER VI 
VEHICLES AND STARSHIPS 


=| wate 


A 

The troubled era of a Knights of the Old Republic campaign is the dawn of a 
new age for the engineering and manufacturing of vehicles and starships. 
The presence of conflict creates a breeding ground for new ideas and new 
technologies. The vehicles and starships produced by manufacturers during 
times of war are, out of necessity, on the cutting edge of technology. Fac- 
tions seeking advantage in war commission new designs, or manufactur- 
ers benefit from designs handed down from government engineers to the 
private sector. 

The starships and vehicles presented in this chapter represent a cross- 
section of vessels that find their way into the hands of heroes and their allies 
over the course of a Knights of the Old Republic campaign. Vessels such as 
the 578-R space transport or the G-Type light shuttle can serve as mobile 
bases of operations for a group of heroes (Gamemasters should also consider 
the Dynamic-class light freighter, featured with deck plans in Starships of 
the Galaxy, for this role). The ground vehicles, including speeder bikes and 
landspeeders, represent contemporary civilian vehicles in common use 
throughout the galaxy during this time period. Heroes are as familiar with 
these vehicles and ships as heroes during the Galactic Civil War are familiar 
with YT-1300 space transports or T-16 Skyhopper speeders. 

Additionally, some of the starships in this chapter also list an Emplace- 
ment Point value in their statistics, enabling compatibility with the starship 
modification and enhancement rules presented in Starships of the Galaxy. 
These starships follow all the normal rules for starship modification as 
presented in that supplement. 

The vehicles and starships described in this chapter are those that are 
available and commonly found in the ownership of individuals and organiza- 
tions other than the Jedi, the Mandalorians, the Republic, or the Sith. For 
vehicles and ships for those factions, see their respective chapters later in 
the book. 


lA HSteavrHigd 


SdiIHSyuvlgs IONvV SS IDIHSA 


SHaiHhevs.s GNY SEIWwWIHSA 


1A eSiavHo 


GROUND VEHICLES 


Though repulsorlifts have long since made mundane ground transport a 
technology of the past, ground vehicles can still be found throughout the 
galaxy. Most of the time, these vehicles are manufactured to keep costs low, 
or in response to an environmental problem that makes using repulsorlifts 
impossible. 


SPEEDER BIKES 

Speeder bikes spike in popularity following the Great Sith War as Lhosan 
Industries introduces two new models—a swoop bike for racing, and a more 
common street speeder bike for simple transport. Both of these designs spark 
a revolution in speeder bike design. Only the Aratech Urban Navigator speeder 
bike comes close to the Lhosan bikes’ popularity. The speeder bikes are based 
on military speeders used by the Republic just prior to the Great Sith War. 


A LHOSAN AEROCHASER (LEFT) 4ND AN ARATECH 
URBAN NAVIGATOR (RIGHT) 


LHOSAN AEROCHASER 
SPEEDER BIKE 

Designed by the engineers responsible for the company's swoop racer, 
Lhosan Industries’ AeroChaser is a quick and durable speeder bike, found 
on worlds throughout the galaxy. Designed and manufactured on Taris, the 
AeroChaser is shipped to planets throughout the Republic and beyond. Sleek 
and fast, the AeroChaser is also a relatively inexpensive because of the large 
quantities produced. 

During the Mandalorian Wars, Republic scouts use Lhosan AeroChasers 
on hotly contested worlds. The bikes are fast enough to outrun the Man- 
dalorians’ war droids, allowing Republic agents to approach Mandalorian 
encampments and retreat safely if discovered. During the Jedi Civil War 
these speeder bikes fall out of military use but remain extremely popular 
with civilians throughout the galaxy. 

The Lhosan AeroChaser is a single-rider speeder bike with tong prongs 
extending from the front of the vehicle. Designed for balance, the front-end 
prongs also contain significant empty space, which unscrupulous mechan- 
ics use to mount weapons on the speeder bikes. Others use the space for 
storage, and some have reduced the size of the prongs to allow the speeder 
bike to handle more loosely. These customizations illustrate how easily the 
Lhosan AeroChaser is modified. Its modularity makes it a favorite vehicle 
for outlaw techs. 

Lhosan Industries AeroChaser Speeder Bike CL 1 

Large ground vehicle (speeder] 

Init +9; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 10}, Fort 13; +1 armor 

hp 30; DR 5; Threshold 18 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 400 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +0; Grp +8 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 20, Con —, Int 10 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 
Cargo 4 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 5,800 (1,000 used) 


Swoop Racer 

The speeder bike design that put Lhosan Industries on the map, the Lhosan 
swoop racer is an unorthodox design that resembles a landspeeder more 
than a speeder bike. Although the rider of the Lhosan swoop sits in a cockpit 
similar to that of a landspeeder, the vehicle's light construction, single-pilot 
capacity and narrow chassis design qualify it as a speeder bike. Lhosan 
Industries produces the swoop bike in the lower levels of the world of Taris, 


capitalizing on the cheap labor and love of swoop racing that the planet 
offers. The popularity of the Lhosan swoop spreads like wildfire, and soon 
racing enthusiasts purchase the speeder bikes in large quantities. 

Though the Lhosan swoop is incredibly fast, it is not nearly as maneuver- 
able as most speeder bikes, including the AeroChaser. In fact, at high speeds 
the vehicle is sluggish if the pilot attempts to make more than minor course 
corrections, and the swoop has a larger turn radius than most repulsorlift 
vehicles. The swoop's ability to reach blazing speeds makes it a popular racing 
craft, but the lack of maneuverability limits the AeroChaser to drag races on 
a Straight track with a few obstacles in the path. 
Lhosan Industries Swoop Racer CL 2 
Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover +5 

Base Atk +2; Grp +11 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 2 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 18,700 (14,300 used) 


Urban Navigator Speeder Bike 

The rise in popularity of speeder bikes in the run-up to the Great Sith War 
allows Lhosan Industries to dominate the fight repulsorcraft market. Though 
other companies try to produce bikes to rival Lhosan’s, only one company 
achieves anywhere near the same level of success. The Aratech Corpora- 
tion designs its Urban Navigator speeder bike specifically for use in large 
cities and ecumenopolises such as Coruscant and Taris. Moreover, the Urban 
Navigator is one of the few speeder bikes to accommodate a passenger. Its 
sidecar makes it ideal for those who need quick and nimble transportation 
and have friends, coworkers, or spouses to travel with. 

The Urban Navigator is an excellent source of transportation over short 
distances. It is a fast speeder bike, though it cannot compare to the Lhosan 
AeroChaser for maximum velocity. The addition of the vehicle's sidecar 
reduces its maneuverability, but the speeder bike is also capable of operat- 
ing at the higher altitudes of urban airspeeder lanes, making it a versatile 
transport for getting anywhere in a city. 

The Republic purchases a large quantity of Urban Navigators for use 
during wartime. The speeder bikes prove to be an excellent choice for officers 


and their aides when traveling the skyways of Coruscant and other heavily 
developed worlds. They also allow politicians to move quickly from one place 
to another while accompanied by their bodyguards. 
Aratech Urban Navigator Speeder Bike CL 1 
Large air vehicle (speeder) 
Init +10; Senses Perception +5 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 10), Fort 13; +1 armor 
hp 35; DR 5; Threshold 18 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 500 km/h) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 
Base Atk +0; Grp +8 
Abilities Str 17, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +10, 

Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 1 
Cargo 10 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 9,600 (3,500 used) 


SPEEDERS 

Repulsorlift vehicles of the days of the Old Republic follow simple and thor- 
oughly tested design standards. Many varieties of speeders exist throughout 
the Republic, and urban worlds such as Taris and Coruscant are home to 
literally thousands of different speeder makes and models. The speeders 
presented in this section represent a basic cross-section of the repulsorlift 
vehicles available during this time. 


TT-6 Landspeeder 

The SoroSuub TT-6 landspeeder is the iconic personal vehicle of these 
turbulent times. A two-seater landspeeder with large rear engines and an 
aerodynamic body, the TT-6 is mass-produced by SoroSuub to provide an 
inexpensive and appealing vehicle for personal use. The SoroSuub Corporation 
produces the TT-6 model for nearly 200 years—one of the longest produc- 
tion runs in galactic history. Though advancements in vehicle technology are 
incorporated into the TT-6 as time goes on, the basic design and aesthetic 
of the landspeeder remains unchanged. As a result, one might find an old, 
beat-up TT-6 for sale in an Outer Rim junkyard while eager buyers on Corellia 
snap up sleek new TT-6 landspeeders at the same time. 

The TT-6 is a reliable speeder that has proven to be a solid investment for 
those looking for a vehicle that will work for years to come. Though the TT-6 
landspeeder boasts few of the amenities of more expensive luxury speeders, 
this solidly built speeder is one of the easiest vehicles to keep in good repair. 
As a result, any character attempting a Mechanics check to repair damage 
to a TT-6 landspeeder gains a +2 equipment bonus on the check. 


Tous) 


1A easaves 


SOHnervssSs GNY SsEsIsaiHsaA 


ep 


Guise ere ernie 


SHIASHVLS GNY SHIWASsA 


SoroSuub TT-6 Landspeeder CL 1 
Large ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +8; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 
hp 45; DR 5; Threshold 19 


Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 400 km/h) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 
Base Atk +0; Grp +9 


Abilities Str 19, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +5 


1A YeStadvHoa 


Crew 1; Passengers 1 
Cargo 40 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 12,000 (3,800 used) 


A TT-S& SPEEDER (RIGHT) NARROWLY AVOIDS A LHOSAN SwooP 
(Leet) 


PL-90 Luxury Speeder 

A large speeder intended to carry wealthy individuals and their entourages, 
the Ubrikkian PL-90 Luxury Speeder is one of the most popular, if expensive, 
vehicles on the market. A favored vehicle of nobles and wealthy corporate 
agents, the PL-90 boasts four rows of seats {including individual seats for 
the vehicle's pilot and a single passenger in the front). The back three rows 
of the landspeeder are padded bench seats, which provide passengers with 
the utmost in comfort and relaxation during their travels. The PL-90 makes 
use of advanced inertial dampening technology to provide the smoothest 
possible ride, keeping passengers from feeling the bumps and twitches of 
landspeeder travel. 

Unlike other vehicles of the time, this speeder model is rarely used by 
military forces. It is specifically designed for luxury and not utility. Though 
Ubrikkian Repulsorlift Manufacturing sells many of these speeders to nobles 
and politicians throughout the galaxy, they do not achieve the widespread 
appeal that other speeders, such as the SoroSuub TT-6, have achieved. The 
PL-90 is somewhat slower than other speeders, giving up speed in favor of 
a smooth and comfortable ride. A PL-90 Luxury Speeder is a status symbol 
among the galactic elite, because only those who live a life of comfort can 
afford such an impractical vehicle. The Draay family owns several of these 
vehicles, using them for transportation on Coruscant. 


Ubrikkian Repulsorlift Manufacturing CL 2 

PL-90 Luxury Speeder 

Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 15 [flat-footed 11), Fort 17; +3 armor 

hp 70; DR 5; Threshold 27 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 280 km/h) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover +5 

Base Atk +2; Grp +19 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 7 

Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 48,000 (29,000 used) 


AIRSPEEDERS 


Though most commonly used on worlds with large urban populations (neces- 
sitating traffic lanes that stretch up into the sky), airspeeder production lags 
during the turbulent years following the Great Sith War. Those who once 
owned airspeeders trade them in for small starfighters or space transport; 
the ability to flee from a planet under assault from the Mandalorians or the 
Sith quickly outweighs the additional costs of maintaining a starship. 


TWIN-228 AIRSPEEDER 

Another design popularized by the SoroSuub Corporation, the Twin-228 
airspeeder is a two-person speeder that shares aesthetic similarities with 
other contemporary vehicle designs. The cockpit is situated toward the rear, 
with two sets of prongs stretching forward from the cockpit for over half 
of the airspeeder's length. Two large engines at the rear of the vehicle give 
it a decent top speed, but like civilian airspeeders, the Twin-228 never gets 
up to starfighter speeds. 


A TWIN-228 AIRSPEEDER (80TTOM) FLIES BELOW A PL-90 Luxury 
SPEEDER (TOP) IN THE CROWDED LANES OF TARIS 


One advantage the Twin-228 has over other airspeeders of the time is that 
its two-pronged front section is easily attached to cargo carriers, allowing 
the vehicle to haul moderate amounts of cargo in addition to providing simple 
transport. This increased cargo capacity comes at the expense of comfort for 
the pilot and passenger, but most accept this as a necessary aspect of the 
airspeeder's design. The SoroSuub Corporation sells a standard cargo pod 
designed specifically for use with the Twin-228, and it has proven to be one 
of their highest selling vehicle add-ons. As a result, the Twin-228 airspeeder 
has also become popular among citizens of agricultural worlds, where the 
vehicles are used to carry equipment from one farm to another. 
SoroSuub Twin-228 Airspeeder CL 2 
Huge air vehicle (airspeeder) 

Init +9; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 11}, Fort 16; +3 armor 

hp 60; DR 5; Threshold 26 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover +5 

Base Atk +2; Grp +18 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 20, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +9, 

Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled]; Passengers 1 
Cargo 60 kg (460 kg with cargo pod); Consumables t day; Carried Craft 

none 
Availability Licensed: Cost 22,000 (13,500 used); cargo pod 1,000 


STARFIGHTERS 


With the galaxy plunged into one war after another, most advancements 
in starfighter design fall under the domain of various militaries. Few star- 
ship manufacturers provide starfighters for the private sector other than 
those made for local planetary militias and defense forces. Some of these 
starfighters make it into wider use. However, the Republic frowns on private 
ownership of armed starfighters, typically preferring that starfighters with 
military-grade weapons be owned only by government-sponsored organiza- 
tions, including the various corporations allied with the Republic. 


S-100 STINGER-CLASS 
STARFIGHTER 

The Corellian Engineering Corporation’s S-100 Stinger-class starfighter is one 
of the most maneuverable ships in the galaxy. Favored by the Jedi during the 
Great Sith War, these snubfighters are lightly armed and have only minimal 
shielding. However, what they lack in attack power they make up for in their 
agility. Though they are later replaced as the Jedi starfighter of choice by 
the Republic's Aurek fighter, these ships are among the few starfighters to 
see widespread use up through the Dark Wars. 


IA BalevnS 


i 
/ 
i 


< 
W 
2 
@ 
ir 
WW) 
0) 
> 
dh 
Y 
0) 
<j 
> 
5 
(i) 
ab 
7 
0 


BB) 


Because of the lighter armament, the Republic approves the sale of the 
11-meter-long Stinger-class starfighters for civilian use. Though they shred 
through Krath Chaos fighters during the Great Sith War, their stock weapons 
systems are no match for Republic vessels, and most civilians are better off 
using freighters and transports for their space-travel needs. The maneuver- 
ability of these starfighters makes them popular among planetary defense 
forces, especially given that the rebuilt Republic Navy provides heavier 
firepower support during times of war. 


Corellian Engineering Corporation S-100 Stinger-class Star- 

fighter CL9 

Huge starfighter 

Init +11; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24: +3 armor 

hp 90; DR 5; SR 30; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale} 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


The weapons of the 13-meter-long Star Saber are a significant advance- 
ment over those of other starfighters of the time. Nevertheless, the Republic 
authorizes the sale of these snubfighters to civilians in an attempt to recoup 
losses associated with the design of the Star Saber. The Star Saber is used 
by Force-sensitive pilots—particularly Jedi-because their quick reflexes 
make up for the limited maneuverability of the fighter, gaining an edge in 
firepower that pilots of other ships lack. The Star Saber is one of the few 
civilian starfighters to be used through the end of the Jedi Civil War, though 
Republic Fleet Systems ceases production of the Star Saber when the Aurek 
fighter begins coming off of assembly lines. 

Republic Fleet Systems Star Saber XC-01 Starfighter CL 10 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 35; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,280 km/h), fly 5 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged heavy laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 24, Con —, int 14 
Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +11, 
Use Computer +6 


g 
W 
us 
a] 
|W 
) 
> 
72 
Y 
g 
> 
2 
@ 
us 
v 
) 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x2, 10-jump memory (utility droid) 
Availability Restricted: Cost 150,000 (90,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +4, Dmg 8d10x2 


STAR SABER XC-O}1 

An extremely fast but somewhat less maneuverable starfighter, the Republic 
Fleet Systems Star Saber XC-01 is a sleek, low-profile ship that comes into 
common usage during tne Great Sith War. Though these ships can reach 
high speeds in a matter of seconds, the Star Saber is somewhat sluggish 
in its response, and lacks the maneuverability of other starfighters of the 
time. After rough initial test runs, the starship's production is almost halted. 
However, the need for more firepower necessitates the snubfighter's produc- 
tion even though the design is never perfected. 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 45 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2, 10-jump memory (utility droid) 
Availability Restricted; Cost 145,000 (75,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 


SPACE TRANSPORTS 


A space transport can serve not only as a method of transportation but also 
as a home and base of operations. During the turbulence of the Old Republic 
era, many individuals buy and maintain space transports because they fear 
that they might have to relocate at a moment's notice. With waves upon 
waves of refugees created by the various wars of this time, space transports 
were often the safest place to live. When invasion fleets arrive, transport 
owners can fire up their hyperdrives and jump to a Safer star system, leaving 
behind the war—at least for a while. 


4/8-R Space Transport | square = |.0 meters 


|. Bridge ou. Crew Cabins §. Cargo Hold / Workshop 
2. Stairwell to Lower Deck 6. Engine Room 10. Junk Receptacle 

3. Crew Lounge 7 Steirwell to Upper Deck |. Boarding Ramps 

4. Airlock & Dorsal Hatch 8. Forward Crawlspaces 


Upper Deck Lower Deck 


IA BSsiagvHo 


ee 


aaa 


pg eB —<=—=* 


SOHHSYVLS GNY SHBISMHAA | W f 


1A HaLlLeavHo 


SoQvrenvsS GNwy SssIaiHaa 


S578-R SPACE TRANSPORT 
The 31.5-meter-long 578-R space transport by Amalgamated Hyperdyne is 
a modestly designed ship that has its share of manufacturing problems. The 
Corellian company (whose full name is Amalgamated Hyperdyne and Refuse 
Management) goes bankrupt after repeated safety recalls drain the profits 
built up after initial sales. Though the ship is designed to be modular, many 
578-R space transports come off of assembly lines incomplete. Sometimes a 
finished ship is missing a critical piece, such as a hyperdrive motivator or an 
inertial dampener. Others suffer more subtle problems that are not apparent 
until a dangerous moment, such as transparisteel viewports coming loose 
during space travel, or sensor systems burning out during a tricky landing. 
Most of the flawed transports are recalled or otherwise removed from 
the market, but those 578-R space transports still in use are a hit with 
mechanics and outlaw techs looking to customize a ship and make it their 
own. Additionaily, the 578-R uses components of contemporary Corellian 
Engineering Corporation designs. In fact, some of the ship's systems are 
licensed from CEC engineers, so finding replacement parts for the 578-R 
is exceptionally easy. The Last Resort, a 578-R space transport owned by 
Gorman "Camper" Vandrayk, is an excellent example of one such ship that 
is modified over a long period of time. 


Amalgamated Hyperdyne 578-R Space Transport CL 6 

Colossal space transport 

Init -5; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +12 armor 

hp 100; DR 15; Threshold 76 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannon +1 (see below] 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +34 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 


Abilities Str 39, Dex 10, Con -, Int 12 
Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 10 

Cargo 40 tons; Consumables 4 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x3, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 75,000 (28,000 used} 
Emplacement Points: 4 


Laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +1 (-4 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


G-TYPE LIGHT SHUTTLE 

The Hoersch-Kessel Drive G-Type light shuttle is a small spacecraft designed 
to ferry individuals and small groups from orbiting capital ships down to the 
surface of a planet. The 23-meter-long G-Type shuttle is also designed to 
be easy to pilot, and it has an exceptionally sophisticated pilot assistance 
system that allows even rookie pilots to make it safely from space to surface. 
As a result, characters who are not trained in the Pilot skill gain a +2 equip- 
ment bonus on Pilot checks in a G-Type light shuttle. The pilot assistance 
software package offers no benefit to experienced pilots. Lightly armed, 
the G-Type shuttle is somewhat more fragile than other transport ships and 
rarely sees use in combat scenarios. G-Type shuttles are lightweight and 
nimble, though, and many have found their way into the hands of smugglers 
and other less-than-reputable individuals who use the ships to avoid law 
enforcement entanglements. 

Unlike other shuttlecraft (such as the Republic's Ministry-class orbital 
shuttle}, the G-Type shuttle has a limited passenger capacity. An alternate 
configuration (colloquially referred to as the G-Type escape shuttle) accom- 
modates only a pilot with no passengers. The passenger space is used for 
extra shielding in this model. Additionally, the escape shuttle variant boasts 
a hyperdrive and enough supplies for the pilot to survive several months. 
The advanced pilot-assistance software enables politicians and other VIPs 
with no experience in the cockpit of a starship to escape war zones and 
reach safer worlds. 


Hoersch-Kessel Drive G-Type Light Shuttle CL 8 

Colossal space transport 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +12 armor 

hp 100; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 74 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale} 

Ranged double laser cannons +5 (See below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +36 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 39, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 3 
Cargo 10 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 200,000 (95,000 used) 


Double laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


Two STAR SABER XC-Ol FIGHTERS ESCORT A 


G-TYPE LIGHT SHUTTLE 


For the escape shuttle variant, make the following changes to the above 
stat block: 


hp 100; DR 15; SR 50; Threshold 74 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 2 tons; Consumables 4 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 [backup x10]; navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 230,000 (105,000 used) 


LETHISK-CLASS ARMED 
FREIGHTER 

The turmoil of the Knights of the Old Republic period necessitates the cre- 
ation of several starship designs that are more heavily armed than typical 
civilian ships. Arakyd Industries’ Lethisk-class armed freighter is a large 
Space transport designed to hold its own against military forces, raiders, 
and other hazards in the war-torn galaxy. Though the Republic shows stern 
disapproval when the ship is first introduced, Arakyd Industries is able to 


put the starship into mass production thanks to a Republic defense-contract 
clause that allows it to sell military-grade equipment in limited quantities. 
The 34-meter-long Lethisk-class armed freighter features Superior armor and 
powerful laser cannons, enabling the ship to travel throughout the galaxy 
without starfighter escorts. 

Even though Arakyd produces the ship for sale to the general public, the 
cost of the Lethisk-class keeps it out of the hands of any but the richest 
citizens. Wealthy families (such as the Sandral family of Dantooine) snatch 
up most of the production run of the Lethisk-class armed freighter, but many 
find their way into the hands of crime lords and smugglers. Shortly after 
the Lethisk-class transport is introduced to the public, a government inquiry 
into Arakyd Industries uncovers a small cadre of employees that arranged 
for several well-known criminals (including upper-tier members of the 
Exchange) to receive a number of first-run armed freighters at a significant 
discount. Following a Republic inquiry, seven Arakyd employees—including 
the Sector Executive of the Raioballo Sector—are sent to the spice mines of 
Kessel for selling more than 30 Lethisk-class armed freighters to Exchange 
crime bosses. 

Arakyd Industries Lethisk-class Armed Freighter CL 10 

Colossal space transport 

Init ~3; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +13 armor 

hp 150; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 78 

Speed fly 12 squares {max. velocity 900 km/h}, fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged double laser cannons +5 (see below) and 

light concussion missiles +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +40 
Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 


0} 
jz 
> 
iv 
4 
In 
2 
s 


Abilities Str 46, Dex 12, Con ~, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers 8 

Cargo 60 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 

Payload 12 light concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 470,000 (225,000 used) 

Emplacement Points: 3 


Double laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Light concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +5, Dmg 8d10x2 


SeImSYuv.S GNY SSISDIHNAA | 


1A BaeilavHo 


KE 


SaIASSvhS GNY Ss VASA 


PELAGIA DUPLEX COMMAND 
ASSAULT GUNSHIP 

Designed by House Pelagia engineers in the Tapani Sector, the Pelagia Duplex 
Command Assault Gunship—dubbed the Orphanmaker by its designers— 
defends Tapani space from the onslaught of the Sith during the Great Sith 
War. Boasting two cockpits and two gunnery pods, the Orphanmaker is a 
military vessel outfitted for use in the private fleets of the Lords of the 
Expanse. With the threat of the Great Sith War gone (for a time], House 
Pelagia has no qualms in selling these well-equipped gunships to outside 
buyers, and they significantly increase their family holdings with profits 
reaped from the Orphanmaker design. 

The 30-meter-long Orphanmaker requires five crew members to operate 
at optimal functionality, though it can be flown effectively with only a pilot 
and one other crew member, The Duplex Command Assault Gunship also fea- 
tures numerous built-in weapon mounts and power supply conduits, making 
it easier to install new weapons systems and upgrade existing weapons than 
any other ship of its size (granting a +5 equipment bonus to Mechanics 
checks made to install weapons systems). A number of these ships are sold 
off just prior to the Mandalorian Wars and bought by wealthy individuals 
and bounty hunters, including the Moomo Brothers (whose heavily armed 
custom Orphanmaker is called the Moomo Williwaw). 
Pelagia Duplex Command Assault Gunship CL 12 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +8 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 
hp 130; DR 15; SR 20; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 870 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 

scale) 

Ranged 2 heavy laser cannons +8 (see below) and 

2 laser cannons +8 (see below) 

Fighting Space 8x8 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +5; Grp +41 
Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons, laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 43, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 5 (expert); Passengers 6 
Cargo 10 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 525,000 (310,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Laser cannons (pilot/copilot) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


QUARTERMASTER-CLASS 
SUPPLY CARRIER 

One of the first new ships to come off of the line after the Commercial Pro- 
tectorate Acts, the Quartermaster-class supply carrier is designed specifically 
to carry a variety of goods and raw materials to outlying worlds in desperate 
need of reconstruction or relief. Following the devastation of the Great Sith 
War, worlds throughout the Republic (and beyond) are in dire need of support 
for reconstructing their devastated infrastructures and for restoring their 
populations’ health and prosperity. Some worlds are completely untouched 
by the Great Sith War, and others manage to maintain their industrial infra- 
Structure despite occupation or their involvement in battles. Resources are 
funneled from these worlds to those that need help the most, but military 
Ships are ill-equipped to carry provisions, supplies, and raw materials from 
one side of the galaxy to the other. 

This need gives rise to the Quartermaster-class supply carrier. The size 
of a large space transport, the 45-meter-long Quartermaster-class supply 
carrier is mostly cargo space. Its systems and interior structure are highly 
modular, so the ship can be outfitted to carry a variety of cargoes, includ- 
ing liquids and gases. Though it has only a few minor defense systems, its 
reinforced duranium hull allows it to withstand punishing damage without 
breaching and spilling its cargo into space. By the time of the Mandalorian 
Wars, most of these vessels have been retired or sold on the secondary 
market because reconstruction efforts around the galaxy are mostly com- 
plete. One such vessel, the Little Bivoli, is used to supply Republic military 
forces at Serroco. 

Corellia StarDrive Quartermaster-class Supply Carrier CL6 

Colossal space transport 

Init -4; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 31; +14 armor 

hp 200; DR 20; SR 50; Threshold 81 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 350 km/h), fly 2 squares (starship 
scale} 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +43 


Abilities Str 52, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 10 (standard configuration) 

Cargo 120 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft varies by mission 
Hyperdrive x3 {backup x12); navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 300,000 (110,000 used) 

Emplacement Points: 2 


CAPITAL SHIPS 


Though most capital ships in service during this time are strictly for military 


use, a few serve the general public in other roles. 


PRAETORIAN-CLASS FRIGATE 


Originally commissioned as a vessel of war during the Great Sith War, the 
Praetorian-class frigate is a modestly sized capital ship found in the hands 
of wealthy organizations and planetary governments across the galaxy. The 
predecessor to the larger Hammerhead-class ships used by the Republic 
Navy, the Praetorian-class frigate is a tough and powerful vessel for its size. 
Despite objections of Naval officials who claimed that such firepower should 
not be placed in civilian control, Rendili Hyperworks obtains permission from 
the Republic Senate to sell its remaining stock of Praetorian-class frigates 


ona limited basis. 


The 180-meter-long Praetorian-class frigate serves the Republic well at 
the Battle of Koros Major during the Great Sith War, and afterward those 
vessels sold to the public are mostly using in peacekeeping roles. During the 
Republic's rebuilding years, these vessels are used to protect newly discovered 


THREE PRSETORIAN-CL4OS FRIGATES MONITOR THE DEPARTURE OF 
& QGUSRTERMASTER-CL4SS SUPPLY C4RRIER 


hyperspace trade routes and to escort supply ships and relief caravans across 
the galaxy. With large quantities of resources being moved from one region of 
the galaxy to another on a daily basis, pirates and other unsavory predators 
make frequent attacks on transport ships carrying relief supplies, necessi- 
tating the presence of a Praetorian-class frigate to deter piracy. Eventually, 
Rendili Hyperworks will sell the design to the Corellian Engineering Corpora- 
tion. Under the guidance of CEC engineers, the Praetorian-class frigate is 
remodeled and updated over the years, being rebranded as the Class VI Bulk 
Freighter and converted almost entirely to a cargo transport role. 

Tactical Fire: The Praetorian-class frigate is designed to protect convoys 
of transport vessels through pirate-infested space, and can shelter other ships 
from attacks. As a standard action, a Praetorian-class frigate can forego all 
attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius. All allied 
starships gain a +1 bonus to Reflex Defense and a +10 bonus to Fortitude 
Defense and damage threshold. 

Rendili Hyperworks Praetorian-class Frigate CL 14 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init -4; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 35; +12 armor 

hp 850; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 135 

Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 light turbolaser cannon batteries +13* (see below) and 

2 point-defense laser cannon batteries +11 (see below) and 

2 tractor beam batteries +11* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +47 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense laser cannon battery) 


Abilities Str 61, Dex 10, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1,470 (skilled); Passengers 2,700 

Cargo 10,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 12 starfighters, 
6 shuttles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12); navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 12 million (6 million used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty an attacks against targets smaller than Colossal in 
size. 


Light turbolaser cannon batteries (4 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 2d10x5 


Point-defense laser cannon batteries (3 gunners) 
Atk +11 (+7 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


Tractor beam batteries (3 gunners) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg -- (grapple 
+63) 


IA BsStavHa 


« 
W 
x 
Q 
(Pr 
Wy) 
@ 
> 
Zs 
@ 
0 
5 
ay 
@ 
pa 
T 
w 


Derr 
CHAPTER VII 


aha aa bid gt Las CAMPAIGN 


ge 
i “* . — ~— — 


T a SS 


The galaxy is torn by war. The Republic is fighting for its survival, and 
everywhere the enemies of civilization—the Krath, the Mandalorians, the 
Sith—threaten to shatter what tenuous hold the Republic has on the galaxy. 
Lightsabers clash on nearly every planet, and few worlds remain untouched 
by the violence of the times. This is the galaxy into which heroes in a Knights 
of the Old Republic campaign must venture forth, and it is a galaxy that teems 
with adventure possibilities. 

A Knights of the Old Republic campaign gives Gamemasters opportunities 
that they do not have in other eras, allowing the freedom to create unique 
stories that let the heroes influence galactic events. A Knights of the Old 
Republic campaign has room for a broad range of characters, from Jedi and 
soldiers to scoundrels, scouts, and nobles, and allows the heroes to do battle 
with famous enemies such as the Sith and the Mandalorians. A Knights of the 
Old Republic campaign gives the Gamemaster carte blanche to create epic 
campaigns that put the heroes (and their destinies) in the forefront of the 
setting, with only a few sources of existing continuity to deal with. 

Knights of the Old Republic campaigns take place against a backdrop that 
captures everything that makes Star Wars unique. Even more so than in the 
Clone Wars, these are the days of the Jedi in their prime. They do battle 
with the evil Sith, and defend the galaxy against the Mandalorian hordes. 
Heroes rise to prominence and then fall into darkness, and villains who seem 
beyond saving find redemption and reject the dark side. Soldiers leave the 
planets of their birth to head off to war on distant battlefields, only to be 
drawn back to their home worlds as the war comes quickly to a new front. 
Criminals thrive on the chaos of war, and nobles and corporations struggle 
to wrest the reins of power away from their adversaries, and perhaps even 
from the Republic. Yet, the Knights of the Old Republic campaign has a feel 
all its own, and this chapter should help Gamemasters develop a sense for 
the qualities that make a campaign in this era unique, explaining how to 
capture that feeling and use it to create epic adventures. 


 & YvaLtdvHo 


UNDANCE OF 
FORCE-USERS 
A key es of a Knights of the Old Republic campaign is the many 


S90INS NOIivdnvS 


Force-using. characters active throughout the galaxy at this time. Unlike 
campaigns set in the classic era, Jedi, Sith, and other Force-sensitive groups 
are spread throughout the galaxy. Moreover, the Jedi Order has not been 
vigilant in scooping up members of other Force-using groups. As a result, 
many worlds maintain alternate traditions while still sending members to 
become Jedi. Though such traditions are eventually absorbed into the Jedi 
Order in later years, for now the Order's influence is less focused, allowing 
alternate traditions to flourish even on worlds where a Jedi Watchman has 
been assigned to stand guard over the planet. Though Jedi Watchmen try 
to recruit members of alternate traditions as Padawan learners, they do not 
have the manpower to force anyone to join the Order. 


NA HSaLaevHo 


AGQINE werivewvse | 


As a result, Force-using enemies are common, Almost any adventure 
might feature a Force-sensitive opponent or ally, whether that character 
comes from the Jedi or Sith organizations or from a smaller tradition. Addi- 
tionally, Force-wielding heroes are not looked at askance by the general 
populace during this time; most worlds under Republic or Sith control are 
well aware of the capabilities of the Jedi and their darker counterparts, and 
encountering one is rarely cause for alarm. Meeting a Jedi might cause a 
stir in out-of-the-way communities, but most major cities have seen Jedi 
and Sith representatives in recent times and are unlikely to respond with 
fear or prejudice. Some corporations, governments, and criminal organiza- 
tions are even known to employ Force-users to gain a small edge, and noble 
houses hide Force-sensitive sons and daughters from the Jedi, keeping them 
concealed to gain an advantage over other houses. 


THE JED!I ORDER 

Between the Great Sith War and the Dark Wars, the Jedi go from the height 
of their power to a mere remnant of their existence. Unlike the Jedi of later 
years, the Jedi ina Knights of the Old Republic campaign are likely to be frac- 
tious and unwilling to bow to their own central authority—the Jedi Council. 
Before the Great Sith War, most Jedi are lone masters with a handful of 
pupils, or teachers at various academies scattered throughout the galaxy. 
As war spreads across the galaxy again and again, Jedi see the need for a 
strong central authority, and the Jedi Council gains more power. However, 
some Jedi are unwilling to accept what they see as the Jedi Council's yoke of 
command, and they defy the Council on a regular basis. Though this leads to 
in-fighting among the Jedi, it does have one positive side-effect: the bond 
between Jedi Masters and their apprentices becomes stronger. Padawans 
are more likely to follow in their Masters’ footsteps in a Knights of the Old 
Republic campaign, and might side with their Masters against the Jedi Council 
if a dispute develops. 

Moreover, with Jedi enclaves and academies spread throughout the galaxy, 
the Jedi Order is extremely decentralized. Academies can be found on Arkania, 
Dantooine, Dorin, Taris, Telos, and Teya IV to name only a few. Additionally, 
hundreds of Jedi are trained by lone Masters away from any academy or 
enclave. Asa result, a Jedi can be accepted into the Order, raised and trained, 
and become a Jedi Knight without ever setting foot on Coruscant. 

For Gamemasters, this means that using the Jedi as antagonists or the 
motivators of plots is easier than in other eras. Conflicts between Jedi, 
although rarely violent, are not unheard of, and two factions of Jedi with 
opposing views might throw whole systems or even entire sectors of the 
galaxy into turmoil with their disagreements. For example, a Gamemaster 
wishing to use Jedi as antagonists for an adventure could create a scenario 
in which two Jedi Masters are at odds over how to deal with a trade dispute 
between planets. As the Jedi step in on behalf of each side of the dispute, 
both sides are emboldened and begin to act rashly. As Jedi flock to either 
cause, civil war breaks out in the system, with Jedi on either side trying to 


A DRAETHOS JED! DISPATCHES A MARK IV ASSAULT DROID 


force the opposition to back down. Without a strong Jedi Council to step in 
and stop conflicts from escalating, the heroes might become caught between 
two Jedi ideologies with no hope of outside assistance, requiring them to 
step in and solve the dispute in whatever way they can. 


THE KRATH 

Neither the Jedi nor the Sith are the ones who initially tip the scales of des- 
tiny and plunge the galaxy into a century of war. The Krath, a small cult of 
dark side Force-users from the Deep Core, have the ignominious distinction 
of igniting the Great Sith War. Though they are the first group of dark side 
cultists to rise to prominence in the galaxy, they are far from the last. The 
Krath, unlike the Sith, are largely unknown to the Jedi before the war, and 
as a result they are mysterious enemies that have the advantage of surprise 
over the Jedi and the Republic. 

The Krath are dark side cultists who base their powers on ancient Sith 
teachings. Founded by nobles from the Deep Core, the Krath quickly ascend 
to power when they seize control of the Empress Teta system. With one 
prominent and powerful star system under their control, the Krath expand 
outward, and soon they plunge the entire Core into open war, with attacks 
against both the Republic and the Jedi. The Krath attract the attention of 
the newly revived Sith, and with a coalition between the Krath military, 
the Sith, and the Mandalorian clans (brought to the Krath by fallen Jedi 


Ulic Qel-Droma), the forces of darkness ravage the Deep Core and spread 
the war all the way to the Outer Rim. Unfortunately for the galaxy, neither 
the Krath nor their Mandalorian allies have much interest in maintaining 
infrastructures or civil order, and as a result much of the galaxy succumbs 
to a tide of darkness. 

The Krath present a unique opportunity for Gamemasters in that they 
are a source for nontraditional dark side Force-users. The Sith have a great 
history with the Jedi, but the Krath are relative newcomers to the galactic 
scene and can fulfill nearly any role the Gamemaster needs. Krath enemies 
can be mysterious foes whose powers are unknown and whose techniques 
and politics are completely alien to the heroes. Likewise, they can be tempters 
who promise power, glory, and fame for the heroes, hoping to woo them to 
their side in the Great Sith War. They might even be unlikely allies; not all 
the Krath are happy with their alliance with the Sith or Mandalorians, and 
corrupt Krath leaders might seize an opportunity to eliminate one of those 
factions if possible, agreeing to aid the heroes if needed. 


RETURN OF THE SITH 

The Sith are thought to be extinct, but the Republic experiences a rude 
awakening when the Sith return to galactic prominence. These ancient foes 
of the Jedi can be the primary antagonists of many Knights of the Ofd Republic 
campaigns: they return from a thousand years of secrecy to rise to power in 
the Great Sith War; they bide their time during the Restoration; they watch 
from the shadows during the Mandalorian Wars; they clash directly with the 
Republic during the Jedi Civil War; and they return to their vicious infighting 
during the Dark Wars. The Sith are omnipresent, though sometimes hidden, 
and they fit well into nearly any campaign. They are the classic foes of the 
dedi, performing much the same function in this era as the Empire does 
during the Galactic Civil War. 

Chapter 10: The Sith goes into more detail about the Sith, including 
their history and motivations, and provides numerous suggestions for how 
to integrate them into a campaign. Gamemasters should not hesitate to use 
the Sith in any Knights of the Old Republic campaign, as their presence is 
both iconic and exciting. The Sith provide excellent enemies for all kinds of 
characters—not just Jedi. Smugglers and criminals hate the Sith for their 
ruthless dealings with the Fringe, and those loyal to the Republic have 
little desire to see the Sith Empire gain any more power or seize any more 
Republic territory. 


CIVILIZATION UNDER 
Siece 

Several successive wars throw the Republic into turmoil, allowing the criminal 
element of the galaxy to rise to prominence. Organized crime, in a variety of 


forms, seizes power, and lawlessness and violence become the rule on worlds 
where Republic presence is light. 


THE EXCHANGE 

The Exchange is one of the largest criminal networks in the galaxy. Though 
their operations thrive on the Outer Rim—outside Republic control and law 
enforcement—elements of their schemes and organization can be found 
throughout the galaxy. The organization is said to be run by an entity or 
individual known as the Compeer, but this person's location and identity 
remain mysterious, even to those high up in the Exchange leadership. 

On each planet where the Exchange has significant influence, a powerful 
crime lord oversees all Exchange operations. Each of these crime lords comes 
to power through the approval of and election by the other Exchange leaders. 
Though nominally allies, they compete for power, influence, and control. As 
masters of their respective planets, they were responsible for their operations’ 
successes and failures. Notable ieaders include Davik Kang of Taris—-who 
is killed when Revan and others steal his ship, the Eoon Hawk—and Goto, 
alias of the droid GO-TO, who controls a major smuggling operation at Nar 
Shadda years later. 

The Exchange can be found on nearly all developed planets. Anyone with 
the right reputation, or determination, can eventually make contact with 
the organization. In fact, those who display particular aptitude in an area 
the Exchange wishes to exploit might attract overtures, threats, or both, 
depending on the response. Smugglers are always needed, but bounty hunt- 
ers, mercenaries, slave traders, and infiltrators are also recruited. 

The Exchange has a peculiar hierarchy, which few have managed to 
uncover. The Exchange maintains organized cells on worlds of interest, and 
each of those planetary cells is led by a single boss who rules over Exchange 
interests on that world. The bosses report to sector chiefs, who have no cells 
of their own (though they might have a small support staff) and operate under 
secret identities, leading normal lives. Even the bosses do not know who the 
chiefs are in real life, as most communications are done over secret, secure 
communications channels. The chiefs report to the head of the Exchange, who 
is himself a sector chief, so if a single sector chief's cover is compromised, the 
organization merely appears to be ruled by a council of sector chiefs. 


THE GENOHARADAN 

The GenoHaradan is a secret bounty hunters’ guild, controlled by several 
overseers out to influence galactic governments and other organizations 
through selective assassinations. Unlike other guilds, the GenoHaradan 
performs assassinations to influence galactic politics and manipulate the 
outcome of important events. The GenoHaradan overseers pull the strings 
of thousands of politicians and corporate executives, and though they might 
not have the overt power of the Exchange, they can achieve their goals when 
the need arises—and achieve them secretly. The guild is so secretive that 
virtually no outsiders know of its existence, making the guild's impact on 
the galaxy difficult to assess—especially in times of war. Revan is rumored 
to have decimated the organization during his search for the Star Forge, 
but like so much of GenoHaradan history, this cannot be confirmed. The 


TNA S3LavHo 


SENN NEIvanv’s) 


BING) NEIVEWYS) 


WA 4324VH5 


guild recruits primarily from the ranks of bounty hunters. However, the few 
members exposed to the outside world have come from a variety of criminal 
backgrounds. 

The GenoHaradan are secretive, So prospective members must be 
approached by the organization to join; the GenoHaradan cannot be sought 
out. The organization has significant political interests, so brutes, loose 
cannons, and criminals who could endanger their goals are never accepted 
into the GenoHaradan. For gamemasters, the GenoHaradan presents an 
opportunity to introduce an organization that manipulates galactic politics 
with secretive and brutal methods. Heroes might join the GenoHaradan to 
influence galactic politics, hoping to make a bigger mark on the galaxy than 
they would as lowly bounty hunters. Moreover, the GenoHaradan’s goals are 
mysterious, and though their members might be brutal assassins, their work 
can be good for the galaxy. AGamemaster wishing to use the GenoHaradan in 
a campaign might give the organization goals similar to those shared by the 
heroes, forcing the players to decide whether they want to align themselves 
with the ruthless guild or oppose them, even if it makes the tasks ahead that 
much more difficult. As antagonists, the GenoHaradan can range from simple 
assassins and bounty hunters to villains of an entire campaign, requiring 
the heroes to oppose a secretive organization with malicious designs on the 
galaxy. Massive, climactic space battles or planet-spanning ground skirmishes 
rarely result from dealing with GenoHaradan overseers. They are mare likely 
to be fought and defeated in up-close and personal ways. 


Swoop Ganoeos 

Swoop gangs are the scourge of Outer Rim worlds and seedier sections of 
mega cities throughout the galaxy. In regions with wide open spaces, the 
gangs move about on their swoop racers, causing trouble wherever they 
go. In the megacities, they fly throughout the lower levels, competing in 
underground racing. At a minimum, the races are gambling opportunities, 
but far more often they are about honor or settling arguments—at least 
the nonviolent kind. The gangs participate in most forms of petty criminal 
activity and are particularly opportunistic, especially when it comes to 
kidnapping and theft. 

In the low levels of the Undercity on the planet Taris, two well-established 
and particularly competitive gangs are the Black Vulkars and Hidden Beks. 
Both of these gangs have established their own bases of operation, including 
their own garages where they store and tend to their customized Lhosan 
swoop racers. Swoop gang members are known to defect from one gang to 
another, especially if the leadership is more to their liking. The two gangs 
are never friendly, and open warfare often breaks out over the smallest of 
disagreements. Of the two, the Black Vulkars are regarded as the more brutal, 
participating in slavery. The Hidden Beks, on the other hand, fight for the 
Taris resistance during the Mandalorian occupation. 


CONSTANT WARFARE 

From one end of the Knights of the Old Republic era to the other, the galaxy 
is constantly torn by wars, and times of peace seem more rare than times of 
conflict. Most of the heroes ina Knights of the Old Republic campaign (except 
those set in the Great Sith War) will have experienced nearly a lifetime of 
war, and have likely felt the rippling effect of massive battles and horrific 
devastation. As such, the face of the galaxy is much different than in the 
classic era; the advent of the Clone Wars was a major event in the galaxy, 
while the Republic has already weathered two major wars by the time the 
Jedi Civil War begins. 

More than just affecting the heroes, the constant warfare plaguing the 
galaxy has changed the face of planets and their populations irrevocably. 
Most planets have militias and defense forces that are significantly more 
powerful than they would have in peacetime. Conversely, some worlds have 
been so devastated by war that their populations are barely hanging on to 
their lives, and on many worlds the toll of war has simply exhausted their 
resources and lead to widespread famine, plague, and a collapse of infra- 
structure. Even worlds that have not seen the use of superweapons may look 
as though they have been devastated by one, with cities crumbling under 
a lack of maintenance and empty buildings looking like mere ghosts of a 
civilization with no populace. 

Even liberation often brings devastation. When the Jedi liberate a planet 
from the clutches of the Sith or the Mandalorians, the locals still suffer the 
side effects of that battle. Many native populations are as wary of their 
liberators as their oppressors, and sometimes they lash out at anyone they 
can blame for the pain they have endured. 


THE GREAT SITH WAR 

The Great Sith War is the first major conflict of the era and one that will 
set the tone for the century of conflict to come. Unlike the later wars, the 
Great Sith War begins with a small group of tyrants in the Deep Core and 
then slowly expands to encompass the entire galaxy as disparate factions 
unite to battle against the Republic. During the Great Sith War, the galaxy 
is shocked out of complacency and suffers widespread devastation, reaching 
the point where the Republic itself is in danger of collapse. Were it not for 
the Jedi and their defeat of the Sith leader Ulic Qel-Droma, the galaxy might 
have been plunged into an inescapable chaos. 

The dark forces of the Great Sith War are called from several different 
groups. As a result, adventures set during this war will be guaranteed to fea- 
ture a wide variety of opponents. During this time, the enemy forces consist 
mainly of Krath warriors and their leaders, some Sith forces directly under 
the command of the new Sith Lords, and Mandalorian Crusaders (but not the 
Neo-Crusaders). Major antagonists will include Krath death witches, minor 
and major Sith Lords, Mandalorian commanders, and opportunistic mercenar- 
ies. More than in any other war, the opposition in a campaign set during the 
Great Sith War will be an amalgamation of several different factions. 


MANDALORIAN TEROCH-CLASS GUNSHIPS LaNO ON KaSHYYYK 


During the Great Sith War, heroes might be agents of the Republic or 
the Jedi, sent to deal with plots and mysteries related to the Krath, the Sith, 
or the Mandalorians. Adventures in the Great Sith War may deal with the 
ever-growing tide of barbarism and evil flowing from the Deep Core, and 
many times the heroes will find themselves outnumbered and surrounded by 
barbaric hordes of Krath warriors or the vicious forces of the Mandalorians. 
Plots and villains of the Great Sith War often tend to deal with arcane rituals 
of the ancient Sith Lords, and the tone of such a campaign will likely lean 
more toward space fantasy than traditional space opera. 


THE MANDALORIAN WARS 
During the Mandalorian Wars, the heroes face off against hordes of armored 
warrtors from a variety of species—or join them. During the Mandalorian 
Wars, the Republic faces off against a powerful, ever growing enemy force 
without the assistance of the Jedi, leaving the skirmish to be an almost 
entirely military affair. Unlike the wars that precede and follow it, the 
struggles between the Jedi and other Force-using enemies are of minimal 
importance, and the battles of the Mandalorian Wars take place without the 
intervention of a mystical energy field or its manipulators. 

The Mandalorians are the primary antagonists of the Mandalorian Wars. 
During this time, a few Crusaders who fought in the Great Sith War may still 
be engaged in the fight, but many of the Mandalorian forces are made up of 


Neo-Crusaders and their officers. A key factor in the Mandalorians’ successes 
during this time is their ability to recruit new warriors from the populations 
of the planets they conquer; as a result, Gamemasters using Mandalorians 
in their campaigns can feel free to alter the statistics of the Neo-Crusaders, 
replacing the human species traits with those of another species. Unlike Sith 
troopers, Mandalorians need not all be visually identical, and coming into a 
fight that features a hulking Feeorin Neo-Crusader alongside humans and 
Rodians in Mandalorian armor adds an interesting element to the fight. 

The Mandalorian Wars represent a struggle between barbarism and civili- 
zation; though the Mandalorians are more organized under the Neo-Crusader 
philosophies advocated by Cassus Fett, they are still capable of unspeakable 
acts of violence. Adventures set during the Mandalorian Wars may feature 
massive battles where technology and the skill of soldiers determines the 
outcome of the fight, not a duel between Jedi, and the time period lends itself 
well to gritty, brutal adventures where the Republic teeters on the brink of 
being shattered under the strength of the Mandalorian assault. 


THE JEDI CIVIL WAR 

The Jedi Civil War is all about betrayal. Republic heroes who fought in the 
Mandalorian Wars now stand at the side of Sith Lords. Jedi wno were once 
loyal servants of the light now vie for the chance to be the next great Dark 
Lord of the Sith. During the Jedi Civil War, former allies find themselves on 
opposite sides of the conflict, with little choice but to fight their ex-camrades 
or be killed. During the Jedi Civil War, heroes are also presented with similar 
choices, and may need to choose sides or face off against old friends. 

During the Jedi Civil War, the reborn Sith Empire is truly at the height of 
its power and influence. Unlike during the Great Sith War, the Sith Empire 
of the Jedi Civil War does not share the spotlight with any other factions. 
This Sith Empire employs armies full of Sith troopers, led by Sith officers, 
and ruled over by dark side-wielding Sith Lords. This is the Sith Empire at its 
purest, at a point during which it most closely resembles Palpatine’s Galactic 
Empire that will rise several thousand years in the future. 

The Jedi Civil War provides many options for exciting adventures. Since 
the heroes never know whether their allies may secretly be planning on 
defecting to the Sith Empire, it becomes difficult to trust anyone, and makes 
the eventual betrayal of allies all the more bitter, The Sith are constantly 
trying to find ways to draw more worlds into their empire, and the Jedi and 
the Republic must foil their plots and clash with the Sith head-on to prevent 
the galaxy from being swallowed oy darkness. Adventures set in this war 
will likely take place against iconic Star Wars backdrops, featuring intense 
lightsaber duels on exotic worlds, space battles that determine the fate of 
entire star systems, and heroes outnumbered by legions of enemy troops. 


THE DARK WARS 
In many ways, the Dark Wars resemble the time of the New Republic 
immediately following the Galactic Civil War. During the Dark Wars, the once- 


HSi.avHo ) 


uA 


ADA vance [a 
‘ 


AOQINE NEIveawvs> 


HA “walavHo 


monolithic Sith Empire is reduced to many smaller territories, each ruled over 
by a warlord with ambitions of being the next great Sith Lord. Occasionally a 
leader rises that can unite those warlords (for example, when Darth Sion and 
Darth Nihilus seize contro! of the Sith remnants), but eventually even those 
temporary alliances crumble. The Sith are still a threat, and the Jedi have 
been nearly eliminated, leaving the Republic, the Jedi, and the Sith wearied 
and battered from the prior decades of conflict. 

During the Dark Wars, Gamemasters have as many or more options for 
antagonists in their campaigns. The Sith are still around and strong, if frac- 
tured, and serve as perfectly serviceable foes. However, the Sith aren't the 
only interesting antagonists. For example, a rebellious Mandalorian leader 
might try to stage a coup on a Sith world, seizing that territory for himself 
and plunging an entire sector into war. Mercenaries who fought in the Jedi 
Civil War might go on a rampage across the galaxy, or the Exchange could 
hatch a plot to destabilize the Republic. 

A campaign set during the Dark Wars has the advantage of putting a 
lot of resources at the heroes’ disposal. The Republic is the larger and more 
stable force, and the various Sith warlords are too smail and unwilling to 
cooperate to pose a significant threat. Though the Republic is cautious and 
does not want the Sith to rise again, there is enough stability in the galaxy 
that commerce and politics can resume. The Republic military will still engage 
the Sith from time to time, but the real threat is a Sith leader that can unite 
the warlords and lead a renewed assault against the Republic. 


A KT-400 MILITARY DROID CARRIER UNLOADS A FORCE OF 
BENTINEL DRUIDS TD ONDERON 


MYSTERIOUS ENEMIES 


Though the threat from enemies is ever-present, in a Knights of the Old 
Republic campaign those threats may be difficult to see at first. One's 
enemies may be hidden, remaining entirely unseen before striking out from 
the shadows, or they may be right in front of you, presenting a deceptive 
facade all the while planning to attack. A Knights of the Old Republic cam- 
paign is rife with antagonists and opponents whose motivations, history, 
plans, and appearances may be all but unknown to the heroes, and a major 
motivation in the campaign may simply be to find out the truth behind the 
mystery of an enemy. Threats can come from many angles in a Knights of 
the Old Republic campaign, and the real danger is not seeing those threats 
until it is too late to resist them. 

It is not just one's enemies that may be shrouded in mystery, but also a 
wide variety of events and plots as well. Zayne Carrick attempts to unravel 
the mystery behind the murder of his fellow Padawans against the backdrop of 
the Mandalorian Wars, while an amnesiac Revan retraces his steps to unlock 
the secrets of ancient Rakatan artifacts. There are things in the galaxy that no 
one knows about or understands, and the unearthing of ancient secrets can 
often lead to mysteries that require an entire campaign’s worth of adventures 
to unravel. Campaigns themed around mysteries of this sort often involve 
lengthy investigations, surprise plot twists, false tratls and red herrings, and 
a strong sense that in the unknown waits real and palpable danger. 

For Gamemasters looking to add a sense of the mysterious and unknown 
danger to their campaigns, one of the best methods of doing so is to shroud 
one’s villains in secrecy. A classic trope of the Star Wars saga, compelling 
and mysterious villains can spur on heroes who seek to find out more about 
who they are fighting and what malicious plots they have in store for the 
galaxy. Sith Lords like Darth Revan and Darth Nihilus are excellent examples 
of enemies whose secrets make them compelling characters. Players will 
want to know more about a mysterious villain naturally, but it is also the 
responsibility of the Gamemaster to provide them with ways of doing so. The 
path that Revan takes in rediscovering his own mysterious past is a prime 
example of an exciting adventure involving dangerous mysteries; the heroes 
of a Knights of the Old Republic campaign should undertake adventures that 
uncover secrets and delve into the unknown where danger and death could 
lurk behind every blast door. 


BETRAYAL 

One key theme in a Knights of the Old Republic campaign is the concept of 
betrayal. Betrayal plays a major role in many of the stories set during this 
time period. Ulic Qel-Droma betrays the Jedi Order and becomes a Dark 
Lord of the Sith; the Jedi Covenant betrays their Padawans on Taris; a large 
segment of the Republic betrays its government to join the Sith during the 
Jedi Civil War. Throughout the Knights of the Old Republic period there is 
a constant danger that your friends and allies may only be waiting for the 


right time to betray you, or even may do so without any forethought. Those 
who are your allies today could be your enemies tomorrow, and it makes 
an uneasy life for those heroes who need to rely on the helo of others to 
achieve their goals. 

No one is immune to betrayal in a Knights of the Old Republic campaign. 
Jedi Masters, long servants of the Force, succumb to the draw of the dark 
side and turn their backs on their comrades. Respected veteran military 
leaders may flee across battle lines to join the opposing forces, either out 
of a sense of preservation or even the belief that they have been fighting on 
the wrong side all along. Sith Lords squabble amongst themselves, waiting 
for the right moment to drive the lightsaber into the back of an ally who 
lets his guard down. For the heroes, this means that a mentor of today may 
become the enemy of tomorrow, or they may find themselves targeted by 
allies that would once shelter them. War does strange things to people, even 
peaceful people, and betrayal lurks in the heart of any being that feels fear, 
greed, paranoia, confusion, doubt, or loss. 

Betrayal is not the sole province of nonplayer characters, either. Though 
many Gamemasters may wish to avoid conflict between heroes, the dynamics 
of this time period make it easier than ever for a hero to turn on his allies 
when the time is right. Sometimes this means that the hero falls to the 
dark side, running off to join the Krath or the Sith in their wars against the 
Republic. Other times this may mean drawing their comrades into a trap, 
luring them into the clutches of the Exchange to claim a handsome reward. 
Gamemasters should be careful when allowing this kind of conflict to arise 
between heroes; though it can lead to compelling storytelling, it can also 
sometimes lead to friction or resentment between players. If a Gamemaster 
feels that the story could benefit from a hero's betrayal, approach the player 
of that hero separately to discuss the motivations, timing, and consequences 
of that betrayal. Such a betrayal may be tied to that hero's Destiny, or it 
could simply be a natural occurrence in the storyline. in most cases, a hero 
that betrays his party should become an NPC (just the same as a player loses 
contro! of a character that falls to the Dark Side), allowing the player of that 
character to create a new hero to join the party. 


HIDDEN DANGERS 

Along with the dangers of betrayal and enemies that the heroes must face, 
the galaxy itself is a treacherous place rife with Secret weapons and artifacts. 
Like the era surrounding the Galactic Civil War, this galaxy is littered with 
superweapons and items of great power during this time period, each one 
of which awaits discovery. In fact, many adventures may revolve around 
the heroes in pursuit of a powerful weapon, racing against their enemies 
to claim it with failure resulting in galactic devastation. Below are some 
examples of dangerous mysteries that can be used in any Knights of the Old 
Republic campaign. 


CaASsSsUS FETT FENDS OFF A MARK I PATROL DROID 


The Dark Reaper 

Created by ancient Sith Lords during the Great Hyperspace War, the Dark 
Reaper is a Force-draining weapon rediscovered by the Krath and used in the 
Great Sith War. At its heart is a device known as a Force Harvester, which 
drains the life essence from all living things around it. When activated, the 
Dark Reaper drains the life forces in the surrounding area, channeling that 
energy to boost the power of its turbolasers. More than just a weapon of 
mass destruction, the Dark Reaper can defend itself using the very Force 
energy it steals from nearby living beings. 


The Mass Shadow Generator 

Utilized to deal a crushing defeat to the Mandalorians at Malachor V, the 
Mass Shadow Generator is a Superweapon designed to draw upon the natural 
gravity shadows generated by a planet to unleash massive devastation to 
everything within the vicinity of the planet on which it is used. The Mass 
Shadow Generator is used on Malachor V due to the unique gravity anoma- 
lies in that system, though it is speculated that the device could function, 
with adjustments, in any star system. The Mass Shadow Generator not only 
devastates ships and space stations in orbit of the planet, it also destroys 
nearly everything on the surface of the planet itself, and two activations are 
enough to obliterate a planet entirely. 


} 


@ 
> 
5 
» 
@ 
z 
@ 
a 
WY) 
WU 


NA BastovHoa 


c 


aBQINE NVNEIvanvea> 


HA SeHSLdvHys 


Rakatan Mysteries 

The ancient Rakatans left behind numerous technological mysteries that can 
serve as the focus of adventures or campaigns. The Rakatans were masters 
of incredibly technology, but when their Infinite Empire crumbled they left 
behind a legacy of artifacts of their advanced civilization that are just waiting 
to be found. Some of these ancient mysteries may involve powerful weapons, 
while others may be more benevolent, like advanced medical technology or 
methods of power generation unparalleled by existing technology. Secrets of 
the Infinite Empire can come in almost any shape, form, or function, giving 
a Gamemaster using Rakatan mysteries a blank slate on which to design 
adventure hooks. 


The Star Forge 

The most influential piece of Rakatan technology known to exist in the 
Knights of the Old Republic period, the Star Forge is a massive space station 
that is capable of mass-producing vehicles, weapons, and starships. The Star 
Forge draws energy from the Lehon system's sun to scan, analyze, and then 
infinitely reproduce any piece of technology imaginable. The rediscovery 
of the Star Forge is what allows Revan to transform his segment of the 
Republic fleet into a massive invasion force, and the Star Forge continues 
to crank out new weapons of war as quickly as the Sith Empire can overrun 
new worlds. 


NEw POWERS ON THE 
RISE 


The repeated devastation of the galaxy leads to massive rebuilding efforts 
on behalf of the Republic. During this time, many corporations suddenly find 
themselves with vast amounts of political clout thanks to the Coruscant 
Financial Exchange Establishment Act. Similarly, as previously widespread 
organizations collapse as a result of assets lost during wartime, others step in 
to take their places, leading to a wealth of new powers in the galaxy coming 
onto the scene suddenly. 


THE HYPERSPACE NAVIGATORS 
GUILD 
Though far from a politically influential organization, the Hyperspace Naviga- 
tors Guild impacts the lives of sentient beings across the galaxy. During the 
Knights of the Old Republic period, most ships throughout the galaxy begin to 
carry their own navicomputers, and the hyperspace beacons maintained by 
the Navigators Guild rapidly diminish in importance. This does not stop the 
guild from continuing to function as a primary repository for navigational 
data, especially in the Unknown Regions and Deep Core. 

The Hyperspace Navigators Guild is responsible for the discovery and 
establishment of new hyperspace routes throughout the galaxy. Scouts across 


the galaxy are constantly attempting to discover new hyperspace routes, and 
the Navigators Guild pays handsomely for information regarding the creation 
of new hyperlanes. Once a scout reports the existence of a new route, the 
guild begins the lengthy process of verifying the safety and integrity of the 
route, investing large amounts of resources and time to make sure that the 
route is safe and will remain in existence for the long-term. 

Once a lane has been verified, the Hyperspace Navigators Guild passes the 
data on the route on to the Space Ministry, from which point the coordinates 
are distributed throughout the galaxy. While a route is still under investiga- 
tion, the guild is responsible for maintaining the hyperspace beacons marking 
the route and organizing the scouts using the routes. During wartime, the 
Republic goes to great pains to ensure that knowledge of secret hyperspace 
corridors remains concealed, and the guildhouse on Empress Teta becomes 
nearly as important as the Senate on Coruscant. 


Hyperspace Travel 

One of the major differences between the Knights of the Old Republic setting 
and campaigns set in the classic era is the way hyperspace travel func- 
tions. Prior to the Mandalorian Wars, most starships do not have advanced 
navicomputers built into their ships. Instead, they have simple hyperdrive 
operation systems that depended on satellites known as beacons for navi- 
gational data. These beacons record and broadcast navigational data to any 
ships stopping at that point, keeping them up to date on a small number of 
routes connected to that beacon. Each beacon possesses only the smallest 
amount of computing power, with a basic artificial intelligence built in to 
keep the beacons from being moved or damaged by stellar anomalies. Beacons 
are critical to hyperspace travel, as they are the buoys that guide all ships 
through the space lanes. 

With galactic exploration reaching levels unseen since the Great 
Hyperspace War, the Republic military invests significant resources in the 
miniaturization of navigational computers. As a part of the reconstruction 
efforts during the Restoration period, the Republic financially sponsors the 
establishment of a system by which navigational data would be distributed 
across the galaxy quickly and efficiently, allowing navigators to pull up-to- 
date hyperspace geography data at any stop. The new navicomputers, coupled 
with the rapid spread of hyperspace data, reduce the need for hyperspace 
beacons to the point where they are only used on hyperspace routes that 
have not yet been verified as 100% safe. 

For campaigns set prior to the Mandalorian Wars, or for campaigns set 
in areas where hyperspace routes have not yet been finalized, hyperspace 
beacons can provide opportunities to challenge the heroes or place them ina 
dangerous position. If a ship is capable of opening a communications channel 
to a hyperspace beacon, treat that ship as though it has a navicomputer for 
the purpose of astrogation. Otherwise, the ship's navigator will need to make 
the Use Computer check without the aid of a navicomputer. 


Hyperspace Beacon CLO 

Huge satellite 

Init -2; Senses Perception +0 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 21; +3 armor 

hp 50; DR 5; Threshold 31 

Speed 0 squares (immobile) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale}; Cover total 

Base Atk -5; Grp +6 

Abilities Str 32, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +0, Perception +0, Pilot -2, Use Computer 
+0 

Crew 1 droid brain (untrained); Passengers none 

Cargo 5 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Availability Restricted; Cost 20,000 (11,000 used) 


THE ASCENT OF 

CORPORATIONS 

Major corporations form the backbone of the Republic economy and many 
political entities in the galaxy. The scope of a corporation ranges from very 
small, such as one based in a specific city, to incomprehensibly vast inter- 
stellar companies, such as the Czerka Corporation. A successful corporation 
might operate for years, even centuries. Some remain family- or clan-owned 
operations, but others shift ownerships and allegiances as they are bought, 
sold, or taken over by any number of methods. 

Interstellar corporations are by far the most influential and powerful com- 
panies in the galaxy. Corporations control vast tracts of space, such as the 
Corporate Sector in the classic era. Those who live under corporate rule find 
that Republic law means little, especially in outlying areas. Most corporations 
look out for their bottom-line and the interests of their owners or leaders rather 
than looking after the welfare of those who live on company planets. 


Adascorp 

Officially known as the Adasca BioMechanical Corporation of Arkania, Adas- 
corp is one of the largest Arkanian corporate dynasties. It is also the galaxy’s 
largest bioengineering firm. It is owned by the House of Adasca and operated 
by current lord of the house, Lord Adasca. Although the Lord of Adasca is 
not the ruler of Arkania, outsiders are forgiven for assuming that is the case, 
given the extent of Adascorp’s influence over the population. 

Adascorp is famous for bioengineering and medical research advances, It is 
responsible for providing the galaxy with thousands of treatments and advanc- 
ing medical knowledge at a tremendous pace. However, not all its pursuits are 
as noble as some would hope. Some schemes are driven by pure economics, to 
enrich the corporation and expand its reach. Much of the galaxy would also 
be shocked to learn of Adascorp's persecution of Arkanian offshoots and its 
promotion of pure-blooded Arkanians as a superior species. 


For years, Adascorp headquarters is located on the massive starship 
Arkanian Legacy. However, the great ship is lost along with Lord Arkoh 
Adasca in his ill-fated attempt to secure galactic power through Operation 
Dark Harvest. Arkoh’s scheme is to militarize massive Exogorths to enable 
them to decimate entire star systems. He tries to sell them in a bidding war 
between the Republic, the Mandalorians, and the Jedi. Unfortunately for 
Arkoh, the scheme falls apart when his lead researcher turns the Exogorths 
against the Arkanian Legacy. The loss of the ship and its extensive archives 
and research facilities sets Adascorp research back by decades. Worse, with 
no explicit heir to Arkoh's controlling interest in the corporation, ownership 
remains contested and is unlikely to be settled for years. The situation is 
complicated by the fact that the Republic continues to conceal the events 
around Operation Dark Harvest, seeking to protect its own interests with 
the Arkanians. 


Czerka Corporation 

Czerka Corporation is one of the most widespread and influential of the 
galaxy's vast interstellar corporations. They have their fingers in every 
market and they have offices on every major world and on minor or remote 
planets as well. The Czerka Corporation represents the worst in interstellar 
corporations: they are amoral, consumed with their own success, loyal only 
to themselves, and worried primarily only about their reputation. Despite 
their selfish ways, they provide a wide variety of products of decent—or 
at least acceptable—quality. Though customers are loath to deal with the 
company, Czerka products are economical, and the company’s vast reach 
makes them widely available, 

For years, President Pollard Seario has run Czerka Corporation from the 
spaceport of Dreshdae, on the planet Korriban, An unlikely headquarters for 
an interstellar corporation, the tiny outpost reveals much about the company 
and its leadership. First, the company is willing to maintain operations on any 
world, no matter which government or military force occupies the planet. 
Second, Seario is more than happy to ally himself and his company with the 
Sith during the Jedi Civil War. Even though the Sith are defeated, the alliance 
is not fatal to the corporation. After the obvious setback, the company works 
quickly to rebuild itself and strengthen its ties to the Republic. 

Czerka Corporation offices are utilitarian, and their staff is just customer 
friendly enough for their clientele to tolerate. They work hard to maintain a 
good reputation in the galaxy, even if they have to cover up failed ventures 
and illegal activities. Facilities include general stores on remote worlds 
such as Tatooine, slave trade on non-Republic worlds such as Kashyyyk, 
energy generators for entire cities, a highly successful arms division, and 
construction facilities for building freighters, bulk cruisers, and HK assas- 
sin droids. During this era, the Czerka Corporation has at least one division 
devoted to any given pursuit. They are constantly on the search for new 
materials, markets, and worlds to exploit. 


HA HSLavHo 


BENE VNEIVAwVsS) 


( 
Soine) naman i WA Seravas 


YARAEL ON THE RUN 


Lhosan Industries 

Lhosan Industries is widely regarded as the inventor and first mass producer 
of the modern swoop bike. Because their first factory is located in the Lower 
City of Taris, the planet becomes a center of swoop-racing popularity. 
Lhosan’s plan to diversify to other worlds is disrupted by the Mandalorian 
occupation of Taris. 

In a move that demonstrates the power and influence of the company, 
chairman Jervo Thalien works with Goravvus to orchestrate the acceptance 
of Taris into the Republic to protect the planet and its supporting resource 
systems in the region. The plan succeds. However, once it becomes appar- 
ent that the Mandalorian invasion is going to reach Taris, Thalien wastes 
no time in pulling operations offworld. The resulting scandal threatens to 
devastate the company and Jervo Thalien personally, if it comes to light. 
Thalien works to make sure that never happens, but ultimately Goravvus 
thwarts him, enabling the company to become a strong supporter of the 
war and the Republic. 


Lhosan Industries produces dozens of models of swoop bikes of virtually 
any size and configuration a customer Could request. Although purchasers 
customize the stock units, creating a vibrant aftermarket culture, Lhosan 
takes pride in providing a first-class product adored by fans throughout 
the galaxy. Their quick move from Taris slows and hampers their production 
in the following months, but the Mandalorian onslaught itself reduces the 
immediate demand in any case. 


TIMELINE 


The following timeline covers many of the major events in the Knights of 
the Old Republic setting. While it is by no means completely comprehensive, 
it covers the rise and defeat of major antagonists across the four wars in 
the setting, and should give Gamemasters a good idea of when to Set their 
campaigns. 

4,000 BBY: Satal and Aleema Keto discover ancient secrets of the Sith, 
including artifacts and tomes of knowledge, on their home planet of Empress 
Teta. Satal and Aleema Keto recruit hundreds of fellow aristocrats and form 
the Krath, a dark side cult based on Sith teachings. 

3,997 BBY: Steeped in knowledge of the dark side of the Force, the Krath 
rally military forces throughout the Deep Core and stage a coup on their 
own homeworld of Empress Teta. 

3,997 BBY: The Jedi are ambushed by Krath forces during a conclave on the 
planet Deneba, causing massive Jedi casualties. After the battle, Ulic Qel- 
Droma departs and begins to infiltrate the upper echelons of the Krath. 
3,997 BBY: Exar Kun, aJedi apprentice, abandons his master to delve deeper 
into the secrets of the dark side, traveling the galaxy in search of Sith lore. 
On Korriban, Kun is educated in the ways of the Sith and soon is elevated to 
the rank of Dark Lord of the Sith. 

3,997 BBY: After the Jedi attempt to extract him from the Krath-neld world 
of Empress Teta, Ulic Qel-Droma succumbs to the pull of the dark side. When 
Exar Kun arrives to stake his claim as Dark Lord of the Sith, he and Qel-Droma 
duel, but stop when ancient Sith spirits appear and declare them both Dark 
Lords of the Sith, master and apprentice. Many Jedi flock to the newly reborn 
Sith order, forming a hierarchy of lesser Sith Lords. 

3,996 BBY: The Krath forces, under the control of the Dark Lords of the Sith, 
begin expanding their newly formed empire, seizing worlds throughout the 
Deep Core. The Krath's ability to control the planets they have conquered is 
strained until Ulic Qel-Droma defeats Mandalore the Indomitable in a duel 
on the planet Kuar. With the Mandalorians bound to the Sith Lords, their 
combined forces flow outward from the Deep Core and begin conquering 
planets across the galaxy. 

3,996 BBY: After months of conquering planets from the Deep Core to 
the Outer Rim, the Sith launch their attack against the capital planet of 
the Republic, Coruscant. During the battle, Ulic Qel-Droma is captured and 
subsequently put on trial for treason. 


3,996 BBY: Aleema Keto, leading the forces of the Krath in battle near the 
Cron Cluster, is killed after activating a supernova-inducing weapon aboard 
her warship. The Krath space fleet is devastated. 

3,996 BBY: After an intense battle at Onderon, Mandalore the Indomitable 
is killed and the Mandalorians suffer a stunning defeat. 

3,996 BBY: Exar Kun and the remnants of the Sith are defeated at Yavin 4. 
The Great Sith War comes to an end when Republic forces liberate Empress 
Teta. 

3,985 BBY: The Coruscant Financial Exchange Establishment act facilitates 
the restoration of the galaxy by allowing galactic corporations to invest in 
the Republic's infrastructure. 

3,976 BBY: Under the leadership of Mandalore the Ultimate, remnants 
of the Mandalorian clans begin testing the Republic's defenses by raiding 
Outer Rim worlds. 

3,973 BBY: Cassus Fett leads the Mandalorian massacre on Cathar. Few 
Cathar survive the assault, but the Republic suppresses news of the attack, 
fearing it might destabilize reconstruction efforts. 

3,965 BBY: The Republic engages the Mandalorians in small proxy skirmishes 
along the Outer Rim. 

3,964 BBY: The Mandalorians stage a massive invasion of Republic space, 
beginning the Mandalorian Wars. 

3,963 BBY: As the Republic continues to battle the Mandalorians across 
all fronts, Revan attempts to persuade the Jedi Council to join the war. The 
Council refuses, claiming that their losses during the Great Sith War were 
too great. 

3,963 BBY: The Mandalorians overrun numerous Republic worlds, including 
Duro, lridonia, Serroco, and Taris. Meanwhile, Revan discovers and reveals 
the truth about the massacre at Cathar, winning dozens of converts from 
the Jedi Order. These Jedi take a more active hand in the Mandalorian Wars 
and are branded the Revanchists. 

3,961 BBY: Revan discovers the Rakatan star map at Kashyyyk. Revan travels 
to Malachor V and discovers the Trayus Academy, delving deeply into the 
Sith secrets contained within. 

3,960 BBY: Revan lures the Mandalorians to Malachor V, where a battle 
ensues between the Republic and the Mandalorians. Revan defeats Mandalore 
the Ultimate, activates the superweapon known as the Mass Shadow Genera- 
tor, and shatters the Mandalorian fleet. The Mandalorian Wars officially end, 
and remnants of the opposition scatter throughout the galaxy. 

3,960 BBY: Revan and his apprentice, Malak, take a large segment of the 
Republic fleet and vanish into the Unknown Regions. They rediscover the Star 
Forge, declare themselves Dark Lords of the Sith, and corrupt the Republic 
forces under their control. 

3,959 BBY: Darth Revan and Darth Malak return to the Republic, at the 
head of the newly constructed Sith Fleet. They begin their conquest of the 
galaxy, carving out a new Sith Empire and seizing control of Korriban, where 
they establish a new academy. 


3,958 BBY: Many among the Republic’s military forces defect to the Sith 
Empire, including Saul Karath. Jedi start to flock to Darth Revan’s banner, 
and the Sith Empire begins to swallow up Republic worlds. The Sith carry out 
successful attacks at Foerost and Telos IV, among other worlds. 

3,957 BBY: A Jedi task force captures Darth Revan aboard his flagship after 
Darth Malak turns on his master and attempts to kill him. Revan's memory 
is erased, and the Jedi flee with him back to Republic space. 

3,956 BBY: Revan once again turns to the Jedi Order and begins relearn- 
ing the ways of the Force. Accompanied by Bastila Shan, Revan retraces 
his steps in the pursuit of the Star Forge, eventually discovering the truth 
behind his past. 

3,956 BBY: Darth Malak’s forces devastate the Jedi Enclave on Dantooine. 
3,956 BBY: In the Lehon system, the Republic clashes with the Sith at the 
Battle of Rakata Prime. Revan defeats Darth Malak in a duel, the Republic 
defeats the Sith Empire, and the Jedi Civil War comes to an end. Revan leaves 
once more for the Unknown Regions. 

3,955 BBY: Sith Lords, formerly loyal to Darth Revan and Malak, begin 
breaking the Sith Empire into smaller domains, declaring themselves sov- 
ereign warlords, 

3,954 BBY: Sith assassins, under orders from Darth Sion, begin a wide- 
spread assassination campaign against the Jedi. The Jedi are all but wiped 
out, and the Republic is left without its Jedi defenders for the first time in 
centuries. 

3,954 BBY: The remnants of the Sith Empire are largely unified by Darth 
Sion and Darth Nihilus. Though some Sith warlords continue to squabble 
over territory, Sion and Nihilus represent the most unified front for the Sith 
during this time. 

3,951 BBY: Canderous Ordo, now the Mandalore, reunites the Mandalorian 
clans and aids in the fight against the remnants of the Sith Empire. 

3,951 BBY: Under the guidance of a disguised Darth Traya, the Jedi Exile 
defeats Darth Sion and Darth Nihilus. Bao-Dur activates the Mass Shadow 
Generator on Malachor V again, destroying what is left of the planet, and 
Traya is defeated. 

3,950 BBY: The last remnants of the Sith Empire crumble, and the Republic 
once again establishes control over worlds that have been under Sith rule 
since the Great Sith War. 


c 


SQUINQDUARGE 


HA SHStdVvHo 


BEING NOIVanvas 


= CHAPTER Vill 
GAZETTEER 


ACTIC 


—<—$———a— 


The galaxy is a far different place in the period many millennia before the Star Wars 
films take place. Some worlds that eventually rise to galactic prominence 
have not even been settled yet, and powerful worlds of a Knights of the 
Old Republic campaign will have been long forgotten by the time of the 
Clone Wars. 


PLANETS OF THE OLD 
REPUBLIC 


This chapter presents several new planet entries for worlds relevant to a 
Knights of the Old Republic campaign, as well as planetary updates for worlds 
described in Chapter 13 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


ALPHERIDIES 
Region: Expansion Region 
Climate: Cool 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: None 

Length of Day: 21 standard hours 
Length of Year: 450 local days 
Sapient Species: 90% Miraluka, 7% Alpheridian, 3% other 
Government: Oligarchy 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


Knowledge (bureaucracy) 

DC RESULT 

15 Alpheridies has no planetary government; local officials rule small 
settlements and individual cities. 

20 Decisions affecting the entire planet are made by a council of 23 
representatives, one from each of the planet's major provinces. 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Alpheridies is located in the Abron system, Coreward of the Expansion 
Region and near a giant molecular cloud called the Veil. 

15 The planet's proximity to the system’s Red Dwarf star caused the 
Miraluka to lose their eyes and evolve an ability to see through the 
Force. ; 

20 The Miralukan natives of Alpheridies are largely isolationist, and remain 
self-sufficient without the need for galactic intervention. 

25 The Miraluka of Alpheridies have only one known colony world, the 
planet Katarr. Though Alpheridies possesses interstellar capabilities, 
the Miraluka have only rarely ventured far from their homeworld. 


essL4t3aZV0 JiLovivg i WA HaiavwHo 


DEBE ee 
YaegLLaZve DLWBVIW eA) 


co 


WIA BeSaiavHoa 


ARKANIA 

Region: Colonies 

Climate: Tundra 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: None 

Length of Day: 18 standard hours 

Length of Year: 277 local days 

Sapient Species: 98% Arkanian and Arkanian offshoots, 2% other 

Government: Corporate meritocracy 

Capital: Adascopolis 

Major Exports: Diamonds and raw materials, medical supplies, 
high technology 

Major Imports: Luxury items 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 

DC RESULT 

10. The frozen tundra of Arkania is home to a race of scientifically minded 
near-Humans, the Arkanians. 

15 Beneath the permafrost of the Arkanian landscape lie vast stores of 
naturally occurring diamonds, which are harvested by the natives and 
off-world contractors. 

20 Arkanian cities are designed to keep the cold out, and are mostly com- 
pletely enclosed. Off-world visitors rarely have to deal with the frigid 
conditions of the planet. 

25 The planet is populated by the indigenous Arkanians and a race of 
genetically modified offshoots, who are largely considered second-class 
citizens, 

30 Arkania is the site of a Jedi training academy, established by Master 
Arca Jeth. 


Knowledge (life sciences) 

DC RESULT 

15 The Arkanians are somewhat unscrupulous genetic tinkerers who 
are responsible for creating various "new" races thanks to their 
tampering. 

25 Both their own Arkanian offshoots and the Quermians are the result 
of Arkanian genetic enhancements. 


“THE ONLY THING 

MORE DANGEROUS 

THAN A FOOLISH 
ARKANIAN IS A 
SMART ONE.” 


—-MASTER ARCA UETH 


ARKANIA 


BELNAR 

Region: Colonies 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: None 

Length of Day: 23 standard hours 
Length of Year: 347 local days 
Sapient Species: 98% Khil, 2% other 
Government: Colonial democracy 
Capital: Belnar City 

Major Exports: Luxury items 
Major Imports: None 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Belnar is the Khil homeworld, and was once covered by vast swathes 
of swampland and marshes. 

15 Belnar is a peaceful world, and the Khil welcome outsiders. 

20 Though the Khil have developed large cities, the rest of the homeworld 
remains untouched by the species’ progress. 

25 Several large natural swamps, some covering tens of thousands of 
square miles in area, are the sites of numerous research expeditions 
made by xenobiologists from off-world. 


CADOMAI 


PRIME 


Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Tundra 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 27 standard hours 
Length of Year: 405 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Snivvians, 1% other 
Government: Republic 

Capital: Brella 

Major Exports: Art 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, raw materials 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 


bc 
10 


15 


20 


25 


RESULT 

Cadomai Prime is the homeworld of the Snivvian species, and is covered 
by tundra and open plains. 

Unlike other frozen worlds, Cadomai Prime has made a name for itself 
as a resort world where citizens of the galaxy can go to relax. 

The Snivvians have built large vacation complexes within their cities, 
and lure tourists to their world with their artistic and creative culture. 
Cadomai Prime is famous for producing a number of famous works of 
art, including a form of art known as transnovels—a combination of 
words and images that tells a story while on display. 


CATHAR 

Region: Expansion Region 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 24 standard hours 
Length of Year: 259 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Cathar, 1% other 
Government: Tribal 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Luxury goods, technology 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 


bc 
10 


15 


20 


RESULT 

Cathar is a peaceful planet covered in vast plains with a diverse ecology 
similar to Human worlds. 

Cathar is home to the feline Cathar species, who live in cities built in 
huge trees that can house thousands of Cathar. 

Cathar tree-cities appear to be hand crafted, and the planet has little 
industrial manufacturing. 

A Cathar tree-city is covered in artistic designs that tell stories of the 
city’s history and the histories of various important Cathar who have 
visited or lived in the city. 


DRAETHOS 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Arid 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 19 standard hours 
Length of Year: 426 local days 
Sapient Species: 100% Draethos 
Government: Military dictatorship 
Capital: Avadrei 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 


oc 
10 


1S 


20 


25 


RESULT 

The Draethos species hails from a mysterious Outer Rim world, which 
few outsiders have ever seen or visited. 

The planet is covered in barren mountain ranges and deep caves, and 
the world is known to be a hostile place for non-Draethos to visit. 
The Draethos homeworld is called “Draethos” by the galaxy at large, 
but its secret name is “Thosa.” 

No non-Draethos are allowed to settle on Thosa by the natives, and 
only a select few may visit for short periods. 


Knowledge (social sciences) 


pc 
20 


25 


RESULT 

Draethos society is extremely warlike, and the most powerful Draethos 
warriors on the planet rule the world with an iron fist. 

Draethos who do not follow the path of the warrior are exiled and 
forbidden to ever return to their homeworld. 


WIA HSsiavHo 


YMEELLEZv7ea) DLOVIAWV@ 


= 


BsEOLAAIZVeS DILBVWes) 


THA S8lavHo 


DANTOOINE 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 25 standard hours 

Length of Year: 378 local days 

Sapient Species: 50% Human, 10% Dantari, 40% other 
Government: Oligarchy 

Capital: Garang 

Major Exports: Foodstuffs 

Major Imports: Technology and luxury items 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 
DC RESULT 


10 


Dantooine is a pleasant world covered in rolling hills, wide-open plains, 
and bountiful farmland available for cultivation. 


15 Dantooine has only a few scattered settlements, which are inhabited 
by wealthy farmers whose lands produce the majority of the planet's 
food exports. 

20 A Jedi enclave exists on Dantooine, serving asa training facility for Jedi 
away from Coruscant. After the Jedi Civil War, the enclave is destroyed, 
and only ruins remain. 

25 Dantooine is also the home to a primitive species known as the Dantari, 
who stay far away from most other settlements. 

30 Several temples and other structures scattered throughout the planet 
were built by the ancient species known as the Rakata, whose Infinite 
Empire stretched from one side of the galaxy to the other. 

FLASHPOINT 


Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Barren 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: None 

Length of Day: 1 standard hour 

Length of Year: 1,776 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Human, 1% other 

Government: None (affiliated with Old Republic and Mandalorians] 
Capital: Flashpoint Station 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, raw materials, medical supplies, scientific 
technology 


& CONDUCTOR-CLASS LANDING CRAFT ON DANTOOINE 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 


DC 
15 


20 


25 


RESULT 

Flashpoint is a barren rock that orbits extremely close to its sun, making 
the surface uninhabitable to nearly all forms of life. 

Flashpoint is the site of a research facility that uses shielding technology 
to protect it from heat and solar radiation. 

The research facility is protected by a magnetic field, and even environ- 
mentally sealed spacesuits are incapable of protecting a person fram 
harm outside that magnetic field. 


Knowledge (physical sciences) 


ie 
20 


25 


RESULT 

Flashpoint's day lasts only one hour, and during the 30 minutes of 
darkness the world cools only slightly. 

Significant amounts of solar radiation cling to Flashpoint's surface, 
making any surface travel outside the magnetic field impossible, even 
during the short nighttime. 


KORRIBAN 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Arid 

Gravity: 140% Standard 

Moons: 7 

Length of Day: 28 standard hours 

Length of Year: 780 local days 

Sapient Species: 1% Kissai, 1% Massassi, 98% other 
Government: Sith Empire 

Capital: None/Dreshdae 

Major Exports: None 

Major imports: Foodstuffs, high technology, raw materials, weapons 


Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
DC RESULT 


15 


The Czerka Corporation was given permission by the Sith to set up a 
settlement near the Sith Academy, in the city of Dreshdae. 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 
DC RESULT 


15 


20 


25 


30 


35 


Korriban is the capital of the Sith Empire, and holds extreme significance 
to Sith, both old and new. 

Korriban is home to a Sith training academy, where young Sith are 
trained in the ways of the dark side of the Force. 

The planet is a massive crypt for ancient Sith Lords who lived during the 
Great Hyperspace War and before. Numerous tombs scattered across 
the planet house the remains of dead Sith. 

Prior to the arrival of the fallen Jedi who would found the Sith, the 
planet is inhabited by the Massassi species, and their Kissai cousins. 
Though the Massassi abandoned the planet long before they were 
enslaved by fallen Jedi, a few Massassi and Kissai settlements remain 
scattered across Korriban, in isolation. 


LEHON 

Region: Unknown Regions 
Climate: Tropical 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 24 standard hours 
Length of Year: 370 local days 
Sapient Species: 100% Rakata 
Government: Tribal 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 


DC 
25 


30 


35 


RESULT 

Lehon is a distant world in the Unknown Regions. Explorers have ven- 
tured there, but none have returned. 

Lehon is a starship graveyard where thousands of ships from across 
millennia have crashed, never to escape. 

Lehon is home to an ancient species known as the Rakata, whose Infinite 
Empire once covered the galaxy. 


Knowledge (technology) 


pbc 
30 


35 


RESULT 

Lehon is in the same star system as the Star Forge, an ancient space 
station constructed by the Rakata. 

Starships that enter the same system as the Star Forge are disabled by 
a magnetic field, which causes ships to crash on Lehon (if they are not 
destroyed outright). 


MALACHOR V 
Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Arid 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 31 standard hours 
Length of Year: 271 local days 
Sapient Species: 99% Human, 1% other 
Government: Dictatorship 
Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


| | iiA USsLavHo) 


MeEegLLAZ2veae) ALIVIVeS 


ole) WSS) ta 


YEE LLGIZvea) aILIVIV Se) 


NA ealLavHno 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 
DC RESULT 


10 


15 


20 


25 


Malachor V is an Outer Rim world that falls within the domain of the 
Sith Empire, and has been a hotly contested world for years. 

Prior to the end of the Mandalorian Wars, Malachor V is a fertile and 
hospitable world. It is an excellent site from which to stage campaigns 
throughout the Outer Rim, making it a tactically valuable planet. After 
the Mandalorian Wars, Malachor V is nearly uninhabitable, and visitors 
to the world face extremely harsh conditions. 

A massive battle renders Malachor V uninhabitable, and thousands of 
starships are dragged down to the ruined planet's surface. Before the 
Mandalorian Wars, the planet has several military bases scattered 
across the world, as well as a Sith academy. 

Malachor V is destroyed by the Mass Shadow Generator, a superweapon 
that eradicates most of the Mandalorian space fleet. Before that fateful 
battle, the planet changes hands several times, and the Jedi constantly 
urge the Republic to seize the world to prevent further incursions from 
the Outer Rim. 


MANAAN 

Region: Inner Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: 130% Standard 

Moons: None 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 
Length of Year: 422 local days 

Sapient Species: 39% Selkath, 1% other 
Government: Tribal 

Capital: Ahto City 

Major Exports: Foodstuffs, kolto 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, raw materials, technology 


AHTO CITY ON MANAAN 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 


DC RESULT 

10 Manaan is a peaceful planet whose inhabitants are wary of taking part 
in galactic conflicts. 

15 The Setkath natives of Manaan are amphibious creatures. Their cities 
exist both above and below the ocean's water line. 

20 The Selkath live in isolated cities, but trade and communications flow 
easily between settlements. The Selkath work well together, and have 
a natural rapport with other Selkath. 

25 The ocean floor of Manaan is home to numerous research facilities and 


other structures accessible only by submarine. 


Knowledge (life sciences) 
DC RESULT 


20 


25 


The Selkath harvest a plant known as kolto, which is used in the creation 
of a bactalike substance with miraculous healing powers. 

When refined, kolto is used to create advanced medpacs, a quick means 
of repairing superficial wounds, but bacta is still better suited to healing 
grievous wounds. 


ODRYN 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 41 standard hours 
Length of Year: 303 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Feeorin, 1% other 
Government: Tribal 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Luxury items, technology 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Odryn is the largest colony world of the Feeorin, a long-lived species 
whose original homeworld was lost well before most histories began. 

15 Odryn isa lush forest world with an average temperature that makes it 
just hot enough to be uncomfortable for Humans, though the Feeorin 
find it pleasing. 

20 Though the planet is home to the largest number of Feeorin in the 
galaxy, actual settlements on Odryn are few and far between, as the 
world is still relatively uninhabited. 

25 The security force protecting Odryn carefully monitors any of f-world 
visitors and space traffic around the planet, and it has been known to 
spy on non-Feeorin out of suspicion. 

30 Several ships and their crews have vanished after landing on Odryn, 
and many suspect that the Feeorin security force is responsible. 


ONDERON 

Region: Inner Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 4 

Length of Day: 28 standard hours 
Length of Year: 405 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Human, 1% other 
Government: Monarchy 

Capital: Iziz 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: High technology, weapons 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Onderon is an out-of-the-way world in the Inner Rim. The largely Human 
population is distrustful of outsiders and aliens. 

15 Onderon’s great walled cities are built for defense, a necessity stem- 
ming from the frequent skirmishes between Onderon’'s natives and the 
beasts from the planet’s moon, Dxun. 

20 For over three hundred years before the beginning of the Great Sith 
War, the planet is ravaged by a conflict with exiles from the city of Iziz, 
who tame beasts from Dxun to use against their fellow Onderonians in 
combat. 

25 For several centuries, the ruling families of Onderon exiled criminals and 
political dissidents from lziz, leaving them to be killed by beasts from 
Dxun. These dissidents formed the core of the resistance movement, 
who fought against the Onderonians in the Beast Wars. 

30 Prior to the Great Sith War, the rulers of Onderon are steeped in the 
lore of the dark side of the Force, stemming from the planet's conquest 
by the Dark Lord of the Sith, Freedon Nadd. 


Knowledge (physical sciences) 

DC RESULT 

20 Dxun, one of Onderon’s moons, orbits so close to the planet that it 
periodically brushes Onderon’s atmosphere, allowing creatures to 
escape Dxun and make their way to the surface of Onderon. 


PERAGUS Il 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Uninhabitable 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: None 

Length of Day: 14 standard hours 
Length of Year: 417 local days 
Sapient Species: None 

Government: None 

Capital: None/Peragus Mining Facility 
Major Exports: Fuel 

Major imports: Foodstuffs, technology 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 

DC RESULT 

15 Peragus |l is the site of a mining operation that produces starship fuel 
in modest quantities. 

20 Peragus II is a broken world, the remains of which float in an asteroid 
belt in the Peragus system. 

25 Peragus Il was once a terrestrial world, but a mining accident caused 
an explosion deep beneath the planet's surface, blowing the planet 
apart and creating the Peragus asteroid belt. 

30 Mining facilities on the asteroid remains of Peragus Il now go to 
great lengths to prevent further explosions of the volatile planetary 
remains. 


Knowledge (physical sciences) 

DC RESULT 

20 Peragus II's core was exposed when the planet exploded, and molten 
rock within the core can still be seen from space. 

25 The volatile chemicals in Peragus II's crust were mostly consumed in 
the explosion, but traces of these chemicals remain in the asteroids 
(and in heavy concentrations in the large solid chunk that remains of 
the planet). 


WA YaLavHo 


YEeLLEZve) DQALOVYVWWS) 


WIA BSitavHa 


HEP LAALESVOQ DLBVIWS 


TARIS 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 24 standard hours 
Length of Year: 314 local days 

Sapient Species: 30% Human, 70% other 
Government: Republic 

Capital: None (ecumenopolis) 

Major Exports: Luxury items, technology 
Major Imports: Food, raw materials 


Knowledge (bureaucracy) 


DC 
15 


RESULT 

Taris is the home of Lhasan Industries, one of the foremost manufac- 
turers of speeders and swoops. The senator from Taris has close ties to 
Lhosan Industries, which earns favorable treatment for the world. 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 


pe 
10 


15 


20 


25 


30 


RESULT 

Taris isa highly populated world that was once considered the "Capital 
of the Outer Rim” by travelers. 

An ecumenopolis, the city of Taris covers the entire surface of the 
planet, similar to Coruscant and Nar Shaddaa. 

Taris sees an economic boom in the years leading up to the Great Sith 
War, thanks in part to the support of speeder manufacturer Lhosan 
ndustries. During the Mandalorian Wars, Lhosan withdraws its support 
from Taris, and the planet's prosperity decays rapidly. 

Like other city-planets, Tarts is divided into multiple city layers, as well 
as districts. Inhabitants of the Upper City maintain a luxurious lifestyle, 
but those in the Lower City and the Undercity live without comforts. 
The Undercity of Taris is infested with rakghouls, a species of mutated, 
feral humanoids, who plague the planet's less fortunate inhabitants. 


TELERATH 

Region: Inner Rim 

Climate: Tropical 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 

Length of Year: 374 local days 

Sapient Species: 30% Human, 10% Arkanian and Arkanian offshoots, 
60% other 

Government: Corporate meritocracy 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: Business goods 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, luxury items, raw materials, technology 


TELER4TH 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Telerath is a pleasant world owned by the Telerath Interstellar Banking 
Initiative, which offers first-class financial services. 

15 Unlike other corporate-owned worlds, Telerath exists solely for the 
service of its customers. Visitors to Telerath are guaranteed face-to- 
face customer service, and the Initiative pays for nearly everything on 
the planet, much of which is provided to customers for free. 

20 Visitors come to Telerath not just for financial services but also for 
vacation and recreation, as the planet boasts beautiful vistas and a 
wide variety of entertainment. Profits from such ventures go toward 
enhancing the Telerath experience. 

25 Telerath is mostly owned by the Arkanian company Adascorp, with a 
small piece of ownership held by the Draay Trust. Adascorp agents can 
be found all over Telerath, though they stay out of the way of everyday 
business. 


TELOS IV 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: None 

Length of Day: 24 standard hours 
Length of Year: 422 local days 
Sapient Species: 35% Human, 65% other 
Government: Republic 

Capital: Thani 

Major Exports: Foodstuffs 

Major Imports: Luxury items 


Knowledge (galactic lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 Telos IV is an important Republic world. Its military and economic 
powers are instrumental for the Republic's survival. 

15 Telos IV is covered in hills and grasslands, with frozen polar regions, 
which supply water to the rest of the planet through an elaborate 
irrigation system. 

20 The Republic Agricultural Corps produces large amounts of foodstuffs 
on Telos lV, most of which feeds the Republic military presence on the 
world. 

25 Telos IV is one of the few worlds under direct control of the Galactic 
Republic, and the planet's security is managed by the Telos Security 
Force, a division of the Republic Judicial Department. 

30 Czerka Corporation agents have been infiltrating the Telosian govern- 
ment for years, though they lack enough strength and influence to 
affect events on the planet until well after the Jedi Civil War. 


PLANETARY UPDATES 


Familiar planets undergo significant changes over the centuries between 
these troubled times and the Galactic Civil War. Some of these planets are 
quite different in Knights of the Old Republic campaigns, and the updates in 
this section should provide Gamemasters with enough information to use 
these planets in this era. 


BESPIN 

The gas giant Bespin has not yet been colonized during this time period, and 
will not be until 1,989 BBY when Cloud City is first commissioned. However, 
hyperspace scouts discover Bespin years before the Galactic Civil War, and 
a number of corporations try—and fail—to establish Tibanna gas mining 
operations above the world. With the decline of pulse-wave weapons and 
the ascension of blaster weapons, the undeveloped world of Bespin is rising 
in importance to the galactic economy. A number of corporations continue 
to lobby the Galactic Senate for mining rights to Bespin, though corporate 
lobbies keep the Senate tied up in procedures as each company jockeys for 
position. 

The carbonite-rich planet Empress Teta stakes an extremely strong 
claim to Bespin, because explorers from the Hyperspace Navigators Guild— 
whose guildhouse is on Empress Teta—discovered the world. No permanent 
outposts are established above Bespin, and Tetan mining operations consist 
mainly of large repulsorcraft dipping into Bespin’s atmosphere to scoop up 
gas where they can. During the Mandalorian Wars, a fleet of Mandalorian 
warships destroys most of the Tetan mining infrastructure, hoping to break 
up the Tibanna gas supply chain for the Republic. Following this attack, few 
companies have the time or resources to attempt to mine Bespin, and the 
planet remains nearly unheard of until the founding of Cloud City. 


BOTHAWUI! 

The Bothans have long been members of the Galactic Republic, and in a 
Knights of the Old Republic campaign Bothawui is one of the most recogniz- 
able and heavily trafficked planets in the Republic. In the millennia preceding 
the Great Sith War, rapid expansion of hyperspace lanes opens up new worlds 
to exploration and investigation, and Bothans found their first colony on the 
world of Kothlis. Moreover, Bothawui's influence in the Galactic Senate is 
considerable, and many of the Republic's bureaucratic committees meet on 
Bothawui to discuss matters of government. 

More important, the Bothan Spynet is beginning to grow at an expo- 
nential rate. Each new hyperspace route quickly has dozens of Bothans 
traveling across it to reach new worlds. As the Bothans send agents to join 
the inhabitants of dozens of newly discovered worlds, information begins 
to flow through Bothawui back to the Republic about the expanding known 
galaxy. Moreover, Bothawui becomes a hub of not only information but 
trade as well. Bothan spies, returning from stints on distant worlds, bring 


fA eaLavHoa 


@ aALavave | a 
f | 


YeEq@LhLezZy 


) 


WA SSLlLavno 


MAOLLAIZVa OILOVWeA) 


back exotic items to sell on Bothawui's open market. Collectors of rare items 
flock to Bothawui, and many Bothan explorers become wealthy overnight. 
Bothawui becomes a world not only of abundant information but also of 
abundant opulence. The Bothan homeworld is more prominent and more 
envied than any other time in galactic history. 


CEREA 

The Cerean homeworld has not yet established a formal connection with the 
galaxy at large, nor with the Galactic Republic. Such contact does not come 
for several millennia yet, though the planet does appear in the Navigators’ 
Guild database as Planet 36-AFE-2C, with a note that the scouts encountered 
no intelligent life on the world nor any valuable resources. Despite this entry, 
Cerea has had contact with the outside galaxy, and it has not been pleas- 
ant. Shortly after the planet was discovered, a secret expedition is sent to 
the world by Adascorp, the Arkanian corporation operated by Lord Adasca. 
After encountering resistance from the natives, the Adascorp agents kidnap 
an entire village of Cereans and flee the world, leaving behind several dam- 
aged and destroyed starships, which leak fuel and pollute the area around 
the landing site. 

Since the failed Adascorp mission to Cerea, few ships have even chanced 
by the planet. Well away from most common hyperspace routes, Cerea sees 
visits from the outside only once every decade or so, and those starships 
rarely land because they are merely Navigators Guild survey vessels updat- 
ing their records. The Cerean people are wary of visitors after the violent 
encounter with Adascorp agents, and they have turned against technology 
of any kind. 


CORUSCANT 

Already the most important and prominent world in the galaxy, Coruscant is a 
bustling planet where decisions affecting the entire galaxy are made. Though 
the Republic fights to defend itself against threats from all sides, Coruscant 
is a shining gem at the center of the Core. It serves as a bastion of civiliza- 
tion in a darkening galaxy. Coruscant changes little in the time between the 
Great Sith War and the Clone Wars, and most of the features of Coruscant 
that are seen in later years are already in place by this time. 

Coruscant has seen its share of battles, however, and continues to do so 
throughout the wars that plague the galaxy during this time. The defenses 
around Coruscant are tougher than they will be during the fall of the Republic 
a few millennia later, and security procedures during this time more closely 
resemble those that will be in place during the reign of the Galactic Empire. 
Corporations volunteer their security firms to help police and protect Corus- 
cant, which the Senate allows as a part of the rebuilding process following the 
Great Sith War. As a result, visitors are just as likely to encounter corporate 
enforcers as Republic military personnel when arriving on Coruscant, a fact 
that gives citizens of the Republic pause. 


DORIN 

Already a member and staunch supporter of the Galactic Republic before the 
Great Sith War, the home planet of the Kel Dor is rarely visited because of 
natural hyperspace hazards nearby. Though Dorin sees little traffic, it plays 
an important role in galactic politics, particularly in the affairs of the Jedi. 
The Kel Dor have sent as many Padawans to train with the Jedi Order as any 
other species except for Humans. So many Force-sensitive Kel Dor have been 
discovered that the Republic funded a Jedi Enclave on Dorin. Though only 
Kel Dor students can study at the enclave regularly because of the planet's 
unique atmosphere, Jedi of other species sometimes visit the world (using 
environment-filtering breath masks) to study the exceptional Force abilities 
taught by Kel Dor Jedi Masters. 

The enclave on Dorin continues to send new Jedi to help defend the 
Republic, but the planet provides far more to the galaxy. Following each 
of the wars of this era, teams of Kel Dor travel to various planets to aid in 
reconstruction efforts. The Kel Dor knack for helping environmentally ravaged 
worlds earns them a positive reputation, making Kel Dor welcome on nearly 
every world. Dorin remains untouched during the major conflicts of this time 
because it is too difficult for most space fleets to reach. However, after the 
Jedi Civil War, Sith assassins infiltrate the Jedi Enclave on Dorin and manage 
to exterminate nearly every Jedi present. 


DuURO 
The world of Duro is one of the earliest members of the Galactic Republic, 
and like Bothawui it has risen to prominence thanks to that association. The 
Duros are some of the galaxy's foremost hyperspace explorers, and their 
knowledge of space lanes exceeds that of nearly any other group in the 
galaxy. As a result, the world of Duro is a prominent travel hub during the 
years leading up to and following the Great Sith War. Not only is Duro a Core 
World that acts as a gateway to the Colonies, starships that pass through 
Duro are more likely to obtain the most accurate hyperspace navigation 
data available—rivaled only by data obtained on Empress Teta. Thousands 
of starships pass through the space above Duro every day, and hyperspace 
explorers consider it the best launching point for expeditions. 
Unfortunately for Duro, the planet's reputation as a hub of hyperspace 
travel comes back to haunt it during these war-torn years. The Mandalorians 
devastate Duro, reducing its infrastructure to rubble and destroying most 
of its orbital space platforms in an attempt to cut off a major hyperspace 
lane for the Republic. Later, the Sith Empire stages its invasion of the Core 
from Duro. 


& DEVASTATOR WOR DROID ON KORRIBAN 


GAMORR 

The primitive world of Gamorr has already been visited many times by the 
time of the Great Sith War, and Gamorreans have spread throughout the 
galaxy. The Hutts have been rounding up Gamorrean slaves and mercenaries 
for years, depositing them on distant worlds to protect their interests. During 
these war-torn years, Gamorreans see unprecedented expansion into the 
galaxy, because of their warrior culture. The undeveloped planet produces 
some of the most violent and ravenous mercenaries in the galaxy, a fact 
some factions use to their advantage. 

Prior to obtaining the services of the Mandalorians, the combined Krath 
and Sith armies seek to bolster their ranks by scooping up thousands of 
Gamorrean mercenaries to serve as cannon fodder against the Republic in 
the Great Sith War. Krath and Sith ships arrive daily to obtain more Gamor- 
rean warriors, and Gamorr is considered to be under Sith occupation. When 
the Republic drives the Sith forces away from Gamorr, the world returns to 
a state of primitive isolation that lasts until after the Jedi Civil War. Though 


both the Mandalorians and the Sith Empire avoid the planet, several Sith 
warlords press Gamorrean mercenaries into their service during the Dark 
Wars, and the planet changes hands among nearly a dozen Sith warlords 
during this time. 


IRIDONIA 
Home of the Zabrak, Iridonia is frequently among the first planets to be 
pulled into war. A Mid Rim world situated near important hyperspace lanes, 
Iridonia is one of the gateway planets that connects the Outer Rim to the 
Inner Rim. At the start of the Mandalorian Wars, lridonia is one of the first 
planets to be invaded. It suffers heavy losses in the initial wave of attacks 
because the planet's defenders fight aggressively and recklessly to repel the 
invaders. Though the Republic eventually liberates Iridonia and the planet 
subsequently joins the Republic's war against the Mandalorians, many of the 
planet's soldiers are recruited and indoctrinated by the Mandalorians, joining 
the enemy cause before the Republic can free their home world. 

lridonia is the site of several battles throughout these dangerous years. 
The First Battle of lridonia is a turning point in the Great Sith War. Jedi-led 
Republic forces rout the combined armies of the Krath and Sith, driving 
them back and gaining significant momentum. During the Jedi Civil War, 
the planet changes hands several times as the Sith and the Republic clash 
over the planet, which is used as a staging point for both militaries. The 
Zabrak suffer heavy losses during the Jedi Civil War, though they never stop 
fighting the Sith invaders. After the Jedi Civil War, Iridonia’s eight colonies 
become independent, but cooperative, worlds, because the central govern- 
ment on lridonia cannot maintain control of the colonies when the home 
planet is occupied. 


ITHOR 

One of the oldest members of the Republic, Ithor can be an extremely impor- 
tant world in a Knights of the Old Republic campaign. The Ithorian aptitude 
for biology, botany, and other life sciences sends the planet's natives across 
the galaxy, and the nearly untouched ecosystem of Ithor becomes a valu- 
able asset to the Republic throughout the various wars of the time. Ithorian 
scientists—working side by side with Selkath marine biologists—first dis- 
cover the methods of using kolto to produce exceptionally powerful healing 
salves. Ithorian efforts to produce new strains of kolto that grow in Ithor's 
jungles meet with mixed results, but the planet still is a primary source of 
agricultural and medical supplies during the wars and the rebuilding periods 
following each of them. 

Realizing the military value of Ithor early in the Great Sith War, the Repub- 
lic stations a massive planetary defense fleet around the world. The fleet is 
increased during the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi Civil War. Though the 
Republic presence is strong, enemy forces attempt to infiltrate the world in 
indirect ways. Sith saboteurs manage to disable at least two Ithorian hardships, 
sending them crashing into their jungles and causing the native Ithorians to 


G) 
d 
cr 
> 
@ 
| 
Q 
G) 
> 
N 
j 
W 
W 
5 


INA SStawHo 


[ eee es ee 


MEOLLEZVE aiLevave |] 


WA BSLeVHD 


partially withdraw from the war effort. Though Ithorians are a common and 
welcome sight throughout the galaxy, the Republic presence at Ithor—ostensibly 
there for the planet's protection—takes a firm and arguably forceful hand in the 
planet's defense, instituting strict policies that border on martial law. 


KASHYYYK 

During the period following the Great Sith War, Kashyyyk is an occupied 
world, oppressed and controlled by the Czerka Corporation. Because of 
Czerka’s investment in the Republic's rebuilding efforts, the Senate grants 
Czerka domain over Kashyyyk, citing the corporation's discovery of the world 
as justification for the control of the planet. Believing the world to possess 
no sentient life (though this attitude is likely one born more of prejudice than 
scientific research), the Czerka Corporation ignored the native Wookiees’ 
designation for the world and renamed it Edean. Czerka took control of the 
world against the Wookiees’ wishes and began allowing slavers to have free 
rein over the planet's native inhabitants. 

Kashyyyk remains under Czerka control until after the Jedi Civil War, 
when Wookiee natives rise up against their corporate occupiers to liberate 
their home world. Prior to that, Kashyyyk largely escapes the conflicts of 
the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi Civil War, as both sides of each conflict 
see that Kashyyyk offers little value but would be difficult to capture. With 
its dangerous and unstable terrain, Kashyyyk is valued only by the Czerka 
Corporation, which treats the Wookiees as less than sentient and exploits the 
planet's natural resources and native population for its own profit. 


MON CALAMARI 

Only recently discovered by explorers from the Galactic Republic, Mon Cala- 
mari is a new and mysterious planet whose inhabitants are largely unknown 
to the majority of Republic citizens. Little is known about Mon Calamari 
during this time because its discovery just prior to the Great Sith War is not 
widely publicized. Though the natives of Mon Calamari are technologically 
advanced and possess a seemingly inherent aptitude for starship construc- 
tion and design, most other Republic worlds are reluctant to trade with Mon 
Calamari since its two native species appear to be constantly on the brink of 
war with one another. Mon Calamari has begun to deal tentatively with the 
Republic, but relations are far from solid. Mon Calamari is far from becoming 
the staunch supporter of the Republic it will be in the future. 

Mon Calamari is an isolated world with few outsiders during this time. 
The Quarren natives are occasionally defensive—even violent—when con- 
fronted by outsiders, and the Mon Calamari are reluctant to trust anyone 
from off-world. Mon Calamari has not yet become a prominent starship 
manufacturer, though the planet does possess early hyperspace technology, 
and its inhabitants have been exploring nearby star systems for several years. 
Cities on Mon Calamari have not yet been adapted for visitors from other 
worlds, and the settlements on the planet are largely underwater, making a 
visit to the planet difficult for outsiders. 


NABOO 

One of many planets first colonized during this time, Naboo is an untamed 
world inhabited only by the native Gungans. The first Humans settle Naboo 
shortly after the Jedi Civil War, and the Gungans live in underwater cities, 
seemingly unaware of the events of the galaxy at large. Prior to the Jedi Civil 
War, no records of visits to Naboo by Republic explorers exist. An explorer 
named Kwilaan supposedly discovers the planet after the end of the Dark 
Wars. However, Kwilaan might not have been the first person to visit the 
planet, because the Gungan natives seem unperturbed by the arrival of 
Kwilaan's expedition, as though they had encountered Humans before. Most 
likely, previous visits to the world were not recorded, though the explorers 
find no trace of such landings. 

Naboo isa pristine world, untouched by technology except for what little 
the Gungans possess. No civilization exists above the water line, and the 
planet's rolling plains and beautiful landscapes are untainted by cities or other 
settlements. Despite its beauty, Naboo is a dangerous world, with a number 
of large predators both on land and in the seas, and traveling to Naboo can 
be nearly as dangerous as visiting the jungles of Kashyyyk. 


NAR SHADDAA 

By the Great Sith War, Nar Shaddaa is already a dangerous place infested 
with criminals of all stripes. Nar Shaddaa sees a massive influx of refugees 
from hundreds of worlds passing through the Smuggler's Moon on their way 
to safer worlds. Though the planet is a dangerous place, huge numbers of 
refugees put down roots in Nar Shaddaa, forging a new life on a world where 
they have little to fear from governments or wars. 

Nar Shaddaa falls under the control of the Exchange during these years, 
becoming a strong base of operations for the vast criminal organization. 
The Exchange acts much like a government on the largely lawless world of 
Nar Shaddaa, imposing its own form of order wherever it sees fit. Most visi- 
tors to Nar Snhaddaa have a brush with the Exchange, usually encountering 
low-ranking lackeys. Though the Hutts continue to fight the Exchange for 
control of the world, their power has waned, and Nar Shaddaa is, at least 
temporarily, firmly in the domain of the crime syndicate. 


RODIA 
The Rodians are, like Ithorians and Twi'leks, among the most common non- 
Human species seen throughout the galaxy. During this time, Rodia has a 
unique and valuable resource waiting to be exploited by all parts of the 
galaxy: Rodian hunters. The Republic, the Sith, the Exchange, and other 
factions continually vie for the favor of Rodia, hoping to woo the skilled 
hunters to their side in nearly every conflict. Rodians play these factions 
off of one another, building up wealth while never committing fully to one 
side or another. 

Rodia remains largely neutral throughout most of this time—with one 
notable exception. During the Jedi Civil War, Sith forces attempt to destroy 


THE PERAGUB MINING FACILITY 


the planet using the massive firepower of the Star Forge fleet, hoping to deny 
the Republic one of its greatest sources of scouts and explorers. Before this 
plot can succeed, however, the Jedi uncover it and signal the Republic fleet, 
which comes to Rodia's rescue. The Battle of Rodia is a pivotal battle in the 
Jedi Civil War, and after the Republic repels the Sith fleet, Rodia officially 
joins the war on the side of the Republic. Individual Rodians still work for the 
Sith and other factions, but Rodia does not forget its debt to the Republic 
for the remainder of the war. 


RYyLOTH 

A longstanding member of the Republic, Ryloth is of little intrinsic value 
during the wars of this time, and it is largely ignored by the various militar- 
ies. Though Twi'leks join the fight on various sides during the wars of the 
period, officially Ryloth is a Republic world. The planet’s allegiance holds 
little sway over its citizens, however. Important and influential Twi'leks join 
the ranks of the Republic, the Jedi, the Sith, the Exchange, the GenoHaradan, 
and dozens of other organizations. This leads to significant internal strife on 
Ryloth, since the government's unwillingness to rein in its own citizens leads 
to conflicts among the Twi'leks. One family might support the Republic, but 
another might have a son studying at the Sith Academy on Korriban, creating 
divided loyalties within communities. 

Ryloth is on the brink of civil war throughout this time. Though dis- 
agreements between individuals, families, and settlements rarely come to 
violence, skirmishes break out from time to time. The Twi'lek clans are hard 
pressed to keep the peace. The inhabitants of Ryloth seethe as ideological 
differences between neighbors create an environment of dislike, distrust, and 
occasionally hatred that leads to violent outbursts. Riots are not uncommon 
on Ryloth during this time, though the clans manage to stop them before 
they do too much harm. 


SuULLUST 

A Republic world since before the Great Hyperspace War, Suilust is at the 
center of many conflicts during this time. Sullust is tactically important as a 
hub of trade along the Rimma Trade Route. With varying degrees of success, 
several factions attempt to blockade Sullust and disrupt commerce along the 
Rimma Trade Route. Though the space above Sullust is frequently filled with 
military vessels, either blockading or defending the world, the planet's volatile 
environment is as unappealing to the Sith and Mandalorians as it is to most 
of the Republic. Few skirmishes take place on the planet's surface. 

Since Sullust's infrastructure is rarely affected by the various wars, 
the SoroSuub Corporation continues to produce vehicles, starships, and 
other technological marvels unimpeded by galactic strife. In fact, the few 
skirmishes on Sullust involve enemy forces trying to sabotage SoroSuub 
installations, which provide military technology to the Republic. Occupying 
forces are rarely in place for long, because the Republic assiduously defends 
the planet against outside invaders, keeping SoroSuub technology flowing 
to the Republic war effort. 


TATOOINE 

Out of the way and of little interest to military forces, Tatooine is under the 
control of the Czerka Corporation during this time. Anchorhead is the only 
active settlement on the planet. Anchorhead is a modest outpost for Czerka 
operatives and a few other entrepreneurs wno have made their way to the 
distant Outer Rim world hoping to find their fortune mining the desolate 
world. The two indigenous peoples of Tatooine—Tusken Raiders and Jawas— 
have made contact with the settlers; the Sand People violently oppose Czerka 
operations, and the Jawas seize the opportunity to make a hefty profit from 
the ill-prepared newcomers. 

Tatooine sees little military action during this time. The Mandalorians 
avoid the planet entirely, and the Sith visit the planet individually only when 
Revan and Malak seek out ancient Rakatan star maps to help find the Star 
Forge. Realizing that the planet is of little interest, yet possessing the basics 
of civilization, criminals flock to Tatooine as a short-term hiding place from 
the long arm of the law. The Hutts show a small amount of interest in the 
planet, and both the Exchange and the GenoHaradan have influence over 
the Anchorhead colony. 


TRANDOSHA 

By the time of the Great Sith War, Trandosha has been a part of the Republic 
for several centuries, though it has not integrated itself into the Republic as 
thoroughly as other planets. In fact, though the world has representation 
in the Galactic Senate, Trandosha itself has little Republic presence. The 
recent discovery of Kashyyyk, however, opens up new avenues to galactic 
prominence for Trandosha. The planet negotiates with the Czerka Corpora- 
tion to gain slaving rights to Wookiees, beginning a millennia-long struggle 
between the Wookiees and the Trandoshans. 


WMA SBeatogvHa 


BOG LLAIZVaQ) ALAIYVW eA) 


poo 


4 


HAPTER Ix 
HE JEDI 
ele 


ROS 


Eons ago, the Jedi Order was whole and in pursuit of a deeper understanding 
of the Force. However, some were not content with the Jedi path and turned 
to the dark side of the Force. They abandoned their pasts and were driven to 
the farthest reaches of the galaxy by the remaining Jedi. For thousands of 
years, the Jedi thought their long-lost traitorous comrades gone and forgot- 
ten. But when hyperspace explorers discover an empire ruled with an iron fist 
by the descendants of those fallen Jedi, the Order realizes that the exiles had 
found and enslaved a people called the Sith, taking the name as their own. 
When the whole of this Sith Empire turns its terrifying might against the 
Republic in The Great Hyperspace War, the Jedi fully grasp the consequences 
of that nearly forgotten decision to banish their fallen comrades. 

Some Jedi denounce the Order's zeal to extinguish every trace of the Sith 
in the war's aftermath, and many think the Sith extinct. Then the mortal 
enemy of the Jedi returns in force. First the Jedi Knights Exar Kun and Ulic 
Qel-Droma turn to the dark side and ally themselves with the Krath, a dark- 
side cult borne of ancient Sith tradition. As the newly revived Sith Empire 
thrusts the galaxy into the conflict that would come to be called the Great 
Sith War, Ulic Qel-Droma cements his power by defeating the Mandalore and 
binding the Mandalorian warrior clans to his cause. The Jedi face not only 
fanatical soldiers and skilled warriors but also their own comrades; Jedi flee 
the Order to join the Sith cause, and the Sith begin to regain the numbers 
they once had during the Great Hyperspace War. 

During this time, the Jedi Order is at the summit of its power and self- 
confidence. The Jedi High Council is a largely ceremonial body with no real 
authority over Jedi. Jedi Masters and Watchmen are entrusted to maintain 
peace and train the new generations of Jedi, allowing remarkable diversity 
and freedom of ideas. Though a dichotomy of “light” and “dark” remains 
firmly entrenched, schools of thought abound about how to best serve the 
Force. Jedi Padawans are regularly accepted in their teens and twenties, and 
even though Jedi Knights rarely take more than two apprentices, a single 
Jedi Master might have dozens. Unfortunately, the Jedi suffer heavy losses 
during this war, and by the time the Jedi defeat Qel-Droma and the rest of 
the Sith Empire their numbers are drastically diminished. 


<x! HBLavHo 


lggar SHL 


aarp 2h 


THE RESTORATION 
(3,995-3,966 BBY) 

Humbled oy the Great Sith War, the Jedi undertake major reform. The Jedi 
Council seeks to hold Jedi Masters and Watchmen to a higher standard of 
accountability and asserts more uniform practices. But as Jedi Code appen- 
dices indicate, Jedi do not rule over others, and the council faces a long, 
uphill battle toward claiming unquestioned authority. 

Tension is thick as differing points of view polarize the order, and the 
council seeks a responsible median. The Republic views the Jedi Council's 
newfound sternness as positive, but Jedi accustomed to a looser hierarchy see 
the council as oppressive in its influence. Conversely, some Jedi are enthusi- 
astic about implementing more stringent policies. The secret Jedi Covenant 
is one example of a reactionary group that Jedi heroes might oppose. 

Though few galaxy-spanning threats are apparent during this time, the 
Jedi must still deal with remnants of the Sith Empire, though this is a lower 
priority given their need to rebuild the order. The Jedi expunge the Mecrosa 
Order from the decadent Tapani Sector, and the Great Hunt turns Jedi into 
exterminators, slaying terentateks and other Sithspawn left over from the 
Great Sith War. However, the Order returns to some semblance of normal 
operation, with Jedi running down pirates, breaking up crime rings, adjudi- 
cating planetary disputes, and fighting pockets of Mandalorian marauders 
on distant worlds. 


THE MANDALORIAN WARS 
(3,965-3,960 BBY) 

Once again the galaxy plunges into war as the Mandalorians, thought dis~ 
organized after their defeat in the Great Sith War, begin their onslaught of 
Republic worlds at the command of Mandalore the Ultimate. Even though Jedi 
numbers have recuperated, their confidence and solidarity has not. This first 
interstellar crisis since the Great Sith War highlights the rift in Jedi ideology, 
with rogue Jedi pressing the Council to help the Republic and the Jedi Council 
taking a stance of noninvolvement. Once the charismatic Jedi Knight Revan 
defiantly joins the Mandalorian Wars, other Jedi must choose a side. The 
Revanchists, as those Jedi who choose to defy the Council and join the war 
are called, are heralded as heroes by the Republic and its citizens. 

Jedi fighting the Mandalorians experience regular interaction with grate- 
ful Republic soldiers as they share the mess halls, battleships, and front lines. 
Reluctant Jedi are drawn into the war, but some of Revan’s followers abandon 
the fight once they see how thoughtlessly their leader approaches the dark 
side. Some of Revan’s recruits are spies, reporting back to the council, but 
few are prepared for Revan's betrayal. At Malachor V, Revan confronts Man- 
dalore the Ultimate, drawing him into a trap and activating a superweapon 
known as the Mass Shadow Generator. The Mandalorians are destroyed, but 
celebrations are cut short as Revan, already steeped in the dark side from his 
dealings with Sith remnants, flees to the Unknown Regions, taking a large 
piece of the Republic military with him. 


THE JEDI Civil WAR 
(3,959-3,9S6 BBY) 

When Revan and Malak Return from the Unknown Regions at the head of 
a revitalized Sith Empire, the Jedi are inevitably drawn into the conflict as 
the Republic fights to defend itself against the might of the Sith. Though 
the Jedi Civil War is precipitated by a betrayal from within their own ranks, 
the Jedi have been preparing for battle since the Great Sith War. Witnessing 
the Sith corruption of Revan's army, the Jedi are again filled with conviction, 
fighting with impunity beside loyal Republic soldiers. Popular opinion of the 
Jedi, however, has declined steeply. Failing to comprehend the convoluted 
causes of the invasion of the Sith Empire, the galactic citizenry understands 
only that Jedi they once championed against the Mandalorians have now 
betrayed them; hence, they refer to the conflict as the Jedi Civil War. 

The Jedi Civil War rages for several years until the Council decides to 
deal the Sith a major blow, A Jedi strike team, led by legendary Jedi Knight 
Bastila Shan, lands on Darth Revan's flagship, captures him, and brings him 
back to the Republic. The Jedi convert Revan back to the light side of the 
Force, purging from him the corruption of the Sith. With Revan's help the 
Jedi locate the Star Forge—the source of the Sith military's resurgence—and 
defeat Darth Malak. Having defeated the Sith leaders, the Jedi continue to 
struggle against the remnants of the Sith Empire, who retreat behind their 
borders to recuperate. 


THE DARK WARS (3,955-3,951 
BBY) 
With their leaders defeated, the Sith Empire crumbles, and the Jedi face not 
a single, united Sith front, but instead a dozen or more Sith warlords who 
fight against the Republic, the Jedi, and each other. Unfortunately for the 
Jedi, a small cadre of Sith warlords manage to band together long enough 
to deal a staggering blow to the Order, using assassins to decimate the Jedi, 
leaving but a handful of survivors. This is a dire time for the Jedi. Reeling 
from crippling losses sustained during the Jedi Civil War, the Order hobbies 
on the brink of extinction. The Jedi Council's authority has completely broken 
down and satellite academies are near-empty. The surviving Jedi are on a 
desperate mission to find the source of the killings. 

After the Sith Triumvirate is discovered and eliminated by a surviving Jedi, 
the few remaining Jedi resurrect the Order from the ashes of its defeat. 


KNIGHTS OF THE 
GALACTIC REPUBLIC 


The following archetypes can be used by Gamemasters in any Knights of the 
Old Republic campaign. 


GRAY JEDI 

Since The Great Sith War, the Jedi Order has undergone serious change. 
Historians revisit the Jedi Code to produce a more literal and more restrictive 
translation of the ancient credo. Falling between the cracks are those Jedi 
who do not necessarily agree with reinterpreting 20,000 years of proper Jedi 
etiquette. Like others, these “Gray Jedi" grope for a new paradigm of right 
and wrong, but consider themselves beholden only to the Force and to their 
own consciences when determining their path. 

These mavericks are regularly at odds with the Jedi Council. They reject 
strictures against admitting Jedi hopefuls over age four, and they defy the 
prohibition of Jedi having families. These rogue Jedi search their feelings and 
the Living Force to determine their actions rather than relying on an increas- 
ingly inscrutable Jedi Council. Gray Jedi recognize that theirs is a precarious 
position, but they believe moral certainty demands tempting the dark side. 


Gray Jedi CL5 

Medium Human Jedi 4/scoundrel 1 

Force 2; Dark Side 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 18; Dodge 

hp 53; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares; Running Attack 

Melee lightsaber +7 (2d8+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 ~ 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Sneak Attack 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): Force thrust, ionize, mind trick 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Equilibrium, Sneak Attack 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Point Blank Shot, Running 
Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force}, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons} 

Skills Deception +10, Initiative +10, Perception +10, Use the Force +15 

Possessions blaster pistol, Jedi robes, lightsaber 


wvwED!I COVENANTER 

Zea\ is not a Jedi virtue. Nonetheless, when it comes to Sith, the Jedi 
Covenant makes the exception. This secret sect was formed in reaction 
to Exar Kun's unforeseen Sith ascendancy. Members undergo traditional 
Jedi training, but most are Jedi Consulars rigorously schooled in farseeing. 
Monitoring the flow of the Force, they police the future for any remote sign 
of the Sith’s return. 

Constant immersion in the Unifying Force makes many Covenanters cal- 
lous with a distinct streak of paranoia. Their ethical judgment can be affected 
by their perceived knowledge of coming events. Though well intentioned, they 
carry out repellant acts based on visions, mollifying themselves by believing 
they have averted a greater evil. 


Jedi Covenanter CL7 
Medium Human Jedi 7 

Force 2 
Init +9; Senses Use the Force +15 
Languages Basic, Sith 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17, 13 with Flurry), Fort 17, Will 20 
hp 60; Threshold 17 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +9 (2d8+2) 

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+2) with Flurry 

Ranged by weapon +8 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Flurry 

Special Actions Collective Visions, Coordinated Attack 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): battle strike, farseeing, Farce 
resistance, Force thrust, mind trick, move object, slow, vital transfer 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 13, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Talents Force Perception, Collective Visions, Visions, Watch Circle Initiate 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Coordinated Attack, Flurry, Force Sensitivity, Force 
Training (2), Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +9, Initiative +9, Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, 
Perception +15, Use the Force +15 

Possessions Jedi robes, lightsaber (self-built) 


0 


oar we [bs 
|i bn wwewwah 


Ider BAL | 


<! HSStavwHoa 


JEDI SHADOW 

Despite the name, Jedi Shadows are steadfast defenders of the light. Shad- 
ows are selected for Jedi Council approval by their masters and are trained 
to sniff out evil. Their goal is the obliteration of the dark side, including the 
Sith and any other malevolent Force organization. In disguise, under cover 
of night or the Force, they venture where the stench of darkness is pungent, 
gathering intelligence to deal villainy a killing blow. 

Shadows are typically humorless loners. Their perceptions of reality 
are black and white, and they see signs of the dark side everywhere, even 
among their peers. Shadows are, therefore, implemented cautiously, seeing 
most action after epic Force conflicts. They have no qualms about lying to 
or betraying those who are evil, but they exercise restraint, understanding 
their definition of “evil" does not always match the Council's. Some Jedi 
Shadows, however, believe in a more aggressive approach. From these, the 
Jedi Covenant has created its own secret police of "Covenant Shadows." 


Jedi Shadow 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 3 
Force 2 

Init +12; Senses Perception +11 
Languages Basic, Huttese, Rozzum, Sith 


CL 10 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 18, Will 18 
hp 78; Threshold 18 


& JEDI SHADOW SNEAKS AB04RD A HERALD-CLASS SHUTTLE 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +13 (2d8+5) 

Ranged by weapon +11 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Whirlwind Attack 

Special Actions Combat Reflexes, Melee Defenses, Sentinel’s Gambit, 
Sentinel Strike +1d6 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): Force resistance, Force thrust, 
negate energy, rebuke 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Clear Mind, Dark Deception, Dark Side Scourge, Dark Side Sense, 
Sentinel's Gambit, Sentinel Strike +1d6 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved 
Disarm, Melee Defenses, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons), Whirlwind Attack 

Skills Acrobatics +12, Endurance +11, Initiative +12, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +12, Perception +11, Use the Force +15 (can reroll when avoiding 
detection by the Force, must take second result; and can reroll when 
sensing opponents with a Dark Side Score of 1+, must take better 
result) 

Possessions lightsaber [self-built], medpac, syntherope 


JEDI BATTLEMASTER 

Dedicated to the art of war, Battlemasters are experts in more melee styles 
than most beings know exist. Rather than seeking equilibrium between 
contemplation and physical training, they channel all their Jedi reflexes 
into fighting, obtaining peaceful communion with the Force in the midst of 
their transformation into living weapons. Jedi Battlemasters’ concentration 
on combat can draw them precariously close to the dark side, and some 
subconsciously relish this flirtation. Jedi Battlemasters are also among the 
most talented battlefield leaders and commanders of the Jedi and are highly 
sought after by Republic forces requesting aid from the Order. 


Jedi Battlemaster 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5 

Force 4 

Init +14; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Bunduki, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 24], Fort 24, Will 26; Block, Deflect 

hp 89; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+9} or 

Melee lightsaber +12 (2d8+9) and 
short lightsaber +12 (2d6+9) 

Ranged blaster pistol +15 (3d6+6) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +15 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike 

Special Actions Battle Meditation, Defensive Circle, Force Revive, 
Jedi Battle Commander 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): battle strike (2), Force slam, 
Force thrust, Force whirlwind, surge 


cL 12 


Force Technique Force Power Mastery (vattle strike 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 17, Con 11, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Talents Battle Meditation, Block, Defensive Circle, Deflect, Jedi Battle 
Commander, Riposte, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Force Sensitivity, Force 
Training (2), Martial Arts |, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers], Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, 
simple weapons} 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Initiative +14, Pilot +14, Use the Force +17 

Possessions Jedi robes, lightsaber (self-built), short lightsaber 


A JED! BaTTLEMASTER DISPATCHES 4 PAIR OF MARK I 
ASS4auLT DROIOS 


wED!I! WATCHMAN 

Stationed on or near trouble worlds, Watchmen are often the highest-ranking 
representatives of authority in their star system. They are selected by the Jedi 
Council and are frequently either Jedi Masters or Jedi Knights, accomplished 
in both diplomacy and “aggressive negotiations.” A Watchman is also never 
alone, with at least one Padawan—or as many as two dozen—under wing to 
help maintain order. Each Jedi Watchman is assigned a particular planet or 
group of star systems to observe and protect. 

Jedi Watchmen are also responsible for identifying Jedi candidates, hence 
the many pupils. Since the Great Sith War, however, the council discourages 
Watchmen from taking multiple apprentices and urges them to reject adoles- 
cent Jedi aspirants—sometimes even those just a few seasons too old. 


xX! HSLagvHO 


4 
at 
0) 
@ 
wy) 
Q | 


xi eSliawHo 


a) 


Jedi Watchman 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5{Jedi Master 2 

Destiny 1; Force 5 

Init +13; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 27), Fort 29, Will 28: Block, Deflect 

hp 123; Threshold 29 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+8) or 

Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+8) and 
lightsaber +14 (2d8+8) with Double Attack or Droma is one of these. 

Melee lightsaber +9 (2d8+8) and Ulic's naiveté regarding the dark side stems from spending 
lightsaber +9 (2d8+8) and \ his childhood not in the Jedi Temple, but with his brother Cay 
lightsaber +9 (2d8+8) with Triple Attack and cousin Duron on Alderaan, where he studies all forms of 

Ranged by weapon +15 knowledge obsessively. Eventually his mother, a renowned Jedi, 

Base Atk +14; Grp +15 arranges for Ulic and Cay to apprentice under the fatherly 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers}, Jedi Watchman Arca Jeth. But when 
Triple Attack (lightsabers}, Whirlwind Arca falls fighting the Krath, Ulic 
Attack infiltrates the cult, seeking revenge by 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Force learning the Krath's dark-side secrets 
Warning, Melee Defenses, Vigilance and using them to try and destroy the 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): organization. 
battle strike, energy resistance, farseeing, Ulic‘s self-confidence is his undo- 
Force resistance, Force slam, ionize, mind ing. Intoxicated by power, he plunges 
trick, sever Force, vital transfer into the dark side, teaming with Sith- 

Force Techniques Dominate Mind, Improved aspirant Exar Kun. Becoming Kun's 
Force Slam Sith apprentice, Ulic helps to create 

Force Secrets Multitarget Power the Brotherhood of the Sith and sets 


14 GUARDIANS OF PEACE 


AND JUSTICE 


The Jedi Order as a whole contributes much to the peace and turmoil in the 
galaxy during this time period, but it is the contributions of individual Jedi 
that echo loudest through the years. 


Wric GEL-DROMA 
Apart from the respected Lost Twenty, only a handful of Jedi are known to 
have purposely given into the dark side to conquer it from within; Ulic Qel- 


esr SAL 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 12, Wis out to forge a new Sith Empire. He 
15, Cha 14 wins the Mandalorians’ loyalty and 
Talents Adept Negotiator, Block, Deflect, spreads genocidal-scale death with 
Force Warning, Multiattack Proficiency the Dark Reaper superweapon. How- 
(lightsabers), Redirect Shot, Vigilance, ever, when Ulic takes his brother’s life, 
Watchman's Advance grief drives him to betray Kun and 
Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Force urn away from his dark ways. 


Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Melee 
Defenses, Skill Focus (Use the Force), 
Triple Attack (lightsabers}, Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons], Whirlwind 
Attack 

Skills Initiative +13, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +13, Perception +14, Use the Force 
+19 

Possessions Jedi robes, lightsaber (self-built) 


ULic @EL-DROMA 


Severed from the Force by the 
great Jedi Nomi Sunrider, a humbled 
Ulic roams the galaxy. Eventually he 
arrives at frozen Rhen Var, where 
omi’s daughter Vima seeks Ulic as 
her master, slowly returning him to 
the side of good. When Ulic is killed by 
a misguided “hero,” he becomes one 
with the Force, a redeemed man. 


Ulic’s cousin Duron shoulders the task of clearing the Qel-Droma name, 
destroying Sith remnants in the Cleansing of the Nine Houses and eradicat- 
ing nightmare Sith creations such as silan, terentateks, and glant wyrms in 
the Great Hunt. 
Ulic Qel-Droma (Redeemed) CL 17 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Sith apprentice 5 
Destiny 1; Force 8, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 1 
Init +16; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings, Perception +15 
Languages Arkanian, Basic, Ryl, Sith 
Defenses Ref 33 (flat-footed 30), Fort 34, Will 32; Block, Deflect 
hp 178; Threshold 34 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+13) or 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+13) and 
lightsaber +18 (2d8+13) with Double Attack or 

Ranged by weapon +20 

Base Atk +17; Grp +20 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack (lightsabers), Whirlwind 
Attack 

Special Actions Melee Defenses 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): battle strike, dark rage, 
farseeing, Force grip, Force resistance, Force slam, ionize, move object, 
negate energy 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (battle strike), Improved lonize, 
Improved Force Slam, Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 16, Con 18, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Talents Affliction, Block, Deflect, Diem So, Force Warning, Slashing 
Charge, Multiattack Proficiency (lightsabers), Riposte, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Armor Proficiency (light), Double Attack 
(lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Melee Defense, 
Mighty Swing, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons), Whirlwind Attack 

Skills Acrobatics +16, Initiative +16, Knowledge (galactic lore)+15, 
Perception +15, Use the Force +21 

Possessions lightsaber, comlink, various personal belongings 


ZAYNE CARRICK 

The middle child of five born to Arvan and Reiva 
Carrick, Zayne Carrick makes friends easily as a boy. 
But at age four, his Force attunement prompts Jedi 
attentions, singling him out for a destiny far from 
his homeworld of Phaeda. Master Tokare 
of Dantooine perceives the boy's peculiar 
difficulties in wielding the Force but after 
the Great Sith War, the Jedi cannot 
afford to reject even the least 
capable candidates, regardless 
of their expected potential. 
Zayne proves to be a difficult 
student whose skill in the Force is 
meager, yet he shows progress at 
surprising times. 

Under Master Lucien 
Draay, good-natured 
Zayne ekes out an 
unexceptional 
apprenticeship 
on Taris~one 
grueling day ata 
time. Zayne's closest friends and fellow Padawans, 
including Shad Jelavan, are assigned to Jedi 
Masters on the planet, and with Shad’s younger 
sister Shel also on Taris, life is good. By the time 
he is to be tested to become a Jedi Knight, 
Zayne has already almost caught the second- 
rate racketeer Marn “The Gryph” Hierogryph 
on several occasions, and is positive the eighth time will be the charm. 

On Zayne’s ninth attempt, he finally succeeds. Unfortunately, the timing 
could not have been worse. Late for his classmates’ knighting rite, he races 
back to the temple, leaving Gryph temporarily magnacuffed to his speeder, 
and barges in on the would-be ceremony. 

What Zayne sees changes his life. Lightsabers ablaze, Lucien and the 
other Jedi Masters stand over the slain corpses of his Padawan classmates. 
In shock, Zayne runs, taking Gryph along for the ride while the Jedi Masters 
give chase. Though they escape, Zayne is named the primary suspect in the 
“Padawan Massacre," and Gryph is identified as his accomplice. Descending 
into Taris’s dilapidated sublevels, the fugitives hook up with two of Gryph's 
underworld contacts and flee the planet. 

Zayne's quest to clear his name leads him into the company of Camper, 
Jarael, and Rohlan Dyre, but with his new outlaw friends, the fugitive Padawan 
spends the Mandalorian Wars putting the pieces of this puzzle together. 


SbSeessaes 


U 


iag@gar 9AL 


Zayne Carrick (as of the Padawan Massacre) CL7 

Medium Human Jedi 6/scoundrel 1 

Destiny 2; Force 3 

Init +5; Senses Perception +4 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 20, Will 19; Block 

hp 75; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares; Running Attack 

Melee lightsaber +7 (2d8+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Running Attack 

Special Actions Mobility, Skilled Advisor 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +9): Force slam, mind trick, 
move object, surge 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 11, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Talents Acrobatic Recovery, Block, Force Flow, Skilled Advisor 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Mobility, Running 
Attack, Skill Focus (Acrobatics), Skill Training (Deception), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +15, Deception +9, Pilot +10, Use the Force +9 

Possessions lightsaber, blaster pistol, phrik-alloy vambraces (unique 
item: worn on both forearms; use with Jedi talent Block instead of 
lightsaber; both arms must be free to use the Block talent, and Zayne 
must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed), utility belt with 
medpac 


LUCIEN DRAAY 

Heir to his family's fortune and respected name, Lucien Draay is son to one 
of the greatest Jedi sibyls. A talented instructor but a poor mother, Krynda 
Draay neglects Lucien in favor of Jedi younglings who, like her, demonstrate 
affinity for peering into the vortex of the future and extracting pristine pearls 
of insight. Lucien takes after his father, Barrison, having the talents of a Jedi 
warrior rather than an augur. With his father dead in the Great Sith War 
and his mother unavailable, Lucien grows spiteful and develops a love-hate 
surrogate relationship with his family’s confidant Haazen—a shrewd man 
who had failed in his Jedi training. 

Haazen convinces Krynda to make Lucien the guardian of her young seers 
circle. Lucien soon dominates the seers, but Krynda controls them all. They 
become the First WatchCircle of Krynda’s Jedi Covenant, a secret organiza- 
tion sworn to prevent the Sith's return by all necessary means. Lucien keeps 
the WatchCircle together despite their individual obligations to become Jedi 
Masters. Eventually, Lucien’s WatchCircle is assigned to Taris, where they 
take on new Padawans, including Lucien's, Zayne Carrick. 

During their Padawans’ Jedi trials, the WatchCircle seers get what they 
have been waiting for—a terrifying vision of galactic turmoil and their own 


deaths. Worse, one of their Padawans seems destined to become a new 
Dark Lord! Panic-stricken and determined, the WatchCircle slaughters its 
students like nerf cattle. 

When Zayne escapes, Lucien frames him for the murder of his classmates, 
earning the boy a death mark. Convinced Zayne is the envisaged "Dark Lord,” 
Lucien obsessively hunts for him, brushing aside any obstacles to his vendetta 
against the Sith menace that left him parentless. 
Lucien Draay CL15 
Medium Human noble 3Jedi 5/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 2 
Destiny 2; Force 7; Dark Side 5 
Init +14; Senses Perception +14 
Languages Arkanian, Basic, Feeorin, High Galactic, Miralukese, Togruti 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 28), Fort 30, Will 30: Block, Deflect 
hp 121; Threshold 30 
Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +19 (2d8+10) or 
Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+10) with Rapid Strike or 
Melee lightsaber +16 {2d8+10) and 
lightsaber +16 (2d8+10) with Double Attack or 
Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+10} and 
lightsaber +14 (2d8+10) with Rapid Strike and Double Attack 
Ranged by weapon +16 
Base Atk +14; Grp +17 
Atk Options Cleave, Double Attack [lightsabers), Power Attack, 
Rapid Strike 
Special Actions Riposte, serenity 
Force Powers Known (Use the Force +14): battle strike (2), farseeing, 
Force slam (2), Force thrust, move object, negate energy, rebuke 
Force Secrets Quicken Power 
Force Techniques Force Point Recovery (2) 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Talents Block, Connections, Deflect, Elusive Target, Multiattack 
Proficiency (lightsabers}, Riposte, Shii-Cho, WatchCircle Initiate, 
Wealth 

Feats Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(3), Linguist, Power Attack, Rapid Strike, Skill Training (Use the Force), 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, 
simple weapons 

Skills Deception +14, Gather Information +14, Initiative +14, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +14, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, Perception +14, 
Persuasion +14, Pilot +14, Use Computer +14, Use the Force +14 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, comlink (encrypted), code 
cylinder, datapad, personal space yacht 


LUCIEN DRAAY AND BASTILA SHAN 


BASTILA SHAN 
Maybe the most heroic Jedi of her time, Bastila Shan was a Jedi exemplar. 
The dark side, however, erodes even the purest lights. 

Born on Talravin, at an early age Bastila exhibits an independent streak 
and a Startling Force acuity that inevitably leads to Jedi life. Her ability to 
affect minds blossoms with astounding speed and scope, and she becomes 
one of the youngest Jedi ever to master battle meditation. This sweeping 
Force power, which infuses allies with hope while simultaneously strangling 
enemy morale, has in the past reversed whole wars, and as the Jedi Civil War 
engulfs the galaxy, Bastila hopes to turn the tide toward Jedi favor. 

She does just that, in the most direct way possible. Storming Darth Revan's 
own command ship, Bastila’s Jedi strike team captures the Dark Lord. Thanks 
to Revan's treasonous apprentice Darth Malak, a turbolaser blast aimed at 
Revan's ship knocks him comatose, and Bastila uses the Force to keep Revan 
alive, establishing a telepathic bond between them. Upon returning to the 
Jedi Council with her Sith prize, she helps to concoct an audacious plan. 
After using the Force to temporarily wipe Revan's memories, Bastila coaxes 
him into revealing priceless intelligence about the Sith enemy. The scheme 
is controversial at best. Mind-wiping is considered an immoral Force appli- 
cation, and there is no telling how Bastila's Force bond with the Dark Lord 
would affect her. Yet, with trepidation, the Council proceeds. 


In the end, they fail to account for two distinct possibilities: that Bastila 
would fall in love with Revan; and that Bastila, purest of Jedi, would fall to the 
dark side. As Bastila watches Revan for Sithlike reversion, she becomes enam- 
ored of his unexpectedly compassionate nature. Amid this emotional turmoil, 
she is captured by Darth Malak, who twists her into his apprentice. 

With the roles of Sith and Jedi reversed, Bastila confronts Revan on the Star 
Forge. Revan asks her to come back from the dark side for both their sakes, 
and after witnessing Revan's compassion, Bastila returns to the light, going 
on to use her invaluable battle meditation to help defeat the Sith Empire. 


Bastila Shan (Jedi Civil War) 
Medium Human Jedi 10/Jedi Knight 7 
Destiny 3; Force 8; Dark Side 1 

Init +17; Senses Perception +21 
Lanquages Basic 


CL 17 


Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 20), Fort 21, Will 22; Block, Deflect, 
Lightsaber Defenses 
hp 127; Threshold 21 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +23 (2d8+9/2d8+9) or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +21 (3d8+9) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +23/+23 (2d8+9/2d8+9) or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +21/+21 (8d8+9/3d8+9) with Rapid 
Strike 

Ranged by weapon +21 

Base Atk +17; Grp +18 

Atk Options Accelerated Strike, Rapid Strike, Withdrawal Strike 
(lightsabers] 

Special Actions Battle Meditation, Force Valor, Improved Battle 
Meditation, Jedi Battle Commander, Telepathic Link 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): battle strike, Force grip, Force 
slam, Force whirlwind, mind trick, rebuke, slow, surge, vital transfer 

Force Techniques Improved Force Slam, Improved Move Light Object, 
Improved Sense Force 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 18, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 17 

Talents Block, Battle Meditation, Deflect, Improved Battle Meditation, 
Jedi Battle Commander, Lightsaber Defense, Multiattack Proficiency 
(lightsabers), Riposte, Telepathic Link 

Feats Accelerated Strike, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery 
Hl, Dual Weapon Mastery Ill, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Rapid 
Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency {lightsabers, simple weapons), 
Withdrawal Strike [lightsabers] 

Skills Initiative +17, Perception +15, Use the Force +21 

Possessions double-bladed lightsaber (self-built) 


<! HStavHa 


idsPp FAA G 


YOLEE BINDO 

Jolee Bindo was once filled with a verve and gusto that never failed to make 
fellow Padawans like Nomi Sunrider smile, but witnessing his wife's corruption 
by the dark side scars him for life. 

In Bindo's time, it was not unusual for Jedi to wed. So when he marries 

his Force-sensitive wife Nayama, he enthusiastically trains her in the Jedi 
arts. Unfortunately, Bindo is not a Master; he is merely a Padawan. The end 
result is surprising only to him. When Exar Kun creates the Brotherhood of 
the Sith, Nayama is among his earliest Jedi recruits. When Kun orders his 
Sith brothers and sisters to murder their masters, husband and wife face 
off in mortal combat. Bindo emerges the victor, but he cannot strike down 
his better half. Spared, Nayama kills many Jedi, and the Sith proceed with 
activating the Dark Reaper suoerweapon, causing countless innocent deaths, 
Though Nayama is slain at the end of the Great Sith War, a sorrowful Bindo 
rejects promotion to knighthood and forsakes Jedi life. 
Full of regret for his contribution to a war as pointless as any other, 
Bindo takes up smuggling. However, when a starship mishap strands him in 
ashyyyk's depths, Bindo opts to stay buried there for next twenty years. 
Only when a mind-wiped Revan arrives does Bindo come out of seclusion. 
lo his credit, Bindo retains his sense of humor and his heart remains good. 
He helps the amnesiac Jedi stay true to the light and puts an end to another 
Sith superweapon, the Star Forge, partly reconciling himself to his past. 


Jolee Bindo VJedi Civil War) CL 11 
Medium Human Jedi 7/scoundrel 2/scout 2 
Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 1 


Init +13; Senses Perception +13 
Languages Basic, Huttese 


IdaP SMA, 


Defenses Ref 26 [flat-footed 23), Fort 23, Will 25 
hp 85; Threshold 23 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +13 (2d8+6) or 

Melee lightsaber +11 (3d8+6) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +12 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid Strike, Sneak Attack, 
Whirlwind Attack 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Equilibrium, Melee Defenses 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18): battle strike, Force thrust, 
ionize, mind trick (2), move object, slow, wound 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 16 
Talents Adept Negotiator, Beast Trick, Equilibrium, Force Persuasion, 
Force Pilot, Sneak Attack 


Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Melee Defenses, Point 
Blank Shot, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training 
(Mechanics), Skill Training (Survival), Weapon Finesse, Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons), Whirlwind Attack 

Skills Deception +13, Initiative +13, Mechanics +11, Perception +13, 
Persuasion +18, Pilot +18, Survival +13, Use the Force +18 

Possessions blaster pistol, Jedi robes, lightsaber (self-built) 


BWUHANI 

The lioness Juhani lived her life between extremes. A Cathar, she immigrates 
with her family to Taris after the Mandalorian Wars depredate her home- 
world, but the change helps little. In fact, Xor—a hardened Twi'lek slaver and 
Mandalorian Neo-Crusader—murders her father, and her mother, drowning 
in the consequent debt, literally works herself to death. Juhani becomes 
indentured to the Taris Exchange criminal organization and seems doomed 
to live out her days a slave. Then, a Jedi Knight comes to her rescue. Wowed 
by her dashing hero, Revan, Juhani makes up her mind to likewise become 
a servant of the Force. 

Young Juhani resourcefully finds her way to Dantooine. There she is 
accepted for Jedi training by Master Quatra, and for once, her future seems 
bright and clear. 

Juhani's training under Master Quatra progresses as many apprenticeships 
co, but over time Juhani's hot-tempered nature continues to create problems 
in her acceptance of the will of the Force. As she nears the end of her training, 
Juhani begins to lose control over her emotions, and Master Quatra knows it. 
Juhani gives into her fear and anger and apparently cuts down her Master; 
in truth, Quatra is merely testing Juhani, who fails disastrously. 

Remorse and rage fill Juhani, and she retreats to her favorite grove—alone. 
Here Revan comes to her aid again, this time defeating her in a duel and 
sparing her life. In gratitude, Juhani joins Revan’s quest for the Star Forge and 
crosses paths with her father’s killer. Xor and his slavers ferociously attack 
her and Revan, and the Jedi defend themselves fiercely, critically wounding 
Xor. Yet, with Revan’s help, Juhani refrains from slaying the slaver. She stays 
true to the Jedi Code, and as they continue their quest, Juhani becomes a 
pillar of the light side for Revan. 


Juhani Vedi Civil War) 

Medium Cathar Jedi 8 

Destiny 1; Force 2; Dark Side 1 

Init +12; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Catharese 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 19), Fort 21, Will 20; Deflect, Lightsaber 
Defenses 

hp 81; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +13 (2d8+5) or 

Melee claws +9 (1d64+5) 

Ranged by weapon +11 

Base Atk +8; Grp +9 

Atk Options Natural Weapons 

Special Actions Claw Lock, Combat Reflexes 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): Force grip, Force stun, 
Force thrust, mind trick 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 11, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Block, Deflect, Lightsaber Throw 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Skill Focus 
(Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons} 

Skills Initiative +12, Use the Force +16 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built) 


CL 8 


VANDAR TOKARE 

Olive-skinned, long-eared, and pint-sized, Vandar Tokare serves as the lead- 
ing master of the respected Dantooine Jedi Council during the Mandalorian 
Wars. 

Though the future is always in motion, Tokare excels at reading portents. 
His wisdom is frequently questioned by contemporaries such as Master 
Vrook Lamar, but as history engulfs the future, the diminutive Jedi’s insights 
repeatedly prove correct. When the Jedi Exile comes to Revan’'s side against 
the Mandalorians (and against the Jedi Order's wishes], Tokare insists she 
will ultimately stay true to the light. In a premonition he also foresees the 
destruction set to befall the galaxy in the Jedi Civil War. Sadly, the warn- 
ings of this prophecy are all for naught when the Jedi Council misinterprets 
it as a warning against engaging Mandalore the Ultimate in battle. The 
resulting series of events leads to the Sith’s resurrection and the death of 
Master Tokare. 

But the Jedi Master does not meet his end quietly. Narrowly escaping an 
orbital bombardment of the Dantooine Jedi Enclave by Darth Malak's forces, 
Tokare goes on to fight in the final battle over Rakata Prime, where Darth 
Malak and the Sith are defeated. 

The victory is temporary, however. Fifty years of betrayals, defections, and 
death have dwindled the Jedi spirits and numbers. Meanwhile, Sith survivors 


wage civil war, culling the weak and electing leadership by the lightsaber’s 
blade. This new Sith blood executes a divide-and-conquer tactic, targeting 
the Jedi for eradication, while the Republic, also reeling, is unable to defend 
them. To divine the identities of their hunters, Master Tokare meets with 
most of the hundred surviving Jedi on the planet Katarr. It is just the moment 
that the Sith Lord Darth Nihilus has been waiting for. Through an unholy 
dark-side technique, Nihilus murders every living being on Katarr, including 
Master Tokare. Perhaps Tokare's prescient faculties at last fail him, or perhaps 
Tokare's instincts lead him to become one with the Force. 


Vandar Tokare (Dark Wars) 

Small Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 5 

Destiny 3; Force 8, Strong in the Force 

Init +16; Senses Use the Force +21 

Languages Basic, Draethos, Kreva 

Defenses Ref 34 (flat-footed 21), Fort 31, Will 33; Block 

hp 133; Threshold 31 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee short lightsaber +21 (2d6+7/x3) or 

Melee short lightsaber +18/18 (2d6+7/x3) with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +20 

Base Atk +17; Grp +15 

Atk Options Ataru, Double Attack (lightsabers), Triple Crit (lightsaber) 

Special Actions Battle Meditation, Force Suppression, Force Warning, 
Gauge Force Potential, Melee Defense, serenity 

Force Pawers Known (Use the Force +21): battle strike, energy resistance, 
farseeing, Force disarm, Force resistance, Force slam, Force whirlwind, 
ionize, kinetic combat, mind trick, move object, rebuke, sever Force, slow, 
vital transfer 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power, 
Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Improved Kinetic Combat, Improved Vital Transfer 


CL 17 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 19, Cha 17 

Talents Ataru, Battle Meditation, Block, Force Perception, Force 
Suppression, Force Warning, Gauge Force Potential, Multiattack 
Proficiency (lightsabers), Riposte, Visions 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers}, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Force 
Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Melee Defenses, Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[galactic lore]}, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the Force, Triple 
Crit (lightsaber), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +16, Initiative +16, Knowledge (galactic lore) +20, 
Perception +21, Use the Force +21 

Possessions Jedi robes, 2 short lightsabers (self-built) 


UJ 


IGP SMA 


Beuevsvwss 


(GSP SHA | 


THE JED! EXILE 
She saves the Jedi from extinction, and though her name is lost to history, 
she becomes known as the Jedi Exile. 

The Jedi Exile's training begins on Dantooine as Jedi Knight Kavar’s 
informal apprentice. After he leaves to fight Mandalorians in the early skir- 
mishes before the outbreak of the Mandalorian Wars, she trains with other 
masters, including Vima Sunrider, who cautions the Jedi Exile to be mindful 
of her powers, particularly her aptitude for severing another's connection 
to the Force. 

Within a decade, the Mandalorian Wars erupt in earnest. Inspired by 
Master Kavar's example, the Jedi Exile rallies alongside the charismatic 
Revan, and she becomes his most trusted general besides Malak by war's 
end. In the so-called Ania Akaan or "Great Last Battle" above Malachor V, 
Republic and Mandalorian armadas clash in Revan’s carefully choreographed 
gambit. When the Mandalorians are in position, the Jedi Exile springs the trap, 
unleashing an apocalyptic weapon called the Mass Shadow Generator. The 
Mandalorian navy is decimated in a space-rending gravitational crush—as 
is the Republic fleet. Thousands of soldiers the Exile had led in battle and 
befriended are killed instantly. The disturbance in the Force is so great that 
the Jedi Exile instinctively severs herself from the Force before the backlash 
rips her to pieces. 

Grief-stricken and intractable, she returns alone to answer for herself and, 
by extension, Revan and his errant Jedi. With the pestilence of the Malachor 
V deaths clinging to the unrepentant Jedi, the Council is not kind. Though 
a similar decree had culled the seeds of the old Sith Empire from their own 
ranks, the Council excommunicates her, reasoning that, dead to the Force, 
permanent banishment is punishment enough for her. Like the denounced 
Jedi renegades of old, she too is now an exile. 

While the Jedi Exile roams aimlessly, news comes of a Jedi Civil War— 
begun by Darth Revan. The news sends her spinning. Had she been so blind 
or is the galaxy so truly incomprehensible? She retreats further into herself, 
forsaking all Jedi principles except one: no attachments. 

However, after the war, word comes that the Jedi are being exterminated, 
and after nearly ten years, the Jedi Exile returns. What she finds is a ruined 
Jedi Order, and an enigmatic Jedi Master—Kreia, who also claims to have 
been exiled and stripped of her Force powers. Kreia’s union with the Jedi 
Exile creates a vergence in the Force that reconnects them to the energy 
field surrounding all living things. With Kreia, the Jedi Exile seeks out Jedi 
survivors in an effort to reconstitute the Order, collecting informal Jedi pupils 
of her own, such as Mical and Visas Marr. However, when Kreia reveals her 
identity as Darth Traya, the Jedi Exile is forced to kill her mentor along with 
the Dark Lord's apprentices. Afterward, she ventures into unknown territory 
searching for Revan, leaving her disciples to resurrect the Jedi. 


The Jedi Exile (Dark Wars) 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/soldier 1/officer 2 
Destiny 3; Force 6; Dark Side 2 

Init +15; Senses Perception +15 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Mando’a, Tchuukthese 


CL 15 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 28], Fort 30, Will 33: Block, Deflect 

hp 113; Threshold 30 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +20 (2d8+9) or 

Melee lightsaber +18 (3d8+9] with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +15/15 (2d8+9) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +13/13 (3d8+9) with Double Attack and Rapid Strike 

Melee unarmed +17 (1d6411) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +18 (3d6+7) 

Base Atk +15; Grp +18 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers), Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Beast Trick, Force Valor, Telepathic Link 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +22): battle strike, Force resistance, 
Force thrust, Force whirlwind, mind trick, rebuke, sever Force, vital 
transfer 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (sever Force), Improved Sense 
Force 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 16, Wis 16, Cha 20 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Battle Analysis) 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Battle Analysis, Beast Trick, Block, Deflect, 
Force Persuasion, Force Valor, Telepathic Influence, Telepathic Link 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack (lightsabers), 
Echani Training, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved 
Defenses, Martial Arts |, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), 
Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons} 

Skills Initiative +15, Knowledge (tactics) +15, Perception +15, Persuasion 
+22, Treat Injury +15, Use the Force +22 

Possessions blaster pistol, lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


VISAS MARR 

As a Force-rich world, the Miralukan colony Katarr was already an appetizing 
target for Darth Nihilus, but when one hundred Jedi convene there during 
the Dark Wars, it becomes a full-course meal. With the power of the Dark 
Side, Nihilus obliterates all life on Katarr—all but Visas Marr. 

Like all Miraluka, Visas is born Force-sensitive and physically blind, but 
when she awakes on Nihilus's ship, the Ravager, after Katarr’s destruction, 
she realizes the Sith Lord has carved the flesh from her eye sockets so that 
she resembles him. Sundered by Nihilus's aura, young Visas can see only 
death in the Force. Accepting Nihilus's unspoken invitation, she pledges 
herself to the Dark Lord. 


Visas MARR 


As Nihilus's Shadow Hand, Visas does her lord's bidding. This includes 
tracking down a disturbance in the Force that turns out to be the Jedi Exile. 
They cross lightsabers, and Visas is summarily beaten, subsequently vowing 
loyalty to her vanquisher. In the Jedi Exile's company, Visas finds renewed 
hope, and begins freeing herself of Nihilus’s influence. At last dispelling her 
grief for the butchery at Katarr, Visas leads the Jedi Exile to her Sith master, 
and together they defeat the Dark Lord. To cut the last bond between her- 
self and Nihilus, she peers beneath his death mask to look upon the face 
of pure evil. 

After the Dark Wars, Visas is pivotal in restoring the Jedi Order. 


Visas Marr (Dark Wars) 

Medium Miraluka Jedi 7/Sith apprentice 2 
Destiny 1; Force 3; Dark Side 14 

Init +13 (can reroll, must take second result): Senses Use the Force +16 
Languages Basic, Miralukese 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 17), Fort 18, Will 19; Block, Deflect 

hp 79; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +15 (2d8+5) or 

Melee lightsaber +10/+10 (2d8+5) with Double Attack 


CL 9 


Ranged by weapon +13 

Base Atk +9; Grp +13 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers), Riposte 

Special Actions Dark Healing, Power of the Dark Side 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): Force grip, move object, 
rebuke, shock, vital transfer, wound 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 18, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Special Qualities Force sight, intuitive initiative 

Talents Block, Dark Healing, Deflect, Force Perception, Power of the Dark 
Side, Riposte 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), 
Improved Defenses, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13 (can reroll, must take second result], Perception +16, 
Use the Force +16 

Possessions Jedi robes, lightsaber {self- built) 


ATRIS 
The road to the dark side is often paved with the best intentions. The story 
of Master Atris serves as the perfect parable. 

The Great Sith War induces great philosophical upheaval in the Jedi Order. 
In its aftermath, Atris, a Jedi historian, attempts to revise the broken system 
of Jedi apprenticeship. Atris argues that, with liberal instruction practices 
such as dozens of Padawans training under a single Jedi Master, the radical 
bond of reciprocal apprenticeship, and Jedi beginning their training in their 
teens and later, there is little wonder that Exar Kun and Ulic Qel-Droma fell 
to the dark side. Invoking thousand-year-old recommendations by Master 
Simikarty, she lobbies for reducing the number of apprentices Masters can 
take and for limiting the age of Jedi candidates. She also advocates pro- 
hibiting romantic involvement for Jedi. Had not the First Great Jedi Schism 
been started by two lovers? Atris even endorses adoption of a more austere 
interpretation of the Jedi Code favored by the famed Master Odan-Urr, in 
memory of his recent death. 

Master Atris's arguments find powerful purchase, and her peers offer 
her a seat on the Jedi Council. When the Mandalorian Wars erupt, Atris is a 
staunch opponent of Jedi involvement. When Revan defies the council, Atris 
feels betrayed, She condemns Revan, his followers, and the “freethinking” 
teachings of his Jedi Master, fellow historian Kreia. Revan's eventual turn to 
the dark side comes as little surprise. 

After the Jedi Civil War, the future looks bleak for the Jedi. Though they 
won, their infrastructure is decimated and some thing is systematically 
hunting them. Orchestrating an irresistible lure, Atris calls a Jedi conclave 
on Katarr, where most of the one hundred remaining Jedi meet. She then 
leaks knowledge of the session to bait their killer into the open. Atris gets 


J 
slg 
WU 
é 
W 
Y 


) 


x1 HStawHo 


rrr rrr 


A= 


GaP SHA, 


what she wanted—at the expense of her Jedi comrades—when Darth Nihilus 
razes Katarr. Believing she can save the Jedi Order and once and for all shape 
it to her taste, Atris flees to Telos IV with the most important items from 
the Jedi Library, including Sith holocrons. There, she sets up a would-be 
Jedi praxeum. 

At her Telos stronghold Atris is discovered by the Jedi Exile. Seemingly 
redeemed, she causes Atris great consternation, challenging the very crux 
of her rigid beliefs. This confusion manifests itself alternately as Atris helps 
the Jedi Exile find the remaining Jedi Masters, and as she succumbs to the 
whisperings of her Sith holocrons and Darth Traya—formerly Master Kreia. 
Atris's self-righteousness finally drives her into the dark side's embrace. But 
Atris's pride is no match for the Jedi Exile’s lightsaber prowess. Atris becomes 
a captive in her own sanctum until such time as her role in nearly destroying 
the Jedi can be judged by Mical and a new Jedi Council. 


Atris (Dark Wars) CL15 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 2/Sith apprentice 1 
Destiny 2; Force 7; Dark Side 9 

Init +14; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Echani, Old Galactic Standard, Sith 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 28), Fort 29, Will 30 

hp 115; Threshold 29 


Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+10) or 

Melee unarmed +15 (1d64+9) 

Ranged by weapon +16 

Base Atk +14; Grp +16 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike 

Special Actions serenity, Fear, Force Suppression, Horror, Juyo 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): dark rage, ionize, Force grip, 
Force lightning, Force stun, move object, rebuke (2), wound 

Force Secrets Multitarget Power 

Force Techniques Improved lonize, Improved Force Resistance 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Affliction, Deflect, Equilibrium, 

Force Focus, Force Suppression, Juyo, Power of the Dark Side, 
Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Martial Arts 
, Echani Training, Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic lore]], Skill Focus 
Use the Force), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Initiative +14, Knowledge (galactic lore) +20, 
Perception +14, Pilot +14, Use the Force +19 

Possessions Jedi historian robe, lightsaber (self-built), Sith holocrons 


CELESTE MORNE 

Secretive, unorthodox, and good at her job, Celeste Morne is one of the few 
mysterious Jedi known as Covenant Shadows. Like all Jedi Shadows, Morne 
has dedicated her life to wiping out the agents of the dark side through 
whatever means necessary. As a Covenant Shadow, she is completely off the 
Jedi Council's radar. She does not dress as a Jedi, she only rarely uses her 
lightsaber publicly, and she answers to no one except Lucien Draay. In many 
ways, Morne is the embodiment of the spirit of the Covenant Shadows; she 
operates completely in secret as a sleeper agent, going about her daily life 
while awaiting the call to duty. 

Originally from Ossus, Morne wandered the galaxy after her home planet 
was devastated in the Great Sith War, eventually being raised by Krynda Draay 
and coming under the command of her son when she began training as a Jedi 
Shadow. She has served for years as an undercover agent of the Jedi, though 
she vanishes without a trace in 3,963 BBY under mysterious circumstances. 


Celeste Morne 

Medium Human Jedi 7/scoundrel 2/Jedi Knight 3 

Destiny 2; Force 5; Dark Side 4; Strong in the Force 

Init +13; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 24, with Flurry 21), Fort 24, Will 27; Deflect 

hp 87; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +15 (2d8+6} or 

Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+6) with Flurry 

Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+6) 

Base Atk +11; Grp +13 

Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Flurry, Sentinel Strike +2d8 

Special Actions Force Haze 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): battle strike (2), Force slam, 
mind trick, move object, rebuke (2), surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery 


CL 12 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Talents Clear Mind, Dastardly Strike, Deflect, Force Haze, Improved 
Sentinel Strike, Sentinel Strike (2) 

Feats Flurry, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Skill Focus (Deception), 
Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Deception), Skill Training 
(Stealth}, Strong in the Force, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers], Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +19, Initiative +13, Knowledge (galactic lore} +12, 
Perception +14, Stealth +13, Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink, datapad, street clothes, utility 
belt, various personal belongings 


The ornately designed Baronial-class luxury yachts from Eleaor Propulsion 
were commissioned by the Draay Trust. Too expensive for the Jedi Order's 
bankroll, these majestic 26-meter-long ships serve Covenant WatchCircles. 
Models can vary when credits talk, but seating capacity is restricted to a pilot 
and four passengers (or a Circle guardian and four seers), with removable 
benches in back for Padawans or cargo. Rigged for stealth and maneuver- 
ability, the yacht’s shielding is not stupendous, but it is deceptively well 
armed and equipped with a modest hyperdrive. 


The Jedi Order has little need for its own starships and vehicles, relying on the 
Republic for most of its transportation needs. However, the Jedi Covenant, 
funded by the Draay Trust, makes use of a unique starship when moving 
covertly through the stars. 


Eleaor Propulsion Baronial-class Yacht CL6 
Colossal space transport 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25; +12 armor 
hp 115; DR 15; SR 10; Threshold 75 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 900 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
(crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +37 
Atk Options autofire (double light laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 41, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 4 

Cargo 30 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x3 

Availability Restricted; Cost 200,000 {120,000 used) 


Double light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


THE REVANCHISTS ARE THE FIRST JEDI TO LEAP INTO ACTION 
DURING THE MANDALORIAN WARS 


x) HSiLaevHoS 


IdearP SHL 


CHAPTER 
tei SITH 


efere 


f Peace is a lie, there is only passion. 
i Through passion, | gain strength. 
Through strength, | gain power. 
Through power, | gain victory. 
Through victory, my chains are broken. 
The Force shall free me. 

—The Code of the Sith 


The story of the Sith goes back one hundred thousand years, eons before 
even the rise of the Republic or the Jedi. 

The Sith were a people who called the world Korriban home. But around 
the year 28,000 BBY, the archetypal model of ambition rises to power among 
them. This inflexible Sith ruler unites his world into a single kingdom, and 
claims the titles of both monarch and god of his people. History calls him 
King Adas, but according to legend, the Force bestows on him a different 
name: Sith‘ari—the perfect being. 

Three thousand years before the founding of the Republic, Adas’s hege- 
mony is invaded by the Rakatan Infinite Empire, an immensely powerful 
interstellar nation. Here, later Sith would say, they prove their right to rule 
the galaxy. Outsmarting the technologically superior invaders, Adas conquers 
the conquerors, sacrificing his life in the process. With the aliens’ technology, 
the Sith prosper, colonizing nearby worlds and even banishing a group of 
pureblooded Sith as far away as Tund. But there is a greater gift the Infinite 145) 
Empire bequeathed to the Sith—the dark side of the Force. 4 

Eventually, the Sith are again visited by aliens, this time by the Dark Jedi I 
exiled in the Hundred-Year Darkness. These exiles, initially called Jen‘jidai 0 
in the Sith tongue, easily conquer the reigning Sith overlord, earning their i] 

5 
I 


x BsiavHs 


leader Ajunta Pall the new title Jen‘ari or “Dark Lord" of the Sith. Though 

a number of these Sith conquerors follow their leaders back to Republic 

space for revenge against the Jedi, many stay to interbreed with the Sith by 

alchemical means. For the next two thousand years, Jedi blood mixes with 

Sith, breeding out feeble characteristics of each species—such as supersti- 

tion, sympathy, and loyalty—while sharpening desirable qualities such as 
ambition, cunning, and raw power in the Force. At last, around the year 

5,000 BBY, the Sith Empire, led by the Dark Lord Naga Sadow, is ready and 

invades Republic space. 

Because of treason, the Sith campaign fails, and special enforcers called 
Jedi Shadows zealously eradicate every last vestige of the Sith they find. 
But in a twist of irony, a few short centuries later, the Jedi Knight Freedon 
Nadd finds two Sith relics the Shadows missed. Taking instruction from 
both King Adas's holocron and Sadow’s disembodied spirit, Nadd becomes 
a Dark Lord. In turn, he inculcates the Jedi Exar Kun into the Sith creed, 
consequently bringing the Republic to its knees as Kun's Brotherhood of the 
Sith instigates the Great Sith War. 


Lpe peti 


U 


ROS GF 


Kun's Brotherhood is defeated, and in another blow, the Mecrosa Order, 
a long-time Sith bastion, overplays its hand in the Tapani Sector and is 
completely annihilated in the Cleansing of the Nine Houses. Still, the Sith 
need never fear extinction again. From the seed of Kun's conversion comes 
a host of Jedi followers, and after his death, his acolytes scatter throughout 
the galaxy with the teachings of the Sith ancients. 


THE RESTORATION 

AND THE MANDALORIAN WARS 
(3,995-3,960 BBY) 

Though the forces of the Jedi and the Republic manage to throw back the 
combined forces of the Sith and the Krath during the Great Sith War, many 
followers of the Sith remain loyal to their ways. As the Republic rebuilds and 
subsequently engages the Mandalorians in a bloody war of attrition, remnants 
of the Sith Empire, some on worlds completely unknown to the Republic, 
continue to practice their dark arts in secret. Though they remain scattered 
and unable to mount a serious effort to regroup, Sith loyalists, fallen Jedi, 
and the descendants of powerful leaders in Exar Kun's Sith Empire await 
their chance to rebuild the mighty Sith Empire. 


THE JEDI CIVIL WAR 
(3,959-3,95S56 BBY) 

They do not have to wait long, for soon Darth Revan and Darth Malak 
appear, resurrecting the Sith Empire in a Jedi Civil War. Returning from the 
Unknown Regions following the Mandalorian Wars, the two Sith Lords engage 
in a lightning-fast campaign to reestablish the Sith Empire and reclaim 
conquered worlds. Among the first planets retaken by the Sith is Korriban, 
which becomes one of the most important locations in the Sith Empire and 
houses the academy where new Sith leaders are trained. With the Star Forge 
producing huge amounts of starships, weapons, and vehicles at all times, the 
Sith are able to resurrect their Empire in a matter of months. 

At the height of the Jedi Civil War, the Sith Empire covers nearly one- 
third of the known galaxy, with many worlds hotly contested between the 
Republic and the Sith Empire. Some worlds join the Sith Empire willingly, 
while others are taken by force. Dozens if not hundreds of Sith apprentices 
learn the ways of the dark side of the Force, and a few even rise to the rank 
of Sith Master, training students of their own. With legions of armored troops 
spreading throughout the galaxy, all led by masters of the Force, the Sith 
Empire seems unstoppable. 

Betrayal spells the undoing of Revan’s glorious, if short-lived, Sith Empire. 
At the moment the Jedi capture him, Darth Revan's own apprentice attempts 
to seize control, firing on his flagship. Though the Sith Empire continues 
to grow for some months under the control of the traitorous Darth Malak, 
eventually the redeemed Revan slays his former apprentice and shatters the 
backbone of the reborn Sith Empire. The Jedi Civil War comes to an end as the 
once-unified Sith Empire fragments into dozens of smaller territories. 


TRE DARK WARS 

(3,955-3,95! BBY) 

The Sith Empire crumbles, and within months former Sith Lords have declared 
themselves the masters of much smaller domains. As the Sith squabble among 
themselves, fighting over the scraps of the Sith Empire, Darth Sion and Darth 
Nihilus engage in a campaign to wipe out the Jedi, with great success. Thanks 
to the foolish ambitions of the Jedi Atris, Nihilus is able to wipe out almost 
all of the remaining Jedi, leaving only a small handful alive. 

The skirmishes between the Sith warlords continue for nearly four years 
until Darth Sion and Nihilus attempt to reuinite the Sith under a single banner 
of strong leadership. Any hope for resurrecting the Sith Empire is undone by 
a lone surviving Jedi, and when the Jedi Order is reborn the Sith fade back 
into the shadows, not to be seen again in force for many years. 


USING THE SITH 


One quality that has allowed the Sith to survive after so many millennia 
is their ability to adapt. This era in particular presents a gamut of Sith 
incarnations. The Sith operating at this time fall into the following general 
categories: imperialists, traditionalists, secret societies, and remnants, Each 
offers unique gaming opportunities. 


IMPERIALISTS 

The reinvented Sith Empire of Darth Revan and Darth Malak is a massive 
galaxy-threatening organization on par with the Galactic Empire of the 
original Star Wars trilogy. This version of the Sith has it all, from huge 
battleships and starfighters to countless shocktroopers of both the “normal” 
and Force-using variety. They even have a Death Star-like superweapon, in 
the form of the Star Forge. Technology and military engagements naturally 
play a major role for these Sith, since a show of overwhelming force is a 
prized strategy. Nonetheless, this revived Sith Empire has not abandoned 
its Supernatural roots, training an army of acolytes in an academy on the 
ancient Sith home Korriban. 

At the height of its power, the Sith Empire is much like the Republic in that 
it is highly organized and has the ability to wage an effective war against 
its enemies. Despite the inherently traitorous nature of the Sith, the Sith 
Empire's hierarchy is suprisingly rigid, and has a rank structure that ensures 
that all war efforts do not suffer from infighting. 

At the top of the command structure are the two most prominent Sith 
Lords, Darth Revan and Darth Malak (though Malak assumes sole control 
of the Sith Empire after betraying his master). A number of Sith Lords serve 
under the two most prominent masters, including Darth Bandon. Each being 
that achieves the full title of Dark Lord of the Sith is given control over some 
military or civilian assets; many Sith Lords are placed in charge of entire fleets 
or battalions, while others serve as the rulers of captured worlds. In many 
respects, the Sith Lords are above and beyond the normal rank structure, and 


they have the final authority over admirals, commanders, and entire sector 
governments. In many ways, the Sith Lords are comparable to the Moffs of 
the Galactic Empire. 

The Sith Navy consists of all of the military starships under the control 
of the Sith Empire. The Sith Navy is further subdivided into fleets, some of 


which are large enough to patrol an entire sector effectively. Each fleet is - 


under the control of an admiral, like Saul Karath, though these admirals in 
turn answer to a Sith Lord. Fleets are further subdivided into battle groups, 
which usually consist of five to ten capital ships and various support craft. 
The descending order of ranks among the Sith Navy are admiral, vice admiral, 
commodore, captain, major, and lieutenant. All nonofficer personnel aboard 
starships in the Sith Navy are Sith troopers or specially assigned crewmem- 
bers, such as students from the Sith Academy on Korriban joining a crew 
for a special assignment. 

Though there is no formal Sith army, the ground forces of the Sith are an 
entity all their own. Used not only in ground warfare but also in the occupa- 
tion, policing, and pacification of captured worlds, Sith troopers and their 
officers fall directly under the command of the Sith Lords they serve. While 
aboard ships of the Sith Navy they are under the command of the captain of 
the ship they serve on, but once planetside they report either directly to the 
Sith Lord ruling that planet or to the Sith Lord in command of the military 
efforts in the region. The highest-ranking Sith officers are commanders, 
who outrank colone!s and lieutenants. Among the Sith troopers, there are 
truly only two designations: troopers and commandos, though neither truly 
outranks the other. Lieutenants and colonels in command of squads handle 
the front-line efforts of Sith trooper squads, reporting up the chain of com- 
mand to colonels who apprise Sith Lords of ongoing situations and ensure 
the Sith Lords’ commands are carried out. 


TRADITIONALISTS 

Exar Kun and Ulic Qel-Droma's Brotherhood of the Sith and the reclusive 
Sorcerers of Tund are both Sith traditions that rely significantly on the more 
esoteric and mystical practices of their ancient order. Adventures involving 
these groups carry a greater "fantasy" flavor, with arcane dark side powers 
and talismans, Sith swords, and alchemically created monsters at every turn. 
n contrast to the faceless empire of Revan and Malak, the Brotherhood of the 
Sith is represented by a handful of tightly knit dark siders with an egalitarian 
methodology. The Brotherhood uses technological and military elements, but 
hese are deemphasized in favor of Force powers and Sith talismans. 


SECRET SOCIETIES 

The Sith Triumvirate and the Mecrosa Order are two examples of Sith secret 
societies, similar to the Sith in the Star Wars prequels. The most prevalent 
ools of this class of Sith are secrecy, deception, and patience. Like a disease, 
they conquer from the inside and work from the smail scale to the grand 
design. They reveal themselves only after calculated planning, in the mean- 


time using their resources to quietly dismantle their enemies and sow chaos 
with precision strikes. The Sith Triumvirate carries out the genocide of the 
Jedi Order through subterfuge and assassination, but the Mecrosa Order uses 
its Sith sparingly to intimidate, persuade, and murder key rivals until such 
time as they can establish their total domination. 


REMNANTS 

The Sith fall into diasporas at the immediate conclusion of both the Great Sith 
War and the Jedi Civil War. These Sith scatter to the cosmic winds, setting 
up their own petty kingdoms on distant worlds or fighting one another to 
claim the title of new Dark Lord. Still, even a small-time Sith can be big-time 
trouble for characters on a mission to eliminate the Sith remnants one dark 
side follower at a time. These Sith are violent, opportunistic, and protective 
of whatever power they have been able to consolidate. Some even have 
dreams of returning the Sith to their former glory, recruiting under the guise 
of disenchanted and charismatic Jedi Knights. 


THE LEGIONS 
OF THE SITH 


The Sith Empire (and all affiliated groups) make use of a large number of 
agents, both specialized and general. The following generic characters can 
be used to flesh out encounters featuring the Sith as enemies, particularly 
those set during the Jedi Civil War. 


SiTH PARAPHERNALIA 

The Sith have a wide variety of paraphernalia that they use when making 
war on the Republic. The following pieces of equipment can be commonly 
found in the Sith arsenal: 

Sith Tremor Sword: A Sith tremor sword is a deadly throwback to 
the blades wielded by the ancient Sith Lords of Ziost. Sith tremor swords 
are dire vibroblades with the cortosis weave template. 

Sith War Sword: The prized weapons of ancient Sith Lords, the Sith 
war sword is an incredibly sharp blade treated with ancient Sith alchemy 
to produce a deadly weapon. Sith war swords are war swords with the 
Sith alchemical weapon template. 

Sith Trooper Armor: Designed by the onboard computers of the Star 
Forge and replicated millions of times over, Sith trooper armor is silver 
multi-piece plating worn over a sealed black body glove, with a helmet 
incorporating a comlink, blast shield, and helmet package. Statistically, 
it is identical to stormtrooper armor (SE 133). 


[) 


HWS AHL, 
aanhnananana nf 


 TESEEEEEEE 


SiITtTH TROOPER 

Sith troopers are the Sith Empire's foundation. Though not wielding Force 
powers like other Sith constituents, they do possess a dark side, frequently 
expressed with their blaster rifles. Sporting a sleek, faceless silver armor, the 
Sith trooper demeanor is like that of a heartless war droid. 

Specialized Sith troopers are readily distinguished by armor-color variants, 
such as red for commandos and black for pilots. Like soldiers of any army, 
their reasons for joining the Sith Empire are distinct, but they are all fully 
committed to reaping spoils of riches and power and to committing good 
old-fashioned bloodletting. Even after defeat in the Jedi Civil War, surviving 
Sith soldiers join the secret Sith Triumvirate. 
Sith Trooper CL 1 
Medium Human nonheroic 4 
Dark Side 1 
Init +2; Senses low-light vision, Perception +9 
Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 10 
hp 10; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (166+1] 

Ranged blaster rifle +3 (308) or 

Ranged frag grenade +3 (4d6, 2-square burst) 
Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options autofire {blaster rifle) 


LOS na] 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Martial Arts |, Sith Military Training, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +7, Perception +9 

Possessions blaster rifle, comlink, frag grenades, Sith trooper armor (+6 
armor, +2 equipment) 


Sith Pilot 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Dark Side 1 

Init +9; Senses low-light vision, Perception +10 
Languages Basic 


CL 2 


Defenses Ref 17 [flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 10 
hp 16; Threshold 12 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4) 
Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+1) 
Base Atk +4; Grp +5 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Sith Military Training, Skill Training 
(Initiative), Skill Training (Perception), Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +8, Perception +10, Pilot+9 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, Sith fighter, Sith trooper armor (+6 
armor, +2 equipment) 

Sith Commando CL2 

Medium Human nonheroic 8 

Dark Side 1 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision, Perception +10 

Lanquages Basic 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 9 
hp 20; Threshold 12 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee prototype vibroblade +8 (2d6+2) 

Ranged light repeating blaster rifle +3 (3d8) with autofire or 
Ranged light repeating blaster +6 (3d8) with braced autofire 
Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Burst Fire 

Special Actions brace (light repeating blaster) 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 9, Cha 9 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Sith Military Training, Weapon 
Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +9, Mechanics +10, Perception +10 

Possessions comlink, light repeating blaster, prototype vibroblade, Sith 
trooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment) 


SITH OFFICER 

Sith officers are normal Humans whose ruthlessness makes up for their 
lack of Force sensitivity. Most once served the Republic, but their ambitions 
exceed that age-old military. Many are competent and skilled leaders, but 
more are hedonists, sadists, and drunkards. Having already lived through the 
Mandalorian Wars, Sith officers are, if nothing else, cunning Survivors. 


Sith Officer 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/noble 3/officer 1 

Force 3; Dark Side 7 

Init +5; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Durese, Mando’a, Sith 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 14, Will 19 

hp 34; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +7 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate +1, Deployment Tactics 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Deployment Tactics 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Sith Military Training, Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Pilot), 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +12, Knowledge (tactics) +17, Perception +11, 
Persuasion +17, Pilot +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink (encrypted), officer's uniform 


CL6 


SiItH STUDENT 
They use the Force, wield lightsabers, and follow an ancient code, but they 
are not Jedi—at least, not anymore. The Sith students of Darth Revan and 
Darth Malak are many of the same Jedi crusaders that once fought for the 
Republic. Loyal to their fearless commander, they follow Revan to Korriban 
and into the heart of darkness. Already proficient in the Jedi arts, these 
marauders acquire new nefarious talents studying at the feet of the Sith 
academy headmaster Jorak UlIn—one of Exar Kun’s original Sith acolytes. 
Sith students’ fighting capabilities are surpassed only by their rage and 
selfishness. During the Dark Wars, surviving Sith students submit to the 
Sith Triumvirate. 


Sith Student 

Medium Human Jedi 3/soldier 1 
Force 1; Dark Side 14 

Init +8; Senses Perception +4 
Languages Basic, Sith 


CL 4 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17}, Fort 20, Will 17; Block 
hp 53; Threshold 25 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +7 (2d8+6) or 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Special Actions Power of the Dark Side 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +8): battle strike, dark rage, wound 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Block, Power of the Dark Side, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force 
Training, Improved Damage Threshold, Martial Arts |, Weapon Focus 
{lightsabers}, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Endurance +9, Initiative +8, Use the Force +8 

Possessions lightsaber, Sith battle suit (+7 armor, +2 equipment) 


SiItTH ASSASSIN 

The only thing more frightening than seeing a Sith assassin—clad in black 
with glowing red eyes staring from a Sith mask—is not seeing one; the 
presence of a vibroblade protruding from one’s chest is often the alterna- 
tive. Established by Darth Revan and heavily utilized by Darth Sion, these 
surreptitious butchers specialize in practical modes of Jedi execution. They 
drain the Force from their targets to augment their own powers and expertly 
turn captives into Sith with a combination of torture, Sith poisons, and the 
dark-side-drenched masks they wear. 

The most elite of these assassins are the Bladeborn—Sith blademasters 
who sometimes use lightsabers but more often wield dreaded tremor swords. 
Secluded on Malachor V, the Sith assassins become pivotal tools for the 
Sith Triumvirate. 


AHS sAL | 


ape a 


<x HSLlavHoD 


Sith Assassin 

Medium Human Jedi 4/scoundrel 2 

Force 1; Dark Side 14 

Init +11; Senses !ow-light vision, Perception +5 
Languages Basic, Huttese, Sith 


LEFT TO RIGHT: SITH TROOPER, SITH OFFICER, SITH ASSaS8ain, SITH APPRENTICE 


CL6 


Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Dastardly Strike, Point Blank Shot, Rapid 


Strike, Sneak Attack +1d6 
Special Actions Power of the Dar 


Side, Swift Power 


Force Powers Known (Use the Force +9): battle strike, dark rage, surge 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 18), Fort 16, Will 19 
hp 45; Threshold 16 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee Force pike +8 (2d8+4) or 

Melee prototype vibroblade +8 (2d6+4) or 
Melee unarmed +5 (1d6+4) 

Ranged hold-out blaster +8 (3d4+4) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +8 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 8, Int 
Talents Dastardly Strike, Sneak At 
Swift Power 


Feats Acrobatic Strike, Force Sensi 


Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot 


14, Wis 14, Cha 13 
ack +1d6, Power of the Dark Side, 


tivity, Force Training, Improved Disarm, 
, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency 


(advanced melee weapons, ligh 


sabers, pistols, simple weapons) 


Skills Acrobatics +11, Deception +9, Initiative +11, Persuasion +9, 


Use the Force +9 


Possessions Force pike, hold-out blaster, infra-goggles (low-light vision), 
prototype vibroblade, Sith mask, stealth field generator 


Bladeborn 

Medium Human Jedi 4/scoundrel 3/melee duelist 3 
Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 14 

Init +19; Senses low-light vision, Perception +7 
Languages Basic, Sith 


CL 10 


Sith Mage 

Medium Human noble 7/Sith apprentice 1 
Force 1, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 15 
Init +9; Senses Perception +10 
Languages Basic, Sith 


CL 8 


Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 24), Fort 21, Will 24; Elusive Target 
hp 56; Threshold 21 


Defenses Ref 20 [flat-footed 20), Fort 22, Will 18 
hp 53; Threshold 22 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee tremor sword +13 (2d6+4) or 

Melee tremor sword +11 (3d6+4) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee tremor sword +8 (4d6+4) with Improved Rapid Strike or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +12 (2d8+4) 

Ranged hold-out blaster +12 (3d4+5) 

Base Atk +6: Grp +10 

Atk Options Improved Rapid Strike, Rapid Strike, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Special Actions Dirty Tricks, Fear, Melee Defenses, Single Weapon 
Flourish 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +12): battle strike, dark rage, surge 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 18, Con 8, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Block, Dirty Tricks, Power of the Dark Side, Riposte, Single Weapon 

Flourish I, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Feats Dual Weapon Mastery |, Force Training, Improved Rapid Strike, 

artial Arts |, Melee Defenses, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus [Initiative), 

Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (advanced melee weapons), Weapon 

Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, lightsabers, pistols, simple 

weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +15, Deception +13, Initiative +20, Stealth +15, Use the 

Force +13 

Possessions double-bladed lightsaber, hold-out blaster, infra-goggles 

low-light vision), Sith mask, Sith tremor sword, stealth field generator 


SiITH MAGE 

The Sith mage is a menacing relic of the past. In the original Sith Empire, 
mages unleashed awesome tides of mystical powers, supposedly even 
causing stars to go supernova. More often, their black arts manifest in less 
extravagant—but no less deadly—ways. 

Though their heyday has come and gone, the last bulwark of Sith mages 
remains among the Sorcerers of Tund. They are conjurers of mind-pulverizing 
illusions and perpetrators of hellish transmogrifications, capable of incred- 
ible thaumaturgy. Though they rarely travel offworld, the sorcerers’ intense 
investigations into the Force sometimes drive their own members mad. 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee Sith war sword +6 (1d8 +3] 

Ranged hold-out blaster +7 (3d4+4) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +4 

Special Actions Illusion 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): dark rage, fear, Force grip, 
Force lightning, Force resistance, Force whirlwind, kinetic combat, 
rebuke, wound 


Abilities Str 9, Dex 10, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 15 

Talents Affliction, Dark Presence, Force Focus, Illusion, Power of the Dark 
Side, Swift Power 

Feats Exotic Weapon Proficiency (Sith war sword), Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (3), Linguist, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Use 
the Force), Strong in the Force, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +16, Gather Information +11, Initiative +9, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +11, Knowledge (social sciences) +11, Perception +11, 
Persuasion +11, Pilot +9, Use the Force +16 

Possessions hold-out blaster, Sith talisman, Sith war sword, robes 


SHADOW HAND 
(SITH APPRENTICE) 


The title Shadow Hand originated on Korriban, indicating the second in 


command of a Sith Master. A Shadow Hand is the Sith analogue to a Jedi 
Padawan, though the relationship between a Hand and a Master is far less 
amicable. Never knowing when a Sith Master might decide to poison their 
food or attempt to murder them in their sleep, Sith apprentices are utterly 
without scruples and as dangerous as feral kath hounds. A Shadow Hand's 
expertise in cruelty, trickery, and the dark side are second only to the 
aster—for now. 


AIS SsHL B 


VSsesSesssss. 


FAIS SHIL | 


Shadow Hand 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Sith apprentice 5 
Destiny 2; Force 4; Dark Side 14 

Init +12; Senses Perception +13 
Languages Basic, Sith 


CL 12 


Dark Lord of the Sith CL 14 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Sith apprentice 5/Sith Lord 2 

Destiny 3; Force 5; Dark Side 14 

Init +14; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings, Perception +14 


Languages Basic, Sith 


Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 23), Fort 24, Will 26; Block, Deflect 
hp 85; Threshold 24 


Speed 6 squares; Running Attack 

Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+8) or 

Melee lightsaber +9/+9 (2d8+8)] with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +13 

Base Atk +12; Grp +13 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers}, Running Attack, 
Whirlwind Attack 

Special Actions Dark Presence, Melee Defenses, Power of the Dark Side 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18): battle strike, dark rage, energy 
resistance, Force grip, Force lightning, Force thrust, mind trick, move 
object, wound 

Force Technique Improved Wound 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Affliction, Block, Dark Presence, Dark Side Adept, Deflect, Power 
of the Dark Side, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), 
Melee Defenses, Running Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers}, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons), 
Whirlwind Attack 

Skills Initiative +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Perception +13, Use 
the Force +18 (can reroll when using [dark side] Force powers, must 
take second result) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built) 


DARK LORD OF THE SITH 

(SITH MASTER) 

Revan and Malak each bear the appellation “Darth,” but the hoary hierarchy 
of Master and apprentice remains firm. The ruling Dark Lord of the Sith is 
a master of the dark side of the Force. Accompanied by a Sith apprentice, 
or "Shadow Hand," Sith Masters’ agendas are as varied as their methodolo- 
gies. In general, however, they seek to accumulate vast resources to make 
of reality what they see fit. During the Dark Wars, many dark side followers 
nominally proclaim themselves Dark Lords, until Darth Traya establishes the 
Sith Triumvirate. : 


Defenses Ref 28 [flat-footed 27, with Flurry 23), Fort 29, Will 30; Block, 
Deflect 
hp 123; Threshold 29 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +19 (2d8+12) or 

Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+12) with Flurry or 

Melee lightsaber +14/+14 (2d8+12) with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +15 

Base Atk +14; Grp +17 

Atk Options Double Attack [lightsabers), Flurry, Power Attack, 
Whirlwind Attack 

Special Actions Dark Healing, Drain Force, Fear, Melee Defenses 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): battle strike, dark rage, energy 
resistance, farseeing, Force lightning, Force scream, Force slam, mind 
trick, move object, rebuke, slow, wound 

Force Secrets Devastating Power 

Foree Techniques Improved Force Slam, Improved Sense Surroundings 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 17, Cha 15 

Talents Affliction, Block, Dark Healing, Deflect, Drain Force, Power of the 
Dark Side, Riposte, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers}, Flurry, Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(3), Melee Defenses, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon 
Focus [lightsabers], Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons), 
Whirlwind Attack 

Skills Initiative +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, Knowledge (tactics) 
+14, Perception +14, Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built) 


AGENTS OF EVIL 

The Sith are more than just faceless legions intent on conquering the galaxy. 
The following collection of individuals, many of them Dark Lords of the Sith, 
represent some of the most influential Sith in this time period. 


ExXAR KUN, 

DARK LORD OF THE SITH 

The father of a half century of bloodshed, Exar Kun was the prized Padawan 
of Master Vodo-Siosk Baas, until his arrogance drove him to study under the 
Sith spirit of Freedon Nadd. 

Nadd nearly kills Kun by luring him to a Sith mausoleum and collaps- 
ing it. Crushed to near-death, Kun opens his heart to the dark side and is 
rewarded with new life. Kun continues unabated, discovering and enslaving 
devolved Massassi Sith on Yavin 4, where he also repays Nadd by destroying 
the wraith with dark energy. 

However, Kun knows Nadd has been mentoring other Sith hopefuls. Track- 
ing them down, he finds the dark side-embattled Jedi Ulic Qel-Droma, and 
as their lightsabers clash, an ancient Sith Lord appears to them across time. 
Branding Kun with the mark of a Dark Lord and Qel-Droma with that of a 
Shadow Hand, he declares, "Exar Kun, because of you, the Sith will never 
die.” With that, the Great Sith War begins. 

Kun and Qel-Droma devastate the Republic. While Qel-Droma secures the 
allegiance of Krath dark side followers and the Mandalorians, Kun converts 
Jedi to the Brotherhood of the Sith. This commune of evil brings destruction 
from Coruscant’s Senate Hall to Ossus's ancient Jedi Library, and unleashes 
the murderous Dark Reaper superweapon. However, when Qel-Droma loses 
his nerve, he leads the Jedi straight to Kun on Yavin 4. Unyielding, Kun drains 
the life energies of his Massassi to assure his essence lives beyond death. 

The Jedi launch a salvo of light side energy at the planet, trapping Kun's 
spirit there, but ravaging Yavin 4 in the process. Afterward, the Jedi build a 
city deep underground to nurture the world back to health and guarantee 
Kun never returns. 


Exar Kun (Great Sith War) 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 2/Sith apprentice 5/Sith Lord 6 

Destiny 3; Force 8; Dark Side 15 

Init +18; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings, Perception +17 

Languages Arkantan, Basic, Catharese, Kreva, Ryl, Tetan, Sith 

Defenses Ref 36 (flat-footed 33, with Flurry 31), Fort 37, Will 35; Block, 
Deflect, Niman 

hp 185; Threshold 37 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee doubie-bladed lightsaber +25 (2d8+15] or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +23 (3d8+15) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +27 (2d8+15) with Flurry or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +25 (3d8+15) with Flurry and Rapid 
Strike or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +25/25 (2d8+15/2d8+15} 

Ranged by weapon +23 


CL 20 


Base Atk +20; Grp +23 

Atk Options Dark Scourge, Double Attack (lightsabers), Flurry 

Special Actions Drain Force, temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +23): battle strike, dark rage, energy 
resistance, Force lightning, Force stun, Force thrust, Force whirlwind, 
mind trick, wound 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power, 
Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Improved Force Stun, Improved Sense Surroundings, 
Language Rip 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 17, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 17 

Talents Armored Defense, Block, Dark Healing, Dark Scourge, Dark 
Side Adept, Deflect, Drain Force, Niman, Redirect Shot, Riposte, Sith 
Alchemy, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon 
Mastery Il, Dual Weapon Mastery III, Flurry, Force Sensitivity, Force 
Training (3), Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force}, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons] 

Skills Initiative +18, Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Perception +17, 
Pilot +18, Use the Force +23 (can reroll when using [dark side] Force 
powers, must take second result} 

Possessions double-bladed lightsaber (self-built}, Exar Kun's light battle 
suit (+6 armor, +2 equipment), Sith talisman 


HIGH LADY BREZWALT, 
MECROSA MATRIARCH 

For centuries, a secret evil in Tapani Sector has had nobles and commoners 
jumping at shadows in their own homes and palaces. That evil is the Sith 
Mecrosa Order, and its nefarious leader is High Lady Brezwalt III. 

Descendants from an ancient order of Sith settled in the Tapani Sector, 
and years later a young noblewoman would rediscover her ancient Sith heri- 
tage. She founds the Mecrosa Order: a coalition of Force-sensitive knights 
sworn to protect Mecetti's High Lord and Lady. These Sith Lords are granted 
tax-free holdings on the world Nyssa; over two centuries, Mecrosa grows 
immensely wealthy and powerful, developing chapter houses, palazzi, and 
spynets throughout the sector. 

Yet, the aloof Tapanis value their independence from the Republic above 
all. Despite the Jedi ties of Mecetti’s archnemesis House Pelagia, Tapanis 
refuse outlander meddling in this “minor domestic affair." So when the Great 
Sith War erupts, the young cutthroat Mecrosa matron High Lady Brezwalt Ill, 
part of a dynasty of Mecetti rulers of the Tapani Empire, brazenly endeavors 
to seize control of half the sector. During Tapani Day festivities, her Sith 
assassins attempt simultaneous assassinations of five of the eight rival 
house leaders, including Reena, Pelagia, Melissus, Calipsa, and Barong. Of 
these, only Pelagia foils the plot, while Houses Calipsa, Melissus, Barong, and 
a clump of Reena are absorbed into Mecetti Province. The Mecrosa Order, 
long a mere myth, now brutaily showcases its reality. 


AWS 2A ie 


CUSEREsess. 


i 


AHS ah4 


At last, Houses Pelagia and Meiantha beg for Republic intervention, but 
with Exar Kun's war intensifying, no help comes. Sith Lady Brezwalt lil stands 
poised to transform Tapani Sector into the Mecetti Empire, until Pelagian 
Jedi Shadows turn the tables. Infiltrating every Mecrosa chapter, the Jedi 
double agents wait. Then, when Kun is defeated, the Shadows spring their 
trap and the Jedi Order pounces. In this event, known as the Cleansing of the 
Nine Houses, Jedi Knights destroy the Mecrosa Order, and Mecetti nobles, 
anxious to save face, turn against Lady Brezwalt. 
High Lady Brezwalt Ill (Restoration) CL16 
Medium Human noble 7/Force adept 5/Sith Lord 4 
Destiny 3; Force 6; Dark Side 17 
Init +15; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings; Perception +16 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Herglese, High Galactic, Malkite, Mrisstese, 

Muun, Sith 
Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 29, with Flurry 26), Fort 29, Will 33 
hp 92; Threshold 29 
Immune fear effects 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightfoil +15 (2d8+9) or 
Melee lightfoil +10/+10 (2d8+9) with Double Attack or 
Melee lightfoil +17 (2d8+9) with Flurry 
Ranged blaster pistol +14 [3d6+8) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +14 
Atk Options Double Attack (lightfoil), Flurry 
Special Actions Born Leader, Force Focus, Power of the Dark Side, 

Sith Alchemy, temptation 
Force Powers Known (Use the Force +22]: battle strike, dark rage, Force 

grip, Force lightning, Force slam, ionize, mind trick, wound 
Force Secrets Mentor, Quicken Power, Shaped Power 
Force Techniques Improved Sense Force, Improved Sense Surroundings 
Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 16, Wis 17, Cha 18 
Talents Affliction, Born Leader, Channel Aggression, Channel Anger, 

Dark Side Adept, Dark Side Master, Force Focus, Power of the Dark Side, 

Sith Alchemy, Swift Power 

Feats Double Attack (lightfoil), Flurry, Force Sensitivity, Force Training 

3}, Linguist, Poison Resistance, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon 

Finesse, Weapon Focus [lightsabers}, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 

pistols, simole weapons) 

Skills Deception +17, Gather Information +17, Initiative +15, Knowledge 

bureaucracy) +16, Knowledge (galactic.lore) +16, Perception +16, 

Persuasion +17, Pilot +15, Ride +15, Use Computer +15, Use the Force 
+22 (can reroll when using [dark side] Force powers, keeping better 
result} 

Possessions lightfoil, Sith poison, Sith talisman 


DARTH REVAN, 
PRODIGAL KNIGHT 
Hero and villain, Jedi and Sith—all of these titles fit the Revanchist. 

The early life of the rebellious Revan is shrouded in mystery. What is 
known is that his power blooms during the Restoration under Jedi Master 
Kreia, whose controversial tutelage significantly impacts Revan's think- 
ing. Revan eventually passes from Padawan to Jedi Knight, but he seeks 
out other masters to round out his education, including the Twi'‘lek Zhar 
Lestin, under whom Revan apprentices alongside another Jedi: his future 
Sith cohort Malak. 

Had Revan been born a generation sooner, he might have been touted as 
he Jedi standard, but in light of the war started by Exar Kun, Revan’s boldness 
in righting wrongs meets with suspicion from a progressively conservative 
Jedi Council. These distinct Jedi ideologies collide when the Mandalorians 
invade the Republic. Revan advocates revanchism—the retaking of territories 
lost to the invaders—but the Council staunchly opposes involvement. For 
Revan, sitting idly while the Republic took on the Mandalorian juggernaut is 
unthinkable. Consulting with Master Kreia, he makes up his mind to openly 
defy the Council. 

As Jedi—such as his loyal friend Malak—flock to Revan's flag, the council 
warns that their aggressions could transform them into the very conquerors 
they fought. The moral lines are already blurring as Revan adopts Mandalo- 
rian Crusader rhetoric, calling his own cause a “Jedi crusade." The Force 
seems with Revan, however, as his Jedi beat the enemy back. Soon, the 
Republic military cedes control to Revan, without regret. After three long 
years, Revan vanquishes the Mandalorians' chieftain in single combat and 
shatters their navy. 

The Republic rejoices. Instead of joining the revelry, however, Revan and 
Malak vanish into unknown space, where Mandalorians supposedly linger. In 
truth, they have gone in search of Sith dogma and the Rakatan Star Forge 
superweapon. 

One year later, they return. As the Council warned, the revanchist has 
become a conqueror. Darth Revan and Darth Malak now head a Sith Empire 
bent on conquest, and the Jedi meet their wayward son head on. The Jedi 
Civil War initially favors Revan, who wisely tries keeping the infrastructures 
of the Jedi and Republic intact, but his luck soon runs out. Betrayed by a 
power-hungry Malak, Revan is captured by Bastila Shan’s Jedi strike team. 
His memories are then temporarily erased with the Force, and he is sent out 
as a Jedi sleeper to locate the Star Forge shipyard. 

Alongside Bastila, Revan does just that, forming an intimate bond with 
his captor and saving her from the dark side. In a bitter reunion, he also 
confronts Malak aboard the Star Forge and does away with his long-time 
friend and former apprentice. Yet, after the war, other memories haunt 
Revan. He Strikes out for the Rim alone, searching for what he believes is 
the true Sith menace. 


DARTH REVAN DDES NOT TAKE FAILURE LIDHTLY 


Darth Revan (Jedi Civil War) 

Medium Human Jedi 7Jedi Knight 5/Sith apprentice 3/Sith Lord 5 
Destiny 4; Force 8, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 16 

Init +19; Senses Perception +19 

Languages Basic, Binary, Huttese, Mando'a, Rakata, Sith 


CL 20 


Force Powers Known [Use the Force +23): battle strike, dark rage, 
farseeing, Force grip, Force lightning, Force whirlwind, mind trick, move 
object, slow, wound 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power, 
Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery [battle strike], Improved Sense 
Force, Language Absorption 


Defenses Ref 36 (flat-footed 33), Fort 35, Will 37; Block, Deflect 
hp 165; Threshold 35 


Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +25 (2d8+13) or 

Melee lightsaber +22/4+22 (2d8+13) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +17/+17 (2d8+13) with Triple Attack or 

Melee unarmed +23 (1d6413) or 

Ranged by weapon +23 

Base Atk +20; Grp +23 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers), Triple Attack (lightsabers) 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Dark Presence, Drain Force, Force 
Focus, Power of the Dark Side, Skilled Advisor, temptation 


Abilities Str 17, Dex 17, Con 14, Int 15, Wis 18, Cha 19 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Affliction, Armored Defense, Block, Dark 
Presence, Deflect, Drain Force, Force Deception, Force Focus, 
Multiattack Proficiency (lightsabers), Power of the Dark Side, Skilled 
Advisor 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Double Attack (lightsabers), Dual Weapon 
Mastery I, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Martial Arts |, Skill 
Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the Force, Triple Attack (lightsabers), 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +18, Deception +24, Initiative +18, Knowledge (tactics) 
+17, Perception +19, Use the Force +24 [can reroll when using [dark 
side] Force powers) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Darth Revan's armor (+6 armor, +2 
equipment) 


DARTH MALAK, SITH MAGNUS 
Darth Malak was not always a model Dark Lord. He was once a compassion- 
ate Jedi Knight. In fact, Republic citizens’ sufferings so move the young Jedi 
Alek Squinquargesimus during the Mandalorian Wars that he rebels—along 
with his good friend Revan—against the Jedi Council's decree of inaction. 
The young Jedi heips recruit thousands of Jedi to spearhead the war against 
the Mandalorians, and they drive back the invaders. Yet sweeping victories 
correspond all too frequently with proportionately devastating moral com- 
promises. Day by day, Alek perceives himself sliding toward the dark side, 
but sees no alternative. The horrors of war are not a mystery, and he knew 
he would face this dilemma. 

Just as he intends, Alek saves the galaxy. Victorious against the Mandalo- 
rians, he realizes that alt his efforts may be for naught if a strong hand does 
not steer the galaxy. In actuality, besides himself, he knows he can trust only 
the soldiers he had fought alongside, because they are capable defenders. 
Sharing these thoughts with Revan, Alek finds his brother-in-arms agrees. 

Now Alek understands the dark side. It is named from ignorance: the 
ignorance of never having killed, of never having ordered friends to their 
deaths, of always thinking today is your day to die—all for cowards unwilling 
to fight for their own safety—and ignorance of what it means to wield so 
much power. Revan, of course, understands completely. 

After the Mandalorian Wars, Alek and Revan subsume themselves in Kor- 
riban and Malachor V's Sith occultism and use the Star Forge superweapon 


AOS aA 


to churn out war materiel almost limitlessly. Alek then becomes Darth Malak 
of the remade Sith Empire, apprentice to Darth Revan. The Republic conquest 
initially goes well, but in time, Malak sees Lord Revan as soft, resulting in 
a tension that culminates in a lightsaber duel; Malak loses his lower jaw to 
Revan's blade, necessitating a metallic jaw guard. Returning the favor, Malak 
fires on Revan's flagship. Unaware that Jedi have captured the traitor, Malak 
assumes the crown of ruling Dark Lord, inheriting the empire. With Admiral 
Saul Karath, Malak's fleet spreads terror, and he cultivates Darth Bandon 
and Bastila Shan as his pupils. However, Malak faces Revan again, this time 
as a reconditioned Jedi. In the rematch, Malak's twisted dream of protecting 
the galaxy dies with him. 


Darth Malak (Jedi Civil War) 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Sith apprentice 4/Sith Lord 4 

Destiny 2; Force 8; Dark Side 15 

Init +17; Senses Perception +17 

Languages Basic, Sith 

Defenses Ref 35 (flat-footed 33), Fort 38, Will 35 

hp 185; Threshold 43 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +27 (2d8+17) or 

Melee lightsaber +24/+24 (2d8+17) with Double Attack or 

Melee Sith war sword +26 (2d6+17) 

Ranged blaster pisto| +22 (3d6+15) 

Base Atk +20; Grp +25 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers), Whirlwind Attack, Wicked Strike 

Special Actions Dark Healing, Force Suppression, Force Warning, Melee 
Defenses, Sith Sorcery, Telekinetic Power, temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): battle strike, dark rage, Force 
grip, Force lightning, Force scream, Force stun, Force whirlwind, mind 
trick, surge 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Shaped Power 

Force Techniques Dominate Mind, !mproved Force Stun, Force Power 
Mastery (Force whirlwind), Improved Move Light Object 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 14, Con 16, Int 15, Wis 15, Cha 20 

Talents Armored Defenses, Block, Dark Healing, Dark Side Adeot, Dark 
Side Master, Deflect, Force Suppression, Force Warning, Multiattack 
Proficiency (lightsabers), Weapon Specialization (lightsabers], Wicked 
Strike 

Feats Armor Proficiency [light], Double Attack [lightsabers), Force 
Sensitivity, Force Training (3}, Melee Defense, Republic Military 
Training, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Focus (simple 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons), 
Whirlwind Attack 


CL 20 


Skills Endurance +18, Initiative +17, Perception +17, Knowledge (tactics) 
+17, Use the Force +20 (can reroll when using [dark side] Force powers 
and keep better result) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Sith alchemical war sword, Darth 
Malak's armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment] 


DARTH BANDON, 

SITH SHADOW HAND 

Most Jedi who join the Sith Empire abandon their former Republic allegiance 
when the Mandalorian Wars conclude, but several traitors flee to the Kor- 
riban Sith academy during the Jedi Civil War. Among these turncoats is 
Darth Bandon. 

Bandon chafes under his Jedi Master, who aims to curb his natural anger 
and hatred. So when a mighty Sith Empire assaults Republic space, Bandon 
flees the repressive Jedi Order, Unleashing his cruelty within the Sith hierar- 
chy, he immediately sparks interest from Darth Malak. Once Malak controls 
he Sith Empire, he makes Bandon his Sith apprentice. 

The bloodthirsty Darth Bandon wastes no time in building a double-bladed 
Sith lightsaber resembling that of Exar Kun, using it to impale a score of his 
former Jedi allies. Growing arrogant, Bandon inevitably sets his sights on 
alak's mantle. But when Bandon kills the common Republic soldier Trask 
Ulgo, who sacrifices himself to save Revan after his Jedi reconditioning, the 
cocksure Bandon never imagines it will be the death of him. Ulgo’s sacrifice 
allows Revan to escape and start down the path to reclaiming his legacy. As 
Revan grows more powerful, Darth Malak orders Darth Bandon to seek out 
and destroy Revan and his companions. With two dark side cronies in tow, 
Bandon confronts Revan but is killed by the former Sith Lord. 


Darth Bandon 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Sith apprentice 3 
Destiny 1; Force 3; Dark Side 12 

Init +12; Senses Perception +11; Block, Deflect 
Languages Basic, Sith 


CL 10 


Defenses Ref 24 [flat-footed 22}, Fort 26, Will 23 
hp 95; Threshold 26 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +13 (2d8+9) or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +8 (2d8+9) and 
double-bladed lightsaber +8 (2d8+9) 

Ranged by weapon +12 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Dark Scourge, Mighty Swing 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack, Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): battle strike, dark rage, 
Force lightning, Force thrust 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (dark rage) 


SOMIRAL SAUL KARATH, 
TRAITOR TO THE REPUBLIC 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Talents Armored Defenses, Block, Dark Scourge, Deflect, Redirect Shot, 
Weapon Specialization [lightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Dual Weapon 
Mastery |, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Mighty Swing, 
Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +11, Pilot +12, Use the Force +16 

Possessions double-bladed lightsaber [self-built). Darth Bandon's 
fiber armor (+5 armor, +2 equipment) 


ADMIRAL SAUL KARATH 

Corellian-born Saul Karath comes from tough working-class beginnings— 
made all the tougher when the Great Sith War turns his life upside down. The 
Navy provides a means of escape. Starting as a noncommissioned crewman, 
Karath serves as steward for Great Sith War naval hero Orley Vanicus— 
beginning a career that sees him trying nearly every duty aboard a starship 
at least once. He grows into a talented pilot and an even better tactician, 
known for acting on quality snap judgments. 

His skills for dealing with bureaucracy are less developed, with numer- 
ous setbacks in his career. But his remarkable ability to rebound allows 
him to survive and thrive. On Reciprocity, he finds success protecting 
convoys against pirates; 
later, as captain and then 

admiral on Courageous 
and Swiftsure, he leads 
the defense against the 
Mandatorians. The Navy, 
for Karath, is family. 

But when Darth Revan 
Strikes, that family is 
shaken, and Karath makes 
his ultimate gamble to 
save it. Faced with the 
loss of his forces and com- 
mand, Karath betrays the 
Republic, bringing Levia- 
than and other ships to 
the Sith, and devastating 
his protégé, Carth Onasi. 
The move is the greatest 
of ironies for Karath, who 
had mistrusted Jedi since 
the Sith War. Earlier, in the 
Mandalorian Wars, Karath 


immediately—and incorrectly—assumes on scant evidence that Zayne Carrick 
is a Mandalorian spy; other Jedi received similarly icy receptions. Now, in 
the Jedi Civil War, Karath finds himself in the service of fallen Jedi, and he 
is driven to dire acts to prove his worth. 

Karath initially hopes the disappearance of Revan from the scene would 
improve matters, but he soon finds that serving Malak is no easier. But as 
the highest-ranking official in Malak's service, he is not about to abandon his 
post. The preservation of his beloved Navy, and his status within it, overrules 
all other concerns. As he puts it, “War's a funny thing. It makes you do things 
you never thought you'd do." 


Saul Karath 

Medium Human soldier 5/noble 3/ace pilot 1/officer 7 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 10 

Init +17; Senses Perception +17 

Languages Basic, Bothan, Durese, Khilese, Kuat, Mando’a, Sullustese, 
Zabrak 

Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 30), Fort 30, Will 31 

hp 131; Threshold 30 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +15 (1d44+9) 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+8) 

Base Atk +14; Grp +15 

Atk Options Expert Gunner, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons) 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinated 
Attack, Deployment Tactics, Field Tactics, Rally 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover +3, share talent (Assault Tactics, 

Deployment Tactics, Field Tactics) 

Talents Armored Defenses, Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Born Leader, 

Deployment Tactics, Distant Command, Expert Gunner, Field Tactics, 

Penetrating Attack [heavy weapons), Rally 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Linguist, 

Republic Military Training, Skill Focus (Initiative), Skill Focus 

{Knowledge [tactics]}, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus {Persuasion}, 

Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon 

Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +17, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +14, Knowledge (tactics) 
+19, Mechanics +14, Perception +17, Persuasion +19, Pilot +12 

Possessions blaster pistol, code cylinder, comlink (encrypted), officer's 
uniform 


CL 16 


advHo 


a 
D 
X 


AAS SA 


f= 


AAS eH 


Sessssssss 


DARTH TRAYA, 
LORD OF BETRAYAL 

As master to the galaxy's savior and its destroyers, Darth Traya seems a 
paradox. But she understands treachery to be not only the way of the Sith 
out the will of the Force. 

Before becoming a Sith, Kreia is a Jedi Master. A mystic and historian, 
her unused eyesight lies fallow as she relies on marathon meditations 
to penetrate the universe's mysteries. For decades, Kreia challenges her 
Padawans with difficult questions. “If a lightsaber loses its power, is it still a 
lightsaber?" she would ask. “And if a Jedi loses her powers, is she still a Jedi?” 
Her peers consider “Kreia’s conundrums" quaint, but her Knights-in-training 
are spellbound. However, when Kreia's former students follow her one-time 
Padawan Revan to battle the Mandalorians, her rhetoric is denounced by 
Master Atris and the Jedi Council. 

Kreia silently withdraws from the Jedi. Some believe she too has followed 
Revan, but she traces her Padawan’s footsteps in a different way. Kreia is 
drawn to the Force echoes at Malachor V. Within its Trayus Academy, she 
encounters assassins left by Darth Revan, but instead of attacking, they 
present her with Sith hermetica. “The truths of the cosmos,” these writings 
intimated, “are not intended for the sane." Intrigued, Kreia scours 
the texts through the Force, suspecting their authors were in 
fact pureblooded descendants of the Sith people. 

The Sith sorcerers claim privileged insight into secret 
realities. They argue that even though the contradictory 
and aimless nature of existence appears obvious to all 
intelligent beings, awareness of the Force exposes this 
obvious “fact” for a lie. Hence, the Force betrays 
rorce-sensitive beings, forcing them to live 
in this compromised, cnaotic universe— 
to five the lie. Even as she wants to 
denounce this, Darth Traya falis 
under its seductive spell. Clearly, 
not just these Sith but the Force 
itself must be destroyed—and the 
“wound” in the Force at Malachor V 
proves it possible. 

Traya begins hunting Force-wounds, thus 
discovering and allying with the ghastly Darth 
ihilus and monstrous Darth Sion. Coming to 
he Sith Empire’s remnants as Revan's master, the 
remaining troopers also pledged their loyalty 
o her. This Sith Triumvirate is launched 
from Malachar V, intending to wipe out 
Traya's Jedi betrayers. But Traya under- 
estimates her disciples’ depravity. They 
urn on her and drain her Force powers. 


As Sion and Nihilus unwittingly aid her by carrying cut a massive assas- 
sination campaign against the Jedi, Traya seeks the Jedi Exile, Revan's old 
general, who had been severed from the Force. Together forging a telepathic 
link, they revitalize their Force connections. In the Jedi Exile, who had 
wounded the Force at Malachor V, Traya believes she has found a way to 
destroy all traitors, including the Force itself. Traya manipulates the Exile 
into finding the surviving Jedi Masters and Traya's Sith apprentices so that 
Traya can destroy them. 

At last, Traya reveals herself as a Sith, but the Jedi Exile refuses her 
invitation to join the dark side. Traya uses vast telekinetic powers to wield a 
trio of lightsabers against her, but she ts ultimately killed by the person she 
considered her greatest disciple. 


Darth Traya (Dark Wars) 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5Jedi Master 5/Sith Lord 3 
Destiny 6; Force 8, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 20 
Init +18; Senses Use the Force +24 
Languages Basic, Caamasi, Cerean, Sith, Tundan 
Defenses Ref 36 [flat-footed 33, with Flurry 28), Fort 36, Will 41; Block, 
Deflect 
hp 126; Threshold 36 
Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 


CL 20 


Melee lightsaber +25 (2d8+13/x3) or 
Melee lightsaber +22/+22 (2d8+13/x3) with Double 
Attack or 
\) Melee lightsaber +17/+17/+17 (2d8+13/x3] 
\" Melee lightsaber +27 (2d8+13/x3) with Flurry 
7" Ranged by weapon +23 
Base Atk +20; Grp +21 
Atk Options Double Attack {lightsabers), 
Flurry, Trakata, Triple Attack (lightsabers), 
Special Actions Dark Healing, Fear, serenity, 
temptation 
Force Powers Known (Use the Force +24): battle 
strike, dark rage, energy resistance, farseeing, Force 
disarm, Force lightning, Force scream, Force slam, Force 
energy, rebuke (2), surge, vital transfer, wound 
Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, 
Mentor, Multitarget Power, Quicken Power, 
Shaped Power 
Force Techniques Improved Kinetic Combat, 


with Triple Attack or 
Triple Crit (lightsaber) 
thrust, kinetic combat, mind trick, move object, negate 
Improved Sense Force 


DARTH TRAYA, MASTER OF KINETIC COMBAT 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 16, Int 18, Wis 20, Cha 12 

Talents Block, Deflect, Dark Healing, Equilibrium, Force Deception, 
Force Perception, Multiattack Proficiency (lightsabers), Power of the 

Dark Side, Telepathic Link, Trakata, Visions, Weapon Specialization 

lightsabers) 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Flurry, Force Sensitivity, Force Training 

3), Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the Force, Triple Attack 

lightsabers), Triple Crit (lightsaber), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 

lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

ills Acrobatics +18, Deception +24, Endurance +18, Initiative +18 

can reroll and keep better result), Knowledge (galactic lore) +19, 

Knowledge (social sciences) +19, Perception +24, Pilot +18, Use the 

Force +24 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built], Jedi robes 


S 


~ 


DARTH SION, LORD OF PAIN 

The ancient Sith texts at Korriban are rife with paranormal tales of death- 
defying Sith Lords. But none ever so ardently clung to his broken body as 
the hate-filled, animate corpse Darth Sion. 

Hatred. Since time immemorial, Sion—possibly his given name—clotted his 
heart with hatred. Like all people, Sion was susceptible to infirmity of every 
kind—physical, emotional, mental—and, like all people, Sion suffered each of 
these to a degree that to another might not seem extraordinary, but which 
their sufferer might rightly term intolerable. Like all people, Sion was faced 
with the choice to endure his unspeakable pain as one more nameless person 
among many, or to imbue his suffering with the true but hollow uniqueness 
entitled the individual sufferings of all people. He chose the latter, and Darth 
Sion, Lord of Pain, was born. 

As a marauder for the Sith Empire during the Great Sith War, Sion flings 
himself at the Jedi, seeking death, but instead, he finds the opposite. Regu- 
larly surviving the frontline pandemonium, Sion acquires a pain tolerance 
that convinces him of his immortality. Inevitably, probability has its day and 
Sion is struck down, 

Yet death does not come for Darth Sion, and each centimeter of his fail- 
ing body comes alive with anguish, multiplying that infinitely distant point 
of pain one thousandfold until his brain threatens to collapse. Improbably, 
Sion gets up. And as he locks eyes with his attacker, Sion lets all his anger 
for being killed—all the hatred clotting his heart—explode. 

Sion finds that keeping his decomposing flesh tethered together with dark 
side energy is inexplicably painful, and requires endless concentration on the 
rage that festers inside him—but immortality is immortality. 

Surviving the Sith backstabbing following the Jedi Civil War, Sion’s abili- 
ties draw the eye of Revan's former master, the powerful Darth Traya. Sion 
learns much from the shrew, but grows frustrated with her abstract teachings. 
He conspires with Darth Nihilus to strip her powers and eventually severs 


DARTH SION HAS VANGIUSHED MANY JED! FOES 


Traya’s hand. Sion embarks ona Jedi-assassination spree, “dying” many more 
times, but always ending more enemy lives. 

One Jedi especially gets underneath Sion's decrepit skin. The Jedi Exile 
proves remarkably resilient. Sion feels an alien feeling bud within him: not 
respect for the female Jedi, not admiration, but an emotion quite intolerable. 
It causes his intense hatred to flag, threatening his tenuous hold on life, so 
Sion decides to destroy the woman responsible for this weakness. However, 
in their final confrontation, the Jedi Exile convinces the Dark Lord to release 
himself from his enslaving hatred. Rage and life flee Sion simultaneously, his 
undead body finally yielding to absolute necrosis. 


<x HSBLdvHoD 


| 


AHS srt, 


ALIS SAL 


Darth Sion (Dark Wars) 

Medium Human soldier 7/Sith apprentice 7/Sith Lord 5 

Destiny 4; Force 7; Dark Side 14 

Init +17; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Sith 

Defenses Ref 35 (flat-footed 32), Fort 35, Will 34 

hp 177; Threshold 35 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +25 (2d8+16) or 

Melee lightsaber +20/+20 (2d8+16) with Double Attack 

Ranged blaster pistol +22 (3d6+9) 

Base Atk +19; Grp +24 

Atk Options Dark Scourge, Double Attack (lightsabers), Power Attack, 
Severing Strike 

Special Actions Dark Healing Field, Dark Presence, Improved Dark 
Healing, Power of the Dark Side, temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18): battle strike (2), dark rage, 
Force slam, Force thrust, Force whirlwind, move object, slow, wound 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power, 
Shaped Power 

Force Techniques Improved Force Slam, Improved Force Trance, Improved 
Wound 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 17, Con 16, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 9 

Talents Dark Healing, Dark Healing Field, Dark Presence, Dark Scourge, 
Dark Side Adept, Improved Dark Healing, Power of the Dark Side, 
Severing Strike, Swift Power, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack (lightsabers), 
Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Power Attack, Sith Military 
Training, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Deception), Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Initiative +17, Knowledge (tactics) +15, Perception 
+16, Pilot +17, Use the Force +18 (can reroll when using [dark side] 
Force powers, must take second result) 

Possessions lightsaber 


CL 19 


DARTH NIHILUS, LORD OF 
HUNGER 

Victim of the Mandalorian Wars, the man who became Nihilus lost everything: 
his possessions, his loved ones, and the will to live. While illness cannibalizes 
his body, a vast emptiness devours his humanity. Then, when all seems lost, he 
discovers that his emptiness hungered. The first time, he fed it unconsciously. 
Draining another being's life is frigntening, nauseating, but for a euphoric 
moment, the memories, the illness, and the hunger disappeared. 


But it proves insatiable. The more he indulges it, the shorter the satis- 
faction lasts and the more severe the hunger becomes. He begins feeding 
relentlessly, still always craving. Existence again becomes unbearable, but 
then hope materializes. A blind Sith Lord appears. She has felt his existence 
like a gaping wound through the Force. The Force, she explains, fuels his 
hunger, and she will show him how to devour worlds. The Sith and the Force 
are meaningless to him, but the hunger must be appeased. 

Darth Traya indeed teaches the newly christened Darth Nihilus to harness 
his life-draining gift to radical heights—so effectively, in fact, that Nihilus 
saps Traya’s powers in a calculated double-cross. However, as Nihilus greed- 
ily consumes entire planets’ life energy, the dark side macerates him even 
faster. But no matter. Nothing matters except his hunger. Before it devours 
him totally, Nihilus uses its power to displace his persona into his robes 
and armor. As his useless body disintegrates, he becomes living primitive 
intention; at last, the whole of the galaxy becomes food—for Nihilus has 
become the hunger. 

Ousting Traya with Darth Sion’s help, Nihilus binges on the Force, nearly 
extinguishing the Jedi forever at Katarr. However, Traya reciprocates his 
betrayal by luring him into a confrontation with the Jedi Exile and Nihilus’s 
own former apprentice. When Nihilus tries feeding on this Jedi, his hunger 
is mysteriously repelled, as if confronted by his exact polar opposite. Psychi- 
cally starved by the effort, the Dark Lord falls to the Jedi, and Nihilus the 
man dissolves into oblivion. 


Darth Nihilus (Dark Wars) CL 19 

Medium Human (Dark Side Aberration) soldier 7/Sith apprentice 7/Sith 
Lord 5 

Destiny 4; Force 7; Dark Side 14 

Init +18; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings, Use the Force +21 

Languages — 

Defenses Ref 36 (flat-footed 32), Fort 38, Will 34 

hp 234; Threshold 38 

Immune fear effects 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +25 (2d8+13) or 

Melee lightsaber +22/+22 (2d8+13) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +17/+17 (2d8+13) with Triple Attack 

Ranged blaster pistol +23 (3d6+9) 

Base Atk +19; Grp +21 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers), Mighty Swing, Running Attack, 
Triple Attack (lightsabers) 

Special Actions Dark Healing Field, Drain Force, Improved Dark Healing, 
temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +21): battle strike, dark rage, 
farseeing, Force grip, Force lightning, Force resistance, Force scream, 
Force whirlwind, sever Force, slow, surge, wound 


Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Mentor, Multitarget 
Power 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (Sever Force}, Improved Sense 
Force, Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 19, Dex 18, Con 22, Int 8, Wis 16, Cha 15 

Talents Armored Defenses, Dark Healing, Dark Healing Field, Drain Force, 
Force Flow, Force Perception, Improved Dark Healing, Multiattack 
Proficiency (lightsabers), Telepathic Influence, Telepathic Link, Visions 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack [lightsaber], 
Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Mighty Swing, Rapid Strike, 
Running Attack Skill Focus (Use the Force), Triple Attack (lightsabers), 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +20, Initiative +18, Perception +21, Use the Force +21 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), mask, Sith robes 


STARSHIPS 


Though most of the ships used by the Sith Empire are based on designs 
stolen from the Republic, the following starships are emblematic of the Sitn 
Empire's war machine. Also note that many vessels used by the Republic, 
both in the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi Civil War, may be stolen by the 
Sith and replicated using the Star Forge. 


INTERDICTOR-CLASS WARSHIP 

The Interdictor-class capital ship comes to symbolize the might of the 
Sith Empire. This "pure warship" is originally commissioned to round out 
the Republic fleet, filling a strategic gap between its /nexpugnable-class 
behemoths and Hammerhead-class frigates. Only a single prototype, the 
Leviathan, comes out of the Corellian shipyards spaceworthy. To the Repub- 
lic's regret, Admiral Saul Karath obtains command of the ship—and soon 
deserts for the Sith. 


AN INTERDICTOR-CLASS WARSHIP FIRES ON A PAIR 
OF FLEBING FORAY-CLASS BLOCKADE RUNNERS 


At 600 meters long, armed to the teeth, and equipped with the latest in 
mass-shadow-generating technology, the Interdictor represents the peak of 
Corellian engineering. Revan wastes no time in deconstructing its design with 
the Star Forge, spitting out hundreds of replicas for the Sith armada. 

Tactical Fire: The /nterdictor-class warship is a mobile capital ship 
capable of trapping enemy forces by filling in the gaps in fleet formations. 
As a Standard action, an /nterdictor-class warship can forego all attacks to 
provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius. All enemy starships 
within this area suffer a -1 penalty to Reflex Defense and have their space 
speed reduced by 2 squares (to a minimum of 1 square). 


Star Forge Manufacture Interdictor-class Warship CL 16 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 14 [flat-footed 12), Fort 50; +12 armor 
hp 1,250; DR 20; SR 110; Threshold 250 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 medium turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
6 point-defense light laser batteries +10 (see below) 
3 tractor beam batteries +10* (see below) 
4 gravity well projectors +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +62 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense lignt laser cannon batteries) 
Abilities Str 90, Dex 14, Con —, int 18 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 5,224 (skilled); Passengers 3,600 (troops) 
Cargo 11,000 tons; Consumables 3 years; Carried Craft 48 Sith 
interceptors, various support vehicles 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x9), navicomputer 
Availability Military Cost not available for sale 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Medium turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
_Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
Point-defense light laser cannon battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


Tractor beam battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +10 (-10 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg —(grapple 
HS) 
Gravity well projector (2 gunners) 
Atk +8 (3x3 square starsnip-scale area attack), Dmg Special (SG 45) 


AHS SA 


AWS SAL 


BEEEEEEEES 


CENTURION-CLASS 
BATTLECRUISER 
Twice the size of Interdictor-class warships, the Centurion-class battle- 
cruiser is the heavyweight of Revan’'s fleet, first fighting for the Republic, 
then against it. Intended to phase out the problematic /nexpugnable-class 
ships, a limited number of these 1,200-meter-long starships see action in 
the Mandalorian Wars. Several of the ships are crushed beyond recognition 
by the Mass Shadow Generator in the Battle of Malachor V. The rest wind up 
serving as prestigious, colossal mobile fortresses for the Sith Empire. 

The Centurion-class battlecruiser is a powerful ship that presents an 
imtimidating visage to its opponents. Built in the same wedge-shaped design 
that would later become popular among Star Destroyers in the Galactic Civil 


War, a single Centurion-class battlecruiser packs enough firepower to take 
on an Inexpugnable-class command ship and is purely a weapon of war. 

Most Centurion-class battlecruisers are destroyed or captured by the end 
of the Jedi Civil War. However, during the Dark Wars, the Sith Lord Darth 
Nihilus manages to resurrect one of the crushed battlecruisers from Malachor 
V, turning the wreck of the Ravager into a spaceworthy ghost ship. 

Tactical Fire: The Centurion-class battlecruiser is a powerful vessel that 
can devastate enemy forces with its powerful weapons. As a standard action, 
a Centurion-class battlecruiser can forego ail attacks to provide tactical fire 
to all squares in a 2-square radius. All allied ships of Colossal (frigate) size or 
larger deal +1 die of damage with vehicle weapons against any enemy ships 
of Colossal (frigate) size or larger within this radius. 


A WING OF CHELA-CLASS STARFIGHTERS LAUNCHES AN ATTACK ON A CENTURION-CLASS SATTLECRUISGER 


Star Forge Manufacture Centurion-class Battlecruiser CL 20 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 


Init -1; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 17 [flat-footed 14], Fort 55; +14 armor 
hp 1,950; DR 20; SR 140; Threshold 255 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 6 medium turbolaser batteries +17” (see below) 
6 heavy ion cannon batteries +17* (see below) 
6 point-defense light laser cannon batteries +11 (see below) 
3 tractor beam batteries +11* (see below} 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +67 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense light laser cannon batteries) 


Abilities Str 100, Dex 16, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 31,452 (skilled); Passengers 7,400 (troops) 

Cargo 32,000 tons; Consumables 5 years: Carried Craft 96 Sith 
interceptors, various support vehicles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x8], navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Medium turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (6 gunners) 
__ Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion 


Point-defense light laser cannon battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +11 {+6 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 


Tractor beam battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +11 {-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg —(grapple 
+67) 


DERRIPHAN-CLASS BATTLESHIP 
One of the staples of the Sith fleet a thousand years before the Great Sith 
War, the 215-meter-long Derriphan-class battleship is a well-armored frigate 
that is capable of dealing significant amounts of damage to enemy forces. 
Despite being unshielded and sluggish, the Derriphan-class battleship can 
still take a beating as it concentrates its fire on individual enemy ships. Since 
this battleship carries only a small complement of six starfighters, it relies on 
its point-defense weapons for most of its anti-fighter protection. 

Though all of the Derriphan-class battleships were thought to be 
destroyed in the Great Hyperspace War, at least one survived. The ship, 
belonging to Naga Sadow, was buried on Yavin 4. During the Great Sith War, 
Exar Kun would raise the ship from the planet and put it back in to service, 
similar to the way that Darth Nihilus would raise the Ravager from the ruined 


surface of Matachor V. Though Sadow's ship, under Exar Kun‘s control, would 
eventually be destroyed at the conclusion of the war, knowledge of the ship's 
construction is handed down to a small number of Sith exiles who kept the 
secret of the ship's design. 

When Darth Revan and Darth Malak return from the Unknown Regions 
and resurrect the Sith Empire, the exiles in possession of the plans for the 
Derriphan-class battleship turn the information over to Revan’'s forces, In 
need of smaller capital ships, the Sith Empire uses the Star Forge to quickly 
construct dozens of Derriphan-class battleships. More powerful than analo- 
gous frigates under Republic control, these ships prove to be an excellent 
complement to the larger capital ships in the Sith fleet, though their lack of 
shielding results in heavy casualties among this class of ship. 

Tactical Fire: The Derriphan-class battleship is designed to unload a 
heavy amount of focused firepower on enemy capital ships, even at the 
expense of their own longevity. As a standard action, a Derriphan-class 
battleship can forego all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent 
squares. Any missile or torpedo attacks against enemies who are within this 
radius deal +1 die of damage. 


Star Forge Manufacture Derriphan-class Battleship CL 14 

Colossal (frigate) capital shio 

Init -4; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), rort 35; +13 armor 

hp 840; DR 30; Threshold 135 

Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale} 

Ranged point-defense medium blaster cannon battery +7 (see below) and 
heavy concussion missile battery +7* (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +47 

Atk Options autofire (point-defense medium blaster cannon battery} 

Abilities Str 61, Dex 10, Con —, Int 13 

Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 25 (skilled); Passengers 850 

Cargo 5,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 6 starfighters, 2 
shuttles 

Payload 60 concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x4 (backup x12], navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Point-defense laser cannon battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Heavy concussion missile battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 


ROS ema | 


AHS aA 5 


rFMERALD-CLASS SHUTTLE 
One of the few transport ships mass-produced for the Sith Empire during 
the Jedi Civil War, the 28-meter-long Herald-class Shuttle is originally based 
ona design by a Republic Fleet Systems design that was produced in limited 
quantities but eventually supplanted by the Ministry-class orbital shuttle 
and the KT-400 droid carrier. This vessel is actually a multipurpose craft, 
allowing it to function either as a shuttlecraft for transporting powerful 
Sith or as a cargo vessel, used to haul valuable goods like kolto. Those ves- 
sels used as transport craft are usually outfitted with a luxury upgrade and 
serve as the personal shuttlecraft of Sith Lords and wealthy nobles loyal to 
the Sith Empire. 
Star Forge Manufacture Herald-class Shuttle cL 11 
Colossal* space transport 
Init -1; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 
hp 130; DR 15; SR 20: Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 600 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 
Ranged light turbolaser cannons +7* (see below) and 
point-defense double laser cannons +5 {see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale): Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +38 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense double laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 43, Dex 12, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 5 (10 on shuttle-only models) 

Cargo 70 tons (15 tons on shuttle-only models); Consumables 1 month; 
Carried Craft 1 landspeeder, 2 speeder bikes 

Hyperdrive x2 

Availability Military; Cost Not available for sale (estimated value 120,000 
credits; 222,500 for shuttle-only model) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Light turbolaser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal}, Dmg 3d10x5 


Point-defense double laser cannons (copilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


SITH INTERCEPTOR 

Few sights are as overwhelming as a Centurion-class battlecruiser spewing 
scores of Sith interceptors. Small, lightweight, and fragile, the Sith interceptor 
is a physical manifestation of Sith philosophy. Like the Empire under Darth 
Sidious uses TIE fighters, Revan’s Sith Empire uses the disposable Sith fight- 
ers because they can be mass-produced and thrown at the enemy with little 
regard for the lives of the pilots. As long as they accomplish their goal, the 
Sith Lords care little for how many casualties the pilots of Sith interceptors 
sustain. Most Republic pilots who refused to defect to the Sith find it hard 
to believe just how fragile the Sith interceptor is, though the Sith pilots’ 
willingness to throw away their lives makes it likely that even sturdier Republic 
craft will suffer devastating losses during space engagements. 

Sith interceptors are small, no more than 7 meters in length with their 
wings extended, and have very little in the way of hull integrity. The cockpits 
provide only the barest minimum of life support, allowing a pilot to fly with- 
out the need for a full spacesuit; however, most pilots of Sith interceptors 
do wear full environment suits since they are likely to need to eject (or on 
the off chance that they survive their craft's destruction). 
Star Forge Manufacture Sith Interceptor 
Huge starfighter 
Init +9; Senses Perception +5 


CL5 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 21; +3 armor 
hp 50; DR 10; Threshold 31 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h}, fly 5 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3xx3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +21 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons} 


Abilities Str 32, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 
Cargo 40 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost Not available for sale 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


OROIDS 


The following droids can be found throughout the Sith Empire, particularly 
during the Jedi Civil War period and later. 


SiITH ASSAULT DROIDS 

Originally created by the Republic in the days leading up to the Mandalorian 
Wars, the Mark | and Mark IV assault droids are two of the most common 
droid weapons in the Sith Empire. Though the Republic still uses these droids 
as automated defenses (patrolling city streets or military facilities), the Sith 
Empire puts the droids to greater use. In the early days of the Jeci Civil War, 
the Sith rely heavily on assault droids to fill out tne ranks of their military, as 
it takes time for members of the Republic to defect and join the Sith Empire. 
As the Sith academy on Korriban cranks out more and more recruits, assault 
droids fall back into an auxiliary role, but are still used as the defenders of 
starships throughout the Sith fleet. 

Though Czerka manufactures several models of assault droid, the Mark 
| and Mark IV models are the most sought after. The Mark | assault droid is 
a unique design that, while vaguely humanoid, relies on a single leg for the 
bulk of its motion. The Mark IV assault droid is more spiderlike, with four legs 
and a head with a mounted blaster rifle. Both the Mark | and Mark IV droids 
are capable defenders, but they have little in the way of advanced tactical 
programming. These droids are used primarily in a reactive, defensive manner 
and, despite their simple programming, have proven exceptionally capable of 
repelling Republic boarding parties attempting to seize Sith starships. 

Sith assault droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Czerka Corporation Mark | Assault Droid CL 6 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12 
Init +8; Senses Perception +13 
Languages Binary 
Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 12, Will 12 
hp 30; SR 10; Threshold 12 
Immune droid immunities 
Speed 4 squares 
Melee claw +11 (144+2) 
Ranged blaster rifle +12 (3d8) or 
Ranged blaster rifle +10 (3¢8) and 
olaster rifle +10 (3d8) or 
Ranged flamethrower +11 (3d6) 
Base Atk +9; Grp +13 
Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) x 
Abilities Str 15, Dex 15, Con -, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 6 
Special Qualities droid traits 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery I, Dual 
Weapon Mastery Il, Exotic Weapon Proficiency (flamethrower), 
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (rifles, simple weapons} 

Skills Perception +13 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, 3 tool mounts, 2 claw 
appendages 

Possessions blaster rifle (2), flamethrower, duranium plating, shield 
generator (SR 10) 

Availability Military; Cost 14,910 


Czerka Corporation Mark IV Assault Droid 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12 

Init +12; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Binary 


CL6 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 14, Will 12 
hp 52; SR 10; Threshold 19 
Immune droid immunities 


Speed 6 squares 

Ranged double blaster cannon +11 (4012, 1-square splash) 
Base Atk +9; Grp +17 

Special Actions Logic Upgrade: Self Defense 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 13, Con -, Int 8, Wis 12, Cha 6 

Special Qualities droid traits, stable 

Feats Armor Proficiency [light, medium), Improved Defenses, Logic 
Upgrade: Self Defense, Skill Training (Initiative), Toughness, Weapon 
Focus (heavy weapons}, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +12 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, tool mount 

Possessions double blaster cannon, duranium plating, shield generator (SR 
10) 

Availability Military; Cost 16,270 


AMIS at | 


“CHAPTER XI! 
THE REPUBLIC 


= e'a's 


| 


<A _ 
The Galactic Republic has known times of prosperity, of great upheaval, of 
hopelessness, and of renewal. But the half century following the Great Sith 
War is a favorite of historians for a good reason: it has all of those things— 
often at the same time! 

The Republic prior to the Great Sith War retains trappings of the past, 
both in fashion and in behavior. Archaic wardrobe is in vogue during a brief 
revival that spans much of the Republic. Wealth coalesces in the hands of 
the few, including the Tapani dynasties and families with such names as 
Adasca, Zentine, Vanjervalis, and Draay. And the Republic sees the Jedi order 
as a lifeline to the past, as a force for good. 

The Great Sith War changes everything. This “internal squabble over 
Jedi beliefs," as reporters first characterize it, takes untold lives and dam- 
ages over 25% of the Republic's infrastructure. Though the Great Sith War 
begins seemingly as an internal conflict within the Empress Teta system, 
the chaos spreads outward from the Deep Core at an incredible rate. When 
the Mandalorians join the war, the Republic nearly finds itself overhwelmed, 
and attacks on Coruscant and other important worlds drive the real danger 
of this war home. While the Republic lets the Jedi deal with their traitor- 
ous comrades, the Republic military battles Mandalorians on one front and 
Krath warriors on another, trying to keep from being torn apart. After years 
of grueling conflict where worlds are leveled and the Republic is placed on 
the brink of total destruction, the tide turns, and eventually, with the help 
of the Jedi, the Republic wins the day. 

The results of the Great Sith War are devastating. Entire worlds have been 
blasted back to pre-hyperspace technology levels. Entire sectors vanish from 
communications channels, and go for months at a time without any news 
of their survival reaching the central systems of the Republic. Trade routes 
blazed over millennia require redevelopment at every stop. Piracy is rampant. 
The Republic, just as much a financial compact as a deliberative institution, 
fails to deliver on the basic premises of its creation. 


Tix Siew 


9INSeNdsy SH. 


GDIGAISIY) sil | 


THE RESTORATION 
(3,995-3,966 BBY) 

A decade-long postwar depression ends when business—the driver of much 
in the Republic—comes to its rescue. With both rich and poor suffering, the 
Senate has to act—and it does. The brainchild of economist Herron Morvis, the 
Coruscant Financial Exchange Establishment Act (the first of the so-called 
Commercial Protectorate Acts) restores the capital markets by making a 
simple bargain. Corporations listing their shares on the Coruscant Financial 
Exchange receive guarantees of protection on all trade routes within the 
Republic. A rejuvenated Republic Navy, raised on investment taxes, provides 
that protection, The Navy of the Sith War had been weak, eclipsed in some 
sectors by private space forces. The new force would have the mission—and 
the power—to keep the goods flowing. 

Firms are quick to sign on, and even dynastic families float their hold- 
ings on the exchange. Corporations shed their security budgets altogether, 
relying on the Republic to defend spacelanes with its Hammernead cruisers 
and state-of-the-art /nexpugnable tactical-command ships. The Restoration 
period is a rewarding time for many. 

Efforts to play the system for profit weaken the Republic strategically. The 
accession of Taris into the Republic is the final, fatal straw. When Mandalo- 
rian attacks on nonaligned worlds increase, executives with operations on 
Taris bribe Senators to bring the planet into the Republic. Even though it is 
improved, the Navy is too weak to protect such a distant world. Some, such 
as rising star Saul Karath, see the dangers, but the Admiralty, delighted with 
its additional funding, pays no heed. So when the Zayne Carrick affair causes 
civil order on Taris to collapse, the Mandalorians see their chance and launch 
a Surprise invasion of the Republic. Defenses on the Outer Rim crumble. 


THE MANDALORIAN WARS 
(3,965-3,960 BBY) 

Finger-pointing at home coincides with desperate (and unsuccessful) moves 
on the frontier, including the tactic of positioning military units near cities. 
Mandalorian forces push into the Outer Rim and then further inward, reaching 
critical worlds along hyperspace routes and either seizing them or making 
holding those worlds a huge drain on Republic resources. As the Republic 
scrambles to deal with a continued Mandalorian threat, many in the Republic 
see echoes of the Great Sith War in current events. Though the Republic is 
pushed back during the early campaigns, losing Taris, Serroco, and other 
worlds almost immediately, the fighting intensifies and the Republic wins 
important battles at lridonia and Ithor, bolstering their own supply lines as 
well as improving their troops’ morale. 

A solid advantage in the Mandalorian Wars arrives only when a Jedi 
Knight calling himself Revan comes to the Republic’s aid. Revan is so suc- 
cessful that the Republic yields operational control of its forces to him. With 
Revan's final defeat of the Mandalorians at Malachor V, many in the Republic 
had cause to hope that the postwar lessons from the Great Sith War might 


restore prosperity faster than before. The Republic is stunned when two of 
their great Jedi leaders take the ships under their command and vanish into 
the Unknown Regions under the pretense of hunting down the last of the 
Mandalorians. Though surprised, the Republic begins to regroup and rebuild 
quickly, and as curiosity over their missing fleet turns to concern there is an 
ever-palpable tension nearly everywhere in the Republic. 


THE JEDI CIVIL WAR 
(3,959-3,956 BBY) 
Revan, having fallen to the Dark Side, returns to the Republic as an invader 
at the head of a massive Sith Armada. The Republic, barely having recovered 
from the Mandalorian Wars, loses several battles in rapid succession as the 
Sith Empire carves out a large chunk of the galaxy for its own. Other Republic 
worlds, sensing a shift in power and dissatisfied with the performance of the 
Republic in the last two wars, secede and join the Sith Empire voluntarily. 
Treachery is not limited to the Jedi. For many, the worst comes when Admiral 
Karath turns traitor, rupturing the Navy between loyal and Sith factions. 
For several years the Sith Empire grows, pitting the Republic against its 
former allies and comrades in every battle. Unlike fights against the nomadic 
Mandalorians, the Republic cannot force the Sith into retreat, as many of 
its members fight to defend their homeworlds with no intention of leaving. 
The Jedi Civil War is very much a battle between two well-established and 
entrenched forces, though fortunately the Republic has the aid of the Jedi 
in this war. After a Jedi strike force captures the enemy commander, Darth 
Revan, and then sets him on a path of redemption, Darth Malak takes control 
of the Sith Empire. His willingness to destroy the Republic’s infrastructure 
is unlike the care Revan showed for preserving the worlds he conquered, 
and many battles mirror the mutually assured destruction so often seen in 
the Great Sith War. 
Revan's redemption breaks the Sith domination, but the citizens of the 
Republic see only hardships ahead, With Sith survivors warring with the 
shattered Jedi Order, Republic worlds struggle to restore their civilization 
for the second time in half a century. This era teaches the lesson that the 
protection of the Jedi Order is no free ride for the Republic. 


THE DARK WARS 

(3,955-3,95! BBY) 

When the Sith Empire shatters into many smaller domains, the Republic finally 
has a chance to rebuild and take the offensive. While its enemies squabble 
among themSelves, the Republic puts shipyards into service, quickly rebuild- 
ing the Navy in a matter of just over a year. At last able to police and patrol 
outlying sectors, the Republic can finally make the galaxy safe for its citizens 
once more. Skirmishes with Sith warlords continue, but thanks to excellent 
strategic planning and leadersnip the Republic topples one Sith dictator after 
another, reclaiming lost territories piecemeal. By the time the last of the Stih 
are wiped out, the Republic is once again at nearly its full strength. 


USING THE REPUBLIC 

The wartime periods of the Great Sith War, the Mandalorian Wars, and the 
Jedi Civil War allow ample opportunities for military campaigns ranging from 
limited engagements to operations spanning multiple worlds at once. Com- 
bined operations using the Republic Navy and Army provide for interesting 
interactions between members of those services—as do joint efforts with 
Jedi. A campaign using the Republic does not have to be about major wars, 
but there are plenty to choose from. 

Following the Great Sith War and the Jedi Civil War, the Republic is eager 
to reestablish a credible role in galactic affairs. The military works to keep 
order, nobles seek to extend their influence, and bounty hunters and scoun- 
drels are out to make a quick credit. These postwar eras are ideal for Game- 
masters looking to craft campaigns with less Jedi and Sith involvement. 

Many adventures can be found by exploring the two major facets of the 
Republic: the military, and the body politic. 


THE REPUBLIC NAvyY 

When the Commercial Protectorate Acts directly ties its fortunes to the 
trade of the galaxy, the Navy finally has a worthy mandate and abundant 
resources. In a few decades, the Navy goes from being an antiquated, irrel- 
evant institution to an organizing feature of Republic life. 

The direct linkage between commerce and the Naval budget chafes the 
old-timers; Sith War veteran Orley Vanicus likens it to “running a protection 
racket." This is partially true; protecting more trade routes means more tax 
revenues, which means more ships to protect more trade routes. It becomes 
a recipe for disaster during the Mandalorian Wars. But in the meantime, 
more ships to command means more career opportunities—making the 
Navy a respectable calling indeed. Even Admiralty Plaza on Coruscant, 
once considered a retirement home for spacers, becomes a popular posting 
sought by many. 

Gamemasters can promote the spirit of the Navy in these times by giving 
players opportunities to work with or join the Navy. With the Rendili yards 
turning out a Hammerhead-class cruiser every ten days during the years 
before the Mandalorian Wars, postings become available faster than they 
can be filled. Given the tougher life of the ground-pounders, it should not 
be uncommon to find players initially aiming for elite trooper turning toward 
ace pilot, instead. Money—and advancement—are in the stars! 


Joining the Navy 
Characters join the Navy through one of three paths: as commissioned 
officers, as crew recruits, or through provisional ratings. 

Officers come from the Naval Academy at Coruscant and from the 
satellite schools focusing on particular specialties. The Corellian Academy, 
for example, produces many of the Navy's shipwrights and engineers, and a 
Duro orbital facility specializes in tactical networking, 


Most beings aboard the Navy's ships and working its shipyards are non- 
commissioned crew members. Most join through local recruiting centers. 
Signing bonuses are awarded in times of great need, but the desirability of 
the Navy is such that compulsory naval service is not needed, even when 
the Navy is under Sith control. 

Rarely, in times of danger, merchant space captains are granted pro- 
visional ratings to serve on Republic bridges. However, such ratings can 
be revoked in peacetime—a practice that causes other spacers to hold the 
service in disdain. 


Life in the Navy 

With the exception of ground crews and station personnel (“Where careers go 
to die,” the saying goes), spacers for the peacetime Republic lead privileged 
lives. The pay is far higher than that which soldiers receive. Given the newness 
of the vessels, living conditions are practically antiseptic, and technology has 
removed many of the challenges interstellar combat used to pose. Ships of 
the Inexpugnabie line slave the tactical systems of whole fleets to a single 
command—creating occasions when bridge crews are “along for the ride.” 

For those who serve as jacks-of-all-trades, such as Carth Onasi, the Navy 
offers a variety of experiences, from running spacelift missions for the Army 
to flying stealth starfighter patrols to trap pirates. As the recruitment ad 
says, “Joining the Navy is the way to see the galaxy.” 

The portion of the Navy that defects to the Sith during the Jedi Civil War 
provides an interesting contrast. Spacers join the Sith cause as a means of 
preserving their status—and, indeed, the quality of life aboard Sith vessels is 
better than in other places under Sith rule. But the Sith stoke ambition—the 
lifeblood of the Republic Navy during peacetime—to unhealthy levels, pitting 
ship against ship, officer against officer, and crewman against crewman. 
Martial punishments are many and harsh. For this reason, the Republic Navy 
under the Sith is an attractive path for dark side players. 


Naval Organization 

Few enterprises pay more respect to formal command structures than the 
Navy. With millions of beings moving trillions of tons of deadly force across 
the galaxy, Admiralty Plaza must be sure its directives reach everyone, down 
to the serving-droid repair technicians in the ship's mess. 

Most beings working the Navy's ships and shipyards are noncommis- 
sioned. The rating of "Able Crew Member" (usually addressed as Crewman”) 
encompasses a variety of titles, from Captain's Steward to Medic Assistant 
to Machinist. All report to a Shipmaster, the highest noncommissioned post- 
ing on each ship. In many ways, the Shipmaster is the most powerful being 
aboard. Bridge crews come and go, but the Shipmaster and crew stay, passing 
knowledge to the next senior staff they have to break in. The Shipmaster 
is responsible for crew discipline; if he fails to act, tradition regards him as 
culpable for crew members’ crimes . Therefore, most run tight ships. 


SIendas) sAL | 


wUeesEetesrses 


ix BSaLaevHo 


SIwmsnes) SHA | 


Crew members can receive commissions on the recommendations of the 
Shipmaster or the ship's captain. Usually the result of years of service, this 
sometimes happens because of a crew member's act of heroism. Karath, who 
started as Vanicus's steward, followed that patn. Later, during the Jedi Civil 
War, an affinity for the dark side can help a new recruit stand out. 

The list of commissioned officer ranks is larger. 

Admiral of the Fleet: A single officer holds this position for a ten-year 
term, chosen from the pool of full admirals by the Defense Ministry. A 
political appointment for a political job, it is one of two ranks not awarded 
oy a Merit Board. 

Admirals of the Coreworlds: The other such rank is a holdover from 
when the Navy reformed after a cataclysm. When the space forces of many 
worlds united, positions were reserved for the longest-serving admirals from 
each of those planets—for example, "Admiral of Coruscant" or “Admiral of 
Corellia." Their greatest interest tends to be jockeying to be Admiral of the 
Fleet. Coreworld admirals technically hold command over any ships operating 
within their designated planetary sectors, but in practice, this authority is 
seldom used—except to cause trouble by influencing local disputes. Admirals 
about to age into these positions officially declare themselves to have no 
homeworld in order to stay aboard ship. 

Admirals, Vice Admirals, Rear Admirals: Managing sectors of battle- 
front and commanding heavy vessels, admirals make the real strategic deci- 
sions. The three levels are largely a functional matter; a Merit Board (or Court 
Martial) for a rear admiral would consist of vice admirals, for example. The 
conduct of full admirals is subject to the arbitrary discretion of the Admiral 
of the Fleet. Admirals in combat during the Sith War are sometimes informally 
known as “fleet captains.” 

Captains: The workhorses of the Navy, captains are on the spot across 
the galaxy, commanding cruisers and sometimes heavier vessels. For example, 
Karath was captain of the Jnexpugnable-class command vessel Courageous 
while waiting for his Merit Board to meet. The term "captain" can be mis- 
leading, though, as it is used in an honorary sense on smaller ships when 
commanders or lieutenants are at the helm. Panels of captains also handle 
all promotions and courts martial for lesser officers. 

Commanders: On large vessels, commanders provide support to captains; 
more often, commanders lead the crews of smaller starships. The leader of 
a Starfighter squadron is a commander; it is a terminal rank in that field, 
explaining why turnover at the top is so high. Most “unjump ship" to take 
a bridge assignment. 

Lieutenants: Most pilots of starfighters and spacelift vessels are lieuten- 
ants, as are most of the tactical bridge crew on heavy ships. On lighter ships 
such as blockade runners, midships fill those roles. 

Midships: Students are rated as provisional midships on entering the 
Academy and are fully rated for service on graduating. An “ensign” rank is 
not used. 


REPUBLIC TROOPERS HOLD POBITION AGAINST 4 SITH ONSLAUGHT 


Dates of service are used among admirals to determine seniority; at 
captain and below, all within the same rank are considered equal—though 
the one with the most connections usually wins. 

In the Navy, "justice is swift; promotions are slow.” Merit Boards can take 
anywhere from weeks to years to meet, but Courts Martial meet as soon 
as enough officers can be found. Honor dictates that a board be convened 
even in matters where a conviction is not sought. Customarily, the accused 
resigns his commission at the outset, “winning” his position back in the 
course of the inquiry. Karath lost the Courageous after the battle of Serroco 
and resigned immediately on return to Coruscant; the Navy, mindful of his 
role in the encounter with Mandalore on the Arkanian Legacy, rejected his 
resignation and restored his command. 


THE REPUBLIC ARMIES 

Unlike the "Grand Army of the Republic,” the Republic Armies—plural—of this 
period are a chaotic agglomeration of planetary militias and mercenary forces 
united by Republic funding and an institutional inferiority complex. 

Until Revan, no single field marshal commands all ground forces. Rather, 
all generals take direction from the Defense Ministry on Coruscant. The lack 
of local coordination frequently puts the true command of surface forces 
in the hands of the Navy, which provides spacelift. During wartime, more 
soldiers are in transit aboard ships than are on the ground. 

The result is a parochial body that bears signs of its piecemeal ori- 
gins. Units are known not by uniform designations, but by their original 
nomenclatures—and not all units of the same type are created equal. The 


Ralltiir Corps contains brigade-sized groups such as the Telerath 2nd and 
the Serroco Colonial—but it also contains smaller units such as Graayson's 
Company, which reports directly to Corps Command because of the agree- 
ment under which it entered Republic service. 

Unsurprisingly, the institution exerts little political influence, but the Navy 
has expressed little desire to take control of the ground forces as marines. 
Beyond the culture clash, which often manifests itself violently, the biggest 
expense of the Army—the vehicles hauled on ships—would be added to the 
Naval budget. "We'd rather rent than own," Admiral Veltraa once said. 


Joining Up 
With pay and conditions far worse than in the Navy, surface units suffer 
from recruiting problems. The Republic addresses this by contracting with 
existing local militias and mercenary groups, buying some out entirely. It 
also offers healthy signing bonuses for dangerous duties. 

Service is not compulsory—outside the areas the Sith take over in the 
Jedi Civil War—but some irregular units use “recruiting” methods that the 
Defense Ministry would rather not know about. 


Army Organization 
Army structures can have loca! and historical eccentricities, but some ele- 
ments are common: 

Squad: Teams of 8 to 12 soldiers led by a sergeant and a corporal, squads 
are the basic building block of Army operations. Regardless of specialty or 
duration of service, squad members are known as troopers and regarded as 
equal in rank. 

Battalion: Groups of 25 to 40 squads organized under a major, battalions 
are the level at which specialization occurs. A 400-member laser artillery 
battalion travels with its own assigned equipment and vehicles, as well as a 
20-member headquarters unit. Specialist battalions are frequently reassigned 
to other corps, leaving them with no true home. 

Brigade: Brigades combine four to nine battalions with a headquarters 
battalion run by a brigadier, resulting in a force ranging between 1,000 
and 5,000 strong. The typical force for raids and occupation, brigades work 
together in larger landing operations, with command and control handled, 
as often as not, by the navy that transported them. 


THE SENATE 


The Republic of this era provides noble heroes with a wide variety of places to 
polish their skills and find adventure. Local leadership takes many interesting 
forms on the planets of the Republic, but the greatest politicians aspire to 
serve in one place: the Galactic Senate. 

The Galactic Senate undergoes many changes after the Sith War. It had 
met for years in ancient stonework chambers, but after Exar Kun kills Vodo 
Siosk-Baas on the Senate floor, Senators order the construction of a secure 
high-tech facility with no reminders of that fateful day. Attitudes modernize 
as well, with Senators taking more interest in trade with the Commercial 
Protectorate Acts. The “age of the staffer" begins, with Senators cultivating 
large entourages of young educated beings who deal with the pleas of 
corporate labbyists. 

In this era, the length of Senators’ terms and the methods of choosing 
them are set by individual systems. Some are lifetime appointments chosen 
by local potentates; others, such as Senator Graw of Ithor, face frequent 
trips home to stand for reelection. Thus, staffing for a Senator is not just a 
lucrative and educational experience for a young noble; it can also involve 
extensive travel. Senators from planets occupied during the Mandalorian 
Wars keep their seats, and some, such as Goravvus of Taris, actively organize 
resistance movements. 

As bruising as the battles for committee assignments are, nothing in the 


Senate tests a nob 
four-year term by h 


e like the campaign for Chancellor. Once elected to a 
is colleagues, a Chancellor of this era must manage [or 


attempt to manage 


a bureaucracy of ministries devoted to defense, internal 


Corps: Corps comprise all forces within an area and are named for the 
planets where their headquarters are based. A general leads each corps, 


although the office is weak relative to that of other eras 
front, generals relay commands from the Defense Minis 
on the scene. Direct superiors of irregular units (former m 
single-species militias) in their command, they lose time 


. Infrequently at the 
ry to the brigadiers 
ercenary groups and 
to oureaucratic and 


provisioning headaches. Therefore, promotion past brigadier is rarely sought. 

No ranks of lieutenant, captain, and colonel officially exist—partially to 
prevent confusion with the Navy—but they can be found vestigially in the 
irregular native units, as well as in such strange titles as commandant, Gray 
Chieftain, ana Grand Xenog. 


security, economic development, and jurisprudence. The Chancellor frequentiy 
calls upon Jedi to fulfill assignments of state and to perform investigations 
on behalf of oversight committees. 


REPUBLIC PERSONNEL 


The Republic succeeds because of the dedication and hard work of thousands 
of individuals throughout the galaxy. The following list of personnel repre- 
sents a wide array of citizens that contribute to the health of the Republic. 


REPUBLIC NAVAL ADMIRAL 
From the Admiral of the Fleet to the lowest rear admiral, the right to “raise 
one's flag” is the signal achievement for all in the Republic Navy. Of the sev- 
eral kinds of admiral, the full admirals typify the Naval ideal. Unlike the aged 
admirals of the Coreworlds, they continue to fly for the Republic, commanding 
fleet battles. And where the "junior flags"—vice and rear admirals—can still 
lose their careers after an embarrassing loss, Admirals have enough con- 
nections at Admiralty Plaza to survive anything. More important, they have 
clout at the shipyards, getting priority on repairs and provisions. 

Full admirals do not run their own vessels, instead traveling within the 
fleet and transferring their command to whatever ship they are on. However, 


a 


DIGANSHae2) SHIN 
RAaAnhnannnanh hf fa ww 


SUCCES 


IAS] = | 


SIVE 


many find ships they like and captains they enjoy working with—and they 
have the influence necessary to bring those ships into whatever actions 
they are mounting. 

Each admiral, regardless of rank, receives an office at Admiralty Plaza and 
the use of a permanent clerical staff. Most admirals eschew the Coruscant 
work and bring their entourage with them. Secretary to an admiral is an ideal 
learning experience for any cadet. 
Republic Navy Admiral CL 15 
Medium Human nonheroic 4/noble 7/officer 7 
Force 4 
Init +17; Senses Perception +19 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothan, Durese, High Galactic, Mon Calamarian, 

Sullustese, Zabrak 
Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 27), Fort 25, Will 31 
hp 56; Threshold 25 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +11 (1d4+6) 

Ranged biaster pistol +12 (3d6+7) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +12 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Deployment Tactics, Field 

Tactics, Inspire Confidence, Outmaneuver, Rally 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 17 

Special Qualities command cover +3, share talent (Bolster Ally, Field 

Tactics, Inspire Confidence} 

Talents Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Deployment Tactics, Distant Command, 

Field Tactics, Inspire Confidence, Outmaneuver, Rally 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Republic Military Training, Skill 

Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Initiative), Skill Focus (Knowledge 

tactics]), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill 

Training (Initiative), Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy]}, Skill 

Training [Knowledge [galactic lore]], Weapon Proficiency [pistals, 
simple weapons} 

Skills Deception +20, Initiative +17, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +15, 

Knowledge (galactic lore) +15, Knowledge (tactics) +20, Perception 

+19, Persuasion +20, Pilot +12 
Possessions blaster pistol, uniform, comlink (encrypted), code cylinder 


REPUBLIC NAvy CAPTAIN 

The Republic Navy's training system is directed toward a single goal: gen- 
erating quality captains to helm vessels. In the earlier days of the smaller 
Navy, this took on added importance, as commands were few and ships were 
precious. Competition remains cutthroat into the early years of the Restora- 
tion, but the burgeoning number of available postings turns what was once 
a privilege into an expectation. The majority of spacefaring captains receive 
a cruiser of some kind to command. 


As such, the pool of captains is somewhat weaker at the onset of the 
Mandalorian Wars, and opportunities for captains to distinguish themselves 
are excellent. Occasionally, a captain with special experience is tapped to 
helm a larger vessel normally reserved for admirals; Karath, present at field 
tests of the Vanjervalis data systems, received Courageous while still wait- 
ing for his Merit Board to meet on his promotion to rear admiral. The glut 
of captains also makes the admiralty is less reluctant to allow captains to 
join their surface teams in action. Captains are not exactly expendable, but 
they are readily replaceable. 

Pay for captains is based on the size of ship they commana, with cruiser 
captains receiving nearly twice what the handful of frigate captains earn. The 
few captains serving as space station administrators earn the least. 
Republic Navy Captain CL 10 
Medium Human nonheroic 4/noble 5/officer 4 
Force 3 
Init +11; Senses Perception +11 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, High Galactic, Sullustese, Zabrak 
Defenses Ref 23 [flat-footed 22), Fort 20, Will 25 
hp 46; Threshold 20 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 
Special Actions Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Demand Surrender, 
Deployment Tactics 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover +2, share talent (Battle Analysis, 
Deployment Tactics) 

Talents Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Demand Surrender, Deployment 
Tactics, Presence 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Republic Military Training, Skill 
Focus (Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training 
Initiative), Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Training 

(Perception), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple 

weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Initiative +11, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, 

Knowledge (tactics) +17, Perception +11, Persuasion +18, Pilot +11 
Possessions blaster pistol, uniform, comlink (encrypted), code cylinder 


REPUBLIC NAVAL LIBUTENANT 
"The galaxy will run out of stars to visit before the Navy runs out of Lieu- 
tenants." This aphorism is not mathematically true, but it reflects the state 
of starship bridges during the Restoration. Midship graduates from the 
Academy regard their careers as aver if they do not make lieutenant after a 
year ona ship, and lieutenant is the most common rank noncommissioned 
crew members receive when promoted to the bridge. The result is an odd 
split between very young lieutenants and experienced older lieutenants who 
started out below decks. 

Bridge duty for lieutenants ranges from communications to gunnery 
control to hyperspace navigation. Lieutenants also find many opportunities 
off-ship. Those with piloting experience assist with spacelift and starfighter 
patrols, and those with combat skills join surface parties in securing landing 
sites. At most of the smaller Naval shipyards, the stationmaster is an older 
licutenant; these positions, however important, tend to be dumping grounds 
for those who have found further promotion impossible. 

Lieutenants are easily the most avid audience of the official communiqué 
of the Republic Navy, The Admirals List. A mention there makes a career, 
and graduates of the same class compete to see how many commendations 
they can receive. 


Republic Navy Lieutenant CL5 
Medium Human nonheroic 4/noble 3/officer 1 

Force 2 

Init +2; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, Zabrak 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 15, Will 20 
hp 25; Threshold 15 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +3 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +3 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Inspire Confidence 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Inspire Confidence 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Republic Military Training, Skill 
Training (Perception), Skill Training (Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Knowledge (tactics) +13, Perception +8, Persuasion 
+9, Pilot +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, uniform, comlink (encoded), code cylinder 


ix GaLauvHo ; 


LEFT TO RIGHT: REPUBLIC TROOPER, REPUBLIC PILOT, REPUBLIC OFFICER, REPUBLIC NAVAL OFFICER 


QEnAFsa=]) gH 


A 


SIWEHEISS) gH 


REPUBLIC ARMY BRIGADIER 

Brigadier generals— known as “brigadiers"—are the highest-ranking officers 
to see action in the Republic Armies from the Great Sith War to the Mandalo- 
rian Wars, so they are often the envy of their deskbound superiors. 

That said, brigadiers rarely feel the envy of anyone, as they frequently 
have to contend with missions out of all proportion to the forces and material 
available. Crafty brigadiers make do by encouraging their underlings to live 
off the land, bending—but rarely breaking—local Republic statutes to make 
sure the mission is accomplished. 

Few brigadiers excel in negotiating skills, a hindrance in dealing with 
the banes of their existence, the mercenary companies and species militias 
they are often required to work with. Brigadiers so fear the headaches a 
promotion to general would entail that many famously sabotage their own 
careers—never in ways that harm their troops, but by saying or doing things 
that make them politically radioactive. As such, the longest-serving brigadiers 
in the Republic are a colorful bunch. 
Republic Army Brigadier CL 13 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 5/noble 3/officer 3 
Force 4 
Init +12; Senses Perception +14 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothan 
Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 25), Fort 28, Will 30 
hp 86; Threshold 28 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +11 (1d6+7) or 
Melee gun club +11 (1d6+7) 
Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+6 
Base Atk +10; Grp +11 
Atk Options Charging Fire, Gun Club 
Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Bolster Ally, 

Coordinate +1, Coordinated Attack, Inspire Confidence 
Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 16 
Special Qualities command cover +1, share talent (Inspire Confidence] 
Talents Armored Defenses, Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Bolster Ally, 

Coordinate, Gun Club, Inspire Confidence 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Charging Fire, Coordinated 

Attack, Martial Arts |, Republic Military Training, Skill Focus 
Deception), Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics], Skill Training 
Knowledge [bureaucracy]), Skill Training (Perception), Skill Training 
Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 
ills Deception +19, Endurance +12, Initiative +12, Knowledge 
bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (tactics) +18, Perception +14, 
Persuasion +14 
Possessions blaster pistol, officer's battle armor, comlink (encrypted), 
code cylinder, electrobinoculars, medpac, portable computer, extra 
power pack, ration pack 


S 


x 


REPUBLIC ARMY OFFICER 

Typically holding the rank of sergeant or corporal in the Republic Army, these 

officers are the field commanders for most Republic troopers. Culled from 

the best and brightest members of their respective units, many of these 

officers were commanders in local militias mercenary bands before join- 

ing the Republic Army. These officers also receive extensive training with 

vibroweapons after the Republic realizes that lightsaber-wielding Sith usually 

target officers first, giving these officers a fighting chance when faced with 

a Force-using enemy commander. 

Republic Army Officer CL6 

Medium human nonheroic 3/noble 4/officer 1 

Force 1 

Init +5; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, High Galactic, three others 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17}, Fort 16, Will 22 

hp 26; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +6 (2d6+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Melee Defense 

Special Actions Born Leader, Deployment Tactics, Fearless Leader, 
Republic Military Training, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Deployment Tactics, Fearless Leader 

Feats Improved Defenses, Linguist, Melee Defense, Republic Military 
Training, Skill Training (Persuasion), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +11, Persuasion +11, Pilot +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, vioroblade with cortosis weave, code cylinder, 
comlink (encrypted), datapad, officer's uniform 


REPUBLIC ARMY TROOPER 
The trooper is the heart of the Republic's ground force. Soldiers feel distant 
from the decision making (and they are), but small squad sizes allow them to 
feel like vital parts of their mission. Instead of shuffling around anonymously 
from force to force, Republic commanders keep effective squads together, 
allowing camaraderie to develop. A Republic trooper might not know what 
planet he is on or what enemy he is fighting, but he knows the name of his 
fellow grunts, who keep him alive. 

Unfortunately when troopers pick up areas of specialization, the Republic 
of this era does a poor job of recognizing that talent and moving it where it 
is needed. As a result, troopers who excel in areas such as heavy weapons 


or amphibious assault are not recognized and moved to units where that 

knowledge can be applied. Some troopers see this as a hindrance to their 

careers, but Some take advantage of the ground military's logistical chaos 

and hook up on the battlefield with the unit they want to join. Given the 

time required to replace personnel lost in battle, many sergeants look the 

other way. 

Republic Army Trooper a 

Medium Human nonheroic 3 

Init +6; Senses Perception+5 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 12, Will 11 

hp 8; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee bayonet +1 (1d8+2) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +2 (3d8) or 

Ranged frag grenade +1 (4d6) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +1 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Republic Military Training, Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative+6, Perception+5 

Possessions Republic Army light armor (+4 armor, +1 equipment), blaster 
rifle with bayonet, 2 frag grenades, comlink (encrypted), utility belt 
with medpac 


Elite Republic Army Trooper CL 2 

Medium human nonheroic 8 

Init +11; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 10 

hp 20; Threshold 12 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee bayonet +7 (1d8+2 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6] or 

Ranged frag grenade +8 (4d6] 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Republic Military Training 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Republic Military Training, 
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 


Skills Initiative +11, Perception +9 

Possessions blaster rifle with bayonet, blaster pistol, 2 frag grenades, 
Republic combat armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), comlink (encrypted), 
utility belt with medpac 


REPUBLIC ARMY RECON 
COMMANDO 

Light infantry and assault battalions frequently use reconnaissance squads, 
which specialize in acquiring battle information firsthand, However, the work 
of recon commands is not limited to simple drop-and-snoop missions. Once 
the battle is joined, they assist in tactical control and positioning of the 
battalion's combat squads. They might also be detached for special duties, 
including sabotage operations and Jedi-assist missions. 

Inspiration for the use of recon squads in the Republic came from its 
irregular units—former mercenaries experienced with multitasking. Recon 
commando squads have multiple operational-environment specializations, 
ranging from amphibious to spacedrop. The Republic's quality recon squads 
are, thus, the busiest postings in the ground military, seeing action wherever 
they are required. 

Republic Army Recon Commando CL8 

Medium Human untrained 3/scout 7 

Init +11; Senses low-light vision, Perception+10 (can reroll, must take 
second result) 

Languages Basic, Mando'a 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 19, Will 19 

hp 39; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+5) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Guidance, Quick Skill 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Guidance, Improved Stealth, Surefooted 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Republic 
Military Training, Quick Skill, Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Training (Survival), Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +10 (can reroll, 
must take second result), Stealth +76 (can reroll, must take second 
result}, Survival +10 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, low-light-vision goggles, 
electrobinoculars, comlink (encrypted), utility belt with medpac 


SITIsgnesy SHI | 


ct | 
- | 
SIisnedeS) FAA [| LP 


REPUBLIC 
PERSONALITIES 


The Republic may be founded on the cooperation of entire species, but it is 
the strength of individuals that helps it persevere. The following characters 
are among the most influential individuals that work for and are members 
of the Republic. 


BAO-DUR 
Bao-Dur is a highly talented inventor and technician. During the Mandalorian 
Wars, he serves with the Exile as a tech and refers to her as "General" even 
years after the war's end. He is responsible for creating the Mass Shadow 
Generator used to destroy Malachor V and end the Mandalorian Wars. How- 
ever, the invention also kills a great number of his allies and own forces in 
the process. He does not escape without injury, losing most of his left arm 
in the battle. He builds himself an impressive new cybernetic replacement 
that features an energy binding instead of a mechanical elbow. 

Bao-Dur is haunted for years by the outcome of Malachor V. He becomes 
a pacifist and attempts to redeem himself and repay his perceived debt to the 
galaxy. He ends up working in the renabilitation efforts of Telos IV. There he 
once again encounters the General—now the Exile. He rejoins her, traveling 
with her in her quest for the Jedi and Sith. At the end of the Exile’s quest, 
they return to Malachor V, where Bao-Dur programs his remote to reactivate 
the Mass Shadow Generator for a final time. 


BAO-DUR'S CYBERNETIC ARM 
After the battle of Malachor V, Bao-Dur designs and builds himself 
a unique cybernetic arm that uses an energy binding in place of a 
mechanical elbow. The arm has normal Human strength. By manipu- 
lating the energy binding during combat, Bao-Dur can disrupt ain 
opponent's personal energy shield as well as some other force fields. 
The energy cell must be recharged every 48 hours, though Bao-Dur has 
included a variety of attachments to ensure he can recharge it from a 
variety of sources in an emergency. 


Shield Breaker 

To disrupt a field, Bao-Dur must be adjacent to the target and make a 
successful unarmed strike. If the attack hits, shields with an SR rating 
of 15 or lower are disabled and provide no protection for the rest of 
the encounter. If the shield has a rating greater than SR 15, the shield 
rating drops by -5, failing once it falls to SR 15 or lower. Bao-Dur's 
arm is ineffective against shields protecting Gargantuan or larger 
Starships and vehicles. 


Bao-Dur (Dark Wars) 

Medium Zabrak scoundrel 9 

Destiny 1; Force 7; Dark Side 2 

Init +9; Senses Perception +11; heightened awareness 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Binary, Ithorese, Zabrak 


CL9 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 22), Fort 22, Will 23 
hp 64; Threshold 22 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+5) or 

Melee vibroblade +8 (2d6+5) or 

Melee vibroblade +5 (2d6+8)} with Power Attack or 

Melee vibroblade +13 (2d6+3) with Flurry 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Flurry, Hyperdriven, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack 

Special Actions Gearhead, Knack 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 11, Con 14, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities heightened awareness 

Talents Gimmick, Hyperdriven, Knack, Master Slicer, Trace 

Feats Flurry, Gearhead, Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, 
Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Tech Specialist, 
Weapon Proficiency [advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple 
weapons} 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +17, Knowledge (physical 
sciences) +12, Knowledge (technology) +17, Mechanics +17, Perception 
+11 (can reroll, must take second result), Stealth +9, Use Computer 
+17 (can reroll when improving access and take better result) 

Possessions vibroblade, blaster pistol, cybernetic left arm, remote droid 


SENATOR HAYDEL, GORAVVUS 

The product of a liaison between a Human businessman and a Hamadryas 
serving girl, Goravvus saw racial injustice on Taris firsthand. Unable to gain 
a formal education, Goravvus spends his youth in the Lhosan Industries 
swoop bike factory in Machineville. Needing money during a labor action, 
the teenage Goravvus accepts payment from management to help break the 
strike, bringing him to the attention of corporate management. Such a wily, 
hungry young schemer is bound to go places. 

He does, and a corporate hatchet-man is born. Goravvus spends the next 
third of a century traveling the galaxy for Lhosan, undercutting regulations, 
blackmailing suppliers, and sabotaging competitors. The pinnacle of Gorav- 
vus's achievements—or so he thinks—comes when he helps Lhosan and 
other corporations use oribery to gain Taris’s admission into the Republic. 
His reward: Taris's new Senate seat. Many in Upper City society chafe at a 
mixed-species Senator, and that is all right with Goravvus. He has won. 


SENATOR HaYDEL GoRavvus 


But the Senate changes Goravvus for the better. This lifelong loner finds 
a family in the people of Taris. He openly challenges the business interests 
that put him in power, earning the scorn of Lhosan Chairbeing and former 
friend, Jervo Thalien. When civil order on Taris collapses, Goravvus disappears 
in shame, but the invasion of Taris by the Mandalorians offers a chance for 
redemption. In the Lower City, Goravvus organizes the remains of the plan- 
etary Security force into the Taris Resistance. Goravvus's political skills are 
helpful as he forges an alliance with the Hidden Bek gang and blackmails aid 
from Thalien. When Taris ultimately falls, Goravvus escapes to the Republic, 
where the exiled Senator becomes a popular figure espousing the cause of 
people living on occupied worlds and providing funds for private efforts to 
rescue refugees. 


Senator Haydel Gorawvus CL 13 


Medium Near-Human nonheroic 3/scoundrel 5/corporate agent 4/noble 3 
Force 2 


Init +5; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Gamorrean, Hamadryas, High Galactic, Huttese, 
Ithorian, Kedorzhan, Ryl 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 24), Fort 22, Will 28 

hp 41; Threshold 22 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+5) 

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +8 (3d4+6) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +7 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Coordinate +1, Fool's Luck, Inspire Confidence 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 9, Con 8, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 16 

Talents Competitive Edge, Coordinate, Fool's Luck, Gimmick, Inspire 
Confidence, Master Slicer, Trace 

Feats Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Gather Information), Skill 
Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy], Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Focus 
(Use Computer), Skill Training (Gather Information), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [bureaucracy]), Skill Training (Knowledge [technology]), 
Skill Training (Perception), Skill Training {Persuasion}, Weapon Focus 
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Gather Information +19, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+19, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, Knowledge (technology) +14, 
Mechanics +14, Perception +12, Persuasion +19, Stealth +10, Use 
Computer +19 (can reroll when improving access and take better 
result) 

Possessions sporting blaster pistol, comlink (encrypted), code cylinder, 
datapad 


COMMANDER CARTH ONASI 

Carth Onasi’s career path resembles that taken by his mentor, Saul Karath— 
which might explain the admiral's early fondness for this charismatic jack- 
of-all-trades. Born on Telos IV, Onasi works as both a mechanic and police 
officer before joining the local militia. When his heroics in a piracy sting bring 
him to the attention of a recruiter with the Republic Navy, he reluctantly 
leaves with his wife and son for a career In space. 

Onasi soon sees action, serving on the bridge of the Courageous during the 
Battle of Vanquo at the outbreak of the Mandalorian Wars. Now a lieutenant, 
he handles spacelift for the ground forces on Serroco, where he encounters 
fugitive Padawan Zayne Carrick. Believing Carrick’s vision of impending plan- 
etary devastation, Onasi brings it to Karath’s attention—only to discover that 
Karath suspects the boy of being a Mandalorian spy—and during a meeting 
on Adascorp’s flagship, the Arkanian Legacy, Onasi frees Carrick. 


a 
a 
W 
2) 
W 
U 
G 
iy 
| 
@ 


| 
| 


ix HSidcdwHoD 


8) 
iI 
F 
\4 
}0 
\2 
E 


Sanday) SMA, 


The Mandalorian Wars continue for three years, during which Carth's skills 
increase. After Revan defeats the Mandalorians and returns as the invading 
Darth Revan, Onasi again finds himself called to action. But this time, the 
Navy is torn between loyalty to the Republic and service of the Sith—and, 
shockingly to Onasi, his one-time mentor Karath goes to the other side. 

Refusing to turn against the Republic, Onasi is further devastated when 
his homeworld is bombed by Karath. When his wife Morgana dies in his arms, 
Onasi—who believes his son, Dustil, to have also been killed—swears he will 
get revenge on his former friend and admiral. 

As the Jedi Civil War rages, Onasi-now a Commander—finds himself 
at the helm of the Endar Spire. Attacked by the Sith forces of Darth Malak 
above Taris, Onasi escapes alongside another Republic soldier, unaware that 
this new ally will lead him on an adventure that will change the galaxy and 
settle his score with Karath. 


CARTH ONAS! 


Carth Onasi (Jedi Civil War) 
Medium Human soldier 7/ace pilot 3 
Destiny 2; Force 5 

Init +8; Senses Perception +10 
Languages Basic 


CL 10 


Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 24), Fort 23, Will 20 
hp 92; Threshold 23 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+6) 
Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+7) or 
Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+7) and 
blaster pistol +8 (3d6+7) 
Base Atk +9; Grp +12 
Atk Options Devastating Attack (pistols) 
Special Actions Battle Analysis, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 17, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Special Qualities vehicle dodge +1 

Talents Battle Analysis, Cover Fire, Devastating Attack {pistols}, Keep It 
Together, Vehicular Evasion, Weapon Specialization (pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery |, 
Republic Military Training, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Focus (Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +17, Mechanics +12, Perception +10, 
Persuasion +11, Pilot +18, Treat Injury +10, Use Computer +12 

Possessions 2 blaster pistols, uniform, comlink, credit chip, utility belt 


ATTON RAND 

Atton Rand is a veteran of both the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi Civil War 
and at one time he was a member of the Republic military who defected to 
the Sith Empire. Atton Rand was trained during the Jedi Civil War to resist 
detection and manipulation through the Force, which allows him to remain 
free of Jedi influence. Atton encounters the Exile on Peragus and becomes 
an integral part of her efforts against the Sith Lords. He also harbors feelings 
for her, which often manifest as jealousy, especially toward Mical who is 
also an admirer, if from a different point of view. In fact, he regularly clashes 
with the Exile’s companions throughout the journey. Atton's background is 
a mystery to his companions, though many see aspects of themselves in his 
attitudes and skills. 


Atton Rand (Dark Wars) 

Medium Human scoundrel 3/soldier 2 
Destiny 1; Force 3; Dark Side 3 

Init +10; Senses Perception +10 
Languages Basic 


CL5 


Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 17, with Sniper Shot 15), Fort 20, Will 19 
hp 46; Threshold 20 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +5 (2d6+3) or 

Melee vibroblade +5 (2d6+3/19-20) with Critical Strike 

Ranged blaster rifle +7 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +7 (3d8+2/19-20) with Sniper Shot 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options Critical Strike, Point Blank Shot, Sneak Attack +1d6, 
Sniper Shot 

Special Actions Knack 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 17, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 12 

Talents Armored Defenses, Knack, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Critical Strike, Force Sensitivity, Point 
Blank Shot, Sniper Shot, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +8, Mechanics +7, Pilot +10, Stealth +10, Use Computer 
+7, Use the Force +3 

Possessions blast jacket (+2 armor, +1 equipment, +4 max Dex) 


ARMOR 


The types of armor given on Table 11-1 are described below. 


REPUBLIC LIGHT ARMOR 

Standard-issue armor for Republic forces not expecting heavy combat, 
Republic light armor includes a helmet and boots. The helmet provides any 
wearer who has the Armor Proficiency (light) feat with an attached comlink. 
This simple armor is not upgradable. 


REPUBLIC COMBAT ARMOR 

Inferior in all respects but weight to Mandalorian Neo-Crusader armor, 
Republic combat armor nonetheless provides valuable protection to soldiers 
on the ground. It includes a helmet, boots and gauntlets. The helmet provides 
any wearer who has the Armor Proficiency (medium) feat with an internal 
comlink and low-light-vision capabilities. This armor can be upgraded with 
additional equipment to provide oxygen flow and protection against vacuum 
environments. 


REPUBLIC HEAVY ARMOR 

As good as it gets for Republic troops, this full-body armor features energy- 
ablating plating granting the wearer -2 damage against energy attacks. The 
helmet provides any wearer who has the Armor Proficiency (heavy) feat 
with an internal comlink and low-light-viston capabilities. The suit can also 
provide its wearer with up to 24 hours of life support in the vacuum of space 
or other hostile environments. 


TABLE 11-1]: ARMOR 
ARMOR BONUS — EQUIP BONUS MAX DEX SPEED SPEED 

ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TO REF DEFENSE TO FORT DEFENSE BONUS (6 SQ.) (4S0.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 
Light Armor {-2) 

Republic light armor - +4 +3 - = 7 kg Military 
Medium Armor (—5) 

Republic combat armor — +6 +2 4sq. 3 sq. 14 kg Mititary 
Heavy Armor {-10) 

Republic heavy armor - +8 +1 4 sq." 3 sq." 26 kg Military 


1 When running in heavy armor, you can move up to only three times your speed (instead of four times}. 


SIIENEAISS) =i) < 


5 


Ir 


SEGCEESEEES 


dave 


ix Yas 


A 


SIISsndsey) 9H 


TABLE 11-2: RANGED WEAPONS 


RIFLES COST DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Medium 

Commando special rifle 1,250 3d10 - 
SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Tiny 

Remote grenade 300 4d6 = 
WEAPONS 


The weapons given on Table 11-2 are described below. 


GRENADE, REMOTE 

Ascaled-down version of a system used in mining and industrial demolitions, 
these grenades are programmable for remote detonation using a handheld 
100-credit detonator also sold by the manufacturer. Safety features pre- 
vent the remote detonation of deployed grenades within 100 meters of the 
transmitter, under ail circumstances. 


RIFLE, COMMANDO SPECIAL 

The “Special” is a sawed-off rifle preferred by Republic commandos for its 
light weight and stopping power. Its portability and power are offset by its 
ammunition demands; power packs must be replaced after 25 shots. 


STARSHIPS 


Apart from the Republic Fleet Systems consortium in which it holds an 
interest, the Republic Navy prefers to purchase all its craft from private 
manufacturers, thus contributing to the galactic economy. Many are com- 
missioned under contracts in which the Republic controls the patents, limiting 
the ability of manufacturers to sell their craft to other navies. 


AVAILABILITY 


RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE 

S,A 3.3 kg Energy Military 

RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
S 1 kg Energy Military 


AUREK TACTICAL 
STRIKEFIGHTER 

When the Republic Navy's coffers begin to overflow with credits during the 
Restoration, the Navy sponsors one of the greatest engineering contests in 
years. More than three dozen shipwrights are solicited to submit designs for 
the “Generation Tomorrow Starfighter," intended to replace the Star Saber 
as the stock vehicle in the Navy's arsenal. The winning design—coproduced 
with the Republic through its Republic Fleet Systems consortium of manu- 
facturers—is a starfighter for the ages. 

The 9.2-meter-long Aurek Tactical Strikefighter combines speed and 
maneuverability with the ability to deal surprising amounts of damage. 
Ease of refueling and rearmament make the Aureks ideal for capital-ship 
squadrons. And their simple fuselage minimizes production time to such an 
extent that the Republic frequently foregoes all but the most minor repair 
work, choosing instead to ship out new fighters. This results in many scrapped 
Aureks finding their way into civilian use. 

The chevron-shaped fighter's wings can be reconfigured in different 
attack positions, one of which resembles the Aurebesh letter that inspired 
the craft's name. 


& SITH INTERCEPTOR DOESN'T LAST LONG 4G4INST 
THE AUREK TACTICAL STRIKEFIGHTER 


Republic Fleet Systems Aurek Tactical Strikefighter CL 11 

Huge starfighter 

Init +10; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 12}, Fort 25; +4 armor 

hp 110; DR 5; SR 15; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,400 km/h), fly 5 squares [starship 
scale) 

Ranged heavy laser cannons +6 (see below) and 
proton torpedoes +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +27 

Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons), fire-link (heavy laser 
cannons) 

Abilities Str 43, Dex 25, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 20 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 6 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 
360,000) 


Heavy laser cannon (pilot) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +6, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


$S$-250 CHELA-CLASS 
STARFIGHTER 

One of the losing firms in the drive for the "Generation Tomorrow Starfighter," 
the Corellian Engineering Corporation still comes out a winner when its design 
impresses the Republic Navy. Even though it is not as tow-maintenance and 
high-performance as the Aurek Tactical Strikefighter, the 14-meter-long 
$-250 Chela-class starfighter incorporates the agility of the earlier S-100 
Stinger-class starfighter with improved weapons systems in a new design. 
It also saves its manufacturer in the process. 

Ordered in far fewer numbers than the Aurek Tactical Strikefighter, Chela- 
class fighters are preferred vehicles of honor guards and veteran commanders. 
Their performance is not a step up from the Aurek strikefighters, but some 
consider their roomier and more comfortable pilot compartments to be more 
than enough compensation. 


Corellian Engineering Corporation S-250 Chela-class 
Starfighter 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +6; Senses Perception +6 


CL 10 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26;+7 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale} 

Ranged medium laser cannons +6 [see below) and 
concussion missiles +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannons), fire-link (concussion 
missiles) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 

Skills initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled): Passengers none 

Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 12 concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale [estimated value 
420,000) 


Medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


Concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 10d10x2, 4-square splash 


CONDUCTOR-CLASS SHORT- 
RIAUL LANDING CRAFT 

Built over the years by several manufacturers licensing a military patent, the 
19-meter-long Conductor-class landing craft covers a dozen special-purpose 
varieties. All involve military cargo transports ranging from orbital drops to 
short hyperspace jumps between neighboring systems. 

The most frequent configuration is the CX line, with two configurations: 
Ships named with a CX followed by a two-digit number have additional 
fuel storage for traveling from gravity well to gravity well; those with a 
CXB followed by a three-digit number are designed to be carried aboard 
capital ships in landing bays and can carry slightly more cargo. The disdain 
the sluggish vehicles draw is expressed in the unofficial names their pilots 
give them. For example, under Carth Onasi, the CXB-560 becomes The 
Deadweight. However, the ships can perform for a quality pilot, as Onasi 
shows in his rescue of Admiral Karath from the Courageous and later from 
the Arkanian Legacy. 


SnenEds=) SHA E ad 


BUEsSesesesss 


U 


SIIGKHEHSa=S) 8A 


ix ualavHo 


Republic Fleet Systems Conductor-class Short-haul Landing 
Craft CL7 
Colossal space transport 

Init -4; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 
hp 120; DR 15; Threshold 76 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 500 km/h), fly 2 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged light laser cannons +5 (see below] 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale): Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +38 

Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons), fire-link (light laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 11, Con —, Int 13 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 5 (plus 2 bulk-loader droids} 
Cargo 80 tons; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x3; navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 250,000 (100,000 used) 


Light laser cannon [pilot] 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire}, Dmg 4d10x2 


MINISTRY-CLASS ORBITAL 
SHUTTLE 

First forged in the Zentine Dynamics shipyards at Foerost, Ministry-class 
shuttles become the short-trip workhorses for the Republic after the Great 
Sith War. Originally commissioned to help the Chancellor's bureaucrats tour 
the war-torn remains of the Republic (hence the class name], Ministry- 
class orbital shuttles—nicknamed “minis” by their pilots—quickly come into 
genera! use. 

Lacking hyperdrives, the 20-meter-long Ministry-class orbital shuttles 
perform a variety of duties. They are used as shuttles by Navy capital ships, 
and Republic scientists at Flashpoint Station use versions with strong shield- 
ing in their stellar research studies. 


Zentine Dynamics Ministry-class Orbital Shuttle CL6 
Colossal space transport 


Init —1; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25: +12 armor 
hp 110; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 75 


Speed fly 12 squares {max. velocity 750 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged medium laser cannons +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 squares (starship scale}; Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +37 

Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 40, Dex 16, Con —, Int 17 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 36 
Cargo 1,500 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 160,000 (80,000 used) 


Double laser cannons (copilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


& MINISTRY-CLass ORBITAL SHUTTLE FLEES FROM 
TWO DAVAAB-TYPE MANDALORIAN STARFIGHTERS 


KT-400 MILITARY DROID 
CARRIER 
Few ships took as winding a path into the fleet as the KT-400. Its initial design 
comes not from an established shipwright, but from Kellenech Technologies, 
a droid-maker, which proposes the 24-meter-long KT-400 as a complement 
to its military and construction droids. The startup investment bankrupts the 
firm, and the Republic takes the design and begins building the ships through 
its proprietary manufacturer, Republic Fleet Systems. But when the Sith War 
ends, so does funding—leaving dozens of unfinished hulls in spaceyards. When 
interest in droid-carriers finally revives, the Republic awards contracts to 
finish the vessels to a variety of manufacturers for military and commercial 
use. Ironically, that means that the vessels produced retain the original model 
designation—decades after the “KT” no longer stood for anything! 

The vessel can carry up to 400 bipedal war-droids in its compact cargo 
area, discharging them all in under five minutes. 


Republic Fleet Systems KT-400 Military Droid Carrier CL6 

Colossal space transport 

Init -4; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 26; +14 armor 

hp 130; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 76 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale} 

Ranged double medium laser cannons +3 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +38 

Atk Options autofire (double medium laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 43, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative —4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -6, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 8 (skilled); Passengers 400 bipedal droids 

Cargo 40 tons; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 280,000 (150,000 used) 


Double medium laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +3 (-2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


FORAY-CLASS BLOCKADE 
RUNNER 

Initially, the ships of the Foray-class were commissioned to help the Republic 
avy expand its reach. With the Navy charged with sealing off space against 
the Mandalorians in the Outer Rim, it needs every ship it could procure to 
ill gaps in the cordon. 

Soon after the first ships enter service, the Mandalorians invade the 
epublic in force—and the principal mission of the 155-meter-long Foray- 
ass blockade runner changes from protection to interdiction. The nimble 
ehicles prove the best answer the Republic has for the Mandalorian fleets 
rotecting their new conquests. Blockaders turned blockade runners, Foray- 
ass ships deliver relief to Republic citizens and resistance movements in 
occupied space. They perform the same mission later against their own former 
compatriots in the Jedi Civil War. 

Tactical Fire: The Foray-class blockade runner's design helps facilitate 
exploration, expansion, and deep-space defense of Republic assets. As a 
standard action, a Foray-class blockade runner can forego all attacks to 
provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. All allied starships gain a +5 
bonus to Pilot checks made to resist being drawn into a dogfight or to escape 
from a dogfight while in this area. 


> 


amp <c op 


Republic Fleet Systems Foray-class Blockade Runner CL 15 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 35: +11 armor 

hp 750; DR 15; SR 80; Threshold 135 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 medium turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total {crew} 
Base Atk +2; Grp +47 


Abilities Str 60, Dex 18, Con —, Int 17 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 40 to 100 (skilled); Passengers 300 

Cargo 2,800 tons; Consumables 9 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 3 
million) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Medium turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 


SISAHISy aR, 


HAMMERHEAD-CLASS CRUISER 
Through many corporate identities over the centuries, the shipwrights 
of Rendili contribute whole fleets of ships to the Republic and, later, the 
Galactic Empire. In this era, Rendili Hyperworks finds commercial success 
selling hundreds of Hammerhead-class cruisers to a Republic eager to regain 
control of the spaceways. 

Nearly too large for the frigate classification, the 315-meter-long 
Hammerhead-class cruiser is more than a match for most capital ships of 
the time. Its ability to make planetfall gives it a second calling as a cargo 
carrier; its capacity is not as large as ships designed for the role, but the craft 
are So numerous that a dozen or more might be used in the same operation. 
The Hammerhead-class cruiser’s success comes at a cost, however, as its 
data systems are unable to cope with the logistical challenges of large fleet 
actions. That flaw is redressed with the /nexpugnable line. 

Synchronized Systems: When an /nexpugnable-class command ship is 
within 10 squares of this ship and both ships are in a normal state (no condi- 
tions), the system operator of this ship can use a standard action to link its 
systems to the command ship's computer system, using the Inexpugnable- 
class's Use Computer skill modifier instead of its own for all purposes. This 
effect ends when the cruiser goes out of range, when either craft moves down 
the condition track, or if the system operator terminates the link. 

Tactical Fire: The Hammerhead-class cruiser is the most prevalent ship 
in the Republic fleet, and has proven itself capable of fulfilling multiple roles 
in combat. As a standard action, a Hammerhead-class blockade runner can 
forego all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius. 
All allied starships within that area gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls, Reflex 
Defense or Fortitude Defense [as determined by the commander of the 
Hammerhead-class cruiser at the time this ability is activated). 
Rendili Hyperworks Hammerhead-class Cruiser CL 18 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


D\VWNEIIs) SMA | 


VESEREEEEEE 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 36; +12 armor 

hp 1,000; DR 20; SR 125; Threshold 136 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 4 double light turbolaser batteries +12* (see below} and 
2 medium turbolaser batteries +12* (see below) and 
2 point-defense light laser cannon batteries +12 (see below) and 
tractor beam battery +8" (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale]; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +48 

Abilities Str 63, Dex 15, Con —, Int 15 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 (+12**) 


Crew 300 (skilled); Passengers 400 


Cargo 4,000 tons; Consumables 8 months; Carried Craft 12 Aurek 
tactical strikefighters, 2 Ministry-class orbital shuttles, various support 
craft 

Hyperdrive x2; navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 10 
million credits) 

* Apply a -20 penalty against targets smaller than Colossal size. 

“When communications are established with an Inexpugnable-class 
tactical command vessel within 10 squares, use this skill modifier 
instead. 


Double light turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Medium turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
Point-defense light laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +12 (+7 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 
Tractor beam battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +8 (-12 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg — (grapple 
+48) 


INEXPUGNABLE-CLASS 

TACTICAL COMMAND VESSEL 
Known to crews as the “Inexies," /nexpugnable-class tactical command 
vessels are designed to serve as important pieces of a larger tactical puzzle. 
With dozens of the Rendili Hammerhead-class cruisers protecting the same 
lines during the run-up to the Mandalorian Wars, fire-control coordination is 
a key concern. Enter the Vanjervalis Systems computer conglomerate, which 
proposes a colossal computer to be fitted to a Rendili warship frame. Using 
the native software codes in a Hammerhead-class cruiser, a single tactical 
command vessel can transmit commands instantaneously and simultane- 
ously to as many as 64 Hammerhead-class cruisers, managing their combat 
systems from a single headquarters. 

As much flying space stations as warships, the 3,100-meter-diameter 
Inexpugnable-class ships move slowly, safely defended by the dozens of 
cruisers in the vicinity. Helmsmen refer to the peculiar bridge configura- 
tion as the “wishing well” because it merges visual and electronic data by 
suspending holographic images over a transparent deck. 

Adapting the proof-of-concept Swiftsure, the Republic produced less 
than half a dozen prototypes before the Mandalorians attacked in force. 
One, Courageous, is helmed by then-Captain Karath at the Battle of Vanquo. 
Even though he loses the Courageous in the escape from Serroco, he helps 
Rendili/Vanjervalis incorporate the knowledge gained into the refit of Swift- 
sure, his next command, which would become the template for the entire 
production model. 


AN INEXPUGNABSBLE-CLASS TACTICAL COMMAND VESSEL IN FGRMA- 
TIGN WITH THREE HAMMERHEAD-CLASRS CRUISERS 


Tactical Fire: The /nexpugnable-class tactical command vessel is 
designed to function as a platform from which the actions of an entire fleet 
are coordinated. As a standard action, an /nexpugnable-class tactical com- 
mand vessel can forego all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares ina 
2-square radius. All allied ships within this radius may move 1 square in any 
direction at the beginning of that's ship's turn. 


Rendili Hyperworks Inexpugnable-class Tactical Command 
Vessel cL 19 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -3; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 55; +14 armor 
hp 2,050; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 255 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 5 double turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
5 light turbolaser batteries +15” (see below) and 
2 point-defense light laser cannon batteries +15 (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +11* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 squares (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2: Grp +67 


Abilities Str 101, Dex 13, Con —, Int 21 
Skills Initiative -32, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +12 


Crew 4,300 (skilled); Passengers 2,000 (troops) 

Cargo 50,000 tons; Consumables 2 years: Carried Craft 144 Aurek 
tactical strikefighters; 24 Che/a-class starfighters; 24 Conductor-class 
short-haul landing craft; 6 Ministry-class orbital shuttles; various 
support craft 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale {estimated value 70 
million) 

*Apply a -20 penalty against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Double turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 


Light turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 


ix eSiavHo 


Point-defense light laser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15, Dmg 3d10x2 


Tractor beam battery (3 gunners} 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal}, Dmg — (grapple 
+67) 


HOASNASY) SHH (} 
( | 


“CHAPTER XII 
THE MANDALORIANS 


The Mandalorians are not a race, but a movement. They are a society of 
warriors who embrace a rough, honor-driven, and nomadic lifestyle. Conflict 
with the Mandalorians is a defining characteristic of the half century that 
began with the Great Sith War. For the Mandalorians, the period encompasses 
their movement's greatest triumph and its near-total end. 

For centuries, Mandalorian Crusaders roam the galaxy, seeking new 
battles and challenges. During the Great Sith War, this movement of free 
agents becomes embroiled in the politics of the galaxy, setting off a chain 
of events that will include the near-extinction of their own movement. 

Sensing an opportunity in the conflict between the Sith and the Repub- 
lic, Mandalore the Indomitable directs his forces against the Empress Teta 
system, expecting to make an easy conquest. But fallen Jedi Ulic Qel- 
Droma bests the leader in single combat, an act which has immediate and 
long-term repercussions. As a term of the duel, the Mandalorian clans are 
obliged to swear allegiance to the Sith, joining them in their war against 
the Republic. 

Mandalore the Indomitable falls in battle and the Jedi eventually prevail, 
but for the Mandalorian warriors, the consequences linger long after the 
Sith War ends. Warriors are scattered across the galaxy, endangering the 
continuation of their traditions. Worse, many warriors are embarrassed 
and feel betrayed. Uninterested in the differences between Jedi and Sith, 
they see only their people in servitude to beings with powers beyond their 
understanding. Wherever clans gather, there is talk of retribution against 
the Jedi and against the Republic they protected. 


SNVINOIVINYAWN SHL i ix walaeno 


BREBBRRBRRARBRBRR i. 


SRMIGOUVGNYVA) FAL 


THE RESTORATION 
(3,995-3,965 BBY) 

Soon, another leader rises with the name and mask of Mandalore. He calls 
upon the talents of advisors whose knowledge goes beyond the battlefield— 
Cassus Fett, Demagol, and others—to help him reshape Mandalorian iden- 
tity. When an extremist cult calls for the reestablishment of the Crusader 
tradition, this Mandalore, "The Ultimate," uses that group as the foundation 
to reinvent the Mandalorian movement as a more disciplined, organized 
fighting force. 

The spread of the “Neo-Crusader” subculture bears fruit in the Mandalori- 
ans’ successful conquests of nonaligned worlds. By the time the Mandalorians 
launch the “Onslaught"—their full-scale attack on the Republic—a system has 
been established to assimilate the new conquests. Factories that might have 
been pillaged before are now made to serve as War Forges. Captured ships are 
quickly refitted for immediate service. And many of the conquered peoples are 
efficiently transformed into Mandalorians, undergoing speedy indoctrination 
by Neo-Crusader "rally masters” and receiving Neo-Crusader armor. 

Some see the cultivation of the "Neo-Crusaders" as a crass ploy, sacrific- 
ing Mandalorian tenets in the name of a larger goal. But dissidents are effec- 
tively silenced. When Rohlan Dyre risks his life to question the movement, 
Mandalore uses the warrior's fate as an example for not bucking authority. 
So it is that the Mandalorians who nearly conquer the galaxy bear little 
resemblance to the Crusaders of just a generation before. 


THE MANDALORIAN WARS 
(3,965-3,960 BBY) 

After decades of rebuilding, the Mandalorians are ready to strike. For some 
years they test the Republic's defenses, eigaging in small skirmishes along 
the Outer Rim, seeing how strongly the damaged Republic can resist their 
efforts. When at last the Mandalorians have amassed large enough resources 
and numbers, they launch an all-out invasion of Republic worids, seeking 
to claim those planets for their own. Under the direction of Mandalore the 
Ultimate with the aid of Cassus Fett, the Mandalorians are successful in 
seizing countless worlds before a real defense can be mounted. 

For years the Mandalorians engage the Republic in a devastating war of 
attrition. Each world they conquer provides the Mandalorians with thou- 
sands of new troons, while the Republic's resources begin to feel strained. 
With only a few Jedi engaged in the opposition, the Mandalorians are able 
to take advantage of the bureuacratic weakness displayed by the Republic 
military and their superior warrior's training earns them victory in many 
battles. When they finally fall to the Jedi Revan and his Republic forces 
at Malachor V, Mandalorians feel a new kind of shame. The hurt of being 
defeated and dispersed again pales before the knowledge that, in their 
eagerness to defeat the Republic, they had given up the traits that had made 
them Mandalorians. 


THE JEDI CIVIL WAR 

AND THE DARK WARS 
(3,959-3,95!1 BBY) 

The remaining Mandalorians, scattered and lacking in identity, face the 
Jedi Civil War and the tough years to follow. Some turn to crime. Others, 
such as Canderous Ordo, attempt to restore the Mandalorian movement to 
its original principles. The Mandalorian Wars are over, but the story of the 
Mandalorian people will go on. Many Mandalorians become mercenaries, 
particularly those who bought into the Neo-Crusader movement, as they 
quickly find themselves falling out of favor with the remaining Mandalorian 
traditionalists. Honorable Mandalorians continue to carry on their traditions 
throughout the galaxy, awaiting a leader to reunite them and help restore 
the clans to their former glory. While the scattered Mandalorians weather 
the Jedi Civil War and the Dark Wars that follow, they cease to be a major 
faction in the galactic scene following two devastating defeats in the Great 
Sith War and the Mandalorian Wars. 

Yet all hope is not lost for the Mandalorians. Near the end of the Dark 
Wars, an honorable Mandalorian warrior named Canderous Ordo takes up 
the mantle of Mandalore and reunites the Mandalorians clans into one 
people again. Under his leadership, the clans restore much of their honor in 
helping defeat the last remaining Sith and begin establishing their place in 
the galaxy once more. 


USING THE 
MANDALORIANS 


Even though the Mandalorians' belief system has existed for centuries before 
the Great Sith War, the years leading up to and including the Mandalorian 
Wars bring major changes to Mandalorian organization and behavior. 

The two distinct varieties—the Crusader, or traditional culture, and the 
Neo-Crusader movement—coexist uneasily in the years between the Great 
Sith War and the defeat at Malachor V. The numbers of each vary depending 
on the time. Early on, Neo-Crusaders are few, but during the heat af the war 
with the Republic, when their ranks have ballooned from conquered peoples, 
the majority of Mandalorians are Neo-Crusaders. 

Mandalorians from the period after the Mandalorian Wars are a mix of 
former members of the two groups. 


CRUSADERS 
Following the traditions of old, Mandalorian Crusaders are a community of 
individuals who adopt and respect the same warrior tradition. They value 
abilities more than possessions, understanding that, even though they do 
settle in places from time to time, there will always be anather call to battle 
beyond the horizon. 

Traditional Mandalorians are unafraid of technology, using what they 
learn to help augment their personal arsenals. Thus, warriors’ armor and 


weaponry can be very different. Many wear personal jet packs as tools for 
opening new avenues of attack rather than for escape, because they are 
honor-bound to stand and fight. Mandalorian armors also have internal 
environmental systems. In addition to allowing warriors to wear them for 
long durations, they provide protection against poison gas and permit activity 
in the vacuum of space. 


Joining Up 
The way to become a Mandalorian is simple. You are a Mandalorian because 
you choose to be a Mandalorian and because you act like a Mandalorian. 
Of course, it helps to have other Mandalorians—known collectively in 
their language as the Mando’ade—around, because much of acting like a 
Mandalorian involves the community. Mandalorian society has no written 
laws and few norms, but the few that exist are sacred. Chief among these 
are the Resol'Nare, or the Six Actions: 


Bajur, beskar'gam, 
Ara’noy, aliit, 

Mando’'a bal Mand'alor— 
An vencuyan mhi. 


Education and armor, 
Seif-defense, our tribe, 
Our longuage, our leader— 
All help us survive. 


A few words, for a people of few words. Raising younglings as Mandalorians; 
wearing armor; defending one's self and family; helping the clan flourish; 
speaking Mando‘a; and rallying to Mandalore’s side when needed. It is a 
simple creed that translates well, given the variety of non-Human species 
represented among the Mandalorians. It is vital to keep to these tenets, 
because someone ignorant of Mandalorian culture is regarded as dar'manda— 
seen as the equivalent of living without a soul. Just as no individual authority 
figure declares you a Mandalorian, no one figure decides when someone 
has been unworthy. In both cases, that decision comes organically from the 
community, accepting or shunning the newcomer. 

The traditional Crusaders do not proselytize; rather, they attract others 
to their cause through the examples they set. Veterans see the later Neo- 
Crusader movement, which actively converts outsiders in its hurry to conquer 
the galaxy, aS a perversion. 


Life in the Clans 

A harsh life awaits newcomers to the Mandalorian ways—particularly those 
who have spent their lives in the Republic, which the Mandalorians see as 
soft and decadent. Even though Mandalorians helo each other—directing a 


SOMETIMES EVEN JED! 4RE NO MaTCH FOR MandaLORIANS 


promising convert to old or spare armor and weapons for an initial outfit— 
self-sufficiency is a necessity. Meals, weapons, and starship fuel: all are 
where you find them. 

Fortunately, traditional Mandalorians are not unduly burdened with a 
respect for the property rights of outsiders. Craftspeople within the Crusader 
clans use industrial skills as necessary, but no static infrastructure for formal 
manufacturing exists for long anywhere other than the planet Mandalore. 
Thus, much of the Mandalorians' arsenal—from the Basilisk war droids they 
ride to the ships they fly—has traditionally come from somewhere else. The 
galaxy's greatest flouters of the Republic's patent laws, Mandalorians happily 
adopt technologies found elsewhere for their own purposes. 


ix HSlLarvno 


AGEIVEGNY A) SAL a 


SBN 


SNVIZFOTVENY A) SAA 


Mandalorians place great emphasis on the family, prizing chastity before 
marriage and fidelity thereafter. Children are trained from a young age, and 
all members of the family share an equal role in its preservation against 
enemies. 

Trade within Mandalorian communities is based on barter, with jewelry 
and precious metals used as portable commodities alongside weapons and 
armor. However, Mandalorians understand the currencies used in the galaxy 
around them, and many have been known to amass fortunes for reinvestment 
in their gear or ships. 


Crusader Organization 

Throughout most of their history, “Mandalorian" and “organization” are 
contradictory terms. Such is the case with the Crusaders of the Great Sith 
War. They recognize no official ranks; they do not divide into formal units; 
they use no command structure of any kind. Respect for Mandalore—their 
sole leader—and filial obligation to their clans are the Mandalorians’ only 
responsibilities to others. 

Mandalorian forces—a term more accurate than “armies’—are amorphous, 
with information spreading through the warrior mass by sight and sound. 
Keeping one eye on their comrades enables Mandalorians to respond quickly 
when the direction of battle changes. Mass movements, too, appear to follow 
a sort of hive behavior. When respected warriors head to another ridge—or 
star system—others follow. 


THE NEO-CRUSADERS 

The Resol'Nare have nothing to say when it comes to bureaucracy, payrolls, 
or the other features found in regular militaries. Of course, nothing in the 
creed forbids those features from developing, either. Thus, the first Neo- 
Crusaders are able to argue for a change in the ideal Mandalorian without 
seeming to offend the Mandalorian ideals. 

The Neo-Crusader movement springs from Sith War veterans who are 
discontent about how the Crusaders performed against the Republic and its 
Jedi. They are excellent at pillaging and destroying Republic installations, but 
the Mandalorians are not efficient at exploiting their conquests. With the 
Crusader ethic focused on fighting the next battle, the brief Sith War provides 
the Mandalorians with little time to digest their gains. As such, huge conquered 
industrial complexes sit idle rather than rearming the Mando’ade, and untold 
millions of beings who might have been brought into the fold are not. The 
Crusaders are talented at invading but not at occupying or, for that matter, at 
creating new Crusaders—at least, not at a pace necessary to hold a galaxy. 

Ascribing this deficit to the lack of order arising from their nomadic 
lifestyle, a small group of zealots calling themselves Neo-Crusaders take 
residence on the planet Mandalore. They wear identical suits of armor, a 
practice others see as bizarre. Further, they adopt their own rudimentary 
chain of command and division of labor—again, a feature not found in the 
traditional culture. Many Mandalorians find this freakish, but a few take 


interest in what the Neo-Crusaders have to say. And when the Mandalorians 
again reach out to raid nonaligned worlds, the Neo-Crusaders—with their 
discipline and willingness to rely more on their helmet transceivers—are 
winning more than their share of battles. 

Sensing an opportunity, Mandalore and aide-de-camp Cassus Fett 
encourage the movement. Cassus refines the one-time cult’s organizational 
strategies for use on a larger scale—the big time, as it were. And it becomes 
big, indeed. The Mandalorians who first tested the Republic in the so-called 
“False War" find that they are at a distinct advantage with Neo-Crusaders 
as their vanguard. By the time the wider Mandalorian Wars with the Republic 
break out, Mandalore has Neo-Crusaders present in every unit, boosting 
morale and spreading the new ideals of conformity and discipline. 

When the Mandatorians take Republic worlds, they immediately locate 
likely recruits. Shipped to training centers [another concept alien to Man- 
dalorians], the new recruits are taught by Neo-Crusaders to become Neo- 
Crusaders. Traditional Mandalorians are encouraged to adopt the system, 
too—although some are distressed by the changes. The Mandalorians of the 
past are voluntarily committed to the cause, but Neo-Crusaders increasingly 
include warriors of poor quality who join to escape occupation or to share 
in the pillaging. 

Having transformed from a grassroots movement to a weapon that nearly 
conquers a galaxy, the Neo-Crusader dream ends with their final defeat in 
the Mandalorian Wars. 


Joining the Neo-Crusaders 

During the early years of the movement the Neo-Crusaders are ideologically 
pure. Coming from the ranks of existing Mandalorians, members tend to be 
young, often children of Crusaders lost in the Great Sith War. 

Later, after victories against nonaligned worlds, the Neo-Crusaders 
gain official blessing and begin targeting existing Mandalorian warriors 
for conversion. Intellectual agreement with the Neo-Crusader approach 
remains important, and new members who buck authority or show excessive 
individualism risk being cast out. 

Finally, during the Mandalorian Wars when the entire Mandalorian 
movement is organized according along Neo-Crusader fines, standards 
quickly begin to collapse. On Taris, as on other worlds, Cassus Fett gives 
citizens a choice: join the Mandalorians as warriors, or sit quietly and work 
as manufacturers for the clans as de facto slaves. Many—including a host of 
criminals from the prisons the Mandalorians empty—go with the recruiters 
to planetary staging centers. There they receive whirlwind indoctrination in 
the Resol’Nare from Mandalorian “Rally Masters" before being issued blue 
Neo-Crusader armor, fresh from the on-site War Forges. 

As the size of the conquered population explodes during the Mandalorian 
Wars, Neo-Crusader training devolves to "put on a helmet and go," as one 
dissident puts it. The average Neo-Crusader warrior in the Battle of Malachor 
is “average,” indeed. 


Life as a Neo-Crusader 

In the beginning, Neo-Crusaders are looked upon as weird cultists. Their 
uniforms and structured approach are as much an offense to Mandalorian 
senses of style as anything. Many warriors laugh at or avoid them. 

When they gain Mandalore's imprimatur in the years leading up to the 
war on the Republic, they rise quickly in standing. They fashion themselves 
as "model Mandalorians," setting examples to be followed by others. 
Neo-Crusaders initially receive preferential treatment when it comes to 
receiving armor and weaponry from the new War Forges. Eventually, all 
new equipment is designed for Neo-Crusaders, leaving the holdouts to fend 
for themselves. 

Neo-Crusaders use their helmet comm systems constantly, and warriors 
are expected to keep them on to hear any orders coming through. 


Neo-Crusader Organization 

Under the structure decreed by Mandalore the Ultimate and implemented by 
Cassus Fett, the Neo-Crusaders recognize four levels of authority. The gulf 
between ranks is wide and the ratios of underling to superior soon grow huge, 
but this organization is far more structured than traditional Mandalorians 
are accustomed to. 

Neo-Crusader: The basic warrior, Mandalorian Neo-Crusaders wear 
identical blue armor. The color-coding, Cassus Fett contends, makes it 
easier for new recruits to recognize authority even when they do not speak 
Mando‘a. A transponder signal is later implemented to help color-blind spe- 
cies in this regard. 

Neo-Crusader Rally Master: Where the Crusaders had formed up around 
whatever warriors seemed to be most lethal—Rohlan was one—the Rally 
Masters are Mandalore the Ultimate's trusted lieutenants on the ground. 
They are called upon for many duties: part drill sergeant, part political 
officer, part battlefield commander. Wearing crimson Neo-Crusader armor, 
they are instantly recognizable in the field—and blue Neos are expected to 
find and heed them. Formal units do not exist at the outbreak of the Man- 
dalorian Wars, so warriors are expected to obey the Rally Master nearest 
them. Since they all presumably speak with Mandalore's voice, this division 
of command is enough. 

Neo-Crusader Marshal: Cassus Fett is among the first of Mandalore's 
op advisors to accept the gold-colored Neo-Crusader armor as an example 
hat even those at the top should give up individualism. But the gold armor's 
value as a status symbol quickly deteriorates. Some, such as science advisor 
Demagol, refuse to take on the new appearance—and Mandalore the Ultimate 
soon distributes the golden armor as rewards to everyone from his personal 
vanguard to anyone who desires differentiation from the Rally Masters—all 
he way down to Demagol's own aides. 

Admitting defeat on this one point, Fett later arques for unique armors 
for the truly special—including himself. But on the battlefield, the shining 
armor continues to designate the operation's field marshal. 


As the population of Neo-Crusaders increases, Mandalore the Ultimate 
approves new armor packages for special purposes. Neo-Crusader shock 
troopers are the first of several kinds of Neo-Crusader, all with look-alike 
armor geared toward their tactical specialty. 


THE SCATTERING 


During the years following the Mandalorian Wars, the Mandalorians scatter 
to the galactic winds. Many of those remaining in the Republic stop wearing 
armor and blend in with the crowd. Others, in more remote areas, attempt 
to keep quietly to their traditions, but the going is difficult. Many turn to 
smuggling, bounty hunting, and piracy, plying their battle-hardened skills as 
best they can. However, not everyone using Mandalorian weapons or armor 
is Mandalorian. After the Wars, Mandalorian artifacts are so plentiful that 
they are frequently used in other contexts. 


MANDALORIAN 
PERSONNEL 


The Mandalorians are a diverse group with members of many species repre- 
sented throughout its forces. The following characters can be used to create 
exciting encounters with Mandalorians during most of the major conflicts 
of this time period. 


MANDALORIAN CRUSADER 
The traditional Mandalorian Crusader—from the days before the Neo- 
Crusader movement-—lives like his ancestors. Many are born into the clans. 
The majority are Human, although members of the Taung species remain, 
as well as some alien converts. They travel and fight and strive to live their 
ives in accordance with the Resol'Nare. For the Crusaders—derisively called 
“paleo-Crusaders” by Neo-Crusaders—this is enough to fill a life. 

Crusaders in the field are responsible for their own provisioning, carrying 
heir whole worlds on their back. Likewise, division of labor sorts itself out 
organically. A Crusader who wants to run an artillery unit or fly a Davaab 
fighter just shows up and does it—and does it better than anyone else if he 
wants to keep doing it. The Crusaders have little tolerance for bureaucracy 
and none at all for incompetence. 

No two suits of Crusader armor are identical, internally or externally. They 

are the most visible symbol of a movement prizing individualism. 


SNMIBOTIW-ANVA) SFL 3 


io 

5 

> 

v 

4 

WW 

2) 

Ix 
5 

id 

Bic 

“Te 

is 

@ || 2 

D 0) 

> 

ae 

im) 

_ ip 

| > 

U2 

B G 
iz) 
® 


LEFT TO RIGHT: MANDALORIAN CRUSADER, NEO-CRUSADER, NEO-CRUSADER Rally MASTER, NEO-CRUS4DER SHOCK TROOPER 


Mandalorian Crusader CL 3 


Medium Human soldier 3 
Init +6; Senses low-light vision, Perception +1 
Languages Mando'a 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 17, Will 13 
hp 44; Threshold 17 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +5 (1d6+3) or 
Melee knife +5 (1d4+2) or 

Melee mace +5 (1d8+2] 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +3 (3d8+1) 
Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Burning Assault 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Talents Burning Assault, Jet-Pack Training 

Feats Armor proficiency (light, medium), Mandalorian Training, Martial 
Arts |, Weapon Focus (simple weapons, unarmed strike), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 


Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Pilot+6, Treat Injury +6 

Possessions Mandalorian combat suit (+4 armor, +1 equipment) with 
targeting scope, jet pack, and knife gauntlet upgrade; heavy blaster 
pistol; mace; combat gloves; field kit with medpac 


MANDALORIAN NEO-CRUSADER 
In the early years of the movement, Mandalorian Neo-Crusaders are fervently 
committed warriors of high quality. But in the years leading up to the Man- 
dalorian Wars, as the Neo-Crusader movement takes hold, the simple Neo- 
Crusader—wearing a basic blue version of the Neo-Crusader armor—becomes 
the generic grunt of the clans. The vast majority of Neo-Crusaders are of 
this lowest rank, and many in the later days of the Wars nave backgrounds 
as soldiers, scouts, or scoundrels. 

Neo-Crusaders are responsible to the authority of their Rally Masters. 
One who fails or runs from battle is considered a Aut'uun—a coward—and 
placed on the front lines in the next engagement. 


Mandalorian Neo-Crusader Soldier CL 1 
Medium Human nonheroic 4 
Init +6; Senses low-light vision, Perception +0 


Languages Basic, Mando’a 


Mandalorian Neo-Crusader Rally Master 
Medium Human nonheroic 3/nable 3/soldier 2 
Init +4; Senses low-light vision, Perception +3 
Languages Basic, Mando’'a 


CL6 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 13, Will 17 
hp 10; Threshold 14 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 20), Fort 20, Will 18 
hp 29; Threshold 20 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee mace +1 [1d8+1) 

Ranged blaster rifle +2 (3d8) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +1 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Mandalorian Training, Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +5 

Possessions Neo-Crusader light armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment] with 
targeting scope, jet pack and shield-generator gauntlet upgrade, 
blaster rifle, mace, 2 frag grenades, utility belt with medpac 


MANDALORIAN NEO-CRUSADER 
RALLY MASTER 

Wearing crimson-colored armor, the Rally Masters of the Neo-Crusacers 
are as close as Mandalorians come to having officers. They serve both as 
Mandalore's vital operational link to his forces and as teachers spreading 
Neo-Crusader thinking. Without these leaders, the Mandalorians likely 
never would have left the Outer Rim, much less threatened to take over 
the Republic. 

In the early days of the Neo-Crusader movement, Rally Masters function 
independently, but with the number of marshals increasing, Rally Masters 
more often come under the authority of the golden-armored warriors. Many 
Rally Masters complain of the presence of too many generals, but others find 
ways to continue to function independently on the battlefield. 

In the early years, a basic Neo-Crusader achieves promotion to Rally 
Master after commendation by a marshal for battlefield heroics. In the later 
stages of the Mandalorian Wars, standards decline so that simply serving 
with the clans long enough to learn Mando'a and some of their ways is 
enough to earn promotion. 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +5 (1d64+5) or 

Melee knife +5 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Special Actions Coordinate +1, Coordinated Attack 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 14 

Talents Coordinate, Jet Pack Training, Presence 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, 
Mandalorian Training, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +9, Persuasion +15, Pilot +9 

Possessions Neo-Crusader light armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment) with 
electrobinoculars, targeting scope, and jet pack; blaster rifle; blaster 
pistol; knife; combat gloves; utility belt with medpac 


MANDALORIAN NEO-CRUSADER 
MARSHAL 

Initially, the golden suits of marshals are reserved for a handful of Man- 
dalore the Ultimate's closest advisors. Cassus Fett is one of the earliest to 
take on the armor, in a show of his support for the color-coded hierarchical 
system he helps to implement. But even before the assault on the Republic 
begins, Mandalore has begun to devalue the position, rewarding his personal 
vanguard with the gold-colored armor. Soon, issuing the right to wear the 
golden armor becomes his preferred resolution for a variety of bureaucratic 
problems. 

As the average quality of the beings in the suits of marshal armor declines, 
their powers do not. Marshals exercise command over an amorphous area 
depending on the proximity of other marshals; one might command an entire 
sector, while another directs affairs on only one flank of a battlefield. They 
are expected to engage in combat personally just as any other Mandalorian, 
but as the position becomes corrupted near the end of the Mandalorian Wars, 
$0, too, do some of the people holding the position; the sight of a marshal 
scurrilously issuing orders from a position of safety becomes common. 


6 


Rane anrinaa 2 ee 


SWMISSeIvaNywW ga 


p). 


INAMEITIVENYVA) SH, 


i 


SSCCCESESesE 


Mandalorian Neo-Crusader Marshal CL 10 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/noble 2/soldier 4/officer 3 

Init +17; Senses low-light vision, Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Mando’a 

Defenses Ref 24 [flat-footed 21), Fort 25, Will 24 

hp 62; Threshold 25 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +10 {1d6+8) or 

Melee bayonet +11 (1d847) or 

Melee dagger +11 (1d4+7) 

Ranged blaster rifle +11 (3d8+5) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (3d8+10) with Power Blast 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Power Blast 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Deployment Jactics, Inspire Confidence 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 16 

Talents Armored Defenses, Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics, Inspire 
Confidence, Jet Pack Training 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Mandalorian Training, Martial 
Arts |, Power Blast, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [tactics]}, Skill Training (Perception), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Focus (rifles, simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +16, Mechanics +11, Perception +10, 
Persuasion +13, Pilot +12 

Possessions Neo-Crusader light armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment) with 
electrobinoculars, targeting scope, jet pack, and dagger and shield- 
generator gauntlet upgrades; blaster rifle with bayonet; combat gloves; 
utility belt with medpac 


MANDALORIAN NEO-CRUSADER 
SHOCK TROOPER 

Generic Neo-Crusader armor fs standardized except for adaptations for dif- 
ferent species, but Mandalore found that standardization created a hole in 
the clans’ operational abilities. Crusaders of the past had customized their 
armor in anticipation of battlefield and environmental requirements. Among 
the Neo-Crusaders, there was still a need for specialization, both in armor 
and personnel. 

Neo shock troopers were one of the early "special varieties’ of Neo- 
Crusaders, making their first appearance in the boarding of the Courageous 
after its flight from Serroco. The shock troopers specialize in incursions where 
the nature of the battlefield is unknown, such as underground tunnels, aboard 
spacecraft, and in congested urban areas. The Neo shock armor package is 
hardened for extensive extravehicular activity, allowing a full 24 hours in 
space without recharge. 


Quality Neo-Crusaders win positions as shock troopers by impressing 
their Rally Masters. The shock troopers have their own hierarchy, report- 
ing ultimately to Cassus Fett, who sees that they have the best equipment 
available from the War Forges. 


Mandalorian Neo-Crusader Shock Trooper CLS 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 3 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision, Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Mando’a 

Defenses Ref 21 {flat-footed 19), Fort 22, Will 15 

hp 32; Threshold 22 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +4 (2d4+3) or 

Melee vibroblade +4 (2d6+3) 

Ranged blaster rifle +5 (3d8+4) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Talents Jet Pack Training, Weapon Specialization (blaster rifle) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Mandalorian Training, 
Skill Training (Pilot), Weapon Focus [rifles], Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +7, Perception +7, Pilot +8 

Possessions Neo-Crusader assault armor (+10 armor, +4 equipment, 
max +0 Dex) with electrobinoculars, targeting scope, jet pack, and 
vibrodagger and shield generator gauntlet upgrades: blaster rifle; 
vibroblade; 2 frag grenades; utility belt with medpac 


MANDALORIAN 
PERSONALITIES 


Individuals within the ranks of the Mandalorians are frequently raised up as 
exemplars of Mandalorian culture, and just as many are reviled for betraying 
the unique code of honor held by their people. The following individuals are 
among the most influential Mandalorians found in the galaxy throughout 
this era. 


BENDAK STARKILLER 

Born into a mining family, Gorse Bendak follows his forefathers into that 
rough trade, traveling from worksite to worksite on the Outer Rim. His last 
posting, however, changes his life forever. Bendak is deep in the mines at a 
worksite on the dayside of Vanquo when the Mandalorians invade the planet 
as part of their sneak attack on the Republic. Discovering the invaders above, 
Bendak remains holed up in the shafts, using mining implements to mount 
a makeshift—and deadly—personal defense. It taxes two weeks and a dozen 


Mandalorians to finally bring Bendak to heel—and, sensing his abilities, they 
immediately offer to recruit him into their ranks. Seeing no alternative in 
slavery, Bendak agrees. 

Bendak’s career as a Mandalorian Neo-Crusader is brief but fruitful. The 
Mandalorians train him well in the ways of weaponry, and the fast study 
Bendak rises to the level of Field Marshal within two years. But when Revan’s 
forces defeat the Mandalorians once and for all, Bendak is a warrior without 
an army. Drifting into work as a bounty hunter, he soon finds his talents in 
great demand. 

Another reversal of fortune follows, however. When Bendak accidentally 
kills the daughter of a nobleman, he finds himself with a huge bounty on his 
own head. Even though he does not fear death, Bendak is unable to work, so 
he turns to friend and employer Ajuur the Hutt. Ajuur encourages Bendak to 
don his old armor again and enter the gladiatorial rings of Taris, adding the 
stage name “Starkiller" to his own. 

Initially concerned about looking like a circus act—Mandalorians are hated 
on Taris—Bendak instead becomes an immediate sensation. Many citizens 
come to bet on Starkiller in the arena, where dozens of duelists meet their 
deaths against the warrior. Jealous of any legends other than their own taking 
root, the Sith forces that now rule Taris outlaw death matches. Irritated, 
Bendak Starkiller goes into retirement, still hoping for the day when a truly 
worthy opponent arrives. 

Both fast and accurate on the draw, Starkiller uses a heavy blaster pistol 
that he customized himself. 


Bendak Starkiller 

Medium Human soldier 8/scoundre! 1/gladiator 3 

Force 3 

Init +20; Senses low-light vision, Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Mando‘a 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 26), Fort 29, Will 25 

hp 96; Threshold 29 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +13 (1d4+8) 

Ranged customized heavy blaster pistol +17 (3d8+39) or 

Ranged customized heavy blaster pistol +15 (4d8+9) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +11; Grp +15 

Atk Options Brutal Attack (pistols), Careful Shot, Deadeye, Devastating 
Attack (pistols), Penetrating Attack (pistols), Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Running Attack, Skirmisher 

Special Actions Indomitable, Unflinching 


CL 12 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 18, Con 16, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Special Qualities Unflinching (1/encounter) 

Talents Armored Defenses, Brutal Attack (pisto!s), Devastating Attack 
(pistols), Indomitable, Penetrating Attack (pistols), Skirmisher, Weapon 
Specialization (pistols) 


Feats Armor Proficiency {light, medium), Careful Shot, Deadeye, 
Mandalorian Training, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, 
Rapid Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus (Initiative), Skill Training 
(Persuasion), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Initiative +20, Knowledge (tactics) +13, Mechanics 
+13, Perception +13, Persuasion +13, Treat Injury +13 

Possessions customized heavy blaster pistol (+1 to hit and damage) with 
targeting scope, Neo-Crusader light armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment, 
+3 max Dex), 2 spare power packs, medpac 


DEMAGOL 

Even though Mandalorians focus on combat, they also respect and use 
technology. But they seldom respect those who embrace science as its own 
end—particularly when the practice of that science violates their senses of 
morality. Thus Demagol—the greatest name in Mandalorian science in the 
half century after the Sith War—provokes both admiration and disgust. 


DEMAGOL 


HaLavHD 


ix 


{ 


SeccctiCCiEs 


U 


SHMWIGEINVGNY A) SAL 


Little is known in the Republic about the origins of “Doctor” Demagol, 
whose name is a contraction of the Mando'a phrase demar agol, “to carve 
flesh,” More than happy to dirty his glaves in the biolagical study of his 
“research subjects,” the so-called flesh carver is fastidious, preferring to 
remain inside his climate-controlled armor, his true face hidden from all. 
No one knows Demagol's species or planet of origin—much to the surprise 
of Republic investigators. The lack of inguisitiveness comes naturally in the 
clans, where one's armored persona is, for Mandalorians, one's true face. 
In the years leading up to the Mandalorian Wars, Demagol participates in 
the capture and evaluation of conquered alien species on the Outer Rim, 
but reports indicate Demagol, or someone by that name, was active much 
farther back. 

Demagol’s most pernicious project involves Jedi. Demagol dismisses 
explanations of Jedi powers involving what he termed “the so-called Force” 
as superstitious claptrap. He further doubts the theories of his own assistant 
and sometime rival, Pulsipher, that Jedi and Sith powers arose from artifacts 
crafted by an ancient and mysterious science. Instead, Demagol seeks a bio- 
ogical explanation for the powers—through dissection. Jedi are kidnapped 
by Mandalorians on the Outer Rim and secretly delivered to Demagol’s 
aboratory—a "visit to the doctor” from which they would never recover. 
Later, during the “False War’ that immediately preceded the Mandalorians’ 
invasion of the Republic, Demagol sets up shop in the captured research 
station on Flashpoint. Captured Jedi, originally dispatched by Revan to scout 
he Mandalorian lines, are delivered to him. 

The Jedi would have lost their lives, but for Zayne Carrick, Gryph, and 
he Mandalorian deserter Rohlan Dyre. They capture Demagol and con- 
vince the Mandalorians that the scientist is dead. In fact, they intend to 
give Demagol to his one-time research subjects to return to Coruscant for 
questioning. But that tantalizing interrogation is not to be; the prisoner in 
the Jedi's care falls into a coma en route, drugged in an evident attempt to 
avoid questions forever. 

While active, Demagol enjoys a status within the clans that far outstrips 
his contributions as a warrior. He is believed to be a close confederate and 
advisor of Mandalore the Ultimate. Cassus Fett regards Demagol as a rival 
for Mandalore's attention, and Demago! has tweaked Fett by refusing to don 
Neo-Crusader armor. The devilish doctor is independent to a fault. 


Demagol CL 15 

Medium noble 3/scoundrel 9/soldier 3 

Destiny 2; Force 3; Dark Side 14 

Init +14; Senses low-light vision, Perception +16 

Languages Arkanian, Basic, Bocce, Bothese, Durese, Ithorian, Mando'a, 
Miralukese, Rodese, Selkath, Shyriiwook, Snivvian 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 17), Fort 19, Will 21 

hp 88; Threshold 19 


Speed 6 squares 


Melee combat gloves +13 (1d8+9) or 

Melee knife +13 (1d4+8) 

Ranged blaster pistol +14 (3d6+7] 

Base Atk +11; Grp +13 

Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Devastating Attack (pistols, simple 
weapons, unarmed strike), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Sneak Attack 
(+2d6} 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 20, Wis 18, Cha 15 

Talents Armored Defenses, Dastardly Strike, Devastating Attack (pistols, 
simple weapons, unarmed strike), Educated, Presence, Sneak Attack 
(+2d6) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Cybernetic Surgery, Linguist, Mandalorian 
Training, Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Skill Focus [Deception], Skill Fous (Knowledge [life sciences]), 
Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Focus (Treat Injury), Surgical Expertise, 
Weapon Focus (pistols, simple weapons, unarmed strike}, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +14, Initiative +14, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +17, Knowledge [life sciences) +22, Perception +16, 
Persuasion +19, Pilot +14, Stealth +14, Treat Injury +21, Use Computer 
+17 

Possessions blaster pistol, Mandalorian combat suit [+4 armor, +1 
equipment), knife, combat gloves, code cylinder, datapad 


ROHLAN DYRE 

Rohlan Dyre is a Human symbol. Among traditional Mandalorian Crusaders, 
he exhibits all the qualities expected in the Mando‘ade: self-reliance, respect 
for the Resol'Nare, leadership, and above all, excellence in combat. Yet he 
also symbolizes the discord within the clans over the changes wrought by 
the Neo-Crusader movernent. 

However others regard him, the only identity Rohian ever seeks for him- 
self is that of a competent warrior, and the warrior in spiked armor displays 
that competence time and again. Apart from fealty to Mandalore, the clans 
observe no hierarchy, but Mandalorians will follow a strong leader on the 
battlefield. Mandalorian warriors respect experience, clustering around 
veterans both to learn and to stay alive. Rohlan earns that respect, and over 
the years leads countless warriors into battle. 

But as the Mandalorians' campaigns on the Outer Rim grow closer to 
Republic space, Rohlan begins to question the events surrounding him. The 
Neo-Crusader cultists he once ridiculed are in ascendance. Order is being 
imposed on the organic flow of Mandalorian life. And Mandalore the Ulti- 
mate's stratagems against the Republic seem to Rohlan to be too clever by 
nalf—deceptions not worthy of the Mando'ade. 

As with most conflicts in his life, Rohlan attacks this head-on, asking 
questions. When he fails to receive answers from Mandalore or his lieuten- 
ants, Rohlan decides to find out for himself. As soon as one raid is success- 


fully completed, he slips away in search of answers. When his actions are 
discovered, he is captured and returned to the front—where he runs again. 

The cycle continues until the Mandalorians invade the Republic in force, 
when chance brings Rohlan into the company of renegade Padawan Zayne 
Carrick, Joining in common cause, Zayne and Rohlan capture the demonic 
Mandalorian scientist Demagol on Flashpoint. In the process, Zayne helps 
Rohlan fake his own death before the Mandalorians, leaving him to continue 
his pursuit for truth. 

Ironically, Mandalore the Ultimate twists the news of Rohlan’s supposed 
demise into a legend in which "Rohlan the Questioner" proclaims that Man- 
dalorians should never question authority. Thus, the curious warrior's efforts 
are corrupted into propaganda promoting the very uniformity he doubted. 

The ventilation system in Rohlan’s airtight armor provides him with cool, 
purified air, allowing him to stay tn uniform for extended periods, even 
surviving hours in a vacuum. 
Rohlan Dyre CL 13 
Medium Human scoundrel 1/soldier 9/elite trooper 3 
Destiny 2; Force 3 
Init +14; Senses low-light vision, darkvision, Perception +17 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Mando’'a 


Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 25), Fort 31, Will 25 
hp 123; DR 2; Threshold 31 


Speed 4 squares (6 squares with rocket pack) 

Melee unarmed +15 {1d6+11} or 

Melee knife +14 [1d4+8) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +16 (3d8+8) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +17 

Atk Options Crush, Expert Grappler, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 
Special Actions Burning Assault, Shake It Off 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Special Qualities damage reduction 1, delay damage 

Talents Armored Defenses, Armored Mandalorian, Armor Mastery, Burning 
Assault, Expert Grappler, Jet-Pack Training, Weapon Specialization 

pistols, unarmed strike] 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Crush, Mandalorian Training, 

artial Arts |, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Shake It Off, Skill 

Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Gather Information), Vehicular 

Combat, Weapon Focus [pistols, unarmed strike), Weapon Proficiency 

pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +13, Gather Information +13, Initiative +14, 

nowledge (tactics) +13, Perception +17, Pilot +14, Treat Injury +12 

Possessions Mandalorian battle armor (+8 armor, +2 equipment} with 
electrobinoculars and jet pack, heavy blaster pistol with targeting 
scope, knife, combat gloves, utility belt with medkit 


CASSUS FETT 

Republic intelligence does not know where Cassus Fett comes from, and few 
Mandalorians know, either. But they all know what he has done. Through 
early conquests of nonaligned worlds and the assault against the Republic, 
Fett becomes known as a master of battlefield command. Behind the scenes, 
he helps turn the Mandalorians from a disorganized mob into an efficient 
invasion machine. 

As a tactician, Fett has few equals. He deals the Cathar a defeat so 
complete the scattered remnants of the species fear to speak of it for years. 
He helps engineer the "False War," a period of limited engagement with the 
Republic on the Outer Rim. In it, the Mandalorians feign weakness until the 
true strength of the rejuvenated Republic Navy can be determined. Fett also 
designs the Onslaught, the surprise invasion of the Republic along three 
fronts, taking advantage of a weakness created by Zayne Carrick's notorious 
escape from Taris. 

The influence of this enigmatic warrior extends far beyond fighting. 
Where earlier Mandalorians had conquered systems without bringing them 
into the warrior fold, Fett gives the clans what they need to capitalize on 
their conquests. He finds a solution in the Neo-Crusaders, a fringe sect of 
warriors willing to trade individualism and independence for uniformity and 
order. Fett convinces Mandalore the Ultimate to embrace the cult, spreading 
its members among the clans to promote Neo-Crusader ideals. By the time 
the Mandalorians invade the Republic, a system is in place to quickly convert 
conquered peoples into new warriors for the cause. Fett even plays a role as 
a symbol for the system, donning golden Neo-Crusader armor for a time. 

Fett also revolutionizes Mandalortan war production, setting up War 
Forges near the Neo-Crusaders’ staging areas. These massive facilities on 
Jebble, Tarnith, and elsewhere quickly come online, ready to supply new 
eo-Crusader armor and weapons to new recruits. 

Fett's strategic contributions also extend to relatively mundane matters. 
During the siege of Taris, the colossal logjam created by invasion forces, cap- 
ured vehicles, and attempted escapees threatens to bog the Mandalorians 
down for months. Grasping the problem, Fett pérsonally oversees traffic 
control from a headquarters in the former Jedi Tower—still finding time to 
ead a successful assault on the Taris Resistance. 

Less is known of Fett personally. His peers are few, and friends fewer; he 
reportedly relishes the passing of perceived rivals Demagol and Pulsipher. 

Like many warriors, Cassus Fett has a family in the clans—including at 
east one son. But even though he shares the same surname as later famous 

andalorians, Jango and Boba Fett, historians have yet to establish the 
nature of their relationship, if any exists. 


, 


SNVIMEIVGNVA) SEI, 
aca anaanaoananann a fa 


NHIHNOIVaGNY (A) ema | 


é 


Cassus Fett 

Medium Human noble 7/soldier 3/officer 7 

Destiny 4; Force 3; Dark Side 12 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision, Perception +20 

Languages Arkanian, Basic, Bothese, Durese, High Galactic, Ithorian, 
Khilese, Mando’a, Ryl, Sullustese 


CL 17 


Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 19}, Fort 22, Will 23 
hp 104; Threshald 22 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +16 (1d6+9) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +17 (3d8+8} 

Base Atk +15; Grp +17 

Atk Options Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Coordinate +3, 
Coordinated Attack, Deployment Tactics +2, Field Tactics, Inspire 
Confidence, Outmaneuver 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 18, Wis 15, Cha 18 

Special Qualities command cover +3, share talent (Field Tactics, Inspire 
Confidence, Outmaneuver) 

Talents Armored Defenses, Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Coordinate 
(3), Deployment Tactics +2, Field Tactics, Inspire Confidence, 
Outmaneuver 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Far Shot, Linguist, 
Mandalorian Training, Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Skill Focus (Gather Information), Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[bureaucracy]}, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics]], Skill Focus 
(Perception), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception+17, Gather Information +22, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+22, Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Knowledge (social sciences) +17, 
Knowledge (tactics) +22, Knowledge (technology) +17, Perception +20, 
Persuasion +22, Pilot+15, Use Computer+17 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, Neo-Crusader light armor (+6 armor, +2 
equipment) with electrobinoculars, comlink (encrypted), code cylinder, 
datapad, utility belt with medpac 


MANDALORE THE INDOMITABLE 
Passed down through generations, the honorific title of Mandalore has tradi- 
tionally been taken by the recognized leader of the movement. Before the Great 
Sith War, a Taung warrior—whose original name is lost to history—rises through 
the clans to take the title. Mythosaur axe in hand, this Mandalore—called 
the “Indomitable” by his people for his fighting spirit—leads the Mando'ade 
on many successful campaigns. He is peerless when it comes to inspiring his 
troops, and his overly simplistic view of galactic affairs suits the Crusader 
consciousness well. Guile is not a Mandalorian virtue, in any event. 

This lack of sophistication becomes a fatal flaw in what would come 
o be the most remarkable episode in his life. Ironically, the Indomitable 
is dominated—along with all his people—when he allows his bravado to 
push him into a foolish wager. Sensing an opportunity in a galaxy torn by 
strife, the Indomitable brings his forces to the Empress Teta system, then 
controlled by the fallen Jedi Ulic Qel-Droma and his Krath ally Aleema Keto. 


There, Mandalore challenges Qel-Droma to single combat—offering not only 


his allegiance, but also that of all the clans if he fails to emerge victorious. 
Qel-Droma wins the battle, and true to his word, Mandalore kneels before 
he dark Jedi. 

Mandalore expects all the clans to fulfill his promise to serve Ulic Qel- 
Droma, and though they do, their support is grudging. Many warriors are 
offended by the notion of being subjugated to the rogue Jedi. Some quietly 
grumble that Mandalore's bargain is not theirs. His loss to Qel-Droma is not 
their loss, so the clans should not be bound to his promise. A few extremists 
take an even more legalistic view. Technically, they argue, the Indomitable's 
authority ended when Qel-Droma defeated him. And since the rogue Jedi is 
not of the Mando'ade and could not take the title, they regard themselves 
as leaderless and go to ground. Too few in number to warrant Mandalore’s 
attention, these objectors later help found the Neo-Crusader movement. 

At Qel-Droma’s side, the Indomitable commands Mandalorian forces 
against the shipyards at Foerost and other targets. And alongside Aleema, 
he leads an abortive invasion of Coruscant. But he fails to comprehend the 
treacherous game going on between his new masters. When Aleema betrays 
Qel-Droma, Mandalore sneaks off to find and warn the dark Jedi—but not 
before making sure that Aleema's orders are carried out to the letter. His 
honor will not allow him to do otherwise—even though, as some in the clans 
whisper, Mandalore owes no loyalty to Aleema. The simple nature of the great 
warrior is no match for Aleema's seductive voice. He returns to Qel-Droma’s 
service, meeting his fate, like many others, in the Sith War’s chaotic end. 


Mandalore the Indomitable CL 19 

Medium Near-Human noble 7/soldier 8/elite trooper 4 

Destiny 2; Force 4; Dark Side 4 

Init +21; Senses low-light vision, Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Mando‘a 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 28, Will 21 

hp 176; Threshold 28 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee Mythosaur axe +22 (1d12+15) or 

Melee Mythosaur axe +22 (2d12+15) with Mighty Swing or 

Melee Mythosaur axe +17 (1d12+15) and 
Mythosaur axe +17 (1d12+15} with Double Attack 

Melee spear +22 (1d8+15 

Ranged spear +20 (1d8+11) 

Base Atk +17; Grp +21 

Atk Options Cleave, Double Attack [simple weapons}, Mandalorian 
Ferocity (simple weapons), Mandalorian Honor, Mighty Swing, Point 
Blank Shot, Power Attack 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Ignite Fervor, indomitable, Inspire 
Confidence, Inspire Zeal, Mandalorian Advance 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 15, Con 16, Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 16 

Talents Armored Defenses, Bolster Ally, Ignite Fervor, Indomitable, Inspire 
Confidence, Inspire Zeal, Mandalorian Advance, Mandalorian Ferocity 
(simple weapons), Mandalorian Glory, Weapon Specialization (simple 
weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency [light, medium), Cleave, Double Attack (simple 
weapons), Mandalorian Training, Martial Arts |, Mighty Swing, 
Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Endurance), Skill Focus 
(initiative), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge 
[tactics]), Skill Training (Persuasion), Skill Training (Pilot), Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon Familiarity (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +18, Endurance +22, Initiative +21, Knowledge (tactics) +15, 
Jump +18, Perception +14, Persuasion +22, Pilot +16 

Possessions Mythosaur axe, spear, Mandalorian battle armor (+8 armor, 
+2 equipment, +5 DR] 


MANDALORE THE ULTIMATE 
In contrast to the apolitical nature of Mandalore the Indomitable, the leader 
who would came to be known as the Ultimate is willing to use all the stra- 
tegic tools available to him. With them, Mandalore the Ultimate is able to 
reinvigorate his people—and lead them into the colossal confrontation with 
the Republic known as the Mandalorian Wars. 

Republic observers differ as to wnen Mandalore the Ultimate rises to 
power. Some believe he is the Taung warrior who claimed the mantle at the 


MANDALORE THE INDOMITABLE (LEFT) AND MAaNDALORE 
THE ULTIMATE (RIGHT) 


end of the Great Sith War; others are less sure. What they do recognize is that 
under the Ultimate, a massive change sweeps across Mandalorian culture. 
Seeking to cleanse the stain of the clans’ servitude to Ulic Qel-Droma, the 
Ultimate surrounds himself with a coterie of able and deadly individuals, 
including Cassus Fett and Demagol. Cultivating the fringe Neo-Crusader 
movement into a key regulative element of his forces, the Ultimate sets his 
people on a course of conquest. 

First, he leads the clans to victories against nonaligned worlds on the 
Outer Rim, never threatening the Republic's interests. But thereafter, Man~ 
dalore maneuvers the Republic into a series of small proxy and brushfire 
wars, harassing border resource worlds. He holds back the full force of 
the Mando’ade during this “False War," waiting until the time is ripe to 
invade in force. The strategy is an overwhelming success—although the un~ 
Mandalorian nature of the approach raises questions from some, including 
the warrior Rohlan Dyre, 

Time and again, the Ultimate displays a cunning willingness to use “soft 
weaponry," as he calls it, alongside the deadlier implements of war. After 
Rohlan's disappearance, the wily Mandalore spins the warrior’s doubts into a 
legend promoting the acceptance of his own authority. Mandalore personally 
attends Lord Adasca's secret summit meeting in an attempt to lure part of the 
Republic's power base to his own cause. His skillful arguments, playing upon 
fissures between the Jedi and the Republic, draws the surprise of those pres- 
ent. "Politics is simply the continuation of war by other means,” he says. 


ix HSsiaevHaS 


LU 


INIMISIOVNVGNYV A) SHL 


SWIMINeWIaNVTA) SH [| 


SESE EEERESS 


The physically imposing Mandalore—his species, as his age, remain 
unknown—is, of course, no stranger to fighting. He participates in many 
battles and rules with a stern hand, brooking no insubordination from his 
inferiors. But as time and the invasion progress, the increasingly busy war- 
rior finds it easier to co-opt those whose assistance he requires, eventually 
undermining his own Neo-Crusader hierarchy by passing out titles and ranks 
first to favorite henchmen and later to anyone whose support he desires. 
Where Mandalore the Indomitable expected blind obedience, Mandalore the 
Ultimate’s more cynical eye sees dissension as one more tactical problem 
to be solved. 

Mandalore the Ultimate carries a ceremonial version of Mandalore the 
Indomitable’s Mythosaur axe. Infused with cortosis and other materials, it 
is capable of delivering an electric charge. 


Mandalore the Ultimate 

Medium noble 5/soldier 7/elite trooper 1/officer 5 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 5 

Init +15; Senses low-light vision, Perception +15 

Languages Arkanian, Basic, Basiliskan, Mando'a 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 26), Fort 29, Will 24 

hp 146; Threshold 34 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee cortosis Mythosaur axe +21 (2d12+11) or 

Melee cortosis Mythosaur axe +21 (3d12+11) with Mighty Swing 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +21 (3d10+9) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +16 (3d10+14) with Power Blast 

Base Atk +18; Grp +20 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle), Devastating Attack (rifles), 
Mighty Swing, Point Blank Shot, Power Blast 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Rally, Shift Defenses |, Shift 
Defenses II, Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 18 

Special Qualities command cover +2, delay damage, share talent (Assault 

Tactics, Shift Defenses Il) 

Talents Armored Defenses, Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Devastating 

Attack (rifles), Distant Command, Improved Armor Defenses, 

Juggernaut, Rally, Shift Defenses |, Shift Defenses II, Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy}, Improved Damage 

Threshold, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Mandalorian Training, Martial 

Arts I, Mighty Swing, Point Blank Shot, Power Blast, Skill Focus 

Persuasion), Skill Training (Persuasion), Weapon Focus (advanced 

melee weapons, rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 

pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 


CL 18 


Skills Endurance +16, Initiative +15, Knowledge (tactics) +17, Mechanics 
+22, Perception +15, Persuasion +23, Pilot +15, Treat Injury +15 

Possessions cortosis Mythosaur axe, heavy blaster rifle, Neo-Crusader 
assault armor (+10 armor, +4 equipment) with cloak, comlink 
(encrypted), code cylinder 


CANDEROUS ORDO, 
MANDALORE THE PRESERVER 

He does not ask for the job, but after Revan smashes the Mandalorians, 
Canderous Ordo finds himself leading his people into an uncertain age. 

“Ordo” is Canderous's surname and also the name of his Mandalorian clan 
and homeworld. Clan Ordo fights as Mandalorian Crusaders in the Great Sith 
War under Mandalore the Indomitable and the Sith Ulic Qel-Droma. With 
Indomitable's death and Qel-Droma’s abandonment, however, apprehen- 
sion sweeps through the Crusaders. That's when Mandalore the Ultimate 
appears—and the Neo-Crusaders. Canderous, devoted to the Resol'Nare and 
traditional Canons of Honor, considers these warriors disturbed. However, he 
cannot argue with their war record. Once Ultimate openly sponsors them, 
Canderous converts to the new Mandalorian way. 

The Neo-Crusaders achieve staggering power, but soon Canderous notices 
chinks in the beskar'gam. As Ultimate enlists more and more conquered 
peoples, outright criminals began flooding the Mandalorians, and the 
Resol’Nare goes by the wayside. 

The crushing defeat at Malachor V and Mandalore the Ultimate's death 
finally reveal the Neo-Crusader hypocrisy, shaking Canderous to his core. 
The clans disperse, with many abandoning the Canons of Honor. Shamefully, 
Canderous becomes a thug-for-hire. 

But during the Jedi Civil War, Canderous returns to glory. He teams with 
his former enemy Revan, reconditioned by the Jedi, and joins the Star Forge 
quest. Helping crush the Sith Empire restores Canderous's honor. In thanks, 
Revan returns to him the traditional mask of Mandalore, and Canderous sets 
out to reunite the Mandalorians. 

In so doing, Canderous happens upon an ailing Taung claiming to be the 
true Mandalore, and calling Mandalore the Ultimate a usurper with Sith 
ties. Before dying, this nameless Mandalorian presents his armor and clan to 
Canderous, asking him to preserve the old ways. Canderous takes the armor 
for himself, integrating the Mandalore mask into its helmet. 

Canderous's unification efforts are spotty, but in the Dark Wars, his loyal 
Mandalorians fight beside Republic troops and storm Darth Nihilus’s ship with 
the Jedi Exile. As his disillusioned people descend into greater lawlessness, 
an aging Canderous fights to keep Mandalorian tradition alive. 


TABLE 12-1: ARMOR 
ARMOR BONUS EQUIP BONUS MAX DEX SPEED SPEED 

ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TO REF DEFENSE TO FORT DEFENSE BONUS (6 SQ.) (4S0.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 
Light Armor (-2) 

Neo-Crusader light armor - +6 +2 +3 - - 42 kg Military, Rare 

Mandalorian combat suit - +4 +1 +5 - - 8 kg Rare 
Medium Armor (—5) 

Mandalorian battle armor = +8 +2 +2 4 sq. 3 sq. 18 kg Rare 
Heavy Armor (-10) 

Neo-Crusader assault armor - +10 +4 +] 4 sq.’ 3 5q.' 65 kg Military, Rare 


1 When running in heavy armor, you can move up to only three times your speed {instead of four times). 


Canderous Ordo 

Medium Human soldier 7/elite 
Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 
Init +15; Senses low-light visi 
Languages Basic, Mando‘a 


CL 16 


trooper Gfofficer 3 
4 
on, Perception +17 


Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 27), Fort 35, Will 31 


hp 142; DR 3; Threshold 35 


Speed 4 squares 


Melee dagger gauntlet +19 (1d4+11} or 


Melee unarmed +19 (1d6+11 


Ranged light repeating blaster rifle +14 (3d8+8) with autofire or 
Ranged light repeating biaster rifle +17 (3d8+8) with braced autofire or 


Ranged blaster gauntlet +18 
Ranged blaster gauntlet +13 

blaster gauntlet +13 (3d6+ 
Base Atk +13; Grp +16 
Atk Options Accelerated Stri 
Special Actions Batt 

Deployment Tactics, Field 1 


3d6+8) or 


(3d6+8] and 


8) 


e, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 


e Analysis, brace (light repeating blaster), 


actics, Mandalorian Advance 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 

Special Qualities command ¢ 

Talents Armored Defenses, Ba 
Weapon Mastery, Field Tac 


4, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 10 

over, share talent (Deployment Tactics) 
ttle Analysis, Deployment Tactics, Exotic 
ics, Juggernaut, Mandalorian Advance, 


Mandalorian Ferocity (pistols), Mandalorian Glory 


Feats Accelerated Strike, Arm 


or Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Dual 


Weapon Mastery |, Implant Training, Mandalorian Training, Martial 
Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon 


Proficiency (heavy weapon 


Ss, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 


Skills Endurance +15, Initiative +15, Knowledge (tactics) +15, Mechanics 


+15, Perception +17, Pilot + 


Possessions Mandalorian Neo- 


+2 equipment), Basilisk war 


15 
Crusader heavy battle armor (+10 armor, 
droid, blaster gauntlet (2), dagger gauntlet, 


implants (alacrity, endurance, regeneration, strength), light repeating 


blaster rifle 


ARMOR 


The types of armor given on Table 12-1 are described below. 


MANDALORIAN NEO-CRUSADER 
LIGHT ARMOR 
The basic issue armor of the Mandalorian ground forces, Neo-Crusader light 


armor includes a helmet, boo 
wearer who has the Armor Pro 
and a helmet package. The su 
hours of life support, allowing 


s, and gauntlets. The helmet provides any 
ficiency (light) feat with an internal comlink 
t can also provide its wearer with up to 10 
he wearer to survive in the vacuum of space 


or in any other hostile environment. This armor comes with a jet pack and 


has four unused upgrade slots 


presented in Scum and Villainy). 


if using the equipment modification system 


MANDALORIAN COMBAT SUIT 


Favored by the Mandalorians 


before the beginning of the Neo-Crusader 


movement, this vacuum-seale 


suit has metal composite plates attached, 


providing protection in battle with a maximum range of movement. A helmet 


is included in this package, pro 
ciency (light) feat with an inte 


viding any wearer who has the Armor Profi- 
rnal comlink and a helmet package. The suit 


can also provide its wearer with up to 10 hours of life support. This armor 


comes with a jet pack and has 


five unused upgrade slots. 


SNWOIMEIVENYVW”A) SAL E 11> 


=U 


SNMHOVWGENVYWA BAL 


 - WUREEEEESEUt 


TABLE 12-2: MELEE WEAPONS 


SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Small 

Stunning gauntlet 200 = +1 0.4 kg Energy Restricted 
Medium 

Stunning gauntlet 300 — +1 0.5 kg Energy Restricted 
Large 

Mythosaur axe 1,000 1d12 - 10 kg Slashing Restricted, Rare 


MANDALORIAN NEO-CRUSADER 
BATTLE ARMOR 

A feavier version of the Mandalorian Combat Suit sometimes worn by 
veteran warriors, this armor includes a helmet, boots, and gauntlets. Any 
wearer who has the Armor Proficiency (medium) feat can use the helmet’s 
internal comlink andhelmet package. The suit provides its wearer with up to 
10 hours of life support. This armor comes with a jet pack and six unused 
upgrade slots. 


MANDALORIAN NEO-CRUSADER 
ASSAULT ARMOR 

The armor of the Neo-Crusader shock troops, this upgrade of the Neo- 
Crusader light armor is covered with energy ablative plating and includes 
a helmet, boots and gauntlets. Any wearer who has the Armor Proficiency 
(heavy) feat can use the helmet's internal comlink and helmet package. The 
suit provides its wearer with up to 24 hours of life support. This armor includes 
a Jet pack; however, due to the weight of the suit, the jet pack has a maximum 
fly speed of 4 squares per turn. The suit has six unused upgrade slots. 


MELEE WEAPONS 


The weapons given on Table 12-2 are described below. 


MYTHOSAUR AXE 

Simple Weapon 

Crafted from the calcified bones of the extinct monster for which it is named, 
the Mythosaur axe is one ceremonial weapon that can be deadly. Mandalore 
the Ultimate's variation, atop a staff, uses modern metals and an energy cell 
to achieve double the damage. 


STUNNING GAUNTLET 

Simple Weapon 

An insulated glove with an embedded energy cell, the stunning gauntlet 

produces an electrifying charge when it strikes a target. A stunning gaunt- 

let changes the wearer’s unarmed melee attacks to stun damage, and they 

provide a +1 bonus to stun damage on a successful unarmed attack. 
Stunning gauntlets are two sizes smaller than their wearer (for example, 

a pair of stunning gauntlets designed for a Human are Tiny). Because of how 

hey are worn, stunning gauntlets can't be disarmed or dropped. 


DROIDS 


The Basilisk war droid, one of the most unique weapons of war in the galaxy, 
is frequently seen in skirmishes throughout the Great Sith War and the 
andalorian Wars. 


BASILISK WAR DROID 

The ancient Basiliskan race yielded up many technological advances to their 
Mandalorian conquerors. Chief among them is the Basilisk war droid, heavily 
armed electronic quadrupeds. Operating both in atmosphere and in space, 
hey are deadly enough on their own, their artificial intelligence operating a 
variety of weapons systems within their Mandalorian steel shells. 

But the Basilisk droids are seldom on their own, Mandalorians use them as 
heir personal mounts, saving wear and tear on their jet packs. The war droid 
is capable of melee action with its huge claws, as Ulic Gel-Droma finds when 
the mounted Mandalore the Indomitable meets him for their fateful duel. 


Basilisk War Droid CL6 


Huge air vehicle (droid) 
Init +6; Senses Perception +11 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 19; +3 armor 
hp 70; DR 5; Threshold 29 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 550 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 

Melee claws +11 (see below) or 

Ranged light laser cannons +4* (see below) or 

Ranged light concussion missile launcher +4” (see below) or 

Ranged pulse-wave cannons** +4* (see below) or 

Ranged space mines +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover +5 

Base Atk +2; Grp +21 

Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 28, Dex 15, Con —, Int 14 
Skills* Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +11, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +11 


Crew 1 (skilled, droid brain); Passengers 1 

Cargo 100 kg; Consumables | day; Carried Craft none 

Payload 4 concussion missiles, 2 space mines 

Availability Military, Rare; Cost Not available for sale [estimated value 
70,000) 

“If the Basilisk war droid has a passenger, the passenger may use its 
attack bonus or skill bonuses instead of those of the droid brain. 
Basilisk war droids always obey the commands of authorized 
passengers. 

“Treat as pulse-wave rifles, page 69 


Light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


Light concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +4; Dmg 7d10x2 


Pulse-wave cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4; Dmg 3d8 | 


Space mines (pilot) 
Atk +5; Dmg 7d10x2 


& MANDALORIAN WARRIOR RIDING 4 BASILISK WAR DROID 


STARSHIPS 


Mandalorians are technological mimics, able to replicate and improve upon 
the technologies of conquered peoples. Mandalorian ship designs are based 
on pirated vessels, augmented beyond recognition by Mandalorians looking 
for an extra technological edge. 

The ships of traditional Mandalorians are, therefore, as highly personal- 
ized as their suits of armor. Most known “types” are vague categorizations, 
named by Republic observers for their convenience. (Use the junker template 
from Starships of the Galaxy on any of the ships presented in this section to 
represent modified designs from before the Mandalorian Wars.) Under the 
Neo-Crusaders, more designs are routed to War Forges for mass production, 
creating somewhat more recognizable classes of vehicles. 


ix 'aiavwHo 


SBNHMAGIVGENYV A) SAL 


0 
I 
> 
v 
+ 
0 
2 
X 


Geeeseeeeese 


Manufacturing during the Mandalorian Wars is all for the Crusade, with- 
out such Republic niceties as patents or corporate entities. In later times, with 
the Mandalorians scattered, their technologies resurface in more traditional 
corporate bodies such as MandalMotors. 


DAVAAB-TYPE STARFIGHTER 

With a name based on the Mando’a word for “execution” or “carrying out," 
Davaab-type starfighters carry out the capital-ship protection work in 
this era. The initial design for the 8.8-meter-long Davaab-type starfighter 
appears to have been a Core Galaxy Systems model from well before the Great 
Sith War, much modified by the Mandalorians who fly them. Crusaders treat 
their starfighters as objects of personal pride, second only to their suits of 
armor, happily spending their personal time and resources on modifications. 
The Davaab-type starfighters open systems architecture adapts to this degree 
of kit-bashing better than other starfighters do. 

The most frequently seen variation is the one selected for mass production 
in the Neo-Crusaders’ War Forges. Older Mandalorians chafe at this version’s 
stock package and its lack of interior comforts for armor wearers. But many 
soon find they can quietly modify these Davaab-type fighters just as they 
had in the past—if only out of sight of their Rally Masters. 


Davaab-type Starfighter 
Huge starfighter 
Init +9; Senses Perception +6 


CL8 


J) Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor 

Ie hp 100; DR 5; SR 25; Threshold 34 

W Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 5 squares (starship 
& scale) 

> Ranged light laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

z medium concussion missiles +6 [see below) 

8 Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

(rr Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

(0) Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons), fire-link {light laser cannons) 
8 Abilities Str 39, Dex 20, Con —, Int 15 

2 Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +9, 

(i) Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 40 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 3 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2, limited navicomputer (5-jump memory) 
Availability Restricted; Cost 150,000 (80,000 used) 


Light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 4010x2 


Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


& KYRAMUO-TYPE BATTLESHIP PROTECTS 4 FLIGHT OF 
SHAADLAR-TYPE TROOPSHIPB DURING A PLANETARY INVABION 


SHAADLAR-TYPE TROOPSHIP 
Another ancient ship design pirated from another culture, the Shagd/ar-type 
troopships—named for the Mando'a word for “move"—come from the con- 
quered Basilisk race. The 130-meter-long troop transport, though modified 
several times through the generations, retains the organic look of Basilisk 
technology. Its gruesome appearance generates the desired shock as it enters 
the atmosphere of an unfortunate world to be conquered, 

The ship's heavy armaments include an emphasis on ion weapons—a 
common theme to Basilisk technology. It also includes a battery of concus- 
sion missiles, which, though intended for bombardments before landing, can 
be reconfigured for firing at targets in space. 


Shaadlar-type Troopship CL 15 
Colossal (frigate) space transport 


Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Teroch-type Fast Attack Gunship CL 10 


Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 35; +12 armor 
hp 750; DR 15; SR 150; Threshold 135 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25; +12 armor 
hp 110; DR 10; SR 25: Threshold 75 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 2 medium turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
2 point-defense medium ion cannon batteries +10 (see below) and 
2 point-defense light concussion missile batteries +14 (see below)) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +47 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense medium ion cannon batteries) 
Abilities Str 60, Dex 15, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 30 (skilled); Passengers 800 
Cargo 2,500 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 
Payload 50 medium concussion missiles 
Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 
Availability Restricted; Cost 3 million (1.2 million used) 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size 


Medium turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
Point-defense medium ion cannon battery [3 gunners) 

Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 ion 
Point-defense light concussion missile battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +10, Dmg 7d10x2 


TEROCH-TYPE GUNSHIP 

“Pitiless” as their Mando'a name suggests, Jeroch-type fast-attack gunships 
specialize in swift interdictions. The nimble craft spend little time squaring off 
with opposing ships, instead using their speed to make the most of their lim- 
ited firepower. A wave of Jeroch-type gunships breaching a line is a horrible 
sight for a Republic captain, who suddenly has opponents fore and aft. 

In the early days of the Mandalorian Wars, the 18-meter-long Teroch-type 
gunships are tasked with returning captured Jedi to Demagol on Flashpoint 
for evaluation. The fast-attack snip that mistakenly whisked a captured 
Jarael from Vanquo arrived long before the Last Resort, which followed it 
into hyperspace moments later. 


Speed fly 14 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h}, fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged double laser cannons +4 (see below] 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +37 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 40, Dex 19, Con —, Int 15 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 8 (skilled); Passengers 6 

Cargo 8 tons; Consumables 3 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 400,000 (200,000 used} 


Double laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


ZEHAVEY'IR-TYPE ASSAULT 
SHIP 

Named for the Mando’a word for "ambush," ships of the Jehavey'‘ir-type serve 
that purpose as well as a capital ship can. Based on—but visually and techno- 
logically many generations away from—captured Basilisk technology, these 
assault ships are known for their ability to make quick hits. Jehavey'ir-type 
assault ships fly with guns charged and ready to fire, even in hyperspace, so 
they can engage moments after arriving on the scene of battle. 

The 188-meter-long Jehavey'ir-type assault ship's missile batteries deal 
a devastating barrage, made all the more terrible during the Mandalorian 
Wars when fission warheads are occasionally used. Several assault ships so 
armed join in the destruction of the Stereb cities of Serroco. 

Lacking |anding bays, ships of this type have special airlocks permitting 
the easy projection of troops toward a ship to be boarded. Neo-Crusader 
shock troopers from a Jehavey'ir-type assault ship were among those who 
took the Courageous. 

Tactical Fire: The Jehavey'ir-type assault ship can launch an ambush 
against unsuspecting foes on a moment's notice, caching them when their 
defenses are weakest. As a standard action, a Jehavey'ir-type assault ship 
can forego all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. All 
enemy ships within this radius suffer a -1 penalty to Reflex Defense and 
Fortitude Defense. 


U 


SBRNMMENWVGNYTA) SAL 


SEGEEEEEEEES 


5 


SNVISOTIVGNYWA SAL 


Jehavey'ir-type Assault Ship CL 18 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 


Init +0; Senses Perception +6 


Kyramud-type Battleship CL 20 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 


Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 36: +11 armor 
hp 900; DR 15; SR 75; Threshold 136 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 50; +14 armor 
hp 1,250; DR 20; SR 90; Threshold 250 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged medium double turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
heavy ion cannon batteries +9* (see below) and 
super-heavy concussion missile battery +15* [see below] 
Fighting Space 1 square [starship scale}; Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +48 
Abilities Str 62 Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 200 (skilled); Passengers 500 

Cargo 3,500 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 

Payload 36 super-heavy concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 10 million (4 million used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Medium double turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 {-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 


Heavy ion cannon battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 ion 
Super-heavy concussion missile battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 11d10x5 


KYRAMUD-TYPE BATTLESHIP 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 4 point-defense medium ion cannon batteries +9 (see below) and 
5 double medium turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
2 heavy concussion missile batteries +13” (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +9* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale): Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +62 

Atk Options autofire (point-defense medium ion cannon batteries) 

Abilities Str 90, Dex 15, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1,200 (skilled); Passengers 2,000 

Cargo 8,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 3 Shaad/ar-type 
troopships, 36 Davaab-type fighters, various support craft 

Payload 80 heavy concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x15); navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 40 million (22 million used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Point-defense medium ion cannon battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +9 [+4 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 
Double medium turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 


Heavy concussion missile battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x5 


Another Basilisk-inspired vessel, the 752-meter-long Kyramud-type 
Mando’'a for "killer" or “assassin"—battleship made frequent fleet battle 
appearances from the Sith War through to the Mandalorian Wars. The 
Kyramud-type battleship includes a landing bay and troopships, making it a 
significant piece of any ground-invasion plan during the Great Sith War and 
the Mandalorian Wars. Rohlan Dyre spends three years managing a group of 
shock troopers on the battleship Ja/'galaar. 

Missiles are a major component of the Kyramud-type battleship's arsenal, 
and another part of the Mandalorians' ground strategy. When directed at 
a planet's surface, missiles from these battleships frequently turn the tide 
against opposing armies. 

Tactical Fire: The Kyramud-type battleship is often used in the ground 
assault on worlds targeted by the Mandalorian hordes, and is designed to 
provide invasion support. As a standard action, a Kyramud-type battleship 
can forego all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares within a 2-square 
radius. Any allied starship that makes an attack run against a target within 
this radius gains a +2 circumstance bonus on the attack roll. 


Tractor beam battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +9 {-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg - (grapple 
+62) 


KANDOSII-TYPE DREADNAUGHT 
The 1,360 meter long Kandosii-type dreadnaught, named for the Mando'a 
word for “ruthless,” is the most fearsome element of the Mandalorian fleet. 
Perhaps more than any other ship in the Mandalorian arsenal, the Kandosii- 
type dreadnaught is an amalgamation of "appropriated" technologies. Repub- 
lic investigators cracking the hull of the first Kandosii-type dreadnaught to 
be taken were astonished to find a Corellia StarDrive engine system and deck 
plating manufactured by Byblos Drive Yards. 

Even without an escort, the massive vessel alone is a match for most 
opponents. During the Mandalorian Wars, the heavy concussion missiles, 
formidable on their own, can be tipped with fission warheads on the orders 


TWO JEHAVET'IR-TYPE ASSAULT SHIPS PATROL THE SPACE ABOVE 4 
CAPTURED WORLD WITH A KANDOSII-TYPE DREADNAUGHT 


of Mandalore or Cassus Fett. Such weapons are used more than once, most 
notoriously in the immolation of the cities of Serroco. 

Tactical Fire: The Kandosii-type dreadnaught is a powerful ship whose 
missile compliment is often called the most sophisticated and most destruc- 
tive in the galaxy. As a standard action, a Kandosii-type dreadnaught can 
farego all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares within a 2-square 
radius. Any allied starship that makes a successful attack with a missile or 
torpedo against a target within that radius gains a +1 circumstance bonus 
on the attack roll, and takes no penalty on secondary attacks with a missile 
that has locked onto its target. 


Kandosii-type Dreadnaught CL 20 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 


Init -3; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 56; +15 armor 
hp 2,100; DR 20; SR 125; Threshold 256 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 5 double medium turbolaser batteries +17° (see below) and 
2 point-defense triple laser cannon batteries +17 (see below) and 
2 super-heavy concussion missile batteries +17* (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +11* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale]; Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +68 

Atk Options autofire (point-defense triple laser cannon batteries) 


Abilities Str 102, Dex 13, Con -, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 10,000 (skilled); Passengers 30,000 (troops) 

Cargo 45,000 tons; Consumables 5 years; Carried Craft 8 Shaadlar-type 
troopships, 128 Davaab-type fighters, various support craft 

Payload 120 super-heavy concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x9), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 200 million (120 million used) 

*Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Double medium turbolaser battery (6 gunners} 
Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 


Point-defense triple laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 
__ Atk +17 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


a 


Super-heavy concussion missile battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 11d10x5 
Tractor beam battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg - (grapple 
+68) 


IINMISOVVGNIVY A) SAL 


ie 


CHAPTER Xill 


—— 


The galaxy is filled with organizations other than large governments such as 
the Republic, or powerful invaders such as the Sith or Mandalorians. Though 
they vary in scale and complexity, these other organizations fulfill functions 
much more vital to the day-to-day needs of most Galactic citizens. Some 
might be employees of interstellar corporations, but others find their niche 
within underworld criminal operations. 

This chapter covers a wide range of entities, corporations, and other 
groups active in the galaxy. It highlights influential—if not prominent— 
individuals. Also included are ships, vehicles, and droids that can be found 
among the fringes of society, or at least outside the major forces presented 
in earlier chapters. 


NOTABLE 
PERSONALITIES 


The following individuals are of some significance to the galaxy, and play a 
major role in shaping history with their actions. 


LORD ARKOH ADASCA 

Arkoh Adasca is the eighth member of the House of Adasca to rise to the 
title of Lord. The youthful and charismatic Arkoh captures the imagination 
of the Arkanians. Though he is not the Arkanian political leader, his manner- 
isms and demeanor allow him to project and assume more power than he is 
truly entitled to. Arkoh successfully raises the Arkanian sense of superiority 
over other species through subtle but enticing arguments. He also uses his 
persuasive skills to convince otherwise loyal Arkanians to aid him in the 
ill-fated Project Black Harvest, even though the Republic would consider 
such actions treasonous. 

Arkoh is supremely confident in his position and abilities. Although he 
projects an image of an honorable and ethical leader, this is merely a front 
for his schemes and vast ambition. Ultimately, his overconfidence leads to 
his destruction, significantly damaging his company in the process. 


ix SaLevHa 


ne I 


SLNSNOddO ONY ssinniyv 


Wx SStawHo 


| 
i 
} 


SLNINODMIe) GNY SSI? 


Lord Arkoh Adasca (Mandalorian Wars) CL 13 
Medium Arkanian noble 7/corporate agent 6 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 10 

Init +11; Senses darkvision, Perception +14 

Languages Arkanian, Basic, Binary, Bocce, Cerean, Draethos, Durese, High 


Galactic, Huttese, Ithorese 


Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 25), Fort 23, Will 30 
hp 66; Threshold 23 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+6) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +9 (3d4+6) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Gearhead, Impose Hesitation, Inspire 
Confidence, Inspire Haste, Willful Resolve 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 17, Wis 16, Cha 18 

Special Qualities executive leadership (3/encounter) 

Talents Born leader, Competitive Edge, Educated, Impose Hesitation, 
Inspire Confidence, Inspire Haste, Willful Resolve 

Feats Gearhead, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), 
Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), Skill Focus (Knowledge [life 
sciences]), Skill Focus (Knowledge [physical sciences]}, Skill Focus 
(Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge [technology]), Skill Training 
(Mechanics), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +20, Gather Information +15, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+19, Knowledge (life sciences) +19, Knowledge (physical sciences) 
+19, Knowledge (technology) +14, Mechanics +14, Perception +14, 
Persuasion +20, Treat Injury +14, Use Computer +14 

Possessions hold-out blaster, comlink, datapad 


BRIANNA 

(THE LAST HANDMAIDEN) 

Brianna is one of the handmaidens in service to Jedi Master Atris on Telos 
IV. The daughter of a forbidden love affair between her Jedi Master mother 
and Echani father, she lives her life trying to make up for her shameful 
parentage—at least as it is seen in Echani culture. Her fellow handmaidens 
have no respect for her. At Master Atris' request, she steals the Ebon Hawk, 
forcing the Exile to come to Telos IV to retrieve it. She travels with the Exile 
all the way to Malachor V. 


GO-TO AND BRIANNA OPEN NEGOTIATIONS 


CL 10 


Brianna, the Last Handmaiden (upon joining the Exile) 
Medium Human soldier 9/melee duelist 1 

Destiny 2; Force 5; Dark Side 2 

Init +13; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 24), Fort 24, Will 22 
hp 100; Threshold 24 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d6+9) or 

Melee staff +13 (1d6412) or 

Melee staff +8 (1d6+17) with Power Attack or 

Melee staff +11/+11 (1d6+12/1d6+12) with Dual Weapon Mastery II or 

Melee staff +6/+6 (1d6417/1d6+17) with Dual Weapon Mastery II and 
Power Attack 


Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+5) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+10) with Power Blast 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (pistols), Dual Weapon Flourish |, Melee 
Smash, Power Attack, Power Blast, Stunning Strike 

Special Actions Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 14 

Talents Devastating Attack (pistols), Dual Weapon Flourish I, Melee 
Smash, Stunning Strike, Tough as Nails, Weapon Specialization (simple 
weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual 
Weapon Mastery Il, Echani Training, Force Sensitivity, Martial Arts |, 
Power Attack, Power Blast, Skill Training (Acrobatics), Weapon Focus 
(simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Initiative +13, Jump +12, Perception +10, Treat 
Injury +10, Use the Force +5, 

Possessions Handmaiden's staff (quarterstaff), blaster pistol, 
Handmaiden’s robes 


CALO NORD 

Calo Nord is a ruthless bounty hunter, known to work at various times for the 
Sith, the Republic, and finally for the Exchange. Thought originally to have 
been a slave, rumors suggest that he killed his original owners, his parents 
who had sold him, the bounty hunters who came after him, and even the 
slavers. He learns to become a lethal bounty hunter in his own right. Cold, 
menacing, and unapproachable, Nord fears no one. Ultimately, it takes a 
person of equal power to defeat him, as Revan does when the bounty hunter 
tries to prevent his escape from Taris in the Ebon Hawk. 


Calo Nord 

Medium Human scout 3/soldier 4/bounty hunter 4/gunslinger 2 

Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 6 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision, Perception +12 (can reroll, must take 
second result) 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 33 (flat-footed 32), Fort 31, Will 26 

hp 113; DR 10 (ion damage only, from shields); SR 25; Threshold 31 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee vibroblade +15 (2d6+9) 

Ranged blaster pistol +14 (3d6+7) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +12/+12 (3d6+7) with Dual Weapon Mastery II 

Base Atk +12; Grp +15 

Atk Options Hunter's Mark, Keen Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions familiar foe +2, Quick Draw, Shake It Off 


CL 13 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities familiar foe +2, trusty sidearm +1 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defenses, Hunter's Mark, Improved 
Armored Defenses, Keen Shot, Mobile Attack (pistols), Notorious 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Dual Weapon Mastery |, 
Dual Weapon Mastery II, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, 
Shake It Off, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +12, Initiative +12, Perception +12 (can reroll, must take 
second result}, Stealth +12, Survival +12, Treat Injury +12 

Possessions heavy battle armor (+10 armor, +4 equipment), 2 blaster 
pistols, vibroblade, 4 stun grenades, 2 thermal detonators, low-light 
goggles (grants low-light vision to wearer), Verpine prototype heavy 
energy shields (SR 25), 2000 credits 


Wx HSlLagvHD 


MARN “THE GRYPH" 
MIEROGRYPH 

Falsely accused as an accomplice to the murders of the Padawans on Taris, 
Marn “The Gryph" Hierogryph's immediate impulse is to protest: "| am not an 
accomplice! | am a mastermind!" And that is, indeed, the fondest ambition 
of this Snivvian flim-flam artist. Gryph found his calling as a youth when 
he discovered money—and his uncanny ability to talk others into giving 
him theirs. 

Snivvians are obsessed with living their lives in pursuit of art, so Gryph's 
interest in the criminal arts does not draw the scorn of his fellows on Cado- 
mai. But Gryph's avocation is con artistry, and after enough Snivvians fee! 
the sting of his antics, his parents send him offworld. There begins for Gryph 
a life in the study of the galaxy's more notorious—as well as some of its less 
successful—career criminals. 

Gryph is in danger of joining the latter group when he first encounters 
Zayne Carrick, who is assigned to capture him. Zayne succeeds on the final 
try, only to find both of them framed for the Padawan Massacre. Overcom- 
ing his impulse to run away and save his own skin, Gryph sees possibilities 
in working con games with someone with Jedi talents. 

There begins a long and sometimes rocky partnership, with Gryph's finan- 
cial goals frequently at odds with Zayne's quest for justice. But the Snivvian 
flourishes during the partnership, reforging his relationship with the Hidden 
Beks and annoying enough people to boost the bounty on his head into the 
six-figure range. For Gryph, that is all part of keeping score. 

Gryph has one hireling in Slyssk, a meek Trandoshan starship thief. He also 
refers to Zayne as a henchman, although the two are constantly renegotiating 
the terms of their partnership. 


SLNIONEGIIG GNY SslIqwI?7 


fe 


—( el OBR RAR ARR aaAaea 


BSSSCCCECEeeEe 


ix esLavHo 


U 


SLNINOdd@ GNY SSsIwwy 


Marn “The Gryph” Hierogryph CL8 
Small Snivvian nonheroic 2/scoundrel 7/crime lord 1 

Destiny 1; Force 2; Dark Side 4 

Init +5; Senses Perception +10 


Languages Basic, Bocce, Huttese, Snivvian 


GO-TO (Dark Wars) CL6 
Tiny droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 4/scoundrel 5 

Destiny 1; Force 3; Dark Side 7 

Init +7; Senses low-light vision, Perception +6 


Languages Basic, Bocce, Binary, High Galactic, Huttese 


Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 24), Fort 19, Will 24 
hp 34; Threshold 19 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee by weapon -1 (nonproficient with all weapons) 
Ranged by weapon +1 (nonproficient with all weapons) 
Base Atk +5; Grp +1 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Disruptive, Knack, Melee Defenses 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 17 

Special Qualities cold resistance 

Talents Attract Student, Disruptive, Fool's Luck, Knack, Lucky Stop 

Feats Improved Defenses, Melee Defenses, Point Blank Shot, Quick 
Skill, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Gather Information), Skill 
Focus (Persuasion), Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Knowledge 
[bureaucracy], Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Training 
(Perception), Skill Training (Use Computer) 

Skills Deception +17, Gather Information +17, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Perception +10, Persuasion +17, 
Stealth +20, Use Computer +12 

Possessions 4 credit chips, datapad, video recorder, winning smile 


GO-TO (GoTo) 

GO-TO is better known to his underlings and the outside world as Goto, a 
Human male. Thanks to skilled holographic manipulation, virtually no one 
suspects that Goto is, in fact, an alias of a scheming droid. As a highly intel- 
ligent infrastructure-planning system, GO-TO was originally programmed 
to aid the Republic in reconstruction after the Jedi Civil War. However, he 
eventually breaks his programming to follow Republic law and opts to help 
stabilize the Republic in any manner he sees fit. Using his alias, he establishes 
a smuggling operation that gets him into the Exchange, leading their Telos 
operations. He also establishes the HK-50 assassin-droid factory to aid his 
stabilization efforts. GO-TO orchestrates the capture of the Exile as one of 
the bounties he places on all Jedi and Sith, who he considers destabilizing 
factors. GO-TO ends up accompanying and aiding the Exile, hoping that doing 
so will stabilize the Republic. GO-TO is destroyed in a showdown with HK-47 
and his own HK-50s on Malachor V. 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 9, Will 12 
hp 28; SR 10; Threshold 9 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares (fly) 

Melee electroshock probe +4 (1d8 ion) 

Ranged integrated blaster pistol +9 (3d6+5) or 

Ranged integrated blaster pistol +6 (3d6+8) with Power Blast 
Base Atk +6; Grp -6 

Atk Options Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Power Blast, Precise Shot 


Abilities Str 6, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16, Wis 11, Cha 14 

Talents Gimmick, Master Slicer, Trace 

Feats Deadeye, Improved Defenses, Point Blank Shot, Power Blast, Precise 
Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [social sciences]), Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[technology]), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (social sciences) +17, Knowledge (technology) +17, 
Persuasion +11, Use Computer +17 (can reroll when improving access 
and take better result) 

Systems hovering locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 tool appendages, 
electroshock probe, holorecorder, holoprojector, improved sensor 
package, locked access, integrated comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions integrated blaster (treat as blaster pistol), planetary 
infrastructure management software, The Visionary (Goto's Yacht) 


HK-47 

HK-47 is a lethal assassin droid, albeit one with a sharp wit combined with 
a barely concealed hatred of organic “meatbags." He serves Revan, both 
before and after the Dark Lord's capture. In fact, at one point his memories 
are concealed even from himself, by Revan's own hand. Though HK-47’s 
primary function is concealed, this cannot completely hide the fact that 
the droid is more than it seems, nor can it hide the droid's attitude. After 
rejoining Revan on Tatooine, HK-47's full personality eventually appears 
when Revan's true past is revealed. He continues serving Revan through 
the search and destruction of the Star Forge. Little is known about HK-47's 
travels for the next five years. Though he travels with the Jedi Exile for a 
while, he eventually convinces the imitation HK-50 droids to join his cause, 
leading them against GO-TO on Malachor V. 


HK-47 (Jedi Civil War) CL9 

Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 7/elite trooper 2 

Destiny 1; Force 7; Dark Side 11 

Init +11; Senses darkvision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary, Tusken 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 21), Fort 23, Will 20 

hp 76; DR 1; Threshold 23 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d6+7) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +12 (3d10+6) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +10 (3d10+6) with Controlled Burst 

Ranged flamethrower +11 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +12 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle), Controlled Burst, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Armored Defenses, Controlled Burst, Tough as Nails, Weapon 
Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Exotic Weapon Proficiency 
(flamethrower), Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon 
Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Knowledge (tactics) +11, Mechanics +11, Perception 
+12, Use Computer +11 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
darkvision, improved sensor package, locked access, secondary battery, 
translator unit (DC 5), vocabulator 

Possessions durasteel battle armor, heavy blaster rifle, flamethrower 


YARAEBL 

For someone who has spent much of her life living in a junkyard, Jarael 
attracts the interest of a wide variety of people, and not only because of 
her savage beauty—which is considerable. Powerful individuals from Lord 
Adasca to Squint to Demagol learn that Jarael might be more than she 
acknowledges—or realizes. 

Her public persona is that of a scrappy, acrobatic fighter used to life in 
harsh places. She appears to be an Arkanian Offshoot, although her pointed 
ears are not shared by that subspecies. She visits the Offshoot villages of 
Arkania for only the first time as an adult. Her sole mission in life has been 
caring for the increasingly addled inventor known as Camper. Jarael never 
discusses the fate that Camper saved her from years before—but in protect- 
ing her, he changes her life. 


Jarael's mission to protect Camper from his own past fails when the two— 
against Jarael's better judgment—are thrown into the company of fugitives 
Zayne Carrick and Marn Hierogryph. Immediately after Jarael and Camper 
part company with them, Camper falls ill, and Jarael finds herself forced 
to turn to Adascorp—the medical conglomerate Camper has been running 
from—for help. Jarae! then becomes a pawn in Lord Adasca’s galactic game 
to pry knowledge from Camper. When Camper escapes, going his own way, 
she blames herself. 

Working to piece her life back together, Jarael returns to Zayne Carrick’s 
company. She focuses on physical training, and even begins to explore her 
nascent Force sensitivity. Jarael uses a shockstaff of Camper's design, capable 
of delivering a charge that temporarily numbs the flesh it strikes. 


THE MOOMO WILLIWAW (LEFT) AND THE LAST RESORT (RIGHT) 


Hix HSaLAIVHD 


SLNSNODEO GNY SHIitvZ 


PUP VVYVUQLTTULLITY 


SLNWANOGEeG) GNY SSsItmWw 


VEST CEEEE ES 


2 


BesaiavH 


Wi 


fare 


Jarael CL 8 

Medium Arkanian Offshoot scout 5/soldier 3 

Destiny 2; Force 2; Strong in the Force 

Init +12 (can reroll, must take second result); Senses Perception +9 (can 
reroll, must take second result) 


Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 23), Fort 22, Will 20 
hp 75; Threshold 22 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee shockstaff +8 (2d6+7) or 

Melee shockstaff +3/+3 (2d6+7) with Dual Weapon Mastery | 
Ranged by weapon +8 

Base Atk +6; Grp +9 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons) 
Special Actions Shake It Off 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 17, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 16 

Talents Acute Senses, Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons), 
Improved Initiative, Uncanny Dodge I, Weapon Specialization 
(advanced melee weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Dual Weapon Mastery I, Force 
Sensitivity, Shake It Off, Strong in the Force, Weapon Focus (advanced 
melee weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 
pistols, rifles, simple weapons} 

Skills Initiative +12 (can reroll, must take second result), Jump +10, 
Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, Perception +9 {can reroll, must take 
second result), Survival +9 

Possessions shockstaff, comlink, various personal belongings 


MIRA 

Mira is a young female Human bounty hunter with the unconventional 
preference for capturing targets rather than killing them, Even though the 
Wookiee Hanharr attempts to kill her, Mira spares his life, earning his life 
debt. Hanharr again tries to kill her, both for his Exchange boss and to free 
himself from the debt. When he again fails, Mira leaves him for dead. Hanharr 
returns unexpectedly on Malachor V, where once again, Mira refuses to kill 
him. After becoming involved in the Exile's capture on Nar Shaddaa, Mira 
joins the travelers with the Exile. She joins the Ebon Hawk crew's rescue 
mission and remains with them through the end at Malachor V. 


Mira (Dark Wars) 

Medium Human scout 5/soldier 1 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +11; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 21 {flat-footed 18, with Critical Strike 16), Fort 20, Will 16; 
Evasion 

hp 54; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +4 (2d6+3) or 

Melee vibroblade +4 (2d6+3/19-20) with Critical Strike 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+3) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+3/19-20) with Sniper Shot or 

Ranged wrist launcher +7 (damage per ammunition: grenade per type, 
dart 1d4+3 or rocket 2d6+3) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options Critical Strike, Sniper Shot 

Special Actions Guidance, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 11, Cha 10 

Talents Armored Defenses, Evasion, Guidance, Surefooted 

Feats Critical Strike, Exotic Weapon Proficiency (wrist launcher), Skill 
Focus (Perception), Shake It Off, Sniper Shot, Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Endurance +9, Initiative +11, Jump +8, Mechanics +10, Perception 
+13, Stealth +11, Survival +8, Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, vibroblade, wrist launcher (able to launch 
grenades (damage per grenade type), darts (1d4 damage) and rockets 
(2d6 damage), blast jacket (+2 armor, +1 equipment, +4 max Dex) 


CLE 


MISSION VAO 

Mission Vao is a bright, cheerful, young Twi'lek who grows up in the rough 
Undercity of Taris. Though her skills are less than reputable, she is nonethe- 
less loyal to her Wookiee friend Zaalbar and her troublesome brother Griff. 
She and Zaalbar travel with Revan after he helps Zaalbar escape slavers on 
Taris. Her skills prove to be extremely useful, but she is also on a mission of 
her own—trying to catch up with her brother. She succeeds, only to discover 
that he was more dishonest than she imagined. She and Revan succeed in 
bailing him out of yet another unlikely scheme, before they part ways and 
she follows Raven in his search for the Star Forge. 


Mission Vao (in Taris Undercity) CL4 

Medium Twi'lek scoundrel 4 

Destiny 1; Force 3 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision, Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Ryl, Shyriiwook (can't speak) 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 15 

hp 33; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +3 (2d6+2) or 

Melee vibroblade +3 (2d6+2/19-20) with Critical Strike (Reflex Defenses 
-5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+2/19-20) with Sniper Shot 
(Reflex Defenses -5) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +6 

Atk Options Critical Strike, Sniper Shot 

Special Actions Fool's Luck, Melee Defenses, Sneak Attack 
+1d6 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 17, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 11, Cha 10 

Talents Fool's Luck, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Feats Critical Strike, Melee Defenses, Point Blank 
Shot, Sniper Shot, Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +7, Mechanics +9, Perception 
+7, Persuasion +7, Stealth +10, Use 
Computer +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, vibroblade, stealth field 
generator 


DoB AND DEL MoomMo 

Violent and stupid where their fellow Ithorians are peaceful and contempla- 
tive, brothers Dob and Del Moomo are expelled from the herd for its own 
safety. Unable to grasp traditional Ithorian values (or many other concepts, 
for that matter), Dob and Del venture forth into the galaxy as muscle—or 
muscleheads—for hire. 

Whenever the brothers serve as bodyguards, bounty hunters, or assas- 
sins, the description “would-be” always applies. Few of their endeavors 
are successful; most are torpedoed by their own back-stabbing feuds. "My 
brother wouldn't pull a poisoned stake out of my hide," Del once said. “At 
least, he didn’t the first two times.” Yet the two mysteriously continue to 
be recommended for jobs in the highest levels of Republic society, including 
assignments for Krynda's Jedi Covenant and industrialist Jervo Thalien. During 
the siege of Taris, they come into a temporary alliance with Zayne Carrick’'s 
gang, cooperating until such time as they can turn him in for a bounty—if 
they can remember to do it. 

The brothers do not lack for resources, as evidenced by their insanely 
over-armed starship, the Moomo Williwaw. The interior of the ship continues 
the theme: Dob and Del are obsessed with weapons of all kinds, and their 
ship is littered with implements of destruction from hundreds of cultures. It 
has provided the Moomos the one education that seems to have taken: Del 
specializes in demolitions, and Dob is a treasure-trove of information about 
melee weapons. They rarely use the same weapons twice, 
preferring to pull something new out of their collection. 
Dob and Del's statistics are iden- 

tical except for their talents, 
where noted below. The only 
distinguishing characteris- 
tic between the two is a 
sear overt Del's right eye, 
gained in childhood when 

Dob shoved his brother's 
head into a working trash 

compactor. (In Dob's 
defense, Del did agree 
to look.) 


tavHS |) 


Hix BStavHa 


SLNSNEGdEeo @ENY Salqnn?y7, 


rT agrtwQtwt © weeeeed 


MISSION VA0 ATTEMPTS REPAIRS ON T3-M4 


WSSECCEEEEEES_ 


SLANENOZIE@ GNY Sqn? 


HSilavHo 


ix 8 


U 


Dob and Del Moomo 

Medium Ithorian scout 3/soldier 4/bounty hunter 3 

Destiny 1; Force 2; Dark Side 4 

Init +8; Senses Perception +3 (can reroll, must take second result) 
Languages Basic, Ithorese 


CL 10 


Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 24), Fort 26, Will 20 
hp 112; Threshold 31 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +13 (2d6+10} or 

Melee vibroblade +13 (3d6+10) with Mighty Swing or 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+5) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (4d6+5) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+5)} and 
blaster pistol +7 (3d6+5) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (3d8+5) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster rifle +7 (3d10+5) or 

Ranged slugthrower pistol +12 (2d6+5) or 

Ranged sonic disruptor +12 (2d6+5) or 

Ranged thermal detonator +12 (8d6+5) or 

Ranged bellow +10 (3d6 sonic, 6-square cone, miss deals half damage) 
see Saga Edition core rulebook 

Base Atk +9; Grp +13 

Atk Options Dual Weapon Mastery I, Keen Shot, Melee Smash, Mighty 
Swing, Power Attack, Rapid Shot, Stunning Strike (Dob only) 

Special Actions Disruptive, familiar foe +1 


Abilities Str 18, Dex 16, Con 18, Int 7, Wis 6, Cha 10 

Special Qualities familiar foe +1 

Talents Acute Senses, Demolitionist (Del only), Disruptive, Keen Shot, 
Melee Smash, Notorious, Stunning Strike (Dob only) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Improved 
Damage Threshold, Mighty Swing, Power Attack, Rapid Shot, Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +8, Perception +3 (can reroll, must take second result}, 
Persuasion +5 (can reroll when intimidating and keep better result), 
Pilot +13, Survival +8 (can reroll, must take second result) 

Possessions blaster pistol (2), blaster rifle, heavy repeating blaster, 
slugthrower pistol, sonic disruptor, thermal detonator (6), vibroblade, 
utility belt, security and tool kits (on board the Moomo Williwaw), 
Moomo Williwaw 


T3-M4 

13-M4 is a highly customized and advanced utility droid, upgraded specifi- 
cally for Taris Exchange boss Davik Kang. However, T3 ends up in the hands 
of Revan, who makes use of the droid’s abilities during the search for the 
Star Forge. The droid remains with the Ebon Hawk, after Revan parts with 
the ship before departing to the Unknown Regions at the end of the Jedi Civil 
War. 13 reappears with the ship years later, joining with the Exile. The droid 
proves as useful to her as it was to Revan. T3 is believed to have remained 
with the Exile after the Sith are defeated at Malachor V. 


T3-M4 Uedi Civil War) CL6 

Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2/scoundrel 6 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +2; Senses darkvision, Perception +3 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, Huttese (understand only), 
Shyriiwook (understand only), Zabrak (understand only) 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 11), Fort 15, Will 18 

hp 26; Threshold 15 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee electroshock probe +4 (1d8+2 ion) 

Ranged stun ray +6 (3d6+3 stun) or 

Ranged integrated laser pistol +6 (3d6+3) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +5; Grp +1 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Gearhead, Knack, Logic Upgrade: Tactician 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 13, Con —, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 7 

Talents Gimmick, Master Slicer, Knack 

Feats Dodge, Gearhead, Logic Upgrade: Tactician, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Skill 
Training (Deception), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +7, Mechanics +17, Perception +10, Pilot +10, Use 
Computer +17 (can reroll when improving access and take better 
result) 

Systems wheeled Jocomotion, magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 5 tool 
appendages, diagnostics package, internal storage (2 kg), improved 
sensor package, darkvision 

Possessions integrated blaster pistol (stun ray when set to stun), 
astrogation buffer (storage device, 10 memory units), electroshock 
probe, fire extinguisher, electric arc welder, holorecorder, holoprojector 


ZAALBAR 

Zaaloar has been Mission Vao's Wookiee protector and companion since 
they teamed up while living in the Undercity of Taris. Unfortunately, he is 
captured by slavers, forcing Mission to seek Revan’s help to mount a rescue. 
In gratitude, Zaalbar owes a life debt to Revan, causing both he and Mission 
to join in what would ultimately become the search for the Star Forge. Among 
the worlds they visit is Zaalbar's homeworld, Kashyyyk. He is not welcome 
however, having been banished for the culturally inexcusable use of his 
climbing claws in combat. His brother Chuundar has taken over the position 
of chieftain, and Zaalbar is imprisoned for turning. Fortunately, Revan is able 
to uncover Chuundar’s slaving activities, locate their father, and lead a revolt 
against Chuundar and the Czerka Corporation slavers. Despite the promise 
of becoming a future chieftain, Zaalbar honors his life debt and continues 
with Revan through the destruction of the Star Forge. 


Zaalbar VJedi Civil War) CL4 

Medium Wookiee scout 4 

Destiny 1; Force 3; Dark Side 1 

Init +8; Senses Perception +7 (can reroll, must take second result) 

Languages Basic (understand only), Huttese (understand only), Ryl 
(understand only), Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 20, Will 14 

hp 87; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+7) or 

Melee sword +8 (1d6+12) or 

Melee sword +6 (1d6+14) with Power Attack 

Ranged bowcaster +4 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged bowcaster +2 (4d6+2) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +3; Grp +8 

Special Actions Extreme Effort, Power Attack, rage 1/day, Rapid Shot, 
Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 13, Con 20, Int 14, Wis 11, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Extreme Effort 

Feats Dodge, Implant Training, Shake It Off, Power Attack, Rapid Shot, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +12 (can take 10 even when threatened), Endurance +12, 
Initiative +8, Jump +12, Mechanics +9, Perception +7 (can reroll, must 
take second result), Persuasion +7 (can rerall when intimidating, must 
take second result) 

Possessions bowcaster 


OTHER ALLIES AND 
OPPONENTS 


These generic characters represent an array of heroes and villains that you 
can use to flesh out encounters in a Knights of the Old Republic campaign. 


CZERKA ASSOCIATES 

Czerka Associates form the core of the corporation's jow-level management 
and workforce. Though loyal to Czerka, most associates place their own 
careers over all else. In a corporation the size of Czerka, even the slightest 
blemish on a young associate's record can be devastating in the early years 
of their career. Ideally, this would make them more concerned with customer 
service. However, associates more often use bureaucracy or underhanded 
means to make problems disappear. 


Czerka Associate CL 1 

Medium Human nonheroic 3 

Dark Side 1 

Init +0; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic plus 1 other language 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 10, Will 11 

hp 8; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (144-1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +2 (3d6) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), Skill Training (Deception), 
Skill Training (Perception), Skill Training (Use Computer)", Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +7, Gather Information +7, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +12, 
Perception +7, Persuasion +7, Use Computer +74 

Possessions comlink, datapad, blaster pistol 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


CZERKA SCIENTIST 

Czerka scientists work in Czerka-financed outposts and offices throughout 
the galaxy. They typically study local biology and geological formations, 
searching for new compounds, elements, or life forms for the corporation to 
exploit. Czerka scientists are amoral, more concerned about their position in 
the company then what might be done with the results of their work. They 
are talented, competent and practical, if a bit self-centered. 


Wx YHStdavHo 


Ps Panta wT a Ds SE 


LMENOodee GNY Saint 


f 


SANSENOEEAI0@ GNY Sst? 


ix HaLavHno 


Czerka Scientist CL2 
Medium Human nonheroic 5/noble 1 

Dark Side 2 

Init +2; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic plus 4 other languages 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will 13 

hp 15; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d4-1) 

Ranged by weapon +2 

Base Atk +3; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 8, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 12 

Talents Educated 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences]), Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[physical sciences]), Skill Training (Deception), Skill Training 
(Mechanics), Skill Training (Perception), Skill Training (Persuasion)*, 
Skill Training (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +9, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+11, Knowledge (life sciences) +16, Knowledge (physical sciences) +16, 
Mechanics +11, Perception +10, Persuasion +91, Treat Injury +10, Use 
Computer +11 

Possessions comlink, datapad, tool kit, utility belt 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


GENOHARADAN ASSASSIN 
GenoHaradan assassins come in many forms and with many skill sets. Since 
the GenoHaradan always ply their trade in such a way that benefits them 
politically, most GenoHaradan assassins are trained in multiple assassination 
techniques, ranging from public and messy to secret and mysterious. Geno- 
Haradan assassins are extremely dangerous but wear no distinctive clothing 
or uniform; part of the danger associated with the GenoHaradan is that they 
could be anyone, including a friend, coworker, or family member. 
Genoharadan Assassin CL 10 
Medium Human scout 3/soldier 4/elite trooper 3 

Force 5; Dark Side 6 

Init +13; Senses Perception +11 (can reroll, must take second result) 
Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 22), Fort 25, Will 21 

hp 85; DR 1; Threshold 30 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +12 (1d4+7) 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+5) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +14 (3d8+9) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +9/+9 (3d8+9) with Double Attack 


Base Atk +9; Grp +12 

Atk Options Deadeye, Devastating Attack (rifles), Double Attack (rifles), 
Far Shot, Keen Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Sniper Shot 

Special Actions Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Acute Senses, Devastating Attack (rifles), Greater Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Greater Weapon Specialization (rifles), Keen Shot, Weapon 
Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Deadeye, Double Attack (rifles), Far Shot, 
Improved Damage Threshold", Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Sniper 
Shot, Shake It Off, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +12, Initiative +13, Jump +12", Perception +11 (can reroll, 
must take second result), Pilot +13, Stealth +13 

Possessions blaster rifle, blaster pistol, knife, comlink 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


KRATH ADEPT 

Krath adepts are enthusiastic—but undertrained—followers of the Krath. 
They display ability with the Force, and a great attraction to the power of 
the dark side. Krath adepts are found at various ranks and levels of society 
when the Krath control the Empress Teta System. 


Krath Adept CL4 

Medium Human noble 4 

Force 3; Dark Side 12 

Init +3; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic ; 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 14, Will 17 

hp 29; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee sword +3 (1d442) 

Ranged weapon +4 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Special Actions Dark Side Manipulation, Krath Surge 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +8): Force thrust, move object 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Talents Dark Side Manipulation, Krath Surge 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Skill 
Focus (Deception)®, Skill Training (Use the Force), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +13", Gather Information +8, Knowledge (galactic lore} 
+7, Perception +8, Persuasion +8, Treat Injury +8, Use Computer +7, 
Use the Force +8 

Possessions blaster pistol, data pad, comlink 

H Human bonus feat or trained skilf 


KRATH COMMANDER 

Krath commanders are more highly skilled adepts, and have a great deal of 
military training as well. They can be found leading Krath military forces 
throughout the Sith War. 


Krath Commander CL6 

Medium Human noble 2/soldier 4 

Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 13 

Init +9; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, High Galactic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 21, Will 20 

hp 44; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee stun baton +5 (1d6+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Inspire Confidence, Krath Surge 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +11): Force grip, Force thrust 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Talents Armored Defenses, Inspire Confidence, Krath Surge 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Improved 
Defenses, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot", Skill Training (Use the Force), 
Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Initiative +9, Knowledge (tactics) +9, Perception 
+9, Persuasion +11, Pilot +10, Treat Injury +9, Use Computer +9, Use 
the Force +11 

Possessions blaster pistol, stun baton, Krath armor (light armor, +5 
bonus to Reflex Defense, +2 bonus to Fortitude Defense, max Dex +3), 
comlink 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


KRATIH WARRIOR 

Drawn from the militaries of conquered Deep Core worlds, Krath warriors 
are the staple forces of the Krath army prior to the defeat of Mandalore the 
Indomitable by Ulic Qel-Droma. Krath warriors are among the most savage 
and bloodthirsty in the galaxy, and the dark side corruption of their leaders 
and commanders seeps down through the ranks, infusing Krath warriors with 
the rage and hate of the dark side of the Force. Krath warriors fight side-by- 
side with Krath war droids throughout the Great Sith War. 


A KRATH WAR DROID FOLLOWS 4 KRATH WARRIOR INTO BATTLE 


Krath Warrior CL 1 
Medium human nonheroic 5 

Dark Side 8 

Init +3; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 14, Will 11 
hp 23; Threshold 14 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee spear +7 (1d8+6) or 

Melee spear +7* {1d8+16) with Powerful Charge 
Ranged heavy blaster pistol +4 (3d6) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +6 

Atk Options Power Attack, Powerful Charge 


SLNANOKAOe GNY SsIwy?7 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 9, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Weapon 
Focus (simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +9, Perception +8 

Possessions war sword, spear, heavy blaster pistol, Krath battle armor (as 
armored flight suit, +5 armor, +2 equipment), comlink, various trophies 
of battle 

“Includes 4-point Power Attack 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
1) 
2 
xX 


| 


STSSeCsesesessssass 


SLNSENOEDEIG amy samqaw 


sn Fe 


io 
iT 
i> 
v 
| 
fu] 
pt 
x 


STARSHIPS 

In the Knights of the Old Republic era, most capital ships reside in the hands 
of the military. Major corporations also use capital ships as part of their 
security force, particularly if they control large areas of space. However, 
they are dependent on Republic fleets for large-scale defense. A number 
of nonmilitary craft the size of capital ships are used by corporations for 
research or transport purposes. 


THE EBON HAWK 

The Ebon Hawk is the prized possession of Taris Exchange boss Davik 
Kang—at least until an amnesiac Darth Revan takes it away from him. 
The vessel's history is almost completely unknown, but over the years the 
ship's owners (many of whom have been members of the Exchange) have 
upgraded, modified, and otherwise personalized the ship to suit their needs. 
The Ebon Hawk is recognizable in many shadowports and on fringe worlds 
throughout the galaxy, sometimes as a welcome sight and sometimes as a 
herald of trouble. 

The Ebon Hawk boasts improved hull integrity, advanced weapons, heavily 
modified engines, and one of the fastest hyperdrives available. Moreover, the 
ship's weapons load has been improved significantly over the stock Dynamic- 
class freighter (SG 80) and a shield generator more powerful than those found 
on most military starfighters. Though the ship has been associated with the 
Exchange for most of its existence, the Ebon Hawk might find its way into 
the hands of heroes any time in the Knights of the Old Republic time period, 
and the heroes have a chance to make their mark on this iconic freighter. 


Ebon Hawk CL8 
Colossal* space transport 
Init -1; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +12 armor 
hp 140; DR 15; SR 40; Threshold 77 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale) 
Ranged double laser cannons +7 (see beiow) and 
double heavy laser cannons +5 (see below) and 
docking gun (blaster cannon) +5 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +6 
Atk Options autofire (double heavy laser cannons, double laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 44, Dex 16, Con =, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 


Availability Unique; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 154,000 
credits) 

*This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purposes of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using starship 
maneuvers. 


Double laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +7 [+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


Double heavy laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers 8 
Cargo 40 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 


Docking gun (blaster cannon) (copilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 3d12, character scale only 


KRATH CHAOS FIGHTER 

Originally designed by Koros Spaceworks as a light, inexpensive fighter for the 
defense of Deep Core worlds, the 10.5-meter-long CX-133 Chaos fighter isa 
light superiority fighter that can be mass-produced quickly and without great 
cost. When Krath cultists seize control of numerous Deep Core worlds, they 
convert manufacturing facilities to Chaos fighter assembly lines. Hundreds of 
thousands of Chaos fighters enter service quickly, and the quick production 
is made into a necessity by the Krath space fleet tactics, which calls upon 
Chaos fighters to slam into enemy ships in ram attacks. Chaos fighters are 
always loaded with volatile fuel and munitions, resulting in greater explosions 
when they engage in ram attacks. 


Koros Spaceworks CX-133 Chaos Fighter CL7 

Huge* starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23: +3 armor 

hp 60; DR 10: Threshold 33 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 4 squares (starship 
scale] 

Ranged light laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x1 or square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2: Grp +25 

Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons), fire-link (light laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 40 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated value 65,000) 

* Chaos fighters are laden with volatile materials, causing them to deol 806 
damage to any ship they collide with instead of the normal 4d6. 


Light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


& KRATH CHAOS FIGHTER FIRES 4T AN S-100 STINGER 


KRATH COMMAND SHIP 

A powerful capital ship used in the defense of the Deep Core, Koros Space- 
works’ Supremacy-class attack ship is a formidable vessel favored by the 
nobles and leaders of the Krath. These 550-meter-long command ships 
serve as mobile attack platforms that can fill a number of roles; not only 
do they carry an exceptionally Jarge number of Chaos fighters that can be 
launched from one of over a dozen hangar bays, each Supremacy-class vessel 
carries several battalions of Krath war droids that could be deployed to a 
planet's surface by shuttle or, more commonly, by special escape podlike 
deployment pods. 

Tactical Fire: The Supremacy-class attack ship can provide both space 
and ground support to Krath troops, acting as a base of operations for entire 
Krath battlegroups. As a standard action, a Supremacy-class attack ship can 
forego all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius. 
All engineers aboard allied ships within this radius may use the reroute power 
action with only a single swift action (instead of the usual 3 swift actions). 
Any effects that also reduce the number of actions required to reroute power 
do not stack with this effect. 


Koros Spaceworks Supremacy-class Attack Ship CL 17 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 


Init -3; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 52; +13 armor 

hp 1,500; DR 20; SR 120; Threshold 252 

Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 3 light double turbolaser batteries +17* (see below) and 
3 heavy ion cannon batteries +17* (see below) and 
5 point-defense medium laser cannon batteries +9 (see below) and 
3 tractor beam batteries +9* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2 squares (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +64 

Atk Options autofire (point-defense medium laser cannon batteries) 


Abilities Str 94, Dex 12, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1,800; Passengers 3,000 (troops) 

Cargo 6,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 144 Chaos 
fighters, 8 shuttles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x8) 

Availability Military; Cost Not available for sale (estimated value 
16,000,000) 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Light double turbolaser batteries (6 gunners) 
Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 


Heavy ion cannon batteries (6 gunners) 
Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion 


Point-defense medium laser cannon batteries (2 gunners) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire); Dmg 4d10x2 

Tractor beam batteries (2 gunners) 
Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg - (grapple 
+64) 


THE VISIONARY, GOoOTO'S YACHT 
The Visionary, commonly called Goto's Yacht, is the prototype Eleaor Propul- 
sion Starscape-class yacht. Through his datalinks, GO-TO discovers Eleaor 
is expanding Into luxury starships, and he calculates that a stronger Eleaor 
Propulsion would aid his Republic-stabilization efforts. He commissions 
the prototype for himself, and Eleaor goes on to produce a successful, if 
expensive, class of yacht. GO-TO hires Nar Shaddaa shipyards to upgrade 
the weaponry and install formidable interior defensive systems, including 
turrets and a minefield. This also includes an effective cloaking device that 
protects the Visionary from enemy attacks as the ship orbits Nar Shaddaa. 
Ultimately, the Visionary is destroyed when the cloaking device is disabled 
by the Exile, enabling GO-TO's enemies to target the ship. 


5 


0 
I 
> 
v 
\4 
5 
\D 
x! 


SLNONOAAG GANY SSaImty 


iix YSLavHo 


Gees 
SLNENOEOAMEe GNY SSsImw 


J 


Eleaor Propulsion Starscape-class Yacht CL 13 
Colossal space transport 


Init -1; Senses Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 
hp 120; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 76 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged 2 light laser cannon batteries +10 (see below} and 
2 medium laser cannon batteries +8 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +5 Grp +41 

Atk Options autofire (light laser cannon batteries, medium laser cannon 
batteries) 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 14 (expert}; Passengers 12 

Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Unique; Cost Not available for sale 


Medium laser cannon battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


Light laser cannon battery (2 gunners) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


Stygium crystal cloaking device—A cloaked ship is considered to have 
total concealment, and can make a Stealth check to sneak. (Remember 
to apply the -10 penalty to notice a target that has total concealment 
when making checks to notice a cloaked ship.) Noticing a cloaked ship 
does not negate its concealment, but it does allow you to make 
attacks against the ship, taking the normal penalty on 
attacks for concealment. 


TWO LETHISK-CLASS ARMED FREIGHTERS 
ESCORT THE VISIONARY 


DROIDS 


The droids presented below, while not the most commonly seen throughout 
the galaxy, can provide interesting encounters with alien technology and 
represent some of the most unique droid designs found in this time period. 


SRATH WAR DROID 
During their conquest of the Deep Core but prior to their invasion of the 
galaxy at large, the Krath often have a tenuous hold on the planets they 
capture due to sheer lack of numbers. The Krath war droid is designed to 
supplement the military forces on Krath-held worlds, acting as soldiers with 
few needs and no mercy. Krath war droids are deployed via pods dropped from 
orbit to the surface of the planet, at which point they use the strength of their 
numbers to overwhelm enemy forces. Since Krath war droids have none of 
the sense of self-preservation that biological troops do, Krath commanders 
have no difficulties in sending wave after wave of Krath war droid to their 
doom in order to wear down and eventually overrun enemy positions. Krath 
war droids play a major role in the assault during the Conclave on Deneba, 
slaying many Jedi before the droids are destroyed. 
Krath war droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Krath War Droid 

Medium droid (4th degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 3 

Init +7; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic {can’t speak), Binary 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 19), Fort 20, Will 14 

hp 26; Threshold 20 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee short sword +13 (1d6+8 } or 

Melee short sword +11 (2d6+8 ) 

Ranged pulse-wave pistol +11 (3d6+1 ) or 

Ranged pulse-wave pistol +9 (44641 } 

Base Atk +7; Grp +12 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (simple weapons), Rapid Shot, Rapid 
Strike, Withdrawal Strike (simple weapons} 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 16, Con —, Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 6 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Devastating Attack (simple weapons), Weapon Specialization 
(simple weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Rapid Shot, Rapid Strike, Weapon 
Focus (pistols), Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons), Withdrawal Strike (simple weapons) 


CL 5 


» Skills Acrobatics +12 


Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages 

Possessions short sword, pulse-wave pistol, durasteel battle armor, 
internal comlink 

Availability Licensed; Cost 11,000 


RAKATAN GUARDIAN DROID 

The Rakatan guardian droids are incredibly resilient and able to remain 
functional thousands of years after their original construction. The Rakatans 
used the droids for many functions, including security, guiding slaves, and 
overseeing complex projects and personnel. They understand the languages 
of the Rakatan slave species. Revan encounters several of these ancient 
droids while searching for the Star Forge. 


Rakatan Guardian Droid CL5 

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 15 

Init +9; Senses darkvision, Perception +15 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, Rakatan, Selkath (understand 
only), Shyriiwook (understand only), Tusken (understand only) 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 10, Will 11 

hp 38; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares 

Ranged blaster rifle +13 {3d8) or 

Ranged flamethrower +13 (3d6) or 

Ranged carbonite projector +13 (3d8 stun) 

Base Atk +11; Grp +10 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Special Qualities increased stability 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Exotic Weapon Proficiency 
(carbonite projector), Exotic Weapon Proficiency (flamethrower), 
Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Endurance), Skill Training 
(Survival), Weapon Proficiency (rifles) 

Skills Endurance +12, Mechanics +14, Perception +15, Survival +13 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, darkvision, improved 
sensor package, locked access, Rakatan internal generator, duranium 
plating 

Possessions integrated weaponry (treat as blaster rifle, flamethrower, and 
carbonite projector) 


BEASTS 

These beasts are just a small sample of the strange creatures found through- 
out the galaxy, and represent some of the biggest threats encountered by 
heroes in this time. 


KATH HOUND 

Kath hounds are beasts native to the planet Dantooine. They stand about 
1 meter tall, with four legs and razor-sharp teeth. One breed also sports 
impressive horns, flanking its head on three sides. The hounds are dangerous 
to the unprepared. Occasionally, criminal lords in the Exchange keep them 
as pets, or for use as primitive guardians. 


Kath Hound CL3 
Small beast 4 
Init +2; Senses Perception +1 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 12, Will 10 
hp 18; Threshold 12 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee 2 claws +5 (1d3+4) and 
bite +5 (1d4+4) 
Base Atk +3; Grp +4 
Atk Options Bantha Rush 
Abilities Str 14, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 2, Wis 9, Cha 8 
Feats Bantha Rush, Improved Defenses 
Skills Jump +9 


RAK GHOUL 

Rakghouls are the hideous results of the feared rakghoul disease that plagued 
the Taris surface and Undercity. Those infected mutated into savage four- 
legged beasts within hours. The aggressive nature of the rakghouls made them 
extremely dangerous to anyone who was not already infected. They attack on 
sight, infecting their victims through the wounds they inflicted. 


Rakghoul CL 4 
Medium beast 4 

Init +9; Senses low-light vision, Perception +7 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 10 

hp 26; Threshold 13 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee 2 claws +5 (1d4+4) and 
bite +5 (1d6+4) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +5 

Atk Options Bantha Rush 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 15, Can 17, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 2 
Feats Skill Training (Initiative), Skill Training (Perception) 
Skills Initiative +9, Jump +9, Perception +7 


Rakghoul Disease—When a rakghoul successfully damages a living 
creature with its bite attack, the target may become infected with 
the rakghoul disease. Make an immediate attack against the target's 
Fortitude Defense at +8; if successful, the target is infected. Once 
infected, the rakghoul disease makes a single attack against the 
target's Fortitude Defense once every five minutes at +8. After three 
successful attacks, the target transforms into a rakghoul. For targets 
other than Medium size, adjust the statistics above so that the size 
matches the target's original size. A successful Treat Injury check (DC 
25) with access to the rakghou} serum can remove this disease. 


> 
(P 
C 
Wy 
| 
> 
A 
g 
@ 
D 
UT 
i) 
@ 
) 
g 
O) 


TREMBLE, 
CADE SKYWALKER, BEFORE , 

THE TERRIBLE POWER OF I, HA! IT IS YOU WHO 
DARTH KRAYT, WHO ALONG WITH SHOULD TREMBLE 
DARTH TALON AND DARTH NTHL, BEFORE ME, FOR IT AM 

WILL BRING YOU TO A TOUGH AS NAILS 
YOUR KNEES! ( BOUNTY HUNTER! 


‘a 
\ws X< f 


IMA Mh P4 | " 
BOUNTY HUNTER | AiG Wp bh py sagt 
TOO! AND YOU, CADE ‘\ \ ve j 
SKYWALKER, ARE MY 


BOUNTY! . f . q aie 
AND I GUESS ‘ : : j . I SHOULD ASK 


Tit TAKE THE } 3 3 
PINK GIRL TOO. ‘ r YOU THE SAME 


STAY AWAY FROM MY 
GREAT-GRANOSON! 


YAHOO! 
YOU'RE ALL 
CLEAR, KID! 


SILENCE! LET'S 
BRING IT BACK TO ME! 
FOR I, DARTH KRAYT, 

WILL --URKKS 


HAVE MORE FUN AND EXPLORE GREATER 

a ROLEPLAYING POSSIBILITIES 7 él 
SOMEONE TELL ME (SSN fp BY AODING MINZTATURES oe pe . 
ME BENTNG! TO YOUR RPG GAME TODAY! -- —WIZARDS.COM/STARWARS 


HAPPENING! 
© 2008 LUCASFILM LTD. & TM Al HTS RESERVE! 
8 2008 WIZARDS, NIZIRDS OF THE COAST LOGO IS A TRADEMARK OF WIZARDS OF THE COAST, INC. IN THE USA AND OTHER GRINTRS 


“THIS IS BUT A TASTE OF THE DARK SIDE.” 


Journey back nearly four thousand years before the Battle of Yavin to a time when 
the Republic struggled for survival against the threats of the Sith and the Mandalorians. 
The Anights of the Did Republic’ Campaign Guide gives you everything you need to play 
in the time of the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi Civil War. Play a noble Jedi struggling 
against the Sith, or a Republic soldier fighting ta keep the Mandalorian hordes from nw 
sweeping across the galaxy like a storm. 


FEATURING: : 
To use this accessory, players and Gamemasters 


also need the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga 
faition core rulebook. 


4iM a, 
S te 


2 


@ A complete campaign setting covering the /a/es of the Jedi and Knights of 
the Dd Republic comics and video games. 


sterwars.com 


@® An in-depth look at the species, technology, heroes, and villains from the distant 
past of Star Wars. 


@® New character options, including talents and feats, as well as expanded uses of character 
abilities featured in the Star Wars® pleplaying Game Saga Fdltion core rulebook. Bea Ceci t= fates renived tant nis eer emk 


F Be: ; : 3 2 Wizards of the Coast, d20 System and their respective logos are 
@ A detailed examination of the Mandalorians, the Sith, the Jedi, and the Dld Republic. trademarks of Wizards ofthe Coast, Inc. inthe USA and other countries 


