a 


/ 4 ROONEY THOMPSON Foe GARY ASTLEFORD . 


ee 


LE y ge oe = ae CAMPAIGN GUIDE 


ow et, 
Die ! “ iy 


- 


LEGACY BRA 
CAMPAIGN GUIDE 


RODNEY THOMPSON, STERLING HERSHEY, GARY ASTLEFORD 


2 
in| 
/W 
@) 
1>/) 
1Q° 
1s) 
1M 
av 
| > 
| Q@ 
> 
5 
B 
@ 
z 
@ 
G 
Y 
W 


CRELITS 


ae 


ART DIRECTORS Blake Beasley, Ryan Sansaver 


vA Ni AREOLA TE RGN 


LUCAS LICENSING EDITOR Frank Parisi : 


<A va NEA aN ee MS re RGR La 


loans NOUNS SEEN ets a6me 


Rodney Thompson, Sterling Hershey, 
Gary Astleford 


Christopher Perkins 


Cynda Callaway 


‘PRODUCTION MANAGER 


j 
eseomrpcecacsarns kana! 


T ~~ Dunnett 


ea 


aI 8 


ERSTE 


= 7 Penta a aS 
GRAPHIC PRODUCTION : : 
SPECIALIST _ Christopher Tardiff 


Sou 


Naa EM REG 


COVER ARTIST Gonzalo Flores 


VS) 4 
‘nmoesicucoomneeReRN OA aM ce cS NRNNRUMNORToNEKCUMOR NEURO Alt 


Steve Argyle, Zoltan Boros & Gabor Szikszai, Jeffrey 
Carlisle, Miguel Coimbra, Michael Dubisch, Gonzalo 
Flores, Randy Gallegos, Thomas Gianni, Jason Juta, 
Ron Lemen, Warren Mahy, Gabrielle Portal, Paul 
Shipper, Chris Trevas, Francis Tsai, Franz Vohwinkel, 
Ben Wootten, Lucasfilm Ltd. 


fi i 
Cl // 


Carmen Cheung 


= nay 
SANS se eremmRuMNACNN DS; a // 


Christopher West 


ma // A mine OO //, 


Some rules mechanics are based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C. Stephens, and Rodney Thompson, the original Dungeons & Dragons® rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave 
Arneson, and the 3" Edition Dungeons & Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. : 


This Wizards of the Coast® game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission. To learn more about the Open Gaming License and the d20 System™ License, please 
pi p' 9 y: 


visit www.wizards.com/d20. 


U.S., Canada, Asia, GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE 
Pacific, & Latin America Hasbro UK Ltd Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 
Wizards of the Coast LLC Caswell Way Industialaan 1 
P.O. Box 707 Newport, Gwent NP9 OYH 1702 Groot-Bijgaarden ® SYSTEM.. 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRITAIN Belgium WWW.WIZARDS.COM WWW.STARWARS.COM 
Questions? 1-800-324-6496 Please keep this address for your records +32 070 233 277 ISBN: 978-0-7869-5051-5 j 
620-21966720-001-EN f 
987654321 
First Printing: March 2009 
©2009 LUCASFILM LTD, & @ OR ™ WHERE INDICATED. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 
USED UNDER AUTHORIZATION. 
Dungeons & Dragons, d20 System, Wizards of the Coast, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the U.S.A. and other countries. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized q 


use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written Permission of Wizards of the Coast LLC. This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. 


CONTENTS 


ve TRODUCTION eee 4 The Hidden Temple ........... 50 CHAPTER XK: Phe GALACTIC Konrad Rus.............-- 179 
. = , The Imperial Knights.......... 51 ALLIANCE ....118 Astraal Va0........0e00005 180 
TIRGISICN iaxcens d sacapme ences oe 52 Coe Morlish eed: ssciscasca cavecs 180 
ONGANIZAION 5.< c.cieeveeeaaes 120 
eee The Alliance Remnant........122 RoE ata 


Species Characteristics........10 | Force Powers................ Alirance Personnel............ sor 


CHAG KAN. ss: sna «cise s.oaee 10 | FORGE TALENTS: scence ic remarecins ; fe Imperial Ranged Weapons ... .182 
CHISS icotivre gdnmeseesiane naresna ie enone 11 Force Techniques: «ssscwws ces 55 pi eee oc . Imperial Armor...........--- 183 
Codrttaligccenemsocnsaaeeeses 12 Other Force-Using Traditions. . .57 A fin sesamiae ia Imperial Vehicles............ 184 
KGHOOTIAN: sccmrncsmence sate 13 The Disciples of Twilight ..... 57 Saal raises ea ieee 135 Imperial Starfighters......... 185 
NBG AL ssces ssrasapnariais eanevine zeten 14 The Ember of Vahl .......... 58 EUS: wrest a cairn Imperial Space Transports . .. .187 
Commander Jhoram Bey... . 135 ; ; ; 
Weequays.. esas svtinaesovns 15 Anj Dah 136 Imperial Capital Ships........ 189 
Yuuzhan Vong ..........--+++ 16 | | CHAPIRV: Que MeNT c Gah : PRETEEN PLS 6 
ZeltON sat scanen samme neon 17 . AND DrROoIDS ..60 “cr aca CHAPTER XI: 
Monia Gahan............. 137 


THE FRINGE . 192 


| CHAPTER Ils Pe ROC 


Remnants of the Jedi Order .. .193 


Eco len ISS OL el peseagactne®S | iRONtOmavs aiannsw demure The Underworld..........++ 197 
LEGACIES! :siiverssaradrasavanevisapetecdya 19 IPMENE «testes 5 arenes Ema Captain Jaius Yorub........ 139 Other Fringe Personalities ....207 
DeStileSscsciaw seusne se nected 21 TO Sissi veieynaearntosaregesenciebvtrd Alliance Armor........00eee8 140 “Bantha" Rawk............ 207 


Alliance Equipment.......... 140 | Cade Skywalker........... 
Alliance Starfighters......... TAG YN epsccress arsiccanars tireccmrar ats 
Alliance Space Transports. .... 145 | = Choka Skell............0.. 


New Talents for Heroic Classes .26 
New Jedi Talents............ CHAPTER Vis VEHICLES AND 
Mend cosa STARSHIPS ...78 


mena Speeder Bikes. ...............80 ae oer dose esemeee 
scinaiapenane Airspeeders .......000.cc000.81 eep Space Camps.......... AKO wees esse eveeee eens 
a ie aa Starfighters isis iaasverss seven B82 STEIN Als ieotiseceiva le 
Mains iemee mK’ CHAPTER Ns THe GALACTIC Jor Torlins scaseva same 8213 


Space Transports............. 86 


EMPIRE... . VA | KCC eee eee eee eens 


Darth Krave’s Empl Liaan Lah..............005 214 
HIRI PRES Tio ‘oe F oe rages ue 180 Naxy Screeger .......eeeee 215 
| ClLASsses.....38 imperial oh mere acta “Aa NeiiRithacaansonnsarencien 215 
| helegacyEra....94 J 9 PS Ptr eens URE arcrasracins cevsierets sie 
New’ Talentstsis scsiscvsace stiarsiais wr 40 rirodtuelng the Legacy Era » Influential Personalities ...... 167 ad on 
Advancing Existing Heroes. .... ~ 5 Vongspawn......seeeeeeee 217 
Bounty Hunter Talents....... 40 ‘ ‘ Nyna Calixte : : 
9, HerOiCLegacles «.esisicise-nswicsays s 96 : Fringe Starships............. 217 
Elite Trooper Talents......... 40 : (Morrigan Corde)....... 167 oh 
5 Heirloom Items ..........0005 97 Grinning Liar............8. 219 
Gunslinger Talents.......... 4 é Darth Azard .............. 168 
pee. Everything Has a Place........ SF ee ee ee HE MYTIORR a: cscsareceiasaveusanrdeaarcnace 
Jedi Knight Talents.......... 41 Darth Krayt............005 168 
: Age of Shadow.............. 101 ee ee ee At - BEaStStinssicnen hetaeeasinee 
Officer Talents ............. 42 Ehelienatay Amster 103 Darth Maladi ............. 170 
Sith Apprentice Talents...... 43 tk ProMsee ee 1 Darth Maleval...........-. 


CHAPTER VIS GBALACTIC | See 
GAZETTEER.. 


SHADER osswys sieieruncviamna ners 46 Darth Wyyrlok............ 173 
Space Travel cies: cnc saaven s 105 Antares Draco............5 174 

CHAPTER IVs Planets of the Legacy Era..... 106 FED A AUR sscceve ard etrenveoavesres 175 
THE ForRCcE...42a Planetary Updates........... 112 Marasiah Fel.............. 176 

; ROAM FEL sieeve oxsane ecrraias 177 

Sa , an Oron Jaeger.........0.e005 178 
Ran AONE SONS AZIYN RAC sinc ws wceny benaes 178 


\ 


Obi-Wan Kenobi once called the period between the fall of the Republic 
and the rise of the Galactic Empire the "Dark Times." Had he foreseen the 
Legacy era, he might have called the period defined by Palpatine's rise to 
power something else. Indeed, the Legacy era is rife with the same tyranny, 
ession, violence, and danger that flourished under Palpatine’s rule. 
weyver, in the future of the Star Wars galaxy, the Empire is openly ruled 
Lord and his dark minions, the Jedi have once again been hunted 
extinction, and the heir to the Skywalker name is a death stick- 
ty hunter who rejects the Force and everything associated with 
ve never been grimmer than they are under Darth Krayt's Empire, 
t the opportunities for heroes to make a difference have never been 
ent. 
cy era begins over 130 years after the Battle of Yavin. The galaxy 
tyrannical dictator, a Sith Lord named Darth Krayt. Darth Krayt 
ow Sith have reestablished the Galactic Empire. The Jedi are scat- 
e distant corners of the galaxy, and the only hope for democracy 
the fleeing exiles of the Galactic Alliance. Yet the Empire is divided, 
e former Emperor, Roan Fel, leading an insurgency against the Sith 
that deposed him. Meanwhile, individuals lurking on the fringes of 
iety profit by turning Jedi over to the Empire for handsome rewards. 
The Legacy era represents a period in Star Wars continuity where almost 
anything has its place. It combines the best and most iconic aspects of the 
Star Wars milieu, providing a time period in which Gamemasters are free to 
use character archetypes, organizations, weapons, starships, and themes 
introduced in earlier eras. The Legacy era is also a blank slate where heroes 
can make names for themselves or use the names that Star Wars fans have 
- { | come to know and love: Antilles, Fel, Skywalker, and Solo, just to name a 
few. The Legacy era is a time of possibilities: A Mandalorian bounty hunter 
hero can wear clone trooper armor as he battles lightsaber-wielding Sith 
VY, Lords and still fit perfectly into this time period. 


Pe 
ee |\ 


eat 


“AS | HAVE BENT 
THE FORCE TO 
MY WILL, SO ! WILL 
BEND THE GALAXY 
: AND IT WILL 
KNOW ORDER." 


-DARTH KRAYT 


> 
j 
3 


NOILINGOSLNI NOILSNOGOBLNI 
Gees 


sh 
4 
z 
ia) i 
0 

Ci f 
0] | 
{4 

10 

Z i 


NEILSNE@SCOH4N0 


TIMELINE 

The Legacy Era Campaign Guide focuses on the time period surrounding the 
Imperial Civil War, particularly starting around the year 137 ABY (After the 
Battle of Yavin). This period, as defined by the Legacy comics, provides many 
options for Gamemasters looking to create campaigns set in this era. During 
this time period, the Empire rules the galaxy with Darth Krayt on the throne, 
and the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet (or rather, what is left of it) represents 
one of the last hopes of freedom and democracy. At the same time, the Jedi 
are scattered and hunted, while rebellious Imperial forces pit themselves 
against the ruling tyrants. 

The events that lead up to this time period are important and can provide 
Gamemasters with inspiration for adventures and campaigns. The following 
timeline covers the major events leading up to the state of the galaxy during 
the Legacy era, and should make it easier to understand how the galaxy came 
to such a dark state of affairs. 


The Galactic Alliance (28 ABY-126 ABY) 

The history of the Legacy era actually begins over 100 years before the 
reign of Darth Krayt begins. Following the Yuuzhan Vong invasion of the 
galaxy, the New Republic crumbles. It is only through the united efforts of 
the Jedi and the remnants of various factions that the Yuuzhan Vong are 
defeated. At the conclusion of this struggle, the Galactic Alliance comes 
into being, uniting the remnants of the New Republic and the Empire alike. 
Other independent territories join the Alliance as well. Although the Galactic 
Alliance continues to see its share of conflicts, even teetering on the edge of 
destruction, the galaxy manages to stabilize itself eventually, and the Jedi 
Order grows and flourishes. 


The Ossus Project 

Nearly a century after the defeat of the Yuuzhan Vong and the establish- 
ment of the Galactic Alliance, a powerful and influential Jedi named Kol 
Skywalker champions a cause that many see as risky, even dangerous. What 
Skywalker proposes comes to be called the Ossus Project, and its premise is 
bold: to take Yuuzhan Vong terraforming biotechnology and use it to rebuild 
devastated worlds. Skywalker advocates allowing the Yuuzhan Vong—many 
of whom now coexist in the galaxy among those that they once sought to 
conquer—to develop terraforming methods to restore ravaged worlds such 
as Caamas, Honoghr, and Ossus. 

Collaborating with Yuuzhan Vong shapers, Alliance and Jedi scientists 
develop a plan to transform dead worlds into vibrant, livable planets similar 
to the way that the Yuuzhan Vong transformed Coruscant during their 
galactic invasion. 

The first terraforming test is conducted on Ossus. In a short amount 
of time, Yuuzhan Vong biotechnology restores Ossus to its state as a lush 
jungle world. After this rousing success, other worlds vie for a chance to 
be restored. A small number are chosen for the second phase of the Ossus 
Project. However, efforts to revitalize these worlds are sabotaged by the 
resurgent Sith, whose existence is still unknown to both the Jedi and the 
galaxy at large. As a mysterious disease ravages the inhabitants of these 
worlds, the galaxy's mistrust of the Yuuzhan Vong surges once more. The 
Yuuzhan Vong are blamed for the sabotage, Kol Skywalker and the Jedi are 
accused of complicity, and the Sith divide the galaxy once more. 


The Sith-Imperial War (127 ABY-130 ABY) 

Shortly after the apparent Yuuzhan Vong sabotage becomes public knowl- 
edge, worlds and sectors begin seceding from the Galactic Alliance. The 
Galactic Empire, still prominent and powerful, withdraws from the Alliance. 
Anger toward the Alliance and hatred for the Yuuzhan Vong causes many 
worlds, some prominent and powerful, to flock to the Empire for protection. 
With newfound resources and a tide of support, the Empire grows in power 
and size, allowing it to challenge the Galactic Alliance militarily. 

War between the Galactic Alliance and the Galactic Empire rages for some 
time, with both sides trading victories and defeats, until a new faction enters 
the scene. The Moff Council, unbeknownst to Emperor Roan Fel, has been 
working behind the scenes to reach an agreement with the Sith. The Sith 
emerge as a fighting force on the side of the Empire, openly opposing the 
Galactic Alliance and the Jedi Order. With the aid of these dark Force-users, 
the revitalized Empire sweeps across the galaxy. 


The decisive battle in the Sith-Imperial War occurs at Caamas. Years 
of battling the Empire have depleted the Galactic Alliance's resources and 
strained the capabilities of the Jedi Order, and too many neutral worlds have 
united under the banner of the resurgent Empire. At the end of the Battle of 
Caamas, after his superiors order him to surrender, Admiral Gar Stazi of the 
Galactic Alliance takes a remnant of the Core Fleet and flees, leaving the 
Empire in control of the galaxy. 

Although the Battle of Caamas marks the end of the war, the Sith have one 
more victory to achieve. Against the wishes of Emperor Fel, the Sith attack 
the Jedi at Ossus, slaughtering them and scattering the few remaining Jedi 
to the far corners of the galaxy. With the massacre at Ossus, the Jedi Order 
is crushed and the last hopes of any victory for the Alliance are dashed. 


Ascent of the Empire (130 ABY-136 ABY) 

Following the destruction of the Jedi Order at Ossus, Darth Krayt seizes 
control of the Empire by force. He murders the man he believes is Emperor 
Roan Fel—a man later revealed to be a decoy—and demands the fealty of 
the Moff Council. When the Moffs acquiesce, Darth Krayt becomes the new 
Emperor, and the Sith Lords and apprentices under his command become the 
new rulers of the galaxy. 

The real Roan Fel retreats into exile, taking his loyal Imperial Knights 
and other Imperial personnel with him. In his absence, Darth Krayt's Empire 
solidifies its hold on the galaxy through fear and military might. Across the 
galaxy, shipyards produce Imperial warships, and within a few short years 
the Empire becomes as powerful as it was during the height of Emperor 
Palpatine's tyranny. Stormtroopers are recruited and trained, the Imperial 
Navy patrols the space in all parts of the galaxy, and the Sith Lords and their 
Moff cronies squeeze the planets under their control. 


J 
ME CAI 


vrata *, — 


“I ICH WE 


VED- 


E FR 


"> om | 


rw Fe ME flr INS ST 
is! bor, WE KEEP 
COMING BACK FOR 
MC R Ee! THAT'S REAL 
CLEVER OF US, 
pn om 99 


ism’ rT 4 


La as 
b= 


The Imperial Civil War (137 ABY and Beyond) 

Seven years after the Battle of Caamas, the Empire-in-exile, under the com- 
mand of Roan Fel, begins concerted efforts to undermine Krayt's authority. 
By disrupting the plans of the Sith, this Imperial insurgency sparks an all-out 
civil war. Meanwhile, Admiral Stazi and the remnants of the Galactic Alliance 
Core Fleet continue to engage in hit-and-run attacks against Imperial forces. 
Though its supplies are low and its fleet is constantly on the move to avoid 
detection, the Alliance grows ever more daring with its attacks. The crowning 
achievement of the Alliance rebellion proves to be the capture of a prototype 
Star Destroyer, stolen from the Empire's shipyards at Mon Calamari. 

The Jedi, scattered across the galaxy, begin to rebuild their fallen Order. 
The reappearance of Cade Skywalker, the son of Kol Skywalker, offers a glim- 
mer of hope to those who long for freedom. Cade, however, has rejected his 
destiny time and again, meaning that the galaxy may need other heroes to 
step up and do what he will not. 


& SMUGGLER WATCHES HV-7 LOADING DROIDS PLACING 
CARGO ON HER SHIP. 


) 


NOIONGOSANI 


< 
w 
o 
9 
C 
9 
! 
0 
z 


mex sao 


CHAPTER | 
SPECIES 


Mae Lite 


obscurity, such a: as the Massassi or the Rakata, there are few, if 
at are inappropriate for the era. Species that had not yet been. 
or integrated into the galaxy during the Clone Wars or Galactic 
Var ‘have now been present in the galaxy at large for over a century. 

the Yuuzhan Vong, who less than a century ago invaded and 
ed the galaxy, are now free to pursue other destinies (though they 
subject to prejudice). 
Under Palpatine’s Galactic Empire, many species were subjugated as a 
part of the Sith Lord's be fanabie campaign. Wookiees and Mon Calamari 
were enslaved, and throughout the Core Worlds non-Human species were 
discriminated against a8 lesser beings. This is not the case during the Legacy 
era, at least not entifely. Although the Empire under Darth Krayt imposes 
tyranny on planets, it treats all species more or less equally. Species that 
are singled out; such as the Mon Calamari, are done so only as a punishment 


for actions against the Empire. In such cases, members of an entire species 
"Yee pay the price for the rebellion of the few. 


Within the Empire ruled by Darth Krayt and the Empire-in-exile ruled 

by Roan Fel, non-Human species can rise to positions of prominence. The 

Sith Lords themselves hail from a number of species, and many high-ranking 

Imperial officers are non-Humans as well. Despite this general acceptance of 

all species within the Empire, a few hard-line traditionalists still hold onto 

the old prejudices. These Imperial bureaucrats are usually small in number, 

but they often surround themselves with like-minded allies, leading to 

small pockets of anti-alien sentiment even within the larger cosmopolitan 
Galactic Empire. 


SPECIES 
CHARACTERISTICS 


Your character's species determines some of his or her qualities. 


ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 

Find your character's species on Table 1-1: Species Ability Adjustments, and 
apply the adjustments listed there to your character's ability scores. Use 
Tables 1-2 and 1-3 to help determine age, height, and weight. 


SPECIES ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 

Chagrian +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity 

Chiss +2 Intelligence : 

Codru-Ji- None 

Klatooinian +2 Constitution, -2 Intelligence, -2 Wisdom 


Nagai +2 Dexterity, +2 Charisma, -2 Constitution 


Weequay +2 Constitution, -2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma 
Yuuzhan Vong +2 Strength, -2 Wisdom 
Zeltron +2 Charisma, -2 Wisdom 


YOUNG MIDDLE 
SPECIES CHILD ADULT ADULT AGE OLD VENERABLE 
Chagrian 1-12, 13-16 =—-17-42, 43-56) = 57-75 76+ 


Chiss 1-10 =11-13, 14-50 = 51-62 = 63-79 80+ 
Codru-Ji 1-8 9-12 13-44 45-60 61-84 85+ 
Klatooinian 1-9 10-14 15-49 50-69 70-89 90+ 
Nagai lett 12-18 19-44 45-60 61-74 75+ 


Weequay 1-12 13-17 18-49 50-74 = 75-89 90+ 
Yuuzhan Vong 1-11 12-17. 18-40 =41-60_— 61-75 76+ 
Zeltron 1-11 12-18 19-49 50-64 65-79 80+ 


SPECIES HEIGHT WEIGHT 
Chagrian, male 1.9m 95 kg 
Chagrian, female 1.9m 85 kg 
Chiss, male 1.85 m 85 kg 
Chiss, female 1.7m 65 kg 
Codru-Ji, male 1.6m 65 kg 
Codru-Ji, female 1.6m 60 kg 
Klatooinian, male 1.8m 80 kg 
Klatooinian, female 1.8m 75 kg 
Nagai, male 1.8m 60 kg 
Nagai, female 1.6m 45 kg 
Weequay, male 1.7m 75 kg 
Weequay, female 1.6m 65 kg 
Yuuzhan Vong, male 1.9m 70 kg 
Yuuzhan Vong, female 1.7m 60 kg 
Zeltron, male 1.8m 70 kg 
Zeltron, female 1.65 m 55 kg 
CHAGRIAN 


The amphibious Chagrians are comfortable both on land and in water. The 
coastal cities of their homeworld are constructed to allow the rising tides 
to flood the buildings. When this takes place, Chagrians swim from place to 
place, or use speeders which are also adapted for aquatic use. The pleasant 
tropical climate of Champala coupled with the exotic architecture of its cities 
makes the Chagrian homeworld a popular destination for galactic tourists. 
Unlike cities, spaceports on Champala are built high above sea level on the 
driest parcels of land. 

Although juvenile Chagrians possess a weak sense of taste, this sense 
fades as they mature into adults. The end result is that Chagrians rarely, if 
ever, enjoy consuming food and drink, and do so solely to fuel their bodies. 
Dining activities are traditionally viewed as a nuisance and a waste of time, 
so most Chagrians choose to consume nutrient capsules in order to main- 
tain bodily health and energy levels. When traveling, most Chagrians carry 
portable scanners that allow them to determine the relative nutritive value 
of the food they eat. Although they are unable to taste the food they eat, 
Chagrians view dining as an opportunity to socialize with members of other 
species that do not share their sensory deficiencies. 


Society on Champala is 
peaceful and highly struc- 
tured, although Chagrian 
legal systems are complex 
and often daunting to out- 
siders. As a rule, Chagrians 
are law-abiding and obedient 
toward figures of author- 
ity. Champalan government 
ensures that every citizen is 
cared and provided for, and 
the standard of living for 
even the poorest Chagrian is 
quite high when compared to 
the impoverished members of 
other species. 

Chagrians have inher- 
ited an innate resistance to 
radiation due to instability 
in Champala's primary star. 
Their blue skin is a direct result of this evolutionary step, and modern 
Chagrians continue to enjoy protection from myriad forms of radiation as 
a side effect. 

Personality: Chagrians are, by and large, even-tempered and accepting 
of others. They appreciate law, order, and well-defined social structures. On 
their homeworld, they want for little, and so Chagrians are rarely selfish or 
greedy individuals. Due to their accepting natures, Chagrians enjoy interact- 
ing with members of many different species. Given their loyalty, they make 
excellent companions and friends. 

Physical Description: Chagrians possess thick skin that ranges in color 
from light blue to dark indigo. Horns (known as /ethorns) stem from a pair of 
fleshy growths that protrude from the sides of their heads. Male Chagrians 
also develop a pair of sharp horns on the tops of their heads, and these are 
known to get quite long. 

Homeworld: Champala, a tropical water world in the Inner Rim. 

Languages: Chagri is the native language of Champala. Chagrians who 
leave their homeworld readily learn Basic in order to communicate with the 
rest of the galactic community. 

Example Names: Mas Amedda, Belar Tasseva, Myn Seda, Shiran Val- 
lendri, Ketrias Gorran. 

Adventurers: Given their predisposition in dealing well with others, Cha- 
grians make excellent nobles and Jedi. Less scrupulous Chagrians gravitate 
toward the scoundrel class, while scouts and soldiers are not unheard of. 


CHAGRIAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Chagrians share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity. Chagrians are physically 
strong but lack grace. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Chagrians have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to size. 

Speed: Chagrian base speed is 6 squares. 

Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Chagrians can't drown 
in water. 

Low-Light Vision: Chagrians ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Radiation Resistance: Chagrians gain a +5 bonus to Fortitude Defense 
against attacks that deal radiation damage. 

Automatic Languages: Basic, Chagri. 


Criss 

Originating on the cold world of Csilla in the Unknown Regions, the Chiss 
are largely unknown to the greater galactic community until five years after 
the Battle of Yavin, when a Chiss known as Grand Admiral Thrawn rallies the 
Imperial remnants and goes to war against the New Republic. Even then, 
the Chiss remain an enigmatic, secretive species. Their origins are largely 
unknown, even to the Chiss themselves, though some scientists believe they 
are descended from an isolated human colony lost to time. 

The Chiss are technologically advanced, keenly interested in art and 
science, and skilled at mathematics. Though logical in their mindset, they 
are also appreciative of philosophy and interested in other cultures. Given 
their xenophobic tendencies, it 
comes as no surprise that the 
Chiss use their understanding 
of non-Chiss cultures to gain a 
tactical advantage over poten- 
tial adversaries. 

Chiss society is highly 
ordered and structured. Rule of 
law is controlled and enforced 
by a small number of ruling 
"families." These ruling fami- 
lies, also known as clans or 
houses, are more akin to dif- 
ferent branches of govern- 
ment than to actual familial 
units. As a rule, a Chiss will 
never knowingly do anything 
to bring shame upon his or her 


HSidvHoS 


Sole9deas 


1 HYsSidvHga 


sass fT 


family, for entire lines have been exiled for the actions of a single family 
member. 

The culture of the Chiss is based on a strict code of conduct. As a rule, 
they do not attack an enemy unless they are attacked first. Thrawn ignores 
this imperative when he seizes control of the Imperial remnant, and conse- 
quently he is exiled from his people. Although most Chiss are peaceful, once 
embroiled in military conflict, they do not relent until their enemy is either 
totally destroyed or completely subjugated. 

Personality: Many of the galaxy’'s perceptions of the Chiss and how they 
behave is initially based on the personality of Grand Admiral Thrawn. As the 
years pass, it becomes increasingly obvious that all Chiss are individuals, 
and that Thrawn was an exceptional member of his-species in a number of 
ways. As such, the impression of the Chiss held by the galaxy at large is that 
they are arrogant, aloof, and calculating individuals. While this may be true 
in some instances, Chiss personalities are as varied as those of any other 
species. In general, they tend to be well-educated, artistic, and cautious in 
their dealings with strangers. 

Physical Description: Chiss have deep blue skin and red glowing eyes. 
The shade of their skin and the crimson of their eyes deepens with the 
amount of oxygen in the atmosphere that they breathe. They tend to have 
black hair, though some individuals, especially female Chiss, develop grey 
hair as they age. 

Homeworld: The frigid world of Csilla, in the Unknown Regions. 

Languages: Cheunh is the complex and nuance-laden language of the 
Chiss. Most non-Chiss have difficulty learning the intricacies of Cheunh. 
Chiss, on the other hand, have little difficulty mastering Basic, though most 
of them are unfamiliar with it. 

Example Names: Chiss traditionally have long, tripartite names. When 
dealing with non-Chiss, these names are abbreviated. Examples of abbrevi- 
ated Chiss names include Dreel, Prakk, Karyce, Lev, Sorn, Szardra, Thrawn, 
Voss, and Zilvad. 

Adventurers: Their keen mental acuity allows the Chiss to excel at 
nearly any occupation they choose to pursue. However, there are no known 
Chiss Jedi, and it is currently unknown whether Chiss society is home to any 
Force traditions. 


“COINCIDENCES CAN 
ALWAYS BE LINKED 
IN A SUGGESTIVE 

MANNER.” 


-MOFF 


er oa aa 
PEHLAAUR 


Criss SPECIES TRAITS 
Chiss share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence. Chiss are naturally bright and 
intelligent. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Chiss have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to size. 

Speed: Chiss base speed is 6 squares. 

Bonus Trained Skill: A Chiss character chooses one additional trained 
skill at 1st level. This skill must be chosen from the character's list of 
class skills. 

Low-Light Vision: Chiss ignore concealment (but not total concealment) 
from darkness. 

Automatic Languages: Cheunh. 


CODRU-WJI 


The Codru-Ji have long been 
isolated from the rest of the 
galaxy. Highly xenophobic, 
they are reluctant to grant 
members of other species 
access to their society. Though 
they do not fear other cul- 
tures, they are concerned that 
outsiders will somehow "rub 
off" on them and corrupt their 
own traditions and values. 

Certain aspects of Codru-Ji 
culture is barbaric by galactic 
standards. Ritual kidnapping, 
especially of the children of 
political rivals, is common. 
Though victims are gener- 
ally returned unharmed, the 
experience can be frighten- 
ing and offputting to non- 
Codru-Ji. Visitors to Munto 
Codru are warned that they 
should never travel alone, 
lest they fall victim to abduction. Offworlders abducted by Codru-Ji in this 
manner are often forced to pay a ransom, either in the form of valuables 
or political favors. 

All Codru-Ji possess six limbs: four arms and two legs. In addition, juvenile 
Codru-Ji hardly resemble their parents as much as they resemble small, furred, 
hexapedal canines. Referred to as Wyrwulves, Codru-Ji children continue to 


grow and develop in their six-legged form until puberty, when they pupate 
in cocoons and emerge as bipedal adults. 

Personality: As a species, the Codru-Ji are uncomfortable around out- 
siders and have trouble integrating into the galactic community. They are 
suspicious of others, looking for hidden motives in even the most mundane 
circumstances. Family ties are crucial to Codru-Ji, and they will do anything 
to protect their loved ones and family members, especially their children. 
A Codru-Ji who forms friendships with members of other species comes to 
regard them as family, and can be just as protective of them as any other 
family member. 

Physical Description: All Codru-Ji have four arms, two legs, elongated 
faces, and pointed ears. Codru-Ji hair and eye colors tend toward dark, earthy 
browns. Codru-Ji juveniles, or Wyrwulves, resemble six-legged canines and 
are often mistaken for pets by offworlders who don't know any better. 

Homeworld: Munto Codru, located in the Outer Rim. 

Languages: Codruese is an idiom-rich language punctuated by guttural 
growls, whines, and barks. 

Example Names: Adaavi, Deceven, Jorrdu, Ketanna, Merasska, Raiko, 
Veesani, Zallfric. 

Adventurers: The few Codru-Ji who leave Munto Codru are often nobles, 
scouts, and scoundrels. Though Codru-Ji Jedi are rarely encountered, Codru-Ji 
Force adepts, considered healers and spiritual advisors, have been noted. 


CODRU-J!I SPECIES TRAITS 
Codru-Ji share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: None. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Codru-Ji have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to size. 

Speed: Codru-Ji base speed is 6 squares. 

Bonus Feat: A Codru-Ji gains Dual Weapon Mastery as a bonus feat 
provided he or she meets the prerequisites of the feat (minimum Dexterity 
of 13 and a base attack bonus of +1). 

Extra Arms: Codru-Ji can hold up to four items or weapons at a time. This 
ability does not grant extra attacks; however, it does mean that a Codru-Ji 
can wield two two-handed weapons at a time. 

Skilled Grappler: Due to their extra arms, Codru-Ji gain a +5 species 
bonus to grab attacks. 

Automatic Languages: Basic, Codruese. 


KLATOOINIAN 

The ancient Klatooinians perceived the Hutts 
as demigods.The Hutts, never a species to 
refuse the upper hand in any situation, used 
this false perception to their own 
advantage, convincing the Kla- 
tooinians to cast aside their 
ancient traditions, abandon 
their native language in favor 
of Huttese, and accept their 
place as indentured ser- 
vants. Over the millennia, 
the Hutts have sheltered 
the Klatooinians and cul- 
tivated a society that is 
largely docile, obedient, 
illiterate, and isolated 
from the greater galactic 
community. 

Exposure to technology has not diminished the Klatooinian predilection 
for simplicity. However, youthful Klatooinians often chafe at the conventional 
“wisdom” of their elders, and despite the Hutts’ efforts to shield their Kla- 
tooinian subjects from progressive ideas, many Klatooinians strive to break 
away from their Hutt overlords. The Hutts are wary of sedition but are often 
reluctant to quash seditious ideas completely for fear of fomenting rebellion. 
So long as such incidents remain small and isolated, the Hutts are content to 
profit from their one-sided relationship with the Klatooinian people. 

Personality: Klatooinians are loyal and resolute to a fault. They rarely 
think outside of their own world view, which is further narrowed by their sub- 
servience to the Hutts. Those who feel shackled by their society's indentured 
service often seek to end the Huttese domination of Klatooine altogether. 
Whatever their motivation, all such Klatooinians appreciate freedom as only 
a former slave can. 

Physical Description: Klatooinians possess coarse skin that varies in hue 
from brown to green. Their faces are characterized by a flat muzzle with 
pronounced jowls, and deepset eyes beneath a heavy brow. 

Homeworld: The harsh desert world of Klatooine, located in Hutt 
Space. 

Languages: All Klatooinians speak Huttese. The original language of the 
Klatooinians exists only in ancient texts and in the minds of a handful of 
Klatooinian malcontents. While not strictly illegal, knowledge of the Klatoo- 
inian tongue is frowned upon by the Hutts who see its spread as a sign of 
insubordination among a species of valuable slaves. 

Example Names: Barada, Bekure, Chokk, Drekk, Jarakar, Kuuvat, Massa, 
Rokar, Sovara. 


1 eSicvHo 


Saeses 


Ssslogdss 


Adventurers: Many Klatooinians walk the path of the scout or the 
soldier. However, Klatooinian Force-users are rare, and Klatooinian nobles 
are unheard of. 


KLATOOINIAN SPECIES TRAITS 
Klatooinians share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Wisdom, -2 Intelligence. Life on 
their homeworld has made the Klatooinians hardy, but they are slow to figure 
things out and often rely on others to guide them. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Klatooinians have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to size. 

Speed: Klatooinian base speed is 6 squares. 

lron Will: Klatooinians are resolute individuals and gain a +2 species 
bonus to their Will Defense. 

Automatic Languages: Huttese. 


NAGAI 
Honorable, mysterious, violent, and sinister. All these words and more 
describe the Nagai people. They first appear as galactic invaders, until it 
is revealed that the Nagai are escaping their long-time enemies, the Tofs. 
Initially hostile to the New Republic, the Nagai eventually form an alliance of 
convenience in an attempt to achieve victory in their war against the Tofs. 

The Nagai are charismatic—a quality that is, by and large, a product of 
their enhanced vocal range, which allows them to tailor their speech to be 
more soothing. They are driven by a strong sense of personal honor, which 
is tempered by their own individualities. The Nagai fear nothing aside from a 
loss of freedom, symbolized by 
the return of the enemy that 
once enslaved their people. 
They have little concern for 
individuals outside of their 
own families, and they only 
endeavor to aid others if it 
serves their purposes or if they 
are bound by honor to do so. 

Melee combat, especially 
the use of edged weapons, is 
highly integrated into Nagai 
culture. It is a rare Nagai who 
does not display an expert's 
hand in the use of blades of 
all sizes. 


Personality: Nagai tend to be disciplined, focused, and passionate. They 
kill without hesitation if honor would be served by the act, and they take great 
pride in hard-fought victories. They possess a grim wit that, when combined 
with their soothing voices, can often set enemies off-balance. 

Physical Description: Nagai possess straight black hair, dark eyes, 
porcelain-white skin, and slender builds. No two Nagai dress the same, and 
they take great pains to express their own individual sense of style. 

Homeworld: Nagi, a world in the Unknown Regions. Few non-Nagai 
know its exact location. 

Languages: Nagaian, a musical and lilting speech riddled with slight varia- 
tions of pitch and tone that blend easily with the naturally soothing voice of 
the Nagai. Other species can learn the language but rarely master it. 

Example Names: Den Siva, Harmon Sho, Hol B'shaki, Krai H'voc, Lusubrin 
T'shkali, Mendo, Nir Kento, Ozrei, Rei, Sin Shai, Tai, Taru. 

Adventurers: Nagai freely pursue any vocation that pleases them, and 
nobles, scoundrels, scouts, and soldiers are common. A number of Nagai have 
become Jedi, although there are no other known Force traditions among the 
Nagai people. 


NAGAI SPECIES TRAITS 
Nagai share the following species traits: 
Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, +2 Charisma, -2 Constitution. Nagai are 
charismatic and agile, but physically frail. 
Medium: As Medium creatures, Nagai have no special bonuses or penal- 
ties due to size. 
Speed: Nagai base speed is 6 squares. 
Lightning Reflexes: Nagai are fast on their feet and gain a 
+2 species bonus to their Reflex Defense. 
Soothing Voice: A Nagai may choose to reroll any Persua- 
sion check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted, even 
if it is worse. 
Weapon Familiarity: Nagai treat tehk'la blades (see page 62) 
as simple weapons instead of exotic weapons. 
Automatic Languages: Basic, Nagaian. 


“| HAVE PROVEN MY 
LOYALTY-AND MY 
WORTH-COUNTLESS 
TIMES...” 


-DARTH MNiIRL 


WEEQUAY 

The Weequay are well-known throughout 
the galaxy for their violent tendencies 
and lack of individuality. Deeply 
spiritual, they worship a broad pan- 
theon of deities, the most senior of 
which is known as Quay. Zealous 
Weequay perform ritual sacrifices 
in Quay's honor, at times resorting 
to murder. Such incidents have 
done little to dispel their violent 
reputation. 

Each Weequay carries a spheri- 
cal totem through which Quay 
allegedly speaks. The totem is 
used in times of great need to 
guide the Weequay, provid- 
ing spiritual answers to indi- 
vidual questions. In practice, 
the Weequay asks a question, 
shakes the device, and waits 
for the answer to appear. A 
Weequay treats the totem's 
advice seriously and becomes angry and violent if such advice is questioned 
or ridiculed. 

Male Weequay ply the galaxy as thugs, mercenaries, and hired assassins, 
while female Weequay rarely, if ever, leave Sriluur. A Male Weequay who 
leaves Sriluur grows and cultivates a long braid, which is then shorn off upon 
his return to the homeworld in celebration. 

Weequay who are born off-world or adopted into other societies at an 
early age often develop more individualistic personalities than their deep- 
rooted cousins. 

Personality: Weequay are bullying, brooding, and superstitious by nature. 
Their culture does not assign names to individuals, as all Weequay are 
considered to be a part of the same whole. They maintain a sinister silence, 
refusing to speak in the presence of non-Weequay, preferring instead to use 
trusted intermediaries to do their talking for them. Those raised apart from 
traditional values find their own voices and seldom integrate well back into 
Weequay society. 

Physical Description: Weequay are humanoids with thick, leathery skin 
that ranges in color from tan to dark brown. Their faces are lipless, with flat 
noses and a well-defined frill along each of their jowls. Males grow their 
black hair into long braids, while females are bald. 


Homeworld: The arid planet of Sriluur in the Outer Rim. 

Languages: A Weequay relies on pheromones to communicate with 
other members of his or her tribe. Communication between tribes involves 
the spoken language of Sriluurian, which consists of whispers, hisses, and 
throaty mumbles. Written Sriluurian involves a multitude of complex hiero- 
glyphics and pictograms. 

Example Names: Weequay do not take names within their own society, 
though members of other species often give individual Weequay nicknames. 
Examples of such monikers include Adazian Liebke, Ak-buz, Ak-rev, Diergu- 
Rea Duhnes'rd, Fyg, Grimorg, Labansat, Nort Toom, Plaan, Que-Mars Redath- 
Gom, Solum'ke, Sora Bulg, and Tas Kee. 

Adventurers: Weequay are so attached to their tribes that it is rare for an 
individual to venture into the galaxy alone. It is far more common for bands 
of like-minded Weequay te ply their martial skills and propensity for violence 
as a group. Their quiet nature and ability to work as a team make them par- 
ticularly attractive to the Hutts and various criminal syndicates as guards 
and enforcers. Thus, Weequay scouts and soldiers are quite common. 


WEEQUAY SPECIES TRAITS 
Weequay share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma. 
Weequay are resilient but not especially bright, and they don't relate well 
to others. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Weequay have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to size. 

Speed: Weequay base speed is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Weequay have learned to survive the harsh 
conditions on Sriluur. A Weequay with Endurance as a trained skill gains 
Skill Focus (Endurance) as a bonus feat. 

Natural Armor: Weequay possess a thick, leathery hide that provides 
a +1 natural armor bonus to Reflex Defense. A natural armor bonus stacks 
with an armor bonus. 

Pheromones: Weequay communicate silently with other members of their 
tribe by emitting complex pheromones. This form of communication has a 
maximum range of 20 squares. Species with the scent ability can detect 
Weequay pheromones by smell, but this does not allow them to understand 
what the Weequay are communicating. 

Automatic Languages: Sriluurian. 


i SSicavHsS 


saissas Fy 


YUUZHAN VONG 

The Yuuzhan Vong come from the unknown reaches of space, entering the 
galaxy as invaders fueled by religious conviction. They have no connection to 
the Force and regard mechanical technology as blasphemous. Their starships, 
weapons, armor, and tools are genetically engineered lifeforms or created 
from the byproducts of such creatures. 

After laying waste to many New Republic worlds, the invading Yuuzhan 
Vong are eventually overcome by the Galactic Alliance. Peace is restored, 
even though some Yuuzhan Vong remain behind in isolated corners of the 
galaxy. In time, the Jedi approach these few remaining Yuuzhan Vong, hoping 
to harness their advanced terraforming technology to restore many of the 
worlds ravaged during the invasion. 

Surprisingly, the Yuuzhan Vong agree to help the Jedi, but their terraform- 
ing attempts are sabotaged by the Sith. The blame for these failures falls 
squarely on the Yuuzhan Vong, who are hated and feared. The Yuuzhan Vong 
and their Jedi accomplices are hunted down, and the Galactic Alliance falls 
beneath the onslaught of Imperial forces. 

Personality: Although the Yuuzhan Vong become a more introspective 
people following their defeat at the hands of the Galactic Alliance, they 
remain capable, spiritual warriors. A great many feel that the galactic com- 
munity will never accept them. Years of hostility, coupled with propaganda, 
have painted the Yuuzhan Vong in a sinister light that cannot easily be dis- 
pelled. Still, they maintain a code of honor that is often lost on those who 
do not understand them. 

Yuuzhan Vong heroes are exceptional in many ways, not the least of which 
is their belief that they must evolve to survive—and that entails learning how 
to coexist with species traditionally regarded as weak or impure and letting 
go of their own prejudices. These rare Yuuzhan Vong see the road ahead as 
difficult, but worth traveling. 

Physical Description: Yuuzhan Vong are humanoids with sloped fore- 
heads, pallid skin, and dark hair. Their skin bears ritualistic scars and tattoos 
that add to their sinister appearance. 

Homeworld: Unknown. The Yuuzhan Vong trace their origins to a place far 
beyond the known galaxy. At the end of the New Jedi Order era, the surviving 
Yuuzhan Vong are exiled to Zonama Sekot, a living planet rumored to be the 
seed of the original Yuuzhan Vong homeworld. Zonama Sekot retreats into 
the Unknown Regions at the beginning of the Sith-Imperial War, leaving a 
number of Yuuzhan Vong stranded in other remote corners of the galaxy. 

Languages: The language of the Yuuzhan Vong is a halting, chilling 
tongue. Yuuzhan Vong rarely learn other languages, relying on bioengineered 
translators known as tizowyrms to translate for them. 


Example Names: Nom 
Anor, Dooje Brolo, Malik 
Carr, Yomin Carr, Chine-kal, 
Nas Choka, Da'Gara, Elan, 
Kae Kwaad, Mezhan Kwaad, 
Kahlee Lah, Qurang Lah, 
Tsavong Lah, Ma’Shraid, Vua 
Rapuung, Shedao Shai, Taan, 
Tu Shoolb, Nen Yim. 

Adventurers: Yuuzhan 
Vong society is divided into 
castes. Members of the 
intendant, priest, and shaper 
castes are often nobles and 
scoundrels, while members 
of the warrior caste are typi- 
cally soldiers and scouts. The 
worker caste is made up of 
members of nearly any class, 
though the vast majority are 
nonheroic characters. 

Due to their lack of connection to the Force, Yuuzhan Vong can never 
be Jedi. 


YUUZHAN VONG SPECIES 
TRAITS 
Yuuzhan Vong share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Wisdom. Yuuzhan Vong are powerfully 
built, but rash and quick to pass judgment. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Yuuzhan Vong have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to size. 

Speed: Yuuzhan Vong base speed is 6 squares 

Force Immunity: Yuuzhan Vong can't take the Force Sensitivity feat, 
can't make Use the Force checks, and never gain Force Points. In addition, 
they are immune to any Force effect that targets Will Defense (including 
Force powers and aspects of the Use the Force skill). 

Technophobic: Yuuzhan Vong do not gain Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, or rifles) as starting feats at 1st level, even if their class 
normally grants them. 

Weapon Familiarity: Yuuzhan Vong treat amphistaffs as simple weapons 
instead of exotic weapons. 

Automatic Languages: Yuuzhan Vong. 


ZELTRON 
Zeltrons are known throughout the galaxy for their hedonistic nature. 
Experiencing pleasure in its myriad forms is the lifetime pursuit of all Zel- 
trons. They are a fun-loving species, placing recreation before other, less 
worldly interests. Members of the species are found throughout the galaxy, 
for they enjoy traveling, meeting new people, indulging their passions, and 
experiencing new things. 

Zeltrons are born with a latent empathy that allows them to sense the 
emotions of others. Though not ruled by the emotions of others, they can, 
over time, become inundated with negative feelings if they are surrounded 
by such sentiments for a prolonged period of time. For this reason, many 
Zeltrons are pacifistic, preferring peaceful negotiation to the destructive 
actions of combat. This is not to say that Zeltrons are incapable of defending 
themselves; their passion gives them a great capacity for violence when the 
situation warrants. Additionally, their physiology includes an ultra efficient 
metabolism which allows them to maintain peak body weight and muscle 
mass regardless of their culinary indulgences. 

Personality: Zeltrons are almost universally friendly, jolly, and sociable. 
They love meeting and interacting with new people, visiting new places, 
and enjoying new experiences. They are benignly manipulative insofar as 
they strive to be uplifting. 

Though their cheerful demeanor and easy smiles can make them seem 
flippant, Zeltrons can be very serious when the occasion demands it. They are 
especially concerned with the well-being of their friends and loved ones, and 
a sure-fire way to anger a 
Zeltron is to place his friends 
or family in danger. 

Physical Description: 
Nearly all Zeltrons are con- 
sidered to be attractive by 
human standards. Ugly Zel- 
trons are unheard of, and 
plain Zeltrons are rare. In 
addition to their inherent 
physical beauty, Zeltrons also 
possess skin tones and hair 
colors that vary from light 
pink to deep crimson. 

Homeworld: Zeltros, a 
tranquil world in the Inner 
Rim. 


Languages: Although Zeltrons have many ancient languages, they prefer 
to learn and speak Basic. Given their dealings with a variety of cultures, their 
speech is often littered with crosslingual idioms. 

Example Names: Adriav, Arno, Bahb, Dani, Deliah, Froedi, Heigren, 
Impella, Jahn, Jahz, Jakira, Joi, Kainae, Kieral, Leonie, Maeve, Mahd, Marruc, 
Nerus, Opalica, Rahuhl, Rhajani, Sian, Soleil, Spenori, Tamair, Tanai, Trix, 
Welarem, Yahja. 

Adventurers: Zeltrons have no preferred vocations, and Zeltron heroes 
can belong to any available class. Those who wish to become Jedi must learn 
to subdue their strong emotions. 


ZELTRON SPECIES TRAITS 
Zeltrons share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Charisma, -2 Wisdom. Zeltrons get along well with 
others, yet they are prone to fits of passion. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Zeltrons have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to size. 

Speed: Zeltron base speed is 6 squares. 

Empathy: Zeltrons add their Charisma bonus (if any) to Perception checks 
made to sense deception or sense influence (see page 70 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Pheromones: A Zeltron gains a +5 species bonus on Persuasion checks 
made to change the attitudes of other creatures (see page 71 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). This bonus does not apply to other Zeltrons, as Zeltrons 
are acclimated to each other's pheromones. 

Automatic Languages: Basic. 


HSidgvHoS 


0) 
0 
W 
Q 
Dy 
@ 


CHAPTER II 
Ho TRAITS 


us FEAT ROG iN 


HER 


St ee 


information on creating Legacy era heroes. 
Sor existing classes and new talents and feats specific 
ok assumes that the heroes are fighting for the cause of 
yranny of. the'Si . The player characters might be agents 
ae Jedi struggling to rebuild the Jedi Order, mercenaries 
or even saga the Empire loyal to deposed Emperor 
‘or more of themmiight be Imperial Knights—neither Jedi nor 
less. 
sHapter also aides ru for legacies. A legacy comes into play 
enever, @ player decides to create a character with familial ties to one 
r more. tegendary characters from earlier eras in the Star Wars saga. For 
mY ° ~ Jexample,a player character descended from the Organa family may wish to 
\ * Bee = apvantens of the legacy rules presented below. 


VYLEGacies 


a legacy forms whenever great destinies pass from one generation to the 
next. As Master Yoda might say, one great individual does not a legacy make. 
Within the Star Wars saga, legacies are borne by families whose names are 
legendary: Skywalker, Solo, Organa, Antilles. A legacy lives or dies by the 

* deeds of everyone who bears the family name. 

Individuals with a family legacy can choose to live up to the ideals se 

y their forebears, endeavor to surpass their legendary ancestors, or escape 

the destinies laid before them. A legacy suggests a birthright that one can 

choose to embrace or discard. It can create instantaneous enemies or allies. 
| It also invokes instantaneous respect or fear. 
Many heroes and villains get by just fine without a family legacy to further 
define them, and a legacy does not necessarily make a character inherently 
more powerful. Adventuring groups will likely have a mix of characters— 
Yome with histories tied to characters from past eras, others with no such 
connections. If you choose to build a character around a legacy, then these 
rules are for you. 


CHOOSING A LEGACY 
Once you decide that your character has a family legacy, you can either invent 
a new legacy that best serves your character, or you can adopt a legacy that 
already exists in the Star Wars milieu. Both options lead to great roleplaying 
opportunities. In either case, you need to take time to identify the key figures 
| from earlier generations of your character's family—parents, grandparents, 
and so on—who made their mark on the galaxy. Then you need to determine 
the extent to which your character's destiny overlaps with theirs. 

The easiest way to connect your character to a legacy is to adopt a known 
family name. The Star Wars saga is full of them, and you have access to 
Virtually any name used in almost any era. If you've played campaigns set 
rlier Star Wars eras, consider reusing the family name of one of your 
haracters, and build on that legacy. 


HW BesaicocvHoa 


Sl1ivaL JIOYUSH 


SLhVSL qaevps-* 


Establishing connections to the past gives your character hooks around 
which the Gamemaster can hang adventures. For example, if your character 
descends from a legendary noble family, he or she can take advantage of 
longstanding family alliances. Conversely, your character might also need 
to contend with ancient blood feuds and rivalries. 


LEGACY AND LINEAGE 
By their very nature, legacies require a strong family association. The follow- 
ing guidelines will help you establish your character's legacy. 
© Don't be afraid to connect your character's legacy to Star Wars charac- 
ters from the movies and the Expanded Universe, but get your Game- 
master's permission before doing so. See the “Names of Legacy” sidebar 
for a list of good examples. 
¢ Try to connect your family's legacy to some important event in the past. 
This event might be a space battle, a betrayal, an invasion, a death, 
or something else that could influence your character's actions in the 
present time period. The more dramatic the event, the more it can help 
define your character's personality. 
© Create a brief family history, going back at least a generation or two. 
Figure out who your closest relatives are, and where they are now. 
Determine your attitude toward them and what they stand for. 
¢ Think of an organization with which your family is associated, such as 
the Kilian Rangers or the Jedi Order. Maybe the organization owes your 
family a debt of gratitude, or vice versa. Also think about rival organiza- 
tions and the underlying reason for their hostility toward your family. 
© Determine your relationship to the other characters in your group, and 
how their own legacies might intertwine with your own current plans 
or past history. 
© Consider taking the Legacy destiny (see below). 


Gamemasters are encouraged to integrate legacies into the campaign by 
including allies and enemies tied to each character's legacy, and by allowing 
characters the opportunity to interact with members of organizations that 
have historical ties to their families. 


CREATING A 

LEGACY CHARACTER 

The rules for creating characters with legacies are tied to the destiny system, 
as presented in the Saga Edition core rulebook. Since the destiny system is 
considered optional, the Gamemaster must choose whether to include the 
rules for legacies or not. If you choose not to allow these rules in your cam- 
paign, you can still encourage your players to design characters from famous 
lineages, taking advantage of the story opportunities for legacy characters 
without using the game mechanics. 


When a player wishes to play a character with a legacy, he or she may 
choose the Legacy destiny (see next page). The Legacy destiny has its own 
benefits and drawbacks, as do all destinies, but characters with the Legacy 
destiny also gain access to a special use for Destiny Points. When a player 
selects the Legacy destiny for her character, he or she must choose a legacy 
from the list of sample legacies presented below (see “Sample Legacy Des- 
tinies," page 22) or work with the Gamemaster to create a new legacy with 
its own mechanical benefits and drawbacks (see the "Creating Your Own 
Legacies” sidebar, page 23). Gamemasters have final say as to whether or 
not a given character can choose a particular legacy based on the needs of 
the campaign. 

Many legacy effects allow you to spend a Destiny Point to get a 20 on 
a skill check without having to roll; this is not considered a “natural 20" for 
the purposes of any other effect, such as regaining Force powers or starship 
maneuvers (as per the starship maneuver rules in Starships of the Galaxy). 


DESTINIES 

Chapter 7 of the Saga Edition core rulebook presents optional rules for 
destinies. Gamemasters running Legacy era campaigns are encouraged to 
use these rules in their games. 


THE LeGacy DESTINY 
This book introduces a new kind of destiny: the Legacy destiny. The same 
rules that apply to all destinies (see pages 112-115 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook) also apply to the Legacy destiny. In addition, there are some spe- 
cial bonuses and penalties that apply as well, depending on whether your 
character chooses to embrace his legacy or deny it. 

Unlike other destinies, a Legacy destiny does not grant permanent benefits 
once the destiny is fulfilled. Instead, a character with the Legacy destiny 
gains a special benefit whenever he or she spends a Destiny Point; the exact 
benefit depends on the character's legacy (see “Sample Legacy Destinies” 
on the next page). : 


FAMOUS LEGACIES 

vs. CANON 

One big advantage of playing in the Legacy era is that players can play 
heroes belonging to famous families. However, some Gamemasters (and 
players, too) might get hung up on the fact that certain characters in the 
Legacy comics already “carry the torch” for particular families (such as 
Cade Skywalker and Roan Fel). Sticklers for continuity might be reluctant 
to allow characters access to these legacies for fear of bringing their 
campaigns into conflict with official canon stories. Gamemasters are 
urged to let players choose legacies as they wish, heedless of canon. As 
Cade Skywalker blasts his way across the galaxy, there's no reason why 
a player cannot also play a member of the Skywalker family, provided the 
player can work with the Gamemaster to devise a compatible background 
for his or her character. 

One important thing for Gamemasters and players to remember is 
that being a descendant of a famous character from Star Wars history 
does not always mean being a direct descendant. A character with the 
Solo legacy might be descended from a distant branch of the Solo family 
tree, with closer ties to Thrackan Sal-Solo than Han Solo, for instance. 
Since the Legacy era is far forward in Star Wars continuity, a hero might 
be several branches removed from his or her famous ancestors. As long 
as the player can come up with an interesting reason for his character 
to have a particular legacy, the Gamemaster should consider allowing 
it to pass without worrying too much about fitting it into established 
continuity. In the end, the player will feel like he or she is truly playing 
a hero of the Star Wars universe. : 


MEDI OF THE HALCYON LEGACY HAVE THEIR OWN TRADITIONS. 


Embracing Your Legacy 
If you embrace your legacy, you must take actions that further your family's 
cause, beliefs, or organization. This might be through promoting a belief 
system, keeping an organization intact and viable, or even directly carrying 
out stated tasks or orders. An example of this legacy would be to uphold the 
ideals of the Jedi Order as previous generations of your family have done. 
Destiny Bonus: When a character completes a goal or performs an act 
worthy of his family's legacy, he gains a +2 destiny bonus to a single attack 
roll or skill check of his choice made in the next 24 hours. 
Destiny Penalty: When a character does something unworthy of his 
family's legacy, he takes a -2 penalty on his first attack roll in any given 
encounter for the next 24 hours. 


Denying Your Legacy 

If you deny your legacy, you must select actions that fly in the face of an 
ancestor's cause, beliefs, or organization. You only gain bonuses when actively 
working against your legacy or making a conscious effort to walk away from 
an action that would advance your legacy. An example of this destiny would 
be Cade Skywalker's early efforts to shun the path of the Jedi. 

Destiny Bonus: When a character performs an act unworthy of his fam- 
ily's legacy, he gains a +2 destiny bonus to a single attack roll or skill check 
of his choice made in the next 24 hours. 

Destiny Penalty: When a character completes a goal or performs an act 
worthy of his family's legacy, he takes a -2 penalty on his first attack roll in 
any given encounter for the next 24 hours. 


i eSsacvHga 


SHVEL HieoveF) 


fi SSiavHga 


SUuVeL QevNseHy) 


Switching between Embracing and Denying Your Legacy 
Circumstances might conspire to change a hero's outlook regarding his family 
legacy. Such a dramatic shift in attitude could be a climactic moment in a 
campaign or adventure, sending the hero off in a completely different direc- 
tion, possibly turning enemies into allies and vice versa. Once switched, a hero 
is unlikely to return to his or her original path, and should be discouraged from 
doing so. A character who switches from embracing his legacy to denying it, 
or vice versa, suffers the following effects for the next 24 hours: 
¢ The character does not gain the benefit of morale or insight bonuses, 
including those granted by talents and feats. 
© The character cannot reroll skill checks or attack rolls, regardless of 
whether the reroll is granted by a talent, feat, species trait, or any other 
source. 


HEIR TO THE ANTILLES LEGACY. 


to conan penalize the character fe ated: eee 
apply the bonuses and penalties only at dramatic or Sheu Points in 
an eisai ignoring them during smaller encounters, oo 


SAMPLE LEGACY DESTINIES 
The following legacies have been popularized in Star Wars films, novels, and 
comics and are available to player characters who choose the Legacy destiny. 


Ackbar Legacy 
You are a descendant of Admiral Ackbar, one of the most famous leaders 
of the Rebel Alliance. Your family has a tradition of military leadership and 
benevolence. 

Prerequisite: Mon Calamari. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to double any insight, morale, or competence bonus 
you grant as a part of a talent or other special ability. 


Antilles Legacy 
You are a descendant of Wedge Antilles, Rogue Squadron pilot and military 
leader of the New Republic. Your family has a tradition of military service 
and is renowned for its piloting skills. The Antilles family is also a Corellian 
family, known for both its loyalty and fierce independence. 

Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Pilot check as though 
you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Darklighter Legacy 
You are a descendant of the Darklighter family, the famous family from 
Tatooine that produced such heroes as Biggs and Gavin Darklighter. Your 
family has served proudly in the Imperial Navy and in the Rebel Alliance, and 
is renowned for both its piloting skill and its dedication to a cause. 
Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 
Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically negate an attack against an adjacent 
ally or allied vehicle. 


Droid Legacy 
You are a droid that has been around the galaxy for some time. You may be 
a famous droid from past eras that has had its memory wiped, or you may 
be a rebuilt droid that was nearly destroyed in the past. In any event, you 
are a droid with a history and a reputation. 

Prerequisite: Droid. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Knowledge check as 
though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Fel Legacy 
You are a descendant of Baron Soontir Fel, former Imperial Pilot and loyal 
subject of the Empire of the Hand, and a relative of the current Emperor- 
~ in-exile, Roan Fel. 

Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to grant all allies within your line of sight a’'+5 Destiny 
bonus to Will Defense until the end of the encounter. 


Fett Legacy 
You are a descendant of Boba Fett, notorious bounty hunter and the leader of 
the Mandalorian people, or another famous member of his clan. Your family 
(in this case, the Fett Clan) is known for its skill in battle and its ruthlessness, 
as well as its efforts to restore the Mandalorian people to greatness. 
Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 
Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action. For the rest of the encounter, you score a critical hit 
on a natural roll of 19 or 20. 


Fey'lya Legacy 
You are a descendant of Borsk Fey'lya, a politician in the New Republic and 
a shrewd leader. Your family is renowned for its skill in the arena of politics, 
as well as its cunning in all social matters. 

Prerequisite: Bothan. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Persuasion check as 
though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Halcyon/Horn Legacy 
You are a descendant of Corran Horn, a Corellian police officer-turned-Jedi, 
as well as the famous Jedi Keiran Halcyon. Your family is known for its skill 
with mind-affecting Force powers as well as its investigative skills, not to 
mention its long-standing association with the fringe thanks to your ancestor 
Mirax Terrik. Your family is also a Corellian family that holds many of the 
Corellian Jedi traditions. 

Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat any skill check made to activate 
a mind-affecting effect as though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


0) 
I 
> 
i 
4 
Y 
ae 


N 
fo 


SLIVEL Qevex 


0} | 
ne 
> 
v 
4 
ail 0 a 
bi) 


SLHVEtL aeverh) 


Koon Legacy 
You are a descendant of Plo Koon, a Kel Dor Jedi Master who fought valiantly 
in the Clone Wars and served on the Jedi Council. Your family is known for 
its skill with the Force, as well as its dedication to the Jedi Order. 
Prerequisite: Kel Dor. 
Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Use the Force check 
as though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Koth Legacy 
You are a descendant of Eeth Koth, a Zabrak Jedi Master who served on the 
Jedi Council in the days of Anakin Skywalker's training. Your family is known 
for its ability to endure great hardships and to fight well beyond when most 
others would have given up. 

Prerequisite: Zabrak. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to not move down the condition track as a result of an 
attack for the remainder of the encounter. 


Mundi Legacy 
You are a descendant of Ki-Adi-Mundi, a member of the Jedi Council who 
fought and died during the Clone Wars. Your family is known for its combat 
prowess as well as its penchant for logic and discourse. 

Prerequisite: Cerean. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Perception check as 
though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Nadon Legacy 
You are a descendant of Momaw Nadon, an Ithorian scientist who was exiled 
during the height of Palpatine's Empire. Your family is renowned for its sci- 
entific and medical skills, but the shadow of your ancestor's shame hangs 
long over your head. Only Ithorians may have this legacy. 

Prerequisite: Ithorian. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Treat Injury check as 
though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Nunb Legacy 
You are a descendant of Nien Nunb, Lando Calrissian's copilot at the Battle of 
Endor. Your family is well known for its piloting skills as well as its contribu- 
tions to freeing the galaxy from oppression. You may also be related to the 
famous Rogue Squadron pilot, Aril Nunb. 

Prerequisite: Sullustan. 


Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Pilot check as though 
you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Organa Legacy 
You are a descendant of Bail Organa, the Senator from Alderaan who helped 
found the Rebel Alliance. Your family is known for its stalwart dedication 
to peace and freedom, and for its history as one of the most famous noble 
houses in the galaxy. Since the House of Organa was destroyed along with 
the rest of Alderaan, you are likely one of the few people alive with the 
Organa name. 

Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Persuasion check as 
though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Qel-Droma Legacy 
You are a descendant of the famous Qel-Droma family of Jedi, with such 
distinguished ancestors as Ulic, Cay, and Duron Qel-Droma. Your family is 
known for its strength in the Force and its ability to put itself at the center 
of galaxy-shaking events. 

Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to double the results of Force Point rolls added to 
attacks or skill checks you make until the end of the encounter. 


Secura Legacy 
You are a descendant of the Twi'lek Jedi Aayla Secura, who fought on the side 
of the Republic throughout the Clone Wars. Your family is known for combat 
prowess, as well as its impulsive and mercurial clan members. 
Prerequisite: Twi'lek. 
Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to increase your speed by +2 squares until the end of 
the encounter. 


Skywalker Legacy 
You are a descendant of Anakin and Luke Skywalker, two of the most famous 
beings in the galaxy. Your family is known for its strong connection to the 
Force, as well as its skill with spacecraft and other piloted vehicles. 
Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 
Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Use the Force check 
as though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Solo Legacy 
You are a descendant of Han Solo, the smuggler and general in the Rebel 
Alliance who helped free the galaxy from Imperial oppression. Your family is 
known for its recklessness and grit, as well as its connections to the fringe. 
Your family is also Corellian, bringing with it the same spirit of independence 
that all Corellians share. 

Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Mechanics check as 
though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Sunrider Legacy 

You are a descendant of Nomi Sunrider, a powerful Jedi from the days of the 
’ Old Republic who fought in the Great Sith War. Your ancestors’ accomplish- 
ments are standard lessons in the Jedi Order. 

Prerequisite: Human or near-Human. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to grant all allies within your line of sight a number 
of bonus hit points equal to 15 + your Charisma bonus (minimum +1) until 
the end of the encounter. 


Tarpals Legacy 

You are a descendant of Captain Tarpals, the Gungan who fought alongside 
the Jedi to liberate Naboo from the Trade Federation. Your family is renowned 
for its dedication to the Gungan people, as well as its bravery and willingness 
to fight for freedom. 

Prerequisite: Gungan. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically remove any mind-affecting effects 
currently affecting you and gain a +5 destiny bonus to your Will Defense 
against mind-affecting effects until the end of the encounter. 


Tetsu Legacy 
You are a descendant of Greedo, the notorious bounty hunter, and a member 
of the Tetsu clan. Your family is known for its aggressive pursuit of prey, as 
well as its arrogance and overbearing. 

Prerequisite: Rodian. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to automatically treat your next Survival check as 
though you had rolled a 20 on the check. 


Vao Legacy 

You are a descendant of Mission Vao, a Twi'lek who fought alongside the 
amnesiac Darth Revan during the days of the Jedi Civil War. Your family 
(and clan) is renowned for its pluck and survivability, as well as its loyalty 
and devotion to its allies. 


Prerequisite: Twi'lek. 

Legacy Destiny: If you have the Legacy destiny, you can spend a Destiny 
Point as a free action to regain all of your hit points, but you take a -2 penalty 
on attack rolls and skill checks for the rest of the encounter. 


OTHER DESTINIES 

In addition to the Legacy destiny, the six sample destinies presented in the 
Saga Edition core rulebook (pages 113-115) are also well-suited to the Legacy 
era, as demonstrated here. 


Corruption 

This destiny requires you to corrupt another person, an organization, or 
yourself. In the Legacy era, opportunities for corruption are more often on 
a personal scale than an organizational one. The new Sith might attempt 
to corrupt a surviving Jedi into joining the dark side. An individual isolated 
by losses in the war between the Galactic Alliance and the Empire might be 
corrupted into joining a pirate or criminal organization. 


Destruction 

This destiny requires you to destroy a specific object or person. A member 
of the fragmented Galactic Alliance might target a specific Imperial ship or 
commander involved in a previous battle against them. The Yuuzhan Vong 
could target the Sith in retaliation for sabotaging their terraforming efforts. 
A Jedi or Imperial Knight might seek to destroy a specific Sith Lord. 


Discovery 

This destiny requires you to find a location, person, or item. If you are a Jedi, 
you might seek out other Jedi in hiding after the massacre at Ossus. Scouts 
working for the Galactic Alliance or the Sith might try to uncover Emperor 
Fel's military plans, especially after he takes control of Bastion. Galactic 
Alliance agents might seek out resources or reinforcements. 


Education 

You are to train an individual or members of an organization whose acts 
will ultimately impact many lives. A Jedi might train a new Padawan to help 
rebuild the shattered Jedi Order. A soldier might recruit elite personnel for 
the Galactic Alliance fleet. 


Redemption 

You seek to redeem yourself or another person. You might convince one of 
the new Sith to abandon their dark ways, or inspire an Imperial Knight to 
join the Jedi Order. You might convince an Imperial officer to defect to the 
Galactic Alliance. 


Rescue 

You must free a person from incarceration or save them from certain 
destruction. You might try to save the remaining Galactic Alliance fleet 
from destruction by the Empire. You might rescue a captured Jedi before 
he's turned over to the Sith. You might work to reverse the effects of the 
botched Yuuzhan Vong terraforming operation. 


New TALENTS FOR 
HEROIC CLASSES 


Each of the heroic classes from the Saga Edition core rulebook is presented 
here as it relates to the Legacy era. Each class features new talents, some 
added to existing talent trees and others forming entirely new trees. These tal- 
ents can also be used in other eras, subject to the Gamemaster's approval. 


JEDI 

Not since the Dark Times have the Jedi been so reduced in power, stature, 
and numbers. While the Jedi Order never regained the size or strength it 
had during the Old Republic, it became an influential force during the years 
of the New Republic and the Galactic Alliance, with the Skywalker line 
providing much-needed leadership. Ultimately, the Order could not foresee 
or prevent the return of the Sith, and was not strong enough to withstand 
their onslaught. 

The war between the Empire and the Galactic Alliance decimates the 
Jedi. They are driven from their temple on Coruscant and lose many of their 
numbers in a massacre at the Jedi Academy on Ossus. Kol Skywalker is killed, 
and many presume that his son, Cade, is killed as well. A few disheartened 
Jedi and Padawans escape the carnage and scatter throughout the galaxy, 
forced into hiding by the Sith and their Empire. A few, especially those Jedi 
Sentinels who hold themselves responsible failing to detect and stop the Sith 
years before, now hunt the Sith personally. 

Throughout most of the galaxy, the Jedi find themselves hunted much like 
they were during the Dark Times. The Sith track them mercilessly, and their 
Empire has standing bounties on all Jedi, with enough credits to draw the 
attention of every major bounty hunter. Emperor Roan Fel and his supporters 
do not regard the Jedi as allies, nor do they actively seek their destruction. 
The Galactic Alliance might regard the Jedi as allies, were they to become 
more influential in the war. 

During this time, most of the Jedi are in hiding. Some train new appren- 
tices, but most have gone underground to avoid Sith assassins and the bounty 
hunters. A small number still move throughout the galaxy, seeking a rallying 
point or individual to unite them. Unfortunately, any gathering of Jedi tends 
to attract the attention of the Sith, who swiftly descend on them. 


Jedi characters are likely to be operating independently during this era. 
In the absence of a Jedi Master or Jedi High Council, they must rely on their 
own wisdom and strength to keep from falling to the dark side. There is no 
central support structure, financially or culturally. They may seek out other 
Jedi when the need arises, although locating them or convincing them to join 
a particular course of action is uncertain at best. Many Jedi feel as though 
the galaxy has forgotten them, or regards them as ineffective or dangerous 
to have around. Those in hiding remain active in their local areas, although 
the wise ones keep a low profile. 

Jedi players in the Legacy era have the opportunity to become an Impe- 
rial Knight. Talents and abilities specific to the Imperial Knights are found 
in Chapter 3: Prestige Classes. While Imperial Knights use the Force as well 
as some Jedi, the Sith regard them as inferior to the Jedi and themselves. 
Although the Imperial Knights use the similar tools as the Jedi, their philoso- 
phy is different: They place their duty to the Emperor and the Empire above 
their duties to the general populace. 

Jedi legacies often feature significant family ties or lineages, passed 
from one generation to the next as the Order has developed since the fall 
of Emperor Palpatine. Jedi characters might have ancestors who followed 
the dark path, the light path, or both. They might also have family among 
the Imperial Knights. 


New JEDI TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for Jedi. 


New Jedi Consular Talents 

The following new talents expand the Jedi Consular talent tree (see page 39 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can choose talents 
from the Jedi Consular talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Aggressive Negotiator: Whenever you damage an opponent with a light- 
saber attack, you can take 10 on any Persuasion checks you make before the 
end of your next turn, even if you would not normally be able to. 

Prerequisite: Adept Negotiator. 

Consular's Wisdom: Once per encounter as a swift action, you can choose 
one ally within your line of sight that can hear and understand you. Until the 
end of the encounter, that ally adds your Wisdom bonus to its Will Defense 
against mind-affecting effects. 

Prerequisite: Adept Negotiator. 

Entreat Aid: Once per turn as a swift action, you can spend a Force Point 
to let one adjacent ally use the aid another action (as a reaction) to assist 
you with a skill check. You must make the skill check before the end of your 
turn, or the benefit of the aid another action is lost. An ally that has already 
used the aid another action to assist you since the end of your last turn may 
not be targeted by this talent. 


New Jedi Guardian Talent 
The following new talent expands the Jedi Guardian talent tree (see page 40 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can choose talents 
from the Jedi Guardian talent tree can choose this talent as well. 
Defensive Acuity: When you take the fight defensively action, you deal 
+1 die of damage with lightsaber attacks and gain a +2 circumstance bonus 
on Use the Force checks made to negate an attack with the Block or Deflect 
talents. These benefits last until the end of your next turn. 


New Jedi Sentinel Talent 
The following new talent expands the Jedi Sentinel talent tree (see page 40 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can choose talents 
from the Jedi Sentinel talent tree can choose this talent as well. 

Dark Side Bane: When you use a damage-dealing Force power against 
a creature with a Dark Side Score of 1 or higher, you deal extra damage on 
a hit equal to your Charisma bonus (minimum +1). 

Prerequisite: Dark Side Sense. 


New Lightsaber Combat Talents 

The following new talents expand the Lightsaber Combat talent tree (see page 
41 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can choose talents 
from the Lightsaber Combat talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Cortosis Gauntlet Block: You have received additional training in the use 
of cortosis gauntlets (see page 183). You can use the Block talent, even when 
not armed with a lightsaber, provided you are wearing a cortosis gauntlet. If 
you successfully block an attack with a lightsaber while wearing a cortosis 
gauntlet, the attacking lightsaber is deactivated. 

Prerequisites: Armor Proficiency (light, medium). 

Precision: As a standard action, you can make a melee attack with a 
lightsaber against an adjacent opponent. If the attack hits, it deals normal 
damage and also reduces the target's speed to 2 squares until the end of 
your next turn. 


NOBLE 
For nobles, the Legacy era is a time of change. Some nobles serving as 
administrators in the Galactic Alliance soon find themselves unemployed 
after their Imperial masters eliminate redundant or unwanted positions and 
services, and noble families that were heavily allied with the Galactic Alli- 
ance suddenly find their political power much reduced and their economic 
fortunes reversed. Some of the nobles who retain their positions and status 
discover that the expectations of the new system under the Empire run 
counter to their own moral views. 

As in prior times of great change, many displaced nobles find themselves 
pushed into the fringes of society. Some discover their talents are of use 
on backwater planets governed by lesser political powers or powerful crime 


lords, while others become crime lords themselves. A few nobles with higher 
moral values can be found in the Imperial Mission, guiding its “Victory With- 
out War" campaign. Unfortunately, even this high-minded effort is corrupted 
by the Sith in the years after their takeover, and put to evil purposes. 

With much of the galaxy still at war with itself, nobles specializing in 
leadership and military command find their services in high demand. Com- 
petent leaders are especially valued in the dwindling Galactic Alliance forces. 
Likewise, Emperor Fel's supporters seek loyal leaders, even if they are not the 
most highly skilled in the galaxy. 

Noble characters can draw on a variety of legacy ideas. They might belong 
to well known noble house. They might carry on the family's support of a 
specific megacorporation. Less scrupulous individuals might be members of 
an ancient crime family. Military or law enforcement heroes might serve the 
same unit or locale as their parents or siblings. Dedication to these lega- 
cies often brings nobles a degree of respect or power right from the start 
of their careers. 


NEw NosBLeE TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for nobles. 


PROVOCATEUR TALENT TREE 

As a provocateur, you specialize in turning your enemies against one another, 
giving your allies the advantage. This is accomplished through a combina- 
tion of gaining an enemy's confidence, making careful use of deception, and 
coordinating your allies’ attacks. The talents in this tree may be taken by the 
Charlatan prestige class (Scum and Villainy, page 30). 

Cast Suspicion: As a swift action, you can select one enemy within your 
line of sight. That enemy loses all morale and insight bonuses on attack rolls 
and cannot be aided (using the aid another action) by its allies until the end 
of your next turn. 

Distress to Discord: You encourage your allies to sow discord among your 
enemies by fighting with renewed vigor. Whenever an ally within your line of 
sight takes its second wind, all enemies within 2 squares of that ally lose their 
Dexterity bonuses to Reflex Defense until the end of your next turn. 

Friend or Foe: Whenever an ally within your line of sight is missed by a 
ranged attack, you can (as a reaction, once per turn) designate one enemy 
adjacent to that ally. Compare the attack roll of the missed attack to the 
Reflex Defense of that enemy; if the attack would hit, the attack targets 
that enemy and is resolved as normal. 

Prerequisite: Cast Suspicion. 

Seize the Moment: Once per turn as a reaction, when an enemy is 
reduced to 0 hit points or is moved down the condition track by any means, 
you allow one ally within your line of sight to take its second wind immedi- 
ately (as a free action). Furthermore, when your ally takes its second wind, 
it regains a number of additional hit points equal to your class level. 

Prerequisite: Distress to Discord. 


Hi SeSsicvHga 


SUVHL Deve) 


fi YSiacgvHo 


SuUveL DeXsY) 


A NAGAI PROVOCATEUR 


Stolen Advantage: Whenever an enemy within your line of sight uses the 
aid another action to grant one of its allies a bonus, you can (as a reaction) 
designate one ally within your line of sight. The enemy automatically fails 
to aid its ally, and the ally you designate gains a +2 bonus on its next attack 
roll made before the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Cast Suspicion. 

True Betrayal: As a standard action, make a Persuasion check against the 
Will Defense of one enemy within your line of sight that can hear and under- 
stand you. If your check result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, 
that target immediately makes an attack (as a free action) against another 
target of your choice. This can be a melee attack against an adjacent target or 
a ranged attack against a target within the attacker's point-blank range. 

The target gets a +5 bonus to its Will Defense if it is higher level than 
you. This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisite: Cast Suspicion, Friend or Foe. 


SCOUNDREL 

With any great upheaval comes the opportunity for glory or profit. In the 
Legacy era, scoundrels come from all walks of life. Some are born on harsh 
worlds with rampant crime and injustice, while others become scoundrels 
after losing everything in the war. In the Legacy era, times are extraordinarily 
tough. The ranks of the underworld swell with those seeking to escape the 
Sith and their resurgent Empire. Many criminal organizations are eager 
to take advantage of such unfortunate individuals, offering them money 
instead of hope. 

Scoundrels must earn credits to survive, just like everyone else. Many end 
up working for an individual crime lord or far-reaching criminal syndicate. 
Less cunning scoundrels quickly find themselves indebted, or possibly even 
indentured, to their benefactor. Escape is difficult, given the bounty hunters 
most criminal organizations keep in their employ. 

Not all scoundrels are career criminals. Some are anarchists or revolu- 
tionaries who support the Galactic Alliance fleet or other outlawed causes 
and organizations. These rare scoundrels place “the cause" above their own 
ambitions—an uncommon trait among their kind, to be sure. 

Scoundrel legacies are often tied to a harsh world, a renowned ship, an 
underworld organization, or a notorious crime family, but their individualistic 
natures make them less likely than other classes to remain beholden to a 
specific ideal, leader, or group. In fact, scoundrels often deny their legacies, 
determined to pursue their own goals and protect their own lives. 


NEw SCOUNDREL TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for scoundrels. 


New Misfortune Talents 

The following new talents expand the Misfortune talent tree (see page 46 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Misfortune talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Seducer: You excel at seduction through deception. If you fail a Persua- 
sion check to change a target's attitude (see page 71 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook), you can immediately reroll the check using your Deception 
skill in lieu of your Persuasion skill. You must accept the result of the reroll, 
even if it's lower. 

Seize Object: Once per encounter as a move action, you can attempt to 
seize a held, carried, or worn object from an adjacent target by making a 
Disarm attack, with a +10 bonus on your attack roll. If the attack succeeds, 
you are now holding the object. You must have a free hand with which to 
grab the object, and you cannot use this talent in place of the disarm action. 
You cannot conceal the use of this talent from the target. 


YUUZHAN VONG BIOTECH TALENT TREE 

Yuuzhan Vong biotechnology remains available in some parts of the 
galaxy, although its legality is dubious. You have become specialized in its 
manipulation. 

Biotech Adept: You can reroll any Knowledge (life sciences) or Treat 
Injury check made to use or repair biotech devices and weapons, but you 
must keep the second result, even if it is worse. 

Bugbite: You deal +1 die of damage on attacks made with razor bugs 
and thud bugs. 

Curved Throw: You can spend a swift action to ignore cover (but not 
total cover) with your next attack with a thud bug or a razor bug made 
before the end of your turn. 

Prerequisites: Bugbite. 

Surprising Weapons: Whenever you successfully hit an enemy with an 
amphistaff, thud bug, or razor bug, and your attack roll also exceeds the 
target's Will Defense, that target is considered flat-footed against you until 
the end of your next turn. 

Veiled Biotech: You gain a +10 competence bonus on Deception and 
Stealth checks made to conceal any biotechnology or any biotech implants 
you possess. Additionally, you may draw a concealed biotech item or weapon 
as a swift action instead of a standard action; if you then make an attack 
with that biotech weapon before the end of your turn, your opponent loses 
its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense against the first attack you make with 
that weapon. 

Prerequisites: Trained in Stealth. 


A SHAPER INSTALLS A BIOTECH REPLACEMENT ARM. 


Scout 

Scouts are in high demand throughout the Legacy era. The Alliance Remnant 
relies on them to seek out new resources to sustain the war effort, as well as 
for reconnaissance against Imperial strategic and military targets. Emperor 
Fel's forces require scouts for exactly the same reasons in their war against 
the Sith-backed Empire. In fact, the two groups regularly seek out and 
compete for the same targets. The Sith employs scouts to hunt down their 
enemies, including Emperor Fel and his military allies, the Alliance Remnant, 
defecting commanders, and, most importantly, the remaining Jedi. 

Some scouts work with the military proper, while others become involved 
in covert operations. Alliances shift quickly with the changing galactic situ- 
ation. The creation and insertion of double agents has become a significant 
tool in the arsenal of all major players. Double agents are a particular problem 
between the Sith-ruled Galactic Empire and Emperor Fel's Imperial loyalists, 
since their tactics and codes are virtually identical. The Galactic Alliance 
also makes effective use of double agents, especially in the procurement of 
foodstuffs, medicine, raw materials, ships, and intelligence. 


HSidvHgad 


a 
W 
50 
g 
@ 
i 
> 
d 
0) 


i! SSLavHo 


Double agents are as likely to be found in the criminal underworld as in 
political or military structures. Crime lords are certainly not above paying 
off the underlings of their rivals to gain a significant advantage. 

Members of the scout class are often bounty hunters in the early stages 
of their careers. Rather than scouting terrain or regions of space, they focus 
on tracking down people and their associated organizations and allies. With 
the extensive number of bounties available in the galaxy, this is an expanding 
career in the fringes of society. Standing bounties on Jedi, Imperial Knights, 
Emperor Fel's forces, members of the Galactic Alliance, and troublesome 
crime lords attract a lot of attention and promise a lot of credits. 

Scout legacies are often tied to a specific planet or region of space, where 
scouts of a specific family or organization know the locale intimately. Like 
soldiers, some may be dedicated to certain military units. Less common 
are deep space scouting units or organizations, dedicated to probing the 
Unknown Regions or Deep Core for new worlds and hyperspace routes. The 
work is dangerous and requires operating far from, known space, but the 
monetary and personal rewards can ultimately be substantial. 


New Scout TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for scouts. 


VERSATILITY TALENT TREE 
You are known for your ability to adapt to any situation, heedless of 
adversity. 

Adapt and Survive: When an enemy within 24 squares of you and in your 
line of sight receives a morale or insight bonus of any kind, you also gain the 
benefits of that bonus until the end of your next turn. 

Defensive Protection: You can spend a Force Point as a reaction and 
add the results of the Force Point roll to any one of your defenses, or to one 
of the defenses of an adjacent ally. This bonus lasts until the beginning of 
your next turn. 

Quick on Your Feet: Once per encounter, you may move up to your 
speed as reaction. 

Ready and Willing: When you ready an action, you can choose at any 
time before the start of your next turn to take your readied action at the 
end of the current turn, after the acting creature, droid, or vehicle completes 
its action. 

Unbalancing Adaptation: When you use the Adapt and Survive talent, 
you also deny the bonus that triggered the talent to one enemy within your 
line of sight. 

Prerequisite: Adapt and Survive. 


SOLDIER 

The Legacy era is a time of war and conflict. Soldiers are in high demand. 
Both Darth Krayt's Empire and Roan Fel's Empire use them in their continuing 
struggle for galactic dominance. The Galactic Alliance is in desperate need 
of soldiers as well, just to keep it in the fight. Even the underworld requires 
competent fighters for use as muscle and security. 

These days, the average soldier finds his loyalties tested like never before. 
Soldiers who once fought for the Galactic Alliance might find themselves 
indoctrinated into the Imperial war machine after the surrender of Galactic 
Alliance forces at the Battle of Caamas. To make matters worse, they soon 
discover that the new Imperial forces are, in fact, led by evil and cruel Sith 
commanders. Seemingly loyal Imperial commanders might suddenly defect 
to Emperor Fel's forces. Soldiers who once served the Empire might abandon 
their tyrannical masters and seek out Admiral Stazi's Core Fleet, determined 
to fight for freedom and democracy. 

Thanks to the evolving governmental changes and shifting alliances, 
much of the galaxy has become tough, violent, and dangerous. Corporations, 
though less powerful than in previous eras, require security for their facilities. 
Nobles and powerful governmental officials employ personal bodyguards, 
support private militias, and set up extensive security services to protect their 
investments and themselves. Mercenary groups are on the rise, often made 
up of Galactic Alliance or Imperial deserters. They now sell their services to 
the highest bidder. Criminal syndicates and pirate gangs lay claim to disputed 
space and forsaken worlds, relying on soldiers to keep what they have stolen 
and drive away the competition. All of these organizations are looking for 
soldiers to fill their ranks. 

Soldier legacies are commonly tied to specific fighting units, with genera- 
tions of soldiers serving in the units of their parents. The legacy of the unit 
may become the legacy of the soldier. These units could be rank-and-file 
infantry units, special operations task forces, or famed starfighter squadrons. 
Some soldiers might serve as bodyguards or in the security forces of the same 
noble family for generations. 


New SOLDIER TALENTS 
The following talents are intended for soldiers. 


BRUTE SQUAD TALENT TREE 
Your brutal fighting techniques give you an upper hand when operating in 
small groups. 

Gang Leader: Once per encounter, when you make a Persuasion check to 
intimidate, you gain a +1 bonus on the check for every ally within 6 squares 
of you and in the target's line of sight (maximum +5 bonus). 


Melee Assault: When you make a melee attack against a target that 
has one or more of your allies adjacent to it, compare the result to the 
target's Fortitude Defense as well as its Reflex Defense. If the attack 
hits both defenses, the attack deals +1 die of damage and the target is 
knocked prone. 

Melee Brute: When you make a melee attack against a target that has 
one or more of your allies adjacent to it, compare the result to the target's 
Fortitude Defense as well as its Reflex Defense. If the attack hits both 
defenses, the target's speed is reduced by 2 squares and it takes a -2 penalty 
to its Reflex Defense until the end of your next turn. 

Melee Opportunist: Once per encounter, when an ally makes a successful 
melee attack against a target adjacent to you, you can make a melee attack 
against that target as a reaction, with a +2 bonus on the attack roll. 

Squad Brutality: When you succeed on a melee attack against a target 
that has one or more of your allies adjacent to it, you may reroll your damage 
roll, taking the better result. , 

Squad Superiority: Whenever you and at least two allies are adjacent to 
the same target, that target is considered flat-footed against you. 


New Brawler Talents 
The following new talent expands the Brawler talent tree (see page 52 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose talents 
from the Brawler talent tree can choose this talent as well. 

Grabber: You do not take a -5 penalty when using the grab action (see 
page 152 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Hammerblow: If you are unarmed and holding no items, you double your 
Strength bonus on unarmed attack rolls. 

Strong Grab: When you successfully grab an opponent, they must use a 
full-round action instead of a standard action to break the grab. 


New Weapon Specialist Talent 

The following new talent expands the Weapon Specialist talent tree (see 
page 53 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can nor- 
mally choose talents from the Weapon Specialist talent tree can choose 
this talent as well. 

Improved Suppression Fire: When you successfully suppress an enemy 
using the aid another action (see page 151 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), 
that enemy takes a -5 penalty on its attack rolls until the start of your next 
turn. When targeting an area with an autofire weapon, each enemy in the 
attack area takes a -2 penalty on its attack rolls until the start of your next 
turn, regardless of whether your attack hits. 


SKILLS 

Skills in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game have a broad range of applica- 
tions. Below are new uses for some of the skills in the game. However, a 
skill could apply in situations even when specific rules are not provided in 
the skill description. It is up to the Gamemaster to determine when a skill is 
applicable, or if an ability check is more suitable. 


MECHANICS 

With the introduction of Yuuzhan Vong biotechnology into the mainstream 
knowledge base, and thanks to the Yuuzhan Vong war and subsequent ter- 
raforming attempts, many have learned how to operate and maintain basic 
biotechnology. Advanced manipulation requires certain feats or talents found 
elsewhere in this book. 

Biotech Adaptation (trained only, requires tool kit): You can use the 
Mechanics skill to create mechanical connections to a particular biotech 
device. When you use this application of the Mechanics skill, you can perform 
one of the following actions: 

Graft Technology:You can take sensors, communications equipment, and 
tiny computers onto a biotech device. You must spend 1 hour and make a 
DC 25 Mechanics check to do so. Once you have, you may treat the biotech 
device as a normal (non-biotech) device of the same type for the purposes 
of the Mechanics and the Use Computer skill. For example, if you have a 
villip (effectively a comlink with the biotech template), you may use this 
skill to graft technology onto the villip. From that point on, you can apply 
any use of the Mechanics skill or the Use Computer skill on that device as 
if it was a normal comlink. You may not use the Tech Specialist feat on a 
biotech device, even if it has been grafted with technology (you must use 
the Biotech Specialist feat instead). 

Mechanical Enhancements: You can mechanically enhance a biotech 
device or vehicle, effectively connecting another device to that piece of 
biotech. You must spend 1 hour and make a DC 30 Mechanics check to do 
so. Once you have, you effectively treat the biotech device as though it also 
has the traits of the device you have enhanced it with. You can only use this 
application of the skill on biotech devices upon which you have also used the 
graft technology application of this skill (see above). You can only enhance a 
biotech device with another device of its size or smaller. A biotech device can 
only have one such mechanical enhancement, and only devices (not weapons 
or armor) can be attached to a biotech device in this manner. 

For example, if you possess a razor bug (a Tiny object), you could attach 
an audio recorder to the razor bug using this application of the skill; at a 
later point, you could activate the recording unit and hurl the razor bug into 
a wall to clandestinely record conversations in the area. 

Refit Antiquated Vehicle or Weapon (trained only, requires tool kit): 
You can use the Mechanics skill to refit an antiquated vehicle or weapon, 
using modern technology to replace outdated components. You must spend 


ShIVEL Seva 


0 
i 
> 
q 
la 
0 
5 a 


SHIVEL neve 


20% of the base value of the vehicle or weapon (before the application of 
the antiquated template) on raw materials for the upgrade. The refitting 
process takes a number of days (each day requiring 8 hours of continuous 
work) determined by the object's size: Medium or smaller, 1 day; Large, 2 days; 
Huge, 5 days; Gargantuan, 10 days; Colossal, 20 days; Colossal (frigate), 60 
days; Colossal (cruiser), 180 days; Colossal (station), 360 days. If multiple 
characters trained in the Mechanics skill work on the refit simultaneously, 
divide the amount of time taken by the number of characters working on 
the refit (a maximum of 20 characters can reduce the refit time, minimum 
of 1 day). Once the work is complete, apply the refitted template to the base 
vehicle or weapon instead of the antiquated template. 

Improvised Connection (requires tool kit): You may attempt to connect 
electronic devices or computers without proper cables, using improvised 
materials. The endeavor takes 1 hour and requires a DC 20 Mechanics check 
to succeed. 


TREAT INJURY 

Manipulating Yuuzhan Vong biotechnology and bioengineered creatures 
often requires abilities and knowledge gained through the Treat Injury skill. 
Being trained in the skill also enables you to take some biotech-related 
feats and talents. 

Biotech Repair (Trained Only; requires biotech tool kit): You can 
perform any of the following functions of the Treat Injury skill on a bioen- 
gineered creature or “living” biotech object: first aid, heal damage, revivify, 
treat disease, treat poison, and treat radiation. You take a -5 penalty on Treat 
Injury checks made to repair biotech unless you have the Biotech Specialist 
feat (see page 34). 

Temporary Mending (Trained Only): You can make temporary repairs 
to any damaged or disabled biotech object or vehicle. Temporary mending 
requires a full-round action followed by a successful DC 20 Treat Injury check. 
You take a -5 penalty on the check unless you have the Biotech Specialist feat 
(see page 34). If you use a biotech tool kit, you gain a +5 equipment bonus on 
the check. A temporarily mended device gains +2 steps on the condition track 
and heals 1d8 hit points. At the end of the scene or encounter, the temporarily 
mended device moves -5 steps along the track and is disabled. 


USE COMPUTER 
This skill may be used to access and repair small electronic devices, including 
code cylinders and access cards. 

Access and Reprogram Electronic Device: To access information con- 
tained with an electronic device, you must first connect it to an indifferent, 
friendly, or helpful computer (a full-round action) via a wireless or wired 
system. Connecting wirelessly requires you to establish a connection as you 
would with a network (see page 75 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). A 
wired connection may be as simple as obtaining the correct cable or making 
an improvised connection (see the Mechanics skill, above). The same atti- 
tudes and DCs used to Access Information from a computer are also used 
for devices, although most self-contained devices will not set off alarms or 
attempt to isolate your location. 

Copy or Reprogram Code Cylinder or Access Card: You can make a 
Use Computer check to reprogram a code cylinder or access card to accept 
new codes, or copy the existing codes to another cylinder or card. The DC 
for these actions depends on the level of security (see below). The device 
must be physically connected to an indifferent, friendly, or helpful computer 
before it can be copied or reprogrammed. Copying or reprogramming a code 
cylinder or access card takes 10 minutes. 


Administrative (civilian) 20 
Encrypted military 30 
Encrypted Imperial military at 


FEAT NAME 


Attack Combo (Fire and Strike) 


Attack Combo (Melee) 


Attack Combo (Ranged) 


Autofire Assault 


Autofire Sweep 
Biotech Specialist 
Biotech Surgery 
Brink of Death 
Feat of Strength 
Fatal Hit 


Galactic Alliance 
Military Training 
Grapple Resistance 
Knock Heads 
Multi-Grab 
Rancor Crush 


Return Fire 


Returning Bug 


Vehicle Systems Expertise 


Zero Range 


PREREQUISITES 


Attack Combo: Melee, 
Attack Combo: Ranged, 


Base attack bonus +3 


Base attack bonus +3 
Weapon Focus (chosen weapon) 


Weapon Focus (chosen weapon) 
Trained in Mechanics skill 
Trained in Treat Injury skill 


Str 15 
Str 13, Dex 13 


Dex 13, Str 13, Multi-Grab 
Dex 13 
Str 15, Crush, Pin, base attack 


bonus +1 
Dex 15, Quick Draw, Weapon 


Proficient with weapon used 


Tech Specialist, trained in Mechanics 


Point Blank Shot 


USE THE FORCE 


The Yuuzhan Vong are disconnected from the Force, as is their biotechnol- 
ogy. They are immune to any Force effect that targets their Will Defense, 
including Force powers. This also includes aspects of the Use the Force skill, 


as noted below. 


Move Light Object (Trained Only): You may not use the Move Light 
Object application of this skill against Yuuzhan Vong biotechnology or bio- 
logical devices, as they are living objects detached from the Force. However, 


BENEFIT 
Deal +1 die of damage on melee, unarmed, or ranged attacks until the end of 

your next turn after hitting an enemy with two consecutive melee, 
unarmed, base attack bonus +9 or ranged attacks. 

Deal +1 die of damage on melee or unarmed attacks until the end of 
your next turn after hitting an enemy with two consecutive melee or 
unarmed attacks. 

Deal +1 die of damage on ranged attacks until the end of your next turn 

after hitting an enemy with two consecutive ranged attacks. 

Decrease penalty on autofire attack and inflict extra damage when 
sustaining fire in the same squares in consecutive rounds. 

Sweep a wide area while using autofire mode. 

Make custom modifications to Yuuzhan Vong biotech. 

Install a biotech prosthesis onto a living being. 

Attacks that would kill your enemy reduces them to 0 hit points instead. 
Take 10 or 20 on one Strength check or related skill check per encounter. 

You automatically kill an enemy that you reduce to 0 hit points, and you 
can perform a coup de grace as a standard action. 

You do not move down the condition track the first time an attack exceeds 

your damage threshold, and you gain access to the Brawler talent tree. 
Gain a +5 bonus to resist grab and grapple attacks. 

You may knock two opponents’ heads together after a successful multi-grab. 

You may grab two opponents as a standard action. 

Move an enemy -1 step down the condition track when using the Crush feat. 


You may make a single ranged attack as a reaction to a ranged attack 
against Focus (chosen ranged weapon) you that misses. 

Thrown razor bugs and thug bugs return to your hand immediately. 

Recharge shields or reroute power on a vehicle faster than normal. 

Gain a +1 bonus on your attack roll and deal +1 die of damage when making 

a ranged attack against an adjacent target or a target in your 

fighting space. 


you can use Move Light Object against biotechnology that has been modified 
with standard technology. 

Sense Force (Trained Only): As a standard action, you can attempt to 
use the Sense Force application of this skill to detect the hole in the Force 
created by one or more Yuuzhan Vong. You must make a DC 20 Use the Force 
check; if the check succeeds, you can sense how many Yuuzhan Vong are 
within 1 kilometer of your location. 


ft BPSLaAgWHD 


SAIVEL SISe8SH | 


SHVHL aevSF) 


Sense Surroundings (trained only): You can attempt to use the Sense 
Surroundings application of this skill to detect Yuuzhan Vong targets, but 
you must be trained in the skill, and you must succeed in a DC 30 Use the 
Force check. The effects are otherwise the same as described on page 77 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook. 

Telepathy: This aspect of the skill does not work on the Yuuzhan Vong, 
even if they are willing recipients. 


FEATS 

The new feats presented here are available in any era. Some feats are 
especially appropriate for Legacy era campaigns and should contribute to 
character concepts commonly found in this time. 


ATTACK COMBO 
(FIRE AND STRIKE) 
You can make deadly ranged and melee attacks in rapid succession. 

Prerequisites: Attack Combo (Melee), Attack Combo (Ranged), base 
attack bonus +9. 

Benefit: If you hit a single target with two consecutive ranged, melee, 
and/or unarmed attacks during the same turn, any additional ranged, melee, 
or unarmed attacks you make until the end of your next turn (including 
attacks of opportunity and attacks made as reactions) deal +1 die of damage 
ona hit. This extra damage stacks with extra damage granted by other feats 
or talents. 


ATTACK COMBO (MELEE) 
After landing successive blows against a single target, your melee and 
unarmed attacks become more devastating. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +3. 

Benefit: If you hit a single target with two consecutive melee and/or 
unarmed attacks during the same turn, any additional melee or unarmed 
attacks you make until the end of your next turn (including attacks of oppor- 
tunity and attacks made as reactions) deal +1 die of damage on a hit. This 
extra damage stacks with extra damage granted by other feats or talents. 


ATTACK COMBO (RANGED) 
Your damage-dealing ability improves after hitting a single target with suc- 
cessive ranged attacks. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +3. 

Benefit: If you hit a single target with two consecutive ranged attacks 
during the same turn, any additional ranged attacks you make until the end 
of your next turn (including attacks of opportunity and attacks made as 
reactions) deal +1 die of damage on a hit. This extra damage stacks with 
extra damage granted by other feats or talents. 


AUTOFIRE ASSAULT 
Your autofire attacks are devastating when focused in a single area for 
multiple rounds. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus (chosen weapon). 

Benefit: When you target the same area with an autofire attack that you 
made an autofire attack against on your last turn, the penalty on the autofire 
attack is reduced to -2 (-1 if using a braced autofire-only weapon or the 
Controlled Burst talent) and you deal +1 die of damage on a hit. 

Normal: A -5 penalty applies to autofire attack rolls, and there are no 
bonuses for consecutive rounds of fire in the same squares. 

Special: This feat cannot be used with the Autofire Sweep feat or the 
Burst Fire feat. 


AUTOFIRE SWEEP 
You can sweep an area with your autofire weapon, spraying fire in a 180- 
degree arc in front of you. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus (chosen weapon). 

Benefit: When making an autofire attack, you can attack all targets in a 
6-square cone. The origin square of the cone can be any square in your line 
of sight and within point-blank range. 

Normal: A -5 penalty applies to autofire attack rolls. Autofire attacks 
that miss deal half damage. 

Special: This feat cannot be used with the Autofire Assault feat or 
the Burst Fire feat. It can be used with the Suppression Fire talent (see 
page 31). 


BIOTECH SPECIALIST 
You can make custom modifications to Yuuzhan Vong biotech-based armor, 
weapons, vehicles, and similar devices. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Benefit: You can modify a Yuuzhan Vong biotech-based device, suit of 
armor, weapon, or vehicle so that it gains a specific trait. Specific traits are 
listed in the chart on page 35. You can perform only one modification at a 
time. Unless noted otherwise, you cannot grant more than one benefit to a 
single device, suit of armor, weapon, or vehicle, and you cannot apply the 
same benefit more than once. 

Before beginning the modification, you must pay one-tenth the cost of 
the device, suit of armor, weapon, or vehicle you wish to modify or 1,000 
credits, whichever is more. Completing the modification requires one day 
per 1,000 credits of the modification cost. At the end of this time, make a 
DC 20 Mechanics check; you can't take 10 or take 20 on this check. If the 
check succeeds, the modification is completed successfully, and the object 
gains the desired trait. If the check fails, you lose all credits spent making 
the modification, and the object doesn't gain the desired trait. However, you 
may start over if you wish. 


Due to the specialized nature of biotechnology, only other characters with 
the Biotech Specialist feat can assist you, reducing proportionately the time 
needed to complete the modification. At the end of the modification process, 
they can make a Mechanics check to aid your check. 

The market value of a modified item is equal to the base cost of the item 
+ double the cost of the modifications made to it (not including credits 
wasted on failed modification attempts). 

Special: Nobles and scoundrels may add this feat to their class list of 
bonus feats. This feat allows you to make Treat Injury checks on biotechnol- 
ogy without the -5 penalty. 


BIOTECH SURGERY ; 
You can perform the surgical procedures necessary to graft biotech compo- 
nents onto living flesh, similar to those used by the Yuuzhan Vong. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Treat Injury skill. 

Benefit: You can install a biotech prosthesis onto a living being. The surgi- 
cal procedure takes 1 hour of uninterrupted work, after which you must make 
a DC 20 Treat Injury check. If the check succeeds, the prosthesis is installed 
correctly. If the check fails, the prosthesis is not installed properly; however, 
you can try again after another uninterrupted hour of surgery. 

Special: You can install a biotech prosthesis on yourself, but you take a 
-5 penalty on the Treat Injury skill check. If you have the Surgical Expertise 
feat (see page 88 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), you can install a biotech 
prosthesis in 10 minutes instead of 1 hour. 


BRINK OF DEATH 
You can take an enemy to the brink of death without killing him. 

Benefit: When you deal sufficient damage on an attack to kill a target, 
you may instead choose to reduce the target to 0 hit points, leaving it 
unconscious but alive. Normal rules for being at 0 hit points apply (see page 
146 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


FEAT OF STRENGTH 
You draw on inner reserves of physical power to perform great feats of 
strength, such as lifting heavy objects, leaping great distances, or hauling 
yourself up a cliff while weighted down by a heavy load. 

Prerequisite: Strength 15. 

Benefit: Once per encounter as a full-round action, you can take 20 on 
a single Strength check or Strength-based skill check (you must be trained 
in the skill), even if you are distracted or threatened. 

Normal: You may not take 20 when distracted or threatened, or in a 
single round. 

Special: After using this feat for the first time in a given encounter, make 
a DC 15 Endurance check (as a free action). If the check succeeds, you can 
use this feat once more during the same encounter. 


The armor's maximum Dexterity bonus 
increases by 1. 
The armor's equipment bonus to Fortitude 


Agile Armor 


Fortifying Armor 
Defense increases by 1. 
Protective Armor The armor's armor bonus to Reflex Defense 


increases by 1. 


Add Device to Creature Alter a bioengineered creature to accept a 
biotech or standard technological enhancement 
such as a miniaturized sensor pack. 

Increase the device's Strength score by 2. 

The device's damage reduction increases by 1, 
and it gains extra hit points equal to one- quarter 
of its maximum hit points. 

Skill checks made using the device gain a +1 
equipment bonus, or the device's existing 
equipment bonus increases by 1. 


Enhanced Strength 
Improved Durability 


Mastercraft Device 


Dovin Basal Enhancement Increase the effects of a dovin basal to grant 
one of the following benefits to a starship: 
+1 additional square of movement at 
starship scale, +2 SR, or +1 die of damage 
when using a dovin basal. 

Enhanced Dexterity 


Improved Speed 


Increase the vehicle's Dexterity score by 2. 
Increases the vehicle speed by one-quarter of 
its base speed (minimum 1 square) 


Improved Accuracy The weapon gains a +1 equipment bonus on 
attack rolls. 

The weapon deals +2 points of damage on a 
successful hit. If the weapon has a damage 
multiplier (for example, 6d10x2), apply the 
extra damage before applying the multiplier. 
An autofire-only ranged weapon can be set to 
fire single shots, or a single-shot ranged weapon 
that doesn't have a burst radius can be made to 
have an autofire mode. 


Improved Damage 


Selective Fire 


esiagvHo 


SAIVeL Seve | 


(i) 


H SSicvHgs 


SHVSL SiehsH) 


DARTH AZARD ISSUES A FATAL HIT. 


FATAL MIT 
Enemies you take down don't get up again. 

Prerequisites: Strength 13, Dexterity 13. 

Benefit: When your attack drops a target to 0 hit points, you may choose 
to automatically kill that enemy even if the damage dealt does not exceed 
the target's damage threshold. In addition, you can perform the coup de 
grace action as a standard action. 

Normal: A creature that drops to 0 hit points becomes unconscious if 
the damage dealt does not exceed its damage threshold. Performing a coup 
de grace is a full-round action. 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE MILITARY 
TRAINING 
Service in the Galactic Alliance has honed your toughness. 

Benefit: You do not move down the condition track the first time an 
attack exceeds your damage threshold in an encounter. 


GRAPPLE RESISTANCE 
You make it difficult for enemies to grab or grapple you, or attack objects 
in your possession. 

Benefit: You gain a +5 bonus to your Reflex Defense when an enemy 
makes a grab or grapple attack against you, and you gain a +5 bonus to all 
opposed grapple checks. All objects that you are holding or carrying gain a 
+5 bonus to their Reflex Defense when attacked (see “Attack an Object" on 
page 151 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


KNOCK HEADS 
You knock two opponents’ heads together in unarmed combat. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Strength 13, Multi-Grab. 

Benefit: After successfully using the Multi-Grab feat against two targets 
that are both adjacent to you and each other, you can immediately knock 
their heads together, dealing automatic bludgeoning damage to each creature 
equal to 1d6 plus your Strength modifier. When comparing the damage to 
each creature's damage threshold, treat their damage thresholds as if they 
were 5 points lower. Both creatures are still considered grabbed at the end 
of using this feat. 


MULTI-GRAB 
You may grab two opponents at once. 

Prerequisite: Dexterity 13. 

Benefit: As a standard action, you can make a grab attack against two 
targets adjacent to you (roll a separate attack against each target). You must 
have two empty hands to use this feat. 


RANCOR CRUSH 
Your crushing hold on an enemy can knock it unconscious. 

Prerequisites: Strength 15, Crush, Pin, base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: When you successfully pin an enemy with the Pin feat (see 
page 87 of the Saga Edition core.rulebook) and use the Crush feat at the 
same time, the enemy moves -1 step down the condition track in addition 
to taking damage. 

Normal: The Crush feat deals damage to a grappled enemy but does not 
move the enemy along the condition track. 


RETURN FIRE 
When someone takes a shot at you and misses, you retaliate with a shot 
of your own. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 15, Quick Draw, Weapon Focus (chosen exotic 
ranged weapon or weapon group). 

Benefit: Select one exotic weapon or weapon group. Once per encounter 
as a reaction, you can make a single ranged attack with the chosen weapon 
or group against an enemy that misses you with a ranged attack, provided 
you have line of sight to that enemy. 

Special: If you have the Combat Reflexes feat, you may use this feat a 
number of times during an encounter equal to your i bonus, but no 
more than once during a given enemy's turn. 

: This feat does not apply to vehicle weapons or heavy weapons. You must 
have your weapon in hand to use this feat. 

You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it 
applies to a different weapon group or exotic weapon. : 
RETURNING BUG 
You have mastered the art of using Yuuzhan Vong thrown weapons and can 
cause them to return to your hand. 

Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon used. 

Benefit: When you miss with a razor bug or a thud bug (see page 64), 
the weapon returns to your hand immediately. 


VEHICLE SYSTEMS EXPERTISE 
You may use your technical expertise to manipulate a vehicle's systems more 
quickly than usual. 

Prerequisites: Tech Specialist, trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Benefit: You may use the Recharge Shields or Reroute Power vehicle 
combat actions by spending two swift actions. Also, once per encounter, 
you may attempt to use either of these actions as a single swift action by 
making a DC 30 Mechanics check. 

Normal: Recharging shields or rerouting power normally requires you to 
spend three swift actions. 


ZERO RANGE 
You are lethal when using ranged weapons against adjacent targets. 

Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot. 

Benefit: When firing a ranged weapon at a target within or adjacent to 
your fighting space, you gain a +1 bonus on the attack roll and deal +1 die 
of damage on a hit. 

The effects of this feat do not stack with the extra damage provided by 
the Burst Fire or Rapid Shot feats. This feat does not apply to heavy weapons 
or vehicle weapons, or in starship combat. 


“WE CAN ONLY PUSH THE ENGINES 
SO HARDI" 


-DELIAH BLUE 


“ CHAPTER III 
PRESTIGE CLASSES 


od 


Prestige classes enable characters to specialize, gaining new talents and 
abilities unattainable through other classes. These classes allow players to 
develop their characters around specific concepts, roles, or character types. 
As always, prestige classes are optional, and the Gamemaster has the final 
say on which ones, if any, are allowed in the campaign. The prestige classes 
presented here enhance Legacy era campaigns, but they can be used in any 
© era of play. 

All the new prestige classes described in this chapter are suitable for 
player or Gamemaster use. To qualify for a particular prestige class, a char- 
acter must meet all the class's prerequisites. The players and Gamemaster 
should work together to generate adventures and story lines that allow a 
player to take these classes. 


L NEw TALENTS FOR EXISTING 

\PRESTIGE CLASSES 

is chapter features two new prestige classes suitable for Legacy era 

‘ampaigns and also includes several new talent trees for existing prestige 

lasses. As with the new talent trees for core classes in the previous chap- 
ter, any character taking a level in the designated prestige class that would 
normally grant the talent can take one of these talents. Even though a 
prestige class description might not mention these talent trees specifically, 
they are considered to be a part of the list of suitable talent trees for that 
prestige class. 

For example, the description of the elite trooper prestige class that 
appears in the Saga Edition core rulebook states that an elite trooper 
character can choose talents from the Weapon Master talent tree, the Com- 
mando talent tree, or the Camouflage talent tree. This chapter presents the 
Protection talent tree for the elite trooper, which is considered to be on the 
list of talent trees for the elite trooper just like the other three. 

Any talent that relies on a character's class level considers the levels of 
all classes that have access to that talent cumulative. However, none of the 
new talent trees granted to core classes by this book are added to the list 
of approved talent trees for that prestige class unless specifically noted in 
that talent tree's description. For example, even though the elite trooper 
has access to the Commando talent tree of the soldier class, he does not 
gain access to the Brute Squad talent tree from the previous chapter even 
though it is considered a soldier talent tree. New talents for existing talent 
trees are treated no differently from any other talent in that tree. 


J 


Ht BeSsidgyvHs 


ssssv19 so1.ssyua 


SeseviIe FgOILSEse) 


3 } 


Sidvr 


nS 


A CHISS BODYGUARD. 


NEw TALENTS 


This section presents new talent trees for several of the prestige classes 
introduced in the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


BOUNTY HUNTER TALENTS 
Characters with one or more levels in the bounty hunter prestige class may 
select talents from the Force Hunter talent tree in addition to those talents 
normally available to bounty hunters. 


FORCE HUNTER TALENT TREE 

Hunting Jedi is big business during the Legacy era, as the Sith-controlled 
Empire pays well for captured Jedi. However, given their powers and skills, 
Jedi are among the most dangerous prey for bounty hunters to pursue. 

Force Blank: You are especially hard to detect using the Force. Attempts 
to detect you using the Sense Surroundings aspect of the Use the Force skill 
suffer a -10 penalty. 

Lightsaber Evasion: Whenever an enemy misses you with a melee attack 
with a lightsaber, you may move up to 2 squares in any direction. This move- 
ment does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Precision Fire: The Jedi are skilled at blocking and deflecting ranged 
attacks with their lightsabers, and you are able to compensate for this to 
some degree by taking careful shots. Whenever you aim before making a 
ranged attack, you increase the difficulty of Deflect attempts to negate 
your attack by +5. 

Steel Mind: If you resist the effects of a mind-affecting Force power, 
the user of that power cannot attempt to use the same power against you 
for the rest of the encounter. 

Strong-Willed: You are trained to resist Jedi mind tricks. You add your 
class level to Will Defense against Use the Force checks. 

Telekinetic Resistance: Whenever you are targeted by a Force power 
that moves you, you reduce the distance you are moved by half. 


EwLITE TROOPER TALENTS 

Characters with one or more levels in the elite trooper prestige class may 
select talents from the Protection talent tree in addition to those talents 
normally available to elite troopers. 


PROTECTION TALENT TREE 

You are specially trained to protect those around you, either by taking the 
brunt of attacks that are aimed at them, or by defusing dangerous situations 
before they occur. 

Armored Guard: When you use the Ward talent (see below), your ally's 
cover bonus to Reflex Defense is increased by one-half the armor bonus of 
any natural armor you possess as well as any armor you are wearing. 

Prerequisite: Ward. 


Bodyguard's Sacrifice: As a reaction, you can interfere with any success- 
ful attack against an adjacent ally. You can choose to take any or all of that 
attack's damage, and the remainder is dealt to the target as normal. Once you 
use this talent, you may not use it again until the end of your next turn. 

Guard's Endurance: Whenever you begin your turn adjacent to the target 
of your Ward talent (see below), you gain bonus hit points equal to your char- 
acter level until the start of your next turn. Damage is subtracted from the 
bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining at the end of the 
encounter go away. Bonus hit points from different sources do not stack. 

Prerequisite: Ward. 

Lifesaver: Once per encounter as a reaction, when an ally takes damage 
that equals or exceeds its damage threshold or reduces it to 0 hit points, you 
can move up to your speed provided you end your movement adjacent to that 
ally. This movement provokes attacks of opportunity as normal, you take all of 
the damage that triggered this talent's use, and your ally takes no damage. 

Prerequisite: Bodyguard's Sacrifice. : 

Out of Harm's Way: As a move action, you allow one ally within 6 squares 
of you to move up to its speed, provided the ally ends its movement adjacent 
to you. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Roll With It: Whenever you take damage on behalf of an ally through the 
use of a talent (including Harm's Way), you gain damage reduction equal to 
your class level until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Bodyguard's Sacrifice, Take the Hit. 

Take the Hit: Whenever you take damage on behalf of an ally through 
the use of a talent (including Harm's Way), your damage threshold is 
increased by 5. 

Prerequisite: Bodyguard's Sacrifice. 

Ward: Asa swift action, designate one adjacent ally. Until the end of your 
next turn, as long as that ally remains adjacent to you, you are considered 
to be providing that ally with soft cover against all attacks. You cannot be 
designated as the target of this talent (such as, when it is used by an ally) 
if you have used this talent since the start of your last turn, and you cannot 
use this talent if you are currently designated as another ally's ward. 


GUNSLINGER TALENTS 

Characters with one or more levels in the gunslinger prestige class may select 
talents from the Carbineer talent tree in addition to those talents normally 
available to gunslingers. 


CARBINEER TALENT TREE 
While pistols offer great versatility and mobility, their range is a significant 
limiting factor. Thus, many gunslingers choose to specialize in long arms, 
especially blaster carbines. 

Blowback: When you make an attack with a rifle that deals damage in 
excess of your target's damage threshold, you can choose to push the target 
1 square away from you. 


Close Contact: The point-blank range of any rifle or carbine you use is 
increased by 5 squares. Short range for the weapon begins 5 squares later, 
but still ends at the same distance. 

You can take this talent up to two times; each time you take this talent, 
you increase the point-blank range of any rifle or carbine you use by an 
additional 5 squares, up to a maximum of 10 squares. 

Multiattack Proficiency (rifles): Whenever you make multiple attacks 
with any type of rifle as a full attack action (see page 154 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook), you reduce the penalty of your attack rolls by 2. 

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent, 
you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by an additional 2. 

Old Faithful: The trusty sidearm class feature (see page 217 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook) of the gunslinger prestige class also applies to any 
rifle or carbine that you use. 

Opportunity Fire: You gain a +2 bonus on attacks of opportunity made 
with rifles. 

Rifle Master: You treat all rifles as though they were accurate weapons, 
taking no penalty when firing at targets at short range. 

Shoot from the Hip: You can always use a rifle to make attacks of 
opportunity. 

Snap Shot: You do not provoke attacks of opportunity while using the 
aim action with a rifle or carbine with its stock extended. 


JEDI KNIGHT TALENTS 

Characters with one or more levels in the Jedi Knight prestige class may 
select talents from the Jedi Refugee talent tree in addition to those talents 
normally available to Jedi Knights. 


JEDI REFUGEE TALENT TREE 

In the Legacy era, the Jedi are once again hunted to near-extinction. To 
survive, the Jedi must learn to conceal their Force powers and blend in with 
the common galactic citizen. 

Cover Your Tracks: You are adept at living beneath society's radar. 
Anyone who attempts to locate you using the Gather Information skill suffers 
a -5 penalty on their Gather Information checks. 

Difficult to Sense: You are skilled at concealing your presence from 
other Force-users. You may reroll any opposed Use the Force check made to 
conceal your presence from someone who attempts to sense other Force- 
users, keeping the better result. 

Force Veil: Your ability to conceal yourself from other Force-users allows 
you to reduce the radius within which you can be detected to 10 kilometers 
(instead of 100 kilometers). 

Prerequisite: Difficult to Sense. 


SEssevIg sel.seVe) 


ili uSiavHS 


bs 


js 
N 


Sassyvi71q© sol~seEVe) 


Jedi Network: You have access to a network of Jedi sympathizers. While 
in a civilized area, you can call upon this network of allies once per game 
session for one of the following purposes: 

© Acquire Equipment or Funds: You can use your contacts to obtain mate- 
rial that might otherwise be licensed, restricted, military, or illegal, pro- 
vided the total value of the equipment does not exceed your level in this 
class x 500 credits. Alternately, you can obtain a number of credits from 
your contacts equal to this amount to spend as you see fit. 

® Obtain Information: Your contacts provide you with information, auto- 
matically succeeding on a Gather Information check (and covering the 
credit cost of the check) provided that the DC does not exceed 20. 

° Receive Medical Attention: Your contacts provide you and up to three 
of your allies with medical attention as dispensed by a skilled physician 
or healer. The length of the treatment cannot exceed 24 hours, but is 
otherwise free of charge and completely private. 

© Secure Safe house: One of your contacts provides a safe redoubt for you 
and up to three of your allies, for a number of days equal to your Jedi 
Knight class level. While in hiding, you have no contact with anyone 
other than the individual who is hiding you. Once the allotted time is up, 
you must leave the safe house or risk discovery. For each day you remain 
in hiding past this deadline, the Gamemaster should roll 1d20. On a 
result of 15 or higher, your safe house is discovered, and your contact's 
complicity in keeping you hidden is exposed. 


OFFICER TALENTS 

Characters with one or more levels in the officer prestige class can select 
talents from the Fugitive Commander talent tree in addition to those normally 
available to officers. 


FUGITIVE COMMANDER TALENT TREE 

When a fighting force is outmanned, outgunned, and constantly on the run, 
only the skill and acumen of talented officers can keep morale high and 
prevent desertion or surrender. Fugitive commanders are skilled in the art 
of deceiving and eluding their pursuers. 

Disciplined Trickery: Once per turn as a reaction, you allow one ally 
within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight to reroll one Deception or 
Stealth check, but the ally must keep the second result, even if it is worse. 

Group Perception: Whenever you roll a Perception check, all allies within 
6 squares of you can do so as well, taking the highest reroll result rolled by 
you or any ally. 


Hasty Withdrawal: As a swift action once per turn, you target a number 
of allies equal to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1). Each targeted ally must 
be within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight. Each ally you target 
can take the withdraw action immediately as a free action. The normal 
rules for withdrawing otherwise apply (see page 153 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Stalwart Subordinates: When any ally within 12 squares of you and in 
your line of sight is targeted by a skill check against its Will Defense, the 
source of that skill check (whether a hazard, a creature, a droid, or whatever) 
must roll the skill check twice and take the lowest result. 

Stay in the Fight: As a swift action, you remove one mind-affecting or 
fear effect currently affecting an ally within 12 squares of you and in your 
line of sight. When you do so, you also grant the target a number of bonus 
hit points equal to 10 + your class level. 

Prerequisite: Stalwart Subordinates. 

Stealthy Withdrawal: When an ally withdraws as a result of your Hasty 
Withdrawal talent and ends its withdraw action with cover or concealment 
from any enemy target, that ally can make an immediate Stealth check to 
sneak as a free action. 

Prerequisite: Hasty Withdrawal. 


SITH APPRENTICE TALENTS 
Characters with one or more levels in the Sith apprentice prestige class may 
select talents from the Sith Commander talent tree in addition to those 
talents normally available to Sith apprentices. 


SITH COMMANDER TALENT TREE 

The Sith use terror to lead their troops, and Sith commanders have few 
compunctions about making examples of underlings. Therefore, it is not 
surprising that the Sith use the anger and fear of their subordinates to their 
own terrible advantage. 

Desperate Measures: Desperation stems from fear. Once per encounter 
as a swift action, you instill desperation in all allies within 12 squares of 

_you and in your line of sight, allowing each of them to make an immediate 
attack at a -5 penalty. 

Prerequisite: Focus Terror. 

Focus Terror: Once per encounter as a swift action, you can harness the 
fear felt by your allies and transform it into a powerful motivational tool. All 
allies within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight move +2 steps along 
the condition track, but suffer a -2 penalty on attack rolls and skill checks 
for a number of rounds equal to your character level. 

Incite Rage: Once per encounter as a swift action, you can channel your 
anger and hatred into your allies. All allies within 12 squares of you and in 
your line of sight gain a +1 rage bonus on attack rolls but take a -2 penalty 
to their Reflex Defense. This effect lasts until the encounter ends, or you are 
knocked unconscious or killed. 

Power of Hatred: Once per encounter as a swift action, you can inflame 
the passions of your allies. Each ally within your line of sight who has fewer 
than half its normal hit points gains bonus hit points equal to your character 
level. Damage is subtracted from the bonus hit points first, and any bonus 
hit points remaining at the end of the encounter go away. Bonus hit points 
from different sources do not stack. 

Prerequisite: Incite Rage. 


*‘SENCEFORTH, YOU 
WiLL TAKE ORDERS 
ONLY FROM ME- 
REPORT ONLY 
TO ME.” 


-DARTH KRAYT 


PRESTIGE CLASSES 


The following new prestige classes are available during the Legacy era. 


PRESTIGE CLASS BASIC DESCRIPTION 
Imperial Knight A Jedi Knight loyal to Emperor Roan Fel. 
Shaper A Yuuzhan Vong shaper. 


IMPERIAL KNIGHT 

The Imperial Knights are Jedi who dedicate themselves to the preservation of 
the new Galactic Empire and the defense of Emperor Roan Fel—not unlike the 
Royal Guard that once protected Emperor Palpatine, though their training in 
the Force distinguishes them from that organization. Despite opinions to the 
contrary, Imperial Knights are every bit as capable in the use of the Force as 
their Jedi counterparts, though their training has considerably more martial 
focus. During the height of the Sith-Imperial War, the Imperial Knights were 
forbidden from participating in the fighting. Instead, they served as the 
Emperor's personal guard. 

At any given time, there are as few as a dozen Imperial Knights or as many 
as three score. Casualties within the Order have been high since Darth Krayt 
declared himself Emperor. The remaining Imperial Knights continue to serve 
Roan Fel closely, with many fighting an insurgent war against the Sith and 
their Imperial forces. 

Recruitment within the Imperial Knights is limited to individuals who 
demonstrate both Force potential and loyalty to Roan Fel. Like Jedi, Impe- 
rial Knights are permitted to take on apprentices, but only one at a time 
and only once they have mastered their own skills to a sufficient degree. 
Apprenticeships are personally approved by the Emperor, as are promotions 
within the structure of the Order. Only the highest ranking Imperial Knight 
is designated as a “master,” subject to Roan Fel's approval. 

Imperial Knights reject the use of the dark side of the Force, yet true 
Jedi still feel that the Imperial Knights lack a balanced approach to their use 
of the Force. Controlling fear and managing one's emotions in the face of 
adversity is paramount to the ideology of the Imperial Knights, as is loyalty 
to their Emperor. They are warriors first and foremost, not negotiators, and 
they make no excuses for this fact. 


4 
iy 
a 
bit 
i 


x0) 
y 
m 
0 
a 
® 
W 
0) 
ii 
> 
f 
@ 
Wy 
@ 


Sessevieq@ geILSEe) fF 


ANTARES DRACO, IMPERIAL KNIGHT 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
ist +1 Defense bonuses, talent 
2nd +2 Force technique 
3rd +3 Talent 
4th +4 Force technique 
5th +5 Talent 
6th +6 Force technique 
7th +7 Talent 
8th +8 Force technique 
9th +9 Talent 
10th +10 Force technique 


EXAMPLES OF IMPERIAL 
KNIGHTS IN STAR WARS 

Sigel Dare, Antares Draco, Marasiah Fel, Mohrgan Fel, Roan Fel, Ganner Krieg, 
Azlyn Rae, Treis Sinde, Elke Vetter. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become an Imperial Knight, a character must fulfill the fol- 
lowing criteria. 

Base Attack Bonus: +7. 

Trained Skills: Use the Force. 

Talents: Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers). 

Special: Must be a sworn defender of Emperor Roan Fel. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Imperial Knights have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, Imperial Knights gain 1d10 hit points + their Constitution 
modifier. 


Force Points 

Imperial Knights gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their 
character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this 
class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the Imperial Knight prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude, and Will 


Defenses. 


Talents 
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent. 


The talent can be selected from the Armor Specialist talent tree (see page 
51 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), the Lightsaber Combat talent tree (see 
page 41 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), the Duelist talent tree (see page 
218 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), the Knight's Armor talent tree (see 
below), or the Knight's Resolve talent tree (see below). You must meet the 
prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more 
than once unless expressly indicated. ; 
KNIGHT'S ARMOR TALENT TREE 

You are a skilled master of the Force who knows how to get the most out 
of your armor. 

Armored Augmentation I: Once per encounter, you may spend a Force 
Point as a swift action to augment your own ability to withstand damage 
by imbuing the armor you are wearing with the Force. This allows you to 
add your armor bonus to Reflex Defense to your damage threshold until the 
end of the encounter. 

Prerequisite: Armor Proficiency with the type of armor worn. 

Armored Augmentation II: Whenever you use the Armored Augmenta- 
tion | talent, you also gain DR equal to 2 x your armor's equipment bonus 
to Fortitude Defense. 

Prerequisite: Armor Proficiency with the type of armor worn, Armored 
Augmentation |. 

Armor Mastery: When calculating your Reflex Defense, you may add your 
heroic level plus one-half your armor bonus (rounded down) or your armor 
bonus, whichever is higher. You must be proficient with the armor you are 
wearing to gain this benefit. 

This talent counts as both the Armored Defense and Improved Armored 
Defense talents for the purposes of prerequisites. 

Cortosis Defense: You are adept at using a cortosis gauntlet to parry 
lightsaber attacks. You gain a +2 bonus when making an opposed unarmed 
melee attack roll against a lightsaber attack. 

Cortosis Retaliation: Whenever you successfully use a cortosis gauntlet 
to parry an attack made with a lightsaber, you may make an immediate attack 
of opportunity against the attacker. 

Prerequisite: Cortosis Defense. 


KNIGHT'S RESOLVE TALENT TREE 
You have dedicated your life to serving the rightful Emperor, and your devo- 
tion knows no bounds. 

Knight's Morale: When an ally within 12 squares of you and within your 
line of sight hits with a lightsaber attack, you gain a +1 morale bonus to all 
defenses until the end of your next turn. 

Oath of Duty: When an ally within 12 squares of you and within your 
line of sight hits with a lightsaber attack, you gain bonus hit points equal 
to 3 x your class level until the end of your next turn. Damage is subtracted 
from the bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining at the 
end of the encounter go away. Bonus hit points from different sources do 
not stack. 

Praetoria Ishu: You can use the Block talent to negate a melee attack 
made against an adjacent ally. In addition, you can use the Deflect talent to 
negate a ranged attack made against an adjacent ally. 

Prerequisite: Block, Deflect. 

Praetoria Vonil: You have mastered the offensive lightsaber style favored 
by the Imperial Knights. When wielding a single lightsaber with two hands, 
you deal +1 die of damage if you move at least 1 square on your turn before 
making the attack. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus (lightsabers). 

Strength of the Empire: When an ally within 12 squares of you and in 
your line of sight hits with a lightsaber attack, you deal +1 die of damage with 
the next lightsaber attack you make before the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Knight's Morale. 


Force Techniques 

You have learned improved techniques to attune yourself to the Force. At 
every even-numbered level, you gain one Force technique that, once selected, 
cannot be changed. 


“WE HAVE SWORN 
AN OATH OF 
LOYAL TY"-“AND THE 
EMPEROR HAS 
SPOKEN.” 


-GANNER KRIEG 


SESssviIg selL.eeuc) 


ui 


Boe 


SessviI1eg) gsoiLsshe) 


{ SSsicvHs 


SHAPER 
Among the Yuuzhan Vong, shapers are the engineers of biotechnology. Their 
skills afford them special distinction and allow them to command great 
respect in Yuuzhan Vong society. Nearly everything used by the Yuuzhan 
Vong, from their world-affecting terraformers to simple garments, are 
manufactured by shapers. 

Shapers once adhered to strict protocols that acted as blueprints for their 
creations. Violation of shaper protocols could result in harsh punishments 
and accusations of heresy, but during the Legacy era these repercussions are 
generally ignored by Yuuzhan Vong who are far removed from their people. 
This allows some shapers to use their biotechnical expertise on non-Yuuzhan 
Vong—a practice that is unpredictable and oftentimes abominable. 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 

Ist +0 Defense bonuses, talent 
2nd +1 Shaper lore +1 

3rd +2 Talent 

4th +3 Shaper lore +2 

5th +3 Talent 

6th +4 Shaper lore +3, shaper hand 
7th +5 Talent 

8th +6 Shaper lore +4 

9th +6 Talent 

10th +7 Shaper lore +5 


EXAMPLES OF SHAPERS 

IN STAR WARS 

Ahsi Yim, Ch'Gang Hool, Ghithra Dal, Kae Kwaad, Kotaa Zun-gin, Mezhan 
Kwaad, Nen Yim, Qelah Kwaad, Suung Aruh, Taug Molou, Tih Qigah, Tjulan 
Kwaad, Tsun Qel, Yakun Kwaad, Yal Phaath, Zhul Yim. 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a shaper, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria. 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Species: Yuuzhan Vong. 

Feats: Biotech Specialist. 

Trained Skills: Knowledge (life sciences), Treat Injury. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Shapers have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, shapers gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution modifier. 


Force Points 
Shapers, like all Yuuzhan Vong, never gain Force Points. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the shaper prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At 1st level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Will Defense and a +2 class 
bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 


Talents 2 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent. The 
talent can be selected from the Advanced Medicine talent tree (see page 54 
of The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide), the Implant talent tree (see below), 
or the Shaper talent tree (see below). You must meet the prerequisites (if 
any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once unless 
expressly indicated. 


IMPLANT TALENT TREE 
Some shapers develop implants that can be placed quickly and easily, tem- 
porarily boosting the physical prowess of their beneficiaries. 

The following talents all grant effects that last until the end of the 
encounter. At the end of the encounter, any target that benefits from one 
or more of these talents immediately moves -3 steps down the condition 
track, and the condition becomes persistent. The persistent condition can 
only be removed after 8 hours of rest, or by performing successful surgery 
(as per the application of the Treat Injury skill) on the target. 

Adrenaline Implant: Once per encounter as a standard action, you can 
give one adjacent living creature an adrenaline implant. The target must be 
willing to receive this implant, which grants the target 10 bonus hit points 
at the start of each of its turns. These bonus hit points do not accumulate. 
Damage is subtracted from the bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit 
points remaining at the end of the encounter go away. Bonus hit points from 
different sources do not stack. 

Precision Implant: Once per encounter as a standard action, you can give 
one adjacent living creature a precision implant. The target must be willing 
to receive this implant, which grants the target a +1 equipment bonus on 
attack rolls until the end of the encounter. 

Resilience Implant: Once per encounter as a standard action, you can 
give one adjacent living creature a resilience implant. The target must be 
willing to receive this implant, which grants the target a +5 equipment bonus 
to its damage threshold until the end of the encounter. 


Speed Implant: Once per encounter as a standard action, you can give 
one adjacent living creature a speed implant. The target must be willing to 
receive this implant, which increases the target's base speed by 2 until the 
end of the encounter. 

Strength Implant: Once per encounter as a standard action, you can give 
one adjacent living creature a strength implant. The target must be willing 
to receive this implant, which allows the target to deal +1 die of damage 
whenever it hits with a melee attack until the end of the encounter. 


SHAPER TALENT TREE 
You manipulate Yuuzhan Vong biotechnology in new ways, molding it to your 
own ends and making it more effective. 

Biotech Mastery: When using the Biotech Specialist feat to modify 
biotechnology, you are able to make the appropriate modification in half 
of the normal time for half the normal cost. In addition, you can take 10 
on the Mechanics check (even when distracted or threatened), but you 
cannot take 20. 

Expedient Mending: You can temporarily mend a damaged or disabled 
biotech device using the Treat Injury skill (see page 32) as a standard action 
instead of a full-round action. 

Prerequisite: Expert Shaper. 

Expert Shaper: You may reroll any Treat Injury check made to repair or 
modify a biotech object, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even 
if it is worse. 

Master Mender: Whenever you temporarily mend a biotech device using 
the Treat Injury skill (see page 32), the mended device moves +4 steps on the 
condition track. In addition, the mended device only moves -3 steps down 
the condition track at the end of the scene or encounter, and is only disabled 
if this reduction brings it to -5 steps on the track. 

Prerequisite: Expert Shaper. 

Skilled Implanter: Whenever you use the Biotech Surgery feat to install 
an implant, the implant's attack bonus against the recipient's Fortitude 
Defense is halved (see page 67 for more information on implants). 

Prerequisite: Biotech Surgery feat. 


Shaper Lore 

You are skilled at building, modifying, and repairing biotechnology. Because 
of this intimate familiarity, you gain a bonus equal to one-half your class level 
(rounded down) on all Knowledge (life sciences) and Treat Injury checks you 
make with regards to biotech devices, regardless of size or complexity. 


Shaper Hand 
At 6th level, a Yuuzhan Vong shaper is expected to replace at least one of his 
hands with what is known as a shaper hand. A shaper hand is a bioengineered 
appendage equipped with a number of tools that assist in tasks specific to 
shaping. A shaper who declines to attach a shaper hand when permitted to 
do so is often viewed with suspicion by other Yuuzhan Vong. 

A shaper hand replaces the need for a biotech tool kit (see page 65). 


sseevig selLsEUe) 


CHAPTER IV 
THE FORCE 


tf 


co 


Legacy era, there is no balance to the Force. Instead, the dark side 
Force holds sway, and the influence of evil can be felt everywhere. 
ith Sith Lords in every sector and at the heads of Imperial space fleets, 
e influence of the dark side is stronger than ever, and far more visible. The 
ith act overtly, making it clear that they rule the Empire and, by extension, 


is harder to see than ever before. 

izens of the galaxy heed the power of the Force and view Force- 
ers—even benevolent ones—with suspicion and fear. They see the Force 
a blunt weapon used by the Sith to tyrannize and subjugate the galaxy. 
le average citizen of the galaxy may not know a lot about the way the 
rece works, but they are-wise enough to avoid anyone with red and black 
tattoos and a lightsaber. 

All Jedi are hunted during this era, and frightened people know better than 
to help a Jedi in need. Still, the Jedi Order's fire has not completely gone out 
of the universe, and across the galaxy many still struggle to keep the flamé 
of hope alive. With each passing day, the Jedi recover more from the blow 
dealt to them by the Order's destruction at the end of the Sith-Imperial War, 
and in remote parts of the galaxy there exist those who have the will and 
the strength to fight off the influence of the dark side of the Force. 


‘la 
| ie 
‘|b 
is V0) 
ae 
1) 
P') 
1 1S 


S9u0g SH1 


Al HdStlavHoa 


Be8@Od PAL 


FORCE-USERS 
IN THE LEGACY ERA 


Force-users in the Legacy era are few and far between, at least outside of 
the ranks of the Sith. The Jedi have once again been nearly exterminated 
following the destruction of the Jedi Temple on Coruscant and the Jedi 
Academy on Ossus. Only a handful of Jedi survived these attacks, most of 
them by virtue of the fact that they were elsewhere at the time. 

Darth Krayt has placed exorbitant bounties on the surviving Jedi, lead- 
ing every bounty hunter, scoundrel, and thug to search for any signs of a 
lightsaber or Force use. Darth Maladi—Krayt's spymaster and the head of Sith 
Intelligence—has a complete listing of every active Jedi as of the massacre 
at Ossus, which she uses to determine the value of each bounty (usually 
5,000 credits x the CL of the Jedi). When bounty hunters capture a Jedi, they 
contact the Empire (through one of the special communications frequencies 
distributed on bounty postings by Imperial Intelligence) and arrange for the 
Empire to pick up the prisoner. A Sith Lord and a squad of Knighthunters 
(special stormtroopers trained to fight Jedi) meet with the bounty hunters 
to take control of the Jedi and deliver the payout. From there, the Sith bring 
the Jedi back to Coruscant, whereupon the prisoner is turned over to Darth 
Maladi for interrogation and eventual execution. 

Darth Krayt's Empire is neither ignorant nor tolerant of the many other 
Force traditions in the galaxy, particularly those that might oppose the 
Empire's advance or those with strong ties to the Jedi. For example, the 
Jensaarai, though small in comparison to the Jedi Order, is one of the first 
groups targeted in the wake of the Sith-Imperial War. However, the Empire is 
not so indiscriminate as Emperor Palpatine and his Inquisitors. Whereas the 
Sith of the past were simply content to eradicate the other Force-users of the 
galaxy, Darth Krayt at least gives members of other Force traditions a choice: 
They can join him and pledge their loyalty to the Sith Lord, or they can die. 
(Rarely does he afford a Jedi the same choice.) These traditions have a less 
violent history of conflict with the Sith, and as such may be more inclined 
to consider Darth Krayt's "proposal." Not surprisingly, many of the Sith in 
Darth Krayt's Empire are former members of other Force traditions, among 
them former Jensaarai Defenders, Nightsisters, and other Force adepts who 
succumbed to the temptation offered to them by the Sith Lord. 


Whereas the Star Wars saga traditionally focuses on the conflict between 
the Jedi and the Sith, having the Sith become involved with the members 
of a non-Jedi tradition opens up some interesting adventure possibilities. 
For example, Force-using heroes that turn to the dark side may now go on 
to become Sith Lords, returning to the campaign as adversaries at the head 
of an Imperial fleet. Likewise, heroes who are members of alternate Force 
traditions have the chance to experience many of the same dramatic stories 
as the Jedi, such as having an apprentice turn to the dark side or confronting 
a former mentor who has become an agent of evil. Moreover, the Gamemaster 
is free to create Sith Lords that use the interesting powers and backgrounds 
normally reserved for other Force traditions. 

Though Darth Krayt offers members of non-Jedi Force traditions the 
opportunity to join his side, he is less lenient with those who are found to 
harbor Jedi on the run. When the Sith discover that a sect of Force-users 
has been harboring a Jedi, they show no mercy and make no offer to join 
the Sith; the organization is simply wiped out and the Jedi brought back to 
Coruscant for questioning. 


THE HIDDEN TEMPLE 
Under the guidance of Grand Master Luke Skywalker, the Jedi Order rebuilds 
itself and grows to incredible heights after the war with the Yuuzhan Vong. 
However, the growth and prosperity of the Jedi Order ends with the onset of 
the Sith-Imperial War. To keep the Jedi tradition alive in the face of extinction, 
Jedi Master Nat Skywalker leads the construction of a secret temple and keeps 
its existence hidden even from other Jedi. Unfortunately, the defeat of the 
Galactic Alliance at Caamas coupled with the massacre of the Jedi at Ossus 
spells doom for the Jedi Order. Nat Skywalker's secret redoubt, dubbed the 
Hidden Temple by those Jedi who once knew of it, passes into obscurity as 
the few survivors of the Order are scattered to the far corners of the galaxy, 
hunted by the Sith and the Empire. 

The Hidden Temple is located on the planet Taivas deep within a massive, 
subterranean cavern. It is actually constructed of several capital starships 
connected to one another by various permanent edifices and enclosed 
walkways. Although the Jedi are careful not to leave behind records or cargo 
manifests that might lead enemies to Taivas, the Sith, in searching for just 
such a hidden redoubt, learn that Jedi had purchased several capital ships 
for the purpose of creating a mobile, hidden fleet. Rumors still persist in 
many Imperial circles that such a fleet exists, and this is exactly the kind 
of misdirection that Nat Skywalker planned when he chose the design for 
the Hidden Temple. 


Since the final destruction of the Jedi Order at Ossus, the Hidden Temple 
has seen little of its intended use. Over the years since the Order's dissolu- 
tion at the hands of the Sith, a few Jedi Masters have found their way to the 
temple. However, most surviving Jedi have no idea that a secret Jedi base 
exists far from the eyes of the Empire or the Sith. Following Cade Skywalker's 
escape from Imperial clutches, the Hidden Temple sees renewed activity, and 
several surviving Jedi Knights and Jedi Masters congregate there to meet with 
one another and plot a course for the surviving members of the Order. 

The location of the Hidden Temple cannot be learned through skill checks; 
instead, finding the location of the Hidden Temple should be the reward for a 
short adventure, or something acquired during the course of the campaign. 
Once the heroes know that Taivas is their destination, reaching the Hidden 
Temple is no simple matter. Pilots, copilots, or systems operators on ships 
approaching Taivas need to make a DC 20 Use Computer check to locate an 
entrance to the cavern housing the Hidden Temple, and then pilots must suc- 
ceed on three consecutive DC 20 Pilot checks to approach it safely. Failing 
the Use Computer check means that the character fails to find an entrance, 
and failing a Pilot check results in a collision with a Colossal (cruiser) size 
rocky outcropping in the passage leading to the cavern. 


THE IMPERIAL 
KNIGHTS 


The Imperial Knights are a small organization that serves Emperor Roan 
Fel. Trained in the Jedi arts, the Imperial Knights are far more than mere 
bodyguards and agents. They are charged with protecting the most wanted 
individual in the galaxy from Darth Krayt, the self-proclaimed ruler of the 
Galactic Empire. The Imperial Knights must not only protect their leader 
physically but also protect his secrecy and keep him from being located by 
those who would hunt him down. It is the goal of every Imperial Knight to see 
Roan Fel safely returned to his rightful place as Emperor of the galaxy. 

Though the Imperial Knights are trained in many of the same techniques 
and philosophies as the Jedi, their method and credos differ markedly. Where 
the Jedi Knights spare a good deal of time for contemplation of the Force 
and believe strongly in introspection and meditation, the Imperial Knights 
take a far more pragmatic view of the Force. They view the Force is a tool, 
albeit a powerful one to be respected. They know that the Force cannot be 
used out of anger or selfishness, because even the Imperial Knights know the 
dangers of falling to the dark side. The Imperial Knights have little time for 
any master but the rightful Emperor of the galaxy, and as such there is much 
less differentiation between Imperial Knights who have trained apprentices 
and those who have not. 


Skilled in the art of lightsaber combat, the Imperial Knights use many of 
the same combat training techniques as the Jedi, and have learned to fight 
in many of the same lightsaber dueling styles. However, the Imperial Knights 
are also the masters of two unique lightsaber combat forms that place greater 
emphasis on teamwork than one's individual prowess. The more aggressive 
style, known as praetoria vonil, focuses on moving quickly and striking hard. 
The more defensive style, known as praetoria ishu, emphasizes protecting 
one's allies to allow them to find openings in an opponent's defenses. 

More information on the Imperial Knights can be found in Chapter 10: 
The Empire. 


IMPERIAL KNIGHT 

LIGHTSABER Ss 

One of the unique aspects of Imperial Knight training is the manner in 
which they craft their lightsabers. Though they are heirs to the Jedi tradi- 
tion, they do not follow the Jedi practice of lightsaber creation. Where the 
Jedi treat the crafting of a lightsaber as a sacred tradition, for the Imperial 
Knights the creation of a lightsaber is given little more significance than 
learning a new Force power or fighting style. The lightsaber is but a tool, 
and not a wholly necessary one at that. The Imperial Knights devote as 
much attention to fighting barehanded, in vehicles, and with the Force 
as they do to fighting with lightsabers. 

Imperial Knights craft lightsabers using the same methods as the Jedi, 
though with far less ceremony. Additionally, the Imperial Knights do not 
seek out special crystals from planets like llum, as Jedi did during the 
days of the Old Republic. Instead, the Imperial Knights create synthetic 
crystals using techniques first detailed i in Emperor Palpatine’ s writings, 
specifically in one of his treatises on the dark side of the Force: The Book 
of Anger. Despite the fact that the tome is filled with dark side lore, the 
process of crafting synthetic lightsaber crystals (a method used by the 
Sith for millennia to create their red-bladed lightsabers) is little more 
than a mechanical process, bereft of ceremonial trappings. The Imperial 
Knights adapted these techniques to create their familiar white-bladed 
lightsabers. 


eaUued SHA, 


/ |0 

i id 
> 
q 
4 
Oo 
a 
< 


io 


Al eStavHgD 


geyEOc) PAA 


THE SITH 

With the deaths of Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine, it seemed by many 
as though the Sith had finally been extinguished from the galaxy. However, 
the forces of darkness are not so easily dispatched. A former Emperor's Hand, 
Lumiya, helped carry on the Sith tradition for a while, but the true resur- 
rection of the Sith begins on the planet Korriban, where a devotee named 
A’Sharad Hett learns the ways of the Sith tradition and discovers a group of 
Sith cultists planting the seeds of their eventual return. Hett proves to be 
the catalyst for this event, and his ascension to the rank of Sith Lord seals 
the galaxy's fate. 


SiITH ACOLYTES 

Though the Sith rule the galaxy from the Imperial throne on Coruscant, 
not all of those who serve Darth Krayt are Sith Lords. The Sith maintain 
a cadre of students, sycophants, and aspirants who are collectively 
called acolytes. These acolytes mostly serve on Coruscant where they 
act as aides and assistants to the Sith Lords. Darth Maladi has the 
largest collection of acolytes at her disposal, which is not surprising 
given her penchant for using agents outside of the Sith Order (including 
her Sith spies). The acolytes serve much the same purpose as Darth 
Sidious’ Imperial advisors; they are semi-trusted confidants who serve 
alongside the Sith as they rule the galaxy, providing them with advice, 
service, and loyalty. 

Most Sith acolytes are hangers-on who walk the path of the dark 
side of the Force but who, for whatever reason, do not have the capacity 
to master the mysteries that the Force presents to all students. They 
might know a few tricks, but rarely do their Sith masters allow them 
to attain anything approaching true power. They serve their chosen 
Sith Lord for as long as they are considered useful, after which point 
they are disposed of. Some acolytes have managed to survive for many 
years in the service of their Sith masters, and many believe that, as a 
reward for their faithful service, they will be taken on as a true Sith 
apprentice to be taught the ways of the dark side. 

Sith acolytes are not considered part of Darth Krayt's Sith Order 
per se, though some of them pick up bits of lore culled from the teach- 
ings of the Sith. Although they seldom qualify for the Sith apprentice 
prestige class, Gamemasters who wish to create Sith acolytes for their 
own games can waive the requirement that the character must be a 
member of the Sith tradition. However, Sith acolytes should likely have 
no more than one or two talents from the Sith apprentice prestige class, 
and even that should represent the most elder acolytes. Sith acolytes 
make good mid-level opponents for heroes fighting against the Empire; 
they might even have a few Force tricks up their sleeves, but in the end 
they lack the power of a full-fledged Sith apprentice. 


A'Sharad Hett emerges from Korriban as Darth Krayt, leader of the new 
Sith Order. He rescinds the Rule of Two put in place by Darth Bane thousands 
of years ago, which limited the Sith to a single master and apprentice. He 
issues the Rule of One: the declaration that there will be one Sith Order 
composed of many Sith Lords and apprentices, all united under his rule. The 
return of the Sith in force spells doom for the Galactic Alliance. However, 
unlike previous iterations of the Sith Order, Darth Krayt succeeds in control- 
ling the petty ambitions of the Sith Lords under his command and focuses 
their rage against the Jedi Order. 

For more information on the Sith, see Chapter 10: The Empire. 


THE MALEVOLENCE 


Asmall group found on the Deep Core world of Prakith, the Malevolence are 
the living protectors of the tomb of Darth Andeddu, an ancient Sith Lord who 
once claimed Prakith as his domain. The Malevolence is a relatively isolated 
dark side cult that dwells within the tomb of Darth Andeddu and has for 
thousands of years since his death. The cult has sent out members to recruit 
new guardians, and as the cultists grow old and die off while waiting on their 
master's resurrection, they are replaced by new blood who see it as their 
duty to guard the tomb and eventually be rewarded for their loyal service. 
The Malevolence trains in the ways of the dark side of the Force, and their 
cult has preserved Sith knowledge for millennia by passing it down from one 
generation to the next. 

The Malevolence is a great example of one of the many smaller organi- 
zations that ancient Sith Lords cultivated during their reigns. The original 
members of the Malevolence were recruited in secret by Darth Andeddu to 
serve as his disciples. Upon his death, he charged them with guarding his tomb 
until he one day rose to lead them again. Despite the fact that this practice 
went against Sith doctrine, several other Sith Lords did much the same thing. 
For Gamemasters looking to introduce aspects of the ancient Sith into their 
games, tomb-guarding cults such as the Malevolence demonstrate how to 
take elements of the past and bring them forward into the Legacy era. 

Cults such as the Malevolence can be used in a variety of ways to bind 
the past to the present. For example, the heroes might stumble across one 
such tomb during their adventures, unleashing dark side cultists upon an 
unsuspecting galaxy, or discover technology thought lost for thousands of 
years. Similarly, such cults hand down knowledge from one generation to 
the next, and Force powers or other lore could still be actively taught among 
these cults despite having been gone from common knowledge in the galaxy 
for millennia. These tomb-guarding cults effectively become isolated time 
capsules from which a Gamemaster can introduce lost lore, technology, 
powers, organizations, and even individual characters. 


DARTH AYT'S HOLOCRON 
There is.a secret known only to two individuals in the galaxy that could 
prove to be the catalyst for great change: Darth Krayt, Emperor of the 
galaxy and ruler of the Sith, is dying. However, this is not the only secret 
shared by Darth Krayt and Darth Wyyrlok. 

Since Darth Krayt discovered the true extent of his body’ s degradation, 
the Sith Lord has been crafting a holocron to store the sum total of his 
knowledge as well as his beliefs and philosophies. However, at the height 
of the Sith-Imperial War, this holocron is not yet complete. Despite this 
fact, the holocron is still a repository for great knowledge, including many 
secrets and bits of lore known only to Darth Krayt himself. 

Were the holocron to fall into the hands of the Galactic Alliance or the 
Hidden Temple, it could be analyzed for signs of weakness and perhaps 
uncover secret plans previously unknown to the galaxy at large. If the 
holocron were found by Darth Krayt's rivals within the Sith Order, it could 
lead to a coup d'etat, further fragmenting the Empire and plunging the 
galaxy into a war of many factions. 


FORCE POWERS 
The following Force powers are available to any character who has the Force 
Sensitivity feat (see page 85 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). These Force 
powers represent the variety of powers available to Jedi, Sith, and other Force 
traditions—both light and dark—in the Legacy era. 

Telekinetic Powers: Powers with the /te/ekinetic] descriptor are included 
among the powers affected by talents such as Telekinetic Power and Teleki- 
netic Savant (see page 100 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


BALLISTAKINES!IS [CTSELEKINETIC]I 
You use the Force to spray an area with dangerous debris. Time: Standard 
action. Targets: All targets within a 2x2 area (the entire area must be within 
12 squares of you and in your line of sight). 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to the Reflex Defense 
of each target in the affected area. If the check result equals or exceeds the 
target's Reflex Defense, the target takes 3d8 points of bludgeoning, piercing, 
or slashing damage (your choice) and takes a -2 penalty on all attack rolls 
until the start of your next turn. This is an area attack. 

Special: You may spend a Force Point when you activate this power, in 
which case targets whose Reflex Defense you fail to exceed with your skill 
check take half damage. 


COMBUSTION 

You use the Force to agitate particles in the air to create a pyrokinetic spray 
of sparks. Time: Standard action. Targets: All targets within a 2x2 area (the 
entire area must be within 12 squares of you and in your line of sight). 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to the Fortitude 
Defense of each target in the affected area. If the check result equals or 
exceeds a target's Fortitude Defense, the target takes 4d6 points of fire 
damage and catches on fire. If the attack misses, the target takes half damage 
and does not catch on fire. This is an area attack. 

The result of your Use the Force check determines the attack bonus of 
the fire each round it burns. This replaces the fire's normal attack bonus (see 
page 255 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Special: You can spend a Force Point to move one target hit by this power 
-1 step along the condition track. 


DARK TRANSFER [DARK SIDE] 
You use the dark side of the Force to restore vitality to a living ally. Time: 
Standard action. Target: One other living creature touched. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any. 

DC 15: The target heals a number of hit points equal to your character 
level. 

DC 20: The target heals a number of hit points equal to 2 x your character 
level. 

DC 25:The target heals a number of hit points equal to 3 x your character 
level. 

DC 30:The target heals a number of hit points equal to 4 x your character 
level. 

Special: Each time you use dark transfer, you move -1 persistent step 
down the condition track, and you gain 1 Dark Side Point. You must rest for 8 
hours to remove this condition. You may spend a Force Point to avoid moving 
down the condition track when you use this Force power. 


DETONATE [TELEKINETIC] 
You can perceive points of weakness within an object and use the Force to 
telekinetically press on those points, shattering the object. Time: Standard 
action. Target: One unattended object within 12 squares of you and in your 
line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any. 

DC 20: The object takes 4d6 points of damage. 

DC 25: The object takes 6d6 points of damage. 

DC 30: The object takes 8d6 points of damage. 

DC 35: The object takes 10d6 points of damage. 

Special: You may spend a Force Point when you activate this power to 
increase the damage dealt by +2d6. 


Bw 
I 
> 
v 
of 
0) 
Dit 
< 


eBS8Eed 9AL 


0} 
a G 
> 
U 
4 
0 
ee 
< 


Bea8EOq) SAL 


ENLIGHTEN [LIGHT SIDE, MIND- 
AFFECTING] 

You reach out to an ally telepathically, sharing visions of the near future to 
give the ally an edge or to protect the ally from harm. Time: Swift action 
or reaction. Target: One ally within 12 squares of you and in your line of 
sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. The target may use the check result instead 
of one attack roll, skill check, or opposed check it makes before the start of 
your next turn, or the target can use the check result in place of one of its 
defenses until the start of your next turn. 

Special: You may spend a Force Point when you activate this power to 
prolong the effect until the end of your next turn. 


FORCE SHIELD [TBLEKINETICI 
You use the Force to create a mobile bubble of telekinetic energy around 
yourself, protecting you from harm. Time: Reaction. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the-check determines the 
effect, if any. 

DC 15: You gain a shield rating (SR) of 5 until the beginning of your next 
turn. Unlike other shields, this shield is made of pure telekinetic energy and 
cannot be recharged by any means. 

DC 20; As DC 15, except you gain SR 10. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except you gain SR 15. 

DC 30; As DC 15, except you gain SR 20. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point when you activate this power to 
increase the power's SR by 5. You can maintain your concentration on a 
Force shield to continue to gain the benefit of the power's SR from round to 
round, extending the normal duration. Maintaining the Force shield power 
is a standard action. If the power's SR is ever reduced to 0, the power's 
effect ends. 


LIGHTNING BuRST [DARK SIDE] 
You call upon the dark side to cause lightning to arc out from your body, 
striking adjacent enemies. Time: Standard action. Targets: All enemies 
adjacent to you. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to each target's Reflex 
Defense. If the attack hits, the target takes 3d6 points of Force damage and 
moves ~1 step along the condition track. If the attack misses, the target takes 
half damage and does not move along the condition track. 

Special: You may spend a Force Point when you activate this power to 
increase the damage dealt by +2d6. 

You can maintain the lightning burst power as a standard action, provided 
you haven't moved since activating the power. When you maintain the power, 
make a new Use the Force check and compare the result to the Reflex Defense 
of each target in range (as described above). 


OBSCURE [(MIND-AFFECTING] 

You use the Force to cloud an enemy's mind, making it harder for the enemy 
to see its target. Time: Reaction. Target: One enemy within 12 squares of 
you and in your line of sight that just made an attack roll. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to the target's Will 
Defense. If the check result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, the 
target takes a -5 penalty on the attack roll. If the target misses with the 
attack, you can choose to make the target reroll the attack against another 
creature adjacent to it; this attack is also at a -5 penalty. 

Special: You may spend a Force Point when you activate this power to 
apply the penalty to all of the target's attack rolls made until the start of 
its next turn. 


PRESCIENCE 
The Force grants you a flash of insight in dealing with your enemies. Time: 
Swift action. Target: One enemy within your line of sight. 

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the 
effect, if any. 

DC 15: Until the end of your next turn, you gain a +1 insight bonus to all 
defenses against attacks or effects originating from the target, as well as a 
+1 insight bonus on attack rolls made against the target. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the insight bonuses increase to +2. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the insight bonuses increase to +3. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point when you activate this power to 
affect one additional enemy in your line sight. 


STAGGER [TELEKINETIC] 
You use the Force to lash out at a nearby enemy, causing it to stumble. Time: 
Swift action. Target: One enemy adjacent to you. 

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to the target's Fortitude 
Defense. If the check result equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, 
the target takes 2d6 points of Force damage and is pushed 1 square away 
from you. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Special: You can spend a Force Point when you activate this power to 
affect all enemies adjacent to you, in which case compare your Use the Force 
check result to each target's Fortitude Defense. 


FORCE TALENTS 

Whenever a character who has the Force Sensitivity feat would normally gain 
a talent (such as from advancing to an odd-numbered level in a heroic class), 
he or she can instead select a Force talent from among those in Chapter 6 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook or those presented below. If a character who 
has the Force Sensitivity feat is a member of a Force-using tradition (see page 
57 of this book and page 103 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), he or she 
can instead select a Force talent from that Force tradition's talent tree. 


ALTER TALENT TREE 
The following new talent expands the Alter talent tree (see page 100 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Move Massive Object: When you successfully use the move object power 
to move an object of Large size or bigger, you can make an area attack with 
the object instead of throwing it at or dropping it ona single target, as normal 
for the power. You must spend a Force Point when you activate the power 
to do this, and the area you target is based on the size of the object: Large, 
2x2; Huge, 3x3; Gargantuan, 4x4; Colossal and larger, 6x6. 

When you use move object to make an area attack with the object you 
are moving, you compare your Use the Force check to the Reflex Defense 
of each creature, droid, and vehicle in the target area. If your check equals 
or exceeds the target's Reflex Defense, it takes damage from the object 
(as determined by the move object power). Otherwise, the target takes half 
damage. This is an area effect. 

Prerequisites: Telekinetic Power, move object 


MOveE OBJECT 

REALITY CHECK 

When you use the move object power to hurl an object at one or more 
targets, it doesn't cease to take up space on impact. For particularly 
large objects, you as the Gamemaster have several options. First, you 
can describe the object as breaking up on impact, crumbling into several 
smaller objects and (at your discretion) creating difficult terrain without 
displacing anyone in the affected spaces. For objects that are less likely to 
break up on impact, you can rule that the object now occupies a certain 
amount of space, and any creature occupying a space taken up by the 
object automatically moves to the nearest unoccupied space adjacent 
to the object (without provoking attacks of opportunity). 


CONTROL TALENT TREE 
The following new talent expands the Control talent tree (see page 101 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Telekinetic Stability: Whenever an attack or effect would normally move 
you against your will (such as being targeted by a Bantha Rush, or being 
moved by Force thrust or stagger power), you can spend a Force Point to 
negate that movement. 


DARK SIDE TALENT TREE 
The following new talent expands the Dark Side talent tree (see page 101 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Dark Preservation: Whenever an effect would normally move you down 
the condition track, you may spend a Force Point and increase your Dark Side 
Score by 1 to negate that movement down the condition track. 

Prerequisite: Power of the Dark Side. 


FORCE TECHNIQUES 


Force techniques represent a deeper understanding of the Force and require 
years of practice. A few gifted or devoted Force-users learn to master them 
more quickly. In general, Force techniques are available only to characters 
with levels in certain Force-using prestige classes, such as Force adept, 
Imperial Knight, Jedi Knight, and Sith apprentice. 

When you gain access to a new Force technique, you can select it from 
those on pages 102-103 of the Saga Edition core rulebook or from the 
techniques described below. Once selected, a Force technique cannot be 
changed. 


DETOXIFY POISON 

You can use the vital transfer power to treat a poison affecting the target. 
Instead of the normal effect of the vital transfer power, you can compare 
the result of your Use the Force check to the poison's DC (see page 255 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). If you equal or exceed the poison’s DC, you 
detoxify the poison as per the use of the Treat Injury skill. 


IMPROVED BALLISTAKINESIS 
When you use ballistakinesis, you may spend a Force Point to target a 3x3 
area instead of a 2x2 area. 


IMPROVED DARK TRANSFER 

When you use dark transfer, you may spend a Force Point to revive a creature 
that died since the end of your last turn. You must succeed on a DC 25 Use the 
Force check. If the check succeeds, the target creature is unconscious instead 
of dead and does not heal any hit points from the use of dark transfer. 


aove. sHsp 


7 


AL HSidvHg 


BSa9ecq) FAL 


IMPROVED DETONATE 

When you use the detonate power, you also damage enemies near the tar- 
geted object. Compare the result of your Use the Force check to the Reflex 
Defense of all enemies within 2 squares of the object. If your check equals or 
exceeds the enemy's Reflex Defense, the enemy takes slashing damage equal 
to one-half the damage sustained by the object. This is an area attack. 


IMPROVED ENLIGHTEN 
When you use the enlighten power, you may spend a Force Point to affect 
one additional ally. 


IMPROVED LIGHTNING BURST 

When you use the lightning burst power, also compare the result of your 
Use the Force check to each target's Fortitude Defense. If your check result 
equals or exceeds both a target's Reflex Defense and its Fortitude Defense, 
you push the target 1 square away from you and knock the target prone. 
This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 


IMPROVED OBSCURE 
When you use the obscure power, you may spend a Force Point to gain a +5 
Force bonus on your Use the Force check. 


IMPROVED FORCE SHIELD 

When you use the Force shield power, you can spend a Force Point to expand 
the radius of the Force shield so that it protects you and all allies adjacent 
to you. Alternatively, you can spend a Destiny Point to have the Force shield 
protect a vehicle you occupy, regardless of the vehicle's size. If the vehicle 
already has a Shield Rating, the SR of the vehicle and the SR granted by this 
power do not stack. 


IMPROVED STAGGER 
When you use the stagger power, you may spend a Force Point to push your 
target 2 squares away from you, instead of just 1 square. 


DEATH STICKS : | 
Death sticks are a kind of narcotic found throughout the galaxy, typi- 

cally trafficked by unscrupulous crime lords and used to obtain leverage — 
against those who become addicted to the drug. Death sticks come in 
a variety of forms, including a liquid form that can be consumed in a 
drink, and produce a temporary euphoric effect. Unfortunately, the side 
effects are devastating, as each use ravages the user's immune system — 
and measurably shortens the user's lifespan. Death sticks are also highly _ 
addictive, as the length of the euphoric reaction shrinks with each use, . 
requiring the most heavily addicted users to consume several times the 
normal amount just to get a sustained reaction from the death sticks. — 
Death sticks are illegal on many worlds for precisely this reason, as some - 
populations (including the Balosars) have been seriously impacted by 
death stick use among youths. Recovering from deathstick addiction i is 
difficult and usually requires medical assistance. 

However, Death Sticks also have a second purpose, at least for Cade 
Skywalker and others like him. As a former Jedi Padawan, Cade's connec- 
tion to the Force is strong, and, as a result, he is more able to sense the 
drug's effects on Force sensitivity. As Cade discovers after obtaining death 
sticks from the pirate Rav, deathstick use dulls one's connection to the 
Force, at least for a short while. Cade uses death sticks to prevent the Force 
spirits of his ancestors from visiting him as frequently. A Force-user that 
partakes in death sticks can shut himself off from the emotions of those 
around him and eliminate visions of the future, past, and present, which 
(for those who have experienced great tragedies, like Cade Skywalker) can 
be preferable despite the physical toll of death stick use. 

Death Stick Rules: Consuming a death stick grants the user a +1 
morale bonus on all attack rolls and a +1 morale bonus to defenses for 
the duration of the death stick's euphoria. During that time, the user 
takes a -10 penalty on all Use the Force checks and cannot spend Force 
Points. Death stick euphoria initially lasts for 1 hour, but each subsequent 
use reduces the length of the euphoria by 5 minutes. At the end of the 
euphoria’s duration, the death stick makes an attack roll at a +10 bonus 
(increase by +1 for each subsequent death stick use) against the Fortitude 
Defense of the user; if the attack hits, the target becomes addicted to 
the death sticks. 

A character addicted to death sticks moves -1 persigient step down 
the condition track each day he does not use death sticks, and the 
persistent condition can only be removed by the use of a death stick. 
If a character can go for one week without death stick use, his or her 
addiction can be broken by another character who succeeds on a DC 25 
Treat Injury check. This skill check can be attempted once per day, and 
others can aid the check using the aid another action. 


OTHER FORCE-USING 
TRADITIONS 


Although the Sith, the Imperial Knights, and the shattered fragments of the 
Jedi Order take center stage in the Legacy era, there is still plenty of room 
for other Force-using traditions. Force-using traditions on the fringe of 
society are largely ignored by the powers that be, and thus have plenty of 
opportunities to thrive and expand their influence. 

The following two Force-using traditions are suitable for use in a cam- 
paign set during the Legacy era. Although these traditions are predominantly 
unaligned, one tradition—the Disciples of Twilight—is more appropriate for 
player characters than the other—the Ember of Vahl. Players may choose to 
play characters who are members of the Ember of Vahl at their Gamemas- 
ter's discretion. 


THE DISCIPLES OF TWILIGHT 

The Disciples of Twilight have little influence beyond Dyspeth, a habitable 
moon that perpetually falls in the shadow of a remote and unremarkable 
Outer Rim planet. 

Dyspeth's original colonists were Humans who sought to break away from 
the Old Republic just over nine hundred years prior to the Battle of Yavin. 
The colonists, quickly forgotten, were rediscovered by a Republic survey 
team after five hundred years of peaceful settlement. Though wary of the 
Republic's motives, the people of Dyspeth reentered the galactic community, 
albeit as quiet merchants and traders. 

The Disciples of Twilight formed shortly after Dyspeth was originally 
colonized. The founder, known only as Twilight, is rumored to have been a 
former Jedi who left the Jedi Order in search of a new beginning. Using her 
Force abilities, Twilight sought to unite other Force-sensitive colonists in an 
effort to adapt to the darkness of their new home. Since then, the Disciples 
of Twilight have become defenders of Dyspeth’s people, even though they 
hold no military or political power on the shadowy moon. 

The Disciples of Twilight concern themselves primarily with using the 
Force to manipulate light. When members of the Disciples of Twilight move 
out into the galaxy at large, they find themselves capable of much more, since 
most worlds are brightly lit compared to their own. The Disciples of Twilight 
have learned to bend light using the Force, a technique that has also been 
displayed by other Force adept sects such as the Fallanassi. They share similar 
powers but also possess new abilities unseen elsewhere in the galaxy. 

Since Dyspeth's discovery by the Republic, the Disciples have filtered out 
into the neighboring systems. Their motives are unclear, but they seem con- 
cerned with protecting the weak from the depredations of the strong. While 
their actions have yet to defy the Sith-controlled Empire, there have been 
rumblings within the organization that they are about to choose a side. 


A DISCIPLE OF TWILIGHT. 


Membership: The membership of the Disciples of Twilight consists largely 
of natives of Dyspeth. Despite this, the movement has gained several new 
members since the moon's discovery by the Republic, and anyone with Force 
sensitivity and a taste for shadowy justice is welcome to join. 


DISCIPLE OF TWILIGHT TALENT TREE 
The Disciples of Twilight embody shadow, using the Force to manipulate 
light and darkness. 

Cloak of Shadow: You can spend a Force Point as a swift action to bend 
light around you, veiling yourself in shadows. Until the end of the encoun- 
ter, whenever you move and end your movement at least 3 squares away 
from your starting position, you gain concealment from all targets until the 
beginning of your next turn. 

Phantasm: Whenever you successfully use a Force power with the 
[mind-affecting] descriptor against a target, any time before the end of the 
encounter you can spend a Force Point as a swift action to create illusory 
phantoms around that target. When you do this, you and all of your allies 
within the target's line of sight have concealment from the target until the 
end of your next turn. 


Al HStavHsa 


J 
a 
W 
U 
@ 
2) 
®) 
W 


J 
BIg 
W 
U 
0) 
2) 
® 
W 


Al BSioavHs 


Revelation: As a standard action, you can make a Use the Force check 
against the Will Defense of an enemy that has concealment from you or any 
of your allies. If successful, the enemy is silhouetted by a faint shimmering 
light that belies his location. Your target loses any concealment bonuses to 
Reflex Defense until the end of your next turn. 

Shadow Armor: You use the Force to bend light around yourself, wrapping 
you in shadows and making it difficult for enemies to tell where you end and 
the shadows begin. As a swift action, you grant yourself a +1 Force bonus 
to your Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn. 

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select it, the 
Force bonus it provides increases by +1 (maximum +4). 

Prerequisite: Cloak of Shadow. 

Shadow Vision: As a swift action, you gain low-light vision, allowing 
you to ignore concealment (but not total concealment) from darkness. This 
benefit lasts for 5 minutes or until the end of the encounter, whichever 
comes first. 


THE EMBER OF VAHL 

The Ember of Vahl is a cult that worships Vahl, a goddess of fiery destruction. 
The membership of the cult is primarily made up of the Vahla, a nomadic 
near-Human species that plies the galaxy in an endless search for their 
homeworld. The ancestors of the cult were decadent and twisted beings that 
lived only to serve their goddess. Because of their destructive tendencies and 
devotion to the dark side, they were decimated by the Jedi Knights several 
thousand years ago. In the millennia since, their descendents have eked out 
an existence as interstellar vagabonds. 

Small-scale piracy and petty theft is used to fuel the limited economy of 
the Vahla. They are also known to abduct individuals for use as sacrifices to 
their goddess. Though individual Vahla often set out on their own, all mem- 
bers of the species are expected to heed the demands of a central coven that 
consists of six priests who have been “chosen” by Vahl. The priests consult 
with Vahl via farseeing, interpret omens, and make policy for their people. 
Being true disciples of their goddess, the six Chosen of Vahl scar themselves 
in a display of faith and devotion. 

Vahl is an embodiment of the destructive nature of the dark side of the 
Force. It is thought that the original Vahl was a powerful Force adept who led 
her people to take control of their lost homeworld prior to being destroyed 
by the Jedi. She is often depicted as a mature female Vahla with smoldering 
black eyes and flowing ash-white hair. 


VAHLA 


Because of their species’ defeat in ages long past, the Vahla remain embit- 
tered and hateful of the Jedi Order. During the Dark Times, a number of Vahla 
helped the Empire hunt down Jedi Knights. In the Legacy era, this tradition 
continues, with Vahla plying the galaxy as independent bounty hunters. 

Membership: Not surprisingly, most members of the Ember of Vahl are 
of the Vahla species (see sidebar). On the rare occasion that they accept 
non-Vahla into their ranks, the individual must possess the Force Sensitivity 
feat and must demonstrate his faith through a number of dangerous and 
fiery trials. Despite the fact that all Vahla are born Force sensitive, not all 
of them become members of the cult. 


EMBER OF VAHL TALENT TREE 
Members of Vahl's cult look to their goddess for inspiration. Over the years, 
they have developed talents that slant toward the destructive. 

Initiate of Vahl: Having been formally initiated into Vahl's priesthood, 
you are resistant to the effects of fire and extreme heat. You take half 
damage from attacks that deal fire damage, or no damage on a miss (if the 
fire damage is part of an area attack). 

Reading the Flame: You can enter a trance by staring into a flame of 
any size, gaining insight into the workings of the galaxy by meditating on 
the flame's movement. Whenever you use the farseeing power or the Search 
Your Feelings application of the Use the Force skill, you can reroll your Use 
the Force check, keeping the better result. 

Prerequisite: Initiate of Vahl. 

Sword of Vahl: Your devotion to Vahla allows you to eschew advanced 
weapons in favor of simple implements of war. You gain a +1 Force bonus 
on attack rolls made with simple weapons. 

Prerequisite: Initiate of Vahl. 

Vahl's Brand: Any additional damage you deal with an empowered 
weapon (see the Empower Weapon talent, page 214 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook) is considered to be fire damage. 

Prerequisite: Empower Weapon. 

VahlI's Flame: As a swift action, you can use the Force to call forth the 
sparks of your goddess, wreathing your weapon in flames. Until the begin- 
ning of your next turn, any successful attack you make with a melee weapon 
deals an additional 1d6 points of fire damage. 

Prerequisite: Initiate of Vahl. 


y 


*YOU CANNOT DENY YOUR POWER 
IS THERE WHETHER YOU WILL IT 
YOU MUST LEARN THE DISCIPLINE 


FORCE; IT 
OR NOT. 


New Species: | 
The Vahla are a tall near-Hi ] : 
age 2 meters tall, with females being somewhat shorter Their skin color 
ranges from dusky brown to dark gray, while their eyes are typically pale : 
shades of blue, gray, or lavender. Hair color runs the gamut from black 
and gray to white, or some combination of the three. Rare Vahla who 
are born with red hair are considered blessed by their goddess. Physi- 
ologically, Vahia are similar to baseline Humans with a number of slight 
differences. The largest variation is that their skeletons primarily consist 
of thick cartilage, as opposed to bone, which gives them greater wey 
compared to Humans and other heat-Humans, ; 


VAHLA SPECIES TRAITS 

All Vahla share the following traits: : 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, -2 Constitution. The Vahla are 
naturally bright and shrewd, but they are physically frail. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Vahla have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: 6 squares. ay 

Dark Side Stigma: Whether they know it or not, each none: of the 
Vahla species is forever bound to the dark side of the Force. Vahla must 
spend 2 Force Points to reduce their Dark Side Score by 1. 

Force Sensitivity: All Vahla gain Force Sensitivity as a bonus feat. 

Cartilaginous Skeleton: Vahla skeletons are primarily made of car- 
tilage instead of bone. A Vahla can reroll any Acrobatics check, but the 
result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Languages: Basic and Vahla. 


IN| THE 


TO MASTER IT." 


-DARTH VADER 


CHAPTER V 


EQUIPMENT AND DROIDS 


7 


% = 
ae) 
Wie 


Ros 


¥ 


om 


een 
te, 


% 


Technology 


manufacturers a 


and players a 


> 


PSS 


es and goes, but some things never change. Blasters are still 
the weapon oftehoice in the Legacy era, and most of the major weapons 
still producing new models to keep up with their competi- 
ors. Most technology changes at about the same relative rate, however, and 
such the statistics for various weapons, armor, and pieces of equipment 
main unchangedjin a Legacy era campaign. 

Technologically the Legacy era represents a time when everything old is 
w again, and beings throughout the galaxy can be seen wearing armor or 
Iding weaponsfthat have been around since the Clone Wars, if not before. 


In game terms, tMiis means that almost any weapon, suit of armor, or piece of 


juipment from previous eras fits in a Legacy campaign, and Gamemasters 
e are encouraged to find interesting stories behind how such 
retro equipment found its way into the hands of Legacy heroes. 

Of gorse, Imperial restrictions still make it difficult to get a hold of 
some items. The Galactic Empire under Darth Krayt has reverted to many 
of the draconian practices that were common under Palpatine, and items 
of Military availability are considered Illegal in the hands of anyone not 
either directly associated with the Empire or awarded special dispensation 
from the Imperial bureaucracy. As in the days of the Galactic Civil War, the 
Empire tightly controls who obtains weapons that can be used against the 
Imperial forces, meaning that weapons smugglers can have lucrative careers 
supplying the means to fight tyranny and oppression. 


BioTrTeCcCH 
The term “biotech” is a new phrase used to describe the biological technol- 
ogy introduced by the Yuuzhan Vong. The term biotech can be applied to 
devices, weapons, armor, and even vehicles, and it acts as a descriptor that 
indicates certain new rules mechanics. A biotech object is defined as any 
object of distinct Yuuzhan Vong origin, such as amphistaffs, razor bugs, 
thud bugs, and Vonduun crabshell armor; additionally, any object with the 
biotech template (see page 66), any vehicle with the living vehicle template 
(see page 69), and Yuuzhan Vong bio-implants (see page 67) are also always 
considered to be biotech devices. 
Biotech devices have the following special rules associated with them: 
© They require the Treat Injury skill (not the Mechanics skill) to repair. 
© Knowledge checks concerning biotech use Knowledge (life sciences) 
instead of Knowledge (technology). 
© They are more difficult to sense and grasp with the Force (see page 
33). 
© They may be modified using the Biotech Specialist feat (see page 
34), but not the Tech Specialist feat (see page 21 of Starships of the 
Galaxy). 


Ssainoyud GNY .ANSaWwadinog 


A HeStdvHD 


STUN DMG WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE 
2.3 kg Bludgeoning Restricted 


Shock whip 1,200 1d6 


STUN DMG WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE 
0.5 kg 


Tehk'la blade 8,500 2d6 


Piercing and slashing Rare 


STUN DMG WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


LIGHTSABERS COST DAMAGE 


- 2 kg 


Long-handle lightsaber 4,500 2d8 


MELEE WEAPONS 


As in many other time periods, melee weapons are largely secondary to 
ranged weapons. However, some weapons, such as those listed in this sec- 
tion, are favored by iconic characters in the era, and are likewise suitable 
for use by heroes. 


Long-Handle Lightsaber 

Lightsaber 

A weapon favored by the Sith Lord Darth Nihl, the long-handle lightsaber 
caters to a particular fighting style. The weapon's handle grip is several times 
larger than the standard lightsaber, making it easier to swing the weapon 
around the body using arms, legs, shoulders, hips, and other joints as fulcrums 
upon which the lightsaber can be levered. 

The fighting style used with a long-handled lightsaber takes advantage 
of the larger grip to allow the wielder to rotate the weapon around his body. 
When you wield the lightsaber two-handed, you can choose to forego dou- 
bling your Strength bonus to damage and instead increase the lightsaber's 
base damage to 2d10. 

A long-handle lightsaber requires an energy cell to operate. 


Shock Whip 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
A nasty weapon deemed by many to be unnecessarily painful, the shock whip 
has been used by warriors throughout the galaxy for generations. Fast and 
cruel, the shock whip is the chosen weapon of the Mistryl Shadow Guards 
and is also used by the Sith Lord Darth Maleval. A shock whip consists of a 
metal grip from which extend long, thick wires woven together into a single 
strand. The metal grip houses a power cell that can send a surge of energy 
through the shock whip's cord, issuing an electric shock to the target. 

A shock whip is a melee weapon with a reach of 2 squares. When you hit 
with the shock whip, the target takes normal damage from the weapon (as 


Energy and slashing Rare 


listed on Table 5-1: Melee Weapons). Also on a hit, you can choose to make 
a grab attack (as a free action) against the target using the whip, provided 
the target is no more than one size category larger than you. Unlike a normal 
grab attack, you make a second attack roll at the normal attack bonus with 
the whip, and you do not take a -5 penalty on the attack roll. If this second 
attack roll hits, the target is grabbed. As a swift action once per turn, you 
can automatically deal 2d6 energy damage to a target grabbed by the shock 
whip (no additional attack roll required). 

If you have the Trip feat, you can choose to use the shock whip to knock 
the target prone instead of making a grab attack. 

While grabbing a target with the shock whip, you cannot use the weapon 
to make attacks against any other targets. 

A shock whip requires an energy cell to operate. 


Tehk'la Blade 

Exotic Weapon 

The tehk'la blade is a handheld weapon in common use throughout Nagai 
society. Similar in design to vibrodaggers, tehk'la blades are fashioned indi- 
vidually for, and often by, the owner of the weapon. The leading edge of a 
tehk'la blade is serrated, and vibration inducers cause it to oscillate at several 
thousand cycles per minute, enhancing its cutting power. 

The Nagai fighting style that employs tehk'la blades relies on wounding 
an enemy, whittling him down until his lack of effectiveness permits a killing 
blow. The blades are designed to tear and rend as they are withdrawn from 
stab wounds, making them particularly fearsome in the hands of a trained 
combatant. If the attack roll made by the wielder of a tehk'la blade equals 
or exceeds both the target's Reflex Defense and its Fortitude Defense, the 
target takes an additional 1d6 points of damage from bleeding at the start 
of its next turn. 

A tehk'la blade requires an energy cell to operate. 


RANGED WEAPONS 


The galaxy is a dangerous place, even with the iron hand of the Empire 
restricting the sales of different kinds of weapons, and individuals still rely 
on ranged weapons for their own personal safety. In addition, Yuuzhan Vong 
weapons such as thud bugs and razor bugs have become increasingly common 
among fringers who disregard the ban on such weapons. 


Blaster Carbine, Double-Barreled 

Rifle 

A favorite weapon among those who live on the fringe of society, the double- 
barreled blaster carbine packs a powerful punch yet is small enough to con- 
ceal under loose clothing. Unlike a normal blaster carbine, the double-barreled 
Carbine is incapable of making autofire attacks. However, the weapon can be 
Switched to a “double shot" setting as a swift action. While in double shot 
Mode, the weapon acts as an area effect weapon, targeting everything in a 


2-square-by-2-square area. A target hit by the weapon takes full damage 
(half damage if it has the Evasion talent), or half damage if the attack misses 
(no damage if the target has the Evasion talent). Each double setting attack 
consumes 2 shots. The wielder cannot use any feat, talent, or other effect 
that consumes more than one shot in a round (including Double Attack and 
Rapid Shot) while using this weapon in double shot mode. 

Like all blaster carbines, the double-barreled blaster carbine can be used 
to make attacks of opportunity, even without a folded stock. 

A double-barreled blaster carbine requires a power pack to operate. After 
50 shots, the power pack must be replaced. 

Cade Skywalker carries a custom double-barreled blaster carbine, modi- 
fied for him by Bantha Rawk. 


Blaster Carbine, Hunting 

Rifle 

The hunting blaster carbine combines the reduced weight and portability of 
a carbine with the ability to take down a target quickly. A hunting blaster 
carbine is incapable of making autofire attacks, but on a critical hit, a hunting 
blaster carbine's damage dice change from d8s to d10s. 

Hunting blaster carbines have a retractable stock. Like all blaster carbines, 
the hunting blaster carbine can be used to make attacks of opportunity even 
if its stock is not folded. 

A hunting blaster carbine requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, 
the power pack must be replaced. 

The Wookiee bounty hunter Chak carries a hunting blaster carbine. 


Blaster Carbine, Sporting 
Rifle 
The sporting blaster carbine is designed to take the compact design of the 
blaster carbine and increase its accuracy, making it more competitive at long 
ranges. A sporting blaster carbine is not treated as an inaccurate weapon 
when wielded in two hands. 

Like all blaster carbines, the sporting blaster carbine can be used to make 
attacks of opportunity, even without a folded stock. 

A sporting blaster carbine requires a power pack to operate. After 100 
shots, the power pack must be replaced. 

The bounty hunter Jariah Syn uses a sporting blaster carbine on 
occasion. 


A SBSaidvHoS 


SGQIGYUG GNY LWNSEWAIAGSs 


SEGIEVNG GNY ANWEWEINeS) 


EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
ee, ,”r”r”r—C—=«sssiC w:Cslrtrtrsrststd«sdsés#nr#ét##élC:C;:C®#®CC:C«C;ssC«sésé«C4#séC sss 
Concealed dart launcher 1,900 - Yes (3d8) S 0.5 kg Piercing Illegal F 
PISTOLS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Lo ,,srs—™.r—=“=EER...... ..t=<‘“‘aseysséCé#zsO®C;CN 
Blaster pistol, snap shot 250 3d6 - S 1 kg Energy Illegal 
eS 
Blaster pistol, bluebolt' 850 3d8 Yes 5 1.6 kg Energy Military 

RIFLES COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
a 
Blaster carbine, double-barreled’ * 1,200 3d8 Yes Ss 1.9 kg Energy Restricted 
Blaster carbine, hunting! 1,000 3d8 Yes 5 2.1 kg Energy Restricted a 
Blaster carbine, sporting! 1,000 3d8 Yes S 2.6 kg Energy Restricted 
EE =_ se Cd 
Blaster rifle, heavy assault! 3,000 3d10 - A 7 kg Energy Military 


SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


‘Razor bug? 800 2d8 - Ss 0.5 kg Slashing Illegal, Rare 
Thud bug 800 2d8 Yes S 0.5 kg Bludgeoning Illegal, Rare 
1 Inaccurate Weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at long range. 


2 Accurate Weapon: This weapon takes no penalty when firing at targets at short range. 
3 Area Attack Weapon: See Area Attack, page 155 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


Blaster Pistol, Bluebolt Blaster Pistol, Snap Shot 

Pistol Pistol 

Named for the blue chrome that adorns the body of the original models of A favorite among intelligence agents, undercover law enforcement, and 

this pistol, the bluebolt blaster pistol is much larger than a normal blaster criminals in need of a well-concealed weapon, the snap shot blaster pistol isa _ 

pistol. However, the weapon is balanced with a heavy grip and a light barrel, variant of the hold-out blaster pistol often perceived as a last resort weapon. 

making it easy to wield in one hand. It carries a single round of ammunition in its power pack, and because of its 
The bluebolt blaster pistol can stun targets as far away as 8 squares compact design, a snap shot blaster pistol grants a +5 equipment bonus on 

(instead of the usual 6-square range). However, the weapon consumes one Stealth checks made to conceal the weapon. 

additional shot with each stun attack. A snap shot blaster pistol requires a power pack to operate. After one 
A bluebolt blaster pistol requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, shot, the power pack must be replaced. 


the power pack must be replaced. Morrigan Corde uses a snap shot blaster pistol in emergencies. 


Deliah Blue uses a bluebolt blaster pistol. 


Blaster Rifle, Heavy Assault 
Rifle 
A large rifle designed to give a single person enough firepower to take out 
a whole squad of enemies, the heavy assault blaster rifle is restricted to 
military use under Imperial law. When a heavy assault blaster rifle scores a 
critical hit, its damage dice change from d10s to d12s. 

A heavy assault blaster rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 50 
shots, the power pack must be replaced. 

Morrigan Corde carries a heavy assault blaster rifle on difficult missions, 
such as when she breaks into the Sith Temple on Coruscant to rescue Cade 


Skywalker. 


Concealed Dart Launcher 
Exotic Weapon 
Worn on the wrist and usually concealed by clothing, this weapon fires toxic 
darts. A dart can be filled with contact poisons, but by default it contains 
a potent sedative that effectively deals stun damage to the target. Unlike 
weapons set to stun, a concealed dart launcher can deal stun damage to 
targets farther than 6 squares away. A concealed dart launcher is treated as 
a pistol for purposes of determining range. 

Because of its compact design, a concealed dart launcher grants a +5 
equipment bonus on Stealth checks to conceal the weapon. 

A concealed dart launcher requires a bundle of darts to operate. After 6 
shots, the bundle must be replaced. 

Deliah Blue often uses a concealed dart launcher to bring down her targets 
quickly and without causing lethal damage. 


Razor Bug 

Simple Weapon 

Razor bugs are small, disc-shaped insects engineered by the Yuuzhan Vong 
to serve as ranged weapons. Though they are thrown by hand, razor bugs are 
shaped in such a way that they fly with great speed, distance, and accuracy, 
making them an effective replacement for longer-ranged weapons. A thrown 
razor bug is treated as a simple weapon, not a thrown weapon, for purposes 
of determining range. 


Thud Bug 

Simple Weapon 

Like razor bugs, thud bugs are insects engineered by the Yuuzhan Vong to 
serve as ranged weapons. A thrown thud bug is treated as a simple weapon, 
not a thrown weapon, for purposes of determining range. Additionally, the 
wielder can choose to deal stun damage instead of normal damage against 
a target at point-blank or short range. 


EQuIPMENT 
The following new pieces of equipment are suitable for use by heroes in a 
Legacy era campaign. 


Biotech Tool Kit 

You need a biotech tool kit to modify Yuuzhan Vong biotechnology, install 
a bio-implant, or otherwise alter biological devices and vehicles. A standard 
biotech tool kit consists of a variety of implements and tools that look more 
at home ina medical kit than in a tool kit, and unlike a normal tool kit, items 
in a biotech tool kit cannot double as improvised weapons. 


Comlink, Hands-Free 

The hands-free comlink is a convenient device often used by beings work- 
ing under conditions where both hands are needed to perform a task. This 
comlink consists of several linked sound-absorbing pads, placed on the 
face of the user and connected to an earpiece. When the wearer speaks, the 
sound-absorbing pads transmit the speech; additionally, the comlink can be 


A SBldvyHga 


SGIGHG GNY LWEIWANIACS) 


S@GIOHG GNY LNEWEAINeS 


adjusted to pick up only the faintest of whispers, allowing the wearer to use 
the comlink to communicate quietly when stealth is important. Morrigan 
Corde frequently uses a hands-free comlink. 

A hands-free comlink functions as a short-range comlink, but does not 
have video or holo capability. 


Spy Bug 
This Diminutive, bioengineered insect records sights and sounds within 
20 squares of it. It can be placed in a hidden area and remains there until 
retrieved. When the spy bug is retrieved, the data that is has absorbed 
through its senses for the past 24 hours can be extracted. (The Yuuzhan 
Vong use living devices to retrieve the data, but a DC 25 Mechanics check 
can transmit the data via electronic connectors or comlink.) 

A spy bug functions as a holorecorder unit (see page 136 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). A spy bug registers as a life form on sensors, not as 
an electronic device. : 


COMMUNICATION DEVICES COST WEIGHT 
Comlink, hands-free 150 ae 04 
DETECTION AND 

SURVEILLANCE DEVICES COST WEIGHT 
Spyoug. ae 1,300 is 0.5 
TOOLS COST WEIGHT 
Biotech tool kit a eae 1 
BIO-IMPLANTS COST WEIGHT 
Body spikes ae 1,400 - 
Cosmetic enhancements 200 - 
Euhanoed veions ce OO 
Natural armor 7,000 - 
Natural weapon _ 4,000 Be 
Poison filter 2,500 - 
Replacement body part 2,000 - 


YUUZHAN VONG 
BioTecrH 


Most biotech devices created by the Yuuzhan Vong serve the same purposes 
as their mechanical or electronic counterparts. You can create new biotech 
devices by applying the following template to standard technological devices, 
armor, and weapons. Once the template is applied, the new biotech device 
may be used with the biotech feats and talents. Note that certain weapons 
and devices have no biotech equivalent, including most explosives, exotic 
weapons, and lightsabers. 

To turn a standard technological device into a biotech device, apply the 
following modifications: 

Cost: A biotech device costs four times as much as its technological 
equivalent. (For example, a biotech breath mask costs 800 credits, whereas 
a normal breath mask costs 200 credits.) 

Availability: Biotech devices are considered Rare across most of the 
galaxy. Biotech weapons are normally Illegal in the Legacy era. 

Armor: Armor with the biotech template has its weight reduced by one- 
half. This does not change the armor's type (medium armor remains medium 
armor, heavy armor remains heavy armor). Repairing a suit of “living armor" 
requires the Treat Injury skill (see page 32). 

Equipment: Most equipment requires no special modifications. However, 
some biotech devices may rely on natural power supplies or require special- 
ized training to use successfully. Such devices may be used without penalty 
by the Yuuzhan Vong and others with biotech-related feats and talents. 
Those without such knowledge must apply a -5 penalty to any skill checks 
or attacks made when using unfamiliar biotech devices. 

Weapons: A biotech weapon derived from a weapon that deals energy 
damage deals bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage instead; the type 
of damage is selected when the template is applied. 


“| HAD NEVER 
SEEN A SHIP LIKE 
THE ONE THAT 
ENGULFED ME, 
OR WARRIORS LIKE 
THE ONES ! FACED, 
OR WEAPONS LIKE 
THE ONES THAT 
DOWNED ME.” 


-DARTH KRAYT 


BIO-IMPLANTS 

Their invasion of the galaxy thwarted, the Yuuzhan Vong withdrew to Zonama 
Sekot. A small few elected to remain behind, carving out lives for themselves 
on remote, undeveloped worlds or integrating into galactic society. A small 
number of Yuuzhan Vong shapers took this latter path and began using their 
advanced knowledge of bioengineering to make biological alterations to other 
sentient beings. These modifications were illegal, not to mention unpredict- 
able and dangerous. Still, Yuuzhan Vong biological modification became 
an intriguing alternative to cybernetic enhancement, which had for years 
allowed criminals to gain a technological edge over their competitors. 

Obtaining a Yuuzhan Vong bio-implant is risky business, for all of the 
implants and modifications listed here are Illegal. Most of the rogue shapers 
that offer bio-modification do so from the darker corners of the galaxy, 
far from the probing eyes of the Galactic Empire. Moreover, they are rarely 
interested in Imperial credits, instead seeking payment in the form of favors, 
services, or bartered goods. The costs for these bio-implants are listed on 
Table 5-3: Equipment and represent the credit value of the modification; 
Gamemasters are encouraged to require that any heroes seeking Yuuzhan 
Vong bio-implants perform some task for the shaper, or provide rare or 
illegal goods of the same value in trade. While the GM is free to allow the 
character to simply purchase one of these enhancements, they lose some 
of their uniqueness and mystery if the hero simply hands over a credit stick 
and receives the enhancement. 

For example, one of the player characters might be looking to obtain the 
enhanced vision bio-implant, valued at 1,900 credits. Instead of just allowing 
the hero to pay for the enhancement, the Gamemaster decides to stage a 
short side adventure in which the heroes must deliver a message to a secret 
Yuuzhan Vong enclave on Felucia. Since the credit reward for that adventure 
is the same as the cost of the enhancement, the Gamemaster determines 
that the heroes receive no credit reward, but the hero in question obtains his 
bio-implant as reward for delivering the message. Of course, when the Empire 
hears that someone who has sought illegal Yuuzhan Vong enhancements will 
be traveling to Felucia, things could get dangerous. ... 

Yuuzhan Vong bio-implants are like cybernetics in many respects, 
especially in regards to game mechanics. Implanting a Yuuzhan Vong bio- 
implant requires the Biotech Surgery feat (see page 34). Once installed, 
the biotech enhancement functions as described under the individual 
entry. Any character trained in Treat Injury can remove a bio-implant by 
performing surgery; this requires a DC 20 Treat Injury check at the end of 
the procedure, using the normal rules for performing surgery (see page 74 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Sometimes the shaping of the new bio-implant has flaws, or the recipi- 
ent's body rejects the implant for some reason. When a bio-implant is first 
installed, make an attack roll (1d20+5) against the target's Fortitude Defense, 
with a cumulative +2 bonus on the attack roll for each implant the recipient 


already has. If the attack is successful, the recipient's body rejects the implant 
and the recipient moves -1 persistent step down the condition track. The 
bio-implant is also destroyed. This persistent condition can only be removed 
with 8 hours of uninterrupted rest; furthermore, any future attempt to install 
the same kind of bio-implant gains a +10 bonus to its attack roll. 

Because the Yuuzhan Vong have been cut off from the Force, much of 
their biotechnology hinders a being's connection to the Force. Creatures with 
Yuuzhan Vong bio-implants take a -1 penalty on Use the Force checks for 
each bio-implant (to a maximum penalty of -5). 


BIO-IMPLANTS AND THE LAW 
Since Yuuzhan Vong bio-implants are illegal, anyone walking around 
with a bio-implant on display is likely to get into legal trouble, especially 
on Imperial planets where the laws are strictly upheld. A character can 
attempt to hide a bio-implant using the Deception skill (as though 
creating a deceptive appearance, as discussed on page 65 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). Poison filters and replacements for internal 
organs require no Deception check to hide, as they are not plainly visible. 
Hiding most cosmetic enhancements and the enhanced vision implant 
is considered a simple deception; replacement body parts are usually 
moderate deceptions; body spikes, natural armor, and natural weapons 
are usually difficult deceptions. 

A character using sensors capable of detecting the physical health 
of a target (such as a medisensor, described on page 36 of Threats of 
the Galaxy) can detect the presence of bio-implants, including internal 
implants. A character with a sensor pack (see page 136 of the Saga Edi- 
tion core rulebook) gains a +5 circumstance bonus on Perception checks 
to see through the deception of hiding bio-implants. 

The penalty for having an illegal bio-implant is severe. Under Imperial 
law, the offense warrants immediate arrest. The fine for having illegal 
bio-implants is usually 5,000 credits x the number of implants possessed. 
Additionally, the offender must serve a minimum of 2 years in an Imperial 
corrections facility, where prison surgeons remove the bio-implants. 

Some individuals have special Imperial decrees that allow them to 
possess Yuuzhan Vong implants legally. All Sith are covered under these 
decrees, and Imperial bureaucrats can usually obtain this exception as 
a part of their badge of office (though few do, since it is often seen as 
a defilement of the body). Individuals might be able to bribe Imperial 
officials to overlook bio-implants, and possibly even to obtain an Imperial 
decree, though this latter option is usually expensive and requires some 
severe cajoling or the completion of some difficult task. 


SQIGUG GNY ANENAIA®S 


A BesicgvyHaD 


SIEVE ONY ANEMaINeES |) 


Cosmetic Enhancements 

More common and less risky than other Yuuzhan Vong bio-implants, cosmetic 
enhancements include tattoos, reshaping of bone structure, alterations to 
skin or hair color, superficial scarring, the addition of bony protrusions, and 
so forth. These cosmetic changes do not require an attack roll against the 
recipient's Fortitude Defense and ignore the normal rules for penalties on 
Use the Force checks. Cosmetic enhancements do not alter the statistics of 
their recipients in any way. 


Body Spikes 

Body spikes are hard, bony protrusions that grow in a roughly conical 
or crescent shape out of the bones of the implant recipient. Body spikes 
automatically deal 144 piercing and slashing damage to any opponent that 
grapples or is grappled by the recipient; this damage occurs at the end of 
the recipient's turn as long as the grapple is maintained. 


Enhanced Vision 

The enhanced vision implant replaces one or both of the recipient's eyes 
with specially grown creatures that have exceptional sensory perception. 
A creature with the enhanced vision implant gains the darkvision special 
quality (see page 257 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Natural Armor 

The natural armor implant consists of a thick layer of chitin that grows out 
of the recipient's skin, protecting the recipient from attacks. This implant 
increases the creature's natural armor bonus by +1. If a creature does not 
have a natural armor bonus, it gains a +1 natural armor bonus. A natural 
armor bonus stacks with an armor bonus. 


Natural Weapon 

This implant gives the recipient some kind of natural weapon, whether in the 
form of bone spurs on the knuckles, claws from the fingertips, or some other 
kind of extension of the recipient's bone structure. When a creature with this 
implant makes an unarmed attack, it may choose to use its natural weapons, 
dealing 1d6 points of slashing damage, piercing damage, or bludgeoning 
damage with that attack instead of normal unarmed damage. A creature with 
this implant is always considered armed with its natural weapons. 


Poison Filter 

A small creature is placed in, on, or around the heart. It absorbs and separates 
toxins that make their way into the blood stream, rendering them inert. 
A creature with a poison filter gains a +5 equipment bonus to Fortitude 
Defense against poisons. 


Replacement Body Parts 
Biological replacement limbs and organs are often more desirable than 
mechanical replacements (cybernetic prostheses), since they require little 
maintenance and can be fashioned to look natural. Yuuzhan Vong shapers 
have wildly varying tastes, but few could care less about whether a replace- 
ment limb matches the recipient's other limbs. 

Once a replacement limb or organ is attached, it performs just as well as 
the original limb or organ. 


TWO YUUZHAN VONG DEAL wiItTH AN FEG-SERIES PILOT DROID. 


LIVING VEHICLE TEMPLATE 

Used to represent everything from Yuuzhan Vong vehicles to the space- 
craft of Zonama Sekot, the living vehicle template allows you to create 
statistics for biological analogues of existing ships. Though the template 
won't present the fine mechanical tuning of designing a vehicle from 
scratch, if you just need a basic living vehicle comparable in firepower 
to an X-wing starfighter, the living vehicle template should suffice. 


Modifications 
To create a living vehicle, make the following changes to an existing 
vehicle. ; 

CL: The CL of a living vehicle is equal to its normal value + 2. 

SR: Typically, the SR of a living ship does not represent traditional 
shields but some other form of damage absorption. Yuuzhan Vong 
vessels use dovin basals to help negate damage. A living ship's SR is 
not reduced by a single attack, even if it exceeds the ship's current 
SR. A starship with its weapons set to autofire, however, reduces the 
living ship's SR as normal if the autofire attack's damage exceeds the 
ship's SR. 

Hit Points: Unlike a normal vehicle, Mechanics checks cannot be 
made to repair hit point damage to a living vehicle. The Treat Injury skill 
can be used to repair the vehicle's lost hit points. 

Natural Healing: A living vessel regains a number of hit points per 
day on its own equal to one-half its Fortitude Defense. These hit points 
are only regained when the vehicle is unused for 8 hours. 

Dovin Basals: Yuuzhan Vong living vehicles have dovin basals, 
small organisms that generate tiny black holes that can be used for 
special attacks. A dovin basal has the same range as a blaster weapon 
but cannot fire at targets at long range. A dovin basal does not deal 
normal hit point damage; instead, if the dovin basal's damage exceeds 
the target ship's SR, the ship's SR is reduced by 10 instead of by 5. 
Colossal and smaller ships have dovin basals that deal 7d10x2 damage, 
Colossal (frigate) ships have dovin basals that deal 5d10x5 damage, 
and Colossal (cruiser) and larger ships have dovin basals that deal 
7d10x5 damage. 

Tractor Beams: Yuuzhan Vong living vessels use their dovin basals as 
tractor beams. Other kinds of living ships have comparable alternatives 
to emulate a tractor beam's effects. 

Weapons: Living vehicles have analogues for most weapons. 
Weapons that deal energy damage alone typically deal fire damage 
instead of normal energy damage. Other weapons, even ion weapons, 
have analogues on a living vehicle. They behave exactly as the weapon 
does on the base vehicle. 


DROIDS 


The following droids are common sights across the galaxy during the 
Legacy era. 


FiRsTtT-DEGREE DROIDS 
First-degree droids are medical, analytical, or scientific droids. 


Pl-Series Medical Assistant Droid 

A popular droid among medical researchers, the Pl-Series medical assistant 
droid from Arakyd Industries provides surgeons and medics with all of the 
services of an aide without taking up as much space. This hovering droid 
has a simple, basic processor and is programmed to fulfill a variety of tasks 
related to medical treatment and surgery but cannot perform medical aid on 
its own. Since the Pl-Series medical assistant droid isn't capable of making 
critical decisions, it is usually paired with a skilled living doctor or a 3Z3 
medical droid (which is capable of higher logic functions). 

The Pl-Series medical assistant droid has an impressive memory buffer 
and can be outfitted with a vocabulator, allowing it to serve as a responding 
voice-activated archive of medical knowledge. 

The Sith Lord Darth Maladi makes extensive use of Pl-Series medical 
assistant droids. Since much of her work takes place in a laboratory, these 
droids assist the Sith without disturbing her, which is something that her 
living assistants could never do. 

Pl-Series medical assistant droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


Pl-Series Medical Assistant Droid CLO 

Small droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic (cannot speak), Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 11 

hp 7; Threshold 9 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed fly 6 squares (hover) 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d3-1) 

Base Atk +2; Grp -1 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con —, Int 15, Wis 13, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences], 
Perception, Treat Injury), Surgical Expertise 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +13, Perception +12, Treat Injury +12 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 3 claw appendages, 
2 tool appendages, improved sensor package 

Availability Licensed; Cost 3,500 credits 


SGIOYEG GNY ANeEWaINeaSs) 


1] 


qa A SeS4cdvHo 


ft) 
c 
U 
% 
W 
Zz 
4 
> 
22 
0 
Q 
0 
9 
9 
@ 


3Z3 Medical Droid 

A cutting-edge replacement for the medical droids of the past, the 323 medi- 
cal droid from Industrial Automaton is often touted by its manufacturer as 
one of the most stable and reliable droid models. 

The 3Z3 is considered an Imperial droid, since Imperial interests originally 
funded the droid's production. However, the 3Z3 model has been made avail- 
able for sale to individuals throughout the galaxy. During production, Imperial 
bureaucrats demanded that Industrial Automaton install combat scenario 
programming into the droids, enabling them to replace living combat medics. 
In battlefield simulations, the 3Z3 combat medic droids perform extremely 
well, but in the private sector this programming produces somewhat quirky 
behavior. When put under intense pressure, the 3Z3 medical droid's combat 
scenario programming kicks in, causing the droid to behave in much the same 
way it would on the battlefield, rushing from patient to patient and putting 
patients through a “triage” routine that is unnecessary. 

The Imperial Army makes extensive use of 3Z3 medical droids. One such 
droid, K2-3Z3, saw to the medical treatment of Sergeant Harkas of Joker 
Squad after a skirmish against Fel loyalists on Borosk. 

3Z3 medical droids can be played as droid heroes. 


3Z3 Medical Droid CL 1 

Medium droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 4 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 10, Will 12 

hp 10; Threshold 10 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d3) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences], 
Treat Injury), Skill Training (Use Computer), Surgical Expertise 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +14, Perception +11, Treat Injury +14, 
Use Computer +9 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hands, 
improved sensor package, vocabulator 

Possessions medical kit, 3 medpacs 

Availability Licensed; Cost 5,000 credits 


& BL-39 INTERROGATION DROID CORNERS A CODRU-d! JEDI. 


BL-39 Interrogator Droid 

A direct successor to the IT-O interrogator droid, the Aratech BL-39 inter- 
rogator droid is the result of a private company purchasing the schematics 
for the Imperial interrogation droid and adapting them to a civilian model. 
Following the decline of the Empire after the Galactic Civil War, Aratech 
paid large sums for access to a number of top secret Imperial technological 
designs, including droids, weapons, and vehicles. The BL-39 is the result of 
this deal, and the droid's design came about due to high demand from law 
enforcement agencies and local governments. 

The BL-39 interrogator uses many components from modern medical 
droids, and part of the reason the droid is so effective is that it can extract 
information from the target with minimal pain or physical injury. Its method 
of painless, medicinal information extraction actually results in the droid 
being classified as a 1st-degree droid, where its predecessor (a highly spe- 
cialized torture device) was a 2nd-degree droid. Likewise, the BL-39 can be 


converted into a medical assistant droid with little reprogramming, taking 
advantage of the droid’s existing medical knowledge. 

Moff Nyna Calixte often employs BL-39 interrogator droids in her duties 
as the Director of Imperial Intelligence. 

BL-39 interrogator droids can be played as droid heroes. 


BL-39 Interrogator Droid CL1 

Small droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 1/scoundrel 1 

Force 1 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 9, Will 15 

hp 6; Threshold 9 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed fly 6 squares (hover); maximum altitude of 2 squares 

Ranged blaster pistol +1 (3d6) 

Base Atk +0; Grp -4 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14, Wis 17, Cha 15 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Interrogator (see page 102 of The Force Unleashed Campaign 
Guide; if this resource is unavailable, replace with the Knack talent) 

Feats Skill Focus (Treat Injury), Skill Training (Persuasion, Use Computer), 
Surgical Expertise, Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +8, Perception +11, Persuasion +8 (can 
substitute Treat Injury to change attitude or intimidate if adjacent to 
target), Stealth +7, Treat Injury +14, Use Computer +8 

Systems hovering locomotion, heuristic processor, 5 tool appendages, 1 
claw appendage, improved sensor package, locked access, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster pistol, audio recording unit, medical kit, video 
recording unit 

Availability Restricted; Cost 13,000 credits 


SECOND-DEGREE DROIDS 
Second-degree droids include astromech droids and technical droids. 


FEG-Series Pilot Droid 

More sophisticated than most automated pilot droids, the FEG-Series droid 
from Cybot Galactica is renowned for its ability to devise creative piloting 
maneuvers. Cybot Galactica engineered the FEG-Series to be able to make 
snap decisions and mimic the creativity of living pilots. The impetus behind 
this design decision was that the FEG-Series was intended to serve as a copilot 
(or even a primary pilot) on ships hauling cargo through dangerous space 
corridors or guiding stealthy scout craft into hostile territory. 


Though most space transport pilots scoff at the idea of a droid pilot 
being as good as a living pilot, the FEG-Series droid is exceptionally good at 
adapting to rapidly changing circumstances and, in some cases, has outflown 
living pilots during test runs. That said, a FEG-Series pilot droid can't talk its 
way past Imperial customs or negotiate docking fees with local spaceports 
as well as seasoned spacers. 

Many owners of FEG-Series pilot droids use them as copilots and inten- 
tionally let them go for long periods of time without memory wipes so that 
they develop personalities. These owners claim that FEG-Series pilot droids 
with developed personalities are even more capable of creative piloting, 
and some pilots develop long-standing and amicable relationships with 
their FEG-Series droids, treating them more like partners than property. 
Unfortunately, many of the FEG-Series droids allowed to develop their own 
personalities have become aware of Cybot Galactica's marketing campaign 
surrounding their model, leading some to adopt a certain arrogance regard- 
ing their own piloting skills. 

The pirate captain Rav used an FEG-Series pilot droid named FEG-13 
("Feejee 13") on raids. 

FEG-Series pilot droids can be played as droid heroes. 


FEG-Series Pilot Droid CL 1 

Medium droid (2nd-degree) scoundrel 1 

Force 1 

Init +2; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 12, Will 13 

hp 18; Threshold 12 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d3+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +2 (3d6) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +1 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Hyperdriven 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con —, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Hyperdriven 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +7, Knowledge (technology) +7, 
Mechanics +7, Perception +6, Pilot +7, Use Computer +7 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
1 tool appendage, locked access, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster pistol, tool kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,100 credits 


A BesidvHo 


Ess 


SQIGHEG GNY LNIWAIAOS 


Holocam Droid 
Barely worthy of the droid designation, the SoroSuub holocam droid is little 
more than a hovering recording device with a basic droid brain. 

The holocam droid records data in three dimensions. It can receive 
instructions verbally, though it cannot interpret complex instructions without 
additional programming. Holocam droids are a common sight throughout the 
galaxy, and are used for both documentation and entertainment purposes. 
Many law enforcement agencies use holocam droids to record incidents 
involving their officers, including the Sector Rangers. 

Holocam droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


Holocam Droid CLO 
Tiny droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14 

Languages Binary 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 8, Will 12 
hp 2; Threshold 8 
Immune droid immunities 


Speed fly 8 squares (hover) 

Base Atk +0; Grp -8 

Abilities Str 6, Dex 15, Con —, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 6 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Feats Skill Focus (Perception, Stealth), Skill Training (Stealth, 
Use Computer) 

Skills Perception +14, Stealth +22, Use Computer +5 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, improved sensor package, 
internal comlink 

Possessions audio recording unit, holo recording unit, video recording unit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,000 credits 


“NIO THREAT, NO 
PURPOSE.” 


-DARTH TALON 


Roving Eye Observation Droid 
The diminutive Roving Eye observation droid is, like the holocam droid, little 
more than a recording device attached to a repulsor system. However, unlike 
the holocam droid, the Roving Eye observation droid is designed to collect 
different kinds of data, compile it, strip out any inconsistencies or errors, 
and transmit a polished packet of data back to a secure location. A favorite 
of law enforcement agencies conducting advanced scouting or intelligence 
work, the Roving Eye is small enough to be able to get into tight spaces, take 
recordings, and then get out without ever being seen. Furthermore, Roving 
Eye observation droids can connect directly to computer networks, allowing 
them to analyze accessible data for the information they seek. 

Many Roving Eye droids have been used in corporate espionage. With 
a little unscrupulous reprogramming, the droids can be used to splice into 
secure networks, security sensor and camera feeds, and the like, turning a 
target's own security precautions against it. Unlike the holocam droid, a 
Roving Eye cannot transmit live data with any speed, as most of the droid's 
processing power is taken up by the filtering and analysis of the various data 
sources it is monitoring. 


Roving Eye observation droids compile all of the data they collect and 
then transmit it to their owner in a single quick data burst. Alternately, a 
Roving Eye observation droid can be programmed to store its data and wait 
for manual retrieval—a good option when the owner has reason to fear that 
the data transmission might be intercepted. On rare occasions, a Roving Eye 
observation droid can be used as purely a communications device, sending an 
encrypted message to a designated target, complete with any supplemental 
data that might accompany that message. Roving Eye observation droids can 
be instructed to transmit their data over normal communications channels, 
or to deliver the data physically to the target. 

Darth Krayt uses several Roving Eye observation droids to closely monitor 
the training of his disciples, including the brief training received by Cade 
Skywalker on Coruscant. 

Roving Eye observation droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


Roving Eye Observation Droid CLO 
Diminutive droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 1 
Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +14 
Languages Binary 
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 7, Will 12 
hp 2; Threshold 7 
Immune droid immunities 
Speed fly 8 squares (hover) 
Base Atk +0; Grp -13 
Abilities Str 4, Dex 17, Con —, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 6 
Special Qualities droid traits 
Feats Skill Focus (Perception, Use Computer), Skill Training (Stealth, 
Use Computer) 
Skills Mechanics +2, Perception +14, Stealth +23, Use Computer +10 
Systems hovering locomotion, heuristic processor, darkvision, diagnostics 
package, improved sensor package 
Possessions audio recording unit, holo recording unit, video recording unit 
Availability Licensed; Cost 3,200 credits 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROIDS 
Fourth-degree droids are combat droids. 


Z65 Patrol Droid 
Asuccessor to the popular 501-Z police droid, the SoroSuub Z65 patrol droid 
is considered by many companies and wealthy individuals to be a must-own 
in a galaxy where the dark side and the Empire dominates, and where the 
dregs of society prey upon weak or tempting targets. The Z65 patrol droid is 
designed to offer security and protection to those who can afford it. 

Unlike its predecessor, the Z65 is cheap enough to be procured in num- 
bers, allowing one to build an effective security force. Though this means 
a drastically simplified programming structure and a reduction in combat 
capabilities, the Z65 patrol droid typically affords the owner a cheaper 
(and sometimes more reliable) alternative to hiring a living security force. 
Additionally, the Z65 patrol droid comes standard with its weapons in place 
of hands, meaning that the buyer need not purchase additional weaponry 
for a cadre of patrol droids. 

Many crime lords employ Z65 patrol droids for personal security. 

Z65 patrol droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


Z65 Patrol Droid CL 3 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 1 

Force 1 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 18), Fort 15, Will 13 

hp 21; Threshold 15 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed 6 squares 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8, devastating attack) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +3 (3d8, devastating attack) and 
blaster rifle +3 (3d8, devastating attack) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +3 (3d8, devastating attack) with autofire or 

Ranged blaster rifle +3 (5d8, devastating attack) with Burst Fire 

Base Atk +5; Grp +8 

Atk Options Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery |, 

Devastating Attack (rifles) 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con —, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Devastating Attack (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon 
Mastery |, Point Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, 
rifles) 

Skills Perception +12 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 tool mounts, 
improved sensor package, vocabulator 

Possessions 2 blaster rifles, quadanium battle armor 

Availability Restricted; Cost 6,400 credits 


‘(0 
I 
> 

i 
Of 
ae 


A HeSicvHoS 


SQIEGHE) GNY LNEWAIALS 


Two LV8-SERIES GUARD DROIDS FIGHT ALONGSIDE 
4 Z6S5 PATROL DROID. 


LV8-Series Guard Droid 

A low-cost droid designed to protect its owner and his or her property, the 
LV8-Series guard droid is a simple combat droid with impressive defensive 
capabilities. Following the Clone Wars, Baktoid Combat Automata was 
dismantled and absorbed into the Empire, but many of the engineers that 
worked for Baktoid fled and went into seclusion, taking their research with 
them. Following the rise of the Galactic Alliance, these exiles came together 
to form a new droid manufacturing consortium, which they labeled Baktoid 
Industrial Systems. Focused less on combat droids and more on creating 
cutting-edge industrial designs, Baktoid Industrial Systems reestablished 
the Baktoid brand as a leader in the field of droid engineering. 


Unfortunately, many other droid manufacturers were not pleased with the 
return of Baktoid, and the newly reformed company endured several months 
of industrial espionage, sabotage, and direct threats from agents of their 
competitors. To protect their assets, Baktoid Industrial Systems engineered 
the LV8-Series guard droids and began placing them in key industrial locations 
to prevent sabotage. The droids were so effective and cheap to produce that 
Baktoid began mass manufacturing the droids. 

Many docking bays use LV8-Series guard droids to protect their hangars 
from intruders. 

LV8-Series guard droids can't be played as droid heroes. 
LV8-Series Guard Droid CL4 
Medium droid nonheroic 12 
Init +15; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic, Binary 
Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 17), Fort 12, Will 13 
hp 30; Threshold 12 
Immune droid immunities 
Speed 6 squares 
Ranged blaster rifle +14 (3d8) or 
Ranged blaster rifle +12 (3d8) and 

blaster rifle +12 (3d8) or 
Ranged blaster rifle +9 (3d8) with autofire or 
Ranged blaster rifle +9 (5d8) with Burst Fire or 
Ranged blaster rifle +7 (5d8) and 

blaster rifle +7 (5d8) with Burst Fire 
Base Atk +9; Grp +11 
Atk Options Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery II 
Abilities Str 14, Dex 18, Con —, Int 8, Wis 16, Cha 10 
Special Qualities droid traits 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon 

Mastery I, Dual Weapon Mastery II, Skill Training (Initiative), 

Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (rifles) 

Skills Initiative +15 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 too! mounts, vocabulator 
Possessions 2 blaster rifles, quadanium battle armor 

Availability Restricted; Cost 9,400 credits 


Aggressor-Series Battle Droid 

Built on the home planet of the Farghul species, the Aggressor-Series battle 
droid is a cheap droid designed for mass production and distribution. To the 
surprise of many other droid manufacturers, Farrfin Droidworks has managed 
to produce large numbers of the Aggressor droids despite Imperial restrictions 
on the creation of combat models. Unlike most combat droids, the Aggressor- 
Series battle droid does not come standard with any ranged weapons. In 
fact, most of its programming is dedicated to melee combat, making it an 
unusual, unorthodox, and unexpected opponent. As a result of this change in 
combat programming philosophy, the Empire has allowed Farrfin Droidworks 
to mass-produce and sell the droids to other worlds, believing that the droids 
would be ineffective against the Empire's best marksmen. 

In truth, the Farghul designed the Aggressor droids in response to the 
proliferation of lightsaber-wielding Sith in the galaxy. Though the droids’ 
primitive combat programming keeps them from being much of a threat to 
the Sith, Farrfin Droidworks believes that the time will come when enough of 
its droids are spread across the galaxy to challenge the Sith, at which point 
an upgrade to the droids’ programming will turn them into a significant and 
widespread threat. The droids' headpieces are modeled after Farghul war 
masks, though few in the Empire are so in tune with Farghul traditions to 
realize this bold statement in the droids' design. 

Darth Krayt keeps several Aggressor-Series battle droids, using them 
as training droids for his Sith underlings, including the training of Cade 
Skywalker. 

Aggressor-Series battle droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Aggressor-Series Battle Droid CL 1 
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 1 

Force 1 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 15, Will 12 

hp 30; Threshold 15 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee dire vibroblade +4 (2d6+4, devastating attack) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +3 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons) 
Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con —, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 8 
Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons) 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Weapon Focus (advanced melee 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons’, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +7, Knowledge (tactics) +5, Perception +6 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
vocabulator 

Possessions dire vibroblade (see page 65 of the Knights of the Old 
Republic Campaign Guide), durasteel shell 

Availability Restricted; Cost 3,800 credits 

*Replaces the soldier's starting feat Armor Proficiency (medium). 


IX-6 Heavy Combat Droid 

Production of the IX-6 heavy combat droid begins well before the ascension 
of Darth Krayt to the position of Emperor, and indeed even before the advent 
of the Ossus Project. Verpine engineers, having endured the subjugation of the 
Empire in the past, craft the IX-6 heavy combat droid to deter incursions into 
the Roche asteroid belt. Though expensive to produce, the IX-6 heavy combat 
droid is programmed to put itself between invaders and the rest of the Verpine 
hive. When the Empire once again becomes a force to be reckoned with in 
the galaxy, the Verpine increase production of the IX-6 and not only spread 
them throughout their own hives but also sell the droids to other interested 
parties eager to protect themselves from Imperial aggression. 

When the Galactic Alliance crumbles and the Darth Krayt takes his place 
upon the throne, Imperial officials order the Roche collective to immediately 
cease production of the IX-6 heavy combat droid and destroy all existing 
models. Rather than bowing to the Empire's wishes, the Verpine scatter their 
production facilities throughout the Roche asteroid belt, setting up secret 
factories deep in asteroids that appear abandoned from the surface. When 
Imperial Intelligence learns of this defiance, the Empire sends Star Destroy- 
ers to blast several heavily populated Verpine asteroids to dust. Despite this 
punishment, the Verpine continue to produce new IX-6 heavy combat droids 
and smuggle them out of their asteroid belt, delivering them to those who 
can afford them. 

Darth Krayt keeps at least a few IX-6 heavy combat droids, using them 
as training droids for his Sith underlings. 

IX-6 heavy combat droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


A esiavHo 


0 
I 
> 
a 
=f 
a 
2 
< 


SQIGHEG GNY LNIWANINAGS fF 


IX-6 Heavy Combat Droid CL5 
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 5 

Force 1 

Init +10; Senses darkvision; Perception +9 

Languages Binary, Verpine 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 20, Will 16 
hp 52; Threshold 20 
Immune droid immunities 


Speed 6 squares 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +4 (3d8+2) with autofire or 
Ranged blaster rifle +4 (5d8+2) with Burst Fire 
Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Burst Fire, Cover Fire, Point Blank Shot 


AN LON-29 BATTLEDROID COMMANDER, ATTENDED BY 
Two !1X-6 COMBAT DROIDS. 


Special Actions Battle Analysis, Draw Fire 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con —, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 9 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Battle Analysis, Cover Fire, Draw Fire 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Improved Defenses, 
Point Blank Shot, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Knowledge (tactics) +8, Perception +9 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 tool appendages, 
darkvision, improved sensor package, vocabulator 

Possessions 2 blaster rifles, durasteel battle armor 

Availability Restricted; Cost 13,500 credits 


LON-29 Battle Droid Commander 

The LON-29 battle droid from Balmorran Arms is one of the smallest battle 
droids that the company manufactures. Famous for its towering SD Series 
battle droids, Balmorran Arms crafted the LON-29 to serve as a battlefield 
commander, leading other battle droids into combat. The larger SD battle 
droids draw the bulk of enemy fire, allowing the LON-29 battle droid to focus 
its attention on battlefield analysis and response, directing its fellow droids 
at the weakest points in enemy defenses. 

For a short while, Balmorran Arms marketed the droids as possible 
replacements to living officers in traditional armed forces. During the Sith- 
Imperial War, the Galactic Alliance experimented with using LON-29 droids to 
command small squads of special forces, with disastrous results. The troops 
resented serving under them, and the droids were far too willing to sacrifice 
the lives of those under their command. Following these debacles, Balmor- 
ran Arms began negotiating deals with other battle droid manufacturers to 
include LON-29 battle droids as part of shipments of more traditional droid 
troops. Under Darth Krayt, Imperial restrictions have kept these battle droids 
out of the hands of individual citizens, though many corporations that have 
both droid security forces and special arrangements with the Empire order 
these droids from Balmorran Arms on a regular basis. 

Darth Krayt has a small contingent of LON-29 battle droids, which he 
uses as training droids for his Sith underlings. 

LON-29 battle droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


LON-29 Battle Droid Commander CL 6 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 2/officer 2 

Force 1 

Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 17, Will 20 

hp 35; Threshold 17 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d3+2) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +10 (3d10+2) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +5 (3d10+2) with autofire or 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Coordinated Attack 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Special Qualities command cover, droid traits, share talent 
(Battle Analysis) 

Talents Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Improved 
Defenses, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics]), Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, Knowledge (tactics) +18, Perception +13, 
Use Computer +13 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
locked access, improved sensor package, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle, durasteel battle armor, blaster pistol 

Availability Restricted; Cost 17,500 credits 


‘JUST GET ON IT, 
OROID, BEFORE I 
REARRANGE YOUR 
INSIDES WITH MY 
BLASTER. YOU AIN'T 
NO TREASURED 
PART OF MY PAST.” 


“WARIAH Syn 


FirFTH-DEGREE DROIDS 
Fifth-degree droids are typically utility and labor droids with low-level 
functions. 


HV-7 Loading Droid 

Produced by the reformed Baktoid Industrial Systems, the HV-7 loading 
droid is a small hovering automaton that uses repulsor technology to lift 
heavy loads, eliminating the need for the bulky loading droids prevalent in 
earlier eras. 

The HV-7 loading droid is a popular model among free traders (and smug- 
glers) thanks to its ability to fold up into a disc small enough to stack several 
droids tall in most space transport holds. As a result, the traders needn't 
rely on local spaceport loading droids (and can avoid the fees associated 
with renting heavy loaders), and can get cargo in and out of their holds 
with relative speed. 

The HV-7 loading droid is one of the first droid models produced by Bak- 
toid Industrial Systems that is designed to sell in large quantities, and helps 
to wipe away the ugly history surrounding the Baktoid brand. 

HV-7 loading droids can be played as droid heroes. 


HV-7 Loading Droid CL1 

Small droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +3; Senses Perception +2 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 12, Will 11 

hp 7; Threshold 12 

Immune droid immunities 

Speed fly 8 squares (hover) 

Melee claw +4 (1d3+2) 

Base Atk +2; Grp -5 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con —, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 6 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Feats Skill Focus (Endurance), Skill Training (Mechanics, Use Computer), 
2 unassigned 

Skills Endurance +11, Mechanics +8, Use Computer +6 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 2 claw appendages, 
diagnostics package, repulsor-assisted lifting system (increases lifting 
and carrying capacity to 3 x normal weight) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 1,950 credits 


ZIG aa ‘ 
CHAPTER VI 


fe VEHICLES AND STARSHIPS 


wruovr"e 


0 military-grade ships become heavily regulated and, 
However, this does not stop those on the fringe from 
d vehicles with no regard for regulations. Of course, 
t take care to avoid Imperial entanglements, as the 
of Imperial weapons regulations are, in fact, severe. 
les and starships are among the most common avail- 
the time of Darth Krayt's Empire. These vehicles are 
sale through the normal channels (none of the vehicles 
r have availabilities of Military or Illegal), though many are 
ind require special licenses from the Empire. The space transports 
this chapter are particularly well suited for use as player-owned starships 
id bases of operations. 
This chapter is not a comprehensive collection of all non-aligned vehicles 
available in the galaxy during the Legacy era. Ships and vehicles from past 
eras can often be found still in use. Gamemasters and players who wish to 
bring older ships and vehicles forward in the timeline can use the refitted 
vehicle template (see page 101) to make an older vehicle suitable for use in 
a Legacy era campaign. 

Vessels specific to the Galactic Alliance and the Empire are described 
in later chapters. Those vehicles are typically only available to members 
of those factions, though Gamemasters are free to include them in their 
adventures as they see fit. 


1A HSLevHo 


SdiHSYvlsSs ONY SS TIDIHSA 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
0 
2 
& 


SHinsHvs.s GNY SEIAIHhsA 


SPEEDER BIKES 

Speeder bikes are the preferred mode of transport for criminals, thrill-seekers, 
and paramilitary force scouts in the period following the Sith-Imperial War. 
Speeder bikes allow characters to get around quickly, but most do not offer 
much protection. Two popular models of speeder bikes are presented below, 
each manufactured by corporations that have survived since the days of 
the Galactic Civil War. 


MODEL 67 SHRIEKER 

SPEEDER BIKE 

A fast, slender model of speeder bike that resembles those used by scouts 
during the time of Palpatine's Empire, the Model 67 Shrieker from Ikas-Adno 
is lightweight and highly maneuverable. Favored by outlaws who prefer speed 
more than protection, the Model 67 Shrieker is named for the high-pitched 
whine the repulsor engines emit during operation. The Model 67 Shrieker is 
also one of the few speeder bikes with an elongated’seat, allowing a single 


A QUICKFIRE SPEEDER BIKE (LEFT) AND 
A MODEL 67 SHREIKER (RIGHT). 


passenger to ride behind the pilot. The Model 67 Shrieker employs a pair of 
forward directional steering vanes, allowing the bike to make hairpin turns at 
incredible speeds, and a variable-boost repulsorlift engine gives the bike the 
ability to fly at up to a height of 10 squares (15 meters) with no appreciable 
loss of speed or maneuverability. Furthermore, the Model 67 Shrieker uses 
an advanced repulsor field generation system that enables safe yet rapid 
changes in altitude. 

The Model 67 Shrieker is a favorite among speeder bike racers throughout 
the galaxy, and thanks to its low price, it is commonly seen throughout the 
Outer Rim. Bantha Rawk and his brood own several Model 67 Shriekers, which 
they use to travel across their home on lego. Ikas-Adno used many common 
parts in the design of the Model 67 Shrieker, making it easy for mechanics 
and outlaw techs to repair and modify the vehicle. 


Model 67 Shrieker Speeder Bike CL6 

Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +12; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +2; Grp +13 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +12, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +12, 
Use Computer +12 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1 

Cargo 2 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 9,000 (5,000 used) 


QUICKF IRE SPEEDER BIKE 

A heavy-duty speeder bike, the Mobquet QuickFire is a favorite of swoop 
gangs and other street toughs that want a speeder bike to match their own 
disposition. The QuickFire speeder bike boasts a large, rumbling repulsor 
engine and a thick frame that gives the bike a stronger pull, if not more speed. 
Though slower than some other top-of-the-line speeder bikes, the QuickFire 
has larger towing capacity and can support many heavier modifications. 
The bike's armor plating makes the speeder more durable and better able to 
resist stray blaster fire. 

The Mobquet QuickFire is one of the few speeder bikes on the market 
to include built-in weaponry. Ostensibly intended for clearing debris (Mob- 
quet markets the QuickFire for use in rough terrain), the speeder bike's 
blaster cannon is slightly depowered to pass Imperial regulations on civilian 
vessels. 


The QuickFire is a standard speeder bike used by Black Sun agents 
throughout the galaxy, and is especially popular among Black Sun pirate 
gangs that raid settlements throughout the Outer Rim. 


QuickFire Speeder Bike CL7 

Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +11; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 13), Fort 16; +4 armor 

hp 60; DR 5; Threshold 21 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 600 km/h) 

Ranged blaster cannon +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 

Base Atk +2; Grp +13 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +11, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 5 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Availability Restricted; Cost 14,000 (9,000 used) 


Blaster cannon (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 3d10 


AIRSPEEDERS 

As cities continue to grow, the need for rapid air transport becomes ever 
more important. With the rebuilding of Coruscant following the Yuuzhan 
Vong invasion, several airspeeder manufacturers are able to rise from relative 
obscurity by securing exclusive contracts to provide government air vehicles 
to replace what was lost during the war. By the time Darth Krayt comes to 
power, some of these formerly obscure corporations have risen significantly 
in both power and prominence. 


GPE-3300 Twin Engine Airspeeder 

The GPE-3300 is a unique speeder design from Galactic Power Engineering, 
a company that got its start producing engines for Podracers and starships. 
The GPE-3300 is an unorthodox design that boasts two large engines with 
an underslung pilot cockpit, which makes it difficult for the speeder to land 
on solid ground (although the vehicle does possess retractable landing gear 
that supports the craft in emergency landings). Most of the time, the vehicle 
docks on floating repulsor platforms. 


& GALACTIC ALLIANCE PROVOCATEUR LEAPS FROM A 
VELTISS-2 AIRSPEEDER ONTO A GPE-3300. 


The GPE-3300 is a one-man craft for wealthy, discriminating pilots. The 
GP-3300 is fast and maneuverable, making it entertaining to fly. Owning 
a GPE-3300 has become something of a trend among Imperial officers, 
who appreciate the freedom and flexibility that the airspeeder provides. 
Additionally, many well equipped planetary police forces use the GPE-3300 
as a pursuit vehicle. 


GPE-3300 Airspeeder CL6 

Huge air vehicle (airspeeder) 

Init +9; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 15; +3 armor 

hp 55; DR 5; Threshold 25 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover +5 

Base Atk +0; Grp +15 

Abilities Str 21, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 90 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 60,000 (35,000 used) 


PIA BSiagvHo} HeSidvHsd 


{ 


SaIASHEVLS GNY SEITSIHEA 


1A BSiaevHS 


SHIHSHVYLS GNY SHAIDHPA 


VELTISS-2 AIRSPEEDER 

Another airspeeder from a company that managed to profit from the turmoil 
surrounding the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, the Veltiss-2 airspeeder is a fast 
and lightweight vessel well suited to use on worlds where the urban sprawl 
puts large distances between common travel destinations. On worlds such 
as Coruscant, where an Imperial delegate might be required to travel from 
one side of a continent to the other in the course of her day-to-day duties, 
the Veltiss-2 makes such a trip manageable. With the Veltiss-2, the Desler 
Gizh Outward Mobility Corporation made the transition from an Outer Rim 
upstart to a company catering to the wealthy elite on Coruscant and other 
Core worlds. 

The Veltiss-2 is a newer model speeder that can be both open-topped or 
closed-cabin, depending on the needs of the pilot. When in open-top mode, 
the Veltiss-2 uses microrepulsor technology to create a “virtual hard top" that 
generates a nearly frictionless field, allowing the speeder to maintain a slim, 
aerodynamic profile while protecting the pilot and passengers from the high 
winds associated with traveling at three-quarters the speed of sound. This 
repulsor field doesn't protect the passengers entirely, allowing them to enjoy 
good weather, though typically the owner of a Veltiss-2 will use the closed- 
cabin configuration during inclement weather. The Veltiss-2 airspeeder also 
boasts significant advancements in pilot assistance technology, including 
traffic-pattern analytics software that makes it easier to navigate urban 
traffic lanes at such high speeds. 

Moff Nyna Calixte owns a Veltiss-2 airspeeder, which she uses to move 
about Coruscant. 
Veltiss-2 Airspeeder CL6 
Large air vehicle (airspeeder) 

Init +9; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 15; +2 armor 

hp 50; DR 5; Threshold 20 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 

Base Atk +0; Grp +10 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 1 
Cargo 30 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 19,000 (9,200 used) 


STARFIGHTERS 
Like the Empire ruled by Palpatine, Darth Krayt's Sith Empire has clamped 
down on nonmilitary ownership of starships outfitted with powerful weapons 
and defenses. Typically, most personal starfighters are too well armed to be 
owned by private citizens. However, some manufacturers have managed 
to get around bureaucratic limitations and produce starfighters deemed 
appropriate for civilian use. However, these starfighters are tightly monitored 
and regulated, and only the particularly wealthy (or those who flout Imperial 
regulations) can afford to own and operate a well-armed starfighter. 

The following starfighters are available for general purchase by organiza- 
tions (and, in rare cases, individuals) throughout the galaxy. 


BESH-TYPE 

PERSONAL STARFIGHTER 

The Besh-type personal starfighter builds upon the popularity of the B-wing 
fighter but makes several modifications to the starship to make it more suit- 
able for private ownership. The B-wing's rotating cockpit has been abandoned 


BESH-TYPE FIGHTERS ATTACK A YZ-Z500 HEAVY TRANSPORT. 


in favor of shifting the cockpit toward the center of the starfighter. This 
makes it easier for nonmilitary pilots to judge the dimensions of the ship in 
flight, and prevents disorientation when making evasive maneuvers. With the 
cockpit shifted from one end of the craft to the center, the engines and their 
support systems have been spread out, with two primary thrusters placed at 
opposite ends of the largest wing of the ship. The Besh-type personal fighter 
retains the folding S-foils of its predecessor for increased stability and is 
engineered to be easier to fly than the classic model popularized during the 
days of the Rebel Alliance. 

The Besh-type fighter is also significantly scaled down in terms of 
weapons output, though it does retain moderately powerful fire-linked 
laser cannons, mounted on the tips of the S-foils. The ship is tough and has 
excellent structural integrity, and the Besh-type fighter is favored among 
those individuals and organizations that need to travel to more hazardous 
(and less civilized) areas of space. Though not the fastest ship available, the 
Besh-type personal starfighter has enough speed to escape the pursuit of 
pirates in the distant reaches of space, but against military or state-of-the- 
art vessels the ship is usually outmatched. 

Besh-type personal starfighters are also popular among nostalgic beings 
that long for the days before the return of the Galactic Empire. Despite the 
fact that the Besh-type starfighter's weapons are scaled back compared to 
those of the B-wing, Slayn & Korpil retained many of the internal design 
specifications, making it easy for enterprising starship owners to make their 
own modifications. As a result, many fringers who own Besh-type starfighters 
outfit them with more advanced weapon systems. 


Besh-Type Personal Starfighter CL8 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +4; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 30; +8 armor; Vehicular Combat 
hp 180; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 50 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 970 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged light laser cannons +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +37 
Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons), fire-link (light laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 50, Dex 16, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 60 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2; navicomputer 
Availability Restricted; Cost 105,000 (65,000 used) 


Light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


R-Z28 STARFIGHTERS EVADE FIRE FROM A 
GLADIUS-CLASS LIGHT FREIGHTER. 


ee F - 4 


PHOEBOS-CLASS STARFIGHTER 
Often classified as a "sport" starfighter, the Phoebos-class starfighter from 
Ubrikkian Transports is one of the fastest personal starfighters on the market. 
Designed to cater to the wealthy, the Phoebos-class starfighter is built for 
speed, speed, and more speed. Though fast in the atmosphere of a planet, 
the Phoebos-class fighter truly excels in open space. Sleek, aerodynamic, 
and visually appealing, the Phoebos-class starfighter is also frequently 
found in starfighter racing circuits throughout the galaxy. It is particularly 
popular among the “new nobles” that have risen to prominence as a result 
of the return of the Galactic Empire, and many young nobles consider the 
ownership (and modification) of this starfighter design to be something of 
a status symbol. 

Ubrikkian actually began manufacturing the Phoebos-class starfighter 
in response to the Imperial restrictions on personal starfighter ownership. 
By ostensibly creating the fighter as a vehicle for personal recreation, 


lA HSB1tdgVvHS 


SHIASEVLAS GNY SHISAIHAA 


0 


Ubrikkian was able to get a top-of-the-line starfighter onto the market 
when many other manufacturers were being forced to cease production of 
their own models, or (in most cases) convert their manufacturing facilities 
to produce ships and other materiel for the Empire. Moreover, the starfighter 
they produced, though delicate by many standards, also boasts moderate 
defense systems, including relatively powerful shields (described by Ubrik- 
kian Transports as “custom engineered to deflect errant space debris while 
traveling at high speeds") and laser cannons. 

The Phoebos-class starfighter is popular among wealthy crime lords and 
small-time smugglers and thieves. Though expensive to procure through 
legitimate channels, Phoebos-class starfighters are among the most com- 
monly stolen personal starships in the galaxy. Ubrikkian Transports counters 
this by offering a free security upgrade for owners, in the form of a Holonet- 
enabled tracking device. Unfortunately for these owners, the Empire also 
requires Ubrikkian Transports to turn over the tracking data for all Phoebos- 
class ships at the time of purchase, meaning that this security upgrade is 
often one of the first things removed from the ship by the new owner. 


Phoebos-class Starfighter CL 8 

Huge starfighter 

Init +11; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor; Vehicular Combat 

hp 90; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,350 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double light laser cannons +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (double light laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +11, 
Use Computer +11 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1 

Cargo 80 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x0.5 

Availability Licensed; Cost 190,000 (100,000 used) 


Double light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


R-28 STARFIGHTER 

One of the oldest starfighter models still in production, the R-28 starfighter 
is the latest iteration of a starship design that dates all the way back to the 
Galactic Civil War. The first prototypes upon which the R-28 is based were 
designed before the Battle of Yavin, but production of the R-28 never got 
fully underway thanks to the runaway success of the T-65 X-wing starfighter. — 
However, once the Galactic Alliance is established, engineers at Incom 
return to their original designs for the R-28 and begin incorporating modern 
technologies and engineering innovations. The result, the actual production 
model of the R-28, is an important intermediate step between the X-wing 
starfighter and the X-83 TwinTail fighter. 

Though considered outdated by most military and paramilitary forces by 
the time of Darth Krayt's rise to power, the R-28 is one of the most common 
starfighters found in the galaxy. With the return of the Empire, the Incom 
Corporation is forced to scale back its production of combat-capable star- 
fighter models, but where production of the X-83 Twintail fighter is almost 
completely shut down, the manufacture of the R-28 slows to a much-reduced, 
but steady, pace. Though not enough to blunt the significant financial losses 
that Incom sustains during the rise of Darth Krayt's Empire, sales of the R-28 
bring in a constant stream of revenue that keeps the company in business. 

The stock R-28 model is relatively well armed for a ship of its size. Though 
the weapons load on the R-28 borders on being too heavy for Imperial regula- 
tions, the fact that half of the ship's weaponry consists of nonlethal munitions 
(specifically, the fire-linked ion cannons) allows the ship to pass inspection. 
Certainly compared to the TwinTail fighter, the R-28 is less destructive and 
less of a threat to Imperial forces. Additionally, since many of the parts used 
in the R-28 are also used in the TwinTail fighter, the Incom Corporation is 
able to use the continued production of the R-28 to secretly manufacture 
the more powerful starfighter. 

A’Sharad Hett owned an early prototype R-28 starfighter, which he 
crashed before being captured by the Yuuzhan Vong. 


“LADY, IF YOU HAD 
WINGS, | COULD 
FLY YOU.” 


-RONTO 


R-28 Starfighter CL 10 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +6; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor; Vehicular Combat 

hp 150; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 48 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged medium laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged medium ion cannons +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +35 

Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannons, medium ion cannons), 
fire-link (medium laser cannons, medium ion cannons) 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 20, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1; Passengers none 

Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 5 days; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 

Availability Restricted; Cost 120,000 (55,000 used) 


Medium laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Medium ion cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


<-83 TWINTAIL STARFIGHTER 
The Incom Corporation's X-83 TwinTail starfighter is one of the most cutting- 
edge starfighters in existence. A superior design that uses superior parts, the 
TwinTail fighter is commonly used by the Jedi Order until Darth Krayt seizes 
power. The X-83 Twinlail fighter is clearly too powerful to be allowed into 
civilian hands (at least, as deemed by the Empire), and by Imperial decree 
the Incom Corporation is forced to cease production of the starfighter. With 
the Empire's draconian laws limiting the amount of firepower that can be 
owned by individuals and non-Imperial organizations, the X-83 is deemed 
too dangerous to the peace and prosperity that the Empire brings. 
However, just because the Empire decrees something does not always 
make it so. The Incom Corporation's long history of defiance of the Empire 
once again emerges, and several X-83 manufacturing plants are “closed,” only 
to be secretly reopened to clandestinely continue producing X-83 fighters. 
Other Incom factories, particularly those where the R-28 continues to be 
produced, occasionally roll an X-83 Twintail fighter off of the assembly lines 
when Imperial inspectors aren't looking. Though rumors of these secret 
manufacturing plants abound, the Empire has yet to find any evidence of 
Incom's defiance. Since these secretly manufactured Twintail fighters are 


Two X-83 TWINTAIL FIGHTERS ESCORT A J-1] SHUTTLE. 


sold through unofficial channels, many Twintail fighters end up in the hands 
of individuals and organizations in defiance of Darth Krayt's Empire. 

The X-83 Twinlail starfighter is an extremely durable ship that also 
boasts impressive weapons. The TwinTail's proton torpedo launchers give the 
fighter the extra punch it needs to make it more than a match for most other 
fighters in this era. The X-83 is also unique in that the astromech droid that 
aids in pilot functions—a staple of Incom designs for decades—is hardwired 
into the starfighter, making it more like a second aspect of the ship's main 
computer. Though Incom recommends regular memory wipes to ensure that 
the astromech doesn't develop any quirks or personality flaws that can be 
dangerous in flight, some pilots allow their astromechs to develop person- 
alities, better enabling them to predict and respond to the pilot's actions. 
That said, an X-83 Twintail with an obstinate astromech droid can resist its 
pilot's commands just as easily as it can facilitate them. 


iA BeSsidvHoa 


SHIASHVLS GNY SSsWwWIHhPIA 


SHInShvsSs GNY Seite 


X-83 TwinTail Starfighter CL 12 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 13), Fort 29; +8; Vehicular Combat 

hp 170; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 49 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged enhanced heavy laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), 
+5 (astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +36 

Atk Options autofire (enhanced heavy laser anno fire-link (enhanced 
heavy laser cannons, proton torpedoes) 

Abilities Str 48, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6 (+13%), Perception; +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 (+13*) 

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 6 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 16 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Restricted; Cost 160,000 (75,000 used) 

*If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Enhanced heavy laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 8d10x2 


Proton torpedoes (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 10d10x2 


*SMICE TASTE IN 
WEAPONS, TORLIN. 
Nice sHirP Too." 


-MORRIGAN CORDE 


SPACE TRANSPORTS 

While personal starfighters are heavily restricted by the Galactic Empire, 
space transports remain widely available to beings with a need to travel 
freely. The space transports listed below are common throughout the galaxy. 
Although Imperial regulations limit the firepower available to transports, 
owners of these ships are as fond of making special modifications to their 
space transports as they were during the days of the Galactic Civil War. 


GLADIUS-CLASS 

LIGHT FREIGHTER 

The Gladius-class light freighter is the spiritual descendant of transport 
models such as the Firespray-31 and the Phoenix Hawk-class light pinnace. 
Featuring a round, flat ventral section and a smooth, curved body design, the 
Gladius-class ligt freighter is a sleek ship that is often used by planetary 
defense forces and the Sector Rangers throughout the galaxy. Thanks to 
deals brokered with Kuat Systems Engineering's parent company, Kuat Drive 
Yards, the Empire allows manufacture and sale of this ship in exchange for 
favorable contracts on the manufacture of Imperial vessels. 

The Gladius-class light freighter is a relatively nimble space transport 
that is often used as a scout vessel or system patrol craft. Though its dorsal- 
mounted quad laser cannon is impressive, the ship does not have the defensive 
systems to fight off pirates, raiders, or larger criminal fleets. Typically, the 
Gladius-class light freighter performs long-range scouting and, upon spotting 
a hostile vessel, immediately notes the position of the target before returning 
to its base of operations for reinforcements. If pursued, the Gladius-class 
light freighter uses its quad laser cannons to fend off pursuers long enough 
to reach safety. This space transport does have a fast hyperdrive as well, and 
law enforcement organizations train their pilots to use the G/adius-class light 
freighter to make in-system microjumps to reach home more quickly. 

Gladius-class light freighters often find their way into the hands of bounty 
hunters who appreciate both the speed of the vessel as well as its armaments. 
Additionally, bounty hunters (many of whom are loners by nature) can oper- 
ate the ship themselves. The circular cockpit area makes moving from one 
station to another easy and allows the various control systems to be spread 
out, keeping the command console from becoming cluttered. 

The bounty hunter Jor Torlin uses a Gladius-class light freighter, called 
the Raider. 


Gladius-class Light Freighter cL9 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +12 armor 
hp 140; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 77 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged advanced heavy quad laser cannons +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +39 
Atk Options autofire (advanced heavy quad laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 44, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 2 
Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 
Availability Restricted; Cost 190,000 (105,000 used) 


a) 


Advanced heavy quad laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 9d10x2 


GPE-7300 SPACE TRANSPORT 
Galactic Power Engineering's notable foray into the realm of space transport 
design, the GPE-7300 is a sturdy and relatively fast space transport that 
unfortunately sees very little commercial success. Designed by the same 
engineers that created the GPE-3300 twin-engine airspeeder, the GPE-7300 
space transport is built around many of the same principles used in airspeeder 
and Podracer designs. The ship boasts two oversized engines, mounted on 
the ventral side of the ship, that provide excellent atmospheric thrust and 
help the ship maintain high speeds during encounters in space. The ship's 
boxy design is far from the sleek, aesthetically pleasing designs adopted by 
other starship manufacturers, but the GPE-7300 is designed to be efficient, 
not handsome. 

Though classified as a transport, the GPE-7300 shares more similari- 
ties with long-range shuttles. It has a relatively low cargo capacity for a 
space transport and has room for only four passengers. The design caters 
to private entrepreneurs or beings that just prefer life on the space lanes. 
Most commercial transports require a higher cargo capacity to make 
profitable transport runs, but the GPE-7300 has another advantage in that 
customs officials are much less likely to suspect the ship of smuggling 
contraband in large quantities. This in turn has made the ship popular 
among lone smugglers and bounty hunters who rely on subtlety to conceal 
their illicit activities. 


The GPE-7300 lands with its engines oriented perpendicular to the ground. 
This allows the ship to uses its primary thrusters as an aid during takeoff, 
reducing the strain to on repulsor systems and allowing it to make a quick 
launch. The cockpit of the vessel is oriented at a 90-degree angle compared 
to the rest of the ship. This means that the interior of the ship seems to be 
vertically oriented except for the cockpit, and passengers and crew members 
must pass through an area between the cockpit and the rest of the ship where 
the gravity orientation shifts. 

Azlyn Rae, an Imperial Knight, uses a GPE-7300 as her personal space 
transport. 


GPE-7300 Space Transport CL7 

Colossal space transport 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +13 armor 

hp 160; DR 15; SR 20; Threshold 78 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged heavy laser cannons +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +40 

Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons), fire-link (heavy laser 
cannons) 

Abilities Str 47, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 4 

Cargo 45 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 165,000 (90,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


SAINSYUVLS GNY SETEIHaA 


1A HSiavHo 


SAIHNSYUVLS GNY SSIDIHAA | 


g) 


A PHOEBOS-CLASS FIGHTER ZIPS PAST A GPE-7300 TRANSPORT. 


HELOT-CLASS MEDIUM 
SPACE TRANSPORT 
An older design considered outdated by many, the Helot-class medium space 
transport is a durable ship that can take a lot of abuse. The transport is designed 
in the days before the resurgence of the Empire and declines in popularity by 
the end of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. When Darth Krayt comes to power, the 
Helot-class transport is little more than a memory for most space transport 
aficionados, though many of these vessels continue to ply the space lanes. 
The Helot-class transport is created by the Sienar/Cygnus Design Coopera- 
tive, made up of engineers drawn from both Sienar Fleet Systems and Cygnus 
Spaceworks, two starship manufacturers that have long histories with the 
Galactic Empire. The result of their cooperative efforts is an affordable star- 
ship designed to withstand the rigors of long-term space travel. The Helot- 
class medium space transport boasts a relatively high cargo capacity and 
impressive structural integrity, though in order to keep costs low the stock 


model does not have shields. Although the stock transport is cumbersome and 
lacks maneuverability, it comes equipped with fire-linked laser cannons. 

The Sienar/Cygnus Design Cooperative folds when the Sienar engineers 
are recalled by their parent company and reassigned to work on secret 
projects, including the Predator-class starfighter, for the Empire. As a result, 
Cygnus Spaceworks inherits the responsibility of continuing the production 
of the Helot-class medium space transport, and without the resources of 
the much larger Sienar conglomerate, production on new Helot-class ships 
slows to a trickle. 

The Mynock, Cade Skywalker's ship, is a Helot-class medium space 
transport. 


Helot-class Medium Transport CL7 

Colossal space transport 

Init -4; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 30; +14 armor 

hp 180; DR 15; Threshold 80 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged medium laser cannons +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +40 

Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannons), fire-link (medium laser 
cannons) 

Abilities Str 50, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot —4, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 6 

Cargo 100 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 105,000 (45,000 used) 


Medium laser cannons (copilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


d-1] SHUTTLE 

The Koensayr J-1 shuttle is sometimes known as the Jedi Shuttle, as it is 
originally commissioned by the Jedi Council to serve as a long-range shuttle- 
craft for use by the Jedi Order. Originally intended to carry Jedi students 
from Coruscant to Ossus and back, the J-1 shuttle is more like a space 
transport in function, though its docking, restocking, and refueling systems 
are designed to be compatible with those found aboard most Galactic Alli- 
ance capital ships. Available for general sale by Koensayr, the ship frequently 
finds its way into the hands of others despite becoming a recognized icon 
of the Jedi Order. 


The elongated cockpit, with its expensive multi-level canopy, enables 
passengers and crew to observe their surroundings while in flight or on 
approach. Passengers board the shuttle via an aft hatch, although a small 
topside hatch is also available for docking purposes. The main body holds 
two decks. The upper deck contains passenger amenities, such as sleeping 
berths and common rooms. The lower deck is mostly taken up by a large 
cargo hold that can double as a small hangar, able to carry a Gargantuan or 
smaller starfighter. The hangar doors are located in the shuttle's underbelly, 
so a smaller ship can only dock or depart while the J-1 shuttle is in flight. 

The ship's sublight engines are mounted within its gull shaped wings. 
Most Jedi shuttles are unarmed, reinforcing the notion that the Jedi are 
peacekeepers. However, during the Sith-Imperial War, some. shuttles are 
retrofitted with weapons. 


J-1 Shuttle CL8 

Colossal space transport 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25; +12 armor 

hp 110; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 75 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 8x8 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +37 

Abilities Str 40, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 2 (skilled) Passengers 20 

Cargo 90 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft 1 X-83 TwinTail 
starfighter 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 220,000 (100,000 used) 


Double laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 


MC-24A LIGHT SHUTTLE 

Designed as a short-range shuttle for transporting workers between sec- 
tions of the Mon Calamari Orbital Shipyards, the MC-24a light shuttle has 
grown in popularity since its introduction. This shuttle is designed with the 
smooth, curved aesthetic common to Mon Calamari designs and clearly is 
not meant for long-range transportation. The small, relatively inexpensive 
ship boasts the traditional Mon Calamari backup shield generators, which 
are miniaturized and incorporated in the shuttle as a part of its stock design. 


Many worlds with harsh atmospheres or hazards in low-orbit (such as debris 
fields) procure large numbers of MC-24a light shuttles because they are less 
likely to take damage during the transition from space to atmosphere. 

Sleek and lightweight, the MC-24a is meant for simple transport and has 
limited combat capability. Even with the ability to regenerate shields quickly, 
the MC-24a can take only so much damage before breaking apart. Still, with 
the Imperial crackdown on combat vessels, many more of these shuttles are 
seeing combat action. Some members of the Mon Calamari resistance have 
begun modifying the shuttles to act as secret transports when ferrying 
resistance members between safe houses, though for the most part this 
means merely adding sensor-baffling and other stealth technologies, not 
weapons or other combat systems. 


MC-24a Light Shuttle CL 6 
Colossal space transport 
Init -1; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +12 armor 
hp 100; DR 15; SR 20*; Threshold 74 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,030 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged light laser cannons +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +36 
Abilities Str 39, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 6 
Cargo 10 tons; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 90,000 (50,000 used) 
*Recovers 10 points of SR when taking the recharge shields action. 


Light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 3d10x2 


Yx<-1980O SPACE TRANSPORT 

A recent addition to the ever-popular Y-series of space transports, the 
YX-1980 is a well-defended cargo hauler capable of carrying goods (or con- 
traband) from one side of the galaxy to the other with little fuss. Equipped 
with shields far more powerful than those on most space transports, the 
YX-1980 is a ship designed for defense first, offense second. Though the ship 
comes equipped with a set of medium laser cannons, the ship's true asset is 
its ability to take a beating. Somewhat slower than other space transports 
on the market, the YX-1980 boasts a decent-sized cargo hold that spreads 
cargo out over a larger area, reducing the strain placed on the repulsors and 
artificial gravity systems. 


Nisei * 


Bridge 

. Crew Quarters 
. Navicomputer 
. Cargo Bays 

. Promenade 

. Passenger Quarters 
. Passenger Lounge/Galley 
. Refreshers 

. Engine Compartments 


SaHSsHvLs GuNvY seiaihsdA 


to comoog on & ws = 


j 
5 


Structurally, the transport has large openings that separate different 
parts of the ship and its systems. While many owners grumble about the 
difficult modifying this design, others have embraced the designers’ attempt 
to separate the various ship systems, reducing the chances of multiple system 
failures from a single malfunction. Mechanics checks to install or upgrade 
the starship's systems take a -5 penalty due to the dispersal of the YX-1980's 
systems. However, the starship has a higher-than-average damage threshold 
to account for the reduced chance of multiple system failures. 

The YX-1980 is currently one of the most popular starships in the galaxy 
for smugglers and tramp freighter captains. Like all vessels from the Corellian 
Engineering Corporation, the ship has plenty of space for additional modi- 
fications and new systems, catering to owners who enjoy customizing their 
ships. Likewise, in a galaxy growing ever more dangerous with the threat of 
the Sith and the Galactic Empire, the extra shielding on the ship is always 
welcome, as trigger-happy Imperial gunners have few compunctions about 
taking shots at any space transports they deem "suspicious." - 

The Grinning Liar, used by the smugglers Kee and Chak, is a YX-1980 
space transport. 


YX-1980 Space Transport CL8 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +5 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +13 armor 
hp 150; DR 15; SR 40; Threshold 88 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged medium laser cannons +3 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +38 
Abilities Str 46, Dex 20, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 6 
Cargo 110 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10), navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 150,000 (80,000 used) 


Medium laser cannons (copilot) 
Atk +3, Dmg 4d10x2 


YZ-2500 HEAVY TRANSPORT 

One of the largest space transports available on the open market, the Corel- 
lian Engineering Corporation's YZ-2500 space transport could arguably be 
Classified as a capital ship based on its size and armaments. Corporate advo- 
Cates from Corellia manage to overcome the Empire's severe ship regulations 
by convincing the Imperial bureaucracy that the new YZ-2500 space transport 


can help stabilize trade lanes plagued by pirates. The Empire agrees to allow 
production of the YZ-2500 heavy transport, though it remains questionable 
how much the ship actually contributes to the stability of trade lanes. 

The YZ-2500 heavy transport can haul nearly 500 times as much cargo as 
normal space transports. Large enough to support capital-scale weaponry, 
the YZ-2500 is typically used by corporations looking to transport large 
quantities of goods without having to rely on an entire convoy of smaller 
vessels. However, many of these ships have fallen into the hands of the 
Galactic Alliance, where they serve a greater purpose. Since these ships are 
commonly sold to corporate interests, the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet is able 
to use these ships to move personnel and supplies throughout the galaxy on 
legitimate shipping lanes without raising too many red flags with Imperial 
Customs. Since they are also well armed, these ships also make good support 
vessels during hit-and-run missions. 

Many of these ships have also fallen into the hands of crime lords and 
smuggling barons. Too costly (both to purchase and maintain) for the aver- 
age tramp freighter captain, YZ-2500 transports are the mainstays of many 
criminal fleets. 

YZ-2500 Heavy Transport CL 12 
Colossal (frigate) space transport 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 34; +11 armor 

hp 700; DR 15; SR 60; Threshold 134 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares 

(starship scale) 

Ranged double medium turbolaser battery +8* (see below) and 
heavy laser cannons +8 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +46 

Abilities Str 59, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 

Use Computer +6 
Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons), fire-link (heavy laser 

cannons) 

Crew 10 (skilled); Passengers 16 

Cargo 60,000 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 1.5 million (590,000 used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Double medium turbolaser battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +8 (-12 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 
Heavy laser cannons (pilot/copilot) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


LG 
CHAPTER VII 


LEGACY ERA CAMPAIGNS 


Ie 


At first blush, campaigns set in the Legacy era might seem very similar 
to those set during the Dark Times and the Rebellion era. The monolithic 
Empire rules the galaxy, there are few Jedi, and the criminal fringe has 
risen to prominence. However, in many respects the Legacy era is wholly 
mique, with a flavor and feel all its own. While the Legacy era shares many 
semmon elements with other popular time periods, this chapter helps pres- 
Some of the unique elements that can be emphasized to give a Legacy 
ampaign its own feel. 
One key aspect of Legacy era campaign is the concept of legacies, which 
rovide ample fodder for character development. In a Legacy era campaign, 
the actions of those in the past—even the distant past—have far-reaching 
epercussions and color the events of the present. Characters with legacies 
ften bear heavy responsibilities to live up to expectations, though some may 
eject their legacies to hide or throw off the sins of their progenitors. 
Moreover, the Legacy era is a time when everything—even a relic from a 
bygone age—has its place. Characters and archetypes from any time period 
fit in the Legacy era, as the era combines such popular elements as the Sith, 
the Jedi, the Empire, and various rebellious organizations bent on opposing 
tyranny (namely, the Galactic Alliance). Technology from yesteryear can 
appear as a part of a Legacy era campaign in a number of ways, including as 
antiquated ships and equipment or even as “retro” designs intended to recall 
the popularity in the past. This inclusivity gives Gamemasters and players 
alike the ability to use species, character traits, equipment, and vehicles from 
any era without worrying about things feeling out of place. Gamemasters 
running a Legacy era campaign have the chance to mine all of their source 
material, including campaign guides for other eras, for enemies, allies, and 
technology to use in their campaigns without having to worry about whether 
or not it fits. In the Legacy era, it almost surely will. 
Not everything about the Legacy era is positive, however. The time period 
surrounding the Sith-Imperial War and its aftermath is a dark time indeed, 
with a shadow of evil cloaking everything. As much as any other time, the 
dark side of the Force holds sway in the Legacy era, and heroes going on 


turn. A Legacy era campaign should emphasize the fact that the galaxy has 
become a bleak and oppressive place, and a general sense of doom and dread 
pervades every world, from Coruscant to Tatooine. Under the rule of the Sith 
and the Empire, the galaxy has become a less enlightened place, and evil 
rears its head even on the most peaceful planets. In any given adventure, 
the heroes may encounter Sith Lords or their vile spies, gangsters and crime 
lords whose power grows by the day, and bounty hunters who turn Jedi over 
to a little care for the fact that every Jedi death darkens the 
gala uch more. 


adventures during this time are likely to encounter that darkness at every 


HA SeSidcvHoa 


SNOIVINYSD vus ADvoSs4 


Al 
5 | 
9 | 
9 
> 
g 
g 
(0) 


More than just rife with the dark side, the galaxy has become a place 
where violence is law. Life in the Legacy era seems to prove true the axiom 
that power lies in the hands of the person holding the blaster, and the Empire 
seems to exemplify this philosophy. Wherever the Empire holds sway, martial 
law keeps the galaxy's inhabitants in perpetual fear of being imprisoned or 
executed. On the fringes of the galaxy, pirates and gangsters take what they 
want by force, with no fear of reprisal. The only organization strong enough 
to stop these criminals from slaughtering their way to power, the Empire, is 
just as corrupt—and often has dealings with those same vicious criminals. 
Adventures in a Legacy era campaign may involve intrigue and deceit, but 
violence taints everything in a galaxy under the menacing eyes of the Sith. 

Lastly, the Legacy era is a time period that can challenge assumptions. 
Things are never exactly what they seem, and many of the players’ assump- 
tions might be turned on their head. The Yuuzhan Vong, once the extragalac- 
tic invaders who murdered millions, now serve the Jedi and can be powerful 
allies. A large faction of the Empire fights against the tyranny of the Sith, 
accompanied by Imperial Knights who, while appearing to be Jedi, serve a 
different goal altogether. The cold, calculating Moff Nyna Calixte is at once 
an active Imperial agent and also the mother of Cade Skywalker, helping her 
son in defiance of the Empire she serves. Gamemasters crafting adventures 
in the Legacy era should not be afraid to take basic assumptions and twist 
them, or even toss them aside entirely, as no stereotype or expected behavior 
can be guaranteed. 


INTRODUCING 
THE LEGACY ERA 


In many ways, the Legacy era is an amalgamation of the best parts of other 
Star Wars eras. As such, introducing your players to the Legacy era can be 
relatively easy. Your players will likely be familiar with the Empire from the 
classic Star Wars film trilogy, and using that as a basis, you can introduce 
the key points of the Legacy era before the campaign begins. The following 
items are among the key elements of the Legacy era that all players should 
know before starting the campaign: 


© The Legacy era begins some 130 years after the Battle of Yavin. 

© The Galactic Empire rules the galaxy, imposing the same conditions that 
the Empire did under Emperor Palpatine and Darth Vader. 

© The Empire is, in turn, ruled over by the Sith. Sith Lords can be found 
throughout the galaxy and are feared everywhere they go. 

© The current Emperor is Darth Krayt, a tyrannical man garbed in massive 
armor. 

¢ The deposed Emperor, Roan Fel, leads an Empire-in-exile, opposing the 
Sith-ruled Empire with many of the same resources and troops. 


© The Jedi have been hunted nearly to extinction, and a bounty on the 
heads of the Jedi keeps them on the run and in hiding. 


With those core aspects of the setting in mind, the players should be | 
prepared to start a campaign in the Legacy era and create characters that. 
fit right in. Of course, many players will want to know more, but the level of 
detail you provide to them as the Gamemaster can vary based on the amount _ 
of mystery you want to surround the campaign. 4 


ADVANCING 
EXISTING HEROES 


The Legacy era is rich with great stories, interesting characters, and adven- 
ture possibilities. As tempting as the Legacy era might sound, your gaming - 
group might already be in the middle of another campaign set during an | 
earlier era. A Gamemaster eager to run a Legacy era campaign has two — 
ways to deal with this quandary: Allow players to create new characters — 
using options available in any era, or allow players to bring the characters 
they are currently playing into the new campaign. It is not necessary for — 
players to abandon their beloved characters once the Gamemaster decides — 
to advance the timeline. 


HEROES FROM ALL ERAS 
A Gamemaster can run a new campaign that allows players to choose char- 
acter options or backgrounds from any era. Whether a player wants to play © 
a Mandalorian Neo-Crusader, a Jedi General from the Clone Wars, ora Rebel — 
spy, you can still set your campaign during the Legacy era. The solution is to 
allow the player in question to create the character he or she wants, then ' 
bring that character forward in time to the Legacy era. This also works for _ 
players who are invested in heroes they are already playing but also want 
to have adventures in the Legacy era. 


HEROES FROM THE PAST 
One of the most iconic moments in the Star Wars saga happens in The Empire 
Strikes Back when Han Solo is frozen in carbonite. Carbon freezing, though 
presented as dangerous in the films, has been used several times to place a 
character in hibernation, effectively halting their aging process. Of course, 
the side effects of such a long period of inactivity (known as hibernation 
sickness) can sometimes be debilitating for a short period of time; however, 
carbon freezing is an effective way to bring a character into the Legacy 
era. All the Gamemaster needs to do is decide how the character came to 
be frozen in carbonite, what happened to the carbonite block to leave it 
undisturbed for years, and how the heroes in the Legacy era come across it 
and unfreeze their new companion. 


Another option is to have a hero preserved in an oubliette. An oubliette 
is an ancient Sith device that resembles a large, elaborate sarcophagus. Any 
creature inside the oubliette when it is sealed is effectively put into stasis. 
Very few of these devices exist; despite their rarity, they serve as a great (and 
safe) way to bring heroes forward from the past into the Legacy era. They 
also present an excellent opportunity for Gamemasters to introduce other 
Sith-related artifacts into the game, perhaps hidden in secret compartments 
within the oubliette. The discovery of an oubliette is unlikely to remain a quiet 
event in the Legacy era, with hundreds of Sith Lords present in the galaxy. 

A somewhat more mystical method of bringing heroes forward in time 
is to have them spend the intervening years on the planet lego. For reasons 
unknown, living beings that visit lego cease to age or suffer from ailments or 
diseases. Something about the planet halts the ravages of nature and time. 
That is not to say that nothing on lego can die—that is far from the truth. 
However, heroes can land on lego and spend decades, even centuries, on 
the idyllic world without growing a day older. Upon leaving lego, the heroes 
find themselves embroiled in Legacy era plots without having aged a day 
since they first arrived there. 

Droid heroes, on the other hand, require almost no effort to bring forward 
into the Legacy era. Droids can effectively “live” forever provided they are 
not damaged beyond repair. Bringing a droid hero forward in time requires 
some explanation for what the droid has been doing in the intervening years. 
Perhaps the droid has been languishing, deactivated, in a junk dealer's shop 
on an Outer Rim world, or perhaps it has spent the intervening years in the 
service of a noble family on a peaceful world where adventure has not come 
calling for some time. The only decision that the player and the Gamemaster 
need to make together is whether or not the droid has received a memory 
wipe since its last adventure—a decision that determines just how much 
knowledge of the past the droid can impart to the rest of the party. 


USING HEROES 

FROM CAMPAIGNS PAST 

The Legacy era is all about how the past influences the present, and heroes 
from previous campaigns can return—albeit briefly as characters under 
the Gamemaster's control—to guide the actions of heroes in the current 
campaign. 

When using characters from past campaigns in Legacy era storylines, a 
Gamemaster must be careful to keep their actions consistent with how they 
acted while under player control; the player of a grim, tough-as-nails soldier 
from a previous campaign isn't likely to appreciate stories about his former 
character fleeing a battle in fear. 

One good way to use heroes from the past is to have them appear 
in recordings. With this method, the Gamemaster introduces recorded 
messages—be they holographic, video, or audio—that feature heroes from 
older campaigns, using them as plot hooks or clues to some mystery in an 


LEGACY BOUNTY HUNTER 


adventure. This plot device effectively limits player interaction with their 
former characters and requires minimal preparation on the Gamemaster's 
part. A recording usually offers an incomplete picture, especially if the 
recording has been damaged or corrupted. A recorded message can be used 
to advise heroes in a time of need, point them toward their next adventure, 
or even mislead them. A damaged recording, once repaired, can even point to 
some reward, such as the hiding place of a heavily modified tramp freighter— 
perhaps the same ship the players once acquired in a previous campaign! 


} 


HA BSsidvHga 


SNEIVAIWYVYS YEE) &9V7ES8T fe 


ees 


oy 
o 


iA SateweS 


SNEIVEWNYS VYHE ANVEa9T 


In the course of an adventure, the heroes might acquire a holocron con- 
taining information left behind by a Jedi hero from a previous campaign. 
Holocrons are extremely rare and valuable, meaning that word of a holocron’s 
existence alone is likely to attract the heroes’ attention. However, when the 
players discover that one of their previous heroes is the gatekeeper of the 
holocron, it makes the object valuable not only to the characters but to the 
players as well. Holocrons with gatekeepers modeled after heroes of the past 
require a bit more preparation on the part of the Gamemaster, since play- 
ers can interact with the gatekeeper. Although the gatekeeper's knowledge 
is limited, the Gamemaster must be ready to answer some of the players’ 
questions, rather than provide a stock, predetermined amount of informa- 
tion. Such a holocron makes a great reward for Jedi heroes, affording them 
access to knowledge from past campaigns and opening up some interesting 
possibilities for Legacy era adventure design that, for once, relies on player 
knowledge of past events instead of character knowledge. In essence, the 
holocron serves as a conduit for what players know of past adventures, fun- 
neled through the gatekeeper and imparted to their Legacy era heroes. 

The Gamemaster also has the option to bring heroes from the past into 
the Legacy era as nonplayer characters, using the methods described in the 
“Heroes from the Past" section, above. This offers many of the same advan- 
tages as a holocron but presents many pitfalls. A Gamemaster must be careful 
not to allow these past heroes to steal the spotlight from the current heroes. 
Additionally, the Gamemaster must keep a tight rein on these characters 
so that their knowledge and abilities aren't abused by the players. It's one 
thing to have a former hero resurface to provide some much-needed guid- 
ance to the current crop of heroes; it's quite another to have the returning 
character follow the heroes around and do their “dirty work” for them, like 
some over-the-hill sidekick. 

Having heroes from past campaigns reappear briefly in a Legacy era cam- 
paign reinforces one of the key themes of the setting. When used sparingly, 
such occasions demonstrate to players how the deeds of past characters 
can continue to impact galactic events, even if the characters themselves 
are no longer alive to witness them. Additionally, the timely reappearance 
of a beloved character allows the Gamemaster to bring a sense of closure 
to the hero, especially one who had lots of potential for interesting stories 
that never got off the ground, either because the campaign ended too soon 
or because the player left the game. 


VECTOR 

The Vector storyline introduced in Dark Horse Comics provides Game- 
masters with an excellent example of a way to bring characters from 
the past into the Legacy era. In the Vector story, a Jedi Shadow by the 
name of Celeste Morne becomes trapped in an oubliette, a Sith device 
that serves as a stasis pod and preserves the life of the person sleeping 
inside. After thousands of years, the oubliette is unearthed by miners 
and then sold to smugglers, who in turn sell the oubliette to a historian 
who hands it over to none other than Darth Vader. 

The Vector story does more than bring a character from the past 
into the future. Along with Morne comes all of her knowledge of the 
Old Republic and its technology, as well as history of the Jedi Order that 
has likely been lost in the passage of time. Moreover, the oubliette also 
houses an artifact known as the Muur Talisman, which has the ability to 
create and control creatures known as rakghouls, as well as the spirit of 
a long-dead Sith Lord named Karness Muur. When Darth Vader opens this 
oubliette, he unleashes not just a Jedi from the past but also a plague 
of rakghouls, an ancient Sith Lord spirit, and an artifact of great power. 
When you decide to use one of the above devices to bring characters 
forward into the Legacy era, be mindful of the other things that can be 
brought forward at the same time, as they open up many possibilities 
for adventure and campaign design. 


HEROIC LEGACIES 

One of the central themes of the Legacy era is the concept that a person's 
life is influenced by the actions and accomplishments of his or her ancestors. 
Families carry with them reputations that can last for generations, and in the 
Star Wars universe, a familial legacy is far more than just a reputation; it isa 
mark of one’s talents and abilities. The Star Wars saga, and the Legacy era in 
particular, highlights the concept that a being can inherit some skills, talents, 
strengths, and weaknesses from his or her parents. Anakin Skywalker is an 
excellent pilot, and so too is Luke Skywalker. Han Solo is a skilled mechanic 
and a cunning warrior, and so too is Jaina Solo. Baron Soontir Fel is a dedi- 
cated, driven, and disciplined man, and so too is his son, Jagged. In the Legacy 
era, these same traits manifest themselves in the lives of characters such as 
Roan Fel and Cade Skywalker, whose ancestors were heroes of note and who 
have been handed responsibilities by way of their heritage. 

In a Legacy era campaign, players have the opportunity not only to play 
characters with interesting family secrets but also characters whose names 
echo through history. One of the most appealing aspects of playing in a 
Legacy era campaign is that players can be Skywalkers and Solos, and then 
decide the extent to which their legacies guide their characters’ actions. 

Rules for legacies are presented in Chapter 2. 


MEIRLOOM ITEMS 

Over the course of galactic history, certain items, including weapons and 
armor, have been made famous by their owners. The personal blaster rifle 
of a hero of the Mandalorian Wars or a lightsaber wielded by a dreaded Sith 
Lord is more than just another piece of equipment; it is a piece of history. It 
has become legendary because it is strongly associated with the power and 
destiny of its owner and is closely tied to that person's fate; for example, 
Ulic Qel-Droma's lightsaber and Exar Kun's battle armor were both integral in 
helping those characters fulfill their destinies. Such rare items are classified 
as heirloom items, and each is unique. Thus, they are highly sought-after by 
collectors, heroes, and villains alike. 

An heirloom item carries a benefit that persists until the item's destruc- 
tion. Such a benefit is the result of either the original owner's tinkering or a 
side effect of being present when a character's destiny is fulfilled. 

The rules for heirloom items are optional. Any Gamemaster who adopts 
the destiny system is free to include heirloom items in his or hercampaign 
as well. 


HEIRLOOM ITEMS RULES 

An heirloom item is created whenever a character fulfills the legacy destiny 
(see page 21). In order for an heirloom item to come into being, the item 
must be present when a character fulfills his or her destiny (see page 112 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). The Legacy destiny imparts this benefit as 
soon as the character's destiny is fulfilled. A character who gains a heirloom 
item in this fashion chooses one of the following effects, which is then 
applied to the item, whether it is a particular weapon, suit of armor, or other 
item in the character's possession. Typically this item is one of particular 
significance to the character. 

Additionally, when a character with a destiny dies in pursuit of his or 
her destiny, instead of the normal effect (Force Spirit, Noble Sacrifice, or 
Vengeance) that character can choose to create an heirloom item instead. 
This character need not have the Legacy destiny to gain this effect. 

Heirloom item effects are discussed below. 


Extra Modification 

When an item becomes an heirloom item, the owner can modify the item 
a second time using the Tech Specialist feat (see page 21 of Starships of 
the Galaxy). 


Legendary Icon 

When an item becomes an heirloom item, its fame spreads throughout the 
galaxy. When carrying the heirloom item in plain sight, you gain favorable 
Circumstances on all Charisma-based skill checks (except Use the Force 
Checks). 


Steeped in the Dark Side 

When an item possessed by an agent of evil becomes an heirloom item, some 
of its owner's evil becomes infused in the item itself. Once per encounter, 
while carrying or using the heirloom item, you can apply a destiny bonus 
equal to one-half your Dark Side Score on any one attack roll or skill check 
made before the end of your turn. Applying this bonus increases your Dark 
Side Score by 1. 


Symbol of the Light 

When an item possessed by a good person becomes an heirloom item, it 
becomes a beacon of light that staves off the darkness. When carrying or 
using the heirloom item, once per encounter, as a reaction, you can impose 
a penalty on any one attack roll or skill check made by a character with a 
Dark Side Score of 1 or higher. This penalty is equal to the target's Dark 
Side Score. 


SAMPLE HEIRLOOM ITEMS 
Below are three sample heirloom items plucked from the Star Wars saga, 
with statistics based on the rules provided above. 


Anakin Solo's Lightsaber 

After Anakin Solo dies on the planet Myrkr, his lightsaber finds its way into 
the hands of Ganner Rhysode and even Anakin's uncle, Luke Skywalker, who 
wields it in a duel against Supreme Overlord Shimrra. The weapon is returned 
to Han Solo, who lays his son's lightsaber to rest in Chewbacca's memorial 
tree on Kashyyyk. 

In the Legacy era, Anakin's lightsaber could fall into the hands of a Jedi 
Padawan sent on a special mission to Kashyyyk to retrieve the weapon as a 
rite of passage for reaching knighthood. 

Anakin Solo's Lightsaber: Medium lightsaber (2d8 damage) and symbol 
of the light. Once per encounter, as a reaction, the wielder can impose a 
penalty on any one attack roll or skill check made by a character with a 
Dark Side Score of 1 or higher. This penalty is equal to the target's Dark Side 
Score. In addition, its wielder ignores restrictions on Sense Force and Sense 
Surroundings imposed by Yuuzhan Vong. 


A YBesigvHad 


SNEIVAWYVYS) VHEG &£97E97 


J 


HA SSsidvHoD 


SNEIVEIWNYVYSD Yq &£97E987 


Boba Fett's Mandalorian Armor 

The famous bounty hunter Boba Fett wore a special suit of patchwork 
Mandalorian armor for decades. The Mandalorian armor is outfitted with 
dozens of special modifications, making it the ideal suit of armor for any 
bounty hunter or mercenary. 

Upon his death, Boba Fett's armor would have been split up into separate 
pieces to be worn by other members of his clan to honor him, as per the 
Mandalorian tradition. Reassembling Boba Fett's armor might be the subject 
of a personal quest undertaken by a hero in a Legacy era campaign, or the 
reassembled suit could be worn by an enemy wishing to capitalize on the 
armor's legendary status. 

Boba Fett's Mandalorian Armor: Medium Mandalorian battle armor 
with an extra modification (+9 armor bonus to Reflex Defense, +2 equipment 
bonus to Fortitude Defense). 


Chewbacca's Bowcaster 
The favored weapon of the loyal and dedicated hero Chewbacca, this 
bowcaster represents decades of battle prowess in the hands of one of the 
greatest Wookiees of all time. 
Perhaps the bowcaster is handed down after Chewbacca's death to his 
descendants, a hero worthy enough to carry on Chewbacca's legacy. 
Chewbacca's Bowcaster: Medium bowcaster (3d10 damage) and legend- 
ary icon (grants favorable circumstances on Charisma-based skill checks, 
except for Use the Force checks). 


Emperor Palpatine's Lightsaber 

This red-bladed lightsaber belonged to one of the galaxy's most fearsome 
dictators. Constructed in the style of all Sith lightsabers, Emperor Palpatine's 
lightsaber practically drips with the dark side of the Force. 

This lightsaber is a sacred artifact to the Sith of the Legacy era, and any 
hero who comes to possess it will likely be stalked by agents of Darth Krayt 
until the weapon is secured. 

Emperor Palpatine’s Lightsaber: Medium lightsaber (2d8 damage) 
steeped in the dark side. Once per encounter, while carrying or using the 
lightsaber, the wielder can apply a destiny bonus equal to one-half his or 
her Dark Side Score on any one attack roll or skill check made before the 
end of the wielder's turn. Applying this bonus increases the wielder's Dark 
Side Score by 1. 


Han Solo's Heavy Blaster Pistol 
This iconic BlasTech DL-44 heavy blaster pistol, the preferred sidearm of the 
galaxy's most famous smuggler, could have been handed down through the 
Solo family, or it might have been entrusted to a respected friend of the Solo 
family, such as Wedge Antilles or one of his descendants. It's also possible 
that the weapon might have found its way into the private collection of an 
arms dealer, waiting for heroes to steal it. 

Han Solo's BlasTech DL-44: Modified heavy blaster pistol (3d8+2 
damage) with an extra modification (+1 equipment bonus on attack rolls). 


Luke Skywalker's Lightsaber 

Once the lightsaber of Anakin Skywalker before his transformation into Darth 
Vader, this blue-bladed lightsaber was given to Luke Skywalker by Obi-Wan 
Kenobi on Tatooine and served as Luke's primary weapon until the fateful 
duel on Cloud City. Years later, the lightsaber reappeared in the hands of 
Luke's clone, and was then handed down through the Skywalker family via 
Mara Jade Skywalker and their son, Ben Skywalker. 

The heroes might come into possession of this iconic lightsaber simply by 
being a member of the Skywalker lineage, or perhaps the weapon is recovered 
from the remnants of the Ossus academy following the Sith-Imperial War. 

Luke Skywalker's Lightsaber: Medium lightsaber (2d8 damage) and 
legendary icon (grants favorable circumstances on Charisma-based skill 
checks, except for Use the Force checks). 


FATHER'S 
LIGeHTSABE SR » TKS 
is THE WEArPON 
OF & WED! KSIOreT. 
NOT AS CLUMSY 
OR RANDOM AS A 
ES 1. am ST EE F > 2 « AMS 
WEA FP Cnr 


“YOUR 


EVERYTHING 
MAS A PLACE 


Everything has a place in a Legacy era campaign. As the farthest point 
forward in the Star Wars chronology, the Legacy era avoids the hangups of 
earlier eras when it comes to the appearance of certain objects, vehicles, 
or species. For Gamemasters concerned with preserving continuity, this era 
should prove liberating. Very little from Star Wars lore should be considered 
off-limits; every piece of technology, every species, and every event that is a 
part of Star Wars history has a place in your game. In a Legacy era campaign, 
X-wings can face off against Predator-class starfighters in a battle above 
Endor without causing continuity issues. 

This freedom puts the breadth of Star Wars lore at the Gamemaster's 
disposal. If you are the Gamemaster, exploit this fact. Pick and choose your 
favorite elements from various eras, and then combine them together in 
interesting ways to craft your Legacy era campaign. Find things you like 
and use them as a starting point, ignoring the time period from which the 
elements are drawn. For example, if you have a fondness for the Mandalorian 
Neo-Crusaders of the distant past but also love the military vehicles used 
by the Republic in the Clone Wars, and you want to have a campaign that 
involves fighting against both the Sith and the Empire, then you can (and 
should!) do so. One could easily combine these elements together to create 
the basis of a campaign: A group of upstart Mandalorians have resurrected 
the Neo-Crusader movement and bought a cache of surplus Old Republic 
military vehicles, retrofitted to serve their needs. As these Neo-Crusader 
revivalists move out into the galaxy, they hire themselves into the service 
of a Sith Lord tasked with breaking up the supply lines of Roan Fel's Empire. 
When the heroes get involved, they find themselves fighting Mandalori- 
ans armed with Republic weapons and vehicles, caught in the middle of a 
struggle between Roan Fel loyalists and the Imperial forces under the Sith 
Lord's control. By the end of your campaign, the heroes have a chance to 
shatter the Neo-Crusader resurgence, battle the forces of the Empire, earn 
the favor of Roan Fel's Empire-in-exile, and defeat the Sith Lord in whose 
affairs they have meddled. 

The example above illustrates the possibilities of setting a campaign 
in the Legacy era. Legacy era campaigns also give players a wide variety 
of material to draw upon for the design of their heroes, which can lead to 
more interesting groups as well as players who are more engaged in their 
characters. After all, a player that gets to play the kind of character he or 
she wants to play is likely to be a happy player who will want to see that 
character survive and evolve. 


Given the open palette of source material available in the Legacy era, a 
Gamemaster is wise not to rule anything out. Find a way to make things work. 
If you really like something from another era, the Legacy era is practically 
designed to make it work. This goes just as much for Gamemasters as it does 
for players; do not turn away material simply because it wasn't specifically 
designed for play in the Legacy era. Be creative, seek out explanations when 
necessary, but don't be afraid to include those things that excite you about 
the Star Wars universe. 


EVOLVING DESIGNS 

For the most part, technology advances at a slow pace in the Star Wars uni- 
verse. At least in game terms, blaster pistol technology hasn't changed much 
since its introduction in the days following the Great Sith War. Occasionally 
there are significant leaps in technology, such as the advent of the modern 
navicomputer, but for the most part technology seems to stay at about the 
same level. This does not mean that Star Wars technology has stagnated; 
rather, it means that many of the technological improvements over the years 
occur at a level that it imperceptible to us as the audience. Blaster technology 
has no doubt improved over thousands of years, but by and large blasters 
work the same as they did long ago. 

When dealing with the introduction of older technology from bygone eras, 
Gamemasters have a few options for how to integrate that technology into a 
Legacy era campaign. One method is to simply create new technology based 
on classic designs; for example, the X-83 Twintail fighter is clearly an evolu- 
tion of the popular X-wing and evokes a similar feeling in those who see it. 
However, its design is firmly rooted in the Legacy era, and it simultaneously 
provides both a sense of wonder at its newness and a sense of nostalgia at its 
similarity. Gamemasters can take a lesson away from this design in creating 
ships, weapons, and even droids that draw inspiration from past eras but still 
retain a sense of the unknown that comes with new technology. 

For example, say you have a player in your campaign who is very inter- 
ested in the HWK-290 space transport (Kyle Katarn's Moldy Crow, found 
on page 118 of The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide). As the Gamemaster, 
you can take advantage of the player's interest by creating a new ship in 
the same spirit; perhaps this ship is a throwback to that classic design, 
created by nostalgic engineers from the Corellian Engineering Corporation. 
The new ship, the HWK-2000, is a sleek, aerodynamic interpretation of the 
original ship's frame, outfitted with the most cutting edge space transport 
technology. In that player's hands, the transport becomes both a connection 
to the ship he already knows and loves yet is full of the same mysteries as 
any new ship. It might look like an updated version of the Moldy Crow, but 
it comes with its own quirks and secrets, and it gives the heroes a chance 
to become a part of the new ship's history, making their own mark on the 
space transport's legacy. 


j 


A esidvyHd 


r 
W 
> 
) 
< 
W 
v 
> 
O) 
> 
5 
> 
@) 
Zz 
@ 


HA SStceVvVHo 


SNEIYVAIWYS YE) £97E979 


WEAPON AND VEHICLE 
TEMPLATES 

Instead of presenting a new, evolved design based on a classic element, 
Gamemasters can choose to simply take a piece of older technology and 
introduce it directly into their Legacy era campaigns. The following four 
templates represent two methods of introducing older technology into the 
Legacy era. The antiquated template represents a weapon or vehicle from the 
recent past that doesn't take advantage of modern technological advance- 
ments but still is recent enough to be mostly effective. Refitted weapons 
and vehicles, on the other hand, represent older technology that has been 
rebuilt, replacing out-of-date technology with Legacy era improvements; for 
example, a refitted A-wing may have had its weapons, engines, and computer 
systems removed and replaced with similar but highly advanced components 
common in the Legacy era. 

If you own the Starships of the Galaxy supplement, the archaic ship tem- 
plate and the advanced ship template also serve similar purposes. Unlike the 
templates presented below, the templates from that’ book represent more 
drastic changes that represent significant departures from the basic design. 
In a Legacy era campaign, you should use the archaic ship template on any 
ships from the Old Republic time period (well before the Clone Wars), and 
the advanced ship template to create new Legacy era designs based on ships 
from the past. For vehicles and weapons from the Clone Wars, the Dark Times, 
or the Galactic Civil War, use the antiquated template below. 


Weapon Template: Antiquated 

This weapon template can be applied to any weapon that doesn't appear in 
the Saga Edition core rulebook and represents pre-Legacy era technology. 
Most antiquated weapons are still fully functional but do not take advantage 
of the latest technological advancements. 

Cost: Antiquated weapons have their prices increased by 10% due to 
rarity. 

Availability: All antiquated weapons gain the Rare availability, if they 
do not already have it. 

Energy Cells and Power Packs: Energy cells and power packs for anti- 
quated weapons cost 50% more than a standard energy cell or power pack. 
Unless otherwise specified, an antiquated weapon cannot use standard 
energy cells or power packs, only antiquated energy cells or power packs. 

Repairs: Antiquated weapons do not use modern technology and are likely 
to be unfamiliar to most weaponsmiths. An antiquated weapon increases 
the base DC of any Mechanics checks made to build or repair the weapon 
by +5. 

Refitting: An antiquated weapon can be refitted (see the Mechanics 
skill, page 31). Apply the refitted template to the base weapon instead of 
the antiquated template. 


Weapon Template: Refitted 

When a character refits a weapon, he or she upgrades its interchangeable 
parts with components that use the latest advances in weapon technology, 
Refitted weapons have the following changes to their statistics. 

Cost: Refitted weapons have their prices increased by 20% due to rarity 
and the innate cost of refitting the weapon. 

Availability: All refitted weapons gain the Rare availability, if they do 
not already have it. 

Energy Cell: A refitted weapon can use standard energy cells and power 
packs. Additionally, weapons that use power packs to provide ammunition 
have their number of shots that can be fired before the power pack must be 
replaced increased by 10%. 

Repairs: Since refitted weapons combine antiquated technology with 
modern components, sometimes the weapon must be treated gently and 
repairs can be challenging. A refitted weapon increases the base DC of any 
Mechanics checks made to repair the weapon by +5. 

Maintenance: Unlike normal weapons, refitted weapons require extra 
maintenance to ensure that they continue to function as expected. Once 
per week the weapon must receive regular maintenance, which requires 1 
hour of work (no Mechanics check required, though a tool kit is necessary 
to perform the maintenance). Failure to perform this maintenance moves 
the weapon -1 persistent step down the condition track for each day it does 
not receive maintenance after one week. 


Vehicle Template: Antiquated 

Antiquated vehicles are relics from recent history; maybe a few of these 
vehicles can be seen plying the space lanes, but many are either novelties 
or vehicles that are barely holding themselves together. While not so old as 
to be called archaic, these vehicles have not rolled off of the assembly lines 
in a long while. 

CL: Reduce the base ship's CL by -2. 

Threshold: An antiquated vehicle's superstructure lacks many of the 
advancements that hold the vehicle together when struck by modern weapons 
fire. Reduce the vehicle's damage threshold by 25%. 

Base Attack Bonus: An antiquated vehicle lacks updates to sensors 
that overcome modern vehicles’ defensive countermeasures. Apply a -2 
penalty to the vehicle's base attack bonus and all attacks made with its 
vehicle weapons. 

Availability: All antiquated vehicles gain the Rare availability, if they do 
not already have it. 

Cost: Antiquated vehicles are only available at their used sale price. If an 
antiquated vehicle does not have a used sale price, calculate it as 60% of the 
original new price. All antiquated vehicles are considered to be used. 


i 


Repairs: Antiquated vehicles do not use modern technology and are likely 
to be unfamiliar to most ship engineers. The base DC of any Mechanics checks 
made to build or repair the antiquated vehicle increases by +5. 

Refitting: An antiquated vehicle can be refitted (see the Mechanics 
skill, page 31). Apply the refitted template to the base vehicle instead of 
the antiquated template. 


Vehicle Template: Refitted 

A refitted vehicle is an older model from years past that has had its internal 
components upgraded to take advantage of advances in modern technology. 
A refitted vehicle maintains the basic structure of the original vehicle but 
has the latest and greatest parts available in the current era. 

Cost: Refitted vehicles are only available at their used sale price + 20% 
for the cost of refitting. 

Availability: All refitted vehicles gain the Rare availability, if they do 
not already have it. 7 

Repairs: Since refitted vehicles combine antiquated technology with 
modern components, sometimes the vehicle must be treated gently and 
repairs can be challenging. A refitted vehicle increases the base DC of any 
Mechanics checks made to repair it by +5. 

Maintenance: Unlike normal vehicles, refitted vehicles must be given 
extra maintenance to ensure that they continue to function as expected. 
Once per week the vehicle must receive regular maintenance, which requires 
1 hour of work (no Mechanics check required, though a tool kit is necessary 
to perform the maintenance). Failure to perform this maintenance moves 
the vehicle -1 persistent step down the condition track for each day it does 
not receive maintenance after one week. 


AGE OF SHADOW 


The Legacy era is a time of darkness and violence in the galaxy not seen since 
the rise of Palpatine's Empire. There are several elements of the Legacy era 
that Gamemasters should emphasize in their adventures to help reinforce 
just how grim the situation has become. 


THE DARK SIDE 

During the Legacy era, the dark side holds great power throughout the 
galaxy. It's more than just a function of having the Sith in power; the Jedi 
have been diminished and everywhere violence, hatred, and selfishness 
rule supreme. If the influence of the dark side waxes and wanes, during the 
Legacy era it reaches peaks unseen except during the grimmest times in 
galactic history. 


One can emphasize the pervasiveness of the dark side in a variety of ways. 
First, make liberal use of dark side Force-users, including Sith acolytes, spies, 
Sith Lords, Jedi who have turned to the dark side, and the occasional Force- 
sensitive bounty hunter. Next, introduce sites and locales where the power 
of the dark side is palpable; set adventures at the sites of great battles in 
which the Sith and the Empire were victorious over the Galactic Alliance and 
the Jedi, or places where many Jedi were slain in a single attack by bounty 
hunters or the Empire. Introduce locations where the dark side manifests 
itself in the form of visions or even physical danger, such as the cave on 
Dagobah, but have such locations appear in multiple adventures. Give the 
heroes little chance to visit safe havens, and do not be afraid to repeatedly 
tell Force-sensitive heroes that they feel constant discomfort at the strength 
of the dark side at various adventuring locales. 


SiItTH OVERLORDS 

Unlike the Dark Times of Palpatine's Empire, the galaxy is now under the heels 
of overt and openly declared Sith Lords. The heroes of a Legacy era campaign 
should come across these Sith Lords, or at least evidence of their work, ona 
regular basis. Gamemasters shouldn't be afraid to use Sith Lords on a regular 
basis, as their abundance is one of the biggest advantages of setting games 
in the Legacy era. This does not mean, however, that the heroes necessarily 
have to fight the Sith at every turn; there are more subtle ways to use the 
Sith in adventures. For example, your heroes might come across a recording 
of a Sith Lord wiping out a cell of Roan Fel loyalists, only to discover in the 
recording that one of the loyalists managed to escape. Unless the heroes 
have made overt enemies of the Empire, or of a particular Sith Lord, not every 
physical encounter has to end in violence, and the heroes might cross paths 
with a Sith Lord while pursuing similar goals. 

Introduce the Sith early, and often. Low-level heroes stand no chance of 
slaying a Sith Lord outright, but that does not mean that their adventures 
cannot include a Sith Lord. Holograms, video messages, and other commu- 
nication methods allow you to bring a Sith Lord into a campaign without 
worrying about the heroes being outmatched in a fight. Use the Sith as 
allies, if possible; perhaps the heroes are contacted by a Sith Lord who com- 
mandeers their vessel for clandestine transport to an Outer Rim location, or 
the heroes are hired by the Sith to retrieve a captured enemy of the Empire. 
Using the Sith as allies early on makes the eventual conflict with those Sith 
Lords later in the campaign all the more exciting. 


1A HeLagvHo 


SBNEIVEWNYS; VES ADVea97 


HA YSstavHg 


SNEIVEWVYS VEO Aeveasq |. 


JEDI BOUNTY 

The Jedi have been all but wiped out, but some still remain at large. As a 
result, the Empire has placed a massive bounty on the heads of Jedi. If you 
have Jedi heroes in your campaign, emphasize the feeling of constantly being 
pursued. Have bounty hunters appear on the Jedi heroes’ trail, showing up 
frequently to harry them. If the Jedi acts overtly without taking caution 
to conceal his abilities, feel free to have the agents of the Empire show up 
shortly thereafter, having been tipped off by witnesses. As Jedi heroes rise in 
levels and fame, their deeds are likely to attract unwanted attention unless 
they take precautions to hide their abilities. In every spaceport, the heroes 
encounter people who shun them for fear of being associated with the Jedi. 
Unscrupulous business partners try to exploit the heroes’ need for secrecy, 
threatening to go to the Empire if their exorbitant demands are not met. Even 
the lowliest of scum in the galaxy knows that there is money to be made off 
of the Jedi, and average citizens fear for their lives when confronted with 
the prospect of being associated with rogue Jedi. No one wants a Sith Lord 
with a squad of Knighthunters to show up on their doorstep. 


SERVITUDE & SLAVERY 

With the return of the Empire to power, tyranny has once more become the 
natural order of things. However, Darth Krayt knows that freedom is also 
a breeding ground for dissent, and as such he has abolished many of the 
anti-slavery laws that have been in place since the fall of Palpatine's Empire. 
Though still not condoned in the Core Worlds, along the Mid Rim and Outer 
Rim many of the safeguards put in place to deter slavery have been scaled 
back, opening the door for slaving outfits to flourish once more. The Empire 
itself has enslaved many populaces, including the Mon Calamari, forcing 
them to work for the Empire as punishment for defiance. In a Legacy era 
campaign, including slavers among the enemies that the heroes face helps 
reinforce the notion that the galaxy is sliding into barbarism, especially 
when the heroes realize that the Empire not only allows slavery but, in many 
cases, condones it. 

More common than actual slavery is the indentured servitude that 
many “legitimate” crime lords engage in. Fringe heroes are likely to become 
entangled in indentured servitude themselves. Perhaps it begins when the 
heroes take out a loan to buy their own ship. Maybe they need more money 
to buy weapons and equipment, all of which their particular crime lord or loan 
shark is more than willing to provide. Once they have built up a sufficient 
debt, their creditor comes calling, backed by the kind of violent beings that 
haunt the dark alleys of Nar Shaddaa and Point Nadir. The creditors demand 
payment and a cut of the heroes’ profits. Meanwhile, these same creditors 
start charging outrageous prices for starship fuel, ammunition, and even 
protection when the Sector Rangers come to them, looking for the heroes. 
They charge for information, and even for knowledge of what jobs are avail- 
able. Soon, the heroes might find themselves growing deeper and deeper in 


debt after every mission, forcing them to do their creditors’ bidding or face 
the consequences of refusing to make good on their debts. 

Such indentured servitude can be a great motivator for adventures, but be 
careful not to bog down the campaign with an overwhelming sense of hope- 
lessness. (This is a game, after all.) By the time the heroes reach mid-levels, 
they should have a chance to throw off the shackles of their servitude. Just 
like the eventual showdown between the heroes of the Rebellion and Jabba 
the Hutt, eventually the heroes will realize that the only way to escape their 
debts is to deal with the crime lord directly, which can make for an exciting 
adventure filled with danger that results in the heroes achieving their own 
freedom and perhaps ridding the galaxy of a vile criminal in the process, 


THE THREE-WayY WAR 

One of the more exciting elements of the Legacy era is that, unlike the Rebel- 
lion era, the galaxy is embroiled in a conflict between three separate entities, 
no two of which get along with one another. Though Roan Fel's Empire-in- 
exile and the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet both oppose Darth Krayt's Empire, 
even those two factions cannot get along well enough to work together. 
When one factors in the Hidden Temple, yet a fourth faction that has not 
allied itself with any of the three primary factions, the Legacy era represents 
a time when the galaxy is fractured by allegiances to those factions. 

To emphasize this fractured conflict, one can use each of the three major 
factions in adventures. Each faction might be chasing the same goal but for 
different reasons, bringing it into conflict with the other factions as well as 
unaligned heroes. Having encounters that feature multiple factions opposing 
both the heroes and one another not only creates a dynamic scene but also 
reinforces the notion that multiple power groups are working toward their 
own ends. Once the heroes decide to ally with a faction, things get really 
interesting: If the heroes make themselves known as allies of the Galactic 
Alliance, they might find themselves targeted not only by Darth Krayt but 
also Roan Fel's loyalists, forcing the heroes to fight not only the obvious 
enemy but also a faction that, under different circumstances, could have 
been their allies as well. 

One of the tragedies of this three-way war is that there are allies to 
be found in nearly every faction. Though the Sith Lords themselves are 
thoroughly evil, even in Darth Krayt's Empire there are honorable men and 
women who could be friends and allies to the heroes. However, the nature 
of the three-way conflict makes each faction reluctant to trust anyone but 
members of their own group, and paranoia and fear causes potential allies 
to become suspicious of one another, many times ending up in conflict with 
one another simply because they do not know who to trust. 


CHALLENGING 
ASSUMPTIONS 


The Legacy era challenges basic assumptions about the galaxy and its inhabit- 
ants. Everyone knows that the Empire is evil, as evidenced by Darth Krayt's 
tyranny and violence. Yet there is more to the Empire. Roan Fel's Empire-in- 
exile is made up of honorable soldiers and bureaucrats who remained loyal 
to an Emperor who fought for both peace and order, and their version of the 
Empire has many noble ideals. Yet, within this faction can be found many 
worthy antagonists. 


MEROES AND VILLAINS 

One good way to challenge your players’ assumptions is to introduce allies 
and antagonists who shift from one side to the other over time. For example, 
Cade Skywalker's story begins with him as a young Jedi, but later in life 
he turns into a bitter, violent bounty hunter, challenging our assumptions 
about the Skywalker lineage. Cade captures and turns in a fellow Jedi, Hosk 
Trey'lis, setting himself up as an enemy of the Jedi and something of a villain. 
However, Cade's guilt eventually gets to him, and he allows himself to be 
captured in order to free Hosk from the Sith. Cade oscillates between hero 
and villain often enough that it is difficult to have any assumptions about 
the character at all. 

Similarly, your heroes might come across enemies and allies who fit neatly 
into archetypes until they break out of them. Consider the ally-turned- 
enemy, such as the fatherly Galactic Alliance general who turns out to be a 
revenge-driven madman willing to sacrifice anyone and anything in pursuit 
of his vengeance. Similarly, consider the enemy-turned-ally, such as the Sith 
acolyte who must maintain a convincing facade of loyalty to her masters as a 
means of getting close enough to assassinate Darth Krayt. When the heroes 
first encounter the acolyte, they might fight against her before learning her 
true motivations. 

Additionally, some characters might move from villain to hero and back 
multiple times throughout a campaign. A bounty hunter torn between her 
need to survive and her loyalty to her husband—a Jedi in hiding—might 
capture Jedi heroes in the hopes of throwing suspicion off of herself and her 
husband. An officer in Roan Fel's Empire might defect to join the Galactic 
Alliance, only to reveal himself as a double-agent who hopes to unite the 
two factions. The Legacy era presents a blurry line between good and evil. 
Gamemasters can capitalize on this element of the time period by introducing 
allies and antagonists whose roles in the story—as heroes or villains—change 
every time the heroes think they have figured them out. 


SECRET IDENTITIES 

Another common thread among the major players in the Legacy era is that 
of the secret identity. Moff Nyna Calixte secretly maintains an alter-ego of 
Morrigan Corde, an Imperial agent with far more freedom to act than the 
Moff herself. Similarly, the Imperial Knight Azlyn Rae maintains an alter-ego 
as a bounty hunter (her profession in the time between her Jedi training 
and her recruitment into the Imperial Knights). A good way to challenge the 
heroes’ assumptions about a character is to reveal secret identities. When the 
heroes discover that the violent crime lord they have been serving is secretly 
also a high-ranking officer in Galactic Alliance intelligence, their plans to 
topple the crime lord might change with that revelation. 

Secret identities work best when they accomplish two goals: providing 
drastic contrast to the character's public face, and allowing the character to 
function in a vastly different role than their main persona. The first goal is 
simply a matter of taking the basic assumptions the heroes have about that 
character and finding an alter-ego that is strongly opposed to that role; as 
Morrigan Corde, Nyna Calixte watches out for her son Cade and tries to help 
him escape the Empire, but she herself must prove her unwavering loyalty 
and cruelty as an Imperial Moff. The second goal is accomplished by taking 
a different approach to how the character achieves her goals. As an Imperial 
Moff, Nyna Calixte uses politics, subtlety, and manipulation to achieve her 
ends, but as Morrigan Corde she uses big blasters, explosives, jet packs, and 
violence to accomplish her goals. 

When creating a secret identity, it is best to create the primary identity 
for the NPC first, then look at the character's philosophies and goals and 
give the alter-ego seemingly conflicting goals. Next, do the same with their 
methodology. Over time, these characters might have to sacrifice their 
primary identities or their alter-egos to save themselves, which can be an 
interesting story element for the heroes to deal with. When the time comes 
for that choice to be made, the heroes might have to convince the character 
to side with them, casting the other identity aside and fully assuming the 
role of their ally. Conversely, if things go badly, the character might discard 
his or her allegiance to the heroes and instead become a full-time adversary. 
When this moment comes, be sure that the heroes have a chance to influence 
this outcome, as they will likely gain an ally or enemy for the remainder of 
the campaign. 


> 
3 


HA BeSicvyHa 


W 
5 
@ 
x 
W) 
a) 
d 
@ 
> 
: 
2 
@) 
a 
0) 


CHAPTER VIII 
GALACTIC GAZETTEER 


pace travel in the Legacy era is the lifeblood of the 
orlds, if any, are beyond the reach of the Empire 
the ramifications of the Sith-Imperial War are felt 
o the Deep Core. 

information on the planets of the galaxy with 
e characters and events presented elsewhere 
ide. 


RAVEL 


avel throughout the galaxy has been impacted 
as during Palpatine's reign. With the Empire in 
lanes are patrolled by Imperial Star Destroyers 
Agglers, and Galactic Alliance activity. Customs 
perial Space Ministry inspect trade ships approach- 
Berial control. Suspicious cargoes are confiscated, 
Hetained for questioning on a whim, and ship travel logs 


orlds and the Deep Core are once again heavily patrolled by 
pire, resulting in a new Deep Core Security Zone and a Core Worlds 
Security Zone. Within these zones, space travelers are highly scrutinized, 
and only those with proper authorization may move freely between these 
worlds. Coruscant and other fortress worlds in the Core and Deep Core are 
now guarded by entire fleets of Star Destroyers and similar cruisers. The 
bulk of the Empire's naval might is concentrated in these areas, and smug- 
glers risk not only their livelihoods but also their lives slipping in and out 
of Imperial worlds. 

Much of the security of the Core and Deep Core is maintained by a 
Hyperspace Security Net. This consists of a combination of space stations 
placed along common hyperspace routes, Imperial Navy patrol flotillas, 
and gravity mines designed to pull starships out of hyperspace. Through 
this Security Net, the Empire is able to perform random inspections of the 
starships coming into and leaving the Core Worlds, and stop attacks against 
protected planets. 


YSsSaLl13aZvO0O JiLdvivg a HWA SHS3LagvHo 


BSSGLLAZveaQ) DLIBVYIVS 


A HSicvHo 


PLANETS OF 
THE LEGACY ERA 


This section provides a brief gazetteer detailing information on a variety of 
planets throughout the galaxy. Each entry lists not only pertinent informa- 
tion for the Gamemaster but also Knowledge check DCs for players. This sort 
of information allows the GM to determine how much a character (and not 
necessarily the player) knows about a given world. 


BASTION 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 24 standard hours 
Length of Year: 363 local days 

Sapient Species: 94% Human, 1% other 
Government: Empire 

Capital: Sartinaynian City 

Major Exports: Military supplies 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, high technology, luxury goods 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Bastion is a fortress world on the Outer Rim and once served as the 
capital of the Galactic Empire. 

15 The planet is currently under the control of Roan Fel and his Empire- 
in-exile, and it is defended by a massive space fleet. 

20 Non-Imperials are not allowed to visit Bastion, as the threat of an 
attack on Emperor Fel is too great. 

25 Bastion is also the home of the Imperial Knights, the lightsaber-wield- 
ing bodyguards of Emperor Fel. 


KNOWLEDGE (TACTICS) 

DC Result 

20 The planet's defensive systems are nigh impenetrable. Bastion is as well 
defended as Coruscant, which is why Darth Krayt has not launched an 
attack on the planet. 

25 The Sith are constantly looking for ways to infiltrate Bastion, and they 
have offered a 1-million-credit reward to anyone who can penetrate 
the planet's defenses. 


AN AT-AHT ON BASTION, 


CHAMPALA 

Region: Inner Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 3 

Length of Day: 27 standard hours 

Length of Year: 318 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Chagrian, 1% other 
Government: Democracy (currently under Imperial rule) 
Capital: Tidros 

Major Exports: Luxury goods 

Major Imports: Technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 


pc 
10 


15 


20 


25 


Result 

Champala, the homeworld of the Chagrian species, is a planet covered 
in oceans with small, narrow continents. 

The spaceports on Champala are constructed on high-altitude pla- 
teaus, safe from the drastic shifts in water levels during the tides. 
Many cities on Champala are built both on land and under the oceans, 
with the two connected by tunnels and sealed tubes. Those who 
cannot breathe in water must be careful not to go to submerged zones 
without a proper breathing apparatus. 

Some Chagrian cities on Champala are nearly fully submerged during 
high tides, allowing the Chagrians to swim between buildings and 
even floors on the same buildings. 


CSILLA 

Region: Unknown Regions 

Climate: Frozen 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 3 

Length of Day: 25 standard hours 
Length of Year: 462 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Chiss, 1% other 
Government: Oligarchy (the Chiss Ascendancy) 
Capital: Csaplar 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, luxury goods 


KNOWLEDGE (BUREAUCRACY) 


pc 
10 


15 
20 


25 


Result 

Csilla is the home of the Chiss Ascendancy, a government that rules 
over all Chiss-controlled worlds. 

The Chiss Ascendancy is led by aristocratic noble houses. 

Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire allows the Chiss Ascendancy to retain 
much of its autonomy. It controls the Ascendancy by making many 
heads of the Chiss houses into high-ranking officials within the 
Empire. 

The Galactic Empire has given the Chiss control over large tracts of 
the Unknown Regions, making the Chiss Ascendancy the Empire's 
proxy in these areas of the galaxy. 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 
DC Result 


15 


20 


Csilla is the homeworld of the enigmatic Chiss, who hail from the 
Unknown Regions and have only been major participants in galactic 
affairs for the past century. 

Csilla is a frigid world, having been plunged into an ice age several 
millennia ago. 

The Chiss live in cities buried in the ice of Csilla, where they can use 
the heat welling up from the interior of the planet to keep their envi- 
ronment livable. Most of the cities on Csilla are connected by subter- 
ranean tunnels, through which speeder traffic travels. 


DALUUUY 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 28 standard hours 

Length of Year: 391 local days 

Sapient Species: 88% Human, 6% Yuuzhan Vong, 6% other species 
Government: Empire 

Capital: Oldranai 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, luxury goods, technology 


MT DROPSHIPS ON DALUUY. 


iA HsiavHg =) 


BAPSLALeZyveQ) DLBYIWS) 


WA SSicgvVHS 


HPSaLLAZVE) ALOBVIIW A 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Daluuj is a lightly populated Outer Rim world covered in barren can- 
yons and muddy slopes. 

15 Despite being one of the many human colonies in the Outer Rim, the 
world has only a sparse population spread out in villages and small 
cities. 

20 The Empire has only a small presence on Daluuj, occupying an Impe- 
rial fortress that has been standing on the world since the days of 
Emperor Palpatine. 

25 Many Yuuzhan Vong relocated to Daluuj to take advantage of its 
breathable atmosphere. They steer clear of the other settlements, 
living in isolation. 


1IEGO 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate/tropical 
Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 42 

Length of Day: Not applicable 
Length of Year: Not applicable 
Sapient Species: 40% Human, 60% other 
Government: Tribal 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

15 lego is a mysterious world adrift in the Extrictarium Nebula. It does 
not orbit a star, but a large number of moons orbit it, giving it the 
"Thousand Moons system” miniker. 

20 lego is impossible to pinpoint with normal star charts or navicomput- 
ers, and only a small handful of spacers know how to reach the planet 
safely. The world is believed to be home to a race of Angels and a race 
of Demons. 

25 Many ships that approach lego never return. Those who claim to have 
visited lego tell stories of people who have lived there for hundreds or 
thousands of years. 


1eGo 


KNOWLEDGE (LIFE SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

25 lego is home to the Diathim and the Maelibi, creatures with seemingly 
supernatural powers. In galactic lore, they are better known as Angels 
and Demons, respectively. 

30 Those who live on the planet lego benefit from its strange properties, 
never aging as long as they remain on the world. 


KLATOOINE 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Arid 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 

Length of Year: 286 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Klatooinians, 1% other 
Government: Aristocracy (under Hutt rule) 
Capital: Veneron 

Major Exports: Labor 

Major Imports: Luxury goods, technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 


DC Result 

10 Klatooine, a desert world, is home to the Klatooinian people. 

15 Klatooine is in Hutt space, and its people are bound into Hutt ser- 
vice for most of their lives. The Hutts rule over Klatooine through the 
planet's Council of Elders. 

20 The planet is the home of the Klatooinian Trade Guild, which (with 
Hutt oversight) lures in desperate spacers and chains them to a life of 
debt and blackmail. 

25 Deep beneath the surface of Klatooine are vast reserves of a liquid 
known as wintrium, which, when allowed to cool, creates a solid sub- 
stance similar to transparisteel. 

LOK 

Region: Outer Rim 
Climate: Arid 
Gravity: Standard 
Moons: 2 


Length of Day: 24 standard hours 

Length of Year: 316 local days 

Sapient Species: 20% Human, 80% other species 
Government: None 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, luxury goods, technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 
DC Result 


10 


1 


20 


25 


Lok is a remote, desolate world covered in volcanoes and large lakes 
filled with sulfuric acid. 

Though possessing a harsh landscape, Lok has a breathable atmosphere 
and serves as a haven for smugglers, pirates, and other criminals. 
Despite being known as a haven for criminal activity, the Empire has 
no interest in Lok, and so it has abandoned all interests on the world. 
Lok is the home of Brogar's Safe House, a place where criminals can 
pay a local crime lord (an Advozse named Brogar) for protection 
against the government, bounty hunters, or other criminals. 


MUNTO CODRYU 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 

Length of Year: 368 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% Codru-Ji, 1% other species 
Government: Tribal (currently under Imperial rule) 
Capital: Capital Codru 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Luxury goods, technology 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 
DC Result 


10 


15 


20 


Munto Codru, the home of the Codru-Ji people, is a world covered in 
mountains and forests. 

The planet is relatively isolated and has little industry, making it of 
minimal value in the galactic economy. 

The ruins of an ancient, extinct civilization litter the surface of Munto 
Codru. Castles stand scattered across the world even in modern times. 
The ancient castles are considered by most Codru-Ji to be haunted or 
are regarded as places of ill omen. Thus, locals avoid them. 


MUNTO CODRU 


HiA SBStdvHo 


VPAPPLAIGZVQ) DLIVIV7q) 


HWA BSiavHo 


MADALEIZVE DLIVIVE | 


KNOWLEDGE (LIFE SCIENCES) 
DC Result 


15 Codru-Ji adults are four-armed humanoids with vaguely canine 


features. 


20 Young Codru-Ji, or wyrwulves, are quadrupedal wolflike creatures. 


They remain in this form until the end of their juvenile years. 


25 Awyrwulf enters a cocoon and remains there for several weeks before 


emerging in its adult humanoid form. 


NAGI 

Region: Unknown Regions 
Climate: Arid 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 24 standard hours 
Length of Year: 348 local days 
Sapient Species: 99% Nagai, 1% other species 
Government: Dictatorship 
Capital: Kotokai 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

15 Nagi is the ancestral homeworld of the mysterious Nagai. It is a moun- 
tainous world with soaring peaks and deep, wide valleys. 

20 Nagi has a very thin upper atmosphere, causing its sun's rays to bom- 
bard the peaks of the planet's mountains with solar radiation. Nagai 
cities are built in the valleys where the sun's rays are deflected by the 
mountains, casting the cities in shadow. 

25 Nagi was overrun by alien invaders known as Tofs. Though the Nagai 
eventually liberated their world with the help of the Mandalorians, 
remnants of the invasion can be seen all over the planet. 

30 The Nagai have a colony—a fortress world on the Outer Rim called 
Saijo. When the Empire reclaimed the galaxy, they also reclaimed 
Saijo, which remains one of the most heavily-defended worlds on the 
Outer Rim. 


NEUTRALIZER-CLASS BOMBERS ATTACK OSSuUSs. 


Ossus 

Region: Outer Rim 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 31 standard hours 
Length of Year: 231 local days 
Sapient Species: 15% Ysanna, 10% Human, 75% other species 
Government: Tribal (Ysanna); Jedi rule 
Capital: Knossa 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Technology 


KNOWLEDGE (LIFE SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

20 Ossus is home to a species known as the Ysanna. They are remnants of 
the ancient Jedi civilization that lived on the world before the Great 
Sith War. 

25 The Ysanna have a particularly strong connection to the Force. 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) SRILUUR 


DC Result Region: Outer Rim 
20 Ossus, once a desolate and unforgiving world, was ravaged during the Climate: Temperate/Arid 
Great Sith War by the destruction of the Cron Cluster. The planet was Gravity: Standard 
reinvigorated by Kol Skywalker's Ossus Project. Thanks to the terra- Moons: 5 
forming efforts of Yuuzhan Vong shapers, Ossus is now a lush planet Length of Day: 22 standard hours 
covered in forests. Length of Year: 295 local days 
25 Ossus was home to the Jedi until Darth Krayt's Empire wiped out the Sapient Species: 82% Weequay, 8% Houk, 10% other species 
temple there. The ruins of the Jedi temple remain, and rumor has it Government: Clans (currently under Imperial rule) 
these ruins are filled with artifacts of the Jedi Order. Capital: Meirm City 
30 The planet's greatest city, Knossa, still stands (albeit in ruins) despite Major Exports: Gems and minerals 
the ravages of time. Many locals inhabit the ruins, attempting to Major Imports: None 


restore the city to its once great status. 
KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 


SocorRRO DC Result 
Region: Outer Rim 10 Sriluur is a remote world inhabited by the native Weequay people. It y 
Climate: Arid : sits along the trade route known as the Sisar Run. f : 
Gravity: Standard 15 Sriluur is covered in rocky badlands and deserts, making it a harsh > 
Moons: 0 3 place to live. The Weequay have adapted to this environment and are 4 
Length of Day: 20 standard hours quite at home on other arid worlds. ‘ 
Length of Year: 326 local days 20 The planet was colonized centuries ago by the Houk. Though the <f 
Sapient Species: 90% Human, 10% other species Weequay claim dominion over Sriluur, the Houk colonies have remained Show 
Government: Organized crime/tribal in place despite frequent conflicts between the two species. 
Capital: Vakeyya 25 Although under Imperial rule, Sriluur has strong ties to the Hutts, and 
Major Exports: Water, nether ice trade is common between Sriluur and worlds in Hutt Space. 
Major Imports: Metals, high technology 

ZELTROS 
KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) Region: Inner Rim 
DC Result Climate: Temperate 


15 Socorro is a wild, uncivilized world covered in distinctive black sand Gravity: 0.92 standard 
deserts. Smugglers, bounty hunters, and all manner of criminal scum Moons: 2 
are attracted to the world and have bases there. Length of Day: 25 standard hours 
20 Socorro has no unifying government and is fought over by various Length of Year: 312 local days 
criminal organizations. Small tribes of Humans and near-Humans also Sapient Species: 91% Zeltrons, 9% other 


MEPLLEZVE ai.evava) 


live on the world, but they stay clear of civilization. Government: Popular monarchy 
25 The Crimson Axe, a ship owned by the Feeorin pirate Rav, is grounded Capital: Zeltros 
near an ancient sarlacc pit on Socorro. It serves as a base of operations Major Exports: Art objects, entertainment, luxury goods, technology 


for Rav's gang, as well as a bounty post, gambling hall, and cantina. Major Imports: Gourmet consumables 


0 
if 
> 
v 
be 
0 
2 
<¢ 


HBSAeLLAZveQ) DLOYWW es) 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 Zeltros is a luxurious planet where the wealthy of the galaxy go to 
relax and unwind. 

15 Zeltros is constantly in a state of celebration, and hedonism is not just 
acceptable but also encouraged. 

20 The planet is covered in exquisite architecture and beautiful artwork. 
The people of Zeltros value beauty in all its forms, and many who 
come to the planet are so enchanted that they never leave. 

25 Although well-defended, Zeltros has been invaded several times. How- 
ever, each invasion has ultimately failed, as the Zeltron pheromones 
make it difficult for invading forces to remain: focused, allowing the 
planet's defenders to retake the world. 


ZONAMA SEKOT 
Region: Unknown Regions 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 23 standard hours 
Length of Year: 380 local days 
Sapient Species: 44% Ferroan, 20% Langhesi, 32% Yuuzhan Vong, 4% 
other species 

Government: Autocracy (Sekot) 
Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

20 Zonama Sekot is a mysterious world that is covered in rainforests, 
jungles, rivers, and plains. It teems with natural life. 

25 Zonama Sekot has appeared in multiple locations and currently resides 
in the Unknown Regions, where it has been since the start of the Sith- 
Imperial War. 

30 Many Yuuzhan Vong relocated to Zonama Sekot after their failed inva- 
sion of the galaxy. When the planet moved to the Unknown Regions, 
it left large numbers of Yuuzhan Vong behind. 

35 Zonama Sekot is actually the seed of an extragalactic planet called 
Yuuzhan'tar, which was destroyed by the Yuuzhan Vong during bloody 
civil wars. 


KNOWLEDGE (LIFE SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

20 Zonama Sekot is a single, highly symbiotic ecosystem. The planet itself 
is considered to be one enormous organism. 

25 The inhabitants of Zonama Sekot have learned to manipulate the 
living world's unique ecology to create living starships, similar to 
those piloted by the Yuuzhan Vong. 

30 Sekot, the sentient mind of the planet, is both intelligent and Force- 
sensitive, though its skill with the Force is untrained at best. 


KNOWLEDGE (PHYSICAL SCIENCES) 

DC Result 

25 Zonama Sekot can propel itself through hyperspace. When the world 
is threatened, it shields its inhabitants and travels through hyperspace 
to its new destination. 


PLANETARY UPDATES 
Many familiar planets undergo significant changes over the decades between 
the Galactic Civil War and the Sith-Imperial War. Some of these planets are 
quite different in Legacy era campaigns, and the updates in this section 
should provide Gamemasters with enough information to use these planets 
in this era. 


BESPIN 

Largely untouched by the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, Bespin continues to profit 
and prosper after the rise of the Galactic Alliance. Still a major shipper of 
Tibanna gas, Bespin's location makes it less than ideal for most large-scale 
mining operations to attempt to control, allowing smaller operations to 
set up shop and reap a tidy profit. However, with the return of the Empire, 
restrictions on the sale of Tibanna gas to non-government entities come back 
in force. This, in turn, forces many small operations out of business, driving 
their owners off of Bespin to seek cheaper places to make a living. 

Asa result of this exodus from Bespin, Cloud City is somewhat in decline. 
Coupled with the surging popularity of more mobile shadowports and 
fringe-friendly locales such as the Wheel, Cloud City has become a darker 
and more dangerous place. With fewer wealthy, respectable citizens capable 
of supporting Cloud City's government, cutbacks have eliminated much of 
the Wing Guard, leaving the city even more lawless than before. With much 
of the city abandoned, the current Baron-Administrator (a shrewd Ithorian 
named Ormo Haddon) has attempted to revitalize the economy by ordering 
all of the businesses and residential areas to move to more central locations, 
creating a populated nexus of commerce surrounded by abandoned outskirts. 
The outskirts of Cloud City are dark, empty places where shady dealings take 
place, and the honest citizens of Bespin avoid them. 


BOTHAWUI 

With their influence and power largely restored following the damage done 
by unscrupulous Bothans in the founding days of the Galactic Alliance, the 
people of Bothawui find themselves once more under the heel of Imperial 
oppression. Unlike his predecessors, Darth Krayt knows that the Bothans 
cannot be trusted to sit idly by while their power and influence is taken away 
by the Empire. Rather than allowing Bothawui to once again foment rebellion, 
Krayt orders his Moffs to offer prestigious positions throughout the Empire 
to Bothans with influence on Bothawui, setting them up with large payrolls 
and giving them a great deal of power in the new Empire. Bothan leaders who 
refuse the bribes of the new Empire meet a more sinister fate. 

Krayt orders that Imperial Intelligence base its operations on Both- 
awui. While the Director of Imperial Intelligence resides on Coruscant, 
the main force of Imperial Intelligence now operates in the heart of the 
Bothan SpyNet and keeps a close eye on the Bothans for signs of treason. 
Similarly, many high-ranking members of the SpyNet are recruited into 
Imperial Intelligence. * 

Imperial indoctrination of Bothan nobles and spies creates unrest and 
civil strife on Bothawui. Bothawui is a world of two minds—one loyal to the 
Empire thanks to bribery, and one resenting those who abandoned their 
Bothan pride for the promises of the new Empire. The citizens of Bothawui 
squabble among themselves, and sometimes these squabbles break out into 
violence, with many Bothans living in fear of their fellow citizens and the 
Empire alike. 


CEREA 

Never a world to get wrapped up in galactic events, Cerea has attempted to 
remain outside of the reach of the Empire with a modest amount of success. 
Cerea has little military or economic value, so the Empire has been content to 
leave Cerea under light Imperial supervision, with only a few frigates patrol- 
ling the space nearby. Though the Cereans are content to be left alone and 
offer little in the way of resistance, word of Cerea’s light Imperial presence 
has reached the ears of those who would defy the Empire. Cerea has become 
a common rallying point for former members of the Galactic Alliance, Jedi 
in exile, and other rebels seeking a place to rest and recuperate far from the 
Sith. Individuals and small groups have flocked to Cerea to seek refuge for 
short periods of time, and a small network of local sympathizers has sprung 
up to help those fleeing from the Empire. 


Unfortunately, the majority of the Cerean population does not sympathize 
with those who would defy the Empire, and in fact sees them as a source of 
trouble that is far from wanted. As a result, individuals coming to Cerea in 
search of refuge must be discreet, as the Cereans are just as likely to turn 
troublemakers over to the Empire. Though the Cereans have no love for the 
Imperials, the last thing they want is more strife and a greater Imperial pres- 
ence on their world. In fact, dissidents who flee to Cerea usually need to 
hide from the locals more than the Empire, as the latter group simply does 
not have the manpower to maintain thorough patrols. 


CORUSCANT 

Under Darth Krayt, the capital planet of the Galactic Alliance has now become 
the capital planet of the Galactic Empire. Coruscant has been returned almost 
perfectly to its state under the reign of Emperor Palpatine, with Star Destroy- 
ers constantly in orbit over the world, stormtroopers on every street corner, 
and Sith Lords lurking in the shadows. Coruscant under the direct rule of the 
Sith has become a dark and forbidding place, and while it is still the center of 
galactic civilization, it has become more like a shadowy fortress world than 
the cosmopolitan home of Imperial nobility. Moreover, Darth Krayt does not 
tolerate any unrest, dissent, or lawlessness under his watchful eyes. Summary 
executions are common for even the most casual of offenses. 

The citizens of Coruscant live constantly in the frightening shadow of 
the Sith. Sith Lords come and go on a daily basis, and whispers among the 
citizenry claim that some of the more sadistic Sith come down from Krayt's 
temple to practice with their lightsabers on innocent individuals, hunting the 
people of Coruscant through the darkened alleyways with sadistic pleasure. 
The Imperial nobles and bureaucrats who live on Coruscant are not immune 
to these fears, and only the foolish or the forsaken dare walk alone on the 
streets at night. Despite the Imperial crackdown, crime is rampant, especially 
in the lower levels where the Imperial presence is lightest. 


DORIN 

In the past, Dorin's location between two black holes has aided in its defense. 
However, even two black holes could not protect it from the Empire. Dorin has 
become one of several planets that are known as "ransom worlds"—worlds 
under Imperial control whose inhabitants are oppressed in order to achieve 
another goal. Early in the reign of the new Empire, the Sith Lord charged 
with ruling over Dorin used the Imperial Navy to blockade all of the known 
safe routes into and out of the Dorin system. With the planet blockaded and 
the delivery of supplies strictly controlled, the Sith ordered that the best and 
brightest Kel Dor volunteer their services to the Empire or their people would 
suffer. Forced to comply or watch their world be devastated, many Kel Dor 
entered Imperial military service. Kel Dor engineers now work as Imperial 
weapons designers, and the greatest minds on Dorin now work only in the 
service of Darth Krayt. 


bp iA BBiavHo 


BAaLALIZveQ) oILWOVIVSH) 


iA YsiavHo | 


YEP LLeZv@aQ DLOVIV bh 


With its greatest citizens forced to serve the Empire, Dorin is left to 
struggle along on whatever the Empire provides. Although the Empire has 
blockades in place, brave, foolhardy, and skilled smugglers have discovered 
secret routes into the world. Dubbed the “Dorin Run” by those who traverse 
them, these passages are dangerous, and many starships have been shredded 
by gravitational forces trying to reach or flee the ransom world. Smugglers 
can earn a handsome profit delivering much-needed foodstuffs, medical 
supplies, and other goods to Dorin under the nose of the Empire, though 
with the threat of being sucked into a black hole or blasted to pieces by an 
Imperial Star Destroyer ever present, only the most reckless smugglers even 
make the attempt. 


DuURO 

Once polluted to the point of being uninhabitable, Duro has been returned 
to its lush natural state by the Yuuzhan Vong terraforming efforts. Duro's 
loyalty to the Galactic Alliance, however, has forced the Empire to subjugate 
the entire world. With its favored son, Gar Stazi, léading the remnants of 
the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet, Duro has become a world commonly held 
up by the Empire as an example of what happens when you defy the Sith 
and Imperial law. Duro has an incredibly high Imperial presence, nearly as 
high as any Core world. The strategic value of Duro is great: Controlling 
Duro means controlling one of the most-used hyperspace lanes into and 
out of the Core. 

The new Empire is not so dismissive of the talents of non-Human races 
as Palpatine's Empire once was. As a result, the Empire has pressed many 
talented Duros pilots, mechanics, and starship engineers into service. The 
Imperial Naval Academy has one of its largest branches on Duro, where the 
most talented Duros pilots and navigators are required to provide instruc- 
tion to the next generation of Imperial pilots and capital ship crewmen. As a 
result, the Empire's newest naval recruits are far more skilled than those of 
the past, taking advantage of the cumulative wisdom of one of the galaxy's 
oldest spacefaring species. 


GAMORR 

Gamorr remains largely unchanged throughout the rise and fall of galactic 
powers. Gamorreans continue to work as mercenaries throughout the galaxy, 
and the Empire takes a largely hands-off approach to Gamorr (after all, 
convincing Imperial nobles and bureaucrats to move to the planet is hardly 
worth the effort). However, despite the planet's relative isolation, a number 
of Gamorreans have been approached by remnants of the Galactic Alliance 
and employed as additional muscle on seditious missions. Unfortunately, the 
Gamorrean love of violence is hardly enough to convince Gamorr to support 
actions against the Empire, forcing those that seek Gamorrean mercenaries to 
strike better deals. As a result, most contracts with Gamorrean mercenaries 
call for the mercenaries to retain possession of any weapons, vehicles, and 


gear that are captured from the Empire. Of course, few on Gamorr know 
how to maintain such vehicles, so there is a growing collection of scrapped 
Imperial hardware lying in swamps and junk heaps all across Gamorr. 


IRIDONIA 

Given the planet's history, it comes as something of a shock when Iridonia 
openly expresses support for the Galactic Empire and welcomes it as the 
new government. When Darth Krayt seizes power, lridonia is among the first 
worlds to openly pledge its allegiance to the new Emperor. After suffering 
devastation at the hands of numerous galactic invaders and conquerors, the 
leaders of lridonia decide to support the new regime rather than resist it, 
and as a result the Zabrak have been rewarded. Traditionally a species that 
produces many Force-sensitive beings, several Zabrak have been recruited 
into Darth Krayt's new Sith and continue to serve him as overlords of entire 
planets and sectors. The planet Iridonia has contributed more apprentices 
to the new Sith Order than any other world, a fact that has prompted Darth 
Krayt to consider Iridonia one of the primary training places of his Sith 
Lords. 

Iridonia's colonies are more reticent in their acceptance of Sith domina- 
tion. Several of the colonies rebel against the new Empire, despite the wishes 
of the Iridonian government. Since the colonies are independent entities, the 
lridonian Zabrak do little to stop them. Two Zabrak colonies are completely 
wiped from the face of the galaxy, with Pellaeon-class Star Destroyers 
using orbital bombardment to reduce the planets to rubble. After these two 
colonies are destroyed, the remaining five colonies surrender to Imperial 
forces. As punishment for their betrayal, the Sith Lord in charge of lridonia 
and its colonies orders that the Feldrona colony be transformed into a prison 
planet. This colony is cordoned off and placed under tight Imperial control. 
The Empire now uses this Iridonian colony as a place where criminals are 
exiled to live under the rule of the Empire. 


ITHOR 

Ithor is a mere shadow of the lush, verdant world it once was. Devastated 
during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion and transformed into a barren, lifeless, 
and uninhabitable world, it is currently on a road to recovery. 

When Kol Skywalker's Ossus Project is first announced, Ithorian scientists 
are skeptical that the Yuuzhan Vong would be able to terraform their world 
once more. They abandon the Ossus Project in favor of rebuilding their 
planet's ecosystem using the ancient techniques involved in the terraform- 
ing of Telos IV. Though slower than the Yuuzhan Vong method, the Ithorians 
believe that it is the more responsible approach. 


Modern Ithor is somewhere between its once-fertile state and the barren, 
harsh landscape that it is trying to leave behind. Much of the planet's sur- 
face remains rocky and dry, but genetically engineered plants designed to 
restore the land have begun to grow. Unfortunately, the harsh landscape 
calls for equally harsh flora, and as a result many consider the world too 
dangerous to visit. Unlike the peaceful, verdant world it once was, Ithor is 
a planet struggling to survive, with dangerous plant and animal life slowly 
transforming the planet's soil and atmosphere into something livable. Visi- 
tors to Ithor must still wear breath masks due to the large number of toxins 
in the air, but environment suits are no longer necessary. The Empire has 
largely left Ithor to its own devices, believing the recovery of the world to 
be a lost cause. 


KASHYYYK 

Darth Krayt and his Empire did not forget Kashyyyk’'s contributions to over- 
throwing Palpatine's Galactic Empire. However, knowing that the Wookiees 
could not be bribed as easily as, say, the Bothans, the Empire has blockaded 
the world and destroyed all of the Wookiee shipyards and spaceports. No 
Wookiees are allowed to approach or leave Kashyyyk without an Imperial 
order, which must come from at least a regional governor. Supplies and 
traders can come and go, pending Imperial inspection, but the Wookiees 
themselves must remain isolated. HoloNet access to Kashyyyk has been 
completely cut off, and traders approaching Kashyyyk must be licensed by 
the Empire (a process that requires that the trader swear, under penalty of 
death, to provide no information on the state of the rest of the galaxy to 
the Wookiee inhabitants). 

Aside from the blockade, however, the Empire has largely left Kashyyyk 
alone. The Sith Lord in charge of the Kashyyyk blockade knows all too well 
that it's not wise to upset the Wookiees, and has no intention of oppressing 
or enslaving the natives as the Empire did once before. Instead, the Empire 
keeps Kashyyyk isolated, while carefully monitoring all traffic coming to or 
leaving the world. Some Wookiees argue that the imposed isolation is giving 
Kashyyyk everything its inhabitants always wanted, and that they should 
let the Empire have its blockade. Others are not so eager to accept Imperial 
decrees about who can come and go, though far too few are willing to support 
open insurrection. Still, Wookiees who are offworld when the blockade is 
imposed don't like being separated from their families by the Imperial Navy, 
and some are willing to risk capture to rejoin them. 


AN MC-244 SPACE TRANSPORT ABOVE THE 
MON CALAMARI SHIPYARDS. 


MON CALAMARI 
Arguably no planet suffers more from Imperial rule than Mon Calamari. When 
Darth Krayt seizes power, the Empire converts all of the shipyards above the 
watery world to production facilities for Imperial starships. Mon Calamari 
quickly becomes one of the primary sources of new Star Destroyers, with a 
ring of shipyards around the planet capable of cranking out large numbers of 
capital ships. This capability, however, leads to Mon Calamari's downfall. 
The Galactic Alliance, with help from Mon Calamari insiders, steals a 
prototype Star Destroyer from the Mon Calamari shipyards. In a rage, Lord 
Krayt orders the extermination of one-tenth of the Mon Calamari people. The 
rest of the Mon Calamari have been rounded up and placed in work camps. 
Darth Krayt is using the people of Mon Calamari as an example of what will 
happen when people openly defy the Empire, and he has made a promise to 
eventually exterminate not only the people of Mon Calamari but also their 


eS DLIBVYI7Q) [| mA BsiavHo } 


rei esi‘<‘<‘<‘<i‘i‘i‘i‘i<iaiaiaia<a<armewWHCOT_OV_C VN OO | 


YMAIPLLEZVY 


YHSegLALEZveaQ) DLBVIVS 


iA BSitavHoS 


culture, history, and any other lasting effect they might have on the galaxy. 
Mon Calamari is a world currently transformed into massive concentration 
camps under ruthless Imperial oppression. 


NABOO 

Aworld with a largely Human population, it is no surprise that Naboo adjusted 
more easily to Imperial rule than other worlds. Though still possessed of a 
strong independent streak, the people of Naboo come to accept their status 
under Emperor Roan Fel, who proves to be a far more benevolent than 
Palpatine ever was. Naboo becomes the site of one of the largest Imperial 
Missions in the galaxy, and many people from Naboo truly believe that Roan 
Fel can bring peace to the galaxy, despite the Empire's continuing war against 
the Galactic Alliance. 

All of that changes when Darth Krayt drives Roan Fel out and seizes the 
Imperial throne for himself. The once-loyal Imperial world of Naboo suddenly 
finds itself ruled over by the vicious Sith, something they cannot abide. Naboo 
remains loyal to Roan Fel, and when news of his Empite-in-exile reaches the 
ears of the people of Naboo, many support opposing Darth Krayt's Empire and 
allying themselves with Fel once more. However, unlike Bastion, Naboo cannot 
so easily repel the combined forces of Krayt's Empire, and so its people are 
forced to remain loyal to Roan Fel in secret. At present, Naboo is, outwardly, a 
world loyal to the Galactic Empire, but under the surface there runs a strong 
current of loyalty to the deposed Emperor. Though the ruling Sith have not 
caught on to the treasonous thoughts of the Naboo just yet, many fear it is 
only a matter of time before Naboo must choose between being crushed by 
the Sith or fighting them off to join Fel's Empire-in-exile. 


NAR SHADDAA 

Like Ithor and Coruscant, Nar Shaddaa was devastated by the Yuuzhan Vong. 
When the invaders are driven off, however, many of the smugglers and other 
criminals who had fled the planet begin to return, using the newly terra- 
formed moon as a shadowport. Though Nar Shaddaa has not returned to its 
status as an ecumenopolis, small cities have been rebuilt across the moon. 
These cities form the core of what has become the Nar Shaddaa shadow- 
port, a haven for thieves, assassins, smugglers, bounty hunters, crime iords, 
and other members of the fringe. The Hutts have once again asserted their 
dominance over Nar Shaddaa, rebuilding that which was destroyed. 


The Empire is well aware of the reconstruction of Nar Shaddaa, and Impe- 
rial vessels raid the world from time to time, seeking to capture known crimi- 
nals. However, Hutt pressure on Imperial bureaucrats (namely in the form of 
bribes, but threats of violence can be effective even against the Empire) has 
earned Nar Shaddaa something of a respite from Imperial authority. Though 
no Sith rules over Nar Shaddaa and the Empire does not have a presence 
there, the Hutts keep a wary eye out for Jedi and others on the Empire's 
bounty list, sending bounty hunters to capture the marks and turn them over 
to the Empire. This arrangement keeps the Empire happy while still lining the 
Hutts' coffers. The Smuggler's Moon is far from a safe port for enemies of 
the Empire, but it is still a hotbed of all manner of criminal activity. 


RODIA 

Rodia is currently one of the most dangerous planets in the galaxy. Its wildlife 
was drastically manipulated by the Yuuzhan Vong, and today the rainforests 
of the planet teem with deadly predators previously unknown to the galaxy. 
Fortunately, this suits the Rodian people just fine, as it has given them new 
creatures to stalk and hunt. Over the past century, the people of Rodia have 
reveled in the dangers introduced to their world and have grown to be even 
greater hunters than ever before. 

The Imperial bounty on Jedi his yet another boon to the Rodian people. 
Rodia proudly claims that no planet has claimed more Jedi bounties than it 
since Darth Krayt's decree, and the Empire has shown favor to the world as 
a result. As long as the Jedi bounties keep being brought in, the people of 
Rodia see greatly favorable treatment, especially compared to other worlds. 
The Rodians have even set up hunting academies to teach people from other 
planets how to properly hunt a Jedi, though as the number of Jedi still on 
the run dwindles, so too does participation in these schools. Still, Rodia 
remains largely independent, with minimal Imperial interference, and is 
currently ruled over by a Grand Protector who has long been on the payroll 
of Imperial bureaucrats. 


RYLOTH 

Twi'leks are proven survivors, no matter what may come their way. The harsh 
environment of Ryloth prepares its people well for weathering adversity. 
Given the world's minimal military value, the Empire does not interfere in 
Ryloth's affairs to any great degree. However, many Twi'leks have shown a 
strong aptitude for the Force, and as such Sith recruiters travel to Ryloth 
every few months to scoop up anyone who might possess even the slightest 
hint of Force sensitivity. Children are taken from their homes and transported 
to Coruscant, where they train in the ways of the dark side and, if they are 
strong enough, rise to the rank of Sith Lord. Many Twi'leks resist, but when a 
ship full of Sith Lords arrives on Ryloth, most prefer to run and hide, hoping 
that the Sith will pass over their homes and leave in peace. 


Though occasionally troubled by Sith recruiting raids, Ryloth is remarkably 
untouched by Imperial oppression. Only a token garrison exists on Ryloth, 
and Imperial ships only pass by Ryloth on patrol once every few weeks. For 
the inhabitants of Ryloth, this means continuing to go about their lives 
as they always have. The recurring Sith raids make the planet a bad place 
for Jedi to hide, but other rebellious groups and remnants of the Galactic 
Alliance use Ryloth as a staging point where plans are made and wounds 
are tended to. The Twi'lek people are usually happy to accommodate these 
visitors—for a hefty price—and so far the Empire has yet to sniff out sedi- 
tious activity on Ryloth. Moreover, the Empire has lifted the ban on slavery 
that the Galactic Alliance put in place, meaning that the Twi'lek slave trade 
flourishes once more. : 


SULLUST 

One of the worlds violently opposed to the Empire, Sullust falls under tight 
Imperial control after the Sith-Imperial War. Like Dorin, Sullust has become 
a ransom world, as the Empire leverages the planet's safety to get what it 
needs from the SoroSuub corporation. In exchange for SoroSuub's coopera- 
tion, the Empire has agreed not to punish Sullust for siding with the Galactic 
Alliance in the Sith-Imperial War. SoroSuub, in turn, must keep at least 80% 
of its production facilities manufacturing Imperial vehicles, starships, and 
other vessels, which are sold to the Empire at ludicrously discounted prices. 
Most of SoroSuub's manufacturing facilities are producing items that are 
not even of SoroSuub design, meaning that much of the Sullust's population 
is working for the Empire at no gain to the planet except their own safety 
from reprisal. 

Forced into a desperate situation, the citizens of Sullust have begun to 
dig deeper into the crust of their world, building underground cities closer 
to the planet's core. These Sullustans see no alternative to this dangerous 
endeavor, and within these cities they build new manufacturing facilities that 
are unknown to their Imperial overseers. The factories produce SoroSuub 
products that are clandestinely transported offworld and sold on the open 
market, creating a secret source of revenue that the SoroSuub corporation 
has been using to keep the population of Sullust alive and their economy 
intact. The secret of these subterranean cities is closely guarded. If word of 
these secret cities was to reach the Empire, the repercussions could devastate 
the entire world. 


TATOOINE 

As always, Tatooine is just too far away from the Core to be of much signifi- 
cance. Though Darth Krayt actually hails from Tatooine, the Empire largely 
ignores the world. The Empire has a small garrison in Mos Eisley, and others 
in Anchorhead and Mos Espa, but there is not even a Sith Lord assigned to 
watch over Tatooine. Instead, most of the Imperials stationed on the dry 
world wish they were somewhere else, and a Tatooine post is usually a sign 
of falling out of favor with the Imperial bureaucracy. The settlements on 
Tatooine still provide smugglers and all kinds of scum a good place to rest 
and find a drink, proving that some things never change. 


TRANDOSHA 

With the blockade of neighboring Kashyyyk, Trandosha has become the 
new influential power in the Kashyyyk system. Unlike the Wookiees, the 
Trandoshans have shown no penchant for causing strife with the Empire, 
and the planet has been rewarded for it. Most of the commerce that once 
went through Kashyyyk is now flowing through Trandosha, giving the natives 
a much-needed economic boost. With the influx of credits, Trandosha is 
taking great steps to upgrade its cities and technology. The government of 
Trandosha is hoping that, with Kashyyyk out of the picture, their world will 
finally become a major power in the galaxy. New money also means new 
weapons and new Starships, and thanks to favorable deals with the Empire, 
Trandosha has become a significant military power. 

The Empire has granted Trandosha the authority to patrol its star system 
for Wookiees who have violated the blockade on Kashyyyk, with the authority 
to use lethal force on any suspected Wookiee smugglers. Furthermore, since 
the rise of Darth Krayt, Trandosha has become a primary trade hub for nearby 
inhabited systems, forcing planets like Boz Pity, Sriluur, and Togoria to deal 
with the Trandoshans or pay exorbitant prices to have trade goods shipped 
in from other regions. Trandosha is a world receiving a quick influx of credits 
and power, and the Trandoshans are using that power to bully neighboring 
worlds, all with the endorsement of the Empire. Trandosha's bullying is hardly 
restricted to nearby systems, either; the planet has begun making threats 
against worlds as far away as Hapes, Manaan, and Nal Hutta, attempting to 
force those worlds to bow to their will or face the Trandoshans' wrath. 


HA BSstdvHo 


Bae LLEZve DLBYIWA 


OT ie ae to | 
CHAPTER Ix 
HE GALACTIC ALLIANCE 


i 
i ee 


i 


The Galactic Federation of Free Alliances rules the galaxy from late in the 
Yuuzhan Vong invasion until its defeat at the hands of the resurgent Empire 
around a hundred years later. Better known as the Galactic Alliance, this 
new government addresses the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of the New 
__, Republic government to counter the Yuuzhan Vong threat. Initially, member 
~ worlds include New Republic systems that had not succumbed to the Yuuzhan 
1 Vong threat, but they are soon joined by other major governments opposed to 
the invasion, including the Imperial Remnant, the Hapes Consortium, and the 
Chiss Ascendancy. The Galactic Alliance ultimately defeats the Yuuzhan Vong, 
with substantial aid from the Jedi and the newly allied military forces. 
With the Yuuzhan Vong threat neutralized, the Galactic Alliance sets 
about the task of rebuilding the galaxy and reestablishing governmental 
yntrol—a monumental task given that millions of beings had been killed 
isplaced, and many of the galaxy's major worlds were devastated or 
Jetely destroyed. During this difficult time, efforts are taken to ensure 
hat no cry for help is ignored. 
_ Threats to galactic unity continue to spring up regularly from sources 
outside of and within the Galactic Alliance. The Killik-Chiss crisis threatens 
to tear the Chiss Ascendancy from the Alliance and prompts the Jedi Order 
‘o remove itself from participating in direct policy-making for the galactic 
government. The Jedi become outside observers and counselors, plus strong 
supporters of the Galactic Alliance in the interest of galactic peace. 
The Galactic Alliance-Confederation War erupts when the Galactic Alli- 
ance requires that all member worlds provide sufficient defense forces and 
fiscal support to justify their membership. Jacen Solo, aided by a Sith named 
imiya, manipulate the crisis and the Alliance government in a bid to seize 
agtic power. Through legal and political maneuverings, Jacen Solo and 
reme Commander Niathal displace the Chief of State Cal Omas. Jacen 
oon becomes Darth Caedus, and as his power grows, the Galactic Alliance 
kens. The Jedi withdraw their support of the Galactic Alliance govern- 
nt under Jacen’'s rule, actively fight against him, and ultimately return 
alaxy to a state of peace. 
fter decades of relative political stability, the Galactic Alliance face a 
crisis. The Jedi spearhead a new initiative to repair worlds devastated 
e Yuuzhan Vong invasion, with the aid of the Yuuzhan Vong themselves, 
ly in the hopes of repairing their image. While the initial results prove 
sitive, the terraforming process leads to frightful mutations in certain 
pulations. The newly resurgent Empire, no longer a Galactic Alliance 
Aember, uses the crisis to draw worlds into its influence and drives a wedge 
etween the Galactic Alliance and those systems who remain part of it. Open 
erupts as the Empire increases its influence and the Galactic Alliance 
loses system after system, as well as vital military support. 


» 
bi 
es 


ee 


en) 


esol 


SINVINMTAY JDILIOVIV9 SHL 


BOWWMIIVY DLOYIVA FHL 


The Empire achieves ultimate victory at the Battle of Caamas. Admiral Gar 
Stazi, commander of the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet, refuses to surrender 
and flees with his ships. What's left of the Galactic Alliance surrenders to 
Imperial control and ceases to exist. The Empire preserves the Galactic Alli- 
ance bureaucracy, adapting the political and governmental services for the 
new regime. Galactic Alliance armed forces are integrated into the Imperial 
military or disbanded altogether if determined to be unreliable. Not long 
after the transfer of power, Darth Krayt overthrows Emperor Roan Fel and 
seizes the Imperial throne. 


ORGANIZATION 

The Galactic Alliance government evolves over the years. Through it all, 
the Alliance remains a constitutional federation of member worlds and 
allied autonomous states. The Galactic Senate, a less powerful version of 
the previous New Republic Senate, has the power to elect a single Chief of 
State. The Chief of State, in turn, appoints the Supreme Commander of the 
Galactic Alliance Defense Force, formerly the New Republic Defense Force. 
A strong court system maintains checks and balance, particularly over the 
Senate. The Chief of State is aided by a series of advisory councils. The Jedi 
hold positions on the councils for many years, but withdraw during the Killik 
crisis in order to separate the Jedi Order from the government. 

In the years leading up to the Sith-Imperial War, the government continues 
to develop as the political situation warrants. By the time of its surrender, 
the Galactic Alliance contains the following offices, positions, and govern- 
ing bodies: 


THE TRIUMVIRATE 

In order to prevent a single person from seizing power, as Jacen Solo did 
during the Galactic Alliance-Confederation War, the Chief of State position is 
officially and formally eliminated, and replaced by a three-person Triumvirate 
elected by the Senate. Within the Triumvirate, it takes a majority vote to set 
policies and make decisions. No single individual holds direct command over 
the armed forces or intelligence services. Individual Triumvirate members 
work directly with specific government offices and advisory councils. 

The Triumvirate is charged with keeping the galactic government and 
bureaucracy running well. However, during the Sith-Imperial War, many of 
the Triumvirate’s military plans fail, none more so than the decision to commit 
the Alliance Core Fleet and a major percentage of the Galactic Alliance's 
remaining forces to the Battle of Caamas. After the Imperial takeover, the 
Triumvirate remains as a political executive body, but one at the command 
of the Emperor, who appointed its members. 


GALACTIC SENATE 

Before the collapse of the Galactic Alliance, the Galactic Senate is the primary 
legislative body in the government. Senators represent regional sectors of 
space, with representatives of planets, systems, and smaller regions of space 
reporting to them. The Senate elects members of the Triumvirate and creates 
committees. As the spiritual successor to the Republic Senate and the direct 
successor to the New Republic Senate, it provides political continuity with 
the governments of the past. After the surrender of the Galactic Alliance, it 
remains intact as the new Imperial Senate, though its powers and influence 
are greatly diminished. 


GALACTIC COURTS 
At the height of the Galactic Alliance, the Galactic Courts are a strong bal- 
ancing force within the government, watching for government abuse and 
corruption. Though not particularly speedy, the Courts prove much more 
effective than those of the Old Republic or New Republic. The highest of 
the Galactic Courts is the Supreme Court, its twelve members appointed by 
the Triumvirate and confirmed by the Senate. 

Under the Empire, the Courts remain intact for criminal prosecutions and 
civil mediation, but they have been stripped of their government oversight 
powers, 


THE JEDI ORDER 

The Jedi Order holds no official government leadership position in the Galactic 
Alliance. However, members of the Order regularly provide advice and counsel 
to the highest echelons of the government. They also enjoy a special legal 
status that allows them to operate in support of Galactic Alliance officials 
and carry out their own matters with little governmental interference. The 
Jedi are also known to perform specific missions at the request of the Chief 
of State, and later, the Triumvirate. 


MEMBER WORLDS 

AND SYSTEMS 

Galactic Alliance member worlds and systems operate their own local plan- 
etary or regional governments. Systems are organized into sectors, each of 
which elects its own Senator to the Galactic Senate. Each elects its own 
senator to the Galactic Senate. In exchange for Galactic Alliance membership 
and defense, member worlds must agree to pay a percentage of their income 
to the Galactic Alliance government. They must also provide a set number of 
troops and/or starships to the Galactic Alliance Defense Force. For powerful 
worlds, this might include entire fleets. 


ALLIED AUTONOMOUS REGIONS 
Allied autonomous regions join the Galactic Alliance primarily for purposes of 
mutual defense. These regions rule themselves, handling virtually all internal 
matters without Galactic Alliance aid or direct influence. Their own laws and 
customs take precedence over Alliance legislation in most cases. As such, 
these states do not elect senators to the Galactic Senate. Instead, they send 
ambassadors and other representatives to Coruscant to negotiate or consult 
with Alliance officials, as needed. These regions contribute troops, ships, and 
fleets to the Galactic Alliance Defense Force, and in exchange, the Alliance 
agrees to protect the regions’ interests. 

The Imperial Remnant, the Hapes Consortium, and the Chiss Ascendancy 
are the largest and most prominent allied autonomous regions. Allied 
autonomous regions must be admitted as such when first joining the Galactic 
Alliance. They may not be created by member worlds after the fact. 


MILITARY RANKS 5 
The following ranks exist within the various aspects of the Galactic Alli- 
ance Defense Force. 


Galactic Alliance Army 


OFFICERS ENLISTED 
General Sergeant Major 
Major General Sergeant 

Lt. General Corporal 
Colonel Private 

Lt. Colonel 

Major 

Captain 

Lieutenant 


Galactic Alliance Navy 


OFFICERS STARFIGHTER OFFICERS — ENLISTED 
Admiral Commander Chief 
Vice Admiral Wing Commander Apprentice 
Rear Admiral Flight Officer 

Commodore Spacer 1st Class 

Captain Spacer 

Lieutenant 

Ensign oS 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE 

DEFENSE FORCE 

The Galactic Alliance Defense Force changes and evolves over time, but 
remains under the leadership of the politically appointed Supreme Com- 
mander. GADF units and fleets are comprised of two types of forces: those 
funded and controlled directly by the Galactic Alliance government, and 
those lent by member worlds and states to the GADF in times of crisis or to 
meet membership obligations. Units under direct Alliance control wear Alli- 
ance uniforms and are fully integrated into the Alliance chain of command. 
Forces lent to the Galactic Alliance, and those of the allied autonomous 
states, retain their own uniforms but are obligated to follow Galactic Alli- 
ance officers and orders. 


Specialized Teams 
Specialized teams use a self-contained chain of command. Members still 
hold military ranks as above, but sometimes be placed in a subordinate 
role, especially when teams share personnel from different services or 
include civilian agents. 


COMMANDO TEAMS 

Squad Leader 

Assistant Squad Leader 

Team Assignments (optional): 

Fire Team Member (Heavy weapons support) 
Demolitions Team Member 

Reconnaissance Team Member 


RESCUE TEAMS 

Lead Coordinator (multiple teams) 
Team Coordinator (individual teams) 
Chief Surgeon 

Chief Medic x 
Team Assignments (optional, used in teams of 10 or more): x 
Damage Control Team 
Droid Command Team 
Extraction Team 
Medical Team 

Search Team 


PONWVITIY DLOVIVE SHA |. [xresrevno +) 


FBOWNYAWY HLBVYIVSE FHL 


x?! eslavHo 


Supreme Commander 
The Supreme Commander of the Galactic Alliance Defense Force serves at 
the pleasure of the Triumvirate and is appointed by the Triumvirate without 
Senate confirmation. After the Solo-Niathal coup, the Supreme Commander 
is removed from political succession and can no longer hold a government 
position while retaining the rank of Supreme Commander. 

The Supreme Commander directs all GADF forces, military intelligence 
units, and fleets. This position is eliminated after the Galactic Alliance 
surrender. 


Galactic Alliance Fleets 

During the early years of the Galactic Alliance, the Alliance fleets were 
largely made up of numbered fleets comprised of ships acquired directly 
from member worlds and allied states. This made getting the proper number 
of ships from a given world or state paramount in order to meet the Galactic 
Alliance's defensive obligations. Over the years, and as a result of the Galactic 
Alliance-Confederation War, the Galactic Alliance purchases more and more 
ships directly, using funds provided by taxes and member worlds. Numbered 
fleets are largely dropped in favor of named fleets assigned to specific regions 
of space. The Core Fleet is the most notable example, though other fleets are 
named for the Outer Rim, Mid Rim, Colonies, and Expansion Regions. 

Prior to the Sith-Imperial War, the Galactic Alliance begins to reestablish 
sector level fleets and forces, keeping local ships assigned to the Alliance 
by member worlds relatively close to their own homeworlds. These Alliance 
sector fleets were replaced by Imperial vessels after the surrender of the 
Galactic Alliance. 


Galactic Alliance Army 

The Galactic Alliance Army provides troops on the ground to back up Alliance 
fleet operations. They carry out military raids, launch planetary and station 
invasions, and defend member worlds from attack. They integrate with the 
fleet for transport and operational purposes, but do not serve directly aboard 
fleet vessels. They include commando units and other elite combat units. 
After the Galactic Alliance's surrender, all army units are integrated into the 
Imperial military or disbanded. 


THE ALLIANCE 
REMNANT 


After the defeat of the Alliance fleet at the Battle of Caamas and the sur- 
render of the Galactic Alliance, Admiral Stazi’s Alliance Core Fleet flees the 
battlefield and forms the core of a new resistance. The Admiral steadfastly 
refuses to surrender and continues to take the fight to the Empire. Much like 
the Rebellion's Alliance Fleet from the past, the Remnant carries out hit-and- 
run attacks, harassing the Imperial Navy whenever possible. 

All Galactic Alliance planets fall under the control of the Empire when the 
Galactic Alliance surrenders, leaving Admiral Stazi with no formal support, 
supply lines, or shipyards. As the years pass, fleet operations are forced to 
change from military strikes to targeting supplies and materiel simply to 
continue operation. It is not long before the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet 
must compete with Emperor Roan Fel's Empire-in-exile for these precious 


A GALACTIC ALLIANCE OFFICER OBSERVES A 
TRI-SCYTHE-CLASS FRIGATE. 


resources. The observation is not lost on Emperor Fel, who tries to forge an 
alliance with his one-time enemy. Unfortunately, the Sith learn of Fel's plan, 
and when Admiral Stazi meets with Fel's representative at the Wheel, Sith 
agents use subterfuge to scuttle the plan while making the Admiral believe 
that Emperor Fel's agents planned to eliminate him. 

Admiral Stazi struggles with the growing perception that the Alliance Core 
Fleet is just another pirate fleet, albeit the best armed in the galaxy. He looks 
for ways to gain important footholds in a galaxy more determined than ever 
to stop him. When the opportunity arises to capture the /mperious, one of 
the Empire's newest and most advanced Star Destroyers, the Admiral puts 
aside his suspicions of a trap and sets out to capture the prize. Ultimately he 
succeeds, but loses his flagship (the /ndomitable) in the process. 

The loss of the /mperious and the severe damage the Dac shipyards 
orbiting Mon Calamari. The Sith retaliate, not against Stazi but against the 
Mon Calamari who aided in the attack. Stazi underestimates the depth of 
Sith anger and revenge as Darth Krayt authorizes the wholesale slaughter 
of millions of Mon Calamari and places the remaining population in con- 
centration camps. 

Many worlds that support the Empire begin to question the wisdom of 
doing so, in the face of events on the Mon Calamari homeworld. The Galactic 
Alliance Core Fleet finds new avenues of support, especially through the 
Mon Calamari resistance. While the toll on Mon Calamari is devastating, it 
provides the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet with a significant boost and reveals 
the level of Sith cruelty and evil to the galaxy at large. 


FLEET OPERATIONS 

Admiral Stazi is the highest authority and supreme leader of the Galactic 
Alliance Core Fleet. Galactic Alliance military codes and laws still apply to 
all personnel, and everyone treats the situation as though the Galactic Alli- 
ance may return to rule someday. The Admiral strives to maintain military 
protocols, although some newer recruits have problems adapting to military 
life. As the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet was once the Core Fleet, responsible 
for the defense of Coruscant and other Core Worlds, it benefits from being 
staffed with highly capable, veteran officers and crew. 

The majority of the fleet consists of Galactic Alliance ships that escaped 
from the Battle of Caamas. When the Galactic Alliance itself is absorbed into 
the Empire, individual ships of various types seek out and join Admiral Stazi. 
The fleet also features a selection of support vessels, such as deep space 
repair ships, bulk freighters, and tankers. While none of these can replace a 
true shipyard, they enable the fleet to remain on the move and reduce the 
fleet's reliance on fringe or underworld shipyards. 

The fleet itself generally operates as a unit, although individual ships 
Or small strike groups are often sent on missions. Some engage in recon- 
naissance and materiel acquisition. The Fleet moves around constantly in 
order to avoid detection by the Sith, Darth Krayt's Empire, and Roan Fel's 
Empire-in-exile. 


Most offensive operations use hit and fade attacks, similar to those 
favored by the Rebel Alliance of old. Admiral Stazi only engages in a direct 
assault when the numbers greatly favor him, or the ultimate goal makes the 
risk worth the effort. While the Admiral prefers military targets, preferably 
those of great significance, more and more often he has found himself 
forced to strike at lesser targets simply to obtain supplies and keep the fleet 
functioning. Even so, the Admiral restricts his target selection to Imperial 
suppliers, or at the very least Imperial sympathizers. Admiral Stazi must be 
very careful not to turn public opinion against his ships, and therefore avoids 
antagonizing any civilian organization without due cause. 


FIELD AGENTS 

The fleet boasts a small intelligence operation, complete with undercover 
agents scattered throughcut the galaxy. These agents are few and far 
between, often operating on their former homeworlds or other areas where 
they easily blend in with the inhabitants. Some focus their efforts on military 
targets, while many attempt to dig up information to help supply the fleet. 
A few are dedicated recruiters, risking their lives to find others willing to 
stand against the Empire and its Sith overlords. 


ALLIANCE FRAGMENTS 

Not surprisingly, many individuals, military units, and ships refuse to give 
up the fight when the Galactic Alliance surrenders to the Empire after 
the Battle of Caamas. Inspired by Admiral Stazi, a few scattered ships 
and settlements initially attempt organized opposition. Unfortunately, the 
Empire moves swiftly against any open resistance efforts. The Imperial 
crackdown escalates once Darth Krayt seizes power, whereupon even 
minor resistance efforts are met with overwhelming force and cruelty. The 
most dedicated resistance fighters go underground as local public support 
withers under the presence of Imperial troops and Sith commanders. 

While some resistance fighters ultimately flee to the Outer Rim or sink 
deeper into the underworld, a few stubbornly hold on, doing what they 
can on their own. In the early days following the surrender, many look 
to join Admiral Stazi’s fleet. However, locating the fleet proves difficult, 
and many of those who want to stand Boats Darth Krayt's ane are 
left to their own devices. 

For the most part, most fragment units or organizations pose 
little more than an annoyance to the Empire. They don't even rate an 
acknowledgment in galactic news, or comparison to the Rebel Alliance 
of old. Occasionally, they may score a situational victory, but few are 
able to contribute in any influential way to dislodging the Empire. How- 
ever, such units can make enormous differences to specific individuals, 
especially those attempting to escape Imperial forces. Small victories 
are still victories. 


BGONWITIY DLOVIVE OHA |» [xi ssiavno 


<1 usiagvHo 


PGONWITIY SILSBVIVE ans po 


THE GALACTIC ALLIANCE ARMY 
Very little of the Galactic Alliance Army remains intact. Most units are 
absorbed into the Imperial military after the Galactic Alliance surrender. A 
few squads remain active within the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet, but they 
lack the numbers or equipment to fight much more than small raids. These 
units' numbers continue to dwindle as very few recruits are added to their 
ranks, going instead to the fleet itself. The remaining squads are tough, 
individualistic, and extremely proud. 


GAC TEAMS 

Galactic Alliance Commando (GAC) forces are divided into two types of 
teams: ad hoc and dedicated. Missions are always planned to the highest 
degree possible. The Galactic Alliance Core Fleet cannot afford to lose any 
personnel, let alone highly trained combatants, in ill-advised strikes. 


Ad Hoc Teams 

Ad hoc teams are formed as needed, and usually pull together members from 
various other teams. Such units might include pilots, Army troopers, Navy 
personnel, or even sympathizers and associated allies. Critical or high-profile 
missions might include members of Rogue Squadron or another elite force. In 
keeping with their temporary nature, ad hoc teams are typically named for 
each individual mission, such as Dac's Hammer or Rancor 4. Two recurring ad 
hoc mission types include Imperial infiltration and Sith elimination. 

Imperial Infiltration: This includes any mission requiring the insertion 
of Alliance forces into an Imperial planet or stronghold, for the purposes of 
rescuing, capturing, or destroying a specific target. The skill and aptitude of 
the team personnel varies widely and depends on the mission's difficulty or 
the importance of success. 

Sith Elimination: Occasionally, the Galactic Alliance gets the opportunity 
to target a specific Sith commander or even the occasional Sith Lord. These 
extremely dangerous missions are always looked upon as great opportunities 
to make a significant impact against the Imperial command and control struc- 
ture. Additionally, successful missions prove that the Sith can be defeated, 
even by rank-and-file soldiers. 


Dedicated Teams 

Two mission types have become so frequent over the years that they require 
established, dedicated GAC teams. Unlike the ad hoc teams, members of 
dedicated teams are assigned to their units for extended periods of time, or 
a certain number of missions. They develop an expertise for their mission 
type, giving them a significant advantage each time they are deployed. Most 
dedicated teams are either numbered (such as MCR-10) or named (such as 
Antares’ Womp Rats). 


Womp Rats: These teams specialize in acquiring materiel and ordinance 
from protected targets, either covertly or by force. The target might be a 
former Galactic Alliance facility, to which they sometimes have blueprints 
or access codes. As the Galactic Alliance is absorbed into the Empire, these 
facilities become harder to breach. However, the Womp Rats quickly develop 
an expertise for entering the Imperial supply stores that replace them. 
The Womp Rats occasionally work in conjunction with the regular supply 
acquisition teams that specialize in acquiring materiel from civilian or black 
market sources. 

Mon Calamari Rescue (MCR): MCR teams are a recent addition to the 
commando forces, dedicated to rescuing Mon Calamari personnel from Impe- 
rial concentration camps and detention areas. While the Galactic Alliance 
Core Fleet cannot often render large-scale aid, exceptions are made when the 
right target becomes available. Usually, MCR teams attempt to liberate high- 
profile individuals, or those with significant knowledge or abilities that the 
Alliance finds useful. If the circumstances are exactly right, the Alliance will 
even deploy Sabertooth-class ships to capture and board and inadequately 
armed or escorted Imperial prison ships, in order to rescue a large number 
of Mon Calamari in a single operation. Most, but not all, MCR teams include 
Mon Calamari members in their ranks. Refugees or other Mon Calamari not 
suitable (or unwilling) to serve in the Alliance fleet are handed off to the 
Mon Calamari resistance network, usually via the Ackbar Trail. 


Venom Assault Squads 

Venom assault squads are specialized boarding parties deployed through the 
“teeth” of the Alliance Sabertooth-class assault and rescue ships. Trained 
in zero-g, close-quarters combat techniques, the Venom squads pour out 
of the Sabertooth's teeth, entering the captured vessel at multiple levels. 
Leading squads plow through enemy defenses and combat debris with the 
help of armored spacesuits. Once the boarding area has been secured from 
enemy attack and environmental integrity has been ensured, secondary units 
are deployed in typical Galactic Alliance battle armor, carrying additional 
arms or breaching equipment as needed. These squads are better suited 
for pursuing fleeing crew members or fighting in the tight spaces common 
aboard starships. 

Aside from the armor, Venom squads carry equipment and weaponry 
suited to shipboard combat. Blaster carbines, vibroswords, stun grenades, 
and concussion grenades are typical load-outs. If the enemy crew must be 
subdued, gas grenades are used while the Venom squads are protected in their 
spacesuits, or carrying breath masks. Small, floating surveillance droids are 
typically deployed early in a fight, and they are programmed to slip around the 
defenders to size up the ship's defenses and crew. Some may be programmed 
as self-guided weapons platforms or carry explosives. Venom slicers tap 
directly into shipboard computer systems to attempt to wrest control away 
from the vessel's command centers, or to disable the ship's systems. 


VENOM ASSAULT TROOPERS RAID AN IMPERIAL STARSHIP. 


Venom squads are typically numbered sequentially, per ship. Thus, the 
first squad from the Redclaw would be Redclaw Venom One. The exception 
to this is the elite Venom assault squad, designated simply as Venom Zero or 
VZ. Venom Zero is not permanently housed on any single Sabertooth-class 
ship, but is instead moved from ship to ship as missions warrant. When not 
deployed in combat, VZ also provides advanced training to the Venom squads 
permanently assigned to the ship the VZs are currently serving aboard. 


ELITE SQUADRONS 

Four of the Galactic Alliance's elite squadrons manage to avoid demilitar- 
ization and join up with Admiral Stazi's Galactic Alliance Core Fleet, or are 
already serving with the Alliance Core Fleet at the Battle of Caamas. These 
highly trained and experienced squadrons enhance the fleet's effectiveness 
immeasurably. They also serve to train new or recently acquired pilots in 
current Galactic Alliance Core Fleet tactics. Additionally, Admiral Stazi orders 
the creation of two new elite squadrons to meet the specific needs of the 
fleet's sophisticated and recurring supply strikes. 


Rogue Squadron 

Rogue Squadron remains the best of all squadrons, the elite of the elite. It 
has been in continuous operation since its formation by the Rebel Alliance. 
Though their starfighter of choice has changed over the years, their elite 
combat skills and dedication has not. Rogue squadron currently flies the CF9 
Crossfire and is stationed aboard the /ndomitable until the ship's destruction, 
after which the legendary squadron relocates to Admiral Stazi's new flag- 
ship, the Alliance. Squadron personnel are as diverse as ever, representing 
species from across the galaxy. No matter their origin, all are excellent pilots 
and bold fighters. Their personalities are just as diverse as their species, and 
while they are dedicated to the Galactic Alliance cause, it doesn't mean they 
always get along with each other. 

As with previous incarnations of the squadron, members are expected 
to fulfill a variety of roles beyond starfighter combat. As an elite force, they 
are deployed in commando raids and special operations, usually with the 
squadron itself fulfilling the role of attacker or close support. Their successful 
operations include the theft of the Star Destroyer /mperious, and the “rescue” 
of Admiral Stazi from the doomed /ndomitable. 


USING THE GALACTIC 
ALLIANCE CORE FLEET 

The Galactic Alliance Core Fleet provides a ready-made base of operations 
for characters fighting against either Empire. While the fleet operates 
much like the Rebel Alliance fleet of the Rebellion era, there is no wide 
network of agents and sympathizers to provide support. Given the needs 
of the fleet, it is possible to run Rebellion-style adventures using the 
Galactic Alliance Core Fleet, but remnant agents are almost always on 
their own, with little hope of finding a sympathizer to get them out of 
a jam. In many ways, it is more like the beginning of the Dark Times for 
those serving with the fleet: They are a minority group attempting to 
stop a galactic Empire. : 

Heroes might serve directly with the fleet, manning capital ships or 
starfighters while participating in large-scale battles and incursions into. 
Imperial space. Alternatively, heroes may use their own ships, undertaking 
missions in support of fleet operations. They might be sent after supplies, 
ordered to reconnoiter an area or planet, or even to attack targets of 
opportunity or of strategic value. 

In either case, the heroes are likely to be official members of the 
Galactic Alliance military and subject to the orders of their superiors and 
Admiral Stazi. It is unlikely that the Admiral will entrust sensitive assign- 
ments to a group with no ties to the fleet, although it is possible he might 
send them on lesser tasks. He might even hire them directly, hoping that 
credits will be enough to buy their loyalty, at least for a time. 


MI eStidvHS 


BOWVYIWIY BILIYIVSe FHL 


BONVYIWIY HSILOVYIVS IAA 


N 
o = 


| 
\ 


Farsight Squadron 
Farsight Squadron, often referred to as “the sightseers” or "the tourists," is 
the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet's advanced reconnaissance squadron. Flying 
the light and speedy Twilight RC-2 recon scout ships, Farsight pilots specialize 
in long-range reconnaissance and surveillance missions. These may include 
the deployment of a single ship operating alone, or the use of the entire 
squadron, forming a net to provide in-depth surveillance and data over a 
specific area of space or planet. Thanks to the capabilities of the Twilight 
scout ships, the squadron can operate for extended periods of time in space, 
at long range from their bases or carriers. They even carry out the occasional 
surprise attack, relying on their ships’ stealth and sophisticated torpedoes. 
At the time of the Battle of Caamas, Farsight Squadron was scattered 
across the galaxy, surveying potential Imperial targets or attempting to verify 
the status and location of Imperial warships, many of which were actually 
deployed to Caamas. Thanks to the squadron's long-range communications 
abilities and limited HoloNet access, they were quickly able to contact Admi- 
ral Stazi and rendezvous with the fleet. Since then, they have been deployed 
to collect vital data on potential targets as well as survey inhabited systems 
that might provide a friendly port for the fleet. 


Fireblue Squadron 

Fireblue Squadron is a brand-new elite force created to meet a specific and 
common mission profile for the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet: subduing and 
capturing starships. It takes its name from the intense blue-colored ion 
energy of its main weaponry. Fireblue uses the 14 lonizer starfighter, which 
can quickly disable an enemy ship, thanks to its ion cannon and disrupter 
torpedoes. The squadron is frequently called upon to disable large freight- 
ers, enabling the Alliance to commandeer both the ship and its cargo. The 
squadron is also used to capture high-value targets, such as an important 
Imperial officer or enemy intelligence ship. Its ships are occasionally deployed 
against civilian craft that the Alliance does not wish to destroy, but needs 
to disable for any number of reasons. 


Phantom Squadron 

With the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet's anticipated reliance on advanced 
commando raids, Phantom Squadron is created in the spirit of the Rebel 
Alliance's old Wraith Squadron. Able to work autonomously, far from the 
fleet, the squadron has its own collection of miscellaneous fighters, plus a 
few speeders and armed freighters that can be used as mobile headquarters 
or bases of operation. The Phantoms, as they are called, are known for their 
dedication and loyalty, even though their tactics and methods are a bit more 
risky or cutting edge than Admiral Stazi would like. While there have been 
no major incidents so far, the Phantoms have, at times, angered potential 
allies by operating too close to their own assets, and drawing the attention 
of the Empire. 


The Phantoms rely on secrecy and stealth to a great degree, although 


they are willing to abandon this at the end of an operation in the interests : 


of expediency and survivability. They also work with other commando units 
or squadrons when required, but are usually left to their own devices when 
carrying out their orders. Their training is equal parts starfighter pilot and 
commando, though a few of them specialize exclusively in either role. Also 


in keeping with the spirit of Wraith Squadron, the squadron has become qa _ 


dumping ground for those highly skilled and dedicated but difficult-to-contro| 
individuals who rub fleet commanders the wrong way. Though the squadron 
is filled with rough and unique characters, their loyalty to the Admiral and 
dedication to defeating the Empire keeps them on the same side. Usually, 


Twisted Star Squadron 


Twisted Star Squadron is the Galactic Alliance's elite hyperspace pursuit unit, 
utilizing the sophisticated Jumpstar HPF hyperspace pursuit fighter. Thanks to _ 


the advanced sensors and computing systems aboard their Jumpstars, Twisted 


Star pilots can aggressively pursue fleeing ships through hyperspace. They 
then attack the escaping ship directly or report their position and call for { 
aid. The squadron takes its name from the radical changes in flight direction — 
often required to quickly achieve the correct pursuit vector. At the Battle 


of Caamas, Twisted Star is deployed in anticipation of pursuing damaged 


Imperial vessels fleeing the combat. When Admiral Stazi is forced to retreat, 


Twisted Star goes with him. 


Twisted Star is now deployed as scouts, tailing Imperial vessels back to 


their home ports or rendezvous points. They also ensure the destruction of 
damaged ships, surprising them when they drop from hyperspace. The squad- 
ron is known for its brain power and quickness, both of which are required to 
make snap decisions and calculate potential jump points nearly instantly. 


THE MON CALAMARI 
RESISTANCE NETWORK 


After Admiral Stazi and the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet steal the prototype 
Star Destroyer /mperious from the Dac shipyards, with help from former 


Triumvirate member Gial Gahan, Darth Krayt orders the execution of mil- 


lions of Mon Calamari and has the remaining Mon Calamari rounded up into 


internment camps. Enraged, the Mon Calamari resolve to remind the new 
Emperor of the lessons they taught Emperor Palpatine. On Dac, a resistance 


movement ignites instantaneously, supported by Mon Calamari and their ] 


sympathizers throughout the galaxy. 

Initially, the resistance groups are scattered and highly disorganized. Some 
rebel openly, while others begin to stockpile arms and resources for a much 
longer fight. Political rivals vie for leadership roles within the resistance. A 
few attempt to persuade the Quarren to abandon the Empire in protest, but 
these efforts are unsuccessful. 


With the Imperial threat against Mon Calamari throughout the galaxy, 
an organized smuggling network is needed to rescue and transport Mon 
Calamari fleeing Imperial forces. While some resort to hiring professional 
smugglers, most Mon Calamari are aided by their own people using their own 
starships. Thus was born the Ackbar Trail, a secret network of smuggling ships, 
safe houses, and hidden pathways that spirit away refugee Mon Calamari to 
isolated space stations, Outer Rim worlds, and, it is rumored, planets in the 
Unknown Regions. The Trail was named in honor of Admiral Ackbar's famous 
journey from slavery under Grand Moff Tarkin to becoming a Rebel Alliance 
Admiral who defeated his former masters, the original Galactic Empire. 


CREATING YOUR OWN 

UNITS, SQUADRONS, AND 
STARSHIP CREWS 

In the Legacy era, it's easy for the heroes to be members of a special 
military unit within the Galactic Alliance. Most groups include a wide 
variety of species, goals, and abilities that complement each other. One 
way to consolidate such a diverse group is by assigning them to a com- 
mando unit or squadron that caters to the players’ (and heroes’) needs. 
They might be assigned to one of the established units featured in this 
chapter, such as one of the specialized squadrons or commando units. 
The Gamemaster should also feel free to create new commando units and 
squadrons to cater to his or her players. As they are assigned different 
missions, this gives them opportunities to work with or alongside the 
elite units of the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. 

Although the commando unit organization is fairly loose in the 
Galactic Alliance Core Fleet, one hero should be assigned as a leader and 
one should become his or her second-in-command. Exactly how strict 
this command structure is followed depends on the commando unit, but 
higher-level officers will expect a certain degree of discipline and respect 
for these leaders, and will hold them responsible for their unit's actions. 
The Gamemaster needs to decide whether the commander is one of the 
heroes or a Gamemaster character. It is suggested that a Gamemaster 
character be used with new groups who may need additional instruc- 
tions during play, or when a group is initially performing missions for the 
Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. 

Squadrons work in a similar way. However, it is important for all 
heroes to be able to fly with better than average proficiency, as starship 
combat can be unforgiving. The squadron should be based on one of the 
Galactic Alliance capital ships, as the Alliance maintains no permanent 
planetside bases at this time. 

You might also assign the heroes to a particular capital ship. However, 
the heroes will need to hold sufficient rank or be placed in positions of 
leadership so that they can directly affect the fate of the ship. 


Metaphorically speaking, the implications of the name are not lost on the 
Mon Calamari, and many now find themselves on a similar path. 

Eventually, the Mon Calamari resistance network and the Ackbar Trail 
provide vital assistance to the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet in the form of 
recruits and resources, and may even someday spark the creation of effective 
rebel groups and resistance fighters throughout the galaxy. 


ALLIANCE PERSONNEL 


Galactic Alliance and Galactic Alliance Core Fleet personnel may be of 
virtually any species. This is due to the diversity of species living on many 
worlds throughout the galaxy—a direct consequence of the mass emigra- 
tions during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. Even if a species’ homeworld is not 
part of the Alliance, individuals may still have lived and grown up in Galactic 
Alliance territory. 

The majority of Galactic Alliance Core Fleet personnel are non-Human, 
although Humans still represent the largest single species within the fleet. 
The majority of the recruits are also non-Human, especially due to the fact 
that the Sith Empire and Fel's Empire both favor Humans over non-Humans. 
Within the Sith Empire, non-Humans are increasingly pushed out of positions 
of power, with the significant exception of the Sith themselves. Fel's Empire 
is more tolerant, though non-Humans still find themselves mainly within 
the lower ranks. This encourages many non-Humans to join the Galactic 
Alliance Core Fleet. 

New recruits are always sought after, especially those who can bring new 
ships, sympathizers, or supplies to the fleet. 

The personnel presented below fall into two broad categories: Galactic 
Alliance and Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. Those with Galactic Alliance in their 
title may be used at any time during the Legacy era, either for the Galactic 
Alliance itself or for the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. Those with Galactic 
Alliance Core Fleet in their title indicate those forces unique to Admiral Stazi’s 
fleet after the fall of the Galactic Alliance. 


“YOU REFUSE 
TO ACCEPT THE 
FACT THAT YOU 
HAVE BECOME A 
SYMBOL, AND THE 
FLEET NEEDS THAT. 
SOMETHING AROUND 
WHICH OTHERS 
CAN RALLY." 


“Weis YORUB 


BSNWITIY DLIVIVE SMA, 


N 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE CORE 

FLEET COMMANDO 

Commandos vary extensively in expertise and skill. The following statistics 

represent one of the elite commandos. 

Galactic Alliance Core Fleet Elite Commando CL 10 

Medium Human soldier 4/scout 3/elite trooper 3 

Force 2; Dark Side 1 

Init +12; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 26, Will 21 

hp 90; Threshold 26 . 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d6+8) or 

Melee vibroblade +12 (2d6+8) 

Ranged blaster rifle +13 (3d8+5) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +12 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Controlled Burst, Demolitionist, Improved Stealth, 
Quick Draw" 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 9 

Special Qualities delay damage, damage reduction 1 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Controlled Burst, Demolitionist, 
Greater Weapon Focus (rifles), Improved Stealth 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Martial Arts |, Precise Shot, 
Point Blank Shot, Quick Draw", Running Attack, Skill Training (Stealth), 
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 
pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +134, Perception +11, Pilot +12, Stealth +12 (may reroll), 
Use Computer +11 

Possessions battle armor, blaster rifle, vibroblade, detonite, 
detonator, comlink 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


) 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE CORE 
FLEET COVERT AGENT 

Galactic Alliance Core Fleet agents are scattered across the galaxy. Though 
the network is not large, many agents are stationed in prime positions to 
provide Admiral Stazi and the fleet with the data they need to fight the 
Empire and, more importantly, raid for supplies. Thanks to the manner in 
which the Galactic Alliance bureaucracy is incorporated wholesale into the 
Imperial governing structure, recruiting new or double agents in positions 
of power is easier than in past conflicts. 


When the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet makes contact with someone 
already sympathetic to their cause against the Sith Empire, the Alliance 
often finds it needs to do little to turn them. The risks for secret agents or 
double agents are as great as ever, especially as the Sith go out of their way 
to make examples of spies and other enemies of the Empire. After the Sith's 
retaliation against Mon Calamari for the loss of the /mperious, a number of 
new agents have come forward, horrified by the Sith's brutal intimidation 
techniques. 


Galactic Alliance Core Fleet Covert Agent CL5 

Medium Human scoundrel 2/scout 3 

Force 1 

Init +3; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 18 

hp 35; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee stun baton +3 (1d6+2 or 2d6+2 stun) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +4 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged hold-out blaster +4 (3d4+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Zero Range" 

Special Actions Disinformation, Shocking Revelation, Sneak Attack 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 16 

Talents Disinformation, Shocking Revelation, Sneak Attack 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus (Deception), 
Skill Focus (Gather Information, Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons), Zero Range" 

Skills Deception +15, Gather Information +15, Mechanics +9", 
Perception +9, Persuasion +15, Stealth +8, Use Computer +9 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, hold-out blaster, holorecorder, 
credit chip, forged ID chips and badges, datapad, encrypted comlink 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE 

ARMY OFFICER 

Only a handful of Alliance Army officers remain in the galaxy after the Battle 
of Caamas, and all of them are part of the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. While 
a few are products of Galactic Alliance military training academies, many 
younger officers are now rising through the ranks as a result of field com- 
missions. While their combat experience is significant, they have not had 
the benefit of tactical training at a formal academy. Though the officers are 
proud of their remaining units, they suffer from lower morale due to their 
reduced status within the fleet. 


LEFT TO RIGHT: 
GALACTIC ALLIANCE TROOPER, SCOUT, PILOT, AND OFFICER 


Galactic Alliance Army Officer 

Medium Human noble 3/soldier 4/officer 4 

Force 2 

Init +12; Senses Perception +17 

Languages Basic, Bothese, Durese, Mon Calamarian, Shyriiwook 


CL 11 


Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 24), Fort 27, Will 28 

hp 87; Threshold 27 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +11 (1d4+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+5, devastating attack) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Inspire Confidence, 
Deployment Tactics, Devastating Attack (pistols) 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Assault Tactics, 
Inspire Confidence) 

Talents Armored Defense, Devastating Attack (pistols), Assault Tactics, 
Born Leader, Inspire Confidence, Deployment Tactics 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses", Linguist, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics], Perception, 
Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, heavy weapons, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Initiative +12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +13, 
Knowledge (tactics) +18, Mechanics +13, Perception +17, Persuasion 
+18, Pilot +12", Treat Injury +12, Use Computer +13 

Possessions Galactic Alliance light armor, blaster pistol, knife, code 
cylinder, access data cards, data pad 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


Xi esLavHs 


BWVNMAIVVG BILVBYWA FAL 


7 
LE 


FBONWVIWWY DLWMVIWE IHL 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE 

ARMY TROOPER 

Most of the galaxy perceives these well-trained troopers as the heavy-handed 
muscle of the Galactic Alliance, often not much better than paid thugs or 
mercenaries. Their dour and macho attitudes also win them few friends. 


Galactic Alliance Army Trooper Ck2 
Medium Human nonheroic 7 
Init +4; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 12, Will 9 
hp 25; Threshold 17 : 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee knife +6 (1d4+1) or 
Melee stun baton +6 (1d6+1 or 2d6+1 stun) 
Ranged blaster rifle +7 (3d8) 
Base Atk +5; Grp +6 
Atk Options Point Blank Shot# 
Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Damage Threshold, 
Point Blank Shot", Weapon Focus (blaster rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 
Skills Mechanics +8", Perception +9 
Possessions Galactic Alliance light armor with helmet package, 
blaster pistol, knife, stun baton 
H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE 

NAvy CAPTAIN 

Most of the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet's Navy commanding officers are 
the highly trained individuals originally assigned to the Core Fleet. Brave, 
skilled, and dedicated leaders, these officers are inspired by Admiral Stazi's 
gall, tenacity, and creativity. 


Galactic Alliance Navy Captain CL 10 

Medium Human noble 7/officer 3 

Force 2 

Init +17; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary, Bothese, Durese, Mon Calamarian 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 20, Will 26 

hp 53; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4-1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot" 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate, Deployment Tactics, 
Inspire Confidence, Inspire Haste, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 16 

Special Qualities Command cover, share talent (Inspire Haste) 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Deployment Tactics, Inspire Confidence, 
Inspire Haste, Tactical Edge 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Far Shot, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot", Skill Focus (Initiative, Knowledge [tactics], Persuasion), 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Initiative +17, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +12, 
Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Knowledge (tactics) +17, Perception +12, 
Persuasion +18, Pilot +12, Treat Injury +12", Use Computer +13 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, code cylinder 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE 
NAvyY JUNIOR OFFICER 
The Galactic Alliance Core Fleet is filled with officers of every rank, but their 
experience level and rank often are at odds with each other. With a limited 
supply of incoming recruits, a junior officer might suddenly find himself 
or herself in command in an emergency, while others find themselves held 
back without promotion, as they have few replacements. Most ride out the 
situation as best they can, hoping for better days to come and dedicating 
themselves to their duties. 


LEFT TO RIGHT: 
VENOM ASSAULT TROOPER, GALACTIC ALLIANCE COMMANDO, 
GALACTIC ALLIANCE INTELLIGENCE OFFICER, NAVAL OFFICER. 


Alliance Navy Junior Officer 
Medium Human nonheroic 4/noble 5 
Force 1 

Init +4; Senses Perception +10 
Languages Basic, Durese 


CL6 


Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot" 
Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust, Vehicular Combat 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 19 
hp 28; Threshold 21 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+2) 
Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+2) 
Base Atk +6; Grp +6 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses, Improved Damage 
Threshold, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot", Skill Focus (Persuasion), 
Skill Training (Persuasion), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +10, Persuasion +16, Pilot +9, Use Computer +10" 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, code cylinder 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


} 
j 


<i SeSsidcdvHgd 


= aay 5 | 


PTT TTiririttL 


BOWNAVVG SILWMVIVW 


SEEEEEEEGE _ 
BONVITIY ALIVIV]E SMA, 


x? ealavHo 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE 

NAvy CREW MEMBER 

Navy crew members form the backbone of the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. 
As a whole, they are dedicated to their cause and very experienced in their 
duty posts and assignments. 


Galactic Alliance Navy Crew CL2 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Init +4; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 11, Will 12 

hp 15; Threshold 11 ; 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 ; 

Special Actions Vehicular Combat" : 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 9 

Feats Improved Defenses, Skill Focus (Mechanics, Use Computer), 
Vehicular Combat", Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +14, Perception +9, Pilot +9", Use Computer +14 

Possessions blaster pistol, datapad, comlink, uniform 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE 

NAvyY GUNNER 

Good starship gunners are more important than ever, given the limited 
resources of the fleet. Some exceptional gunners are occasionally assigned 
to smaller combat craft flying support on commando and other hit-and- 
fade attacks. 


Galactic Alliance Navy Gunner CL5 
Medium Human nonheroic 4/soldier 4 

Force 1 

Init +5; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 16, Will 15 

hp 32; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged heavy weapon +10 or 

Ranged heavy weapon +10 (+1 die damage) with Deadeye 
Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Deadeye, Far Shot", Point Blank Shot 


Special Actions Careful Shot, Coordinated Attack, Devastating Attack 
(heavy weapons), Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons) 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Penetrating Attack 
(heavy weapons) 

Feats Careful Shot, Coordinated Attack, Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, 
Far Shot", Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
(heavy weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +9", Perception +10, Use Computer +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, datapad, comlink, uniform 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


GALACTIC ALLIANCE PILOT 

Pilots are an endangered resource within the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. 
With such limited numbers of personnel and equipment, it is more impor- 
tant than ever for a pilot to return after a battle, with his ship relatively 
undamaged. Pilot recruits are highly sought after, as are the ships they 
need to fly. 


Galactic Alliance Pilot CL5 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/soldier 4 

Force 1 

Init +10; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 17, Will 15 

hp 30; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot" 

Special Actions Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Armored Defense, Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Pilot), Skill 
Training (Mechanics, Use Computer), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus 
(heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10", Mechanics +9, Perception +9, Pilot +15, 
Use Computer +9 

Possessions padded flight suit, blaster pistol 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


MON CALAMARI 

RESISTANCE MEMBER 

Members of the Mon Calamari resistance movement come from virtually 

every walk of life, now that the Empire has singled out the entire species for 

destruction. However, the typical resistance member has only limited training 

backed up by an enormous desire to stop the Empire at all costs. 

Mon Calamari Resistance Member CL 2 

Medium Mon Calamari nonheroic 3/soldier 1 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary, Mon Calamarian 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 9; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares, swim 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6+2, devastating attack) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (pistols), Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 8, Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 13 

Special Qualities Breathe underwater 

Talents Devastating Attack (pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Focus (Perception), Point Blank Shot, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +8, Perception +12 

Possessions combat jumpsuit, blaster pistol, comlink 


INFLUENTIAL 
PERSONALITIES 


Many unique individuals drive the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet with their 
strong and forceful personalities. Battling against two evil empires without 
widespread galactic support makes them determined and self-motivated. 
Below you'll find some of the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet's prominent leaders, 
allies, and more colorful personalities. 


ADMIRAL GAR STAZI 

Admiral Gar Stazi is a long-time commander in the Galactic Alliance forces. 
During the Sith-Imperial War, he commands the Core Fleet responsible for 
defending Coruscant and the Core Worlds. He is also responsible for saving 
the fleet, along with many other Galactic Alliance ships, from the Imperial 
trap at the Battle of Caamas. The Admiral had expected a trap, whereas the 
Triumvirate believed the battle to be an opportunity to inflict major damage 
on Imperial forces. When his superiors order the surrender of the fleet, and 
essentially the Galactic Alliance, the Admiral leads all willing ships out of the 
system through obscure hyperspace routes, successfully bypassing Imperial 
Starships and mines. 


ADMIRAL GAR STAZI 


Admiral Stazi is now the iconic leader of the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. 
Much of his fleet's success and continued cohesion stems directly from his 
determination and tactical skill. His successes in the seven years following 
the collapse of the Galactic Alliance have forced the Sith Empire to target 
him directly. The intolerant Sith have punished and replaced those unable 
to capture the Admiral. Despite the obvious threat that Gar Stazi poses to 
Imperial security, most competent enemies respect his abilities. 

Admiral Stazi is outspoken and often proposes unorthodox courses of 
action. At one point, he considers forging an alliance with Emperor Fel against 
the Sith. Although Imperial agents thwart this endeavor, it demonstrates 
that Admiral Stazi's willingness to consider radical plans of action against 
the Sith Empire. 

The Admiral refuses to see himself as an icon. Should he be killed, he 
doesn't want the Galactic Alliance to die with him. His own life is a small 
price to pay for galactic freedom and democracy, as he proves when he sends 


<1! SStiagvyHyD 


BOWNWy«~OONLIYIWVA FAL 


5 


Mi eStdgvHo 


FOWWMIWVY BILIVIVEe IHL 


his flagship, the /ndomitable, on a collision course with the Mon Calamari 
shipyards in order to secure a strategic victory. Fortunately for the Alliance 
Remnant, and arguably the entire galaxy, his friends and aides forcibly remove 
him from the ship before it is destroyed. 

Stazi expects his personnel to behave as a military organization, despite 
the loss of the government that once controlled his fleet. Stubborn and 
determined, he does listen to advice, though he remains the final arbiter. 
The Admiral is involved in every aspect of fleet operations, aware that the 
tiniest mistake might betray the fleet's position to enemies or leave them 
without vital supplies. 
Admiral Gar Stazi CL 16 
Medium Duros noble 5/soldier 2/officer 9 
Destiny 3; Force 8 
Init +20; Senses Perception +21 
Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Durese, High Galactic, Huttese 
Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 29), Fort 30, Will 35 
hp 84; Threshold 35 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee knife +14 (1d4+8) 

Ranged blaster pistol +16 (3d6+8) 

Base Atk +14; Grp +16 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Coordinate, 

Deployment Tactics, Field Tactics, Outmaneuver, Tactical Edge, 

Trust, Vehicular Combat 
Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 17, Wis 16, Cha 18 
Special Qualities Command cover +3, expert pilot, share talent 

(Deployment Tactics, Field Tactics, Outmaneuver, Tactical Edge) 

Talents Armored Defense, Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Coordinate, 

Deployment Tactics, Field Tactics, Outmaneuver, Tactical Edge, Trust 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses, Improved Damage 

Threshold, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Initiative, 

Knowledge [tactics], Perception, Persuasion), Vehicular Combat, 

Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +17, Initiative +20, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +16, 

Knowledge (tactics) +21, Mechanics +16, Perception +21, 

Persuasion +22, Pilot +15 (may reroll), Use Computer +16 
Possessions Galactic Alliance light armor, blaster pistol, knife, code 

cylinder, datapad 
Alternate Talents (from Starships of the Galaxy): Replace Assault 

Tactics, Field Tactics, Outmaneuver and Tactical Edge with Combined 

Fire, Fleet Deployment, Fleet Tactics, and Legendary Commander 


ANDURGO 

Andurgo is a member of Rogue Squadron and one of the few Dugs serving 
in the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. Indeed, he is one of the few Dugs to 
leave Malastare. 

Andurgo's arrogant self-confidence would be unbearable were he not a 
great pilot. He revels in the excitement of starfighter combat and loves to 
show off. His recklessness insures that his wingmen have their hands full just 
trying to keep the wild Dug alive. To Andurgo, that is their entire purpose. 
Andurgo cL9 
Small Dug scoundrel 7/ace pilot 2 
Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 1 
Init +18; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic, Dug 
Defenses Ref 24* (flat-footed 20), Fort 22*, Will 20 
hp 48; Threshold 22* 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee vibroblade +7 (2d6+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (4d6+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +6; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Elusive Dogfighter, Hyperdriven, Knack, Lucky Shot, 

Skirmisher, Vehicular Combat 
Abilities Str 13, Dex 18, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 9 
Special Qualities Dug agility, lightning reflexes, vehicle dodge +1 
Talents Elusive Dogfighter, Hyperdriven, Knack, Lucky Shot, Skirmisher 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Running 

Attack, Skill Focus (Acrobatics, Initiative, Pilot), Vehicular Combat, 

Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, 

simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +18, Climb +5 (may reroll), Initiative +18, Jump +5 

(may reroll), Perception +9, Pilot +18, Stealth +13, Use Computer +10 
Possessions padded flight suit, blaster pistol, vibroblade, 

CF9 Crossfire starfighter 
* When not wearing a flight suit, Andurgo has the following adjusted stats: 

Reflex Defense 30 (flat-footed 26), Fortitude Defense 21, Threshold 21. 
Alternate Feats (from Starships of the Galaxy): Replace Rapid Shot with 

Starship Tactics (Counter) 


BAIL ANTILLES 
Bail Antilles comes from a family dedicated to governmental service. His 
family name combined with his personal charisma and connections allow 
him to rise through the Galactic Government and ultimately be voted in as 
a member of the Triumvirate. He is known to carefully consider all options, 
and is not beholden to any specific policy or organization. He is level headed 
and often provides the swing vote between the other two members of the 
Triumvirate, Gial Gahan and Nu Toreena. 
Bail casts the deciding vote to engage the Empire at the Battle of Caamas. 
He hopes that a quick victory over the Empire might stop member worlds from 
leaving the Galactic Alliance. The Imperial victory forces the Galactic Alliance 
to surrender, and Bail has no choice but to go along. Like the other members 
of the Triumvirate, he is replaced by an administrator loyal to Emperor Fel. 
Bail Antilles CL 10 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/noble 8 
Destiny 1; Force 4 
Init +6; Senses Perception +19 
Languages Basic, Durese, High Galactic, Mon Calamarian, Sullustese 
Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 19), Fort 19, Will 24 
hp 43; Threshold 19 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+3) 
Ranged blaster pistol +10 (3d6+4) 
Base Atk +10; Grp +9 
Special Actions Coordinate, Inspire Confidence, Inspire Haste, Presence 
Abilities Str 8, Dex 8, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 16 
Talents Coordinate, Inspire Confidence, Inspire Haste, Presence 
Feats Coordinated Attack, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Skill Focus 
(Deception, Knowledge [bureaucracy], Knowledge [galactic lore], 
Knowledge [social sciences], Perception, Persuasion), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [social sciences]), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 
Skills Deception +20, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +19, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +19, Knowledge (social sciences) +19, Perception +19, 
Persuasion +20 
Possessions fine clothing, blaster pistol, encrypted comlink, data pad 


COMMANDER 
FwHORAM BEY 
Commander Jhoram Bey leads Rogue Squadron 
during its assignment to the Galactic Alli- 
ance Core Fleet. The large Weequay's 
strong personality and commanding 
presence keep the irregular squadron 
mates in order. While the Rogues 
appear to lack discipline, there is a 
difference between parade-ready 
and combat-ready, and the squad 
under Bey's command is always the 
latter. 

Bey is dedicated to the Galactic Alli- 
ance Core Fleet and Admiral Stazi. When 
the Admiral attempts to remain on board 
the Indomitable in order to guide it on a 
collision course with the Mon Calamari 
shipyards, Bey resorts to knocking the 
Admiral unconscious (on Captain Jorus's 
orders) to ensure that Stazi survives as 
the Alliance's leader. In order to teach 
the squadron leader a lesson, Admiral 
Stazi promotes Bey to be his second- 
in-command over the Galactic Alliance 
Core Fleet. 


Commander Jhoram Bey CL 12 
Medium Weequay soldier 7/ 

ace pilot 5 
Destiny 2; Force 6 
Init +19; Senses Perception +13 
Languages Basic, Binary, Sriluurian 
Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27), Fort 26*, Will 24 
hp 98; Threshold 26* 


Si eSidvHd 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d6+8) 

Ranged blaster pistol +14 (3d6+6) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (4d6+6) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 

Atk Options Martial Arts |, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Elusive Dogfighter, Penetrating Attack 
(heavy weapons), Keep It Together, Running Attack, Vehicular Combat, 
Vehicular Evasion 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 15 


BOWVIWIY DLIYWEe) BAL 


a 
i) 


GZESESEEEEE_ 


BONWAWY DLOVYIVE FGHL 


xt eeLevnS 


Special Qualities Vehicle dodge +2 

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Elusive Dogfighter, Penetrating 
Attack (heavy weapons), Keep It Together, Vehicular Evasion 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Martial Arts |, Rapid Strike, 
Running Attack, Skill Focus (Initiative, Pilot), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Focus (heavy weapons, pistols), Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +19, Knowledge (tactics) +13, Mechanics +13, 

Perception +13, Pilot +19, Use Computer +13 

Possessions padded flight suit, blaster pistol, comlink 

* When not wearing a flight suit, Jnoram Bey has the following adjusted 
stats: Fortitude Defense 25 (flat-footed 22), Threshold 25. 

Alternate Talents (from Starships of the Galaxy): Replace Keep It 
Together and Vehicular Evasion with Squadron Maneuvers and 
Squadron Tactics 

Alternate Feats (from Starships of the Galaxy): Replace Rapid Strike 
with Starship Tactics (Counter, Devastating Hit, Howlrunner Formation) 


ANY DAHL 

Anj Dahl joins Rogue Squadron several years after the Battle of Caamas. She's 
young, talented, and enthusiastic. She's also known to incite trouble between 
her squadron mates simply for her own amusement. She's spent most of her 
short adult life with the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. The constant feeling that 
everything could end at any moment probably contributes to her embrace- 
ment of all that is fun in life. Anj is also a capable scrounger, able to obtain 
parts and supplies at most spaceports without raising alarms. She does even 
better when aided by Galactic Alliance Core Fleet sympathizers. 


Anj Dahl CL8 

Medium Human scoundrel 7/ace pilot 1 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +11; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 19* (flat-footed 17), Fort 20*, Will 19; Dodge 

hp 44; Threshold 20* 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Elusive Dogfighter, Hyperdriven, Knack, Spacehound, 
Starship Raider, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 13 

Talents Elusive Dogfighter, Hyperdriven, Knack, Spacehound, 
Starship Raider 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, 
Skill Focus (Gather Information, Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +10, Initiative +11, Mechanics +10, 

Perception +9, Pilot +16, Use Computer +10 

Possessions padded flight suit, blaster pistol, datapad, comlink 

* When not wearing a flight suit, Anj Dahl has the following adjusted stats: 
Reflex Defense 24 (flat-footed 22), Fortitude Defense 19, Threshold 19. 


Alternate Feats (from Starships of the Galaxy): Replace Skill Focus 
(Gather Information) with Starship Tactics (Counter) 


GIAL GAHAN 

Gial Gahan is a revered member of the Triumvirate before its fall to the Empire. 
Prior to this, Gial served as governor of the Hub, liaison to the Mon Calamari 
defense forces, liaison to the Jedi Order, and the Senator of Mon Calamari. 

Gial has strong views on how the galaxy should be governed. His 
unwavering support of the Jedi and their projects is well known, and he 
has similar strong opinions on most important matters. He doesn't change 
his mind easily, and his opponents view him as intractable and unwilling to 
compromise. He is the only Triumvirate member to vote against engaging 
the Empire at the disastrous Battle of Caamas. He has no desire to surren- 
der the Galactic Alliance to the Empire, but is left with little choice in the 
end. Although Emperor Fel retains the Triumvirate in his new government, 
Gial Gahan and the other Alliance members are quickly replaced with loyal 
Imperial bureaucrats. 

Gial returns to Mon Calamari to take a position in the planetary govern- 
ment. However, the Sith quickly depose Emperor Fel and place the planet 
under the control of the Quarren. Gial finds his power reduced, but his 
political stature allows him to operate with minimal interference from the 
Empire. Dismayed at what this turn of events has done to the galaxy and 
especially the Mon Calamari people, he secretly begins to equip the Galactic 
Alliance Core Fleet with supplies, bacta, and Mon Calamari recruits. His 
ultimate donation comes soon enough, when he provide the codes and 
required access to allow Galactic Alliance Core Fleet forces to steal the 
advanced Star Destroyer /mperious from the Hub. Fearing that the theft of 
the ship will endanger the Mon Calamari people, he arranges to take all of 
the blame for the deed. True to his prediction, he is arrested shortly after 
the attack. However, not even Gial Gahan could predict the ruthlessness of 
the Sith response against the Mon Calamari people. Gial is killed by Darth 
Krayt personally, and he is but the first. 


Gial Gahan CL 14 

Medium Mon Calamari noble 14 

Destiny 2; Force 7 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +20 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Cerean, Durese, High Galactic, Huttese, Mon 
Calamarian, Quarrenese, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 24), Fort 24, Will 29 

hp 64; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares, swim 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+6) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate, Coordinated Attack, Presets, 
Trust, Ignite Fervor, Inspire Confidence, Weaken Resolve 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 9, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 17, Cha 16 

Special Qualities Breathe underwater 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Presence, Trust, Ignite Fervor, : 
Inspire Confidence, Weaken Resolve 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Dodge, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus 
(Deception, Gather Information, Knowledge [bureaucracy], Knowledge 
[galactic lore], Knowledge [social sciences], Perception, Persuasion, 
Use Computer), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +20, Gather Information +20, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +20, Knowledge (galactic lore) +20, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +20, Perception +20, Persuasion +20, Pilot +16, Swim +16, 
Use Computer +20 

Possessions datapad, comlink 


MONIA GAHAN 

Inspired by the bravery of her uncle, Gial Gahan, Monia Gahan leaves the 
Mon Calamari defense forces shortly after the Sith place the Quarren in 
power over Mon Calamari. Though young, she is a skilled pilot, and her con- 
nection to her uncle makes her a vital link between him and the Galactic 
Alliance Core Fleet. Quickly she is assigned to Rogue Squadron, later serving 
as Andurgo's wingman. She also participates in the critical mission to steal 
the Star Destroyer /mperious from the Hub, by using her considerable slic- 
ing skills to take control the Hub's weapon defenses. She escapes the Sith's 
retribution with the help of a pair of Imperial Knights, and is instrumental 
in rekindling discussions of an alliance between the Galactic Alliance and 
Roan Fel's Empire-in-exile. 

Monia is bright and confident, despite the stress of serving in Rogue 
Squadron. She is fully dedicated to the cause of the Galactic Alliance Core 
Fleet, and she sees herself as a dedicated warrior fighting to free her people 
from an oppressive and brutal Empire. 


Monia Gahan CL8 
Medium Mon Calamari scoundrel 4/scout 3/ace pilot 1 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +11; Senses low-light vision; Perception +16 (may reroll) 
Languages Basic, Mon Calamarian, Quarrenese 

Defenses Ref 19* (flat-footed 18), Fort 20*, Will 20 

hp 47; Threshold 20* 

Speed 6 squares, swim 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Gimmick, Knack, Relentless Pursuit, Vehicular Evasion 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Special Qualities breathe underwater 

Talents Acute Senses, Gimmick, Improved Initiative, Knack, 
Relentless Pursuit 

Feats Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus (Perception, 
Pilot, Stealth, Use Computer), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11 (may reroll), Mechanics +11, Perception +16 (may 
reroll), Persuasion +9, Pilot +16, Stealth +16, Use Computer +16 

Possessions padded flight suit, blaster pistol, comlink, Xcalq-3GA “Slicer 
Special” portable computer, Xcalq stealth pack 

* When not wearing a flight suit, Monia has the following adjusted stats: 
Reflex Defense 24 (flat-footed 22), Fortitude Defense 19, Threshold 19. 

Alternate Feats (from Starships of the Galaxy): Replace Skill Focus 
(Stealth) with Starship Tactics (Counter, Evasive Action, Howlrunner 
Formation) 


HONDO KARR 

Hondo Karr was never one to completely follow any ideology or command 
structure. A Mandalorian by birth, Karr ends up serving as an Imperial 
stormtrooper. However, in keeping with his Mandalorian values, Karr's 
dedication is to his comrades and commander, not to the Empire itself. He 
dislikes the treatment of military units as expendable, and he sees the end 
of his Imperial career once the Sith take control. 

Karr nearly dies at the hands of the Sith Lord Maleval, after Karr attacks the 
Sith for killing his lieutenant. Fortunately, Karr's loyalty in his fellow troopers 
is not misplaced. They open fire on the Sith Lord, and Karr walks away with his 
life. Karr disappears and is a presumed dead, but eventually makes his way to 
the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. His combat experience and piloting skill earn 
him a slot in Rogue Squadron. However, his sour demeanor doesn't change 
much. Still, he considers the Alliance cause worthy of his effort. Admiral Stazi 
puts Karr's Imperial background to good use by placing him in command of 
the infiltration unit that boards and steals the Star Destroyer /mperious. 


Pei eSLewHo +) 


0 
q 


SONWITIY DALOVIVE SHA 


x1 YSidwvHg 


BDOWNYNIWWIY SILGVIVE PHL | 


HONDO KARR 


Hondo Karr CL 10 
Medium Human soldier 7/elite trooper 3 

Destiny 2; Force 5; Dark Side 2 

Init +18; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Mando'a 


Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 24), Fort 26, Will 21 
hp 91; Threshold 26 


Talents Armored Defense, Devastating Attack (rifles), Greater 
Devastating Attack (rifles), Greater Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Melee Smash, Stunning Strike 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Martial Arts |, Martial Arts 
II, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Initiative), Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +18, Mechanics +12, Perception +11, Pilot +13, 
Treat Injury +11, Use Computer +12 

Possessions blaster rifle, vibroblade 


Nu TOREENA 

Nu Toreena is a member of the Triumvirate before the Battle of Caamas, and 
arguably the weakest politically. She seeks to bring the war with the Empire 
to a quick end, no matter what the risk. As an Ithorian, she knows the horror 
of losing a homeworld in a vicious war, as her people lost Ithor during the 
Yuuzhan Vong invasion. She has no wish to see that happen to the Galactic 
Alliance. When Rear Admiral Piers Petan proposes a plan to ambush Emperor 
Fel's flagship over Caamas, Toreena fully backs the effort, despite the fact 
that it would mean stripping Coruscant of its protective fleet. After the 
Imperials spring their trap at the Battle of Caamas, Toreena and the other 
members of the Triumvirate are forced to surrender the Galactic Alliance to 
the Empire. Emperor Fel replaces the entire Triumvirate, Toreena is widely 
blamed for supporting the risky battle plan, and her political career comes 
to an abrupt end. 


Nu Toreena CL 4 
Medium Ithorian nonheroic 12 

Init +5; Senses Perception +18 

Languages Basic, High Galactic, Ithorese, Mon Calamarian 

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 10, Will 14 

hp 30; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4-1) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +8 

Special Actions Bellow 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d8+7) or 

Melee vibroblade +12 (2d6+8) 

Ranged blaster rifle +15 (3d8+5, devastating attack) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 

Atk Options Melee Smash, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Stunning Strike 
Special Actions Vehicular Combat 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10 
Special Qualities Delay damage, damage reduction 1 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 8, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Feats Skill Focus (Deception, Gather Information, Knowledge 
[bureaucracy], Perception, Persuasion), Skill Training (Gather 
Information, Knowledge [bureaucracy]), Weapon Proficiency 
(simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +18, Gather Information +13, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+18, Perception +18, Persuasion +18, Survival +8 (may reroll) 

Possessions datapad, portable computer, encrypted comlink 


RONTO 

Ronto is a Klatooinian pilot with Rogue Squadron. He confidently tears 

into opposing squadrons with measured skill, and finds wild pilots such as 

Andurgo to be needlessly reckless. He earns a tough reputation after surviving 

being shot down over Mon Calamari in the raid to steal the /mperious. He 

is rescued from an Imperial detention facility shortly thereafter by Monia 

and Imperial Knights. 

Ronto CL8 

Medium Klatooinian scoundrel 7/ace pilot 1 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +16; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 19* (flat-footed 17), Fort 22*, Will 19 

hp 52; Threshold 22* 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +7 (2d6+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (4d6+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Elusive Dogfighter, Hyperdriven, Knack, Lucky Shot, 
Starship Raider, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 9 

Talents Elusive Dogfighter, Hyperdriven, Knack, Lucky Shot, 
Starship Raider 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus 
(Initiative, Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +18, Mechanics +10, Perception +9, Pilot +18, 
Use Computer +10 

Possessions padded flight suit, blaster pistol, vibroblade 

* When not wearing a flight suit, Ronto has the following adjusted stats: 
Reflex Defense 24 (flat-footed 22), Fortitude Defense 21, Threshold 21. 

Alternate Feats (from Starships of the Galaxy): Replace Rapid Shot with 
Starship Tactics (Counter) 


CAPTAIN JAIUS YORUB 

A career naval officer, Yorub is a competent captain and a stalwart supporter 

of Admiral Stazi. Captain Yorub commands the Scythe-class battle cruiser 

Indomitable for many years before and after the fall of the Galactic Alliance. 

As the Admiral’s flagship, it leads the retreat from the Battle of Caamas and 

becomes the headquarters for the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. 

Captain Yorub serves as Admiral Stazi's advisor for many years after 
the Battle of Caamas, but he is never able to convince the Admiral of his 
importance as an icon as well as a fleet leader. When it came time for Com- 
mander Bey to choose between obeying Admiral Stazi or obeying Captain 
Yorub at the battle for the /mperious, Bey chose to obey Yorub and saved 
the Admiral's life. Shortly thereafter, the wounded Captain Yorub was killed 
when he rammed the /ndomitable into the Mon Calamari shipyards. 
Captain Jaius Yorub CL 13 
Medium Sullustan noble 4/soldier 4/officer 5 
Destiny 2; Force 6 
Init +12; Senses darkvision; Perception +19 (may reroll) 

Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Bothese, Durese, Mon Calamarian, 
Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 25), Fort 25, Will 30; Dodge 

hp 73; Threshold 25 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+6) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +11 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinate, 
Deployment Tactics, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 15 

Special Qualities Command cover, share talent (Assault Tactics, 
Deployment Tactics) 

Talents Armored Defense, Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Born Leader, 
Coordinate, Deployment Tactics, One for the Team 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill 
Focus (Knowledge [tactics], Perception, Persuasion, Use Computer), 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +7 (may reroll), Initiative +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, 
Knowledge (tactics) +18, Mechanics +13, Perception +19 (may reroll), 
Persuasion +18, Pilot +13, Use Computer +18 

Possessions Galactic Alliance light armor, blaster pistol, encrypted 
comlink, code cylinder, datapad 

Alternate Talents (from Starships of the Galaxy): Replace Assault Tactics 
and One for the Team with Combined Fire and It's a Trap. 


1 


Q 


f 
ih 


ARMOR BONUS 
ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TO REF DEFENSE 


Galactic Alliance armor 6,000 +4 


Venom assault armor 17,000 +10 


EQUIP BONUS 
TO FORT DEFENSE 


SPEED 
(4 SQ.) 


MAX DEX 
BONUS 


SPEED 


(6 SQ.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 


Military 


+1 4sq. 3 sq.! 38 kg Military 


1 When running in heavy armor, you can only move up to three times your speed (instead of four times). When using the armor's jumpjets in zero-g, speed is 


6 squares and 4 squares, respectively. 


ALLIANCE ARMOR 


The following armor is used by Galactic Alliance troops during and after the 
Sith-Imperial War. 


Galactic Alliance Armor 

Light Armor 

For over 100 years, the Galactic Alliance has used variations of its own 
light armor design, usually in dark blue hues with black accents. In its most 
recent form, the armor combines a padded armor base with a reinforced 
breastplate and fully armored gauntlets. Some front-line troopers also use 
a fully enclosed helmet with helmet package, but this varies by unit. It is not 
uncommon to see officers and others opt to use Galactic Alliance uniform 
hats and caps instead. 

Some variations of the standard Galactic Alliance uniform incorporate a 
flexible blast vest and a tight-fitting, open-faced helmet into their designs. 
This type is especially prevalent among the fleet crews at battle stations. It 
provides the same bonuses as a regular blast helmet and vest (see page 132 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Venom Assault Armor 

Heavy Armor 

Part powered armor, part armored spacesuit, Venom Assault armor provides 
ample protection from hostile attackers and environments. Additionally, the 
wearer can activate the armor's limited jump jets as a swift action to move at 
normal speed in zero-g. The jets are not powerful enough to lift an armored 
trooper in normal gravity. The suit also adds a +2 equipment bonus to the 
wearer's Strength. However, the wearer must have the Armor Proficiency 
(heavy) feat to use either the jets or gain the bonus to Strength. 

The wearer may survive up to 24 hours in the vacuum of space or other 
hostile environmental conditions. Much like other Galactic Alliance uni- 
forms and armor sets, the Venom Assault armor has a dark blue and black 
color scheme and prominently features the Galactic Alliance logo on the 
shoulder pauldrons. 


ALLIANCE EQUIPMENT 


Equipment once exclusive to the Galactic Alliance armed forces can be found 
scattered throughout the galaxy after the Sith-Imperial War. 


COST WEIGHT 
Xcalq-3GA “Slicer Special" portable computer 7,500 2 kg 
Xcalq stealth pack 1,500 - 


COMPUTERS AND STORAGE DEVICES 


Xcalq-3GA "Slicer Special" Portable Computer 

Among the array of tools available to the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet is this 
portable computer designed to quickly slice through the standard security 
in Galactic Alliance computer systems and networks. This is useful when 
the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet is forced to slice systems in former Galactic 
Alliance installations and ships. While the Empire has overlaid many sys- 
tems with its own security, and has its own military systems, most of the 
former Galactic Alliance bureaucratic systems still exist under the surface. 
Once inside, Galactic Alliance Core Fleet personnel quickly dissect it, as the 
systems are very similar or virtually identical to the systems they use every 
day on their own ships. 

The Xcalq-3GA may be used as a regular portable computer and has 
Intelligence 14. However, when used to slice Galactic Alliance systems and 
networks, the opposing system is automatically treated as friendly or helpful, 
granting a +3 equipment bonus on all Use Computer checks made with that 
computer. This bonus does not apply to checks made to break through any 
initial Imperial security installed on the system. 


Xcalq Stealth Pack 
This stealth pack uses the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet's knowledge of their 
former computer systems to conceal a slicer's presence on a former or cur- 
rent Galactic Alliance computer or network. 

Using a computer equipped with this software package, you can slice into 
a system without being traced, isolated, or cut off by the system's automatic 
safeguards. If another character attempts to locate, isolate, or cut off your 
computer, make opposed Use Computer checks. The stealth pack grants a 
+5 equipment bonus to your check. 


ALLIANCE 
STARFIGHTERS 


The Galactic Alliance Core fleet greatly depends on its starfighter squadrons 
to defend the fleet and deliver large amounts of firepower in precision strikes. 
The Alliance goes to great lengths to obtain the materiel and replacement 
starships required to keep the fleet functional. However, it prefers to use rec- 
ognizable Galactic Alliance fighter models, both because the ships’ systems 
are familiar and because it wants to remind enemies and observers that the 
Galactic Alliance still exists. 


BB-2 STARFIRE 
FIGHTER-BOMBER 

The BB-2 Starfire manufactured by SoroSuub is a three-man fighter-bomber 
with a large weapons load and considerable firepower. It primarily serves 
as a barrage bomber, launching multiple missiles and torpedoes in rapidfire 
salvos that pummel enemy ships and shields. The ship can also be outfitted 
with proton bombs and other ordnance. 

While the Starfire won't outrun any interceptors, its enormous engines 
provide plenty of speed while supplying enough power to keep the ship's 
dual shielding system operational. However, it is not particularly agile. 
Instead, the BB-2 relies on a pair of turrets for additional defense, one of 
which mounts a laser cannon and the other a small missile launcher for use 
against incoming fighters. 

The Starfire's three-man crew includes a pilot, copilot (primary weapons 
officer), and gunner (secondary weapons officer). All three crew members 
have access to the ship's adaptable weapons system. The pilot controls the 
forward-mounted laser cannon and can fire torpedoes and missiles at a -2 
penalty. The copilot controls the barrage and bombing systems and can take 
control of one of the turrets, or even the pilot's weapons, when needed. The 
gunner can control either turret, or even both at the same time. 


BB-2 STARFIRES ESCORT A CRIX-CLASS ASSAULT SHUTTLE. 


The Starfire's typical tactics are to fire from maximum range, sending 
wave after wave of missiles and torpedoes against a single target or target 
zone. However, in order to increase accuracy and reduce wasted ordnance, 
the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet squadrons move their ships as close as pos- 
sible to the enemy target and rely on their superior shields to survive such 
close encounters. 

BB-2 Starfires are best paired with an escort squadron of Crossfires, espe- 
cially when enemy fighters are in the area. Once the Torrents have expended 
their primary weapons, they usually return to their carrier for reloading. It's 
not uncommon for a Starfire squadron to make multiple strikes during an 
extended fleet action. 


xi eSidvHd 


cj 
at 
W 
@ 
> 
(Pr 
> 
@ 
ql 
0) 
> 
P 
Cc 
> 
Zz, 
@ 
W 


BOWNMNIWIY SLOVIWe FALL 


BB-2 Starfire Fighter/Bomber cL 13 
Gargantuan starfighter 


Init +6; Senses Perception +6 


x! esidvHs 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 13), Fort 29; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 170; DR 10; SR 30*; Threshold 49 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +8 (see below) and 
light laser cannon +6 (see below) and 
interceptor missile +6 (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +8 (see below) and 
light laser cannon +6 (see below) and 
interceptor missile +6 (see below) or 
proton torpedo salvo +11 (see below) and 
Ranged laser cannons +8 (see below) and 
light laser cannon +6 (see below) and 
interceptor missile +6 (see below) 
ion bomb +0 (see below) and 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +36 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 48, Dex 20, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 0 
Cargo 90 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 10 interceptor missiles, 2 proton torpedo salvos, 3 ion bombs 
Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost 200,000 (90,000 used) 
* Regenerating Shields: Increase the Shield Rating by 10 (up to the ship's 
maximum SR) when using the recharge shields action. 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Light laser cannon (gunner) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 
Interceptor missile (gunner) 

Atk +6, Dmg 4d10x2, 4-square splash 
Proton torpedo salvo (gunner) 

Atk +11, Dmg 12d10x2, 10-square splash 
lon bomb (gunner, atmosphere only) 

Atk +0, Dmg 5d10 ion, 10-square splash 


CFS CROSSFIRE STARFIGHTER 
After more than a hundred years of success with the crossed-wing design 
featured in a multitude of X-wing variants, a new design team at Incom 
incorporated the concept into a mainline starfighter designed specifically 
for the Galactic Alliance. Due to strict government requirements, as well as 
advancements in engine technology and armor composition, the ship would 
not be a direct descendent in terms of technology or styling. In keeping 
with the Galactic Alliance's design philosophy of packing more power into 
smaller ships, the Crossfire is a much smaller fighter, aside from its signature 
wings. However, Incom also took the trademark crossed-wing design in a 
new direction. 

The deployment system for the Crossfire's S-foils is mounted at the ship's 
bow, in front of the cockpit. Both wing sections remain horizontal in flight 
and landing mode, but the trailing wing section rotates to a vertical posi- 
tion when entering combat, while the forward section remains horizontal. 
The vertical wing is therefore directly in the middle of the pilot's forward 
view, but the wings amazingly thin profile minimizes the obstruction. The 
resulting gun orientation creates a laser intersection point far ahead of the 
fighter, making it devastating at longer ranges than fighters with twin guns 
mounted side-by-side. 

The ship features a compact yet powerful Coldstar ion tri-engine core 
mounted in a heavily armored pod. Combined with the fighter's relatively 
small size, it provides the ship with excellent acceleration and maneuver- 
ability. Pilots love the Crossfire's ability to take punishment. Much of the 
fighter's durability is due to its heavily armored cockpit and fuselage shroud. 
While the armored canopy limits the pilot's view, the heads-up displays and 
combat sensor packs more than compensate. 

The Crossfire is capable of operating independently of a carrier thanks 
to its built-in hyperdrive. It is one of the smallest ships with a fully capable 
navicomputer, thereby eliminating the need for an astromech droid for 
hyperspace navigation. While some pilots miss the companionship of the 
droid, most find that the new systems provide just as much information as 
a droid, without the personality quirks. 

Finally, the Crossfire is actually a two-seater, allowing a gunner or 
passenger to ride along in an aft facing seat, like the Rebel snowspeeders 
of old. However, most ships are flown solo, as the limited firing arc of the 
aft-mounted laser cannon reduces their effectiveness. Combined with the 
typical radical maneuvers performed in dogfighting, this leaves the gunner 
with few opportunities to effectively contribute to a battle. Enemy pilots 
soon learn to ignore the aft cannon, but this can occasionally get them into 
trouble, should a gunner actually be on board. Additionally, the fighter is 
designed to be adapted quickly to pilots of many species, though some of 
the larger ones may find the small cockpit a bit cramped. 


CF9 Crossfire Starfighter CL 12 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +9; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 16), Fort 28; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 150; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 48 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
double light laser cannon +5 (see below) or 
Ranged proton torpedoes +7 (see below) and 
double light laser cannon +5 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +48 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, light laser cannon) 
Abilities Str 46, Dex 26, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1 (gunner) 
Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 proton torpedoes 
Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Double light laser cannon (gunner) 

Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 10d10x2, 4-square splash 


14 IONIZER STARFIGHTER 

When a military force needs to disable a ship quickly with little damage to 
the superstructure, no small fighter can do the job more quickly than the 14 
lonizer, developed by Koensayr. Armed with multiple ion cannons, this ship 
unloads a barrage of ion energy designed to overwhelm a target's control 
systems. A squadron of lonizers can disable a small freighter in a single pass 
and wreak havoc on larger ships with multiple attacks. 

Fortunately for the galaxy's merchant traffic, the I4 is a strictly regu- 
lated craft, restricted to military sales only. The vast majority wind up in 
Galactic Alliance fleets, but following the Alliance's surrender, some decom- 
missioned ships find their way to smaller governments and the occasional 
pirate flotilla. 

The ship carries a single pilot plus an astromech droid and is hyperspace- 
capable. It is well armored, but only carries light shielding due to interference 
between the extensive ion weaponry and the shield generators. When more 


lethal force is required, the pilot can fall back on the ship's underpowered 
laser cannons. 

The ship can also carry a pair of wing-mounted disruptor torpedoes. These 
heavy, oversized torpedoes contain massive ion capacitors that discharge 
their energy on impact, essentially forming an ion bomb. The massive jolt 
of energy is capable of completely burning out a ship's electrical systems 
(in the case of a light freighter), or seriously damage the systems near the 
area of impact (in the case of large space transports or capital ships). They 
are generally too big and slow to be effective against agile craft such as 
starfighters or smaller patrol ships. 
14 lonizer Starfighter CL 11 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +8; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 46 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 

(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) or 
quad medium ion cannons +7 (see below) or 
disruptor torpedo +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +48 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, quad medium ion cannons) 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6 (+37), Pilot +9, 

Use Computer +6 (+13*) 

* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 
Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers 0 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 2 disruptor torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Quad medium ion cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 ion 
Disruptor torpedo (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 7d10x2, 4-square splash 


0 
pe 
i 
i) 10 

pe 
| |o 
ia 

xX 


; 


PBOWNVIWYG HILOVYVIWA FHL 


& 


AOWAVVY SILIVYIVE GAL 


YJUMPSTAR HPF STARFIGHTER 
The Jumpstar Hyperspace Pursuit Fighter is a sleek ship with dual engines 
flanking a central cockpit and a pair of retractable sensor arrays that span 
between the engines, arcing over and under them. The fighter's primary duty 
is to pursue fleeing ships through hyperspace, making it popular among 
military organizations and law enforcement agencies that must track fleeing 
targets regularly. In addition to its sophisticated sensors and exceptional 
hyperdrive, the Jumpstar is also an excellent pursuit fighter. Though not 
quite as fast as the best interceptors, the ship performs well against other 
topline fighters. 

Jumpstars successfully track targets by one of two methods. The most 
reliable way is to tag a target with an S-thread or other hyperspace tracking 
device, usually fired from the attacking fighter via a marker missile. While 
large starships such as capital ships or freighters are easy to tag, fighters, 
shuttles, and other small craft are more difficult to hit. The second method is 
less reliable, as it depends on the fighter's own sensor array and navigational 
computer to analyze a fleeing ship's departure vector, engine output, and 
other data that might tip off its final destination. Often such calculations 
must be made with great speed, and the pilot must make some educated 
guesses and assumptions when presented with a list of possible destinations. 
Plotting hyperspace jumps at great speed is always a risky business. 

To trace a fleeing starship with a tracking device attached, the pilot must 
make a DC 15 Use Computer check. To track a starship without a homing 
beacon, the Jumpstar (or another Jumpstar) must have observed the ship's 
departure into hyperspace, and the pilot must make a DC 25 Use Computer 
check (with a -2 penalty for each range increment beyond short in starship 
scale). In either case, the pilot adds the ship's Intelligence modifier to the 
roll. After this roll is made, the pilot must still make a standard astrogation 
check to initiate the pursuit. 


A JUMPSTAR HPF 


Jumpstar HPF Starfighter CL9 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 100; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 44 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +8 (see below) or 

Ranged marker missile +8 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 39, Dex 22, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 0 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 8 marker missiles 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 275,000 (125,000 used) 

* Regenerating Shields: Increase the Shield Rating by 10 (up to the ship's 
maximum SR) when using the recharge shields action. 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Marker missile (pilot) 
Atk +8, Dmg — (target vessel successfully tagged for tracking) 


RC-2 TWiLiGHtT ScOuUTSHIP 

The Twilight scoutship produced by Incom is a favorite of Galactic Alliance 
recon units. This single-person ship has an extended cockpit, giving it enough 
space to allow the pilot to move around the cabin during extended surveil- 
lance duties. For shorter trips, one to two passengers may crowd aboard and 
operate the sensor suite at the auxiliary positions. 

The Twilight incorporates advances in stealth technology originally devel- 
oped for the StealthX X-wing fighter. As its name suggests, the Twilight is 
painted in a mottled pattern of dark gray to black hues, lightly speckled with 
white dots so that the ship blends into the starfield of deep space. The coating 
also reduces the ship's sensor reflectivity and dampens its heat signature. 
The ship's ion engines are similar to those of TIE fighters—small, with minimal 
engine glow to betray its position. While stationary and in passive sensor 
mode, the Twilight can be extremely difficult to detect. 


TWO TWILIGHT SCOUTSHIPS DEPART A SHASHORE-CLASS FRIGATE. 


The Twilight relies on stealth to survive, as it has light shielding, armor, and 
weaponry. However, it also carries a launcher capable of firing two powerful 
missiles or torpedoes, enabling it to make effective surprise attacks or giving 
it additional firepower if detected. Additionally, the ship can create limited 
jamming field to disrupt enemy sensor readings and targeting computers 
at short range. 


RC-2 Twilight Scoutship CL 10 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +7; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 130; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 46 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) or 
proton torpedoes +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +33 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 43, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 2 

Cargo 100 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 

Payload 2 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 275,000 (125,000 used) 

Stealth Technology—Perception and Use Computer checks made to 
detect this ship take a -10 penalty. An enemy attacking this ship does 
not apply its ship's Intelligence modifier to attack rolls. 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 10d10x2, 4-square splash 


ALLIANCE SPACE 
TRANSPORTS 


The Galactic Alliance Core Fleet relies on a mix of Alliance transports and 
commercially available vessels to transport personnel and materiel. 


CRIX-CLASS ARMORED 

SHUTTLE 

The Crix-class Armored Shuttle is one of the mainstays of the Galactic Alli- 
ance military and diplomatic services. The shuttle features a heavily armored 
split-shell design that encases most of the vessel. The armor provides excel- 
lent protection from attacks above or below, leaving a relatively narrow slot 
between the shells that exposes the engines, cockpit and sides of the ship. A 
tall, vertical fin houses powerful long-range communications sensors. Like so 
many of Corellian Engineering Corporation's designs, the shuttle is easily modi- 
fied to support many different civilian and military roles as well as different 
classes of passenger comfort. Two primary versions are in use by the Galactic 
Alliance: the diplomatic courier (DC-4a) and the assault shuttle (A-2s). 

The shuttle's design showcases its lineage as a joint effort between the 
Mon Calamari shipyards and the Corellian Engineering Corporation. The 
armored shell's shape and surface blisters are common to Mon Calamari 
craft, while the ship's engine, bridge and interior recall features of the suc- 
cessful Corellian Blockade Runner. Even the ship's class designation shares 
a history with both company's homeworlds: Rebel and New Republic hero 
Crix Madine was born on Corellia, and later helped to defend Mon Calamari 
against the reborn Emperor's World Devastators. 

The diplomatic courier version of the shuttle has relatively light weapons. 
Pilot-controlled laser cannons flank the cockpit and are exposed at all times. 
However, the shuttle also carries retractable blaster turrets within the lower 
shell that may be extended to provide extra firepower and 360-degree 
protection, often to the surprise of enemies. 


xX! SSLlaivHS 


BDOWWIVY SILOVYIWE 9AL 


Xl eSidvyHg 


FBOWVIWIG DLWOVIVE IHL 


The assault shuttle carries heavier armor and better shielding, as well 
as much heavier firepower. The area between the upper and lower shells is 
ringed by a series of additional blaster cannons, enabling the ship to form 
its own perimeter of fire when on the ground in hostile territory. Troopers 
aboard ship may fire these cannons, or they can be set to automatic fire, 
which reduces their accuracy. Four boarding ramps allow the rapid deploy- 
ment of troops and speeders. 

Crix-class Diplomatic Courier Shuttle CL 13 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 14), Fort 31; +14 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 200; DR 15; SR 25; Threshold 81 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged twin laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
blaster cannon battery +11 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +43 
Atk Options autofire (twin laser cannons, blaster cannons) 
Abilities Str 52, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 

Use Computer +6 
Crew 5 (skilled); Passengers 30 
Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost 500,000 (200,000 used) 


Twin laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 
Blaster cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +11 (+6 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


Crix-class Assault Shuttle CLAS 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 16), Fort 31; +16 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 200; DR 15; SR 50*; Threshold 81 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged twin laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
2 blaster cannon batteries +11 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +43 


Atk Options autofire (twin laser cannons, blaster cannon batteries) 

Abilities Str 52, Dex 18, Con -, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 5 (skilled); Passengers 50 

Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft 2 landspeeders or 6 
speeder bikes 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 600,000 (260,000 used) 

* Regenerating Shields: Increase the Shield Rating by 10 (up to the ship's 
maximum SR) when using the recharge shields action. 


Twin laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Blaster cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +11 (+6 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 | 


MT DROPSHIP 

The Corellian Engineering Corporation's MT dropship is the Galactic Alliance's 
standard means of transporting large numbers of troops and their heavy 
equipment and vehicles to a planet's surface. The ship is a towering, conical 
craft. The bridge and command center are located at the top of the truncated 
cone, giving the pilots and commanders a 360° view of the area around them. 
Pilot stations can be configured to view out of the sides of the ship while 
descending, or up through the top while flying in space. Communications 
arrays jut out from the top of the cone, while the level below the command 
center is ringed with laser cannons and missile launchers. 

Once on the ground, the sides of the cone's base retract to allow troops 
and vehicles to disembark quickly. The ship carries 200 troops plus gear and 
speeders, or 4 Huge walkers or speeders and up to 50 support troops. 

The ship is heavily armored and shielded, but is relatively slow and requires 
an escort to a battle zone. It is not hyperspace capable. It often serves as a 
shuttle, bringing down multiple waves of troops and vehicles, and evacuating 
wounded or other personnel. It also serves as a central command post and 
communications center for troops on the ground. 


MT Dropship 
Colossal space transport 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 38; +16 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 300; DR 15; SR 50; Threshold 88 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannon battery +15 (see below) and 
concussion missiles +11 (see below) 


CL 15 


Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +50 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 66, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 15 (skilled); Passengers 200 
Cargo 500 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft special 
Payload 24 concussion missiles 
Availability Military; Cost 600,000 (300,000 used) 


Laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Concussion missiles (4 gunners) 

Atk +11, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


SCARLET STAR 

The Scarlet Star is one of many light freighters in service to the Galactic Alli- 
ance Core Fleet. The ship is an old YT-2400, but one that has led a charmed 
life. Though its core design may be obsolete by modern standards, its systems 
have been significantly modernized and updated. Of course, such a ship is 
always temperamental, although the YT series has long been known for its 
longevity and sturdiness. The commonness of the ship type, even after all 
these years, still makes it easy to find parts for maintenance, and it rarely 
draws much attention to itself. 

The Scarlet Star hauls light cargo, parts, and other supplies required by 
the fleet. It often doubles as a passenger ship or shuttle when required. It has 
no set crew or owner, but is instead assigned to different crews or mission 
teams as needed. While it is decently armored and armed, the fleet does not 
use it as a combat vessel. 


Scarlet Star (Modified YT-2400 Transport) CL 10 

Colossal space transport 

Init -1; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 27; +15 armor 

hp 120; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 77 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +37 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers 6 
Cargo 150 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Availability Unique; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 5d10x2 


ALLIANCE 
CAPITAL SHIPS 


The Galactic Alliance Core Fleet fleet contains examples above almost every 
major capital ship deployed by the Galactic Alliance in recent years. However, 
as time wears on, they are always on the lookout to acquire additional ships, 
from almost any source. Some are acquired from the Imperials, a very few are 
purchased through commercial channels, and some are mothballed Galactic 
Alliance starships that were stolen from the repositories before they could 
be scrapped after the Imperial takeover. 


SABERTOOTH-CLASS 

ASSAULT & RESCUE VESSEL 

The Sabertooth-class ship is unique in design and function. It features 
two long “teeth” that extend down from its bow. These teeth are heavily 
reinforced and adjust to almost any angle. Concealed within are powerful 
close-range grappling systems, enabling the ship to capture and latch on to 
enemy vessels or damaged craft. The teeth are strong enough to pierce the 
hulls of many craft, enabling zero-g assault troops to board captured vessels 
or quickly deploy rescue teams. 

A captured ship is largely helpless in the Sabertooth's grip. The ship's 
powerful engines enable it to haul its catch quickly out of the area. Its super- 
structure is designed to absorb close-range laser fire and survive collisions 
with little to no damage. As a last resort, if the Sabertooth's teeth become 
trapped in a vessel that is in danger of exploding or otherwise harming the 
Sabertooth itself, it may use explosive bolts to jettison the teeth in order 
to make a hasty retreat. 

Its dual role as an assault ship and rescue vessel require it to carry assault 
troops, equipment, and weaponry for boarding actions, as well as a full 
complement of medical and rescue personnel. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, a Sabertooth-class ship can forgo 
all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. Any successful 
attack against an enemy ship of Colossal (frigate) size or larger within this 
area deals +1 die of damage. 


xi esiaveS _) 


“es 
| 


SONVITAY DILEOVIVE SHA, 


aan ea rae ae 


~ = 


H 


xi SSaidvHoa 


BOWVIW SILOVIWEe 29HML 


A SABERTOOTH-CLASS FRIGATE TRADES FIRE WITH AN 
ARDENT-CLASS FAST FRIGATE. 


Sabertooth-class Assault & Rescue Vessel CL 17 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 35; +11 armor 
hp 780; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 135 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 3 turbolaser batteries +12* (see below) and 
2 point-defense laser cannon batteries +12 (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +12* (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +47 

Atk Options autofire (point-defense laser cannon batteries) 


Abilities Str 60, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 800 (skilled); Passengers 300 (troops and rescue personnel) 
Cargo 3,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 


Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +12 (+7 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 
Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), 

Dmg — (grapple +48) 


SHA SHORE-CLASS FRIGATE 

The Mon Calamari ShaShore-class frigate is one of the Galactic Alliance's 
most versatile ships. As with other Galactic Alliance ships, the frigate has 
large blade-like structures at the bow of the craft. However, on the ShaShore, 
the blades may be switched out for specialized units, blades, or pods. In the 
standard configuration, the blades house an array of turbolasers and torpedo 
tubes. Other options include long-range sensor pods, sensor jammers, and 
devastating barrage-style missile launchers. 

The ShaShore forgoes strong defenses in lieu of greater speed, maneuver- 
ability, and weaponry. It also relies on the squadrons of starfighters it carries 
for close defense against enemy fighters. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, a ShaShore-class frigate can forgo 
all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. The commander 
of any allied starship that begins its turn in this area can choose for the ship 
to receive either a +1 morale bonus on all attacks made by its gunners, a +1 
morale bonus to all defenses, or a +2 morale bonus on all Pilot checks made 
by its pilot until the start of its next turn. 


ShaShore-class Frigate CL 18 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -1; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 36; +11 armor 
hp 900; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 136 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 6 turbolaser batteries +16* (see below) and 
2 point-defense laser cannon batteries +16 (see below) and 
2 proton torpedo batteries +12* (see below) and 
1 tractor beam battery +8* (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +48 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense laser cannon batteries) 
Abilities Str 62, Dex 16, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1,200 (skilled); Passengers 250 (troops) 

Cargo 7,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 24 CF9 Crossfire 
starfighters, 2 shuttles 

Payload 80 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +16 (+11 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 
Proton torpedo battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5, 
4-square splash 
Tractor beam battery (2 gunners) 
Atk +8 (-12 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +48) 


Alternate Blade Configurations 

The weapons shown above reflect the ShaShore's basic configuration. If 
alternate bow blades are installed, adjust per the following: 

Long Range Sensor Pod—Replace the proton torpedo batteries and two 
turbolaser batteries with long-range sensors. The distance penalty for 
Use Computer checks with long-range sensors is reduced from -5 to -2 
for every 10 squares to the target. The first time a ship moves within 
60 squares of the ShaShore (instead of 30 squares), the ShaShore can 
make a Use Computer check to identify it (see page 19 of Starships of 
the Galaxy). 

Communications Jammer—Replace the proton torpedo batteries and two 
turbolaser batteries with a communications jamming array and enhanced 
sensor array. This ship gains a +4 equipment bonus to its Intelligence 
score. All enemy ships within 6 squares of the ShaShore take a penalty 
on Use Computer checks involving communications and fire control 
systems. The penalty is -6 for starfighters, -4 for space transports and 
-2 for capital ships (see pages 44 and 51 of Starships of the Galaxy). 

Concussion Barrage Blades—Replace the proton torpedo batteries and 
two turbolaser batteries with 4 heavy concussion missile batteries 
(see below). 


Heavy Concussion missile battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x5, 
4-square splash 


SCYTHE-CLASS 

BATTLE CRUISER 

The Scythe-class battle cruiser is the backbone of the Galactic Alliance 
fleet, necessitated by economic realities that promoted the use of small, 
fast vessels in lieu of the massive Super Star Destroyers or Mon Calamari 
Viscounts of previous generations. The Scythe is about a third the size of an 
Imperial Star Destroyer, but faster and more maneuverable than the current 
Pellaeon-class Star Destroyer. 

The Scythe is so named for the massive vertical blade bisecting the bow 
of the ship. The leading edge of the blade, as well was the leading edge of 
the ship's main fuselage, contains densely spaced turbolaser batteries and 
torpedo tubes. This impressive array of weaponry can be focused on a single 
point ahead of the ship, commonly called the “cross of fire." Few ships can 
withstand the focused, withering firepower brought to bear within the cross 
for any length of time. 

The ship's configuration comes with tradeoffs, however. Massive power 
conduits run from the ship's main power generators and numerous auxiliary 
generators to the many turbolasers and other weapons through the length 
of the blade. Also, the Scythe's weapon arrangement decreases the firepower 
available to defend the remaining firing arcs. The ship relies on its superior 
maneuverability and speed to bring its “cross of fire" to bear, and keep enemy 
ships from outflanking it. Escorting capital ships and fighters aid in the ship's 
side and aft defenses as well. 

The Scythe also serves as a fleet carrier, with hangar levels taking up much 
of the lower decks of the blade. The two upper hangars serve the starfight- 
ers, shuttles, and smaller craft, while larger vessels, such as assault ships 
and supply ships, use the lower hangars. Docking ports are also provided in 
other areas around the main fuselage. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, a Scythe-class battle cruiser can forgo 
all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares within 2 squares of itself. Any 
enemy starship that starts its turn in this area takes a -2 penalty to Reflex 
Defense and decreases its DR by 5 until the start of its next turn. 


“THOUGH BATTLES 
HAVE BEEN LOST, 


THE ALLIANCE STILL 
LIVES. WE HAVE NOT 
SURRENDERED, we 


PO NOT CONCEDE 
THE STARS. WE wiLlL 
WIM BACK 


<i HStdvHa 


BONVIIIY ALOVIVE IHL | 
a aan a a a eB 


xi wsaLavnS 


FONYIWG DLVBVIVE FHL 


Scythe-class Battle Cruiser CL 22 

Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -1; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 54; +13 armor 

hp 1,900; DR 20; SR 130; Threshold 254 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 3 heavy turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
6 turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) 
2 heavy ion cannon batteries +9* (see below) 
2 tractor beam batteries +9* (see below) 
4 proton torpedo batteries +13* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 squares (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +66 

Atk Options cross of fire 

Abilities Str 99, Dex 16, Con —, Int 20 

Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 : 

Crew 5,200 (skilled); Passengers 1,500 (troops) 

Cargo 18,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 36 CF9 Crossfire 
starfighters, 4 shuttles 

Payload 160 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x.75 (backup x8), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 

Cross of Fire—As a standard action, the commander of the Scythe-class 
battle cruiser can designate a single square within 6 squares as the 
ship's cross of fire zone. When the battle cruiser fires on a single target 
within its cross of fire zone, it gains a +2 bonus on the attack roll and 
deals +1 die of damage on a hit. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 12d10x5 
Turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), 

Dmg — (grapple +66) 
Proton torpedo battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5, 

4-square splash 


Indomitable 

The Indomitable is the famous flagship of Admiral Stazi and the Galactic 
Alliance Core Fleet, a symbol of the Galactic Alliance's power throughout 
the Sith-Imperial War. When Admiral Stazi uses the ship to lead a desperate 
retreat from the Imperial trap at the Battle of Camas, the ship becomes a 
symbol of the Core Fleet's unwillingness to yield to tyranny, in spite of the 
Galactic Alliance's surrender. 

The /Indomitable is destroyed in Admiral Stazi's attempt to capture the 
Star Destroyer Imperious at the Mon Calamari shipyards. Captain Yorub rams 
the /ndomitable into the shipyard ring, destroying a third of the structure 
and massively damaging the rest, seriously inhibiting Imperial starship 
construction and repair. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, the /ndomitable can forgo all attacks 
to provide tactical fire to all squares within 2 squares of itself. Any enemy 
starship that starts its turn in this area takes a -2 penalty to Reflex Defense 
and decreases its DR by 5 until the start of its next turn. 


Indomitable (Scythe-class Battle Cruiser) CL 23 

Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init +1; Senses Perception +8 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 54; +13 armor 

hp 1,900; DR 20; SR 130; Threshold 254 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 3 heavy turbolaser batteries +16* (see below) and 
6 turbolaser batteries +16* (see below) 
2 heavy ion cannon batteries +12* (see below) 
2 tractor beam batteries +12* (see below) 
4 proton torpedo batteries +16* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 squares (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +69 

Atk Options cross of fire 

Abilities Str 99, Dex 16, Con —, Int 20 

Skills Initiative +1, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +1, 
Use Computer +8 

Crew 5,200 (expert); Passengers 1,500 (troops) 

Cargo 18,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 36 CF9 Crossfire 
starfighters, 6 shuttles, 2 light freighters 

Payload 160 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x.75 (backup x8), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 

Cross of Fire—As a standard action, the commander of the Indomitable 
can designate a single square within 6 squares as the ship's cross of 
fire zone. When the battle cruiser fires on a single target within its 
cross of fire zone, it gains a +2 bonus on the attack roll and deals +1 
die of damage on a hit. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 12d10x5 
Turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal 

Dmg — (grapple +69) 
Proton torpedo battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10xs, 

4-square splash 


TRI-SCYTHE-CLASS FRIGATE 

The Galactic Alliance and the Mon Calamari shipyards occasionally experi- 
ment with variations of the “cross of fire" concept, as evidenced by the /ri- 
Scythe. It is bulkier than the ShaShore-class frigate, due to the additional 
reactors and generators needed to power the weaponry housed within three 
parallel blades at the bow of the ship. The blade configuration contains 
fewer weapons than the standard Scythe, but far more than the ShaShore. 
Unfortunately, the added bulk decreases the ship's maneuverability and speed, 
leaving the ship less able to bring its “cross of fire" to bear, and making it 
easier for attacking craft to flank. The ship's carried craft complement is 
slightly larger than other frigates. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, a Tri-Scythe-class frigate can forgo 
all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. Allied ships within 
this area gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and a +4 bonus on damage rolls 
with all attacks. 
Tri-Scythe-class Frigate CL 18 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 36; +11 armor 
hp 920; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 136 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 10 turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 

2 point-defense laser cannon batteries +15 (see below) and 

1 tractor beam battery +7* (see below) and 

4 proton torpedo batteries +11* (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +48 

Abilities Str 62, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1,400 (skilled); Passengers 250 (troops) 

Cargo 7,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 12 CF9 Crossfire 
starfighters, 2 shuttles 

Payload 160 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 
Tractor beam battery (2 gunners) 
Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +48) 
Proton torpedo battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5, 
4-square splash 


DEEP SPACE CAMPS 


Constantly on the run and without access to a major shipyard or spaceport, 
the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet must improvise in the maintenance and repair 
of its starships. Unable to use known systems without risking detection by 
Imperial spies or surveillance, the fleet has established a number of deep 
space rendezvous points, hidden in the void, far from frequently traveled 
spacelanes and known systems. The fleet might use a rendezvous point as 
merely a meeting place or initial staging area before an attack, or as a post- 
engagement rally point. However, there are also a few semipermanent deep 
space “encampments,” where damaged ships can retreat and know that repair 
vessels and additional aid will be available immediately upon arrival. At the 
very least, ships stand ready to evacuate wounded and provide emergency 
repair services. Even these deep space camps are relocated on a regular if 
not frequent basis, to decrease the chances of detection. 

The primary encampment is known as the Black Redoubt. It features the 
Alliance's most prized support vessels, along with some impressive defenses. 
The centerpiece of the operation is a mobile spacedock supported by a fleet 
of starship tenders. Defending the dock and ships is one the Alliance's most 
impressive acquisitions: a relatively recent model Golan Defense Platform, 
complete with hyperdrive. Defending ships are rotated to the Black Redoubt 
as a form of R&R, where they serve to defend the area and take care of 
routine maintenance. Typically, there is a minimum of two dozen ships at the 
Redoubt, including numerous tenders, the spacedock, the defense platform, 
and other vessels. 


PONVITIY DLOVIVE SH, P< escevas +) 


a He 


FONWWY BILOVIVE FHL 


In an emergency, most deep space camps are able to jump to hyperspace 
within minutes of detection. However, the Black Redoubt takes a lot more 
time and effort to evacuate. The mobile spacedock must be empty before it 
can jump to hyperspace. The Golan Defense Platform is able to jump with less 
preparation, but requires time to reroute power to the hyperspace engines. 


SPINWARD-CLASS TENDER 

Deep space tenders are mobile repair ships designed to render aid to space 
transports and capital ships. A tender affects repairs to the exterior of a 
craft by pulling alongside and using powerful tractor beams to moor the 
ships together. Repairs are carried out using enormous ship-mounted robotic 
arms and zero-g damage control and maintenance teams working in EVA 
suits or repair pods. An extensive contingent of maintenance, repair, and 
astromech droids complement the regular crews, and often carry out repairs 
in dangerous areas or conditions. 

A tender contains a variety of spare parts, plating, and other repair 
materials, and almost operates as a miniature spacedock. It is not uncommon 
for many tenders to repair a single extensively damaged capital ship. While 
they can render extensive aid to many craft, they are no replacement for a 
full-sized spacedock. Tenders are large ships in their own right, as big as bulk 
freighters, but they are still dwarfed by the capital ships they work on. 
Spinward-class Tender CL15 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -4; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 32; +10 armor 
hp 400; DR 15; SR 60; Threshold 132 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon battery +9* (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +44 

Abilities Str 55, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot —4, 

Use Computer +6 
Crew 1,000 (skilled); Passengers 500 (technicians) 

Cargo 15,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 4 shuttles, 25 
repair pods 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Laser cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x2 


GOLAN VIII 

SPACE DEFENSE PLATFORM 

The venerable Golan Defense Platform has been a mainstay of orbital defense 
systems for well over a century. Commonly deployed to defend planets or 
space stations, recent models incorporate a hyperdrive for easier relocation. 
That said, the defense platform is not designed to be moved every day and 
requires primary power systems to be rerouted to activate the hyperdrive, 

The Golan VIII platform is heavily armed with turbolasers, point-defense 
emplacements, torpedoes, and missile batteries. It also houses two squad- 
rons of starfighters, primarily for its own defense. As the station cannot 
depend on mobility during a battle, it has an impressive shield array and 
heavy armor plating. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, a Golan VIII defense platform can 
forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares within 3 squares of 
itself. Any space transport or capital ship that enters this area immediately 
ends its movement. 

Golan VIII Space Defense Platform CL 25 
Colossal (station) space station 

Init -8; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 70; +14 armor 

hp 2,500; DR 20; SR 300; Threshold 570 

Speed fly 1* squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 10 turbolaser batteries +14** (see below) and 

4 point-defense laser cannon batteries +12 (see below) and 

4 proton torpedo batteries +12** (see below) and 

4 tractor beam batteries +12** (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 squares (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +82 

Atk Options autofire (point-defense laser cannon batteries) 
Abilities Str 130, Dex 2, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative -8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -8, 

Use Computer +6 
Crew 1,100 (skilled); Passengers 100 (troops) 

Cargo 15,000 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 20 shuttles, 

24 starfighters, 150 work pods 
Payload 240 proton torpedoes 
Hyperdrive x4 (backup x12), navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 45,000,000 (20,000,000 used) 

* Any turn in which the Golan VIII defense platform moves, it loses all SR 
and can make no attacks. 

*“* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal 
size. 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +12 (+7 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 
Proton torpedo battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5, 
4-square splash 
Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +82) 


MOBILE SPACEDOCK 220 
The Rendili Star Drive Mobile Spacedock 220 is essentially a mobile shipyard, 
offering drydock services to capital ships up to the size of a ShaShore-class 
frigate. The Galactic Alliance has one such spacedock, which normally 
requires a crew of thousands but is currently understaffed. Recruiting loyal 
technicians and mechanics for the spacedock has become a significant goal 
for the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. 

Most of the dock consists of an enormous metal frame that envelops a 
ship moored inside for repair. Large areas within the dock can be cordoned 
off by projected force fields to provide an atmosphere when extensive 


repairs are required. The metal frame is attached to a large central spine 
that includes the dock's power generators, crew quarters, machine shops, 
thrusters, and primary engines. 

Although the dock is mobile, it cannot move while ships are docked. 
Moreover, the ribs of the metal frame must be retracted before the dock 
can make hyperspace jumps. Preparations usually take 12 to 24 hours, but 
the crew can reduce this time to 2 hours in an emergency. This results in 
damage to some partially stored equipment and systems, and takes days to 
sort out after the jump. 


Rendili Star Drive Mobile Spacedock 220 CL 20 

Colossal (station) space station 

Init -8; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 68; +14 armor 

hp 2,100; DR 20; SR 100; Threshold 568 

Speed fly 1* squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 turbolaser batteries +9** (see below) and 
2 point-defense laser cannon batteries +9 (see below) 
4 tractor beam batteries +9** (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 squares (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +78 

Atk Options autofire (point-defense laser cannon batteries) 

Abilities Str 126, Dex 4, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -8, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1,000 (normal); Passengers 2,000 (technicians) 

Cargo 600,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 20 shuttles, 
150 work pods 

Hyperdrive x4 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 100,000,000 (45,000,000 used) 

* The spacedock cannot move with a docked starship. 

** Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal 
size. 


Turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 
Tractor beam battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +78) 


SONVITAY SILEVIVE SOHAL 


OA a 
CHAPTER X 


HE GALACTIC EMPIRE 


moe 


The Galactic Empire is one of the most feared, hated, and despised govern- 
ments in the history of the Star Wars saga. In the Legacy era, the Empire 
has risen again, despite having once been reduced to a mere fraction of 
its power following the heroics of Luke Skywalker and his generation of 
heroes. With the Empire once again in control of the galaxy, innocent lives 
are lost, freedom is repressed, and the galaxy is once again in the hands of 
a totalitarian dictator and his corrupt, power-mad servants who abuse the 
rights of those they rule over. The galaxy has been plunged into darkness 
Once more, and the atrocities of the Rebellion era have returned, this time 
at the hands of a Dark Lord of the Sith who wears his title overtly, letting 
the galaxy know that, while the Empire is their government, the Sith are 
their masters. 


DARTH KRAYT'S 
EMPIRE 


When most citizens of the galaxy speak of the Galactic Empire, they are 
referring to the Empire ruled by Darth Krayt. This Empire is vast and galaxy 
spanning, just like the Empire from which it was originally born. The Galac- 
tic Empire stretches from the Deep Core to the Outer Rim, and through a 
resurgence in Imperial influence, there is hardly a world that is untouched 
in some way by Krayt's Empire. The Empire ruled by Darth Krayt is known to 
almost all sentient beings in the galaxy, though the farther one gets from 
the Galactic Core the less an individual is likely to have interacted with the 
SO Empire in some way. Only in the Unknown Regions and in Wild Space are 
) there entire sectors free of Imperial influence; even distant Outer Rim worlds 
have Imperial garrisons and regional governors. 

Darth Krayt's Empire is nearly identical in philosophy, form, and function 
to Palpatine's Galactic Empire, as the former is merely a continuation of the 
latter. After Palpatine's death, the Galactic Empire is reduced to controlling 
a small number of sectors. After the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, the Empire 
begins slowly regaining popularity, even after joining the Galactic Alliance. 
Meanwhile, the Sith are secretly growing more powerful on Coruscant, 
awaiting a moment to emerge and reclaim the galaxy. With the spectacular 
failure of the Ossus Project (orchestrated by the Sith to throw blame upon 
the Yuuzhan Vong), the Empire is spurred into action, drawing a number of 
new worlds into its fold. These are but the first pebbles in an avalanche, and 
soon all-out war breaks out between the newly resurgent Empire and the 
Galactic Alliance. Along the way, the Sith approach Moff Nyna Calixte with 
a proposal, promising to join the war on the side of the Empire and counter 
‘the Jedi, who were tipping the war in the Galactic Alliance's favor. Calixte 
brings the proposal before the Council of Moffs, who pressure Emperor Roan 
| into accepting the Sith proposal, just as they had pressured him into the 
n the first place. With that acceptance, the Sith join the war. 


*< HSLevH 


SyIdwNgSg JILIOVIVD SHL 


cj ii] 
a 
QO. 
P| 
! 
W 
x 
u 
ay 
W 


By the end of the war, the Sith have revealed themselves, the Alliance is 
shattered, and the galaxy is under Imperial control. The decisive battle comes 
at Caamas, where the Empire forces the Galactic Alliance to surrender. Darth 
Krayt deposes Emperor Fel and takes the throne for himself, completing the 
transition from a galaxy under Alliance rule to one under the sole dominion 
of the Galactic Empire. In most ways, the Galactic Empire is the same as it 
has always been: The Empire uses oppression and tyranny to ensure order, 
and the Sith rule the galaxy. There are a few significant differences between 
Palpatine's Empire and Darth Krayt's Empire, however. 

Krayt's Sith Lords operate in the open, unlike the secret apprentices and 
dark Force-users that served under Palpatine and Darth Vader. Similarly, 
this new Empire has abandoned much of its humanocentrism, and is far 
more accepting of alien species within its ranks. Perhaps this is a lesson 
learned from both the actions of Grand Admiral Thrawn and the strength 
of the Rebel Alliance, but Darth Krayt's Empire knows few species-based 
prejudices (though by sheer numbers Humans remain the most common 
agents of the Empire). : 

By and large, the Galactic Empire following the Sith-Imperial War is 
philosophically, organizationally, and functionally similar to the Galactic 
Empire under Palpatine. Noting the exceptions listed in this chapter, Game- 
masters can feel free to pull almost any concept from the Galactic Empire 
under Palpatine and bring it forward to use in a Legacy era campaign. For 
example, just because this chapter does not delve into the organization of 
Imperial Intelligence doesn't mean you shouldn't use Imperial Intelligence in 
your games; after all, this is the Empire risen to power once more, and many 
things that worked for Palpatine continue to work for Darth Krayt. 


THE SITH LORDS 

The Sith fill a variety of roles in the new Galactic Empire. This begins at the 
top with the man who sits upon the Imperial throne on Coruscant, Darth 
Krayt. Krayt is the supreme ruler of the Empire, and his word is law. The 
Emperor rules over the Council of Moffs as well as over the other Sith Lords, 
making him the leader of the two greatest factions of the Galactic Empire. 
Darth Krayt also serves as the Sith Lord who has dominion over Coruscant, 
and commands the Coruscant Defense Fleet and all of the military forces on 
the world. Both Sith and Imperial alike bow before Darth Krayt. 

Below Darth Krayt are the Sith Lords, who are taught in the Sith tradition. 
When a potential Sith candidate is found, whether young or seasoned, he is 
placed under the tutelage of an existing Sith Lord, serving as an apprentice 
until such a time as his or her training is complete. At that time, the Sith 
apprentice undergoes a right of passage that sometimes (though not always) 
requires the apprentice to slay his or her master. Being chosen as a Sith 
Master is a great honor, but not one without peril; it can be a new way to 
bring powerful Sith into the galaxy, but it can also be a convenient way for 
Darth Krayt to dispose of a troublesome and ambitious Sith Lord. Additionally, 


Darth Krayt himself oversees many aspects of a Sith apprentice’s training, 
the final days of which usually take place on Coruscant. 

The Sith Lords have several responsibilities within the Empire, which 
are handed down from Darth Krayt himself. One of the most important 
responsibilities is acting as an overseer of military forces. This can mean 
being assigned to an individual squad of soldiers, or being given command 
of an entire fleet of starships. Not every fleet or sector army has a Sith 
Lord in command, but most do; these Sith Lords are outside and above the 
military command structure, much as Darth Vader was over the forces of 
Palpatine’s Empire. The Sith Lords command the military forces under their 
control, make field promotions and execute those officers who fail them, 
and direct the Empire's resources to stamp out dissent and sedition. When a 
Sith Lord is assigned to a military unit of any size, none under his command 
can oppose his wishes. 

Other Sith Lords are given dominion over regions, sectors, or individual 
planets. Most of the Core Worlds are so heavily populated that they require 
their own Sith Lord to oversee affairs. These Sith are usually assigned 
alongside Moffs and other regional governors, though like their position in 
the military, the Sith Lords are outside and above the typical bureaucracy. 
Much as Darth Krayt rules over the Empire from his throne, many Sith Lords 
sit on thrones (both literal and figurative) of star systems and sectors. Sith 
Lords placed in rulership positions may be given domains of varying size, 
usually depending on the population of those areas; while some Sith Lords 
rule over individual Core Worlds, the same Sith Lord might rule over every 
planet in the Minos Cluster. 

The final, and some might say most sinister, duty of the Sith Lords is to 
hunt down and capture (or kill) Jedi who remain active in the galaxy. The 
new Empire has no need of an Inquisitorius, as Palpatine did. The Sith Lords 
serve the same purpose as the Inquisitors, and captured Jedi are brought to 
Coruscant to be tortured and interrogated by Darth Maladi. Combined with 
the bounty on the heads of all Jedi, the Sith Lords have managed to capture 
and kill hundreds of Jedi who escaped the initial destruction of the Ossus 
academy. Some Sith Lords are assigned to this duty exclusively, working 
alone to seek out hidden Jedi and expose them; others do so while holding 
a military post or rulership position. 


“HIE IS YOUR 
SERVANT, MY LORD, 
AS ARE WE ALL. WE. 
LIVE OR DIE AS YoU 
COMMAND." 


“DARTH WYYRLOK 


THE COUNCIL OF MOFFS 

The Council of Moffs is the highest ruling bureaucratic body in the Empire. 
The Council consists of those individuals who have reached the highest rank 
in the Imperial government to become leaders of various organizations within 
the Empire. The Council consists of the Director of Imperial Intelligence, the 
Director of the Imperial Diplomatic Corps, the Supreme Commander of the 
Empire's military forces, the Grand Admiral in command of the Imperial Navy, 
the General in command of the Imperial Army, and the Director of the Impe- 
rial Mission. This balance between three civilian leaders and three military 
leaders helps ensure balance within the council. Additionally, each of the 
members of the Council of Moffs has control over a single sector, making 
them governors of the people as well as organization heads. 

The Council of Moffs makes all of the high-level decisions that affect the 
whole of the Empire. Though they answer to the Emperor, Darth Krayt does 
not typically trouble himself with the more bureaucratic matters of state, 
leaving the act of ruling much of the Empire in the Council's hands. In many 
ways, the Council of Moffs serves much as the Imperial Senate did in the days 
before its dissolution under Palpatine, though with fewer members, decisions 
are reached rather more quickly. For a matter to be brought before the Council 
of Moffs, it must be of extreme importance, as the lives of billions depend on 
their decisions. Lesser matters of state are handled by the individual Moffs 
and other regional governors throughout the galaxy. 

Although the Council supposedly comes together to make decisions 
for the greater good of the Empire, there are clearly signs of suspicion 
between the Moffs. The Council is often divided on a variety of issues, and 
none of the Moffs seems to truly trust the others. However, a collective 
fear for the power of the Sith keeps the Moffs from squabbling among 
themselves too much, and thus far none of their political maneuvering 
has caused too much unrest. 


REGIONAL GOVERNORS & 
SECTOR GOVERNMENT 

Most planets in the Empire are actually ruled directly by Moffs and other 
regional governors. The galaxy is broken down into sectors, each of which 
has an Imperial body overseeing it. The actual nature of this body can vary 
from sector to sector; a sector with a lower population, such as the Kathol 
Sector, might be ruled over by a single Moff with a sector government under 
his control. Other sectors with higher populations might require several Moffs 
working together, as well as expansive governments that include multiple 
smaller systems and planetary governments within their ranks. The actual 
form of the sector government varies widely, ranging from single dictator- 
ships and triumvirates to sector councils and even small senates. Despite 
the differences in the ruling bodies of all of these sectors, they all follow the 
laws and philosophies of the Empire. 

The Moffs are the chief ruling officials in the Galactic Empire. The Moffs 
are among the Empire's most loyal and dedicated servants, and as a reward 
for their service they are given control over planets, systems, and even entire 
sectors. The title of Moff is granted wholly by higher-ups in the Imperial 
bureaucracy, with most Moffs being appointed by decree of either the Council 
of Moffs of the sector government. Each Moff brings a distinctive style of 
rulership to his or her domain, and the beings who live under a particular 
Moff's rule usually have at least a passing familiarity with that Moff, mucn 
as they would any planetary leader. 

Some worlds still retain at least a shell of their original planetary gov- 
ernment, though with Imperial oversight. Democratic worlds may still elect 
their own officials, though in effect most of those rulers become little more 
than puppets or figureheads of Imperial rule. Most worlds, however, have 
accepted Imperial rule and use an Imperial bureaucracy in place of whatever 
government they had before. If a planetary government still exists, it must 
obey the commands and laws of the Galactic Empire, and Imperial troops 
are always positioned on these worlds to ensure that Imperial decrees are 
followed to the letter. 

Planets, systems, and sectors each have their own defense and police 
forces as they did under their own authority. Most of these forces fall under 
the control of the local government, but with serious Imperial oversight. 
Additionally, the Empire maintains its own defense forces at the sector and 
planetary level, which fall under the purview of the Imperial Navy and the 
Imperial Army. 


px esravaS +) 


Bhliawe) DLIWVYIV@® FAL 


INDEPENDENT AFFILIATES 

The Empire has a number of “independent affiliates." These primarily con- 
sist of sectors or hegemonies that have their own independent hierarchy. 
For example, both the Hapes Consortium and the Chiss Ascendancy are 
considered independent affiliates of the Empire. Though they technically do 
not fall under Imperial rule (as their governments are not part of the Impe- 
rial bureaucracy), they are no less influenced by the might of the Galactic 
Empire. In these cases, the Empire has not conquered them by force, but by 
diplomacy. These governments ostensibly continue to rule over their worlds, 
but there is strong Imperial influence. These independent affiliates usually 
have a strong Imperial military presence (according to the diplomats, this 
is merely part of the Empire's obligation to protect its allies), and Imperial 
officials might hold posts in the affiliate's government. 

A tenuous balance exists with these worlds. In the case of these individual 
affiliates, most feel as though they have retained their autonomy in the face 
of the all-encompassing Empire. However, in truth the Empire holds nearly 
as much sway in these areas as it does in its own holdings. The rulers of 
these affiliated states know that, should the Empire desire to conquer their 
domain, there would be little that could be done to stop the Empire from 
seizing control. 


THE SECTOR RANGERS 

One major component of Imperial leadership in the galaxy falls under the 
purview of the Sector Rangers. An organization that has existed since the 
days of the Old Republic, the Sector Rangers serve as the ultimate law — 
enforcement officials at the sector level. Like Palpatine, Darth Krayt has _ 
made sure to put the Sector Rangers under direct Imperial control. In this 
time period, as during the Rebellion era, the Sector Rangers act as a police _ 
force that enforces Imperial law across sector and planetary boundaries, 
with a jurisdiction rivaled only by the Sith Lords in charge of the Empire. 
The Sector Rangers continue to uphold the law, regardless of the lawmakers, _ 
and act as a space-based police force that operates across all governmental — 
boundaries. 


THE New NosBiLity 
When the Empire begins its drive to once again conquer the galaxy, the — 
Council of Moffs looks back on their own history at some of the events — 
and decisions that helped Palpatine solidify his own power base during the — 
turmoil of the Empire. One of the best ways he was able to ensure that the © ; 
Empire could grow to great power was to woo the nobility of the galaxy by — 
increasing their power and wealth. ‘ 

With much of the Empire's nobility long gone, the Council of Moffs decides 
to create a caste of new nobility on conquered worlds. When the Empire | 
conquers a world (whether by force or diplomacy), one of the first steps is — 
to identify the most influential beings on that world and bribe them with — 
credits, power, and luxury. The Empire buys the loyalty of planetary rulers, 
and in turn assures the cooperation of those worlds. 

This tactic is attempted on Bothawui, with some success. Influential 
Bothans, always eager to increase their power, are quickly swayed by the 
Empire's promises of more wealth and influence. Although the act creates — 
civil unrest, as the proud Bothan people express their resentment of those 
who accept the Empire's bribes, the Empire manages to subdue a world that 
has, in the past, proven rebellious and troublesome. 

The result of this philosophy is that a caste of newly wealthy nobles has 
come into being across the galaxy, all with loyalty to the Empire based on — 
power and an influx of credits. When the Sith seize control, the transition — 
to the new Emperor is swift and smooth, and now across the galaxy there — 
are hundreds of new nobles on thousands of worlds of every species imag- _ 
inable, all newly wealthy, newly powerful, and dedicated to the success of 
the Empire. 


SITH SPIES 

Outside of the realm of Imperial Intelligence, there are spies who report 
directly to the Sith Lords. Every Sith Lord has his or her own network of Sith 
spies, who report directly to that Sith Lord with whatever news they have to 
convey. Some of these networks can be quite extensive, while others consist 
of only three or four operatives throughout the galaxy. Typically, these Sith 
spies are not Force-sensitive, but instead curry the favor of their dark masters 
by passing along secrets and whispers that they pick up on their worlds. It is 
partially because of these spies that the Sith Lords seem almost omniscient, 
as news, rumors, and secret information funneled directly to them by their 
spies often has the advantage of being much faster than knowledge gained 
through Imperial Intelligence. : 

Sith spies are typically individuals who feel little or no loyalty to their 
people or planet. They choose to serve the Sith Lords for personal gain; most 
Sith reward their spies handsomely for information that proves useful. These 
Sith spies can be of any species, or any walk of life, and usually they never 
reveal their true occupation to the people around them. For most Sith spies, 
anonymity is everything, and nearly anyone you speak to could be a spy 
for some Sith Lord. When a Sith spy learns something of importance, he or 
she transmits the data via secure connection over the HoloNet to the Sith 
Lord, ensuring that only the master they serve receives the information. If 
the information is of particular importance or is so secret that it cannot be 
entrusted to electronic communication, the Sith Lord will often demand that 
the spy present the information in person. These spies will do everything in 
their power, even kill, to maintain their secrecy. 

The Sith spies were born out of the mistrust of the Sith Lords, both for one 
another and for the Imperial bureaucracy. Most of the Sith Lords regard the 
Empire as little more than a vehicle for their own domination of the galaxy, 
and care little for the philosophies of Imperial dogma. As such, rather than 
entrust knowledge that could be the difference between total domination 
of the galaxy and their own deaths to the hands of Imperial Intelligence, the 
Sith Lords maintain their own information pipelines. The Sith Lords also keep 
their spies secret from one another so that their information pipelines aren't 
compromised by ambitious rivals. 


THE IMPERIAL MISSION 

An institution nearly as old as the Galactic Alliance, the Imperial Mission is 
a special branch of the Galactic Empire intended to bring the influence and 
order of the Empire peacefully to worlds throughout the galaxy. The Imperial 
Mission provides help and aid to worlds in need, all in the name of the Galactic 
Empire. By doing so, it encourages beings throughout the galaxy to associate 
the Galactic Empire with benevolent and helpful acts, not the tyranny and 
hatred that has long been the Empire's legacy. The Imperial Mission operates 
outside of the normal Imperial bureaucracy, though its head (currently Konrad 
Rus) is given the rank of Moff as an honorific, a symbol that the Imperial 
Mission is just as important to the Empire as its Army or Navy. 


The Imperial Mission helps spread the Victory Without War program, 
which initially targets worlds ravaged by the Yuuzhan Vong invasion but 
eventually comes to support worlds that have suffered catastrophes of any 
sort. When a world suffers from some calamity, whether small or large, the 
Empire sends in its missionaries to assist. All the missionaries ask in exchange 
is to set up a branch of the Imperial Mission on that world, a permanent 
structure that, like political embassies, provides a safe place for the mission- 
aries to sleep and work. When an Imperial Mission has been established, the 
missionaries then go out into that world and render whatever help is needed, 
from reconstruction efforts to simple counseling and comfort. Through all 
this, the Mission promotes many of the more peaceful doctrines of the 
Empire: obedience to the law, order and discipline, and working together 
toward a greater good. 

The Imperial Mission is a volunteer organization that serves as a way for 
individual citizens to get involved with the Empire. Since not everyone has 
the opportunity to enter the Imperial Academy, the Imperial Mission offers 
everyday citizens the chance to work for the Empire and accomplish the 
Empire's goals, particularly the peaceful ones at the heart of the Victory 
Without War program. Most missionaries join in order to help their fellow 
beings, or as a means of showing support for the Empire. These missionaries 
sometimes go on to serve the Empire in even greater ways; for example, Joker 
Squad stormtrooper Jes Gistang entered Imperial service through the Imperial 
Mission, but eventually was chosen for service in the stormtrooper corps. 

When Darth Krayt seizes the Imperial throne, many Moffs lobby for the 
Emperor to dissolve the Mission. However, much to their surprise, Darth Krayt 
allows the Mission to continue its work. Thanks to the devastation wrought 
by the Sith-Imperial War, the Imperial Mission has no shortage of work to 
do on worlds across the galaxy. 

In truth, Darth Krayt keeps the Imperial Mission active for one reason: 
The Mission serves an ulterior purpose, that of an information gathering 
organization. When devastated worlds welcome the Imperial Mission onto 
their planets, they allow agents of the Empire, albeit benevolent ones, into 
their territory. The Imperial Mission serves as silent eyes and ears that are 
easily (and conveniently) forgotten as agents of the Empire. The Imperial 
Mission watches, listens, and collects what it learns, passing it along to 
the Empire in secret. In many ways, the Imperial Mission is as much a spy 
organization as Imperial Intelligence, though the Imperial Mission has the 
benefit of operating in plain sight. Moff Konrad Rus, the leader of the Imperial 
Mission, reports directly to the Emperor himself. 


SuIaMg siLevave aru, | J > x wsiaens 


) 


SKULL SQUADRON 

One of the most elite starfighter squadrons in the galaxy, Skull Squadron is 
a force of pilots assigned to the defense and security of Coruscant. Consist- 
ing of the best pilots culled from squadrons throughout the galaxy, Skull 
Squadron is made up of a relatively small number of Imperial pilots that 
specialize in the operation of the Predator-class starfighter. Other elite 
starfighter squadrons within the Empire, such as the 181st Imperial Fighter 
Wing, operate as a part of naval operations throughout the galaxy, typically 
being assigned to a single fleet or task force and remaining mobile. Skull 
Squadron (whose formal listing in the ranks of the Imperial Navy is the 1st 
Imperial Center Core Defense Squadron) is instead assigned to Coruscant and 
concerns itself almost exclusively with the defense of the Imperial capital 
and its citizens. 

Though protecting Coruscant from danger is Skull Squadron's primary 
mission, sometimes that duty requires them to take on missions elsewhere in 
the Core Worlds. During the last days of the Sith-Imperial War, for example, 
Skull Squadron was assigned to protect the convoy that brought Emperor 
Roan Fel (and his imposter) to Coruscant to claim the recently captured world. 
Likewise, during the days following the end of the war, Skull Squadron has 
been responsible for missions targeting pirates, rebels, and smugglers both 
above Coruscant and throughout the Core and Deep Core. If Skull Squadron 
takes on a mission away from Coruscant, that mission almost always has 
repercussions that reach back to the capital planet or the highest-ranking 
officers of the Empire. Skull Squadron has, from time to time, accompanied 
Sith Lords on Jedi-hunting missions, particularly when the threat of space 
combat is present. 

As with many elite fighter groups, entry into Skull Squadron is by invita- 
tion only. The leader of Skull Squadron is appointed by the Moff Council, 
usually at the recommendation of the Grand Admiral of the Imperial Navy. 
Skull Squadron's commander is responsible for recruiting and maintaining 
pilots in the squadron, who are chosen based on their existing records. There 
are no rookie pilots in Skull Squadron, though many rookies believe that get- 
ting stationed to one of the other fighter squadrons based out of the Core 
Worlds increases one's chances of being noticed. In truth, when it comes 
time to make a replacement within the squadron, region of assignment is 
neither boon nor barrier to selection for Skull Squadron. 

The roster of Skull Squadron changes frequently, but only in small amounts 
(as Skull Squadron has only infrequently suffered the heavy losses associated 
with a larger roster change). The current commander of Skull Squadron is 
Gunn Yage, the daughter of Moff Rulf Yage. 


JOKER SQUAD 

The stormtrooper squad known as Joker Squad is a perfect example of one 
of the biggest changes to the Empire in the Legacy era. In the past, many 
stormtroopers were clones, indoctrinated trainees, and poorly trained recruits 
who were treated as faceless, expendable troops. Joker Squad represents 
a new breed of stormtrooper. With the stormtroopers who fought in the 
Clone Wars long dead and total brainwashing less common as an Imperial 
practice, the stormtroopers of the new Empire are recruited for their desire 
to help impose order and protect Imperial citizens from lawlessness. Joker 
Squad (and other stormtrooper squads just like it) consists of highly com- 
petent individuals who are more creative and have more personality than 
the stormtroopers of the past. 

This increase in individuality among stormtroopers has not dulled their 
zeal for the Empire, nor has it changed the fact that stormtroopers are 
uncompromising agents of the Emperor's will. Squads such as Joker Squad 
allow their members to develop bonds with one another, encouraging team- 
work and personal leadership, in the hopes of creating troops that are barely 
more than automatons. These unique squads also tend to allow specialization 
within their ranks; where in the past a squad of stormtroopers was more like a 
homogenous unit with all the same skills, Joker Squad and similar stormtrooper 
groups include heavy weapons specialists, engineers, demolitions experts, and 
stealth experts among their ranks. Though all the stormtroopers receive basic 
training in these areas, having a specialist within the squad means that the 
squad can be used for a wider variety of missions. 


ROAN FEL'S 
EMPIRE-IN-ExXILeE 


When Darth Krayt deposes Emperor Roan Fel, killing his body double and 
seizing the throne, he does more than install himself as the ruler of the galaxy: 
He creates a faction within the Empire that rebels against Sith rule. Follow- 
ing Krayt's ascent to the position of Emperor, Roan Fel, the third Emperor of 
the Fel Dynasty, flees with his most loyal associates into exile. Retreating to 
Bastion, Roan Fel sets up his own Empire-in-exile, drawing his most trusted 
allies close to him and opposing Darth Krayt's Empire. 

Roan Fel's Empire is mostly the same as the Empire as it existed prior 
to the conclusion of the Sith-Imperial War. It has the same technology, the 
same kinds of troops, and many of the same philosophies as Krayt's Empire. 
The difference between the two Empires is that Roan Fel rules his with hard 
benevolence, while Krayt continues to rule as a tyrant. Roan Fel's Empire is 
no friend of the Sith, and despite only semi-successful efforts to court alli- 
ances with both the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet and the remaining Jedi, the 
Empire-in-exile has managed to repel Darth Krayt's forces and foil attempts 
on the lives of both Roan Fel and his daughter, Marasiah. 


AN AT-RCT FIRES ON ROAN FEL'S LOYALISTS. 


The existence of this rebellious Imperial faction sows turmoil within the 
Galactic Empire. Those loyal to Darth Krayt have been charged with hunting 
down and exterminating those who defected to Roan Fel's side, leading to 
constant conflicts between two Imperial forces. Moreover, Roan Fel's survival 
breeds mistrust among those in Krayt's Empire, as there is often no way to 
tell to which Emperor a given Imperial agent is loyal. Officers eye one another 
warily, never knowing whether they are secretly dealing with a traitor who 
supports Roan Fel or a lapdog of the Sith. 

Roan Fel's Empire is constantly working to undo the deeds perpetrated 
by the Sith usurper on the Imperial throne. Though this Empire-in-exile must 
work covertly, there have been many full-scale military encounters between 
the two factions. Meanwhile, Fel's agents continue to undertake clandestine 
missions to win planets over to his faction, hoping that one day the number 
of planets loyal to Fel will be great enough that he can launch an assault 
on the Sith and have the backing to depose Darth Krayt and drive the Sith 
from the galaxy. 


THE IMPERIAL KNIGHTS 

The Imperial Knights are the personal bodyguards of Emperor Roan Fel. 
Trained in a variation of the Jedi arts, the Imperial Knights wield lightsabers 
and the Force as weapons in the defense of their Emperor. Based on Bas- 
tion, the Imperial Knights are few in number, but are sworn to act to protect 
the Emperor at all times. Additionally, the Emperor (himself trained as an 
Imperial Knight) gives the Knights orders and sends them on missions of 
utmost importance. 

Imperial Knights are trained on Bastion and learn under a very different 
training regimen than the Jedi use. Training of Imperial Knights is usually 
harsh, but not cruel like the Sith. Another difference between the Jedi and 
the Imperial Knights is that the Imperial Knights train strictly for combat, 
not contemplation. The deeper mysteries and philosophies of the Force are 
of little use to the Imperia! Knights, who are concerned only with the way 
the Force can be used as a tool to protect themselves, their comrades, and 
above all, their Emperor. That is not to say that the Imperial Knights are not 
aware of or concerned with the dark side of the Force; rather, the Imperial 
Knights teach strict mental discipline and obedience to orders, making them 
less susceptible to the strong emotions that draw unwary students to the 
dark side. 

The Imperial Knights wear specially crafted armor that uses materials 
found in the armor of one of the greatest Imperial duelists of all time, Darth 
Vader. Where Vader's armor was built to intimidate as well as protect, the 
Imperial Knights wear armor that is purely functional. That, combined with 
their lightsabers and cortosis gauntlets, leaves them constantly prepared for 
combat no matter where they are. Like most bodyguards, the Imperial Knights 
are extremely protective, and their vigilance borders on paranoia at times. 


STORMTROOPERS 

Though not a trait exclusive to Roan Fel's Empire, stormtroopers in the Legacy 
era can be of any number of species, and the Empire recruits both male and 
female troopers. This new breed of stormtroopers, hailing from hundreds of 
different worlds throughout the Empire, seems to be more common in Roan 
Fel's Empire-in-exile than in Darth Krayt's Empire, but only because the Fel 
dynasty has gone out of its way to draw members of other species into the 
Empire's ranks. As a result, the stormtrooper corps of the Fel Empire are far 
more diverse than in the days of Emperor Palpatine. 


IMPERIAL PERSONNEL 


The Galactic Empire makes use of a wide variety of agents, some of whom 
have distinct specialties. The following generic characters can be used to 
flesh out encounters featuring the Empire as enemies. Gamemasters should 
also feel free to use generic Imperial characters from past eras, as well. 


Hesaiadavysa 


x< 


j 
at 
W 
@) 
D 
(P 
> 
) 
al 
) 
0) 
x 
nD 
a 
W 


x SSicvyH~s 


SESGEEEEESE 
BHIswig) SLIV1IV"q) DAL | 


IMPERIAL KNIGHT 

The Imperial Knights are among the most talented and dangerous Force- 
users in the galaxy. Skilled in combat, they train under the tutelage of their 
Imperial masters, learning all they need to know to defend Emperor Roan Fel 
against all those who would harm him. The Imperial Knights are skilled with 
both the lightsaber and with the Force, and make extensive use of combat 
armor, including their special cortosis gauntlets designed to stop lightsaber 
attacks. From the start of their training until they reach full knighthood, 
the Imperial Knights learn how use the Force to transform themselves into 
living weapons and shields. 

The Imperial Knights train on Bastion, under the watchful eye of the 
Emperor. When a new potential student is identified, that student is drafted 
into Imperial service and placed under the tutelage of a veteran Imperial 
Knight. From that point on, the student trains under that Imperial Knight 
(with occasional assistance from other Knights) until reaching the point 
where knighthood is warranted. This training can take years and can be very 
harsh; however, no students fail out of Imperial Knight training, because the 
Empire demands success and always gets it. Upon achieving knighthood, an 
Imperial Knight serves the Emperor as a bodyguard and an agent, fighting 
alongside his or her brothers and sisters until death. 
Imperial Knight CL 11 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Imperial Knight 4 
Force 5 
Init +16; Senses Perception +11 
Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 27), Fort 28, Will 25 
hp 107; Threshold 28 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +16 (2d8+11) or 

Melee lightsaber +14 (3d8+11) with Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +11; Grp +14 

Atk Options Rapid Strike 

Special Actions cortosis gauntlet 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): battle strike, Force slam, 
rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Improved Move Light Object, Improved Sense 
Surroundings 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Talents Armor Mastery, Block, Deflect, Force Intuition, Redirect Shot, 
Oath of Duty 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(2), Improved Defenses, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +16, Perception +11, Pilot +12, Use the Force +16 

Possessions Imperial Knight battle armor, cortosis gauntlet, lightsaber 
(self-built), comlink, various personal belongings 


IMPERIAL MISSIONARY 

Choosing to serve the Empire as a part of the Victory Without War program, 
an Imperial Missionary has dedicated his or her life to bringing peace, aid, and 
order to the ravaged worlds of the galaxy. An Imperial Missionary is usually 
idealistic, though not always naive, and truly believes that the philosophies 
of the Galactic Empire can bring galaxy-wide peace and prosperity. Imperial 
Missionaries are confronted daily with the horrors of war, and they see it 
as their task to make sure other worlds are not devastated by similar chaos. 
For the Imperial Missionary, the Empire's doctrine of order and obedience 
can only lead to the end of war. 

Most Imperial Missionaries begin their service as young adults. Entrance 
to the Imperial Mission is on a completely volunteer basis, and working in 
the Imperial Mission can usually lead to greater things within the Empire, 
Some who enter the service of the Mission do so with the express intent of 
achieving a higher rank within the Imperial hierarchy. For these Missionaries, 
volunteer service is just another step on the ladder to success, just as going 
to the Imperial Academy or earning a post in the bureaucracy would be. 
These ambitious Missionaries may still believe that their peaceful message 
does serve the greater good, but it is not their sole reason for entering the 
service. More ambitious Missionaries are usually working toward a specific 
goal, and are sometimes willing to break the Mission's code in order to get 
what they want. 


Imperial Missionary CL 4 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/noble 3 

Init +3; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic plus 3 additional languages 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 17 

hp 18; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4) 

Ranged by weapon +4 

Base Atk +4; Grp +3 

Special Actions Educated, Spontaneous Skill 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Educated, Spontaneous Skill 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Knowledge [social sciences]", Perception, 
Persuasion, Use Computer), Skill Training (Knowledge [social sciences], 
Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (social sciences) +15, Perception +15, Persuasion +15, 
Treat Injury +10", Use Computer +15 

Possessions Imperial Missionary uniform, comlink, credit chip, datapad 

" Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


Lert TO RIGHT: IMPERIAL KNIGHT, IMPERIAL OFFICER, IMPERIAL MISSIONARY, KNIGHTHUNTER,. 


YFTOKER SQUAD 
STORMTROOPERS 

Anew and diverse squad of stormtroopers, Joker Squad remains loyal to Darth 
Krayt despite the misgivings of some of its members. A part of the 407th 
stormtrooper division, Joker Squad is responsible for the elimination of the 
908th stormtrooper division, which had defected to the Emperor-in-exile, 
Roan Fel. Joker Squad encounters the rebellious stormtroopers on Borosk and 
manages to defeat the rebels, though Joker Squad is killed almost to a man. 
The reformed Joker Squad operates under the command of Ran “Hardcase" 
Harkas, who has rebuilt the squad since the Battle of Borosk. 

Joker Squad is a specialized squad that employs combat engineers, heavy 
weapons specialists, and demolitionists. Though relatively young, Joker Squad 
has embraced the mantra of the new Empire and has become one of the 
stormtrooper squads most capable of handling a wide variety of missions. 
The individual members of Joker Squad, referring to themselves as Jokers, 
are encouraged to bring their own unique skill set and opinions to the table 
when planning any mission. 


Joker Squad Stormtrooper CL3 
Medium Human nonheroic 9 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 9 
hp 23; Threshold 12 


) 


xX HSLevHo 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+2) 

Ranged ARC-9965 blaster rifle +8 (3d8) or 

Ranged ARC-9965 blaster rifle +3 (5d8) with Burst Fire or 
Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Burst Fire, Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot 


BUMIAWE DLIVIVE gH 
BeHeeanhenahn nn fs & 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Coordinated Attack, Point 
Blank Shot, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +9, Perception +10 

Possessions stormtrooper armor, ARC-9965 blaster rifle, 2 frag grenades, 
utility belt with medpac 


Seee Gee @ & 


< HSBLaeVvHo 


BoHYEIws) DLOWVYWS BAL 


LEFT TO RIGHT: ALIEN STORMTROOPER, IMPERIAL PILOT, IMPERIAL ARMY OFFICER, JOKER SQUAD STORMTROOPER. 


Joker Squad Demolitionist 

Medium Human nonheroic 9 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 
Languages Basic 


cL 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 9 
hp 23; Threshold 12 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+2) 

Ranged ARC-9965 blaster rifle +7 (3d8) or 
Ranged frag grenade +8 (4d6) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Skill Focus (Mechanics), Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +14, Perception +10 

Possessions stormtrooper armor, ARC-9965 blaster rifle, 2 explosive 
charges, 2 frag grenades, utility belt with medpac 


Joker Squad Heavy Weapons Specialist CL3 

Medium Human nonheroic 9 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 9 

hp 23; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+2) 

Ranged ARC-9965 blaster rifle +7 (3d8) or 

Ranged heavy blaster cannon +8 (4d12, 1-square splash) or 

Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, 
pistols, rifles, simple weapons) ; 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +9, Perception +10 

Possessions stormtrooper armor, ARC-9965 blaster rifle, heavy blaster 
cannon, 2 frag grenades, utility belt with medpac 


KNIGHTHUNTERS 
A new breed of stormtroopers in the Empire, the Knighthunters are a special 
division of the Imperial Army that operates directly under the command of 
the Sith. Formally known within the Army command structure as the 1,001st 
stormtrooper division, the Knighthunters specialize in hunting down, captur- 
ing, and killing the remaining Jedi in the galaxy. Like other elite stormtrooper 
groups, the Knighthunters receive training and equipment that is far beyond 
that of normal soldiers. When a Sith Lord gets word of a Jedi on the run, he or 
she will often bring a detachment of Knighthunters on the mission to ensure 
that the Jedi does not escape, or worse, get the drop on the Sith Lord. 
Knighthunters focus their efforts on neutralizing the Jedi by any means 
possible. They carry special phrik-laced electrostaffs, which have the ability 
to stand up to lightsaber attacks and give the Knighthunters the ability to 
fight in melee combat with the Jedi. Since the Jedi can deflect normal blaster 
shots, the Knighthunters use sonic weapons when they must resort to ranged 
weapons (though most Knighthunter strategies involve converging on a Jedi 
and swarming the target with melee attacks). The Knighthunter armor is 
based on the armor of the Coruscant Guard, though the armor is jet black. 
The Knighthunters train under grueling conditions to learn how to defend 
against lightsaber attacks, Force powers, and enemies capable of incredible 
feats of acrobatics and athleticism. Moreover, much of this training comes at the 
hands of the Sith Lords themselves, who teach the Knighthunters how to fight 
against lightsaber-wielding foes. As with all Sith training routines, the fatality 
rate among Knighthunters in training is far higher than among all troopers. 


Knighthunter CL7 
Medium Human nonheroic 7/soldier 5 

Force 2; Dark Side 5 

Init +14; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 22, Will 17 (see Immune below) 

hp 57; Threshold 22 

Immune +5 to Will Defense against Use the Force checks 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee electrostaff +14 (2d6+8) or 

Melee electrostaff +12 (3d6+8) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee electrostaff +12/+12 (2d6+8) 

Melee electrostaff +10/+10 (3d6+8) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged sonic pistol +13 (2d6+2 sonic) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 

Atk Options Dual Weapon Mastery II, Melee Defense, Rapid Strike 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Armored Defense, Improved Armored Defense, Juggernaut 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual 
Weapon Mastery II, Improved Defenses, Melee Defense", Rapid 
Strike, Toughness, Weapon Focus (electrostaff), Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +14", Perception +14 

Possessions Knighthunter armor, electrostaff, sonic pistol 

“ Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


SitH SPpv 

Lackeys of the Sith Lords, Sith spies are hidden observers spread throughout 
the Empire and beyond. Every Sith spy answers to a single Sith Lord (few spies 
are bold enough to act as double agents for two Sith), and Sith spies are most 
common on worlds where anti-Imperial sentiments or Alliance sympathies 
threaten to undermine the authority of the Sith (such as on Bothawui or 
Dorin). Not every Sith spy is in a position to uncover major secrets just by 
virtue of his or her occupation or lifestyle; Sith spies are just as likely to be 
ordinary citizens as they are to be high ranking officers in the Imperial Navy 
or corporate agents in the Corporate Sector. 

Sith spies prize, above all, their secrecy. A Sith spy will almost never reveal 
his or her affiliation, because to do so would mean certain death. Sith spies 
reap handsome rewards for their service, but only those who enjoy wealthy 
or prestigious positions have the ability to flaunt it. Most Sith spies serve 
their masters because of greed, though others might have different motives. 
A Sith spy might have a vendetta against one of his master's rivals, while 
another might simply believe that the Sith are good for the Empire. 


< eSidgvHo 


Beiaewseg oILeIv1Iv@ FAL 


= eaiavnS 


a 
n 


SHAWE) ODILIVIVA SHA 


Sith Spy CLS 
Medium Human nonheroic 9 

Dark Side 2 

Init +6; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic plus 1 additional language 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 11, Will 12 

hp 23; Threshold 11 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee by weapon +7 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6) or 

Ranged hold-out blaster +8 (34) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot! 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Feats Improved Defenses, Point Blank Shot", Skill Training (Deception, 
Gather Information, Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple 
weapons) : 

Skills Deception +10, Gather Information +10, Perception +10, Stealth 
+11, Use Computer +10" 

Possessions blaster pistol, hold-out blaster, encrypted comlink, encrypted 
datapad, credit chip 

" Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


SKULL SQUADRON PILOT 

The pilots of Skull Squadron are among the most dedicated pilots in the 
galaxy. Skull Squadron's mission—the defense of Coruscant and all of its 
Imperial assets—keeps their skills honed, as they must maintain the security 
of one of the most heavily populated worlds in the galaxy. The pilots of 
Skull Squadron are handpicked for service by the squadron's commander 
and serve for as long as they are able to demonstrate their superior pilot- 
ing skills. Though slip-ups usually result in pilot deaths, a few pilots have 
lived long enough to retire from Skull Squadron and go on to greater things, 
including Moff Rulf Yage. 


“STAY FROSTY, 
SKULLS." 


-~“GUNN YAGE 


Though primarily a planetary defense force, the pilots of Skull Squadron 
are no strangers to engagements above other worlds and in the depths of 
space. However, Skull Squadron pilots spend countless hours performing 
maneuvers and training above Coruscant, learning to fly and fight between 
the towering skyscrapers found across the planet. A pilot in Skull Squadron 
must learn to maneuver between artificial structures, dodge airspeeders 
and incoming space traffic, and still pinpoint and destroy her prey. Flying 
in an urban environment can be extremely challenging, and that is why 
the members of Skull Squadron must have the quickest reflexes and the 
sharpest instincts. 


Skull Squadron Pilot CL8 
Medium Human soldier 7/ ace pilot 1 

Force 7; Dark Side 1 

Init +12; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 22), Fort 24, Will 20 


hp 91; Threshold 24 


ee 
Speed 6 squares 


Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (4d6+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +7; Grp +10 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Penetrating Attack 
(heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Elusive Dogfighter, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities vehicle dodge +1 

Talents Armored Defense, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), 

Elusive Dogfighter, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Weapon 
Specialization (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Pilot), Skill Training (Perception), Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12", Mechanics +9, Perception +11, Pilot +17, Use 
Computer +9 

Possessions armored flight suit, blaster pistol, comlink 

" Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


INFLUENTIAL 
PERSONALITIES 


The following personalities shape the events of the Legacy era with their 
actions and are among the most well known beings in the galaxy. This sec- 
tion contains characters related to both Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire and 
Roan Fel's Empire-in-exile. 


NYNA CALIXTE 

(MORRIGAN CORDE) 

A member of the Council of Moffs and the Director of Imperial Intelligence, 
Nyna Calixte is a cold, calculating woman whose ruthlessness is matched 
only by her ambition. Romantically involved with Moff Morlish Veed, Nyna 
Calixte was once married to Rulf Yage and is the mother of the commanding 
officer of Skull Squadron, Gunn Yage. As the Director of Imperial Intelligence, 
Nyna Calixte is in charge of the largest spy and information network in the 
galaxy (though the Bothans might disagree with that statement). Though 
she maintains her apartments on Coruscant, she also spends a good deal of 
time at the headquarters of Imperial Intelligence on Bothawui. 


pom 


SR-EGO, MORRIGAN CORDE. 


NYNA CALIXTE AND HER ALT 


However, Nyna Calixte has a secret. She leads a double life as Morrigan 
Corde, a special agent for Imperial Intelligence that is not afraid to get a job 
done—whatever the costs. Calixte first assumed the persona of Morrigan 
Corde during the Sith-Imperial War, and in this guise she met and fell in love 
with Kol Skywalker. After giving birth to a son, Cade, Calixte returned to 
the Empire and abandoned her guise as Morrigan Corde. However, in recent 
times she has resurrected her alter ego to rescue her son from the clutches 
of Darth Krayt. Though she keeps this second identity secret still, Calixte is 
clearly torn between her love for her son and her duty to the Empire. 
Nyna Calixte (Morrigan Corde) CL 15 
Medium Human scout 4/ scoundrel 3/noble 7/gunslinger 1 
Destiny 3; Force 7; Dark Side 8 
Init +14; Senses Perception +20 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Huttese, High Galactic, Gran, Ry! 

Defenses Ref 33 (flat-footed 29), Fort 26, Will 30; Evasion 

hp 77; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares (jet pack); Running Attack 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d6+8) or 

Melee vibroblade +12 (2d6+8) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +13 (3d8+7) or 

Ranged concealed dart launcher +13 (3d8+7 stun) or 

Ranged heavy assault blaster rifle +15 (3d10+7) or 

Ranged snap shot blaster pistol +14 (3d6+7) or 

Base Atk +11; Grp +14 

Atk Options Debilitating Shot, Careful Shot, Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Evasion, Quick Draw, Skirmisher, Sneak Attack, 

Weaken Resolve 
Abilities Str 12, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 17, Cha 16 
Talents Debilitating Shot, Educated, Evasion, Improved Stealth, Presence, 

Skirmisher, Sneak Attack, Spontaneous Skill, Weaken Resolve 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Deadeye, Exotic Weapon 

Proficiency (concealed dart launcher), Linguist, Martial Arts |, 

Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Shake It Off, Skill Focus 

(Deception, Gather Information, Perception), Skill Training (Deception), 

Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 

rifles, pistols, simple) 

Skills Climb +13, Deception +20, Endurance +12, Gather Information +15, 
Initiative +14, Jump +13, Mechanics +14, Perception +20, Pilot +14, 
Survival +15 

Possessions (as Nyna Calixte) Moff's uniform, heavy blaster pistol, 
encrypted comlink, code cylinder 

Possessions (as Morrigan Corde) concealed dart launcher, heavy assault 
blaster rifle, snap shot pistol, vibroblade, encrypted comlink, jet pack, 
credit chip 


< HSLgvHo 


BHIdwnig) aLOVWwes FAL 


<X HSsidvHg 


ABHNAWE) DILOYIVE gHA 


DARTH AZARD 
A Quarren Sith Lord whose military instincts are well admired, Darth Azard is 
the Sith Lord in command of the Imperial Third Outer Rim Fleet. A competent 
military commander and a master of the double-bladed lightsaber, Darth 
Azard believes in many of the same philosophies as Darth Vader, whose his- 
tory Azard has studied closely. Darth Azard believes that failure should be 
severely punished, lest order and discipline fall by the wayside. As a result, 
Azard is notorious for his battlefield demotions and promotions, and many 
who fight under his command fear ever rising to the rank of command. 
Darth Azard feels no loyalty to the people of his homeworld and has 
embraced his role as a Sith. He relishes any chance to inflict punishment on 
the Mon Calamari, but his primary mission is to root out the Galactic Alliance 
Core Fleet and destroy it. 


Darth Azard 

Medium Quarren Jedi 3/soldier 5/Sith apprentice 4/Sith Lord 3 
Destiny 2; Force 7; Dark Side 14 : 

Init +15; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Quarrenese 

Defenses Ref 35 (flat-footed 32), Fort 32, Will 30; Block, Deflect 
hp 137; Threshold 32 

Immune fear effects 


CL15 


Speed 6 squares, swim 4 squares 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +21 (2d8+13) or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +16* (2d8+23) or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +21/+21 (2d8+13) or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +16/+16* (2d8+23) 

Base Atk +15; Grp +18 

Atk Options Dual Weapon Mastery II, Power Attack, Weapon Finesse, 
Wicked Strike 

Special Actions Block, Deflect 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18): battle strike (2), Force grip, 
Force shield, rebuke (2) 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Multitarget Power, Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (battle strike), Improved Move 
Light Object 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Special Qualities breathe underwater, expert swimmer, fearless, 
temptation 


Talents Armored Defense, Block, Deflect, Greater Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Improved Armored Defense, Juggernaut, Multiattack 
Proficiency (lightsabers), Weapon Specialization (lightsabers), Wicked 
Strike 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual 
Weapon Mastery Il, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Power 
Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +15, Use the Force +18 

Possessions battle armor, double-bladed lightsaber (self-built), comlink 

* Includes 5 points of Power Attack. 


DARTH KRAYT 

Arguably the most powerful man in the galaxy, Darth Krayt is both the 
leader of the Sith and the reigning Emperor. Born and raised among Tusken 
Raiders on Tatooine, Darth Krayt's original name is A’Sharad Hett. Trained 
as a Jedi Knight, Hett manages to survive Order 66 by escaping his clone 
troopers and then slaying them. As Palpatine's Empire rises, Hett returns to 
his home planet where he clashes with Obi-Wan Kenobi who, unbeknownst 
to Hett, has been watching over the infant Luke Skywalker. After his duel 
with Kenobi, Hett is forced to flee Tatooine in disgrace. For a short while, 
Hett works as a bounty hunter, until one day he pursues a bounty to Kor- 
riban. Once there, Hett stumbles upon an ancient Sith holocron and begins 
to learn the secrets of the Sith. Oddly, time seems to pass more slowly for 
Hett than for the galaxy at large, and when he leaves Korriban, he discovers 
that Palpatine's Empire has fallen. 

Hett explores the Unknown Regions and is captured by a Yuuzhan Vong 
scouting expedition. Trapped aboard a Yuuzhan Vong ship, Hett encounters 
another former Jedi, Vergere. Subjected to torment in Yuuzhan Vong tor- 
ture devices, Hett allows Vergere's words to seduce him into surrendering 
to his agony and to the dark side. During his torment, Hett begins to have 
visions of a new Sith Order and a galaxy under his control. Eventually, Hett 
frees himself from the Yuuzhan Vong and makes his way back to Korriban, 
whereupon he adopts a new Sith name: Darth Krayt. On Korriban, Darth 
Krayt begins rebuilding the Sith. His influence expands, but when it becomes 
clear that he cannot live long enough to fulfill his vision, Darth Krayt begins 
placing himself in stasis, issuing his orders telepathically while artificially 
extending his lifespan with a combination of healing trances and Yuuzhan 
Vong implants. In the meantime, his new Sith Order has forged an important 
alliance with Emperor Roan Fel, lending their aid in the defeat of the Galactic 
Alliance and the Jedi. 


DARTH KRAYT AND DARTH WYYRLOK 


By the end of the Sith-Imperial War, Darth Krayt declares himself Emperor. 
However, his body suffers the effects of having lived far beyond its natural 
lifespan. The Yuuzhan Vong implants used to extend his life begin to consume 
him. Furthermore, healing trances and Force healing become less effective. 
Darth Krayt knows that his time is limited unless a new solution is found. At 
one point he captures Cade Skywalker, an heir to the Skywalker bloodline 
gifted with incredible healing powers, in the hopes that one day he will be 
able to harness those same powers to prolong his life. 


Darth Krayt CL 20 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 4/Sith apprentice 4/Sith Lord 5 

Destiny 3; Force 10; Dark Side 20 

Init +11; Senses darkvision; Use the Force +22 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Sith, Tusken 

Defenses Ref 36 (flat-footed 33), Fort 38, Will 38; Block, Deflect, 
Lightsaber Defense, Melee Defense, Jar'Kai, Niman 

hp 135; Threshold 38 

Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +24 (2d8+12/x3) or 

Melee lightsabers +22/+22 (2d8+12/x3) with Dual Weapon Mastery II or 

Melee lightsabers +20/+20/+20 (2d8+12/x3) with Double Attack and 
Dual Weapon Mastery II 

Ranged by weapon +18 

Base Atk +20; Grp +23 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers), Dual Weapon Mastery II, 
Whirlwind Attack 

Special Actions Force Deception, Force Perception 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +22): battle strike, dark rage, 
farseeing, Force lightning (2), Force slam (2), mind trick, move object, 
rebuke (2), surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Force Trance, Improved 
Move Light Object, Improved Sense Force 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power, 
Quicken Power, Shaped Power 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 20, Cha 18 

Special Qualities temptation 

Talents Armored Defense, Dark Side Adept, Dark Side Master, Block, 
Deflect, Force Deception, Force Perception, Lightsaber Defense, Jar'Kai, 
Niman, Visions 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon 
Mastery II, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force 
Training (2), Melee Defense, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Triple Crit 
(lightsabers), Whirlwind Attack, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +22, Knowledge (galactic lore) +18, Mechanics +16, 
Perception +22, Use the Force +22 

Possessions vonduun crab-shell armor, 2 lightsabers (self-built), 
Yuuzhan Vong enhanced vision bio-implant, Yuuzhan Vong 
replacement limb bio-implant 


2 


‘ce eusidvH 


rie 


BHNAWSE) ALBYVWS FH) 


x HSic VHD 


BHNAwe alLOVWwWs IgAL 


DARTH MALADI 


DARTH MALADI 

The enigmatic Darth Maladi is a Devaronian master of espionage, assas- 
sination, and interrogation. Extremely skilled in both Sith alchemy and the 
manipulation of Yuuzhan Vong bioengineering, Darth Maladi is very much a 
student of science as well as mysticism. In addition to her skill with alchemy, 
interrogation, and biology, Darth Maladi maintains the largest network of 
Sith spies among all the Sith. In addition, Darth Maladi sits in the middle of 
a vast web of intelligence agents that serve all of the Sith; a separate orga- 
nization from Imperial Intelligence, these spies have no formal hierarchy or 
place within the Empire and are referred to by Imperial Intelligence agents 
as "Sith Intelligence.” 

Darth Maladi considers herself to be a “true” Sith Lord, meaning that 
she (like Darth Talon) was born and raised on Korriban in the Sith tradition. 
Unlike many of her fellow Sith Lords, Darth Maladi seems to be completely in 
control of her emotions. She is cold, calculating, and unafraid to perpetrate 


unspeakable acts in the name of getting what she wants. To her, the ends 
always justify the means. Darth Maladi also serves as Darth Krayt's personal 
physician and is constantly in search of ways to slow his body's decay. When 
other Sith Lords are wounded in battle, they do not trust their care to the mun- 
dane doctors and medical droids of the Empire; they come to Darth Maladi. 


Darth Maladi 

Medium Devaronian Jedi 3/noble 5/Sith apprentice 4/Sith Lord 3 

Destiny 2; Force 7; Dark Side 14 

Init +13; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothese, Devaronese, Durese, High Galactic, 
Huttese, Mon Calamarian, Quarrenese, Ryl, Shyriiwook (understand 
only) 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 28), Fort 28, Will 30 

hp 97; Threshold 28; Damage Reduction 10 

Immune fear effects 


CL 15 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+7) 

Base Atk +13; Grp +14 

Special Actions acute observation (see below), Adept Negotiator, 
Improved Dark Healing, Equilibrium, Force Cloak 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): Force grip, Force lightning, 
Force stun, mind trick, rebuke (2) 

Force Secrets Distant Power, Multitarget Power, Shaped Power 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force, Improved Sense Surroundings 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 18, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Special Qualities fearless, temptation 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Damage Reduction 10, Dark Healing, Dark Side 
Adept, Educated, Equilibrium, Force Cloak, Force Persuasion, Improved 
Dark Healing 

Feats Biotech Specialist, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Linguist, 
Skill Focus (Deception, Knowledge [life sciences], Treat Injury, Use 
the Force), Skill Training (Deception, Treat Injury), Surgical Expertise, 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Initiative +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +16, 
Knowledge (life sciences) +21, Knowledge (technology) +16, Perception 
+14, Persuasion +19, Treat Injury +19, Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink 


Acute Observation—Once per encounter as a standard action, Darth 
Maladi can make a Perception check against a single target within line 
of sight (DC 15, or an opposed check against the target's Stealth check 
if the target is attempting to hide). If successful, Darth Maladi gains a 
+1 insight bonus on attack rolls against that target until the end of the 
encounter. 


DARTH MA4LEVAL 


DARTH MALEVAL 

Darth Maleval is one of the Empire's most capable Jedi hunters. He takes 
sadistic pleasure in helping to put down rebellions and insurrections, as it 
gives him a chance to display his ruthlessness to those who deserve punish- 
ment. Darth Krayt assigns Darth Maleval to missions targeting insurgents or 
rebels, using the Quarren Sith Lord to spread terror among the enemies of the 
Empire. Darth Maleval's targets are put on display to the galaxy as a means 
of pointing out what happens to those who oppose the Sith rule. 

Darth Maleval is skilled with a lightsaber, but his weapon of choice is 
the shock whip. Darth Maleval prefers the shock whip because it is more 
painful but less lethal, and can be used to torment his captives for long 
stretches of time before disposing of them. The Sith Lord has been known 
to leave his targets alive but savagely maimed as a warning to others who 
would betray the Empire. 


Darth Maleval CL 13 
Medium Quarren Jedi 7/Sith apprentice 5/Sith Lord 1 

Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 16 

Init +14; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Quarrenese 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 26), Fort 26, Will 29 

hp 96; Threshold 26 


Immune fear effects 


Speed 6 squares, swim 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+9) or 

Melee shock whip +17 (1d6+7) 

Reach 2 squares (with shock whip only) 

Base Atk +13; Grp +16 

Atk Options Dark Scourge, Improved Disarm, Redirect Shot, Trip, Weapon 
Finesse, Wicked Strike 

Special Actions Equilibrium, Swift Power 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13): battle strike (3), dark rage, 
move object, rebuke (2), surge 

Force Secrets Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (battle strike), Improved Sense 
Force 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Special Qualities breathe underwater, expert swimmer, fearless, 
temptation 

Talents Dark Scourge, Deflect, Equilibrium, Power of the Dark Side, 
Redirect Shot, Swift Power, Wicked Strike, Weapon Specialization 
(lightsabers) 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Improved Disarm, Trip, 
Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (advanced melee weapons), Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 
lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +14, Use the Force +13 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), shock whip, comlink 


DARTH NIHL 

The man who would eventually take the name Darth Nihl was once a Nagai 
warlord and a scourge of the Unknown Regions before joining the Sith. Darth 
Nihl used his latent skill with the Force to lead bands of marauders in raids 
all across his world, well outside of the domain of the Galactic Alliance. 
While rebuilding the Sith, Darth Krayt encounters Darth Nihl and offers him 
a place within the Sith Order. Nihl agrees, undergoes the training to become 
a Sith Lord, and rises to the rank of Emperor's Hand after his predecessor 
dies under mysterious circumstances. Darth Nihl is an ambitious Sith Lord 
who lets nothing stand in the way of his continued ascent. 


<x HSLlavHo 


of | 
ut 
wD 
0) 
> | 
(Pr 
> 
0) 
al 
0) 
W) 
& 
¥ 
2) 
() 


i) 
I 
S| | 
7 
| 
aq 
ab 
AX 


BeHIAwE ADLWYVIVeE FHL 


Darth Nihl is a master of the long-handle lightsaber, for which he has 
developed his own unique fighting style. A man filled with arrogance, 
rage, and loathing, Darth Nihl shows no mercy toward his enemies. As the 
Emperor's Hand, Darth Nihl executes the will of Darth Krayt, and the Nagai 
Sith Lord particularly relishes dealing with Jedi who escaped the attack on 
Ossus (which Darth Nihl himself led). 
Darth Nihl CL 16 
Medium Nagai Soldier 7/officer 3/Sith apprentice 5/Sith Lord 1 
Destiny 3; Force 8; Dark Side 14 
Init +16; Senses Perception +10 
Languages Basic, Nagaian 
Defenses Ref 34 (flat-footed 31), Fort 33, Will 32; Block, Deflect, Shift 

Defense | 
hp 145; Threshold 33 
Immune fear effects 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee long-handle lightsaber +21 (2d10+10) 

Melee long-handle lightsaber +19 (3d10+10) with Rapid Strike 
Base Atk +16; Grp +19 
Atk Options Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Severing 

Strike, Stunning Strike, Weapon Finesse 
Special Actions Assault Tactics, command cover, 

Indomitable, share talent 

(Shift Defense |), Shift 

Defense | 


Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): battle strike, Force grip, Force 
lightning, Force slam, rebuke, surge 

Force Secrets Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (battle strike), Improved Sense 
Surroundings 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 16, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Special Qualities command cover, fearless, share talent (Shift Defense 1), 
soothing voice, weapon familiarity 

Talents Armored Defense, Assault Tactics, Block, Deflect, Indomitable, 
Melee Smash, Severing Strike, Shift Defense I, Stunning Strike, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(2), Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Weapon Finesse, 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +16, Knowledge (tactics) +13, Persuasion +10 (can reroll, 
must take second result), Use the Force +15 

Possessions Nagai light battle armor, long-handle lightsaber (self-built), 
comlink 


DARTH TALON 

Beautiful, alluring, and dangerous, Darth Talon is a Twi'lek Sith Lord raised 
in the Sith tradition. Darth Talon grows up on Korriban, where she is taught 
how to use the Force and the art of lightsaber combat, and conditioned to 
be in top physical condition. Her training is harsh, as all Sith training is, yet 
she manages to survive and flourish. The final step on her path to becoming 
a Sith Lord comes when she is ordered by Darth Krayt to slay the Sith Lord 
that had trained her, Darth Ruyn. With her master dead by her hands, Darth 
Talon becomes Darth Krayt's Hand, a special agent for the Emperor and the 
counterpart to Darth Nihl. 

The Twi'lek Sith Lord is fast, agile, and has a diverse array of skills that 
makes her one of the most deadly combatants around. Devious and stealthy, 
Darth Talon is willing to lie in wait for her prey, as she does when attempting 
to lure Roan Fel out of hiding. Despite her relative inexperience, Darth Talon 
is still one of the most formidable lightsaber duelists in the Sith Order. She 
helps oversee the training of Cade Skywalker in the ways of the Sith during 
his brief captivity on Coruscant. Following his escape, she resumes her duties 
as an Emperor's Hand. 


DARTH TALON 


Darth Talon CLS. 
Medium Twi'lek Jedi 7/Sith apprentice 5/Sith Lord 1 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 14 

Init +9; Senses low-light vision; Perception +8 


Languages Basic, Ry 


Special Actions Block, Deflect, Equilibrium 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +14): battle strike, Force shield, 
Force slam, move object, rebuke, surge 

Force Secrets Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (battle strike), Improved Move 
Light Object 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 26), Fort 29, Will 28 

hp 109; Threshold 29 

Immune fear 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+8) or 

Melee lightsaber +16 (3d8+8) with Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +13; Grp +16 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Weapon 
Finesse, Wicked Strike 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Special Qualities deceptive, fearless 

Talents Block, Deflect, Elusive Target, Equilibrium, Force Deception, 
Redirect Shot, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers), Wicked Strike 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Martial 
Arts |, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Deception +14, Use the Force +14 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink 


DARTH WYYRLOK 

Actually the third Sith Lord to bear the name, Darth Wyyrlok is a Chagrian 
Sith Lord who serves as Darth Krayt's closest aide and confidante. Known as 
the Loremaster of the Sith, Darth Wyyrlok is one of the greatest scholars of 
Jedi, Sith, and other Force-using traditions in the galaxy. Darth Wyyrlok has 
access to books, scrolls, holocrons, and computer records from across the 
eons, which he has collected in the hopes of gaining a deeper understanding 
of the Force. Darth Wyyrlok is utterly dedicated to serving Darth Krayt and 
will go to the ends of the galaxy to find a way to restore his master's body 
to its youthful form. 

Darth Wyyrlok believes that it is willpower that gives the Sith their 
strength. By sheer force of will, a Sith can achieve almost anything, and 
Darth Wyyrlok displays this in everything he does. He is a master of illusions, 
capable of using the Force to trick his enemies’ minds into seeing things that 
are not there. In fact, so powerful are Darth Wyyrlok's mind tricks that he 
manages to convince nearly a dozen lightsaber-wielding dark side cultists 
on Prakith that they should fight and kill one another, proving once again 
that the Sith are masters of bending the galaxy to their will. 


Sx SSicgvHo 


SBHh9wgd DLWBVYVIVe PHL 
& 


=< HSidvyHd 


: 


BHIAwE DLWVIWe BAL 


Darth Wyyrlok CL 16 

Medium Chagrian Jedi 5/noble 3/Sith apprentice 4/Sith Lord 4 

Destiny 3; Force 8; Dark Side 16 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Chagri, Cheunh, High Galactic, Huttese, Nagaian, 
Quarrenese, Ryl, Sith, Yuuzhan Vong 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 30), Fort 31, Will 33 
hp 123; Threshold 31 
Immune fear effects, +5 to Fortitude Defense against radiation 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +16 (2d8+8) 

Base Atk +15; Grp +15 

Special Actions Block, Deflect, Illusion, Improved Dark Healing, Redirect 
Shot, Spontaneous Skill 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): battle strike, Force shield, 
Force slam, mind trick, move object, rebuke (2), surge, vital transfer 

Force Secrets Distant Power, Multitarget Power, Quicken Power, Shaped 
Power 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Surroundings, Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 18, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Special Qualities breathe underwater, expert swimmer, fearless, radiation 
resistance 

Talents Block, Dark Healing, Deflect, Educated, Force Deception, Illusion 
(see page 52 of the Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide), 
Improved Dark Healing, Redirect Shot, Spontaneous Skill 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Improved Defenses, Linguist, 
Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic lore], Knowledge [life sciences], Use 
the Force), Skill Training (Pilot), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +20, Initiative +13, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +22, Knowledge (life sciences) +22, Perception +16, Pilot +13, 
Use the Force +20 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink 


ANTARES DRACO 

The highest-ranking member of the Imperial Knights, Antares Draco is 
a powerful Force-user whose dedication to Roan Fel is second to none. 
Antares Draco follows in the footsteps of his forefathers, whose service to 
the Empire dates back to the Galactic Civil War (one of his ancestors was a 
member of the Inquisitorius under Palpatine). Involved with Fel's daughter, 
Marasiah, Antares Draco is a servant to the Empire down to his very core. An 
accomplished pilot as well as a skilled lightsaber duelist, Draco has earned 
his position of command of the Imperial Knights through years of hard work, 
discipline, and an unflinching loyalty that proves time and again that he is 
nearly incorruptible. 


Antares Draco's loyalty is far from blind. Though sworn to follow the 
orders of the Emperor, Draco has defied Roan Fel's wishes on a few occa- 
sions, such as the time he traveled to Vendaxa to rescue Marasiah. Though 
his personal feelings rarely interfere with his work, Antares Draco knows 
that listening to the Force and heeding one's insights are traits that make 
the Imperial Knights more than just lightsaber-toting soldiers. In the heart 
of Antares Draco, dedication and discipline march side-by-side with instinct 
and intuition, creating a warrior who is cunning, loyal, and incredibly 
competent. 


Antares Draco CL 15 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Imperial Knight 8 

Destiny 1; Force 7 

Init +19; Senses Perception +13] 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 33 (flat-footed 31), Fort 32, Will 29 

hp 137; Threshold 32 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+13) or 

Melee lightsaber +16* (2d8+23) or 

Melee lightsaber +19 (3d8+13) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +14* (3d8+23) with Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +15; Grp +18 

Atk Options Rapid Strike 

Special Actions cortosis gauntlet 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): battle strike, Force shield, 
Force slam, move object, rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (battle strike), Improved Move 
Light Object, Improved Sense Force, Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Talents Armor Mastery, Block, Deflect, Force Intuition, Greater Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Juggernaut, Oath of Duty, Redirect Shot 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(3), Improved Defenses, Power Attack, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the 
Force), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +19, Perception +13, Pilot +14, Use the Force +19 

Possessions Imperial Knight battle armor, cortosis gauntlet, lightsaber 
(self-built), comlink, various personal belongings 

* Includes 5 points of Power Attack. 


FEHLAAUR 
A liaison from the Chiss Ascendancy and a member of the Moff Council, 
Fehlaaur is the Director of the Imperial Diplomatic Corps. Somewhat aloof 
and mild-mannered compared to his fellow members of the Council of 
Moffs, Fehlaaur (whose full name is Fehlaaur‘aitel'loro) travels from Csilla 
to Bastion as a diplomatic envoy and is placed in the service of the Imperial 
Diplomatic Corps as a sign of solidarity between the Empire and the Chiss 
Ascendancy. When word of the failure of the Ossus Project reaches Csilla, 
the Ascendancy attempts to recall Fehlaaur, not wanting one of their number 
to be drawn into the impending conflict. In order to keep the Ascendancy 
tightly bound to the Empire, Roan Fel grants Fehlaaur the title of Moff and 
makes him the Director of the Imperial Diplomatic Corps and a member of 
the Council of Moffs. 

Unlike his fellow Moffs, Fehlaaur remains cautious and unwilling to suc- 
cumb to his emotions. When accusations fly regarding the Diplomatic Corps’ 
loyalty, Fehlaaur calmly points out that no evidence exists of any treason within 
the agency. Fehlaaur is often the counterpoint to the more discontent and 
aggressive Moffs, helping keep balance within the council along with Konrad 
Rus. Fehlaaur's continued service in 
the upper echelons of the Empire 
keeps the Chiss Ascendancy 
placated, reassuring its 
constituents that they have 
as much influence over the 
Empire as the Empire has 
over them. 


Fehlaaur CL 
Medium Chiss noble 8/officer 3 

Destiny 2; Force 5 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +17 


Languages Basic, Bothese, Cheunh, High Galactic 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 23), Fort 21, Will 17 
hp 56; Threshold 21 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Coordinate, Deployment Tactics, Inspire 
Confidence, Inspire Haste, Shift Defense | 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Shift Defense |) 

Talents Bolster Ally, Coordinate, Deployment Tactics, Inspire Confidence, 
Inspire Haste, Shift Defense | 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus 
(Deception, Knowledge [galactic lore], Knowledge [social sciences], 
Perception, Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge [tactics]), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple) 

Skills Deception +17, Gather Information +12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Knowledge (social sciences) +17, 
Knowledge (tactics) +12, Perception +17, Persuasion +17, Pilot +10, Use 
Computer +12 

Possessions blaster pistol, Moff's uniform, encrypted comlink, code cylinder 


0 
I 
> 
v 
ny 
tu} 
2 
x 


BHIAWs) SILOVYIWSe BAL 


q 
o 


BHAwE DLOYVWe SHH 


MARASIAH FEL 
The daughter of the deposed Emperor, Marasiah Fel is also skilled in the arts 
of diplomacy and negotiations. She works closely with the Imperial Mission 
as the envoy of the Emperor, at least prior to the attempt on Roan Fel's life. 
At the same time, she (like her father) is a full-fledged Imperial Knight, and 
she has pledged her service to both her father and what she sees as the true 
Galactic Empire. Diplomat, liaison, soldier, and spy, Marasiah Fel has one 
face that she shows to the galaxy at large (that of the loyal daughter of the 
Emperor) and another face she shows to her fellow Imperial Knights. 
Marasiah Fel is more than just the legitimate heir to the Imperial throne. 
Since her father's exile, Marasiah (called Sia by those close to her) has acted 
as an envoy from her father to worlds that might potentially be sympathetic 
to the deposed Emperor's cause. Marasiah is also romantically linked to 
Antares Draco, a fellow Imperial Knight. 


Marasiah Fel CL 10 
Medium Human noble 5/Jedi 4/Imperial Knight 1 

Destiny 1; Force 5 

Init +12; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Bocce, High Galactic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 26), Fort 24, Will 24 

hp 60; Threshold 24 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+5) 

Ranged hold-out blaster +12 (3d4+5) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Weapon Finesse 

Special Actions Born Leader, Fearless Leader, Presence 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): battle strike, Force slam, mind 
trick, move object, rebuke, surge 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Armor Mastery, Block, Born Leader, Deflect, Fearless Leader, 
Presence 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(2), Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion, Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +12, Initiative +12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +11, 
Knowledge (galactic lore) +11, Perception +12, Persuasion +17, Pilot 
+12, Use the Force +17 

Possessions Imperial Knight battle armor, lightsaber (self-built), comlink, 
various personal belongings 


“| LOVE MY 
DAUGHTER, BUT 
THE FATE OF THE 
EMPIRE-OF TE 

GALAxKMY=-IS " 
STAKE!" 


-EMPEROR ROAN 


ROAN FEL 

Considered by many to be the rightful ruler of the galaxy, Roan Fel is the 
leader of the Empire-in-exile and is Darth Krayt's most wanted enemy. Roan 
Fel is a hard man who believes in the strength of order but not the violence 
of tyranny, and he leads both the Empire and the Imperial Knights in their 
crusade against the false Emperor that rules from Coruscant. 

Trained as an Imperial Knight and skilled in the arts of military leadership 
and diplomacy, Roan Fel throws his support behind the Imperial Mission 
early and often, and works hard to make sure that the Jedi are not targeted 

as enemies during the Sith-Imperial 

War. However, despite his efforts, 

the Sith prevail and the Jedi are 
nearly eradicated. 

After the Galactic Alliance's 
surrender, Emperor Fel is forced 
into hiding when ‘Darth Krayt 

_ seizes the throne. In the inter- 
__vening years, he has culti- 


yalists and still man- 


Emperor Roan Fel CL 20 
Medium Human Jedi 3/noble 6/Imperial Knight 5/officer 6 

Destiny 3; Force 9; Dark Side 4 

Init +10; Senses Perception +19 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 35 (flat-footed 34), Fort 34, Will 36 


hp 157; Threshold 34 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +22 (2d8+12) or 

Melee lightsaber +17/+17 (2d8+12) with Double Attack 

Ranged by weapon +18 

Base Atk +18; Grp +20 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers), Martial Arts |, Melee Defense 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Coordinate, Deployment 
Tactics, Shift Defense |, Trust 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +22): battle strike, Force slam, mind 
trick, move object, prescience, rebuke (2), stagger, surge, vital transfer 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move Light Object 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 10, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 19, Cha 15 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Assault Tactics, 
Deployment Tactics, Shift Defense 1) 

Talents Armor Mastery, Assault Tactics, Band of Brothers, Block, Born 
Leader, Coordinate, Deflect, Deployment Tactics, Oath of Duty, Shift 
Defense |, Strength of the Empire, Trust 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack (lightsabers), 
Martial Arts |, Melee Defense, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), 
Skill Focus (Persuasion, Use the Force), Skill Training (Deception, 
Persuasion), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +17, Knowledge (tactics) +15, Perception +19, Persuasion 
+22, Use the Force +22 

Possessions Imperial Knight armor, lightsaber (self-built), Emperor's robes, 
comlink, various personal belongings 


“THE JEDI HAVE 
NOTHING TO FEAR 
FROM MY FATHER. 
ROAN FEL IS NOT 
YOUR ENEMY. HE 


NEVER TRULY WAS." 
-MARASIAH FEL 


SEEEEEEEES 
EMIANE DLIVIVE SHA 


<M SeSiagvHs 


ORON JAEGER 


ORON JAEGER 

A dedicated Imperial officer and a Roan Fel loyalist, Oron Jaeger is a 
cybernetically enhanced Human who commands the 501st Legion, an elite 
stormtrooper squad with a history dating back to the Clone Wars. Jaeger, 
a former stormtrooper and a career military man, is stationed on Bastion 
when Emperor Fel claims the world as his stronghold and the hub of his 
Empire-in-exile. As commander of the 501st Legion, Jaeger shows incred- 
ible prowess for organization and movement-based tactics, earning him a 
reputation as having a permanent bird's-eye view of the battlefield, even 
when in the thick of combat. 

After suffering a head wound at the Battle of Corulag during the Sith- 
Imperial War, Jaeger opts to receive a neural interface cybernetic implant 
before returning to Imperial service. Jaeger uses his cybernetic implant to 
remain in constant communications with his central command post, allowing 
him to relay orders much faster than most battlefield commanders. 


Oron Jaeger 

Medium Human soldier 10/officer 2 

Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 4 

Init +13; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 16, Will 20; Running Attack 

hp 101; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +13 (1d6+7) 

Ranged blaster pistol +15 (3d6+6) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +15 (3d8+8, devastating attack) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +14 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics, Devastating Attack 
(rifles), Indomitable 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 15 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Indomitable) 

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics, 
Devastating Attack (rifles), Indomitable, Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Improved Defenses, 
Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack, Skill 
Focus (Knowledge [tactics], Use Computer), Weapon Focus (pistols, 
rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, rifles, pistols, 
simple) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +17, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +12, 
Use Computer +17 

Possessions blaster pistol, Moff's uniform, code cylinder, cybernetic 
implant with built-in comlink and data links (grants a +2 equipment 
bonus on Perception checks) 


CL 12 


AZLYN RAE 

A member of the Jedi Order prior to the rise of Darth Krayt, Azlyn Rae escapes 
the massacre of the Jedi at Ossus and wanders the galaxy for a short while 
in disguise, eventually taking up bounty hunting as a profession. When she 
encounters the Imperial Knights, they recognize her Force training and offer 
to let her join their ranks. After swearing vows of loyalty to the Empire, Rae 
expands her understanding of the Force and learns the ways of the Imperial 
Knights. Thanks to her diverse training, she often serves the Imperial Knights 
as a scout and undercover agent. 

Azlyn Rae knew Cade Skywalker at the Ossus Academy and spent a good 
deal of time around the young Jedi there. When Cade escapes from the 
clutches of the Empire at Coruscant, the Imperial Knights send Rae to track 
down the young Skywalker heir and follow him to the site of the hidden Jedi 
Temple. When the Imperial Knights follow Rae into the temple, her ties to 
the Jedi Order is revealed. 


AZLYN RAE 


Azlyn Rae CL 11 
Medium Human Jedi 5/scout 3/bounty hunter 1/Imperial Knight 2 
Destiny 1; Force 5 

Init +12 (can reroll, must take second result); Senses Perception +8 
Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 32 (flat-footed 30), Fort 26, Will 27 


hp 80; Threshold 26 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+5) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +12 (3d8+5) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Hunter's Mark 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): battle strike, Force slam, 
mind trick, rebuke 

Force Techniques Improved Move Light Object 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Talents Acute Senses, Armor Mastery, Improved Initiative, Block, Deflect, 
Elusive Target, Hunter's Mark 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, 
Improved Defenses, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Survival), 
Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +12, Initiative +12 (can reroll, must take second result), 
Perception +8 (can reroll, must take second result), Pilot +12, 
Survival +13, Use the Force +17 

Possessions Imperial Knight battle armor with helmet package (not worn), 
lightsaber (self-built), heavy blaster pistol, comlink, various personal 
belongings 


KONRAD RUS 

The head of the Imperial Mission, Konrad Rus, is a soft-spoken member of 

the Council of Moffs who has thrown his support, at least outwardly, behind 

Darth Krayt. In truth, Rus is a pragmatist who cares only about the future of 

the Imperial Mission. He is content to serve the ruling Emperor and curry favor 

in order to keep the Imperial Mission active. If in the course of performing 
its duties, the Imperial Mission rights some of the wrongs perpetrated by 
the Sith and the Empire, then all the better. 

Konrad Rus CL 10 

Medium Human noble 10 

Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 1 

Init +5; Senses Perception +18 

Languages Basic, Bothese, Durese, High Galactic, Ithorese, Ry| 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 11; Melee Defense 

hp 50; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged by weapon +7 

Base Atk +7; Grp +7 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Coordinate, Inspire Confidence 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 10, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Talents Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Connections, Coordinate, Inspire 
Confidence 

Feats Improved Defenses, Linguist, Melee Defense, Skill Focus (Deception, 
Gather Information, Knowledge [bureaucracy], Knowledge [galactic 
lore], Knowledge [social sciences], Perception, Persuasion), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple) 

Skills Deception +18, Gather Information +18, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+17, Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Knowledge (social sciences) +17, 
Perception +18, Persuasion +18, Treat Injury +12, Use Computer +12 

Possessions Imperial Mission robes, encrypted comlink 


<x YeSsicdvHoa 


SMIEINE DLBVIVE PHA 
Beaeeseekbk a & eae 


<x HSidvHoa 


BHlAawe) AILIYVIVe® FAL 


ASTRAAL VAO AND KONRAD RUS 


ASTRAAL VAO 

The sister of noted Jedi Shado Vao and a faithful member of the Imperial 
Mission, Astraal Vao is a Twi'lek missionary and also a trusted friend of Impe- 
rial Knight Marasiah Fel. Astraal Vao has spent many years trying to protect 
her friend from the Imperial agents who have hunted her since her father 
was deposed. Astraal Vao must constantly perform a balancing act when 
it comes to her friend Marasiah; Astraal continues to serve the Empire and 
the Imperial Mission loyally but also hides her friend from it, for fear that 
Marasiah might be harmed. 

Intelligent and gentle, Astraal Vao epitomizes of the kind of person the 
Imperial Mission is trying to attract. Astraal is dedicated to the ideals of 
the Mission, and thanks to her years of devoted service, she has become a 
trusted confidant of Konrad Rus. However, Astraal does not realize that her 
mentor confides in Darth Krayt, and she remains unaware of the fact that 
her defiance of the Empire does not go unnoticed. Astraal Vao is also Force- 
sensitive, though she has no formal training. 


Astraal Vao CL5 

Medium Twi'lek noble 5 

Force 2 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Binary, High Galactic, Huttese, Ryl 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 17; Dodge 

hp 32; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged by weapon +4 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Inspire Confidence, Inspire Haste 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 14 

Talents Bolster Ally, Inspire Confidence, Inspire Haste 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Linguist, Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic 
lore]), Skill Training (Treat Injury), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple) 

Skills Deception +9 (may reroll), Gather Information +9, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +13, Knowledge (social sciences) +8, Perception +7, 
Persuasion +9, Treat Injury +7, Use Computer +8, Use the Force +4 

Possessions Imperial Mission robes, comlink, credit chip 


MORLISH VEED 

The Supreme Commander of the Imperial military forces and the highest- 
ranking member of the Council of Moffs, Morlish Veed is a devious and 
ambitious man who has his sights set on the Imperial throne. At the conclu- 
sion of the Sith-Imperial War, Veed expects to be made Emperor as thanks 
for helping dispose of Roan Fel; instead, he watches silently as Darth Krayt 
assumes the throne. Veed is forced to pledge his allegiance to the Sith Lord 
instead. Despite this setback, Morlish Veed is convinced that while he may not 
be Emperor now, all things have a way of changing, and the cunning Imperial 
officer has only to bide his time for the right moment to come along. 

Moff Veed is romantically involved with Nyna Calixte, a fact that creates 
tension between Veed and Moff Rulf Yage. Veed is intelligent and cunning, 
and his ambition makes him eager to do whatever it takes to reach greater 
heights. Despite this, he is no fool; Morlish Veed knows that the Sith cannot 
be confronted head-on, and he has gone out of his way on several occasions 
to allay conflict between himself and the Sith Lords. In the mean time, Veed 
leads the Council of Moffs and expands his power and influence through 
political maneuvering and information gathering, merely waiting for the 
right moment to strike. 


Morlish Veed CL 15 

Medium Human soldier 4/noble 6/officer 5 

Destiny 3; Force 7; Dark Side 5 

Init +13; Senses Perception +20 

Languages Basic, Bothese, Durese, Gran, High Galactic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 26), Fort 28, Will 33 

hp 90; Threshold 33 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +13 (1d4+7) 

Ranged blaster pistol +15 (3d6+7) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+7) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +13; Grp +14 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinate, 
Deployment Tactics, Indomitable, Presence 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Assault Tactics), share 
talent (Indomitable) 

Talents Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Coordinate, 
Deployment Tactics, Indomitable, Presence 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Damage Threshold, 
Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, Knowledge [tactics], Persuasion), Skill 
Training (Deception, Persuasion), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, rifles, pistols, simple) 

Skills Deception +20, Initiative +14, Knowledge (social sciences) +14, 
Knowledge (tactics) +19, Perception +20, Persuasion +20, Pilot +13, 
Use Computer +14 

Possessions blaster pistol, Moff's uniform, encrypted comlink, encrypted 
datapad, code cylinder 


GUNN YAGE 

A skilled pilot and the leader of Skull Squadron, Gunn Yage is the daughter of 
Moff Rulf Yage and Nyna Calixte (making her Cade Skywalker's half-sister). 
Prior to taking command of Skull Squadron (a post she earned without any 
leverage from her father), Gunn serves in the 181st Imperial Fighter Wing 
alongside some of the greatest pilots in the Imperial Navy. When she is 
offered a chance at command, she takes it with some reservations, knowing 
that she would be stationed near her father. Since taking command of Skull 
Squadron, she has reduced the squadron's fatality rate by over 80% and 
earned the respect and loyalty of her fellow pilots. 

Gunn's early life is difficult, thanks to her mother leaving her father to 
pursue a relationship with Morlish Veed. Gunn believes that the brusque 
treatment she receives from her father is due to his latent regret of having 
a daughter instead of a son, though it is clear that Gunn has earned her 


father's respect. Gunn demands the same kind of discipline and excellence 
from her pilots that her father demands from her, though she has cultivated 
a warmer relationship with her fellow pilots than she seems to share with 
Moff Yage. 


Gunn Yage CL9 

Medium Human soldier 7/ace pilot 2 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 2 

Init +17; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 23), Fort 22, Will 20 

hp 81; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares; Running Attack 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (4d6+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +9; Grp +12 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), 
Elusive Dogfighter, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Vehicular 
Combat 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Special Qualities vehicle dodge +1 

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Devastating Attack (heavy 
weapons), Elusive Dogfighter, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Point Blank Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus (Pilot, Use Computer), Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, rifles, pistols, 
simple) 

Skills Initiative +17, Mechanics +9, Pilot +17, Use Computer +14 

Possessions armored flight suit, blaster pistol, comlink 


RULF YAGE 

The most decorated Grand Admiral in the Imperial Navy and its representa- 
tive on the Council of Moffs, Rulf Yage is a hard man whose life and career 
has been defined by service to the Empire. Rulf Yage begins his career by 
attending the Imperial Academy and joins the ranks of the Starfighter Corps. 
Eventually, Rulf joins Skull Squadron and rises through its ranks, eventually 
becoming the squadron's commander. During those years, Skull Squadron 
is assigned to the defense of Bastion, not Coruscant. After marrying Nyna 
Calixte and fathering a daughter, Rulf is assigned to the Star Destroyer 
Ephin Sarreti, where he coordinates starfighter tactics for the entire Imperial 
Second Outer Rim Fleet. 


x< HSidVvHo 


Beiawe) DILIVIWVWe BAL 


—c( lO OSB BAA RAR AaAe 


x wslavHo 


BHIAwE DLWVWwWS SHL 


Eventually, Rulf is promoted to the rank of Admiral, though trouble in his 
personal life begins to wear on him. When Nyna Calixte leaves him for Morl- 
ish Veed, Yage throws himself into his career, trying not to let his bitterness 
overwhelm him. By the conclusion of the Sith-Imperial War, Rulf Yage has 
been promoted to Grand Admiral, and his actions at the massacre at Ossus 
earn him not only the title of Moff but also a seat on the Council of Moffs. 
Despite his high rank, Rulf Yage is not nearly as cunning or devious when it 
comes to politics as his fellow Moffs, a fact that Nyna Calixte points out to 
him as the reason Morlish Veed is the High Moff and Yage is not. 
Rulf Yage CL 13 
Medium Human soldier 7/ace pilot 3/officer 3 
Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 2 
Init +18; Senses Perception +12 
Languages Basic, Durese 
Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 27), Fort 27, Will 28 
hp 116; Threshold 27 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +14 (1d4+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +15 (3d6+6) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +13 (4d6+6) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +13; Grp +15 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics, 
Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Elusive Dogfighter, Keep It 
Together, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Assault Tactics), vehicle 
dodge +1 

Talents Armored Defense, Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Deployment 
Tactics, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Elusive Dogfighter, Keep 
It Together, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Point Blank Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics], Pilot, Use Computer), Skill 
Training (Knowledge [tactics]), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, rifles, pistols, simple) [ soldier 4th, soldier 
starting] 

Skills Initiative +19, Mechanics +12, Pilot +19, Knowledge (tactics) +17, 
Use Computer +17 

Possessions armored flight suit, blaster pistol, comlink 


IMPERIAL RANGED 
WEAPONS 


The following ranged weapons are strongly identified with the Galactic 
Empire and are in common use by Imperial forces throughout the galaxy 
during the Legacy era. 


ARC-9965 Blaster Rifle 

Rifle 

The chosen weapon of the Imperial stormtrooper corps, the ARC-9965 blaster 
rifle from BlasTech is a significant upgrade over the E-11 blaster rifles used 
by stormtroopers during the Galactic Civil War. It is designed with accuracy 
in mind, with input from some of the galaxy's best sharpshooters. 

The ARC-9965 is not without its flaws. The higher-accuracy blaster bolts 
consume more energy than a standard blaster rifle, lowering its ammunition 
capacity. Additionally, since the weapon is designed more for accuracy than 
for sprays of fire, each autofire attack made with the weapon consumes 
10 shots. 

The ARC-9965 blaster rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 40 
shots, the power pack must be replaced. The ARC-9965 blaster rifle also has 
a retractable stock. 


Heavy Blaster Cannon 

Heavy Weapon 

A heavy blaster cannon, such as the Merr-Sonn BB-23 heavy blaster cannon 
used by the heavy weapons specialists in Joker Squad, is a devastating 
weapon that can wreak havoc on enemies that stay too close to one another. 
Specifically designed for use against infantry and other ground-based per- 
sonnel, the heavy blaster cannon is considerably larger than most weapons 
intended for use by an individual soldier. However, a heavy blaster cannon 
can be braced by spending two swift actions in the same round immediately 
before making an attack; if the weapon is braced, it is treated as a Large 
weapon, and can be fired by a Medium character. If the weapon is not braced, 
it cannot be fired by any creature Medium size or smaller. 

A heavy blaster cannon is an area effect weapon. It deals full damage 
to the target if the attack hits the target's Reflex Defense (half damage if 
the target has the Evasion talent) and half damage if it misses (no damage 
if the target has the Evasion talent). Any creature or object adjacent to the 
target takes half damage if the attack hits (none if it has the Evasion talent) 
and no damage if it misses. 

The heavy blaster cannon requires a power pack to operate. After 10 
shots, the power pack must be replaced. 


COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Heavy blaster cannon! ? 4,200 4d12 - . S 22 kg _ Energy _ Military 


RIFLES COST DAMAGE = STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


ARC-9965° 1,400 3d8 Yes S,A 5 kg Energy Military 
1 Area Attack Weapon: See Area Attack, page 155 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. 

2 Inaccurate Weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at long range. 

3 Accurate Weapon: This weapon takes no penalty when firing at targets at short range. 


ARMOR BONUS EQUIP BONUS MAX DEX SPEED SPEED 
ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) — COST TO REF DEFENSE TO FORT DEFENSE BONUS (6SQ.) (4SQ.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 


Cortosis gauntlet 1,500 - = - - - 1 kg Rare 
Imperial Knight armor 7,000 +8 +2 +3 4 sq. 3 sq. 16 kg Rare 
Knighthunter armor 6,000 +7 +2 +3 4sq. 3 sq. 13 kg Military 
IMPERIAL ARMOR iapstial Kelgn bearer 


Medium Armor 

The chosen armor of the Imperial Knights is modeled after the armor worn 
by Darth Vader during the Galactic Civil War. However, unlike Darth Vader's 
armor, the Imperial Knight armor is not designed to provide life support 
to the wearer. Additionally, the armor has small threads of phrik filaments 
throughout the armor, allowing the wearer to apply any personal DR against 
attacks made by lightsabers. 


The Empire has always had unique suits of armor designed for its troops, 
and the armor of a standard stormtrooper has been enough to inspire fear 
in the enemies of the Empire for decades. 


Cortosis Gauntlet 

Medium Armor (see below) 

This gauntlet, made with cortosis weave, protects its wearer from lightsaber 
attacks. If the wearer readies an action to block a lightsaber attack, the 
wearer can make an opposed unarmed melee attack roll against the attack 
roll of the lightsaber attack. If the wearer of the cortosis gauntlet is suc- 
cessful, the lightsaber deactivates and may not be reactivated for 2 minutes 
(20 rounds). The attack still deals normal damage before the lightsaber is 
deactivated. 

If the wearer of a cortosis gauntlet is the target of the Severing Strike 
talent, the attacker can choose to sever the limb on which the cortosis 
gauntlet is worn without having his or her lightsaber deactivated. 

The wearer of a cortosis gauntlet must have the Armor Proficiency 
(medium) feat or take the normal penalties for wearing armor in which he 
or she is not proficient. 


Knighthunter Armor 

Medium Armor 

An upgrade of the standard stormtrooper armor, the solid-black armor of 
the Knighthunters combines many of the designs of Palpatine's Coruscant 
Guards and the storm Commandos, providing a durable suit of armor that 
also allows the wearer to remain hidden in poorly lit conditions. Knighthunter 
armor comes standard with a helmet package. Additionally, the helmet of 
a suit of Knighthunter armor is fitted with a small connector at the base of 
the neck that sends minute electrical impulses into the spine and the base 
of the brain of the wearer. These impulses disrupt any outside influence on 
the brain of the wearer, granting the wearer a +5 equipment bonus to Will 
Defense against Use the Force checks. 


i, 
fy 
@ 
> 
> 
9 
=! 
9 
W 
S 
¥ 
i 
W 


x HSsidagvHa 


ESESESEEEEEES 


AHAIWE DLWOVIVB FHL 


=< HSLSVHS 


IMPERIAL VEHICLES 
The Empire's ground support needs have changed little across the eras. The 
Empire still employs walkers on worlds with rough terrain, and it still puts 
scout troopers on fast-moving speeder bikes. The following section describes 
vehicles used by the Empire extensively during the Legacy era. 


KYBUCK SPEEDER BIKE 
The standard speeder bike used by the troops of the Empire, the Kybuck 
speeder bike by Arakyd is a fast and durable bike that has become the staple 
of the Imperial scout trooper corps. Though somewhat larger and bulkier 
than the speeder bikes usually found in Imperial service, the Arakyd Kybuck 
makes up for this bulkiness with a more powerful set of repulsor engines 
and a thick layer of hull plating, making the vehicle difficult to destroy with 
one hit. The larger size of the bike also makes it easier for the speeder bike 
to accommodate a single passenger, who rides behind the pilot. 

Darth Talon uses a speeder bike of this make on Vendaxa when she travels 
to the world in pursuit of Marasiah Fel. 


Kybuck Speeder Bike CLS 

Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +14; Senses Perception +8 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 15; +2 armor 

hp 50; DR 5; Threshold 20 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 500 km/h) 

Ranged weapon +9 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +5; Grp +15 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 24, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +14, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +14, 
Use Computer +8 

Crew 1 (expert); Passengers 1 

Cargo 10 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost 8,000 (3,500 used) 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 4d10 


ALL TERRAIN RIOT CONTROL 
TRANSPORT (AT-RCT) 

The urban successor to the AT-ST, the All Terrain Riot Control Transport 
is designed for use in cities and other highly developed areas with large 
populations. Based on vehicle designs dating back to the Clone Wars, the 
AT-RCT features an open cockpit, allowing the crew full 360-degree vision 
and the ability to fire personal weapons at targets approaching from lines 
of fire outside of the vehicle's own fire arcs. Unfortunately, this also leaves 
the pilot and gunner open to attacks from the ground, though the AT-RCT's 
primary mission is crowd control and riot suppression, which usually means 
dealing with unruly (though not usually well-armed) mobs. Additionally, 
since the AT-RCT is used in support of ground troops, there is usually enough 
suppressing fire in the area to protect the crew. 

The AT-RCT operates effectively in urban sprawls where the terrain is 
hindered by narrow alleys, winding streets, and uneven surfaces. With a more 
narrow front profile than the AT-ST, the AT-RCT can usually turn 180 degrees 
in a single spot, allowing it to get in and out of tight places where speeders 
are impractical. Thanks to the insurgency of both the Galactic Alliance Core 
Fleet remnants and Roan Fel's Empire-in-exile, the AT-RCT has seen greatly 
increased use on Imperial worlds throughout the galaxy. 


All Terrain Riot Control Transport (AT-RCT) CL 8 

Huge ground vehicle (walker) 

Init +10; Senses Perception +8 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 20; +4 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 30 

Speed fly 6 squares (max. velocity 90 km/h) 

Ranged double medium blaster cannons +9 (see below) and 
suppression cannons +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover +5 

Base Atk +5; Grp +25 

Atk Options autofire (double medium blaster cannons, suppression 
cannons) 

Abilities Str 30, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +8 

Crew 2; Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Double medium blaster cannons (pilot) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 

Suppression cannons (copilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 stun, ignores the normal 6-square 
ranged restriction on stun attacks 


ALL TERRAIN ARMORED HEAVY 
TRANSPORT (AT-AHT) 

In a galaxy torn apart by a struggle between three powerful factions, it 
comes as no surprise that Kuat Drive Yards would produce an upgraded heavy 
transport designed to up the ante in any ground engagement. The succes- 
sor to the AT-AT, the AT-AHT is tougher, stronger, and more heavily armed 
than any other walker in the Imperial arsenal. Primarily deployed on worlds 
where extreme temperatures, toxic atmospheres, or other conditions make 
using repulsor technology difficult, the AT-AHT has proven itself valuable in 
breaking through enemy defenses and scattering enemy troops. 


All Terrain Armored Heavy Transport (AT-AHT) CL 14 
Colossal ground vehicle (walker) 
Init -2; Senses Perception +8 
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 31; +17 armor 
hp 350; DR 20; Threshold 81 
Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 80 km/h) 
Ranged heavy laser cannons +8 (see below) and 
heavy blaster cannons +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 6x12; Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +46 
Abilities Str 53, Dex 10, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +8 Perception +8 Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +8 
Crew 5 (expert); Passengers 60 (troops) 
Cargo 2 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft 8 speeder bikes or 3 
AT-RCTs 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Heavy laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +8, Dmg 8d10x2, 2-square splash 
Heavy blaster cannons (gunner) 

Atk +8, Dmg 5d10x2 


IMPERIAL 
STARFIGHTERS 


Starfighters from the Clone Wars and the Rebellion era inspire Imperial 
starfighter designs well into the Legacy era, as evidenced by the new fight- 
ers presented below. 


FURY-CLASS STARFIGHTER 

The preferred method of transportation for the Sith Lords in the Empire, the 
Fury-class starfighter from the SoroSuub Corporation is another in a series 
of designs based on popular vessels of the past. The Fury-class starfighter 
features a cockpit situated between two angular wings, with a much more 
roomy interior than most starfighters. As a result, the spacecraft is far more 
comfortable than others of its size, particularly on long-distance journeys, 
making it a viable alternative to space transports for the Sith. 

The Fury-class starfighter's design hearkens back to pre-Clone Wars 
starfighters such as the Cutlass-9. However, the Fury-class starfighter is 
somewhat larger and features three powerful engines that provide excellent 
thrust both in atmospheres and in space. The Fury-class starfighter, despite 
being the preferred craft of the Sith Lords, boasts only a light armament 
of laser cannons, and its low-profile design and charcoal-colored exterior 
make it easy to hide. 


STARFIGHTER. 


< HSiaevHoS 


eBllawe) DILOYIVe PAL 


0 
I 
> 
v 
im 
Wd 
a 
X 


SHNIASWE) HILWOVIWA SHL 


Fury-class Starfighter CL 12 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +6; Senses Perception +12 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 30; +13 armor 

hp 180; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 80 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,320 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged advanced heavy laser cannons +16 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +50 

Atk Options autofire (advanced heavy laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 50, Dex 18, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +12 


Crew 1 (ace); Passengers none 

Cargo 150 kg; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x.75, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Advanced heavy laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +16 (+11 autofire), Dmg 8d10x2 


PREDATOR-CLASS 

STARFIGHTER 

The mainstay of the Imperial Navy's starfighter corps, the Predator-class 
starfighter from Sienar Fleet Systems answers the Empire's basic need for 
a space superiority fighter that, like the TIE fighters of the Rebellion era, 
can also be mass produced. Faster and more agile than past Sienar designs, 
the Predator-class starfighter boasts shielding to help protect it from those 
rare shots that manage to hit the fighter. Unlike its TIE predecessors, the 
Predator-class starfighter is fitted with a hyperdrive, making it suitable for 
long-distance strike missions. 

There are two primary cockpit styles among Predator-class fighters. The 
standard configuration has a somewhat reduced view of the battlefield, 
instead encouraging the pilot to rely on heads-up displays and computer- 
enhanced targeting and sensor data. Squadron leaders and wing commanders 
have a more traditional TIE Fighter-style cockpit, which allows for better 
visual scanning and situation assessment. Predator-class starfighters are 
kept in racks aboard capital starships and can be launched with speed from 
those ships’ hangars. 


PREDATOR-CLASS FIGHTERS ATTACK A SIGMA-CLASS SHUTTLE, 


Predator-class Starfighter CL 11 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +10; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 100; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 44 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double medium laser cannons +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 

Atk Options autofire (double medium laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 39, Dex 28, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Double medium laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


ee 


NBUTRALIZER-CLASS BOMBER 
During the Sith-Imperial War, Sienar Fleet Systems’ engineers take the designs 
for the Predator-class starfighter and begin working on ways to adapt the 
design to a multipurpose bomber. The result, dubbed the Neutralizer-class 
bomber, is clearly inspired by the Predator-class fighter but is larger, bulkier, 
and somewhat less agile. Still quite nimble for a bomber, the Neutralizer- 
class bomber is also very durable, boasting impressive shields for a fighter 
of its size. 

Compared to the Predator-class starfighter, only a small number of 
Neutralizer-class bombers have rolled off the assembly lines. Since the end 
of the Sith-Imperial War, the Neutralizer-class bomber has seen little use, as 
its primary purpose is strafing enemy ground emplacements and braking open 
defensible positions. However, with the rise in sedition by Roan Fel loyalists, 
the Empire has begun calling in Neutralizer-class bombers for air strikes on 
positions suspected of harboring sympathizers to the deposed Emperor. 


Neutralizer-class Bomber * (CL it 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double medium laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedo launcher +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (double medium laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 10 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Double medium laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


IMPERIAL SPACE 
TRANSPORTS 


Imperial officials, officers, and troops rely on two classes of shuttles that 
are as ubiquitous to the Legacy era as the Lambda-class shuttle is to the 
Rebellion era. 


NUNE-CLASS IMPERIAL SHUTTLE 
The standard shuttle used by the Imperial Navy, the Nune-class shuttle is the 
spiritual heir to the Lambda-class shuttle used during the Galactic Civil War. 
Much larger than traditional shuttles, the Nune-class shuttle is designed with 
versatility in mind. In this regard, it serves as a cargo transport shuttle as well 
as a personal transport and a troop dropship, as needs require. Sienar Fleet 
Systems engineers designed the interior of the shuttle to be highly modu- 
lar, and most ships equipped with Nune-class shuttles also come with the 
equipment needed to alter a Nune-class shuttle to fit the needs of whatever 
mission it is being sent on. Similarly, all Imperial Navy technicians are trained 
extensively in the modification of the Nune-class shuttle. 

Some Nune-class shuttles have dedicated roles and never see much in 
the way of alteration or modification. Usually, these shuttles are assigned 
to flagships or transports that commonly carry high-ranking personnel, and 
serve solely as personal shuttles for Admirals, Moffs, and other diplomats. 
These shuttles usually have their interiors converted to have luxury accom- 
modations that are fitting of Imperial officers. 


14 IONIZERS FIRE ON A NUNE-CLASS SHUTTLE. 


| xX HSidgvHid 


BHliaWwe) DILBYIWWe PAL 


Nune-class Imperial Shuttle CL.13 
Colossal space transport 
Init -1; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +13 armor 
hp 150; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 78 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 900 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged medium laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
medium laser cannon battery +9 (see below) and 
double heavy laser cannon +5 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +40 
Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannon battery, double heavy laser 
cannon) 
Abilities Str 46, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 : 
Crew 8 (skilled); Passengers 35 
Cargo 250 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 4d10x2 
Medium laser cannon battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Double heavy laser cannon (copilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


SIGMA-CLASS 

LONG-RANGE SHUTTLE 

A hyperdrive-equipped shuttle designed to ferry diplomats and other 
important beings from one side of the galaxy to another, the Sigma-class 
long-range shuttle from Sienar Fleet Systems is favored by Imperial officials 
who prefer to be their own pilots (or those who prefer to have only a small 
retinue). The Sigma-class long-range shuttle doesn't really compete with 
the more pervasive Nune-class shuttle. While the Nune-class shuttle is ideal 
for interplanetary travel within a given sector or region of space and often 
doubles as a troop transport, the Sigma-class shuttle is reserved for Imperial 
officials who need to travel across vast regions of space, such as from the 
Core to the Outer Rim and back again. 


Most bureaucratic offices on worlds controlled by the Empire keep at least 
one Sigma-class long-range shuttle in good working order on the rare occa- 
sion that an official needs to travel across the galaxy. If the Nune-class shuttle 
is the workhorse of shuttles, the Sigma-class shuttle is more like a luxury 
transport. Though not quite as extravagantly appointed as a luxury yacht, the 
Sigma-class shuttle provides a comfortable environs for long-range travel, 
including several spacious passenger compartments, a well-stocked galley, and 
a large, open cargo area capable of carrying along personal speeders. 

The Imperial Knights make extensive use of Sigma-class long-range 
shuttles when performing missions as a group. These shuttles are specially 
modified to carry up to three Predator-class starfighters in their cargo holds, 
at the expense of most of the ship's cargo space. 
Sigma-class Long-Range Shuttle CL 12 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 
hp 130; DR 15; SR 45; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 4 squares 

(starship scale) 

Ranged double heavy laser cannons +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 squares (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +38 

Atk Options autofire (double heavy laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 43, Dex 18, Con -, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 

Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 10 
Cargo 200 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x8), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Double heavy laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Imperial Knight variant: 
Cargo 30 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft 3 Predator-class 
starfighters 


IMPERIAL 
CAPITAL SHIPS 


Fleets of capital ships symbolize the true might of the Empire, and the new 
Imperial capital ships found in the Legacy era put the capital ships of previ- 
ous eras to shame. 


ARDENT-CLASS FAST FRIGATE 
One of the fastest capital ships in the Imperial fleet, the Ardent-class fast 
frigate produced by Kuat Drive Yards is aggressively used by Imperial tacti- 
cians as a means of disrupting enemy fleet formations. One effective Imperial 
strategy is to send several Ardent-class fast frigates into enemy picket lines 
at strategically chosen weak points, at which point the fast frigates provide 
wedges that break up defense screens and allow other Imperial ships to move 
in and fill the gaps. The Ardent-class fast frigate relies on impressive shields 
to execute this strategy. : 

Despite its excellent shielding, Ardent-class fast frigates tend to suffer 
high amounts of damage in most ship-to-ship engagements due to the sheer 
number of attacks directed at them. The commanders of Ardent-class fast 
frigates tend to be men and women with nerves of ice, as maintaining cool 
under heavy fire is key to this ship's primary strategy. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, an Ardent-class fast frigate can 
forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire. Enemy ships occupying one or more 
squares adjacent to the Ardent-class fast frigate take a -1 penalty on attack 
rolls and a -1 penalty to all defenses. 
Ardent-class Fast Frigate CL 19 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 14), Fort 38; +14 armor 
hp 1,200; DR 15; SR 160; Threshold 138 
Speed fly 4 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 5 heavy turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 

3 medium turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 

5 point-defense medium laser cannon batteries +11 (see below) and 

2 tractor beam batteries +9* (see below) and 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +66 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense medium laser cannon batteries) 
Abilities Str 66 Dex 18 Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1,400; Passengers 200 (troops) 

Cargo 5,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 12 Predator-class 
starfighters 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 
Medium turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
Point-defense medium laser cannon battery (3 gunners) 

Atk +11 (+6 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Tractor beam battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), 

Dmg — (grapple +66) 


PELLAEON-CLASS 

STAR DESTROYER 

Embodying the philosophy that classic designs never go out of fashion, the 
Pellaeon-class Star Destroyer from Kuat Drive Yards is the Empire's modern 
successor to the wedge-shaped capital ships of the past. Named for one of 
the most famous Grand Admirals in the history of the Empire, Gilad Pellaeon, 
this ship features a heavily slanted forward hull and a complement of turbo- 
lasers with greater fire arcs than its predecessors. Similarly, the ship's overall 
length is shortened to produce a smaller profile when firing broadsides with 
another capital ship, increasing the ship's longevity in combat. 

Most Pellaeon-class Star Destroyers serve as command ships and flagships 
in Imperial fleets. Large sector fleets might have dozens of Pellaeon-class 
Star Destroyers, while smaller ones might have only a single Pellaeon-class 
ship accompanied by frigates and smaller patrol craft. These Star Destroyers 
help form a core around which battle groups and fleets are formed, as their 
hardware makes them not only incredibly powerful but also excellent com- 
mand vessels. The Pel/aeon-class ship is the perfect vehicle for the brilliant 
tactical minds of the Empire. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, a Pellaeon-class Star Destroyer can 
forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares within 2 squares of 
itself. Allied starships attacking targets within this area gain a +2 bonus 
on attack rolls. 


EMIAWE DLEVAIVE SMA, 


x eSidvHo 


BHswe DLWVYIVS PHL 


A& PELLAEON-CLASS STAR DESTROYER 
EXCHANGES FIRE WITH A SCYTHE-CLASS 
CRUISER. 


Pellaeon-class Star Destroyer CL 28 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 57; +14 armor 
hp 2,350; DR 20; SR 140; Threshold 257 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 heavy turbolaser batteries +16* (see below) and 
5 medium turbolaser batteries +16* (see below) and 
4 heavy ion cannon batteries +16* (see below) and 
3 tractor beam batteries +16* (see below) and 
5 proton torpedo batteries +16” (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +69 
Abilities Str 105, Dex 14, Con —, Int 22 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 8,450 (skilled); Passengers 2,700 (troops) 
Cargo 11,000 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 48 Predator- 
class starfighters, 6 Nu-class shuttles 
Payload 200 proton torpedoes 
Hyperdrive x.75, navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 12d10x5 
Medium turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (5 gunners) i 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 ion a 
Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), 

Dmg — (grapple +69) 
Proton torpedo battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5, 

4-square splash 


IMPERIOUS-CLASS 

STAR DESTROYER 

After the Sith-Imperial War, Darth Krayt's Empire struggles to deal with 
insurgents and rebels from a variety of factions. While the Pel/aeon-class Star 
Destroyer proves a capable command vessel, Darth Krayt demands that the 
Empire continue to upgrade its fleets to quash sedition. Based on a proposal 
from Moff Rulf Yage, the Imperial Navy turns the schematics for the Pellaeon- 
class Star Destroyer (originally designed by Kuat Drive Yards) over to the Impe- 
rial forces in charge of Mon Calamari. The Empire then forces Mon Calamari 
engineers to modify the plans to produce an improved model, much as the old 
Imperial I-class Star Destroyer was upgraded to the /mperial I/-class ship. 

The end result is the /mperious-class Star Destroyer, which requires a smaller 
crew, has better shielding, and has components that take up far less space than 
the original design. Additionally, the Mon Calamari upgrade the ship's internal 
computers, taking the already formidable systems and making them more 
efficient, and adding the latest in gravity mine technology to the ship's weapon 
complement. The end result is a ship that is tough, smart, and dangerous. 

The Galactic Alliance Core Fleet steals the first prototype of the /mpe- 
rious-class Star Destroyer (the /mperious itself) from the shipyards at Mon 
Calamari. After a brutal battle at the shipyards, the Galactic Alliance flees 
with the /mperious to a secret rendezvous point. Admiral Gar Stazi renames 
the stolen vessel the Alliance, and Darth Krayt, livid that the Mon Calamari 
could allow the ship to be stolen, decimates the Mon Calamari population 
and forces the remaining Mon Calamari to build several new /mperious-class 
Star Destroyers in the hopes that they will break the resolve of the Galactic 
Alliance Core Fleet. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, an /mperious-class Star Destroyer 
can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares within 2 squares 
of itself. Once per turn when an allied starship within this area scores a hit 
with a starship weapon attack, the starship gains 20 bonus hit points (which 
behave exactly as bonus hit points do for characters). 


Imperious-class Star Destroyer CL 29 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 58; +15 armor 
hp 2,500; DR 20; SR 140*; Threshold 258 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 heavy turbolaser batteries +17** (see below) and 
5 medium turbolaser batteries +17** (see below) and 
4 heavy ion cannon batteries +17** (see below) and 
3 tractor beam batteries +17** (see below) and 
5 proton torpedo batteries +17** (see below) or 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +70 
Atk Options gravity mines 
Abilities Str 107, Dex 14, Con —, Int 24 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 6,700 (skilled); Passengers 3,000 (troops) 
Cargo 13,000 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 48 Predator- 
class starfighters, 12 Neutralizer-class bombers, 6 Nu-class shuttles 
Payload 200 proton torpedoes, 50 gravity mines 
Hyperdrive x.75, navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
* Regenerating Shields: Increase the Shield Rating by 10 (up to the ship's 
maximum SR) when using the recharge shields action. 
** Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 12d10x5 
Medium turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), 

Dmg — (grapple +70) 
Proton torpedo battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5, 

4-square splash 
Gravity mine (gunner) 

Atk —, Dmg — (see sidebar) 


GRAVITY MINES 

With the remnants of the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet hiding throughout 
the galaxy and Roan Fel loyalists spreading dissent throughout the galaxy, 
Darth Krayt's Empire needs ways to block hyperspace routes and pull 
ships back into realspace. Rather than continuing the tradition of using 
massive interdiction starships, the Empire has come to rely on gravity 
mines instead. Cheaper to produce and expendable, these gravity mines 
create a mass shadow (similar to the gravity well projectors used on the 
old Interdictor-class heavy cruisers) that pulls ships out of hyperspace 
and keeps them out. Unlike interdiction ships, gravity mines are small 
and difficult to detect with sensors. Hundreds of mines can be spread 
throughout an engagement zone in order to create a field of overlapping 
mass shadows. 

A ship equipped with gravity mines can deploy a gravity mine into 
an adjacent square as a standard action. Whenever another starship 
enters a gravity mine's square or any adjacent square (either in real- 
space or in hyperspace), the mine activates, creating a zone that fills 
the mine's square and all adjacent squares (a 3x3 square area) with a 
mass shadow. Ships in these squares and ships that enter these squares 
are pulled from hyperspace and cannot enter hyperspace again while in 
one of these squares. 

The Empire has also developed a more expensive variant of the gravity 
mine that is used when trying to target a single ship or a small number of 
ships. These mines activate a mass shadow field and then magnetically 
attach themselves to the starship that triggered the mine, making it 
impossible for the ship to destroy the mine without assistance (or having 
countermeasures in place, such as someone ready to exit the ship and 
remove the mine manually). 

Gravity mines have Reflex Defense 12, 20 hit points, and Damage 
Threshold 10. Magnetic gravity mines also have a grapple modifier of 
+10; when a ship enters a magnetic gravity mine's space, it makes a free 
grapple attempt against that ship's Reflex Defense, and if successful, it 
attaches itself to the target ship. An attached magnetic gravity mine 
cannot be targeted by the ship it is attached to. 


EMPLACEMENT 
WEAPON DAMAGE POINTS’ AVAILABILITY COST 
Gravity mine - 2 Military 5,000 
launcher 
Gravity mine, = ~ Military 1,000 
standard 
Gravity mine, - - Military 4,000 


magnetic 


ee 


SBHIAIWSE) DILGOVIVS PAA Sp! 


= 


CHAPTER XI 


THE FRINGE 


- 
* 
ta 
S 
— 
= 
AS, 


ing on the fringe of society is never easy. However, in the Legacy era, 
are particularly rough and dangerous. The fringe has become home 
le unlikely inhabitants, including beings who have fallen out of favor 
ie Empire and Jedi on the run from the Sith. The fringe is a dangerous, 
place where the laws of the Empire are conveniently overlooked and 
inything—or anyone—can be bought for a price. It is a good place 
rom major enemies, provided your contacts don't sell you out. It 
place to gain access to forbidden weapons, technology, or secret 
edge. If you're willing to take risks, you can make enormous profits, 
suming your employer doesn't cheat you, you keep your guard up, and 
rallies remain loyal. 


MNANTS OF 
E JEDI ORDER 


Order lies in ruins. Not since the Dark Times have the Jedi been so 
extinction. The Sith-Imperial War concludes with the Sith ruling 
y and the fall of the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. Imperial forces led 
th attack the Jedi Academy on Ossus. Most of the Jedi Masters, 
“Knights, and Padawans on Ossus are killed, along with the Yuuzhan Vong who 
tend the planet's terraforming project. Among the dead are Kol Skywalker 
and, many presume, his son Cade. A few Jedi flee Ossus, scatter across the 
galaxy, and go into hiding. While the exact number of survivors is impos- 
sible to ascertain, some speculate that as much as half of the Jedi Order 
survives the massacre. 

Prior to the Sith-Imperial War, the Jedi had championed the use of Yuu- 
zhan Vong biotechnology to rehabilitate worlds ravaged during the Yuuzhan 
Vong invasion. Ossus served as the primary test case. Unfortunately, the Sith 
secretly sabotage the effort in order to turn the galaxy against the Yuuzhan 
Vong, the Jedi, and the Galactic Alliance. A few Yuuzhan Vong avoid the 
attack on Ossus and remain hidden there for many years afterward. They 
investigate the source of the Sith sabotage and protect Jedi artifacts from 
pirates and thieves. 

Seven years after the massacre on Ossus, Jedi Master Wolf Sazen and 
Jedi Knight Shado Vao search for Cade Skywalker, whom Wolf believes is still 
alive. They succeed in finding the troubled Skywalker and try to convince 
him to return to the Jedi Order. Thanks to a vision he receives, Sazen believes 
Skywalker could be a rallying point for all Jedi. Others are less optimistic 
about Skywalker's future. Ultimately, Cade asks to restart his training, and 
Wolf obliges. During this time, they discover the Yuuzhan Vong shaper Nei 
Rin and her protectors hidden well below the Ossus academy. Master K'Kruhk 
is given custody of the surviving Jedi artifacts that the Yuuzhan Vong had 
protected for so many years. 


SONI9S SHL a. BSisvVHS 


ix HBeSidgvHs 


AeONIH2 SAL 


Cade's training is incomplete when he rushes off to save Hosk Trey'lis 
from the Sith, attempting to break him out of the Sith temple on Coruscant. 
As Wolf and the others await Cade's return, Imperial forces return to inves- 
tigate the ruined academy. Unable to locate the surviving Jedi, a suspicious 
Sith commander orders the complete destruction of the academy ruins by 
orbital bombardment. 

As for those Jedi scattered throughout the galaxy, most remain hidden. 
Gathering in large groups draws the attention of the Sith. Jedi influence is 
weak. They know they must rebuild their Order before they can be of any use 
to the galaxy as a whole. Wolf Sazen believes that Cade Skywalker is the key 
to their revival and future success. 

Skywalker is not the only hope, however. At the beginning of the Sith- 
Imperial War, Kol Skywalker orders the creation of a secret Hidden Temple. 
Unfortunately, it is incomplete when the Ossus massacre occurs. Very few 
Jedi know of its existence. However, a Jedi Council of three masters know 
and control the Hidden Temple: Master Tili Qua and two of the oldest surviv- 
ing Masters, K'Kruhk and T'ra Saa. They secretly work to bring other Jedi to 
the temple and have located some Masters, a few Jedi Knights, and many 
younglings and Padawans. 


HOsSK TREY'LIS 

Hosk Trey'lis, a Bothan Jedi healer, works with Kol Skywalker and the Yuuzhan 
Vong to terraform the ravaged planet of Ossus. An atypical Bothan in many 
respects, Hosk values healing, patience, and communing with the Force far 
more than the political scheming or spying that many of his species hold 
in high regard. Hosk avoids the Ossus massacre and goes into hiding. Years 
later, he unknowingly and accidentally runs into Cade Skywalker, Jariah 
Syn, and Deliah Blue. Although he suspects Cade was a Jedi, he does not 
recognize the young Skywalker. Cade, in an attempt to hide his true self from 
his companions, turns Hosk over to the bounty hunter's guild for one of the 
standing bounties on Jedi. 

Darth Krayt takes a personal interest in Hosk's healing abilities, and an 
even greater interest in the possibility that Hosk might be used to draw Cade 
to the Sith Lord. Although Cade eventually enters the Sith temple to rescue 
Hosk, he is ultimately unable to do so. In a dramatic encounter, Darth Krayt 
kills Hosk in an attempt to turn Cade to the dark side. Hosk, however, is not 
so easily defeated. He forgives Cade and even seeks Cade's forgiveness for 
failing to withstand Sith interrogation. A peaceful healer to the end, his body 
disappears, and he becomes a Force spirit. 
Hosk Trey'lis CL 10 
Medium Bothan Jedi 7/noble 2/Jedi Knight 1 
Destiny 2; Force 5 
Init +7; Senses Perception +12 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothan, Yuuzhan Vong 
Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 21), Fort 22, Will 26 
hp 76; Threshold 22 


HUSK TREY'LIS FENDSA OFF AN AGGRESSOR-SERIES BATTLE DROID. 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+6) or 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+6) 

Ranged by weapon +10 

Base Atk +9; Grp +10 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Clear Mind, Skilled Adviser, 
Elusive Target, Force Focus 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): Force thrust (2), move object, 
rebuke, vital transfer (2) 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (vital transfer) 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Bolster Ally, Clear Mind, Skilled Adviser, 
Elusive Target, Force Focus 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Martial Arts |, Skill Focus 
(Gather Information, Treat Injury, Use the Force), Skill Training (Gather 
Information, Treat Injury), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +17, Knowledge (life sciences) +17, 
Perception +12, Treat Injury +17, Use Computer +12, Use the Force +17 

Possessions lightsaber, Jedi robes, comlink 


KOL SkKYWALKER 


KOL SKYWALKER 

Kol Skywalker, a direct descendent of Anakin and Luke Skywalker, serves on 
the Jedi Council prior to the collapse of the Galactic Alliance. He is a vocal 
proponent for assimilating the Yuuzhan Vong into galaxy society, and works 
with them to restore worlds damaged during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. He 
champions the Ossus Project and works closely with Yuuzhan Vong shapers 
to repair the planet. 

Although he lives by the Jedi Code, Kol's life is unconventional in many 
respects. He falls in love and briefly marries an Imperial agent named Mor- 
rigan Corde, but she leaves him shortly after the birth of their son, Cade. 
He dislikes politics, becoming involved only when absolutely necessary. He 
prefers working and remaining at the Jedi temple on Ossus. When war breaks 
out between the Empire and Galactic Alliance, he argues that defending the 
peace is preferable to winning the war. 

Kol is killed in the Ossus massacre. He falls while fighting off a torrent of 
Sith attackers, including Darth Nihl. His death enables other Jedi to escape, 
including Jedi Master Wolf Sazen, Cade Skywalker, Shado Vao, and many 
younglings and Padawans. 


Kol Skywalker CL 14 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 2 

Destiny 2; Force 7, Strong in the Force 

Init +15; Senses Use the Force +20 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Huttese 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 27), Fort 28, Will 25; Block, Deflect 
hp 116; Threshold 28 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+8) or 

Melee lightsaber +16 (3d8+8) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +15/+15 (2d8+8) with Dual Weapon Mastery | or 

Melee lightsaber +13/+13 (3d8+8) with Dual Weapon Mastery | and 
Rapid Strike or 

Melee unarmed +15 (1d6-+8) 

Ranged by weapon +17 

Base Atk +14; Grp +17 

Atk Options Dual Weapon Mastery |, Severing Strike 

Special Actions Force Perception, Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): battle strike, farseeing, 
Force thrust, mind trick, move object, rebuke (2), surge, vital transfer 

Force Secrets Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move Light Object 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 16 

Special Qualities fearless, serenity 

Talents Block, Deflect, Force Perception, Force Pilot, Greater 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Redirect Shot, Multiattack Proficiency, 
Severing Strike 

Feats Dual Weapon Mastery |, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), 
Martial Arts |, Strong in the Force, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the 
Force), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +15, Initiative +15, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, 
Mechanics +14, Use the Force +20 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, comlink 


ix esicgvHoa 


PBeoWih2a) SAL 


eSiagvHoS) 


ix 


PBeONIH2) 9HL 


SHADO VAaO 


SHADO VAO 

Shado Vao survives the Ossus massacre by piloting a shuttle carrying the last 
Jedi survivors, including many Padawans and Jedi Master Wolf Sazen. Years 
later, he joins Master Sazen in a search for Sazen's former Padawan, and 
Shado's childhood friend, Cade Skywalker. Ensuing adventures and skirmishes 
with the Sith give Shado Vao many opportunities to display his prowess with 
the double-bladed lightsaber. 

Shado is calm and cool even in the heat of battle, and often engages 
his enemy in a verbal duel as well as a physical one. He is glad to see Cade 
return to further his Jedi training, but he is wary of how close to the dark 
side Skywalkers often tread. Shado has vowed to kill Cade, should he ever 
turn to the dark side. 


Shado Vao 

Medium Twi'lek Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 3 

Destiny 2; Force 5 

Init +8; Senses low-light vision; Use the Force +17 

Languages Basic, Ryl, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 22), Fort 26, Will 24 

hp 100; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +12 (2d8+7) or 

Melee double-bladed lightsaber +9/+9 (2d8+7) with Dual 
Weapon Mastery | 

Ranged by weapon +13 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 

Atk Options Running Attack 

Special Actions Block, Deflect, Force Focus, Force Perception 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): battle strike, farseeing, 
Force thrust (2), mind trick, move object, rebuke (2), surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Special Qualities deceptive 

Talents Block, Deflect, Force Focus, Force Perception, Multiattack 
Proficiency (lightsabers), Visions 

Feats Dual Weapon Mastery I, Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(3), Running Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Pilot +13, Use the Force +17 

Possessions double-bladed lightsaber, Jedi robes 


CL 10 


WOLF SAZEN 

Jedi Master Wolf Sazen is Kol Skywalker's apprentice before becoming 
Cade Skywalker's master and teacher. A follower of the living Force, Sazen 
is serious, thoughtful, and forward-thinking. Sazen believes his own destiny 
to be tied closely with that of his apprentice, Cade. The young Padawan first 
displays his amazing yet disturbing healing ability to bring Sazen back from 
the brink of death at the Ossus massacre. 

Sazen loses his right arm fighting Darth Nihl on Ossus. He elects not to 
replace the lost arm, and instead retrains himself to use his left arm instead. 
His “empty sleeve" serves as a reminder to the Sith that, no matter what the 
cost, the Jedi will continue to fight them. 


WOLF SAZEN 


Seven years after Ossus, Sazen calls some of the remaining Jedi together 
in an effort to convince them to help search for Cade. He believes that Cade 
is the secret to restoring the Jedi Order and defeating the Sith. The meeting 
is interrupted by the Sith, but it convinces Shado Vao to join Master Sazen in 
the effort. The two travel for some time and eventually locate Cade. At the 
young Skywalker's request, Master Sazen restarts his training. The training 
ends abruptly when the emotional and unstable Cade rushes off to save 
Hosk Trey'lis from the Sith. 


Wolf Sazen CL15 
Medium Zabrak Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 6/Jedi Master 2 

Destiny 3; Force 7 

Init +14; Senses Use the Force +19 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Ryl, Zabrak 

Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 28), Fort 28, Will 32; Block, Deflect, Dodge 
hp 107; Threshold 28 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+7) 
Ranged by weapon +16 

Base Atk +15; Grp +17 


Special Actions Combat Reflexes, Equilibrium, Force Fortification, 
Force Perception, Mobility, Quick Draw, Skilled Adviser, Elusive Target 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): farseeing, Force thrust, 
mind trick, move object, rebuke, surge, vital transfer (2) 

Force Secrets Quicken Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 14 

Special Qualities fearless, serenity 

Talents Block, Deflect, Equilibrium, Force Fortification, Force Perception, 
Skilled Adviser, Elusive Target, Visions 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), 
Mobility, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +14, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +14, Perception +10 (may reroll), Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber, Jedi robes, comlink 


THE UNDERWORLD 

Not since the Dark Times has the underworld seen such an influx of beings 
from all walks of life. The collapse of the Galactic Alliance and the cruelty 
of the new Sith-led Empire have forced many to flee to backwater planets 
and join organizations where nobody asks too many questions. Though the 
fringe and the underworld go hand-in-hand, they are not universally the 
same thing. Those who inhabit the fringe are, more often than not, the type 
of people that don't like a lot of government or other interference, but they 
generally shy away from criminal activity. However, those in the underworld 
are almost always involved in some type of illegal activity. 


BLACK SUN 

The legendary criminal syndicate Black Sun has reinvented itself many times 
over the centuries. For such a powerful criminal empire, Black Sun manages 
to remain relatively obscure, despite its extensive reach. Throughout most 
of its history, Black Sun's secrecy has been integral to its success. However, 
these days, secrecy is not always of prime concern to some of its leaders. 
In some Outer Rim systems and other isolated areas, the syndicate openly 
displays its logo on ships and vehicles, largely in an effort to intimidate 
rivals and victims. 

Black Sun's internal structure remains virtually unchanged from previ- 
ous eras. Powerful crime lords, called Vigos, run the organization in groups 
largely divided by region or sector. Each Vigo controls the syndicate's criminal 
activities in his or her designated territory. However, Vigos in the Legacy era 
act with far more autonomy than the Vigos of previous eras. They engage 
in their own schemes, which range from petty extortion to massive fraud 
against the major governments and extensive smuggling operations between 


ix HSidvHeoD 


BONY SHA | 


1x BeSidgvHa 


oo 
0 


FeNwie8d SAL 


the warring Empires. However, as in the past, the exact reach or extent of 
resources available to the syndicate is extremely difficult to determine, even 
by the Vigos themselves, who get along just well enough to benefit from 
their association. 

Black Sun's resources include fleets of gunships, squadrons of starfighters, 
flights of speeder bikes, and the occasional larger warship. The Vigos have 
individual agents, capable pilots, and considerable muscle at their disposal. 
The organization's influence extends into much of the underworld and a fair 
number of planetary governments, though Black Sun's stranglehold over key 
worlds has been temporarily diminished by the resurgent Sith Empire. 


Black Sun Thug CL2 

Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Dark Side 4 

Init +5; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 13, Will 9 

hp 21; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +5 (1d4+1) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (3d8) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot" 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Point Blank Shot", Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +7", Pilot +10 

Possessions battle armor, blaster rifle, heavy blaster pistol, knife, swoop bike 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


Black Sun Lieutenant CL.Z 

Medium Human noble 3/scoundrel 4 

Force 3; Dark Side 4 

Init +10; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 19, Will 20 

hp 53; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (3d8+3) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Combat Reflexes", Inspire Confidence, Disruptive, 
Coordinate, Hyperdriven, Walk the Line, Vehicular Combat 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Talents Inspire Confidence, Disruptive, Coordinate, Hyperdriven, Walk the 
Line 

Feats Combat Reflexes", Deadeye, Improved Damage Threshold, Linguist, 
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Gather Information +9, Initiative +10, Perception 
+9, Persuasion +9, Pilot +10, Treat Injury +9", Use Computer +9 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, knife, encrypted comlink, encrypted 
datapad, medpac, credit chip 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


Black Sun Vigo 

Medium Human noble 7/crime lord 7 

Destiny 2; Force 7; Dark Side 8 

Init +19; Senses Perception +20 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, Huttese, Ryl, Sullustese, Zabrak 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 19, Will 25; Dodge! 

hp 85; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+7) 

Ranged modified heavy blaster pistol +12 (3d8+9) or 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +12 (3d4+7) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +11 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Impel Ally |, Impel Ally Il, Inspire Confidence, Inspire 
Haste, Presence, Quick Draw, Notorious 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 16, Wis 16, Cha 17 

Special Qualities Inspire Fear |, Inspire Fear Il, Inspire Fear Ill, 

Shared Notoriety 

Talents Connections, Impel Ally |, Impel Ally II, Inspire Fear |, Inspire 
Fear Il, Inspire Fear Ill, Inspire Confidence, Inspire Haste, Presence, 
Notorious, Shared Notoriety 

Feats Dodge", Improved Defenses, Linguist, Quick Draw, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, Initiative, Perception, Persuasion), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +20, Gather Information +15, Initiative +19, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +15, Mechanics +15, Perception +20, Persuasion +20, 
Pilot +14, Treat Injury +15", Use Computer +15 

Possessions modified heavy blaster pistol (+2 damage), hold-out blaster 
pistol, encrypted comlink, encrypted datapad, multiple credit chips 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


CL 14 


BROGAR'S CANTINA 

AND SAFE HOUSE 

Located on the planet Lok (see page 109), Brogar's Cantina has a well- 
deserved reputation in the underworld as a safe house for criminals on the 
run. The cantina’s decrepit neighborhood and seedy countenance mask its 
true business. Brogar usually charges a fee for protection, negotiated between 
the individual seeking sanctuary and either Brogar or his trusted doorman. 
Although most patrons believe otherwise, protection is not guaranteed. 
Although he sometimes goes out of his way to prevent anyone from being 
forcibly removed from the premises, at least by outsiders, Brogar bends to 
the will of some of the more powerful crime lords or to threats of Imperial 
intervention. 

Brogar's Cantina is also the place to meet freighter pilots willing to 
transport passengers or cargo from Lok, with no questions asked. Brogar has 
even been known to arrange such meetings, for the right price. However, he 
makes no effort to get involved in every transaction, nor does he want to 
know about the majority of them. 


New SPECIES: ADVOZSE 

The Advozse come from the geologically unstable world of Riflor. Three 
suns exert tremendous gravitational stress on the planet, and the Advozse 
evolved to become both survivors and tremendous pessimists. They don't 
trust easily, and they prepare for the worst while striving for the best 
realistic possible outcome. 

Advozse are hairless, pug-faced beings with thick skin that ranges 
from yellow to ruddy brown. An Advozse's eyes are large and black, and 
its ears are pointed. A prominent black horn protrudes from the top of 
the Advozse's head. 


Advozse Species Traits 
All Advozse share the following traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Dexterity, +2 Constitution, +2 Wisdom. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Advozse have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: 6 squares. 

Heightened Awareness: An Advozse can choose to reroll any Per- 
ception check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it’s 
worse. 

Low-Light Vision: Advozse ignore concealment (but not total con- 
cealment) from darkness. 

Natural Armor: Advozse have a +1 natural armor bonus to Reflex 
Defense. A natural armor bonus stacks with an armor bonus. 

Languages: Advb and Basic. 


Brogar's security is excellent. A door attendant mans the electronic 
eye and entry intercom at all times, and Brogar uses powerful Z65 patrol 
guard droids (see page 73) and a few bouncers to enforce his policies. Local 
authorities avoid the place, either due to its reputation or because they are 
paid well to do so. 


Brogar 

Brogar is the owner of his own cantina on the planet Lok. His cantina doubles 
as a safe house for criminals, including those running from the Empire or 
from other criminals. Brogar is tough and smart, and he knows when to back 
down from a fight, especially to protect his cantina. 

Credits are key to getting along with Brogar. He also works to maintain 
good relations with influential crime lords. While he tolerates almost anyone 
entering the cantina for business, he fears Imperial interference and angering 
the wrong people. 


Brogar CL5 

Medium Advozse scoundrel 5 

Force 2; Dark Side 2 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 16, Will 18 

hp 32; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Disruptive, Knack, Walk the Line 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 12 

Talents Disruptive, Knack, Walk the Line 

Feats Improved Defenses, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Focus 
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +8, Gather Information +8, Knowledge (social sciences) 
+9, Perception +8, Persuasion +8 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink 


gmt gyring, 
¢ a Brows 
Sons Fe 


DO 


SOnIme) SH, 


ix SS4tdvHo 


THE CRIMSON AxE 

The Crimson Axe is a formidable pirate vessel captained by the notorious 
Feeorin pirate, Rav. The ship has a distinctive vertical configuration, with 
massive angled hull plating recalling the shape of a primitive axe head—thus 
its name. Atop this massive structure sit the command and control decks. 
The armored hull not only protects the ship from attack but also gives it a 
devastating ramming capability that tears and punctures lightly armored 
freighters or lesser military craft. 

Several hangars allow fighters, freighters, and other craft to dock or be 
brought aboard. The main hangar is located at the front of the vessel, pro- 
tected by huge armor-plated doors. Several smaller hangars are located on 
the decks below the main engines, with their entrances facing aft. The ship is 
also outfitted with a tractor beam to pull debris and disabled craft aboard. 

Rav's ship and most of his vile crew bears the Bloody Bones symbol, a 
distinctive, red X-shaped mark that immediately identifies them as danger- 
ous, brutal, and self-serving pirates. For many years, they boldly attack ships 
and settlements throughout the Outer Rim and other regions of the galaxy. 
They are opportunistic and operate anywhere that might provide them with 
credits, goods, or ransom payments. 


THE CRIMSON Axe 


During the war between the Galactic Alliance and the Empire, the Crimson 
Axe ransacks defeated bases and settlements, or occasionally sifts through 
the debris fields of massive space battles. The crew delights in easy pickings 
and quick scores. One of the ship's greatest achievements is the sacking of the 
Jedi temple on Ossus, two days after it falls to Sith and Imperial forces. 

The defeat of the Galactic Alliance and the reemergence of the Empire 
under Sith control makes piracy more difficult. At the end of the war, the 
Crimson Axe is forced to return to its earlier ways, though it occasionally 
benefits from the ongoing battles between the Sith Empire and its enemies, 
Eventually, Rav decides that there is better and easier money to be made in 
bail bonds and acting as a coordinator for bounty hunters. 

Rav turns the ship into his base of operations on Socorro, dropping the 
tall, pointed vessel into a massive, ancient sarlacc pit in an outcropping 
above the Killee Wasteland. From its high perch, it overlooks the vast black 
sands of the surrounding landscape. The ship towers over the small city of 
Killee-Kor, built throughout the rocky cliffs and mesas long ago. Like many 
settlements on Socorro, Killee-Kor is a haven of underworld activity and 
home to hundreds of fringe-dwellers. 

Bounty hunters and less savory individuals often visit the Crimson Axe to 
confer with Rav. The pirate promotes the idea that the ship is still operational, 
and could leave at his command, but many speculate that it has become a 
permanent fixture of the Killee Wasteland. 
Crimson Axe CL 17 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init +1 (-2 while grounded); Senses Perception +8 
Defenses Ref 14* (flat-footed 11*), Fort 35; +11 armor 
hp 790; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 135 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 1 turbolaser batteries +13** (see below) and 
2 point-defense laser cannon batteries +13 (see below) and 
1 tractor beam batteries +7** (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +50 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense laser cannon batteries) 
Abilities Str 60, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +1 (-2 while grounded), Mechanics +8, Perception +8, 

Pilot +1, Use Computer +8 
Crew 550 (expert); Passengers 150 (prisoners) 

Cargo 3,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 2 shuttles, 

1 light freighter, 12 starfighters 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
* While grounded and immobile, the ship has Ref 11 (flat-footed 9). 

** Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal 
size. 


Turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +13 (+8 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 


Tractor beam battery (gunner) 
Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +50) 


UsING THE CRIMSON Axe : 
For cam| aigns hoe be or underworld adventures, the Crimson 


not ope te diet out of ie ie a he 0 by pecdinnaly to 


pick up new instructions or collect on bounties. They could work directly 
for Ray, or Rav might take a cut of their spoils serving as an intermediary 
between the heroes and various underworld organizations. The heroes 
might even attempt to infiltrate the Crimson Axe, in an attempt to free 
a captured friend or at the behest of another patron. — 

Dealing with Rav is always risky. The scheming Feeorin works hard to 
keep his underlings and associates under his thumb. Bounty payoffs are 
high, but Rav charges extra fees whenever he can, especially when the 
characters are in need of additional services. Rav can arrange docking 
privileges, either on the Crimson Axe or at docking bays within Killee-Kor, 
as well as provide parts, repair services, supplies, death sticks, spice, or 
virtually anything else that the characters might request—but always 
ata significant fee. He will even offer badly needed or desired items 
on credit, just to keep his associates in his debt. In this case, the more 
expensive, the better. 

Rav's associates are an everchanging court of scoundrels, killers, 
bounty hunters, pirates, and general lowlifes. Consider using or adapting 
any of the thugs or similar characters found within this chapter to fill 
out Rav's court and followers. 


RAV 

Rav is a pirate-turned-bounty hunter who runs his own bounty clearinghouse. 
He is tough, nasty, controlling, and manipulative. He constantly schemes to 
keep his associates and underlings in his debt, and therefore under his con- 
trol. Years of successful piracy have granted him untold numbers of credits, 
as well as connections with thousands of criminals, from powerful crime 
lords to petty thieves. The Feeorin's reputation instills fear throughout the 
underworld, and his reach extends from the Outer Rim to the lowest levels 
of Coruscant. Most lesser criminals, and even many crime lords, will not 
intentionally cross Rav without due cause. A few even contract their bounties 
through him, for an additional fee, of course. 

Rav is massive and a very strong. Early in his pirate career, he lost the 
lower part of his right leg fighting with a rival. As usual, Rav came out on top, 
killing his opponent in the fight. His lost leg was replaced with a cybernetic 
attachment resembling a mechanical clawed talon. He lost his left eye in 


ix BeSsiacvHd 


J 
i 
0) 
U 
2 
z 
@ 
W 


FeONIH2) SAL 


a boarding action. This he replaced with a cybernetic implant that appears 
to be a diseased or damaged eye, leaving his opponents to believe that his 
eyesight is diminished on that side. The eye is further highlighted by a pale 
X-shaped tattoo center directly on it. As is the case with all of his pirates, 
Rav sports a scar-covered Bloody Bones tattoo on his left shoulder. 

Rav deals with nearly anyone, especially those he can exert control over. 
He has contacts at the highest levels of the Sith Empire—including Darth 
Maladi and Moff Nyna Calixte—mainly to deal with the ever-increasing 
bounty on Cade Skywalker, one of Rav's former crewmen. Rav remains at odds 
with his ex-crewman, but if he can make some credits off of him, so be it. 


Rav CL 12 

Medium Feeorin noble 5/scoundrel 3/crime lord 4 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 14 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +18 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Feeorin, Gamorrean, Huttese, Rodese, 
Ryl, Shyriiwook d 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 24), Fort 25, Will 29 

hp 73; Threshold 30 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d6+8) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +9 (3d8+6) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Ignite Fervor, Inspire Confidence, 
Inspire Fear I, Knack, Notorious 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 16 

Special Qualities brutal, command cover +2, inborn resilience 

Talents Bolster Ally, Ignite Fervor, Inspire Confidence, Inspire Fear |, 
Inspire Fear Il, Inspire Fear Ill, Knack, Notorious 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Damage Threshold, Linguist, 
Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, 
Perception, Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +14, Initiative +13, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +13, Perception +18, Persuasion +19, Pilot +13, 
Use Computer +13 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, prosthetic leg, cybernetic eye (low-light 
vision), encrypted datapad, encrypted comlink, credit chips, death sticks 


Rik's CANTINA 

Rik's Cantina is a well-known Coruscant underworld bar and meeting place, 
Located near the government districts, Rik's is hidden deep in the lower levels 
of the city-planet. Even approaching the dive is dangerous, especially if one 
takes a route through the failed Yuuzhan Vong terraforming areas, where 
the Vongspawn survivors eke out a meager existence (see page 217). Even 
close to the cantina, those traveling alone or who appear to be weak become 
targets for local gangs and thugs looking for a quick score of credits. 

Despite its rough neighborhood, or perhaps because of it, Rik's is very 
popular. Virtually any drink or other recreational activity can be found here, 
for a price. While that alone would make the place popular locally, what 
really draws offworlders is the quality of the information trade and excellent 
connections that can be found here. It is also well known that fighting is not 
allowed, making it a safe place to talk, unlike the surrounding area. 

The cantina's owner, a Hutt named Queen Jool, makes this all possible, 
She facilitates much of the information trade herself. She takes every oppor- 
tunity to obtain new information, whether that means gathering it through 
spies, exchanging it for other information, or simply bargaining for it. Any 
information she obtains goes into her extensive database. Even when she's 
not actually in the cantina itself, Queen Jool is usually available, as she lives 
in a swamp situated under the premises. 


QUEEN JOOL 

Queen Jool is the current owner of Rik's Cantina, a cantina in the lowest 
levels of Coruscant. It's a sign of how different times are in this era, that a 
Hutt can live—and would want to live—on Coruscant. Her highly effective 
information brokerage service is powered by a massive database, where she 
keeps all of the information she gathers from her customers and contacts. 
She readily and easily accesses her database through a cybernetic implant 
that replaces her left eye, which she lost years ago to a disgruntled client. 
Her trademark bejeweled implant reflects her self-selected name. 

Queen Jool is reputed to be an honest broker. She knows her information 
must be reliable and she must be sincere to keep the customers coming in, 
and, more importantly, keep them willing to pay her. Her vast database also 
ensures a lot of repeat business. She carefully guards its physical location, 
and its security protocols are extensive. Customized hardware is required to 
access and decrypt its transmissions. 

Queen Jool is quite happy to facilitate meetings, but limits her direct 
involvement in her customers’ business in order to remain something of 
a neutral third party. However, she does have her favorites, for whom she 
is willing to go the extra mile. Ever the eager hostess, she makes sure that 
many of her customers believe that they are among her favorites, whether 
or not they actually are. 


QUEEN Joo. 


Queen Jool CL 9 
Large Hutt noble 3/scoundrel 3/scout 3 
Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 3 
Init +3; Senses Perception +16 (may reroll) 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothese, High Galactic, Huttese, Shyriiwook 
Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 19), Fort 22, Will 24 (+5 when opposing 
Use the Force checks); supreme stability 
hp 58; Threshold 32 


Speed 2 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d6+5) 

Ranged by weapon +5 

Base Atk +6; Grp +12 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 
Special Actions Gimmick, Knack 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 8, Con 13, Int 13, Wis 15, Cha 12 
Talents Acute Senses, Connections, Educated, Gimmick, Knack, 
Social Engineering 


Feats Improved Defenses, Improved Damage Threshold, Linguist, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Gather Information, Knowledge 
[galactic lore], Perception, Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Gather Information +14, Knowledge (galactic lore) 
+15, Knowledge (social sciences) +10, Perception +16 (may reroll), 
Persuasion +15 (may reroll, keeping the better result), Stealth -2, 
Use Computer +15 

Possessions cybernetic eye (computer link to private database), comlink 


WdAK 

Jak is Queen Jool's personal bodyguard and an enforcer for Rik's Cantina. The 
Nautolan is completely loyal to the Hutt and is such a fixture in the cantina 
that those who deal with Queen Jool regularly almost forget he's there, 
observing and working in the background. At her command, he deals with any 
threat or anyone causing her trouble, usually by tossing them unceremoni- 
ously out the front door of the cantina. Jak is strong but silent, quite willing 
to play the part of hired muscle who's paid not to think too much. His first 
priority is protecting Jool, so he keeps a watchful eye over the entire room, 
especially when unfamiliar clients are present. 


Jak CL6 
Medium Nautolan soldier 6 

Force 3; Dark Side 3 

Init +14; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Nautolan 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 21, Will 18 
hp 64; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +10 

Atk Options Pin, Throw 

Special Actions Draw Fire, Harm's Way 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 9, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Expert Grappler, Draw Fire, Harm's Way 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Defenses, 
Martial Arts I, Pin, Skill Focus (Initiative, Perception), Throw, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +14, Perception +14, Use Computer +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink 


ix HeSsicvHga 


FeOnwihd SAL 


FINN 

Finn is the head bartender and chief enforcer of Rik's Cantina, though most 
newcomers would hardly believe so. Finn is aloof, seemingly detached, and 
often appears unfazed by anything that happens in the cantina. Despite his 
demeanor, Finn is a skilled bouncer and brawler. He defends the place effi- 
ciently, and often in subtle ways. More than one disruptive guest has found 
that the "free drink" Finn offered up to quell an ugly situation turned out to 
contain a tranquilizer or similar additive. Finn is equally capable of taking 
down a troublemaker with his blaster or even his bare hands, remaining calm 
and collected all the while. 


Finn CL5 

Medium Sakiyan scoundrel 4 

Force 2; Dark Side 1 

Init +8; Senses darkvision; Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Sakiyan 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 14, Will 16 

hp 29; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d6+2) or 

Melee stun baton +3 (2d6+2 stun) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +5 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Pin 

Special Actions Sneak Attack, Walk the Line 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Talents Sneak Attack, Walk the Line 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Martial Arts |, Pin, Weapon Focus 
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +8, Gather Information +8, Initiative +8, Perception +8, 
Persuasion +8 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, comlink, tranquilizer drops (1d20+5 
vs. Fortitude Defense; on a hit, the target moves -1 step down the 
condition track; make a new attack roll each round until the target is 
cured with DC 20 Treat Injury check). 


THE WHEEL 

The Wheel is a massive space station located in the Besh Gorgon system, in 
the Mid Rim. True to its name, the station is ring-shaped, with four spokes 
meeting a long, towerlike section piercing its center. A variety of docking 
ports and hangar bays are scattered around the ring and the central tower, 
allowing freighters and shuttles of all sizes and arrangements to dock 
without difficulty. 

Large sections of The Wheel have been modified and rebuilt over the 
years, sometimes greatly changing its appearance, but keeping its familiar 
silhouette essentially the same. The orientation of decks, hangars, and towers 
are often at 90 degrees to adjacent structures, requiring gravity adjustment 
Zones to allow the inhabitants to move from one section to another without 
difficulty. This is usually accomplished through the use of turbolifts that 
rotate to change orientation without disturbing the passengers, but some 
creatively configured hallways and ladders accomplish the same thing. 


The Wheel has remained neutral territory through the Clone Wars, the 
Rebellion era, and the recent wars between the Empire, the Galactic Alliance, 
and Emperor Fel's forces. Thanks to its isolated location, The Wheel even 
managed to escape permanent damage during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion 
and often served as a safe transfer point for refugee starships. 

The Wheel maintains its neutrality through whatever means necessary, 
including excessive tax payments, bribes, treaties, kickbacks, and even 
military force on occasion. While galactic governments occasionally take an 
interest in the station, it is usually for monetary reasons rather than military 
ones. In fact, since the defeat of Palpatine's Empire, no government has had 
the political will to bring The Wheel under its control. 

The Wheel is best known for its many casinos and entertainment facili- 
ties. The most popular establishments are currently the Golden Star casino 
and Toran's Resort and Retreat. Beings from across the galaxy come to The 
Wheel for its exotic entertainment as well as to escape the rigorous laws 
and restrictions of the larger galactic governments. In fact, crime lords, 
entrepreneurs, and even major governments use The Wheel as a neutral 
stage for sensitive negotiations. 

Visitors to the station find more than just entertainment, however. The 
Wheel features complete starship services capable of repairing anything up 
to a Colossal (frigate) capital ship. Modifications to most systems is also 
available, although in order to preserve its neutrality, The Wheel may offi- 
cially refuse to carry out extremely dangerous or threatening upgrades. In 
reality, it is not difficult to find a tech willing to overlook such restrictions, 
for the right amount of credits. Basic supplies and a wide selection of exotic 
goods are available on the market decks. Many items that are considered 
illegal elsewhere can be found here, though the most rare, incriminating, or 
dangerous items will not be found displayed in the markets. 

Pol Temm currently owns the station. In keeping with the station's strict 
goal of neutrality, he disallows weapons and fighting while onboard. In theory, 
only his own security forces and other authorized personnel are allowed to be 
armed. In fact, it is common practice for visitors to find ways of smuggling 
their own weapons aboard, often in pieces. Given the station's underworld 
culture, those determined to obtain weapons can usually do so. 

Individuals who break the station's rules are dealt with quickly and 
harshly. Most are simply tossed back aboard their ships and ordered to leave 
the system immediately, with an armed escort. Those causing significant 
trouble might be shown the closest airlock instead. Most troublemakers are 
also banned from returning, although it's fairly easy to slip back on board 
in disguise. 


The Wheel has an impressive array of weapons and shielding to protect 
itself from local pirates and even small military fleets. Four full squadrons 
of starfighters and 20 gunships and frigates provide further military support 
and regional patrol capabilities. These craft also escort important vessels, 
particularly those contracted with the station. 


The Wheel 

Colossal (station) space station 

Init -9; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 73; +15 armor 

hp 2,900; DR 20; SR 250; Threshold 573 

Speed fly 0 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 10 turbolaser batteries +17* (see below) and 
8 point-defense laser cannon batteries +15 (see below) and 
10 ion cannon batteries +17* (see below) and 
10 tractor beam batteries +13* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +85 

Atk Options autofire (point-defense laser cannon batteries) 

Abilities Str 136, Dex 0, Con —, Int 20 

Skills Initiative -9, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -9, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 10,000 (skilled); Passengers 15,000 

Cargo 150,000 tons; Consumables 5 years; Carried Craft 48 starfighters, 
various support and visiting craft 

Availability Unique; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


CL. 19 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 


Point-defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


lon cannon battery (6 gunners) 


Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 ion 


Tractor beam battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +85) 


Sonim.) SMA, 


eaaneaet 


PgeoNiHe) FAL 3 : 


Pol Temm 

Pol Temm is the current owner and administrator of The Wheel. He is one 
of the few beings to have lived most of his life on the station, giving him 
a vested interest in its continued existence. Pol has served The Wheel in 
many capacities over the years. He worked as a dealer and bouncer in the 
casinos, held security positions, served aboard the station's patrol ships, and 
eventually worked his way into the management and command structure. 
When some vengeful pirates had the previous owner assassinated during the 
Sith-Imperial War, Pol activated a long developed plan to transfer ownership 
of the station to himself. Few questioned the move, as he was the second- 
in-command at the time, and his reputation was above any suggestion that 
he might be involved in the death of his friend and predecessor. 

Though he regards himself as generally honest, Pol knows the type of cli- 
entele that typically visits the station. While he prefers to take the high road 
whenever possible, ultimately he does what is needed to protect the station 
and its neutrality. He is strong willed, highly confident, and popular among 
the station's inhabitants and security forces. He is a skilled negotiator, but 
willing to use a heavy hand when necessary to preserve The Wheel's security 
and reputation. His able leadership has caused a resurgence in the station's 
popularity, and thus improved its financial fortunes as well. 

As a Kel Dor, Pol Temm must wear a mask throughout most of the station. 
However, his own personal quarters, as well as certain entertainment areas, 
have been specially modified to cater to the specific needs of the Kel Dor. In 
fact, Pol has expanded the areas that cater to specific non-oxygen breathing 
species from other parts the galaxy. 
Pol Temm CL 13 
Medium Kel Dor noble 10/crime lord 3 
Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 2 
Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +19 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, Huttese, Kel Dor, Mon Calamari 
Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 26), Fort 25, Will 31 
hp 76; Threshold 25 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+6) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +10 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Demand Surrender, Impel Ally |, Inspire Confidence, 

Inspire Haste, Inspire Fear, Presence 
Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 15, Wis 17, Cha 17 
Special Qualities command cover +1 
Talents Connections, Demand Surrender, Impel Ally |, Impel Ally Il, 

Inspire Confidence, Inspire Haste, Inspire Fear |, Presence 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Perception, Persuasion), Skill Training 
(Deception, Initiative, Mechanics), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Gather Information +14, Initiative +12, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, Mechanics +13, 
Perception +19, Persuasion +19, Pilot +12, Treat Injury +14, 

Use Computer +13 

Possessions blaster pistol, encrypted comlink, encrypted datapad, Kel Dor 

antiox breath mask and goggles 


Wheel Security 

The Wheel's security forces are well-paid, highly trained, and effective. 
Beings from virtually any species are hired to serve aboard the station or 
its auxiliary patrol ships. The Wheel's security forces are loyal, for the most 
part. While a few can be bought off or corrupted, they typically don't last 
very long before the committed security forces arrest them or toss them out 
the airlock. Security attempts to deal with incidents in a nonlethal manner, 
as the current administrator prefers to deport and ban troublemakers rather 
than imprison or kill them. 


Wheel Security CL7 

Medium Human nonheroic 8/soldier 3/elite trooper 1 

Force 3; Dark Side 1 

Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 22, Will 14 

hp 55; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +12 (1d6+5) or 

Melee stun baton +12 (2d6+4 stun) or 

Melee vibroblade +12 (2d6+4) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +12 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +13 (3d8+4, devastating attack) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +10/+10 (3d8+4, devastating attack) with Double 
Attack 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Double Attack (rifles), Point Blank Shot, Running Attack" 

Special Actions Devastating Attack (rifles) 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Devastating Attack (rifles), Weapon Specialization, Multiattack 
Proficiency (rifles) 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack (rifles), 
Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack", Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, rifles, pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12", Perception +12, Stealth +12 

Possessions battle armor with helmet package (low-light vision), blaster 
rifle, heavy blaster pistol, vibroblade, stun baton, combat gloves 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


Wheel Thug 

The Wheel's popularity among underworld figures and fringe society also 
makes it a prime target for petty criminals. In a station as massive as The 
Wheel, small gangs can exert some control and carry out petty crimes in 
less secure zones without attracting undue attention. 


Wheel Thug CL 4 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/soldier 3 

Force 1; Dark Side 3 

Init +9; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 17, Will 12 

hp 36; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d8+2) or 

Melee vibroblade +6 (2d6+2) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8+1) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot", Squad Superiority 

Special Actions Pin, Squad Fighter 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Talents Squad Fighter, Squad Superiority 

Feats Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Pin, Point Blank Shot", Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Perception +7" 

Possessions combat jumpsuit, heavy blaster pistol, vibroblade 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


OTHER FRINGE 
PERSONALITIES 


The fringe is home to many noteworthy individuals who don't fall into clearly 
definable roles or organizations. 


“BANTHA"™ RAWK 

Once a Jedi named Nat Skywalker who left the Jedi Order, "Bantha” Rawk is 
a chief mechanic at the Selonian shipyards in the Corellia system. A large, 
tough Human, Bantha is better known for his side business: creating custom 
weaponry for those with credits to spare. His handiwork is carried by some 
of the finest bounty hunters in the galaxy, and includes Cade Skywalker's 
distinctive double-barreled blaster carbine. 

Bantha operates out of his own compound, called Rawk’s Nest, on the planet 
of lego (see page 108). It's largely a family-run operation, and much like Bantha 
himself, his family is boisterous and opinionated. He is married to Droo, has a 
teenage daughter named Ahnah, a teenage son named Skeeto, and an adopted 
son named Micah. Rawk's clan is a match for local threats and can protect itself 
even from the likes of large criminal organizations such as Black Sun. 


NAT SKYWALKER, AKA “BANTHA RAWK" 


ix BesicvHs 


FeNWiH2 AdAA 


ix HSicdvVHS 


| 
iG 
W 
P) 
a 
2 
9 
W 


"Bantha” Rawk CL 8 
Medium Human scoundrel 8 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +5; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 19, Will 20 

hp 51; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +8 (2d6+6) 

Ranged modified blaster pistol +7 (3d6+6) or 

Ranged modified blaster pistol +5 (4d6+6) with Deadeye or Rapid Shot or 
Ranged modified blaster carbine +7 (3d8+6) or 

Ranged modified blaster carbine +5 (4d8+6) with Deadeye or Rapid Shot 
Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Disruptive, Knack, Lucky Shot, Trace 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 11 

Talents Disruptive, Knack, Lucky Shot, Trace 

Feats Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus 
(Mechanics), Tech Specialist, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Knowledge (technology) +11, Mechanics +16, 
Perception +10, Persuasion +9, Pilot +10, Use Computer +11 

Possessions modified blaster pistol (+2 equipment bonus to damage), 
modified blaster carbine (+2 equipment bonus to damage), comlink 


CADE SKYWALKER 

Cade is the last of the Skywalkers, and like his predecessors, the Force is 
strong in him. And, like many of them, he struggles to find his way between 
the dark side and the light side. 

Temperamental and often selfish, Cade tries to suppress and forget his 
lineage after the Ossus massacre. After losing his father, Kol Skywalker, 
Cade uses an extraordinary healing power that taps into the dark side of the 
Force to save his dying Master, Wolf Sazen. Fearing the temptation of the 
dark side, Cade abandons the Jedi way and, through necessity, falls in with 
a pirate gang that rescues him after his ship is destroyed in space. Cade, 
pretending to be a fellow scavenger, proves his worth by helping the pirates 
sack the ruined Jedi Academy on Ossus. Cade becomes an enthusiastic and 
effective bounty hunter in the years that follow, working alongside his on- 
and-off lover Deliah Blue and long-time friend Jariah Syn out of his ship, 
the Mynock (see page 219). 


CADE SKYWALKER 


Cade soon discovers that the Skywalker legacy is not so easily cast 
aside, as the remaining Jedi and the new Sith take interest in his lineage 
and abilities. After battles with Darth Nihl and Darth Talon, Cade quickly 
concludes that he needs to return to his Jedi training, if nothing else than 
for self-defense. His old Master, Wolf Sazen, agrees to restart his training 
in the ruins of the Ossus academy. The training exposes Cade's tormented 
psyche and age-old fears. 

In an effort to right a previous wrong, Cade abandons his training once 
again in order to save Hosk Trey'lis from the Sith. However, the Sith are 
waiting for him, and Cade is captured in the Sith Temple on Coruscant. For 
a time, he pretends to go along with Darth Krayt's teachings, learning much 
about the Sith Lord, his enemies, and even his own unusual healing abilities. 
Ultimately, Cade is unable to save Hosk from Darth Krayt, but he escapes 
the Sith Temple with help from a mother he didn't know existed, and his 
mostly loyal friends. 

With each new experience and exploit, Cade becomes less the selfish, 
credit-hungry bounty hunter and more the respectful crusader, determined to 
settle old debts. However, given his personality and past, it is a sure bet that 
his future will remain unsettled and dangerous for a long time to come. 


Cade Skywalker CL 11 

Medium Human Jedi 3/scout 5/soldier 1/bounty hunter 2 

Destiny 2; Force 5, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 4 

Init +13; Senses Perception +11 (may reroll) 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 25), Fort 27, Will 24 

hp 115; Threshold 27 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+6) or 

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+6) 

Ranged modified double-barreled blaster carbine +11 (3d8+7) or 

Ranged modified double-barreled blaster carbine +6/+6 (3d8+7) with 
Double Attack 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Double Attack (rifles) 

Special Actions Acute Senses, Block, Deflect, Hunter's Mark, 
Power of the Dark Side : 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +12): dark transfer, Force disarm, 
Force thrust, move object 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 18, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Special Qualities familiar foe +1 

Talents Acute Senses, Block, Armored Defense, Deflect, Hunter's Mark, 
Improved Initiative, Power of the Dark Side 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Double Attack (rifles), Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (2), Martial Arts |, Skill Training (Survival), Strong in the 
Force, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, 
pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +11, Initiative +11, Perception +10, Pilot +11, 
Survival +10, Use the Force +11 

Possessions blast vest, Kol Skywalker's lightsaber, modified double- 
barreled blaster carbine (no stock), data chips 


CHAK 

Chak is the Wookiee captain of the Grinning Liar, a smuggling ship of note 
in some circles (see page 219 for the ship's statistics). These days, he works 
with a young Devaronian named Kee (see page 213). Chak has been around 
long enough to remember the Clone Wars and the subsequent enslavement 
of the Wookiees. He ran some legitimate supply runs to the Jedi Academy 
on Ossus, in the years before its destruction. Chak is unafraid of taking risks, 
particularly when the pay is good or he has a vested personal interest. He is 
known as a fiercely loyal friend, and an equally ferocious enemy. 


Chak cL8 
Medium Wookiee scoundrel 5/scout 3 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 1 

Init +6; Senses Perception +10 (may reroll) 
Languages Basic (understand only), Shyriiwook 


KEE AND CHAK 


pe 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 20, Will 20 

hp 54; Threshold 20; extraordinary recuperation 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d6+7) 

Ranged hunting blaster carbine +8 (3d8+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Trip, Throw 

Special Actions Acute Senses, Hyperdriven, Mobility, Skirmisher, 
Vehicular Combat 


Abilities Str 17, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 12, Cha 9 

Special Qualities rage 1/day 

Talents Acute Senses, Hyperdriven, Skirmisher 

Feats Martial Arts |, Mobility, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Throw, 
Trip, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Climb +7 (may take 10 when distracted or threatened), 
Deception +8, Mechanics +9, Perception +10 (may reroll), 
Persuasion +3 (may reroll when intimidating), Pilot +11, 

Use Computer +9 
Possessions hunting blaster carbine, comlink 


ix HSicgvHa 


FON) SAL 


CHOKA SKELL 
Choka Skell is a Yuuzhan Vong warrior and the fierce protector of a shaper named 
Nei Rin (see page 215). Choka and his fellow Yuuzhan Vong are offworld when 
the Sith attack and destroyed the Jedi Temple on Ossus. Choka dutifully follows 
Nei Rin's orders to preserve and protect what little remains. More importantly, 
the proud warrior stays at Nei Rin's side when she decides to remain on Ossus 
to further investigate the Sith sabotage of the Yuuzhan Vong coral seeds. 
Choka Skell is completely dedicated to the task of protecting the shaper 
and following her orders. While the protection of the Jedi artifacts on 
Ossus is important, to Choka it is secondary to Nei Rin's survival. Choka 
served on Ossus long enough to regard the Jedi as fellow warriors, worthy 
of respect in life and death. However, he remains as dedicated and violent 
as any Yuuzhan Vong warrior of the past. He has a particular hatred for 
the pirates who ransacked the Jedi Temple, second only to that of the Sith 
attackers themselves. 


Choka Skell CL7 

Medium Yuuzhan Vong soldier 7 

Destiny 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Yuuzhan Vong 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 21), Fort 25, Will 16 

hp 70; Threshold 25 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee amphistaff (quarterstaff form) +10 (1d6+7, devastating attack) or 

Melee amphistaff (quarterstaff form) +5/+5 (1d6+7, devastating attack) 
with Dual Weapon Mastery | or 

Melee amphistaff (spear form) +10 (1d8+7, devastating attack, and if 
the attack roll also exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the target 
moves -1 persistent step down condition track) or 

Melee amphistaff (whip form, reach 2 squares) +10 (1d4+7, devastating 
attack, and if the attack roll also exceeds the target's Fortitude 
Defense, the target moves -1 persistent step down condition track; 
the target may be tripped or pinned instead of attacked for damage) 

Ranged amphistaff (spear form) +9 (1d8+5, devastating attack, and if 
the attack roll also exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the target 
moves -1 persistent step down condition track) or 

Ranged razor bug +8 (2d8+3) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Pin, Powerful Charge, Running Attack 

Special Actions Devastating Attack (amphistaff) 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 8, Cha 8 

Special Qualities Force immunity, technophobic 

Talents Armored Defense, Improved Armored Defense, Devastating Attack 
(amphistaff), Weapon Specialization (amphistaff) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery |, 
Martial Arts |, Running Attack, Pin, Powerful Charge, Weapon Focus 
(amphistaff), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +10, Initiative +9, Jump +10, Perception +7 

Possessions vonduun crab-shell armor, amphistaff, 4 razor bugs 


DELIAH BLUE 

Deliah Blue is Cade Skywalker's Zeltron mechanic, fellow bounty hunter, and 
sometimes lover. The Zeltrons are known for their hedonistic and fun-loving 
ways, and while Deliah is no exception, she is more adventurous than many. 
She uses her natural empathic abilities to her advantage, whether chasing 
a bounty or chasing Cade. Deliah is a decent gunner and pilot, but she's an 
exceptional mechanic, well known for her skill in keeping Cade's troublesome 
ship, the Mynock, flying. 

Deliah, Cade, and Jariah Syn 
work as a bounty hunting team 
until Cade feels compelled to 
pursue his own path after 
encountering the Sith and 
the Jedi. Deliah continues 
to work with Jariah, 
but her true loyalty is 
to Cade. 


€ 


Deliah Blue CLS 

Medium female Zeltron scout 4/scoundrel 5 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 1 

Init +6 (may reroll); Senses Perception +10 (may reroll) 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 21, Will 22; Dodge 

hp 60; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged bluebolt blaster pistol +9 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged bluebolt blaster pistol +9 (4d8+4) with Deadeye or 

Ranged concealed dart launcher +8 (3d8+4 stun) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Deadeye, Keen Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Running Attack 

Special Actions Acute Senses, Dodge, Hyperdriven, Spacehound, 
Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 17 

Special Qualities empathy, pheromones 

Talents Acute Senses, Hyperdriven, Keen Shot, Seducer, Spacehound 

Feats Deadeye, Dodge, Exotic Weapon Proficiency (concealed dart 
launcher), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus 
(Mechanics, Persuasion), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +12, Mechanics +16, Perception +10, Persuasion +17, 
Pilot +11, Use Computer +11 

Possessions bluebolt blaster pistol, concealed dart launcher, tool kit, 
comlink 


HAAKO 

Haako is a longtime inhabitant of The Wheel (see page 204) and very knowl- 
edgeable about those who come and go aboard the station. Credits easily 
buy the Chadra-Fan's primitive surveillance services and temporary loyalty. 
He is not especially bright, but his employers find that his enthusiasm and 
observational skills enable him to succeed at the lesser tasks they assign 
to him. Haako is always looking for his next payment, so he keeps careful 
track of who boards the station and when, so that he might reconnect with 
former employers with credits to spare for his services. He often finds that 
this information is also useful to other visitors, and thus his own pocketbook. 
Jor Torlin, a Sith agent, occasionally uses Haako's eyes and ears to keep 
abreast of visitors to The Wheel. 


Haako CL 2 
Small Chadra-Fan scout 3 

Force 1; Dark Side 1 

Init +6; Senses darkvision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Chadra-Fan 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 13, Will 14 

hp 30; Threshold 13 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d3-1) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +2 (3d4+1) 

Base Atk +2; Grp -3 

Special Actions Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth, Quick Draw 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 8, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth 

Feats Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Perception, Stealth), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +5, Initiative +6, Knowledge (social sciences) +11, 
Perception +12, Stealth +16 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, comlink, credit chip, datapad 


New SPECIES: CHADRA-FAN 
Chadra-Fan are small humanoids with flat faces, round dark eyes, large 
ears, and flat noses. Their entire bodies, except for their oversized hands, 
are covered in fur. 

Chadra-Fan are compulsive tinkerers. Any mechanical device left 
within reach has the potential to be disassembled and reconstructed. 
Exuberant in the extreme, they like virtually everyone they meet. It takes 
quite a lot of abuse to curtail or obliterate their cheery disposition. They 
don’t survive well on their own and constantly seek companionship. 


Chadra-Fan Species Traits 
All Chadra-Fan share the following traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Wisdom, +2 Charisma. 

Small Size: As Small creatures, Chadra-Fan gain a +1 size bonus to 
their Reflex Defense and a +5 size bonus on Stealth checks. However, 
their lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of Medium 
characters. 

Speed: 4 squares. 

Darkvision: Chadra-Fan ignore concealment (including total con- 
cealment) from darkness. However, they cannot perceive colors in total 
darkness. 

Tinkerer: A Chadra-Fan may reroll any Mechanics check, but the 
result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. Whenever a 
Chadra-Fan repairs or jury-rigs a droid or device with a Mechanics check, 
the droid or device regains an additional 1d8 hit points. Additionally, 
Mechanics is always a class skill for a Chadra-Fan. 

Languages: Basic and Chadra-Fan. 


Senne) OMt, 


i 10 
; 
|b 
v 
=f 
0). 
Be 
|k 


iX HS42c0dcVHS 


FeONIH2 FAL 


HYARIAH SYN 


wdARIAH SYN 

Jariah Syn is a pirate and bounty hunter through and through. He looks 
after Number One—himself—first in all situations. Despite this attitude, 
he occasionally discounts his self-centered nature to take advantage of a 
given situation, or simply for survival. He is extremely cynical and places 
pragmatism above all else, including loyalty. As a bounty hunter, he prefers 
to take his quarry in the easiest way, even if it means killing his target, if the 
pay is the same. Such attitudes often put him at odds with his companions, 
usually Deliah Blue and Cade Skywalker. 

Jariah is a longtime friend of Cade, since the day the young Skywalker 
was first brought aboard the Crimson Axe after his near fatal battle with 
Imperial fighters over Ossus. Jariah perceives him from the outset as a kindred 
spirit and likely ally. Jariah convinces the pirate captain Rav to spare Cade, 
at least long enough for Cade to lead the gang safely through the destroyed 
Jedi Temple to ransack the place. 


Jariah and Cade continue to work together even after leaving Rav's service 
and striking out on their own as bounty hunters. Though he dislikes Cade's 
leadership, Jariah is loyal until he discovers Cade's Jedi past. Jariah has a 
long-standing hatred of the Jedi, as one was responsible for the death of 
his father. After this revelation, Jariah's loyalty to Cade remains uncertain at 
best, despite the fact that each has risked much to save the other. Jariah is a 
competent pilot, serving as copilot aboard Cade's starship, the Mynock. 

Jariah is an expert in illegal weaponry and manipulating Yuuzhan Vong 
biotechnology—skills he picked up while serving aboard the Crimson Axe, 
from with a Yuuzhan Vong crew member. He also picked up a bad gambling 
habit that rarely serves him well. 


Jariah Syn CL9 

Medium Human scout 5/scoundrel 2/bounty hunter 2 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 4 

Init +11; Senses Perception +9 (may reroll) 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 23), Fort 22, Will 20; Evasion 

hp 69; Threshold 22] 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+5) 

Ranged sporting blaster carbine +9 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged sporting blaster carbine +7 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged thud bug +8 (2d8+4 or 2d8+4 stun) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Hunter's Mark, Keen Shot, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Special Qualities familiar foe +1 

Talents Acute Senses, Evasion, Gambler, Hunter's Mark, Keen Shot 

Feats Biotech Specialist, Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +10, Initiative +11, Knowledge (social sciences) +10, 
Mechanics +15, Perception +9 (may reroll), Pilot +11, Stealth +11 

Possessions sporting blaster carbine, blaster pistol, 2 thud bugs, comlink, 
tool kit, utility belt, binder cuffs, mesh tape, credit chip 


aOR TORLIN 


WOR TORLIN 
Jor Torlin isa Human Sith spy who does the Empire's bidding in exchange for 
handsome fees. Having received rudimentary Force training in his youth, Jor 
Torlin uses what little he knows of the Force, specifically the dark side, to aid 
him in his assignments. Typically, Torlin is assigned to tasks that require him 
to locate individuals, making him something of a bounty hunter. However, 
typically he is only required to locate these individuals and then report back 
to his Sith superiors (often directly to Darth Maladi), rarely getting involved 
in the capture of targets. Torlin has spent many years chasing individuals 
around the darkest, dirtiest, and most dangerous corners of the galaxy, from 
Nar Shaddaa to the Wheel, and he knows how to handle himself even when 
the odds are against him. 

Jor Torlin's ship is a Gladius-class light freighter (see page 86) called 
the Raider. 


Jor Torlin CL 11 

Medium Human scoundrel 5/scout 3/bounty hunter 3 

Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 14 

Init +8 (can reroll, must take second result); Senses Perception +7 
(can reroll, must take second result) 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 25), Fort 26, Will 24 

hp 95; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d6+6) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +15 (3d10+5) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +13 (4d10+5) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Special Qualities familiar foe +1 

Talents Acute Senses, Dark Preservation, Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target, 
Improved Initiative, Knack, Power of the Dark Side 

Feats Careful Shot, Force Sensitivity, Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Training (Survival), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +9, Initiative +8 (can reroll, must 
take second result), Mechanics +10, Perception +7 (can reroll, must 
take second result), Pilot +13, Survival +12, Use the Force +9 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle, comlink, datapad 


KEE 

Kee is a loyal friend to the Wookiee smuggler captain Chak (see page 209). 
She serves as copilot and mechanic aboard his ship, the Grinning Liar. A highly 
skilled tech, she has some ability to manipulate Yuuzhan Vong biotechnology. 
Kee likes to break the rules and buck the system. It is unusual for female 
Devaronians to travel the galaxy, looking for adventure. Kee's sharp tongue 
and somewhat abrasive attitude often get her into trouble, but she usually 
has Chak around to bail her out. 


ix HSLavHoS 


¢] 
i 
W 
Y 
w 
z 
@ 
W 


ix HSidvHS 


2BOowih2d) 9SHL 


Kee CL 3 
Medium Devaronian scoundrel 3 

Force 1 

Init +6; Senses Perception +2 

Languages Basic, Devaronese 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 12, Will 16 
hp 22; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (144-1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +2 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +2 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 


New SPECIES: DEVARONIAN 
Devaronians hail from the planet Devaron. They are among the first 
species to develop interstellar travel, and the males of the species are 
common sights in spaceports throughout the galaxy. Female Devaronians, 
on the other hand, are usually content to remain in a single location, 
raise their young, and run the government of Devaron. 

Devaronian males are hairless with red-tinted skin, sharp incisors, and 
a pair of large horns growing from their foreheads. Their appearance is not 
unlike the devils of a thousand myths. Female Devaronians are covered in 
thick fur that ranges in color from brown to white. Females are hornless 
and have prominent canine teeth. Males are bold, daring, bull-headed, 
rash, terse, unscrupulous, and stingy with their credits. They love being 
the masters of their own destinies. Females are generally bright, wise, 
scrupulous, and sharp-tongued. 


Devaronian Species Traits 
All Devaronians share the following traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma (for males) 
or +2 Intelligence, +2 Wisdom, -2 Dexterity (for females). 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Devaronians have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Devaronians are master manipulators. A 
Devaronian with Deception as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Decep- 
tion) as a bonus feat. 

Natural Curiosity: Once per encounter as a standard action, a 
Devaronian can make a Perception check against a single target within 
its line of sight (DC 15 or the result of an opposed Stealth check, if the 
target is actively attempting to hide). If successful, the Devaronian gains 
a +1 insight bonus on attack rolls against that target. 

Languages: Basic and Devaronese. 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 8, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities natural curiosity 

Talents Biotech Mastery, Spacehound 

Feats Biotech Specialist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, 
Mechanics), Tech Specialist, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Knowledge (technology) +8, Mechanics +11, Pilot 
+6, Stealth +6, Use Computer +8 

Possessions blaster pistol, tool kit, comlink, utility belt 


LIAAN LAH 

Liaan Lah is a Yuuzhan Vong warrior and the somewhat less experienced 
bodyguard of the shaper Nei Rin (see page 215). Like Choka Skell (see page 
210), Liaan is dedicated to Nei Rin and remains with her when the shaper 
decides to stay on Ossus after the Jedi Temple is attacked by the Sith. Liaan 
holds the Jedi in highest regard and believes their legacy—their surviving 
artifacts—to be worth protecting even though it forces the Yuuzhan Vong 
to remain in hiding on Ossus. 


Liaan Lah CL6 

Medium Yuuzhan Vong soldier 6 

Destiny 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Yuuzhan Vong 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 23, Will 15; Dodge 

hp 58; Threshold 23 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee amphistaff (quarterstaff form) +9 (1d6+7) or 

Melee amphistaff (quarterstaff form) +9 (2d6+7) with Mighty Swing or 

Melee amphistaff (quarterstaff form) +4/+4 (1d6+7) with Dual Weapon 
Mastery | or 

Melee amphistaff (spear form) +9 (1d8+/7, if the attack roll also exceeds 
the target's Fortitude Defense, the target moves -1 persistent step 
down condition track) or 

Melee amphistaff (whip form, reach 2 squares) +9 (1d4+7, if the attack 
roll also exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the target moves -1 
persistent step down condition track; the target may be tripped or 
pinned instead of attacked for damage) 

Ranged amphistaff (spear form) +8 (1d8+5, if the attack roll also exceeds 
the target's Fortitude Defense, the target moves -1 persistent step 
down condition track) or 

Ranged razor bug +8 (2d8+3) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Mighty Swing, Running Attack 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 8, Cha 8 

Special Qualities Force immunity, technophobic 

Talents Armored Defense, Improved Armored Defense, Harm's Way, 
Weapon Specialization (amphistaff) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dodge, Dual Weapon 
Mastery I, Martial Arts |, Running Attack, Mighty Swing, Weapon 
Focus (amphistaff), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +10, Initiative +9, Jump +10, Perception +7 

Possessions vonduun crabshell armor, amphistaff, 4 razor bugs 


NAxy SCREEGER 

Naxy Screeger is an irritating Sakiyan gambler, short on cash but long on 

excuses. The talkative fringer always has something to say, whether it is an 

excuse, minor threat, or bungled insult. Just about anyone who knows Naxy 

also knows someone he owes money to. His grasp of Basic is tenuous, but he 

doesn't let that stop him. Naxy eventually irritates the pirate Rav by skipping 

out on a bail bond, thereby earning a bounty large enough to attract the 

attention of Cade Skywalker and the Mynock crew. They catch the Sakiyan 

at Brogar's Cantina, along with the Jedi Hosk Trey'lis, and turn Naxy over 

to Rav. The cunning, or lucky, Screeger survives Rav's wrath. However, it's 

debatable how much longer he can get by on wits alone, particularly after he 

helps Cade Skywalker and the Mynock crew finagle Chak's ship, the Grinning 

Liar, out of the pirate lord's clutches. 

Naxy Screeger CL 2 

Medium Sakiyan nonheroic 3/scoundrel 1 

Dark Side 2 

Init +1; Senses darkvision; Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Sakiyan 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 11 

hp 11; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d4-1) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +1 (3d4) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +1 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Quick Draw 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 9, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 10 

Talents Gambler 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Deception, Persuasion), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +12, Persuasion +12 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, comlink 


NEI RIN AND CHOKA SKELL 


NEI RIN 

Nei Rin is the Yuuzhan Vong shaper behind the Ossus Project, the experiment 
to terraform ravaged worlds using Yuuzhan Vong biotechnology. The project 
is masterminded and supported by the Jedi Order, which hopes to rehabilitate 
worlds damaged in the Yuuzhan Vong invasion and change galactic opinion 
about the Yuuzhan Vong themselves. A highly skilled shaper, Nei Rin believes 
herself worthy of the task. She is therefore shocked when the experiments 
begin to go awry on other worlds, but not on Ossus itself. The Vong coral 
seeds, designed to repair damaged ecosystems, soon infect the inhabitants 
of those worlds, causing painful and lethal mutations to the populace. The 
Empire uses the ensuing outrage to divide the galaxy, taking advantage of 
the situation by going to war against the Galactic Alliance. 

After Nei Rin leaves Ossus to investigate the cause of the mutations, the 
Sith attack the Jedi Academy on Ossus, killing the inhabitants and scattering 
what's left of the Jedi Order. The shaper returns shortly thereafter to witness 
the devastation. Nei Rin and her bodyguards (Choka Skell and Liaan Lah) are 
indebted to the Jedi and honor-bound to protect their legacy—a collection 
of Jedi artifacts and other items that survived the raids. They also provide 
honorable services for the fallen Jedi, especially Kol Skywalker. 


<x HSiagvHD 


dj 
a 
W 
WV 
D 
2) 
@) 
W 


1x YSigvHS 


EONIME SHA |=] 


Nei Rin and her bodyguards have remained hidden under the temple, 
protecting the Jedi legacy. Nei Rin has also determined that the failed ter- 
raforming operations on other worlds are the result of Sith sabotage. Nei 
Rin, freed from the guilt of the failed experiment by this revelation, remains 
dedicated to making the project a success. She hopes to reveal the true source 
of the mutations and clear the Yuuzhan Vong name throughout the galaxy. 


Nei Rin CL 12 

Medium Yuuzhan Vong noble 7/shaper 5 

Destiny 2 

Init +7; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Bocce, High Galactic, Huttese, Mon Calamarian, 
Shyriiwook, Yuuzhan Vong, Zabrak 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 22), Fort 26, Will 29 

hp 62; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+6) 

Ranged by weapon +9 

Base Atk +8; Grp +9 

Special Actions Bolster Ally, Coordinate, Inspire Confidence, Inspire Haste 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 17, Wis 16, Cha 15 

Special Qualities Force immunity, shaper lore +2, technophobic 

Talents Biotech Mastery, Bolster Ally, Coordinate, Inspire Confidence, 
Inspire Haste, Master Shaper, Skilled Implanter 

Feats Biotech Specialist, Biotech Surgery, Linguist, Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[galactic lore], Knowledge [life sciences], Knowledge [physical 
sciences], Knowledge [technology], Mechanics, Treat Injury), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +19, Knowledge (life sciences) +19, 
Knowledge (physical sciences) +19, Knowledge (social sciences) 
+14, Knowledge (technology) +19, Mechanics +19, Perception +14, 
Persuasion +13, Treat Injury +19 

Possessions villip, shaper hand 


NIFFLA 

Niffla is a Toydarian infomerchant and Imperial informant known to work 
the Hub shipyards at Mon Calamari. She's in it for the credits, and she'll deal 
with anyone—Imperial officers, high-ranking politicians, or criminals. She 
admits that the Sith Empire pays the best, especially for information regarding 
the Alliance Remnant, Admiral Stazi's fleet, the Jedi, or their sympathizers. 
She's also tasked with keeping an eye on suspected Mon Calamari freedom 
fighters. She's sneaky, stealthy, and underhanded. She works alone, mainly 
because she doesn't trust anyone. 

Niffla spies on Gial and Monia Gahan for the Empire prior to the theft 
of the /mperious. Although she receives a hefty fee for the information she 
provides, Niffla is forced to remain on board Admiral Valan's flagship—in 
the brig—until the Mon Calamari are lured into a trap. Niffla languishes 
in the brig for days before anyone thinks to release her after the trap fails 
spectacularly. Niffla takes the hint and disappears from Imperial view, set- 
ting out to find new buyers for her information, at least until her small part 
in the disastrous plan is long forgotten. 


Niffla CL 1 

Small Toydarian nonheroic 3 

Dark Side 1 

Init +2; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Toydarian 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 11 (16 against Use the 
Force checks with the [mind-affecting] descriptor) 

hp 8; Threshold 10 

Speed 4 squares, fly 6 squares (maximum altitude 2 squares) 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d4-1) 

Ranged blaster pistol -2 (3d6) 

Base Atk +2; Grp -2 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 10 

Feats Skill Focus (Deception, Gather Information, Perception, Stealth), 
Skill Training (Gather Information), Weapon Proficiency (simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Gather Information +11, Perception +12, Stealth +17 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, datapad 


VONGSPAWN 

Vongspawn are beings that have been infected and mutated by sabotaged 
Yuuzhan Vong coral seeds. Most Vongspawn become outcasts, left to 
struggle with the painful and violent disease on their own. Naturally, they 
often become violent or desperate in their search for a cure. The highest 
concentration of these unfortunate beings is thought to be in the lower 
levels of Coruscant. 


Vongspawn Coral Seeds 

The term "Vongspawn" started as a curse word, but after the Yuuzhan Vong 
war it became a derisive term referring to those unfortunate individuals 
infected by Sith-sabotaged Yuuzhan Vong coral seeds. Dormant sabotaged 
seeds must be activated by a Sith using the dark side of the Force. Active 
coral seeds can infect any species, causing painful spikes to grow from the 
victim's skin. Other mutations have been documented as well. The disease 
is nigh incurable, though it is possible that the Yuuzhan Vong will develop 
a cure someday. Even the Force provides little help. Those with the disease 
are exiled from their communities out of fear of transmitting the symptoms 
and mutations to others. 

The disease makes an attack roll against any living creature that comes 
into contact with it. Roll 1d20+10 and compare the result to the target's 
Fortitude Defense. Ona hit, the disease infects the target. Coral tumors and 
spikes begin to grow immediately, moving the character -1 persistent step 
down the condition track. Every 5 minutes thereafter, make a new attack roll 
against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the disease pushes the target to the 
bottom of the condition track, the target dies instead of falling unconscious. 
If the disease misses an attack roll, it stops making attack rolls and does not 
proceed any further. 

A character or creature that survives the disease becomes a Vongspawn 
(see below). As this is a Yuuzhan Vong disease, Force Points cannot be used to 
prevent death. However, a Destiny Point can be spent to turn a successful attack 
by the disease into a miss, thereby stopping the advancement of the disease. 

Curing the disease requires a DC 40 Treat Injury check, and Force Points 
cannot be spent to increase the skill check result. Yuuzhan Vong shapers 
hope to find a cure that will make treating the disease easier. 


Vongspawn Template 
The following rules apply to any character or creature that becomes a 
Vongspawn: 
The persistent condition of the disease (see above) cannot be removed 
until the disease is cured. 
¢ Spiky growths appear on the vongspawn's body. The Vongspawn is unable 
to wear normal armor until cured. 
¢ When a Vongspawn hits a target with an unarmed attack, the vongspawn 
makes a secondary attack (1d20+10) against the target's Fortitude 
Defense. If this attack hits, the target becomes infected with the disease. 


FRINGE STARSHIPS 


Organizations and individuals presented in this chapter routinely use the 
starships detailed below. 


AS19 INVADER 

CLOSE SUPPORT STARFIGHTER 
The A519 Invader from Kuat Drive Yards is designed for planetary, space sta- 
tion, and capital ship invasion scenarios requiring close support for ground 
troops, zero-g boarding parties, and dropship and assault shuttle escort. 
Mercenary and heavily armed law enforcement units are the ship's initial 
customers, but it isn't long before the A519 starts turning up in pirate fleets 
and Black Sun intimidation forces. 


Two INVADERS ESCORT A NEMESIS-CLASS SHIP. 


ix HSLagvHo 


B9eNwie FSHL 


rTP eREEEQOSHOE OS * 


1x HSidvHoS 


a 
BD 


FeONIH2) SALA 


The Invader packs a punch with its two twin laser cannons, especially 
when configured to fire in a focused area. The system allows any pilot to use 
the Burst Fire feat (see page 82 of the Saga Edition rulebook) when firing 
at a target at short or point-blank range. In addition, the attack penalty is 
reduced from -5 to -2 for pilots who already have the Burst Fire feat. Pilots 
with the feat can also use the Burst Fire feat for attacks at greater ranges, 
but do not benefit from the additional damage indicated below. 

The Invader is equipped with heavy-duty shielding and hardened alloy 
armor plating to improve its durability. For such a small fighter, these 
upgrades cost the ship maneuverability, and the Invader is at a distinct 
disadvantage when dogfighting with top-of-the-line starfighters. 


A519 Invader Close Support Starfighter CL8 
Huge starfighter 
Init +8; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 23; +3 armor, genni Combat 
hp 80; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 33 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,450 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged twin double laser cannons +4 (see below) or 
Ranged twin double laser cannons -1 (see below) with Burst Fire 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +25 
Atk Options autofire (twin laser cannons), Burst Fire (twin laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 36, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 75 kg; Consumables 6 days; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2, limited navicomputer (2-jump memory) 
Availability Licensed; Cost 125,000 (70,000 used) 


Twin laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Twin laser cannons (pilot using Burst Fire feature) 
Atk -1 autofire, Dmg 7d10x2 (at short or point-blank range) 


NEMESIS-CLASS PATROL SHIP 

The Nemesis-class patrol ship, built by the Corellian Engineering Corpora- 
tion, isn't new. It's been around since before the Sith-Imperial War and is 
primarily sold to outlying worlds and smaller governments that require light 
but reliable armed patrol craft. The ship's durability, along with its advanced 
sensors and computer systems, make it popular with law enforcement. Its 
limited weaponry restricts its military usage. One popular feature is that the 
ship can be flown with as few as two crew members. The ship's laser can- 
nons can either be fire-linked and controlled by the pilot, or, if a full crew 
is aboard, a separate gunner can control each gun separately. Many owners 
use its limited cargo space to deploy speeder bikes and crews quickly in 
ground-based operations. 

The Black Sun syndicate uses intermediaries and skillful record manipula- 
tion to obtain a large number of these vessels. Though the ships are somewhat 
antiquated, Black Sun puts them to good use. The ships support Black Sun 
operations throughout the Outer Rim and other isolated areas, often in sup- 
port of armed swoops or speeder bikes. 


Nemesis-class Patrol Ship CL6 
Colossal space transport 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 


hp 150; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 78 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 830 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged fire-linked laser cannons +7 (see below) or 
Ranged 4 laser cannons +5 (see below) or 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +40 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, fire-linked laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 4 (skilled); Passengers 10 
Cargo 5 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 6 speeder bikes 
Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 180,000 (95,000 used) 


Fire-linked laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Laser cannons (pilot/gunner) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


GRINNING LIAR 

The Grinning Liar is the starship used by the smugglers Chak and Kee. A 
well maintained YX-1980 space transport, the Grinning Liar hasn't seen as 
much action as many other smuggling vessels but has a way of keeping its 
owners alive in a pinch. The Grinning Liar is a relatively quick ship that has 
been given enhanced armor plating and hull reinforcement. Additionally, at 
Kee's request, Chak paid to have the ship's built-in forward laser cannons 
upgraded with advanced cannon enhancements for those rare occasions 
when the ship's speed isn't enough to get it out of trouble. 


The Grinning Liar CL 8 

Colossal” space transport 

Init +2; Senses Perception +10 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 15), Fort 28; +15 armor 

hp 180; DR 15; SR 40; Threshold 88 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged medium laser cannons +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +42 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 20, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +11, Perception +10, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +9 

Crew 2 (unique); Passengers 6 

Cargo 90 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Unique; Cost not available for sale 

* This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purposes of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using starship 
maneuvers. 


Medium laser cannons (copilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg (6d10+1)x2 


4* T Sewn FE _) i fm Jj r J | C3 L.. i ar =) 
WAS ' NOT 
A GIFT. My 


SeHiP BACK. Now.” 


THE MYNOCK AND THE GRINNING LIAR 


MYNOCK 

The Mynock is Cade Skywalker's personal transport. An old Helot-class 
medium transport, the Mynock has been modified, torn down, and rebuilt 
by Bantha Rawk and Deliah Blue so many times that spaceport rumors claim 
that there isn't a single bolt or metal plate on the ship that was there when 
it rolled off of the assembly line. Still, despite the ship's looks, the Mynock is 
one tough, fast hunk of junk. Able to make .5 past lightspeed and outfitted 
with weapons enough for the three crew members to man during combat, 
the Mynock is good in a fight and better at chasing down a fleeing bounty. 
In their relatively short bounty hunting careers, Cade, Deliah, and Jariah Syn 
have made enemies enough for two lifetimes, the Deliah wisely installed some 
hefty shields and always makes sure that the ship's armor reinforcements 
are in place and functioning properly. 


ix esiavHoa 


The Mynock CL9 
Colossal* space transport 

Init +4; Senses Perception +9 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 30: +16 armor 

hp 200; DR 15; SR 50; Threshold 80 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged medium laser cannons +9 (see below) and 
heavy laser cannons +8 (see below) and 
quad laser cannons +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +7; Grp +47 
Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannons, heavy laser cannons, quad 
laser cannons), fire-link (medium laser cannons, heavy laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 50, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +16, Perception +9, Pilot +2, 
Use Computer +11 : 
Crew 3 (unique); Passengers 6 
Cargo 70 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x0.5 (backup x8), navicomputer 
Availability Unique; Cost not available for sale 
* This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purposes of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using starship 
maneuvers. 


Medium laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg (5d10+5)x2 
Heavy laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg (6d10+4)x2 


Quad laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg (6d10+4)x2 


*“MYNOCK !sS 
ONE OF A KIND -! 
SHOULD KNOw, |! 

HELPED BUILD HER- 
AND INSTANTLY 
IDENTIFIABLE." 


“BANTHA RAWK 


BEASTS 


In the Legacy era, there are threats beyond the Empire and the Sith, beyond 
the criminal syndicates and bounty hunter guilds. Predators lurk on every 
world, among them primitive beasts that hunt to survive. 


SHAPED BEAST 

Shaped beasts are creatures altered by Yuuzhan Vong shapers during or 
after the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. Unlike the vongspawn (see page XX), these 
creatures do not suffer from their shaped state, and often their inherent 
characteristics are enhanced or complemented in some fashion. They can 
be detected by Force-users. 

Though skilled shapers can alter almost any part of a living organism, some 
forms of bioengineering are quite common. The shaped beast template (see 
below) provides a starting point for Yuuzhan Vong-altered creatures. The 
Gamemaster should select attributes from the list, but is free to add features 
or abilities as required to meet a specific creature concept. 


Shaped Beast Template 

A shaped beast has the statistics of the base creature, with one or more 
of the following modifications. Each modification increases the CL of the 
creature by 1. 

Armored Defenses: Increase the base creature's defenses by +3. 

Enhanced Resilience: The creature gains Improved Damage Threshold as 
a bonus feat, increasing its Damage Threshold by 5, and gains +2 hit points 
per beast level. 

Improved Natural Weapons: The base creature's natural weapons deal 
1 additional die of damage per attack. For example, if the base creature as 
a bite attack that deals 1d6+5 damage, the shaped version of the creature 
would deal 2d6+5 damage with its bite instead. 

Increased Aggression: The creature gains a +2 rage bonus on melee 
attack rolls. 

Poison Attack: The creature's bite, claw, or sting attack (determined by 
the Gamemaster) is poisonous. If the attack hits and the attack roll result 
equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the attack deals an extra 
2 dice of damage and the target moves -2 persistent steps down the condi- 
tion track. This persistent condition can be removed with the Treat Poison 
application of the Treat Injury skill (see page 75 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook). 


Shaped Gundark 
Medium beast 10 
Init +9; Senses low-light vision, scent; Perception +13 


CL15 


Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 18), Fort 19, Will 16 

hp 125; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee 4 slams +17 each (2d4+13) and 
bite +17 (2d6+13 plus poison) or 

Melee club +17 (2d6+16) or 

Melee club +17 (3d6+16) with Mighty Swing or 

Melee club +13 (2d6+16) with 4 points of Power Attack 

Base Atk +7; Grp +15 

Atk Options Crush, Mighty Swing, Pin, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 27, Dex 18, Con 22, Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 13 

Special Qualities armored defenses”, constrict, enhanced resilience*, 
improved natural weapons”, increased aggression", low-light vision, 
poison attack*, scent 

Feats Crush, Improved Damage Threshold, Mighty Swing, Pin, Power 
Attack 

Skills Acrobatics +9, Climb +13, Initiative +9, Perception +13, Stealth +9, 
Survival +8 


Constrict—A shaped gundark that succeeds in grappling an opponent 


can use the Crush and Pin feats as normal. When crushing, however, a 
shaped gundark deals 3d6+13 points of damage. 

Poison Attack (Bite)—If a shaped gundark hits with its bite attack and 
its attack roll result equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, 
the bite deals an extra 2d6 damage and moves the target -2 persistent 
steps down the condition track. 

* Special qualities granted by the shaped beast template. 


*| SHOULD NOT 
HAVE SURVIVED 
WHAT THE VONG 
DID TO ME-YET I 
ENDURED.” 


-DARTH KRAYT 


VAN X< 

The vanx is a vicious, carnivorous pack hunter native to the planet Vendaxa. 
It has a powerful, muscular build that allows it to run quickly and pounce on 
its prey. The quadrupedal creature uses its powerful claws and sharp, pointed 
teeth to hold and rip a captured enemy to shreds. A tough, greenish-brown 
hide and dense scalelike structures protect it against attacks. Two distinctive 
ear stalks rise from the top of its head, between the eyes and neck. 

Avanx pack numbers between 5 and 20 members, led by a male or female 
“alpha.” The loss of the leader does not dissuade the pack once in combat. 
Vanxes rely on brute strength and ferocity rather than stealth, attacking as 
a group and attempting to encircle individual targets after charging into a 
fray. Their speed and quickness combined with their numbers make them 
extremely dangerous to encounter in open territory. 


Vanx CL2 
Medium beast 3 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +1 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 13, Will 10 

hp 23; Threshold 13 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +7 (1d4+5) or 

Melee bite +7 (1d6+5) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +7 

Atk Options Crush, Pin 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 16, Con 17, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 10 
Special Qualities low-light vision 

Feats Crush, Pin 

Skills Jump +11 


Vanx Alpha CL5 
Medium beast 6 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +3 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 14, Will 10 

hp 41; Threshold 19 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +9 (1d4+5) or 

Melee bite +9 (1d6+5) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +9 

Atk Options Crush, Pin 


Abilities Str 20, Dex 16, Con 18, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 10 
Special Qualities pack lord, low-light vision 

Feats Crush, Improved Damage Threshold, Pin 

Skills Jump +13 


Pack Lord—On a successful attack, the vanx alpha deals +1 die of damage 
for each vanx adjacent to both it and the target. 


APPENDIX 


Every character, creature, droid, vehicle, and starship in this book appears on 
this list, which is sorted alphabetically by Challenge Level (CL). 


Niffla 1 216 


Andurgo 
Deliah Blue 
Gunn Yage 
Jariah Syn 
Queen Jool 


oo wo wo wo 


Joker Squad demolitionist 3° 164 
Joker Squad heavy weapons specialist $i 2 165 
Joker Squad stormtrooper 3 163 
Kee 3 213 
3 165 

Azlyn Rae 11 

hug Cade Skywalker 11 

Astraal Vao 5 180 Fehlaaur 11 

Brogar 5 199 Galactic Alliance army officer 1 

Finn 5 204 Imperial Knight 1 

Galactic Alliance Core Fleet covert agent 5 128 Jor Torlin 11 
Galactic Alliance navy gunner 5 132 
Galactic Alliance pilot 5 132 

5 

Captain Jaius Yorub . 13 

ee rd at Darth Maleval 13 

Black Sun lieutenant 7 198 Darth Talon 13 

Choka Skell 7 210 Pol Temm 13 

Knighthunter ri 165 Rulf Yage 13 

Wheel security 7 206 un 


Antares Draco 15 
Darth Azard 15 
Darth Maladi 15 


178 


208 


175 
128 
162 
213 


139 


171 
172 
206 
181 


174 
168 
170 


Morlish Veed 15 180 Grinning Liar 8 219 
Nyna Calixte (Morrigan Corde) 15 167 J-1 shuttle 8 88 
Shaped gundark 15 221 Phoebos-class starfighter 8 83 
Wolf Sazen 15 196 YX-1980 space transport 8 89 
Admiral Gar Stazi 16 133 Gladius-class light freighter 9 86 
Darth Nihl 16 171 Jumpstar HPF starfighter 9 144 
Darth Wyyrlok 16 173 Mynock 9 219 
Darth Krayt 20 168 R-28 starfighter 10 84 
Roan Fel 20 177 RC-2 Twilight scoutship 10 144 
Scarlet Star (modified YT-2400 transport) 10 147 
DROME eee PAE 14 lonizer starfighter 11 143 
Holocam droid 0 we Neutralizer-class bomber "1 187 , 
Pl-Series medical assistant droid (0) 69 Predator-class starfighter "1 186 i 0 
Roving Eye observation droid 0 72 CF9 Crossfire starfighter 12 142 ib 
323 medical droid 1 70 Fury-class starfighter 12 185 | 4 
Aggressor-Series battle droid 1 75 Sigma-class long-range shuttle 12 188 | ay. 
BL-39 interrogator droid 1 70 X-83 Twinlail starfighter 12 85 : Xin 
FEG-Series pilot droid 1 n YZ-2500 heavy transport 12 91 
HV-7 loading droid 1 ” BB-2 Torrent fighter/bomber 13 141 
Z65 patrol droid 3 73 Crix-class diplomatic courier shuttle 13 145 
Wa-Series guard droid ul a Nune-class Imperial shuttle 13 187 
IX-6 heavy combat droid 5 1 All Terrain Armored Heavy Transport (AT-AHT) 14 185 
LON-29 battle droid commander 6 76 Crix-class assault shuttle 15 146 
VEHICLES AND STARSHIPS Ch AGE Movi oe 
Kybuick speener Bie 5 ane SE Sass tender 15 152 
GPE-3300 airspeeder 6 81 ine al 200 
MC-24a light shuttle 6 39 Sabertooth-class assault & rescue vessel . 17 147 . ‘@ 
Model 67 Shrieker speeder bike 6 80 See class date as ae @ 
Nemesis-class patrol ship 6 218 Vmone sas inigake si is G 
Weltiss-2 wirspcedter 6 82 Ardent-class fast frigate 19 189 
GPE-7300 space transport 7 87 Hie res bs sl 
Haas : Peas : Mobile Spacedock 220 20 Hitoe 
Helot-class medium space transport = a 88 : 
iets ee my, Ten Scythe-class battle cruiser 22 149 
QuickFire speeder bike aks 7 80 oe , a0 ‘amg 
secs eseiin chou : — Golan VIII space defense platform | | 25 | 152 — | 
All Terrain Riot Control Transport (AT-RCT) 8 184 eee ae 8 ages 
Besh-Type personal starfighter 8 83 ‘ nee 


Imperious-class Star Destroyer 29 190 


“EVERY GENERATION HAS ITS OWN CHALLENGES TO FACE, 


ITS OWN BATTLES TO WIN.” 


More than a century has passed since the Emperor's death at the Battle of Endor. The tyrannical Sith once again rule the 
galaxy, and the Empire has been reborn. The heroes of old are gone, but their descendants represent the starlight in the 
darkness. In the Legacy Era, your heroes become the galaxy's last hope, challenging the Empire, battling the Sith, and 


upholding the legacies of their ancestors. 
WY Y PIP, 


THE LEGACY ERA CAMPAIGN GUIDE PRESENTS 
A VARIETY OF OPTIONS FOR BOTH PLAYERS 
AND GAMEMASTERS, INCLUDING: 


@ New talents, feats, prestige classes, equipment, and other options for heroes. 
@® Rules for creating legacy characters. 
@® Intormation for running campaigns set in the Legacy Era. 


@® Characters, starships, and technology from the Legacy comics series. 


Visit our website at +~www.starwars.com 
www.wizards.com/starwars 


starwars.com 


ISBN: 978-0-7869-5051-5 


. c 2 | | 53995 ; 

my | | | | i ij || | 5 

| ‘ 
9"780786"950515 


®2009 Lucasfilm Ltd. & ™. All rights reserved. Used under authorization. ee ve 
Wizards of the Coast, d20 System and their respective logos are “e Retail 95 CAN $45.00 
trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the USA and other countries. Printed in th 219667200 


