ROLEPLAYING GAME 


REBELLION ERA CAMPAIGN -. GUIDE 


RODNEY THOMPSON STERLING HERSHEY OWEN K.C. STEPHENS .- JD WIKER 


“” 
- 


REBELLION ERA 
CAMPAIGN GUIDE 


RODNEY THOMPSON, STERLING HERSHEY, OWEN K.C. STEPHENS, JD WIKER 


CREGITS 


Rodney Thompson, Sterling Hershey, 


PRODUCTION MANAG! 


Gynda Callaway 


Owen K.C. Stephens, JD Wiker 
Britt Frey GRAPHIC DESIGNERS Leon Cortez 


Rodney Thompson PRE-PRESS MANAGER Jefferson Dunlap 
GRAPHIC PRODUCTION ee 
eviTors Ray Vallese, Bradley Will SPECIALIST eRe 


COVER ARTIST Jason Chan 


LUCAS LICENSING EDITOR Frank Parisi 


MANAGING EDITOR Torah Cottril Ben Wootten, Chris Trevas, Drew Baker, Francis Tsai, 
—— 


Jason Juta, effery Carlisle, Miguel Coimbra, Paul 
Shipper, Randy Gallegos, Warren Mahy, Zoltan Boros & 
Gabor Szikszai 


DESIGN MANAG! Christopher Perkins 


eae 
ie See ion Sexe IMAGING TECHNICIAN Ashley Brock 
Blake Beasley, Ryan Sansaver CIAL THANKS Leland Chee 


Mark Anderson, Tom Bowman, lef Cain, H. Tucker Cobey, James Draganiuk, Brian Dupuis, 
Michel Fiallo-Perez, Brandon Gracyalny, Scott Jacobowitz, Elisa Jaeger, Sean Kelley, 

Craig Levengood, Tom Maguire, Andy Pete, Mark Quinto, Kevin Roome, Bart Scott, 

Matt Thompson, Paul Whitman, Rob Wilberg 


veg NeNTEESY ax [Npssesss 


Some rules mechanies are based an the Star Wars Roleplaying Gome Saga Edition Core Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C. Stephens, and Rodney Thompson, the original Dungeons f Dragons rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave 
‘Arneson, and the 3° Edition Dungeons & Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Mante Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. 


‘This Wizards of the Coast” game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission, 


US. Canad, Ala. rear BRAN EUROPE [cay 
Pace Latin Asc fsbo tK Ua as ol te Coss Belg = 
Wards ofthe oust LIC Caseeltay Instant Ban 
PO. Box 707 "Newport, Gwent NPS OTH 1702 Groot-Bigaarden SYSTEM... 

a TARWARS COM 


Renton, Wh 98057-0707 GREAT BATA Belguen ira izARDS.COM 
Questions? 1-800-324-6496 Pease heepthisaddress for yourrecords +32 070233277 'SBN-978.0-7869.4583-0 
1620-21792720-001-EN 
987654321 


First Printing: July 2009 
{©2009 LUCASFILM LTD. 6 © OR " WHERE INDICATED. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, 
USED UNDER AUTHORIZATION. 


Dungeons & Dragons, 620 Sytem, Wizards ofthe Coat, and ther respective logos are trademarks of Wizards ofthe Coast in the USA and other counties. Tis materi is protected under he copyright laws of the United States ot America. Ay reproduction or unauthorized use 
‘ofthe material or artwork contained heren's prohibited without the expcess writen permission of Wizards ofthe Coast LC. This product a work of fiction, Any smarty o actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental. Prited inthe US.A 


CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION... 4 


CWIR|: HeRoc 
TRAITS 


Soldier. 
Skills 
Feats 
Species Feats, . 
Force-Using Traditio 

Kilian Rangers . . 


New Prestige Class Talent 
New Prestige Classes . 
improviser. 
Pathfinder. 


CHEMI: FQUIPMENT 
AND Drops . . .46 


Imperial Contraband . 47 
Melee Weapons... 
Ranged Weapons. 
Armor... 
Equipment 
Droids.... 


Speeders 
Bantha-ll Cargo Skiff 
Storm IV Twin-Pod 


Talon | Combat Cloud Car... .61 


9000 Z004 Landspeeder 
Air-2 Racing Swoop 
Starfighters 
GI-M4-C 
Dunelizard Fighter... 
Ixiyen-class Fast 
Attack Craft 
M12-L Kimogila 
Heavy Fighter. . 
M22-T Krayt Gunship 
Pinook Fighter .... 
Razor-class Starfighter 
Space Transports... . 
Mobquet Medium Transport 
YKL-37R Nova Courier. 
YV-545 Light Freighter 


CHPIRV: REBELLION ERA 
CAMPAIGN... . .70 


Shared Hero Backgrounds .....72 
Common Campaign Elements ..72 
Themes of the Rebellion Era. ...74 
Campaign Elements. 76 
Adventures in Rebellion .......79 
News of the Worlds. . 80 


CHAIR: Teves RR 
ALLIANCE ....82 


A Brief History 
of the Rebellion. 
Organization .... 
Alliance Personnel. 
Alliance Personalities . 
Admiral Ackbar. 
Wedge Antilles 
Tycho Celchu, . 
General Airen Cracken. 
Nera Dantels. . 
Biggs Darklighter 
Wes Janson. 


Derek “Hobbie” Klivian .... . 103 


Nien Nunb. . 
General Carlist Rieekan 


Technology and Vehicles. 
Equipment ........ 
Weapon Emplacements. 
Combat Assault Vehicles . 
Starship: 


CHAPTER| 


emp 


The Imperial Machine 
Organization 
The Imperial Military. 
Personnel 
Influential Personalities 
Grand Moff Tracht: 
Janek Sunber .. 
Equipment and Droid 
Vehicles and Starships . 
Assassin-class Corvette 
Assault Gunboat. . 
AT-AA 
Anti-Aircraft Platform ..131 
AT-PT All-Terrain 
Personal Transport. .... 132 
Imperial Cargo Ship 
Imperial l!-class Frigate. 
Lancet Aerial Artillery 
Missile Boat 
Royal Guard Starfighter 
TIE Aggressor Starfighter . 
TIE Crawler --135 
TIE Experimental Starfighter 136 
TIE Oppressor Starfighter ...136 
TIE Phantom Starfighter 


THE Shuttle . . 
\VT-49 Decimator 
YE-4 Gunship 


The Empire and the Fringe . 
Bounty Hunters . 


AEG-77 “Vigo” 
Kihraxz Light Fighter 
Vaksai . 
Supa Fighter... 
Rihkxyrk Assault Fighter. 
Cloud City.......... 
Lobot.... 
Wing Guard. 
Jabba the Hutt's 
Criminal Organization 
Jabba the Hutt 
Bib Fortuna. 
Gamorrean Guard, 
Zann Consortium. . 
Zann Consortium Defiler.. ..152 
Canderous-class 
Assault Tank... 
F9-IZ Transport .... 
Keldabe-class Battleship. 
Corporate Sector. . 
CSA Organization 
Security Division 
Ground Forces 
Detention Taskforce. 
Picket Fleet... 
Beasts. 


VES NETIESSY Sx, |p sinssnes 


The Rebellion Era Campaign Guide focuses on roleplaying in the classic era 
of Star Wars. The Rebellion era is depicted in the original Star Wars trilogy, 
which tells the tale of Luke Skywalker joining the Rebel Alliance and bringing 
down the Galactic Empire. Possibly the most iconic era in the saga’s history, 
the Rebellion era teems with themes and individual aspects that even casual 
Star Wars fans recognize instantly. Setting a game in the Rebellion era means 
playing ina time of great heroes such as Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, and Leia 
Organa, battling the same enemies that they fought, and struggling with 
the same dangers that they faced, 

A Rebellion era campaign differs from other campaigns in a variety of 
ways. Although it shares a common enemy with the Dark Times (the Empire, 
‘as described in The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide), the Rebellion era does 
~ Not pit the heroes against the entire galaxy without some help. Instead, it 
allows them to be a part of something greater than themselves. That said, 
they likely face greater dangers than do heroes of a Dark Times campaign. 
i¢ Death Stars are but two of the Empire's superweapons, developed as 
part of the Tarkin Doctrine to strike fear into the hearts of its enemies. In 
Addition, Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine have an iron grip on the galaxy, 
and they have swayed (some would say brainwashed) much of its leadership 
into accepting and enforcing Palpatine’s New Order. 

The Rebellion Era Campaign Guide assumes that the heroes belong to the 
Rebel Alliance, either at the outset of the campaign or shortly after it begins. 
Of course, many options exist for play in the Rebellion era, and other books 
in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game line cover other types of campaigns. This 
book describes life in the Alliance, hiding and fighting the Empire. The heroes 
of such a campaign perform as many great deeds as heroes such as Han 
Solo and Princess Leia, and make their own difference in the struggles of the 
Rebellion. Over the course of a campaign, the heroes fight the Empire, rise to 
prominence, and help free the galaxy from the clutches of tyranny. 

Of course, not every hero begins his or her career with the Rebel Alli- 
ance. Like Han Solo, heroes in a Rebellion era campaign might start out as 
everyday citizens, smugglers, or even Imperial soldiers. However, they are 
drawn inexorably closer to the Rebellion with each passing adventure. Even 
if the heroes never join the Alliance officially, it is highly likely that they will 
become entangled in the conflict with the Empire. 


RoaSnaoeaNT 


NOIVdNYS veg NoInIsSssYy 


NOMSRGOuLNT 


NSIVAWNVD VEE wNemses=) 


A TIME OF REBELLION 
The largest element that distinguishes the Rebellion era from the Dark Times 
is the presence of the Rebel Alliance. Also known as the Alliance to Restore 
the Republic, the organization is dedicated to ridding the galaxy of the 
tyranny of the Empire. However, since the Empire still has a merciless grip 
‘on untold worlds, the Rebellion must operate in secret. Most of the Rebel 
Alliance is organized into decentralized cells that receive instructions from 
Alliance leaders only sporadically. 

Within these cells are individual heroes who have given up their normal 
lives in the service of the Rebellion. They live in the shadow of the Empire's 
power, lying low until the time comes to strike. Many cells operate openly 
on remote worlds, escaping the Empire's notice until they rise to action. The 
life of a Rebel is hard; it demands sacrifice and tough work. In the end, the 
soldiers of the Rebellion know that they have left their former lives for a 
purpose, and that one day all the hardships they have endured will result in 
the downfall of the Galactic Empire. 

The Rebellion era lasts for only about eight and a half years, from the 
foundation of the Rebel Alliance until the capture of Coruscant under the 
New Republic, This period, also called the Galactic Civil War, pits the Alliance 
against the Empire in a struggle to free the galaxy. The following section 
highlights some of the major events in the Rebellion era that serve as mile- 
stones in galactic history. 


THE CORELLIAN TREATY 

The Rebellion era officially begins with the signing of the Corellian Treaty, 
the document that founded the Rebel Alliance. The three primary founders 
are Mon Mothma, Bail Organa, and Garm Bel Iblis. Having been brought 
together under false pretenses by agents of Darth Vader, the governments 
of Chandrila, Alderaan, and Corellia agree to form an alliance, pooling the 
resources of their resistance groups to form the Rebellion. Shortly thereafter, 
the Rebel Alliance issues the Declaration to Restore the Republic, a political 
document that makes clear the purpose and mission of the new organization. 
With the publication of the Declaration, hundreds of resistance cells begin 
springing up on Imperial planets throughout the galaxy. With three major 
worlds willing to take a stand against the Empire, others find the resolve 
to resist as well. 


THE DEATH STAR PLANS 

The early years of the Rebellion see some success. One of the most notable 
accomplishments is the theft of the plans for the newly completed Death 
Star. The leaders of the Rebel Alliance have known about the existence of 
the Death Star since before the organization's founding—in fact, several of 
them had been held hostage on the incomplete space station before the 
signing of the Corellian Treaty. But on Toprawa, Rebel agents steal the plans 
and transmit them to the Alliance. The plans eventually make their way to 
the Tantive IV, the ship carrying Leia Organa. The capture of the plans is the 
first step toward bringing down the Empire, setting off a chain of events 
that eventually leads to the Emperor's death. 


THE BATTLE OF YAVIN 

The Death Star plans fall into the hands of a young farmboy from Tatooine 
named Luke Skywalker. After Alderaan is destroyed in retribution for its rebel- 
lion, Luke rescues Princess Leia and arrives at Yavin 4, Shortly thereafter, the 
Battle of Yavin takes place, resulting in the destruction of the Death Star. Not 
only is this the first major blow that the Rebellion lands against the Empire, 
but it also brings Skywalker-and Han Solo—into the Alliance. The Battle of 
Yavin inspires more systems to join the Rebels and marks the start of a time 
when the Empire begins to take the Rebellion seriously, 


THE BATTLE OF DERRA IV 

The Rebel Alliance suffers its first crushing defeat above Derra IV. Imperial 
forces ambush a Rebel supply convoy, destroying it. The convoy's destruction 
is a major blow to the Rebels’ supply chain and leaves them shorthanded at 
their new base on Hoth. The Battle of Derra IV ends the euphoria the Alliance 
had felt since its victory at Yavin and sets up a defeat that nearly unravels 
the Rebellion a short time later. 


THE BATTLE OF HOTH 

The Rebel defeat at the Battle of Hoth is the first in a series of events that 
comes close to eliminating several of the Alliance's greatest heroes. With 
Echo Base understaffed as a result of the convoy ambush at Derra IV, the 
Empire overruns the base and scatters its occupants to the far reaches of 
the galaxy. More important, the battle sets off a sequence of events that 
leads to the capture of Rebel leader Han Solo and nearly results in the loss 
of both Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa. Fortunately, Lando Calrissian's 
assistance on Cloud City foils Darth Vader's plans, leaving Luke and Leia 
free to fight another day. 


THE CAPTURE 

OF THE SUPROSA 

During the search for Han Solo, the Rebellion chances upon knowledge of 
a freighter, the Suprasa, which transports more than its manifest indicates. 
In truth, the ship carries information about the construction of the second 
Death Star, and the Alliance learns that the Emperor is overseeing the final 
stages of its construction. Combining this knowledge with technical readouts 
of the battle station, the Rebellion hatches a plan to strike a decisive blow 
against the Empire. 


THE BATTLE OF ENDOR 

After Luke, Leia, and others rescue Han Solo from Jabba the Hutt, the time 
for the attack comes at last. As the Alliance sabotages the Death Star's 
shield generator on Endor, the Rebel fleet assaults the incomplete space 
station. However, the ships fly into a trap, and only through the guile of 
Rebel leaders such as Han Solo and Lando Calrissian does the Alliance fight 
through to victory, Shortly before the station's destruction, Luke Skywalker 
redeems Darth Vader, who in turn slays the Emperor. With the second Death 
Star destroyed and the Emperor dead, the Alliance finally claims the upper 
hand in the Galactic Civil War. 


THE BIRTH OF 

THE New REPUBLIC 

The Rebellion era comes to a close with the establishment of the New 
Republic. Following the victory at Endor, the Alliance still has to fight to win 
back the many worlds under Imperial control. Over two years after the Battle 
of Endor, members of Rogue Squadron engineer the capture of Coruscant, 
and the New Republic seizes control of the seat of galactic power. With the 
new government legitimized, opposition from the remnants of the Empire 
fragments, allowing the New Republic to establish freedom as the galactic 
standard once more. 


AN EMPIRE AT ITS PEAK 

Another major difference between the Rebellion era and the Dark Times is 
that during the Rebellion era, the Empire has reached its full power. Its grasp 
on the galaxy is like iron, and even the most distant reaches of known space 
have been converted to the New Order. As a result, there are very few safe 
places to hide from the Empire. Although some spaceports and out-of-the- 
way worlds might have only a small Imperial presence, there are still Imperial 
forces on nearby planets, as well as sector task forces jumping from system 
to system in search of Rebel activity. 


The Empire hasn't staged a military occupation of the entire galaxy; 
instead, it has converted the cultures and philosophies of many worlds to 
the New Order. Young men and women grow up dreaming about attending 
the Imperial military academies, and noble families of the galaxy vie with 
‘one another for the Empire's favor. Local bureaucrats have become Imperial 
officials with the full might of the Empire at their backs. Humanocentrism 
(the view that Humans are the most important species in the galaxy) is at 
an all-time high, encouraged by Emperor Palpatine as a means of controlling 
the populace. Indeed, many of the galaxy's citizens are more than simply 
the subjects of Imperial tyranny—they are willing participants. Citizens’ 
organizations such as COMPNOR indoctrinate people into believing that it 
is their civic duty to serve unquestioningly and to abandon personal freedom 
in order to strengthen the Empire. 

The military, cultural, and political strength of the Empire makes the 
Rebellion’s task especially important. Within two decades, the Empire has 
transformed worlds that once backed the Republic into supporters of Emperor 
Palpatine. The Rebel Alliance knows that with each passing day, the Empire 
grows stronger, In many ways, this is the galaxy's most desperate hour, as. 
countless words teeter on the edge of forgetting what freedom was like. 


Nomoncouint 


NOIVANVD VUE NOomeEeL) | 


CHAPTER |! 


For the heroes of the Rebellion era, fighting against the Galactic Empire 
| means putting their lives—and the lives of their loved ones—on the line, 
risking everything to oppose a tyrannical government. Heroes in a Rebellion 
era campaign are among the most iconic in all Star Wars lore. Han Solo is 
| the prototypical scoundrel; Princess Leia is the model for the noble. They are 
great heroes not only because they fight against a powerful enemy, but also 
because they put everything at risk, enduring great triumphs and horrific 
tragedies to free the galaxy from the oppression of Emperor Palpatine. 

The heroes of a Rebellion era campaign often are ordinary citizens who 
go above and beyond the call of duty to help fight the Empire. Although 
some of these heroes might come from respected families or have prominent 
histories, many heroes of the Rebel Alliance are simply average folks who 
have decided that they can no longer live in complacency. Indeed, one of the 
most interesting aspects of Rebellion era heroes is that many lead mundane 
lives as cogs in the Imperial machine until something spurs them to strike 
back against the Empire. They undergo a metamorphosis that most players 
can understand, transitioning from everyday members of society to people 
whose actions shake the foundations of the galaxy. 

Unlike heroes in the Dark Times, heroes of the Rebellion era have the sup- 
port of other like-minded residents of the galaxy. The Rebel Alliance forms 
a touchstone around which beings of all walks of life can rally. Indeed, its 
very existence shows that even the most ordinary people can come together 
and achieve amazing results. The Alliance (and other resistance groups not 
directly affiliated with the Rebellion) gives heroes a place to obtain informa- 
tion and support, share their knowledge and experiences, and reaffirm their 
dedication to the fight against the Empire. 


HEROES OF THE 
REBELLION ERA 


The heroes of the Rebellion era are largely shaped by the galaxy around them. 
Most heroes of this time period have felt the iron hand of the Empire for the 
past two decades, and their lives have been dominated by its presence. Even 
farmboys on distant desert worlds rail against the Empire in private, though 
it might take traumatic events to spur them to action. 

This section highlights some of the unique aspects of the Rebellion era, 
focusing on how these elements affect the heroes of the time. Players cre- 
ating heroes for a Rebellion era campaign can use these characteristics as 
inspiration for the histories and personalities of their heroes. 


1 esigvHS 


Siive. DIONsH 


7 SsisvHo 


A TIME OF REBELLION 

The most important event in the Rebellion era is the one that marks the 
beginning of the time period: the foundation of the Rebel Alliance. No other 
event has as much impact on the people of the galaxy, and none of the era's 
subsequent events (such as the victories at the Battle of Yavin and the Battle 
of Endor) could have taken place without the organization of the Alliance. 
Bringing together resistance groups from Alderaan, Chandrila, and Corellia, 
the Rebel Alliance provides resources for those who wish to resist the Empire 
and allows dissidents to reach out to one another. Working as a part of a 
larger organization allows the Rebels to accomplish greater deeds than they 
ever could as small resistance groups. 

The foundation of the Rebel Alliance legitimizes various resistance groups 
around the galaxy and encourages loyal servants of the Empire to question 
their adherence to Imperial doctrine. For some, the birth of the Alliance is 
merely the catalyst that urges them to act on seditious thoughts that they 
had kept hidden. For others who had pledged their hearts and minds to the 
Empire, the growth of a large Rebel movement forces them to take a hard look 
at their lives and decide where they really stand. As a result, even disciplined 
Imperial officers reconsider their allegiances, leading some (such as Biggs 
Darklighter) to defect to the Alliance. In this era, cracks start to appear in 
the foundation of the Empire, and the Rebels begin to find allies in the most 
unlikely parts of the Imperial bureaucracy. A hero might be a former Imperial 
officer, agent, or pilot, or even a daughter of an affluent Imperial noble house 
who has realized that there is an alternative to blind obedience. 

The newfound legitimacy brought on by the foundation of the Rebel Alliance 
affects more than just a few individuals scattered around the galaxy. Entire 
organizations defect to the Alliance, such as when the Incom Corporation's 
top engineers bring designs for the X-wing starfighter to the Rebellion. Other 
organizations keep their true allegiances secret while working as a part of the 
Imperial machine. These groups maintain an outward face of loyalty while 
secretly sympathizing with the Alliance, funneling information and resources to 
the Rebels when possible. In addition, sometimes large portions of a company, 
noble house, or bureaucratic agency lend aid to the Rebel Alliance. A hero might 
be a member of an organization that has defected to the Alliance. 


A TIME OF SACRIFICE 
The Rebellion era demands great sacrifice of its heroes. Some Rebel agents 
still lead their normal lives while working for the Alliance in secret. Other 
agents must leave their old lives behind, abandoning everything they once 
were. They might travel to distant worlds to work where their skills are most 
needed. In many cases, their families must believe that the agents have died, 
a deception that protects those left behind. Life can be lonely for agents of 
the Rebellion, but such is the dedication required of heroes of the Alliance. 
Many heroes undergo a transformation, leaving selfish lives in order to 
fight for something bigger. Some live on the fringes of society and claim to 
care only about themselves; in the end, they might move beyond self-interest 


and become heroes in their own right. Han Solo is an iconic example of this 
kind of hero: Once a smuggler who took jobs only for the credits, his life 
changed completely once he saw the desperation with which the Rebellion 
fought the Empire. Similarly, heroes in a Rebellion era campaign might start 
out as hard-living mercenaries, bitter bounty hunters, greedy criminals, or 
carefree nobles. Over the course of the campaign, those same characters 
might realize that they can play a larger role in galactic history, giving up 
their self-centered lives to struggle against the Empire. 

Some heroes in the Rebellion era are called upon to forgo more than just 
their own livelihoods and interests. For some, the fight against the Empire 
means sacrificing the lives of others. Rebel officers face this difficulty on a 
daily basis as they put their followers’ lives on the line to meet the Alliance's 
goals. Sometimes those people die at the hands of the Empire, and sometimes 
they face interrogation by Imperial Inquisitors. Such is the burden faced by 
those in command, and heroes of a Rebellion era campaign might be forced 
to make the same kinds of sacrifices, determining who lives and who dies 
to further the cause. 


A TIME OF DESPERATION 

If nothing else, the Empire's power inspires desperation in those it oppresses. 
Some can only watch as everything is taken away from them. The Empire 
kills family members, confiscates homes and estates, and strips away basic 
freedoms. But when one has nothing left, one also has nothing to lose, Des- 
perate times create heroes who are driven to extreme actions to end Imperial 
tyranny. They take enormous risks, put their lives in danger, and fight against 
impossible odds on the slimmest chance of success. 

Risk is a major element of a hero driven to desperation. Many heroes in 
the Star Wars saga take incredible risks—Obi-Wan Kenobi leaps out a window 
after an assassin droid, Han Solo pilots the Millennium Falcon into an asteroid 
field to flee the Empire, and Luke Skywalker surrenders to Darth Vader in 
hopes of turning his father away from the dark side. Heroes in a Rebellion 
era campaign know that their efforts are opposed by a monolithic enemy, 
but they have just enough resources, cunning, and willpower to believe that 
they have a chance, however small, of victory, A hero in the Rebellion era 
takes risks that most citizens consider crazy, even suicidal. But heroes have 
a knack for turning long odds into success, and when a gambit pays off, it 
can deal the enemy a serious blow. 

At the time of the Rebellion’s birth, the galaxy is at a crossroads. Princess 
Leia calls it the Rebellion’s most desperate hour, and she is not exaggerating, 
With the completion of the first Death Star, the Empire has gained the ability 
to eradicate entire civilizations in one fell swoop. It has grown in strength 
over the last two decades, but only in the Rebellion era does the power of the 
Empire instill not only fear, but true desperation. With doomsday weapons at 
the Empire's disposal, the heroes have no choice but to take reckless actions 
in an attempt to save the galaxy. 


L CELL ON MYGeeTo COMES UNDER ATTACK 
FROM A TIE OPPRI 


AN EMPIRE IN POWER 


The Empire has reached its full strength. No longer is its grasp on the galaxy 
tenuous; for decades, the Empire's reach has extended from the Core to the 
Outer Rim. Its bureaucrats and nobles have dwelled in the government's 
shadow for so long that they know nothing but greed and abuse of power. 
Moreover, the Empire's military hold on the galaxy is absolute. Dissent is 
forbidden, and sedition is punished swiftly and lethally. 

The Empire has become a part of the lives of average citizens and is now 
the accepted galactic government. Local authorities answer to the Empire, 
and nearly all planetary autonomy is gone. Individual rights have been abol- 
ished in the name of security, The citizens of the galaxy have come to accept 
this reality, and even those who feel trapped and oppressed by it have little 
choice but to go along with it. Heroes of the Rebellion era are those who 
break out of this pattern of submitting to the Empire's will. This change is both 
liberating and terrifying for them, and many heroes have trouble adapting 
to their new roles. Joining the Rebellion might bring some into conflict with 
friends and family. As they begin resisting the Empire, heroes might clash 
with law-abiding family members, or be abandoned by friends and loved 
ones who still operate within the Imperial machine. 


For many young people, the Empire is the only government they have 
ever known. Many youths grow up with dreams of attending the Imperial 
Academies and of signing up with the military in order to travel the galaxy, 
see exotic locales, and bring the light of order to dark places, Unfortunately, 
the reality rarely lives up to the dream. Many people suffer a rude awakening 
when they see how brutal and violent the Empire can be, and disillusioned 
youths become fledgling heroes. For beings reaching adulthood in the Rebel- 
lion era, the Rebel Alliance offers an outlet for idealism in a grim galaxy. 


EVEN THE WEAK CAN 

Be MIGHTY 

The foundation of the Rebel Alliance inspires many law-abiding citizens to 
take a stand against the Empire. Many of those who become heroes of the 
Rebellion are of humble origins. In this era, heroes do not need to be powerful 
Jedi, veteran liberators, or silver-tongued demagogues, but merely ordinary 
people who take up arms against dictators. Luke Skywalker was a moisture 
farmer, Wedge Antilles's family owned a refueling station, Dack Ralter was 
born into political imprisonment, and Zev Senesca was a trader. Certainly, 
many heroes of the Rebellion have prestigious backgrounds—Princess Leia 
was raised as royalty on Alderaan, after all—but many come from lives that 
did little to prepare them to fight the Empire. 

The Rebel Alliance accepts those who lack special talents or heritage, 
making use of their passion for freedom. The strength of the Alliance is in 
its desire to fight tyranny, requiring no particular training or history from 
its new recruits. Although players can create characters who come from 
esteemed noble families or extensive military backgrounds, they should 
feel free to create heroes who have humble beginnings. Part of the allure 
of playing in the Rebellion era is that it lets players and Gamemasters tell 
stories of heroes who rise out of the most common places in the galaxy to 
become extraordinary warriors, leaders of the Rebel Alliance, and saviors of 
billions of sentient beings. 

‘Such growth is not limited to a character's background or occupation. 
The Rebellion era has plenty of unlikely heroes, including members of often- 
overlooked species. In fact, some of these agents find that they are more 
effective because the Empire underestimates their species. For example, the 
Sullustans are rather small and frequently unnoticed in the grand scheme of 
things, but many of their number become important members of the Rebel 
Alliance. The Ewoks, one of the most diminutive species in the galaxy, play 
a crucial role in defeating the Empire at the Battle of Endor, The Rebellion 
offers a chance for heroes to play species that are commonly ignored by the 
Empire and by others, proving that even the meek can shake the foundations 
of the galaxy. 


q| 
IT 
> 
v 
4 
a 
2 


PARTY CONCEPT: 
ALLIANCE CELL 


Many adventuring parties choose a theme to unite the heroes, a "party 
concept" that helps define who the heroes are and why they came together. 
The theme might be as simple as "the heroes are members of a smuggling 
crew"—just enough to provide a theme to follow. In the Rebellion era, the 
most obvious party concept for heroes is that of an Alliance cell. 

The Rebel Alliance hierarchy often calls for small groups to operate 
independently. These groups, or cells, usually consist of a small handful of 
individuals who work together without much contact with Alliance High 
Command, Rebel cells have many different forms: Some are undercover sedi- 
tion groups operating on Core Worlds; others are starfighter squadrons that 
harass and ambush supply trains in Imperial space. A Rebel cell might operate 
an Alliance listening post on a remote, uninhabited world, or it might be an 
independent SpecForce squad that stages attacks on Imperial facilities. 

Building a party around an Alliance cell gives the party's members a wide 
range of roles, so that every player can find one to suit his or her character. 
Allowing each cell member to specialize in a particular area also adds to the 
overall diversity of the team's abilities. 

The following sections discuss several common roles found in Alliance 
cells. Each section briefly outlines the role's function and goals, then dis~ 
cusses how to build a hero to fit that role in general terms. These discussions 
focus on the noble, scoundrel, scout, and soldier classes, and characters with 
levels in those classes can use the advice to come up with a reasonable his- 
tory, personality, talent selection, and feat selection to fill their role in the 
cell. The Rebel Alliance has few real Force-users. Most Jedi in an Alliance 
cell make their own roles, although they can adapt any of the roles below 
as needed, 


DESIGNING YOUR REBEL CELL 
If your party decides to build heroes around the concept of a Rebel 
Alliance cell, consider the following questions. First, what is the overall 
function of your cell? For example, it might consist of undercover opera- 
tives, starfighter crewmembers, or corporate saboteurs. Second, does 
your cell identify itself by a unique name? Many heroes from the Battle 
of Hoth were members of the Tierfon Yellow Aces, and a branch of the 
Alliance SpecForce called themselves the Pathfinders. After establishing 
a basic concept and name, consider questions about how the cell oper- 
ates. What is your goal? What is your favored method of achieving that 
goal? Where do you operate? Do you actively recruit? Do you have your 
own secret base, or do you operate out of a civilian locale? Once these 
questions are settled, each player can create a hero that fits in with the 
theme more accurately. 


A REGEL CELL RECEIVES 4 BRIEFING FROM ITS COMMANDING 
OFFICER BESIDE A ULAV. 


PARTY ROLE: COMMAND 
The commander is the decision-maker and leader of the cell, Typically, she 
receives orders from Alliance High Command, which she then interprets and 
relays to her team. The commander is responsible for the overall organization 
of the cell and for ensuring that the team executes orders with precision and 
speed. She calls the shots and acts as a supervisor for the whole cell. 

Nobles are a natural fit for the command role because they have abilities 
that make it easy to direct and boost their allies’ competence. Moreover, they 
have the social skills necessary to act as the face of the cell, allowing them to 
get the most out of Alliance leaders. Nobles make straightforward command- 
ers, using their action-granting talents to make sure the job is done right. 
An Alliance cell under noble leadership makes great use of its commander's 
skill in diplomacy and persuasion and might avoid direct confrontation in 
favor of intrigue and subtlety. 

Ascoundrel brings an unorthodox quality to the role of party commander. 
As cell leader, a scoundrel focuses the group on disruptive assignments 
designed to rattle the enemy. An Alliance cell under scoundrel command 
frequently undertakes bold, aggressive missions that are unpredictable and 
meant to sow discord. A scoundrel commander usually has skills that lend 
themselves well to leadership, and when Imperial agents come looking for 
trouble, he can turn on the charm or pull off complex deceptions. 


When a scout is in the command role, the Alliance cell focuses on stealth 
and survival. A scout leader tends toward caution and mobility and might 
keep her cell constantly on the move to throw off Imperial pursuit. She takes 
fewer overt risks and relies on the skills and abilities of the members to keep 
the cell alive despite overwhelming odds. 

When a soldier assumes the command role, the Alliance cell almost cer- 
tainly becomes more militaristic, and the members undertake more violent 
and destructive missions. Soldier commanders do well in starfighter squad- 
rons or special forces cells. Soldier leaders emphasize hardware and training 
‘over subtlety, and an Alliance cell under a soldier's command is usually in 
the thick of things when the shooting starts. 


PARTY ROLE: INTELLIGENCE 

The intelligence officer is responsible for collecting, analyzing, and dis- 
seminating all relevant information for the Alliance cell. Typically directly 
associated with the Alliance Intelligence organization, the intelligence officer 
handles everything from gathering data (which could involve coordinating 
spy missions or stakeouts) to passing intel up the chain of command (which 
might require covert operations to move the data). The intelligence officer 
analyzes data that has been collected and provides it to other cell members, 
allowing them to make informed decisions about their activities. 

Anoble in the intelligence role uses her excellent social skills as the cell's 
primary means of intelligence gathering. She typically employs skills such 
as Gather Information to collect data from gossip and rumor, and she uses 
Deception or Persuasion to convince beings in important positions to turn 
over sensitive information. Noble intelligence officers rely on their lineage 
and connections as their primary sources of knowledge. 

Ascoundrel in the intelligence role draws on trickery, deceit, and wits to 
manipulate others into giving up valuable information. Scoundrel intelligence 
officers coordinate intel-gathering missions that rely on common decep- 
tions such as disguises, bribes, and sneaking into well-guarded areas. Many 
scoundrels are also proficient slicers, gathering intelligence by slicing into 
computer systems and downloading the data directly. Scoundrels are more 
likely to have criminal contacts and seedy allies on the fringes of society, so 
some of their intelligence comes from less than reputable sources. 

A scout intelligence officer prefers to use observation, stealth, and less 
risky methods of data collection. Her intelligence-gathering missions might 
involve long-term stakeouts of Imperial outposts, surveillance from concealed 
listening stations, or occasional undercover investigations (though usually 
nothing too hazardous). Scouts rely on their keen senses and perception not 
only to notice relevant pieces of information but also to pick up on hidden 
meanings. 


Unlike the scout, a soldier intelligence officer gets up close and personal 
with the enemy. He coordinates missions that involve breaking into enemy 
locales and stealing the information needed by the cell. Soldiers in the 
intelligence role might kidnap important enemy officers, arrange distrac- 
tions (often destructive ones) to cover their tracks, and equip their allies 
with enough weapons and armor to blast their way out of trouble in case 
things go badly. 


PARTY ROLE: MEDICAL 

OFFICER 

Most Alliance cells hope that they never need to call upon their medical 
officer. Typically, medical officers deal with the everyday health needs of 
their fellow cell members, including everything from treating common dis- 
eases to conducting routine examinations. However, the medical officer's 
greatest value is in helping cell members who suffer wounds while fighting 
the Empire. If something goes wrong, an ally might need to have six blaster 
wounds patched up in a hurry. Having a medical officer handy means that the 
wounded cell member can receive care without going to a medical facility, 
where he might be identified and the authorities alerted. 

Nobles make excellent medical officers, largely due to their ability to 
train in Treat Injury and the presence of healing-related feats on their list 
of bonus feats. Often, noble medical officers are doctors who have left their 
professions to join the Rebellion, bringing their expertise out of the medical 
center and into the field. Nobles in the medical officer role rely on their 
training and education and act in a professional manner, so being treated 
by a Rebel medical officer is similar to being treated in any medical center 
in the galaxy. 

Scoundrels rarely find themselves in the medical officer role, except for 
scoundrels who are multiclass characters and have gained Treat Injury asa 
trained skill by other means. Scoundrel medical officers focus on unortho- 
dox methods of healing and often are little more than field medics who can 
patch up a Rebel soldier well enough to sustain him until he can find better 
care. Most scoundrel medical officers have only the training they received 
from the Alliance (usually a crash course in field medicine hastily adminis- 
tered aboard a medical frigate), so they rely heavily on medical droids for 
assistance and advice. 

Like scoundrels, scouts do not have Treat Injury as a class skill, so scout 
medical officers often take noble or soldier levels so they can add the skill to 
their class skill list. Scout medical officers specialize in survival, usually filling 
the role on worlds where cell members might encounter natural hazards. For 
example, Alliance cells on dangerous planets such as Felucia or Mustafar 
might have a scout as a medical officer due to her familiarity with the ter- 
rain and its hazards. In many cases, scout medical officers use the Survival 
skill to stave off problems in advance, making sure that cell members remain 
healthy through preventative measures. 


fy 
I 
> 
v 
4 
LJ 
2 


Soldiers in the medical officer role often are experienced combat medics 
who focus on field medicine. They can train in the Treat Injury skill at Ist 
level and thus have no need to multiclass; however, some soldiers dip into 
another class so they can add Knowledge (life sciences) to their class skill ist. 
Soldier medical officers assess situations as if they were on the battlefield 
and usually are adept at triage. They prioritize their efforts based on need 
and on their ability to restore a cell member to fighting form, and they have 
a pragmatic approach to medical problems. Cell members might have to deal 
with lesser ailments on their own while a soldier medical officer concentrates 
on bigger issues, but in the end, a soldier is among the most disciplined and 
efficient of medical officers. 


PARTY ROLE: QUARTERMASTER 
The quartermaster, also referred to as the ordnance officer, the supply 
officer, or (more colloquially) the finder, is the person who acquires material 
supplies and distributes them to the members of the cell. The quartermaster 
makes sure that all members have the right weapons, armor, and equipment 
for the job. Quartermasters coordinate their efforts with the Alliance's 
Ordnance and Supply Command, ensuring that the necessary goods make 
their way down the chain. When the cell is short on supplies that are needed 
quickly, the quartermaster might engage in field acquisition—a nice way 
of saying “stealing.” 

Nobles make excellent quartermasters thanks to their ability to develop 
contacts in the Alliance supply chain and in the area where the cell oper- 
ates. Many noble quartermasters take the Connections talent right away, 
allowing them to obtain restricted, military, and even illegal goods without 
extra costs. This talent is especially important when the cell must operate 
without support from Ordnance and Supply Command, since credits can be 
scarce for Rebel cells and the quartermaster cannot risk a background check 
by Imperial authorities. Many nobles use their persuasiveness to barter with 
local suppliers, maximizing the benefit gained for credits spent. 

Scoundrel quartermasters specialize in obtaining materials through illegal 
channels. A scoundrel’s black market connections means that he knows how 
to procure items, no matter how restricted or illegal they might be. Scoundrel 
quartermasters always seem to know beings in the underbelly of society, 
and back-alley deals are common. They can use trickery and lies, conning 
honest traders in order to acquire certain items at low cost and without 
alerting the authorities. Scoundrels in the quartermaster role might steal 
needed supplies outright. 

Scout quartermasters prefer to obtain materials by scavenging, scroung- 
ing, and putting things together piecemeal. Since many scouts are trained in 
the Mechanics skill, they can find the parts of a needed item and assemble 
the finished product themselves. This method not only saves credits but also 
avoids the scrutiny that comes with buying through legal channels. Scouts 
in the quartermaster role often spend time hunched over a workbench, 


trying to piece together illegal weapons from disparate parts. An Alliance 
cell with a scout quartermaster usually carries equipment that was built 
from scrap—and looks it. 

Soldiers in the quartermaster role like to take what they need by force. A 
soldier quartermaster works within the Alliance supply chain when possible, 
but if his needs cannot be met, he formulates plans fora raid on an Imperial 
supply depot or a nighttime assault on a local munitions factory. Soldiers tend 
to be more aggressive than other quartermasters in their pursuit of supplies, 
but they don't always resort to violence. They can obtain supplies through 
stealth, subterfuge, and infiltration just as well as by combat. Still, when it 
comes to direct confrontations, soldier quartermasters take more risks that 
other quartermasters in order to get what they want. 


PARTY ROLE: RECRUITER 

The recruiter in an Alliance cell focuses on finding possible new members 
of the Rebellion and analyzing their potential. A recruiter not only identi- 
fies beings who might make good Rebels but also takes precautions when 
attempting to bring a new candidate into the fold. These precautions include 
conducting extensive investigations into the recruit’s history, making sure 
the recruit is not an Imperial plant, and determining the recruit's willingness 
to join the fight against the Empire. Recruiters must be extremely diligent in 
this regard and study the subject as closely as possible, Once the decision has 
been made, the recruiter brings the new member into the fold and educates 
him on his new role in the Alliance cell. 

Nobles in the recruiter role rely heavily on their social skills and insight 
to determine whether an individual is a good candidate. Noble recruiters can 
broach the subject of rebellion delicately with a potential recruit. They are 
adept at reading other people and saying the right things to pull an unsure 
recruit over to the side of the Rebel Alliance. Most nobles in the recruiter role 
are silver-tongued spreaders of sedition who can convince even loyal mem- 
bers of the Empire that joining the Rebel Alliance is in their best interest. 

Scoundrel recruiters identify beings that have grown disgruntled with the 
Empire, particularly those on the fringes of society. Many scoundrel recruiters 
draw from the pool of miscreants they count among their friends, convinc- 
ing them to give up a life of crime and dedicate their skills and abilities to 
fighting the Empire. Scoundrels in the recruiter role frequently use deception 
and guile to subtly plant the seeds of rebellion. 

Scouts in the recruiter role typically identify potential Rebels through 
prolonged observation. They exercise great patience in this task and try to 
be absolutely sure about a recruit's trustworthiness before making a move. 
Scouts show great diligence when investigating a candidate's background 
and take elaborate precautions to ensure that the individual has no Impe- 
rial connections. They do not want to take any risks when bringing in anew 
recruit—a lack of caution could destroy the entire cell. 


Soldier recruiters approach their duty as if they were recruiting for the 
military. When a soldier is sure that an individual could be turned to the Alli- 
ance, he extends the offer and lets the candidate make the decision. Once 
the offer is made, however, the soldier watches the recruit carefully. If the 
candidate declines to join the Alliance or shows any sign that she might take 
information to the Empire, the soldier recruiter makes sure that the individual 

silenced before the cell can be damaged. 


PARTY ROLE: 

SECURITY OFFICER 

Within an Alliance cell, the security officer maintains the safety, secrecy, 
nd integrity of the group. Similar in many ways to the intelligence officer, 
the security officer is responsible for making sure that the cell continues 
to operate without the Empire's knowledge. More than just ensuring the 
ecrecy of covert actions, the security officer also prevents breaches from 
hin. The role requires constant vigilance in order to keep the:cell from 
cting Imperial attention. 

Nobles in the security officer role favor field work, going out into the 
;mmunity to make sure that no one suspects that the cell exists. They ask 
ibtle questions, listen to private conversations, and pick up on possible 
ecurity leaks. They integrate themselves into the community, keeping their 
yes and ears open for any sign that someone outside the cell has become 
uspicious. Most noble security officers rely on their ability to engage others 

n conversation to determine whether anyone suspects the presence of the 


Alliance cell. 

When a scoundrel is in the security officer role, he usually takes a more 
ictive approach to safeguarding the cell. Scoundrels favor counterintelligence 
nformation campaigns. For example, if a scoundrel security officer 
believed that someone was getting close to discovering the cell, he might 
pread rumors about that person, turning the tables by redirecting attention 
away from the cell. Scoundrels specialize in sowing discord and lies; they 
try to confuse enemies with too much (often false) information, obscuring 
the truth about the cell 

A scout security officer approaches her task the same way she would set 
up camp behind enemy lines. When a scout is in charge of a cell's security, 
ing places cannot be used until they undergo multiple security sweeps, 
‘afe houses are checked dozens of times, and outsiders are watched con- 
tantly for signs of Imperial interest. A scout security officer knows that 
urvival is a matter of skill and cunning, and she coaches her fellow cell 
members in methods of remaining undetected. She keeps her eyes and ears 
open, using surveillance technology and survival techniques to prevent 


nd mit 


oreaches of the cell's security. 


TYCHO CeLcHu LEADS A REBEL CELL IN THE THEFT 
OF A VT-49 DEcIMATOR, 


as scouts—such as electronic surveillance, defensive security sweeps, and 
long-term observation—but they pursue leaks more aggressively. Whereas 
a scout might deal with a security breach by swiftly relocating the cell, a 
soldier security officer is more likely to go after the source of the leak with 
a blaster. Soldiers view the security of their cell the way they view plans for 
a covert mission: The fewer who know the details, the better. Soldiers in the 
security officer role disseminate information on a need-to-know basis, and 
they usually try to keep the cell even more isolated from the community 
than other security officers might 


PARTY ROLE: 
TRANSPORT SPECIALIST 
Alliance cells do not always have a single member who fills the role of trans- 
port specialist—the person who obtains, distributes, and maintains all vehicles 
and starships used by the group. In some cells, the members use vehicles 
simply for transportation from one locale to another, and the quartermaster 
or security officer fills this role. In other cells, such as starfighter squadrons 
that function semi-independently, a dedicated transport specialist is respon- 
sible for the most important elements of the cell's operation. 

A noble in the transport specialist role uses her wealth and connections 
to make sure that the cell has the best vehicles and starships available. She 


i waiavHS 


Soldiers in the security officer role use many of the same techniques is | 


calls on her contacts in the local populace to obtain civilian vehicles, and 
she might pressure sympathetic allies working for local manufacturers to 
“lose” a few starfighters during a shipping accident, funneling the vessels 
to her cell. Most noble transport specialists prefer to use their connections 
and social skills to convince others to provide vehicles willingly. 

A scoundrel in the transport specialist role does whatever it takes to 
acquire vehicles and starships, including theft and deception. Moreover, 
scoundrel transport specialists go out of their way to disguise vehicles used 
by the Alliance cell. They alter transponder codes, change a vehicle's color or 
physical details, and perform multiple cosmetic enhancements to throw off 
Imperial agents or owners who come looking for their missing property. 

Scouts in the transport specialist role frequently spend as much time 
tinkering with the cell's vehicles and starships as they do obtaining them. 
Notorious outlaw techs and jury-riggers, scout transport specialists outfit 
the vehicles under their supervision with the best possible equipment or 
with unique modifications to enhance their operation. Scouts in this role 
ensure that the cell's vehicles are in top working condition, although their 
habit of making "just one more slight modification” might exasperate other 
cell members. 

Soldier transport specialists look at every vehicle and starship used 
by the cell as little more than a collection of armor plating and weapons 
that fits around repulsors and engines. Soldiers in this role analyze every 
means of transportation for its combat value, and they prefer well-armed, 
well-armored vehicles that will be useful when violence inevitably breaks 
out. Because the vehicles add speed, defenses, and firepower to the cell's 
resources, soldiers view them as an essential part of military operations. 


BACKGROUNDS 

Every hero has to come from somewhere. Heroes don't all begin as Rebel 
agents, adventuring smugglers, or daring explorers. For most players, a simple 
history for their heroes will suffice, but other players might want to choose 
details in their characters’ pasts that will help shape their futures. After all, 
the heroes are more than just members of a particular species or the sum 
of their training; they have defining elements in their histories that molded 
them into what they will become. 

The background system presented here is an alternative to the Destiny 
system described in the Saga Edition core rulebook. The background system 
allows you to focus on a hero's origins rather than on an uncertain future. 
Gamemasters can use either the background system or the Destiny system, 
giving players a choice of selecting a background or selecting a Destiny. It 
is not recommended to use both systems together because adding another 
layer to the characters will affect hero complexity and party balance. 


To use the background system, each player chooses a single background 
from the event category, the occupation category, or the planet of origin 
category. Each category has its own rules giving special access to skills, 
languages, equipment, or other traits that help define who the character is 
and what shaped her into a hero. A character receives the benefits of the 
chosen background at first level, and those benefits stay with the character 
for life. For details on the benefits gained from each background, see the 
individual descriptions below. 


Event 
When you choose an event background, you decide that your hero has a single, 
defining event in his past that put him on the path to becoming a hero. This 
event fundamentally shaped your character's life. It was the moment at which 
he took his first steps toward becoming something more than ordinary, and 
it continues to shape the way your hero's adventuring career develops. 
When you select an event background, add one of the relevant skills 
listed at the end of that entry to your character's class skill list, regardless 
of starting class. This skill represents something your character learned to do 
as a result of the event. Additionally, when you select an event background, 
your character gains a small enhancement. 


BACKGROUND OR DESTINY? 
Should a Gamemaster use the background system or the Destiny system 
in a campaign? 

The Destiny system puts more powerful abilities in the hands of the 
heroes, allowing them to perform incredible feats and save themselves 
from certain death by expending Destiny Points. However, some cam- 
paigns, particularly those set during the Rebellion era, have a more 
realistic feel. In an era practically devoid of Jedi, giving such abilities to 
the heroes might alter the campaign's tone in a way that the Gamemaster 
wishes to avoid. 

The background system is a substitute that tones down the power 
level of the heroes while providing opportunities for telling interesting 
stories, The background system gives each character a special hook that 
the Gamemaster can use to develop adventures, much in the same way 
that a hero's Destiny provides direction for that character. If you are 
a Gamemaster looking to run a campaign without the high-powered 
abilities granted by Destiny Points, consider using the background 
system instead. 


Bankrupt 

You lost all or nearly all your credits and material possessions. Perhaps you 
were blackmailed by a COMPNOR agent who found out that you had a relative 
with Rebel sympathies, or maybe Imperial Intelligence seized your finances 
and assets as a part of a larger investigation that had nothing to do with 
you. Regardless, the event unjustly robbed you of your worldly possessions 
and reduced you to abject poverty, leaving you with nothing but your drive 
to recover your life and punish those who made you destitute. 

Asa result of being nearly impoverished, you can use the Survival skill 
to sustain yourself in urban or civilized environments. See the Basic Sur- 
vival application of the Survival skill on page 73 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Gather Information, Survival 


Conspiracy 

You witnessed an attempt to cover up an incredible secret and had to 
abandon your life for fear that the conspirators would try to silence you, 
Perhaps you managed to sneak past the Imperial blockade after Falleen was 
quarantined and you learned what really happened there, or maybe you saw 
the assassination of a local Moff by a Black Sun hit squad, The event that 
you witnessed was significant enough to justify your fear of retribution, and 
perhaps it provides you with the motivation to see that the conspirators are 
brought to justice. 

Asa result of trying to avoid the conspirators for so long, you have learned 
to spot the signs of a conspiracy. You can reroll any Perception check made 
to sense deception or influence, keeping the better result. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Stealth, Use Computer 


Crippled 

You were crippled or seriously wounded in some way, but you have overcome 
the effects of that injury to become a hero. Perhaps you were blasted and 
left for dead by a bounty hunter on the Empire's payroll, or you were critically 
injured when Trandoshan slavers raided your space transport. The event that 
left you wounded was a major catalyst for your transformation into a hero, 
and it has had lasting physical repercussions, 

As a result of your injury, you start with a cybernetic prosthesis (see 
page 137 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) at no additional cost. In addi- 
tion, you have learned to fight through the pain of being wounded. When 
your Fortitude Defense is reduced as a result of moving down the condition 
track, your damage threshold remains the same, as if you had no debilitat- 
ing conditions. 

Relevant Skills: Endurance, Mechanics, Treat Injury 


Disgraced 

Once you were respected, possibly even in a position of authority, but you 
were disgraced and lost the standing you had worked so hard to achieve. 
Perhaps you were a high-ranking member of the Incom Corporation who 
was humiliated when the X-wing design team defected to the Rebellion, or 
a prominent community leader or bureaucrat who lost all authority when 
Imperial Inquisitors falsely accused you of harboring a Jedi. 

Asa result of being disgraced, you have learned to hide your true identity 
from others, and you treat any attempt to create a deceptive appearance for 
yourself (as described in the Deceive application of the Deception skill on 
page 64 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) as one step simpler. Thus, when 
you try to disguise yourself with a difficult deception, you instead treat it 
as a moderate deception. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Gather Information, Stealth 


Enslaved 

At some point in your past, you lost your freedom and became a slave. Perhaps 
you were captured by the Empire and made to work as a laborer on a secret 
construction project, or maybe you became so indebted to a crime lord that 
you entered a state of indentured servitude from which you could not easily 
escape. The events that led to your slavery (and eventual freedom) might 
motivate you to seek revenge against those who enslaved you and to ensure 
that others do not suffer the same fate. 

As a result of your slavery, you refuse to submit to such a state again, 
and you resist all attempts to seize you. You gain a +2 competence bonus 
to grapple checks. 

Relevant Skills: Climb, Endurance, Jump 


Exiled 

You were exiled from your home planet and cannot return. This background 
differs from the disgraced background in that the event that led to your exile 
was not targeted at you individually. Perhaps a member of your family defied 
the regional governor and the entire clan was forced into space, or perhaps 
your homeworld was destroyed by an Imperial superweapon while you were 
offworld. The event set you adrift in the galaxy and left you disconnected 
from everything you once knew. 

Asa result of your journeys around the galaxy, you can plot a safe course 
for hyperspace travel in half the time it normally takes (you can plot a course 
in 30 seconds, or 5 rounds). Additionally, if you are trained in Knowledge 
(galactic lore), you gain the Skill Focus feat for that skill as a conditional 
bonus feat. 

Relevant Skills: Gather Information, Knowledge (galactic lore), 
‘Survival 


aove) 


SLIVEL SIOVEH) 


Imprisoned 

You were wrongfully imprisoned and spent a great deal of time in an Impe- 
rial penitentiary or in the spice mines of Kessel. Perhaps you were framed 
by an Imperial bureaucrat, taking the fall for one of his crimes, or you were 
locked away so that an Imperial noble could seize your property, belongings, 
or spouse. The wrongful imprisonment eventually led to your career as an 
adventurer, but it also established your nemesis—the person who had you 
incarcerated. 

Asa result of your imprisonment, you start as a hero with a criminal his- 
tory, but you also have a number of criminal contacts who can help you out. 
You can obtain black market goods in half the time it usually takes to obtain 
them (minimum 1 day). See page 119 of the Saga Edition core rulebook for 
information on obtaining restricted objects on the black market. 

Relevant Skills: Acrobatics, Gather Information, Stealth 


Marooned 
You were abandoned in a remote locale and forced to fend for yourself with 
little hope of rescue or survival. Perhaps you were a TIE fighter pilot whose 
ship crashed on an uninhabited world, left to rot when your commanding 
officer refused to send a search-and-rescue team after you. Alternatively, you 
might have been the lone survivor of a pirate attack on an Outer Rim settle- 
ment that damaged your equipment and prevented you from summoning 
help. Whatever the event, it left you isolated for an extended time; after you 
escaped or were rescued, you resolved to make your mark on the galaxy. 

Asa result of having been marooned, you have learned to survive without 
the aid of civilization. You take no penalty to Treat Injury checks to heal 
yourself (or to Mechanics checks to repair damage to yourself, if you are 
a droid). 

Relevant Skills: Ride, Survival, Swim 


Orphaned 

At some point in your life, you were orphaned. Perhaps when you were a 
child, your mother and father were slain by the Empire for their defiance, 
or maybe more recently, your family was killed in a starship accident that 
left you the only survivor. The event that made you an orphan can serve as 
a catalyst for your adventuring, or it might simply be one of the influences 
that guided you toward becoming a hero. 

Asa result of your life as an orphan, you know how to take care of yourself. 
When you spend a Force Point to add to a skill check in an untrained skill, 
add an extra 1d6 to the skill check. 

Relevant Skills: Gather Information, Survival, Treat Injury 


Scarred 

You were physically scarred in some way, a visible reminder of a trauma that 
you experienced. Perhaps your face was disfigured when stormtroopers raided 
your home searching for contraband, or perhaps you lost an eye when your 
ship came under attack from pirates on the Outer Rim. The event that left 
you scarred might have been a traumatic event that pushed you into your 
adventuring career, or it could merely be a badge of pride—or shame—from 
your former life. 

You have a visible scar in a prominent place on your body (such as your 
face, your neck, or your hand). When you make a Persuasion check to intimi- 
date a creature, you always have favorable circumstances, 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Persuasion, Treat Injury 


Widowed 

You lost a husband, a wife, or another close loved one. Though similar to the 
orphaned background, this background can represent not only the death of 
a loved one but also the mysterious disappearance of that person. Perhaps 
your husband was executed by the local Moff for his Rebel sympathies, or 
perhaps your daughter was kidnapped by one of the Emperor's Dark Jedi 
and spirited away, never to be seen again. The event robbed you of a single 
loved one and might open the possibility that you are still searching for that 
person during your adventures. 

As a result of your loss, you have learned to search diligently, either for 
those responsible for the death of your loved one or for those who might 
know his or her current whereabouts. You can take 20 on Gather Information 
checks, but it takes 20 times as long as normal to gain the information. 

Relevant Skills: Gather Information, Knowledge (galactic lore), 
Use Computer 


OCCUPATION 

When you choose an occupation background, you select an element of your 
character's history that defines her skills and abilities. Most heroes in the 
Rebellion era had some kind of job or career before they joined the fight 
against the Empire. 

When you select an occupation background, add one of the relevant 
skills listed at the end of that entry to your class skill list, regardless of your 
starting class. Your chosen skill represents something your character learned 
to do as a result of her occupation. Additionally, you gain a +2 competence 
bonus to untrained skill checks with the skills in your occupations list of 
relevant skills. 


Academic 
You were once involved in an academic field, dedicating yourself to the 
pursuit of knowledge. You might have been a teacher or an instructor in a 
university on a Core World, or perhaps you were a researcher working to 
advance the galaxy's knowledge of a particular subject. 

Relevant Skills: Knowledge (any one skill), Persuasion, Use Computer 


Celebrity 
You were a celebrity of some kind, and your name was known throughout 
several worlds or sectors, or possibly even the entire galaxy. Perhaps you 
were a holovid star whose work was broadcast across the HoloNet, or 
maybe you are the son or daughter of a wealthy noble family, constantly 
in the public eye. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Gather Information, Persuasion 


Criminal 
You come from a criminal background and spent your early years in and out 
of penitentiaries across the galaxy. Maybe you were a smuggler or a small~ 
time con artist who defied the Empire's trade laws, or perhaps you were a 
thief who specialized in corporate espionage. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Gather Information, Stealth 


Executive 

You once had a position of influence and authority in a company or corpora~ 

tion. Perhaps you were a rising star at an organization in the Corporate Sector, 

or maybe you were an important engineer at Sienar Fleet Systems. 
Relevant Skills: Initiative, Persuasion, Use Computer 


Labor 
You toiled for years doing manual work. Perhaps you were an assembly line 
worker in a droid factory, overseeing the automated manufacturing machines, 


or maybe you were a mechanic jn a 
Relevant Skills: Climb, Endurance, Jump 


imperial bureaucrat's vehicle pool. 


Law Enforcement 

You used to work for a significant law enforcement agency and spent years 

apprehending criminals. Perhaps you were a member of CorSec and served 

45 an investigator, or maybe you trained with the Sector Rangers. 
Relevant Skills: Acrobatics, Gather Information, Knowledge 

(bureaucracy) 


Medical 
You come from a medical background amd have learned the art of repairing 
the bodies of the sick and wounded. Perhaps you were a doctor in a Core 
World medical facility, or you served as a medic on an emergency response 
team, 

Relevant Skills: Knowledge (life sciences), Treat Injury, Use Computer 


Military 

You have experience in the military and spent time in the disciplined world 
of professional soldiers. Maybe you were a rank-and-file member of the 
Imperial Army, or you belonged to one of the many paramilitary or mercenary 


groups in the galaxy. 
Relevant Skills: Endurance, Ride, Treat Injury 


Pilot 
You were a commercial or corporate pilot, using your skill at handling vehicles 
in the service of your employer. Perhaps you flew the personal shuttle of 
an important Imperial bureaucrat, or maybe you operated a cargo transport 
business that was bankrupted by pirate raids. 

Relevant Skills: Knowledge (galactic lore), Mechanics, Use Computer 


Politics 
You come from a political background and have learned the art of diplomacy, 
negotiation, and maneuvering. Maybe you were a diplomat attached to the 
Imperial Senate or an aide to a Senator. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Gather Information, Persuasion 


Technology 

You have a strong background in technology; either you studied how to oper- 

ate or repair it, or you researched new technological advancements. Perhaps 

you were a sensor operator aboard a planetary defense station, or maybe you 

were an antislicer systems expert for a large galactic corporation 
Relevant Skills: Knowledge (technology), Mechanics, Use Computer 


THE REBEL ALUANCE ALWAYS NEEDS RECRUITS WITH TECHNICAL 
BACKGROUNDS TO KEEP EQUIPMENT IN WORKING ORDER. 


f 
> 
o 


PLANET OF ORIGIN 

Choosing a planet of origin as a background is different from choosing an 
event or an occupation. When you choose a planet of origin, you are declar- 
ing that your hero was raised on a world that is not typically considered to 
be the homeworld for his species. For example, he might be a Rodian raised 
on Tatooine, or a Bothan raised on Bespin. As a result, your hero is unlike 
other members of his or her species. You should develop a story to explain 
why your hero was raised on the chosen planet. 

You cannot select the same planet of origin as the traditional homeworld 
of your species. Humans and other species that do not have a single home- 
world can choose any planet described below. 

When you select a planet of origin background, add two skills from the 
relevant skills listed at the end of that entry to your character's class skill 
list, regardless of starting class. These skills represents something your 
character learned on his or her planet of origin. Additionally, you add the 
bonus language given at the end of the background’s description to your 
character's known languages. 


Alderaan 
You were raised on the idyllic Core World of Alderaan. Your people abandoned 
open warfare far in your past, and you grew up learning the values of peace, 
diplomacy, and freedom. 

Relevant Skills: Knowledge (any one), Persuasion, Treat Injury 

Bonus Language: High Galactic 


Bakura 
You come from the distant Outer Rim world of Bakura. Although your home- 
world experienced Imperial rule, its distance from the center of galactic 
events sheltered you from the worst of the Empire's atrocities. 

Relevant Skills: Mechanics, Treat Injury, Use Computer 

Bonus Language: High Galactic 


Bespin 
You hail from the gas giant Bespin and were raised in the mining colony of 
Cloud City. You spent plenty of time in the casinos and hotels of the city and 
are familiar with the finest luxuries the Outer Rim has to offer. 
Relevant Skills: Deception, Knowledge (bureaucracy), Persuasion 
Bonus Language: Bocce 


Bothawui 
You were raised on the Bothan homeworld of Bothawui, the center of the 
galaxy's most devious political maneuvers. You spent your youth in the cut- 
throat world of Bothan society, learning that manipulation and deception 
are fine arts to be savored and mastered. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Gather Information, Persuasion 

Bonus Language: Bothese 


Cerea 
Your home is the jungle world of Cerea. You were raised in a society where 
harmony exists between civilization and nature. You have learned to appreci- 
ate the natural world, and you leave few marks on the land you inhabit. 
Relevant Skills: Acrobatics, Knowledge (life sciences), Survival 
Bonus Language: Cerean 


Corellia 
You are from Corellia, long known as the home of proud, stubborn beings. 
You spent your formative years rubbing elbows with hard-working citizens, 
expert pilots, and master shipwrights who took risks that others would 
consider foolish. 

Relevant Skills: Initiative, Knowkedge (technology), Mechanics 

Bonus Language: Old Corellian 


Coruscant 
You come from the cosmopolitan planet of Coruscant, known during the 
Empire's rule as Imperial Center. You have long been at the center of 
galactic society and are well versed in the latest cultural trends of the Core 
Worlds. 

Relevant Skills: Gather Information, Knowledge (bureaucracy), Knowl- 
edge (galactic lore) 

Bonus Language: High Galactic 


Dorin 
You were raised on Dorin, a toxic world that is the home of the Kel Dor spe- 
cies. You have learned to live in a hostile environment, overcoming great 
adversity as a matter of course during your development. 

Relevant Skills: Endurance, Survival, Treat Injury 

Bonus Language: Kel Dor 


Duro 
You are a native of the great orbital city-ships of Duro, and you lived on those 
vessels for much or all of your young life. You studied under great Duros pilots 
and learned how to do incredible things with a starship. 
Relevant Skills: Knowledge (technology), Mechanics, Use Computer 
Bonus Language: Durese 


m1 z 
ae some players or Gamemasters might want to create a plan- 
etary background for a world other than those given here. To do so, the 
Gamemaster should choose three skills that are relevant to the planet's 
history, culture, or reputation. In addition, if the planet is home to a native 
species, add the language of that species to the background as a bonus 
language. If the planet has no natives, the Gamemaster instead should 
choose a common trade language (such as Bocce or Sy Bisti) or High 
Galactic. The latter language is especially appropriate for Core Worlds 
and planets that pride themselves on their prestige. 


Fondor 
You come from Fondor, a world in the Tapani Sector. You grew up ina society 
that was deeply involved in Imperial politics, and you still take pride in your 
home planet's great shipbuilding traditions. 
Relevant Skills: Knowledge (technology), Mechanics, Use Computer 
Bonus Language: Bocce 


Gamorr 
You hail from the Gamorrean homeworld of Gamorr, a forested planet ruled 
by warring tribes. You have learned to survive the constant violence and 
conflict and have become tougher as a result. 

Relevant Skills: Climb, Endurance, Survival 

Bonus Language: Gamorrean 


Iridonia 
You are from the harsh planet of Iridonia, the home of the Zabrak species. 
You have learned to live among vicious natural hazards, and so surviving on 
a world with an unforgiving climate is second nature to you. 

Relevant Skills: Acrobatics, Endurance, Survival 

Bonus Language: Zabrak 


Ithor 
You were raised in one of the floating cities of Ithor, the verdant home of the 
Ithorian species. You learned an appreciation for all things natural, and you 
know that nature can be manipulated to serve civilization's needs without 
devastating the wild. 
Relevant Skills: Knowledge (life sciences), Persuasion, Treat Injury 
Bonus Language: Ithorese 


Kashyyyk 
You come from the treetop cities high above the jungle world of Kashyyyk, 


home of the Wookie species. Since you were raised among Wookiees, you 
are aggressive and not easily intimidated. 

Relevant Skills: Climb, Persuasion, Survival 

Bonus Language: Shyriiwook (understand only) 


Mon Calamari 
You hail from the aquatic planet of Mon Calamari, home to both the 
Quarren and the Mon Calamari species. You learned how to survive on 
the watery world and studied under great Mon Calamari shipwrights or 
Quarren traders. 

Relevant Skills: Mechanics, Persuasion, Swim 

Bonus Language: Mon Calamarian or Quarrenese (player's choice) 


Naboo 
You come from the beautiful world of Naboo, the home planet of Emperor 
Palpatine. You have learned the value of peace, but you also know the impor- 
tance of vigilance and occasional defiance. You would go to great lengths to 
protect your beloved homeworld. 

Relevant Skills: Ride, Persuasion, Swim 

Bonus Language: Gunganese 


Nar Shaddaa 
You were raised on the grimy ecumenopolis known as Nar Shaddaa, the 
‘Smuggler’s Moon. Your upbringing in the Vertical City taught you the harsh 
realities of life on the fringe, and you have become devious and tough enough 
to survive in any den of thieves. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Gather Information, Stealth 

Bonus Language: Huttese 


Rodia 
You are from the humid rainforest world of Rodia, the home planet of the Rodian 
species. You learned the art of the hunt from Rodians who shared the world 
with you; as a result, you developed keen senses and hunting instincts. 
Relevant Skills: Climb, Stealth, Survival 
Bonus Language: Rodese 


Ryloth 
You come from the dangerous world of Ryloth, home of the Twi'lek species. 
The planet is divided in half, with a blasted hot day side and a frozen night 
side, and you lived in the twilight region between those extremes. You learned 
to fend for yourself in the perilous Twi'lek society, and you might identify 
with one of the planet's tribes. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Persuasion, Survival 

Bonus Language: Ryl 


Socorro 
You grew up on the volcanic desert planet of Socorro, a distant world on the 
Outer Rim teeming with criminal activity. You learned hard lessons from the 
smugglers, pirates, and other spacers who passed through, gaining skills that 
allow you to follow in their footsteps. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Stealth, Survival 

Bonus Language: Socorran 


Sullust 
You hail from Sullust, a volcanic world that is the home of the Sullustan spe- 
cies. You spent your formative years in the underground cities inhabited by 
the natives, and you might have worked for the SoroSuub corporation. 
Relevant Skills: Climb, Mechanics, Survival 
Bonus Language: Sullustese 


Taris 
You come from Taris, the home of the swoop bike, a once-beautiful planet 
that is now only a shadow of its former greatness. As a youth, you lived 
among the tall towers of the city-planet, listening to stories of your world’s 
past as a prominent center of galactic importance. 

Relevant Skills: Deception, Mechanics, Stealth 

Bonus Language: Sy Bisti 


NEw LANGUAGES 

This section introduces three new languages: Old Corellian, Socorran, 
and Sy Bysti. Old Corellian is the original language spoken by the people 
of Corellia before that world joined the Republic and adopted Basic as 
the standard language. Though few actually speak Old Corellian these 
days, the language is far from dead, and many Corellians still pepper their 
speech with Old Corellian phrases. b4 

Socorran is the language spoken by the natives of the volcanic 
desert world of Socorro. Like Old Corellian, Socorran has largely been 
supplanted by Basic, but many pirates, smugglers, and other criminals 
use it as a “secret” language known only to those who have ‘spent time 
on the seedy world. 

‘Sy Bysti isa trade language spoken on the Outer Rim and also in parts 
of the Unknown Regions. Though the language is not as. widespread as 
Bocce, many inhabitants of worlds on the edge of the Unknown Regions 
and Wild Space use Sy Bysti as a common language between species 
that have not learned Basic. 


Tatooine 
You were raised on the harsh desert planet of Tatooine. You have always 
believed that if there is a bright center of the universe, then Tatooine is the 
planet farthest from it. Though you learned to eke out an existence on the dry 
world, you saw enough traders and spacers to dream of the wider galaxy. 
Relevant Skills: Endurance, Ride, Survival 
Bonus Language: Jawa Trade Language 


Trandosha 
You grew up on the dangerous world of Trandosha, the home of the Tran- 
doshan species. You learned to live among the violent and aggressive natives, 
and you were tough enough and strong enough not only to survive but also 
to prosper. 

Relevant Skills: Endurance, Persuasion, Survival 

Bonus Language: Dosh 


YJEDI 

The Dark Times, the years between the establishment of the Empire and 
the founding of the Rebellion, was truly the lowest point in the history 
of the Jedi. During that period, the Jedi were all but exterminated; only a 
handful survived. By the time Luke Skywalker receives his training from 
Yoda, the Jedi Master's claim that Luke is the last of the Jedi is largely cor- 
rect. Very few Jedi exist during the Rebellion era, since most were hunted 
down and destroyed by Darth Vader and the Emperor's other minions. As 
such, playing a classically trained Jedi in the Rebellion era likely requires 
Gamemaster permission. 

However, players can consider alternatives to a traditional Jedi character. 
Although the Empire wiped out the Jedi Order, for at least some time, many 
survivors of Order 66 continue to train Padawans (as Shaak Ti does with Maris 
Brood). Most of these apprentices, along with their Masters, are tracked down 
and killed by the Empire. But in some cases, the barely trained Padawans 
manage to escape the Empire's notice when their Masters are slain, leaving 
them alive but with only rudimentary knowledge of the Force. Your character 
might be one such student who, after years of letting that basic training 
lapse, has decided to explore the Force on his own, effectively becoming a 
self-taught Jedi. Alternatively, perhaps your character is the offspring of a 
Jedi who married after the fall of the Jedi Order. That parent died (or went 
missing) when you were still a child, and you discover your Jedi heritage only 
after going through some of your parent's personal belongings. 

As another option, you can play a Dark Jedi who has turned away from 
the Empire. Typically, when Jedi fall to the dark side, the Emperor gives them 
a place in the Inquisitorius. Many former Jedi, such as Antinnis Tremayne and 
Adalric Brandl, were recruited into that organization. Perhaps your character 
is a young member of COMPNOR's SAGroup (a youth organization dedicated 
to preserving the Emperor's New Order) who is singled out for Inquisitor 


training after displaying strength in the Force. However, after exposure to 
the teachings of the dark side, your character fled and went into hiding rather 
than become an Inquisitor. 

Regardless of the form, Jedi characters in the Rebellion era can play to 
the strengths and tone of the time period. When crafting your hero's history, 
keep in mind the following facts: 

The Jedi have been nearly wiped out. You would not have receive Jedi 
training from a fully trained Knight or Master, and most likely you have had 
no formal training in the traditional ways of the Jedi. 

Knowledge of the Jedi and the Force has been declared illegal, and most 
sources of such information have been erased. If you learn about the Jedi and 
the Force, your knowledge should come from a secret or hidden source. 

For the most part, you should be in the dark about the ways of the Jedi. 
With no teacher and no reliable source of information, the state of the Jedi 
before the end of the Clone Wars remains a mystery. One of your primary 
motivations might be to discover the history of the Jedi and learn how to 
continue your training. 

Sample Jedi Concepts: The abandoned student, the failed Jedi (see the 
sidebar), the child of a Jedi, the former Inquisitor’s apprentice. 


New Jedi Consular Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Consular talent tree (see page 
39 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the 
Jedi class. Any character who normally can choose talents from the Jedi 
Consular talent tree can choose from these talents as well. 

Guiding Strikes: When you deal damage to a target by making a light- 
saber attack on your turn, you can use a swift action before the end of your 
turn to activate this talent. If you do so, allies adjacent to the target at the 
time you made the attack gain a +2 circumstance bonus to melee attack 
rolls against that target until the start of your next turn. 

Recall: Whenever you spend a Force Point to return a Force power to 
your suite, you regain two Force powers instead of one. 


New Jedi Guardian Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Guardian talent tree (see page 
40 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the 
Jedi class. Any character who normally can choose talents from the Jedi 
Guardian talent tree can choose from these talents as well. 

Close Maneuvering: Once per turn, you can use a swift action to des- 
ignate a target. Until the start of your next turn, your movement does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity from that target, provided that you end your 
movement adjacent to that target. 

Immovable: You can activate this talent as a swift action. Until the start 
of your next turn, anyone attempting to move you involuntarily (such as with 
a bantha rush or the move object Force power) takes a -5 penalty to attack 
rolls or skill checks made to use the effect that would move you. An enemy 


THE FAILED JEDI 

One of the oldest and most popular archetypes for Jedi heroes in the 
Rebellion era is that of the failed Jedi. The concept is simple: You were 
a student of the Force who studied under a Master at the Jedi Temple, 
but you never completed your training, washing out and abandoning 
the Order. Many years later, by the time the Empire rose to power, you 
had been forgotten and subsequently escaped the notice of Vader and 
the Inquisitors. When the campaign starts, you remember only distant 
glimmers of that past, though you might still possess some rudimentary 
skill with the Force. 

The failed Jedi archetype offers a perfect chance for interesting 
roleplaying. You might strive toward redemption, but you also face 
great temptation. As you grow in power and knowledge, you will begin 
to feel the pull of the dark side. After all, you have already failed once to 
become a Jedi by traditional means; what if you must turn to the dark 
side to succeed? Still, if you reach the end of the path and become a 
Jedi Knight—or perhaps even a Jedi Master—you will have redeemed your 
previous failure and turned your wasted life around. 

When you create a failed Jedi character, consider advancing your hero 
in age. With your Gamemaster's permission, start your hero at middle 
age or even old age to represent that your failure as a Jedi student took 
place long ago. In addition, consider starting at 1st level in a class other 
than Jedi, to represent the direction your life took since you abandoned 
your dreams. However, you should take Force Sensitivity as one of the 
feats gained at character creation, to represent your basic ability to 
reach out to the Force. 


can only take the penalty from this talent once per attempt, regardless of 
how many targets have used this talent. 


New Jedi Sentinel Talents 

The following new talents belong to the Jedi Sentinel talent tree (see page 
40 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the 
Jedi class. Any character who normally can choose talents from the Jedi 
Sentinel talent tree can choose from these talents as well. 

Gradual Resistance: If you take damage from the use of a Force power, 
until the end of the encounter you gain a +2 Force bonus to all defenses 
against that Force power. 

Reap Retribution: If you take damage from the use of a Force power, 
until the end of the encounter you deal an extra 2 points of damage against 
the creature that used the Force power against you. 


Tesiavno 


New Lightsaber Combat Talent 
The following new talent belongs to the Lightsaber Combat talent tree (see 
page 41 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members 
of the Jedi class. Any character who normally can choose talents from the 
Lightsaber Combat talent tree can choose this talent as well. 

Precise Redirect: Whenever you successfully redirect a blaster bolt and 
hit your target, the redirected attack deals +1 die of damage. 

Prerequisite: Redirect Shot. 


NOBLE 

In the Rebellion era, nobles face great temptation to join the New Order and 
follow the edicts of the Emperor. Doing so can be a fast track to wealth and 
power, especially for Human nobles, Prominent and privileged noble youths 
are expected to enroll in the New Order's programs and be groomed for 
future leadership under the guidance of the Empire. From a young age, many 
nobles are indoctrinated with prejudice and elitism, arid when they eventually 
assume the reins of galactic control, they further enforce the Empire's will 
on those under their command. By claiming the minds of the galaxy's future 
leaders, the Empire ensures the perpetual reinforcement of its principles. 


WINTER, A HUMAN NOBLE 


However, not all nobles are molded so easily into greedy Imperial bureau- 
crats. Across the galaxy, as the Rebel Alliance grows in strength and influ- 
ence, more nobles begin to funnel credits and support to the Rebels—often 
in secret, but in some cases overtly. Idealistic nobles no longer feel the need 
to blindly follow the Empire's doctrine. Your hero might be one such idealistic 
noble, a person who has rejected the dogma of the Empire and chosen to 
lead her people to freedom. 

Nobles who rebel against the Empire make great sacrifices. They often 
have more wealth and possessions to lose than do other beings, and they 
might be stripped of properties, titles, riches, and belongings as punishment 
for defying the Empire, Publicly disgraced in front of the ordinary citizens of 
the galaxy, these nobles also become pariahs among their peers—for other 
nobles, associating with such an outcast is political suicide. As a result, nobles 
who denounce the Empire find themselves exiled from all they knew, unable 
to rely on any of their former resources. 

Sample Noble Concepts: Disgraced noble, Rebel officer, spy for the 
Imperial Senate, ex-Imperial Intelligence agent. 


GAMBLING LEADER TALENT TREE 

You aren't afraid to take chances when leading your allies, and you risk defeat 
in exchange for a shot at even the most unlikely victories. You put yourself 
on the front lines to encourage your allies to overcome long odds. 

Assault Gambit: Once per turn, as a standard action, you can designate 
one ally and one enemy that have line of effect to each other. The ally and 
the enemy make opposed Initiative checks, and the winner can make a single 
immediate melee or ranged attack against the loser. No character can benefit 
from this talent more than once per round. 

Direct Fire: Once per turn, as a swift action, you can designate one ally 
and one target that does not have cover from you. Until the start of your 
next turn, the ally you designate ignores that target's cover bonuses to 
Reflex Defense. 

Prerequisite: Assault Gambit. 

Face the Foe: If you do not have cover from a target, you gain a +1 
morale bonus to attack rolls against that target. 

Lead From the Front: If you do not have cover from a target that you 
damage with a ranged attack, all your allies gain a +2 morale bonus to attack 
rolls against that target and a +5 circumstance bonus to opposed Initiative 
checks against that target until the start of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Face the Foe. 

Luck Favors the Bold: If at least one enemy in your line of sight is aware 
of you and you do not have cover against that enemy, at the start of your 
turn if you are conscious you gain a number of bonus hit points equal to 5 
+ one-half your level. Damage is subtracted from bonus hit points first, and 
any bonus hit points remaining at the end of the encounter are lost. Bonus 
hit points do not stack. 

Prerequisite: Face the Foe. 


New Leadership Talent 

The following new talent belongs to the Leadership talent tree (see page 44 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook), which is available to members of the noble 
class. Any character who normally can choose talents from the Leadership 
talent tree can choose this talent as well. 

Unwavering Ally: Once per turn, as a swift action, you can designate 
one ally within your line of sight who can hear and understand you. Until 
the start of your next turn, that ally becomes immune to all effects that 
render the ally flat-footed or that deny the ally a Dexterity bonus to his or 
her Reflex Defense, 


SCOUNDREL 

Despite the Empire's draconian policies and increased military might, it does 
little to stop ordinary crime. The streets of the Core Worlds might be safe 
for a traveler alone at night, but many parts of the galaxy remain as rough 
and dangerous as ever, There might be stormtroopers on Tatooine, but there 
are not enough of them to discourage bounty hunters, smugglers, and other 
criminals from spending time in Mos Eisley's cantinas. Many scoundrels view 
the agents of the Empire as no more than the latest batch of government- 
sponsored bullies that have existed throughout galactic history. Under the 
Empire, scoundrels are just as likely as ever to flout the authorities, and not 
even the Imperial military can stop them from doing so. 

Moreover, crime lords and other scoundrels have adapted to the New 
Order by preying on the greed and corruption of Imperial bureaucrats. A few 
bribes in the right hands can make a functionary overlook a violation of the 
Empire's policies, at least for a short while, The Empire metes out harsher 
punishments for such crimes than the Old Republic did, but many scoundrels 
think the risk is low enough to justify taking it. In truth, the galaxy has room 
for both the Empire and those on the fringes of society. Even Darth Vader 
recognizes this fact—he hires bounty hunters to hunt down the Millennium 
Falcon and barters with Lando Calrissian on the terms of the betrayal of 
Han Solo. For a scoundrel, the Empire is just another group of bureaucrats 
to be manipulated. 

Not all scoundrels go along with the New Order, of course. Despite their 
ability to keep making a living, many scoundrels decide that no reward is 
worth suffering under the heel of the Emperor. Han Solo is the most famous 
example of a scoundrel who turns to the Rebellion, but he is far from the 
only one. Many smugglers, bounty hunters, and other criminals join the 
Rebel cause because, although the Empire is susceptible to greed just like 
any other government, those on the fringe never have true freedom. With 
the threat of stormtroopers kicking down the door or TIE fighters shoot- 
ing down tramp freighters, your scoundrel hero might decide to resist the 
oppression of the Empire. 

Sample Scoundrel Concepts: Rebel transport pilot, Rebel arms specialist, 
contraband smuggler, Rebel privateer. 


NERA DANTELS, HUMAN ScOUNDREL 


RECKLESSNESS TALENT TREE 

You take risks that put you and your allies in danger but that always seem 
to pay off. Others call you reckless, but you know that great rewards come 
only from taking chances, even if they could be deadly. 

Find Openings: Whenever you are missed by an attack, you gain a +2 
morale bonus to your next attack roll before the end of your next turn. 

Hit the Deck: Whenever you make an area attack, each ally in the area 
takes no damage if your attack roll fails to overcome his or her Reflex Defense, 
and takes half damage if the attack hits. 

Lure Closer: Once per turn, as a move action, you can make a Deception 
check against the Will Defense of one enemy within 12 squares and within 
your line of sight. If your check result equals or exceeds the target's Will 
Defense, the target must move a number of squares equal to half its speed, 
and each square of movement must bring the target closer to you (though 
the target does avoid hazards and obstacles). If the target cannot avoid a 
hazard (such asa pit), it stops moving in the nearest safe square. This move- 
ment is considered involuntary and does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 
This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisite: Trick Step. 

Risk for Reward: Once per turn, when an enemy damages you with an 
attack of opportunity, you can make a single melee or ranged attack against 
a target in range as a reaction 

Prerequisite: Find Openings. 


1 eaiavRS 


e 
4 
Q 
a 
q 
aD 
> 
d 


Trick Step: As a swift action, make an Initiative check, opposed by the 
Initiative check of an enemy within your line of sight. If your check result 
equals or exceeds the target's check, the target is considered flat-footed 
against the next attack you make before the end of your turn. If the target's 
check result is higher, you are considered flat-footed against the next attack 
made by the target before the start of your next turn. 


scout 
During the reign of the Empire, many scouts find their traditional occupa- 
tion brought under Imperial domain, Since the Empire controls nearly every 
aspect of space exploration through its Imperial Survey Corps, scouts who 
once worked independently find themselves under intense scrutiny or out of 
a job entirely. On worlds where scouts once were the masters of the environ- 
ment, Imperial scout troopers have taken over their livelihoods. Many scouts 
turn to private service and work for hire, but some Human scouts—especially 
those of particular skill and renown—instead are recruited into the Imperial 
Survey Corps. The Corps not only pioneers new hyperspace routes, but it 
also studies and catalogs the worlds of the galaxy for the Empire's 
records. Given the large amount of materiel and personnel that 
the Empire must move around the galaxy on a regular basis, 
dedicated Survey Corps scouts make sure that everything 
reaches its destination safely. 

Although the Imperial Survey Corps handles most of the 
galactic government's need for scouts, the rest of the galaxy, 
including the Rebel Alliance, finds a new need for them. With 
the Empire in control of the space lanes and planets, scouts 
are called upon to pioneer new hyperspace routes that are 
outside the known paths between worlds. When a scout dis- 
covers such a path, the Alliance pays handsomely to obtain the 
information—and to ensure that the scout does not share the 
discovery with the Empire. The Rebel Alliance then uses 
the new secret route to bypass Imperial blockades and 
make quick escapes from ambushes. 

Meanwhile, the Rebels hire other scouts to find suit- 
able locations for their hidden bases. When the Alliance 
wants to set up a base on a particular world, it recruits 
scouts from the local populace, since most scouts are 
intimately familiar with their home planets. Other 
scouts ply the space lanes, looking for uncharted or 
unexplored worlds where the Alliance can hide safely. 
Even after a base has been established, scouts remain 
valuable because many bases are on worlds with 
harsh environments. Having a trained scout handy can 
reduce the number of injuries and fatalities suffered by 
Rebels in their new bases. 


Sample Scout Concepts: Imperial Survey Corps worker, Rebel pathfinder, 
planetary field guide, hyperspace pioneer. 


UNPREDICTABLE TALENT TREE 
You make it difficult for enemies to harm you because you're never in the 
place where they expect you to be. When they do manage to hurt you, you 
make them pay for it with sudden retribution attacks. 
Aggressive Surge: Once per encounter when you catch a second wind, 
you can make a charge attack as a free action, provided that you can make a 
charge attack against a legal target at the time you catch a second wind, 
Blast Back: Once per round when you are damaged by an enemy's area 
attack, as a reaction you can make an immediate melee or ranged attack 
against the source of the area attack, provided that you have line of sight to 
the attacker and the target is within your melee or ranged reach. 
Fade Away: Once per turn when you are 
damaged by an enemy's attack, as a reac- 
tion you can move up to half your speed. 
This movement does not provoke attacks of 
opportunity. 
Second Strike: Once per encounter 
when you miss a target with a single melee 
or ranged attack, as a free action you can 
move up to half your speed and make a 
second attack of the same type against a 
different target. This movement does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity. 

If you have the Combat Reflexes feat, you 
can use this talent a number of times per 
encounter equal to your Dexterity bonus 
(minimum 1). You may still only use this talent 
once per round. 

Prerequisite: Blast Back 

Swerve: Once per encounter when an 
enemy makes an attack of opportunity 
against you, as a reaction you can automati- 
cally negate the attack and immediately move 
up to half your speed. This movement does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity. 

If you have the Combat Reflexes feat, 
you can use this talent a number of times 
per encounter equal to your Dexterity bonus 

(minimum 1). You may still only use this talent 
once per round. 
Prerequisite: Fade Away. 


DEENA SHAN, HUMAN SCOUT 


SOLDIER 

During the Rebellion era, official military service for soldiers often means 
Imperial service. Since most planetary defense forces have been engulfed 
by the Imperial military, there are few independent outfits for soldiers to 
join. Although the Rebel Alliance makes extensive use of soldiers, the vast 
majority of soldiers in professional service were trained at Imperial institu- 
tions such as the Academy of Carida and now serve the Empire. In fact, the 
Empire employs such a wide variety of military forces that it's common to 
encounter soldiers who are not stormtroopers. 

Given that most soldiers begin their careers in the Imperial military, it 
should come as no surprise that a large number of Rebel soldiers are defectors 
from the Empire. During the Rebellion era, defection is one of the greatest 
threats to the Imperial military. Not only does the Empire lose soldiers who 
cost time and credits to train, but many defectors also take valuable secrets 
and materials over to the Rebellion. Furthermore, when officers defect, they 
go on to train Alliance personnel just as they trained Imperial personnel. For 
example, Crix Madine, founder of the Imperial Storm Commandos, defected 
to the Rebellion and became a pivotal figure in the development of the Alli- 
ance's SpecForce program. 

Trained soldiers are incredibly valuable to the Rebellion, and the Alli- 
ance goes to great lengths to recruit and keep them. Because many Rebels 
are ordinary citizens, they need training from experienced soldiers, which 
increases the combat effectiveness of individual cells. 


New LANGUAGE: 

MILITARY SIGN 

Though not a language in the traditional sense, many military and 
paramilitary units use hand signals to communicate silently with one 
another. Favored by Alliance SpecForce, military sign allows beings who 
understand the signals to communicate with each other in basic terms. 
You can take military sign as a language just like any other language, 
although to use it, you must have line of sight to the person or people 
you are attempting to communicate with. Military sign makes no noise, 
but it can express only simple concepts. Examples include: halt, attention, 
danger, surround the target, move to a certain location, proceed with 
caution, trap ahead, ambush ahead, sensors ahead, bypass the hazard 
ahead, and execute orders. 


UANeK “TANK" SUNGER, HUMAN SOLOIER 


Your soldier hero might have been a member of the Imperial Army or 
Imperial Navy who defected to the Rebel Alliance. Alternatively, in some cam- 
paigns, you might begin as a loyal member of the Empire and over time come 
to realize that you are fighting on the wrong side of the war. As a soldier, your 
services are highly valued by the Rebel Alliance, and even if you try to remain 
neutral during the Galactic Civil War, you might find yourself approached by 
the Rebellion whether you express Rebel sympathies or not. 

Sample Soldier Concepts: Alliance SpecForce member, Rebel starfighter 
pilot, pathfinder, Imperial Army squad leader, TIE fighter pilot 


| wsidveS 


x 
» 
9 
dq 
a 
> 
d 


0 
I 
> 
i 
4 
a 
3 


AMBUSHER TALENT TREE 
You specialize in springing ambushes on your enemies. 

Ambush Specialist: If you are not surprised on the first round of combat 
in an encounter, you can treat the first round of combat as if it were the 
surprise round for the purposes of talents and feats that trigger only during 
the surprise round. 

Additionally, during the surprise round asa free action you can designate 
that target as your prime target. You gain a +2 morale bonus to attack rolls 
against your prime target until the end of the encounter. 

Destructive Ambusher: After you designate a prime target, you deal 
+1 die of damage on attacks against the prime target until the end of the 
encounter. 

Prerequisit mbush Specialist. 

Keep It Going: If you reduce your prime target to 0 hit points, as a free 
action you can designate another target within your line of sight as your 
new prime target. This new target remains your prime target until the end 
of the encounter. 

Prerequisite: Ambush Specialist. 

Keep Them Reeling: Once per turn as a swift action, you can make an 
Initiative check, opposed by the Initiative check of your prime target. If your 
check result equals or exceeds your prime target's check result, your target is 
flat-footed against all attacks you make before the end of your turn. 

Prerequisite: Ambush Specialist. 

Perceptive Ambusher: You gain a +5 circumstance bonus to Perception 
checks against your prime target until the end of the encounter. 

Prerequisite: Ambush Specialist. 

Spring the Trap: If you and all your allies roll higher Initiative checks to 
start combat than do all your opponents, you automatically gain a surprise 
round, even if the opponents are aware of you when combat begins. 


SKILLS 


Below is a new use for a skill described in the Saga Edition core rulebook. 
This additional application of the skill can be used in any era. 


MECHANICS 

The Mechanics skill, described on page 68 of the Saga Edition core rule- 
book, allows a character to repair and modify machines, vehicles, and 
other devices. 

Environmental Adaptation (requires tool kit): Many vehicles and 
objects do not work well in extremely harsh environments. The intense cold 
of Hoth or the severe heat of the day side of Ryloth can cause vehicles and 
objects to function poorly or not at all. You can spend 10 minutes adapting 
‘one object (or one hour adapting one vehicle) to the extreme environmental 
hazards, after which time you make a Mechanics check. If your Mechan- 
ics check result exceeds the vehicle or object's current Fortitude Defense, 
you can use the result of your Mechanics check in place of the vehicle or 


EXTREME TEMPERATURES 

The rules on page 254 of the Saga Edition core rulebook cover the effects 
of extreme heat or cold on characters, creatures, and droids. Extreme 
heat or cold that would be sufficient to harm or kill a creature or droid 
might not affect vehicles and other machines, since most are designed 
to function under extreme conditions. However, in some situations, the 
weather on a planet might be so severe that it interferes with vehicle 
or object systems. In these cases, Gamemasters can use the following 
hazard to represent the effects of extreme temperatures on vehicles. This 
hazard should not be applied to creatures or droids, which are covered 
by the hazard in the Saga Edition core rulebook. 

Extreme Heat or Cold (CL 4): Each minute a vehicle operates in 
extreme heat or cold, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against the vehicle's 
Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the vehicle moves -1 persistent 
step on the condition track. This persistent condition can be removed 
only if the vehicle receives repairs. 


object's Fortitude Defense when it is attacked by extreme temperatures or 
atmospheric hazards. However, when you do so, you effectively adapt the 
vehicle or object's defenses for that particular environment. If you use that 
vehicle or object on another planet that has a different environment, you 
must repeat this process for the new conditions. 

You can take 20 on this check, but the adaptation takes 20 times 
as long. 


FEATS 

Feats provide game mechanics for core character concepts. They allow 
characters of any class to access significant special abilities as long as they 
meet certain prerequisites. This section provides new feats common to the 
Rebellion era, as well as a new subcategory of feats called species feats. 


ASSURED ATTACK 
You have become so practiced with your attacks that you almost always 
deal significant damage. 

Benefit: Whenever you deal damage to a target with an attack and you 
roll multiple damage dice, you can reroll the lowest damage die but must 
keep its second result, even if it is worse. 


DEFT CHARGE 
When you charge, it is merely part of a larger attack pattern that you con- 
tinue to execute. 

Benefit: After you charge, you can take swift actions, reactions, and free 
actions before your turn ends. 

Normal: Without this feat, charging ends your turn immediately after 
the attack is resolved. 


FEAT PREREQUISITES 
Assured Attack - 

Deft Charge = 

Fast Surge - 

Imperial Military Training - 

Moving Target Dodge 

Prime Shot Point Blank Shot 
Rapid Reaction - 

Rebel Military Training Running Attack 
Recovering Surge - 

Unstoppable Combatant Extra Second Wind 
Vehicular Surge Trained in Pilot -\ 
Vitality Surge Extra Second Wind 


Fast SURGE 
You can return to the fight in the blink of an eye, giving your enemies no 
time to find an opening. 

Benefit: On your turn, you can catch a second wind as a free action 
instead of as a swift action, 


IMPERIAL MILITARY TRAINING 
You have been instilled with the sense of discipline and loyalty demanded 
by the Empire. 

Benefit: Once per encounter, as a free action on your turn, you can negate 
any one mind-affecting effect targeting or currently affecting you. 


SECOND WIND FEATS 

Many of the feats in this section interact with the second wind mechanic, 
and for good reason. In a Rebellion era campaign, it is significantly less 
likely that the heroes’ party includes a Jedi who has the vital transfer 
Force power. As a result, second winds are one of the few sources of 
healing available to heroes while they are engaged in a combat encounter. 
The new feats in this section are designed to enhance parties that do 
not have access to the vital transfer power, compensating for the lack 
of combat healing by increasing the effectiveness of the second wind 
mechanic. 


BENEFIT 

Reroll the lowest damage die when making a successful attack. 

Take swift actions, reactions, and free actions after you charge before your turn ends. 
Catch a second wind as a free action on your turn. 

Negate one mind-affecting effect per encounter. 

Gain a bonus to Reflex Defense when you remain mobile. 

Gain a bonus to attack rolls when none of your allies are near the target. 
React twice to the same trigger once per encounter. 

Gain a dodge bonus to Reflex Defense when using Running Attack. 
Move up the condition track when you catch a second wind. 

Catch more than one second wind in an encounter. 

Once per day, gain bonus hit points for a vehicle you pilot. 

Catch a second wind even when not at or below half hit points. 


MOVING TARGET 
You know how to stay mobile, making it harder for your enemies to hit you 
with their attacks. 

Prerequisite: Dodge. 

Benefit: If you end your turn at least 3 squares away from where you 
started, you gain a +1 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense until the start 
of your next turn. 


PRIME SHOT 
You know how to handle an enemy when none of your allies is closer. 
Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot. 
Benefit: If none of your allies is closer to your target than you are when 
you make a ranged attack, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to the attack 
roll. Your target must be at short range or closer to gain this bonus. 


RAPID REACTION 
Your lightning reflexes allow you to complete complex actions in response 
to the actions of others. 

Benefit: Once per encounter, you can use two different reactions in 
response to the same trigger. For example, if you use the Deflect talent and 
fail to negate the attack, you can also use negate energy as a response to 
the same attack. 

Normal: Without this feat, you can use only one reaction in response 
toa particular trigger. 


neve) 


7 =siavHS 


REBEL MILITARY TRAINING 
You are well versed in the hit-and-run tactics used by the Rebellion and 
know how to use your mobility to avoid retribution. 

Prerequisite: Running Attack. 

Benefit: Whenever you use the Running Attack feat to move both before 
and after making an attack, you gain a +2 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense 
until the start of your next turn. 


RECOVERING SURGE 

When you get back into the fight, you do not let your wounds hamper you. 
Benefit: When you catch a second wind, you move +1 step on the 

condition track. 


UNSTOPPABLE COMBATANT 
You can keep coming back for more punishment, no matter what your 
enemies throw at you. 
Prerequisite: Extra Second Wind. 
Benefit: You can catch more than one second wind per encounter. 
Normal: Even if you can catch multiple second winds per day, without 
this feat you are limited to one second wind per encounter. 


VEHICULAR SURGE 
You can coax more out of vehicles than other pilots can, staying in the fight 
when others might be destroyed. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Pilot skill 

Benefit: If the vehicle you pilot is Colossal or smaller and is reduced to 
fewer than one-half its maximum hit points, once per day as a swift action 
your vehicle gains a number of bonus hit points equal to one-quarter its 
maximum hit point total. Damage is subtracted from bonus hit points first, 
and any bonus hit points remaining at the end of the encounter are lost. 
Bonus hit points do not stack 


VITALITY SURGE 
You can keep yourself in top fighting form at any point in the fight 
Prerequisite: Extra Second Wind. 
Benefit: You can catch a second wind even if you are not at or below 
half your maximum hit points. 
Normal: Without this feat, you can catch a second wind only if you are 
at or below half your maximum hit points 


BONUS FEATS 

Some of the feats in this chapter can be selected as bonus feats by 
certain classes. Each class can add the following feats to its relevant 
bonus feats list. 


CLASS BONUS FEATS 

Jedi Assured Attack, Deft Charge, Fast Surge, Moving 
Target, Rapid Reaction, Recovering Surge 

Noble Fast Surge, Rapid Reaction, Recovering Surge 

Scoundrel Fast Surge, Moving Target, Prime Shot, Rapid 
Reaction, Recovering Surge, Vehicular Surge 

Scout Deft Charge, Fast Surge, Moving Target, Prime 
Shot, Rapid Reaction, Rebel Military Training, 
Recovering Surge, Vehicular Surge 

Soldier Assured Attack, Deft Charge, Fast Surge, Imperial 


Military Training, Prime Shot, Rapid Reaction, 
Rebel Military Training, Recovering Surge, 
Vehicular Surge 


SPECIES FEATS 

The species described in the Saga Edition core rulebook represent many of the 
most common (and popular) species in the galaxy during the Rebellion era. 
To emphasize the iconic nature of these species, this section introduces new 
feats, called species feats, to the game. In essence, a species feat rewards 
you for choosing an iconic species by enhancing something that your species 
already does well. This section provides three species feats for each species 
except Humans. You can take any or all of these feats for your character. No 
species feats are considered bonus feats for any class. 


AMPLE FORAGING 
You always seem to find the best food and shelter for yourself and your allies, 
increasing your ability to resist the hazards of nature. 

Prerequisite: Ewok species. 

Benefit: Whenever you make a Survival check for the Basic Survival 
application of the skill, each creature that consumes the food you find 
gains a +2 morale bonus to his or her Fortitude Defense until the start of 
the next day. 


BINARY MIND 
The dual nature of your mind makes it difficult for others to influence you. 
Prerequisite: Cerean species, 
Benefit: Whenever an enemy tries to use a mind-affecting effect against 
you, the enemy must roll twice and keep the lower result. 


BOTHAN WILL 
You epitomize the legendary willpower and resolve of the Bothan people. 
Prerequisite: Bothan species. 
Benefit: Whenever an attack or skill check targets your Will Defense and 
fails to equal or exceed it, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your Will 
Defense until the start of your next turn. 


BOWCASTER MARKSMAN 
You are an excellent shot with the bowcaster, and even your most difficult 
shots are solid hits. 

Prerequisite: Wookiee species, 

Benefit: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to an attack with a 
bowcaster, if you hit the target, you gain a competence bonus to your damage 
roll equal to the amount added to the attack. 


CLAWED SUBSPECIES 
You come from a Quarren subspecies that has sharp claws at the tips of 
its fingers. 

Prerequisite: Quarren species. 


Benefit: You have natural weapons in the form of claws. When you make 
an unarmed attack, you can use your claws, dealing 1d6 points of slashing 
damage with that attack instead of normal unarmed damage. You are always 
considered armed with your natural weapons. 


CONFIDENT Success 
You have confidence in your ability to learn information that others consider 
secret, and in doing so, you boost your confidence in other areas. 

Prerequisite: Bothan species. 

Benefit: Whenever you successfully use the Learn Secret Information 
application of the Gather Information skill, you gain 1 Force Point. You cannot 
gain more than 3 Force Points each level, and you cannot have more Force 
Points than you gained when you reached your current level. 


DARKNESS DWELLER 
You have lived underground for so long that you can spot sneaky enemies 
easily and make it hard for them to slip past your allies. 

Prerequisite: Sullustan species. 

Benefit: Any enemy that makes a Stealth check within 10 squares of you 
takes a -2 penalty to the check, This penalty does not stack with the same 
penalty imposed by other characters with this feat. 


DEEP SIGHT 
You have spent so much time in the deepest parts of the oceans of your home 
planet that you can see even in total darkness, 

Prerequisite: Quarren species. 

Benefit: You gain darkvision, ignoring concealment (including total con- 
cealment) from darkness. You cannot perceive colors in total darkness. 


DEVASTATING BELLOW 
Your bellow produces greater sonic energy than do the bellows of other 
members of your species. 

Prerequisite: Ithorian species. 

Benefit: Your bellow attack deals 4d6 points of damage on a hit and 
half damage on a miss. 

Normal: Without this feat, your bellow attack deals 3d6 points of damage 
on a hit. 


DISARMING CHARM 
Like many among your species, you know how to blend in with galactic soci- 
ety, using your natural gregarious disposition to keep others off guard. 

Prerequisite: Sullustan species. 

Benefit: Whenever you successfully use the Change Attitude application 
of the Persuasion skill to change a target's attitude, you gain a +2 circum- 
stance bonus to all Deception or Persuasion checks against that target for 
the next 24 hours. 


FEAT PREREQUISITES BENEFIT 


Bothan Will Bothan Gain a bonus to Will Defense when an enemy fails to overcome your iron will. 
Confident Success Bothan Gain a Force Point when you successfully learn secret information. 
Lasting Influence Bothan After a successful Persuasion check, gain a bonus to future Persuasion checks. 
Binary Mind Cerean Enemies must roll twice, keeping the lower result, on mind-affecting effects. 
Mind of Reason Cerean Use Wisdom instead of Intelligence for Intelligence-based skill checks. 
Perfect Intuition Cerean Reroll Initiative checks, always keeping the better result. 
Flawless Pilot Duros Reroll Pilot checks, always keeping the better result. 
Spacer's Surge Duros Gain a temporary Force Point when you roll a natural 20 on a Pilot check. 
Veteran Spacer Duros Gain a bonus to Use Computer checks made to astrogate, 
Ample Foraging Ewok Grant a bonus to allies’ Fortitude Defenses by foraging. 
Forest Stalker Ewok > Reroll Stealth checks, always keeping the better result. 
ln Keen Scent Ewok Increase the range of your Scent ability to 20 squares, 
i Increased Resistance Gamorrean Gain a bonus to Fortitude Defense when an enemy fails to affect you. 
MH Primitive Warrior Gamorrean Deal +1 die of damage with simple melee weapons, 
5 Quick Comeback Gamorrean Recover quickly after being moved down the condition track by damage. 
el Gungan Weapon Master Gungan Increase the die type when adding to attacks with an atlat! or cesta. 
Perfect Swimmer Gungan Reroll Swim checks, always keeping the better result. 
Warrior Heritage Gungan Gain a bonus to Will Defense when using an atlatl or a cesta. 
Devastating Bellow Ithorian Deal more damage with your bellow attacks. 
Nature Specialist Ithorian Increase the die type when adding to a Knowledge (life sciences) check. 
Strong Bellow Ithorian Use your Bellow ability without moving down the condition track. 
Justice Seeker Kel Dor Gain a bonus to damage rolls against those who harm your allies. 
Read the Winds Kel Dor Detect hidden enemies within 10 squares of you. 
Scion of Dorin Kel Dor Gain a bonus to Fortitude Defense against atmospheric hazards. 
Fast Swimmer Mon Calamari Gain a bonus to your swim speed. 
Mon Calamari Shipwright Mon Calamari Reroute power more quickly and without the risk of failure. 
Sharp Senses Mon Calamari Increase the die type when adding to a Perception check. 
Clawed Subspecies Quarren Deal damage with sharp claws on unarmed attacks. 
Deep Sight Quarren Gain darkvision and ignore concealment from darkness. 
Shrewd Bargainer Quarren Suppress opponents’ insight and morale bonuses to Will Defense. 
Fringe Benefits Rodian Reduce the cost multiplier of goods bought on the black market. 
Hunter's Instincts Rodian Reroll Perception checks, always keeping the better result. 


Master Tracker Rodian Increase the die type when adding to a Survival check. 


FEAT PREREQUISITES 
Darkness Dweller Sullustan 
Disarming Charm Sullustan 

Sure Climber Sullustan 
Pitiless Warrior Trandoshan 
Regenerative Healing Trandoshan 
Thick Skin Trandoshan 


imperceptible Liar 


Jedi Heritage Twi'lek, Force Sensitivity 


Survivor of Ryloth Twi'lek 
Bowcaster Marksman Wookiee 
Resurgent Vitality Wookiee 
Wroshyr Rage Wookiee 
Inborn Resilience Zabrak 
Instinctive Perception Zabrak 
Unwavering Focus Zabrak 


FAST SWIMMER 
You are naturally gifted at swimming and move through the water more 
quickly than do others of your species. 

Prerequisite: Mon Calamari species. 

Benefit: Your swim speed increases by 2 squares. 


FLAWLESS PILOT 
You know how to handle a starship better than practically anyone else in the 
galaxy, and you can make any vehicle do exactly what you want it to do. 
Prerequisite: Duros species. 
Benefit: Whenever you reroll a Pilot check, you always keep the better 
result, even if you have multiple reroll abilities. 


FOREST STALKER 
You are one of the most skilled hunters among your species and have learned 


henever you reroll a Stealth check, you always keep the better 
result, even if you have multiple reroll abilities. 


BENEFIT 

Impose a penalty to Stealth checks made when close to you. 

Gain a bonus to skill checks on targets whose attitude you have improved. 
Gain a climb speed of 4 squares. 

Gain bonus hit points whenever you take down a foe. 

Regain more hit points (but more slowly) when you catch a second wind. 
Gain a +2 species bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 

Twi'lek Increase the die type when adding to a Deception check. 

Gain extra Force powers when you take the Force Training feat. 

Make Survival checks to resist extreme heat and cold. 

Gain a bonus to damage rolls when you spend a Force Point on a bowcaster attack. 
Gain additional hit points when catching a second wind. 

Gain bonus hit points when raging. 

Reduce one defense bonus but increase another. 

Gain a temporary Force Point when your Perception reroll is lower. 

Impose a penalty to skill checks for mind-affecting effects that target you. 


FRINGE BENEFITS 
You are a well-known member of criminal society and can get the best deal 
possible on illicit goods. 

Prerequisite: Rodian species. 

Benefit: Whenever you buy goods on the black market, reduce the cost 
multiplier by 2 (for example, from x5 to x3), to a minimum of x1. 


GUNGAN WEAPON MASTER 
You have learned to master the ancestral weapons of your people and can 
penetrate even the staunchest defenses. 

Prerequisite: Gungan species. 

Benefit: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to an attack roll with 
an atlatl or a cesta, increase the die type by one step (from d6 to d8, or 
from d8 to d10). 


HUNTER'S INSTINCTS 
You have a sixth sense that allows you to spot your prey under almost any 
circumstances. 

Prerequisite: Rodian species. 

Benefit: Whenever you reroll a Perception check, you always keep the 
better result, even if you have multiple reroll abilities. 


1 esiavHS 


1 SSlavnS 


IMPERCEPTIBLE LIAR 
You have worked hard to eliminate your behavioral tells, making it almost 
impossible to discern when you are lying. 

Prerequisite: Twi'lek species. 

Benefit: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to a Deception check, 
increase the die type by two steps (from d6 to d10, or from d8 to d12). 


INBORN RESILIENCE 
You come from a hardy species, but some of your people are better than 
others at avoiding certain kinds of harm. 

Prerequisite: Zabrak species. 

Benefit: You can reduce your species bonus to any one defense score to 
+0 and increase your species bonus to another defense score to +2. Once you 
change your species bonuses in this way, they cannot be changed back. 


INCREASED RESISTANCE 
You remain resilient against attacks that target your vitality, making it dif- 
ficult for enemies to sap your strength. 

Prerequisite: Gamorrean species. 

Benefit: Whenever an attack or skill check targets your Fortitude Defense 
and fails to equal or exceed it, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your 
Fortitude Defense until the start of your next turn. 


INSTINCTIVE PERCEPTION 
You can sense the presence of danger naturally, giving you an edge even 
when you fail to spot trouble the first time. 

Prerequisite: Zabrak species. 

Benefit: Whenever you reroll a Perception check and take the second 
result, if your second result is lower than your first result, you gain a temporary 
Force Point. This Force Point can be spent only to add to the result of a Percep- 
tion check, and if it is not spent before the end of the encounter, itis lost. 


JEDI HERITAGE 
You come from a clan that has produced many Jedi, and you have overcome 
your species’ impulsiveness by becoming a master of the Force. 
Prerequisites: Twi'lek species, Force Sensitivity. 
Benefit: Your Wisdom is considered to be 4 points higher for the purpose 
of determining how many Force Powers you gain from the Force Training feat, 
granting you two extra Force powers for each Force Training feat. 


Justice SEEKER 

You are willing to take the law into your own hands to bring justice to those 
who harm your allies. 

ite: Kel Dor species. 

fou gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls for attacks against targets 
that have damaged one of your allies since the end of your last turn. 


KEEN SCENT 

You can smell trouble coming from a much greater distance. 
Prerequisite: Ewok species. 
Benefit: The range of your Scent ability increases to 20 squares. 


LASTING INFLUENCE 
When you penetrate the mind of your enemy, you can keep your barbs there 
for a long time. 

Prerequisite: Bothan species. 

Benefit: Whenever you make a successful Persuasion check against a 
target's Will Defense, you gain favorable circumstances on future Persuasion 
checks against that target for the next 24 hours. For more details on favorable 
circumstances, see page 59 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


MASTER TRACKER 
You can follow a shadow on a moonless night and survive in the wilderness 
with nothing but your wits to protect you. 

Prerequisite: Rodian species. 

Benefit: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to a Survival check, 
increase the die type by two steps (from d6 to d10, or from d8 to d12). 


MIND OF REASON 
You have learned to consider all sides of an issue carefully before making a 
decision, allowing you to reason out information that might not be readily 
apparent. 

Prerequisite: Cerean species. 

Benefit: You can use your Wisdom bonus instead of your Intelligence 
bonus for all Intelligence-based skill checks. 


MON CALAMARI SHIPWRIGHT 
You have intimate knowledge of the workings of starships and other vehicles 
and can keep them running no matter what. 

Prerequisite: Mon Calamari species. 

Benefit: You need spend only two swift actions to move a vehicle you 
occupy +1 step on the condition track. In addition, you automatically succeed 
‘on Mechanics checks to reroute power (see page 172 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Normal: It takes three swift actions to use the reroute power action. 


NATURE SPECIALIST 
You know even the most obscure information about the natural world. 
Prerequisite: Ithorian species. 
Benefit: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to a Knowledge (life 
sciences) check, increase the die type by two steps (from d6 to d10, or from 
d8 to d12). 


PERFECT INTUITION 
Your insights serve you well, giving you some of the fastest reaction times 
among members of your species. 

Prerequisite: Cerean species. 

Benefit: Whenever you reroll an Initiative check, you always keep the 
better result, even if you have multiple reroll abilities. 


PERFECT SWIMMER 
You are among the best of your kind when swimming and can navigate even 
the most difficult waters. 

Prerequisite: Gungan species. 

Benefit: Whenever you reroll a Swim check, you always keep the better 
result, even if you have multiple reroll abilities. 


PITILESS WARRIOR 
Whenever you fell an opponent, the victory stokes your bloodlust and pre- 
pares you for more carnage. 

Prerequisite: Trandoshan species. 

Benefit: Whenever you reduce a target to 0 hit points, you gain a number 
of bonus hit points equal to 5 + one-half your level. Damage is subtracted 
from bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining at the end 
of the encounter are lost. Bonus hit points do not stack. 


PRIMITIVE WARRIOR 
You have learned to make the most of primitive weapons and can wield them 
with deadly results. 

Prerequisite: Gamorrean species. 

Benefit: You deal +1 die of damage with simple melee weapons. 


Quick COMEBACK 
When you take damage that sends you reeling, you can recover quickly and 
get back in the fight. 

Prerequisite: Gamorrean species. 

Benefit: Whenever you are moved down the condition track by an attack 
that deals damage that equals or exceeds your damage threshold, until the 
end of your next turn you can move +1 step on the condition track as a 
single swift action. You can use this feat only once per attack that moves 
you down the condition track. 


READ THE WINDS 
You are so attuned to the wind patterns of your world that you can detect 
subtle shifts in air pressure around you, 

Prerequisite: Kel Dor species. 

Benefit: You ignore concealment and cover for the purposes of Perception 
checks against targets within 10 squares of you. 


REGENERATIVE HEALING 
Your natural regeneration can help you recuperate from wounds more 
quickly. 

Prerequisite: Trandoshan species. 

Benefit: Once per day when you catch a second wind, you can regain no 
hit points immediately and instead regain 5 hit points at the end of each of 
your turns until you reach full hit points or until the end of the encounter 
(whichever comes first). 


RESURGENT VITALITY 
Though your species heals quickly over time, you can push through your pain 
in the short term and return to fighting form. 

Prerequisite: Wookiee species. 

Benefit: Whenever you catch a second wind, you regain an additional 
number of hit points equal to twice your Constitution bonus (minimum 2). 


SCION OF DORIN 
You are accustomed to the harsh environment of your homeworld, Dorin, 
and are tempered against the hazards of other planets. 

Prerequisite: Kel Dor species. 

Benefit: You gain a +5 species bonus to your Fortitude Defense against 
all natural hazards. 


SHARP SENSES 
Your senses have been honed to the point where you can spot things that 
others could never see. 

Prerequisite: Mon Calamari species. 

Benefit: Whenever you spend a Force Point to add to a Perception check, 
increase the die type by two steps (from d6 to d10, or from d8 to d12). 


SHREWD BARGAINER 
You know how to break down the defenses of your opponents, ensuring that 
you gain the upper hand in any negotiation. 

Prerequisite: Quarren species. 

Benefit: Whenever you make a Persuasion check against a target's Will 
Defense, the target does not receive the benefit of insight or morale bonuses 
to its Will Defense. 


SPACER'S SURGE 
Whenever you pull off an amazing maneuver in a vehicle, it gives you the 
confidence to accomplish similarly amazing actions in the near future. 
Prerequisite: Duros species. 
Benefit: Whenever you roll a natural 20 on a Pilot check, you gain 1 
temporary Force Point. If that Force Point is not spent before the end of the 
encounter, it is lost. 


1 esiaveo 


SLHVEL AaOveH) 


1 esigvnS 


STRONG BELLOW 
You can use your lungs to bellow without growing fatigued. 

Prerequisite: Ithorian species. 

Benefit: Once per encounter when you use your Bellow species ability, 
you move one less step down the condition track 


SuRE CLIMBER 
You can navigate steep cliffs and caverns as though climbing were second 
nature to you. 

Prerequisite: Sullustan species 

Benefit: Whenever you are not distracted or threatened, you gain a 
natural climb speed of 4 squares. 

Normal: Without a climb speed, you must succeed on a Climb check 
to climb. 


SURVIVOR OF RYLOTH 
You know how to survive on both the night and day sides of your home- 
world, allowing you and your allies to weather the harsh environments of 
the galaxy. 

Prerequisite: Twi'lek species 

Benefit: Once per hour when you and your allies are in an environment 
of extreme heat or cold, you can make a Survival check. You and up to 10 
allies can use the results of the Survival check in place of your Fortitude 
Defenses when the extreme heat or cold makes its hourly attack roll against 
your Fortitude Defenses. 


THICK SKIN 
Your thick hide protects you from damage and fends off toxins and 
other hazards. 

Prerequisite: Trandoshan species 

Benefit: You gain a +2 species bonus to your Fortitude Defense. 


UNWAVERING Focus 
Others might try to sway you, but once you focus on an objective, you 
cannot be stopped. 

Prerequisite: Zabrak species. 

Benefit: Whenever you are targeted by a mind-affecting effect that 
requires a skill check against your Will Defense, as a reaction you can impose 
a -2 penalty to that skill check. 


VETERAN SPACER 
Your people are among the oldest explorers to chart the stars, and you benefit 
from eons of collected knowledge about space travel. 

Prerequisite: Duros species. 

Benefit: You gain a +5 species bonus to Use Computer checks to perform 
astrogation aboard a starship. 


STORMTROOPERS UNDER FIRE FROM A RemeL T-Z8 TANK 


WARRIOR HERITAGE 
You come from a proud warrior culture, and your pride fills you with self- 
assurance. 

Prerequisite: Gungan species. 

Benefit: You gain a +2 morale bonus to Will Defense when you wield 
an atlatl or a cesta. 


WROSHYR RAGE 

You have learned that in the dangerous jungles of Kashyyyk, your mighty 
rage must be tempered by wariness so that predators don't get the drop 
on you. 

Prerequisite: Wookiee species. 

Benefit: When you first enter a rage, you gain a number of bonus hit 
points equal to 10 + one-half your level. Damage is subtracted from bonus hit 
points first, and any bonus hit points remaining at the end of the encounter 
are lost. Bonus hit points do not stack. 


FORCE-USING 
TRADITION: KILIAN 
RANGERS 


The Kilia system lies in an area of space marked "Unknown" on most astrogation 
charts. Over a thousand years ago, Humans colonized Kilia IV, the sole habitable 
planet in the system, bringing with them only the basic requirements to begin 
an agricultural colony. Since that time, the Kilians’ technology has faded. They 
have only a handful of functioning technological devices, and their society has 
adapted to their situation. Kilians live in a basic feudal system, with a noble 
class ruling over the common working class of farmers and other merchants 

Though Kilia IV has no Jedi, it does have Force-sensitive inhabitants, 
Perhaps guided by what little the colonists knew of the old Jedi Order, the 
Kilians developed their own Force-using tradition, the Kilian Rangers. This 
small group defends the people of Kilia and enforces the law. The Kilian 
Rangers do not have lightsabers, but they have a similar affinity for the 
siang lance and the shield gauntlet (see Chapter 3: Equipment). Like a Jedi's 
lightsaber, these devices serve as badges of office and as combat instru- 
ments. Kilian Rangers have three ranks—Kilian Squire, Kilian Ranger, and 
Kilian Lord—that are roughly analogous to the ranks of Padawan, Jedi Knight, 
and Jedi Master, respectively. 

Of course, where the Force exists, so too does the dark side. Some Kilian 
Rangers fall into its embrace and follow their own desires, believing them- 
selves too powerful to waste their time defending the peasants of Kilia. 

Membership: A Kilian who has the Force Sensitivity feat can become a 
member of this tradition by being accepted as a Squire to an existing Kilian 
Lord or Kilian Ranger. The candidate will be accepted only if there are fewer 
than five current Kilian Rangers (Squires, Rangers, and Lords combined). 


KILIAN RANGER TALENT TREE 

Asa respected member of the Kilian Rangers, you have learned their methods 
of using the Force. You are a master of the siang lance and the shield gauntlet, 
and you use them to defend chivalry and justice. 

Because the Kilian Ranger talent tree is a Force talent tree, you must 
have the Force Sensitivity feat to select these talents. 

Empower Siang Lance: You can spend a Force Point to empower a siang 
lance, which takes a full-round action. After the siang lance is empowered, 
it deals an additional die of damage when you wield it. Others who wield the 
weapon do not gain the bonus damage die 

Prerequisite: Siang Lance Mastery, base attack bonus +7. 

Shield Gauntlet Defense: Once per turn as a reaction, you can gain a 
+2 deflection bonus to your Reflex Defense against any one ranged attack. 
To use this talent, you must be wearing an active shield gauntlet, you must 
be aware of the attack, and you must not be flat-footed. 

Shield Gauntlet Deflect: Once per round as a reaction, you can negate a 
ranged attack by making a successful Use the Force check. The DC of the skill 
check is equal to the result of the attack roll you wish to negate. To use this 


talent, you must be wearing an active shield gauntlet, you must be aware of 
the attack, and you must not be flat-footed. You can spend a Force Point to 
use this talent to negate a ranged attack against an adjacent character. 

You can use Shield Gauntlet Deflect to deflect some of the barrage of 
shots fired from a ranged weapon set on autofire. If your Use the Force 
check succeeds, you take half damage if the attack hits and no damage if 
the attack misses. 

Prerequisite: Shield Gauntlet Defense. 

Shield Gauntlet Redirect: This talent allows you to redirect a deflected 
blaster bolt along a specific trajectory so that it damages another creature 
or object in its path. When you successfully deflect a blaster bolt, you can 
make an immediate ranged attack against another target within 6 squares 
of you to which you have line of sight. If the attack succeeds, it deals normal 
weapon damage to the target. 

Only single blaster bolts can be redirected in this manner. You cannot use 
this talent to redirect barrages from autofire weapons and other types of 
projectiles. To use this talent, you must be wearing an active shield gauntlet, 
you must be aware of the attack, and you must not be flat-footed. 

Prerequisites: Shield Gauntlet Defense, Shield Gauntlet Deflect, base 
attack bonus +5. 

Siang Lance Mastery: You treat a siang lance as a rifle instead of as 
an exotic weapon. Additionally, you gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls with a 
siang lance. This talent counts as the Weapon Focus (siang lance) feat for 
the purpose of satisfying prerequisites. If you also have the Weapon Focus 
(rifles) feat, the attack bonus provided by this talent does not stack with the 
attack bonus provided by Weapon Focus (rifles) 


HS) 


SLVEL SF 


i 
k 


re [d, 
’ 


LS PRESTIGE C 


pao 
CHAPTER II 


pce 


ffm 
Prestige classes enable characters to specialize, gaining new talents and 
abilities unattainable through other classes. These classes allow players to 
develop their characters around specific concepts, roles, or character types. 
Prestige classes are optional, and the Gamemaster has the final say on which 
ones, if any, are allowed in the campaign. The prestige classes presented here 
enhance Rebellion era campaigns, but they can be used in any era of play. 
All the new prestige classes described in this chapter are suitable for 
player or Gamemaster use. To qualify for a prestige class, a character must 
meet all the class's prerequisites. The players and Gamemaster should work 
together to generate adventures and storylines that allow players to take 
these classes. 


New TALENTS FOR 
EXISTING PRESTIGE 
CLasses 


This chapter features two new prestige classes suitable for Rebellion era 
campaigns and also includes several new talent trees for existing prestige 
Classes. As with the new talent trees for core classes in the previous chap- 
ter, any character taking a level in the designated prestige class that would 
normally grant the talent can take one of these talents. Even though a 
prestige class description might not mention these talent trees specifically, 
they are considered to be a part of the list of suitable talent trees for that 
prestige class. 

For example, the description of the officer prestige class that appears in 
the Saga Edition core rulebook states that an officer character can choose 
talents from the Military Tactics talent tree, the Leadership talent tree, or 
the Commando talent tree. This chapter presents the Rebel Recruiter talent 
tree for the officer, which is considered to be on the list of talent trees for 
the officer just like the other three. If a talent refers to a class level but 
does not specify a class, the level is the combined number of levels in all of 

\cter's classes that grant access to that talent. 
wever, none of the new talent trees granted to core classes by this 

\k is added to the list of approved talent trees for that prestige class 
unless specifically noted in that talent tree's description. For example, even 
the officer has access to the Leadership talent tree of the noble 
‘he does not gain access to the Gambling Leader talent tree from 
revious chapter even though it is considered a noble talent tree. New 
ints for existing talent trees are treated no differently from any other 
talent in that tree. 


S3SSSv15D s011ssu0q 


New PRESTIGE CLASS 
TALENTS 


This section presents new talents for several of the prestige classes in 
the Saga Edition core rulebook. These talents are suitable for heroes of 
any era, but they are particularly appropriate for heroes in a Rebellion era 
campaign 


ACE PILOT TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the ace pilot prestige 
class (see page 206 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) 


WINGMAN TALENT TREE 

You are adept at flying in tight formations wit 
with them to achieve your goa 
harm. To use talents from this tree, you must be piloting a vehicle of Colos: 


your allies, working together 
ield theirs from 


is and using your vehicle to s 


sal size or smaller. 

Concentrate All Fire: When you use the aid another action to aid an 
ally's attack roll with a vehicle weapon, if the attack hits, it deals +1 die 
of damage. Any ally can only benefit from this talent once per attack roll 
regardless of how many allies with this talent aid on the attack 

Escort Pilot: When a vehicle that you are piloting is adjacent to a vehicle 
of Colossal size or smaller that is piloted by an ally, both vehicles gain a +10 
bonus to their damage thresholds. 


Lose Pursuit: When a vehicle that you are piloting is adjacent to a vehicle 
of Colossal size or smaller that is piloted by an ally, both you and your ally 
¢ bonus to Pilot checks to avoid being pulled into a 


gain a +5 circumstan 
dogfight as an attack of opportunity. 

Run Interference: As a reaction, you can use the Vehicular Combat feat 
to negate an attack against an adjacent vehicle of Colossal size or smaller 
that is piloted by an ally. If you can use Vehicular Combat more than once 
per round, each use to negate an attack counts toward your limit of uses 
per round 

Prerequisite: Escort Pilot 

Wingman Retribution: When a vehicle of Colossal size or smaller that 
is piloted by an ally is damaged by an attack, once per round as a reaction 
you can make a vehicle weapon attack with a -5 penalty against your ally's 
attacker. 

Prerequisite: Escort Pilot 


Rees. Ace PLOTS AT THE BATTLE OF YAVIN 


OFFICER TALENTS 
The following new talents are intended for use with the officer prestige class 
(see page 220 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) 


REBEL RECRUITER TALENT TREE 
You have learned that many enemies can be considered potential allies 
instead. You can recognize the telltale signs of a potential ally, and, rather 
than killing your enemy, you can bring him or her over to your side. 

Bolstered Numbers: Whenever you successfully use Recruit Enemy on a 
target, you and all allies within line of sight gain a +2 morale bonus to attack 
rolls until the end of the encounter. 

Prerequisite: Recruit Enemy 

Noble Sacrifice: Whenever you successfully use Recruit Enemy on a 
target, if that target is reduced to 0 hit points or moved to the bottom of the 
condition track, as a reaction you can grant yourself and all allies within line 
of sight a number of bonus hit points equal to 10 + your class level, Damage 
is subtracted from bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining 
at the end of the encounter are lost. Bonus hit points do not stack. No bonus 
hit points may be granted if you or an ally reduce the target to 0 hit points 
or move it to the bottom of the condition track. 

Prerequisite: Recruit Enemy. 


Recruit Enemy: Once per encounter when you deal damage to a living 
creature that is equal to or greater than the target's current hit points and 
the target's damage threshold (that is, when you deal enough damage to 
kill the target), you can use this talent. Make a Persuasion check against 
the target's Will Defense; if your result equals or exceeds the target's Will 
Defense, instead of dealing full damage, you deal half damage to the target 
and move it -1 step on the condition track. In addition, the target becomes 
your ally, and its attitude toward you immediately shifts to friendly. The target 
fights on your side until the end of the encounter, at which point it departs 
(or, if the GM wishes, the target might become your ally permanently and 
join your party). Anyone hostile to you becomes hostile to the target. 

This is a mind-affecting effect. If the target is of a higher level than you, 
it gains a +5 bonus to its Will Defense. Enemies that cannot be bribed, black- 
mailed, or seduced (such as stormtroopers) are immune to this effect. 

Stay in the Fight: If you successfully use Recruit Enemy on a target 
and that target can catch a second wind, the target can do so immediately 
as a reaction. 

Prerequisite: Recruit Enemy. 

Team Recruiting: You can use your Recruit Enemy talent whenever you 
or an ally would deal enough damage to kill a target, instead of only when 
you do. 

Prerequisite: Recruit Enemy. 


IMPERIAL FORCES AT THE BATTLE OF HOTH 


New PRESTIGE 
CLASSES 


The following new prestige classes are available in the Rebellion era. 


PRESTIGE CLASS BASIC DESCRIPTION 

Improviser Expert at coming up with quick solutions to 
problems on the fly. 

Pathfinder Specialist in survival, exploration, and creating 
safe zones. 

IMPROVISER 


Survival should not be taken for granted in the war-torn galaxy, particularly 
on the fringes of civilization where resources can be scarce. One of the most 
important skills for fending off death is the ability to think quickly when the 
need arises. Improvisers can quickly grasp the needs of a situation, analyze 
what tools are at hand, remember relevant information, and combine all 
these factors into a hasty (though not necessarily elegant) solution. Although 
improvisers specialize in mechanical marvels, they also have a moderate 
aptitude in almost any skill or area of knowledge. 


BASE ATTACK 
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 
Ist +0 Defense bonuses, no tools required, talent 
2nd +1 Contraband (2,000 credits) 
3rd +2 Talent 
4th +3 Contraband (4,000 credits) 
5th +3 Talent 
6th +4 Contraband (6,000 credits) 
7th +5 Talent 
8th +6 Contraband (8,000 credits) 
9th +6 Talent 
10th +7 Contraband (10,000 credits) 


W eaiavHo 


x0) 
) 
) 
@ 
q 
fn) 
. 
8 


REQUIREMENTS 


To qualify to become an improviser, a character must fulfill the following 


Minimum Level 
Trained Skills: 
Feat: Skill Fos 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 


e the following game s 


Improvisers ha 


Hit Points 
At each level, impr 


modifier 
Force Points 
Improvisers gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their char 


acter level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class 


CLASS FEATURES 


The following are features of the improviser prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 


At Ist level, improviser a ex a 
No Tools Required 

The improviser can use parts of machines and electro 

ing the need for a security 

Use Computer checks that 

always considered to be usin hen J e 


does not 


Talents 


At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, 


ent. The t be selected from the 


talent trees (see below), from the Out! 


Starships of the Galaxy), or from th see pag 


Saga Edition core rulebook). The improvis 


talent. No talent 


must meet the pr 


be selected more 


any) of the cho: 


expressly indicated 


PROCUREMENT TALENT TREE 

You know how to find just what you need, no matter how far you are from 
civilization or how rare the item is. If you can't find it, you make it—but most 
of the time, you find it. 

Black Market Buyer: When seeking an item from the black market, you 
do not need to make a Gather Information check to locate a black market 
merchant; you automatically succeed, 

Excellent Kit: You always make sure that your allies have the best gear 
available. Whenever you purchase weapons, armor, or other equipment (either 
legally or through the black market), all gear you purchase has 50% more hit 
points than normal and has 5 more DR than normal. In addition, whenever 
one of your allies makes a Mechanics check on an object that you purchased, 
that ally gains a +2 equipment bonus to the check. 

Just What Is Needed: You have a knack for finding the best quality 
replacement parts for broken equipment. Whenever you use the Repair 
application of the Mechanics skill, you restore an extra 148 hit points with 
a successful Mechanics check, in addition to what you would normally 
restore, 

If you use the aid another action to assist an ally with repairs, that ally 
also repairs an extra 1d8 hit points with a successful Mechanics check. Any 
ally can only benefit from this talent once per Mechanics check, regardless 
of how many allies with this talent aid on the check. 

Only the Finest: Whenever you purchase goods through the black market, 
you can obtain items that have been modified with the Tech Specialist feat 
(see page 21 of Starships of the Galaxy) without increasing the base value 
of the items. 

Prerequisite: Black Market Buyer. 

Right Gear for the Job: Once per day when an ally makes an untrained 
skill check, as a reaction you can grant that ally a +5 equipment bonus to 
the check, and the ally is considered trained in that skill for the purpose of 
using trained-only applications of the skill. You cannot use this talent to 
allow an ally to make an untrained Use the Force check. 


IMPROVISER TALENT TREE 

You have mastered the ability to make something out of nothing, turning 
spare parts and scrap into a sensor pack, a weapon, or a protective suit 
of armor. You can build what you need on the fly, and sometimes your 
customized gear proves more useful than what you otherwise might have 
purchased. 

Bigger Bang: Whenever you create a grenade with the Improvised Device 
talent, the grenade deals an additional die of damage when used. 

Prerequisite: Improvised Device. 

Capture Droid: Once per encounter, you can use this talent on an adjacent 
enemy droid that has been reduced to 0 hit points or moved to the bottom of 
the condition track but not destroyed. As a standard action, make a Mechan- 
ics check against the droid’s Will Defense. If your result equals or exceeds 
the droid’s Will Defense, the droid moves +2 steps on the condition track, 


regains 1d8 hit points, and becomes your ally, and its attitude toward you 
immediately shifts to friendly. The droid fights on your side until the end of 
the encounter, at which point it is destroyed. 

Custom Model: Whenever you create a device with the Improvised Device 
talent, you can apply one modification granted by the Tech Specialist feat 
(see page 21 of Starships of the Galaxy) to the device. This customization 
does not affect the value of the item being created. 

Prerequisites: Improvised Device, Tech Specialist feat. 

Improved Jury-Rig: You can use the Jury-Rig application of the Mechan- 
ics skill as a standard action instead of as a full-round action. Additionally, 
you are not required to make a skill check to successfully jury-rig a device 
or vehicle, and the device or vehicle moves +3 steps on the condition track 
instead of +2. 

Improvised Device: You can create a temporary piece of almost any type 
of equipment from the spare parts you have around. To do so, you must make 
a DC 25 Mechanics check and spend one hour building the device. The object 
can have a maximum value of 200 credits x your class level, it cannot have an 
availability of rare or illegal, and it cannot be unique. The device you create 
must be something that you would reasonably be familiar with, and after 24 
hours the object is destroyed, You can use this talent once per day. 


Contraband 

At 2nd level, you gain access to illegal goods through your connections. 
You can obtain any combination of items that have an availability of rare 
or illegal, up to a total value of 2,000 credits x one-half your class level. 
You can choose the items all at once or obtain them over the course of the 
level. However, if you gain another level without having reached your per- 
level limit, any additional credits’ worth of goods are lost, and your budget 
for obtaining rare and illegal items resets with the new level. You do not 
have to pay black market multipliers on these goods, only their base value. 
Obtaining any combination of these goods requires one hour of work in a 
civilized or semicivilized area. 


PATHFINDER 

The battles of the Galactic Civil War are not fought along rigid lines that 
clearly delineate Imperial territory from Rebel territory. In light of the superior 
resources and military might of the Empire, the Rebels must remain flexible, 
moving from base to base, planet to planet, and system to system, sometimes 
ona moment's notice. Such maneuverability and secrecy requires a multitude 
of small bases throughout the galaxy in unpopulated areas. 

The Rebellion employs a group of scouts—sometimes called pathfinders— 
who work alone or in small groups, scouring the galaxy to find viable locations 
for secret bases. When they find a suitably remote site that fits the needs of 
their current mission, they begin preparing it with defenses, concealment, 
power, and other basic requirements. These scouts usually belong to the 
Alliance Special Forces Pathfinders. 


SEssvif selLsEc) 


Although pathfinders are u 
their expertise as well. For example, the Empire 


most often by groups focused on guerrilla 


warfare, others have need for 
governments have been known to use pathfinders to 
rate Sector hire 


and other organize 
establish black ops centers, and some entities in the Co! 
pathfinders when they want to establish divisions that are best hidden from 


public scrutiny. 
hfinders are experts in survival and explora 


ion in desolate areas. They 


receive special training in quickly creating operational zones, including basic 
offensive and defensive measures. Not all who fall under the umbrella of the 
pathfinder description are members of the Alliance Pathfinder unit, and the 
essence of the pathfinder is a scout t! 
her people to set up a base of operations. 


hat can create a safe place for his or 


TABLE 2-3: THE PATHFINDER 
BASE ATTACK 


LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES 

Ist +0 Defense bonuses, talent 
2nd +1 Create cover (1 square) 
3rd +2 Talent 

4th +3 Create cover (2 squares) 
Sth +3 Talent 

6th +4 Create cover (3 squares) 
7th +5 Talent 

8th +6 Create cover (4 squares) 
9th +6 Talent 

10th +7 Create cover (5 squares) 


REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify to become a pathfinder, a character must fulfill the following 
criteria 

Minimum Level: 7th. 

Trained Skills: Perception, Survival 

Talents: At least t 
talent trees (see p: 


talents from the Awareness, Camouflage, or Survivor 
es 49-50 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) 


YAN ORS, 


REBEL PATHRINDER 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Pathfinders have the following game statistics. 


Hit Points 
At each level, pathfinders gain hit points equal to 1d10 + their Constitution 
modifier. 


Force Points 
Pathfinders gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their char- 
acter level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class. 


CLASS FEATURES 
The following are features of the pathfinder prestige class. 


Defense Bonuses 
At Ist level, pathfinders gain a +4 class bonus to their Fortitude Defense and 
a +2 class bonus to their Reflex Defense. 


Talents 

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), the pathfinder selects 
a talent. This talent must be selected from the Pathfinder talent tree (see 
below) or from the Awareness or Survivor talent trees (see pages 49-50 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). The pathfinder must meet the prerequisites 
(if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once unless 
expressly indicated. 


PATHFINDER TALENT TREE 

You specialize in finding and creating optimal locations from which your 
allies can fight, and then making sure that they reach those locales safely. 
In combat, you use your eye for finding secure locations to pick the best 
spots from which to launch your attacks. 

Bunker Blaster: If you are adjacent to an object that can provide you with 
cover from a target, you can aim at that target as a move action. 

Defensive Measures: All enemies treat your safe zone as difficult 
terrain. 

Prerequisite: Safe Zone. 

Enhance Cover: As a swift action, you can designate a single ally within 
your line of sight who has cover from one or more enemies. That ally is 
considered instead to have improved cover against those enemies until the 
start of your next turn as long as the ally still has cover. 

Escort Fighter: You can spend a swift action to designate one adjacent 
ally. Until the start of your next turn, if you move, that ally can also move the 
same number of squares, provided that the ally ends its movement adjacent 
to you, You cannot move a distance greater than the ally’s speed. 

Launch Point: Any ally who starts his or her turn within your safe zone 
and then exits the zone gains a +2 bonus to attack rolls before the end of 


that ally's turn, provided that the ally is not within your safe zone when the 
attack is made. 

Prerequisite: Safe Zone. 

Obscuring Defenses: Enemies that fire into your safe zone take a -2 
penalty to attack rolls. 

Prerequisite: Safe Zone. 

Relocate: You can dismiss your safe zone as a swift action, ending its 
current effects. Any allies in the space your safe zone was occupying gain a 
+2 bonus to their speed until the start of your next turn. When you use this 
talent, you cannot create a new safe zone until the start of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Safe Zone. 

Safe Passage: Once per turn, you can spend a move action to allow one 
ally within line of sight to move up to its speed as a reaction. If a target 
makes an attack of opportunity against the ally during its movement, you 
can make an attack of opportunity against that target. 

Prerequisite: Escort Fighter. 

Safe Zone: As a standard action, you can identify a safe zone, within 
which your allies gain certain advantages. You designate a 4-by-4 square 
area of the combat area as a safe zone; at least 1 square of the safe zone 
must be the square that you currently occupy. Each ally who starts his or 
her turn within the safe zone gains a +2 circumstance bonus to his or her 
Fortitude Defense and Will Defense until the start of the ally's next turn. 
The safe zone lasts until the end of the encounter, and you can have only 
one safe zone in effect at a time. You can create a new safe zone as a stan- 
dard action, dismissing the old safe zone and replacing it with the new one, 
but no square of the old safe zone can overlap with any square of the new 
safe zone. You cannot create a safe zone in a space that overlaps another 
pathfinder's safe zone. 

Zone of Recuperation: Any ally who catches a second wind while 
within your safe zone regains a number of additional hit points equal to 
your class level. 

Prerequisite: Safe Zone. 


Create Cover 

You know how to use the terrain to your advantage, creating obstacles and 
cover from the materials you have at hand. Starting at 2nd level, as a standard 
action you can designate a number of squares equal to or less than one-half 
of your class level, all of which must be within 6 squares of you. These squares 
are considered to be filled with low objects, providing anyone adjacent to the 
squares with cover against distant attackers. At least one of the squares you 
designate must be adjacent to you. You can use this ability multiple times per 
encounter, provided that the total number of squares you designate across all 
uses never exceeds one-half of your class level. Thus, if you have 6 levels in 
the pathfinder prestige class, you can spend one standard action to create 2 
‘squares of cover, and on a subsequent round spend another standard action 
to create a third square of cover (one-half of your class level). 


Tt eaiewno 


SeEssvif sei.sEeie) 


CHAPTER III 
AND vo och 


SSS 
War breeds technological innovations, a rule that held true during the Clone 
iH “Wars and that continues to be borne out by the Galactic Civil War. However, 
© by the time of the Rebellion, the Empire has not yet recovered from the 
economic and military exhaustion of the Clone Wars, nor has the Empire 
encouraged independent companies to develop new ideas. In many cases, 
those most willing to innovate are the ones who have the fewest resources 
and the least safety with which to do so. While the Empire focuses on mam- 
superweapons designed to strike fear into the populace, the Alliance 
0 new uses of older technologies as a matter of survival. Scoundrels 
est beings alike must carefully consider the consequences of develop- 
technology and wonder who might come to claim it. 
is chapter presents new weapons, equipment, and droids that are 
ble for use by anyone im the Rebellion era. Other chapters in this book 
items that are used primarily by the Rebel Alliance (Chapter 6), the 
Chapter 7), and major fringe organizations (Chapter 8). 


IMPERIAL 
CONTRABAND 


While the Empire controls the galaxy, a number of items that were once 
merely rare or restricted become illegal contraband. Asa result, many pieces 
of equipment that were legal (if tightly regulated) under the Republic are 
outlawed entirely, affecting not only their availability but also the penalty 
for being caught with such items. Many items with a particular availability 
tag (licensed, restricted, military, illegal, or rare) are more tightly restricted 
or outright banned under the Empire. For example, lightsabers, which were 
once given the rare availability tag, become illegal under Imperial rule. 

As a general guideline, the availability tags for equipment in the Saga 
Edition core rulebook are accurate representations of those items’ avail- 
ability during the time of the Empire, with a few exceptions. All weapons in 
the lightsabers weapon group are considered illegal and rare, although the 
Empire overlooks possession of such items for its chosen representatives. 
Additionally, items with a military availability cannot be obtained legally 
through non-Imperial channels, not even by local planetary militias and 
system defense forces (most of which are absorbed by the Empire, anyway). 
Military-grade items obtained on the black market are illegal in the hands 
of private citizens, and those who carry such items risk stiff penalties if 
they are discovered. 


SGIEHNE GNY ANENeINeS, | 


ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS: cOosT DAMAGE = STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY, 
Energy lance 3,500 2d8 = 5kg Piercing and energy Restricted 
Power lance 2,500 2d8 - 5kg Bludgeoning and energy Licensed 

‘SIMPLE WEAPONS CcOsT DAMAGE STUNDAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY. 
Axe! 35 1d8 = 2kg Slashing - 
Gaderffii 60 244/244 = 5 kg Bludgeoning and slashing - 

1Can be thrown. 


MELEE WEAPONS 

The Empire does not see melee weapons other than lightsabers as a major 
threat. Its laws regarding such weapons are usually lax, and it does not 
use sophisticated methods to detect them. Unpowered melee weapons are 
ignored as too primitive to worry about, and even advanced melee weapons 
are considered irrelevant to blaster-armed stormtroopers. In general, civil- 
ians and crime lords think that bringing a vibrodagger to a meeting is less 
unfriendly than openly carrying a blaster pistol. 


Axe 

‘Simple Melee Weapon 

Though this weapon is a smaller, unpowered version of the vibro-ax, many 
fringers find a blade on a haft to be indispensable in the wilds of untamed 
planets. An axe also has the advantage of being legal nearly everywhere, 
largely because no one thinks to outlaw such a simple tool. Modern versions 
made of advanced composite materials are common in many explorers’ shops, 
and various species pressed into service by the Empire bring their own tradi- 
tional axes with them when they are shipped across the galaxy. 


Energy Lance/Power Lance 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
Essentially, an energy lance is a force pike that has been combined with an 
electromagnetic pulse generator (the same kind used by an electrostaff) and 
balanced for use while riding a mount. Energy lances once were commonly 
carried by honor guards and ceremonial troops such as the Mon Calamari 
Knights, and many such weapons still in circulation bear signs of their once- 
proud heritage. Though an energy lance is a Large weapon, it is balanced in 
such a way that a Medium creature trained in the Ride skill can wield it in 
‘one hand when mounted. If an energy lance is wielded by a Medium creature 
that is not mounted, attacks with the weapon take a -1 penalty. 

The electromagnetic pulse can also be channeled along the length of the 
staff and fired from the tip as a bolt of plasma. When used in this way, the 


energy lance functions as a blaster carbine with no stun setting. This use 
of the energy lance requires a power pack, and has the same ammunition 
capacity as a blaster cabine. 

An energy lance requires two energy cells to operate. Its melee attack 
and its ranged attack both function underwater. 

Power lances are energy lances that lack the ability to fire bolts of plasma. 
These weapons are significantly cheaper and are mass-produced as secondary 
weapons for scouts on speeder bikes and for cavalry. 


Gaderffii 
‘Simple Melee Weapon 
Primarily found in the hands of Tusken Raiders, the gaderffii (also called a 
gaffi ) is a pole weapon made from scrap metal. It always features a 
spike or blade on one end and some kind of bludgeoning instrument on the 
other. Similar weapons are sometimes carried by the raiders and scavengers 
of many worlds, especially in places that include old battlegrounds or plenty 
of discarded junk. 

The gaderffii is a double weapon. The wielder can attack with both ends 
as a full-round action, but both attacks take a -10 penalty (certain feats 
and talents can reduce these penalties). 


RANGED WEAPONS 

Many new weapons come out of the Empire’s weapons research centers, and 
some of those weapons eventually find their way into the hands of civilians. 
The following ranged weapons are suitable for campaigns in the Rebellion 
era, and may be used in other eras with Gamemaster permission. 


Concussion Grenade 

Simple Weapon 

Concussion grenades deliver a devastating explosion of kinetic energy— 
enough to crack bones and jelly internal organs. A concussion grenade 
explodes on contact after it is thrown, dealing damage in the same round 
in which it is hurled. 


When you make an area attack with a concussion grenade, you make a 
single attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target 
in the grenade’s 2-square burst radius. Creatures hit by the attack take full 
damage; creatures that are missed take half damage. A target that has the 
Evasion talent (see page 50 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) takes half 
damage from a successful attack and no damage if the attack misses. 


Flechette Launcher 

Rifle 

The flechette launcher antipersonnel weapon fires canisters filled with hun- 
dreds of tiny durasteel darts that spread out over a large area. A flechette 
launcher is considered a splash weapon, with a 1-square splash radius. Due 
to its single-shot nature, a flechette launcher cannot be used with the Rapid 
Shot feat or any other feat or talent that expends more than a single shot. 
A flechette launcher requires special ammunition: A canister of four shots 
costs 50 credits; after four shots, the canister must be replaced, 


Gas Grenade 

Simple Weapon. 

Gas grenades deploy an airborne chemical agent that can render unprotected 
creatures unconscious. A gas grenade bursts on contact after being thrown, 
taking effect in the same round in which it is hurled. 

When you make an attack with a gas grenade, you make a single attack 
roll and compare it to the Fortitude Defense of every target within the 
grenade's 4-square blast radius. Creatures hit by the attack move -2 steps 
on the condition track (-1 step if the target has Evasion; see page 50 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). If the attack misses, there is no effect on any 
target. Creatures protected from atmospheric hazards are unaffected by the 
attack of a gas grenade. 

Additionally, the area of the blast is filled with gas, providing concealment 
to all creatures within the blast area whether or not a creature is affected by 
the initial blast; likewise, all targets outside the blast area have concealment 
from any creature within the blast area. The gas persists until the end of the 
attacker's next turn, at which point it dissipates. 


Merr-Sonn PLX-2M Portable Missile Launcher 

Heavy Weapon 

The shoulder-mounted PLX-2M is derived from Merr-Sonn’s Clone Wars-era 
PLX-1 portable missile launcher. Designed to punch holes through heavy 
armor, the “Plex-Twoem" is also a particularly effective antipersonnel 
weapon. The PLX-2M can be fired in direct mode, or it can be fired in heat- 
seeking mode or gravity-activated mode (providing a -2 penalty to the Reflex 
Defense all targets of a particular type: character, droid, vehicle, or artillery). 
The miniature proton warheads in the PLX-2M's Arakyd 3t3 missiles detonate 
on impact, damaging all targets within a 3-square burst radius. 


The PLX-2M is an area-effect weapon. When you make an area attack, 
you make a single attack roll; if your modified attack roll result is equal to 
10 or higher, compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target in 
the area. Creatures that are hit take full damage; creatures that are missed 
take half damage. A natural 20 on an area attack roll automatically hits all 
targets within the affected area, but an area attack does not deal double 
damage on a critical hit. A target that has the Evasion talent (see page 50 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook) takes half damage from a successful attack 
and no damage if the attack misses. 

The PLX-2M portable missile launcher holds six Arakyd 3t3 missiles and 
can be reloaded as a full-round action. Replacement missiles are available 
in packs of six, costing 350 credits and weighing 8 kg. The PLX-2M weighs 
48 kg, but because of the launcher's built-in microrepulsorlift, the weapon 
does not count against encumbrance when it is carried as a character's 
active, drawn weapon, 


Miniature Proton Torpedo Launcher 

Heavy Weapon 

Designed for use with zero-gravity stormtrooper armor (see page xx), min- 
iature proton torpedoes can rip through starship hulls. The launcher mounts 
into the zero-g stormtrooper armor's left gauntlet, but enterprising Rebel 
engineers have adapted the weapon as a shoulder-mounted launcher. After 
launching a miniature proton torpedo, the wielder must spend a standard 
action to reset the launcher, which holds 4 torpedoes. 

The miniature proton torpedo launcher is an area-effect weapon. When 
you make an area attack, you make a single attack roll; if your modified attack 
roll result is equal to 10 or higher, compare the result to the Reflex Defense 
of every target in the 2-square blast radius. Creatures that are hit take full 
damage; creatures that are missed take half damage. A natural 20 on an 
area attack roll automatically hits all targets within the affected area, but an 
area attack does not deal double damage on a critical hit. A target that has 
the Evasion talent (see page 50 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) takes half 
damage from a successful attack and no damage if the attack misses. 

Alternately, the weapon can be fired at a single target, acting as a focused 
weapon designed to take out starfighters and heavy vehicles. Asa swift action, 
you can set the miniature proton torpedo launcher to single-target mode. In 
this mode, the weapon no longer functions as an area attack weapon, deals 
6d10[ts]2 damage, and applies a -10 penalty on attack rolls against targets 
smaller than Huge size. 


g 
i) 
6 
4 
> 
2 
gy 
3 
9 
10) 
@ 


SGIGUG GNY ANEWAINeES 


Blastech 500 Riot Gun 
Rifle 
Apart from the brown color of their armor, Espos are known for their riot guns, 
manufactured by Blastech Industries. The Blastech 500 riot gun is standard 
issue for all Espos. It functions, in most ways, as a blaster carbine; however, 
the riot gun is known for its indiscriminate accuracy. When in single-shot 
mode, the riot gun imposes a -1 penalty to ranged attack rolls; however, the 
weapon grants a +2 equipment bonus to autofire attacks made by the weapon 
(meaning that, for most wielders, the weapon can be fired in autofire mode 
with only a -3 penalty, instead of the normal -5). 

A riot gun requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, the power 
pack must be replaced. 


SG-4 Blaster Rifle 

Rifle 

Because the range of a blaster is reduced in water, the Imperial Department 
of Military Research has developed the SG-4 blaster rifle, a combination 
weapon that fires normal blaster bolts out of water and miniature harpoon 
rounds underwater. Firing the weapon in blaster mode underwater—or firing 
the harpoon out of water—reduces its range by half (see page 129 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 


EXOTIC WEAPONS cost DAMAGE ‘STUN DMG 
Siang lance! 2,000 3d8 Yes 
HEAVY WEAPONS, cost DAMAGE ‘STUN DMG 
Merr-Sonn PLX-2M® 2,250 8d6 > 
Mini-proton torpedo launcher? —‘1,500. 6d10 - 
RIFLES cost DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Blastech 500 riot gun 1,200 3d8 Yes 
SG-4 blaster rifle 400 308 208 
or (underwater) 246 - 
Flechette launcher? 1,100 3d8 = 
‘SIMPLE WEAPONS cost DAMAGE STUN DMG 
Concussion grenade 400 8d6 = 
Gas grenade 250 - 4d6 


1 Accurate weapon: This weapon takes no penalty when firing at targets at short range. 
2 Inaccurate weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at long range. 
3 Area attack weapon. 


The SG-4 blaster rifle uses a standard 50-shot power pack for blaster fire. 
In harpoon mode, it must be reloaded between each shot as a swift action. 


Siang Lance 

Exotic Weapon 

The siang lance is one of the few types of technological devices found on 
Kilia IV, although only a small number of functional lances remain. By law, 
only members of a noble house may use a siang lance. In practice, a siang 
lance is given to each active Kilian Ranger as a badge of office and to remind 
themselves and others of one half of their oaths: to defend justice, chivalry, 
and the people of Kilia. A siang lance is an ancient model of ‘sporting blaster 
rifle with an affixed bayonet. It is typically wielded with one hand, leaving 
the other hand free to use the Kilian Ranger's shield gauntlet, 

A siang lance can be used to make attacks of opportunity. When you 
would make an attack of opportunity against a target, you may choose either 
to fire the siang lance as a ranged weapon or to use the weapon's bayonet 
as a melee weapon. 

A siang lance requires a power pack to operate. After 100 shots, the 
power pack must be replaced. 


RATE OF FIRE = WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
$ 4kg Energy Illegal, Rare 
RATE OF FIRE == WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Ss 48 kg Energy Military 
Ss 8 kg Energy Military 
RATE OF FIRE = WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
SA 2.2 kg Energy Military 
SA 5kg Energy Military 
S - Piercing - 
s Skg Piercing Military 
RATE OF FIRE == WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
s 0.5 kg Bludgeoning Military 
Ss 0.5 kg - Military 


ARMOR BONUS 
ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST 


Merr-Sonn KZZ riot armor — 2,500 +2 +2 
Shield gauntlet 1,500 - - 
ARMOR 


Most armor used in this era either belongs to specialized stormtrooper units, 
or is one of the types found in the Saga Edition core rulebook. The follow- 
ing new piece of armor is a specialized arm piece worn by the Force-using 
tradition known as the Kilian Rangers. 


Merr-Sonn KZZ Riot Armor 

Light Armor 

K2Z riot armor is manufactured by Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc., for the Espos 
of the Corporate Sector. It consists of a reinforced blast helmet and vest 
and a small shield; the shield is strapped to the wearer's arm and does not 
interfere with her ability to use the associated hand. The vest and helmet 
are brown, giving rise to the Espos' nickname, “Boys in Brown.” While more 
expensive than a combat jumpsuit, KZZ riot armor offers the maneuverability 
of a typical blast helmet and vest and is lighter than a jumpsuit. 


Shield Gauntlet 
Light Armor 
While personal shield devices have fallen out of use in much of the galaxy, 
they can still be found among the nobility of Kilia IV. Kilian Rangers use a 
shield gauntlet to both provide defense and remind themselves and others 
of the other half of their oaths: to defend themselves and their families. A 
shield gauntlet can be worn even if you are wearing other armor, although 
you cannot wear any items that cover your hands (such as combat gloves, 
stun gauntlets, a cortosis gauntlet, or shockboxing gloves) with a shield 
gauntlet. A shield gauntlet provides no benefit to the untrained, but those 
with certain talents (see the Kilian Ranger talent tree on page XX) can use 
it to deflect ranged attacks. 

Acharacter without the Armor Proficiency (light) feat suffers armor check 
penalties as usual when wearing a shield gauntlet. A shield gauntlet requires 
an energy cell to operate. 


EQUIPMENT 

Most of the equipment in use during the Rebellion era appears in the Saga 
Edition core rulebook. In many areas, items left over from the Clone Wars and 
the years that followed are more common than are pieces of new technol- 
ogy. But like all conflicts, the Galactic Civil War spurs advances in existing 
technology, and this new technology can be acquired in major spaceports 
and trade cities, 


EQUIP BONUS 
TO REF DEFENSE TO FORT DEFENSE 


MAX DEX SPEED SPEED 
BONUS (6sQ.) (4SQ.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 
+5 - - 6 kg Military 
= - - 1kg Rare 
Ambient Aural Amplifier 


Although aural amplifiers have existed for centuries, vast improvements to 
the technology are made during the Rebellion era, driven by the need to sur- 
reptitiously listen in on contacts who could be Imperial spies, Rebel recruiters, 
or bounty hunters looking to make a few quick credits. Previous models of 
aural amplifiers were bulky and obvious, and they garbled messages almost 
as often as they worked. They also required power cells, limiting the degree 
to which they could be concealed. 

Employing the same technology used for protocol droids, the new ambi- 
ent aural amplifiers can pick out sounds, analyze them, and amplify only the 
sounds that are likely to be useful, These devices draw power from the body 
heat of any warm-blooded creature that wears them, giving the amplifiers 
an effectively unlimited operation time. (Cold-blooded species can power 
the devices by placing them on a warm surface or piece of gear.) The result 
is a +5 equipment bonus to Perception checks to eavesdrop or to hear distant 
or ambient noises. 


Computerized Interface Scope 

This item is a small electrobinocular device, mounted onto a weapon, that 
projects a targeting image onto a monocle or helmet display worn by the 
wielder. Additionally, the computer image projected by the scope can be 
displayed on a datapad or transmitted by comlink to a remote location, 
allowing others to see what the wielder sees. By using a computerized 
interface scope, the wielder effectively reduces the range of the target by 
one category (minimum of point blank) when aiming. The device is otherwise 
mechanically identical to a targeting scope (see page 140 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook) and does not stack with a targeting scope or with any other 
device that does not stack with a targeting scope. 


ITEM CcOsT WEIGHT 
Ambient aural amplifier 3,000 0.5 kg 
Computerized interface scope 2,000 0.5 kg 


 @aisvHS 


SGIGUG ONY LWENAINES) 


DROIDS 

During the Rebellion era, most beings don't tru: 
they were weapons of terror during the Clone Wars and partially because 
rogue droids have become much more common. With warfare gripping the 
galaxy for a second generation, many droids lose their masters, and others go 
so long without proper maintenance and memory-wipes that they develop a 
rogue streak and walk off on their own. In the last years of the Old Republic 
a droid wandering by itself we sumed to be running an ordinary mission 
for its owner. Now, many citizens fear that any free-roaming droid is a re 
egade unless a restraining bolt is clearly visible. Droid licensing is stronger 
in the Core Worlds, whereas on the galactic fringe, signs declaring “Droids 
Not Welcome" are common. 


droids, partially because 


FIRST-DEGREE DROIDS 

The most common first-degree droids are medical models; civilians rarely 
encounter other types of first-degree droids. Newer models are very 
insed by the Empire, so most beings make do wi 


expensive and heavily | 
whatever older models they can keep running. 


FX-7 Medical Droid 

The FX-7 was the most numerous model of the FX (or “Fixit") line of medi 
cal droids built by Medtech Industries. The FX-7 was extremely common in 
ars, but the 


medical bay installations in the years just before the Clone W 


jevelopment of medical technology advanced so rapidly during that con 
flict that by its end, the model had become outdated. Medtech Industries 
eventually went bankrupt, and agents of the New Order sold off vast stores 
of FX-7s to pay off the company’s taxes. 

As a result, although the FX-7 is not the preferred medical droid of the 
Rebellion era, it is one of those most commonly encountered in places other 
than large medical ships and military bases. Because it is cheap compared 
to newer models, having an FX-7 is considerably better than having no 
medical droid, and many of them eventually develop protective personalities 
that make them beloved members of the groups that use them. Unlike the 
2-1B droids, which have extensive programming locks to prevent them from 
harming living creatures (except in the pursuit of life-saving operations), an 
FX-7 has only a simple block against intentionally causing harm. This block 
can be bypassed easily, and some less savory groups reprogram their FX-7s 
as interrogation droids. 


AN FX-7 MEDICAL DROID 


The two main drawbacks of the FX-7 model are its lack of mobility and 
lack of a vocabulator. Since the droids are designed to be permanent medi- 
cal assistants, they have no mode of movement and remain wherever they 
are placed. Although this design helps keep down the cost of the droid, it 
means that something as simple as a patient sliding off the wrong side of a 
table can prevent an FX-7 from assisting. Some groups that use FX-7s equip 
them with vocabulators and post unskilled workers nearby to aid the droids; 
others plug the gaps in communication and mobility with a used translator 
droid and a few labor droids. 

FX-7 medical droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


FX-7 Medical Droid cLo 

Medium droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses low-light vision; Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 12 

hp 5; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 0 (stationary) 

Melee unarmed +0 (143-1) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +1 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 10, Con —, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 9 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences), Treat 
Injury), Surgical Expertise 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +13, Treat Injury +13, Use Computer +8 

Systems basic processor, 20 hands, improved sensor package 

Possessions medical kit, medpac, surgery kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 3,800 


SECOND-DEGREE DROIDS 
Second-degree droids were the focus of the most impressive technological 
advances during the Rebellion era, in large part because of the need to main- 
tain older equipment coupled with the increasing importance of starfighter 
combat. Astromech and repair droids are strong sellers for all companies that 
manufacture them, as are kits to repair, upgrade, or modify existing droids. 
Many of the most successful second-degree droids incorporate simple designs 
that emphasize durability and flexibility. 


R4-Series Agromech Droid 

With the massive success of the R2 astromech droid and the 2-1B medical 
droid in the last years of the Old Republic, Industrial Automaton needed to 
find new markets. The company decided to create a droid for casual users 
who were more likely to need a hand with a swoop than with a starfighter. 
The Ra agromech was designed to appeal to fringe world owners who needed 
a skilled hand around the garage, Core World designers who wanted help 
building prototypes, and farmers of any world who could use a droid that 
was reliable and loyal. 


The R4 is based on the basic design of the older R2, although its design 
includes cost-saving measures to make it more accessible and less special- 
ized. The R4 droid uses fewer miniaturized parts, resulting in a taller profile 
but a sturdier overall design. Internal components are spaced farther apart, 
reducing the droid's computing power (and making it unsuitable as an 
astromech unless modified), but enhancing its stability and decreasing the 
number of elements prone to malfunctions, The result is a droid that can 
survive in harsh conditions and remain operational even after taking damage 
that might wreck a more delicate model. 

The R4 is very popular with repair crews, who often prefer it to repair 
droids specifically designed for reconstruction tasks. The R4 can also moni- 
tor crops, medical equipment, and nearly any type of sensor. Like the R2 
‘on which it is based, the R4 is seen as friendly and helpful. The Empire, the 
Rebellion, and thousands of other organizations and individuals employ R4s 
across the galaxy, and it is easy to obtain spare parts and instructions for 
common modifications for R4 droids. 

Ré droids can be played as droid heroes. 


R4-Series Agromech Droid cLo 

Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +4; Senses darkvision; Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 8, Will 10 

hp 7; Threshold 8 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (wheeled) 

Melee electroshock probe -1 (1d8-2 ion) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp -1 

Abilities Str 7, Dex 16, Con —, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 7 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics, Use Computer), Toughness, Weapon 
Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +8, Mechanics +13, Use Computer +13 

‘Systems wheeled locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 tool appendages, 
diagnostics package, improved sensor package, darkvision 

Possessions electroshock probe, electric arc welder, holorecorder, 
holoprojector 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,500 


li SSisvHo 


WED Treadwell 

The WED Treadwell is not the most famous or most successful repair droid, 
but a large number of them have been manufactured and sold throughout the 
galaxy. Because the droid has a simple appearance—that of a rolling platform 
with a viewer on a stalk and four or more tool arms—raiders and pirates often 
overlook it when plundering. As a result, the Treadwell is one of the least 
often stolen droids. In fact, Treadwells are sometimes mistaken for tool racks, 
which is unsurprising since they essentially act as rolling tool racks for their 
owners. Treadwells are not particularly bright and don't have much drive, 
but these factors make them obedient and reliable, and they are especially 
popular on fringe worlds where residents are suspicious of droids. 

Although WED Treadwells are fragile, requiring regular maintenance and 
environments that contain few hazards, they have a reputation for being 
adaptable and alert. The arms of a Treadwell can be swapped out quickly 
and easily, and many owners keep a stockpile of specialty arms for specific 
jobs. The droids are also single-minded, doing what they are told until they 
complete the task or receive new instructions 

WED Treadwell droids can be played as droid heroes. 


A WED TREAOWELL ORGIO REPAIRS A 9000 2004 LaNosreeoER. 


WED Treadwell Repair Droid cLo 

Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +4; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 8, Will 10 

hp 5; Threshold 8 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (tracked) 

Melee electroshock probe -1 (148-2 ion) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp -1 

Abilities Str 7, Dex 16, Con —, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 7 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics, Use Computer), Skill Training (Perception), 
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +14, Perception +6, Use Computer +12 

‘Systems tracked locomotion, heuristic processor, 4 tool appendages, 
diagnostics package 

Possessions electric arc welder, fusion lantern, tool kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 3,000 


THIRD-DEGREE DROIDS 

Since the years of the Clone Wars, every major government and organization 
has used third-degree droids to inform local populations of the impending 
arrival of troops (and the impending seizure of property and goods). Asa result, 
most civilians greet the arrival of third-degree droids with open hostility. 


LOM-Series Protocol Droid 

The LOM series of protocol droids was created by Industrial Automaton as 
direct competition to the popular 3PO series from Cybot Galactica. Indeed, 
Industrial Automaton managed to acquire many of the same components 
used in the 3PO design, and as a result, the main chassis of LOM-series 
droids is extremely similar to that of 3PO models. However, the head of the 
LOM-series droid has a distinctly insectoid appearance, designed to appeal 
to species such as the Gand and the Verpine. 

Equipped with AA-1 Verbobrains (as were 3PO units) and excellent trans- 
lator modules, the LOM series initially sold well. Indeed, their personalities 
were often preferred to those of 3PO units, since LOM droids had a propensity 
for sensible, rational action even under pressure. However, LOM-series droids 
often developed personalities too blunt to make them effective protocol 
droids. Many LOM-series droids removed their own restraining bolts and 
obtained reprogramming to enable them to carry out independent opera- 
tions. This trend, coupled with legal pressure from Cybot Galactica, caused 
Industrial Automaton to stop producing the model. In the Rebellion era, many 
used LOM-series droids are sold far below market value, and independent 
LOM traders and explorers are not unknown. 

LOM-series protocol droids can be played as droid heroes. 


A LOM-SeRies PROTOCOL oROID A: 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROIDS 

The failure of the Separatists’ battle droids to win the Clone Wars proved 
disastrous for the further development of military combat droids. Although 
the Empire sometimes creates droid warriors and assassins, few fourth- 
degree droid models have been created for civilian use. 


BT-16 Perimeter Security Droid 
Arakyd’s BT-16 perimeter security droid is a walking guard droid that resem- 
bles a large, thin-leqged spider. These droids were originally designed for 
basic perimeter defense around private estates and government compounds, 
although many found their way into the hands of criminals who used the 
BT-16s to protect their dens of illegal a y. These droids are extremely 
stable and have the ability to climb over low objects and even up vertical 
surfaces. The BT-16 reacts quickly against intruders, and it can ur 
torrent of blaster fire. 

The B'omarr monks used modified BT-16 perimeter security droids as 
carriers of the brains of enlightened members of their order, who were said 
to have transcended the need for their corporeal forms, See the sidebar on 


eash a 


the B'omarr monks for more informatior 
BT-16 perimeter security droids can't be played as droid heroes 


BT-16 Perimeter Security Droid cus. 


Large droid (4th degree) nonheroic 6/scout 3 


Init +6; Senses Low-light vision; Perception +18 


Languages Basic, Binary y 
LOM-Series Protocol Droid CLO _ Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 20, Will 16 { 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 hp 39; Threshold 25 D 
Init +0; Senses Perception +0 Immune droid traits 7 8 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned Speed 6 squares b7 
Defense Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 10 Melee leg spike +11 (1d6+6) : 
hp 2; Threshold 9 Ranged heavy repeating blaster +4 (5d10+1) with Burst Fire or 5 


Ranged heavy repeating blaster +4 (3d10+1) with autofire 
Base Atk +6; Grp +16 
Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blaster), Blas 


Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (143-1) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +0 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 11, Con —, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 15 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Use Computer), Skill Training (Knowledge 
[bureaucracy], Use Computer) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Knowledge (social sciences) +6, 
Persuasion +7, Use Computer +11 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, translator unit (DC 10), 2 
hand appendages, vocabulator 

Possessions audio recorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,000 


ck, Burst Fire oO 


Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Blast Back, Fade Away 

Feats Burst Fire, Improved Defenses, Skill Focus (Climb), Skill Focus 
(Perception), Skill Training (Climb), Weapon Focus (Heavy Weapons). 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, simple weapon) 

Skills Climb +19, Perception +18 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, improved sensor 
package, internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions heavy repeating blaster, video recorder 

Cost 4,100; Availability Restricted 


SGISUG ONY ANENAIAeGS) 


RHTC-560 Hunter Trainer 

The RHTC-560 was developed on Rodia as a gladiatorial and combat-training 
droid to help sate the planetary population's appetite for violence. The Hunter 
Trainer is an armored biped 1.8 meters tall, with vibro weapon claws, an 
improved sensor package, and blasters built into its forearms. Unlike most 
fourth-level droids, it is programmed to think for itself, taking general orders 
from its owner but employing independent judgment on how to accomplish 
those tasks. This independence makes the RHTC-560 more effective than 
the simpler battle droids of the Clone Wars, but it can also make this model 
dangerously unpredictable. 

The droid’s basic design quickly gained acceptance beyond Rodia. The 
RHTC-560 model is now used for various purposes, including tracking prey 
for both game hunters and bounty hunters, carrying out assassinations, and 
serving as enforcers for crime lords. Because Hunter Trainers are technically 
sport droids, they are legal on most Imperial worlds, though they require the 
same type of licensing as sporting blasters and carnivorous pets. Of course, 
anyone who uses an RHTC-560 to harm another sentient being on an Imperial 
world had better have the Empire’s approval—or at least a good alibi. 


The RHTC-560 is the control unit for six to 12 smaller hunter trainer 
drones, simple scouts that are designed to seek targets and relay their loca- 
tions to the main droid, Though the HT drones can act independently, their 
basic programming can process only one command at a time. If an HT drone 
cannot communicate with the control unit, it continues to carry out the last 
task it was given for 20 hours, at which point it returns to its RHTC-560 
controller. HT drones have no sense of self-preservation and so are fearless 
in pursuit of their targets but prone to self-destructive actions. 

Neither the RHTC-560 droid nor the HT drone can be played as droid 
heroes. 


AN RHTG-S60 DROID ATTACKS REBEL TROOPERS 
ABOARD A CARGO SKIFF. 


RHTC-560 Hunter Trainer cLé 

Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 6 

Force 1 

Init +10; Senses darkvision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary, Rodese, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 19, Will 17 

hp 47; Threshold 19 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee vibro claw +7 (2d6+6) 

Ranged forearm blaster +8 (346+3) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Melee Defense, Mighty Swing, Running Attack, Vehicular 
Combat 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 10 

Talents Battle Analysis, Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons), 
Weapon Specialization (advanced melee weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Melee Defense, Mighty Swing, 
Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus 
(advanced melee weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Jump +9, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +11, 
Stealth +10 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, vocabulator, comlink, 
darkvision, improved sensor package, lacked access, secondary battery, 
2 hand appendages, vibro claws, forearm blasters, quadanium battle 
armor (+7 armor) 

Possessions 6 to 12 HT drones 

Availability Licensed; Cost 5,000 (not including HT drones) 


HT Drone cL1 
Small droid (4th-degree) scout 1 

Init +8; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary, Rodese 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 14), Fort 12, Will 13 
hp 24; Threshold 11 
Immune droid traits 


‘Speed 6 squares (hovering), 4 squares (walking) 
Ranged blaster +3 (346) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +0; Grp -2 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 11 

Talents Acute Senses 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Endurance +5, Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +9 (can 
reroll), Pilot +8, Stealth +8 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, improved sensor package, 
darkvision, locked access, integrated comlink 

Possessions sensor unit, video recording unit, 2 hand appendages, blaster 
(treat as blaster pistol) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,000 


“| PRESENT TO YOU A GIFT, THESE TWO 
DROIDS. BOTH ARE HARD-WORKING AND 
WILL SERVE YOU WELL.” 


—- LUKE SKYWALKER 


SQHIOUEG GNY ANEWAINGS) ili BSiagwHD 


~* CHAPTER IV 
VeHICLES AND J ebb hendat aid 


The Empire manages to control the galaxy in large part by controlling the 
supply of military vessels. The construction of capital-class ships outside 
Empire-approved shipyards declined massively in the years leading up to 
the Battle of Yavin, and only a limited number of independent shipyards 
retain the capacity to build such craft. As the Alliance grows and strength- 
ens, it focuses more attention on maintaining and expanding its fleet, but 
throlighout the Rebellion era, its large warships remain too precious to risk 
on anything other than major strategic targets. 

Asa result, the construction of smaller ships increases, as shipyards try 
to maintain profits and independent groups seek whatever vessels they 
can purchase. One advantage of smaller ships is that they are likely to be 
‘overlooked by Imperial forces that view capital ships as major threats. In 
addition, although the Empire has outlawed the ownership of armed freight- 

arfighters in many Core Worlds, enforcement of this rule has a lower 

ty than locating Rebel bases or protecting Imperial interests. Even the 

accepts that law-abiding citizens who live far from civilization might 

uire armed vessels to protect themselves and their cargo; on fringe worlds, 
thing short of a frigate is unlikely to draw much attention. 

__ The vehicles and starships presented in this chapter, many of which were 

ned and built prior to the end of the Clone Wars, represent the types 

of vessels available to private concerns during the Galactic Civil War. The 

“Rebellion and major organizations (such as the Zann Consortium) sometimes 

develop unique vehicle designs to suit their needs, but most groups outside 

the Empire must make do with whatever generic vessels are available. 

The vehicles and starships in this chapter are in the hands of pirates, 

smugglers, planetary defense forces, large cartels or corporations, and small 

ganizations preparing to fight against the growing tyranny of the New 

, Other chapters in this book present vehicles and starships that are 

d primarily by the Rebel Alliance (Chapter 6), the Empire (Chapter 7), 

major fringe organizations (Chapter 8). 


g 
é 


SPEEDERS 

Throughout the Rebellion era, the Empire focuses on walkers, both as instru- 
ments of intimidation and in response to a growing number of antirepulsor 
mine designs, but the sale of speeders to civilians and small planetary forces 
continues unabated. The long range and high velocity of speeders makes 
them popular with legitimate business owners, smugglers, bounty hunters, 
Rebels, and others who rarely need to worry about mines or cowing the 
populace of an entire world. 


BANTHA-II CARGO SKIFF 

The Bantha-Il is a typical heavy cargo speeder, little more than a platform 
with a railing around it. Though slow by the standards of most speeders, its 
simple controls and heavy lifting capacity make it effective as a cargo car- 
rier and mid-range transport. The skiff's open deck makes it easy to load, 
and its long, lean frame allows it to move into tight spaces and close to 
loading docks. However, the skiff's large maneuvering vanes, which are easy 
to damage, make the Bantha-II unpopular for use in crowded cities and on 
industrialized planets. (The vanes grant anyone not trained in the Pilot skill 
a +2 equipment bonus to Pilot checks with a Bantha-Il.) 

Due to its delicate nature, a Bantha-Il always moves -2 steps on the condi- 
tion track the first time it takes damage greater than its threshold. Although 
the skiffs lack the armor and durability to serve as true military vehicles, 
they can be used as troop carriers, moving infantry close to a battle without 
coming directly under fire. Some crime lords and gangs mount defensive 
plates and heavy weapons on skiffs for intimidation purposes (reducing the 
top speed to 200 kilometers per hour), but these modified skiffs are effective 
only in nonmilitary conflicts, such as providing cover for smuggler operations 
or threatening lightly armed civilians. More creative crime lords sometimes 
add theatrical enhancements, such as extending planks for executions and 
imposing mastheads of mythological creatures. 

Modified versions of the Bantha-Il adapt the skiff to the environments 
of specific worlds. On planets with toxic fumes or dangerous plant life, the 
skiffs might have enclosed pilothouses and decks to grant life support to 
passengers. Aquatic skiffs can float on the surface of a lake or river even when 
unpowered and feature spray-screens to keep passengers dry in a downpour 
or in whitewater rapids. Skiffs used on desert worlds are equipped with 
screens and cooling vents to keep them operational during sandstorms. 


Bantha-lI Cargo Skiff cL3 

Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +5; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor 

hp 60; DR 5; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 10 squares (max. velocity 250 km/h) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover none 

Base Atk +0; Grp +22 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12 

SI Initiative +5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 16 

Cargo 135 tons; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Restricted; Cost 8,000 (3,000 used) 


STORM IV TWIN-POD CLOUD 
CAR 

A cloud car is an air vehicle that uses both a repulsorlift system and an 
ion engine, allowing it to operate at near-orbital altitudes and very high 
speeds. Though cloud cars are not starfighters, they can effectively engage 
in combat with fighters and space transports within a planet's atmosphere. 
In fact, many cloud cars are faster and more maneuverable than starfighters 
operating in an atmosphere. Although their power generators limit them to 
weaker weapons than those used by typical fighters, in large numbers, cloud 
cars can defend against attacks on cities and ground installations. They can't 
hold off capital ships, but they have a good track record against bombers 
operating below orbital altitudes. 

Because they don't have to be fully space-capable, cloud cars are sig- 
nificantly cheaper than starfighters. They are popular with planetary police, 
paramilitary groups, rangers, and scouts, as well as with bounty hunters 
who have ships large enough to carry a cloud car from planet to planet. 
The vessels are most common on worlds that have towers many kilometers 
high (such as Coruscant) and those that have suspended or floating cities 
(such as Bespin). 

The Storm IV twin-pod cloud car is typical of the capabilities of such ves- 
sels, though its double-cockpit arrangement is unusual. Bespin Motors first 
developed the model as a patrol vehicle for Cloud City security forces. When 
the Storm IV proved successful, the company began producing models for 
export, and others have since designed their own versions of cloud cars. 


Storm IV Twin-Pod Cloud Car cL6 
Gargantuan air vehicle (airspeeder) 
Init +6; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 10), Fort 18; +5 armor 
hp 80; DR 10; Threshold 38 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double blaster cannon +3 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +25 

Atk Options autofire (double blaster cannon) 

Abilities Str 26, Dex 20, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 10 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 75,000 (28,000 used) 


Double blaster cannon (copilot) 
Atk +3 (-2 autofire), Dmg 5410 


A STORM IV TwiIN-Poo CLOUD Can 


TALON | COMBAT CLOUD CAR 

The Talon | combat cloud car is a fast, agile airspeeder that boasts greater 
durability than the average cloud car. Additionally, the Talon | is outfitted 
with starfighter-scale weapons 
transports that attempt to flee Cloud City. Though combat cloud cars have 


allowing it to deal with starfighters or space 


only a pilot for crew and cannot leave the atmosphere, they fill a gap between 
airspeeders and starfighters 


Talon | Combat Cloud Car cL7 
Gargantuan air vehicle (a 


peeder) 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 21; +7 armor 

hp 110; DR 10; Threshold 41 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double blaster cannon +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +28 

Atk Options autofire (double blaster cannon) 

Abilities Str 32, Dex 22, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1 
Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 80,000 


Double blaster cannon (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


9000 Z004 LANDSPEEDER 
The Ubrikkian Industries 9000 2004 landspeeder is an all-species adaptation 
of its Z001 model, which was designed for Ugors. It has the same spherical 
design and small frame of the Z001 but features greater interior comfort 
and more powerful engines, appealing to a much larger audience. Among 
young joyriders and fans of speed, the model has become known simply as 
the "Zeefour,” and it sometimes appears in racing competitions that normally 
host only swoops and speeder bikes. 
The Zeefour focuses on speed and st: 
ity. It has a maximum ceiling of 1.5 meters off th 


bility over altitude or carrying capac 
ground and can manage 
speeds of up to 300 kilometers per hour with little chance of tipping. Not only 
compact and stable, but its computer-enhan 


steering systems also aid the pilot in making difficult maneuve 


s its desi J navigational ai 


s (granting a 


+2 equipment bonus to Pilot checks by a character trained in that skill) 


SAIFSEVLS ONY SEISIMEA 


Although the Zeefour is a major departure from traditional speeder design, 
it has proven successful enough to be imitated, and some scratch-modified 
2001 speeders have been created to match its capabilities. All official models 
of the Zeefour-type speeder are civilian, but the enclosed capsule and high- 
powered engine lend themselves to paramilitary modifications, which typi- 
cally include a layer of armor plating and a heavy blaster rifle. 


9000 Z004 Landspeeder 2 
Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +7; Senses Perception +5, 

Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19 


The basic design of the Air-2 racing swoop has been copied and modified 
by dozen of companies; SoroSuub even has a model also called the Air-2, 
As a result, it's not unusual to find similar swoops with minor differences, 
such as a second seat for passengers, slightly decreased speed coupled with 
extra cargo capacity, or heavier armor and a lower flight ceiling. Unlike many 
other swoop and speeder designs, the Air-2 is almost never armed. Its small 
size, tricky handling, and lack of spare power make it impossible to mount 
weapons heavier than pilots can carry on their persons. 


Air-2 Swoop cL2 
Large ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +9; Senses Perception +5 


Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 300 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +9 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 1 

Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 8,000 (2,500 used) 


AIR-2 RACING Swoop 

A design of swoop first introduced by TaggeCo during the Clone Wars, the 
Air-2 racing swoop saw huge sales in its first few decades of production 
because Podracing had recently been outlawed, replaced on many worlds 
by swoop racing. Balanced to have just enough power and mass for sport 
flying, the Air-2 has an impressive top speed of 600 kilometers per hour and 
a 1-kilometer flight ceiling. The swoop quickly became popular with racers, 
joyriders, and gang members, but it suffered from an image problem due to 
its relatively short frame and stubby appearance, When longer, sleeker swoops 
were introduced as competition, sales of the Air-2 declined. 

The Air-2 requires skilled piloting, It has controls for both hands and both 
feet, and the pilot must shift his weight to perform many maneuvers. This 
coordination can be difficult for an unskilled pilot (a character not trained in 
Pilot takes a -2 penalty to Pilot checks while operating an Air-2). However, the 
lack of complex computer controls or droid ports simplifies repairs, making 
the swoop popular on harsh planets where more delicate speeders suffer 
regular breakdowns. (An Air-2 grants a +5 equipment bonus to Mechanics 
checks to repair or jury-rig it.) 


Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 16; +2 armor 

hp 50; DR 5; Threshold 21 

‘Speed 16 squares (max. velocity 600 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +0; Grp +11 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 20, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,500 (1,200 used) 


STARFIGHTERS 

Starfighters are the most basic military vessels used in space combat, serving 
roles as varied as patrol craft, armed transports, escorts, attack vessels, and 
bombers. Much easier to conceal than larger military ships, starfighters are 
Popular with Rebels, smugglers, pirates, and crime lords. An Imperial Star 
Destroyer can identify the military lines of a Corellian corvette at a glance, 
but it's more difficult to determine whether the ships in a transport's hangar 
are defenseless shuttles or Dunelizards, 

Although the X-wing is the most famous starfighter of the Rebellion era, 
it is not the only fighter put to extensive use during that time. In addition to 
vessels left over from the Clone Wars and those designed for purely local use, 
hundreds of different starfighters were produced and saw combat during the 
Galactic Civil War. The vessels presented below are typical examples of the 
starfighters found throughout the galaxy in the hands of Rebels, Imperials, 
and those on the fringes of society. 


GI-M4-C DUNELIZARD FIGHTER 
The Dunelizard is a medium fighter designed primarily for use by small 
planetary defense forces, mercenaries, and powerful corporations. First 
produced by MandalMotors during the period between the Clone Wars and 
the Galactic Civil War, the Dunelizard was originally offered to, and rejected 
by, the Imperial navy. An Imperial advisor placed to oversee the opera- 
tions of the company did not want MandalMotors to suffer major financial 
losses under his direction and thus approved limited sales of Dunelizards to 
other forces. Because the Empire had already passed on the design as too 
expensive and underpowered, the official position of the advisor was that 
Dunelizards in the hands of non-Imperial pilots posed an insignificant risk 
to Imperial forces. 

In truth, the Dunelizard is a basic but capable starfighter that has 
served as the primary starship of more than one flight wing. It is especially 
popular with pirate groups and smugglers due to its rugged nature and the 
ease of making repairs (any Mechanics check to repair a Dunelizard gains 
a +1 equipment bonus). The fighter can be modified easily, and though the 
basic model has linked laser cannons, it is easy to swap out these weapons 
for ion cannons, concussion missile launchers, or proton torpedo launch- 
ers; each launcher has a six-missile payload. (For purposes of the starship 
modification rules from Starships of the Galaxy, the Dunelizard has 3 unused 
emplacement points.) 


TWO DUNELIZARD FIGHTERS Take ON 4 SOROSUUB PLANETARY 
DEFENOER STARFIGHTER. 


The Dunelizard also has a hyperdrive and a simple navicomputer, but it 
lacks an astromech port that would allow the calculation of more advanced 
hyperspace coordinates. A popular modification of the starship involves 
removing the copilot's seat and installing an astromech port in the cockpit 
behind the pilot. However, the design of the ship's wings reduces the visibility 
of an astromech droid at that port location, a problem that led to the Type Il 
Dunelizard—a version with a shorter, narrower wing configuration. 


G1-M4-C Dunelizard Fighter cL8 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +4; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 27; +8 armor 

hp 140; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 47 

Speed fly 15 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double medium laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +32 

Atk Options autofire (double medium laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 44, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5 (+13*), Perception +5 (+3°), Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +5 (+13") 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 

Crew 1 (normal) plus astromech (optional); Passengers 1 

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2, limited navicomputer (3-jump memory) or astromech 
(10-jump memory) 

Availability Restricted; Cost 115,000 (55,000 used) 


Double medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


IXIYEN-CLASS FAST ATTACK 
CRAFT 

Built by TransGalMeg Industries throughout the Galactic Civil War, the 
Ixiyen-class fighter is sold to numerous independent groups, and fighters 
often change hands multiple times. TransGalMeg Industries is officially allied 
with the Empire but located in the Mid Rim, where populations are sparse 
and Imperial inspections are rare. Thus, the corporation feels safe in selling 
small numbers of the starfighters to anyone who has the credits to pay. 
As long as the vessels don't flood the market and TransGalMeg keeps the 
Empire supplied, Imperial officials overlook the corporation's side sales. The 
fighters are popular as squadron leader vessels and bounty hunter ships. Still, 
TransGalMeg does not produce the /xiyen-class extensively, and no single 
group amasses the vessel in large numbers. 


Al esiavHS 


SAIMSUVLS ONY SSTSIHEaA 


SHIHMSUVLS Guy SsaiTaMmsaA 


64 


Though the fast attack craft is specifically designed to oppose starfight- 
ers, its weapons can pose a threat to larger ships as well. With its heavy 
armor and shields, the /xiyen-class fighter can overwhelm smaller starships 
with brutal frontal assaults, shrugging off enemy counterattacks. However, 
its basic frame is not particularly sturdy, and the ship lacks the staying power 
and payload necessary for prolonged conflicts. Its main drawback is its lack 
of droid or gunner slots, forcing the pilot to choose between weapon systems 
for each attack. Expert pilots often use concussion missiles to devastating 
effect before resorting to laser fire, but in anything longer than a short 
dogfight, more versatile starfighters have an edge. 


Ixiyen-class Fast Attack Craft cL8 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +3; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 27; +8 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 47 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double medium laser cannons +6(see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +32 

Atk Options autofire (double medium laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 44, Dex 16, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 440 kg; Consumables 4 weeks; Carried Craft none 

Payload 5 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 180,000 (40,000 used) 


Double medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 

Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 8d10x2 


M12-L. KIMOGILA 

HEAVY FIGHTER 

Like the Dunelizard fighter, the M12-L Kimogila was designed and built by 
MandalMotors for sale to planets, corporations, and large criminal fleets or 
private organizations. Officially an update of the Dunelizard, the Kimogila is 
actually a much heavier and more robust starfighter that violates Imperial 
policy regarding military vessels sold to civilians. However, by the time of 
its design, the Empire no longer considers snubfighters a serious threat, and 
as long as MandalMotors continues to be guided by a (bribable) Imperial 
advisor, such transgressions are overlooked. 

The M12-L Kimogila includes four linked lasers, a concussion missile 
launcher with a large magazine, and a proton torpedo tube with a small 
payload. Because either the pilot or the gunner can control the proton tor- 
pedoes, the ship can fill a variety of attack roles, at least for short periods of 
time. As a planetary bomber, it can make attack runs with both of its missile 
weapons; in space conflict, it can focus on making attacks with its lasers, 
reserving its concussion missiles and proton torpedoes for heavier targets. 
This versatility, coupled with its remarkable resilience, makes the Kimogila 
one of the most popular Rebellion era starfighters for unaligned forces that 
need to do more with less. 

M12-L Kimogila Heavy Fighter CL 10 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +4; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor 
hp 160; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 48 
Speed fly 14 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged heavy laser cannons +5 (see below) and 

medium concussion missiles +3 (see below) or 
Ranged heavy laser cannons +5 (see below) and 

proton torpedoes +3 (see below) or 
Ranged medium concussion missiles +3 (see below) and 

proton torpedoes +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons), fire-link (heavy 
laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5 (+13*), Perception +5 (+3), Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +5 (+13*) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (normal); Passengers none 
Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 
Payload 12 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Restricted; Cost 175,000 (125,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 

Medium concussion missiles (gunner) 
Atk +3, Dmg 8d10x2 

Proton torpedoes (pilot or gunner) 
Atk +3 (+5 pilot), Dmg 9d10x2 


M22-T KRAYT GUNSHIP 

The M22-T Krayt gunship was originally commissioned by Jabba the Hutt to 
serve as a command ship for his most powerful and loyal lieutenants. The 
design proved successful and popular, and MandalMotors produced many 
more such gunships, but only as special orders for valued clients. It was the 
last of the "scaled killer” series (including the Dunelizard, the Kimogila, and 
the Scyk), and it was so heavily armed and armored that it finally drew the 
Empire's attention to MandalMotors' independent military constructions. 
The Imperial advisor who allowed its design and sale was imprisoned, and 
various Imperial sycophants took his place for several years. After the Battle 
of Endor, MandalMotors workers ousted the Imperial advisor’s position in 
favor of supporting the New Republic. 

Because of its origin as a specially ordered craft, the M22-T Krayt gun- 
ship has a few unusual features. First, it has numerous cover panels that 
have little purpose but aesthetics, which can be modified or removed to 
suit the tastes of each owner. Second, the ship has room for two passengers 
(or prisoners), which allows it to be used as an armed shuttle or a prisoner 
transport as well as an attack craft. 

The Krayt carries four laser cannons under the pilot's control, a gunner's 
turret that can be armed with lasers or ion cannons, and a concussion mis- 
sile launcher controlled by either the pilot or the gunner. The gunner has 2 
clear field of fire and a dedicated targeting computer, which grants a +1 
equipment bonus to attack rolls with turret weapons (but not with the ship's 
concussion missiles). This heavy firepower makes the Krayt a highly effective 
attack craft, but it is too expensive for mass production. It remains most 
commonly found as a squad leader's fighter, a bounty hunter's personal 
vessel, or an escort for the wealthy. 


M22-T Krayt Gunship 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +4; Senses Perception +6 


cL12 


Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor 
hp 160; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 48 


‘Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged heavy laser cannons +8 (see below) and 
ion cannons +7 (see below) or 
Ranged heavy laser cannons +8 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +6 (see below) or 
Ranged ion cannons +7 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +35, 
Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons, ion cannons) 


Abilities Str 46, Dex 16, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 440 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 16 concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 350,000 (210,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


lon cannons (gunner) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 


Medium concussion missiles (pilot or gunner) 
Atk +6 (+8 pilot), Dmg 8d10x2 


0 
I 
> 
q 
4 
5 
3 
< 


PINOOK FIGHTER 

It is often said that the design of the Pinook fighter is so bad that it couldn't 
have happened by accident. Though such statements are meant to be humor- 
ous, they actually are true. Built by Joraan Drive Systems, the Pinook suffered 
from heavy Imperial restrictions on its available armament, weapons, and 
power supply, Since Joraan Drive Systems was not a strong supporter of the 
New Order, its board of directors could not convince Imperial inspectors to 
allow the Pinook to be sold to allies of the Empire. As a result, the inspec- 
tors considered the ship a purely civilian craft and saw no need to let the 
company give it any serious combat ability. 

The Pinook is slow, poorly armed, and underpowered. It's inexpensive, 
but that consideration pales in light of its performance. The ship can be 
outflown by a Y-wing and outgunned by jury-rigged ugly fighters built from 
spare parts. The Pinook has seen some success as a training vessel, since 
it is cheap enough to risk with raw pilots, but no force that fields the ship 
in combat expects it to do anything but report the. presence of an enemy 
before being destroyed. The sales and performance of the Pinook are so 
poor that Joraan Drive Systems secretly constructs starfighters for criminal 
organizations just to stay solvent. 


Pinook Fighter cL 10 

Huge starfighter 

Init +4; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor 

hp 75; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 9 squares (max. velocity 600 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged light laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +24 

Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +4, 

Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 25 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1.5, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 50,000 (25,000 used) 


Light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


TWO ALLIANCE PINCOK maHTERS ESCORT 4 
YV-S45 space TRANSFORT. 


RAZOR-CLASS STARFIGHTER 

Built by the small Starypan/SunHui Spaceworks, the Razor-class starfighter 
is a typical example of the type of fighter available to corporate security 
forces and wealthy families that can get Imperial approval for armed ships. 
Though by no means exceptional, the Rozor-class is a capable starfighter 
offering good firepower and speed, despite suffering from weak shields and 
little internal bracing. Like the R-41 Starchaser on which it is based, the ship 
is limited by its lack of a copilot, gunner, or droid port, making it impossible 
to take advantage of all its weapons on a single strafing run. 


Razor-class Fighter cL9 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +6; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +6 armor 
hp 90; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 44 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged medium laser cannons +7 (see below) or 
Ranged ion cannons +5 (see below) or 


Ranged medium concussion missiles +5 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +31 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 20, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1 

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 medium concussion missiles per tube 
Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 75,000 (45,000 used) 


Medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 5d10x2 


Jon cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 3d10x2 ion 


Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 9d10x2 


TWO RAZOR-CLASS STARFIGHTERS ATTACK A KIMODILA FIGHTER. 


SPACE TRANSPORTS 

During the Rebellion era, space transports see a huge increase in use 
for a variety of reasons. First, they are the largest type of vessel that many 
shipyards are allowed to build under restrictive Imperial regulations. Second, 
they are easier than larger ships to hide, maintain, and modify in secret bases, 
but they remain more powerful than starfighters, making them the choice of 
smugglers, bounty hunters, pirates, small merchant cartels, and even Rebel 
strike forces. Third, it is possible to operate a dozen light freighters for the 
same cost as a single capital ship, so credit-strapped groups find it more 
‘economical to use space transports as scouts, patrol ships, and armed escorts 
rather than trying to field a fleet of larger ships. Even planetary governments 
that have Imperial permission to arm patrol ships sometimes discover that 
their treasuries, ravaged by the rigors of the Clone Wars and the harsh taxes 
of the Empire, cannot afford anything bigger than a space transport. 


MOBQUET MEDIUM TRANSPORT 
The Mobquet medium transport is a design of Mobquet Swoops and Speeders 
(MS&S), a repulsorlift manufacturing company owned in turn by TaggeCo. 
The only starship design produced by MSE, the medium transport is a major 
departure from its normal line of swoop bikes and landspeeders. The design 
was built with aid from sister company Tagge Industries Shipyards Limited 
and initially intended for TaggeCo’s exclusive use. The ship proved extremely 
popular, however, and as a result is sold to private concerns as well, 

The three nodes of a Mobquet medium transport are intentionally modular, 
allowing it to be modified in sections as needed for its owner's intended 
use. The standard design has crew quarters, storage, and a few defensive 
weapons in the front node; speeder racks with external access in the second 
node; and engineering and computer units in the third node, along with some 
additional storage. However, it is possible to expand the weapon systems 
by reducing the rear storage, or to convert the central node into a passen- 
ger section that can carry up to 32 creatures in comfort. (For purposes of 
the starship modification rules from Starships of the Galaxy, the Mobquet 
medium transport has 10 unused emplacement points.) 

Because TaggeCo has strong connections with the Empire (and many of 
its subsidiaries have contracts for Imperial vehicles and gear), it managed to 
have the Mobquet licensed as a medium transport rather than a bulk hauler or 
heavy cargo carrier. This classification results in reduced regulation of sales 
of the 113-meter-long starship, which is big enough to mount capital-class 
weapons. Although the ships aren't produced with heavy weapons as standard 
options, itis not unusual for pirates, Rebels, and smugglers to add a turbolaser 
turret to. a Mobquet, often behind hidden panels that blow off if the weapon 
is fired. The ships are also used as fighter carriers, troop transports, and mis- 
sile cruisers after extensive modifications, and Imperial customs ships have 
learned to approach Mobquet medium transports with caution. 


0 


Mobquet Medium Transport cLs 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init ~1; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 39; +12 armor 
hp 900; DR 15; SR 90; Threshold 139 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannon +4 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +51 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 
Abilities Str 69, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 24 

Cargo 700 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Payload 32 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 750,000 (225,000 used) 


Laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


(ISA 


i 


SAINSHUVLS ONY STS) 


Medium concussion missile (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 8d10x2 


YKL-37R NOVA COURIER 

Gallofree Yards, Inc., produced the YKL-37R Nova Courier in an attempt to 
turn the company’s fortunes around after its medium transport ships failed 
to capture the market from competitors such as the Corellian Engineering 
Corporation. The design of the Nova Courier is significantly better than 
that of any of its larger transports and cargo freighters, but the company's 
reputation ensured that its sales were slow from the beginning, 

To make matters worse, rumors of the company's demise preceded the 
release of the Nova Courier, making buyers skittish about acquiring the 
ships only to find parts and upgrades nonexistent. Furthermore, the cost of 
converting existing manufacturing plants to the new design was disastrously 
higher than expected, far outstripping revenues. When Gallofree Yards, Inc., 
finally folded, its vast stock of unsold YKL-37Rs was sold off at auction to 
the highest bidders, which included smugglers and independent merchants 
looking to pick up cheap ships. 


Masquer MEDIUM TRANSPORT. 


Many of the new owners were pleasantly surprised by the Nova Courier's 
performance. Though its cargo capacity is low compared to most transports in 
its class, the ship handles well, is reasonably robust, and provides comfortable 
accommodations for crew and passengers. It also shows the benefit of the 
lessons learned from earlier GR-class designs, with low maintenance needs 
and a high degree of easy modification. (A character trained in Mechanics 
gains a +5 equipment bonus to Mechanics checks for a Nova Courier. For 
purposes of the starship modification rules from Starships of the Galaxy, the 
ship has 5 unused emplacement points.) 

The Nova Courier also offers good defenses for a stock model, with two 
turrets of twin laser cannons and three small concussion missile launchers, 
Though each tube carries only a few missiles, the ability of the copilot and 
both gunners to fire missiles at the same time gives the Nova Courier a 
heavy punch for a short engagement. It has proven popular with mid-level 
diplomats and the moderately rich as an armed shuttle for short trips, and it 
frequently is the travel ship of choice for crime lords unable to afford luxury 
yachts or capital-class ships. 


YKL-37R Nova Courier cL8 
Colossal space transport 
Init -2; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 27; +15 armor 
hp 180; DR 15; SR 60; Threshold 77 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged 2 laser cannons +2 (see below) and 
3 medium concussion missiles +2 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +37 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 44, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 4 (normal); Passengers 6 
Cargo 60 metric tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Payload 12 concussion missiles per tube 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 150,000 (45,000 used) 


Laser cannons (2 gunners) 
Atk +2 (-3 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 

Medium concussion missiles (copilot, 2 gunners) 
Atk +2, Dmg 8d10x2 


YV-545 LIGHT FREIGHTER 

The Corellian Engineering Corporation (CEC) constantly struggles to replicate 
its successful freighter designs, but not all its efforts bear fruit. The YV-545 
isan example of a design that should have been popular but simply was not. 
Specifically intended to bridge the gulf between the older YT series and the 
modern YV series, the YV-545 tried to please fans of both and ended up 
pleasing neither. Sales remained low, and the ship is now available only as 
a special order item. 

On a landing pad, the YV-545 looks like a YT series design, with a side- 
mounted cockpit and a saucer-shaped main body. One of its two loading 
mandibles is notably longer than the other, and it has a forward-mounted 
access ramp in addition to one at the rear, but the freighter otherwise looks 
like a modified YT-1300. In flight, however, the YV-545 reveals its main 
trick—the cockpit rotates 90 degrees to be “on top” of the starship, with the 
saucer body hanging beneath. The ship can land in this configuration as well, 
allowing it to move between narrow loading supports and fit into docking 
slips that are off-limits to a standard YT series ship. CEC hoped that the 
typical YT series look would bring in new buyers and that the vertical flight 
profile would encourage them to consider the YV series designs. 


In truth, most buyers see the design as needlessly complex. Cargo must 
be strapped down carefully whenever the freighter enters or leaves a grav- 
ity field, and during takeoff and landing maneuvers, passengers can't move 
freely about the ship without considerable caution. The YV-545's complex 
maneuvering system is difficult for casual pilots to manage (a character who 
is not trained in Pilot takes a -2 penalty to Pilot checks made to fly the ship). 
Furthermore, the internal compensators and rotating cockpit mechanism 
make the YV-545 hard to modify. (For purposes of the starship modification 
rules from Starships of the Galaxy, the YV-545 has only 3 unused emplace- 
ment points, rather than the normal 5 for CEC starships.) 

However, the design did produce an extremely maneuverable ship that 
rivals many starfighters. In addition to being able to rotate its cockpit, the 
freighter is ringed with sensor dishes and maneuvering thrusters that allow 
it to spin and flip in ways that other transports cannot. Legitimate merchants 
might have little need for this feature, but it has proven useful to smugglers 
and pirates wishing to modify the YV-545 into an attack craft. The ship's 
under-and-over gun turrets have an unusually good field of fire, and many 
owners add heavier weapons to the modest double lasers installed at the 
factory. 


Corellian YV-545 cL9 

Colossal space transport 

Init +0; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 14), Fort 27; +14 armor 

hp 90; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 77 

‘Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double lasers +3 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +37 

Atk Options autofire (double lasers) 

Abilities Str 44, Dex 20, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 5 

Cargo 80 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 120,000 (35,000 used) 


Double lasers (gunner) 
Atk +3 (-2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


Al waievHS 


SAHMSYUVLS Guy SaTalneAa 


* CHAPTER 4 
GION ERA CAMPAIGN 


In any society, citizens rely on the government for security: laws to define 
civilized behavior, officials to enforce those laws, punishments for those who 
break those laws, and so on. The sacrifice of some beings’ freedoms for the 
safety and security of all seems to many during the Rebellion era to be a 
_ reasonable exchange. However, a few beings know that power, corruption, 

and oppression go hand in hand, and those beings oppose tyranny through 
» acts of sabotage or open rebellion. 

The heroes in a Rebellion era campaign can fight for either side of the 
conflict—the Galactic Empire or the Rebel Alliance—or even act on behalf 
of fringe elements such as smugglers and pirates. Heroes can be upstand- 
‘ing Imperial citizens lending their aid against the Rebellion, or they can be 

reedom-loving Rebels working to bring down the Emperor. 
Whichever side the players choose, the Rebellion era is rife with pos- 
sibilities and pitfalls, opportunities and obstacles, and nobility and villainy. 


HEROES FROM 
BOTH SIDES 


. The characters in a Rebellion era campaign do not need to be all Rebels, or all 
Imperials, or all outlaws from the fringes of society, but getting a disparate 
group to work together toward a cpmmon goal can prove complicated. Unless 
the Gamemaster is prepared to construct an elaborate plot that requires 
Rebels and Imperials to fight side by side, the group might have to agree not 
to play heroes with diametrically opposed ideologies—at least at first. 

The players should discuss their visions of the campaign with the Game- 
master before the campaign begins. If players want to be heroic freedom 
fighters struggling against an oppressive galactic regime, then they should 

‘play Rebels. If they want to spend their time at the game table matching 

wits with terrorists and saboteurs, the Gamemaster should let them play 
Imperials. And, of course, smugglers and their ilk mesh with both groups, so 
heroes on the fringe have a place in either style of campaign. 

A precampaign discussion also gives players an opportunity to develop 
their heroes’ backgrounds, decide how their heroes know each other, and 
determine what brings them together in the first place. It gives the Game- 

aster a chance to work the heroes’ back stories into the campaign, and it 
also provides the group with an open forum in which the Gamemaster and 
/ players can discuss what they want to get out of the campaign. 

If players develop character backgrounds with no clear connection to 
one another, the Gamemaster should consider preparing an introductory 
scenario that brings the heroes together and, ideally, gives them a common, 
cause that keeps them more or less on the same side for the duration of 
the campaign. 


NOlvenvS ves NomIsSssy 


A esiavnS 


NEIVANVE VUE) NETNISESY 


FROM A SPECIFIC 

POINT OF VIEW 

The story of the Rebellion era is replete with examples of Rebels outwitting 
the vastly greater numbers of the Empire as they strive to restore justice to 
the galaxy. Faced with superior odds and superior equipment, the Rebel Alli- 
ance triumphs, eventually restoring the Republic and vanquishing the Sith. 

Of course, from another perspective, the real heroes are the citizens of 
the Galactic Empire, who, though they enforce the edicts of one of the most 
evil beings ever to live, dutifully provide peace and order for the populace. 
Their struggle against the forces of chaos—embodied by the Rebel Alliance— 
might ultimately fail, but they are not necessarily evil themselves, They can 
comport themselves with as much honor, conscience, and courage as any 
Rebel—and sometimes with more. 

Having the option to play either side of the conflict can make a Rebel- 
lion era campaign exciting—particularly if the players want to explore the 
Star Wars universe from the vantage point of otherwise noble individuals 
slowly coming to grips with the fact that they are on the wrong side of a 
moral and ethical struggle. As they advance within the ranks of the Galactic 
Empire, such characters see more and more of the Emperor's true cruelty 
and eventually have to choose between remaining loyal to a corrupted ideal 
or acting to right the wrongs that they have helped create. 


SHARED HERO BACKGROUNDS 
When the heroes cooperate, the campaign runs more smoothly, so giving 
the heroes motivations to join together, work together, and stay together 
afterward is often the primary goal of the first game session. The simplest 
and best method is to let the players define their own characters’ relation- 
ships (although the Gamemaster can suggest a few ways to fill in gaps here 
and there). For example, Hero A is Hero B's older brother, and Hero C works 
with Hero D, who shared a dormitory room with Hero A back in the academy. 
Such connections encourage the heroes to cooperate with one another and 
can bring them all to the same location for the start of the campaign. 

For example, Braht Rinnor is an Imperial Academy graduate serving aboard 
an Action VI supply ship, looking for an opportunity to desert and join the 
Rebellion. At a refueling stop on Commenor, he runs into his old girlfriend 
Miria, who, with her best friend, a Twi'lek named Zyrinna, has made contact 
with a Rodian Rebel named Skollo. However, Skollo is actually just a down- 
on-his-luck gambler with no real ties to the Rebel Alliance; he just wants 
to show off for the ladies. When Skollo tells the other three that he needs 
a ship to take him to his Rebel rendezvous, Braht realizes that the Action 
VI might be just the ticket, and suggests that the four of them “liberate” it 
for the Alliance, 


Of course, if a player cooks up an extraordinarily elaborate background, 
the Gamemaster should feel free to suggest scaling it back a bit or, at least, 
quietly downplay the parts that don't fit into the campaign well. In the end, 
each hero needs only one compelling reason to want to team up with the 
other heroes. 

Likewise, the Gamemaster has final approval over the players’ character 
concepts. Not everyone gets to be the last Jedi in the galaxy, after all. 


COMMON CAMPAIGN BLEMENTS 
At the commencement of every campaign, the Gamemaster should let the 
players know what is common knowledge in the setting—what the heroes 
would know that the players might not. This can include information relating 
to the first story arc the Gamemaster has planned, and it can include inter- 
esting but ultimately unrelated leads that encourage the heroes to explore 
a bit. Either way, the Gamemaster should encourage the players to work this 
information into their character backgrounds. 

Presented below are brief campaign outlines designed to give Gamemas- 
ters ideas for how to unite the heroes in Rebellion era campaigns: 

© The heroes are Rebel operatives tasked with carrying out acts of sabo- 
tage and espionage against Imperial targets. 

* The heroes are the personal staff of an ambitious Imperial Moff, 

* The heroes are the crew of a tramp freighter, smuggling contraband to 
Imperial contacts—and running weapons to the Rebel Alliance. 

* The heroes are Imperial citizens secretly supplying information and 
materiel to the Rebel Alliance. 

Obviously, these are just suggestions to run past the players, Gamemasters 
should avoid railroading the players into a particular campaign setup—and 
should not let the campaign model limit the character types available to the 
players. A group of Rebel operatives might have a character in their midst 
who is secretly loyal to the Empire, for example; or the tramp-freighter crew 
might include a cultured noble who uses her contacts in the Imperial court 
to get the smugglers jobs. 

Common campaign elements are aimed at giving the players a theme for 
their character concepts, but once the Gamemaster plants the basic idea, 
the players are free to run with it. The Gamemaster should work with the 
players to develop these elements, bearing in mind that the overall goal is 
to give the players hooks to unite their heroes, and to give the Gamemaster 
hooks for future adventures. 


XCWING FIGHTERS TAKE DOWN A YE-4 SUNSHIP. 


Chain of Command 
Because Rebellion era campaigns are likely to include heroes in the roles of 
Rebels or Imperials, the easiest way to unite them is to put them in either 
organization's chain of command. In addition to bringing the heroes together, 
this gives them access to basic equipment (and, occasionally, mission-specific 
equipment), transport, occasional allies, and perhaps most important, a com- 
manding officer to give them missions and advice—in other words, a tool for 
the Gamemaster to keep the campaign on track. For example 
© The heroes are junior officers serving aboard an Imperial Star Destroyer. 
They are under review by their commander and must exceed expecta- 
tions in order to avoid being reassigned to guard duty at the penal 
colony on Dathomir. 
© The heroes are Rebel recruits attached to the consular ship of an Alli- 
ance-sympathetic ambassador from Naboo. As new recruits, they are 
given assignments and duties no one else particularly wants, but if they 
perform well, they might be given more critical duties. 
© The heroes are the crew of an Imperial supply ship whose captain is 
secretly diverting materiel to the Rebels. The captain frequently orders 
the heroes to carry out his drops to Rebels who are disguised as Impe- 
rials—and then blames the heroes when his superiors notice the differ- 
ence between cargo and manifest. 


© The heroes are part of a gang of shipjackers who steal Imperial ships to 
sell to the Rebels. Their commander is a disillusioned ex-Imperial officer 
who expects tight discipline from the heroes, but rewards them richly 
when they do well. 

In any of these examples, the heroes can move up the chain of command 
as time goes by, perhaps eventually becoming commanding officers. Each 
mission gives the heroes a chance to impress their superiors with their good 
work and to earn promotions (or at least a greater share of the profits) 
Regardless whom they report to, the heroes need to perform well and follow 
orders—the primary order being "work together.” 


Base of Operations 
When players want to work together but their characters’ backgrounds do 
not cross paths, the simplest answer might be to put them all in the same 
location at the beginning of the first adventure. Putting them in the same 
place—whether or not they know each other—lets the Gamemaster present 
them with location-based adventures and gives them all a stake in working 
together: if they fail, they lose access to their base of operations and all its 
equipment and protection 

Of course, this sort of campaign element requires the Gamemaster to do 
a lot of advance prep work developing the base of operations, detailing the 
resources available to the heroes, creating NPCs who live and work there, 
and outlining the activities that normally go on there. Then the Gamemas- 
ter must present all this to the players—often before the campaign even 
starts. After all, if they live there, the heroes probably already know all of 
this information 

The initial benefit of creating a base of operations is that the Gamemas- 
ter can build in adventure hooks right away. Farther on into the campaign, 
though, the benefits multiply as the base of operations becomes the heroes’ 
haven—a place to rest and recover between adventures, or to hide out when 
they have made too many enemies. The base of operations also provides 
heroes with a place to plan, practice, and prepare for missions, and it can be 
a great set piece if the campaign is going to explore the heroes’ downtime 
as much as it explores their adventures. 

The heroes’ base of operations can be a place such as a secret Rebel 
base on Dantooine, the Imperial Academy on Corulag, or a hidden hangar 
on Nar Shaddaa. 


Event 

If the heroes have wildly disparate backgrounds or they don't want to be 
tied to a static location, the Gamemaster should consider uniting them with 
a major event. Thrown together by circumstance, the heroes have no choice 
but to work together if they want to survive. If they need a reason to stay 
together, the Gamemaster can tailor the event so that the heroes all have a 
motive to find out how and why it happened. 


NOIVAINVA Y 


Campaigns of this nature rely largely on the heroes’ backgrounds, because 
the Gamemaster has to ensure that each hero has the proper motivation to 
follow up on the event, as well as the motivation to do so with the aid of the 
others in the group. Having a hero break off from the rest for any reason can 
quickly fracture the group. The Gamemaster should identify suitable hooks 
in the heroes’ backgrounds or, if the players haven't provided anything that 
works, suggest some such as these: 

© The destruction of Alderaan has several witnesses—including the 
heroes. Having identified the Death Star as an Imperial superweapon, 
the heroes are motivated to join the Rebellion and seek justice for the 
millions of Alderaanians who died. 
The Battle of Yavin sees tens of thousands of Imperials killed—some of 
them friends and relatives of the heroes. Outraged, the heroes band 
together at a memorial service and vow to bring the Rebels responsible 
to justice. 
The Imperial occupation of Bespin puts a number of gas miners out 
of business, including the heroes. Equipped with a Tibanna-mining 
ship and a handful of improvised weapons, the heroes must fight a 
guerrilla war to drive out the Imperial garrison and restore Bespin's 
independence. 


The Common Cause 

Obviously, the heroes can also band together to support a common cause: 
bringing down the Empire, for example, or seeing the "Heroes of Yavin" answer 
for their crimes, As long as the goal is attainable, the heroes have clear 
motivation. And if the goal cannot be accomplished quickly, the Gamemaster 
has plenty of material for an ongoing campaign. 


THEMES OF THE 
REBELLION ERA 


When running a campaign in the Rebellion era, Gamemasters have a variety 
of themes available to them that can be integrated into adventures to give 
those adventures a distinct feel. These themes run throughout many of the 
stories that take place in the Rebellion era, and are central to distinguishing 
the Galactic Civil War from other conflicts throughout history. This is the 
time period that sees the rise of the Rebel Alliance against the backdrop of 
a powerful, well-established Empire. It is a time where desperate people 
make great sacrifices, and where ordinary citizens give up their lives and 
livelihoods to become heroes. These themes are discussed in more detail 
below, with tips for including these themes in your adventures in ways both 
large and small. 


THE RISE OF THE REBELLION 
Perhaps the most distinguishing feature of the Rebellion era, and the one 
that gives the time period its name, is the rise of the Alliance to Restore the 
Republic, also known as the Rebel Alliance. For the first time since the Repub- 
lic was transformed into the Empire, a well-organized group of dissidents has 
both the drive and the means to pose a threat to the Empire. The difference 
between the Rebel Alliance and other resistance groups is that the Alliance 
isa single organization, spread across the galaxy, which poses enough of a 
threat to be recognized and targeted by Imperial agents. 

The importance of the Rebel Alliance can be emphasized in Rebellion era 
adventures in subtle ways. The Empire blames many of its own transgressions 
on Rebels or Rebel sympathizers, so when the heroes witness an act of Impe- 
rial tyranny, they could later hear Imperial propaganda blaming the act on 
the Rebellion. Since the existence of the Rebel Alliance is well known, even 
ordinary citizens will know something about the Rebellion. When the heroes 
go to gather rumors at the cantina, some of the gossip they hear might revolve 
around Rebel activity. The heroes' contacts may warn the heroes about an 
impending Rebel operation (if the heroes are members of the Rebel Alliance, 
hearing about the activities of other Rebel cells will reinforce the idea that 
they are not alone in the galaxy). 

Even if the heroes aren't members of the Alliance, the Rebellion can 
be the genesis of many adventure hooks. For example, smuggler heroes 
could be involved in smuggling arms from a crime lord to a Rebel cell on an 
Imperial world. Mercenary units might be hired to supplement the ranks of 
the Rebellion at a key battle, or to rescue Rebel operatives who have been 
captured by the Empire. You should fee! free to use the Alliance as a source 
of adventure for a variety of Rebellion era campaigns. 


GREAT SACRIFICES 

Rebellion often demands great sacrifices, both from those rebelling and from 
those closest to them. During the Rebellion era, all who wish to fight for 
freedom must be prepared to lose everything—their homes, their families, 
and even their lives—for the sake of their ideals. An individual's dedication to 
rebellion against the Empire is constantly tested by the need to give up things 
that person holds dear, and heroes should never forget that price. 

On a smaller scale, this concept can be reinforced in the histories of the 
characters that the heroes will interact with over the course of a campaign. 
Everyone serving the Rebellion has a story, and most of those stories involve 
great sacrifice. When the heroes begin digging into their cell leader's past, 
they may find out that her whole family was imprisoned at Kessel for her 
defiance. When making contact with a Rebel operative on a Core world, that 
Operative might be missing an eye or have a cybernetic arm as a result of 
Imperial torture. When the heroes call upon an ally for assistance, they may 
later discover that the ally suffered Imperial retribution and lost home and 
livelihood as a result of the help given to the heroes. 


ReeeL B-WwiIND PiOHTeRS aTrack 4 ZANN 
CONSORTIUM KELOABE-cLass SHIP. 


Asa basis for adventure, sacrifices can be powerful motivators. Perhaps the 
heroes need to rescue Rebel operatives who are still alive in a bunker after an 
orbital bombardment. Or the heroes may learn that their allies are being cap: 
tured or killed by Imperial agents, and the heroes must discover the in 


in their ranks as the Imperial net draws ever tighter around the! 


DESPERATE MEASURES 
One of the hallmarks of the era is that, in defiance of the Empire, many Rebels 
are driven to desperate acts that have little chance of success, The attacks 
on the Death Stars seem like suicide missions to outside observers. Imperial 
officers who secretly sympathize with the Rebellion must take great risks in 
order to convince others to join them in mutiny. During the Rebellion era, the 
only chance of defeating the Empire comes through taking risks with long 
odds and hoping that boldness and determination can bring success 

As with the idea of a need for sacrifice, a sense of desperation can be 
fostered in a campaign through the actions and stories of the characters 


that the heroes interact with. The heroes might encounter allies, contacts, or 
even strangers over the course of the adve 
acts in the hopes of breaking the stranglehold of the Empire. Perhaps a 


re who are driven to desperate 


shopkeeper offers them his life savings if they will help his family escape to 
¢, a space transport pilot might offer to 
n behalf of the heroes for free, telling 
ake their credits 


a Rebel-friendly world. In another ca 
undertake a dangerous blockade ru 
the heroes that h them to succeed too badly to 
Ch the heroes interact with are more willing to take large risks 
during the Rebellion era, showing that the galaxy is at a turning point. 
Adventures in the Rebellion era convey a sense of desperation by their 
ures. The Rebellion era is rife with adventures that center around 
ts such as attacking well-defended space stations, breaking 
he Empire— 


racters thal 


very 


desperate 
into Imperial garrisons, or traveling to Coruscant—the heart of 
of information. In the Rebellion era, there should be few, if any, 
trivial adventures; each adventure should evoke a sense of desperation 
the sense of having the odds stacked against the heroes. These 


throug) 
adventures may be no more difficult than adventures in other eras, but the 
perception of greater danger (for example, by setting the backdrop of an 
adventure on a space station above Coruscant instead of on a space station 
above an Outer Rim world) can give the players a sense that the risks are 


greater than in other eras 


A POWERFUL EMPIRE 

By the time of the Rebe xy 
and shows no signs of letting go. The Empire of the Rebellion era is just as 
monolithic as it was during the Dark Times, but now the Empire has not only 


i rol over the galaxy. This is part 


ion era, the Empire has taken a tight grip on the gala 


military control but also social and cultural cor 


of what makes the Empire so dangerous; not only does it have Star Destroyers 


hovering above every world, it also has millions of bureaucrats, nobles, and 


even ordinary citizens under its thrall. Though many are willing to rebel against 
the Empire, many more have been driven in the opposite direction and have 
become as zealous in their defence of the Empire as any stormtrooper. 

As the Gamemaster, you can help reinforce the sense of a strong, ever 


tion. When describing a scene on the 


present En ie descr 
streets of Tatooine, mention that a squad of sandtroopers is walking down 


e street on patrol. As the heroes land on a planet, describe a trio of TIE 


ire through sim) 


fighters zooming by the spac reed to stop ata 


random Imperial security checkpoint during a trek across a city, or they may 
have to deal with an Imperial bureaucrat during a simple trip to replenish 
pplies. These small, unobtrusive details can subtly reinforce the presence 
of a powerful Empire without involving the players in direct conflict 

As the primary antagonist of the Rebellion era, the Empire is one of the 
best enemies to pit your heroes against in adventures. Althoug 
can feature other enemies, such as the Zann Consortium or Hutt crime lords, 
those adventures can tie into the Empire in some way. For example, perhaps 
the heroes get stuck between the Zann Consortium and the Empire after 
convoy that the Zann Consortium had also planned to 
steal. In this way, you can retain the sense that the ubiquitous Empire is the 
even if it is not the heroes’ main opponent in 


port. The heroes might be f 


adventures 


hijacking an Imperia 


primary antagonist of the era 


the adventure. 


A esievHS 


5 
: 
} 
s 


EVERYDAY HEROES 
The Rebel Alliance shows the galaxy that everyday citizens can grow into 
heroes. Many of the heroes of the Alliance come not from a great military 
lineage or from a line of powerful nobles but rather from ordinary beings who 
decide that the time has come for the Empire to end. Likewise, many of the 
beings who have great influence over the events of the Rebellion era are from 
species often regarded as less powerful, like the Sullustans or the Ewoks. 
When populating adventures with allies and background characters, give 
those characters histories that begin in inauspicious places. The commander 
of the heroes’ Alliance cell might have once been a mechanic whose defiance 
of the Empire led him into a position of leadership. The fight against the 
Empire can reveal undiscovered character traits; for example, a character 
who was once the pilot of a long-range cargo hauler might be forced to 
act as an escort starfighter pilot, at which point she discovers that she is 
naturally skilled at starfighter combat. Feel free not only to highlight the 
fact that many of the characters that the heroes interact with come from 
humble origins, but also to show the evolution of those characters from 
undistinguished origins to heroism. 


CAMPAIGN BLEMENTS 
The elements and themes the Gamemaster chooses to incorporate into 
adventures help set the atmosphere for the entire campaign. In addition 
to the overall themes of standing against oppression, using the Force, and 
seeking the hero's path—all of which define Star Wars in general—the other 
themes the Gamemaster introduces establish a specific setting, such as the 
Rebellion era. Of course, the Gamemaster need not inject every theme into 
every adventure—one or two are sufficient—but the absence of all of them 
might lead the players to feel as though something is missing. 

In the Rebellion era, campaigns revolve around the themes and elements 
of regular space travel, guerrilla warfare, superweapons, secret bases, military 
battles, and the last remnants of the Force. 


LIFE ON THE Move 

A major theme of Rebellion-centered campaigns arises from the constant 
threat that the Rebel Alliance faces from the forces of the Empire. Pursued by 
a vastly superior military, the Alliance must strike fast and disappear quickly; 
they can never stay in one place for long. No settled world can afford to 
harbor the Rebels for long without drawing the ire of the Emperor, and no 
uninhabited world can provide everything the Rebels need for long-term 
survival. For a Rebel, creature comforts are a long way off. 


Of course, things are not terribly different for the Empire, either. With 
the Rebels always on the run, the forces of the Empire have to struggle to 
keep up, tracking down every report of Rebel activity, investigating every 
suspicious cargo shipment, and flying all over the galaxy in hopes of ending 
the Rebellion once and for all. For every Rebel agent the Empire captures, 
two more escape, and every time the Rebels elude the Empire's grasp, more 
formerly loyal Imperial citizens are tempted into treason. 


Adventure Hook 

The Rebel Alliance is on the move. Having narrowly escaped destruction at 
Yavin 4, the fleet needs to find a new base of operations that can house 
several thousand Rebels of various species, their ships, their supplies, and 
their equipment. General Airen Cracken has assigned the heroes the task of 
scouting several likely locations. The first sites they survey are suboptimal, 
so Cracken sends the heroes to the remote world of Graador. An agrarian 
species, the Graadorians are mostly overlooked by the Empire, and their world, 
while capable of sustaining life, provides the Graadorians with little more. 
However, Graador has a number of caverns that can be adapted for occupa- 
tion by the Rebels, and the caverns are large enough to house the entire Rebel 
fleet many times over. The heroes discover that the caverns are infested with 
mynocks that can tolerate the planet's atmosphere, but mynocks seem to 
be manageable. After the heroes send word to General Cracken to bring the 
fleet, the mynocks devour the heroes’ transceiver equipment, and the heroes 
learn that the vast caverns are also home to colossal space slugs controlled 
by intelligent, mutated mynocks, who want to feed on the Rebels’ genera- 
tors while the space slugs devour the fleet's ships. The space slugs are too 
big to kill and become crazed when the mutant mynocks controlling them 
are killed. So the heroes have to evade the mynocks and their space-slug 
thralls long enough to repair their communication array and warn the Rebel 
Alliance before the unsuspecting fleet flies into the trap. 


GUERRILLA WARFARE 

The story of the Galactic Civil War is the story of underdogs fighting a larger 
and better-equipped enemy the only way they can: through subterfuge, 
secrecy, and hit-and-run battle tactics. The Rebel Alliance cannot survive 
a face-to-face confrontation with the vastly more powerful Imperial fleet, 
so the Rebels must rely on superior tactics or, at least, the element of sur- 
prise. If they strike where the Empire is weak and run before their enemies 
can regroup, they can stay one step ahead. It means a long, slow war in 
which hundreds of thousands of Rebels are likely to die, but the Empire 
eventually falls. 


il 


The Empire, on the other hand, must contend with an enemy whose 
strength is the Empire's weakness: mobility. The Imperial military is the 
most effective fighting force in the galaxy, but it relies on numbers and 
superior firepower. Bringing either to bear against an enemy that appears, 
attacks, and disappears again is a constant challenge. The Rebellion has 
better intelligence on the Empire than the Empire has on the Rebels; spies 
are everywhere—even within the Imperial military. The Empire's only hope 
is to fight a war of attrition, using the Empire's superior numbers to wear 
down the Rebellion. 


Adventure Hook 

The Empire makes a critical mistake. A shipment of bacta is missing, and 
HoloNet News broadcasts a report about the cargo ship's disappearance 
and distress call. Imperial censors quickly quash the story, and HNN later 
announces that the ship has been found and rescued by the Imperial Star 
Destroyer Carnifex. However, Rebel spies among the task force assigned to 
the search report that the Carnifexis still looking for the missing bacta ship. If 
the Rebels can find the bacta first, it would be a terrible blow to the Empire's 
war effort, and it would put a huge supply of much-needed bacta in Rebel 
hands. The entire story is a trap set by Admiral Veritts, commander of the 
Carnifex. The plan is to lure several Rebel ships close to the Imperial cargo ship 
Lifeline to either tow the ship or transfer its cargo to their own holds—then 
unleash the Lifeline's secret weapon, a battery of gravity-well projectors. 
While the Rebels struggle to escape, the Carnifex and its escort ships sweep 
in to disable the Rebel ships, capture them, and interrogate the prisoners. 
As Rebel agents, the heroes are tasked with locating the Lifeline and report- 
ing back to Rebel command. They are able to triangulate the distress call, 
track the ship's drift, and convince the Lifeline’s crew that they are there 
to provide assistance, but when they board, they find a platoon of Imperial 
stormtroopers waiting for them. The heroes must avoid the stormtroopers, 
discover the disguised gravity-well projectors, and warn the Rebel fleet to 
stay away—and then somehow escape the trap themselves. 


SUPERWEAPONS 

From the Death Stars to Centerpoint Station, the Star Wars universe is bris- 
tling with weapons designed to destroy entire worlds—remnants of ancient 
civilizations, or tools of war built by deranged conquerors. They are the 
deadliest weapons in existence and also the biggest targets. Without them, 
however, the Star Wars setting is just another space opera in which the enemy 
has to be defeated one starship, one walker, and one soldier at a time. 


In Star Wars adventures, superweapons are mighty fortresses: impen- 
etrable by main force, but vulnerable toa small team of clever and courageous 
heroes. They are capable of dealing devastating damage, making them a 
clear threat to everyone in the galaxy. They also have the advantage, from a 
storytelling perspective, of bringing heroes of different ideologies together. A 
weapon that threatens Empire and Rebel alike can make both sides put aside 
their differences, at least temporarily, in order to neutralize it. 

Further, from an adventure-design perspective, a superweapon—partic- 
ularly a large one such as the Death Star—makes for a great “crawl.” The 
heroes can slip aboard and spend time sneaking around, avoiding sentries or 
traps and looking for weaknesses they can exploit later. Despite the super- 
weapon's size, the Gamemaster does not need to fully map every room and 
every floor—just the areas relevant to the adventure. 

Finally, the Gamemaster should remember that not all superweapons are 
gigantic devices. The Sun Crusher is only the size of a starfighter, and the 
war robots of Xim the Despot are as devastating as any space-based ray 
weapon in ground engagements. 


Adventure Hook 

When the planet Ord Dycoll suddenly ceases all communication with the 
rest of the galaxy, both the Empire and the Rebel Alliance send agents to 
investigate—including the heroes. When they arrive, the heroes discover 
a vast asteroid field where Ord Dycoll used to be, and a single, powerless 
transport ship full of survivors, slowly drifting toward Ord Dycoll's sun. After 
the heroes rescue the ship, they learn from the survivors that a gigantic 
drill-tipped starship appeared in the sky over the planet, and after it failed 
to respond to hails from the Imperial base on Ord Dycoll, the Imperials sent 
a shuttle up for a closer look. Shortly thereafter, the mysterious “drill ship" 
abruptly reoriented its drilling apparatus toward the planet and began 
punching through Ord Dycoll's crust until it reached the planet's core, 
whereupon the entire planet collapsed, and the drill ship entered hyperspace 
headed in the general direction of Bothawui. The heroes find the drill ship 
just as it enters orbit over the Bothan homeworld. When the heroes dock 
with the gigantic ship, they discover that it is an ancient mining vessel that 
malfunctioned when the Imperials at Ord Dycoll boarded it and started 
pressing buttons. The ship has already proven its power as a weapon, and 
those same Imperials, still aboard, are trying to gain control of it. However, 
the ancient wiring is so badly damaged that the drill ship is out of control, 
and if someone does not set its reactors to overload, its mining program will 
cause the drill ship to destroy Bothawui, then Muunilinst, and then innumer- 
able other populated worlds. 


NSIVEWVS YXE_) NEmMTSSes2) 


NEIVENVS vg wNontsaesy) 


pA esiaveS _) 


SECRET BASES 

The galaxy is vast, with countless remote locales and hiding places where 
the Rebel Alliance can marshal its forces or the Empire can secrete research 
laboratories and training centers. Unlike conventional fortresses, though, 
these bases rely less on sturdy defenses and more on merely escaping notice. 
Location and self-reliance make them effectively invisible. Remote worlds 
such as Yavin 4 and Hoth make excellent places to hide, but Rebel forces 
must be ready to evacuate on short notice; Imperial Intelligence has ways 
of finding even the most secret of Rebel bases. 

Obviously, the Rebellion employs secret bases far more than the Empire 
does. But the Empire has its fair share of hidden bases—places to perform 
work so dangerous or distasteful that news of it must not reach the Rebellion 
or even the Empire’s own citizens. Imperial researchers might be developing 
new starfighters, crafting biological weapons, or harnessing extraordinarily 
unstable power sources. Bases such as these are practically purpose-made 
for clandestine operations conducted by small groups of Rebel agents. The 
heroes could be tasked with locating and infiltrating such facilities, uncov- 
ering the truth of what goes on in them, and making sure that the Empire 
can never use them again. 


Adventure Hook 

A group of Imperial heroes is dispatched by Admiral Piett to investigate 
reports of Rebel activity in the Cularin system, Records from before the 
Clone Wars indicate that the Jedi Order had a training temple on the planet 
Almas that was later destroyed by the Imperial fleet and eventually plun- 
dered by an Imperial Inquisitor. Shortly after the heroes arrive to search 
for the suspected Rebel base, the stormtrooper platoon assigned to them 
abruptly vanishes in a dense jungle. When the heroes finally reach the base, 
near the ruins of the old Jedi academy, they discover it buried under foliage 
that looks to have taken decades to grow. As the heroes explore the camp 
searching for information, they find that the Rebels built barricades and left 
traps, as though they were expecting an attack—or an infiltration attempt. 
The heroes soon realize that the academy's ruins are the center of a malign 
intelligence that hates all life, including the heroes. The longer the heroes 
stay, the more often they are attacked by creatures such as vicious, dark 
side-empowered lizards, diabolical bloblike creatures capable of filling their 
prey with blinding rage, and a group of dark side cultists who seem to have 
no will of their own—and who have been joined by the missing stormtrooper 
platoon. A Rebel rescue party arrives, searching for comrades from the 
abandoned base. Upon discovering the heroes, the rescuers assume that the 
Imperials are responsible for the loss of the Rebels on Almas. To reach their 
ship and escape, the heroes must overcome or evade both the dark forces 
of the corrupted planet and the Rebel troops. 


MILITARY BATTLES 

Although the actions of individual heroes are often the tipping point in 
great events, the fate of the galaxy is usually decided in large-scale battles. 
Opposing armies clash on the soil or oceans or ice of fantastic worlds, while 


fleets of starships great and small duel in the cold vacuum of space. The 
warriors who fight these battles might be faceless and nameless, but their 
successes and failures chart the course of the Rebellion era. 

Conflict is at the heart of Star Wars, and while massive battles can be hard 
to adjudicate, they provide an excellent backdrop for the heroics of individual 
characters. A lone starfighter pilot can be instrumental in destroying an 
enemy battle cruiser, or a unit of highly trained specialists can undertake a 
mission to disable an enemy's defenses in advance of the main strike force. 
The outcome of the engagement might already be decided by the Game- 
master; the heroes cannot fight the entire war themselves, after all, But 
the heroes have their part to play; if they succeed, their side is victorious. If 
they fail, however, their side might be overcome before firing a single shot. 


Adventure Hook 

The Rebel fleet is stalled in the Senex sector; its flagship, the MC80a cruiser 
Home One, is undergoing an emergency refit of its hyperdrive, and it is 
helpless until its main engines are repaired. When an Imperial scout ship 
stumbles onto the fleet, the Rebels know that an Imperial task group is on 
its way. The Rebel fleet must protect Home One until it can power up its 
engines and make the jump to hyperspace, and Admiral Ackbar requests 
that every able-bodied Rebel with flight experience get into the cockpit of 
a starfighter and join the picket line at the jump point where Ackbar believes 
the Imperial ships will arrive. The best starfighters—A-wings and X-wings— 
go to the first wave of volunteers; those who take too long to join up are 
stuck with Y-wings. If the heroes have their own ships, they can fly those. 
The plan is simple and desperate: Harry the incoming Star Destroyers, while 
simultaneously preventing TIE bombers from getting through to attack Home 
One. The faster Rebel starfighters are to engage enemy fighters; the slower 
‘ones are to attack the Imperial capital ships. The pilots have to hold out for 
50 rounds of ship-to-ship combat (less if a tech-inclined hero helps with 
the repairs to Home One), after which the Rebel command ship can make 
a single hyperspace jump, and the starfighters can follow as soon as they 
disengage from their opponents. The Imperials bring an Interdictor cruiser 
into the fight, and soon the orders from Admiral Ackbar are to destroy the 
Interdictor at all costs. If the pilots fail, Home One might be lucky enough 
to make one emergency jump—but it must be a blind jump, and the ship is 
not able to broadcast its destination to the rest of the fleet without risking 
Imperial interception of the transmission. Home One is on its own until it 
can finish repairs and jump to the predesignated rendezvous. 


THE FORCE IS WITH US 

With a mere handful of Jedi Knights surviving the Emperor's purge, the 
theme of “ancient religions,” spiritual justice, and prophecies yet to be 
fulfilled is rich fodder for campaigns that include at least one Force-using 
hero. Although in the Rebellion era the major Force-related action revolves 
around the Skywalker family, a Jedi aspirant can find plenty of adventure in 
a galaxy where a Sith is Emperor. 


— 


The Force is the ultimate Gamemaster tool for explaining seemingly 
random events—wildly convenient coincidences and trouble that always 
manages to find the heroes. It lets the Gamemaster put the heroes at the 
center of the action, and move the story along in a way that suits the needs 
of the campaign. At the same time, it provides Force-using heroes with an 
inexhaustible supply of nemeses: dark side NPCs who do everything in their 
power to kill any Force-wielder who can't be turned to the dark side. Such foes 
put constant danger in the heroes’ way, as well as constant temptation. 


Adventure Hook 

Word reaches the heroes that a Jedi Knight has been found frozen in stasis in 
a decades-old escape pod. After being revived and learning what has become 
of the Jedi Order and the Republic, this Jedi, Aven Rolk, has put out word 
for other Jedi survivors to meet him on the frozen world of Zissh, where he 
intends to erect a new Jedi Temple and rebuild the Jedi Order. Rumor has it 
that even Luke Skywalker, the Rebel Alliance's Jedi-in-training, is planning to 
journey to Zissh to meet with Rolk. Since the heroes’ own Force-user needs a 
real teacher, the heroes cannot afford to pass up this opportunity. However, 
Rolk's bold proclamation has also drawn the attention of the Empire, and a 
cadre of the Empire's own Force-using agents—Ied by none other than Darth 
Vader—are en route to Zissh as well. When the heroes arrive, they find Impe- 
rial troops and dark side adepts scouring the towns and villages, searching 
for Aven Rolk, Luke Skywalker, and any other would-be Jedi who might have 
answered the summons. After being detained and interrogated once or twice, 
the heroes meet Biggsy, a freighter pilot who says he knows where Aven 
Rolk is hiding and offers to lead the heroes there. Biggsy takes the heroes 
to a remote ice cave, but when Imperial snowtroopers appear and attack, 
a cave-in separates the heroes from their guide. Forced to find a different 
exit from the caves, the heroes eventually stumble upon the frozen body of 
Aven Rolk. Although Rolk’s body is dead, he persists as a Force spirit. Seen 
only by the Force-using hero, Rolk guides the heroes to safety and offers to 
teach the Force-user to become a Jedi Knight. 


ADVENTURES 
IN REBELLION 


Although one of the greatest adventure stories ever told, the original Star 
Wars trilogy is a tale of specific events and specific heroes. Not every group of 
players wants to recreate that story in the roles of those heroes, but they still 
want to feel as though their characters’ adventures have meaning in the overall 
course of events. Therefore, the Gamemaster must create stories tailored to 
the players that also fit into the overarching plotlines of Star Wars. 

Obviously, writers and Gamemasters have provided useful tips on the 
process of creating interesting plots and subplots for years. But comparatively 
few have tackled those issues as they relate to Star Wars. The following 
section provides advice specifically for the Rebellion era. 


PLoT 

Because the Star Wars universe draws on numerous iconic sources—such as 
samurai films, westerns, and war movies—almost anything can happen. A Star 
Wars campaign can incorporate many kinds of stories, so the Gamemaster 
can easily insert a plot from nearly any genre into his campaign and, with 
a little tweaking, make it work. Obviously, the Gamemaster should avoid 
going overboard—players spot timeworn plots quickly, and familiar names 
even faster—but Star Wars is rife with stories of trench warfare (such as at 
the Battle of Hoth), lurking monsters (the dianoga in the Death Star garbage 
compactor), pirates (the "walk-the-plank" scene at the Sarlacc’s pit), jungle 
expeditions (the Rebel landing on the forest moon of Endor), and so on. Each 
isan homage to familiar adventure stories, but the addition of elements such 
as laser turrets, blaster rifles, aliens, droids, and Ewoks give these stories 
the unique Star Wars feel. 

In addition to borrowing and reworking classic plots, Gamemasters can 
approach existing Rebellion era story lines from different directions. At the 
moment that Lando Calrissian and Leia Organa are escaping Cloud City, for 
example, the heroes could be battling a different platoon of stormtroopers 
one level down. Or perhaps as the Rebel fleet is punching through the Star 
Destroyers above Endor, a group of Imperial heroes could be desperately 
trying to evacuate the second Death Star ahead of the battle station's 
inevitable destruction. 

The key to a good Rebellion era plot, though, is making it count in the 
larger scheme of things. Even though telling the story of the heroes inves- 
tigating a “ghost ship” might be intriguing, the spirit of the Rebellion era is 
more tangible if the ship is somehow necessary to the war effort. A love story 
is more compelling if one of the lovers is from the Empire and one is from 
the Rebel Alliance. And the tale of a group of Rebels becoming stranded ina 
desert and having to rebuild their ship becomes even more appropriate if they 
are shot down by an Imperial customs cruiser over Tatooine and now have 
to fend off scavenging Jawas, battle irate Sand People, and avoid Imperial 
sandtroopers sent into the Jundiand Wastes to finish them off. 


SUBPLOT 

Subplots fill in the gaps in the narrative where the plot needs context or 
complications. They have little to do with the main plot—although plot 
points can be disguised as subplots to keep the players guessing—but instead 
provide necessary breaks in the action. Subplots can be an opportunity for 
character development, providing opportunities for players to roleplay the 
heroes’ opinions and attitudes rather than just their responses to events in 
an action scene. 

A hallmark of subplots is that they can feed back into the main plot by 
informing the later actions of the characters. For example, Leia's falling in 
love with Han Solo is a subplot in The Empire Strikes Back, but it gives her an 
excellent motive to risk her life to rescue him in Return of the Jedi. Similarly, 
Luke's training on Dagobah is a subplot designed to provide the character with 
insight into his own weaknesses; when he abandons his training to rescue 
his friends on Bespin, he returns to the main plot once more. 


A waiavnS 


NEIVENVE VUE NONTWSSY) 


A SSlavnS 


PD) 
Ww) 
wy 
W) 
W 
£ 
a 
z 
; 
> 
® 
0 
ei 
@ 
@ 


|n Rebellion era campaigns, subplots allow the Gamemaster to Present 
the stories that do not quite fit into the bigger picture. The heroes might be 
disabling an Imperial dry dock as part of a Rebel mission, for example, when 
they learn that a corrupt official is taking bribes to let smugglers use the 
dry dock's hangar facilities to repair and upgrade their ships. Or the heroes 
could be searching for a rare herb on Endor when they encounter a group 
of Imperial officers who crashed in the forest after escaping the attack on 
the second Death Star. Either way, the Gamemaster gets to tell the story he 
has planned—while at the same time reminding the players that they are in 
a Rebellion era campaign. 


METAPLOT 

Metaplot is a term used by roleplaying gamers to describe the overall story 
line, not just of the campaign, but of the campaign setting. The heroes might 
never participate in the metaplot, but it is always there. In a sense, the meta- 
plot is the tapestry of events against which the heroes’ stories are told. In 
the Rebellion era, the metaplot is the story of the Rebellion’s battle against 
the Galactic Empire, culminating in the redemption of Anakin Skywalker by 
his son, the first in a new line of Jedi Knights. 

How the heroes of a Rebellion era campaign fit into the metaplot is up 
to the Gamemaster. The campaign's heroes could be playing out adventures 
only hinted at in the books and movies: the Rebels’ evacuation of Yavin 4 
after the destruction of the first Death Star, for example, or the discovery of 
the location of the second Death Star. Even though the campaign's heroes 
might not determine the fate of the galaxy, they are still crucial to those 
events; their adventures are just as thrilling and fantastic as those of the 
Rebellion era's major heroes, but they should not supplant the major heroes 
in their already-established roles, 

Another option is for the heroes to Operate at a remove from the Rebel 
Alliance—as part of General Garm Bel Iblis's splinter Rebellion, for example, 
or as Imperial agents working to preserve the Empire. Neither sort of group 
might ultimately change the course of future events—but their adventures 
can still be epic tales in their own right. 

On the other hand, the Gamemaster might wish to explore an “alternate 
history” approach to the Rebellion era, in which the actions of the heroes— 
or just random events—do change the course of the metaplot. Perhaps Luke 
Skywalker fails to destroy the original Death Star, or Darth Vader kills Han 
Solo instead of encasing him in carbonite. Maybe Vader disables Skywalker's 
X-wing at the Battle of Yavin, and one of the heroes must make the historic 
shot—or the Millennium Falcon never makes it off Hoth, and Han Solo makes 
the heroes promise to get Princess Leia to safety before he is captured by 
the Empire and executed. 

The metaplot exists to give the heroes' actions context in the greater 
scheme of things, but it does not dictate their actions. That choice is still 
firmly in the players’ hands. After all, what are roleplaying games if not 
exercises in “What if"? 


News orf THE WORLDS 
In Star Wars, Emperor Palpatine is one of the most evil beings the galaxy 
has ever seen. He destroys the Jedi Order, reduces countless species to near- 
slavery, and authorizes the creation of superweapons designed to destroy 
entire planets. 

Members of the Rebel Alliance, on the other hand, are clearly the heroic 
underdogs. They are merciful and brave, oppose unjust laws, and champion 
the idea of species equality. For every world the Empire has destroyed, the 
Rebels have liberated a dozen, 

So why do people support the Empire? 

The truth is that the average Imperial citizen has access only to the 
information presented by the government, and the Empire takes great pains 
to present itself as a force for peace and order in the galaxy. It vilifies the 
activities of the Rebel Alliance and ruthlessly punishes anyone who contra- 
dicts the official story. Imperial citizens soon come to think of the Alliance 
as murderers, pirates, and liars, and are only too happy to support any effort 
to bring "Rebel scum" to justice. 

In a Rebellion era campaign focusing mainly on Imperial heroes (or soon- 
to-be-ex-Imperial heroes), the Gamemaster might find that the players want 
to know what their heroes know of certain major events such as the destruc- 
tion of Alderaan and the annexation of Bespin. Only the best-informed Imperi- 
als know the whole story, and even then, they are too loyal to the Emperor—or 
too afraid of him—to publicly dispute the official version of these events. 

The information below represents the knowledge of the average 
Imperial citizen. 


KNOWLEDGE (GALACTIC LORE) 

DC Result 

10 The Galactic Empire came into being at the end of the Clone Wars, 
when the Galactic Republic was fractured and weak from galaxywide 
fighting. Supreme Chancellor Palpatine gathered up the fragments of 
the Republic and reorganized them into a more streamlined organiza- 
tion. Although he originally intended to lead only until the end of the 
Clone Wars, he remained in charge by popular demand and was even- 
tually declared Emperor by the grateful Senate. His rule is challenged, 
however, by the so-called “Alliance to Restore the Republic"—diehards 
who refuse to admit defeat, even two decades after their Separatist 
leaders surrendered. 

15 The Emperor was betrayed by the Jedi Order during the Clone Wars, 
and both he and his loyal assistant, Darth Vader, are left with terrible 
scars as a result of Jedi assassination attempts. Despite their injuries 
and ongoing suffering, though, both men have come to forgive the 
Jedi and now work to rehabilitate those they encounter who originally 
escaped justice. The Jedi are too stubborn to convert, however, and 
must be imprisoned for the safety of the Empire. 


20 


25 


30 


Although the Imperial HoloNet reports that Alderaan was destroyed by 
Rebel saboteurs who boarded the DS-1 Orbital Battle Station and trig- 
gered its main weapon during its first official unveiling, several eyewit- 
nesses to the disaster report that the so-called “Death Star” ignored 
distress messages from ships damaged in the tragedy and jumped out 
of the system without so much as launching a single TIE fighter to look 
for survivors. A few such eyewitnesses either vanish or abruptly amend 
their accounts, suggesting that they have been silenced by the Empire 
for contradicting the official version of events. 

Intercepted communications during the Clone Wars indicate that sev- 
eral Jedi Masters attempted to convince Palpatine to abdicate the 
office of Supreme Chancellor mere minutes before Palpatine issued 
"Order 66," calling for Jedi officers in the Grand Army of the Repub- 
lic to relinquish their commands. Ostensibly, Emperor Palpatine’s goal 
was to avert a Jedi coup, but local defense forces assisting the Grand 
Army were able to capture holovid images of clone troopers executing 
Order 66, abruptly turning on unarmed Jedi officers and slaughtering 
them without attempting to arrest them. 

Accounts of the destruction of the Jedi Temple are sketchy; records 
of the event have disappeared over the years. What can be gleaned 
is that Emperor Palpatine arranged for the execution of thousands 
of Jedi Knights—including defenseless younglings—and might have 
used Jedilike powers to personally murder as many as five Jedi Mas- 
ters, a feat that should have been beyond the abilities of even the 
most skilled bureaucrat. Numerous suppressed theories suggest that 
Emperor Palpatine might be the last of the Sith—ancient enemies of 
the Jedi who were last seen at the Battle of Ruusan, a thousand years 
ago. If true, this knowledge casts all the Emperor's activities in a com- 
pletely different, more sinister light. 


KNOWLEDGE (SOCIAL SCIENCES) 
DC Result 


10 


The Galactic Empire ensures peace and prosperity for all but a small 
fraction of the known galaxy. Worlds and systems rule themselves 
with the protection and support of the Empire. The Imperial Moffs and 
governors act as liaisons to the Emperor, as well as provide checks and 
balances against local systems encroaching upon the freedoms and 
resources of their neighbors. 

In practice, few worlds or systems rule themselves. Their leaders 
merely act as advisors to the local governors, who in turn simply 
enforce Imperial policies. Non-Human species are treated as second- 
class citizens even on their own homeworlds. Every world with an 
Imperial presence has at least a small garrison of stormtroopers, and 
some worlds have large Imperial forces. 


20 


25 


30 


The Imperial governors are corrupt, and they use their positions to 
exploit the people they are supposed to be protecting. The Emperor 
turns a blind eye to such practices and might even support them, par- 
ticularly where alien populations are concerned. In fact, many worlds 
have been essentially stolen from the native species and converted 
into factory worlds, where the populace labors to create the weap- 
ons the Empire needs to conquer and subjugate more worlds and 
systems. 

While he was still Supreme Chancellor, Emperor Palpatine encoun- 
tered stiff resistance to his policies from a coalition of Republic Sena- 
tors who thought that he abused the emergency powers he was given. 
Several of these legislators are now key figures in the Alliance to 
Restore the Republic, and they issue numerous statements indicating 
that Emperor Palpatine overstepped his authority and manipulated the 
Senate into granting him total control of the Republic, which he then 
abused by declaring himself Emperor. 

The Empire routinely revises history by destroying records of Emperor 
Palpatine’s involvement in the various activities undertaken by Impe- 
rial agents and armed forces. This systematic erasure of facts is well 
documented by nonpartisan scholars—as is the suppression of vari- 
ous attempts to bring these facts to the public's attention. Whatever 
else Emperor Palpatine might be, he is a deeply corrupt and poten- 
tially megalomaniacal dictator, with a galaxy-spanning military at his 
disposal. 


veg Nemiasay || A usiaves 


> 
® 
0 
Dy 
@ 
z 


CHAPTER VI 
THE REBEL ALLIANCE 


e 1 ir 


The Rebel Alliance is a ray of hope in the blackness of the Dark Times. Out- 
anned and outgunned, the fighters of the Alliance risk their lives in the 

rt to free the galaxy from Emperor Palpatine’s iron grip. Some Rebels 

ht for their homeworlds, some fight for their families, and some fight for 

" ideals, but all fight the evils of tyranny. In many ways, the Rebel Alliance 
defines the Star Wars universe. It represents the ultimate battle between 

* good and evil, light and dark. 


A BRIEF HISTORY 
OF THE REBELLION 


EARLY RESISTANCE 
Dark Times uprisings are small and restricted to specific planets or regions. 
Although they might be temporarily successful, none of these uprisings 
comes close to challenging the vast military power of the Empire. Victories 
are difficult to achieve, and few make a lasting impact on the galaxy. 
Behind the scenes, a few powerful Imperial Senators have struggled for 
decades in a battle against oppressive Imperial edicts. However, cooperation 
is limited by the fear of detection and the ignorance of others’ activities. Two 
senators, Bail Organa of Alderaan and Mon Mothma of Chandrila, secretly 
discuss organized resistance in Organa’s Cantham House residence on Cor- 
uscant. Later, veteran senator Garm Bel Iblis of Corellia becomes involved as 
he begins to fear that the New Order is causing Corellia to lose its distinctive 
identity. As the Dark Times give way to the Rebellion era, pockets of resis- 
tance around the galaxy become locally organized. However, they are unable 
to coordinate with other like-minded groups and lack the communications 
and support structure needed for sustained operations. 


UNLEASHING REBELLION 
Two years before the Battle of Yavin, several major resistance units become 
active enough to force Organa, Mothma, and Bel Iblis to advance their 
plans for armed rebellion. By now, Mothma is on the run from Imperial 
authorities, after the Emperor's arrest order forces her to flee Coruscant. 
Bel Iblis goes into hiding following an Imperial assassination attempt that 
leaves the galaxy believing him to be dead. Bel Iblis and Mothma work from 
behind the scenes, recruiting others across the galaxy to their cause. Organa 
remains.in the Imperial Senate, although his influence is greatly diminished 
since those loyal to the New Order refuse to support a senator suspected 
of treasonous activities. 


SONVINNY 1383y SHL 1A SSiavHo 


eaNwiiy WweeL Ss 


Into this growing resistance movement suddenly appears a being strong 
in the Force, who calls himself Starkiller. He quickly proves worthy of trust 
by saving Senator Bail Organa from the wilds of Felucia. He also hinders the 
Empire's Wookiee slave operation on Kashyyyk at the behest of Princess Leia 
Organa, who has been ordered to oversee the construction of the operation 
by the Emperor as a form of punishment for her rebellious ways. Starkiller 
urges Bail Organa to join him in overthrowing the Emperor. Starkiller's con- 
siderable ability with the Force leads Bail Organa and his allies to believe 
that he might be capable of succeeding. 

After conferring once again in a risky meeting at Cantham House, Organa, 
Bel Iblis, and Mon Mothma arrange to formalize the “Alliance to Restore 
the Republic" on Corellia. The three main conspirators attend, along with a 
holographic link with Princess Leia. Starkiller and his pilot, Juno Eclipse, soon 
follow, Just as the meeting starts, Imperial forces led by Darth Vader spring 
their trap. Bail Organa’s quick order to sever the holographic link prevents 
the discovery of Leia’s direct participation, but the three conspirators are 
immediately captured. Vader exposes Starkiller as his would-be apprentice, 
then devastates the youth by revealing that the Sith Lords had manipulated 
Starkiller's entire life for this moment. Vader then tries to dispose of his now 
useless apprentice 

Starkiller survives. Determined to destroy Darth Vader and the Emperor's 
plans, he pursues the Sith Lords to the Death Star construction site. Both 
Vader and Emperor Palpatine are on hand to witness the execution of the 
Rebel leaders. Starkiller infiltrates the incomplete battle station and frees 
the conspirators, but at the cost of his own life. 

After a narrow escape, Organa, Mothma, and Bel Iblis go to Kashyyyk 
to confirm what they have learned of Starkiller’s origins. Inspired by his 
sacrifice, they resolve to use his family crest as the symbol of their new 
Rebel Alliance, and finally formalize its creation and operational standards 
in the Corellian Treaty. 

After his exposure to Darth Vader and the Emperor as a leader of the 
resistance, Bail Organa resigns from the Imperial Senate and returns to the 
protection of his position as Viceroy and First Chairman of the Alderaan 
system. His daughter, Leia, replaces him in the Senate, although her loyalty 
is suspect. Mothma becomes head of the Alliance, while Bel Iblis returns to 
command his militia forces in and around Corellia. 

Mon Mothma releases a Declaration of Rebellion, publicly announcing 
the political ideology behind the Rebellion in an effort to forestall Imperial 
propagandists. A few systems openly declare their allegiance to the new 
Alliance well before any sizable defense force can be mustered. Imperial 
response quickly crushes these Secession Worlds, but not before significant 
resources, weaponry, ships, and manpower are delivered directly to freedom 
fighters and the Rebel Alliance. 


THE BATTLE OF YAVIN 

For about two years, the growing Rebel Alliance fights for public support 
as much as it battles the Empire. Resistance efforts and recruitment spread 
slowly from sector to sector. The actual number of forces remains tiny com- 
pared to the mighty Empire, and the Alliance scores only one major victory 
against Imperial forces 

All this changes with the arrival of the Millennium Falcon at the main 
Rebel base on Yavin 4. A rescued Princess Leia and the plans to the newly 
operational Death Star give the Rebels the means and, with the Death Star's 
rapid approach, an immediate need to destroy the Emperor's monstrous 
superweapon. An ultimate weapon of terror, the Death Star is capable of 
annihilating entire worlds with a single shot of its superlaser, as is demon- 
strated by the destruction of Alderaan. 

Fortunately for the Alliance, the Millennium Falcon also brings future 
Jedi Luke Skywalker at the time of the Rebels’ greatest need. When Rebel 
starfighters make a desperate attack against the station, Luke joins them. 
After more experienced pilots fail to hit the station's vulnerable exhaust 
port, Luke makes the shot that shakes the galaxy and the Empire. In one 
cataclysmic explosion, the Death Star is gone. 


HEROES OF THE REBEL ALLIANCE 


The Rebel Alliance scores a major victory, although it is forced to flee 
Yavin 4 and spend much of the next several years on the run. This tremendous 
victory brings new allies, raw recruits as well as high officials on sympa- 
thetic worlds. Entire resistance groups are integrated into the Alliance's 
command structure, and new cells are created on even the most loyal of 
Imperial worlds 


IMPERIAL PURSUIT 

However, the Empire is far from beaten and aggressively pursues the Rebels. 
Darth Vader leads the effort to seek out and destroy Rebel forces. The 
Imperial Security Bureau and the Commission for the Preservation of the 
New Order (COMPNOR) hunt down and arrest civilian Rebel sympathizers. 
Imperial response is brutal against the general public in areas where Rebel 
groups are active. Supporting the Rebellion is dangerous, and the Empire 
makes sure the galaxy knows it 

After years of relentless pursuit, Imperial forces locate the Alliance's new 
main base on the icy world of Hoth. The Imperials attack immediately, forc- 
ing the Rebels to flee once again. During this time, Luke Skywalker receives 
critical Jedi training from Jedi Master Yoda. All is nearly lost when the young 
Jedi is drawn into a trap and forced to battle Darth Vader on Cloud City in 
an effort to save his friends from capture. 

Over the next few months, a series of events occur, ultimately leading to 
the Battle of Endor. Among these are the death of Black Sun head Prince Xizor, 
which disrupts the criminal syndicate and delivers information the Rebellion 
needs in order to locate and attack the second Death Star, still under con- 
struction. The Hutts also suffer a major blow when Princess Leia kills Jabba 
the Hutt while the heroes of Yavin rescue Han Solo from the crime lord. 


THE BATTLE OF ENDOR 

AND THE DAWN OF 

THE New REPUBLIC 

The Battle of Endor, quite simply, is an Imperial trap gone horribly wrong 
It is an effort to draw out the main Rebel fleet and destroy it with the 
Imperial fleet and the secretly operational second Death Star. The Rebels 
cannot pass up an opportunity to destroy the station and the Emperor in a 
single blow. However, the Emperor fails to account for the resourcefulness 
and resiliency of the Rebellion’s heroes—and a vast number of unexpected 
Ewok allies. In an immense planetary and space battle, the Rebels destroy 
the station. Luke Skywalker manages to turn his father, Darth Vader, back 
from the dark side, but Vader is killed by injuries sustained when he throws 
the Emperor to his death. 


THe BATTLE OF ENDOR 


News of the Emperor's death races through the Empire. Mere days after es | 


the Battle of Endor, the Rebel Alliance becomes the Alliance of Free Planets 
and negotiates the creation of a new government as influential systems and 
sectors openly defect from the Empire. A month later, Mon Mothma creates 
the New Republic Provisional Council and publicly announces a “Declaration 
of a New Republic” signed by top Alliance leaders and officials from the most 
powerful breakaway systems. With Mon Mothma as Chief Councilor—and 
later, Chief of State—the fledgling New Republic government continues to 
evolve as its influence spreads through the Galaxy. Rebel Alliance military 
units transition into similar roles in the expanding New Republic forces. 

Within the Empire, rival factions vie for power. Some attempt to claim 
the Imperial throne, while others, especially Moffs and high-ranking military 
officers, quickly consolidate power within their own personal kingdoms. These 
warlords and political opportunists further weaken the Empire, allowing the 
New Republic time to consolidate its holdings. Additional systems decide to 
join the new government, often without military confrontations. Still, power- 
ful Imperial forces hold out for years before the New Republic reclaims the 
galaxy's major worlds from Imperial rule. 


eawnwmwny Wess} SL 


1A SSLSvHOS 


Banwi1ty We8Ly) IHL 


ORGANIZATION 

The Corellian Treaty establishes an organizational structure for the Alliance 
to Restore the Republic similar to that of a large-scale government. There 
are two main organizations acting in concert to bring about the fall of the 
Empire: the Civil Government and the Alliance Military. Both are led by the 
Chief of State, a position held by Mon Mothma throughout the history of 
the Rebel Alliance, 


ALLIANCE Civil GOVERNMENT 
The civil government provides basic leadership and common government 
functions such as protection, taxation, and diplomatic relations. In practice, 
these functions fall to the control of local authorities and member govern- 
ments of Allied worlds and organizations. The civil government handles 
political functions between members, potential members, and the galaxy at 
large. However, the primary purpose of the civil government is to support 
the Alliance military. 

The Chief of State heads the civil government and is essentially an 
elected dictator with full autocratic power over the Alliance. Elections 
are held every two years among member governments, and the position is 
automatically terminated with the fall of the Emperor. The Chief of State is 
the Alliance's ultimate negotiator, diplomat, and arbiter. 

The Advisory Council serves as a balance to the power of the Chief 
of State. The Council is made up of representatives from the seven Allied 
governments that have given the most lives in battle against the Emperor; 
which seven governments meet that criteria changes over time. They have 
the power to approve or disapprove the actions of the Chief of State, as well 
as remove her if they disapprove of her conduct. They also serve as a moral 
compass. They have no direct control over the cabinet or ministers. 

The Cabinet is the primary leadership structure that runs the Alliance, 
carrying out the Chief of State's policy decisions. The Secretary of the Cabinet 
organizes the meetings and maintains operations when the Chief of State is 
unavailable. The cabinet is made up of six ministries, each under the charge 
of its own minister. 

Finance Ministry: The Finace Ministry oversees Alliance income and 
expenditures, including those of the massive war effort. It establishes vari- 
ous financial structures to receive credits from overt and covert member 
states in the form of bonds, taxes, or other financial schemes. It also prints 
the Alliance Credit, though as a currency it is of limited value outside the 
Alliance until after the Battle of Endor. 

Education Ministry: The Education Ministry provides intelligence services 
to the civil government, though it works closely with the larger and more 
effective Alliance Intelligence. It is also in charge of propaganda and promot- 
ing the true nature of the Alliance throughout the galaxy. 


Ministry of State: The Ministry of State oversees the Diplomatic Corps and 
directs relations with nonmember governments. The Minister of State would 
also serve as the interim Chief of State, if anything were to happen to Mon 
Mothma. The Ministry of State is always looking to recruit able diplomats to 
negotiate with member worlds, potential members, and other organizations 
outside the Alliance. 

Ministry of Industry: The Ministry of Industry oversees the Alliance's few, 
overworked industrial manufacturing facilities, which include a few factories 
‘on hidden Alliance safe worlds plus a few on sympathetic worlds such as 
Mon Calamari. The Ministry also negotiates covert deals with manufacturers 
secretly sympathetic to the Rebellion. 

‘Supply Ministry:The Supply Ministry obtains the massive amount of sup- 
plies needed to keep the Alliance military operational, Materiel is obtained 
in any manner possible, since the Alliance's limited funds make purchasing 
everything on the open market a near impossibility, Food comes from Alli- 
ance safe worlds. Supplies are limited by the transport available. The Supply 
Ministry is always looking for good, cheap, and determined pilots to run food 
and supplies to far-flung Alliance bases and isolated resistance groups. 

Ministry of War: The Ministry of War directs Alliance military forces. Its 
minister devises specific military strategies but leaves operational control 
to the specific military commanders and Chiefs of Staff. The minister also 
coordinates between the Alliance military and the other ministries. 


ALLIANCE MILITARY 

The Alliance military forms the heart of the Rebel Alliance. Its objective is to 
defeat the Imperial army and navy and bring about the fall of the Emperor. 
Although its forces are limited and vastly outnumbered, they are highly 
motivated and undaunted by the massive task. 

Alliance High Command orders and oversees all Alliance military efforts. 
It operates aboard the Alliance fleet, but moves to the main Rebel base if 
needed. High Command reports to the Commander in Chief, Mon Mothma, 
and is composed of the Supreme Allied Commanders. The Supreme Allied 
Commanders oversee their own departmental commands and coordinate 
with the cabinet as needed. 

Fleet Command represents the most important Alliance asset, the main 
Rebel fleet. Admiral Ackbar holds the position of Fleet Commander for much 
of the Rebellion's existence. 

Ordnance and Supply obtains difficult-to-acquire ships, equipment, 
weaponry, and other supplies for the Alliance Military. This command 
coordinates heavily with the Supply Ministry. Transport of materiel falls to 
Support Services. 


Starfighter Command oversees the Alliance's extensive starfighter fleet. 
It trains pilots and assigns wings to Fleet Command and Sector Command 
and provides operational orders for wings without permanent assignments, 
such as Rogue Squadron. Starfighter Command can find itself at odds with 
Sector Command when scarce starfighter wings are pulled away from sector 
defense to cover operational duties. 

Support Services provides the heavy lifting for the Alliance's transporta~ 
tion and support network. It controls freight and passenger transportation 
and provides specialized personnel such as doctors, mechanics, repair facili- 
ties, technicians, cooks, maintenance crews, droids, and other support staff. 
It maintains and supports Alliance bases and safe worlds. 

Intelligence provides detailed information on Imperial military forces and 
related civilian efforts such as COMPNOR. The Chief of Intelligence provides 
the accumulated information and analysis to the Supreme Commanders and 
reports to the Commander in Chief daily. With operatives spread throughout 
the galaxy, Intelligence agents make up a large percentage of active Alli- 
ance personnel. 

Special Forces Command oversees the approximately ten divisions of 
Alliance Special Forces units. They work directly for and protect Alliance High 
Command. They serve aboard fleet vessels, carry out critical and specialized 
raids, and are provided to individual Sector Commands when needed. General 
Crix Madine is the best-known commander of Special Forces. 

Sector Command oversees and provides strategic orders and advice to the 
thousands of individual Sector Forces spread throughout the galaxy. Sector 
Command does not attempt to micromanage the Sector Forces, but instead 
concentrates on coordinating them with Alliance Forces in critical opera- 
tions. It also organizes new Sector Forces in uncontrolled regions without 
an Allied government. Sector Command cannot always move quickly, given 
the vast distances and communications difficulties involved, but it can set 
up individual Command Groups with limited autonomy for emergency situ- 
ations, Finally, the majority of regular Alliance army troops fall under the 
auspices of the various Sector Forces. 


ALLIED COMMANDS 

Allied Commands, collectively, are the individual Allied governments (plan- 
etary, regional, or otherwise) and military Sector Force Commands (when no 
Allied government exists). These commands report to and coordinate with 
Alliance High Command, though they also exercise semiautonomous control 
over their own regions. They can also coordinate with a local Sector Force, if 
they do not join it outright. Nominally, these Allied Commands have structures 
identical to the Alliance's political structure and ministries, but in practice 
these Allies retain their own governments and command organizations. 


EL ALLIANCE 

MILITARY RANKS 

Rebel Alliance military ranks are primarily divided between army and 
navy ranks, with variation within SpecForce and Starfighter Command. 
Compared with the galaxy's major military forces, the Alliance features 
fewer formal officer and enlisted personnel ranks. The simplified structure 
allows for more leeway in integrating newly recruited combat forces into 
the Alliance military command organization. It also discourages Alliance 
personnel from worrying too much about their career rank, especially 
since the Alliance expects the military to be dissolved or substantially 
reorganized upon victory over the Empire. 

Local commanding officers are expected to clarify any ambiguities 
in their own chain of command and sometimes create unofficial or 
temporary designations; occasionally, a newly recruited organization 
retains its own rank structure. Additionally, as the Alliance frequently 
deploys units with mixed forces, command hierarchies between specific 
officers of equivalent rank but from different branches are established in 
the planning stages of a mission. Temporary or role-specific titles can be 
utilized within a given unit, base, or task force. The title of “commander” 
is used to designate the commanding officer of a given unit or mission, 
despite the actual rank of the individual. 


NAVY ARMY SPECFORCE STARFIGHTER 
COMMAN! 


0) 
T 
> 
q 
M 
a 
2 
$ 


THE ALLIANCE FLEET 
The Alliance fleet is the single greatest military asset in the Rebel Alliance 


t represents Rebel strength and mobility, and it is a powerful strike force 


capable of decisive military victories. Admiral Ackbar is the commander of 


the fleet throughout much of the Galactic Civil War. Even though the fle: 


is both a powerful symbol and a critical weapon against the Empire, Ackbar 
knows that he must pick and choose his battles carefully. A significant defeat 
would mean the loss of critically needed ships and personnel, not to mention 
the incalculable damage to the Alliance's public image. 

So important is the fleet that Mon Mothma expressly forbids Ackbar 
from engaging the Imperials in a formal, large-scale battle, She believes the 
Alliance can survive the loss of either its main base or its fleet, but not both 
Throughout most of the Galactic Civil War, the Alliance lacks the resources 


al ships. However, Ackbar is encouraged to detach up to 


to replace lost cap 


one-quarter of his fleet for raids and specialized missions, and he rotates this 
detachment regularly. Even though the entire detachment might take part 
in the same mission, it is usually divided into separate strikes in support of 


various Sector Forces or as directed by Alliance High Command. 


Unlike the Imperial fleet, the Alliance fleet is not standardized with spe- 


or designs. As with all other materiel, the Alliance gathers 


ps from wherever it can acquire them. This sometimes takes the 
bel cause. Although the 
nari star cruisers, no two are exactly 


rm of the defection of a ship and crew to the F 

le up of Mon Ca 

ke, given the Mon Cal preference of treating their vessels as works of art 

The Rebels h xperts at refitting old Imperial Dreadnaughts 

sers into Rebel assault frigates, but they, too, are slow to become 

ein large numbers. The fleet does standardize specific starfighters, 
junction with Starfighter Command. 


core of the fleet is m 


e also becom: 


and bulk 


's on close-support corvettes, frigates, gunships, and simi- 
antistarfighter screens for the big cruisers. The 
aft also makes them ideal for quickly maneuvering 
to outflank an opponent. Alliance task forces are built around ships of this 


arly sized vessels to provide 


greater agility of these « 


size, occasionally backed up by a star cruiser. 


Armed and armored freighters back up starfighters in picket and patrol 
are by far the least suited for their new military roles. 
Though they are heavily modified with upgraded shields and weaponry, in a 
straight battle, their longevity depends more on the determination of their 


duties. These freight 


crews than on their spec 


The Alliance Navy 
In keeping with the loose organization encouraged throughout the Alliance, 
subdivisions of the fleet are made on an interim and ad hoc basis. The fleet, 
ts detachments, and semiautonomous groups are under the direct contro! 
of an Allied Command or Sector Force 

Element (1 vessel): A single starship is known as an element, commande 


by the ship's captain 
Section (3-12 vessels): A small number of starships is called a section, A 
section's role determines its exact number. Heavy cruisers are not commonly 


available, and if they are included, number only 1-3. More often, the Alliance 
deploys a variety of 3-8 corvettes, frigates, or similar light capital ships. If 


both capital ships and close-support vessi 


Is are included, the group is called 


commander, 
unless otherwise directed by the fleet or Alliance High Command 
Squadron (12-36 vessels, plus support units); A squadron consists of 
3-4 complementary sections, such as a line of capital ships supported by a 
section of escort ships and a flotilla of armored freighters acting as a picket 
ine. Fleet detachments are commonly of this size and number. Squadrons 


a flotilla, The most senior ship's captain in the section acts as i 


are commanded by a senior captain or admiral (sometimes called a line 
admiral), as directed by the fleet or Alliance High Command. Allied Com- 
mands that retain the traditional commodore rank grant that position to 


squadron commanders. 


Battle Group (48-72 vessels, plus support units): A battle group 
consists of 2-4 squadrons. Rarely does the fleet form such a large single 
detachment, so battle groups operate under the command of the largest 
Allied Commands. A battle group is commanded by an admiral, called a line 
admiral. 

Fleet (100 or more vessels, plus support units): A fleet consists of 3-6 
battle groups, led by a fleet admiral, or the Admiral of the Fleet (Admiral 
Ackbar for most of the Galactic Civil War) when speaking of the main Alli- 
ance fleet. 


Fleet Command Structure 

Internally, fleet command consists of the Admiral of the Fleet, who oversees 
the line admirals, Starfighter Command, Fleet Intelligence, and Ordnance and 
Supply. Beyond the rank organization illustrated in the rank sidebar, fleet 
organization also includes departments that might or might not be within 
the actual chain of command. Specialist positions, such as medical officers, 
deck officers, engineering personnel, and gunnery crews, report to their own 
department heads as well as to bridge officers. Starfighter pilots attached to 
the fleet report directly to ship captains or admirals, but not to Starfighter 
Command, for the duration of the tour. The same typically holds true for 
Special Operations and SpecForce personnel attached to the fleet. 


SPECIAL FORCES 

Alliance Special Forces units are relatively few in number, but their high 
degree of training and personal investment make them effective combatants. 
SpecForce units are supremely confident in their own abilities, an opinion 
shared by Alliance High Command. They serve aboard the ships of the fleet, 
protect the main Rebel base (as on Hoth), train Sector Forces, carry out 
major commando operations, and fulfill any mission thrown at them by 
Alliance High Command. 

SpecForce units use a formal organization similar to that of regular army 
units. However, they normally carry out missions as task forces or assigned 
assets regardless of formal classification or position in the command struc- 
ture. SpecForce units are highly mobile and able to respond to emergency 
deployments throughout the galaxy. 

Fire Team (2~4 troopers): The basic tactical unit, supervised by a senior 
trooper. 

Squad (5-15 troopers): The squad is the smallest functional unit, made 
up of a specific SpecForce soldier type, occasionally reinforced by comple- 
mentary fire teams in a supporting role. They are designated by a color of 
their own choosing. 

Platoon (20-60 troopers): A platoon, designated by number, is com- 
posed of four squads. It is commanded by a lieutenant or senior lieutenant. 
A platoon can be deployed as a task force operating independently of or 
attached to other commands. 

Company (100-300 troopers plus support personnel): A company, 
designated by letter, is a task force under the command of a captain or 
major. Companies typically consist of five platoons, each of a particular 
type of SpecForce soldier. 

Regiment (300-1800 troopers plus support personnel): Regiments 
divide the SpecForces into their specific environmental combat roles (see 
below). They are rarely fielded as a unit, but when they are, it is typically as. 
a task force of 3-6 companies, made up of the type of troops required for 
the mission. When deployed, a colonel or major commands them. 

Division (2,400-15,000 troopers plus support personnel): There 
are ten SpecForce divisions. The Command Division is attached to Alliance 
High Command, divided between the main base and the fleet, and is under 
the direct control of General Crix Madine. Five divisions are assigned on an 
‘ongoing, as-needed basis to various Sector Commands, but they answer 
to their own generals. The remaining divisions are deployed as needed in 
smaller formations to virtually any Rebel Alliance command that requires 
their specialized abilities. They answer to local commanders for the duration 
of the mission. 


1A BaLavHS 


| 


1A BaLavRD 


| 


SpecForce Regiments and Command Structure 
For training and administrative purposes, each soldier is considered part of 
a regiment associated with the type of combat he or she is trained in. This 
combat type is usually, but not always, associated with a specific combat 
environment. These specialists are typically assembled into task forces with 
a wide variety of skills and combat abilities. See the “Personnel” section 
for specific examples, as well as pages 90 and 95 of Threats of the Galaxy 
for Heavy Weapons specialists and SpecForce elite soldiers. See the "Rebel 
Alliance Military Ranks” sidebar for SpecForce ranks. 

Ist Regiment, Marines (SpaceOps): Specialize in shipboard combat, 
boarding actions, and security. 

2nd Regiment, Pathfinders: The first in, Pathfinders drop covertly into a 
combat zone to perform reconnaissance, establish beachheads, and perform 
scouting missions for other units. 

3rd Regiment, Urban Guerrillas: The urban-combat specialists, experts 
in fighting both within the smallest metropolitan areas and in the vast metal 
canyons of the galaxy's planet-cities. 

4th Regiment, Wilderness Fighters: Wilderness fighters receive general- 
ized survival training and then specialize in a specific wilderness type, such 
as arctic, forest, or desert, 

5th Regiment, Infiltrators: Masters of stealth and infiltration of enemy 
positions, these soldiers specialize in disrupting the enemy from within their 
‘own lines, using sabotage, social engineering, and silent death. 

6th Regiment, Heavy Weapons Specialists: These SpecForces are 
gunners trained to use just about every type of heavy weapon available to 
the Alliance, including repeating blasters, artillery, vehicle weapons, and the 
massive turbolasers aboard the ships of the fleet. 

7th Regiment, Technicians: All other SpecForce specialists fall into 
this category. This includes actual technical equipment specialists as well 
as mechanics, drivers, pilots, systems operators, interrogators, and procure- 
ment specialists. 


STARFIGHTER COMMAND 

Starfighter Command controls strategic deployment and development of Alli- 
ance starfighter forces. It carries out pilot training and wing assignments to 
the fleet, Sector Forces, and other commands. It issues operational orders to 
those wings not permanently assigned to the fleet or to specific sectors. Once 
a wing is assigned to the fleet or a sector, Starfighter Command relinquishes 
operational control until the unit is needed elsewhere. 

Since the fleet is forbidden from engaging Imperial forces in large-scale 
battles, raids and skirmishes are carried out by starfighters. A huge percent- 
age of Alliance resources is dedicated to starfighter services. Alliance forces 
at all levels rely heavily on starfighter support and fight vigorously to hold 
on to it when it is available to them. Some starfighter squadrons or wings 
operate from their own dedicated bases. However, in most cases, starfighter 
squadrons and wings rely on the commands to which they are attached for 
supplies and support. 


Starfighter Wings and Command Structure 

Whether attached to a cruiser, carrier, sector base, or dedicated facility, star- 
fighter wings have the same basic organization. The smallest unit assigned to 
a specific command is typically the squadron. A wing is typically scattered 
among several ships or bases of the command to which it is assigned. 

Element (2 starfighters): The element is the smallest tactical unit ina 
wing. It consists of a leader and a wingman. 

Flight (2 elements): A flight consists of four starfighters, led by a flight 
commander, the most senior of the flight's pilots (a lieutenant or captain). 

Squadron (3 flights): A squadron is made up of 12 starfighters, led by the 
‘squadron commander. Each squadron contains only one type of starfighter, 
which might dictate the squadron's role in battle. A squadron has a name or 
color designation and may informally be referred to as a group. 

Wing (3 squadrons): A wing consists of 36 starfighters plus all neces- 
sary support personnel, craft, and equipment. A wing is normally made up 
of three squadrons, one of which is a recon squadron. Each squadron within 
a wing can use a different fighter type, so A-wings, X-wings, and Y-wings 
are commonly deployed in the same wing. Wings are led by a colonel, called 
the wing commander, although an officer of lesser rank holding the position 
also uses the title of wing commander. The wing commander reports directly 
to the local commander, either a Sector Force officer or a ship's captain. 
When assigned to the fleet, a wing also reports to the fleet's Starfighter 
Command. 

Group (2 or more wings): Formally, a group contains two or more wings. 
In Starfighter Command, the group is rarely used; smaller deployments of 
wings or squadrons are more common. In rare battles where large numbers 
of starfighters are deployed, a group is led by the most senior wing com- 
mander or by a general. 


SECTOR ForRcCES 

Sector Forces are the backbone of Rebel Alliance's military. These are assimi- 
lated resistance groups fighting the Empire on their own worlds and in their 
own sectors. They receive a great deal of operational autonomy from Alli- 
ance High Command, which is usually too far away to respond to day-to-day 
details. Although Sector Forces control military assets, they must confront 
the Empire through traditional resistance methods far more often than in 
direct combat. They receive support, supplies, and materiel from the Alliance. 
They also exchange intelligence data and general news with Alliance High 
Command. Large Sector Forces that have not inherited a command structure 
use a structure similar to that of Alliance High Command. This includes a 
Commander in Chief, a Chief of Staff, and commanders leading individual 
departments such as Intelligence or Starfighter Command. 

Independent resistance groups that want to formally join the Rebellion are 
integrated into the Alliance military. If there are no active Allied Commands 
or Sector Forces already in place in the area, the resistance group becomes 
the core of a new Sector Force. The group is encouraged, but not required, to 
adopt the Alliance command structure. If another Allied Command or Sector 
Force is already in place, the group is integrated into the existing command. 
Alliance High Command will go to great lengths to smooth over any political 
or personal hostility between rival groups. 

Each Sector Force commands all types of units within its organization, 
including ground troops, starfighter squadrons, and sector-based fleets and 
starships. They also control standard Alliance army troops, which represent 
the greatest part of the Alliance's ground strength. If Alliance High Command 
needs a larger number of regular troops in a given area, it turns to the local 
Sector Force to provide the manpower. 


The Alliance Army and Sector Force Command Structure 
Some Sector Forces retain their own specific army organizations, but most 
have adopted the Rebellion’s system described below, based on the traditional 
galactic army order of battle. However, the specific number and size of units 
varies greatly from sector to sector. Sector Forces also use the navy and 
Starfighter Command organizations presented earlier. Ultimately, all units 
within a specific Sector Force answer to the sector's Commander in Chief 
or equivalent commanding officer. 

Squad (9 troopers): The smallest group in the Alliance army, a squad is 
commanded by a sergeant. 

Platoon (36 troopers): The standard platoon consists of four squads led 
bya lieutenant and a master sergeant. 

Company (144 troopers plus support personnel): A company is formed 
of four platoons commanded by a captain. 

Battalion (576 troopers plus support personnel): A battalion consists 
of four companies led by a major. 


Regiment (2,304 troopers plus support personnel): A regiment 
consists of four battalions led by a colonel (sometimes called a regimental 
commander). 

Brigade (9,216 troopers plus support personnel): A brigade consists 
of four regiments led by a general or colonel. In some Allied Commands, 
a brigade might be referred to as a legion, depending on local military 
tradition. 

Corps (36,864 troopers plus support personnel): A corps consists of 
four brigades commanded by a general. 

Sector Army (over 100,000 troopers plus support personnel): Theo- 
retically, a sector army consists of multiple corps, with the exact number 
and size determined by the size of the sector's assets. Practically speaking, 
the number varies considerably, depending on the time frame involved and 
the strength of Rebellion forces within the sector. By the Battle of Endor, a 
few sectors might be able to field multiple corps, while others are lucky to 
field a regiment. The sector army is commanded by the sector's most senior 
general, who might also be the Sector Force or Allied Commander. The com- 
manding officer answers to the Alliance High Command Commander in Chief, 
Mon Mothma, although in practical terms, he or she coordinates with Sector 
Command for everyday operations. 


senwinity Tasey on. fin esrevno 


SsOnNuvImTIY WESH) SHL 


1A BSLayvHO 


REBEL BASES 
Rebel bases and outposts are the Rebellion’s intelligence and communications 
centers. They provide safe havens for training, meetings, medical treatment, 
and repair facilities. The size and structure of these bases vary greatly, and 
they are normally camouflaged within the surrounding environment. The 
Rebel main base houses Alliance High Command, when it is not aboard the 
fleet. Alliance High Command is guarded by the best Special Forces units and 
starfighter squadrons, and its location is a closely guarded secret. 

However, the vast majority of bases and outposts are small and unassum- 
ing, to minimize detection. Hidden rooms, small caves, or abandoned wrecks 
serve as meeting places for Rebel cells. Individual apartments or permanently 
grounded starships can become safe houses or weapons caches. Large hidden 
caches of weapons and materiel become supply bases for local groups. 

Sector Forces, Allied Commands, and major resistance groups typically 
use large bases as their command centers. These bases have starship and 
vehicle hangars and repair facilities, sensor arrays, communications relays, 
and limited defenses. They also provide advanced training facilities and living 
quarters for a large number of personnel. A few large bases house small-scale 
manufacturing facilities for Alliance starfighters. 

Starfighter bases provide forward outposts from which starfighter attacks 
can be directed, A typical starfighter base is little more than a hangar, a 
command center, and living quarters. 


REBEL OPERATIVES 

Even though the Alliance military is formidable in limited operations, it 
lacks the strength to fully engage Imperial forces in a sustained campaign. 
Throughout the galaxy, individual Rebel agents, or operatives, work in 
conjunction with cell networks and Alliance military elements to engage 
the Empire on a daily basis. These are the Rebellion’s spies, propagandists, 
recruiters, scroungers, and aid workers. They sow the seeds of rebellion on 
Imperial planets throughout the galaxy. Rebel operatives are always out- 
gunned, always outnumbered, and usually working in complete isolation. 

Many heroes in this era act as highly autonomous Rebel operatives. 
Agents can be attached to various parts of the Alliance structure, Rebel 
field agents work for Alliance Intelligence on semiautonomous, long-term 
missions. Other agents work for local resistance groups, perhaps attached to 
the local Sector Force or reporting through a cell network. Scroungers and 
procurement specialists work for local forces or for one of the Alliance High 
Command's ministries. They receive orders through other agents or through 
an attached military command. Agents must be able to adapt to constantly 
changing conditions and goals. 

Agent secrecy is paramount, because discovery means almost certain 
arrest, internment, and interrogation by Imperial officials. Agents also 
run the risk of Imperial reprisal against the local citizenry if an operative's 
actions attract notice. 


SECTORS IN REBELLION a 
With resistance efforts spread across a multitude of sectors in the galaxy, 
judging the reach and strength of Rebel Alliance forces is difficult. Below 
is a partial list of sectors in which Rebel activity takes place during i. 
time between the signing of the Corellian Treaty and the Battle of Endo: 
The amount and type of resistance varies greatly among sectors, anc 
many offer only minimal resistance until well after the Battle of Yavir 
Rebel activity increases significantly after the Alliance evacuation from. 
Hoth and in preparation for the Battle of Endor. After Endor, as the Alli 
ance transforms into the New Republic, many of these sectors are ‘amon 
the first to throw off their Imperial oppressors. 


Ado Churnis Kira Parmorak 

Airam Corellian Lambda Ploo 

Anoat Eclorar Lifh Rayter 

Atrivis Elrood Maldrood Rolion 

Bormea Farstay Merel Sumitra 

Brak Hollan D1 Moddell Tapani 

Bruanii Homon Oplovis Tharin 

Calamari Irnaj Ottega Trans-| Nebular 
Carrion Kalamith Parmel Trax 

Churba 4 


Rebel Cell Networks 

On worlds under Imperial control, Rebel cell networks provide citizens with 
the means to clandestinely strike back at the Empire. Cell networks are 
essentially intelligence-gathering tools, providing a means of transmitting 
information to Alliance Intelligence while protecting the entire network in 
case of detection. 

Cells are composed of three or four individuals, each of whom knows his 
or her own cell members plus one individual from another cell. Information 
and orders are passed to and from the local area coordinator through the 
network of cells. Area coordinators implement plans to carry out the orders 
of the network leader. The network leader—typically one per world—reports 
to off-world case officers located in the local Sector Force headquarters. 
Case officers work directly with Alliance Intelligence, providing information 
obtained by the network and receiving orders for new operations. Networks 
are designed to sustain the loss of multiple cells, and even of an area coor- 
dinator, with limited damage. However, heavily compromised networks must 
sometimes disband and reconstitute with a new structure. 


Special Operations 

‘Special Operations groups are made up of individuals who have shown great 
personal initiative, wide-ranging skills, and spectacular success at achieving 
Alliance goals in the most dire situations. Most Special Ops members are 
considered troublemakers or misfits by standard Alliance commands, but they 
are dedicated individuals who are able to take on challenges anywhere in 
the galaxy. The Chief of Special Operations reports directly to Alliance High 
Command, but must coordinate with the other Alliance commands for sup- 
plies and equipment. Those commands’ willingness to support a Special Ops 
team is directly related to the priority of the mission, the team's reputation, 
and how hard Alliance High Command leans on it, 

Special Operations mission groups receive their orders from the chief, 
delivered through the local Alliance command structure. Depending on the 
task at hand, a mission group might fall under the operational control of a 
local commander, group, or agent, or the mission group might be granted 
autonomy. Mission groups are typically small—usually 5-10 members—and 
have their own transportation. Missions might be covert (such as breaking 
key figures out of Imperial prisons) or intentionally conspicuous (such as 
blowing up a Star Destroyer in orbit around a planet occupied by Imperial 
Forces). There are a few self-sustaining, autonomous Special Operations 
Teams that essentially fight the Empire on their own terms and respond to 
Alliance requests for aid when and as they see fit. 


ALLIANCE PERSONNEL 
Below are several types of Rebel Alliance members. They are shown here as 
Human, but members of the Rebellion can be of any known species; their 
game statistics should be adjusted accordingly. Additional typical Rebel 
soldiers can be found in the Saga Edition core rulebook. Bothan spies and 
other typical character types can be adapted from the generic characters 
found in Threats of the Galaxy. 


REBEL CELL MEMBER 

Rebel cell members make up the bulk of Alliance assets on Imperial-held 
worlds. These covert agents vary greatly in species, skills, and military 
knowledge. They are often the only Alliance presence on Imperial worlds 
and therefore must be self-motivated and able to operate without direct 
oversight. Given the need for secrecy, these agents are unaware of the extent 
of other Rebel cells operating in the same area. To cell members, secrecy is 
paramount, as is concealing their true loyalties from those around them. 


Rebel Cell Member cL1 

Medium Human nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, 1 other 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 10, Will 11 

hp 5; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +0 (144-1) 

Ranged hold-out blaster +1 (344) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +1 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Feats Skill Focus (Gather Information), Skill Training (Deception, Stealth"), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +6, Gather Information +12, Perception +7, Stealth +6, 
Use Computer +7" 

Possessions hold-out blaster, datapad (encrypted), comlink (encrypted) 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


REBEL HONOR GUARD 

The guerrilla nature of the Rebel Alliance minimizes the use of ceremonial 
uniforms and personnel. However, there are occasions when pomp and 
formality are either required by protocol or desired by Alliance leaders and 
soldiers alike: medal ceremonies, formal visits to high-ranking officials, and 
bereavement traditions, to name a few. 

The first Rebel Honor Guards are survivors of Alderaan, and they adapt 
their Alderaanian dress uniforms for their new role. Trained as bodyguards, 
they are the protectors of the Alliance leadership at formal occasions. Though 
Honor Guards are not trained to the same level of ability or fanaticism as the 
Imperial Royal Guard, they are professional, loyal protectors. Honor Guard 
personnel are regularly rotated back into standard Rebel units. There they 
share their new training with other unit members, which increases the likeli- 
hood that a few Honor Guards are available in any given sector. However, 
the primary reason for the personnel rotation is that Mon Mothma knows 
the dangers of keeping an elite unit too close to the Alliance's leadership. By 
rotating the troops, she hopes to prevent the Honor Guards from becoming 
too loyal to any single leader, and to prevent them from developing a sense 
of elitism. 


U 


Rebel Honor Guard cL5 

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 3 

Force 4 

Init +11; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 14), Fort 16, Will 13 

hp 41; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+2) or 

Melee ceremonial staff +8 (1d6+3) or 

Melee ceremonial staff -2/-2 (1d6+3/1d6+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (346+1) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Harm's Way 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Armored Defense, Harm's Way 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Damage Threshold, 
Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Focus (pistols) 


weapons) 


Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
Skills Initiative +11, Perception +9' 
Possessions blaster pistol, ceremonial staff, ceremon 

blast vest and helmet (+2 armor), comlink (encrypted) 
H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


niform, 


REBEL MARKSMAN 

All Rebels receive training in standard blaster types, but the best shooting 
soldiers receive additional marksman and sniper training with a variety of 
blasters and other weapon types. Marksmen are integrated into standard 
Rebel ground units, and elite snipers can be assigned to Special Forces. 


A REBEL MARKSMAN LINES Up ron 4 SHOT ON A TIE 


Rebel Marksman cL4 
Medium Human nonheroic 3/scout 3 
Force 4 
Init +10; Senses Perception +8 (can reroll) 
Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 15, Will 13 
hp 27; Threshold 15 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1) 
Ranged blaster rifle +7 (3d8+1) 
Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+1) 
Base Atk +4; Grp +6 
Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Careful Shot, Keen Shot, 
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Sniper 
Abilities Str 11, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 8 
Talents Acute Senses, Keen Shot 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Sniper, Weapon Focus (rifles)", Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 
Skills Initiative +10, Perception +8" (can reroll) 
Possessions blaster rifle, blaster pistol, comlink (encrypted), 
blast helmet and vest (+2 armor) 
H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


RESISTANCE LEADER 

Resistance leaders hold a dangerous but critical position. They must recruit 
new members to the Alliance cause, plan new ways to resist local Imperial 
actions and then carry out those actions, and remain undetected by Impe- 
rial security forces. Discovery and capture mean imprisonment and possibly 
death for sedition or treasonous activities. These leaders must motivate their 
resistance group or cell network members and encourage the growth of the 
Rebellion at a grassroots level. Resistance leaders can be found in any busi- 
ness or government position at virtually any political or social level. 


Resistance Leader cL5 
Medium Human noble 3/scoundrel 2 

Force 3 

Init +8; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Huttese, Shyriiwook 


ROGUE SQUADRON PILOT 

The heroic exploits of Rogue Squadron become legendary during the Rebel- 
Jion and the New Republic. Some pilots remain members of the squadron 
for extended periods, while others rotate in and out at the determination of 
the squadron leader. Rogue Squadron members are excellent pilots, but they 
typically have other combat and related skills, enabling them to carry out 
orders and assignments not usually given to a fighter squadron. 


Rogue Squadron Pilot cL8 
Medium Human scoundrel 3/soldier 4/ace pilot 1 

Destiny 1; Force 5 

Init +11; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 22, Will 20; Dodge 

hp 60; Threshold 22 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 15, Will 19 
hp 32; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +4 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Fool's Luck, Inspire Confidence 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +3 (4d6+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Far Shot, Hyperdriven, 
Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Running Attack, Spacehound 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Talents Connections, Fool's Luck, Inspire Confidence 

Feats Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, Persuasion"), 
Skill Training (Mechanics, Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Gather Information +9, Initiative +8, Knowledge 
(tactics) +8, Mechanics +8, Perception +9, Persuasion +14, Pilot +8", 
Stealth +8, Use Computer +8 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, datapad (encrypted), comlink 
(encrypted), pocket scrambler, electrobinoculars, Medpac, mesh tape, 
security kit, tool kit 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 11 

Talents Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Elusive Dogfighter, 
Hyperdriven, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Spacehound 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge", Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Running Attack, Skill Training (Use Computer), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +9, Perception +10, Pilot +11, 
Stealth +11", Use Computer +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink (encrypted), flight suit, 
X-wing starfighter 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


1A walawHS 


eOnuiiy WESEY) SHA 


iA BalavHS 


SPECFORCE GUERRILLA 

SpecForce guerrillas are urban-combat specialists. Trained to fight within 
the confines of the galaxy's sprawling urban environments and planetwide 
cities, guerrillas are proficient at using a city's form and facilities against the 
Imperials, Guerrillas are street fighters and close-combat specialists. They 
understand that their battleground contains citizens not directly involved in 
the fight. On one hand, guerrillas know how to minimize collateral damage; 
on the other, they can demolish an entire Imperial facility when required. 
They are trained in martial arts, light arms, demolition, stealth, and scouting 
urban targets. They are tough city fighters, unafraid of challenging urban 
locales such as kilometer-high structures or the underworld of a city's 
lowest levels. 


SpecForce Guerrilla cLS 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/scout 4 

Force 3 

Init +5; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 16, Will 15 

hp 33; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+3) 

Ranged blaster carbine +7 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +2 (4d8+2) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6+2, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Running Attack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Improved Stealth, Hidden Movement 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Martial Arts I", Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Running Attack, Skill Training (Mechanics), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +8, Perception +9", Stealth +10 (can reroll) 

Possessions blaster carbine, frag grenade, comlink (encrypted), 
detonite with timer 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


SPECFORCE INFILTRATOR 

Infiltrator units are composed of some of the most vengeance-ridden 
members of the Rebel Alliance. They channel their anger into direct, per- 
sonal action against the Imperials and are the most feared of all SpecForce 
operatives—for their skills as well as their attitude. Infiltrators slip into 
enemy-held facilities, causing confusion and disrupting command and con- 
trol measures. They excel at stealth and fight with close personal weapons 
designed to eliminate enemies quickly and quietly. 


SpecForce Infiltrator cL7 

Medium Human scout 4/scoundrel 3 

Force 4 

Init +10; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 19), Fort 20, Will 18 

hp 62; Threshold 20 

‘Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d8+5) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +7 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6+3, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged stun grenade +7 (4d6+3 stun, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, 
Sneak Attack +146 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Talents Dastardly Strike, Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth, 
Sneak Attack +146 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light)", Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Pin, 
Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training 
(Acrobatics), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +10, Climb +10, Initiative +10, Jump +10", 
Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Stealth +15 (can reroll) 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, frag grenade, stun grenade, 
comlink (encrypted), detonite with timer 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


SPECFORCE MARINE 

SpecForce marines specialize in hand-to-hand combat aboard fleet vessels. 
They are trained in both onboard defense of their own ships and tactics for 
boarding enemy vessels. They do not typically serve as the ship's general 
security, but instead are stationed in critical areas when boarding actions 
are possible. Marines are trained in shipboard combat, so they can, in any 
area of a ship, identify the weapons that can be used against boarders with- 
out causing undue collateral damage to the vessel’s systems. They excel in 
shipboard sabotage and can operate with or without armored space suits and 
in zero-g conditions. They typically use light weapons, but they can employ 
heavier weapons when attacking large capital ships, which can better bear 
the brunt of powerful arms. 


INFILTRATOR, SPECFORCE ManiNe, SPECFORCE OFricen 


SpecForce Marine 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/soldier 3 
Force 3 

Init +10; Senses Perception +8 
Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), 
hp 41; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+1) 
Ranged blaster rifle +8 (348+1) or 
Ranged blaster rifle +3 (4d8+1) w 
Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6+1, 2 
Base Atk +5; Grp +7 


cL 4 


Atk Options 
Abilities Si 
Talents Arm 


e (blaster rifle), Deva: 
Precise Shot, Rapi 
1, Dex 14, Ci Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 8 

d Defense, D ig Attack (rifles) 


ating Attack (rifles), 
hot, Sniper 


Feats Arm ight), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid a 
Shot, Sn cus (rifles)", Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 

Skills Initiative +10, Per 8 

Possessions blaster rifle, frag grenade, comlink (encrypted), blast helmet 


at or trained skill 


1A SSLavHS 


é 
9 
8 
e 


SPECFORCE OFFICER 

SpecForce officers are highly intelligent, creative leaders able to revise com- 
plicated military operations on the fly and still succeed in their mission. A 
SpecForce officer is usually the most experienced member of a SpecForce unit 
and is expected to share knowledge and experience with those under his or her 
command, SpecForce officers are typically promoted from within each type of 
SpecForce unit, but some have served in more than one type of unit. 


SpecForce Officer CL7 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/scout 1/soldier 3/officer 2 

Force 4 

Init +5; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 20, Will 19 

hp 56; Threshold 25 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+4) or 

Melee vibroblade +8 (2d6+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (346+3) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged frag grenade +8 (4d6+3, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 15, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Deployment Tactics) 

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics, 
Improved Stealth 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Damage Threshold, Martial Arts 
I", Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Perception, 
Survival), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +11, Mechanics +11, Perception +10, 
Persuasion +16, Stealth +10, Survival +10" 

Possessions blaster pistol, blaster rifle, vibroblade, frag grenade, 
comlink (encrypted), blast helmet and vest (+2 armor) 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


ALLIANCE 
PERSONALITIES 


The Rebel Alliance has many unique leaders and influential personnel. These 
personalities can be used as commanding officers or as support for the 
heroes. Many of the greatest heroes from the movies are detailed in the Saga 
Edition core rulebook and therefore are not repeated here. Information about 
Mon Mothma, Bail Organa, Garm Bel Iblis, Starkiller (Vader's apprentice), 
and several former Imperials turned Rebel leaders is provided in the Force 
Unleashed Campaign Guide. Information about Bail Organa can also be found 
in Threats of the Galaxy. 


ADMIRAL ACKBAR 

Hero of the Rebel Alliance and of his own people, Admiral Ackbar serves as 
the head of the Rebel fleet for most of the Alliance's existence, A brilliant 
tactician and powerful leader, Ackbar is best known for victory over Imperial 
fleet at the Battle of Endor. However, during the early years of the Rebel- 
lion, Ackbar is an Imperial slave, like the rest of the Mon Calamari. As Grand 
Moff Tarkin’s slave, Ackbar gains considerable insight into Imperial tactics, 
weapons, and plans. After a Rebel attack on the Grand Moff frees Ackbar, he 
returns to Mon Calamari, where he convinces others to join the Rebel cause. 
He oversees the Shantipole Project, which created the B-wing starfighter. 
Quickly rising through the Rebel ranks, he becomes an admiral and directs 
the Rebel's major fleet actions and other operations. He is instrumental in 
the acquisition of Mon Calamari star cruisers by the Rebels, and in the ships’ 
conversion to full-scale military capital ships. 


ADMIRAL ACKBAR 


Admiral Ackbar (Episode V1) cL 

Medium Mon Calamari noble 5/soldier 2/officer 4 

Destiny 2; Force 5 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +17 

Languages Basic, Bothan, Durese, High Galactic, Mon Calamarian, 
Quarrenese, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 

hp 61; Threshold 23 

Speed 6 squares, swim 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (346+5) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +10 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Deployment Tactics, Rally 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 15, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Special Qualities breathe underwater, command cover, share talent 
(Assault Tactics, Deployment Tactics) 

Talents Armored Defense, Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Deployment 
Tactics, Distant Command, Rally 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium) Linguist, Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[tactics], Perception), Skill Training (Knowledge [tactics]), Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Knowledge (physical sciences) +12, 
Knowledge (tactics) +17, Knowledge (technology) +12, Mechanics +12, 
Perception +17, Persuasion +12, Pilot +11, Swim +5 (can reroll), 

Use Computer +12 
Possessions blaster pistol, comlink (encrypted), datapad 


, Will 27 


WEDGE ANTILLES 
Wedge Antilles never sets out to be the career soldier and legendary Rebel 
Alliance and New Republic hero he will ultimately become. He reveals his 
combat prowess and tenacity by chasing down and destroying the pirate ship 
responsible for the death of his parents. The ship flees his parents’ refueling 
platform with its fuel lines still attached, and they die saving the station. 
Directionless, but not without friends such as Booster Terrik, Wedge begins 
a career as a smuggler. After running cargo for Rebel-affiliated customers, 
Wedge joins the Rebel Alliance as a starfighter pilot 

Wedge soon becomes a member of Red Squadron and is one of the few 
survivors of the attack on the first Death Star. He goes on to join and later 
lead the elite Rogue Squadron. Although primarily a fighter pilot, he also 
briefly serves as a spy and a commando and even as the commander of a 
Star Destroyer and as a fleet commander in the days of the New Republic 
With the Rebel Alliance and Roque Squadron, Wedge distinguishes himself 
at the Rebellion's most critical battles, such as at Hoth and Endor. He is the 


only Rebel pilot to attack both Death Stars, destroying the second one with 
help from the Millennium Falcon. 


Wedge Antilles 
(Episode VI) 
Medium Human scoundrel 1/soldier 6/ace pilot 2 
Destiny 1; Force 5 

Init +12; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Mon Calamarian 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 23), Fort 22, Will 21; Dodge 

hp 56; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d6+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +10 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Penetrating Attack 
(heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Spacehound 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 11 

Special Qualities vehicle dodge +1 

Talents Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Elusive Dogfighter, 
Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Spacehound, Weapon 
Specialization (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency 
(light), Dodge, Martial 
Arts |, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, 
Skill Focus (Pilot), 
Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Focus (heavy 
weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced \4 
melee weapons, 
pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, 
Mechanics +10, 
Perception +10, 

Pilot +17, Stealth +12, 
Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster 
pistol, comlink, 
datapad, flight suit, 
tool kit 


os 


Weooe ANTILLES 


1A BSLawHS 


eanviiiy W8s») sHA 


TYCHO CELCHU 

Tycho Celchu joins the Imperial Academy with an idealistic intention to 
change the Imperial military from within. After training under Soontir Fel 
Tycho graduates and is posted to a Star Destroyer as a TIE fighter pilot. 
Celchu's life changes direction when his birthday transmission to Alderaan 
abruptly ends as the Death Star shatters the planet. With his family and 
fiancée dead, Celchu abandons his post and soon joins the Rebel Alliance. 
He joins the elite Rogue Squadron, battling AT-ATs at Hoth and attacking 
the second Death Star in an A-wing at the Battle of Endor. Celchu flies and 
fights extensively for the New Republic, though his career has rocky times. 
He marries Winter after his retirement years later. 


Tycho Celchu (Episode VI) cL 

Medium Human soldier 7/ace pilot 1 

Destiny 1; Force 5 

Init +11; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, High Galactic 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 22, Will 19; Dodge 

hp 103; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (4d6+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (heavy weapons 
(heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Indomitable, Tough As Nails 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 11 

Talents Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Elusive Dogfighter, 
Indomitable, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Tough as Nail 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dodge, Point Blank Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Skill Focus (Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (heavy 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +10, Perception +10, Pilot +16, Use 
Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, flight suit, comlink 


Penetrating Attack 


GENERAL AIREN CRACKEN 

In his early days on his homeworld of Contruum, Airen Cracken owns a 
mechanic's shop, where he earns his reputation as a master mechanic and 
a creative technologist. His crew members are fast learners and apply their 
creative skills to any project that comes through the door. When Imperial 
forces arrive to take over the planet, Cracken and his employees organize a 
guerrilla force specializing in sabotage. He also establishes safe havens for 
the civilian population, In short, he single-handedly creates one of the most 
successful resistance groups to engage the Empire. In a few years, he and 
his crew make operating on Contruum so expensive for the Empire that the 
occupation forces withdraw. 

Cracken realizes Contruum’s good fortune has much to do with its 
nsignificance in the galaxy, and he is not willing to let the Empire con- 
tinue to torment other worlds. He and his crew say good-bye to their loved 
ones and join the Rebel Alliance. Their knowledge and creativity quickly 
spread throughout the Alliance forces, injecting a new ingenuity into Rebel 
tactics and covert operations. Cracken's Crew remains active as well, and 
ts signature calling card—a hydrospanner inscribed "Cracken's Crew Says 
Hello"—begins appearing in Imperial installations throughout the galaxy. 


GENERAL AIREN CRACKEN 


Cracken leads raids, trains and briefs Alliance agents of every sort, and works 
his way Up to become head of Alliance Intelligence. His efforts support Crix 
Madine's commando units, and the hands-on general even mans one of the 
Millennium Falcon’s turrets at the Battle of Endor. 
Airen Cracken (Episode VI) cL 10 
Medium Human noble 3/scout 1/scoundrel 5/soldier 1 

Destiny 2; Force 5 

Init +7; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary (understand only), Bocce, Bothese, Durese, 
Huttese, Shyriiwook, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 22, Will 24 

hp 53; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+5) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +9 (3d8+5) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +4 (4d8+5) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Jury-Rigger, Knack 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Talents Demolitionist, Educated, Gimmick, Jury-Rigger, Knack, 

Master Slicer, Spontaneous Skill 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Mechanics, Knowledge (tactics, technology}), 
Skill Training (Stealth), Tech Specialist, Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +12, Gather Information +12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+13, Knowledge (physical sciences) +13, Knowledge (tactics) +18, 
Knowledge (technology) +18, Mechanics +18 (can reroll when making 
Jury-rigged repair), Perception +12, Persuasion +12, Stealth +12, 

Use Computer +18 (can reroll when improving access, keeping 
better result) 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol (+1 Improved Accuracy), security kit, 
tool kit, comlink (encrypted), portable computer, datapad (encrypted), 
utility belt 


NERA DANTELS 

In the months following the Battle of Yavin, the smuggler turned Rebel 
Nera Dantels puts her substantial flying skills at the Alliance's disposal. She 
is passionate and headstrong and lets nothing stand in her way—whether 
it be rules or people. The blue, curved tattoos around her eyes prominently 
proclaim her individuality and refusal to blend in. Once romantically involved 
with Biggs Darklighter, Dantels continues his all-too-short fight against the 
Empire. Dantels is one of the first pilots to fly the newly developed B-wing 
starfighter, as a Dagger Squadron pilot. She also flies her own freighter, the 
Starduster. 


Nera Dantels (Episode V) cL5 

Medium Human scoundrel 5 

Destiny 1; Force 3 

Init +4; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 15, Will 17 

hp 55; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +0 (4d6+2) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +3; Grp +5 

Atk Options Hyperdriven, Lucky Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Knack 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 15 

Talents Hyperdriven, Knack, Lucky Shot 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +7, Perception +8, Pilot +9, Stealth +9, 
Use Computer +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, Starduster 


1A SaievHo 


0 

R 

i 

\5 

Ic| 

_ ar 
ms | 
= in) 
wD 
=H: 
=) 1] 
Bor 
ID 
|e 

| ¢ 
\|> 
Z 

@ 

0) 


BIGOs DaRKLoHTER 


BIGGS DARKLIGHTER 

A close friend of Luke Skywalker, Biggs Darklighter grows up in a relatively 
affluent family on Tatooine. Though Skywalker and Darklighter dream of join- 
ing the Academy together, only Biggs is able to go. He returns to Tatooine to 
tell Luke that he is joining the Rebellion through contacts at the Academy, 
and he tries to convince Luke of the dangers of the Empire. The two are 
surprised to see each other soon after as they prepare to defend the main 
Rebel base from the menacing Death Star. Darth Vader kills Biggs in the Death 
Star trench, as Biggs protects Luke during his attack run on the Death Star's 
thermal exhaust port. However, Biggs’ legacy lives on as a Rebel hero and 
through the exploits of his younger cousin, Gavin, who joins Rogue Squadron 
after the fall of the Emperor and goes on to have a long career with the New 
Republic and Galactic Alliance 


Biggs Darklighter (Episode IV) cL4 
Medium Human scout 1/soldier 3 

Destiny 1; Force 3 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 15; Dodge 

hreshold 17 


Melee unarmed +5 (14+4) 
Ranged blaster pistol +5 (346+2) 
Base Atk +3; Grp +5 


Atk Options Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons) 

Special Actions Harm's Way _ 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Harm's Way, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Skill Training (Use Computer), 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Knowledge (galactic lore) +7, Mechanics +7, 
Perception +8 (can reroll), Pilot +9, Survival +8, Use Computer +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, flight suit, comlink 


WES JANSON 

Before the Battle of Yavin, Wes Janson flies as a member of the Tierfon Yellow 
Aces, stationed at the Alliance's Tierfon outpost. Along with Jek Porkins and 
others, Janson is transferred to the main Rebel base on Yavin 4 just prior to 
the Death Star's arrival, but illness keeps Janson from flying in the battle. The 
often-joking Janson goes on to join Rogue Squadron as Rogue 6. At Hoth, 
he serves as Wedge Antilles’ gunner, becoming the first to flatten an Impe- 
rial walker with his harpoon and tow cable. Janson and Antilles eventually 
founded the New Republic's elite experimental Wraith Squadron. 


Wes Janson (Episode VI) cLs 

Medium Human soldier 7/ace pilot 1 

Destiny 1; Force 5 

Init +11; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 22), Fort 21, Will 18 

hp 103; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (346+4) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Expert Gunner, Far 
Shot, Melee Smash, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 11 

Talents Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Expert Gunner, Melee 
Smash, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Far Shot, Martial Arts |, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (heavy 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +10, Perception +9, Pilot +11, Use 
Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, flight suit, comlink, tool kit 


DEREK “HoBBIE" KLIVIAN 

Derek Klivian, known as “Hobbie,” joins the Rebellion along with Biggs Dark~ 
lighter after training at the Imperial Academy. Hobbie goes on to have a long 
Rebel career, flying with Rogue Group at the Battle of Hoth, with Wedge at 
the Battle of Endor, and as a member of Rogue Squadron for several years. 
His skepticism was well known among his squadron mates, as were incorrect 
but legendary stories of his demise. 


Derek "Hobbie" Klivian (Episode VI) cLs 

Medium Human soldier 6/scoundrel 1/ace pilot 1 

Destiny 1; Force 5 

Init +6; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 22), Fort 22, Will 20; Dodge 

hp 74; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Lucky Shot, 
Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 10 

Talents Armored Defense, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Keep It 
Together, Lucky Shot, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dodge, Martial Arts I, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Training (Deception), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Mechanics +9, Perception +10, Pilot +11, Use 
Computer +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, flight suit, comlink 


NIEN NUNB 

Nien Nunb is a well-known Rebel hero in the Sullust system. He originally 
works for the interstellar SoroSuub Corporation, but he quits in protest when 
the company takes control of Sullust and becomes an Imperial ally. He and 
his sister, Aril, raid SoroSuub ships in support of Rebel war and supply efforts, 
He and his ship, the Sublight Queen, gain the support of the Sullustan people 
and soon attract others ready to fight the Imperials. He is directly responsible 
for bringing SoroSuub and his homeworld into an alliance with the Rebellion. 
Nunb and much of his growing fleet escape an Imperial blockade to join the 
Alliance fleet. Nunb becomes a hero known throughout the Alliance as Lando 
Calrissian's copilot in the attack on the second Death Star, 


Nien Nunb (Episode VI) cL8 

Medium Sullustan scout 7/ace pilot 1 

Destiny 1; Force 5 

Init +11; Senses darkvision; Perception +10 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 21, Will 19 

hp 56; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares; Surefooted 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +2 (4d6+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Jury-Rigger, Quick Draw 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 11 

Special Qualities expert climber 

Talents Evasion, Fringe Savant, Jury-Rigger, Keep It Together, Surefooted 

Feats Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Skill Training 
(Initiative), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Mechanics +10 (can 
reroll when making jury-rigged repair), Perception +10 (can reroll), 
Pilot +11, Stealth +11, Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, flight suit, comlink, tool kit, utility belt 


1A S8iavHo 


| 
| 


Panwmntwy 


GENERAL CARLIGT RIEEKAN 


GENERAL CARLIST RIEEKAN 

Carlist Rieekan is an early member of the Rebel Alliance, working with 
resistance forces in and around his homeworld of Alderaan. A mission to 
observe and inspect satellite transmitters near Delaya, also in the Alderaan 
system, saves his life when the Death Star arrives and obliterates Alderaan. 
He feels that if he had acted more quickly, he might have saved some of the 
population by beginning an evacuation upon the Death Star's arrival in the 
system. This guilt drives him to become acutely defensively minded, which 
serves him well on Hoth. 

A dedicated Rebel and a fine officer, he rises to the rank of general while 
directing a variety of Alliance commands and operations, He becomes the 
commanding officer of the new Alliance main base on Hoth and successfully 
oversees the delaying action that allows many Rebels to escape the devas- 
tating Imperial attack. Rieekan survives the Galactic Civil War and becomes 
Minister of State of the New Republic. 


General Carlist Rieekan (Episode V) cL 12 

Medium Human noble 7/officer 5 

Destiny 2; Force 6 

Init +7; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Ithorese, Mon Calamarian, Shyriiwook, 
Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 25), Fort 24, Will 30 

hp 74; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (346+6) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate +1, Deployment Tactics, Field 
Tactics, Inspire Confidence, Outmaneuver, Trust 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Inspire Confidence, 
Deployment Tactics) 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate +1, Deployment Tactics, Field Tactics, 
Inspire Confidence, Outmaneuver, Trust 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics], Persuasion), 
Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +13, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +13, Knowledge (tactics) +18, Mechanics +13, Perception +14, 
Persuasion +19, Pilot +12, Use Computer +13 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, code cylinder 


DEENA SHAN 

Deena Shan is drawn to the excitement of the Rebellion but plagued with 
self-doubt about her capabilities and position within the Alliance. Her early 
mundane duties make her question her decision to join the Rebels, but an 
unexpected encounter with the Millennium Falcon and the heroes of Yavin 
quickly erases those feelings. Deena soon finds herself serving in the Rebellion 
in undercover and commando operations, using her looks and persuasive skills 
against unsuspecting Imperial officers. However, she is unprepared for the 
powerful emotional conflict between her duties and her feelings. She feels 
out of place and in over her head on the battlefield, Fellow Rebels have to 
remind her of her military position and help her overcome her inexperience 
and hesitation. Despite the emotional rollercoaster, she remains dedicated 
to the Rebel cause. 


Deena Shan (Episode V) cL5 

Medium Human scoundrel 1/ scout 4 

Destiny 1; Force 3 

Init +3; Senses Perception +9 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 18; Dodge 

hp 36; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Disruptive 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Talents Acute Senses, Disruptive, Improved Stealth 

Feats Dodge, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, 
Persuasion), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +15, Gather Information +10, Perception +9 (can reroll), 
Persuasion +15, Stealth +8 (can reroll), Use Computer +8 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink 


WICKET 

Wicket is the young Ewok responsible for bringing Princess Leia to Bright 
Tree Village on Endor's Forest Moon. Leia's arrival leads to his tribe's eventual 
alliance with the Rebel Special Forces team, there to destroy the massive 
shield generator protecting the Death Star in orbit high above the moon. 
Wicket's trap expertise contributes to the Ewoks’ surprisingly effective 
attack against the Imperial forces protecting the Death Star's shield genera- 
tor. Wicket's observation of Imperial activities prior to the battle also gives 
the Ewoks confidence that they can defeat the invaders—even with their 
primitive weaponry. 


Wicket (Episode VI) cL3 
‘Small Ewok scout 3 

Force 3 

Init +9; Senses Perception +7 (can reroll) 

Languages Ewokese 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 14, Will 14; Dodge 
hp 33; Threshold 14 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee spear +4 (1d8+3) 

Ranged spear +6 (1d8+2) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +0 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con 11, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 9 

Special Qualities scent 

Talents Acute Senses, Surefooted 

Feats Dodge, Skill Focus (Climb, Survival), Weapon Focus (simple 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +12, Jump +7, Perception +7 (can reroll), Stealth +14 
(can reroll), Survival +12 

Possessions spear 


WINTER 

Winter grows up in the Alderaan royal house, becoming known for her aris- 
tocratic manner and occasionally being mistaken for her close friend Princess 
Leia. As Leia enters politics, Winter becomes her personal assistant. After 
the destruction of Alderaan, Winter becomes an Alliance intelligence agent. 
She uses her unerring memory to scout potential targets. With that informa- 
tion, Winter can create detailed maps of targeted locations and dossiers on 
individuals, Both Imperials and Rebels know her as Targeter. 

Her perfect memory comes at a cost, however, She recalls details vividly, 
so she never escapes the pain of the loss of Alderaan or of any other trauma. 
After the establishment of the New Republic, Winter returns to work as Leia’s 
aide and as nanny and protector of the Solo children. Winter eventually 
marries Tycho Celchu. 


Winter (Episode VI) cL3 

Medium Human noble 1/scout 2 

Force 3 

Init +3; Senses Perception +12 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic, Binary (understand only), High Galactic, Huttese, 
Ithorese, Mon Calamarian, Shyriiwook, Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 17 

hp 27; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +0 (1d4) 

Ranged hold-out blaster +3 (3d4+1) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +3 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Talents Acute Senses, Presence 

Feats Improved Defenses, Linguist, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Training 
(Stealth, Survival), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +9, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+9, Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, Knowledge (social sciences) +9, 
Perception +12 (can reroll), Persuasion +9, Ride +8, Stealth +8, 
Survival +7, Treat Injury +7, Use Computer +9 

Possessions hold-out blaster, knife, electrobinoculars, comlink, datapad 


1A BaiavHS 


i 
| 


0 
r 
> 
v 
4 
a 
a 
is 


TECHNOLOGY 
AND VEHICLES 


The Rebel Alliance tries to standardize starships and weapon systems when 
possible, but as a network of semi-independent commands, the Alliance 
must press into service any available weapon, vehicle, or starship. With a 
few exceptions, such as the Mon Calamari Shipyards, the Rebel Alliance is 
unable to manufacture its own equipment, vehicles, technology, and other 
gear. However, it acquires materiel from across the galaxy through scroung- 
ing, donations, purchases, and other methods. The items shown described are 
among those used by Rebel forces. See the Saga Edition core rulebook and 
Starships of the Galaxy for additional Rebel vehicles and ships. 


EQUIPMENT 

The Rebel Alliance relies on nonstandard equipment and a high degree of 
creativity, whether upgrading outdated weaponry or modifying civilian items 
and vehicles for military use. Alliance scroungers and procurement specialists 
are adept at locating supplies that can be made suitable for a given task. 


CRACKEN'S TACTICS 

General Airen Cracken and his infamous Cracken's Crew excel at adapting 
equipment for sabotage or other disruptive purposes. Cracken and his crew 
members carry out extensive sabotage and clandestine attacks against the 
Empire, and they also train other units in their best tricks. Cracken's encrypted 
Rebel Field Guide can be found at most Rebel bases and training facilities. Not 
all of Cracken's tactics are destructive. As Cracken likes to point out, some- 
times disabling a mechanism is more effective than destroying it, especially 
if you hope to use it later or if you need to prevent collateral damage. The 
creative use of mundane items is another of his specialties. Cracken's more 
popular tactics are described here. 


Boosting the Power of a Repulsor Sled 
Found in docking bays and warehouses across the galaxy, the utilitarian 
repulsor sled is a staple of cargo manipulation. Typically floating a half meter 
or less above the floor, a sled can easily move pallets, crates, and other cargo. 
Given their near-universal availability in docking bays, repulsor sleds are 
among the items commonly used and adapted by Rebel agents, who typically 
temporarily boost the power of the sled to gain speed, altitude, or both. 

Required Items: Repulsor sled, independent power source (typically a 
small generator, vehicle battery pack, or power cable attached to a wall 
outlet), and basic tools. 

Modification Time: 2 minutes. 

Skill Check: Mechanics DC 15 or DC 10 with Tech Specialist feat. 

Result: Increases sled speed by 2 squares or altitude by 2 squares. Lasts 
for 2d4 rounds before repulsorlift circuitry burns out and the sled crashes to. 
the ground, useless and requiring spare parts to repair. The duration should 
be unknown to the heroes, although the sled might give off warning signs a 
round or two before failing. 


Disabling a Shield Generator 

Disabling a shield generator with explosives or well-placed blaster fire is 
easy enough, but disabling a generator in a manner that is reversible or 
undetectable can be more useful. The installation of an LK-4 fusible link in 
‘one of the system's main power couplings can shut down the shield as soon 
as it achieves 50% power output. However, there must be no power to the 
coupling during installation, so the agent must provide an explanation for 
the temporary shutdown, 

Some agents prefer to short-circuit the system using a length of power 
cable with a vampiric power tap at one end. The tap is hooked to the gen- 
erator's main power supply cable, while the opposite end is attached to the 
negative power coupling. When the tap is triggered by remote control or 
by detecting a rise in power through the cable, it sinks its sharpened metal 
teeth through the power cable's insulation to the interior wire. The energy 
flows to the power coupling and either burns it out or surges through the 
generator's power system, causing it to automatically shut down. 

Required Items: LK-4 fusible link (or similar equipment for vehicles) or 
3-meter power cable with vampiric power tap, basic tools, 

Installation Time: 5 minutes. 

Skill Check: With fusible link, Mechanics DC 15 or 10 with Tech Specialist 
feat. With power tap, Mechanics DC 20 or DC 15 with Tech Specialist feat. 

Result: With the fusible link, the shield generator shuts down upon 
reaching at least 50% power, and it cannot be used until the link is found 
and removed. With the power tap, the shield generator shuts down upon 
activation of the tap, and the generator requires extensive repairs and spare 
parts to reactivate. 


Disabling Speeder Safety Systems 
Some hotshot swoop and speeder racers like to disable the built-in safety 
systems of their vehicles, gaining more agility by making the vehicle less 
stable. Pilots sometimes find themselves unable to cope with the results 
and crash into the ground or another object. Agents use this tactic to 
sabotage enemy speeders; unsuspecting pilots might crash before figuring 
out the problem. 

Required Items: Too! kit. 

Modification Time: 2 minutes. 

Skill Check: Mechanics DC 25 or DC 20 with Tech Specialist feat. 


Result: The speeder’s Dexterity score increases by 4, which in turn 
increases the vehicle's initiative and Pilot skill modifiers by +2 and increases 
the vehicle's Reflex Defense by +2. Pilot checks failed by 5 or more cause a 
-5 penalty on the next Pilot check. Unsuspecting pilots receive a -10 penalty 
to all Pilot checks until the first successful Pilot check. 


Disabling a Walker's Drive Motor 
Disabling a walker's drive motor is easy. The hard part is getting inside to 
begin with, Large walkers are typically disabled by damaging the internal 
hydraulic system. Smaller walkers must have the exterior drive joint physi- 
cally jammed. Many agents prefer to target a walker's gyroscopic balancing 
system, making the walker difficult to control and often causing it to tip 
over when under power, 
Required Items: Tool kit, cutting device, or object to jam mechanism. 
Modification Time: 1 minute (30 seconds with cutting device). 
Skill Check: Mechanics DC 15 or DC 10 with Tech Specialist feat. 
Result: The walker cannot move, but its other systems are still functional. 
If the gyroscopic balancing system is disabled, the walker can move, but the 
Pilot receives -20 penalty to all Pilot checks. Failure results in the walker 
toppling over. 


Jury-Rigging a Power-Pack Bomb 

Power-pack bombs are unpredictable but powerful improvised explosives. 
Rebel agents find them useful because the basic components are usually at 
hand. However, their unpredictability causes agents to use them only when 
desperate. The bomb works by taping 2 to 5 power packs together, then 
disabling the packs’ sturm dowels, thereby causing the packs to build up an 
excessive charge and to explode after about 30 seconds. Although blaster 
power packs are typically used, any large power cell can be adapted to the 
task, Attaching an optional timing device or remote-controlled detonator is 
possible, but it is complicated by the need to include a mechanism to remove 
the dowels. Also, the explosion is not instantaneous, since the power packs 
must build up the charge first. 

Required Items: 2 to 5 power packs, mesh tape, optional timing device 
or remote detonator with dowel-removal mechanism, tool kit required for 
timing device. 

Creation Time: 2 minutes without timing device (30 minutes with 
timing device) 

Skill Check: Mechanics DC 15 or DC 10 with Tech Specialist feat to 
create without timing device. A failure of 10 or more below the DC results 
in immediate detonation. With a timing device, the checks are Mechanics 
DC 25 or 20 with Tech Specialist feat, instead of the DC 10 typically required 
to set a detonator. Failure results in immediate detonation. 

Result: The bomb detonates 146 rounds after the last dowel is removed or 
the detonation device is activated (rolled secretly by the Gamemaster). The 
bomb can be thrown like a grenade, but it does not explode until the charge 
builds up. The bomb can also be set as in the Place Explosive Device under 
the Mechanics skill. Once the charge begins building up, the bomb cannot be 


disarmed. Damage is 2 die of the type of power pack used (for example, a bomb 
made from two blaster-rifle power packs and a blaster-pistol power pack is 
4d8+2d6). A standard power cell uses d6 damage dice. The explosion deals 
damage as an area attack to all targets within a 2-square burst radius. 


Overloading a Starship or Vehicle Weapon 

Whether you are disabling an enemy ship or merely need a diversion, over- 
loading a ship or vehicle's energy weapon attracts a lot of attention in a hurry. 
Although it takes time to build up a big enough charge in the supercapacitors, 
the resulting explosion destroys the weapon and heavily damages the ship. 

Required Items: Tool kit (not required for remote modification). 

Modification Time: 30 seconds. 

Skill Check: Mechanics DC 20 or DC 15 with Tech Specialist feat or Use 
Computer DC 30 for remote modification through ship or vehicle onboard 
network (remote modification not possible on smaller vehicles). 

Result: The detonation occurs 1d6 rounds after the task is completed 
and deals damage as an area attack to all targets within a 4-square burst 
radius around the weapon, equal to the damage the weapon normally deals 
when firing. The attached vehicle also takes this damage (only once, not per 
square). The weapon can be disarmed before detonation, or it can be disabled 
by cutting power to the weapon while it charges. 


Sending a Reactor into Automatic Shutdown 
There are times when disabling a reactor is preferable to destroying it; irra~ 
diating a city rarely helps the Rebel cause. Clever agents use a reactor's own 
safety systems to force it into an automatic shutdown, making restarting 
the reactor in a short amount of time difficult or impossible. The hardest 
part of this task is reaching the portion of the system to be disabled. Typical 
methods include disabling the cooling system, disrupting the fuel-supply 
system, fooling safety sensors, and shorting out detectors. 

Required Items: Too! kit. 

Modification Time: 2 minutes. 

Skill Check: Mechanics DC 20 or DC 15 with Tech Specialist feat. 

Result: Success begins the shutdown process due to a physical fault. A 
reactor can take 1 to 5 minutes to fully shut down. Failure means that the 
reactor continues to function normally, although security systems might 
alert the reactor control room to the attempted sabotage. 


Using Droid Restraining Bolts to Your Advantage 
Never underestimate the usefulness of a droid restraining bolt. Although 
combat droids are shielded against enemy installation of the devices, Rebel 
agents deal with innumerable standard civilian units that are susceptible to 
restraining bolts. The devices rarely help an agent interrogate or take control 
of a droid, but they can prevent a droid from informing others of the agent's 
presence and keep the droid out of the agent's way. 

Attaching a restraining bolt quickly and at range is challenging. Using 
instantly fusing attachment disks is a must. Heroes can find these unusual 
devices in civilized centers and from outlaw tech dealers at triple the cost of 


1A BaiavHO 


i 
| 


regular restraining bolts. A Jedi can use Move Light Object to slap a bolt on 
a droid. Others can use stealth, deception, or persuasion to get close enough 
to attach the disk. Some agents modify the disk to instantly activate when 
attached (Mechanics DC 15), paralyzing the droid. In some droid models, the 
bolts must be attached in specific locations to be effective. 


WEAPON 
EMPLACEMENTS 


The Rebel Alliance relies on artillery emplacements to bolster the defenses of 
major bases and outposts. Fixed emplacements take time to install, and only 
permanent bases or those most in need of defense are granted this scarce 
resource, Weapon emplacements are treated as vehicles for statistical pur- 
poses, but they are usually immobile and do not require a pilot to function. 
Instead, gunners control all the functions of a weapon emplacement. 


ATGAR 1.4 FD P-TOWER 

The Atgar 1.4 FD P-Tower is an outdated light antivehicle artillery piece 
that dates back to the Clone Wars. Its slow fire rate, its large, dish-shaped 
target profile, and its minimal crew protection make it unpopular with Rebel 
troops. However, it is inexpensive and available through black-market chan- 
nels, which makes it accessible to Alliance forces and resistance groups. It is 
largely ineffective against heavily armored vehicles, walkers, and fast-moving 
speeders, but the P-Tower can still take down moderately armored vehicles. 
The P-Tower requires a crew of four to operate—three to regulate the dish's 
power systems, and one to target enemy units. 

Atgar 1.4 FD P-Tower Light Anti-Vehicle Laser Cannon = CL5 
Huge emplacement 

Init +4; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 18; +3 armor 

hp 80; DR 5; Threshold 28 

Speed 0 squares (immobile) 

Ranged antivehicle cannon +3 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover +5 

Base Atk +2; Grp +20 

Abilities Str 26, Dex 0, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Use Computer +6 
Crew 4 (skilled); Passengers none 

Availability Military; Cost 12,000 (6,000 used) 


Antivehicle cannon (gunner) 
Atk +3, Dmg 3d10x2 


ASK TRAINING j 
Typically, a hero must be trained in the Mechanics skill to carry out any _ 
uses of that skill. However, heroes can be trained to do specific, simple 4 
tasks without the comprehensive knowledge normally required to use the - 
complete skill. This specific training allows a hero to make an untrained 
Mechanics check when attempting the trained task, At the Gamemaster’s_ 
discretion, heroes already trained in the skill might receive a +2 circum 
stance bonus when attempting a task in which they received specific 
training. This bonus is best applied when the task at hand is unusual even 
for someone trained in Mechanics. | 

Task training takes a minimum of 30 minutes for simple tasks and up to 
two hours for moderately complex tasks. Tasks requiring additional time 
or complexity are beyond the ability of heroes untrained in the Mechanics 
skill. The trainer must be trained in the Mechanics skill. The trainer rolls. 
Mechanics check against the DC of the final task, and can benefit fi 
Aid Another from one assistant also trained in the Mechanics skill, If the i} 
check fails, the trainer fails to adequately demonstrate the task to his 
or her trainees and must start again. If the check succeeds, the trainee 
rolls a DC 25 Perception check and gains a +1 insight bonus for every 34 
points the trainer rolled on his or her Mechanics check above the final 
task DC. If successful, the trainee learns the task. # 

Gamemasters can allow heroes to apply their trained-task knowl- a 
edge to similar tasks, but this use of specific training must be limited — 
so that it does not replace becoming trained in the Mechanics skill. _ 
Gamemasters might also rule that after a certain period of disuse, the 
hero must retrain to be reminded of the specific details of carrying out 
@ particular task. Although most useful for the Mechanics skill, task | 
training can be applied to other skills (other than Use the Force) at the _ 
Gamemaster's discretion. | 


GOLAN ARMS DF. 

The Golan Arms DF.9 anti-infantry tower is one of the Rebel Alliance's most 
common artillery pieces. Its rapid fire rate and impressive range make it 
highly effective against advancing infantry, Rebel technicians modify the 
DF.9's weapons systems in order to increase its effectiveness against AT-STs. 
The DF9 requires a three-person crew, operating the weapon from within the 
cramped quarters of its tower enclosure. The armored tower has a lower entry 
hatch, an upper observation hatch, and a turret that rotates 180 degrees. 


Golan Arms DF.9 Anti-Infantry Battery 

Huge emplacement 

Init +4; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 20; +4 armor 
hp 120; DR 5; Threshold 30 

Speed 0 squares (immobile) 

Ranged anti-infantry cannon +3 (see below) 


cL5 


DF.9 ANTHINFANTRY CANNONS FLANK A T4-B HEAVY TANIC 
WHILE DEFENOING 4 RemeL ease. 


Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +22 

Abilities Str 30, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Use Computer +6 
Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers none 

Availability Military; Cost 14,000 (7,000 used) 


Anti-infantry cannon (gunner) 
Atk +3, Dmg 4d10x2 


GOLAN ARMS FPC 6.7 
ANTI-AIRCRAFT BATTERY 

The Golan Arms FPC 6.7 Anti-Aircraft Battery is an inexpensive defensive 
weapon suitable for protecting military bases and other installations from 
aerial assault. This unit is particularly effective against lightly armed air- 
speeders and holds its own against heavily armored or shielded starfighters 
and bombers, It typically requires four crew members: a gunner, a com- 
mander/sensor operator, and two power regulator technicians. Hi 
Rebel units have been known to operate with as few as two crew members, 
and even one can fire the battery at a very limited rate. Rebel te: 
like the FPC 6.7's quick setup and tear down, which makes relocating the 
weapon to new facilities relatively easy. 


Golan Arms FPC 6.7 Anti-Aircraft Battery CLs 


Huge emplacement 


Defenses flat-fo ), Fort 22; +5 armor 
hp 120; DR 5; Threshold 
Speed 0 squares (immobile) 
Ranged anti-aircr 
Fighting Space 3x3 
Base Atk +2; Grp + 
Abilities Str 34, Dex 
Skills Init 
Crew 4 ( 
Availability 


n +5 (see below) 


p scale); Cover total 


10, Con — 


ive +4, Mechanics + 


n +6, Use Comp 


ied); Passengers nc 
litary; Cost 14,000 (7,000 used) 


Anti-aircraft laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +5, Dmg 6d10x2 


KDY v-ISO PLANET DEFENDER 


The KDY Planet Defender heavy ion cannon—r to as the “ion cannon” 
or the “150 he few surface defense batter. 
ies available. The ion ca of he-line 
capital ships such a i minutes at a time, 


Although the 150 sive power and instal 


lation requirements, t ce ace of them to protect 
its most impc T n famously defended Alliance troops 
during the Hot 

KDY v-150 Planet Defender cL 12 
Colossal (frigate) emplacement 

Init -2; Senses Perce 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 33; + 


hp 550; DR 15; Threshold 133 
Speed 0 squares ( 


Ranged surface-to (see below) or 
Ranged surface-to-space * with Double Attack 
(see bel 


Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover tc 
Base Atk +5; Grp +48 
Abilities Str 57, Dex 10, Con —, | 


B, Perception +8, Use Computer +8 


Crew 1 
Availability Mili 
*Apply 0 -20 pen 


Passengers nc 
Cost 1.5 million (1 million used 
smaller than Colossal size. 


Surface-to-space ion cannon (gunner) 
Atk +10 (-10 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x10 ion 


Ssanmiw1y IWsS8Y) IHL 


1A BSievHo 


LORATUS MANUFACTURING 
MPTL-24 MOBILE 

PROTON TORPEDO LAUNCHER 
The MPTL-2a is an improved version of the slower and more vulnerable 
MPTL-2 used early in the war. The Rebel Alliance enjoys substantial sup- 
port from Loratus Manufacturing, so the company accommodates design 
alterations requested by the Rebels. Although the Alliance military prefers 
fast-moving armored vehicles over tracked artillery, the offensive punch of 
the MPTL-2a's nine fire-linked proton torpedo launchers makes it ideal for 
supporting large-scale assaults. The launcher must open its armored shell and 
deploy to a secure position before firing, and its targeting is limited to for- 
ward firing. Though it deploys rapidly (two full-round actions), the launcher 
must rely on infantry and other units to provide close support. However, this 
is not always a problem, because the MPTL-2a can strike targets up to 20 
km away with the use of spotters or targeting droids. Without a spotter, the 
MPTL-2a's range is limited to line of sight or manual programming (Computer 
DC 20 or DC 25 if not proficient in heavy weapons). 


MPTL-2a Mobile Proton Torpedo Launcher cL8 

Gargantuan ground vehicle (tracked) 

Init +2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 24; +8 armor 

hp 100; DR 10; Threshold 44 

Speed O squares (immobile in firing mode), 6 squares (max. velocity 
95 km/h) 

Ranged proton torpedo launcher +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x6; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 

Abilities Str 39, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +2, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers 1 (spotter droid) 

Cargo 600 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 30 proton torpedoes 

Availability Military; Cost 20,000 (11,000 used) 


Proton torpedo launcher (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 13d10x2, 4-square splash 


LORATUS MANUFACTURING 
LONGVISION LV-38 

SPOTTER/PROBE DROID 1 
Longvision LV droids are Loratus Manufacturing's line of probe and spotter _ 
droids. Although the spotter droids are primarily sold as a package deal _ 
with artillery units, they share the same basic chassis as the probe droids, _ 
which are sold separately. The floating droids are equipped with advanced — 
stealth programming, a powerful repulsorlift system, and burst-stream 4 
communications transceivers that resist battlefield jamming and inter- _ 
ference. However, they are typically unarmed, because their small size 
limits their power supply and makes it difficult to both power a weapon — 
and sustain the speeds required on the battlefield. 


LV-38 Spotter/Probe Droid cL3 

Small droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 1/scout 3 | 

Force 3 q 

Init +11; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +16 | 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 17), Fort 13, Will 14; Dodge 

hp 16; Threshold 13 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee unarmed +1 (1) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +0 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 18, Con -, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Talents Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth 

Feats Dodge, Skill Focus (Gather Information, Perception, Stealth), 
Skill Training (Initiative, Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency 
(simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +11, Initiative +11, Perception +16, 
Stealth +21 (can reroll), Use Computer +9 

‘Systems hovering locomotion, durasteel shell (+4 armor), heuristic 
processor, improved sensor package, darkvision, integrated comlink, 
locked access, secondary battery 

Possessions holographic recorder, audio recorder, holoprojector 


COMBAT ASSAULT 
VEHICLES 


Combat assault vehicles—CAVs—are armored repulsorlift craft designed or 
modified to carry medium to heavy weapons during direct assaults and other 
combat missions. Rebel CAVs range from fast speeders to heavily armored 
weapons platforms. The Rebel Alliance has a variety of models in its arsenal, 
but it has few in large numbers, and these models were not top-of-the-line 
designs even when originally sold, Most have been further modified by the 
Alliance, as they often were by their previous owners. Below are some of the 
more common models available. Additional CAVs adapted to Rebel use are 
the Arrow-23 Landspeeder and the KAAC Freerunner, found on pages 110 
and 113 of the The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide, respectively. 


GALLOFREE HTT-26 

HEAVY TROOP TRANSPORT 

The Gallofree HTT-26 Heavy Troop Transport is one of the company's older 
designs, originally appearing during the last days of the Old Republic. Military 
organizations largely ignore the vehicle, believing its use to be limited by the 
fact that it is a landspeeder rather than a more versatile airspeeder. However, 
the Rebel Alliance finds the HTT-26 useful for transporting squads of troops 
across chaotic battlefields, where its armor gives great protection against 
small-arms and light-vehicle weapons fire. Thanks to their age, HTT-26s are 
also relatively cheap and easy to obtain from vehicle surplus dealers and 
mercenary groups. The HTT-26 is crewed by a pilot and a gunner who mans 
the repeating blaster cannon. 


Gallofree HTT-26 Heavy Troop Transport cL8 
Gargantuan ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +3; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23; +6 armor 

hp 80; DR 10; Threshold 43 


SIENAR ULTRA-LIGHT 

ASSAULT VEHICLE 

Sienar Ultra-Light Assault Vehicles are small, fast, and extremely agile land- 
speeders designed for rapid deployment and quick, slashing strikes across the 
battlefield. The ULAV's size makes it ideal for deployment from drop ships 
or large transports. During the Clone Wars, ULAVs are highly effective at 
piercing the lines of CIS droid units. Zipping through the droid formations, 
the ULAV’s gunner has ample targets for the double forward laser cannon 
and, after breaking through the line, the advantage of the more powerful 
rear-facing blaster cannon. 

The early Empire regularly used ULAVs, but soon replaced them with larger 
and more powerful vehicles with forward-facing primary weapons. Most 
ULAVs were left forgotten in Imperial surplus depots, too small to attract 
buyers. Decades later, a Rebel commando raid steals a huge fleet of ULAVs 
from a minimally guarded Imperial storage facility on Hiffis. Rebel techni- 
cians make a few updates and modifications—including the addition of light 
shielding—and put the durable old vehicles into service throughout the galaxy. 
Though hindered by their rear-facing weaponry and half-meter flight ceiling, 
the ULAVs are welcome additions to vehicle-starved Rebel units. 


Ultra-Light Assault Vehicle (ULAV) cL5 

Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +10; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor 

hp 60; DR 5; Threshold 32 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 400 km/h) 

Ranged heavy blaster cannon +4 (see below) and 
double light laser cannon +6 (see below) or 

Ranged heavy blaster cannon +4 (see below) and 
concussion grenade launcher +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +24 


Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 95 km/h) 

Ranged medium blaster cannon +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x6; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +30 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 16 

Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost 20,000 (11,000 used) 


Medium blaster cannon (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 4410x2 


Al Str 34, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 25 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost 50,000 (22,000 used) 


Double light laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 4d10x2 

Concussion grenade launcher (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 8d6, 2-square burst 
Heavy blaster cannon (gunner) 

Atk +4, Dmg 5d10x2 


1A BaiewHo 


sewwmaiy WweEsSs) ss 


1A BaLayvHo 


MEKUUN HEAVY TRACKER 

The Mekuun Heavy Tracker is a mobile scanning unit and battlefield commu- 
nications nerve center. Equipped with advanced ground-hugging Omniprobe 
sensors and a standard military-grade sensor array, the heavy tracker excels 
at tracking and analyzing all active units and personnel in the surrounding 
region. The Rebel Alliance uses its few heavy trackers as mobile command 
centers, so that battles can be directed from a distance from within its 
heavily armored hull. The heavy tracker carries a single heavy laser cannon, 
able to accurately strike targets at extreme range thanks to its advanced 
sensor system. The heavy tracker's speed is reduced by its heavy armor and 
Weapons and by its slightly undersized repulsorlift system. 


Mekuun Heavy Tracker cL8 
Colossal ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 31; +14 armor 
hp 200; DR 15; Threshold 81 
Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 130 km/h) 
Ranged heavy laser cannon +6 (see below) or 
Ranged heavy laser cannon +3 (see below) without Omniprobe 
Fighting Space 6x10; Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +43 
Abilities Str 52, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 6 (skilled); Passengers 5 
Cargo 250 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 125,000 (75,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +6, Dmg 5d10x2 


T2-B REPULSOR TANK 

The Rebel acquisition of the modern T2-B repulsor tanks is a prime example 
of how the Alliance obtains materiel from sympathetic corporate leaders, 
When the Alliance becomes aware that some of the top leadership at Yutrane- 
Trackata is not happy to be supplying a line of mining vehicles and other heavy 
equipment exclusively to the Empire, Rebel agents quickly broker a secret 
deal to purchase T2-B tanks and other heavy war equipment. To protect the 
lives of the Rebel collaborators, each shipment is carefully orchestrated to 
appear to be the result of a Rebel raid. 

The repulsor tank features four linked rapid-fire blaster cannons paired 
with advanced sensor arrays that make them highly accurate. However, 
the lightweight weaponry has difficulty piercing heavily armored Imperial 
units. The tank's sensors and fast speed allow it to be used as an armored 
reconnaissance unit, passing detailed sensor information to other units 
on the battlefield. It is also one of the few shielded ground units used by 
Rebellion forces. The repulsor tank holds a crew of three: a commander, a 
pilot, and a gunner. Because of the Rebellion’s limited numbers of tanks, 
the Alliance rarely fields large formations of these vehicles until after the 
Battle of Endor. 


T2-B Repulsor Tank CL7 
Huge ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor 

hp 100; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 34 

Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 80 km/h) 

Ranged quad light blaster cannon +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (quad light blaster cannon) 


Abilities Str 39, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 200 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Quad light blaster cannon (gunner) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


T4-B HEAVY TANK 

Another tank model acquired through the Yutrane-Trackata deal, the T4-B is 

among the heaviest armored units fielded by the Rebellion. The Alliance can 

afford only limited numbers of these expensive vehicles. As a tracked ground 

vehicle, the T4-B is naturally limited in speed and versatility. However, its 

combination of dual laser cannons and triple concussion missile tubes makes 

it lethal against all types of infantry and allows it to hold its own against 

Imperial armor. Individually, the T4-B is not equal to Imperial walkers, but 

it is rarely deployed on its own. The tank requires a three-person crew: a 

commander, a driver, and a gunner. 

T4-B Heavy Tank cL 12 

Gargantuan ground vehicle (tracked) 

Init +2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 31; +9 armor 

hp 200; DR 15; Threshold 51 

Speed 6 squares (max, velocity 40 km/h) 

Ranged heavy laser cannons +4 (see below) or 

Ranged triple concussion missile launchers +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +38 

Abilities Str 52, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +2, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 300 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Heavy laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 5d10x2, 2-square splash radius 
Triple concussion missile launcher (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 8d10x2, 2-square burst radius 


STARSHIPS 

Most of the Rebel Alliance's primary ships are covered in the Saga Edition 
core rulebook and in Starships of the Galaxy. However, the Rebels use a great 
variety of starships, and any available craft might be pressed into service, 
especially when needed to fill a specific role. A few additional Alliance ships 
are included here 


YM-2800 LIMPET SHIP 

When the Rebellion needs to board an enemy ship quickly, few craft compare 
to Corellian Engineering Corporation's YM-2800 survey and mining vessel. 
‘A member of a subclass of mining vessels called limpet ships, the YM-2800 
secures itself to the surface of an asteroid or a planet. It uses powerful plasma 


beam cutters and other drilling devices to blast through the rocky surface to 
the ore below. The Rebels use the YM-2800 to breach enemy ships so that a 
crew in armored space suits can board the vessel. Military vessels are assaulted 
on occasion, but the Rebels more often use the craft for piercing the hulls of 
massive bulk freighters or for cutting into Imperial bases and storehouses. 

Even though the YM-2800 has heavy-duty particle shielding, it does not 
have ray shields as standard equipment. Rebel technicians have, however, 
added light laser cannons to provide limited self-defense. The plasma beam 
cutter consumes so much power that the ship loses all shielding and can 
fire no other weapons during the round in which the cutting beam is used 
The ship's shield and weapons systems become functional at the start of 
the pilot's next turn 

The YM-2800 has a powerful plasma beam cutter that can be used to 
drill into a starship, creating a breach through which a boarding party can 
enter. As a standard action, the pilot of the limpet ship can make an attack 
with the plasma beam cutter against a ship in an adjacent square. If the 
attack succeeds, the limpet ship moves into the target's space and attaches 
itself to the hull of the target ship without triggering a collision, Each round 
thereafter, as a standard action, the pilot can use the cutting beam to make a 
grapple check and deal damage to the target ship equal to the grapple check’s 
result, ignoring the target ship's SR. When the target ship has taken cumula- 
tive damage from the drill in excess of its damage threshold, the limpet ship 
punches through and its boarding party can enter the target ship. 


A -YM-2600 LIMPET SHIP LANOS ON AN IMPERIAL CLASS II FRIGATE. 


Y 
10) 
Y 


a. 


SOwWwmww, 


Corellian Engineering Corporation YM-2800 Limpet Ship CL 7 
Colossal space transport 
Init -4; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 2 
hp 120; DR 15; SR 10; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 6 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged medium laser cannons +6 (see below) or 
Ranged plasma beam cutter +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +38 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 


+12 armor 


Crew 6 (skilled); Passengers 6 
Cargo 125 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 150,000 (70,000 used) 


Medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 4d10x2 

Plasma beam cutter (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg — (grapple +38) 


T-WING INTERCEPTOR 

The T-wing Interceptor is part of Hoersch-Kessel's limited entry into the 
starfighter market. Even though the small and light T-wing is extremely 
fast, many think it gives up too much in the way of durability and protec- 
tion to be a top-of-the-line fighter. H-K clearly takes design cues from the 
popular X-wing and Z-95 starfighters. A few planetary governments purchase 
T-wings for their security services, but most of the fighters end up in the 
hands of lesser corporations and pirate fleets. The Rebel Alliance uses them 
in limited roles, but A-wings better fulfill the Rebels’ interceptor needs. 
Despite its inferior defenses, the hyperdrive-enabled T-wing is effective at 
quick hit-and-fade attacks, thanks to its impressive speed and serviceable 
weapons systems. 


Hoersch-Kessel T-Wing Interceptor cL8 
Huge starfighter 
Init +11; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 70; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 32 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,300 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannon +7 (see below) or 
Ranged proton torpedo +7 (see below) 


A ROYAL GUARD FIGHTER TAKES SHOTS AT 4 T-WING INTERCEPTOR, 


Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +24 

Atk Options autofire (iaser cannon), fire-link (proton torpedoes) 

Abilities Str 35, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +11, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 4 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, limited navicomputer (2-jump memory) 
Availability Military; Cost 150,000 (60,000 used) 


Laser cannon (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


x4 GUNSHIP 

The powerful X4 gunship is one of Incom’s largest vessels to date. Roughly 
the size of a light freighter, the X4 has two fu 
large crew, a limited cargo capacity, and ample access to the ship's ¥ 
ystems. Six laser turrets and a pair o| 
X4 to excel at picket and starfighter screening roles, as 
maller capital ships. Its shielding and defenses are also impressive. 


decks to accommo! 


pons 


forward-facing cannons allow the 


as at taking on 


The Rebellion uses the X4 for escort duties, but given its performance as a 
ight assault ship, the Alliance is quickly expanding the gunship's role. Incom's 
limited manufacturing facilities for a ship of this size make it available in 


limited numbers, Most of the ships manufa 


ured end up in Rebel hands. 


AN X-4 GUNSHIP REPELS AN ATTACK BY TIE AGORESSORS 


Incom X4 Gunship CL 10 
Colossal space transport 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 150; DR 15; SR 20 Threshold 78 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) and 
6 light laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +4; Grp +40 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, light laser cannons), fire-link 
(laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 8 (skilled); Passengers 6 

Cargo 20 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x3 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 200,000 (75,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


Light laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


SONVIIVY WSs 


CHAPTER VII 
_ THE Empire 


The Empire prides itself on being a bastion of civilization and order in the 
galaxy. Most of its citizens believe that, aside from a few troublemakers, 
conflict is a thing of the past and that the galaxy’s worlds and systems work 
together for the greater good. 

But the Empire is far more sinister than it would have its citizens know. 
Having carefully undermined the Republic, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine 
represents himself as the only hope for peace and order. After formally 
dissolving the remnants of the Galactic Republic and reorganizing it as a 
Galactic Empire, Palpatine puts into motion a plan to systematically subju- 
gate those worlds and systems that resist his rule. The Imperial Intelligence 
Bureau obscures these activities. The average citizen has no idea of the true 
nature of the Empire. 

The Emperor's success stems from the brutal efficiency of the Imperial war 
machine: a vast army of troops, stormtroopers, and starships. Resistance is 
quickly crushed; the price of capitulation is enslavement. Once a world falls, 
the Empire uses its resources to fuel the Imperial military's next campaign. 
Opportunistic politicians have flocked to support Emperor Palpatine’s New 
Order. Those who display the most loyalty garner both wealth and political 
power. 

Similarly, those who are able to tap into and wield the Force find a place 
in the Empire—at the feet of the Emperor or his apprentice, Darth Vader. 
Where Jedi Knights once flourished are now would-be Sith. Although they 
are less common than they were during the Dark Times, devotees of the dark 
side are far more dangerous than before, since they now command the power 
of the Imperial military as well as the power of the Force, 


THE IMPERIAL 
MACHINE 


Although this chapter includes many of the characters, vehicles, and ships 
used by the Empire, but it is by no means a complete list. Almost any ele- 
ment of the Imperial war machine that appeared in the Dark Times can be 
found during the Rebellion era, particularly those elements found in The 
Force Unleashed Campaign Guide. Additionally, although most military 
hardware from the Clone Wars has been either mothballed or sold off to 
planetary governments (or, through the corruption of Imperial bureaucrats, 
sold to crime lords, pirates, and other fringe groups), the Empire still has 
a small contingent of ships, vehicles, and other items from that conflict. 
When designing adventures and encounters, the Gamemaster should feel 
free to choose elements from prior time periods in order to add variety to 
the Imperial forces arrayed against the heroes. 


TA SaiawHS 


4 
t 
0 
i 
4 
2 
2D 
0 


WA Saievno 


ORGANIZATION 

With a thousand systems under Imperial control, the Emperor requires a 
massive bureaucracy to manage the galaxy's day-to-day activities. Based 
on Coruscant, now known as Imperial Center, the government oversees every 
aspect of life. The Emperor's authority is felt throughout the galaxy by means 
of his tightly controlled network of advisors, Moffs, local governors, the Com- 
mission for the Preservation of the New Order, and, of course, the military. 
The Ubiqtorate—also known as Imperial Intelligence—assures that Rebel 
sympathizers and other malcontents are quickly identified and reeducated. 


SECTOR GOVERNMENTS 

To persuade the remnants of the Republic Senate to accept the transforma- 
tion of the Republic into an empire, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine retains the 
trappings of the Senate, changing little more than the name. As years pass, 
however, he replaces various members of the original legislature with politi- 
cians more vested in his New Order, frequently elevating them to positions 
of authority over their seniors. In time, little of the original Senate remains; 
when the Emperor dissolves the Imperial Senate shortly after the completion 
of the first Death Star, the act causes barely a murmur, 


Moffs and Grand Moffs 

The responsibilities once held by the Imperial Senate fall to the Moffs. Rather 
than a representative of beings he or she governs, a Moff is a representative 
of the Emperor. Initially, all Moffs are chosen from the ranks of the Imperial 
military—officers who serve with loyalty and distinction—and even by the time 
of the Battle of Endor, an overwhelming number of them are still appointed in 
this fashion. Each Moff is granted authority over one or more systems, usually 
determined by political, racial, cultural, or commercial boundaries. If a Moff 
proves incapable of handling such a large area, he or she might be required 
to share authority with another Moff, or might be replaced outright. 

Initially, Moffs report to the Emperor's advisors. However, the system 
proves cumbersome, so sector overseers—Grand Moffs—are appointed. The 
Grand Moffs are given the responsibility of coordinating and managing the 
Moffs, carrying out the Emperor's directives concerning matters of policy 
and strategy. The position of Grand Moff is both a great honor and a great 
opportunity. The Emperor assigns quotas for production, labor, and armed- 
forces recruitment; if those quotas are met, he overlooks the loss of a few 
credits here and there. An enterprising Moff can request funds for Imperial 
projects and ensure that some of those funds are placed in a discretionary 
budget to which only he or she has access. 

The Emperor is content to allow his Grand Moffs to manage the details of 
accounting and procurement, and even seems to encourage minor accounting 
irregularities. But if his appointed representatives become too brazen, they 
can expect a visit from Lord Vader to ensure that they, or their replacements, 
do not overstep their bounds again. 


Planetary Governments 

Obviously, a Moff who controls an entire system cannot micromanage the 
details of multiple worlds, so each inhabited planet or space station has its 
own individual government. These representatives are sometimes elected by 
the world’s people, but most often they are appointed by the Moffs or the 
Grand Moffs from among their own personal staff. 

In theory, each planet's government runs the planet's affairs and must be 
consulted whenever the Empire wishes to use the planet's resources, popula 
tion, or airspace. In most cases, though, the Empire takes what it needs—by 
force if necessary. The message is clear: Planetary governments exist at the 
sufferance of the Emperor. 


COMPNOR 

Brute force is of limited effectiveness in controlling populations. Realizing 
this, the Emperor retools an old Republic education program into COMPNOR— 
the Commission for the Preservation of the New Order. 

COMPNOR’s purpose is to indoctrinate the youth of the Empire, They are 
taught to believe in the absolute infallibility of their Emperor and to execute 
his orders without hesitation. Some are encouraged to enter the political 
arena, ensuring that the government remains supportive of the Emperor's 
rule. Those with no gift for politics are encouraged to serve in areas such as 
the military, education, and civil service. 

Although COMPNOR begins as little more than a youth group, it grows 
into a vast and influential organization, overseeing disparate aspects of 
Imperial life. 

Sub-Adult Group: SAGroup provides general education and recreation 
for the Empire's teenaged population. 

Coalition for Progress: The Coalition for Progress provides guidance 
and an operating framework for the arts, science, commerce, culture, and 
some legislation. 

Coalition for Improvements: The Coalition for Improvements is the 
Empire's social services department. In practice, however, it is a vehicle 
for bringing non-Human cultures into line with Imperial dogma, as well 
as a subprogram for improving the public image of politically significant 
individuals. 

CompForce: CompForce manages the Empire's various military acad- 
emies. Nearly every officer in the Imperial military attends officer training 
school under a CompForce program. 

Imperial Security Bureau: Imperial Security is the Empire's law-enforce- 
ment division. It provides protection for the Imperial populace—in the form 
of surveillance, investigation, interrogation, and reeducation. 


As the Empire's largest bureaucracy, COMPNOR is not well thought of 
by average citizens, Most see it as an organization devoted to enforcing its 
own rules, and they resent its meddling in their day-to-day affairs without 
realizing that the meddling is at the Emperor's command. The Emperor prefers 
that they blame the bureaucracy while remaining loyal to him. 

Citizens of the Empire are encouraged not only to observe COMPNOR's 
policies but to join the Committee and “serve the Emperor firsthand.” These 
recruitment campaigns have successfully brought trillions of members into 
COMPNOR's fold. 


IMPERIAL INTELLIGENCE 

Having indoctrinated the populace, the Empire must then monitor it. Imperial 
Intelligence is the Empire's eyes and ears in the galaxy. In addition to monitoring 
space outside the Empire and assessing external and internal threats, Imperial 
Intelligence also spies on the Empire's citizens—evaluating their loyalty, their 
commitment, and in some cases, the danger they pose to the Empire. 

At the onset of the Clone Wars, then-Chancellor Palpatine instructs the 
Republic's various intelligence agencies to closely monitor the activities of 
members of the Republic Senate. What eventually comes to light is that 
the malfeasance that runs throughout the Senate has also spread to the 
intelligence community: Corrupt senators have been feeding false informa- 
tion to intelligence agents or bribing them to bury reports. Amid massive 
firings, resignations, and criminal charges, Chancellor Palpatine convinces 
the remaining agency directors to merge their organizations into one bureau 
responsible for ensuring that the government remains free from internal 
corruption. Immediately after Emperor Palpatine reorganizes the Republic 
as an Empire, the agency directors unanimously agree to the provisions set 
forth in the New Order. 

In the years since, the new, unified intelligence groups again divided into 
separate organizations, all answering to an anonymous group of directors— 
the Ubiqtorate—that in turn reports directly to the Emperor. 

Adjustments: Answering directly to the Ubigtorate, these black-ops 
agents act as troubleshooters for Imperial Intelligence, solving problems by 
the most expedient means available. 

Internal Organization Bureau: IntOrg is responsible for maintaining 
Imperial Intelligence's own security—protecting data and monitoring internal 
practices. 

Internal Security Branch: IntSec provides physical security, including 
Imperial Intelligence's force of guards and sentries. 

Internal Counterintelligence Bureau: IntCon watches Imperial Intelligence 
for signs of spies, saboteurs, and double agents. 


Analysis Bureau: Analysis sifts through all the data that is transmitted 
or collected within the Empire. 

Media: A great deal of the Empire's raw intelligence comes in the form 
of news reports. Media's job is to analyze every source of public information 
every day, looking for patterns or data that might otherwise be overlooked. 

Signal:Signal intelligence analyzes the medium as well as the message, 
looking for information about the transmitter and the receiver of suspicious 
information. 

Cryptanalysis: Cryptanalysis pores over coded transmissions and applies 
mathematical formulas in order to decrypt them. 

Technology: The Technology bureau examines non-Imperial equipment to 
learn how it works, then adapt it or develop countermeasures for neutral- 
izing it. 

Interrogation: Enemy agents captured by the Empire are delivered to 
Interrogation to undergo thorough questioning, using drugs, psychology, 
and mental and physical torture. Interrogation also sometimes uses neu- 
roprogramming to brainwash captured agents before releasing them as 
double agents. 

Bureau of Operations: The Bureau carries out Imperial Intelligence's 
toughest jobs—the dirty work that requires more resources or more inde- 
pendent authority than other divisions can provide. 

Surveillance: This branch of the Bureau monitors the activity of the 
Empire's enemies—both within and without—and is authorized to make 
arrests when necessary. 

Infiltration: This branch provides highly trained double agents, spies, and 
sleeper agents. 

Counterintelligence: Counterintelligence identifies and dismantles enemy 
intelligence groups working against the Empire. 

Diplomatic Services: DiploSer is the Empire's diplomatic corps. DiploSer's 
agents advise local, regional, and planetary governments on matters of trade, 
diplomacy, and politics. 

Destabilization: Destab is responsible for weakening the political, cultural, 
commercial, and religious apparatuses of the Empire's enemies, making them 
more susceptible to Imperial conquest. 

Assassination: Agents of this division of the Bureau remove people 
inconvenient to the Emperor. 

Intelligence: After Analysis has collected information, Intelligence 
employs an army of experts from every conceivable field of study to predict 
the actions of the Empire's enemies. 

External Communications: ExComm relays messages between various 
branches of Imperial Intelligence, the Ubigtorate, and the Imperial military. 

Sector Branches: Intelligence is composed of thousands of individual 
branches organized by the sector for which each is responsible. 

Sedition: This branch of Intelligence specifically predicts trends in the 
actions of groups that offer organized resistance to the Empire. 


it] 
r 
> 
a 
4 
Cy 
3 
g 
19 


TA SsiawHS 


120 


Crisis:A strictly pro tem group, the Crisis branch is formed when needed, 
for specific purposes, from appropriate subject-matter experts. Crisis answers 
to the Ubiqtorate, but in rare cases it can also be placed under the command 
of Grand Moffs or report directly to the Emperor. 

Sector Plexus: Sector Plexus ensures that the content of Imperial 
messages is secure, using a variety of codes, transmission protocols, and 
electronic encryption formats. 

System Cell: The basic units of Imperial Intelligence, system cells operate 
on every known world, carrying out instructions from the Ubigtorate through 
Sector Plexus, Each cell consists of 4-20 agents. Every cell is outfitted 
according to its needs, but nearly all employ the RWStar A/P Transceiver, 
which allows agents to communicate with Sector Plexus systems. 

Imperial CompLink: The Imperial CompLink uses software surreptitiously 
installed on computers all over the Empire to monitor electronic data. This 
spyware transmits packets of information to hyperspace orbiting scanners 
placed in strategic positions throughout the galaxy, which then relay the 
data to the CompLink bureau for study by Analysis. Imperial Complink and 
Sector Plexus work together closely. 


THE IMPERIAL 

MILITARY 

The Empire's armed forces are divided between the Imperial fleet, consisting 
of starships and support structures such as dry dock facilities and space sta~ 
tions, and the Imperial ground forces, consisting of Imperial stormtroopers 
and mainly Human soldiers recruited from throughout the Empire. 


IMPERIAL GROUND FORCES 
Sometimes incorrectly referred to as the “Imperial army,” the Imperial mili- 
tary’s ground forces include any troops not permanently stationed aboard 
elements of the Imperial fleet or otherwise attached to specific duties. 
Ground forces carry out the difficult tasks of taking and holding planetary 
targets—from initial assault to manning the resulting garrisons. 

Ground forces are divided into stormtroopers and regular army troops. 
Stormtroopers are the Empire's shock troops, sent in ahead of regular troops 
to take enemy positions by dint of superior training and sheer numbers. The 
regular troops then move in to secure ground taken by the stormtroopers, 
and remain after the stormtroopers have departed. 


Stormtrooper Order of Battle 
The Empire's command structure and Orders of Battle evolve from the Repub- 
lic’s Grand Army structure. Regular army officers replace the Jedi Knights 
who once led clone troopers into battle; each unit is composed solely of 
stormtroopers and their commanding officers. No stormtrooper unit includes 
support personnel, although they sometimes take advantage of the support 
personnel assigned to regular army units. 

The command structure of the Imperial stormtroopers is as follows. 

‘Squad (8 troops): A squad consists of eight troopers, including a sergeant 
and a corporal. 

Platoon (32 troops): A platoon consists of four squads commanded by a 
lieutenant and a sergeant major. 

Company (128 troops): A company consists of four platoons led by a 
captain. 

Battalion (512 troops): A battalion consists of four companies com- 
manded by a major. 

Regiment (2,048 troops): A regiment consists of four battalions com- 
manded by a lieutenant colonel. 

Legion (8,192 troops): A legion is composed of four regiments led by a 
high colonel. The legion is the standard deployment for major offensives. 


Regular Army Command Structure 

Although stormtroopers carry out the most dangerous ground missions for 
the Empire, the majority of Imperial troops are not stormtroopers. Most 
are conscientious citizens of the Empire who have signed up to serve their 
Emperor by maintaining peace and order throughout the galaxy. 

Military duty in the Empire’s regular army is light. Regular troops fight 
when necessary, but usually they serve garrison duty on worlds already 
pacified, or they maintain Imperial military bases. Some serve aboard fleet 
vessels as marines. 

The command structure of the Empire's ground forces is as follows (troop 
complement indicates combat troops, but does not include command ele- 
ments or support personnel attached to the unit). 

Squad (8 troops): A squad consists of eight troopers plus a sergeant. One 
of the eight troopers serves as a corporal. 

Platoon (32 troops): A platoon consists of four squads commanded by a 
lieutenant and a sergeant major. 

Company (128 troops): A company consists of four platoons led by a 
captain. 

Battalion (512 troops): A battalion consists of four companies com- 
manded by a major. The battalion is the minimum deployment for any ground 
operation that does not include stormtroopers. 

Regiment (2,048 troops): A regiment consists of four battalions com- 
manded by a lieutenant colonel. 


Battlegroup (8,192 troops): A battlegroup is composed of four regiments 
led by a high colonel. The battlegroup is the standard deployment for major 
offensives. 

Corps (32,768 troops): A corps is composed of four battlegroups 
commanded by a major general. A corps is deployed for major planetary 
operations. 

Army (131,072 troops): An army consists of four corps commanded by 
a general, The army can be scattered across several worlds, usually within 
the same system. 

Systems Army (131,072-393,216 troops): A systems army is primarily a 
bookkeeping designation. It can consist of as few as one army, or up to three, 
all operating in the same system. 

Sector Army (262,144-1,572,864 troops): A sector army consists of two 
to four systems armies, and includes all the troops operating in a sector. It is 
commanded by a marshal, sometimes referred to as a sector marshal. 


THE IMPERIAL FLEET 
Much of the Empire's fleet of starships comes from the original Republic 
navy, repurposed and refitted to serve the needs of the New Order. The 
majority of fleet crews are Human; fewer than one percent are not Human. 
Non-Humans are found in command ranks—such as Grand Admiral Thrawn, 
a Chiss—or as special adjuncts to the usual crew. 


Fleet Command Structure 
The Imperial Fleet is organized along a structure similar to conventional 
maritime navies. 

The command structure of the Imperial fleet consists of six groups. 

Command (1 vessel, plus maintenance and support crew): A single vessel 
commanded by a captain. 

Line (1-20 vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): A line typically 
consists of four vessels commanded by a captain of the line. This is the 
smallest force the Empire sends to engage in space battles. 

Squadron (14-60 vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): A 
squadron is the largest force of ships assigned to a system under normal 
circumstances. A squadron is led by an admiral. 

System Force (up to 90 vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): A 
system force consists of three battle squadrons and a light squadron, led by 
a system admiral (sometimes known as a commodore). 

Fleet (variable number of vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): 
A fleet includes all the vessels assigned to a sector, commanded by an 
admiral. 

Sector Group (2,400+ vessels, plus maintenance and support crew): A 
sector group includes the total fleet strength of a sector, commanded by 
a high admiral. A sector group consists of at least 24 Star Destroyers and 
1,600 combat-ready starships. 


PERSONNEL 

The Imperial military is a massive organization, with tens of trillions of regular 
army soldiers, trillions of fleet crew, and a vast force of stormtroopers both 
cloned and conditioned. The sheer weight of numbers enables the Empire to 
simply overwhelm opponents in head-to-head battle. 

Most of the Empire's armed forces consist of Humans or near-Human 
species. Imperial citizens believe government propaganda that this policy 
is driven by the need for uniformly configured control surfaces, cockpits, 
and other equipment, but in reality, this policy is based on the Emperor's 
contempt for non-Human species. 

Below are described the various specialist troops fielded by the Imperial 
military. 


BLACKHOLE STORMTROOPER 

When an Imperial Intelligence operative codenamed Agent Blackhole proves 
particularly effective at intelligence operations, the Emperor appoints him 
‘as one of the infamous Emperor's Hands and grants him a wide array of 
resources, including his own Star Destroyer, Singularity, Blackhole orders 
all the Star Destroyer's stormtroopers reoutfitted with stygian-triprismatic 
polymer armor. 


Blackhole Stormtrooper Cha 

Medium Human nonheroic 5 

Dark Side 1 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 12, Will 10 

hp 12; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster rifle +4 (348) or 

Ranged frag grenade +3 (446, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abi Ss Str 12, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Weapon Focus 
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +9, Stealth +7 (+9 vs. electronic scans) 

Possessions stygian-triprismatic stormtrooper armor (+7 armor, 
+2 equipment), blaster rifle, frag grenade, utility belt with medpac 


exnamg ax, [SA ssreves —) 


U 


FROM Lert TO RIGHT: NOVATROOPER, SEATROOPER, SWAMPTROOPER, SPACETROOFER 


NOVATROOPER 

The stormtrooper honor guard is assigned to historically significant locations 
such as the Emperor's birthworld of Naboo as well as to captured enemy 
starships. Novatroopers are somewhat better trained than the average 
stormtrooper, but they are similarly equipped. Novatroopers are distinguished 
by their distinctive black and gold, reinforced stormtrooper armor. 


Novatrooper cL3 
Medium Human nonheroic 9 

Dark Side 2 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 
Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 13, Will 10 

hp 22; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster rifle +7 (3d8) or 

Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Point Blank Shot 
Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Skill Training (Endurance), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +10, Perception +11, Stealth +10 

Possessions reinforced stormtrooper armor (+7 armor, +2 equipment), 
blaster rifle, frag grenade, utility belt with medpac 


SEATROOPER 
After receiving the same training as the Republic's subtroopers, Impe- 
rial seatroopers are equipped with similarly adapted armor and weapons. 
Deployed against aquatic opponents, seatroopers utilize a wide variety of 
modified weapons and vehicles 


Seatrooper cL2 
Medium Human nonheroic 6 

Dark Side 1 

Init +4; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 9 

hp 21; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares, 8 squares (swim) 

Melee knife +5 (1d4+1) 


Ranged blaster rifle +5 (348) or 

Ranged harpoon +5 (2d6) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Careful Shot, Coordinated Attack, Point 
Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +9, Swim +10 

Possessions seatrooper armor (+4 armor, +2 equipment; see Armor), SG-4 
blaster rifle, harpoon, knife, propulsion pack 


SPACETROOPER 

Spacetroopers are among the stormtrooper elite, trained to operate the bulky 
but powerful zero-gravity stormtrooper armor (see page 127). They receive 
considerably more training than the average stormtrooper, but somewhat less 
than the Emperor's Royal Guards. Spacetrooper training focuses on starship 
combat—particularly on boarding enemy vessels in order to disable a ship's 
vital systems or neutralize its crew. 


Spacetrooper CL? 
Large Human nonheroic 6/soldier 4/scoundrel 1 

Dark Side 4 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision, darkvision; Perception +13 

Languages Basic 


Skills Endurance +12, Perception +13, Pilot +11 

Possessions zero-gravity stormtrooper armor (+9 armor, +3 equipment; 
includes helmet package with darkvision), blaster cannon, mini-proton 
torpedo launcher, grenade launchers (4 concussion grenades, 4 stun 
grenades, 4 gas grenades), wrist-blades or laser cutters 


STORM COMMANDO 

Imperial storm commandos, also known as shadow scouts because of their 
black armor, are elite stormtrooper units trained as saboteurs and assassins. 
Their missions include causing uprisings on systems with governments hos- 
tile to the Empire and putting down uprisings on worlds already part of the 
Empire. They are also expert pilots and frequently employ modified Aratech 
74-Z speeder bikes during deep infiltration missions. The speeder bikes as 
well as the storm commandos’ armor are coated with matte-black reflec that 
deflects both light and sensor energy. Their equipment, combined with their 
superior training in infiltration techniques, make storm commandos virtually 
undetectable either to the naked eye or to electronic scans. 


Storm Commando cL9 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 3/scout 4 

Dark Side 4 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 19), Fort 19, Will 18; Dodge 

hp 62; Threshold 19 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 22), Fort 23, Will 16 

hp 30; Threshold 23 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+2) or 

Melee wrist-blades +10 (2d6+2) or 

Melee laser cutters +10 (2d6+2) 

Ranged blaster cannon +9 (3d12+2) or 

Ranged mini-proton torpedo launcher +9 (6d10+2) or 

Ranged concussion grenade +9 (8d6+2, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged gas grenade +9 (4d6+2 stun, 4-square burst) or 

Ranged stun grenade +9 (4d6+2 stun, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +13 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Power Attack 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack, Spacehound 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 9 

Talents Armored Defense, Second Skin, Spacehound 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Coordinated Attack, 
Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, Skill Training (Pilot), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, rifles, 
simple weapons) 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d6+4) 

Ranged blaster carbine +12 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +7/+7 (3d8+3) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine), Careful Shot, Double Attack 
(rifles), Running Attack 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Hidden Movement, Improved 
Stealth 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Dodge, 
Double Attack (rifles), Martial Arts I, Running Attack, Skill Focus 
(Steaith), Skill Training (Pilot, Stealth), Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +13, Perception +14, Pilot +13, Stealth +22 (can reroll) 

Possessions storm commando armor (+4 armor, +2 equipment; as combat 
jumpsuit with shadowskin and helmet package), blaster carbine, 
thermal detonator 


TA SSlavHo 


Sehiewe si 


U 


STORM COMMANDOS WITH AT-PT suPPORT 


SwWAMPTROOPER 

Swamptroopers are trained to operate for extended periods in marshy envi 
ronments. Each is armed with a flechette launcher, except for one squad 
member who carries a heavy repeating blaster. The stormtroopers’ most 
impressive feature is their armor, which is camouflaged to blend in with 
vegetation (granting a +2 equipment bonus to Stealth checks) and equipped 
with a rebreather, which allows swamptroopers to travel underwater for up 
to one hour 


Swamptrooper cL5 
Medium Human nonheroic 4/scout 4 

Dark Side 2 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Bas 7 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 16, Will 14; Dodge, Evasion 
hp 40; Threshold 16 

Speed 6 squares; Surefooted 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+2) 

Ranged flechette launcher +7 (348+2, 1-square splash) or 
Ranged heavy repeating blaster +2 (3410+2) with autofire 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 


Atk Options Running Attack 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack, Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Talents Evasion, Surefooted 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Dodge, Mobility, 
Running Attack, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +10, Perception +11, Stealth +7 

Possessions flechette launcher or heavy repeating blaster, scout trooper 
armor (+4 armor; as combat jumpsuit with helmet package), utility belt 
with medpac, rebreather 


INFLUENTIAL 
PERSONALITIES 


The political intrigue and military nature of the Empire is fertile ground 
for the ambitious. Those who become part of the Imperial power structure 
develop a craving for more and more authority. Some even challenge the 
Emperor, to their short-lived regret. Nonetheless, ambitious—and colorful— 
figures occasionally rise through the Imperial ranks to assume positions of 
power and responsibility. 


GRAND MOFF TRACHTA 
Shortly after the completion of the first Death Star, a group of Imperial 
Moffs and high-ranking military officers plot together to eliminate both the 
Emperor and Darth Vader in a single, decisive coup. The author of this plan 
and the leader of the conspiracy is Grand Moff Trachta 

Trachta is a student in the Republic University on Coruscant when he 
attends then-Senator Palpatine’s lectures on political science. Influenced by 
Palpatine’s charisma and his no-nonsense theories of culture, economy, and 
social science, Trachta writes to the Naboo senator expressing his enthusiasm 
for Palpatine’s philosophies, and volunteers to help the senator in whatever 
way he can. Palpatine forwards Trachta’s records to the Republic Military 
Academy, and Trachta becomes an instructor in tactics and intelligence. 

When certain Jedi begin to defect to the side of the Separatists, Palpatine 
asks Trachta to help capture them. In the brutal fighting, Trachta loses his 
limbs and eyes when a thermal detonator explodes close to him. Evacuated 
to Coruscant, Trachta receives new cybernetic implants that save his life and 
restore his limbs and sight. Trachta is able to resume his service to Palpatine 
by the end of the Clone Wars. 

Even though Trachta rapidly ascends through the ranks of the military 
to one of the highest posts in the Imperial government, he concludes that 
the Empire cannot survive in its current form. The Sith cult is exclusionary, 
secretive, and harsh, and Trachta believes that a cabal so small is incapable 
of controlling a galactic empire. So Grand Moff Trachta begins laying the 


GRAN Mare TRACHTA 


groundwork for a plot to remove Palpatine from the throne and install his own 
cabal as rulers of the Empire. To do so, he must first remove both Lord Vader 
and the Emperor's Royal Guard, He commissions the creation of a legion of 
stormtroopers for the defense of Coruscant and adjusts their programming 
so that they take orders only from him. Weeks before the first Death Star 
becomes operational, the cloned troopers are ready for deployment, and 
Trachta enlists a cadre of coconspirators, including Grand Moff Bartam, Moff 
Kadir, General Skosef, Lieutenant Dezsetes of the Star Destroyer Mathayus, 
and a professional assassin named Gauer. 

After luring Darth Vader off Coruscant with news of a surviving Jedi 
Knight, and using a bomb to kill more than half of the Royal Guard, Trachta 
deploys his legion of stormtroopers to the Imperial Palace. However, even 
as the troopers move into position to eliminate the surviving Royal Guard 
mistrust among the conspirators turns into open war: General Skosef assas- 
sinates Grand Moff Bartam, and Gauer murders Grand Moff Trach! 
heading to the palace to face 
Vader escapes the ambushes laid for him, and the Emperor kills every enemy 
who approaches him. With the conspirators dead or captured, Trachta’s plar 
to overthrow the Emperor dies 


e Emperor. Ultimately, the plot fails: Darth 


Grand Moff Trachta CL7 
Medium Human nonheroic 6/noble 4/officer 1 

Force 5; Dark Side 8 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision, darkvision; Perception +18 

Languages Basic, High Galactic, Kel Dor, Zabrak 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 14, Will 20 

hp 35; Threshold 14 

Immune inhaled poison hazards 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate +1 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con 9, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 15 

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate +1, Distant Command 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, 
Perception, Persuasion), Skill Training (Deception, Knowledge [tactics], 
Mechanics, Perception), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +17, Gather Information +12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+13, Knowledge (social sciences) +13, Knowledge (tactics) +13, 
Knowledge (technology) +13, Mechanics +13, Perception +18, 
Persuasion +17 

Possessions blaster pistol, cybernetic arms, cybernetic legs, cybernetic 
eyes (low-light vision, darkvision, +2 equipment), personal Imperial 
shuttle 


JANEK SUNBER 

Perhaps Janek Sunber's greatest claim to fame is that he and Luke Skywalker 
are friends while the two are growing up on Tatooine. But Skywalker joins 
the Rebellion, and Sunber becomes a loyal servant of the Empire 

On Tatooine, Sunber is known as “Tank" because of his size, Although he 
flies through Beggar's Canyon many times, his skills do not meet the minimum 
requirements to enter the Imperial Flight Academy, Instead, the recruiters 
see Sunber as another strong back and hard head—the perfect candidate 
for infantry training. 

However, Sunber surprises his instructors with his quick thinking and 
strategic planning, and he is enrolled in officer training. Within a year, he is 
serving as a lieutenant under the command of Captain Gage. Gage comes 
from a privileged background, and the two clash spectacularly. During a 
deployment to Maridun, Gage's superior, General Ziering, observes Sunber 
n action and is impressed. When the detachment comes under attack by 
the native Amanin, Sunber assumes a leadership role and Ziering gives him 
a field promotion to the rank of commander—placing him over Gage. When 
the general dies during the battle, Gage later claims that he is unaware of 
the order—ensuring that Sunber remains a lieutenant 


tA SaiavnD 


Shang mH 


On his next assignment, Sunber captures an underground Rebel fortress 
on Jabiim and enslaves the survivors. After transporting the slaves, Sunber 
meets his old friend Luke Skywalker, who is dressed as an Imperial officer. 
Sunber soon discovers that Skywalker is a Rebel. Disillusioned, Sunber tries 
and fails to apprehend Skywalker. Realizing that he has vital information 
about the Rebel Alliance's Jedi Knight, Sunber takes that intelligence directly 
to Darth Vader. 

Vader sends Sunber on a mission to infiltrate the Alliance, using his child- 
hood connection with Skywalker to earn the Rebels’ trust. When Skywalker 
vouches for Sunber and brings him aboard the Alliance fleet’s flagship, Sunber 
attempts to seize control of the bridge. A shot from the Imperial fleet takes 
out the flagship's artificial gravity, and Sunber is apparently killed. But before 
the Rebel flagship escapes to hyperspace, one escape pod launches and is 
recovered by the Imperial fleet. 


Janek Sunber cL6 

Medium Human nonheroic 2/soldier S/officer 1 

Force 5; Dark Side 2 

Init +9; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18), Fort 22, Will 21 

hp 77; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +10 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Coordinated Attack, Deployment Tactics, 
Shake It Off, Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 11, Con 18, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 12 

Talents Battle Analysis, Cover Fire, Deployment Tactics, Tough as Nails 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Martial Arts I, Shake It Off, Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Training (Pilot), Toughness, Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +13, Knowledge (tactics) +15, Mechanics +10, 
Perception +5, Pilot +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, code cylinder 


EQUIPMENT AND 
DROIDS 


When the Clone Wars end, the newly born Empire absorbs the armor and 
weapons factories of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, as well as 
their vast droidworks. These formally Separatist factories are now run by 
the conquered populations of those worlds; they make the materiel that the 
Empire uses to conquer more worlds. 


ARMOR 
Most Imperial armor is produced by the Imperial Department of Military 
Research, but some designs are contracted out to civilian manufacturers, 


Phrik Alloy (Template) 

One of the hardest known substances in the galaxy, phrikite is mined at the 
Imperial facility on Gromas 16. When combined with tydirium it produces 
phrik alloy, which is lighter and sturdier than duralloy. Phrik alloy also turns 
aside lightsabers. A lightsaber does not ignore the DR of armor made with 
phrik. Because of the rarity of phrik alloy, a piece of equipment using this 
template costs 20% more than the base item. 


Stygian-Triprismatic Polymer (Template) 

Harder and more durable than standard plastoid, stygian-triprismatic polymer 
is used in the manufacture of Blackhole stormtrooper armor and some types 
of Mandalorian armor. It increases the armor’s bonus by 1, and adds a +2 
equipment bonus to Stealth checks to avoid being detected by electronic 
sensors. Armor made with stygian-triprismatic polymer costs 20% more 
than the base armor. 


Seatrooper Armor 

Developed specifically for engagements on Mon Calamari and Tibrin, the 
aquatic armor worn by Imperial seatroopers is pressure-sealed to a maxi- 
mum of ten atmospheres (about 660 feet underwater) and incorporates a 
rebreather. In addition to the +2 equipment bonus provided by standard 
stormtrooper armor, seatrooper armor provides a +2 equipment bonus to 
Swim checks because of its underwater propulsion pack and swim flippers. 


Zero-Gravity Stormtrooper Armor 

Designed to enable the Emperor's elite spacetroopers to cut their way 
through the hull of an enemy vessel during starship combat, zero-gravity 
stormtrooper armor is essentially a small starfighter. Over two meters tall 
and twice as wide as a normal Human, zero-gravity armor has earned the 
spacetroopers the nickname “walking tanks." There have been several ver- 
sions of the zero-gravity armor; the fist two iterations were large, bulky, 
and really more like small starfighters. The armor presented here is the light 
spacetrooper armor, which was developed after the Mark II version of the 
armor came into service. 


ARMOR BONUS EQUIPBONUS MAXDEX SPEED SPEED 
ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TOREFDEFENSE TOFORTDEFENSE BONUS (6SQ.) (4S0.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 
Seatrooper armor 6,750 +4 +2 +2 - - 14kg Military 
Zero-g stormtrooper armor 21,000 +9 +3 +0 45q.' 3 sq.) 38 kg Military 


1 When running in heavy armor, you can move up to only three times your speed (instead of four times). 


All zero-gravity stormtrooper armor incorporates shoulder-mounted gre- 
nade launchers (loaded with concussion, stun, and gas grenades), a blaster 
cannon, and a miniature proton-torpedo launcher. The gauntlets are fitted 
with either rotating blades or laser cutters, enabling spacetroopers to cut 
through the hulls of enemy craft. The armor is currently manufactured only 
for Medium characters, and increases the wearer's size to Large. Routine 
maneuvers in zero-g stormtrooper armor do not require a Pilot check, but 
the wearer must make a DC 15 Pilot check to perform any maneuver more 
complicated than simple movement. 


EQUIPMENT 

The Empire manufactures more than just weapons and armor for its military. 
Factories work day and night on worlds all across the galaxy to produce a 
wide variety of equipment, both the tried-and-tested gear of the Clone Wars 
and the latest technologies. 


Propulsion Pack 
Designed to enhance underwater movement, a propulsion pack allows its 
wearer to swim much faster. Activating a propulsion pack is a swift action, 
and you gain a swim speed of 8 squares until the end of your turn. A propul- 
sion pack has 10 charges and can run continuously, so no swift action is 
required to activate the propulsion pack on subsequent rounds of use. 

The packs are designed to be worn with seatrooper armor; wearing them 
without the accompanying stabilization fins reduces a character's swim 
speed by 25%. 


LIFE SUPPORT COST WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 
Propulsion pack 200 10 kg Military 


THIRD-DEGREE DROIDS 
Virtually all third-degree droids are protocol droids, with exceptions such 
as Imperial espionage droids. 


Imperial Espionage Droid 

Designed by Cybot Galactica to closely resemble its popular line of pro- 
tocol droids, espionage droids are manufactured exclusively for Imperial 
Intelligence—which in turn arranges for them to be distributed as ordinary 
protocol droids to individuals under investigation. Once in place, Imperial 
espionage droids fulfill their function as protocol droids, but they also 
record and transmit the private conversations of their owners to Imperial 
Intelligence. 

Imperial espionage droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Imperial Espionage Droid CLA 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +0; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 9, Will 12 

hp 6; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +1 (143-1) 

Base Atk +2; Grp -1 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 9, Con —, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Training (Knowledge 
[bureaucracy], Knowledge [galactic lore], Perception) 

Skills Deception +13, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +7, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +7, Knowledge (social sciences) +7, Perception +8 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, translator unit (DC 5), 
internal comlink, 2 hand appendages, vocabulator 

Possessions audio recorder 

Availability Restricted; Cost 5,000 


fy) 
I 
> 
4 
LJ 
i] 2 
BY 


fy) 
x 
> 
0 
4 
io 
iD 
BS 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROIDS 

Fourth-degree droids cover the full range of combat droids. The primary 
fourth-degree droids of the Rebellion era are the dark troopers created by 
General Rom Mohc around the time of the Battle of Yavin and the variants 
of that model. 


Dark Trooper Phase | 

The initial production model, a Phase | dark trooper is essentially a phrik 
alloy skeleton equipped with a vibroblade on its right arm and a blast shield 
on its left. Although Phase | dark troopers are produced in great numbers, 
they are employed primarily as sentries in Imperial installations. If a dark 
trooper does not attack, it can use its blast shield to gain an additional +2 
armor bonus. 

Phase | dark troopers cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Dark Trooper Phase I cL2 

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 12, Will 10 

hp 18; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee vibroblade +7 (2d6+2) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +4; Grp +11 

Atk Options Cleave, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 12, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 6 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Cleave, Power Attack, Weapon 
Focus (advanced melee weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons) 

Skills Perception +10 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
improved sensor package, internal comlink, vocabulator, phrik alloy 
frame (+8 armor) 

Possessions wrist-mounted vibroblade, wrist-mounted blast shield 

Availability Military; Cost 10,000 


Dark Trooper Phase II 

The second phase of the Dark Trooper project results in a larger droid with 
more complete armor coverage and an assault cannon in place of the melee 
weapon of the previous phase. 

Wearing a suit of Phase II dark trooper armor grants a character a +10 
armor bonus (and counts as heavy armor), a +3 equipment bonus to Strength, 
and a +2 equipment bonus to Perception checks. 

Phase II dark troopers cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Dark Trooper Phase II cL5 

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 2 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 17, Will 12 

hp 39; Threshold 22 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking), fly 6 squares (jet pack) 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+4) 

Ranged light repeating blaster +2 (3d8+1) with autofire or 

Ranged light repeating blaster +5 (3d8+1) with braced autofire or 

Ranged light repeating blaster -3 (5d8+1) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged light repeating blaster +0 (Sd8+1) with braced Burst Fire or 

Ranged missile launcher +7 (6d6+1, 2-square burst radius) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +14 

Atk Options Burst Fire, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), 
Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Coordinated Attack 

Al Str 16, Dex 12, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 6 

Talents Devastating Attack (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Burst Fire, Coordinated 
Attack, Point Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles) 

Skills Perception +11 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
improved sensor package, internal comlink, vocabulator, phrik alloy 
battle armor (+10 armor) 

Possessions assault cannon (light repeating blaster with over-under 
missile launcher) 

Availability Military; Cost 50,000 


FROM LEFT TO RiaHT: DARK TROOPER PHASE |, DARK TROOPER PHASE II, DARK TROOPER PHASE Ill, BLACKHOLE STORMTROOPER 


Dark Trooper Phase III 


The final phase of dark troopers re 


ina larger droid w 


on, and weapons mounts in the fore 


the retractable shoulder plates. most common confi 


below, but the shoulder-mounted missile launcher racks can 


with Merr-Sonn PLX-2M missile 


se Ill dark 
heavy armor), a +4 equipmen 


ncher tubes (see page 49) 


Wearing a suit of 


er armor grants a cha 


armor bonus ( 


‘ounts bonus tc 


and a +2 equipment bonus to Perception checks. 


Phase Ill dark troopers cannot be played as droid heroes. 
Dark Trooper Phase III cL8 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 5 


Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Pe 
Languages Basic, Binary 


jon +12 


Defenses Ref 22 (flat-f 
hp 56; SR 20; Threshold 26 
Immune droid trait 


ated 2: 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 
Melee unarmed +13 
Ranged light repeating 
Ranged light repeating 


+5 (3d8+4) with autofire or 


+8 (3d8+4) with braced auto! 


Ranged light repeating blaster +0 (5d8+4) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged at +4) with braced Burst Fire or 

Ranged € burst radius) 

Ranged sh ile launchers +10 (4d6+4, 2-square 
burst radius) 


Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 

Base Atk +9; Grp +22 

Atk Options Burs 
Point Blank Shot 

Special A 

Abilities Si 

Talents 


ions Coordinated 
18, Dex 1 


Vis 10, Cha 


pons), Penetrating Attack (heavy 


's), Weapon S| 
Pr 


vy weapons) 
heavy), Burst Fire, Coordinated 


Jeapon Focus (heavy weapons). 


Feats ficiency m 
t, Point Blank Shot, 


ciency (heavy 


rception +12 


‘apons, rifles) 


Skills 
Systems walkir 


jocomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages 


»mlink, vocabulator, phrik alloy 


Possessions a: 


d ge 


ight blaster 


mounted 1 


000 


sile launchers 


Availability NV 


9 
bg 
> 
v 
4 
a 
a 
Ss 


FIrFTH-DEGREE DROIDS 
Labor droids, maintenance droids, and custodial droids fall into the category 
of fifth-degree droids. 


Imperial City Maintenance Droid 

Imperial City maintenance droids were put into service over a hundred years 
before the rise of the Empire, maintaining and beautifying the upper levels of 
Coruscant, where they were known as RC-Ms. Shortly after the Clone Wars, 
the droids are replaced by newer, more versatile droids, and their designation 
is changed to IC-M. IC-Ms are still in use in Coruscant’s lower levels, carrying 
out their maintenance programs from more than a century ago. 

Imperial City maintenance droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Imperial City Maintenance Droid cLo 

Medium droid (5th-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init -1; Senses Perception -1 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 9, Will 9 

hp 3; Threshold 14 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 4 squares (tracked) 

Melee unarmed -1 (1d4-1) 

Base Atk +0; Grp -1 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 8, Con —, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 6 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [technology], Use Computer) 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +5, Mechanics +10, Perception -1, 
Use Computer +5 

Systems tracked locomotion, basic processor, 6 claw appendages, 
vocabulator 

Possessions tool kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 500 


VEHICLES AND 
STARSHIPS 


The Imperial fleet is the largest in the history of the galaxy. Even during 
the days of the Old Republic, when Jedi battled the Sith across the stars, 
the number of ships was a mere fraction of the Empire's strength. Built by 
countless civilian contractors, the Imperial fleet enforces the Emperor's will 
in all corners of the Empire. 


WEAPON SYSTEMS 

Vehicle weapons and starship weapons are often interchangeable; vehicle 

weapons are just as effective against starships as are starship weapons. 
Below is described one of the weapon systems employed by the Galactic 

Empire. 


Anti-Aircraft Flak Pod 

The flak pod uses a rapid-loading system to launch dozens of flak missiles 
in a scatter pattern. These missiles use onboard targeting systems to home 
in on enemy ships. Firing an anti-aircraft flak pod is an area attack, even 
at starship scale: The flak pod gunner must choose a 2x2-square (starship 
scale) area within the pod’s range and make an attack roll against a Reflex 
Defense of 10. If successful, compare the result to the Reflex Defense of 
each ship in that area. If the attack roll hits a target, the flak missiles deal 
their damage to that ship; if the attack misses, the flak missiles deal half 
damage. Pilots with the Vehicular Evasion talent cause their ship to take half 
damage from a hit or no damage on a miss. 


ASSASSIN-CLASS CORVETTE 
Intended as a more combat-ready version of the Corellian Engineering 
Corporation's famous CR90 corvette, the Assassin-class corvette sacrifices 
speed and grace for armor and strength. The Assassin is more streamlined 
than a standard corvette, and its engines are a combination of eight large 
thrusters and three smaller ones. The Assassin is commonly used by the 
Empire alongside CR90s in antipiracy or anti-Rebel operations. 


Assassin-class Corvette CL 16 

Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 38; +12 armor 

hp 880; DR 15; SR 120; Threshold 138 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 2 dual turbolasers +10°* (see below) and 
proton torpedo launcher +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew and 
passengers) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +50 

Abilities Str 66, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 60 to 150° (skilled); Passengers 60° 

Cargo 2,100 tons*; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 

Payload 10 proton torpedoes 


Hyperdrive x2 (x8 backup), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* Maximum values for different configurations; typical values are crew 84, 
passengers 51, and cargo 1,500 tons with given weapons. 

** Apply a -20 penalty to attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Dual turbolasers (3 gunners) 

Atk +10 (-10 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 
Proton torpedo launcher (gunner) 

Atk +6 (-14 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x2 


ASSAULT GUNBOAT 

The Alpha-class Xg-1 Star Wing is designed by Cygnus Spaceworks to fill the 
Empire's need for a starfighter capable of long range deployments. Equipped 
with a hyperdrive and deflector shields, the assault gunboat is built to stand 
toe-to-toe with its targets, unlike the more common TIE fighter and its 
variants. Modified versions carry tractor beams, proton torpedo launchers, 
heavy rockets, or bomb launchers. After initial field tests show that the 
Xq-1 performs only as well as a Y-wing or B-wing heavy fighter, the Empire 
develops the strategy of arming an escort group of Xg-1s with beam weapons 
in order to clear the way for Xg-1s armed with missile weapons. 


Assault Gunboat cL 12 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +5; Senses Perception +6 


Medium laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Medium ion cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 ion 
Concussion missile launcher (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x2 


AT-AA ANTI-AIRCRAFPT 
PLATFORM 

Built for surface-to-air defense, the AT-AA suffers from an inability to fire 
at ground targets—a flaw later corrected by the addition of gun ports that 
allow the crew to fend off attacks by enemy infantry. 

The standard AT-AA comes with an anti-air flak pod, capable of punching 
through light metals (such as that found in starfighters and airspeeders); 
variant models replace the flak pod with concussion missile launchers, making 
the AT-AA more effective against landing craft. 

Sophisticated electronic countermeasures aboard the AT-AA make it 
harder for aircraft to target the walker. It gains a +5 bonus to Reflex Defense 
against missile or torpedo attacks. 


AT-AA Anti-Aircraft Platform cL 10 
Colossal ground vehicle (walker) 

Init -5; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 27; +14 armor 

hp 210; DR 20; Threshold 77 


Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 29; +7 armor 

hp 145; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 49 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon +7 (see below) or 

Ranged ion cannon +7 (see below) or 

Ranged missile launcher +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +36 

Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannons, medium ion cannons), 
fire-link (medium laser cannons, medium ion cannons) 

ies Str 48, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 100 kg; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 40 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x12, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 125,000 (75,000 used) 


‘Speed 4 squares (max. velocity 60 km/h) 
Ranged flak pod +2 (see below) or 
light missile launcher +2 (see below) 
Fighting Space 6x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +41 
A Str 44, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 3 (normal); Passengers none 
Cargo 250 kg; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 36 light concussion missiles 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Flak pod (gunner) 
Atk +2, Dmg 5d10x5 

Light missile launcher (gunner) 
Atk +2, Dmg 7d10x2 


TA eSsLavHo 


SMleWweE SL 


TA SSisvRS 


SeIAWE SHA, 


AT-PT ALL-TERRAIN 

PERSONAL TRANSPORT 

The forerunner of the All-Terrain Scout Transport, the AT-PT is manufactured 
during the Clone Wars, and then is gradually replaced by the AT-ST, but it 
continues to see use in sentry and patrol roles. With a typical Imperial bias, 
the AT-PT's cockpit is designed for use only by a Human pilot. A later modi- 
fication widened the cockpit to allow for a copilot. 


AT-PT All-Terrain Personal Transport cL6 
Large ground vehicle (walker) 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 17; +4 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 60 km/h) 

Ranged double heavy blaster cannon +5 (see below) or 
Ranged grenade launcher +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover improved (+10) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +14 

Atk Options autofire (double heavy blaster cannon) 

Al Str 24, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1* 

Cargo 150 kg"; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 concussion grenades 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

* An AT-PT can carry either cargo or one passenger. 


Double heavy blaster cannon (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Grenade launcher (pilot) 

Atk +5, Dmg 8d6, 2-square burst 


IMPERIAL CARGO SHIP 

Much of the Republic's military surplus is converted to Imperial use, particu- 
larly when it can be easily upgraded or modified to fit the Empire's change 
of focus from warfare to peacekeeping. A sizable number of Acclamator- 
class assault ships are fitted for use as cargo ships, sacrificing weaponry to 
increase the ships’ cargo capacity and making them suitable for use as both 
military supply craft and transport vessels. 


Imperial Cargo Ship CL 12 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -3; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 53; +12 armor 
hp 980; DR 20; SR 110; Threshold 253 
Speed fly 8 squares (max. velocity 980 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged 2 quad turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
4 point-defense light laser cannon batteries +15 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +65 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense light laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 96, Dex 12, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 14,857 (skilled); Passengers 16,000 (stormtroopers) 
Cargo 502,212 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft varies 
Hyperdrive x2, advanced navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
* Apply a -20 penalty to attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Quad turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 
Point-defense light laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 


IMPERIAL II-CLASS FRIGATE 
Sometimes referred to as a battle cruiser, the Imperial l-class frigate is a 
smaller, less powerful version of the Empire's feared Star Destroyers. This 
type of frigate is employed primarily to patrol shipping lanes and follow 
up on reports of pirate activity. It features extensive hangar decks both 
port and starboard, allowing it to bring suspicious vessels aboard to be 
inspected and detained if necessary. 

Imperial II-class frigates are frequently the first assignment of junior 
officers just out of the Imperial Academy. 


Imperial II-class Frigate cL17 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 52; +14 armor 
hp 1,500; DR 20; SR 120; Threshold 152 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 4 turbolaser batteries +11° (see below) and 
4 ion cannon batteries +11* (see below) and 
4 point-defense laser batteries +11 (see below) and 
4 tractor beam batteries +11* (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +69 
Abilities Str 94, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 19,899 (skilled); Passengers 4,400 (troops) 
Cargo 46,350 tons; Consumables 6 years; Carried Craft 36 TIE fighters, 
36 TIE/Interceptors, 2 Lambda-class shuttles, various support vehicles 
Hyperdrive x4 (x12 backup), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
* Apply a -20 penalty to attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 

lon cannon battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion 
Point-defense laser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +11, Dmg 2d10x2 

Tractor beam battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg — (grappled +69) 


LANCET AERIAL ARTILLERY 

The Lancet aerial artillery repulsorcraft combines the dual cylindrical pods 
of a TIE bomber with the Lambda shuttle’s tri-wing configuration, and 
it mounts a powerful proton beam cannon in the nose. Even though this 
weapon is capable of pointing downward only and proves difficult to employ 
against mobile targets, it can deliver devastating damage to fortifications 
and entrenched positions. 


LANCET AERIAL ARTILLERY SUPPORTS 4 TIE MAULER. 


Lancet Aerial Artillery 
Gargantuan air vehicle 
Init +3; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +6 armor 
hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 44 


Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h) 

Ranged proton beam cannon +6 (see below) and 
2 laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 


Abilities Str 39, Dex 14, Con —, Int 15 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 850 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Proton beam cannon (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 6d10x5 


Laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 2d10x2 


( 
5 
is 


MISSILE Boat 

Personally designed by Admiral Thrawn, the missile boat is the evolution of 
the Alpha-class Xg-1 Star Wing assault gunboat: a starfighter that relies on 
warheads instead of beam weapons, even in dogfight scenarios. The missile 
boat sports a single laser cannon, and two missile racks replace the gunboat's 
ventral wings. More important, it is outfitted with the advanced SubLight 
Acceleration Motor system, allowing it to sacrifice the use of its laser weapon 
for a tremendous (albeit temporary) burst of speed. 


Missile Boat CL.15' 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 32; +7 armor 

hp 145; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 52 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 1 medium laser cannon +8 (see below) or 
2 advanced missile launchers +8 (see below) or 
2 missile launchers +8 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +39 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 54, Dex 18, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 100 kg; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 20 advanced concussion missiles; 20 concussion missiles 
Hyperdrive x6, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Medium laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


Advanced missile launcher (pilot) 
Atk +8, Dmg 5d10x5 


Missile launcher (pilot) 
Atk +8, Dmg 9d10x2 


ROYAL GUARD STARFIGHTER 
Flown only by the Emperor's Royal Guard, this distinctive red-and-black 
variant of the TIE/Interceptor mounts the same laser cannons and adds a 
shield generator. Used to escort Emperor Palpatine's Lambda-class shuttle 
and its decoys during the Emperor's travels, these starfighters are a match 
for the best starfighter squadrons in the Rebel Alliance. 

Few of these starfighters have seen use outside the Royal Guard, and 
most of those are heavily modified to carry missile launchers and stronger 
deflector shield generators. 


Royal Guard Starfighter cL 12 

Huge starfighter 

Init +17; Senses Perception +12 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor 

hp 90; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +15 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +10; Grp +34 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +17, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +17 


Crew 1 (ace); Passengers none { 
Cargo 75 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


TIE AGGRESSOR STARFIGHTER TIE CRAWLER 

A two-person starfighter developed prior to the Battle of Yavin, the TIE An early form of the TIE crawler, the TIE ap-1 mauler is a combination of reli 
aggressor is a starfighter that never truly left the experimental stage. _ able control interfaces and ground stability. The TIE mauler sees only limited 
Designed as a multipurpose craft, the TIE aggressor boasts forward guns, a _action, however, and even its replacement, the TIE crawler—better known as 


rotating gun turret, and missile racks, making it a dangerous foe. Although 
the aggressor is a powerful vessel capable of performing a wide variety of 


the century tank—is not widely used until well after the Battle of Endor. 


missions, few TIE aggressor squadrons see service during the Galactic Civil TIE ap-1 Mauler cL7 
War. The TIE aggressor is more expensive to produce than more specialized Huge ground vehicle (tracked) 
fighters such as the TIE/Interceptor or the TIE bomber, and it requires its pilots Init +6; Senses Perception +6 
to be trained in a wider variety of combat techniques than the pilots of other Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25; +4 armor 
Imperial fighters. Still, Rebel pilots who have survived encounters with TIE hp 70; DR 10; Threshold 35 
aggressors agree that they are more formidable than other TIE models. ‘Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 90 km/h) 
Ranged triple medium blaster cannons +6 (see below) 

TIE Aggressor CL10 Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 
Huge starfighter Base Atk +2; Grp +27 
Init +10; Senses Perception +6 Abilities Str 40, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6 
hp 80; DR 10; Threshold 34 Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 5 squares Cargo 95 kg; Consumables 5 days; Carried Craft none 

(starship scale) Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
Ranged laser cannon +5 (see below) and 

laser cannon +7 (see below) or Triple medium blaster cannons (pilot) 
Ranged laser cannon +5 (see below) and ‘Atk +6, Dmg 6d10x2 

missile launcher +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total TIE Crawler cCL6 


Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10 
Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 75 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 concussion missiles 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannon (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Laser cannon (gunner) 

Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Missile launcher (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 7d10x2 


Huge ground vehicle (tracked) 
Init +5; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor 
hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 34 


Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 90 km/h) 

Ranged light turbolaser cannon +5 (see below) or 
Ranged double medium blaster cannons +5 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +5 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 5 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Light turbolaser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 3d10x5 


Medium blaster cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 5d10x2 


TA SaiavnD 


SMieans aA 


TIE EXPERIMENTAL 
STARFIGHTER 

Sienar Fleet Systems’ TIE Experimental Project turns out at least five work- 
ing models: TIE-Experimental M1 through M5. These starfighters are built 
on standard TIE designs but modify the engines, weapons, and maneuvering 
thrusters to create faster, stronger ships, including a few capable of hyper- 
space travel. Each of these experimental craft is controlled remotely by a 
trained pilot aboard a Beta-class ETR-3 escort transport. 


TIE Experimental M2 cls 

Huge starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor 

hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 2 turbolaser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +24 

Atk Options autofire (turbolaser turrets) 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8 

Crew remote controlled (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 65 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Turbolaser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x5. 


TIE Experimental M3 cL9 
Huge starfighter 

Init +11; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor 

hp 90; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 34 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 2 missile launchers +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +11 


Crew remote controlled (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 75 kg; Consumables none; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 concussion missiles 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Missile launchers (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 9d10x2 


TIE OPPRESSOR STARFIGHTER 
Designed as a light bomber, Sienar Fleet Systems’ TIE oppressor proves 
unpopular with its test pilots: Its additional armaments and reduced solar 
panel stabilization make it somewhat less maneuverable. However, it quickly 
becomes a favorite of elite pilots, who find that the additional missile 
launcher provides a handy extra punch. As a result, almost no TIE oppressor 
sees action without a veteran pilot at the controls. 


TIE Oppressor clu 

Huge starfighter 

Init +13; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23; +3 armor 

hp 100; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 33 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,450 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged medium laser cannons +10 (see below) or 

Ranged missile launchers +10 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +29 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +13, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +13, 
Use Computer +8 

Crew 1 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 8 concussion missiles 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Missile launchers (pilot) 
Atk +10, Dmg 10d10x2 


From Lert TO RIGHT: TIE SHUTTLE, Misswe BOAT, TIE ScoUT 


TIE PHANTOM STARFIGHTER 

The TIE phantom is developed specifically for a master-stroke attack against 
the Rebel Alliance. Equipped 
crystal cloaking devices, t 
against Rebel ta 


shields and a hyperdrive as wel 


TIE phantom carries out hit-and-ru 


y, is deployed in squadrons 


entire Rebel fleet. The cloaking device renders the vessel invisible while it is 


not firing its weapons, enabling it to strike, vanish, 


d reappear el 


to strike again. And unlike other Imperial 
the TIE phantom featur 


fighters built on the T 


s an independent life-sup 


port system 


to operate longer without returning to base—giving it ample oppc 
strike by surprise multiple 

Most TIE phantoms are 
Destroyer Terror shortly after the Battle of Hoth 


over the course of days. 


‘oyed in their t 


gars aboard the 


TIE Phantom CL 13 
Huge starfighter 
Init +12; Senses Perception + 


Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor 
hp 75; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 34 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,490 km/h), fly 5 squares 
Ranged laser car 

jaser cannons +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3 
Base Atk +2; Grp 
Atk Options autof 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 26, Con —, Int 18 


s +8 (see below) and 


3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 


laser cannons), fire-linked 


Skills Initiative +12, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +12, Stealth +6°, 


Use Compu’ 
“The TIE phantom has total concealment when its cloaking device is 


engaged. 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 90 kg; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x6, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


Laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


0 
ir 
> 
D 
4 
a 
bl 
sg 


TIE scout 
Commissioned for use as a light reconnaissance vessel, the TIE/sr starfighter, 
known more commonly as the TIE scout, is unusual not just for its shape 
but also for its great size. Only lightly armed, the TIE scout is designed for 
long-range missions, with crews of up to three pilots working in shifts to 
operate the onboard Com-scan equipment. Among its sensor gear is a “ping” 
emitter that grants the user a +5 equipment bonus to Use Computer checks 
to detect cloaked vessels. 

The TIE scout also comes in a civilian version, the Lone Scout-A, which 
includes passenger compartments in the rear as well as a greatly expanded 
cargo hold, 


TIE Scout cL5 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +3; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 28; +7 armor, 

hp 110; DR 10; Threshold 48 


TIE SHUTTLE 

A variation of the TIE bomber, the TIE/sh replaces the bomber’s bomb bay with 
2 passenger compartment and cargo room. The Lambda-class shuttle is more 
commonly used by upper-echelon officers; junior officers use TIE shuttles to 
move back and forth between starships and space stations. 


TIE Shuttle cL4 

Gargantuan space transport 

Init +3; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 10), Fort 26; +5 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 650 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon +11 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +35 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con —, Int 24 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 to 3 (skilled); Passengers none (3°) 

Cargo 25 tons (150 tons*); Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x3, navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 148,000 (75,000 used) 

* Civilian model only. 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +11 (+6 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 2 

Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 120,000 (45,000 used) 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


*1 DON'T THINK 
THE EMPIRE HAD 
WOOKIEES IN 
MIND WHEN THEY 
DESIGNED HER, 
CHEWwiIEeE." 


—-HAN SOLO 


VT-49 DECIMATOR 
Intended asa long-range reconnaissance vessel, the VT-49 Decimator is one 
the Empire's most fearsome warships. Fast and maneuverable for a space 
transport, the VT-49 Decimator weaves through enemy lines to deliver a 
vicious assault, and it can land highly trained raiding parties either on plan- 
etary surfaces or in hangar bays. Commanding a VT-49 Decimator is seen 
as a key step toward commanding a capital ship. 
VT-49 Decimator cL 12 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 15), Fort 27; +15 armor 
hp 215; DR 15; SR 40; Threshold 77 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 975 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) and 
concussion missile launchers +8 (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) and 
laser cannons +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 6x6 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +39 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannon turrets) 
Abilities Str 45, Dex 18, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 2 to 4 (skilled); Passengers 6 
Cargo 80 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Payload 40 medium concussion missiles 
Hyperdrive x1 (x12 backup), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Missile launchers (pilot) 

Atk +6, Dmg 9d10x2 


YE-4 GUNSHIP 
Built by Sienar Fleet Systems to patrol the Kessel system, a YE-4 gunship is a 
heavily armed assault craft with multiple gun turrets and sufficient shielding 
and armor to allow the ship to engage its target while reinforcements are 
still in transit. YE-4s are operated solely by the Imperial military and are not 
sold or otherwise available to the public. 
YE-4 Gunship CL15 
Gargantuan space transport 
Init +6; Senses Perception +8 
Defense Ref 22 (flat-footed 19), Fort 29; +14 armor 
hp 145; DR 15; SR 25; Threshold 49 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 900 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged 3 medium blaster cannons +11 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +39 
Atk Options autofire (blaster cannons) 
Abilities Str 48, Dex 16, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +8 
Crew 8 (expert); Passengers 6 
Cargo 40 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x4, navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


HA BalavHS 


Medium blaster cannons (2 gunners) 
Atk +11 (+6 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


*THE ENTIRE 
STARFLEET 
COULDN'T DESTROY 
THE WHOLE 
PLANET. IT'D TAKE 
A THOUSAND 
SHIPS WITH MORE 
FIREPOWER THAN 
MVE « 5 «” 


—-HAN SOLO 


CHAPTER VIII 
_ FRINGE FACTIONS 


ia 


luring the Dark Times, the galactic fringe became a haven for anyone escap- 

ng the Empire. Politicians, military personnel, and civic-minded activists are 
rced to retreat into the underworld of criminal organizations and lawless 
lactic backwaters. Some maintain their ideals, while others succumb to 
¢ reality of their grim situation and focus on day-to-day survival. 

As the Rebellion spreads, it finds in this fringe sympathetic individuals in 
unique positions of power, and the Rebellion makes surprising connections 
in unusual locales. The Rebels also encounter the most notorious criminal 
organizations and crime lords of the galaxy. Clashes are inevitable when 
ideology meets criminality. However, the Rebels hire or otherwise make 
use of smugglers and fringe criminals to secure arms, goods, transport, 
and starships. 

This chapter offers an array of organizations and individuals who might 
1¢ enemies or allies of the heroes, depending on the situation. It is possible 
that these people might change from allies to villains (or vice versa) as the 
campaign evolves. Rebels heroes might balk at dealing with Jabba the Hutt to 
obtain ordnance and materiel, but heroes who are independent ship owners 
or smugglers might jump at the opportunity to make credits as regular haul- 
ers for Jabba. Most fringe alliances are based on convenience or financial 
incentive rather than loyalty to any individual or cause. 


THE EMPIRE 
AND THE FRINGE 


Despite the fact that, by their very nature, most fringe organizations are 
disobeying the edicts of the Empire, many Imperial officials turn a blind eye 
0 illegal activities, provided those activities further their aims. For example, 
corrupt Imperial bureaucrats will associate with crime lords when it suits 
them, accepting bribes in exchange for favors. Even Darth Vader, the second 
highest-ranking individual in the Empire, calls upon bounty hunters to track 
down the heroes of Yavin when his own Imperial forces fail. The fringe has a 
tenuous relationship with the Empire throughout the Rebellion era, although 
that relationship can quickly end the moment the Empire decides that a group 
of criminals is no longer useful. When that happens, groups on the fringe 
find that they have more in common with the Rebel Alliance than they do 
with their former partners in the Empire. 


SNOIlLSOVa SONINS 


BOUNTY HUNTERS 

With the rise of the Rebellion, the galaxy’s bounty hunters have a lucrative 
class of targets that the Empire is willing to pay generously for. Thanks to 
standing Imperial bounties for Rebels and their sympathizers, no enemy of 
the Empire can feel completely safe with bounty hunters in the area. 

Even without hunting Rebels, bounty hunters of this era find plenty to 
keep them busy. There seems to be an endless number of failed smugglers 
and gunrunners who find themselves unable to repay their criminal bosses. 
Interstellar corporations might also find themselves in need of freelance help 
in dealing with thieves, troublesome competitors, and rogue personnel. The 
Empire's richest rewards are offered for Jedi, although they are even more 
difficult than Rebels for bounty hunters to apprehend. More often than not, 
these so-called Jedi turn out to be con artists, charlatans, or untrained Force 
sensitives, for which the bounty is far smaller. 

Bounty hunters come from a variety of backgrounds. They can be ex- 
military members, rogue droids, or even remnants of the Mandalorian culture. 
Regardless where they come from, competition among bounty hunters is 
fierce, especially after the destruction of the Bounty Hunters’ Guild in the 
early days of the Rebellion. 


BOUNTY HUNTERS: 


Until its destruction, the Bounty Hunters’ Guild is a central clearinghouse 
for the majority of the galaxy’s bounty hunters. In a plan masterminded by 
Black Sun head Prince Xizor and ordered by the Emperor, Boba Fett begins 
a bloody internal conflict that shatters the Guild. Following its destruction, 
individuals and small groups compete for bounties, power, and influence. 
During the Rebellion era, some bounty hunters aspire to create a new Guild, 
while others are more than happy to pursue credits on their own without 
interference. After several years, the Guild eventually reclaims its former 
influence. See pages 72-74 of The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide for more 
information on the Bounty Hunters’ Guild. 

Some of the era's prominent bounty hunters are described in this book. 
See page 270 of the Saga Edition core rulebook for information on Boba 
Fett. See page 17 of Threats of the Galaxy for information on Bossk, and see 
page 115 of Scum and Villainy for information on Zuckuss. 


4-LOM 

4-LOM isa unique bounty hunter with a highly unusual career. He is one of the 
few elite and successful droid bounty hunters in the galaxy. Prior to his career 
asa bounty hunter, 4-LOM is a standard LOM-series protocol droid, Unchal- 
lenged by his protocol tasks aboard the starliner Kuari Princess, 4-LOM first 
turns to thievery aboard the vessel, Jabba the Hutt becomes intrigued with 
the droid’s inventiveness, intelligence, and operational planning. He arranges 
to upgrade 4-LOM to enable the droid to work as a bounty hunter, Jabba 
also suggests that 4-LOM form a partnership with the Gand bounty hunter 
Zuckuss. This partnership lasts for years. The two accept jobs throughout 
the galaxy for every conceivable type of client, including the Rebel Alliance 
and Darth Vader. However, Zuckuss and 4-LOM fail spectacularly in their 
attempt to steal the frozen Han Solo from Boba Fett high over Tatooine. Fett 
blasts 4-LOM to pieces. Zuckuss manages to repair the droid, but 4-LOM's 
personality becomes cold and compassionless. He stops working with other 
bounty hunters, including Zuckuss, and pursues his own goals. 


4-LOM cL12 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1/noble 1/scoundrel 5/scout 3/ 
bounty hunter 3 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 6 

Init +7; Senses Perception +12 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Gand, Huttese, Quarrenese, Rodese, Ry, 
Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 26), Fort 24, Will 25 

hp 54; Threshold 24 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d3+6) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +10 (3d10+6) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+6) or 

Ranged stun gas gun +9 vs. Fortitude Defense (-1 step on the condition 
track, 6-square cone, gas dissipates in 5 rounds) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +1 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle), Hunter's Mark, 

Point Blank Shot, Spacehound 

Special Actions Hunter's Target, Knack 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con -, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 15 

Special Qualities familiar foe +1 

Talents Acute Senses, Educated, Expert Tracker, Gimmick, Hunter's Mark, 
Hunter's Target, Knack, Spacehound 

Feats Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Gather Information, 
Knowledge [bureaucracy, galactic lore, tactics], Mechanics, Perception, 
Survival, Use Computer), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Gather Information +13, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+14, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, Knowledge (social sciences) +14, 
Knowledge (tactics) +14, Mechanics +14, Perception +12 (can reroll), 
Persuasion +13, Stealth +12, Survival +12, Use Computer +14 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, translator unit (DC 
10), 2 hand appendages, integrated comlink, locked access, secondary 
battery, vocabulator 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle, blaster pistol, stun gas gun, datapad, 
audio recorder 


*BOUNTY 
DON'T NEE 


1Go-88m 

The galaxy contains few beings with the vast ambition and drive of IG-88. 
Conceived as a droid fighting force built to crush the Rebellion, IG-88 is 
the result of Imperial Supervisor Gurdun's naive Project Phlutdroid. IG-88 
achieves sentience within seconds of activation, perceives his creators as 
threats, and eliminates them. He copies his consciousness into three identi- 
cal prototypes and escapes Holowan Laboratories. A similar unit, IG-72, also 
escapes the facility, but is ultimately destroyed on Tatooine while working 
as a bounty hunter. 

IG-88's goal is galactic domination. The IG-88 droids, now designated 
IG-88A, B, C, and D, secretly take over the Mechis III droid factories, altering 
the programming of all droids created there to act as IG-88's personal droid 
army when signaled. To provide cover for the scheme, IG-88B becomes a 
bounty hunter. His success and efficiency along with his pitiless drive make 
him highly feared. He soon becomes one of the galaxy's elite bounty hunters. 
His hunts cover his secondary mission: the elimination of anyone associated 
with the IG-88 project. 

|G-88B pursues the bounty that Darth Vader places on the Millennium 
Falcon after it flees the Battle of Hoth. |G-88B calculates that Boba Fett is 
the bounty hunter most likely to locate the target first, so he follows Fett to 
Cloud City, where Fett ambushes the droid and blows him to pieces before 
the Millennium Falcon's arrival. Units C and D arrive too late to aid their 
counterpart or to stop Fett’s departure. They eventually set up an ambush 
for Boba Fett over Tatooine using their /G-2000 starship. Once again, they 
fail to stop Fett. Unit C is destroyed, and unit D escapes only to be destroyed 
by Dash Rendar on Ord Mantell. 

1G-88A continues with his plans, uploading his consciousness into a 
copy of the second Death Star's computer core. He then arranges to have 
this copy switched with the original core during an ambush of an Imperial 
convoy. Once installed, |G-88A's consciousness controls the station. He is 
about to trigger his droid revolution when the Rebels destroy the Death Star. 
IG-88's consciousness is gone, but his abandoned droid body is discovered 
years later and used as Tyko Thul's bodyguard. 


HUNTERS. 
D THAT SCUM.” 


-ADMIRAL PIETT 


SNOILLEY2) SONI) 


WA BSisavHS 


IG-88 cL14 

Medium droid (4th-degree) scout 4/soldier 5/scoundrel 1/bounty hunter 4 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 14 

Init +15 (can reroll); Senses 360-degree vision, darkvision, low-light 
vision; Perception +16 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Gand, Huttese 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 28), Fort 29, Will 28 
hp 91; Threshold 29 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +15 (1d3+10) 

Ranged blaster cannon +15 (3d12+7) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +15 (3d8+7) or 

Ranged flamethrower +15 (3d6+7, 6-square cone) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +10 (3d8+7) and 
flamethrower +10 (3d6+7, 6-square cone) with.Dual Weapon Mastery | 
or 

Ranged blaster cannon +13 (4d12+7) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster rifle +13 (4d8+7) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (4d8+7) and 
flamethrower +8 (4d6+7, 6-square cone) with Dual Weapon Mastery | 
and Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +12; Grp +15 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (rifles), Dual Weapon Mastery |, 
Hunter's Mark, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Skirmisher 

Special Actions Hunter's Target, Indomitable 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 17, Con -, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Special Qualities familiar foe +3 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Devastating Attack (rifles), 
Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target, Improved Initiative, Indomitable, 
Skirmisher 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Dual Weapon Mastery 
|, Exotic Weapon Proficiency (flamethrower), Point Blank Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Skill Training (Knowledge [gather information], Stealth), Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, rifles, pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +13, Initiative +15 (can reroll), Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +15, Mechanics +15, Perception +16 (can reroll), 
Persuasion +13, Pilot +15, Stealth +15, Survival +14, Use Computer +15, 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
Mandalorian steel shell (+9 armor), darkvision, improved sensor 
package, internal comlink, locked access, secondary battery, 
vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle, blaster cannon, flamethrower with 5 chemical 
cartridges, IG-2000 


DENGAR 

Initially, Dengar plans to become a professional swoop racer. He has the 
talent and drive, but his risk-taking personality eventually puts him in an 
illegal race against Han Solo. His aggressive racing style causes a collision 
with Solo's swoop, and Dengar's head is smashed into a crystal spike. Even 
though he survives, his racing career is finished. 

The Empire sees an opportunity to turn Dengar into an Imperial tool. 
Imperial surgeons implant an augmented neurosystem into his brain and 
install cybernetic eyes. Brain alterations eliminate all emotions other than 
rage, and Dengar becomes an Imperial assassin. 

When Dengar learns of Jabba the Hutt’s rich bounty on Han Solo, he 
undertakes bounty-hunting missions, occasionally partnering with other 
elite hunters such as IG-88 and Bossk. Ultimately, the Imperial order to 
assassinate the Holy Children of Asrat convinces him to oppose the Empire, 
or so he says. Dengar does not stop pursuing Han Solo, whom he blames for 
his racing crash. This drive leads him to infiltrate the Rebels, and he learns 
of their secret base on Hoth. Dengar arrives during the Battle of Hoth and 
is captured by a Star Destroyer. Lord Vader's need for elite bounty hunters 
enables Dengar to escape execution for treason, and the hunter is soon 
pursuing Solo to Cloud City. 

At Cloud City, Dengar meets a female Aruzan named Manaroo, who uses a 
cybernetic link to restore Dengar's lost emotions. The two fall in love. Dengar 
continues to work as a bounty hunter, and he and Manaroo eventually end 
up in Jabba’s palace, where Manaroo is forced to become one of the Hutt's 
dancers. When Jabba notices Dengar's desire to free his love, the hunter is 
staked out in the desert and left to die. The pair is freed after Jabba is killed 
by Princess Leia at the Great Pit of Carkoon. While investigating Jabba's 
final resting place, Dengar and Manaroo discover a wounded Boba Fett, who 
had escaped the Sarlace. After nursing Fett back to health, Dengar goes on 
to partner with him, Their success enables Dengar to marry Manaroo, and 
Dengar and Fett continue to work together for many years. 


“WELL, THE BOUNTY 
HUNTER WE RAN 
INTO ON ORD 
MANTELL CHANGED 
MY MIND 


“HAN SO Lt 


Dengar cL 

Medium Human scout 5/scoundrel 1/soldier 1/bounty hunter 4 

Destiny 2; Force 5; Dark Side 3 

Init +13 (can reroll); Senses Perception +11 (can reroll) 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 25), Fort 25, Will 23 

hp 86; Threshold 25 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +10 (1d4+7) 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (2d6+7) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +10 (4d8+5) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged frag grenade +11 (4d6+5, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Hunter's Mark, Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Hunter's Target, Knack, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 10 

Special Qualities familiar foe +2 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target, 
Improved Initiative, Improved Stealth, Knack 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Shake It Off, Skill Training (Knowledge [gather information], Stealth, 
Survival), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, rifles, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +12, Gather Information +10, Initiative +13 (can reroll), 
Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Mechanics +12, Perception +11 (can 
reroll), Persuasion +10, Pilot +13, Stealth +13 (can reroll), Survival +11, 
Use Computer +12 

Possessions blaster rifle, 2 frag grenades, vibroblade, blast vest (+2 
armor), comlink, cybernetic enhancement (augmented neurosystem, +2 
Dexterity), cybernetic prosthesis (eyes) 


BLACK SUN 
Black Sun is a galaxywide criminal organization on par with the Hutts’ 
criminal empire. Although heavy operators within fringe society know the 
organization well, the public does not. Law-enforcement agencies know of 
its existence, but might be unaware of connections between local criminals 
and Black Sun or even of highly active segments of the Black Sun organiza- 
tion within their jurisdictions 

Prior to the Clone Wars and the Trade Federation's invasion of Naboo, 
Black Sun is dealt a severe blow when Darth Maul eliminates its entire top 
leadership, fulfilling Darth Sidious’s plan to diminish the organization's 
power. Black Sun spends the following decades rebuilding. By the Rebellion 
era, Black Sun is a supremely powerful and shadowy organization under the 
secret leadership of the Falleen Prince Xizor. Xizor even gains the notice of 


the Emperor, which he uses to promote his own goals, such as the destruction 
of the Bounty Hunters’ Guild. 

Black Sun is vulnerable because of Prince Xizor's personal vendetta against 
Darth Vader and ambitions to replace the dark lord. Upon learning that Luke 
Skywalker is Vader's son, Xizor attempts to have Luke assassinated, hoping 
to diminish Vader in the eyes of the Emperor. Ultimately, the plan backfires 
as the prince vastly underestimates the heroes of Yavin, who destroy his 
Coruscant castle and escape his grasp. Vader learns of the assassination 
plots and confronts Xizor from the bridge of the Executor, demanding his 
immediate surrender, When the prince fails to do so, Vader destroys Xizor's 
skyhook, killing everyone on board. The loss of Xizor decimates Black Sun in 
the months prior to the Battle of Endor, sparking an internal power struggle 
that lasts for several years. 

For more details on Black Sun, see page 68 of The Force Unleashed Cam- 
paign Guide and pages 26 and 152 of Threats of the Galaxy, For additional 
information on Prince Xizor, see page 111 of Scum and Villainy. 


Two AUTHORITY IRD FIGHTERS TRY TO RUN A BLACK SUN AEG-77 


SNOILSY,) SONI) 


SNOLLAYE SONI) 


WA eaiavnS 


AEG-77 “ViGo" 
A lightly armed but capable cargo transport ship, the AEG-77 “Vigo” trans- 
port becomes the mainstay of Xizor Transport Systems, the transporation 
company Prince Xizor uses as a front for Black Sun shipments. Able to carry 
legitimate and illegal cargoes with equal ease, the AEG-77 attracts attention 
from pirates and competing organizations. After the loss of many vessels, 
Xizor Transport Systems upgrades the weaponry of its fleet. The AEG-77 
gunship version sacrifices much of its cargo space for 6 turrets—4 upper 
and 2 lower—and better shielding. 

The ship has three decks and multiple cargo areas. Its irregular floor plan 
enables Black Sun to install hidden cargo bays or compartments in different 
locations on its vessels. 


AEG-77 "Vigo" Gunship 
Colossal space transport 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 15; SR 20; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares 

(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) and 

6 light laser cannon +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +38 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, light laser cannons), fire-link 
(laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 

Use Computer +6 


CL 10 


KIHRAXZ LIGHT FIGHTER 

The majority of Black Sun's starfighters are Kihraxz light fighters. Trans- 
GalMeg designs this fighter for Black Sun as a low-cost, fast, maneuverable 
ship that meets the needs of a variety of situations. The Kihraxz has few 
features but is easily modified. Kihraxzes are sometimes so heavily modi- 
fied that a pair of them might not be recognizable as sharing the same base 
model. One such version is the Vaksai, a more costly but extremely effec- 
tive starfighter. 


Kihraxz Light Fighter cL9 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +7; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +6 armor 
hp 90; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 44 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged light blaster cannons +4 (see below) or 
Ranged light concussion missiles +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +31 
Abilities Str 38, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 130 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 70,000 (45,000 used) 


Light blaster cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4, Dmg 3d10x2 


Crew 8 (skilled); Passengers 6 

Cargo 25 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x3 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 200,000 (75,000 used) 


Transport Version—Carries no weaponry; reduce SR to 10, increase 
cargo to 100 tons. 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


Light laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +4 (+1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


Light concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +4, Dmg 7d10x2, 4-square splash 


Vaksai cL 
Gargantuan starfighter 


ses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged enhanced medium laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 24, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 95 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 185,000 (115,000 used) 


Enhanced medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 5d10x2 

Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


KIMRAXZ-CLASS FIOHTERS ATTACK AN IMPERIAL CAROO SHIP. 


SUPA FIGHTER 

Usually accompanied by cheaper Kihraxz fighters, the Black Sun's Supa 
starfighter is designed by Joran Drive Systems to provide a moderate amount 
of firepower to a fighter group. The Supa is most commonly used to defend 


stations or convoys. 
Supa Fighter cL9 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double medium laser cannons +5 (see below) or 

Ranged medium ion cannons +5 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (double medium laser cannons), fire-link (medium 
concussion missiles) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 80 kg; Consumables | day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 110,000 (70,000 used) 


Double medium laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 

Medium ion cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 5d10x2 ion 

Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


J 


SNOILSVe) 


TWO VAKSAI FIGHTERS ESCORT A RINKXYRK ASSAULT FIGHTER. 


RIHKXYRK ASSAULT FIGHTER 
The largest Black Sun assault fighter, the TransGalMeg Rihkxyrk is one of 
the most heavily armed and armored starfighters of the Rebellion era. The 
Rihkxyrk it is slow and difficult to fly, but Black Sun pilots prefer the trade- 
off. Some say that Rihkxyrk pilots’ high survival rates can be attributed more 
to the ships than to the pilots. 
Rihkxyrk Assault Fighter cla 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +3; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 150; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 48 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 750 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged enhanced triple heavy laser cannons +5 (see below) or 
Ranged medium concussion missiles +5 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +35 
Atk Options autofire (triple heavy laser cannons), fire-link (medium 
concussion missiles) 


Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 80 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Restricted; Cost 240,000 (150,000 used) 


Enhanced triple heavy laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


CLOUD City 

Floating high above the gas giant Bespin, Cloud City remains much as it was 
during the Dark Times. The Tibanna gas mining colony is too small to interest 
the Empire, and it serves as a refuge for those who wish to escape the Empire 
while maintaining their commercial and social legitimacy. Two years before 
the Battle of Hoth, the infamous scoundrel Lando Calrissian wins control 
of the city from then Baron Administrator Dominic Raynor in a high-stakes 
sabacc game. Calrissian later discovers that the anonymous benefactor who 
helped him cover the enormous bet was, in fact, Lobot and thousands of 
Ugnaughts willing to put up their own credits to dethrone Raynor, 

Lando proves to be a natural administrator, and the 6 million inhabit- 
ants of the city enjoy years of profit and stability. The city maintains strict 
neutrality in the Galactic Civil War and enforces a no-weapons policy for 
visitors and inhabitants, with some exceptions. 

Cloud City still serves as a haven for underworld activity, but it has 
a low profile until the arrival of the Millennium Falcon and its Imperial 
pursuers. Although Lando Calrissian attempts to broker a deal with Darth 
Vader, handing over his friend Han Solo in the process, the effort ultimately 
fails. Lando and much of the population flee the city before an Imperial 
garrison is installed. The Empire maintains control of Cloud City until after 
the Battle of Endor, when Calrissian evicts the Imperials with the help of 
Lando's Commandos. 


LoBOoT 

The cyborg Lobot is Cloud City's computer liaison. A one-time pirate and 
thief, Lobot is captured by Cloud City law enforcement and offered a choice 
between prison and a 15-year term as the city’s computer liaison. He accepts 
the position and the permanent installation of a BioTech Borg Construct Aj°6 
cybernetic unit. Lobot is in constant contact with the city’s central computer, 
which controls the city’s infrastructure. He enjoys faster reaction time and 
higher intelligence because of the link, although he has lost his linguistic 
capabilities and, some would say, his emotions. He remains at his post long 
beyond his 15-year term and serves as an aide to many administrators. 


Lobot (Episode V) cL6 

Medium Human scoundrel 5/noble 1 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +4; Senses Perception +15" 

Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Durese, Huttese, Ithorese, Shyriiwook, 
Sullustese 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 19), Fort 18, Will 21; Dodge 

hp 42; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+3) 

Ranged by weapon +4 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Coordinate +1, Master Slicer, Melee Defense 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 10 

Talents Coordinate +1, Gimmick, Master Slicer, Trace 

Feats Dodge, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Melee Defense, Point 
Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy], Perception, Use 
Computer), Weapon Proficiencies (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +8, Gather Information +8, Knowledge (bureaucracy)* 
+16, Knowledge (galactic lore)* +11, Mechanics +11, Perception +15", 
Persuasion +3, Use Computer +16" 

Possessions BioTech Borg Construct Aj°6 cybernetic augmentation, 
cybernetic comlink (Cloud City computer access), datapad 

“Lobot gains an additional +2 beneficial circumstance bonus to all 
Knowledge, Perception, and Use Computer checks when linked to the 
Cloud City central computer. 


WING GUARD 

The Wing Guard serves as Cloud City's security force, provides all emergency 
services, and fulfills civil responsibilities such as those of the elite Storm 
Guard weather-prediction unit. Throughout most of the history of Cloud City, 
the Wing Guard is a corrupt force, reflecting the personality of the Baron 
Administrator. When Lando Calrissian becomes the administrator of Cloud 
City, he clears out the corruption and turns the Wing Guard into a respectable 
organization. With better training and leadership, the Wing Guard becomes 
a reliable security force. 


Wing Guard (Episode V) cL4 
Medium Human nonheroic 3/soldier 3 

Force 4 

Init +9; Senses Perception +15 

Languages Basic, Bocce 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 15, Will 15 
hp 24; Threshold 15 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (346+3) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (pistols), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 
Special Actions Coordinated Attack 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 10 

Talents Devastating Attack (pistols), Weapon Specialization (pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Persuasion), 
Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +8, Initiative +9, Perception +15, Persuasion +8 

Possessions blaster pistol, combat jumpsuit (+4 armor, Bespin guard 
uniform, binders, comlink 


SNEILEVE) POuIME 


SEEEEEEE 
ENOMSYS SONG 


iA SalavHo 


HABBA THE HutTt's 
CRIMINAL 
ORGANIZATION 


During the Rebellion era, Jabba the Hutt’s Outer Rim criminal empire is at 
its height. From Tatooine to Nal Hutta, Jabba rules the powerful Desilijic 
clan. Besides the organization's spice smuggling ring, slave trafficking, and 
extortion, Jabba pursues schemes to further increase his wealth, power, and 
standing among the Hutt clans. 

Jabba employs the best bounty hunters, smugglers, scoundrels, and 
criminals in the galaxy. Working for the ruthless Hutt is risky. Jabba toler- 
ates few mistakes, especially where credits are concerned. Only the foolish 
would attempt to double-cross Jabba; few ever succeed, and the penalty 
for the attempt is death. 

Jabba rules his far-reaching organization from his Tatooine desert palace, 
parts of which are still inhabited by the B'morr monks who built it as their 
monastery. Jabba and his underlings fill its darkened corridors with intrigue 
and death. Jabba drops those who displease him to the ravenous rancor 
below the throne room, while those who anger him intensely are fed to the 
sarlacc in the Great Pit of Carkoon. 

With Jabba's death at the hands of Princess Leia, competing crime lords 
fight for control of Jabba’s organization. Eventually, Hutts Kumac and 
Jelasi emerge as joint clan leaders. Within a year, they lose the organiza- 
tion to Jabba's father, Zorba, through legal maneuverings and traditional 
Hutt scheming. 


JABBA THE HuTT 

Through six centuries, the legendary Jabba amasses great power and wealth, 
managing clan operations and schemes throughout Hutt space and the galaxy 
at large. He is vile, disgusting, arrogant, and evil. He inspires great fear in 
his followers and enemies alike. 


Jabba the Hutt (Episode VI) cL 12 

Large Hutt noble 3/scoundrel 4/crime lord 5 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 7 

Init +4; Senses Perception +18 (can reroll, keeping the better result) 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Gamorrean, Huttese, Rodese, Ry!, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 22), Fort 26, Will 29 

hp 98; Threshold 31 

Speed 2 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+6) 

Ranged by weapon +6 

Base Atk +8; Grp +13 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Demand Surrender, Disruptive, Impel Ally I, Impel Ally Il, 
Walk the Line 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 7, Con 16, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Special Qualities command cover, Force resistance, supreme stability 

Talents Demand Surrender, Disruptive, Impel Ally |, Impel Ally ll, Inspire 
Fear |, Inspire Fear Il, Inspire Fear Ill, Presence, Walk the Line 

Feats Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus 
(Deception, Gather Information, Knowledge [galactic lore, social 
sciences], Perception, Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +18, Gather Information +18, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +18, Knowledge (social sciences) +18, 
Perception +18 (can reroll, keeping the better result), Persuasion +18, 
Stealth -1, Use Computer +13 

Possessions repulsor sled, sail barge, skiffs, speeders, palace, bodyguards, 
servants, vast wealth 


BiB FORTUNA 
Bib Fortuna is Jabba's scheming, ambitious, manipulative, and underhanded 
majordomo; he runs the organization's day-to-day operations. Fortuna begins 
as a ryll smuggler on Ryloth, where he is arrested. After escaping to Tatoo- 
ine, he and Bidlo Kwerve make spice runs for Jabba and later move to slave 
trafficking. Fortuna is instrumental in bringing the rancor to Jabba. He uses 
the occasion to eliminate Kwerve, his primary rival, and to become Jabba's 
majordomo. Fortuna attempts to seize control of the organization following 
Jabba’s death, but is quickly taken by the mysterious B'omarr monks. The 
monks remove Fortuna’s brain and place it within a BT-16 perimeter droid, a 
process reserved for monks who have reached enlightenment. 

Sometime after the Battle of Endor, a Twi'lek named Firith Olan comes to 
Tatooine to try to take control of the Hutt's criminal empire. Olan is captured 
by Fortuna, who convinces the monks to place his brain in Olan's body. 


Bib Fortuna (Episode VI) cL5 

Medium Twi'lek noble 2/scoundrel 3 

Destiny 1; Force 3; Dark Side 4 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Gamorrean, Huttese, Jawa Trade Language, 
Rodese, Ryl 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 18, Will 19 

hp 37; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +4 (1d4+3) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +3 (3d4+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Disruptive, Inspire Haste, Knack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Disruptive, Inspire Haste, Knack 


Feats Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Gather Information, 
Perception, Persuasion), Skill Training (Stealth), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9 (can reroll), Gather Information +14, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +9, Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +9, Perception +14, Persuasion +14, Stealth +7, 

Use Computer +9 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, knife, poisons (see page 255 of the 

Saga Edition core rulebook), desert robes, credit chip, datapad 


GAMORREAN GUARD 

Jabba employs a band of nine strong but dimwitted Gamorrean guards in 
his palace. Led by Ortugg, they are at Jabba's call as guards or to provide 
impromptu violent entertainment. 


Gamorrean Guard (Episode VI) cL2 

Medium Gamorrean nonheroic 6 

Dark Side 2 

Init +3; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic (understand only), Gamorrean (speak only) 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 16, Will 9 

hp 27; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibro-ax +6 (2d10+4) or 

Melee vibro-ax +6 (3410+4) with Mighty Swing 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Mighty Swing, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 10, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 9 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Damage Threshold, Mighty 
Swing, Power Attack, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 
pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, vibro-ax, light battle armor (+5 armor, 
+2 equipment) 


USING JABBas'S 
ORGANIZATION 

For many players, interacting with Jabba the Hutt is one of the most 
sought-after experiences in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. Fortunately, 
Jabba is one of the easiest major movie characters for the heroes to 
access, regardless of their level. When using this legendary crime lord in 
the game, keep the following points in mind to help create an authentic 
Jabba the Hutt experience: 

* Jabba is intimidating. The heroes should constantly be afraid of 
what Jabba might do to them or ask of them next. Every encounter 
should include at least one attempt to intimidate the heroes, either 
through a skill check or specific requests, 

Jabba has seen every trick in the book. No standard scam is going to 
work on Jabba, unless he wants to twist it to his own ends. 

Jabba is ready for anything. Catching Jabba off quard or surprising 
him is difficult. 

Jabba hears rumors and news constantly, from his spies, aspiring 
underlings, and desperate associates willing to give up anything to 
save themselves from the Hutt. Hiding plots against Jabba should 
be difficult. 

Jabba's anger is frightening. When something makes Jabba angry, 
his actions should make the heroes very uncomfortable. 

Jabba is well protected. The heroes should never be alone with the 
Hutt, even if it appears that they are, Jabba’s guards react immedi- 
ately to any threat. 

Credits are king. Jabba is interested in credits more than in anything 
else, Heroes who fail the Hutt monetarily should fear his reaction. 
Jabba never forgets a wrong and never lets one slide, unless it serves 
his own purposes, 

Jabba is out for himself and will sacrifice the heroes if necessary. 
Jabba always collects interest—one way or another. 


Fortunately for the heroes, they do not necessarily need to deal with 
Jabba. In fact, at lower levels they might not even be allowed an audience 
until they prove their worth. Until then, they can deal with Bib Fortuna 
or another underling. Direct interaction with Jabba should be saved for 
a special encounter or for when things go seriously wrong. Being sum- 
moned to an audience with the crime lord after a failed smuggling run 
or bounty chase should rightfully frighten the heroes. 


WA walavHo 


BEaRaRaaaAa 


SNGILEV SONIMS) 


U 


ZANN CONSORTIUM 
The Zann Consortium is a powerful criminal syndicate opposing both the 
Empire and the Rebellion. Run by the crime lord Tyber Zann, the Consortium is 
his tool to take control of the galaxy’s underworld and ultimately the galaxy. 
The Consortium’s enemies include most major organizations in the galaxy, as 
well as criminal operations such as that of the Desilijic Hutt clan. 

The Consortium’ rise to power begins shortly after the destruction of 
the first Death Star and continues beyond the Battle of Endor. Specialized 
Defilers excel at tasks such as corrupting officials, kidnapping, sabotage, 
and bribery. 

The Consortium features a sizable military arm, which is able to field 
formidable space and ground forces. The Consortium’s access to black-market 
weaponry and military devices of its own design gives it a great advantage 
over its enemies. What it cannot steal or otherwise obtain, it builds. Ships, 
armor, droids, equipment, and weaponry are all within the Consortium’s 
capabilities 


ZANN CONSORTIUM DEFILER 
The Defilers are the Zann Consortium’s primary agents. Experts in stealth, 
social engineering, bribery, and extortion, they infiltrate a planet's govern- 
ment, industrial facilities, and underworld in an effort to bring the planet 
under Consortium control. Defilers use assassination and sabotage to con- 
vince local authorities to accept Consortium policies. 

Defilers wear distinctive red armor that keeps 


m safely anonymous 


They are humanoid in appearance, although the species of an individual 


Defiler is unidentifiable. Defilers prefer to fight at a distance and employ 
triggered explosives when possible 


Zann Consortium Defiler cL6 

Medium Human scoundrel 4/noble 1/soldier 1 

Force 4; Dark Side 2 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary (understand only), Bocce, Dosh, Huttese, Rodese 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 21, Will 20 

hp 44; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +4 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (348+3) or 

Ranged thermal detonator +6 (8d6+3, 4-square burst) or 

Ranged frag grenade +6 (4d6+3, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Dastardly Strike, 
Devastating Attack (rifles), Far Shot", Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Disrupt 


ZANN CONSORTIUM DEFILERS PREPARE TO ATTACK AN AT-AA. 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Dastardly Strike, Devastating Attack (rifles), Disruptive, Presence 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Far Shot", Linguist, Point Blank 
Shot, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy], 
Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (rifles, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +9", Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+10, Knowledge (social sciences) +10, Mechanics +10, Perception +12, 
Persuasion +14, Stealth +10, Use Computer +10 

Possessions battle armor (+8 armor, +2 equipment) with helmet package 
and combat gloves, blaster rifle, thermal detonator, frag grenade 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill 


CANDEROUS-CLASS ASSAULT 
TANK 

The Canderous-class assault tank is among the heaviest tanks in the galaxy, 
but it is so prohibitively expensive that few military forces can justify its 
purchase. A product of MandalMotors and named after the ancient Man- 
dalorian hero Canderous Ordo, the tank features armor as durable as that 
of an Imperial walker. Armed with heavy laser cannons and a concussion 
missile launcher, the tank dominates a battlefield. The added maneuver- 
ability of its repulsorlift systems makes it more agile than walkers, although 
its low repulsorlift ceiling remains a limitation on its performance and it is 
vulnerable to aerial attack. The tank serves as a guardian for nearby weaker 
units by interfering with the targeting sensors of attacking vehicles and of 
missiles, drawing incoming fire to itself. 


Canderous-class Assault Tank cL 10 

Gargantuan ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 34; +10 armor 

0; DR 15; SR 10 Threshold 54 

6 squares (max. velocity 50 km/h) 

Ranged heavy laser cannons +4 (see below) and 
concussion missile launcher +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Cover total 

Base Atk +4; Grp +43 

Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 59, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +2, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 100 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost not available for sale 


Draw Enemy Fire—As a standard action, the pilot makes a Persuasion 
check against each attacking enemy vehicle within line of sight or line 
of effect. If the check result exceeds DC 10, the enemy unit attacks 
this tank instead of another target. A hero piloting a vehicle target 
by this ability can use his or her Will Defense instead of DC 10. 


Heavy laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Concussion missile launcher (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 9d10x2, 2 square splash 


FS-TZ TRANSPORT 
The F9-IZ Transport 
the clandest 
clo: 


tion. However, the cloakin 


landspeeder that excels at 


The F9-1Z features a 


insertion of troops into a bat 


from both visual and sensor detec- 
res considerable power, preventing 


1g device and its shields at the same time, 


ing device that shields the vehic 


g device re 


the transport from using its clo; 


The cloaking device can be nly a limited time t 


a recharge. The F9-1Z depends on its escorts for defense, 


ngaged for fore requiring 


since it carries no 


weaponry of its own. It can transport up to four squads of infantry but is 
unable to carry vehicles. The cloaking technology makes the price for this 
transport exceedingly high. The cloaking projectors are integrated into the 


vehicle's hull and cannot be 


nother vehicle without a complete 


redesign. 


TWO CANOEROUS-CLASS TANKS PROTECT 4 F9-TZ TRANSPORT 


U 


9 
bi 
> 
Ml 
4 
a 
a 
KS 


F9-TZ Transport cL 
Gargantuan ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +3; Senses Perception +6 


Abilities Str 96, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +6 armor 

hp 90; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 44 

Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 95 km/h) 

Fighting Space 4x6; Cover total 

Base Atk +4; Grp +33 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 40 

Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Availability Restricted; Cost not available for sale 

F9-TZ Cloaking Device—The cloaking device and shields cannot operate 
at the same time. The cloaking device can operate for 15 minutes, after 
which it must be shut down and recharged. Recharging a cloaking 
device takes 30 minutes and a successful DC 20 Mechanics check. 
When cloaked, the transport is considered to have total concealment 
and can make a Stealth check to sneak. The -10 penalty to notice a 
target that has total concealment applies when making checks to 
notice a cloaked transport. Noticing the transport does not negate its 
concealment, but it does allow an opponent to make attacks against it 
with the normal penalty for attacks against concealment. 


KELDABE-CLASS BATTLESHIP 

The Keldabe-class battleship is a MandalMotors design stolen by the Zann 
Consortium for its own use. The massive, blocklike Keldabe can take on any 
major capital ship up to a Mon Calamari star cruiser or an Imperial Star 
Destroyer. The ship features a unique system that drains energy from nearby 
enemy shields and channels it into the Keldabe's power and weapons systems. 
As with other Consortium technologies, this ability drastically increases the 
cost of the ship. 


Keldabe-class Battleship cL19 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 53; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,700; DR 20; SR 150 Threshold 253 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
3 heavy ion cannon batteries +10° (see below) and 
mass driver missile launcher +6* (see below) and 
tractor beam battery +6” (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +65 


Crew 6,000 (skilled); Passengers 1,000 troops 

Cargo 20,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 36 starfighters, 
2 shuttles, 2 light freighters 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost not available for sale 

* Apply a-20 penalty to attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 

Shield Energy Drain—Range 1 square, duration 5 rounds, 5-round 
recharge. When activated, the shield energy drain system reduces the 
SR of all adjacent ships by 10 per round (cumulative). All turbolaser 
and ion cannon batteries gain +1 damage per ship drained to a 
maximum of +5 damage per round. 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 

Heavy ion cannon battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +10 (-10 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion 

Mass driver ile launcher (2 gunners) 

Atk +6 (-14 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d20x5, 
2-square splash, ignores target's SR 

Tractor beam battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +6 (-14 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg ~ (grapple +65) 


CORPORATE SECTOR 

The Corporate Sector is a section of space in the Tingel Arm, formed just under 
500 years ago from a group of several hundred systems lacking intelligent 
life, The Galactic Republic closely supervised corporate exploitation of the 
resources found in the sector. Under the control of Emperor Palpatine, the 
Corporate Sector was expanded to its current 30,000 star systems, some of 
which contained native, sentient life. The Corporate Sector Authority (CSA) 
was established to manage the sector's business. The Empire has exercised 
less oversight of the Corporate Sector than did the Republic, and allows the 
CSA's military and police forces free rein in dealing with the sector's native 
populations. This freedom has allowed the CSA to maximize profits at the 
‘expense of ecosystems and personal rights. 


CSA ORGANIZATION 
The CSA has a complicated bureaucratic structure reminiscent of the corpora 
tions it represents. Most of the control of the CSA rests with the Executive 
Direx Board (Direx). 

The Imperial Advisor provides oversight by the Emperor and a means of 
communication between the Empire and the CSA. 

An Executive Officer (ExO) heads the Direx, calls all meetings of the 
Direx, and represents the CSA abroad. The ExO, over time, has become the 


ultimate executive authority, while the Direx h 
the ExO may not 

The President (Prex), selected from am 
as a counter to the power of the Ex0. T 
for the Emperor and directly o 
important Auditor-General 

Most of the other functions of the CSA are divide 
Legal, Media, Pr 


the ever-preser 


be a member of the Direx 


x membership, serves 


4 among se 


Prex level divisions, including Financi tion, Rese 


curity Divisio 


Resourc 


ferritory Administration, ar 


SECURITY DIVISION 


The Security Division is one of CSA's Vice-Prex level unit 


everal branche 
icket Fleet 


, the most notable being Ground Forces 


GROUND FORCES 


Most Security Division personnel and to 

Forces Security Police, or Espos; the Espos are t ay 

CSA, Ground Forces does not waste time or credits on recruiting the best and 
brightest, nor on training recruits in details such as justice or the persona 


rights of citizens, The Espos are known for 
and inconsistent application of the law. Espos c 
of people in an effort to catch one cr 


riot gun is designed with this app in mind. Needless to say, t 


citizen is not fond of fron’ 


Where the Gre 
tate-of-the-art 


os and does her best to avoid any cc 


them bund Force s spend 


ometimes ex 


Espo Trooper 
Medium Human nonb 
Init +4; Senses Perception +7 
Languages Basic 
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14 
hp 14; Threshold 10 
Speed 
Melee stun baton +5 (2d6+1 
Melee riot gun +0 ( 
Ranged ric 
Ranged riot gun +2 
Base Atk +4; Grp +5 
Atk Options autofire (riot gun) 
Abilities Str 13, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 9, Wis 8, Cha 10 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Training (Er 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols 
Skills Endurance +8, Perception +7, Persuasion +8 
Possessions Blastech 500 riot gun, Merr-Sonn KZZ riot armor 


mesh tape 


4), Fort 11, Will 9 


ares 


tun) or 


6 +1) or 


gun +4 ( or 


3) with autofire 


rifles, simple wea 


encrypted comlink, binder cui 


Espo Elite Trooper cL7 


Medium Human 


Init +6; Senses low-light +1 
Languages B 

Defenses Ref 17 ( 14), Fort 18, Will 14 

hp 41; Threshold 

Speed 6 squ 7 . 


Melee stun baton +11 (1d6+4 or 2d6+4 stun) or 
Melee riot gun +11 (1d6+4) or 
Ranged riot gun +9 (3d8+2) or 
Ranged riot gun +7 (3d8+2) 
Base Atk +9 Gm + +13 
Atk Options at 
Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con 11 
Talents Armored 
Feats Armor 
Persi Neapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
Skills Endurance +10, Perception +11, Persuasion +10 
Possessions Blastech 500 riot gun, Merr-Sonn KZZ riot armor, helmet 


package, stun baton 


ith autofire 


Defense, Expert Grappler, Gun Club 
cy (light, medium), Skill Training (Endurance 


simple weapons) 


encrypted comlink, binder cuffs, mesh tape 


ESPO TROOPERS HAUL AWAY A REBEL FOR QUESTIONING. 


0 


SNOEILEY) SONIME) 


DETENTION TASKFORCE 

The Detention Taskforce was not originally a branch of the Security Division; 
it was created later when the incarceration of political prisoners became 
an issue. The CSA did not anticipate a need for incarceration: White collar 
criminals, such as slicers and embezzlers, were offered a choice of death or 
working for the CSA in counter-operations; violent criminals would either be 
executed or sent to Imperial prisons; and minor offenders would be beaten 
and fined. Eventually, however, CSA’s frequent executions began raising 
eyebrows, The Detention Taskforce was formed to address the issue. Their 
solution was Star's End, 


Star's End 

Designed as a maximum security, minimum cost, cutting edge detention 
facility, Star's End is a 40-level spire located on Mytus VII. It is extremely 
well defended with turbolasers, ion cannons, and some of the strongest armor 
plating available, Star's End is shrouded in secrecy; the public knows little 
more than the name of the facility. Star's End is almost entirely automated, 
with prisoners kept in suspended animation to avoid riots, to limit space 
requirements, and to make administration easier. All told, the facility can 
hold 24,000 prisoners in stasis. 

The bottom levels of the tower contain the administrative offices; 
employee housing is located in the underground levels. The top levels of 
the facility contain the living quarters of the warden and the medical and 
interrogation facilities. Star's End is developing a reputation in some Imperial 
circles for the effectiveness of its interrogation techniques. 


PICKET FLEET 

The CSA Picket Fleet is notoriously disorganized, inexperienced, and poorly 
trained, These flaws are not caused by a lack of funding or a refusal to 
acknowledge the problems; they are mostly the result of an inadequate supply 
of experienced personnel and functioning equipment. The only significant 
source for trained fleet officers is the Empire, and the CSA has been unable 
to lure away any officers of real skill, Similarly, the CSA filled out their lines 
with decommissioned Imperial fleet ships and have had a difficult time 
keeping the ships in working order. Finally, the CSA had their own starfighter 
designed for short-range dogfights. While heavily armed and quite fast, the 
CSA did not anticipate the need for atmospheric combat and lost quite a 
few starfighters before the pilots simply stopped pursuing targets once they 
reached a planet's atmosphere. 

The Security Division has implemented several potential fixes for these 
problems. The CSA Naval Academy was opened several years ago, and the 
first graduates are entering the fleet now. Efforts have been made to hire 
away skilled mechanics from system fleets that use the same types of ships 
as those the CSA purchased from the Imperial Navy. Finally, a new version of 
their custom starfighter has recently entered service; this version has been 
designed to handle the stresses of atmospheric combat. 


Authority IRD Starfighters 
The IRD (Intercept * Reconnaissance * Defense) starfighter was designed 
and manufactured by the CSA as the primary starfighter for their picket 
fleet. The original IRD was fast, well armed, and had the best pilot ejection 
system yet developed, but it lacked any atmospheric combat capabilities. In 
response to numerous pilot complaints, the CSA developed a newer version, 
the IRD-A. The second generation adds atmospheric combat capability with 
a molded fuselage and vector stabilizers, swaps one of the two twin-laser 
cannons of the original IRD for a concussion missile launcher, and increases 
speed and maneuverability. IRD-As have been moved to live testing and CSA 
starfighter pilots are hoping for a full rollout soon. 

Both versions of the IRD lack hyperdrive engines and must be transported 
longer distances in the bays of larger ships. 


IRD Starfighter cL9 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +5; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor 
hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 46 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged twin medium blaster cannons +7 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +33 
Atk Options autofire (twin medium blaster cannons) 
Al Str 42, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 day; 
Availability Military; Cost 75,000 


‘arried Craft none 


Twin medium blaster cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


IRD-A Starfighter 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor 

hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged twin medium blaster cannons +5 (see below) 

Ranged light concussion missiles +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 


CL 10 


Base Atk +2; Grp +3 

Atk Options fire-link (light concussion missiles) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 19, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot + 
Use Computer +6 


Cracian Thumper cL2 
Large Beast 4 
Init +6; Senses scent; Perception +4 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 13, Will 12 
hp 30; Threshold 18 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 40 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 90,000 


Twin medium blaster cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 5d10x2 

Light concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +5, Dmg 7d10x2, 4-square splash 


BEASTS 

During the time of the Galactic Civil War, the Rebel Alliance and other 
factions make extensive use of beasts of many kinds. Thanks to Imperial 
restrictions on weapons and vehicles, many beasts (like the Cracian thumper) 


serve as alternatives to some military hardware. 


Cracian Thumper 

The cracian thumper is the galaxy’s most widely used land mount. Originally a 
native of all five planets in the Craci System, the thumper has been exported 
to most civilized systems of 
military operations by the Rebel Alliance, and asa raci 
of more urban areas. A cracian thumper is bipedal, with powerful hind limbs, 
smaller forelimbs, and a thick tail it uses for balance and defense. Thick, long 
fur covers its body in colder climes, but is shed on warmer planets. Racing 
thumpers are typically shaved to reduce weight and to give the creatures a 


¢ galaxy. It is used as a versatile mount for 


ing mount by residents 


sleeker appearance. 

The beast is known for its agility, intelligenc 
above all else, thumpers are known for their stealth. Cracian thumpers 
have large feet that cause most observers to mistakenly anticipate that the 
creatures will make loud, thumping sounds as they run. On the contrary, the 
thumper is exceptionally quiet and makes an excellent mount for stealthy 


and versatility; however, 


land operations. 

Although they are herbivores, cracian thumpers possess potent defenses 
sharply clawed front and rear limbs, and a powerful tail. Thumpers are capable 
of lashing out with their rear claws without breaking stride, or of knocking 
the heads off of unlucky stormtroopers with their muscular tails. 

For animals, cracian thumpers are also fairly intelligent. They are easily 
trained for a variety of uses and are particularly good at recognizing simple 
patterns; for example, the Rebellion teaches their thumpers that humanoid 
shapes in hard, all-white shells are the enemy. A thumper is typically assigned 
one rider as a trainer in order to take advantage of the creature's naturally 
loyal disposition. 


Speed 7 squares 

Melee claw +4 (1d6+5) or 

Melee siam +4 (1d8+5) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp +9 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 18, Con 16, Int 3, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Feats Running Attack, Skill Focus (Stealth) 

Skills Stealth +11 

Uncanny Stealth—A cracian thumper is unnaturally stealthy and 
may choose to take 10 on Stealth checks, even when distracted or 
threatened 


WA Saievno 


SNEILEVE) PONIM<) 


INDEx 


9000 2004 landspeeder 61 
AEG-77 "Vigo" gunship 146 
Aggressive Surge (talent) 26 
Air-2 racing swoop 62 
Alliance cell (party concept) 12 
Ambust Specialist (talent) 28 
Ample Foraging (feat) 31 
Assassin-class corvette 130 
Assault Gambit (talent) 24 
assault gunboat 131 
Assured Attack (feat) 28 
AT-AA anti-aircraft platform 131 
AT-PT all-terrain 

personal transport 132 
backgrounds 16 
Bantha-Il cargo skiff 60 
Bigger Bang (talent) 43 
Binary Mind (feat) 31 
Black Market Buyer (talent) 43 
Black Sun 145 
Blast Back (talent) 26 
Bolstered Numbers (talent) 40 
Bothan Will (feat) 31 
Bowcaster Marksman (feat) 31 
Bunker Blaster (talent) 45 
Capture Droid (talent) 43 
Clawed Subspecies (feat) 31 
Close Maneuvering (talent) 23 
Commander (party role) 13 
COMPNOR 119 
Concentrate All Fire (talent) 40 
Confident Success (feat) 31 
Corporate Sector 154 
cracian thumper 157 
Custom Model (talent) 43 
Darkness Dweller (feat) 31 
Deep Sight (feat) 31 
Defensive Measures (talent) 45 
Deft Charge (feat) 28 
Destructive Ambusher (talent) 28 


Devastating Bellow (feat) 31 

Direct Fire (talent) 24 

Disarming Charm (feat) 31 

Empower Siang Lance (talent) 37 

Enhance Cover (talent) 45 

environmental adaptation 
(Mechanics skill) 28 

Escort Fighter (talent) 45 

Escort Pilot (talent) 40 

Excellent Kit (talent) 43 

extreme temperatures 28 

Face the Foe (talent) 24 

Fade Away (talent) 26 

failed Jedi 23 

Fast Surge (feat) 29 

Fast Swimmer (feat) 33 

Find Openings (talent) 25 

Flawless Pilot (feat) 33 

Forest Stalker (feat) 33 

Fringe Benefits (feat) 33 

G1-M4-C Dunelizard fighter 63 

Gradual Resistance (talent) 23 

Guiding Strikes (talent) 23 

Gungan Weapon Master (feat) 33 

Hit the Deck (talent) 25 

HoloNet 81 

HTT-26 heavy troop transport 111 

Hunter's Instincts (feat) 33 

Immovable (talent) 23 

imperceptible Liar (feat) 34 

Imperial cargo ship 132 

Imperial Il-class frigate 132 

Imperial intelligence 119 

Imperial Military Training (feat) 29 

Improved Jury-Rig (talent) 43 

Improvised Device (talent) 43 

improviser (prestige class) 41 

Inborn Resilience (feat) 34 

Increased Resistance (feat) 34 

Instinctive Perception (feat) 34 


Intelligence officer (party role) 13 
IRD starfighter 156 

Ixiyen-class fast attack craft 64 
Jedi Heritage (feat) 34 

Just What Is Needed (talent) 43, 
Justice Seeker (feat) 34 

Keen Scent (feat) 34 

Keep It Going (talent) 28 

Keep Them Reeling (talent) 28 
Kihraxz light fighter 146 

Kilian Rangers 37 

Lancet aerial artillery 133 
Lasting Influence (feat) 34 
Launch Point (talent) 45 

Lead From the Front (talent) 24 
Lose Pursuit (talent) 40 

Luck Favors the Bold (talent) 24 
Lure Closer (talent) 25 

M12-L Kimogila heavy fighter 64 
M22-T Krayt gunship 65 

Master Tracker (feat) 34 
Medical officer (party role) 13 
Mekuun Heavy Tracker 112 
military sign (language) 27 
Mind of Reason (feat) 34 
missile boat 134 

Mobquet medium transport 67 
Mon Calamari Shipwright (feat) 34 
Moving Target (feat) 29 

Nature Specialist (feat) 34 
Noble Sacrifice (talent) 40 
Obscuring Defenses (talent) 45 
Only the Finest (talent) 43 
pathfinder (prestige class) 43 
Perceptive Ambusher (talent) 28 
Perfect Intuition (feat) 34 
Perfect Swimmer (feat) 34 
Pinook fighter 66 

Pitiless Warrior (feat) 34 

Precise Redirect (talent) 24 


Prime Shot (feat) 29 
Quartermaster (party role) 14 
Quick Comeback (feat) 34 

Rapid Reaction (feat) 29 
Razor-class starfighter 67 

Read the Winds (feat) 34 

Reap Retribution (talent) 23 
Rebel Military Training (feat) 30 
Recall (talent) 23 

Recovering Surge (feat) 30 
Recruit Enemy (talent) 41 
Recruiter (party role) 14 
Regenerative Healing (feat) 34 
Relocate (talent) 45 

Resurgent Vitality (feat) 35 
Right Gear for the Job (talent) 43 
Rihkxyrk assault fighter 148 

Risk for Reward (talent) 25 
Royal Guard starfighter 134 

Run Interference (talent) 40 
Safe Passage (talent) 45 

Safe Zone (talent) 45 

Scion of Dorin (feat) 35 

Second Strike (talent) 26 
Security officer (party role) 15 
Sharp Senses (feat) 35 

Shield Gauntlet Defense (talent) 37 
Shield Gauntlet Deflect (talent) 37 
Shield Gauntlet Redirect (talent) 37 
Shrewd Bargainer (feat) 35 
Siang Lance Mastery (talent) 37 
Spacer's Surge (feat) 35 

Spring the Trap (talent) 28 

Star's End 156 

Stay in the Fight (talent) 41 
Storm IV twin-pod cloud car 60 
Strong Bellow (feat) 36 

Supa starfighter 147 

Sure Climber (feat) 36 

Survivor of Ryloth (feat) 36 


Swerve (talent) 26 

T-wing Interceptor 114 
T2-B repulsor tank 112 

T4-B heavy tank 113 

Talon | combat cloud car 61 
Team Recruiting (talent) 41 
Thick Skin (feat) 36 

TIE aggressor starfighter 135 
TIE ap-1 mauler 135 

TIE experimental starfighter 136 
TIE oppressor starfighter 136 
TIE phantom starfighter 137 
TIE scout 138 

TIE shuttle 138 


Transport specialist (party role) 15 


Trick Step (talent) 26 
Ultra-Light Assault Vehicle 
(ULAV) 111 
Unstoppable (feat) 30 
Unwavering Ally (talent) 25 
Unwavering Focus (feat) 36 
Vaksai starfighter 147 
Vehicular Surge (feat) 30 
Veteran Spacer (feat) 36 
Vitality Surge (feat) 30 
VT-49 Decimator 139 
Warrior Heritage (feat) 36 
Wingman Retribution (talent) 40 
Wroshyr Rage (feat) 36 
X4 gunship 115 
YE-4 gunship 139 
YKL-37R Nova Courier 68 
YM-2800 limpet ship 113 
YV-545 light freighter 69 
Zann Consortium 152 
Zone of Recuperation (talent) 45 


REBELLION ERA CAMPAIGN GUIDE 


Character 
Blackhole stormtrooper 
Rebel cell member 
Espo trooper 
Gamorrean guard 
Seatrooper 
Novatrooper 

Wicket 

Winter 

Biggs Darklighter 
Rebel marksman 
SpecForce marine 
Wing guard 

Bib Fortuna 

Deena Shan 

Nera Dantels 

Rebel honor guard 
Resistance leader 
SpecForce querilla 
‘Swamptrooper 
Janek Sunber 

Lobot 

Zann Consortium Defiler 
Espo elite trooper 
Grand Moff Trachta 
Spacetrooper 
SpecForce infiltrator 
SpecForce officer 
Derek "Hobbie" Klivian 
Nien Nunb- 

Rogue Squadron pilot 
Tycho Celchu 

Wes Janson 

Storm commando 
Wedge Antilles 
Airen Cracken 
Admiral Ackbar 
Dengar 

4-LOM 

Carlist Reiikan. 
Jabba the Hutt 
\G-88 


OOD MRROBYIYIYNNaAMADHHAMHAHE SR RBWEUNNN| 


CL Page 


121 

93 
155 
151 


Droid CL Page 
FX-7 medical droid O53: 
Imperial city 0 130 
maintenance droid 
LOM-series 0.355: 
protocol droid 
R4-series Oo 53 
agromech droid 
WED Treadwell Oo 54 
repair droid 
HT drone Wires Be 
Imperial espionage droid % 127 
Dark trooper Phase | 2 128 
BTI-16 perimeter 5 56 
security droid 
Dark trooper Phase Il 5 128 
RHTC-560 hunter trainer 6 57 
Dark trooper Phase Ill 8 129 
Starship CL Page 
LV-38 spotter/probe droid 3. 110 
TIE shuttle 4 138 
TIE scout 5 138 
TIE crawler 6 135 
TIE ap-1 mauler 7 135 
YM-2800 limpet ship 7 14 
Ixiyen-class 8 64 
fast attack craft 
Mobquet 8 68 
medium transport 
T-wing Interceptor 8 114 
TIE experimental M2 8 136 
YKL-37R Nova Courier 8 69 
IRD starfighter 9 156 
Kihraxz light fighter 9 146 
Rozor-class starfighter 9 66 
Supa fighter 9 147 
TIE experimental M3 9 136 
YV-545 light freighter 9 69 
AEG-77 “Vigo” gunship 10 146 
Canderous-class 10 153 


assault tank 


Starship CL Page 
M122-L Kimogila 10 «64 
heavy fighter 
Pinook fighter 10 66 
TIE aggressor starfighter 10 135 
X4 gunship 10 115 
Rihkxyrk assault fighter 11 148 
TIE oppressor 136 
Vaksai NW 147 
Assault gunboat 12 (131 
Imperial cargo ship 12 132 
M22-T Krayt gunship 12 65 
Royal Guard starfighter 12 134 
VT-49 Decimator 12. 139 
TIE phantom 13 137 
Missile boat 15 134 
YE-4 gunship 15 139 
Assassin-class corvette 16 130 
Imperial ll-class frigate 17 133 
Keldabe-class battleship 19 154 
Vehicle CL Page 
9000 2004 landspeeder 2 62 
Air-2 swoop or 62 
Bantha-I! cargo skiff 3. 60 
Ultra-light 5 m1 
assault Vehicle (ULAV) 
AT-PT all-terrain 6 132 
personal transport 
Storm IV 6 61 
twin-pod cloud car 
T2-B repulsor tank Panty 
Talon |combat cloudcar 7 61 
F9-TZ transport 8 154 
Gi-M4-C 8 63 
Dunelizard fighter 
HTT-26 heavy 8 1 
troop transport 
Mekuun heavy tracker 8-112 
AT-AA 10. 131 
anti-aircraft platform 
Lancet aerial artillery 12 133 
T4-B heavy tank 12 113 


A Belay 


BRRERBER 


Sree ie eee St Mee eRAN ee Pele 


It is a dark time for the galaxy. The Empire is in complete control and the last of the Jedi are nothing but a faint memory. 

Yet as the Emperor tightens his grip on the galaxy, the Rebel Alliance grows stranger, drawing more systems to its cause. 

The conflict between the Rebels and the Empire is at the center of the Rebellion era, and now your heroes have the chance 
to make their mark on the Galactic Civil War like never before. 


a 


By 


- 


~ 


Visit our website at www.starwars.com 
www.wizards.com/starwars 


THE REBELLION ERA CAMPAIGN GUIDE PRESENTS 
A VARIETY OF OPTIONS FOR BOTH PLAYERS AND 
GAMEMASTERS, INCLUDING: 


@ New talents, feats, and prestige classes for heroes of the Rebellion era. 


@ An all-new backgrounds system. a) ny d20 ) 
2 SYSTEM.) 


@ A detailed description of the Rebel Alliance. 


©2000 Lucasfim Lid. & ™, All rights reserved. Used under 
@® New threats and enemies for use in Rebellion era adventures. eet athe tenbpaatiee 
3s are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC 


in the USA and other countries. 


