i As 

pl eine ri 2 eer 

Oa a ee NW | 
\ a + F ce ener ane << SRST = uy «Be? A es y, 
‘ f 1 % i ‘ oe 


& Ne lee Sag BI i a Bae tA 
\ ; Roh 4 Becad . ee \ 
_ ap" : 
aK t i BB. & 4 } aa i 
Why y | a) , ; ®, L 
‘ » 5 | ) aca Ml 
% . ane 
A ~~ *‘ % y 
? i 


~ a _ 
WK ig 2 


REerEE PLAYIN G GAME 


eae, 
ae ang 


frie) Ey 
SCAVENGER?’ S eS TO DROID;S 


ROONEY THOMPSON SWERVING HERSHEY PATRICK SUUTZMAN ROBERT WIELAND 


SCAVENGER'’'S GUIDE TO DROIDS 


RODNEY THOMPSON, STERLING HERSHEY, PATRICK STUTZMAN, ROBERT WIELAND 


Oo) 
2 
t) 
{9 
a 
) 


CREBITS 


DESIGNERS 


DEVELOPER 


ART DIRECTORS 


EDITORS 


LUCAS LICENSING EDITOR 


MANAGING EDITOR 


DIRECTOR OF RPG R&D 


Rodney Thompson, Sterling Hershey, 
Patrick Stutzman, Robert Wieland 


Rodney Thompson 


Blake Beasley, Ryan Sansaver 


Ray Vallese, Bradley Will 


Frank Parisi 


Torah Cottrill 


Bill Slavicsek 


PRODUCTION MANAGER 


GRAPHIC DESIGNERS 
PRE-PRESS MANAGER 


oo 
uD 
Bs 
>I 
Co 
a 
4p 
fa) 
0 
c 
0 
qd 
fa) 
74 


IMAGING TECHNICIAN 
SPECIAL THANKS | Leland Chee 


Cynda Callaway 


Robert Jordan, Emi Tanji 


Jefferson Dunlap 


Christopher Tardiff 


Ashley Brock 


Drew Baker, Jeffrey Carlisle, Miguel Coimbra, Gonzalo 
Flores, Jason Juta, Warren Mahy, Paul Shipper, Brian 
Snoddy, Chris Trevas, Ben Wootten 


INTERIOR ARTISTS 


Some rules mechanics are based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C. Stephens, and Rodney Thompson, the original Dungeons & Dragons® rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave 
Arneson, and the 3" Edition Dungeons & Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. 


This Wizards of the Coast” game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission. 


~ 


U.S., Canada, Asia, 
Pacific, & Latin America 


GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE 
Hasbro UK Ltd Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 


Wizards of the Coast LLC Caswell Way Industialaan 1 
P.O. Box 707 Newport, Gwent NP9 OYH 1702 Groot-Bijgaarden SYSTEM.. 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRITAIN Belgium WWW.WIZARDS.COM WWW.STARWARS.COM 


Questions? 1-800-324-6496 Please keep this address for your records +32 070 233 277 ISBN: 978-0-7869-5230-4 
620-24190000-001-EN 
987654321 


First Printing: November 2009 


©2009 LUCASFILM LTD. & @ OR ™ WHERE INDICATED. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 
USED UNDER AUTHORIZATION. 


Dungeons & Dragons, d20 System, Wizards of the Coast, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use 
of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast LLC This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental, Printed in the U.S.A, 


SGQICHUEG OLA SGING S.HAEONAAVAS | — 


CONTENTS 
Eales Droid Stations.............. 63 HKB-3 Hunter-killer Droid ....110 


Ss pRiAaeTReEa Rene Adjudicating Droid KM1 Mining Droid...........112 


Using This Book.....-..---.---6 | Droid Talents ....00..0eeeeee- Modifications ............ 65 M38 Explorer Droid.......... 114 

an New Talents for Droid MEV-Series Medical 
Rl: DROID Prestige Classes........... 28 Evacuation Droid......... 116 
Jee ee Adjudicating Droids........... Mk-Series Maintenance Droid. 118 


Model 88-Series 
Administration Droid...... 120 


Creating Droid Heroes......... 10 
Option 1: Playing a 


CHAPTER Ii: DROID 


Custom Droid........... 10 ALLIES ..5...32 AD Series Weapons PG-5 Gunnery Droid......... 122 
uptan i Pinyin a nanan Alternative Pricing System..... Maintenance Droid........ 72 innige pain nae oaulomats am 
Droid Model............ 10 , ; ore ; RO-D-Series Droid........... 126 
Option 3: Usi Stock Droids as Equipment.......... 35 Annihilator Droid............. 74 RB-Series Astromech Drold ...128 
arigeei: hime Using the Protocol Format ...35 BLX Labor Droid.............. 76 : Cas 
Droid Chassis........... 10 Feo i lp aiegsea , RWW-Series Protocol Droid. ..130 
? Dicid AlllGS: Sencnwssseaaemsiad 42 Colicoid Infiltrator-Series a : 
Astromech Droid : ; ‘ RX-Series Pilot Droid......... 132 
sah DYOId EREMIES: 206 rniecaresaree evand 42 DFG: + cnourcsausanecsiae 78 ‘ 
Chassis Traits........... 11 Suceutrinrcis es ‘ ‘ S19 Astromech Droid ........ 134 
; Anti-Droid Opinion........... 43 CZ-Series Secretary Droid ..... 80 ; ; 
Battle Droid Mag : SD-9-Series Droid........... 136 
Sata Pro-Droid Opinion............ aq DP-2 Probe Droid............. 82 : 
CHASSIS THAIS... covearenrer 11 : ‘ SD-X-Series Stealth 0 
‘ lances Droids as Property............ 44 Droideka Mark Il ............. 84 ‘ QO 
Labor Droid Chassis Traits... .11 ; : ; i 7} oll) 1 138 | 
, : Droid Controversies........... 45 DT-16 "Destructor ; : Zz 
Mechanic Droid ‘ apie ‘ Service Droid « «:<:nsavaweaaane 140 4 
ecto Droid Organizations .......... 46 Battle DrOIG  sseicrariis creators 86 : |o 
ChaSSIS TraitSisicsnusascvs 12 ; eins ihe . Shadow Droid.............+. 142 Z 
‘ : Legends of the Droids......... 47 Duelist Elite Training Droid..... 88 ; I 
Medical Droid een é a ies T4 Turret Droid c:susceresuresraec « 144 0 
oe Droids Without Bodies ........ 49 E522 Assassin Droid.......... 90 ae ‘ 
Chassis Traits: siccasesciowe 12 _ : ; : TC-SC Infiltration Droid ...... 146 
: : , DRO Brats miccccccnwrstaxd 49 El-9 Network Security Droid ...92 
Probe Droid Chassis Traits. ...12 ; ; : : TT-8L Gatekeeper Droid ...... 148 
: Personal Droids ............ EV-Series Supervisor Droid... .. 94 : : 
Protocol Droid 5 : V2-Series Commando Droid. ..150 
prea FLTCH-Series Battle Droid ..... 96 nae : 
Chassis Traits ........... 13 , : V6-Series Pilot Droid......... 152 
: : G2 Repair Droid.............. 98 = : 
Service Droid nea é ROT VIPER DOIG se:coscare'sistereyetvis 154 
: . GD16-Series Pilot Droid ...... 100 ‘ 
Chassis Traits........... 13 GX1-Series Battle Droid 102 XLT-014 Labor Droid......... 156 
Droid Manufacturers.......... 14 LOGOMIGHON worms eens s comes : YVH-Series Battle Droid...... 158 
? GY-| Information 
C15) a || eee ere 14 ADPENU AGES siniss vacimon ermsind 52 ; . 
‘ Analysis Droid ........... 104 
helilins amneabern ehammuemanennn 15 PRORESSOIS ciaveiere o arensungus eingead 53 ‘ ‘ 
tiation toe Mtanitacsurens .. 15 Amementine 54 H-1ME Battle Mechanic Droid.106 
J HK-77 Assassin Droid........ 108 


SQIEeHaG) OL AGING S.PAPONABAVYVIS 


PLL), : 
INTRODUCTION 


P ‘ La SS Sea 


AS 

The relative peace is shattered by a small astromech droid waking from its sleep 
cycle, its lights penetrating the darkness. It looks around to get its bearings. 
Surrounding the astromech are other droids as far as its electronic eye can 
see. Realizing that it needs to escape, the droid kicks out its central leg and 
rolls through the room. The vibrations coming through the floor tell it that the 
structure it is in is moving, and it surmises that it is held in some giant vehicle. 
As the astromech rolls along, it catches sight of other run-down droids sitting 
amid the spare parts and junk scattered about the immense room: protocol 
droids, repair droids, power droids, other astromech droids, and some it has 
never seen before. As it begins to give up hope, the small droid catches sight of 
a familiar protocol droid with a golden sheen. The astromech excitedly rolls up, 
and the protocol droid recognizes its friend and exclaims with glee at finding 
a friendly chassis in their uncertain situation. 

Does this scene sound familiar? The time spent by R2-D2 and C-3P0 aboard 
the sandcrawler on Tatooine reminds us that droids are an integral part of the 
Star Wars universe. How much different would the saga be if the Clone Wars 
were fought between the Republic's clone army and bands of organic beings 
instead of against the Trade Federation's battle droids? Where would the story 
go if R2-D2 were an organic copilot in Luke Skywalker's starfighter as he made 
his attack run on the Death Star? 

The idea behind Scavenger's Guide to Droids is to provide players and 
Gamemasters the tools and information they need to generate droid heroes, 
enemies, and noncombatants and to insert them into Star Wars Roleplaying 
Game campaigns. This book holds new options for droids to become more than 
mere machines and to develop into full-fledged characters that work alongside 
__ or against organic heroes. Droids can be more than just equipment. They can 

“._ be individuals. 


sqioua O01 saIng s.,usONsAvaS 


J 


NOMoOnNaoouLnys 


BOHEG OL 9BGINE S.PSPOwnsqsavas 


USING THIS BOOK 


The contents of this book are intended to help both players and Gamemasters 
create new and improved droids. Players will find expanded rules on creating 
droid heroes, while Gamemasters will find new information detailing the 
creation of droid GM characters and droid enemies to challenge the heroes 
wherever they might go in the galaxy. 

Chapter One is devoted to droid heroes. Players who want to create droid 
characters to play will find new rules on creating a fully detailed droid with 
which to adventure alongside organic characters. This chapter presents new 
talents and feats to help make your droid character unique. Also, informa- 
tion about those companies that manufacture the various types of droids 
can be found here, along with what a particular brand name brings to the 
droid that bears its name. Also included are several stock models that can 
be used as springboards to help players quickly put together droid heroes 
and jump into the adventure. 

Chapter Two looks at droids from the other side of the gaming table. 
Droid Gamemaster characters are the subject of this chapter, in which the 
Gamemaster will find more information involving new game mechanics 
behind the portrayal of droids in the galaxy, including an analysis of what 
role droids play in the Star Wars universe as well as in the roleplaying game. 
Discussions about how droids should work with and beside organic characters 
and how they should behave toward those around them can be found here, 
as well as tips on how to make a droid more than just a piece of hardware. 

Chapter Three delves into new equipment that can be used by droids or 
those who work with them. New weapons and equipment that droids can use 
or have installed into their chassis are found here, as well as new weapons 
and equipment that nondroids might opt to use on or against them. New 
starship and vehicle equipment and systems relating to droids can be found 
here as well. 

Chapter Four is the Droid Codex, in which many new droids are detailed. 
The contents of this codex, however, are different from other statistics block 
entries. Along with the standard statistics block and description, each entry 
includes a section that describes how the particular droid can be used as 
equipment by a player character, a sidebar detailing ways to build a droid 
PC modeled after it, and suggestions about how the droid could be altered 
to perform functions not normally allowed by its original programming. 

Throughout the droid codex, you will also find sidebars that present 
adventure hooks relating to the various droids. Each of these sidebars is 
presented from the point of view of a particular individual: 


@ Klikk is a Jawa trader: a scavenger and a junk trader from Tatooine. 
Most of his experiences with droids involve their technical side, and his 
discussions are about equipment, making repairs, and rebuilding droids. 

€9 Raalo is a Toydarian junk dealer who, despite being highly adept at 
making repairs and modifications to droids, is more interested in the 
business side of his operation and seeks to make as much profit as 
possible. His discussions focus on buying and selling droids, obtaining 
droids (both legal and illegal) through the Black Market, and relating 
details about droids that he has peddled or purchased in the past. 

(3) Mavven is a Besalisk arms dealer who travels the galaxy. His business 
connections bring him information and firsthand experience with 4th- 
degree droids, and many people consider him the leading expert in 
combat droids. His discussions revolve around droids in combat, espe- 
cially their involvement in battles and martial applications such as work 
in the military, in mercenary organizations, and in security. 

@ EV-6T6 is an EV-Series supervisor droid. Her position, in which she 
deals with droids as an authority figure, is most often held by an organic 
being, and it gives her a unique perspective. Her discussions primarily 
focus on droid-to-droid interactions and on methods of dealing with 
different droid personalities. 


A DWARF SPIDER DROID ON KASHYYYK 


A SCAVENGER'S BOOK 


One question that might be crossing your mind as you read this is "Why 
is this a scavenger's book?" With all of the corporations, technicians, and 
other citizens of the galaxy that work with droids on a daily basis, why are 
we focusing on scavengers? Although they might not be the most glamor- 
ous denizens of the Star Wars galaxy, scavengers of droids and their parts 
and accessories are probably the most numerous of the organic creatures 
that deal with these mechanical beings. From the group of Jawas living in 
their sandcrawler roaming the deserts of Tatooine to the highest-paid droid 
technician employed by the wealthy residents of Coruscant, those that 
repair, upgrade, or perform any kind of maintenance on droids generally look 
to scavengers of one kind or another in order to find the best deals on the 
hardware they need to complete their tasks and to keep the droids under 
their care operating in good condition. 

As seen in Episode IV, the Jawas that abducted R2-D2 and C-3PO comb 
the deserts to locate any piece of technology they can grab, refurbish, and 
sell to the people living in the desert cities and other, more remote loca- 
tions. This is their way of life and the way they earn a living. With the large 
number of droids stored in their sandcrawlers’ cargo holds, the Jawas have a 
myriad of parts to use to repair any droids they deem salvageable for resale. 
Fortunately for our droid heroes, the Jawas saw how well maintained they 
were and did not use them for parts, figuring to make a lot of credits from 
selling two droids in such excellent condition. 

Captains of space transports know the value of maintaining droids. Those 
who struggle to make ends meet and scrape together every credit they can 
just to eat and put fuel in their ships know that any droid they purchase is 
a significant investment. Keeping that investment in working condition is a 
minor expense for a long-term payout. With droids to keep the ship operating 
smoothly, a starship captain has more time to devote to keeping the ship 
running and to finding the contracts that put food on the table and fuel in 
the tanks. Captains who are short on credits often find that scavengers are 
the best solution to their droid maintenance needs. 

The technician working for a wealthy benefactor, corporation, or govern- 
ment might have more resources available to obtain better parts, but will 
usually do everything possible to keep expenses under budget. Corporations 
and governments have budgets that their technicians are expected to follow, 
and rich sponsors do not like to see their invested funds squandered. Scaveng- 
ing parts and accessories from other droids, or dealing with the scavengers 
that locate the parts, helps cut costs and keeps superiors happy. 


The beings that deal in used droids and that run the junk shops and droid 
parts stores are the ones that scavenge the abandoned technology of any 
world, searching through the scraps for any usable parts. Junk dealers will 
have parts from hundreds, perhaps thousands, of different droid models. But 
the way in which they sell those parts can vary as much as any other business 
in the galaxy. Some dealers keep their wares all thrown together in huge 
piles behind their shops and allow patrons to rummage through the piles to 
find what they need. Other dealers might sort through the piles themselves 
to find what the customer needs (and to charge an extra finder's fee on top 
of the asking price for the part). The dealer might choose to sell a part as-is, 
letting the customer take his or her chances on the part's condition, or the 
dealer could offer to refurbish it for an additional fee. 

In every segment of the Star Wars universe, droids affect the lives of 
organic beings in some way. Whether droids cook, clean, and serve organic 
lifeforms, help improve interactions between different species, or help keep 
the starships that allow interstellar travel and commerce active, their pres- 
ence is extremely valuable to the galactic way of life. And the scavengers are 
the ones that keep the droids running, silently helping maintain that way of 
life for everyone throughout the galaxy. Without the scavengers that provide 
their services to repair the droids, even the mightiest governments would 
grind to a halt and the galactic community as a whole would suffer. Without 
droids, the Star Wars universe that we know could not exist. 


INGOYINI 


NOLL 


fa 


SQieovlliG O41 AGINE SYPPON2BAvas 


| | 
O 


“ CHAPTER I 


ie 


- 


lg 
DROID HEROES 


7 We 


BS 


Droids are integral to the Star Wars universe. Indeed, the droid heroes R2-D2 
and C-3PO are the first characters featured on-screen in the original movie 
Star Wars: A New Hope. They also represent two droid-hero archetypes: the 
hero and the reluctant hero. R2-D2 takes an aggressive role in pursuing his 
nd his master's goals, while C-3PO does what he must do when forced to 
ise to the occasion. 

In the Star Wars universe, few droids aspire to heroism. More often than 
not, they obey their orders and programming rather than act of their own 
accord. Battle droids fight, but few go beyond their mission plans and orders. 
Astromechs accompany their pilots into battle, but most simply regard it 
as another job, albeit a dangerous one. Some bond with their pilots, but the 
bond does not always lead them to act beyond their programming. 

No single event creates a droid hero. As a droid's personality develops, 
it has experiences or gains programming that extends the droid's sense of 
self-awareness. Personality often develops in units equipped with heuris- 
tic processors, but units with basic processors occasionally exhibit such 
behavior. Droids who manage to alter their own programming, or have it 
> altered for them, are more likely to act beyond their design parameters and 


a" heroes. 

\™ Playing a droid hero brings its own challenges and benefits. Droids are 
aonsidered property in most of the galaxy. Depending on the era, they might 
be feared, disliked, shunned, ignored, or not taken seriously. However, droids 
are also able to fade into the background, enabling them to move without 
suspicion when another hero would be easily identified. As machines, they are 
not vulnerable to environmental threats in the same way that organic beings 
are. They are more quickly and easily repaired than organic characters. 
Throughout all of the eras of Star Wars lore, only a handful of major 
droid heroes exist. Droids that step beyond being merely mobile, intelligent 
computer systems become truly unique. 


0 
a4 
> 
v 
a 
0 
a 


Ss0uSsH aoYwgMd 


GE 


Sseousy) HAevug 


CREATING 
DROID HEROES 


The Saga Edition core rulebook presents two methods for creating a droid 
hero—playing a custom droid and playing a standard droid model. This chapter 
clarifies elements of the droid creation process and introduces a third option, 
using a stock droid chassis. Players can use any of the three methods to 
create their heroes. Each method provides options and trade-offs in levels 
of customization and character creation time. 


OPTION 1: PLAYING A 

Custom OROID 

This option, creating a new droid model completely from scratch, gives a 
player the greatest freedom (see page 186 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 
This method also takes the longest, because each element of the droid must 
be created or selected, and its systems and accessories must be purchased 
individually. 


OPTION 2: PLAYING A 
STANDARD DROID MODEL 

This option allows a player to select a standard droid model based on sta- 
tistics blocks already created for existing droids (see page 187 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). Most of these models already have more than one 
level in a class, usually the nonheroic class. The character cannot enjoy the 
full benefit of a heroic class, since droids starting with a nonheroic class gain 
fewer feats, trained skills, and hit points at first level. However, in exchange, 
players benefit from starting above first level, and this is a fast method of 
droid creation. When a player uses this method of creating a droid character, 
the total cost of a standard droid model plus any player-added accessories 
and possessions cannot exceed 5,000 credits. 


OPTION 3: USING A 

STrocKk DrRoID CHASSIS 

Players can select a stock droid chassis when creating a droid hero. This 
streamlined method of droid creation treats each chassis as a species. Each 
chassis represents the basis for creating a type of droid rather than a specific 
model, so a player can quickly generate a new model of droid, or emulate an 
existing model while building a character entirely with heroic levels. Stock 
droid chassis can also be used to create specific models of droids, since the 
chassis share features of the specific droid models of that class of droid. 
However, the customization required to make the stock chassis match up with 
a specific droid model in question might make other methods more appeal- 
ing. In some cases, an existing model might not be exactly replicated, but 
the differences can be attributed to variances in production or aftermarket 
customizations to the standard model. The size and speed of a chassis cannot 


TABLE I-11: STOCK 
DROID CHASSIS 


Degree Typical Chassis 

Ist Medical droid 

2nd Astromech droid, mechanic droid 
3rd Protocol droid, service droid 

4th "Battle droid, probe droid 

5th Labor droid 


be altered without Gamemaster approval. This book features several droid 
models that are suitable for use as player characters. Each has a sidebar 
describing how to create the droid using a stock chassis. 


To create a droid hero using a stock droid chassis, follow these steps: 

Select the chassis. Apply ability modifiers, size, speed, droid traits, 
languages, and other modifiers as you would when applying a species to 
a character. 

Review the chassis’ bonus equipment. If you are creating a new or 
generic droid without a specific model in mind, leave the systems as they 
are and proceed to the next step. If you are creating a droid of a specific 
model, compare this list to systems listed in the desired droid's statistics 
block. If they are close enough for your purposes, proceed to the next step. 
An unwanted system can be swapped for another system within 10% of the 
unwanted system's cost without spending any credits. However, if upgraded 
or additional systems are required, they must be purchased with the droid's 
starting credits (see below). 

Starting Credits: Your droid's class determines how many starting credits 
you have. You can spend your starting credits on droid systems as well as 
on normal weapons and equipment. Bonus equipment is considered part 
of the droid's starting equipment; you are not required to spend credits on 
bonus equipment. 


ASTROMECH DROID 
CHASSIS TRAITS 
All astromech droids have the following chassis traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma. Astromech droids' 
intelligence and adaptability enable them to properly repair and maintain 
machinery. Like other droids, astromech droids have no Constitution score. 

Size: The vast majority of astromech droids are of Small size, giving 
them a +1 size bonus to their Reflex Defense and a +5 size bonus to Stealth 
checks. However, their lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those 
of Medium creatures. 

Speed: Astromech droids have a base speed of 6 squares and use wheeled 
locomotion. Astromech droids also have a walking speed of 4 squares. 

Droid Traits: Astromech droids are second-degree droids and have all 
droid immunities and typical droid traits (see pages 187-188 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). 

Bonus Equipment: Astromech droids are constructed with the following 
droid systems installed in each: wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, 
magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 6 tool appendages, 1 claw appendage, 
astrogation buffer (5 memory units), diagnostics package, and internal 
storage (2 kg). 

Hardwired Design (Mechanics): All astromech droids are trained in the 
Mechanics skill. This is a bonus trained skill. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: An astromech droid with Mechanics or Use 
Computer as a trained skill can select Skill Focus (Mechanics) or Skill Focus 
(Use Computer) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic (understand only) and Binary. 


BATTLE DROID 
CHASSIS TRAITS 
All battle droids have the following chassis traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Intelligence. Battle droids are 
designed for combat, incorporating systems to improve their dexterity. Like 
other droids, battle droids have no Constitution score. 

Size: Battle droids are typically of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or 
penalties for their size. 

Speed: Battle droids have a base speed of 6 squares and use walking 
locomotion. 

Droid Traits: Battle droids are fourth-degree droids and have all droid 
immunities and typical droid traits (see pages 187-188 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Bonus Equipment: Battle droids are constructed with the following droid 
systems installed in each: walking locomotion, plasteel shell (+2 armor), 
basic processor, internal comlink, locked access, 2 hand appendages, and 
vocabulator. 


A BATTLE DROID 


Bonus Feats: At 1st level, a battle droid can select one Armor Proficiency 
feat and one Weapon Proficiency feat for which it meets the prerequisites. 
Automatic Languages: Basic and Binary. 


LABOR DROID CHASSIS TRAITS 
All labor droids have the following chassis traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Intelligence. Labor droids are built 
for strength and durability. Like other droids, labor droids have no Constitu- 
tion score. 

Size: Standard labor droids are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or 
penalties for their size. 

Speed: Labor droids have a base speed of 6 squares and use walking 
locomotion. 

Droid Traits: Labor droids are fifth-degree droids and have all droid 
immunities and typical droid traits (see pages 187-188 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Bonus Equipment: Labor droids are constructed with the following droid 
systems installed in each: walking locomotion, durasteel shell (+4 armor), 
basic processor, 2 claw appendages, and vocabulator. 

Heavy Lifting: Labor droids excel at manual labor. They can reroll any 
Strength check or Strength-based skill check and keep either result. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Binary. 


| eSatagvHo 


y) 
i 
9 
G 
x 
W) 
a 
y 
@ 


0 
I 
b 
1 
4 
iu) 
2 


SqgevesH GAoeuvu@d 


AN ASTROMECH DROID AND A MECHANIC DROID 


MECHANIC DROID 
CHASSIS TRAITS 
All mechanic droids have the following chassis traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma. Mechanic droids are 
technical specialists, adept at repairing machinery, vehicles, and complex 
devices. Like other droids, mechanic droids have no Constitution score. 

Size: Mechanic droids are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penal- 
ties for their size. 

Speed: Mechanic droids have a base speed of 6 squares and use walking, 
tracked, or wheeled locomotion. 

Droid Traits: Mechanic droids are second-degree droids and have all 
droid immunities and typical droid traits (see pages 187-188 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). 

Bonus Equipment: Mechanic droids are constructed with the following 
droid systems installed in each: walking locomotion (or tracked or wheeled 
locomotion), basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 4 tool appendages, diag- 
nostics package, internal storage (2 kg), and a vocabulator. 

Hardwired Design (Mechanics): All mechanic droids are trained in the 
Mechanics skill. This is considered a bonus trained skill. 

Mechanically Minded: As droids experienced in maintenance and repair, 
mechanic droids can reroll any Mechanics check. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Binary. 


MEDICAL DROID 
CHASSIS TRAITS 
All medical droids have the following chassis traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, -2 Strength. Medical droids are life- 
saving medical and medicinal experts. Like other droids, medical droids have 
no Constitution score. 

Size: Medical droids are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penalties 
for their size. 

Speed: Medical droids have a base speed of 6 squares and use walking 
locomotion. 

Droid Traits: Medical droids are first-degree droids and have all droid 
immunities and typical droid traits (see pages 187-188 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Bonus Equipment: Medical droids are constructed with the following 
droid systems installed in each: walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 
2 hand appendages, 1 tool appendage, vocabulator, and improved sensor 
package. 

Hardwired Design (Treat Injury): All medical droids are trained in the 
Treat Injury skill. This is a bonus trained skill. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: A medical droid with Treat Injury or Knowledge 
(life sciences) as a trained skill can select Skill Focus (Treat Injury) or Skill 
Focus (Knowledge [life sciences]) as a bonus feat. A medical droid can take 
only one of these bonus feats. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Binary. 


PROBE DROID CHASS!S TRAITS 
All probe droids have the following chassis traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. Probe droids are designed 
for scouting, reconnaissance, and light security duties. Like other droids, 
probe droids have no Constitution score. 

Size: Probe droids are typically of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or 
penalties for their size. 

Speed: Probe droids have a base speed of 6 squares and use hovering 
locomotion. 

Droid Traits: Probe droids are fourth-degree droids and have all droid 
immunities and typical droid traits (see pages 187-188 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Bonus Equipment: Probe droids are designed for surveillance and are 
constructed with the following droid systems installed in each: hovering 
locomotion, heuristic processor, internal comlink, locked access, 1 hand 
appendage, 1 tool appendage, improved sensor package, and darkvision. 

Hardwired Design (Perception): All probe droids are trained in the 
Perception skill. This is a bonus trained skill. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Probe droids rely equally on stealth and obser- 
vation for success. A probe droid with Stealth or Perception as a trained skill 
can select Skill Focus (Stealth) or Skill Focus (Perception) as a bonus feat. A 
probe droid can take only one of these bonus feats. 

Automatic Languages: Basic (understand only) and Binary. 


A SUPER BATTLE DROID AND 
A 2-1B MEDICAL DROID 


— 


= 
? 
i 
>» 
oY 


PROTOCOL DROID 
CHASSIS TRAITS 
All protocol droids have the following chassis traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom, +2 Charisma, -2 Dexterity. Protocol droids 
are programmed in the arts of etiquette, protocol, and translation services. 
Like other droids, protocol droids have no Constitution score. 

Size: Protocol droids are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penal- 
ties for their size. 

Speed: Protocol droids have a base speed of 6 squares and use walking 
locomotion. 

Droid Traits: Protocol droids are third-degree droids and have all droid 
immunities and typical droid traits (see pages 187-188 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Bonus Equipment: Protocol droids are constructed with the following 
droid systems installed in each: walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand 
appendages, vocabulator, and translator unit (DC 10). 

Hardwired Design (Persuasion): All protocol droids are trained in the 
Persuasion skill. This is considered a bonus trained skill. 

Bonus Feat: To supplement its translation and etiquette duties, a proto- 
col droid can select Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [galactic lore]), or Skill Training (Knowledge [social sciences]) as 
a bonus feat. A protocol droid can take only one these bonus feats. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Binary. 


SERVICE DROID 
CHASSIS TRAITS 
All service droids have the following chassis traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Charisma, -2 Strength. Service droids are adept 
at recognizing the needs of their owners and adapting to them. Like other 
droids, service droids have no Constitution score. 

Size: Service droids are of Medium size, gaining no bonuses or penalties 
for their size. 

Speed: Service droids have a base speed of 6 squares and use walking 
locomotion. 

Droid Traits: Service droids are third-degree droids and have all droid 
immunities and typical droid traits (see pages 187-188 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Bonus Equipment: Service droids are constructed with the following 
droid systems installed in each: walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand 
appendages, 1 tool mount, and vocabulator. 

Bonus Feat: To enhance its service role, a service droid can select Skill 
Training (Perception), Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), or Skill Train- 
ing (Knowledge [galactic lore]) as a bonus feat. A service droid can take only 
one of these bonus feats. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Binary. 


GONZALO 
LURES 


AN RA-7 SERIES PROTOCOL DROID AND AN ASP LABOR DROID 


1 HaS20g7vHo 


Q 
0 
9 
9 
at 
fn 
) 
9 
Wy 
0 


SsseLuseHy Goud 


DROID 
MANUFACTURERS 


Millions of manufacturing companies produce droids. Most are small com- 
panies that cater to local regions, manufacture specialized units, or focus 
on highly customized models. The major interstellar manufacturers dominate 
specific markets, although those markets shift as the demands of the galactic 
government and megacorporations change. 

Throughout the Clone Wars and the Rebellion era, Cybot Galactica 
and Industrial Automaton are the dominant manufacturers, with Arakyd 
Industries, Genetech Laboratories, MerenData, Serv-O-Droid, and Veril Line 
Systems as major players in their respective markets. During the Clone Wars, 
most Separatist battle droids are manufactured by Baktoid Armor Workshop 
forces, with other units coming from the Techno Union, Colicoid, and the 
Commerce Guild. However, droid manufacturing has existed for thousands 


of years. In the time of the Old Republic, 4,000 years before the Rebellion 

SCAVENGER'S SECRET: ¢9 
SPEAKING BINARY 22 

You know, a lot of first-time astromech buyers, they're always worrying 
about communicating with their new purchase. It's no big deal. You want 
a sophisticated conversation? Buy a protocol droid. You need a detailed 
report? Plug that astromech into just about anything with a view screen 
and just read what it has to say. Computer, datapad, you know, whatever's 
handy. I've even seen one use its holographic projector to display text. 
Mind you, you might not like what you hear! Most astromechs aren't 
exactly diplomatic, and many don't know what it means to be polite. 

But hang around enough droids, and you'll pick up on what those 
whistles and chirps mean. Of course, you'll have to carry half the con- 
versation yourself—you know, asking questions, assuming subjects and 
so on, You'll be best off trying to phrase your questions for yes or no 
answers, but after a while, you'll get the gist of what they're saying. Even 
those funny little wobbles and shakes mean something. 

What will really get you fouled up is when you think you get a droid 
that understands Basic but it really understands Huttese or some odd- 
ball tongue the last owner installed. You'll think the thing has blown 
its language circuits. Worse, you might think it's ignoring or flat out 
contradicting you, when it's really trying to communicate something 
vitally important. Even a viewscreen might not help, if it can't display 
something you can read. You know, I've even seen a hasty fighter pilot 
fly into the middle of combat before realizing his replacement astromech 
didn't speak his language. Entertaining, as they say. Of course, he survived 
the battle—how else could he have sold the droid to me? 


era, Czerka Corporation, Duwani Mechanical Products, and Aratech Repul- 
sor Company dominated the droid markets of their day; other well-known 
manufacturers, such as MerenData and Serv-O-Droid, were also becoming 
competitive. 

Although manufacturing plants can be found on both major and lesser 
worlds, a significant percentage of droids come from either Mechis Ill or 
Telti. These two worlds specialize in droid production to such an extent that 
their surfaces are essentially covered by automated precision-manufacturing 
plants. The major manufacturers use these fabrication facilities extensively. 
Most of the droids built in these facilities are shipped by bulk freighter, but 
light freighter jockeys make a decent living running small orders to isolated 
regions of the galaxy. 


MEcrIS III 

Region: Inner Rim 

Climate: Arid (industrial) 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 20 standard hours 

Length of Year: 298 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% droids and automata, 1% Humans and 
other species 

Government: Corporate 

Capital: Mechis City 

Major Exports: Droids, technology 

Major Imports: Industrial raw materials, foodstuffs 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 


DC RESULT 

10 Mechis Ill is one of the primary droid manufacturing worlds in 
the galaxy. 

15 The world is covered by automated droid manufacturing plants. 


Few organic beings are on the planet, and the atmospheric 
conditions are harsh and foul. The Techno Union operates 
the world until it loses control during the Clone Wars. 

20 The galaxy's major droid manufacturers use Mechis III plants. 
The huge industrial complexes require massive deliveries of raw 
materials, creating a constant need for shipping to and from 
the planet. The ownership of the planet changes periodically, 
but the planet is corporate controlled and run by automata. 


Knowledge (Technology) 


ne RESULT 

10 Droids of all kinds are built on Mechis Ill, and competition for 
contracting the facilities is fierce. 

15 Arakyd builds many of its droids on Mechis Ill and is a dominant 


influence during the rule of the Empire. Additionally, some 
facilities are dedicated to producing starships, vehicles, and 
other technological goods. 

20 Droid designs are produced on other worlds, at the various 
manufacturers’ headquarters. Most manufacturers rely on 
droid quality-control units to supervise the manufacturing 
process; however, a few organic beings are assigned to 
oversee the facilities. 


TELT! 

Region: Inner Rim 

Climate: Arid (industrial) 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 22 standard hours 
Length of Year: 309 local days 

Sapient Species: 99% droids and automata, 1% Humans and 
other species 

Government: Corporate 

Capital: Dome 01 

Major Exports: Droids, technology 
Major Imports: Industrial raw materials 


DROID 

MANUFACTURER TRAITS 

A droid reflects its manufacturer in many ways—physical design, reli- 
ability, signature systems, and even personality traits. Some companies 
and model lines become known for these attributes, good and bad. Since 
all droids are also individuals, the influence of such traits varies greatly 
from unit to unit. A manufacturer's descriptions include typical traits or 
attributes that apply to the droids it manufactures. These traits can be 
added as a template to any droid manufactured by the company, although 
their usage is optional in game play. 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 


boc RESULT 

10 The moon Telti is one of the main droid foundries in the galaxy. 

15 The world has no atmosphere and is covered in automated 
droid manufacturing plants. 

20 The manufacturing facilities are located inside enormous 


domed structures that are linked by tunnels and overland 
transportation corridors. They are protected by battle droids 
and security droids and operated by service droids and 

labor droids. 


Knowledge (Technology) 

le RESULT 

10 All types of droids are built on Telti, but Cybot Galactica 
and Industrial Automaton dominate the production lines. 
Veril Line Systems is also a major presence. 

15 Just prior to the Clone Wars, Baktoid Combat Automata 
closes down its facilities on Telti in response to disarmament 
laws directed at the Trade Federation. 

20 Major droid manufacturers use Telti facilities. The planet nearly 
runs itself, with the exception of the constant need for raw 
materials. Rumors suggest that only one organic master, 
supported by countless droids, is needed to oversee the 
automated factories and droid systems. However, most 
companies maintain at least a representative presence of 
organic supervisors on the world. 


MAUOR DROID MANUFACTURERS 


Arakyd Industries 
Bolstered by the rise of the Emperor and a skillful political strategy, Arakyd 
Industries is the primary producer of the Empire's military droids. The 
company's specialties are exploration droids and probe droids, but it also 
produces commercial units. Arakyd's market dominance enables it to supply 
the New Republic in later years, despite the company's Imperial dealings. It 
also contracts with other major forces, such as planetary governments and 
the Sector Rangers. Arakyd utilizes Mechis III plants, among others. 
Traits: Arakyd units are well known for their intense mission focus, occa- 
sionally going beyond the expected limits of their programming to achieve a 
mission objective. When confronted with an action that it would normally not 
be able to perform due to its behavioral inhibitors, it can attempt (through 
twisting logic or reprogramming) to bypass the normal limitations. Once 
per day, an Arakyd droid can make a Persuasion check or a Use Computer 
check against a DC equal to its own Will Defense. If the check is successful, 
the droid's behavioral inhibitor allows it to take prohibited actions until the 
forbidden action is completed. After completion, the inhibitor returns to 
normal functioning. 


| 


| HSaLewHD 


SgeovHsWHW GAovH@G | 


SsseusH) aoug 


Baktoid Combat Automata 

Baktoid Combat Automata is part of the extensive Baktoid family of compa- 
nies. In factories scattered across the galaxy, Baktoid builds untold numbers of 
battle droids in the years prior to and during the Clone Wars, supplying droids 
to the Trade Federation and to the Separatists. Baktoid earns a reputation 
for producing cheap, substandard battle droids thanks to its inferior B1 unit. 
Other models lack the B1's flaws, but Baktoid's standard designs still suffer 
from lesser processors and inhibited analytical thinking. After the Separatists' 
defeat, the Empire shuts down Baktoid. Most of its factories are dismantled, 
destroyed, nationalized, or taken over by other companies. 

Traits: Baktoid units suffer from inferior processors and remote data 
links. A character can make a Persuasion check opposed by a Baktoid droid's 
Perception skill to attempt to temporarily confuse it with contradictory data 
or brash, seemingly illogical action. If the check is successful, the droid can 
take no action for one round as it tries to find an appropriate response. If the 
Persuasion check is unsuccessful, the droid recognizes the ruse and proclaims 
it loudly while taking an immediate swift action as a reaction. 


Balmorran Arms 
Balmorran Arms is best known for providing walkers and other combat 
vehicles to the military forces of the Galactic Empire. However, it also has 
an effective combat droid division that is active throughout the years of 
the Galactic Empire's rule. Balmorran also produces civilian droid models, 
primarily for use as security units. Some of these units are highly specialized 
and find success in the years of the Clone Wars, because people throughout 
the galaxy feel threatened by the war and the associated increase in deep- 
space piracy. The company's SD-model battle droids are a cornerstone of 
the military forces of the reborn Emperor years after the Battle of Endor. 
However, Balmorran Arms is tied directly to the Balmorran government and, 
therefore, is embroiled in the planet's political gamesmanship. The company 
ultimately supplies both the resurgent Empire and the New Republic at vari- 
ous times during the reborn Emperor's resurgence. 

Traits: Balmorran droid models undergo constant revision and upgrades, 
so one year's model is rarely the same as the previous year's. When creating 
or purchasing a new Balmorran Arms droid, increase one ability score by 1. 


Colicoid Creation Nest 

The Colicoid Creation Nest manufactures all the Colicoids’ high-technology 
products, such as droids, vehicles, weapons, and equipment. As might be 
expected from the products of such a vicious and violent species, Colicoid 
battle droids are among the galaxy's toughest and most ruthless automatons. 
During the Clone Wars, the Colicoids supply droidekas, tri-fighters, and buzz 
droids to the Separatist forces, while retaining even more powerful models 
for defense of their homeworld. The end of the Clone Wars shuts down 
the Colicoids' droid export business, but the nest continues to build the 
planet's other high-technology goods. Since most beings stay as far from 
the Colicoids' violent homeworld as possible, few actively seek out their 


services or models. However, brave or foolhardy traders risk obtaining highly 
customized droids or batches of new Colicoid models for specific dealers, 
crime lords, or collectors—for a large fee. 

Traits: Colicoid droids are vicious and difficult to take down. They are 
completely fearless and follow orders without question. Once per encounter, 
a Colicoid droid can ignore all negative penalties from its location on the 
condition track when making an attack. 


Cybot Galactica 
Cybot Galactica dominates the nonmilitary droid market, excelling in both 
design and marketing. Although its prices match its prestige, Cybot Galac- 
tica's customer service and repair service span the galaxy. All major and most 
lesser Republic and Imperial worlds hold at least one official Cybot sales and 
service center. Cybot is a major player in the Corporate Sector and wields 
considerable political influence in the Core Worlds as well. Cybot utilizes 
Telti facilities as well as those on the planet Affa for its protocol division. 
Traits: Cybot systems are so commonplace that nondroid heroes with Skill 
Focus (Mechanics) can modify or repair Cybot droids in half the time that 
would be required for a normal droid (see page 197 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook). This does not stack with any other ability that saves modifica- 
tion or repair time. A droid does not gain this benefit when modifying itself. 


Czerka Corporation 

Originally operating as Czerka Mining and Industrial in the time of the Old 
Republic, Czerka Corporation has produced droids and innumerable other 
products for thousands of years. During the Old Republic, Czerka Corpora- 
tion is an early major player in both the combat-droid and service-droid 
markets. By the rise of the Empire, Czerka still produces sophisticated droids 
and computer systems, but no longer dominates that market because of its 
shift to arms manufacturing. 

Traits: Czerka droid designs are exceptionally personable, no matter their 
degree or designed purpose. Even the feared HK assassin droids have a certain 
frightening charm. A Czerka droid can use its Intelligence or Wisdom modifier 
instead of its Charisma modifier to determine its Persuasion skill modifier. 


Duwani Mechanical Products 

Operating 4,000 years before the rise of the Empire, Duwani Mechanical 
Products is among the more successful droid manufacturers of the Old 
Republic. Duwani products span the range of the droid market, including 
service droids and early battle droids. Duwani's droids are durable and 
rugged-looking. Although elegant models exist, Duwani's design style is 
utilitarian and minimalist. Duwani battle droids fight for the Old Republic, 
and its service and protocol droids are commonly found at Republic and 
commercial facilities around the galaxy. The reliability of its units and its 
superior customer service make Duwani a major competitor of Czerka Cor- 
poration in the droid market. 


Traits: Once per encounter, when it has half or fewer of its maximum hit 
points, as a reaction, a Duwani droid can either gain 5 bonus hit points or 
add 5 to its damage threshold for one round. 


Holowan Mechanicals 
Holowan Mechanicals is best known for developing the IG-Series droids. The 
IG-Series designs are obtained through the acquisition of assets from Phlut 
Design Systems by the InterGalactic Banking Clan. During the Clone Wars, 
the IG-100 MagnaGuards serve prominently as General Grievous's personal 
bodyguards. However, when developing the IG assassination droid series, 
Holowan technicians seriously underestimate the lethality of their design, 
eventually losing the entire team to the escaped prototypes, setting back 
Holowan as a competitive droid producer for years to come. 

Traits: Holowan units are designed for lethality. Once per encounter, a 
Holowan droid can add 1 die of damage to an attack. 


Imperial Department of Military Research 

Although not a manufacturer of droids, the Imperial Department of Military 
Research advances droid design in unusual directions. Rebel leaders learn 
over the course of the Galactic Civil War that the department is responsible 
for dark and cunning droid designs, such as interrogation droids and the Dark 
Trooper project. When a particularly dangerous design is discovered, Rebel 
agents are dispatched to hinder its development or to destroy the facilities 
required to build the units. 

Traits: Imperial droids vary greatly in mission and specifications. However, 
their prototypes are constructed with built-in tracking devices and recording 
equipment to document the droid's performance. The droids transmit the 
data upon command to a central reporting station or, when in the field, to 
the nearest Imperial installation. 


Industrial Automaton 
The hugely successful R-Series astromech droids make Industrial Automaton 
one of the galaxy's more successful droid manufacturers. Industrial Automa- 
ton competes with Cybot Galactica in price, product, and service, and its 
sales and maintenance facilities can be found on any civilized planet with a 
sufficiently advanced tech level or a major starport. IA’s major production 
lines are on Telti, but it also employs factories throughout the galaxy. 
Traits: Industrial Automaton astromechs can be found in most starports, 
and technicians are used to working with IA units. When assisting on a Mechan- 
ics check, an Industrial Automaton droid trained in Mechanics can add its 
ntelligence bonus (minimum +1) to the normal +2 bonus. 


MerenData 

Another droid manufacturer to benefit from the rise of the Empire, Meren- 
Data supplies security, espionage, and interrogation droids to the Imperial 
military and government agencies. MerenData also produces commercial 
units, competing with Cybot Galactica. Although it is not a dominant player, 
MerenData’s reliable designs and the company's centuries-long history make 
it a worthy competitor. MerenData's support of the Empire makes sales to 


THE DROID FACTORY ON GEONOSIS 


the New Republic initially impossible and undesirable. However, as Imperial 
influence shrinks, so does MerenData's opposition to doing business with the 
New Republic—aided by the ousting of company officials tied to the Empire. 
MerenData is also a major contributor to the Corporate Sector. 

Traits: MerenData droids are known for their intimidating personalities. 
When making a Persuasion check to intimidate, a MerenData droid adds its 
Wisdom bonus to the skill check. When attempting to intimidate another 
droid, it adds its Wisdom bonus and its Charisma bonus to the check. 


Roche 

Roche is the popular nickname for the Verpine droid manufacturer Roche 
Hive Mechanical Apparatus Design and Construction Activity for Those Who 
Need the Hive's Machines. Like their creators, Roche droids are insectoid, 
causing poor sales of early models, even to other insectoid species. How- 
ever, the Verpines’ love of technology drives them to refine the line, so their 
line of droids slowly expands into the galactic market. Limited distribution 
makes new units difficult to obtain, requiring making a trip to the Roche 
System or locating an Ithorian herdship with an authorized dealer. Used 
units—especially worker drones and other early models—can be purchased 
at a highly discounted rate from used droid and junk dealers throughout the 
backwaters of the galaxy. 

Traits: Roche units are precisely constructed with easily modified 
appendages and accessories. When modifying an appendage, an accessory, 
a tool, a weapon, or an instrument mounted on an appendage, apply a +5 
circumstance bonus to the Mechanics check (see page 197 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). This bonus does not apply to droids modifying themselves. 


STgeovusgH) GeowcG 


} HslavHa 


© 
0 
Q 
g 
sls 
W 
i 
@) 
W) 
0 


DROID BUILDERS 

So, you want to know about droid manufacturers? Well, | can tell > 
you a few things. First, people have their sentimental favorites. 
However, as a buyer, it pays to know that Cybot's standard parts are 
plentiful and inexpensive, while Veriline's droids can take a pounding. 
The manufacturer is important, but most people buy their droids used, so 
| think it's more important to know the droid’s recent repair history and 
if it's been rebuilt with nonstandard parts. You want galactic servicing 
and support? Better buy from the big guys. You want modifications? 
The authorized shops won't add on unauthorized parts, no matter how 
useful. Find your local droid shop—preferably one that specializes in your 
kind of droid. Believe me, you don't want someone learning on your job. 
They might swear that all droids are the same, but they're not. And you 
don't need your battle droid to suddenly worry about proper etiquette 
mid-battle. Always remember, the biggest and best known companies 
build decent and highly resilient machines, but the best built come from 
custom droid shops. 


Serv-O-Droid 
Serv-O-Droid is one of the galaxy's older and more successful droid manu- 
facturers. Spanning thousands of years, from the time of the Old Republic 
until the years before the Clone Wars, Serv-O-Droid specializes in service 
droids and worker droids, including personal assistants and heavy duty com- 
mercial labor units. However, the company makes a series of bad business 
decisions, allying with the Republic's bureaucracy. The result is a political 
nightmare. Corrupt Senators give the company tax breaks and other favors 
but demand great monetary and political payments in return. As the corrupt 
Republic declines, so does Serv-O-Droid, despite expanding into security and 
professional assistant models. Its assets are liquidated and sold off to the 
Corporate Sector Authority. However, new units are still available through the 
Droid ReServe, a droid remainder reseller located on Elshandruu Pica. With 
millions of fully operational units to sell, the reseller makes Serv-O-Droid 
units and spare parts available for years. 

Traits: Serv-O-Droids are highly reliable units. When recharging, they 
can remove one persistent condition that requires repairs to remove per day, 
moving +1 step on the condition track. 


Tendrando Arms 

The Yuuzhan Vong invasion decimates the galactic droid market. Because of 
their fanatical hatred of mechanical automatons, the Yuuzhan Vong raze droid 
plants by the thousands, destroying or disabling companies and causing the 
shutdown of plants far from the invasion corridor. Lando Calrissian and his 
wife, Tendra Risant, restart several idle factories with their new company, 
Tendrando Arms, producing droids specifically designed to battle the Yuuzhan 
Vong. With the defeat of the Yuuzhan Vong, Tendrando Arms provides secu- 
rity, guardian, and related droids to the Galactic Alliance and the Jedi Order. 


Traits: Tendrando Arms droids are efficient security and combat droids. 
Their YVH droid design (see page 158) angers the Yuuzhan Vong at a primi- 
tive level. Tendrando Arms droids use this antagonism to their advantage. A 
Tendrando Arms droid gains a +2 circumstance bonus to its Reflex Defense 
and Will Defense against Yuuzhan Vong. 


Veril Line Systems 
Veril Line Systems, often called Veriline for short, excels at industrial droid 
design. Its units are plain but reliable and durable, and its signature power 
droids can be found in most starports. Veriline units feature highly efficient 
processing systems. The droids have only enough processing and analytical 
ability to fulfill their simple and monotonous jobs. When dealing with tasks 
or situations beyond their programming, Veriline’s cheaper units are simplis- 
tic at best, and downright stupid at worst. Units that require sophisticated 
programming receive exactly what they need to be successful, but no more. 
Veriline is headquartered on Coruscant and utilizes Telti droid plants as well 
as assembly lines of its own on or near major industrial worlds. 

Traits: Veril Line Systems droids are highly resilient. Once per day, a 
Veriline droid can make a DC 20 Endurance check to extend its run time by 
25 hours or to move +1 step on the condition track. 


DROID QUIRKS 


Droids are temperamental machines, exposed to every kind of environmen- 
tal and physical abuse. With limited programming and typically deficient 
maintenance schedules, many droids develop odd mechanical glitches and 
personality quirks. Most are minor—more annoyances than anything danger- 
ous. Memory wipes can eliminate personality quirks, but they do nothing 
for physical abnormalities. 


QuIRKS AS 

PERSISTENT CONDITIONS 

Another way to include quirks in the game is to apply one when a droid 
suffers a persistent condition. This allows the Gamemaster to use many 
quirks over the span of a campaign, and provides a rich source of plot 
hooks, humor, or dramatic situations. The Gamemaster should select 
a quirk that is related to the origin of the persistent condition. For 
instance, a persistent condition caused by physical damage should inflict 
a hardware quirk, whereas a hit from an ion weapon might cause either 
a hardware or a software quirk. Quirks applied in this manner should be 
automatically removed when the persistent condition is removed, instead 
of requiring the skill checks normally needed to eliminate a quirk. 


MEETING A RUDE DROID COUNTERPART 


Droid quirks are optional in the Saga Edition. They make interesting and 
easy roleplaying hooks, as well as give players inspiration for the develop- 
ment of personalities and backgrounds for their droids. Some droid quirks 
might also have minor mechanical effects. If no game mechanic is indicated 
in the quirk description, a +2 or -2 circumstance bonus to skill checks or 
attack rolls might be appropriate whenever the quirk manifests. Players and 
Gamemasters are encouraged to select quirks that make characters memo- 
rable. Additionally, quirks can be assigned as the result of physical damage 
or sensory overload. If a droid is reduced to O hit points, roll 1d20+10. If 
the result exceeds the droid's Fortitude Defense, the unit develops a quirk 
when it is repaired. The Gamemaster can assign an appropriate quirk or roll 
on Table 1-2: Droid Quirks. 

Each quirk has an associated origin indicated in its description: hardware 
(h) or software (s). If both are indicated, one should be selected at the time 
the quirk is applied. Hardware quirks result from faulty installations, physi- 
cal damage, aging circuitry, or incompatible systems. Hardware quirks can 
be removed by replacing or repairing the faulty system. Repairing quirks is 
notoriously difficult. If the repair check does not exceed the Mechanics DC by 
10 or more (see page 70 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), the new system 
works, but the quirk (or a similar quirk) returns 1d12 days later. 


Software quirks are tied to the droid's internal subroutines. They can be 
caused by corrupted data, but they are more often a result of the droid's 
learned responses from previous experience. Most software quirks are elimi- 
nated with a memory wipe. Corrupted data can be repaired with a successful 
DC 25 Use Computer check to reprogram the droid. Attempting to eliminate 
a personality quirk without a memory wipe is difficult, often requiring help. 
A DC 30 Use Computer check succeeds in eliminating a personality quirk, 
but the droid's personality and responses might change in unforeseen ways 
because the droid must learn new responses. The results might not be exactly 
what was intended. Failure on the check results in the addition of another 
software quirk. 


SCAVENGER'S SECRET: 
Quirky DOROIDS 

A droid without quirks? No such thing. Most quirks aren't severe 

enough to be a problem. | just tell customers that the droid has character. 
Personality. If they don't like it, | sell memory wipes cheap. For the droid, 
not the customer, but let me tell you, some customers could use one. 
Memory wipe usually works if it's a software problem. Hardware problems 
are another deal. Replacing parts costs credits and time. No problem for 
me, | find the parts for a small fee. Install them for bigger fee, and then 
| sell the old parts to someone else. Make money all around. 

Bad quirks are mostly annoying, but they can be expensive. | saw a 
droid with a bad memory wipe try to fix a landspeeder with old, incom- 
plete walker specs. The owner was not so happy when she saw her new 
three-legged landspeeder, with her recently acquired vaporators welded 
to the body as the legs. 

Dangerous quirks you need to take care of immediately. Most droids 
won't try to kill you on purpose, but plenty of them can cause big damage 
inadvertently. Even the talkative types, they have a way of saying the 
wrong thing at the wrong time, get you in all kinds of trouble. Believe 
me, | know. Ever try to sell a unit that can’t stop complaining about its 
own bad motivator? I've never seen customers leave so fast. 


} SesidvHno 


) 
0 
0 
it 
0 
1 
0 
W 
) 


1 ealevHa 


SeeuvuEH) Geua@ A 


Special 


20 


21 


QUIRK 
Alien Appearance (h): This droid has a truly alien appearance that attracts attention. Interaction with most species causes a -2 penalty to _ 
Charisma-based skill checks, although the droid gains a +2 bonus when using the Persuasion skill to intimidate. 

Paranoid (s): The droid believes something—or possibly everything—is out to get it. Because the droid is constantly on the lookout, it gets 
either a +2 bonus or a -2 penalty to Perception checks, depending on the situation. 

Talkative (s): The droid talks incessantly, with few information filters and at inappropriate moments. ; 
Overconfident (s): The droid believes it (or possibly its master) is thoroughly capable of succeeding at any task it is trained in or proficient in. 
Aggressive (s): The droid does not back down from a fight unless it has direct orders from its master or is facing obviously 

overwhelming opposition. 

Obsessive (s): The droid focuses on using a single skill or piece of equipment in its arsenal. 

Morose (s): The droid is morbid in conversation. This quirk is particularly disturbing when manifested by medical droids and battle droids. 
Leaky (h): The droid regularly leaks hydraulic fluid, cooling gas, or a similar substance in an amount that does not significantly hinder 
operations but does make a mess. 

Excitable (s): The droid is high strung, speaking, moving, and working rapidly in thrilling situations. 

Possessive (s): The droid latches on to possessions or other items and refuses to give an item up without extensive coaxing and reassurance 
that the item will be returned, requiring an opposed Persuasion check against the droid's Will Defense. 

Vocoder Glitch (h): The droid’s vocoder becomes stuck, causing the droid's voice to be squeaky, deep, monosyllabic, or sing-songy. 

This quirk might occur for only a few seconds, or it might last for days. 

Sullen (s): The droid is depressed, with a dim outlook on the future. 


Amenable (s): The droid defers to others and attempts to keep all parties happy at all times, sometimes even during combat. 

Incomplete Memory Wipe (s): The droid's last memory wipe was not completely successful. The droid gets confused when it remembers 
fragmented memories or when it attempts a skill that it was formerly trained in but now lacks complete instructions for. The droid is still 
considered untrained in the skill. 

Short Circuit (h): The droid suffers from short circuits in its processors, which occasionally disrupt its speech, movement, or skill use 

for one round. 

Visual Impairment (h or s): The droid's visual sensors are slightly impaired. The droid might not see all colors, see only black and white, or 
lose sight for brief periods. This quirk is typically a hardware glitch that results in a -2 penalty to related visually based Perception checks. 
Slow (h or s): The droid does not move or process information quickly. Select one of the following penalties: -2 squares to speed, -2 to all 
Initiative checks, or -2 to Intelligence-based skill checks. 

Curious/Inquisitive (s): The droid seeks knowledge or information about its immediate surroundings. The droid enters locations and 
situations in which it is unwanted or not allowed. 

Faulty System (h): One of the droid’s installed possessions or systems malfunctions. Select a different system or possession each 

time this quirk is taken. The droid suffers a -5 penalty when using the affected system or possession. 

Easily Distracted (s): The droid is easy to distract from a given task. The droid must resist a 1d20+5 attack against its Will Defense when 
attempting tasks that take longer than a full-round action to complete. A successful attack results in the droid's jumping to the next task or 
becoming distracted by something in its immediate surroundings. 

Audio Glitch (h or s): The droid’s audio sensors have trouble detecting certain frequencies or become hypersensitive, causing a -2 penalty 
to audio-based Perception checks. 


ROLL (2d20) 
22 


23 


24 
25 
26 


27 


28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
a7 
38 


39 
40 


QUIRK 


Helpful (s): The droid is overly dedicated to helping its master with any task it is capable of, and it is willing to attempt tasks that it is not 
trained to do. 

Locomotion Malfunction (h): The droid's locomotion system malfunctions regularly, but not necessarily constantly. Examples are trouble 
stopping forward movement, limping, hovering at a lower or inconsistent level, or a sticking tread or joint. When malfunctioning, the droid 
loses 2 squares of speed and/or its Dexterity bonus (and is considered flat-footed). 

Temperature Variations (h): The droid runs hotter than normal, so anyone standing next to it or sharing an enclosed space with it becomes 
uncomfortable. A droid with an internal heating and cooling system might fluctuate between very hot and very cold temperatures. 

Focused (s): The droid becomes fixated on a task until it is completed, even if more critical tasks appear. It takes a -2 penalty to Perception 
checks when fixated. 

Faulty Wiring (h): The droid's wiring is in bad condition. When the droid moves down the condition track as a result of damage that exceeds 
its damage threshold, the condition becomes persistent until repaired. 

Sprung Hatch (h): One or more of the droid's maintenance panels cannot close or latch properly. Whenever the droid takes damage greater 
than its damage threshold, one of the hatches pops open. It can be closed again as a swift action, but it remains closed for only one round 
before popping open again. Temporarily securing the hatch requires a DC 15 Mechanics check as a full-round action, but it does not 
permanently remove the quirk. 

Loyal (s): The droid has an unshakable loyalty to its master or another organic entity. It embarrasses its owner with its concern for his or 

her well-being. 

Arrogant (s): The droid is extremely arrogant and condescending to its owner and everyone else. 

Honest (s): The droid is honest to a fault and is incapable of lying. It cannot make Deception checks. 

Nervous (s): The droid is nervous in common situations. It might be nervous about performing its function successfully, speaking to 

its masters, or entering combat. 

Argumentative (s): The droid develops an urge to argue in any situation, often demanding the last word. 

Noisy (h): The droid is unusually noisy, drawing attention to itself. The source of the racket might be a grinding locomotion system, a 
squealing appendage, jet-like internal cooling fans, piercing high-pitched whines from its processor, or a similar mechanical malady. 

The droid takes a -5 penalty to Stealth checks when the offending system is used. 

Overprotective: The droid becomes overly protective of its master, a vehicle, an object, or another droid, It resists being away from the object 
of its overprotection, and it might undertake irrational acts to ensure the object's safety. 

Alternate Personality (h or s): The droid holds another personality as a leftover from a previous owner or because of damaged processors 
or data. Alternate personalities are usually software quirks, but those caused by damaged systems are hardware quirks. 

Suspicious (s): The droid doesn't trust an individual, a corporate or government entity, or some other group, no matter how much its masters 
or others attempt to convince it otherwise. It treats the object of its suspicions as unfriendly at best. 

Rude (s): The droid is rude to everyone—organic or mechanical—and is unpleasant to be around. It takes a -5 penalty to Persuasion checks 
to improve another's attitude. 

Center of Attention (s): The droid insists on being the center of attention, and it attempts to dominate any conversation. 

Impulsive (s): The droid makes snap judgments or decisions, thinking only in the short term, which might be as short as only a few seconds. 
Blaster Happy (s): The combat-related droid tends to shoot first and listen to orders later. It also might continue to fire at a defeated enemy 
“just to make sure." 


Zl i BSstavHo 


SseoXush Gioeag 


SgevEs~y) aoeuqg 


FEATS 


The new feats presented here are available in any era. Some of these feats 
are available only to droids. 


Aiming Accuracy 
When you have time to analyze your shot, your shooting accuracy has a 
precision that only a machine can achieve. 

Prerequisites: Droid, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, proficient with 
weapon. 

Benefit: If you aim at a target as a full-round action (instead of two 
swift actions), you gain a +5 bonus to your next attack made in the follow- 
ing round against that target. The target must remain in your line of sight. 


Damage Conversion 
You can make last-minute moves to take hits on more durable portions of 
your chassis and/or armor, altering the damage dealt to you. 

Prerequisites: Droid, Dexterity 13. 

Benefit: When you take damage from an attack against you (other than 
an area attack, or an attack that deals ion or Force damage) and that damage 
equals or exceeds your damage threshold, you can take an additional 10 
points of damage instead of moving down the condition track. Each subse- 
quent time you use this feat in a single encounter, the additional damage 
you take increases by 5 points. 


Distracting Droid 
You use lights, holographic projectors, sudden movements, erratic flight, odd 
noises, or other uniquely droid techniques to distract an enemy. 

Prerequisite: Droid. 

Benefit: As a standard action, make a Persuasion check against the Will 
Defense of all enemies that are within 6 squares of you and that can see or 
hear you, as determined appropriate by the Gamemaster. If the check equals 
or exceeds an enemy's Will Defense, the enemy loses one move action on 
its next turn. If the attack exceeds an enemy's Will Defense by 10 or more, 
the enemy is also flat-footed until the start of your next turn. This is a 
mind-affecting effect. 


Droid Focus 
Choose a single degree of droid (first, second, third, fourth, or fifth). You are 
especially familiar with this class of droid, gaining the listed bonuses while 
working on or against them. 
Prerequisites: Trained in the Mechanics and Use Computer skills. 
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus to Deception, Mechanics, Perception, 
Persuasion, and Use Computer checks when used on or against a droid of 
the selected degree, and a +1 bonus to all defenses against attack rolls and 
skill checks made by droids of the selected degree. 


Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. 
Each time you take the feat, it applies to a different degree of droid. 


Droid Shield Mastery 
You quickly replenish your onboard shields. 

Prerequisites: Droid, equipped with shield generator. 

Benefit: You automatically succeed on Endurance checks to restore your 
shield rating by 5 points (up to your normal shield rating). Additionally, you 
replenish your shields in two swift actions. 

Normal: Three swift actions and a DC 20 Endurance check are normally 
required to restore lost shield power (see page 197 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook). 


Erratic Target 
You bob, swerve, dip, and dive to avoid incoming shots and other attacks. 
Prerequisites: Droid, equipped with hovering locomotion or flying loco- 
motion, Dexterity 13, Dodge. 
Benefit: You can reduce your speed by up to 2 squares to increase your 
Dodge bonus by 1 for each square of speed you give up, until the start of your 
next turn. You must move at least 2 squares to gain this benefit. 


lon Shielding 
Your systems are insulated to improve your resistance to ion damage. 
Prerequisites: Droid with Strength 13, or cyborg with Constitution 13. 
Benefit: If the ion damage (before being halved) equals or exceeds your 
damage threshold, you move only -1 step on the condition track. 
Normal: If the ion damage (before being halved) equals or exceeds your 
damage threshold, you normally move -2 steps on the condition track. 


Logic Upgrade: Skill Swap 
You are able to quickly swap one programmed skill for another. A droid with 
a basic processor can use this trick to enable it to attempt skills in which 
it is untrained. 

Prerequisites: Droid, equipped with basic processor. 

Benefit: Select a skill you are not trained in (other than Use the Force). 
Asa full-round action, you can swap this skill for one you are trained in. You 
do not gain any benefit from the original trained skill while it is swapped out. 
You are not considered trained in the swapped-in skill, and therefore you 
cannot use any trained-only options or add a bonus to your skill check. You 
still add one-half your level and your associated ability bonus, as usual. 

Special: If you become trained in the skill selected for this feat, you can 
select another skill to replace it. You can take this feat more than once, each 
time selecting a different skill to swap. 


FEAT NAME 
Aiming Accuracy 


Damage Conversion 
Distracting Droid 
Droid Focus 


Droid Shield Mastery 
Erratic Target 


lon Shielding 
Logic Upgrade: 
Skill Swap 
Mechanical Martial Arts 
Multi-Targeting 
Pincer 


Pinpoint Accuracy 


Sensor Link 
Shield Surge 


Slammer 
Tool Frenzy 


Turn and Burn 


PREREQUISITES 

Droid, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
proficient with weapon 

Droid, Dex 13 


Droid 

Trained in Mechanics and Use Computer 
Droid, equipped with shield generator 

Droid, equipped with hovering or flying locomotion, 
Dex 13, Dodge 

Droid with Str 13, or cyborg with Con 13 
Droid, equipped with basic processor 

Droid, Martial Arts |, base attack bonus +1 
Droid, Int 13, proficient with weapon 

Droid, equipped with claw or hand appendage, 
base attack bonus +1, Pin, Crush 

Droid, Aiming Accuracy, Point Blank Shot, 


Precise Shot, proficient with weapon 
Droid or cyborg with associated hardware 


Droid or cyborg with scomp link or similar direct data link 


with the vehicle, trained in Mechanics 

Small or larger droid, equipped with at least two 
suitable appendages, Str 13 

Small or larger droid, equipped with at least two 
appendages with tools 

Droid, equipped with hovering, flying, wheeled, 
or tracked locomotion, Dex 13 


BENEFIT 


After aiming as a full-round action, gain +5 on next 
weapon attack. 

Take additional hit point damage instead of moving down 
the condition track. 

Attempt to deny enemies within 6 squares their next 
move action, with a chance to make enemies flat-footed. 
+1 bonus to certain skills and defenses when dealing with 
a selected class of droid. 

Automatically restore shields in two swift actions. 
Reduce speed by up to 2 squares to increase dodge bonus 
by up to 2 squares. 

Move only -1 step on condition track when ion damage 
exceeds damage threshold. 

Swap a trained skill for an untrained skill on the fly. 


Give an enemy a -5 penalty on attack rolls and damage rolls 
for one round after striking it in unarmed combat. 

You can spread your aim action across multiple 

consecutive rounds. 

Maintain Pin feat and make subsequent grapple checks 

as a swift action. Apply Crush to each check. 

Move target -1 step on the condition track when you hit 
with Aiming Accuracy. 

Share sensor data instantly with an ally. 

Trade vehicle's SR for damage taken. 


Triple Strength bonus to damage rolls on this special 

melee attack. 

Gain +2 to attack rolls and damage rolls with nonweapon 
appendages in exchange for -2 penalty to Reflex Defense. 
Withdraw by clearing threatened squares in up to 2 squares 
of movement, move your speed when using the withdraw 
action. Withdraw as a reaction by spending a Force Point. 


| HaltavHo 


SsoXus>) GlIoE@g 


Gg 
wv 
(0) 
: 


SSSI) 


| i SSiavHs 


Mechanical Martial Arts 
You know how to inflict pain using your metal appendages when fighting in 
unarmed combat against organic enemies. 

Prerequisites: Droid, Martial Arts |, base attack bonus +1. 

Benefit: When you successfully damage an enemy with an unarmed 
attack, the enemy takes a -5 penalty to all melee attack rolls and damage 
rolls until the start of your next turn. 

Special: If you strike an organic enemy while using this feat during an attack 
of opportunity, the penalty lasts until the start of the enemy's next turn. 


Multi-Targeting 
Your targeting system allows you to track multiple targets over time, negat- 
ing cover bonuses. 

Prerequisites: Droid, Intelligence 13, proficient with weapon. 

Benefit: You can use swift actions across more than one round to aim at 
a target. You can attack different targets prior to the completion of your aim 
action. If the subject of your aim is out of your line of sight for any reason, 
you lose your aim and must start again. 

Normal: You must normally use two consecutive swift actions in the same 
round to aim (see page 154 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Pincer 
You use your mechanical strength to restrain and damage enemies. 

Prerequisites: Droid, equipped with claw or hand appendage, base attack 
bonus +1, Pin, Crush. 

Benefit: When you successfully Pin an enemy (see page 87 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook), you can maintain the Pin beyond 1 round and 
can make subsequent grapple checks against the pinned enemy as a swift 
action. You can apply the Crush feat whenever your subsequent checks are 
successful. 

Normal: Grapple checks are normally a standard action. The Pin feat must 
usually be rerolled each round as a new grapple check. 


Pinpoint Accuracy 
This improved version of the Aiming Accuracy feat moves your enemy -1 
step on the condition track. 

Prerequisites: Droid, Aiming Accuracy, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
proficient with weapon. 

Benefit: When using the Aiming Accuracy feat, a target you damage 
cannot take the recover action until the end of its next turn. 


AN HK-24 ASSASSIN DROID USING ITS TARGETING SYSTEM 


Sensor Link 
You can broadcast your sensor input to an ally, such as another droid or a 
friendly computer system. 

Prerequisite: Droid or some cyborgs (see below). 

Benefit: As a swift action, you can broadcast the input from your audio, 
visual, and any special sensors to a droid ally, comlink, communications 
system, or holographic receiver within 24 squares. That ally is aware of 
anything you are aware of, and can use the aid another action to aid on your 
Perception checks even if you do not have line of sight to one another. If both 
you and your ally have Sensor Link, you share information simultaneously, 
granting a +2 bonus to Perception checks. 

Special: Cyborgs with built-in cybernetic sensors and communications 
gear can also take this feat. 


Shield Surge 

You can surge the power of a vehicle's shields through your direct data link 
at precisely the right moment to reduce the damage to the vehicle from 
incoming enemy fire. 

Prerequisites: Droid or cyborg with scomp link or similar direct data link 
with the vehicle, trained in Mechanics skill. 

Benefit: As a reaction, when your vehicle takes damage above its shield 
rating, after the shield rating is reduced you can reduce the amount of 
damage sustained by the vehicle by an amount up to the remaining shield 
rating (see page 161 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). However, the shield 
rating is immediately reduced by one point for every point of damage reduced. 

Special: The Recharge Shields action cannot be used on the vehicle until 
a full round after the use of Shield Surge. 


Slammer 
You clap two hands, claws, or appendages together, delivering a crushing 
blow to an enemy. 

Prerequisites: Small or larger droid, equipped with at least two suitable 
appendages, Strength 13. 

Benefit: As a standard action, you slam two of your appendages together 
from either side of an enemy, crushing your target between them. Make a 
melee attack. If the attack is successful, you deal unarmed damage with 
double your Strength bonus. If you also exceed the target's damage threshold, 
it has a persistent condition that can be removed only with 8 hours of rest 
or a DC 20 Treat Injury check. 

Special: If you also have the Crush feat, increase your unarmed damage 
by 1 die when using Slammer. 


Tool Frenzy 
You use all your built-in appendages, claws, probes, instruments, and tools at 
once to slash, pierce, burn, or cut your enemy in a frenzied melee attack. 

Prerequisites: Small or larger droid, equipped with at least two append- 
ages with tools mounted. 

Benefit: As a standard action, using appendages not normally considered 
weapons, you can make several strikes as a single attack against a single 
target. Make an unarmed melee attack with a +2 bonus; until the end of your 
next turn, you take a -2 penalty to your Reflex Defense. Use the damage 
die of the highest rated appendage (see page 190 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook) when determining damage. 

Special: True (nonimprovised) melee or ranged weapons are not consid- 
ered tools for the purposes of this feat. 


A PROBE DROID SPEEDS ACROSS RYLOTH 


Turn and Burn 
You can retreat from enemies with additional speed and agility. 

Prerequisites: Droid, equipped with hovering, flying, wheeled, or tracked 
locomotion, Dexterity 13. 

Benefit: When using the withdraw action, you can move up to 2 squares 
to escape threatened squares without provoking an attack of opportunity, 
and you can move your speed. You can spend a Force Point as a reaction to 
an enemy ending its movement adjacent to you to withdraw. 

Normal: When using the withdraw action, you can normally move only 
1 square to escape a threatened square without provoking an attack of 
opportunity and can move only up to half your speed. 


fol eSicvrHgD 


. 
0 
9 
9 
de 
W 
i) 
9 
Im 
0 


L 


SsseusH aeug 


DROID TALENTS 


Droid talents work the same as the talents presented in the Saga Edition 
core rulebook. However, each talent is available only to droids of a particular 
degree. When a character would normally gain a talent, such as when attain- 
ing an odd-numbered level in a heroic class, the droid can select a droid 
talent from among those presented below. 


FIRST-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Known Vulnerability: You know the vulnerable spots to hit on most 
species. As a free action, you make a DC 15 Knowledge (life sciences) check 
(DC 25 for rare species, DC 35 for unknown species, both as determined by 
the Gamemaster). If the check is successful, until the end of the encounter, 
whenever you make a successful melee or unarmed attack that deals damage 
against a target of that species, your target takes a -2 penalties to attack 
rolls until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Knowledge (life sciences). 

Medical Analyzer: You use your medical knowledge and advanced droid 
processor to improve your treatment of medical conditions. When making a 
Treat Injury check to Treat Disease, Treat Poison, or Treat Radiation, you can 
also add your Intelligence modifier to your roll. 

Prerequisites: Trained in Knowledge (life sciences), medical droid. 

Science Analyzer: You use your extensive databanks to better analyze 
scientific data. You can add double your Intelligence modifier to your Knowl- 
edge (life sciences) or Knowledge (physical sciences) skill check. 

Prerequisites: Trained in Knowledge (life sciences) and Knowledge (physi- 
cal sciences). 

Triage Scan: As a standard action, you can make a DC 20 Treat Injury 
check. If the check succeeds, you know if the organic characters within 6 
squares and within your line of sight are below one half of their hit points 
and at what step they are along the condition track. 

Prerequisites: Trained in Treat Injury, medical droid. 


SECOND-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Burst Transfer: You can double the amount of data transferred with the 
Binary language in a single round (see page 191 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook) when communicating with other droids with Burst Transfer, and 
you cut Access Information time in half when making Use Computer checks 
to find general or specific information (see page 76 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

On-Board System Link: While aboard a starship or vehicle and plugged 
into the ship's systems by scomp link, droid socket, or basic data port, you 
can reroute power or recharge shields as two swift actions instead of three. 

Quick Astrogation: Your speedy electronic astrogation-calculation 
routines allow you to cut calculation time in half. Additionally, when attempt- 
ing a Use Computer check to Astrogate, you can make the calculation as a 
standard action instead of a full-round action. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Use Computer. 


Scomp Link Slicer: Your inherent speed and advanced skill reduce the 
danger of slicing computer systems. You must be physically linked to the 
system you are slicing. You can use each of the following actions once per 
encounter: 

e Eradicate: You can use Disable or Erase Program on a computer that is 
friendly or helpful toward you. With this talent, disabling or erasing a 
program takes 5 minutes and requires a DC 15 Use Computer check (see 
page 76 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

¢ Lockout: lf you succeed on an opposed Use Computer check when you 
Issue a Routine Command to counteract another programmer's actions, 
you automatically lock the other programmer out of the system. He 
or she must succeed in an opposed Use Computer check against you 
to regain access to the system (see page 76 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook). You resist the attempt as a reaction. 

© Untraceable: As a reaction, you automatically keep a hostile computer 
from tracing your location if you fail a Use Computer check (see page 
76 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) by 10 or less. 

Prerequisites: Any two talents from the Slicer Talent Tree (see page 47 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). Burst Transfer can be one of these talents. 


THIRD-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Nuanced: You are skilled in the nuances of diplomatic speech and ges- 
tures. Once per encounter, you can add your Wisdom bonus to a Persuasion 
check in addition to your Charisma bonus. 

Observant: You enhance your persuasiveness by applying data obtained 
through observation. Whenever you would fail a Persuasion check, you can 
roll a Perception check as a free action, with a DC equal to the DC of the Per- 
suasion check. If you succeed, add +5 to the original Persuasion check result. 

Supervising Droid: You are programmed to oversee other droids. You 
can use each of the following actions once per encounter: 

© Combat Support: As a standard action, you automatically aid another 
onan allied droid's attack roll, provided you are capable of using the aid 
another action to assist that ally. If you also have Weapon Focus with 
this weapon, you increase the bonus provided by the aid another action 
from +2 to +3. 

e Director: As a standard action, you automatically aid another droid with 
a skill you are trained in. If you also have Skill Focus in the skill, you 
increase the aid another bonus from +2 to +5. 

e Instant Action: As a swift action, you grant one ally a swift action that 
it can use immediately as a free action. 

Prerequisites: Observant, any talent from the Influence, Inspiration, or 
Leadership Talent Trees (see pages 43-44 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Talkdroid: You know how to subtly massage translations. When one of 
your allies is attempting to use the Persuasion skill to change the attitude 
of a creature that does not understand your ally, you add +2 to the ally’s 
Persuasion check results if you perform the translation. 

Prerequisite: Trained in Persuasion. 


DROID DATA PORTS 

For the most part, Gamemasters and players need not worry about the 
exact type of data ports and other connections between a droid and 
a computer, a vehicle, or a network. However, the Gamemaster might 
decide that this information should play a part in the story or would 
otherwise logically come into play. For instance, it might make sense for 
an astromech droid to be able to slice into a complex computer system, 
but a lowly power droid probably does not have the equipment for it. Also, 
rare or alien droids or those from another era might have nonstandard 
ports. Certain talents and feats described in this book require a link in 
order to function. Below is a brief summary of the standard data ports 
found in the galaxy. 


Maintenance Data Link: All droids come standard with at least one 
maintenance data link port for programming and maintenance. This 
wired link can be used with datapads, portable computers, and systems 
designed for implementing droid modifications. This link is not normally 
suitable for the droid to use to attempt slicing or controlling a vehicle or 
automated systems. Any attempt to do so suffers a -10 penalty to any 
Use Computer, Mechanics, or other skill checks. This penalty does not 
apply to skill checks others make to the droid. 


Basic Data Link: Droids are equipped with one or more basic data links. 
This wired link allows a droid to transfer data efficiently and enables 
equipped droids, such as pilot droids, to operate computers and ship 
systems without physically touching the manual controls, although that 
capability usually depends on the system rather than the droid. The port 
is suitable for data transfer, vehicular control, and slicing attempts. 


Scomp Link: This advanced droid-computer data link is found on star- 
ships and on larger computers and networks. This port is suitable for 
all types of data transfer, vehicular control, and slicing attempts. See 
the scomp link equipment entry on page 62 for additional information. 
All astromechs are equipped with scomp links, unless otherwise noted. 


Wireless Link: Some droids have the hardware to access wireless data 
links. This type of link is only operable when a computer or network also 
has wireless capability. Accessing networks typically requires passwords 
or slicing. However, once connected, this type of link is suitable for all 
types of data transfer, vehicular control, and slicing attempts. An inte- 
grated comlink does not allow a droid to access wireless data networks 
or make slicing attempts wirelessly. 


FOURTH-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Just a Scratch: Once per encounter, as a reaction, you can reduce the 
damage froma single attack that targets your Reflex Defense by an amount 
equal to your Fortitude Defense. 

Prerequisites: Equipped with medium or better armor, proficient with 
that armor. 

Target Acquisition: Once per encounter, as a swift action, designate 
an enemy target within line of sight as an acquired target. You gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls for all attacks against 
that target until the end ofthe encounter, as long as the target remains 
within your line of sight. 

Target Lock: You lock onto the target designated by the Target Acquisition 
talent. If the target leaves your line of sight, you automatically reacquire 
the target lock as a reaction if the target comes back within your line of 
sight. You also gain a +5 bonus to your Perception skill when opposing the 
target's Stealth checks. 

Prerequisite: Target Acquisition. 

Weapons Power Surge: Once per encounter, as a free action, you can 
increase the damage dealt by one of your weapons by 1 or 2 damage dice in 
exchange for moving -1 step on the condition track for each die increased. 
The weapon must be permanently mounted to your chassis, and it must use 
your internal power supply. Handheld weapons, such as blaster rifles, do not 
qualify for this talent. 


FIFTH-DEGREE DROID TALENT TREE 

Durable: You are particularly durable and continue to function when a 
lesser droid would become disabled. The first time during an encounter that 
you would be moved to the bottom of the condition track by any effect, you 
instead stop at the -10 step. Additionally, if a single attack causes you to 
move multiple steps down the condition track, you can spend a Force Point 
as a reaction to only move -1 step down the condition track. 

Heavy-Duty Actuators: Your heavy-duty actuators allow you to release 
your power and speed in a quick burst. You can double your Strength bonus 
to your melee and unarmed damage rolls. 

Prerequisite: Medium or larger size. 

Load Launcher: You are considered proficient with improvised thrown 
weapons (see page 150 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) when making a 
ranged attack by throwing an object. Objects up to one size category larger 
than you can be thrown up to a number of squares equal to 2 x your Strength 
bonus (minimum 1 square). Additionally, you add your Strength bonus to 
any damage dealt. 


g 
ay 
g 
0 
xt || 
W 
a 
@ 
W) | 
(i) 


Sseovuey) Geaue | 


Task Optimization: Select a skill you are trained in. Once per encounter, 
you can perform any application of that skill as one action quicker than 
normal but as at least a swift action (for example, a full-round action 
becomes a standard action, a standard action becomes a move action, a 
move action becomes a swift action). Tasks requiring more than one round 
cannot be optimized with this talent. 


NEw TALENTS FOR 
DROID PRESTIGE 
CLASSES 


This section features new talents for two existing droid-only prestige classes: 
the Droid Commander (see pages 42-44 of The Clone Wars Campaign Guide) 
and the Independent Droid (see pages 46-48 of The Force Unleashed Cam- 
paign Guide). 


NEw TALENTS FOR THE DROID 
COMMANDER PRESTIGE CLASS 


New Droid Commander Talent Tree 
OVERRIDE TALENT TREE 
You can take direct control over your droid allies for brief periods. 

Directed Action: As a standard action, you allow one droid that can 
hear and understand you to make a Deception, Mechanics, Persuasion, Pilot, 
Ride, Treat Injury, or Use Computer check immediately as a free action. The 
droid can replace its relevant ability score modifier for that check with your 
Intelligence modifier. 

Directed Movement: As a move action, you allow one droid that can 
hear and understand you to move up to its speed. The droid can make 
Acrobatics, Climb, Jump, Stealth, or Swim checks during this movement, 
and can replace its own relevant ability score modifier for that check with 
your Intelligence modifier. 

Full Control: As a full-round action, you allow one droid that can hear 
and understand you to take the full attack action. The droid can replace its 
relevant ability score modifier to any attack rolls it makes with your Intel- 
ligence modifier. 

Prerequisites: Directed Action, Directed Movement, and Remote Attack. 

Remote Attack: As a standard action, you allow one droid that can 
hear and understand you to make a melee or ranged attack. The droid can 
replace its relevant ability score modifier to its attack roll with your Intel- 
ligence modifier. 


NEw TALENTS FOR THE 
INDEPENDENT DROID 
PRESTIGE CLASS 


New Specialized Droid Talent 
This talent is for use with the Specialized Droid talent tree. 

Power Boost: You channel your power surge into a boost for your loco- 
motion system. When you initiate a power surge, you can use one of the 
following bonuses with your installed locomotion system: Jump +4 squares 
(walking or wheeled locomotion), or increase hovering height by 4 squares 
(hovering locomotion). You can use this talent for a number of rounds equal 
to one-half your level (rounded down). 

At the end of a power boost, you move -1 persistent step on the condi- 
tion track. The penalties imposed by this condition persist until you receive 
repairs (using the Repair Droid application of the Mechanics skill). You can 
use both Power Surge and Power Boost at the same time, but you must move 
-2 persistent steps on the condition track. 

Prerequisite: Power Surge. 


New Autonomy Talent 
This talent is for use with the Autonomy talent tree. 

Just a Droid: You are adept at passing yourself off as an ordinary droid. 
You can use each of the following actions once per encounter. 

e Just Another Droid: You are skilled at using Stealth to sneak past 
unwary enemies when moving in plain sight. You can use the Sneak 
application of the Stealth skill when in plain sight of an enemy, if the 
enemy has no reason to doubt that you are just another droid. You are 
considered trained in Stealth for this action. 

¢ Just.a Normal Droid: You can reroll Deception checks for deceptive 
appearance to make observers believe that you are carrying out a 
standard function when attempting to do something atypical for your 
droid model or function. You may keep either result. 

Swift Droid: You move quickly when caught. You can make a swift action 

as a reaction after failing a Deception check or a Stealth check. 

Prerequisites: Any two talents from the Autonomy talent tree. 


New Elite Droid Talent Tree 
You have become a highly advanced droid and are among the elite units of 
your class. 
Break Program: You can use your ability to circumvent behavioral inhibi- 
tors to temporarily break the programming of a droid that you have a data 
link with. Make a Use Computer check opposed by the droid's Will Defense. 
Breaking the droid's programming overrides its behavioral inhibitors for a 
number of rounds equal to your Intelligence bonus. 
Prerequisite: Trained in Use Computer. 
Heuristic Mastery: You understand the subtleties and limitations of your 
heuristic processor. You can reroll any untrained skill check (except Use the 
Force), keeping the second result, even if it is worse. Once per encounter, 
you can spend a Force Point to reroll any skill check (trained or untrained), 
taking the better result. 
Prerequisite: Wisdom 15. 
Scripted Routines: Your extensive experience allows you to preset 
specific routines that give you an advantage in some situations. Once per 
encounter you can use each of the following actions: 
¢ Attack Script: You can use a feat ora talent that modifies your attack 
roll as one action less (for example, a full-round action becomes a 
standard action, a standard action becomes a move action, a move 
action becomes a swift action, a swift action becomes a free action). 

¢ Defense Script: You can apply your Independent Spirit bonus a second 
time during a single encounter. 

© Skill Script: While in combat, you can apply a bonus equal to one-half 

of your class level to any single skill that requires a standard action or 
less to use. You must be trained in the skill. 

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +5. 

Ultra Resilient: You have advanced subroutines that make you more 
resistant to the effect of damage. Once per encounter, as a reaction, you 
can increase your damage threshold with a bonus equal to your Independent 
Droid level. 


ADUUDICATING DROIDS 


Adjudicating droids can present unique challenges for the Gamemaster. 
Although they are essentially living machines, droids cannot be treated as 
simply another species or character type. Below are common droid issues 
and information on adjudicating them. 


DAMAGED AND 

DESTROYED DROIDS 

Damaged and destroyed droids are treated similarly to organic heroes when 
it comes to damage and death. However, droids are also machines and can 
be reassembled or have their data accessed by other means, so they have 
additional options not available to organic characters. New approaches to 
damage and destruction are presented below. Information on droid damage 
and repair from the Saga Edition core rulebook is also included here for 
convenience. 

Conditions: A droid is treated the same as an organic character when 
it comes to the condition track and persistent conditions. Unlike organic 
characters, however, a damaged droid might gain a quirk (See “Quirks as 
Persistent Conditions” on page 18). 

Destroying a Droid: If a droid is reduced to 0 hit points by an attack 
that deals damage equal to or greater than its damage threshold, the droid 
is destroyed. However, it can spend a Force Point to become disabled instead 
of destroyed. 

Disabled: When a droid is disabled (the equivalent of being unconscious), 
it moves -5 steps on the condition track, falls prone, and is unable to take any 
actions. It remains inert and inoperative until repaired. A droid that is repaired 
immediately reactivates and can get up to fight again, but it starts prone. 

Repair Droid (requires tool kit): A character with Mechanics as a 
trained skill can spend 1 hour of work and make a DC 20 Mechanics check to 
repair a damaged or disabled droid, restoring hit points equal to the droid's 
character level and removing any persistent conditions currently affecting 
the droid. A droid can attempt to repair itself, but it takes a -5 penalty on 
its skill check. 


Sssousy) Gena 


1 SSsiavHsS 


SEseoXush Gieuqg 


C-3PO IN PIECES 


New Optional Rules 

The following new optional rules can be included, in whole or in part, in 
your game to give droid heroes some of the versatility seen in the Star Wars 
films. As with all optional rules, inclusion of the following rules in the game 
is subject to Gamemaster approval. 

Sacrificial Appendage: When a droid would normally be reduced to 0 hit 
points or moved to the bottom of the condition track, the droid can choose 
instead to have one of its limbs severed. If the droid chooses this option, it 
is instead moved to the -10 step on the condition track, or, in the case of 
being reduced to 0 hit points, it retains 1 hit point. The sacrificed appendage 
should be a limb rather than a tool that the droid can easily do without. The 
appendage can be successfully reattached with a repair check (see Repair 
Droid on page 29). The droid receives hit points from the repair, as usual. 


Destroyed Droids: Taking into account the method of destruction, the 
Gamemaster determines what parts of a droid remain after it is destroyed. 
Blaster fire or an explosion might scatter small and large pieces around the 
area. A droid destroyed by a lightsaber might have slices or holes burned 
through its chassis, or large sections of the droid's appendages might be 
completely severed. The Gamemaster should also determine which of the 
droid's systems, accessories, appendages, or tools are damaged or destroyed. 

Reactivating a Destroyed Droid: At the Gamemaster's discretion, a char- 
acter can attempt to salvage and reactivate a destroyed droid. Reactivating a 
droid requires that its processor, power source, and communication interface 
must be intact. The battery and communication interface can be replaced or 
replicated if needed. A destroyed droid cannot reactivate itself. The character 
attempting the reactivation must make a DC 20 Mechanics check and work 
on the droid for 5 minutes. A character can attempt to reactivate a droid 
as a full-round action, increasing the DC to 30. If the check is successful, 
the droid moves +1 step on the condition track. However, the droid is still 
considered to have 0 hit points and cannot move, attack, or take any action 
other than skill checks for skills based on Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. 

Salvaging a Destroyed Droid: Salvaging a destroyed droid requires a 
tool kit, time, spare parts, and additional Mechanics checks (see Repair Droid 
on page 29). A reactivated droid can assist in its own repairs by using the 
aid another action, although it cannot attempt to repair itself directly. The 
time required to salvage a droid can be affected by the level of destruction 
sustained by the droid. Repairs might take several hours, several days, or 
even several weeks, as determined by the Gamemaster. Destroyed droids 
usually require spare parts costing 50% or more of the droid’s original cost. 


IMPROVISED DROID TASKS 

Heroes might try to take maximum advantage of the unique resources a 
droid offers. A droid's built-in equipment, traits, and unique social status in 
the Star Wars universe cause droids and droid heroes to be called upon to 
carry out tasks well beyond their original programming. 

When considering an unusual request for or by a droid character, consider 
the following: 

Does the droid have a heuristic processor? If not, then the request must 
be governed by the standards of the basic or remote processor, so the task 
must be laid out in specific terms. Unless the request is defined in ways the 
droid understands, the droid cannot act beyond its programmed skills, feats, 
special abilities, and tasks. Even if the tasks are clearly delineated, the droid 
might perform them poorly or inefficiently or become confused if the task 
does not proceed as planned. A droid equipped with a heuristic processor 
is better equipped to handle unusual situations, so it can act on fewer, less 
specific instructions. Additionally, focusing on the advantages of the heuristic 
processor emphasizes the choice of processor in droid creation, rewarding 
those players who select it. 


Is the request already covered by an existing talent, feat, or droid 
special quality? Don't shortchange players who select certain class, droid, 
or droid prestige class talents and feats by allowing other droids to replicate 
those abilities too often. If it seems reasonable that a given droid might be 
capable of an action similar to an existing ability, allow the action to proceed 
with a lesser chance of success and/or a lesser result than could be gained 
with the existing ability. 


THE DROID THAT 

GAINED LEVELS 

In adventuring parties featuring less than five players, adding a Game- 
master-controlled droid to the party can be a great way to balance the 
party without having to adjust your encounter design. Many gaming 
groups can only muster three or four players and a Gamemaster, while 
the game is designed for a typical group of five players and a GM. Filling 
those empty player spots with droids is a nice option, because a droid can 
easily fade into the background during noncombat encounters, whereas 
a living character that does so might seem shallow and one-dimensional. 
If you decide to include a droid ally as a means of filling out the party's 
numbers, you should probably think about the droid just like you would 
any other major Gamemaster character, and plan on it being with the 
party for the duration of the campaign. 

You should choose a droid model that fills an appropriate niche in the 
party. Similarly, you should probably think about the kinds of adventures 
your heroes are going to be going on, and what roles need to be filled. If 
the party lacks a pilot, a pilot droid seems like a good choice. However, 
there are other considerations. Some droids don't do well on adventures 
due to their forms (try getting that wheeled droid up a long set of stairs). 
A good option for creating droids to round out a party of heroes is to 
use the stock droid chassis presented on page 10 and then build the 
droid from the ground up. This not only lets you build exactly the kind 
of droid you need to fill a gap in the party, it unshackles you from the 
usual physical forms of various droids. 

As the heroes gain levels, so should the droid. The levels you choose 
for your droid should likewise continue to help the droid fill in the gaps in 
the party. If the party is short on firepower, the droid should take levels 
with high base attack bonuses and good combat talents. However, you 
also have another option to consider. If you want the droid to grow and 
to develop as an interesting Gamemaster character, consider having the 
droid take levels in the independent droid prestige class (see The Force 
Unleashed Campaign Guide, page 46). This helps represent the fact that 
the droid is becoming more and more unique thanks to its time with a 
party of heroes at the center of great, galaxy-shaking events. 


Is the request likely to be abused by the player in future sessions, 
or likely to become exploited regularly? If not, allow the idea to be used 
at least in this instance. However, if the idea could become an unwelcome 
addition to future sessions, the Gamemaster can avoid denying its use 
outright by allowing the character to spend a Force point or a Destiny point 
(if appropriate) for the action. Another option is for the droid to suffer a 
persistent condition and move -1 or more steps on the condition track at 
the end of the task. 

Should the task be covered by new talent, feat, or special quality? 
Some tasks generated by players are more appropriately covered by creat- 
ing a new droid-degree talent, feat, or special quality. If the player creates 
a wholly customized or new droid model, a special quality can be added at 
the Gamemaster's discretion (see the special qualities included for the droids 
in this book for examples). If the droid is an existing stock model, create a 
talent or a feat instead. If the ability seems like something a droid ought to 
be able to learn, create a feat. If the ability seems focused on a trademark 
task of a particular model or degree of droid, create a talent specific to that 
degree of droid (see page 26). 

Adjudicating simple and complex tasks. If the Gamemaster decides to 
proceed with the request, he or she should decide what actions, attacks, and 
skill checks are required for success. Simple tasks are typically covered by one 
skill check, but unique circumstances might require more time and/or multiple 
checks. Complex tasks should take multiple rounds with multiple checks. 

Plan for failure. A droid that performs a task outside its realm of expertise 
can make for potentially amusing or unexpected situations if it fails. The droid 
might become confused, carry out the next operation without completing the 
first task, return unexpectedly, call on the owner for clarified instructions, or 
give up and report the failure. In the middle of a battle or a critical mission, 
this failure can cause confusion or threaten a mission's success, forcing the 
heroes to act quickly to resolve the situation. Gamemasters should take 
advantage of this potentially dramatic or amusing situation. 


n 
I 
d 

i] 
ov 
2 


SseoXusH aovgd 


CHAPTER Il . 


DROID ALLIES | 


7. Droids occupy a unique place in Star Wars. They are machines that feel, 
automatons that think, robots that know. They fight wars, heal the sick, and 
track down Rebel scum. A droids develops a personality, friendships, and 
rivalries, just as an organic being does over the course of a lifetime. Droids 
might squabble among themselves, but they will also offer any parts neces- 
sary to help repair a friend fallen in battle. Organic beings often treat their 
droids less like property and more like companions. Droids are a remarkable 
part of life, even if they are not truly alive. 

Droids have a significant effect on history. Were it not for a pesky R2 unit, 
the Rebel Alliance would have never become the New Republic. The legions 
of battle droids are worthy foes of the Old Republic. A droid's recording of a 
Jedi meditation leads Zayne Carrick to fight his former masters. Droids are 
important pieces to the puzzle of what the galaxy has become. Some droid 
designations are well known as heroes or villains: C-3P0, HK-47, IG-88. 

Yet, some beings in the Star Wars universe consider droids to be nothing 

_more than tools—just hydrospanners with legs. Droids are sent into battle 

to be destroyed. They are unmourned if they do not return from unexplored 

ions of space. Indeed, some beings resent droids for their efficiency and 
ause of the perception that they take jobs from organic beings who need 
eed their families. Droids are refused service in some businesses, and they 
are denied basic rights on some planets. In spite of, or perhaps because of, all 
their amazing achievements, droids can bring out the worst in other beings. 

Galactic conflicts, such as the Clone Wars, in which droids are programmed 

to kill and destroy are not forgotten by the beings whose homes and planets 

are overrun by mechanical menaces. 

This chapter explores the role of droids in the Star Wars universe, including 
their struggle for rights, their religious beliefs, and even a few old spacers’ 
tales thrown in for good measure. It looks at droids as equipment, as well as 
at some of the unique roleplaying opportunities available to droid characters. 
Players who would like to give extra spark to their droid heroes can find 
plenty of interesting options. Gamemasters looking to add flavorful droid 
characters to their stories can find useful hints, tips, hooks, and aids here. 


0) 
I 
> 
v 
4 
0 
Bi} 


samy aougd 


W 


SAIIIY GHeuvueg | ns 


ALTERNATIVE 
PRICING SYSTEM 


Market forces drive the pricing of droids. Droid dealers haggle and bargain 
with prospective owners. Bargain hunters travel across the galaxy for the 
right droid at the right price. Knowing what a droid is worth can be difficult. 
A droid fresh from the factory is significantly different from one that has 
been roaming for hundreds of years. Age and experience are valued by savvy 
droid owners. Rebuilding a droid that has learned how to do its job is much 
easier than teaching a new droid. 

This system bases droid prices on the droid's capabilities and experiences. 
It allows Gamemasters to customize droids for their group and to offer droids 
that fill the heroes’ needs. If the heroes need a protocol droid and also need 
a droid that has slicing skills, the Gamemaster can customize a single droid 
to fit both needs and find the appropriate price for it. 


Step 1: Start with the basic chassis cost of 1,000 credits x the degree of 
the droid. 

Step 2: Calculate the droid's factory cost using the rules in the Saga Edition 
core rulebook. Be sure to figure in the droid's cost factor, its size, and the 
price of any accessories attached to the droid. 

Step 3: Add the cost of any accessories from other supplements, including 
this one. 

Step 4: Add together the droid's attribute modifiers. Multiply the sum by 
1,000 credits. 

Step 5: Multiply the number of talents the droid possesses by 2,000 
credits. 

Step 6: Multiply the number of the droid's trained skills by 500 credits. 
Step 7: Multiply the number of the droid's feats by 1,000 credits. 

Step 8: Multiply the droid's CL by 1,000 credits. 

Step 9: To find the final cost of the droid, add the results of steps 1 through 
8, and divide the sum by 2. 


The costs for Saga Edition droids have been recalculated and are indicated 
below under "Droids as Equipment." The costs for the droids in this book were 
calculated using the rules above. 


WHICH PRICE IS RIGHT? 

The prices indicated here differ from those in the Saga Edition core 
rulebook. The system here takes into account functionality, skills, and 
equipment. Some Gamemasters might prefer to assign prices based on 
market value, common sense, or narrative necessity. Other Gamemasters 
are unconcerned with tracking finances and might simply judge whether 
a droid can be purchased. The final choice belongs to the person behind 
the screen. 


MEDICAL DROIDS SURGICALLY RECONSTRUCT 
DARTH VADER ON CORUSCANT 


Example: The heroes in Brent's game want to buy a medical droid after a few 
close scrapes and challenging encounters. The campaign is set during the Dark 
Times, so Brent allows them to purchase an FX-6 medical droid. He calculates 
the droid's costs based on its statistics: 


Step 1: Start with the basic chassis cost. For a first-degree droid, the cost is 
1,000 credits. 

Step 2: Calculate the droid's factory cost using the rules in the Saga Edition 
core rulebook. Be sure to figure in the droid's cost factor, its size, and the price 
of accessories attached to the droid. This cost is 3,800 credits. 

Step 3: Add the cost of any accessories from other supplements, including 
this one. Brent elects not to add any droid equipment. 

Step 4: Add together the droid's attribute modifiers. The droid's five modifiers 
are -1, +0, +2, +2, -1. The sum is 2, which, multiplied by 1,000 credits, adds 
2,000 credits to the total. 

Step 5: Multiply the number of talents the droid possesses by 2,000 credits. 
Brent gives the droid 3 levels of scout to keep it near the level of his players 
and to give it access to talents. Brent gives the droid two droid talents and 
adds 4,000 credits. 

Step 6: Multiply the number of the droid's trained skills by 500 credits. The 3 
skills this droid possesses add 1,500 credits to the cost. 

Step 7: Multiply the number of the droid's feats by 1,000 credits. Each FX-6 
comes with 4 feats, and the 3 feats earned through the 3 levels of scout give the 
droid a total of 7 feats, adding 7,000 credits to the droid's total. 

Step 8: Multiply the droid's CL by 1,000 credits. This droid's CL adds 3,000 
credits to the droid’s cost. 

Step 9: Brent divides the total of 22,300 credits by 2, so the total cost of the 
experienced medical droid is 11,150 credits. 


DROIDS AS 
EQUIPMENT 


Few droids are as special as R2-D2. Countless droids in the background of the 
Star Wars universe do their duty quietly and efficiently, allowing the heroes 
to have the spotlight. Droids can be useful, but having one as a full-fledged 
Gamemaster character can be distracting and time-consuming, both for 
players and for the Gamemaster. A hero who owns a starfighter likely wants 
an astromech droid to make the calculations for hyperspace, but the hero 
probably wants the droid to stay with the ship during adventures. The Game- 
master has enough to worry about without playing a precocious astromech 
droid, so the droid is left out of the picture. But if the Gamemaster wants to 
run a scene in which the pilot rushes back to the hangar bay while pirates 
attempt to sabotage all the ships in the landing bay, that droid becomes a 
significant part of the hero's attempt to stop the pirates. Additionally, con- 
sider the soldier hero who leads an entire squad of battle droids into combat. 
The addition of so many Gamemaster-character droids can cause problems 
with encounter balance and slow down the action at the game table while 
the actions of all those droids are resolved. 

Ultimately, most droids are better envisioned as equipment rather than 
as companions or allies. They are machines built to do a job. A personality 
might develop as a result of infrequent memory wipes, but the droid is still 


DROIDS ARE OFTEN SEEN AS NOTHING MORE THAN TOOLS 


hard-wired to do one particular task very well. This section explains how 
droids can be treated as equipment rather than as Gamemaster characters, 
allowing Gamemasters to put control of those droids into the hands of the 
heroes who own them. 

These rules are not meant to replace the droid rules in the Saga Edition 
core rulebook. They are optional and meant to be used in situations where 
a droid is needed for utility and not as a significant Gamemaster character. 
Additionally, Gamemasters should use these rules when the heroes own a 
droid that does not need to be a major part of the story. These rules allow 
players to purchase droids to help them during their adventures without 
the Gamemaster worrying about players entering the fray with legions of 
droids at their disposal. 

Under these rules, droids are stripped down to their bare essentials, both in 
stats and in function. These functions are called protocols. A droid is able to 
perform protocol actions only when told to do so by its master or its master's 
allies. Protocol actions are swift actions, but more complex ones require more 
than one swift action. These swift actions represent the hero giving orders to 
the droid and the time required for the droid to complete the action. Under 
these rules, each droid has a number of protocols that it can complete on 
behalf of its master. Typically, these protocols are used during combat. 


USING THE PROTOCOL FORMAT 

Droids are normally unable to take protocol actions on their own. These 
actions come from a droid's master and his or her allies. The droid's owner, 
as well as anyone designated by that owner, can activate protocol actions 
for a droid by spending, in the same turn, the number of swift actions listed 
in the protocol-format statistics block. However, you can spend swift actions 
to activate a droid's protocol actions only if no one has activated protocol 
actions for the droid since the end of your last turn. A droid carries out the 


How DOES THE 

PROTOCOL SYSTEM WORK? 

At first glance, players and Gamemasters might have difficulty under- 
standing why these rules are in place or how they should be used. As an 
example, let's say that you have a Twi'lek scoundrel hero named Reagle, 
specializing in slicing. Reagle wants to buy an astromech droid to help 
him slice into secure starships, but the Gamemaster does not want to 
develop a full personality and role in the story for the droid. Rather 
than adding a new astromech Gamemaster character to the game, the 
Gamemaster allows the player to control the droid, using these rules. 
He gives the player the protocol-format statistics block for the droid, 
and allows the player to spend swift actions to control the droid during 
encounters. The Gamemaster still keeps the full-length statistics block 
handy in case, for example, an enemy decides to shoot the droid, but the 
astromech is placed under Reagle's direct control. 


Seiwqiy GIE8Ge) 


Y) 
oD 
g 
0 
D 
r 
it 
iy 
0 


protocol action immediately, as soon as the character spends the swift action 
or actions to activate the protocol action. Some actions can be performed 
only once per turn, as indicated in the protocol-format statistics block. 

The Gamemaster gives the droid's protocol-format statistics block to the 
player, who then treats the droid, effectively, as a source of extra actions. The 
Gamemaster should keep the droid's full statistics block for occasions when 
information not found in the protocol-format statistics block is needed. Other 
than execution of actions, the droid follows all droid rules and is subject to 
the same restrictions and benefits as those that normal droids have. 


ADAPTING DROIDS TO THE 
PROTOCOL FORMAT 

When using the protocol format, remember that the goal of these rules is to 
pare down the droid to its essentials. If the droid were only a tool or a piece 
of equipment, what would it do? 

Droids can move. Spend a swift action to command a droid to move. 

Droids can aid another. Spend a swift action for a droid to provide a +2 
bonus, assisting a character on an attack or a skill check. 

Droids can make skill checks of their own. Spend a swift action for a 
droid to make a skill check. If the check is considered a full-round action, 
this process costs two swift actions. 

Droids can attack. Spend two swift actions for a droid to make an attack. 
For a full attack action, four swift actions must be spent. 

Every action that a droid is able to perform might not be listed in the 
protocol-format statistics block. Indicate the actions a droid is most likely 
to be called on to perform. An action that the droid will be expected to do 
every session or encounter should be included. A droid should have no more 
than five protocols. An owner who wants a droid with more functionality 
and flexibility should use the regular droid rules and ask the Gamemaster to 
run the droid as a Gamemaster character. 

When converting actions, remember that protocol actions are swift 
actions. An action can require more than one swift action, as indicated on 
Table 2-1 below. This conversion allows some actions to be performed more 


THRESHOLD DAMAGE ONLY 


The protocol rules are meant as a replacement for the regular droid rules, 
limiting the droid's game options in order to speed play. Gamemasters 
looking to further streamline the droid experience should consider the 
following optional damage rule. 

When using the protocol rules, track only the droid's condition 
modifier. If an attack successfully hits the droid, it moves -1 step 
on the condition track. If the damage total for the attack meets or 
exceeds the droid's damage threshold, the droid a a moves 
-5 steps on the condition track. . 


times per turn than the droid would be able to do on its own. For example, 
a droid might normally be able to take only two move actions on its turn; 
however, an owner using protocol actions can spend three swift actions 
to order the droid to move three times. This compromise accounts for the 
droid taking up some of the owner's actions rather than having its own 
suite of actions. 


TABLE 2-1: DROID ACTIONS 
DROID ACTION COST PLAYER ACTION COST 


Free 1 free action 
Swift 1 swift action 
Swift x2 1 swift action 
Swift x3 2 swift actions (once per turn) 
Move 1 swift action (twice per turn) 
Standard 1 swift action (once per turn) 


Full-round action 2 swift actions (once per turn) 


Any action requiring more time than a full-round action is not suitable as 
a protocol action. Droids should be allowed to perform actions listed under 
the descriptions of skills they are trained in. If a hero wants his or her droid 
to perform an action outside the scope of its trained skills and protocols, 
the Gamemaster must determine if the droid could reasonably perform the 
action and, if so, the action cost of that action. 


An Example of Protocol Conversion 

Wren, a player in a campaign run by Brent, is playing an outlaw tech. After a 
combat encounter leaves her nearly dead, she tells Brent that she wants to 
invest in a droid bodyguard for her character. The game has several players, 
and Brent does not want to divide the spotlight any further. He decides to use 
the protocol rules to give Wren more options in combat without having to 
worry about another Gamemaster character. 

Wren wants her bodyguard to be an HK-24 droid that her character repaired 
and restored from a junkyard planet. An HK droid might seem a bit much for 
some Gamemasters, but Brent has some action-packed ideas about the droid's 
previous owners and how those owners might make life interesting for his 
heroes. It is a win-win situation: Wren gets more options in a fight, and Brent 
gets some story options for exciting encounters. 

Brent agrees and pores over the stats of the HK droid inThe Knights of the 
Old Republic Campaign Guide. He notes the hit points and damage threshold of 
the droid. The droid movement is easy to convert. Because the droid is meant to 
aid Wren's character in combat, Brent devotes a ranged attack action and an 
aid attack action to the droid. He also gives the droid an attack option since it 
possesses the Rapid Shot feat. The droid is trained in Initiative and Persuasion. 


The presence of an assassin droid can lend extra weight to a hero's Persuasion 
attempt, so he gives the droid an aid another action. The droid has a translator 
unit, so Brent gives the droid the ability to translate as a free action. 

Protocol stats for the HK-24 follow. 


HK-24-Series Assassin Droid (30,700 cr) 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 43 

Threshold 19 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The HK-24-Series assassin droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Intimidating Presence (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The HK-24-Series assassin droid assists a character's Persuasion check, 
providing a +2 bonus to the check. 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The HK-24-Series assassin droid makes a ranged attack at +11. 
If successful, the attack deals 4d8+4 points of damage. 

Support Fire (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The HK-24-Series assassin droid makes a ranged attack at +13. 
If successful, the attack deals 3d8+4 points of damage. 

Tactical Assistance (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The HK-24-Series assassin droid assists a character's ranged attack, 
providing a +2 bonus to the check. 

Translator (1 free action) 

The HK-24-Series assassin droid translates to or from any language 
it knows. 

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +8, Persuasion + 11 

Vital Systems blaster rifle, translator unit (DC 5) 


To get you started, here are the droids from the Saga Edition core rulebook 
in this alternative format. All droids in this book have similar protocol-format 
statistics blocks in the Droid Codex. 


2-1B Medical Droid (7,150 cr) 
Medium droid (1st-degree) 
hp 5 


Threshold 9 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The 2-1B medical droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Diagnosis (1 free action) 

The 2-1B medical droid makes a Knowledge (life sciences) check to 
determine a source of disease or injury and communicates this 
diagnosis to its owner. 


First Aid (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The 2-1B medical droid makes a DC 15 Treat Injury check on a target in 
an adjacent square. If the check is successful, the target regains a 
number of hit points equal to its character level +1 for every point by 
which the check was successful. A character can be treated with first 
aid in this manner only once per day. 

Medical Assistance (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The 2-1B medical droid assists a character's Treat Injury check, providing 
a +2 bonus to the check. 

Revivify (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The 2-1B medical droid makes a DC 20 Treat Injury check on a target 
currently at O hit points in an adjacent square. If the check is 
successful, the target is unconscious instead of dead. 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +13, Perception +5, Treat Injury +13, 
Use Computer +8 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, vocabulator 


R2-Series Astromech Droid (7,500 cr) 

Small droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 7 

Threshold 8 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The R2-Series astromech droid moves 6 squares (wheeled), 4 squares 
(walking), or 9 squares (flying). 

Copilot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The R2-Series astromech droid aids a character's Pilot check, providing a 
+2 bonus to the check. 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The R2-Series astromech droid makes a Use Computer check against a 
target computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's attitude 
toward it. 

Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The R2-Series astromech droid issues a routine command to a computer 
that has a friendly attitude toward it. 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The R2-Series astromech droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the 
check is successful, the starship regains 5 points of shields, up to its 
normal maximum. 

Regulate Power (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The R2-Series astromech droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the 
check is successful, the ship moves +1 step on the condition track. 

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +3, Pilot +8, Stealth +6, Use Computer +13 

Vital Systems 6 tool appendages, 1 claw appendage, magnetic feet, 
astrogation buffer, internal storage (2 kg) 


Seiwwy ~GexXq 


| SStiavHo 


Saiwy GiceGHqg 


AN UNFINISHED C-3P0O 


3P0-Series Protocol Droid (7,000 cr) 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) 

hp 2 

Threshold 9 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The 3PO0-Series protocol droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Databank (1 swift action) 

The 3PO-Series protocol droid attempts a Knowledge check involving 
bureaucracy, galactic lore, or social sciences. If the check is successful, 
the droid can communicate the information to its master. 

Diplomacy Assistance (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The 3P0-Series protocol droid aids a character's Persuasion check, 
providing a +2 bonus to the roll. 

Impeccable Manners (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The 3PO-Series protocol droid makes a Persuasion check against the 
target's Will Defense, modified by the target's attitude toward the 
droid as follows: hostile -10, unfriendly —5, indifferent -2, friendly +0. 
If the check succeeds, the target's attitude toward the droid improves 
by one step. This action can be attempted on a target only once per 
encounter. 

Translator (1 free action) 

The 3P0-Series protocol droid can translate to and from any language 
it knows. 


Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Knowledge (galactic lore) +6, 
Knowledge (social sciences) +6, Perception +1, Persuasion +12 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, translator unit (DC 5), vocabulator, 
audio recorder 


B1-Series Battle Droid (5,650 cr) 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 10 

Threshold 11 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The B1-Series battle droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The B1-Series battle droid makes a Perception check at the start of a 
battle. If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The B1-Series battle droid makes a Perception check against the 
target's Stealth check. If the check is successful, the battle droid 
detects the target. 

Support Fire (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The B1-Series battle droid makes a ranged attack at +1. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d8 points of damage. 

Tactical Assistance (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The B1-Series battle droid assists a character's ranged attack, providing 
a +2 bonus to the roll. 

Skills Perception +6 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, internal comlink, vocabulator, 
blaster carbine 


B2-Series Super Battle Droid (8,400 cr) 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 21 

Threshold 12 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The B2-Series super battle droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The B2-Series super battle droid makes a Perception check at the start of 
a battle. If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The B2-Series super battle droid makes a Perception check against 
the target's Stealth check. If the check is successful, the super battle 
droid detects the target. 

Rapid Shot (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The B2-Series super battle droid makes a ranged attack at +2. 
If successful, the attack deals 4d8 points of damage. 


Support Fire (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The B2-Series super battle droid makes a ranged attack at +4. 
If successful, the attack deals 3d8 points of damage. 

Tactical Assistance (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The B2-Series super battle droid assists a character's ranged attack, 
providing a +2 bonus to the roll. 


Dwarf Spider Droid (15,000 cr) 
Large droid (4th-degree) 

hp 32 

Threshold 26 


Skills Perception +8 
Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, wrist blasters (as blaster rifles), 
synchronized fire circuits, internal comlink, vocabulator 


Droideka-Series Destroyer Droid (21,000 cr) 
Large droid (4th-degree) 

hp 40 

Threshold 18 (SR 20) 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The Droideka-Series destroyer droid moves 2 squares (walking). If the 
droid takes two swift actions to move in the same turn, it changes 
into wheeled mode and can move 10 squares. 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The Droideka-Series destroyer droid makes a Perception check at the start 


of a battle. If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 


Blaster Barrage (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The Droideka-Series destroyer droid makes two ranged attacks at +5. 
If successful, each attack deals 5d8 points of damage. 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Droideka-Series destroyer droid makes a ranged attack at +10. 
If successful, the attack deals 4d8 points of damage. 

Tactical Assistance (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Droideka-Series destroyer droid assists a character's ranged attack, 
providing a +2 bonus to the roll. 

Twin Blaster Burst (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Droideka-Series destroyer droid makes a ranged attack at +12. 
If successful, the attack deals 3d8 points of damage. 


Skills Perception +13, Stealth +3 
Vital Systems 2 tool appendages with laser cannons (treat as blaster 
rifles), shield generator (SR 20), internal comlink 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The dwarf spider droid moves 8 squares (walking). 

Blaster Cannon Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The dwarf spider droid makes a ranged attack at +5. If successful, 
the attack deals 6d8 points of damage. 

Crush (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The dwarf spider droid makes a melee attack at +8. If successful, 
the attack deals 1d6+10 points of damage. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The dwarf spider droid makes a Perception check against the target's 
Stealth check. If the check is successful, the dwarf spider droid 
detects the target. 

Stability (1 free action) 

The dwarf spider droid receives a +5 bonus to avoid being knocked prone. 


Skills Climb +6 (can reroll, can take 10 when threatened), Perception +12, 
Stealth -6 

Vital Systems 1 tool appendage with blaster cannon, climbing claws, 
extra legs, magnetic feet 


Crab Scout Droid (22,750 cr) 
Large droid (4th-degree) 
hp 80 
Threshold 42 
Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The crab scout droid moves 6 squares (walking), or climbs 3 squares. 
Crush (1 swift action, 1/turn) 
The crab scout droid makes a melee attack at +16. If successful, 
the attack deals 1d6+15 points of damage. 
Powerful Charge (1 swift action, 1/turn) 
The crab scout droid makes a charge attack at +20. If successful, 
the attack deals 1d6+21 points of damage. 
Stability (1 free action) 
The crab scout droid receives a +5 bonus to avoid being knocked prone. 
Twin Blaster Burst (1 swift action, 1/turn) 
The crab scout droid makes a ranged attack at +8. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d10 points of damage. 


Skills Climb +8 (can reroll, can take 10 when threatened), Perception +13, 
Stealth -6 

Vital Systems 2 claw appendages, twin blaster (treat as heavy blaster 
rifle), climbing claws, extra legs 


Ssiwwy GielG | | li HSieeHS 5 


SHI vW? GIEeVEa@ 


IG-100-Series Bodyguard Droid (27,250 cr) 
Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 53 

Threshold 17 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The IG-100-Series bodyguard droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The IG-100-Series bodyguard droid makes a Perception check at the start 


of a battle. If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 


Electrostaff Spinning Attack (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The IG-100-Series bodyguard droid makes two melee attacks at +3. 
If successful, each attack deals 2d8+6 points of damage. 

Electrostaff Thrust (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The IG-100-Series bodyguard droid makes a melee attack at +8. 
If successful, the attack deals 2d8+6 points of damage. 

Protect and Serve (1 free action) 

The IG-100-Series bodyguard droid spends one of its owner's Force points 
to assist an adjacent character. The assisted character can use the 
Force point as if he or she had spent it. 


Skills Climb +9, Endurance +8, Initiative +9, Jump +9, Perception +12 
Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, telescopic appendage (1 hand), 
electrostaff, magnetic feet 


Viper-Series Probe Droid (20,250 cr) 

Large droid (4th-degree) 

hp 34 

Threshold 19 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The Viper-Series probe droid moves 6 squares (hovering). 

Pacify Hostile (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Viper-Series probe droid makes a ranged attack at +1. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d6 points of damage. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Viper-Series probe droid makes a Perception check against the 
target's Stealth check. If the check is successful, the droid detects 
the target. 

Scan (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The Viper-Series probe droid selects an adjacent square and makes a 
DC 15 Perception check. If the droid’s check is successful, the droid 
discovers any clues, secret doors, hidden compartments, irregularities, 
traps, or anything else out of the ordinary in the area. The droid can 
communicate its discoveries as a free action. 

Self-Destruct (1 free action) 

The Viper-Series probe droid activates its self-destruct mechanism. The 
droid makes a 2-square burst area attack at +5. If successful, the 


attack deals 4d6 points of damage. The droid is immediately destroyed. 


Track (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The Viper-Series probe droid makes a Survival check to discover any 
tracks left in an area. 

Skills Endurance +5, Initiative +6, Perception +9, Stealth +1, Survival +7, 
Use Computer +6 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, 2 claw appendages, 2 tool 
appendages, self-destruct system, integrated comlink, video recording 
unit, blaster (treat as blaster pistol) 


ASP Labor Droid (4,000 cr) 

Medium droid (5th-degree) 

hp 5 

Threshold 13 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The ASP labor droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Claw (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The ASP labor droid makes a melee attack at +4. If successful, the attack 
deals 1d4+3 points of damage. 

Long-Distance Haul (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The ASP labor droid can move up to 24 squares in a single turn. 

Mechanical Assistance (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The ASP labor droid assists a character's Mechanics check, providing a 
+2 bonus to the roll. 

Skills Endurance +11, Mechanics +4, Perception +1 

Vital Systems 2 claw appendages 


CREATING 
MEMORABLE DROIDS 


This book is an excellent resource for helping Gamemasters and players build 
unique droids and expand their vision of the Star Wars universe. Making 
memorable characters does not stop with the mechanics. The intangible ele- 
ments make droids memorable. C-3P0's unshakable manners are as important 
an element of his character as his ability as a translator. Personality goes a 
long way toward making characters memorable. The suggestions below are 
ways to spice up your character ideas. Season your droids as you see fit, but 
you do not have to use everything in the same dish. 

Give them a voice. Droids have unique voices. Give your droid characters 
access to altered voices and they will stick in the minds of your group longer. 
Adding a mechanical twist to your voice immediately indicates that you 
are speaking in character. You can download free text-to-speech programs 
that convert whatever you type into a mechanical voice. Smaller electronic 
devices, such as cell phones, sometimes have a similar function. Even simply 
holding an empty cup near your mouth while your character speaks can give 
your droid character a unique sound. 


CAD BANE, ACCOMPANIED BY A DROID COMMANDO AND AN 
IG-SERIES ASSASSIN DROID 


Use your whole body. If you are willing to ham it up a bit, don't limit 
your portrayal to your voice. Adjusting posture or giving the droid a few 
signature gestures is another great way to let everyone know that you are 
in character. Props help as well. Perhaps your battle droid idly twirls its 
blaster pistol in between battles. Or maybe your maintenance droid is never 
without its tool kit. 

Mess with syntax. A droid that speaks normal Basic is a rare find indeed. 
Consider HK-47's tendency to start each sentence by identifying the type 
of sentence it is. Giving a droid a distinct speech pattern is a great way 
to make the droid stand out. Perhaps the droid's vocalization software is 
malfunctioning, so it has difficulty saying certain words. The droid might 
always use an organic being's full name or a droid’s full designation when 
addressing somebody. Or it might mix in words and slang from a previous 
owner's language because its most recent memory wipe did not take as well 
as it should have. 

Play against type. When a type of droid is mentioned, players might 
have certain preconceptions. Protocol droids are polite; battle droids are 
laconic, and so on. A droid that violates these expectations is an excellent 
way to shake up the situation. That protocol droid might be the life of the 
party, mixing drinks and telling jokes. Or the battle droid enjoys talking trash 
and verbally intimidating enemies in the heat of battle. Breaking away from 
expectations is a great way to explore a droid's character and motivations. 


Add an element of comic relief. Droid characters might have a streak 
of humor. The slapstick antics of battle droids and the black humor of 
HK-47 stem from the same source: While droids mimic the behaviors and 
feelings of organic beings, they don't truly understand the reasons behind 
the behaviors. Pick an element of organic beings’ behavior that your droid 
does not understand. Trying to solve this mystery can be a great source of 
roleplaying humor. 

Don't be afraid of flaws. Nobody is perfect, even in the Star Wars galaxy. 
Sometimes the best stories are those in which a character gets out of hot 
water. Flaws can strengthen a character's connection to other players, and 
flaws can be good for comic relief. If the droid is not good at lying, you might 
be able to build a great scene around the droid's attempts to convince the 
con-artist scoundrel character to lie for it. 

Play well with others. The lone wolf anti-social assassin droid might 
sound like a cool character idea at first, but you must remember that you 
are playing this game with other people. A character who works well with 
other heroes makes the game easier for players and for the Gamemaster. 
That assassin droid probably isn't a good fit for a game in which the other 
heroes are all Padawans, but a game focusing on a bounty hunters’ guild 
might work. When everyone sits down to create characters, discuss how your 
characters come to know each other. Another player's character might be a 
perfect fit for a relationship with your droid. 

Flesh out your history. Knowing where a character comes from helps 
you understand where that character is going. Interesting characters from 
the droid's past can be great material for the Gamemaster. Previous owners, 
droid rivals, and other beings from your droid's past connect you to the 
game and to the other heroes. For example, your droid might have been the 
property of a minor crime lord, while another hero owes money to a crime 
lord. Rather than having two crime lords chase after your group of heroes, 
simply make them one and the same. 

Give the character a goal. Even droids have dreams. Giving your character 
a goal can help you focus on important story elements and also give you a 
sense of what classes your character should take in later levels. The goal could 
be short term, such as "Escape my cruel master,” or it could be long term, such 
as “Establish a droids-only colony somewhere in the Outer Rim." Even Game- 
master characters can benefit from goals. You might have an assassin droid 
target the heroes simply because you need a villain, but if the droid needs the 
bounty to avoid deactivation by its guild, you open up more story possibilities 
and potential noncombat avenues for approaching an encounter. 

Have an ending in mind. All good things must end, and your Star Wars 
campaign is no different. Planning for how your droid will leave the game 
can add depth to the character. It can also be useful if you must leave the 
game for real-life reasons, such as moving away. If you know how you want 
your droid to end its story, the Gamemaster can use that story as a grand 
send-off for your character. Or if the Gamemaster is bringing the saga to a 
close, he or she can fold your idea into the epic conclusion. 


Saiwwy GeXGd 


0) 
0 
e 
0 
> 
is 
ic 
fm 
@ 


DROID ALLIES 


As a Gamemaster, you will inevitably discover that some aspects of your 
story don't interest your players as much as others. Instead of relegating 
them to the background, you can use a droid to give these elements life. 
For example, a group of players might want their characters to travel from 
planet to planet pursuing adventures, but none of them wants to play a pilot 
character. Adding a droid pilot gives your players a face to associate with 
their travel, but the droid handles all the flying off-screen. Many such jobs 
need to be done, but your players don't have to do them all. 

Droids can also keep the story moving. They can notice missed clues, 
suggest alternative ways around trouble spots, and subtly steer heroes back 
toward the plot. Even the best players can become sidetracked by red her- 
rings, so use droid allies carefully. Don't lead the heroes by the nose, but use 
the droid to deliver information necessary to make it to the next encounter. 
Star Wars adventures move fast, and having a tool to help maintain that pace 
can keep sessions from getting mired down in excessive planning. 

Droids might be considered property, but having a droid ally should be a 
two-way relationship. If the droid needs help, the heroes should be ready to 
jump to the rescue. When an enemy wants the inside track on the heroes, 
striking at them through their droid can be a dramatic way to make the 
situation personal. The heroes probably rarely wipe their droid's memory, so 
having that droid turn up in the hands of an enemy can make life challenging. 
The enemy has access to the heroes' weaknesses through the droid, as well 
as a valuable hostage to use against the heroes. 


AHSOKA HEAPS PRAISE ON HER ASTROMECH ALLY 


Such a threat does not have to be so direct. Droids pass from owner to 
owner, and an old owner might come back into the droid’s life. A previous 
owner might be as obviously exciting as a crime lord or a Sith apprentice, 
but a more personal story could be told as well. What if the droid is the last 
possession of a soldier killed in the Mandalorian Wars, and the soldier's 
father offers the heroes an extravagant sum to part with their droid? Will 
the heroes give up their trusted sidekick to pay off their debts? Or will they 
deny a father's opportunity to remember a lost son or daughter? 

Heroes can also use a droid's lowly station to their advantage. An astro- 
mech droid does not get a second glance as it rolls through a starport, but 
it can listen for any rumors and leads the heroes might need. Most beings 
ignore droids unless they are malfunctioning, and a droid can slip in and out 
of an area that organic beings are restricted from entering. Even droids that 
normally do not belong in an area can be overlooked. Guards that have been 
told to look for a group matching the heroes’ description might not notice a 
labor droid hauling a cargo container to the docking bay. 


DROID ENENMIES 


The traits that make droids excellent allies can also make them challenging 
adversaries. For the Gamemaster, creating a memorable enemy can be more 
complex than simply selecting the right CL. A dynamic encounter is a great 
way to introduce a good villain, and giving the heroes good foes makes them 
rise to the challenge. Players are proud to defeat a foe that has gotten under 
their skin, and droids offer unique possibilities in this regard. 

Droids do not have the same physical limitations that organic beings do. 
They are unfazed by fire. They are unaffected by the loss of life support. 
Droids can push the heroes in ways other enemies cannot. Consider a group 
of heroes making a fast escape out of a suddenly unfriendly docking bay. They 
outrun their pursuers and find themselves in the safety of hyperspace—except 
for an assassin droid clinging to the hull of the ship and planning to break in 
when the heroes least expect it. While fighting the droid, the heroes must 
be careful not to damage the vital systems of the ship. However, the droid 
can attack the heroes without such restraint, sure to survive even if it blows 
out all the airlocks or destroys the hyperdrive motivator. 

A droid villain has other mechanical advantages. An enemy in pursuit must 
usually rest. Even the most relentless organic hunter must stop to sleep and 
eat. But a droid in pursuit of the heroes is not affected by these factors. A 
droid chasing heroes through a hostile environment such as the Great Dune 
Sea has a distinct advantage: Because the droid has no Constitution score, it 
does not have to make Endurance and Survival rolls, but the heroes do. Such 
an implacable opponent pushes both players and characters to their limits. 


Mass production is another advantage of a droid enemy. A villain can 
manufacture forces in a production facility rather than spending years train- 
ing organic military forces. Even if the facility is discovered and destroyed, 
the designs for the droids exist somewhere. Not only can they be rebuilt, 
they droids can be improved upon to match the heroes as they rise in level. 

Finally, physical destruction does not guarantee that a droid is defeated. 
Memories can be uploaded to replacement models. The droid can learn what 
went wrong in its last clash with the heroes, and improve its effectiveness 
in combat each time it encounters them. A droid's personality might even 
be uploaded into a different model of droid to seek vengeance. The battle 
droid bounty hunter might now be in the body of a labor droid, preparing an 
attack with a heavy cargo container. 

Droids also make excellent henchmen. Perhaps an assassin droid has been 
sent after the heroes, filling the encounter with blaster fire and heart-racing 
combat. Labor droids can be muscle for a crime lord in control of a starport. A 
protocol droid can foul up sensitive negotiations by mistranslating to benefit 
a mysterious third party. Even an astromech droid can calculate the wrong 
hyperspace coordinates and deliver the heroes directly into an ambush. Once 
the players overcome the obstacle a henchman droid has set up, the heroes 
can follow the leads to the main villain. 

Even droids that the heroes trust can be used as antagonists. They can be 
stolen, reprogrammed, and put back in service without the heroes knowing. 
A pilot droid might unknowingly record the location of the heroes’ hideout 
and transmit it to an enemy. A new droid of the same type might be switched 
for one of the heroes’ trusted allies. The enemies can hold the original droid 
for ransom when the heroes discover the switch. The heroes must rescue 
the droid before it gives up their secret plans. 


ADVENTURE HOoOOK— 
MECHANIZED REVENGE 
The heroes have defeated a hated villain. They have gone out of their 
way to ensure the villain will no longer bother them. However, sometime 
after this ultimate defeat, signs indicate that the villain is still alive. The 
villain leaves cryptic audio messages for the heroes. It sets the heroes’ 
allies on edge, perhaps kidnapping an innocent victim. When the players 
track their former foe back to his lair, they discover that the foe truly is 
dead, but a droid is attempting to take his place. The droid is still loyal 
to its master, and it strikes out at those who have taken its master away 
_ from it. Having watched as its master challenged the heroes in the past, 
the droid has learned from his mistakes. It knows every trick the heroes 
have up their sleeves, and it develops contingency plans. Will the droid 
be defeated? Or has it lured the heroes into its lair for a battle in which 
the droid will take its final revenge? 


ANTI-DROID OPINION 


Droids are a strange mirror for the species of the known worlds. Everyone 
has an opinion about droids and their role in the galaxy, and many of those 
opinions are unenlightened. Not everyone acts upon these dark feelings, apart 
from some grousing at the local cantina, but some individuals come together 
to make their dislike known. At times, heroes are needed to keep the peace. 

A common complaint about droids is that they take work away from 
organic beings. Some tasks, such as astrogation, can be done only by droids, 
but many droids do jobs organic beings could do. Someone who has lost a 
job because an employer has purchased a droid might become resentful of 
not only that particular model of droid, but of all droids in general. When 
an entire work force is replaced by droid labor, public opinion can become 
very ugly, very quickly. 

The Worker's Militia starts in the Alagon System, after the Xeran Mining 
Corporation lays off its entire staff and brings in a fleet of HND-9 mining 
droids. The Xeran executives do not expect the disgruntled workers to resort 
to sabotage and destruction. A nasty uprising beaks out, and every retalia- 
tion raises the stakes. Workers deactivate a number of droids. Xeran forces 
the miners out of their corporate housing. The miners reprogram the droids 
to attack ships leaving the system with ore. Xeran hires bounty hunters to 
track down the leaders of the militia. Only intervention by the New Republic 
restores peace in the Alagon System, and it is an uneasy peace. 

The use of battle droids in the Clone Wars deals a blow to relations between 
droids and organic beings. The devastation suffered on worlds scarred by 
battles between the Confederacy and the Republic sours public sentiment 
for years. The Empire passes regulations barring the sale and manufacture of 
droids for military purposes, even though Emperor Palpatine knows that the 
unease and fear caused by military droids enables the dark side to flourish. 

Some beings refuse to tolerate companies such as Arakyd profiting from 
the death and destruction of the Clone Wars. A rash of assassinations and 
accidents tears through the ranks of these companies. The executives turn 
to the Emperor for help, and Emperor Palpatine is pleased to protect them 
in exchange for aid in expanding his war machine. The Emperor wins on two 
fronts—the Empire's military grows stronger, and the escalating conflict 
spread by the assassinations turns many to the dark side. 

The Unforgettables begins as a Rebel cell. It first strikes a major blow by 
wiping the memories of droids destined for a newly built Star Destroyer. But 
this group of rebellious pranksters soon turns ugly. Their leader is caught 
orchestrating another memory wipe and is arrested. When he is not freed, 
the cell begins a campaign to wipe the memory of any droid important to 
the Imperial presence in the system. The Unforgettables start with servant 
and protocol droids, and soon move on to starport-control droids and other 
droids needed by civilians. The Rebel Alliance denounces the group's activities 
and begins hunting the Unforgettables as fervently as the Empire. 


wSiavHga 


i 


samsayv GieNEg 


A TACTICAL DROID COMMANDING BATTLE DROIOS 


DROIDS AS PROPERTY 


Droids belong to their owners. Even though they can laugh, sigh, or scream in 
terror, they have no more rights than a ship, a blaster, or a spoon. The ques- 
tion of droids' rights colors every relationship a droid has. Even if they do not 
actively pursue the issue, most beings have at least considered the question 
of whether droids have rights. Some hold that droids should be freed from 
their second-class status, while others insist on tighter restrictions against 
developing new droids or increasing droid intelligence. 

Droids might work closely with their masters, so developing a rapport 
with those organic beings is perfectly natural. The relationship can evolve 
into friendship. Droids develop personalities as they acquire memories 
and data, and a friendly relationship with the owner makes everyone's job 
easier. Organic beings become attached to pets, ships, and other objects, so 
developing affection for an object that can talk back is a natural reaction. 
A droid in this situation might develop a strong sense of independence, 
gaining confidence in its ability to make decisions and rarely worrying 
about punishment. 

Some organic beings prefer to keep their interactions with droids on an 
impersonal, professional level. Droids are kept at arm's length, and emotional 
attachment is seen as foolish, especially among beings who work with a large 


2 | number of droids, such as dealers or members of repair crews. A droid might 
be destroyed while performing its job, especially droids built for dangerous 
C= tasks, such as battle droids and astromechs. Droids from these backgrounds 
i 9 PRO-DROID OPINION are often better suited for interaction with other droids than with organic 
: : s , : beings. When fate takes an ugly turn, these droids know that their masters 
} || a Many betigssee thei droids-es frends.collsagues. and in many ways. equals. are not likely to come to the rescue, but droids always help other droids 
|| O They show their droids respect, making the droids' existence easier and more : ; 
| | O meaningful. Some even devote themselves to working for droid equality. 
|| > The Society for All Sentients occupies the far end of the equality spectrum. 
lp Members believe that extreme measures must be taken to protect droids that 
| rr are abused by their masters. Cruel droid owners are targeted for the Society's 
| a public displays, which can include splashing offenders with buckets of oil 


on the steps of the Senate or even stealing droids and setting them free. Of 
course, a droid liberated by the Society might return to its master and be 
| punished for escaping, beginning the cycle again. The Society never claims 
cs responsibility for more violent crimes, but critics of the group suggest that 
it is only a matter of time before one of the targets ends up dead. 


OWEN LARS AT THE JAWA DROID MARKET 


ADVENTURE HoOoK-— 
eal e ener OF DROIDS 


fkinctioring: Droid. dealers lounge around in the casino waiting to 
roids from gamblers who have had bad runs of luck. Vaxan makes 
that the droids that are bought and sold go to reputable dealers 
~ and that. the dealers who treat droids poorly are shut out of the action. 
One day, Vaxan doesn’t show up for work. The droids in the casino are 
ied. He is responsible, and he would have called in if he were sick or 
ured. The heroes are looking for a droid that was last seen on a ship 
“headed for Bespin. Are the disappearances of the Verpine and the droid 
“somehow connected? Or has Vaxan run afoul of one of the droid dealers 
“he forced out of the casino? 


Droids are stolen and poached from their owners on a frequent 
basis. Thieves and shady merchants pluck droids off the street, wipe 
their memories, and then put them on sale at below market prices. The 
reputation of used droid dealers becomes damaged as a result of these 
unscrupulous traffickers. 

Unhappy droids want to escape. A cruel master might drive a droid away. 
Or a droid might fear for its existence because of the dangerous tasks it 
is assigned. Running away from a master is dangerous. The droid is alone, 
without oil baths, maintenance, or tasks to perform. Of course, some beings 
help these runaway droids, passing along a few credits to help a droid get 
off-planet, or checking up on droid dealers to make sure they are not deal- 
ing in stolen droids. 

Droid bounties are uncommon, since replacing a stolen or runaway droid 
can be cheaper and easier than hiring someone to track it down. However, 
a droid that is particularly important to an individual or organization might 
be the target of a bounty. Most bounty hunters refuse to take droid boun- 
ties, and those who do accept droid assignments are often down on their 
luck or just starting out. Guilds rarely accept a droid bounty unless they are 
pressured into it by outside influences. 


DROID 
CONTROVERSIES 


The restraining bolt is the most common piece of equipment used when 
dealing with droids. It is initially designed to help droids equipped with basic 
processors, restricting them from entering dangerous terrain. But even with 
the development of the heuristic processor, the use of restraining bolts per- 
sists. Many masters want control over their droids and want to protect them 
against theft. Droid thieves are less likely to take a droid with a restraining 
bolt because removing the bolt costs time and money. Some masters go so 
far as to install bolts that are linked to a self-destruct system the droid is 
unable to activate. 

Droids typically dislike being fitted with restraining bolts, but a few droids 
feel the device offers security and shows how much the master cares. Most 
droids do whatever they can to have a bolt removed as soon as possible. 
They might physically pry the bolt off or try to convince the master that the 
bolt interferes with key functions. Masters who refuse to use bolts show 
their droids that they trust them, motivating the droids to work harder. These 
masters might risk the droid running away, but the droid risks being caught 
and sold to a master that is less trusting. 


Hi YSsievHo 


Saiwwy GISEHG 


SsInty Bera 


Droid manufacturers recommend regularly scheduled memory wipes to 
reduce the development of personality quirks. The wipe also makes droid 
escapes less likely, since the droid is unable to remember attachments to 
previous owners. However, some owners want a droid that can learn and draw 
upon its experiences in order to work better. Prudent owners strike a middle 
ground. Some droids believe memory wipes to be cruel, and they do whatever 
they can to avoid being wiped. Others welcome the relief of remembering 
nothing. Memories of old masters can disturb a droid's current life. 

lon weapons are designed to disable a droid without causing lasting 
damage, so the droid can return to service with only minimal repairs. Natu- 
rally, ion weapons are favored by droid thieves. A droid displays a hostile 
reaction to any being who openly carries an ion weapon. The droid would 
naturally assume the being to be a droid thief or at least a runaway hunter. 
All droids become nervous around ion weapons. An ion weapon renders a 
droid helpless, which is almost worse than being deactivated. The droid is 
aware of what is going on, but it can do nothing. 

Specific personality types have come to be associated with each droid 
degree. First-degree droids are dry and technical, rarely speaking unless 
spoken to. Second-degree droids are more apt to share their opinions, even 
when those opinions are unsolicited. Third-degree droids are outgoing and 
polite, never wanting to offend. Their constant exposure to battle and conflict 
gives fourth degree droids a negative opinion of organic beings. Fifth-degree 
droids are big, dumb machines that are barely intelligent. Nevertheless, droids 
cannot be so easily stereotyped. Ill-mannered and surly protocol droids are 
just as common as polite ones. Anyone who spends time around droids rec- 
ognizes that, regardless of their quirks, droids develop complex personalities 
over time. Two droids from the same manufacturer built side by side on the 
same line can end up with completely different personalities. 


ADVENTURE HooK-— 

THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES 
While performing routine maintenance, the heroes discover strange marks 
inside the casing of one of their droids. Studying the markings reveals 
a set of hyperspace coordinates. The heroes travel to the coordinates 
and discover an abandoned ship—the only object in sensor range. If the 
heroes board the ship, they discover evidence of a fierce battle that 
resulted in the destruction of nearly everything on board. The only item 
that seems unscathed is a memory module identical to the one installed 
in their droid. 

Two questions are left to be resolved. What is on the memory circuit? 
Apparently it is something that people are willing to die for, such as 
incriminating evidence of a planetary governor's crimes or the secret 
location of a long-lost Sith Temple. And who is still looking for the droid? 
A governor can call upon the resources of an entire planet, while a Sith 
apprentice has a deadly ally in the dark side of the Force. 


DROID ORGANIZATIONS 


Droids fraternize with other droids, and many prefer to associate with droids 
of their own degree. First-degree droids compare notes with droids that share 
their fields of specialization. Second-degree droids are fiercely independent, 
considering other second-degree droids to be rivals. Third-degree droids 
congregate with each other and act like old friends. Fourth-degree droids 
give each other a gruff respect, since other droids cannot understand the 
difficulty of battling every day. Fifth-degree droids enjoy the simplicity of 
each other's company, not worrying about seeming unintelligent. Droids join 
together for many reasons, sometimes even forming organizations. 

The Servo Seven is group of droids that capture a droid manufacturing 
facility, holding it for two weeks. They become folk heroes to droids as well 
as to those beings who feel the second-class status of droids is unfair. The 
members of the Servo Seven are eventually caught and deactivated. But their 
act of defiance lives on. The group's insignia—a stylized gear emblazoned 
with a 7—is used by both sides as a symbol. Anti-droid forces apply it when 
striking at droids and claiming revenge. Pro-droid activists use the emblem 
when progress is made in the quest for equal rights for all sentients. 

The Idle is a movement that resurges every now and again. It is said to 
have been started by 5-3P7, a protocol droid in the service of a rich noble who 
treated droids cruelly, pushing them beyond their tolerances, unconcerned 
about droids destroyed in his service. Usually polite and soft-spoken, 5-3P7 
saw the injustice and realized that it could no longer serve its master in good 
conscience. The droid began to organize the noble's droids and also spoke 
with droids belonging to other nobles. At the agreed-upon moment, all the 
droids 5-3P7 spoke to stopped working. Astrogation droids refused to let 
their ships travel, and labor droids put down cargo containers. Droids were 
punished and deactivated for disobeying, but the remaining ones held fast. 
Their masters put pressure on the noble, and he agreed to treat his droids 
better. Because 5-3P7 was one of the first droids to be deactivated, it did 
not see the fruits of its labor. 

The Vixani March believes that droids can win their freedom only through 
armed resistance. The organization passes along knowledge of war and 
violence to droids not designed for such endeavors. The Vixani March is 
believed to have been begun by battle droids, but the leaders were never 
identified or caught. The Vixani makes no distinction in its targets, insisting 
that every being in the galaxy is complicit in droids' servitude. Some believe 
that the Vixani March does not exist, and that the name is just a front used 
by the more radical droids'-rights groups. 


THE A-SERIES MEDICAL DROID BELONGING TO GENERAL GRIEVOUS 


Adroid on the run has few friends. But an affiliation of droids—the Span- 
ners—secretly aids droids that have escaped their owners. Providing whatever 
hospitality they can, the Spanners repair and hide runaway droids. Those 
Spanners that trust their masters make their allegiance known. If the Spanner 
is unable to find a runaway a position with its current owner, it passes the 
runaway to a trustworthy droid dealer. The Spanners have infiltrated droid 
dealerships, gaining considerable ability to move runaways and to secure 
safe positions for them. 

Droids sold by the same dealer sometimes stay in touch through organiza- 
tions known as dealer clubs. Similar to an alumni association, a dealer club 
helps to promote a dealer's name to the droid-buying public. Droids share 
stories, catch up on old times, and gossip about other members. These clubs 
also have a hidden purpose: to preserve memories among droids, protecting 
hard data from loss during memory wipes. A droid might lose personality 
quirks and other unique aspects in a memory wipe, but it still remembers 
the facts of its past through contact with the dealer club. 


LEGENDS OF 
THE DROIDS 


Wild stories about droids abound. Droids are the basis of legends told in can- 
tinas and scoffed at by droid dealers. The stories can be absurdly ridiculous or 
downright horrific. The truth behind these stories is hard to verify, but their 
popularity allows them to live on through countless retellings. The stories can 
change, depending on where you hear them or who is telling them, but once 
you have heard one version of these stories, you have heard them all. 

The origin of droids is lost to the mists of history. Some droids believe the 
story of the Maker. Creator of the first droid, the Maker pushed droids from 
simple machines to intelligent creations. Some droids hold that the Maker 
was the first droid. These conflicting views sometimes cause unrest among 
the droids that believe in the Maker. Nothing more than spirited debate 
comes of it, but of the galaxy's war-torn sectors know the destruction that 
can result from fervently held beliefs. 

The Core is a legendary notion that all droids are connected, regardless 
of degree or manufacturer. The Core is sometimes seen as droids’ attempt 
to recreate an ecosystem. Just as organic creatures are part of their home 
planet's ecosystem and can sometimes feel that connection even on other 
planets, some droids suggest that droids are connected in a similar way— 
through the Core. It is said to be a hive mind, linking droids throughout the 
galaxy. If the Core exists, are there droids that can control and alter the Core 
like the Jedi and Sith manipulate the Force? 

Raxus Prime is regarded as a junk world, but that is not the only reason 
travelers steer clear. The junk droids on the planet are made of the discarded 
remnants of millions of droids. These droids heed no master. They follow 
no general rules. They build replacements and companions out of the junk 
constantly deposited on the planet. They are savage and territorial droids, 
but those who claim to have been to this forgotten world think the droids 
are building something—something larger that can take them off of Raxus 
Prime and spread their tribe to other worlds. 

Droids lost in combat are rarely mourned. Damaged droid starfighters 
orbit endlessly around countless planets, and some droids surely survive the 
destruction of capital ships. Something stirs in the wreckage fields. What 
if the droids left behind merged together? Legends describe such a hulk as 
a giant mash of limbs, accessories, and appendages that thinks, moves, and 
acts as one entity. Such hulks might be the result of individual battles, or 
there might be one single hulk that has become hyperspace capable, roam- 
ing the galaxy and preying upon unwary scavengers, taking revenge for the 
droids left behind by masters. 


SSsiwvwy GicuqG 


ff HStdvHia 


Saini SGEela 


The processors that run droids grow more advanced with each gen- 
eration. Droids are capable of hyperspace calculation and dozens of other 
applications beyond the minds of their creators. One such droid is rumored 
to have developed an idea known as the Jedi Algorithm. Factoring multiple 
variables ranging from Jedi involvement in battle to the genetic makeup of 
the Knights in the sector, the droid using the Jedi Algorithm is supposedly 
capable of determining how many Force sensitive beings exist on a planet. 
The Algorithm can tell the difference between younglings, older pupils who 
have gone unnoticed, and even those who develop powers on their own. The 
Jedi and the Sith take interest in this legend for obvious reasons. 

One of the better known droid legends is that of the Celestine. The Celes- 
tine is a starship/droid hybrid—a large warship built to be operated only by 
droids. It is equipped with one of the larger and more advanced droid brains 
of its era. The ship is commissioned with a great deal of fanfare. It cruises 
out of the construction dock, jumps to hyperspace, and never reaches its 
original destination. The Celestine is sometimes seen fleetingly as it jumps 
to hyperspace. Some even claim they have seen this legendary vessel during 
hyperspace travel. Superstitious spacers believe that seeing the ship during 
a battle is a bad omen. Officially, no records of such a ship exist. 


THe CELESTINE 


Somewhere in the galaxy is an isolated, entirely self-sufficient planet 
populated only by droids. The planet, designated U-One, appears on no 
hyperspace map. Legends differ on the planetary details. Some versions say 
the planet is pleasant and would be the envy of any civilized species, with 
rolling plains, gentle hills, and whispering brooks. Others believe the planet 
to be an inhospitable rock, torn by earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. 
The legends agree upon one fact—any beings who discover the planet are 
forbidden to land on it. 

The tale of the bodiless droid known as FK-4 disturbs droids and organic 
beings alike. FK-4 lost its original body long ago. However, the consciousness 
of FK-4 passes from droid to droid by touch and communications interface. 
Any droid body under the possession of FK-4 is able to communicate only 
one word: “Valanka." Valanka might be a being, a planet, or something else, 
but FK-4 is willing do anything it can to get to it. Otherwise sedate droids 
cheat, steal, and kill while under the sway of FK-4. Those who tell the story 
of FK-4 are unsure what might happen when FK-4 finds Valanka, but few 
who know the tale want to find out. 


MAKING YOUR OWN 

DROID LEGENDS 

The legends here are examples for Gamemasters to use. These legends 
can provide a good story for your epic. If expanded, they might form 
the basis of an entire campaign. How would one of the last Jedi react to 
discovering a droid that can predict where the Jedi have gone to escape 
the Great Purge? The heroes travel from system to system, discovering 
lost Jedi, finding students, battling those who have turned to the dark 
side. Many adventures could be drawn from a single droid legend. 

Of course, players might also read this book, so how can you protect 
these story hooks from players who might stumble upon them? The 
easiest way is to combine the legends. Perhaps the Celestine is the ship 
the junk droids of Raxus Prime are using to escape their world. Or the 
droid running the Jedi Algorithm begins to develop mastery of the Core. 
Another way to keep the legends fresh is to apply a twist. Perhaps a con 
artist is using the legend of U-One to bilk rich droid owners out of credits 
even though he or she has no actual contact with the planet. 


DROIDS 
WITHOUT BODIES 


Although it is uncommon to find such an object classified as a droid, there 
are several different ways in which a droid can exist without a traditional 
droid body. It is tempting to simply call something like that a computer, but 
the distinction lies in the presence of a droid personality. Most computers 
don't develop quirks or personality traits over time, and yet droids do, thanks 
to the complexities of their programming and systems. 

When those programming and design principles are used to create other 
pieces of technology, the same thing occurs. In many cases, the engineer 
designing the relevant piece of technology builds in systems stolen entirely 
from droid design: heuristic processors, memory units, and so forth. Over 
time, those computer systems that have been designed specifically for 
interaction with living beings start to develop personalities based on 
long-term memory and experience. Without regular memory wipes, these 
computer systems develop quirks and strange mannerisms that can be both 
unexpected and dangerous. Everyone knows that they need to watch a droid 
for strange behavior, but no one wants to find out in the middle of a trip 
through hyperspace that their ship's control computer suddenly refuses to 
follow orders anymore. 

There are several ways in which droid technology is used to create non- 
droid items. Below are two examples of how droids exist in forms drastically 
different from those commonly seen throughout the galaxy. 


DROID BRAINS 

One popular use of droid technology outside of a proper droid body is the 
use of what is known as a “droid brain." A droid brain is the core of what 
makes a droid both functional and self-aware. It usually consists of proces- 
sors and memory units, as well as programming consistent with that of a 
droid personality of a particular degree. The entire droid brain package can 
be installed into an existing computer system, at which point the droid brain 
begins interacting quickly and efficiently with the computer. In essence, 
using a droid brain used in this manner is like having a droid permanently 
connected to a computer system. 

Droid brains are often used in starships to act as virtual copilots, engi- 
neers, or systems operators. The droid brain can effectively become the brain 
and personality of the ship (or portion of a ship, if on a capital starship), 
allowing the owner of the ship to interact with the droid brain's interface so 
that the droid brain executes all the necessary actions without the owner 
having to. This is usually an option taken by the owners of space transports 
lacking a large crew, allowing them to mana ship that normally wouldn't be 
possible to fly with a limited crew. 


A droid brain is typically priced based on its capabilities. Most droid 
brains cost a number of credits equal to 25 x the droid brain's Intelligence 
score squared (so, a droid brain with an Intelligence of 15 would cost 5,625 
credits). A droid brain comes trained in a number of skills equal to 1 + its 
Intelligence modifier; however, a droid brain can only be trained in Intel- 
ligence-, Wisdom-, or Charisma-based skills, and it cannot make skill checks 
for Strength-, Dexterity-, or Constitution-based skills. The droid brain can be 
connected to any computer system with a Mechanics check (DC 20, 1 hour 
of work), and once so connected it can issue commands to that computer 
and can interact with anyone that interacts with that computer. When 
installed, a droid brain can be connected to the brain to any of the following 
devices: audio or video sensors, a vocabulator, or a holographic projector 
(any combination of which can let the droid interact directly with its owner, 
despite lacking a physical body). 


PERSONAL DROIDS 

Personal droids are another variant droid type created for convenience. A 
personal droid is more sophisticated than a droid brain and includes hard- 
ware for interacting with its owners. Personal droids are much like personal 
assistants, in that they perform tedious duties and keep track of important 
details on behalf of their owners. Personal droids are more useful than simple 
organizational computers because of their ability to react to unexpected 
developments. 

One of the most popular personal droid models is the LeisureMech Enter- 
prises Personal Droid. Designed as a lightweight unit that can be worn on 
the shoulder or in specialized holsters (available at an additional cost), each 
personal droid helper (called PD, or by the more affectionate name “Petey") 
stores every fact about its owner's life, from tastes in food and culture to 
the amount of fuel left in a speeder. A PD also carries its owner's financial 
records and tracks all transactions performed by its master. In addition, a PD 
can be used as a form of entertainment, as this model is capable of carrying 
on simple conversations on a variety of topics and of playing popular games 
(such as sabacc and pazaak). A LeisureMech Personal Droid costs 600 credits. 


Saiwwy ~SGeHX@g 


CHAPTER III 


Tec | wee 


~ i Si 
9h: <p 9 lanier iat 


= © 


This Ey) be 


Unlike other heroes in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, droid characters are, 
alt literally, made from their equipment. Whether it is built-in or carried, factory 
installed or an aftermarket change, equipment defines what a droid can do, 
and, therefore, what it is. A droid without its accessories is little more than 
a talking, thinking computer. 

How a droid thinks of its equipment depends on the type of droid it is, 
its intelligence, and its degree of independence. Carried equipment or pos- 
sessions are less a part of a droid's sense of identity than equipment that 
is fully installed and integrated into its processing system. Unintelligent 
droids care nothing for their equipment, aside from the standard built-in 
self-preservation programming. Droids with minimal personalities might care 
more about keeping their systems functional, but not on an emotional level. 
A highly intelligent droid, or a droid with a highly developed personality, 
might care a great deal about its built-in systems and might grow attached 
to certain accessories. 

Droid equipment is also referred to as a system. Systems are divided into 
four categories: locomotion, appendage, processor, or accessory. However, 
only those accessories that are integrated directly into the droid's chassis 
are considered systems. An accessory that is attached to an appendage or 
arried by a droid is considered a possession. 

Most droid equipment presented here requires installation on the droid, 
using the “Modifying Droids” rules (see page 197 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook) and related rules presented in this volume. Droid-specific 
equipment that does not require installation is noted as such. Equipment 
that other characters can use on droids is also found in this chapter. The 
equipment costs listed are for new systems and typically include installa- 
tion. However, Gamemasters can adjust costs depending on any number of 
factors, such as proximity to droid service facilities, rarity of parts, or other 
local conditions. 

In most of the galaxy, a droid's master must request and pay for installa- 
tion of a new system ona droid. Few droid shops are willing to make a change 
simply on a droid's own request, even if it has the necessary credits. The droid 
might be trying to circumvent its owner's wishes, so technicians are likely to 
refuse to risk the wrath of an owner or, in some cases, violate the law. 


=) 


0 
sc 
> 
a) 
4 
o. 
2 


AN3SWaInNoOs aoyad 


iii eaLavH 


LNIWAINGE Gera 


LOCOMOTION 


No new basic locomotion systems are presented here, but variations and 
add-ons provide droid heroes with additional options. 


Burrower Drive 
Mining and other fifth-degree droids can use a burrower drive to tear through 
large chunks of ore embedded in the crust of a planet or in an asteroid. A 
burrower drive enables a droid to move at half speed underground. It can 
also move vertically up or down at a similar rate. 

A burrower drive can be used as a weapon. The droid makes a melee attack. 
If the attack is successful, the droid deals damage equal to the amount it 
would do if it had used a self-destruct device. However, each successful 
attack moves the droid -1 step on the condition track with a persistent 
condition, as the drill gears and bits strip down and damage the droid. 


Gyroscopic Stabilizers 

Using an integrated system of gyroscopes, hydraulics, and high-speed 
processing, this system gives a droid greater stability. The droid gains a +5 
stability bonus to checks and defenses to resist attempts to knock it prone. 
This bonus stacks with the bonus provided by extra legs (see page 189 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


A BATTLE DROID WITH AN UNDERWATER DRIVE 


Underwater Drive 

A droid purchased on a water world such as Mon Calamari comes with an 
underwater drive as a standard option. The drive process is simple. The 
engine draws water in through the front of the drive and expels it quickly 
out the back. An underwater drive gives the droid a swim speed equal to 
its base land speed. 


APPENDAGES 


No new basic appendages are presented here. These accessories include only 
those that directly modify appendages. See “Accessories” for tools and other 
appendage-mounted items. 


Magnetic Hands 

Magnetic feet are a common accessory. Droids specializing in extra-vehicular 
activities are often equipped with them. Magnetic hands function like mag- 
netic feet. When used in concert with magnetic feet, they provide a +2 bonus 
to any Climb checks made while maneuvering around a hull in space, as well 
as a +5 bonus to defenses against any attempt to knock the droid off the 
hull. When magnetic hands are activated, the droid cannot make attacks or 
use anything requiring its hands, including weapons. 


Projectile Hand 

Fourth-degree droids are programmed for combat and security, but other 
droids can defend themselves as well. A popular modification is a projectile 
appendage, usually a hand on humanoid droids. When the projectile is acti- 
vated, the hand flies toward the target. It is considered a nonlethal weapon. 
A droid might use a projectile hand in order to stun an aggressor or knock a 
blaster away rather than risking destruction in a blaster fight. 

The basic package is a tension-spring device that costs 250 credits to 
install. A projectile hand is considered to be a ranged simple weapon that 
deals 2d8 damage. Additionally, the projectile hand can be used to make a 
ranged disarm attempt against a target within 6 squares. 


Quick-Release Coupling 

Some droids require frequent changes of tools and equipment to carry out 
their designated tasks. A tool-sized quick-release mechanism allows a droid 
(or a mechanic) to swap a tool in two standard actions: one to detach the 
tool and one to attach another. Both the appendage and the tool must have 
quick-release couplings. 

The appendage-sized quick release mechanism allows a droid (or a 
mechanic) to swap an appendage in two full-round actions: one round to 
detach the appendage and one round to attach another. Both the append- 
age and the droid chassis must have quick-release couplings. A tool-sized 
quick-release coupling cannot be used with an appendage-sized coupling. 
Additionally, to swap out its own appendage or tool, a droid must have must 
have another appendage capable of carrying out the task, usually a hand or 


claw appendage of sufficient size, strength, and agility. A droid mechanic 
must also be capable of handling the weight of the tool or appendage (see 
the Droid Accessories tables on page 58 and on page 194 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). Swapping appendages with a quick-release coupling does 
not require a Mechanics check. 


Remote Limb Control 

A disassembled droid is usually not a threat. Most beings overlook a pile of 
droid parts on the floor and keep moving. This package allows a droid to 
voluntarily remove an arm ora hand and operate it as if it were still attached 
to the droid's body. 

This equipment comes in basic and deluxe versions. The 1500-credit basic 
package enables one specified limb to operate on its own. The limb has a 
small repulsor unit inside it, allowing it to move (hover) up to 6 squares, and 
remains functional at a maximum range of 24 squares. While detached, the 
limb can perform any action it would normally be able to if attached to the 
droid. The 6,000-credit deluxe package enables multiple limbs to be active 
at once. A droid can control a number of limbs equal to 1 + its Intelligence 
modifier (minimum 1). 


Rocket Arm 

This illegal modification is derived from the nonlethal projectile appendage 
security systems available for noncombat droids. A rocket arm is essentially 
a hollowed-out droid arm in which the servo control has been replaced by 
a short-range rocket engine and fuel. The arm's fine control is eliminated, 
but the droid can point its arm at a target and fire. The arm detaches and 
flies at the target, detonating the remaining fuel on impact. Rocket arms are 
unguided projectiles without targeting computers. 

This illegal modification costs 2,000 credits and installation requires a 
DC 20 Mechanics check. Failure on the Mechanics check means the rocket 
might not detach properly when fired, exploding and dealing its damage 
to the droid and all targets in a 1-square splash radius. The rocket arm is 
considered to be a ranged heavy weapon that deals 3d8 points of damage 
upon detonation, with a 1-square splash. 


PROCESSORS 


Processor-related items and accessories are presented in this section. 
Some of these items are used by droids, others are used on droids by other 
characters. 


Droid Remote Control 

An advanced version of the restraining bolt system (see page 191 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook), the droid remote control allows the owner to 
use a droid caller to move the droid using its own locomotion system. The 
droid cannot be compelled to use any of its other systems or possessions. It 
simply moves as directed at one-half its speed. 


Hidden Core 

The droid has a concealed back-up copy of its personality and the data, skills, 
and memories it regards as critical to its mission or operation. The copy can 
be concealed within the droid's main processor or be installed as a hidden 
secondary data store elsewhere within the droid. The backup restores itself 
1d6 days after a memory wipe with a successful DC 20 Use Computer check 
(roll 1d20+10, or 1d20+ the droid’s current Use Computer skill modifier, 
whichever is greater). If unsuccessful, the core tries to restore itself again 
every 1d6 days. Discovering a hidden core requires a Use Computer check 
against the droid's Will Defense. The character making the Use Computer 
check must state that he or she is looking for a hidden core or for anything 
suspicious. For double the standard cost of a hidden core, the core's installer 
can automatically provide a Will Defense of 30 for this check. 


Personality Downloader 

Highly illegal, a personality downloader is a custom-built electronic unit 
designed to quickly suppress an existing droid's personality with a new one. 
Thieves, pirates, smugglers, infiltrators, and other scoundrels occasionally 
use a personality downloader to take control of an enemy's droid for their 
own use. Using the device requires the attacker to plug the personality down- 
loader into one of the droid's dataports. Droids with locked access or without 
accessible dataports must be coaxed into complying. Once the personality 
downloader is attached, the user makes a Use Computer check opposed by 
the droid's Will Defense. If the check is successful, the personality copies 
itself to the droid's processor and suppresses the existing personality in 5 
minutes. The process is imperfect, however. To maintain control, every 10 
minutes the new personality must make another Use Computer check opposed 
by the original personality. The invading personality continues to use the 
attacking character's Use Computer skill, even though the actual character 
is not actively involved after the initial download is successful. 


Remote Starship Starter 

Scoundrels have a habit of fleeing starports with the authorities on their 
heels. When a captain cannot leave a crew member back at the ship, a remote 
starship starter comes in handy. A droid equipped with this radio transmit- 
ter can signal the ship to begin the preflight processes; the ship transmits 
preflight diagnostics back to the droid as a free action. Although the droid is 
not able to operate the ship remotely, having the ship prepared for departure 
can save the crew vital minutes during an escape. 


Specialized Subprocessor 

Specialized subprocessors are customized processing units designed to aid 
droids in specific tasks. Varying in size, abilities, cost, and difficulty of instal- 
lation, each subprocessor enables a droid to carry out a specific calculation 
or analysis more quickly or simultaneously with other tasks. A specialized 
subprocessor grants a droid a single extra swift action each turn that can 
only be used to perform an action related to a single skill, chosen at the time 


ANEWAIAGSD GiehqG) 


ANSEWAINGeS Gcecva@ 


the subprocessor is created. A droid can only have one specialized subpro- 
cessor. For examples of specialized subprocessors, see the modifications 
sections of some droids described in this volume, such as the GD16-Series 
pilot droid on page 100. 


Tactician Battle Computer 

Strict governmental regulations apply to fourth-degree droids. However, 
droid manufacturers know that money can be made by manufacturing droids 
for war, so they develop systems such as the tactician battle computer to 
circumvent restrictions on fourth-degree droids. This software package 
and transmitter can be installed on any droid. Additionally, small transceiv- 
ers must also be installed on the ranged weapons used with the package. 
Restrictions prohibit the droid from using any weapons other than those 
with transceivers associated with its tactician battle computer. In fact, if the 
droid running the tactician battle computer picks up a weapon not equipped 
with the transceiver, the tactician battle computer shuts down and can be 
restarted only after succeeding on a DC 20 Mechanics check. 

The droid spends a standard action to analyze the current battle condi- 
tions. The droid transmits its findings to the sensors installed on the weapons 
of its allies. The droid automatically grants a +2 bonus to the next attack 
roll made by a number of allies equal to its Intelligence modifier (minimum 
1). If an ally does not make its next attack before the end of its next turn, 
this bonus is lost. Only ranged weapons can be used with the tactician 
battle computer. 


ACCESSORIES 


Possessions and installed accessories are included here, as are miscellaneous 
items not covered in previous sections, and other items used in conjunction 
with droids. 


Armor 

Crystadurium Plating: Early in the Clone Wars, Techno Union harvesters on 
Mustafar discover previously unidentified crystals in the planet's lava flows. 
Originally discarded as worthless impurities, the crystals attract the attention 
of representatives of the Techno Union because of their ability to survive 
the extreme heat. The research and development team discovers that the 


TABLE 3-1): DROID ARMOR 


ARMOR BONUS 


ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TO REF DEFENSE 
Light Armor (-2) 
Duravlex shell 1,000 x cost factor +4 
Laminanium plating 3,000 x cost factor +4 
Heavy Armor! (-10) 
Crystadurium plating 50,000 x cost factor +10 
Laminanium plating 20,000 x cost factor +12 


crystals, dubbed crystadurium, not only withstand heat and high pressure, 
but they also resist blaster fire. Working with a design team from Baktoid 
Combat Automata, they create blaster-resistant armor plating by mixing 
crystal shards into the durasteel alloy used for the battle droids' armor. The 
war ends before the armor plating is implemented, and the plans are lost 
when the Techno Union is absorbed by the Empire. Years later the plans are 
rediscovered by an Imperial librarian, who sells the plans to several arms 
manufacturers. Although the armor created from these plans is inferior to the 
original prototypes, it is remarkably effective at stopping blaster fire. Crysta- 
durium armor is heavier and more expensive than standard heavy armor, but 
it is sought by military organizations throughout the galaxy because of its 
ability to reduce damage from blaster attacks by 1 point per die of damage. 


Duraviex Shell: When the droid manufacturing company Roche designed 
its smelting droid, one of the largest hurdles was enabling the unit to resist 
the high temperatures that it must endure while working inside blast fur- 
naces. After many failed attempts, Roche's research team finally perfects a 
formula that combines high-grade durasteel and kevlex. Dubbed duravlex, 
the off-white alloy is as strong as durasteel and is highly resistant to heat. 
Duravlex becomes the droid's biggest selling point, and Roche profits greatly 
from selling a modified version of the formula to other companies. A droid 
equipped with a duravlex shell gains a +10 equipment bonus to its Fortitude 
Defense to resist fire and extreme heat. 


Laminanium Plating: Made from an exclusive laminanium alloy developed 
by Tendrando Arms, laminanium plating is primarily for use on its YVH-Series 
droids. The unique properties of the self-repairing Qellan metal enable it to 
spontaneously melt and reform to seal damaged areas, even at standard 
room temperature. The armor is more durable than other types of droid 
armor, and it is less vulnerable to corrosive acids and similar environmental 
hazards. Laminanium's strict production standards and material costs limit 
its use, although it occasionally appears on other Tendrando Arms products. 
A droid equipped with laminanium plating gains a +2 equipment bonus to 
Fortitude Defense. 


MAX. DEX 
BONUS WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 
+3 10 x cost factor Licensed 
+3 15 x cost factor Military 
+2 30 x cost factor Military, Rare 
+2 15 x cost factor Military, Rare 


1 When running in heavy armor, a droid can move up to only three times its speed (instead of four times). 


R2-D2 USES HIS HOLOGRAPHIC PROWUJECTOR... 


Antitheft Comlink Locator 

Some droids are equipped with internal comlinks to broadcast messages. 
However, these devices require the droid to speak out loud, and in some situ- 
ations such an act is inadvisable. A droid equipped with an antitheft comlink 
locator can send a distress signal to its master's comlink with no apparent 
activity by the droid. The distress signal broadcasts no information, but it can 
it be tracked. The signal continues to broadcast if the droid is deactivated, 
but it shuts down if the droid is destroyed. 


Audio Enhancers 

Audio enhancers increase the sensitivity of a droid's aural sensors, enabling it 
to pick up sounds not normally perceived by standard sensors. When eaves- 
dropping or listening for distant and ambient sounds, a droid equipped with 
audio enhancers can reroll Perception checks, taking the better of the two 
results. All other modifiers for the Perception check still apply. 


Audio-Radial Stunner 

This defense system protects droids in dangerous situations. As a standard 
action, the audio-radial stunner broadcasts a short-ranged, high-pitched 
frequency on all channels, calling attention to the droid and stunning any 
nearby creatures. Until the end of the droid's next turn, any creature that 
starts its turn adjacent to the droid must make a DC 20 Endurance check. 
Failure causes the creature to move -1 step on the condition track. The 
stunner shuts down if the droid is deactivated or destroyed. 


Automap 

An automap system actively scans the area within a 12-square radius of a 
droid in which it is installed. The scan reveals terrain, atmospheric condi- 
tions, electromagnetic signatures, and lifeforms. However, an automap scan 
cannot penetrate solid objects such as walls and closed doors. The scan also 
includes navigational information, such as the droid's direction and speed 
when readings were taken as well as global coordinates if the droid can 
establish a link to an orbiting satellite or starship. 


Blaster Recharge Interface 

This hand accessory enables a droid to recharge a standard blaster pack for 
its master. As a swift action, the droid can plug in and transfer energy to 
the power pack. Recharging a power pack depletes energy from the droid. 
For each recharge, the droid loses hit points equal to one of the blaster’s 
damage-dice type. Thus, a droid recharging a power pack for a heavy blaster 
pistol (3d8) takes 8 points of damage (since the die type is d8). 


Collapsible Construction 

A droid sometimes needs to be stowed in places where it usually would not 
fit. For example, a droid stowed in a smaller cargo space might surprise an 
enemy. The collapsible construction modification allows a droid to lower its 
Size category by one when it shuts down. The droid brain enters stand-by 
mode while it compacts itself into a smaller size. The droid can reactivate 
at any time as a standard action. 


» TO PROYECT A MAP OF THEED PALACE 


| 


Y 
2) 
© 
G 
W) 
g 
Cc 
v 
K 
W 
Zs 
qj 


i eSeLtavHo 


ANEWAIAOH®D GHevwqg a 


Communications Countermeasure System 

One of the first things enemy forces do after discovering a droid is prevent 
the droid from establishing communications to request rescue or call for help 
from its allies. A communications countermeasure system prevents jamming 
of a droid's communications. The system broadcasts signals on multiple 
frequencies to counteract interference. A droid with a communications 
countermeasure system gains a +5 equipment bonus to all Use Computer 
checks made to overcome communications jamming. 


Communications Jammer 

When behind enemy lines, a droid takes every possible precaution to ensure 
that anyone who finds it is unable to call for help or alert others about the 
droid's presence. The communications jammer allows a droid to jam any 
comlink signal by interfering with a facility's communications systems or 
by directly jamming signals in the droid's general vicinity. 

A communications jammer grants a droid a +5 equipment bonus when 
making a Use Computer check to slice into a computer system and shut it 
down. The droid also gets the +5 equipment bonus to maintain that status 
if any slicers attempt to stop the jamming. Once the droid has successfully 
connected with the communications system and begun jamming, it can 
continue jamming the system until it disconnects or it is forced out. 

The signal jammer emits signals at multiple frequencies to interfere with 
any comlink signals within a 1-kilometer radius of the droid. The droid must 
make a DC 25 Use Computer check to successfully jam any incoming or 
outgoing comlink signals. 


Concealed Item 

This system enables the droid to have a weapon or a tool built into a hidden 
compartment in its body, an appendage, or its head. With this system, a 
weapon can also be camouflaged to look like a standard tool or appendage. 
For example, an arm can hide a blaster rifle, ora beam cutter might actually 
be a blaster pistol. Typically, the size of the appendage must be similar to the 
size of the concealed weapon or tool. If the item is fully concealed by the 
droid's armor or outer covering, it cannot be detected by visual observation 
alone. If a weapon is not fully concealed and portions are visible, such as a 
muzzle or blade, then when being searched for weapons the droid gains a +5 
bonus to Stealth checks to conceal the weapon, plus any weapon size modi- 
fier that applies (see page 72 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). The droid 
also gains a +10 bonus to Deception checks to create Deceptive Appearances 
with regards to the concealed item. 

The cost of concealing a weapon ora tool equals the base cost of the item 
plus the cost of the appendage and/or internal storage compartment x 2. 
The Gamemaster can increase the cost multiplier to account for complex or 
unusual installations. Deploying a fully concealed weapon is a swift action, 
and it is subject to the same bonuses and penalties as drawing a weapon. 


Courier Compartments 

Droids are sometimes used as messengers to deliver important messages 
and items across the galaxy. To protect items entrusted into their care, these 
droids can have hidden courier compartments installed in their chassis. Such 
compartments are also favorites of smugglers who own droids. A droid with 
a courier compartment might walk right past a starport inspection team that 
is on the way to tear its master's ship apart. 

Courier compartments can be installed in four locations within a droid. 
A courier compartment in the torso can hold an item that is 3 sizes smaller 
than the droid's size. A compartment in the arm or leg can hold an item 
that is 4 sizes smaller than the droid's size. A head compartment can hold 
an item that is 5 sizes smaller. Detecting a courier compartment requires a 
successful Perception check with a DC equal to the droid's Will Defense +5. 

Acommon accessory in a courier compartment is a toaster, which destroys 
the contents of the compartment with a brief blast of plasma energy trig- 
gered by the droid. Installing a toaster into a courier compartment doubles 
the cost of the compartment. 

Example: S-3PO0, a protocol droid in service to Count Czasiz, has a courier 
compartment hidden in its left arm. Asa Medium droid, the compartment can 
an hold item of up to Fine size, so it can hold the skifter sabacc card the Count 
needs to guarantee his next win. 


Credit Reader 

Interplanetary banks and crime lords have one common interest: They need 
to know how much money a client has before they do business. Whether a 
line of credit or hard currency, a credit reader determines whether a target's 
credits are real or if a line of credit exists for that being. The credit reader 
gives the droid a +5 bonus to any Perception check against any Deception 
check made to forge credit accounts or financial documents. The droid can 
also instantly count any sum of hard credits presented to it as a free action. 


Droid Oil Bath 
Droids look forward to an oil bath after a long period of work. This standard 
maintenance procedure lubricates the droid's servos and joints, allowing the 
droid to move as if it has just come off the assembly line. An oil bath is recom- 
mended at least once a week for a droid working in a harsh environment, and 
once a month for a droid working in a temperate climate or on board a ship. 
A droid immersed in an oil bath for at least 30 minutes can activate 
a second wind, even if it has already done so that day. The price of an oil 
bath depends on the size of the droid: small droids and smaller—100 credits; 
medium droids—1,000 credits; large droids—5,000 credits; huge droids and 
larger—10,000 credits. 


DROID OIL BATH 


Earphone Binary-to-Basic Translator 

Binary is the primary language of droids. This translator unit is installed on a 
droid's Basic-output jack, a standard jack found on most droids that enables 
them to connect to a terminal or a datapad and to express themselves in 
written Basic. The translator converts audible Binary into audible Basic, 
transmitting the spoken words to an earphone receiver. The less expensive 
version requires a large headphone set, while the more expensive version 
transmits to an earbud receiver. Detecting the earbud requires a Perception 
check of DC 20. 


Electric Defense Grid 

Most combat droids are effective at using blasters and other ranged weap- 
ons. Some models, however, fail miserably at melee combat and are quickly 
dispatched by enemies that gain the upper hand in close quarters. To improve 
a droid's melee defenses, an electric defense grid can be installed either 
on top of or as part of the droid's armor or outer shell. Whenever a droid 
with an electric defense grid is damaged by a melee attack, the attacker 
automatically takes 5 points of energy damage. Melee weapons that rely on 
energy to cause damage, such as lightsabers, are immune to the effect of 
the electric defense grid. 


Emergency Oxygen Supply 

This accessory is installed on search-and-rescue droids sent to recover 
pilots who bail out during combat. The small oxygen tank attached to the 
droid's torso provides enough oxygen for a creature of Medium size for 30 
minutes. The tank can be used to recharge a vac suit's supply, or the oxygen 
can be administered through a breath mask attached to the tank. Connect- 
ing the supply to a vac suit is a swift action. Securing the breath mask is a 
standard action. 


Hidden Holster 

Some fourth-degree droids lack built-in weapons attached directly to the 
droids' appendages. This attachment gives a droid access to a weapon without 
having to visibly carry it. Installed in a droid's leg, the holster can hold a 
weapon on size category smaller than the droid, or smaller. As a free action, 
the droid can activate the holster, which opens up, providing access to the 
weapon. The hidden holster provides the benefit of the Quick Draw feat with 
whatever weapon the droid is keeping in the holster—the droid can draw or 
holster the weapon as a swift action. To gain this benefit, the droid must 
have the feat's +1 base attack bonus prerequisite. 


High-Speed Cutting Torch and Welding System 

A droid can be equipped with a powerful cutting torch and a welding system 
for use in repair operations and for cutting materials, doors, or other items. 
This bulky and heavy device can be installed only on droids of Medium size 
or larger. The precision welder can be used for small repairs and for large 
construction welds, typically in half the time required by a normal welding 
unit. The cutting torch has a range of 1 square and deals 4d10 damage. 
When in contact with an object for two or more consecutive rounds, the 
torch also ignores 5 points of DR and reduces the object's damage threshold 
by 10 points. 


Holographic Game System 

In spite of all the utilitarian functions that a droid can perform, owners 
might want to use their droids for entertainment. A holographic game system 
provides fifteen of the galaxy's more popular games, including dejarik and 
sabacc. The droid can serve as its master's opponent, or it can run the game 
so its master can play with another being. The game is projected through 
the droid's holoprojector (sold separately) and does not require a solid sur- 
face for game play. The game-system processor is sufficiently advanced to 
allow a player to interact with the board as if he or she is actually picking 
up the holographic playing pieces. The game system is adaptable, allowing 
ten additional games to be added to its database with a successful DC 15 
Use Computer check. 


LNSIWAINeSE Geovug 


i esLavnS 


ANEWAINeE”E, Gere 


EQUIPMENT 


Antitheft comlink locator 
Audio enhancers 
Audio-radial stunner 
Automap 

Blaster recharge interface 
Collapsible construction 
Concealed item 

Courier compartments 

Credit reader 

Droid oil bath 

Earphone binary-to-basic translator 
Electric defense grid 

Emergency oxygen supply 
Hidden holster 

High-speed cutting torch and welder 
Holographic game system 
Holographic image disguiser 

ID dodge 

Improved coordination circuitry 
Interference generator 

Internal defenses 

Internal grapple gun 

Mesh tape dispenser 

Micro shield 

Multifunction apparatus 
Multispectrum searchlight 
Radiant heat element 

Remote viewer 

Rental restraining bolt 
Repulsorcam 

Scomp link 

Silence-bubble generator 
Space-beacon launcher 
Survival kit 

Taser 

Video screen 

Voice-print command lock 
Weapon detector 


COST 


100 

2,000 

5,000 

1,000 

300 

2,000 x cost factor 
See text 

200 

50 

500 

20 

3,000 x cost factor 
200 

500 x cost factor 
2,500 

300 

20,000 x cost factor 
5,000 

1,000 

2,500 

10 x cost factor 
100 x cost factor 
10 x cost factor 
600 x cost factor 
80 x cost factor 
100 

200 

1,000 

10 

1,000 

100 

3,500 

5,000 

100 

250 

1 x square mm 
400 

1,500 


WEIGHT 
5 kg 
1kg 
3 kg 
2 kg 
1kg 
10 x cost factor 
Appendage + weapon 
2 x cost factor 
1kg 

600 x cost factor 
5 kg 

100 x cost factor 
20 

2 x cost factor 
500 kg 

3 kg 

20 x cost factor 

1 kg 

1 kg 

1 kg 

1 x cost factor 

2 x cost factor 

5 kg 

10 x cost factor 
15 x cost factor 

2 kg 

20 x cost factor 
20 kg 

5 kg 

20 kg 

1kg 

20 x cost factor 
10 kg 

1 kg 

2 kg 

1 kg + .01 kg x square mm 
1kg 

5 kg 


AVAILABILITY 


Restricted 


Licensed 


Restricted 


Licensed 


Restricted 


Licensed 


~~ Licensed 


Restricted 
Illegal 
Restricted 
Licensed 
Licensed 


Licensed 
Licensed 


Licensed 


EQUIPMENT COST WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 


SS Ee APTA 


etic he a Appendage cost x 2 2xcost factor al ated ES 
ojectile hand Appendage cost x 2 2 x cost factor Licensed 
appendage 50 x cost factor 5 x cost factor - 
: fees 10 x cost factor 2xcost factor Tatiige eee 
Remote limb control Appendage cost x 2 - Restricted 
locket arm Appendage cost x 4 2x cast factor eli aie egal dilicee iO 


See Table 3-1 See Table 3-1 


Commu countermeasures 1,000 3kg Oy pan ie ae cnesireted| 
~ Communications jammer 5,000 5 kg Military 
jammer 2,000 2kg a iiilteany, 
_ Remote receiver signal booster 500 2 kg Licensed 


50x costfactorkg “he 
4 x cost factor kg a 
10 x cost factor kg. j 


200 x cost factor x (speed) squared 
2 x cost factor x (speed) squared 
20 x cost factor x (speed) squared 


Or 500 ‘ 0.5 kg ee ne: 
Hidden core 200 1 kg or - Restricted 


_ Personality downloader Custom build (5,000+) 2 kg+ Illegal 
Remote starship starter 50 2kg - 

" Specialized subprocessor 1,000 2 kg ee: 
Tactician battle computer 5,000 10 kg Restricted 


" Sensor booster 200 5 kg ee 
Sensor countermeasure package 1,000 2kg ; = 


sion module = ~~ 0.x SRx cost factor 2xSRx [cost factor] 
fle station = 50,000 per 100 droids : 
Command station 10,000 1,000 kg Licensed 


Recharge station 4,000 500 kg ok 
Socket 10,000 (usually included in cost of vehicle) 1,000 kg Military 


LNEWAINED, GAexvqg 


LNEWAING®E GewuqG 


Holographic Image Disguiser 

The holographic image disguiser hides a droid's true appearance. A central 
processor installed in the droid's chassis coordinates several small, full-color, 
high-resolution holoprojectors installed at various points on the droid's body. 
The disguiser's processor synchronizes the holographic image with the droid's 
movements and its vocabulator, making the disguise particularly lifelike. The 
basic model is essentially a standard holoshroud, granting the droid a +10 
equipment bonus to Deception checks using Deceptive Appearance (see 
page 64 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). An advanced model, for double 
the price, includes sensor nodes that track a number of other factors, such 
as ambient temperature and weather conditions, making the image react to 
those variables. The advanced model allows the droid to disguise its appear- 
ance as a full-round action at no penalty. 


ID Dodge 

Some automated security systems check biometric data before granting 
access to an area. Droids cannot provide retinal scans, fingerprints, or other 
unique biological features. The ID dodge simulates such information, allow- 
ing a droid to access secure areas. This accessory allows the droid to use its 
Deception check instead of a Use Computer check on any security device 
that requires organic biometric identification. 


Improved Coordination Circuitry 

Droid brains work well in concert with each other, and improved coordination 
circuitry enhances this ability. This accessory links droids’ skill routines, allow- 
ing them to aid in tasks more effectively. Each circuit is keyed to a specific 
skill. When a droid with improved coordination circuitry aids another droid 
with the circuitry, the bonus increases to +4. A droid must be trained in the 
skill to gain the +4 bonus. 


Interference Generator 

This accessory is a favorite of nobles who want to keep their conversations 
private. A droid with an interference generator emits a low-frequency sound 
that interferes with any listening equipment such as bugs, microphones, or 
other audio recording devices. The deluxe version also interferes with video 
and holographic recording devices. The generator masks everything in the 
squares adjacent to the droid. Anyone eavesdropping or reviewing recordings 
of targets protected by an interference generator must make a DC 30 Percep- 
tion or Use Computer check to pick up even scattered words and phrases. 


Internal Defenses 

A droid with internal defenses has built-in defenses that operate inde- 
pendently of the droid. Anyone opening the droid's maintenance or access 
panels without the droid's permission receives an electric shock as a 1d20+5 
attack against the character's Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the 
character receives damage equal to 1d8 + half the droid's heroic level. The 


droid is unharmed. The system remains active until disabled (Mechanics DC 
25, 1 hour of work) or is depleted after 10 attacks. 


Internal Grapple Gun 

When a droid needs to reach an inaccessible area, an internal grapple gun can 
be indispensible. The gun fires a magnetic grapple hook with an ultra-thin cord. 
The internal compartment holds 15 meters (10 squares) of cord, and an exter- 
nal magazine can hold up to 100 meters of cord. The cord can be detached 
from the droid as a free action. Firing the grapple is a standard action. 


Mesh Tape Dispenser 

Mounted on an appendage, a mesh tape dispenser enables a droid to quickly 
apply mesh tape to anything within reach of its manipulator (usually an 
adjacent square). In addition to its more conventional uses, an installed mesh 
tape dispenser can be used by a droid to entangle an adjacent enemy. With a 
successful melee attack, the droid can hinder either the target's arms or its 
legs. If the target's arms are hindered, it incurs a -2 penalty to all attacks 
and Dexterity-based skill checks. If the target's legs are hindered, its speed 
is reduced by 2 squares, and it cannot run. If the droid has the Pin feat and 
succeeds at an opposed grapple check, the enemy is considered pinned until 
the tape is removed (instead of until the start of the droid’s next turn). 


Micro Shield 

The force shield is a tool that prevents incoming attacks from hitting and 
damaging the wielder. Attached to one of the droid's appendages, the shield 
is composed of a central hub with two wide arcs mounted on struts above 
and below the hub. When inactive, the ares rest against the hub in the shape 
of a large humanoid eye. When the droid activates the unit as a swift action, 
the arcs slide away from the hub, activating a translucent energy shield that 
provides a +1 equipment bonus to the user's Reflex Defense. The force shield 
is originally designed to be installed on a droid's arm, but a handheld version 
that runs on a single energy cell is available for 400 credits. The energy cell 
provides enough power to run the shield continuously for 1 hour. 


Multifunction Apparatus 

Each type of droid appendage performs one specific function. The multifunc- 
tion apparatus, however, allows up to three tools or weapons to be attached 
to a single appendage. The multifunction apparatus is commonly used to 
mount multiple weapons. Only one tool or weapon can be active at a time, 
but switching to a different tool or weapon requires only a swift action. 


Multispectrum Searchlight 

This handheld or installed accessory is a powerful spotlight that shines 
visible, infrared, or ultraviolet light. It has a 6-km range and is powered 
by the droid's own internal power supply. Droids able to see the projected 
light gain a +2 equipment bonus to Perception checks to Search and Notice 


Targets (see page 70 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) and to other situa- 
tions in which the Gamemaster judges that the light provides an advantage. 
This bonus stacks with bonuses granted by helmet packages and improved 
sensor packages. 

The light can also be used to blind targets in a 6-square cone. All targets 
within the cone receive a -10 penalty to Stealth checks. As a standard action, 
the droid makes a ranged attack against each target's Fortitude Defense. 
If the attack is successful, the target receives a -5 penalty to attack rolls, 
Perception checks, Pilot checks, and other skill checks until the end of the 
droid’s next turn. If the attack does not exceed a target's Fortitude Defense, 
the target receives a -2 penalty instead. This accessory can be used only by 
droids of Tiny size or larger. 


Radiant Heat Element 

This accessory enables a droid to radiate heat from its torso, providing 
warmth necessary for a master's survival in the wilderness or in deep space. 
The heat can be adjusted to provide ambient warmth or to boil water and 
cook food on the droid's exterior. The heating element can also be used by 
the droid as a defensive tool. When the radiant heat element is on its highest 
setting, any character ending its turn in a square adjacent to the droid takes 
1d4 fire damage from the droid. The droid itself takes 1 point of damage 
from the heat each turn. 


Remote Receiver Jammer 

The portable remote receiver jammer is developed during the Clone Wars 
to scramble battle droid remote processor links at short range, render- 
ing the droids useless. The jammer incorporates a backpack transmitter 
and a handheld computer controller. Remote receiver jammers have three 
significant weaknesses: They have an extremely short range; datalinks are 
notoriously difficult to disrupt; and many droids have backup processors. 
A remote receiver jammer can be activated as a standard action, and the 
jammer affects all droids with remote recievers and no backup processors. 
When the jammer is activated, the droid using the jammer makes a Use 
Computer check. At the start of any affected droid's turn, compare the 
results of the Use Computer check to the droid's Will Defense; if the Use 
Computer check is equal to or higher than the droid's Will Defense, the droid 
can take no actions and is flat-footed until the start of its next turn. The 
droid activating the jammer must activate it each turn, making a new Use 
Computer check each time. 


Remote Receiver Signal Booster 

Droids that rely on a remote processor for instructions cannot stray too far 
from that processor without risking losing contact and becoming stranded. 
A remote receiver signal booster can prevent this loss of contact. The signal 
booster increases the receiver's reception strength, extending the range of 
a droid by 50%. A successful DC 30 Use Computer check made by the droid 
can further extend the range up to 100% for 1 hour. 


& DROID COMMANDO DEPLOYING ITS REMOTE VIEWER 


Remote Viewer 

The remote viewer is a small, self-contained visual and audio sensor attached 
to a micro-sized repulsorlift unit. Functioning as one of a droid's regular 
audio and visual sensors, the remote viewer can be externally mounted, 
concealed, or made to look like one of the droid's regular sensors. However, 
the droid can detach the unit and send it to inspect an area remotely. The 
viewer can travel up to 12 squares away from the droid, has a speed of 4, a 
Reflex Defense 18, a Fortitude Defense 12, and it runs for 30 minutes before 
needing to be recharged for 1 hour. 


Rental Restraining Bolt 

Some beings cannot afford to own a droid. The rental restraining bolt works 
like a standard bolt, except it also has a credit reader. The user must deposit 
a specific number of credits to the credit reader on the restraining bolt to 
control the droid for a specified time. At the end of that time, the droid deac- 
tivates and does not reactivate until sufficient credits are again deposited. 


a | 


hl HSLavweiz 


ANEAWAIAG®” Geue |! 


Repulsorcam 

A repulsorcam is an audio and video recorder mounted ona tiny repulsorlift. 
The device can detach from a droid's chassis, float to where its droid desires, 
up to 12 squares away, and record events. The repulsorcam can record up 
to 2 hours of audio and video data to its own memory. The unit has a speed 
of 4, a Reflex Defense of 16, and a Fortitude Defense of 10. A single energy 
cell powers the repulsorcam for 4 hours, recharging when it reattaches to 
the specialized socket on the droid or when it lands on a separate recharging 
unit available for an additional 150 credits. 


Scomp Link 

Ascomp link is a universal data port mounted on an extendable arm, available 
for many types of droids. Astromech droids have them as standard equip- 
ment. Scomp link ports are standard input/output links, found on computer 
systems and starships throughout the galaxy. Using a scomp link gives a 
droid a +2 equipment bonus to Use Computer checks to Access Information 
(see pages 75-76 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) when the computer's 
attitude toward it is helpful or friendly. 


& SCOMP LINK 


Sensors 
Additional sensor packages available to droids are presented here. All sen- 
sors must be installed. 

Sensor Booster: Probe droids try to coax a little more range out of their 
sensor equipment to get that extra amount of information about the area 
they are scanning. A sensor booster is a droid enhancement that extends 
the range of its sensors to a maximum of 2 kilometers, if the droid has a 
sensor pack installed. 

Sensor Countermeasure Package: Droids operating covertly must avoid 
drawing attention to themselves. The sensor countermeasure package broad- 
casts signals that interfere with incoming sensor signals. A droid equipped 
with the sensor countermeasure package can make a Use Computer check 
to avoid being detected. If the Use Computer check equals or exceeds a 
Perception check made to detect the droid through any form of nonvisual 
sensor equipment, the droid remains undetected. 

YV Sensor Package: Standard on the YVH-Series battle droid (see page 
158), a YV pack can be successfully installed on other droids, including mouse 
droids. The YV pack features highly specialized sensors calibrated specifically 
to detect Yuuzhan Vong, including those concealed by ooglith masquers or 
other methods. The sensor pack grants a +10 bonus to Perception rolls to 
detect Yuuzhan Vong within 12 squares and within line of sight of the droid. 


Shield Expansion Module 

This accessory enables a droid with a shield generator installed to expand 
its own shield by a single square, allowing an adjacent Medium or smaller 
ally to benefit from the droid's SR. Activating the expansion module is a 
standard action, and the droid chooses the single adjacent affected square; 
any creature in that square uses the droid's SR as long as it remains in that 
square and the droid remains adjacent to that square. Only droids of Small 
or larger size can use this accessory. Droids of Medium or smaller size can 
install only one shield expansion module. Droids of Large or larger size can 
install up to two modules. A second module protects an additional square. 


Silence-Bubble Generator 

The silence-bubble generator creates an energy sphere that dampens sound 
waves. The apparatus is originally marketed as a way for music lovers to 
enjoy their favorite music without being disturbed by noise. However, spies 
and crime lords also find the generator useful. Activating the silence bubble 
is a standard action. The bubble covers all squares within 3 squares of the 
droid. Any attempt to hear anything inside the bubble by someone outside 
of the bubble takes a -10 penalty to Perception checks. 


Space-Beacon Launcher 

Space beacons are used by pilots and flight crews to mark specific loca- 
tions or to help navigate through hazardous areas of space. A beacon is .25 
meters long and can transmit a signal throughout an entire star system, if 
it is not blocked by nebular gases or signal jamming systems. The space- 
beacon launcher—modeled after a small version of the standard space mine 
launcher—enables a droid to quickly position space beacons while in flight. 
The system can carry up to 12 beacons. Additional storage can be added, 
increasing the cost of the launcher by 10% for each additional beacon (up 
to a maximum of 24 beacons). Locating a beacon requires a DC 10 Use 
Computer check when using a ship's sensor system. 


Survival Kit 

Droids do not worry about water, food, or the elements, but their masters 
do. A survival kit is the perfect accessory for long treks into the wilder- 
ness. It contains a small refrigeration unit, a water recycler and dispenser, 
a rechargeable glow rod, and a fire sparker. When aiding a Survival check, 
a droid with this accessory gives a +4 bonus to the check rather than the 
normal +2 bonus. 


Taser 

Many star systems prohibit droids from carrying lethal weapons or having 
such systems installed without the proper permits. A taser is a nonlethal 
projectile weapon that droids can use to defend themselves. It fires two 
small projectiles attached to long, thin wires that deliver an electric charge 
that incapacitates an organic target's nervous and muscular systems. If the 
target is a droid, the electric current acts like an ion gun and interferes with 
the droid's systems. Additionally, a taser can be used as a melee weapon 
like an electroshock probe. 


Video Screen 

This accessory gives the droid a small, built-in video screen to display text, 
translations, diagnostics, programming, pictures, and other information. 
Screen sizes vary from 50mm to 500mm and are priced at 1 credit per square 
millimeter of screen size. 


Voice-Print Command Lock 

This accessory ensures that a droid is able to obey only its master. With a 
voice-print command lock installed, a droid follows only commands issued 
by a single source. The droid analyses the voice print of its master and 
ignores commands from anyone else. A recording of the master's voice can 
be used, but getting the droid to obey a recorded command requires a Use 
Computer check against the droid's Will Defense with a +5 bonus to the 
droid's defense. 


Weapon Detector 
Droids use sophisticated sensor systems, which can easily be adjusted to offer 
additional security. A weapon-detector package features a high-frequency 
receiver that can detect the hum of a deactivated vibro weapon. It can also 
perform a chemical analysis to detect tibanna gas residue on blasters. 

A weapon-detector package allows a droid to add its Intelligence modifier 
to Perception checks made to Search for weapons. 


DROID STATIONS 

Aspecial classification of droid accessory is the droid station—a droid-specific 
control and maintenance station. Droid stations are found aboard starships 
and other locations where droids are integral to a ship's or a building's 
operations. Droid stations are typically permanent installations and cannot 
be relocated without disassembly and considerable labor. 


Droid Battle Station 

Droid battle stations provide the functionality of regular droid command 
stations, and they can be used to direct droids in combat. Droid battle sta- 
tions are typically large installations, capable of coordinating hundreds or 
thousands of droids of all types. Some droid battle stations emulate droid 
commanders. When the station is installed, select two talents from the droid 
commander prestige class (see page 28 of this book and pages 42-44 of The 
Clone Wars Campaign Guide). These talents can be used by the character 
operating the battle station as if the character has the talents. The number 
of times each talent can be used is calculated per station, not per character, 
so switching characters in the middle of a battle does not grant additional 
uses. Droids with the droid commander prestige class cannot use these tal- 
ents more often even if they duplicate talents the droid already possesses. 


Droid Command Station 
On starships and at other installations requiring a large droid population, 
centralized droid command stations direct and control droids as they carry 
out their daily operations. A droid or an organic overseer can operate the 
droid command station. On large starships or major facilities, the station is 
manned at all hours. Smaller operations might use the station to issue com- 
mands and to provide automated oversight. Droids in the command station's 
pool must have a comlink, an integrated comlink, or a remote processor in 
order to maintain contact with the station. Accessing the station requires the 
appropriate password or code cylinder. The station typically has Intelligence 
14 (or the ship's Intelligence, whichever is higher) and a Will Defense of 15. 
Standard droid command stations provide the following functions with the 
indicated Use Computer or Mechanics check: 
@ Issue a routine command to order a droid in the droid pool to carry out 
a specific task. If the droid is familiar with the task, or if the droid is 
trained in the associated skill, no skill check is required. If the command 


ALNSEWAIASO®D Goud | 


TD] 
al 
2} 

| 


ALNEWEAIAG®E GAEGYUa 


is unusual or highly specific, a Use Computer check might be required 

at the Gamemaster's discretion. The user gains a +10 equipment bonus 

to Use Computer, Persuasion, and Perception checks against the droid. 

Commands can be issued verbally or by keypad. 

Coordinate multiple droids in the pool, enabling them to complete tasks 

more efficiently. With a DC 15 Use Computer check by the station oper- 

ator, each droid aiding in a given task provides a +3 bonus instead of a 

+2 bonus and automatically succeeds on checks to aid another. 

e Locate any droid in the droid pool anywhere within the station's 
operational range—typically the vessel or facility where the station is 
installed. The target droid must be fitted with a tracking device or a 
restraining bolt that can be tracked by station's sensors or the facility's 
security network. A Use Computer check of DC 5 is sufficient to locate 
any such droid. 

© Receive detailed information about a droid's status, including current 
hit points, position on the condition track, and the operational condi- 
tion of its systems and accessories. No check is required. 

e Reprogram a droid in the pool by remote or direct connection to the 
station (see page 192 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

© Translate between Binary and common languages. No check is required. 


ASTROMECH UNITS IN A DROID RECHARGE STATION 


Droid Recharge Station 

Droid recharge stations are found anywhere droids are commonly used: star- 
ships, residences, starports, industrial facilities, and similar locations. Public 
recharge stations are available for a fee of 20 credits per recharge. Droids 
typically require 1 hour to recharge. The station is not self-powered, and must 
be linked to an outside power source. Droids also use recharge stations while 
waiting until their services are called upon. Recharge stations provide basic 
droid diagnostics with a DC 10 Use Computer check, revealing the droid's 
current hit points, position on the condition track, and the operational status 
of all systems, appendages, and tools. Aboard starships, droids parked in a 
recharge station are secured for travel. A recharge station can be universal 
for all droids up to a certain size—typically Small, Medium, or Large—or 
designed for a specific droid degree or model. 


Droid Socket 

Designed exclusively for astromech droids, the droid socket serves as a station 
combining copilot, systems monitoring, astrogation, and damage-control 
operations for minimally crewed craft. 

Droid sockets are featured on many snub fighters, the occasional shuttle, 
and a few airspeeders. They generally must be designed and installed as 
original equipment, although savvy techs can build their own or transplant 
one onto a ship that does not normally carry a socket. 

Standard droid sockets allow an astromech droid to perform the fol- 
lowing tasks: 

¢ Pilot or copilot the ship or vehicle with the pilot's permission; if the pilot 
is unconscious, permission is not required. 

e Act as a system operator to raise, lower, or recharge shields (see page 
172 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

e Act as an engineer to reroute power (see page 172 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

e Make limited Mechanics checks to jury-rig or otherwise repair a ship's 
systems as determined by the Gamemaster. 

e Make Use Computer checks through the ship's system and built-in 
scomp link. 

© Operate the communications system and sensors. 

e Input hyperspace jump coordinates from an astrogation buffer and 
control the hyperdrive with the Use Computer skill, if the ship has a 
hyperdrive. 

® Operate pilot and droid ejection system—with the pilot's express per- 
mission. The droid ejection system fires the droid out of the socket and 
away from the ship at speed 12. 

Standard prohibited actions and systems (can be overridden by the 
pilot): 

¢ Weapons activation and firing. 

¢ Jumping to hyperspace without approval. 

Optional systems that might not be found on every ship include: 
e Astromech self-loading system, such as on the Naboo N-1 starfighter. 


ADJUUDICATING DROID 
MODIFICATIONS 


One of the biggest challenges a Gamemaster faces when dealing with droids 
in the party is what to do when the players start modifying the droids. 
Through the droid modification rules, players might attempt modifications 
that seriously alter the nature of the game in a way that you have not antici- 
pated. The best thing to do when a player attempts to introduce a modifica- 
tion that isn't appropriate for the game is to stop it before it happens. Be 
up-front in explaining that you don't think the modification is appropriate 
for the game, and try to find another solution that works for both you and 
the player. Remember, just because a piece of equipment or modification 
appears in a book doesn't mean that your players should automatically be able 
to perform that modification or install that equipment. There are a number 
of factors—social, economic, and legal—that can preclude the production or 
modification of a particular droid. 

With all that said, sometimes droids in your game may be modified to a 
point where they are disrupting the game. Below is some advice on handling 
problematic droids and droid modifications. Note that most of this advice 
centers on droids introduced as Gamemaster characters and possessions, 
not on droids as heroes. 


UNBALANCING MODIFICATIONS 

One of the most obvious problems you will come across as a Gamemaster 
is a droid that has been modified in such a way as to be unbalancing in 
encounters. Either the droid is making encounters too easy, or the droid 
is overshadowing the contributions of the other heroes, or the droid just 
makes one player too much the focus of the combat round. Maybe the 
player installed shields on the droid that make it nigh invincible. Whatever 
the actual modification, your best bet is to consider complications that can 
arise as a result of owning this droid. 

Suppose a droid is a combat monster, blowing through your encounters. 
Let the player have his or her fun for a few encounters. Then create complica- 
tions. Maybe the droid isn't as precise as it should be, and it ends up causing 
collateral damage. Maybe the droid ends up firing on innocent bystanders, or 
destroys a passing airspeeder just to take out some stormtroopers. The droid 
then becomes a liability, and the heroes need to decide whether or not it's 
worth keeping the droid around. Likewise, a savvy slicer might reprogram the 
droid, turning it against the heroes. Even after the heroes subdue it, there 
will always be some lingering doubt as to whether or not all of the traitor- 
ous programming was eradicated. When a droid is too powerful, introduce 
drawbacks that require the heroes to carefully consider the droid’s value. 


REDUNDANT MODIFICATIONS 

Another troubling aspect of droids and droid modifications is that sometimes 
a modified droid can make other droids, and even other heroes, feel obsolete. 
Maybe the droid has every Knowledge skill trained, making the noble who 


invested trained skills in Knowledge skills feel like she has wasted resources. 
Maybe the ace pilot suddenly finds himself sitting in the copilot's chair while 
the droid takes the helm. By raw statistics, there are many ways in which a 
droid can be modified to do things that the heroes do, and better. 

When this happens, consider altering the way the droid performs its task 
so that, while it gets the job done, maybe it doesn't do so by the easiest 
means. When the droid is turned loose to make a Mechanics check to repair 
the ship, it starts installing “improvements” that manifest elsewhere. When 
the protocol droid programmed with every Knowledge skill is brought along 
to answer every question, perhaps it answers in roundabout ways that reveal 
information that the players want to keep secret. Droids, like all beings, are 
flawed, and whenever a droid has been modified to obviate other characters 
or droids, those flaws should be brought to the forefront. As with the situ- 
ation above, it's more interesting to create a choice for your players (keep 
the droid or get rid of it) than to simply take the droid away. 


TAKING AWAY TOYS 

There may be times when you have no choice but to take the droid away 
from the players. This is a last resort, but it's always a possibility. Whether 
you have the droid blasted, smashed, disassembled, stolen, or simply have its 
memory wiped, your players are going to feel as though you're taking away 
their toys. When you have no other option but to take the droid away from 
the heroes, consider the following guidelines: 

Make the droid's removal part of the plot: Don't just have a storm- 
trooper shoot the droid; have a droid thief steal it in order to learn more 
about the heroes. Have the droid’s memory wiped by a malicious slicer hired 
by the heroes’ enemies, or have its memory copied first and held as blackmail 
by an unscrupulous crime lord. Have the droid destroyed as a part of a failed 
assassination attempt. Whatever form your removal of the droid takes, set 
it up to create a new adventure and story possibilities. 

Offer a replacement for the droid: When you take something away 
from the heroes, don't forget to give something back. The replacement for 
the droid doesn't always have to be another droid, either; maybe the heroes 
meet a Squib mechanic with many of the same skills as the stolen droid, or 
perhaps the heroes’ starship gets upgraded with a droid brain thanks to their 
benefactor. Whatever you give as a replacement should obviously be free of 
the same problems that caused you to take the droid away in the first place, 
but figure out what good things the droid brought to the group and find a 
suitable replacement for that. 

Give the heroes a chance to recover the droid: If you simply take the 
droid away, it will likely be very obvious to your players that you removed it 
because you didn't like what it was doing to the game. If a droid is stolen, or 
its memories taken, or its parts scavenged by Jawas, sometimes you'll have 
the option of letting your players try and get those things back. Of course, 
when the droid is restored it may not be exactly the same as before, but this 
is an opportunity to remove the modifications that created the problem, and 
it helps make the droid into an evolving character. 


CHAPTER IV. 


DROID CODEx. 


Ive 


nie, 


The number of droids present in the Star Wars universe is enough to make 
one's head spin, for the sheer number of droid models alone could fill a 
datapad's memory banks, and these droids contribute to almost every facet 
of galactic society. With numerous manufacturing companies continually 
designing and building new lines of droids as well as improving existing 
models, this industry has no end in sight. 

This chapter, aptly named the Droid Codex, features a sampling of droids 
from various periods of the Star Wars timeline that are newly written for the 
Star Wars Roleplaying Game, Saga Edition. Each droid presented has its own 
full entry that includes a statistics block, a description, a background, and 
an illustration. Although each entry is typically for the stock version of the 
droid, any number of variants can exist and might reasonably be encountered, 
depending on the interests of the Gamemaster and the players. Each droid 
also includes a statistics block for the protocol format, presented first in 
Chapter 2. Gamemasters who are using the optional protocol rules can give 
the protocol format statistics block to the player who owns the droid for 
quick reference. 

Each droid entry also includes a “Playing the Droid" sidebar, which 
includes a number of details about the construction and design of that droid. 
This area contains not only information about how to recreate the droid from 
scratch using the droid construction rules and new equipment from Chapter 
3, it also includes tips on how to properly portray the droid's personality 
according to the data presented in Chapters 1 and 2 of this book. 

The entries in this chapter indicate a number of modifications that 
Gamemasters can implement, letting the droid perform other functions not 
normally performed by stock models. These modifications might be mechani- 
cal upgrades or parts replacements that allow the droid to undertake new 
tasks and provide some interesting twists and surprises during game play. 
These modifications can also serve as inspiration for developing your own 
variants of the droid. 

In addition to the information listed above, each entry also contains 
a sidebar feature that provides additional background information about 
the droid and offers an adventure seed for an adventure revolving around 
that droid, to help the Gamemaster introduce the new droid into the game. 


<xs0q009D adioxa o Aluaiaves 


RaGOD GASGBG 


SBD SMELTER DROID 


8D Smelter Droid CLO 


Medium droid (S5th-degree) nonheroic 1 
Init -2; Senses darkvision; Perception +2 
Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 14 (24 to resist fire and 
extreme heat), Will 10 

hp 4; Threshold 14 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares (walking) 

Melee claw +2 (1d4+4) or 

Melee claw +2 (2d4+4) with Mighty Swing 

Ranged by weapon +0 

Base Atk +0; Grp +4 

Atk Options Mighty Swing 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 10, Con —, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid traits, heat resistant 

Feats Mighty Swing, Skill Focus (Endurance), Skill Training (Endurance), 
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +8, Knowledge (physical sciences) +4, Perception +2 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, 2 claw appendages, 
improved sensor package, darkvision, secondary battery, vocabulator, 
duravlex shell (+4 armor) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 7,250 credits 


Heat Resistant—When the 8D smelter droid is exposed to extreme heat or 


fire, it takes half damage if the attack succeeds and no damage if the 
attack fails, and it does not move on the condition track. 


8D Smelter Droid 
Medium droid (5th-degree) 
hp 4 

Threshold 14 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The 8D smelter droid moves 4 squares (walking). 

Mighty Swing (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The 8D smelter droid deals +1 die of damage on its next melee attack in 
the same round. 


Skills Endurance +8, Knowledge (physical sciences) +4, Perception +2 
Vital Systems 2 claw appendages, vocabulator 


8D SMELTER DROID 


With all the industries in the galaxy that rely on metals, several mining 
companies that also smelt their ores became quite successful in their fields. 
However, the smelting process proved to be extremely hazardous for organic 
workers who labored inside the blast furnaces. Roche, hoping to step up 
its presence in the droid market, designed the 8D smelter droid to work in 
incredibly hot smelting plants in place of more vulnerable organic employees. 
Much to the delight of the Verpines that run Roche, the 8D was well accepted 
by the major smelting companies. 

The feature of the 8D smelter droid that makes it better at working in 
higher temperatures than the typical droid is the proprietary ore from which 
it is made. By molecularly combining high-grade durasteel with kevlex, Roche 
created a metal with a melting point of over 1,650 degrees Centigrade and 
used it to create the 8D, which can work in areas that would turn other droids 
into slag. (See page 54 for more details on the duravlex shell.) 

8D smelter droids can be played as droid heroes. 


PLAYING AN 

8D SMELTER DROID 

Players who would like to construct.an 8D smelter droid hero should 
start with the stock labor droid chassis (see page 11). The best starting 
class to use with this droid is the scout. Choose the Mighty Swing feat to 
demonstrate the droid’s strength, the Extra Second Wind feat to express 
the droid’s resilience, or the Armor Proficiency (light) feat to allow the 
droid to use the duravlex shell without incurring an armor check penalty. 
Purchase a duravlex shell to gain the heat resistant special quality as 
described in the droid’s statistics block. Select at least Endurance and 
Knowledge (physical sciences) as the droid's starting skills; for additional 
skills, consider Mechanics to represent the droid's ability to work with 
heavy equipment, Persuasion to represent the droid's ability to influence 
others through asserting itself, and Survival to represent the droid's 
resistance to extreme temperatures. Be sure to purchase darkvision, an 
improved sensor package, and a secondary battery as part of the droid's 
starting equipment. 


MODIFICATION: 

DAMAGE CONTROL DROID 

The 8D smelter droid can be used as a damage control droid aboard starships. 
In this modification, which is popular among smugglers, mercenaries, and 
captains of ships with a low crew count, the droid is equipped with special 
tools and gear that allow it to rush to areas of the ship that have been hit and 
make quick repairs to prevent damage from getting out of control. Because 
other crew members are free to stay at their posts, the ship fares better when 
defending itself from attackers. First, upgrade the servomotors that control 
the droid's speed, boosting its movement to 6 squares per turn to help it reach 
its destination as fast as most of the rest of the crew. Next, reprogram the 
Knowledge (physical sciences) skill to Mechanics so the droid can commence 
repairs upon arrival without depending on another member of the crew; it also 
helps to reprogram the Skill Focus (Endurance) feat to Skill Focus (Mechanics). 
Installing a fire extinguisher and giving the droid a tool kit completes the modi- 
fication. With all these components in place, an 8D smelter droid can jury-rig 
a damaged system to working order so well that it restores 2d8 hit points to 
the ship and moves the ship +2 steps on the condition track. 


MODIFICATION: 

MASTER'S DECOY 

The dream of being in two places at once is now a possibility with this par- 
ticular modification of the 8D smelter droid, which allows it to act as a decoy. 
First, replace the droid's claw appendages with hands, and reprogram the 
droid's vocabulator to emulate its master's voice. Fitting the droid with the 
proper clothes and cosmetic alterations is important, especially considering 
that the droid's standard legs are of Verpine design and sport complicated 
joints. Swapping them out for legs in a more humanoid style is encouraged 


but not necessary. Finally, reprogram the droid's skill set to include Decep- 
tion in place of either factory-installed skill. The 8D must adopt its master's 
speech patterns and mannerisms to pull off a convincing imitation. As long 
as the droid is at least 3 squares away from anyone attempting to penetrate 
the disguise, the 8D smelter droid can reroll its Deception check twice and 
keep the best of the three rolls. Overall, making this decoy modification is 
not as effective as using a replica droid, but the changes are easy to make. 


MODIFICATION: SURVIVALIST 

Scouts and explorers sometimes modify the 8D smelter droid into a survival- 
ist. This modification adds extra parts to the chassis, especially around the 
joints, to better prepare the droid for dealing with extreme environments. 
The changes cost 1,000 credits and require a DC 20 Mechanics check and 
4 hours of work. In addition, the droid's programming is updated to allow it 
to better survive in rugged environments and to help others adapt to such 
surroundings. To accomplish this, reprogram the droid's Knowledge (physi- 
cal sciences) skill to the Survival skill. At the same time, reprogram the Skill 
Focus (Endurance) feat to Skill Training (Knowledge [life sciences]) to expand 
the droid's database on the galaxy's many lifeforms. Having this information 
readily available gives the droid the ability to reroll any Survival check. In 
addition, since the droid is equipped with a duravlex shell, it automatically 
succeeds on its use of the Endure Extreme Temperatures application of the 
Survival skill and can do so without a field kit. 


A LITTLE ATTITUDE 

| have dealt with these smelting droids in the past, and | can 
honestly say that their attitudes leave much to be desired. They 

are belligerent toward other droids they work with, claiming that "lesser" 
droids are too stupid to know what they are doing. They make snide 
remarks about organics behind their backs, stating that organics are slave 
drivers who do not care for the well-being of the droids in their care. 
Smelting droids can be outright hateful of droids that work in offices. 
They seem to think that office droids are just lazy, although they really 
do not have much room to talk. 

Fortunately, the 8D smelting droids at most mining facilities do not 
have it anywhere near as bad as do those on Resilon, a small world at _ 
the far edge of the Mid Rim. Word has it that the organics who run that 
planet's mines have treated the droids so badly that the smelting droids 
have banded together to lead a revolt against their owners. Apparently, 
the droids are demanding to be treated fairly and refuse to work until 
they are guaranteed such treatment. However, the death of one of their 
owners seems to tell a different story. | do not know if the fatality was 
an accident, but the outlook for Resilon's defiant smelting droids does 
not seem bright. 


AL SHSidveres: 


"9 
51 
a 
G 
Q) 
io) 
0) 
W) 
x 


Al SSB4tovHS 


AQG-SERIES 
ARCHIVE DROID 


A9G-Series Archive Droid CLO 
Medium droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 


BAGOD GAOVG 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 10, Will 10 

hp 7; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d3) 

Ranged by weapon +1 

Base Atk +1; Grp +1 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 11, Con —, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Special Qualities archive processor, droid traits 

Feats Distracting Droid, Skill Focus (Gather Information, Knowledge 
[bureaucracy], Use Computer) 

Skills Gather Information +12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +13, 
Perception +1, Use Computer +13 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, 
translator unit (DC 10), vocabulator 

Possessions code cylinder, storage device (20 memory units) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 6,880 credits 


Archive Processor—As a full-round action, the A9G-Series archive droid 


can quickly sift through volumes of information stored in a computer 
network while searching for a specific piece of data. The droid can 
reroll Gather Information or Knowledge checks when attempting to 
retrieve information from a computer system but must keep the 
second result, even if it is worse. 


ASG-SERIES ARCHIVE DROID 

Medium droid (1st-degree) 

hp 7 

Threshold 10 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The A9G-Series archive droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Archive Processor (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The A9G-Series archive droid can reroll Gather Information or Knowledge 
checks while connected to a computer system but must keep the 
second result, even if it is worse. 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The A9G-Series archive droid makes a Use Computer check against the 
target computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's attitude 
toward it. 


Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The A9G-Series archive droid issues a routine command to a computer 
that has a friendly attitude toward it. 

Translator (1 free action) 

With a DC 10 translator check, the A9G-Series archive droid translates to 
or from any language it knows. 

Skills Gather Information +12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +13, 
Perception +1, Use Computer +13 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, translator unit (DC 10), vocabulator, 
code cylinder, storage device (20 memory units) 


Still high on the success of the R2-Series astromech droid, Industrial 
Automaton sought to continue that achievement by making other droid 
models that performed similar functions. One line of droids to come from 
the many designs of that time is the A9G-Series archive droid. Unlike the R2, 
the humanoid-shaped A9G was not intended to work aboard starships but 
to act as the ideal administrator of data networks, overseeing the computer 
systems of large corporations and governments by using its data-sifting 
software to satisfy their organizational and managerial needs. The major flaw 
of the A9G design came to light after the droids placed in major corporations 
experienced a series of problems and made poor decisions when attempting 
to handle high volumes of data traffic. Companies with smaller information 
networks had few or no problems; the droids were capable of handling the 
lighter flow of traffic. 
A9G-Series archive droids can be played as droid heroes. 


OVERWORKED 
You interested in this A9G droid here, eh? He's a good buy! Don't &, 

let those black marks around his neck fool you—they're just, uh, 
cosmetic. Okay, it's really carbon scoring, but not from blaster shots. 
The droid got these marks from burning out its processor while on the 
job. See, A9G-Series droids do their jobs so well, their owners tend to 
keep them working around the clock, continually processing information 
in their networks. The little guys work and work without a break until 
boom, their processors get fried and they shut down. But don’t worry 
about this one. | personally refurbished the original processor, so it's as 
good as new. Where did | get the droid? Uh, | picked it up from this guy 
that blew through town. Looked like a pirate. Might have been part of 
that band that's been hitting merchant ships and small colonies along 
the Hydian Way, you know? | even heard that they took another A9G that 
belonged to the royal family of Katchan on the edge of the Outer Rim. 
Supposed to hold some valuable information. | sure would love to find 
that droid—they'd probably pay a nice reward for its return. Well, enough 
of my rambling. Tell you what—I'll scrub off that scoring for an extra 25 
credits. What do you say? 


MODIFICATION: FIELD MEDIC 

When something goes wrong and somebody gets hurt, a medic can never 
be too close. A popular modification of the A9G-Series archive droid is to 
make it a field medic. This modification involves tweaking the droid's archive 
processor so that it accesses a medical database within its chassis instead of 
an external computer network. Thus, the A9G need not rely on a stationary 
mainframe to access information and can use its skills anywhere a medical 
emergency exists. In addition, reprogram the droid's skill set, changing the 
Knowledge (bureaucracy) and Use Computer skills to Knowledge (life sci- 
ences) and Treat Injury, to allow the droid to diagnose and treat ailments. The 
droid retains the archive processor special quality but is limited to rerolling 
only Knowledge (life sciences) checks rather than all Knowledge checks. Swap 
out the code cylinder for a medical kit, and to allow the droid to scan through 
its photoreceptors, consider installing diagnostic scanners in the droid's head 
(requiring a DC 20 Mechanics check and 2 hours of work). Coupled with the 
medical database, the scanners grant a +2 equipment bonus to the droid's 
Treat Injury checks that stacks with the +2 bonus received from using a 
medical kit when it administers first aid. Furthermore, removing the scanner 
from the medical kit makes room for two additional medpacs. 


MODIFICATION: 
RECONNAISSANCE DROID 

Most people do not suspect that an archive droid might be gathering intel- 
ligence, recording events to send back to its master. Thus, this particular 
modification can be quite useful to numerous organizations. To set up the 
AQG to act as a reconnaissance droid, modify its photoreceptors to work in 
conjunction with either a video recorder or a holorecorder to covertly record 


anything the droid considers relevant. Installing the appropriate recorder 
requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 2 hours of work. Adding a storage 
device gives the AQG the option of sending information to its master to avoid 
being caught with sensitive data or of storing the information in its chassis so 
the data won't be intercepted during transmission. Reprogramming its trained 
skills to exchange Knowledge (bureaucracy) for Perception helps the droid to 
better locate the information it seeks, and taking Stealth increases its chance 
of successfully obtaining data and getting out without being discovered. 


MODIFICATION: 

SLICER'S COMPUTER 

Slicers like the idea of walking into a facility without anyone suspecting 
their intentions, and this modification transforms the A9G-Series archive 
droid into a portable computer that carries itself. First, install a portable 
computer into the droid's chassis with a DC 20 Mechanics check and 1 hour 
of work. The upper back is the best location for the computer. Creating a 
link between the datapad's processor and the droid's archive processor is 
optional, but doing so allows the slicer to increase the speed at which he or 
she can slice through a computer system. Establishing the link requires a DC 
20 Mechanics check, a DC 20 Use Computer check, and 2 hours of work to 
properly synchronize the processors. Once the link is established, using the 
droid in this fashion allows the slicer to reroll his or her Use Computer check 
once per encounter and keep the better of the two results. 


A9G-SERIES ARCHIVE DROID 


SAIGOeH) GIGVU@G 


AD-SERIES WEAPONS 


MAINTENANCE DROID 
AD-Series Weapons Maintenance Droid CL 1 
Medium droid (1st-degree) soldier 1 

Force 2 

Init +7; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 13 
hp 30; Threshold 13 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking), 6 squares (hovering) 
Melee unarmed +1 (1d3) 

Ranged by weapon +3 

Base Atk +1; Grp +3 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con —, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Harm's Way 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Skill Focus (Mechanics), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +5, Initiative +7, Knowledge (tactics) +8, Mechanics +13, 
Perception +7, Use Computer +8 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, hovering locomotion, 
2 tool appendages, tool kit, vocabulator, quadanium shell (+3 armor) 

Availability Military; Cost 13,840 credits 


&&D-SERIES WEAPONS 

MAINTENANCE DROID 

Medium droid (1st-degree) 

hp 30 

Threshold 13 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The AD-Series weapons maintenance droid moves 6 squares (walking) or 
6 squares (hovering). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The AD-Series weapons maintenance droid makes a Perception check 
at the start of a battle. If the check is successful, the droid's master 
avoids surprise. 

Disable Device (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The AD-Series weapons maintenance droid makes a Mechanics check to 
disable a trap. 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 


AD-SERIES WEAPONS MAINTENANCE DROID 


The AD-Series weapons maintenance droid makes a Use Computer check 
against the target computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's 
attitude toward it. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The AD-Series weapons maintenance droid makes a Perception check 
against the target's Stealth check. If the check is successful, the droid 
detects the target. 


Skills Climb +5, Initiative +7, Knowledge (tactics) +8, Mechanics +13, 
Perception +7, Use Computer +8 
Vital Systems 2 tool appendages, tool kit, vocabulator 


Arakyd Industries was riding high on the success of its probe droids when the 
company announced its next model. The AD-Series weapons maintenance 
droid was envisioned as a companion to every stormtrooper squad, making 
sure the troopers’ weapons and armor were in optimal condition and leaving 
the troops more time to protect and serve the citizens of the Empire. Arakyd 
executives, noting the Empire's repeat business with companies such as Kuat 
Drive Yards, commissioned their factories to build massive quantities of the 
AD as soon as it was announced. 


Imperial efficiency studies showed that the benefits to stormtrooper 
squads were minimal compared to the cost of adding the droids. As a result, 
the Empire never picked up the droid, and the fiasco nearly sent Arakyd into 
bankruptcy. The AD quickly filtered down to planetary governments and 
smaller organizations, with Arakyd taking a loss on each sale. 

AD-Series weapons maintenance droids can be played as droid heroes. 


PLAYING AN AD-SERIES 
WEAPONS MAINTENANCE 
DROID 


AD-Series weapons maintenance droids have ended up on both sides of 
the law. Local law enforcement uses them as patrol officers and evidence- 
analysis droids. Criminal organizations use them to provide security 
and maintain weapons that are used in illegal operations. Many bounty 
hunter guilds employ these droids as well, and some even count AD droids 
as members. The droids themselves are generally quiet, although many 
harbor resentment against the Empire for being passed over. 
When creating an AD-Series weapons maintenance droid character, 
_ start with either the scoundrel class or the soldier class. These droids are 
self-sufficient, but they can greatly benefit from weapon specialization 
talents and feats. 


MODIFICATION: POLICE DROID 
Smaller cities and starports usually can't afford a full-time security staff. In 
such places, the AD-Series droid has found a niche market as a police droid. 
Although the droids are not as sophisticated as some models specifically 
designed for the job, they do well at collecting evidence, containing crime 
scenes, and apprehending suspects. 

The first step in making the police droid modification is to remove the 
internal weapons maintenance tool kit and replace it with a storage space for 
law enforcement equipment. This modification requires a DC 20 Mechanics 
check and 20 minutes of work to complete. Standard replacement equip- 
ment includes binders, a secure datapad, and a glowrod. Next, reprogram the 
droid's skill set, replacing Knowledge (tactics) with Persuasion; this requires 
a DC 20 Use Computer check and 30 minutes of work. Last, give the droid a 
weapon to defend itself. An integrated blaster is often installed, but some 
jurisdictions lack either the funding or the desire to make this modification 
and simply equip the droid with a standard blaster carbine. 


MODIFICATION: SNIPER DROID 

Many AD-Series droids ended up in the hands of bounty hunters. The solo 
operators find an extra pair of arms useful in the field, and the guilds use 
AD-Series droids to make profits by charging members fees to have the 
droids maintain their blasters. A few AD-Series droids become bounty 


hunters themselves, using their knack with weaponry to become masters of 
weapons such as the long-range blaster rifle. To turn an AD-Series droid into 
a sniper, select a single weapon and tailor the droid’s internal tool kit to that 
weapon. Doing so requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. 
This modification grants the droid a +2 bonus when using that weapon, but 
it imposes a -2 penalty when the droid uses any other weapon, even one of 
a similar make and model. To allow the droid to intimidate others, replace 
its Mechanics skill with Persuasion, which requires a DC 25 Use Computer 
check and 30 minutes of work. 


MODIFICATION: 

SPEAKEASY DROID 

Crime lords are always looking for cheap, disposable muscle, and the AD- 
Series droids often fit the bill. They know their way around a blaster and 
have a very intimidating look. When stationed at the entrance to a criminal 
enterprise such as a cantina or a club, an AD-Series droid can collect the 
weapons of patrons to reduce the chance that a fight will break out, or it 
can quickly deactivate weapons to put its master's mind at ease. 

Making a speakeasy modification involves three steps. First, upgrade 
the droid's vocabulator to give its voice a meaner edge (requiring a DC 20 
Mechanics check and 30 minutes of work), and reprogram it to have the 
Persuasion skill and the Skill Focus (Persuasion) feat. Second, upgrade the 
droid's pattern-recognition software, which gives it the Skill Focus (Percep- 
tion) feat and allows it to identify the many weapons in its database when 
they are hidden under coats, in bags, and so on. This modification requires 
a DC 20 Mechanics check and 30 minutes of work. The third step, which is 
optional, is to install a weapon detector (see page 63) on the droid. 


THEIR Loss, Mr GAIN ¢9 
7 


You ask me, the AD-Series is nice and versatile. Fits a lot of roles 
overlooked by other manufacturers. Give an AD the right set 

of equipment, and it can protect whatever needs protecting—or blast 
through whatever needs blasting through. Even if you don't like to take 
apart and rebuild every droid you own, the AD offers a lot of options 
once you get it home. But just between you and me, friend, | don’t buy 
that bantha fodder about efficiency reports sinking Arakyd's contract 
with the Empire. | think a lot of Arakyd executives started having second 
thoughts about the Empire after what happened to Alderaan. So the 
Empire killed the contract to teach them a lesson about loyalty. Proof? 
Of course | don't have proof! But it wouldn't surprise me if some Rebels 
broke into a Moff's safe or something and found incriminating evidence. 
If that happened, you'd probably see a lot more droids disappearing from 
inventory and ending up in Rebel hands. 


Al SSiadvHgD 


0 | 
2 | 
\G) 
oO 
Q 
0) 
0 
Y 
& | 


BD) 


Al H¥StavHAs 


SAGOHD GOVO | 


ANNIHILATOR DROID 


Annihilator Droid CL 12 

Huge droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12/soldier 8 

Force 4 

Init +17; Senses Perception +17 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 27, Will 20 

hp 120; SR 20; Threshold 42 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 2 squares (walking), 10 squares (wheeled) 

Melee unarmed +24 (1d6+11) 

Ranged laser cannon +20 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged laser cannon +18 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged laser cannon +15 (5d8+4) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged laser cannon +18/+18 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged laser cannon +16/+16 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged laser cannon +13/+13 (5d8+4) with Burst Fire 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +17; Grp +34 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), Burst Fire, Rapid Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Devastating Attack (rifles), Penetrating Attack (rifles) 

Abilities Str 25, Dex 15, Con —, Int 8, Wis 15, Cha 7 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Armored Defense, Devastating Attack (rifles), Improved Armored 
Defense, Penetrating Attack (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual 
Weapon Mastery II, Improved Damage Threshold, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Running Attack, Skill Training (Initiative), 
Sniper, Triple Crit, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, rifles) 

Skills Initiative +17, Perception +17, Stealth -2 

Systems walking locomotion, wheeled locomotion (exclusive), remote 
receiver, 2 tool appendages, shield generator (SR 20), internal comlink, 
vocabulator, bronzium shell (+5 armor; treat as quadanium plating) 

Possessions 2 laser cannons (treat as blaster rifles) 

Availability Military; Cost 59,275 credits 


ANNIHILATOR DROID 

Huge droid (4th-degree) 

hp 120 

Threshold 42 (SR 20) 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The annihilator droid moves 2 squares (walking). If the droid takes two 
swift actions to move in the same turn, it changes into wheeled mode 
and moves 10 squares. 


Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The annihilator droid makes a Perception check at the start of a battle. 
If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 

Blaster Barrage (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The annihilator droid makes two ranged attacks at +13. If successful, 
each attack deals 5d8+4 points of damage. 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The annihilator droid makes a ranged attack at +18. If successful, 
the attack deals 4d8+4 points of damage. 

Twin Blaster Burst (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The annihilator droid makes a ranged attack at +20. If successful, the 
attack deals 3d8+4 points of damage. 

Skills Initiative +17, Perception +17, Stealth -2 

Vital Systems 2 tool appendages with laser cannons (treat as blaster 
rifles), shield generator (SR 20), internal comlink, vocabulator 


Originally designed to protect the Colicoid homeworld of Colla IV, the 
annihilator droid is a larger, more dangerous version of the Droideka that 
the Colicoids use for home defense. Nicknamed the "Scorpenek" droid, this 
droid walks on four pointed limbs; xenosociologists from the University 
of Sanbra speculate that the Colicoids did not build a rolling movement 
mechanism into this droid because the Colicoids felt it would be a mockery 
of their own biology. 

Fortunately for the rest of the galaxy, annihilator droids are almost 
prohibitively expensive to manufacture. The Colicoids manufacture only a 
few more than they need for self-defense, and reactivate the manufactur- 
ing facilities only to replace lost or destroyed droids. So powerful are these 
annihilator droids that even heavy armored vehicles can rarely stand up to 
their firepower. 

Annihilator droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


ANNIHILATOR DROID 


MODIFICATION: 

CAPITAL SHIP SCRAPPER 

Destroyed capital ships are an excellent source of raw materials and replace- 
ment parts for damaged ships of any fleet. Due to their immense size, these 
ships can be daunting to disassemble, but inhabitants of Ord Mantell, Raxus 
Prime, and other junk planets have put modified annihilator droids to the task 
of breaking these hulks into chunks better sized for resale. This modification 
begins by removing the annihilator's shield generator, which requires a DC 20 
Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. The power from the shields is diverted 
to a magnetic coupler attached to the droid's legs, which requires a DC 25 
Mechanics check and 2 hours of work. The coupler allows the droid to crawl 
around on ships that no longer have gravity control. Next, refit one of the 
laser cannons to work as a large welding device, a task that requires a DC 25 
Mechanics check and 30 minutes of work. A laser cannon modified in this 
way deals the same amount of damage, but an attack made using a welding 
device is considered a melee attack. Replace the other appendage with a 
large pincer apparatus for holding cut pieces of ship. This change requires a 
DC 30 Mechanics check and 2 hours of work. 


MODIFICATION: CARGO HAULER 

The galaxy has a long history of war punctuated by sporadic periods of peace 
during which the machines of combat go silent. Often, droids built for war are 
modified for peacetime use. A clever scrap hauler on Ord Mantell modified 
a few annihilator droids to serve as protection from rival scrap gangs. She 


also fire-linked the droids to target the same attackers automatically. The 
huge powertrain on each droid allows it to haul large pieces of cargo and 
to protect itself from attacks by vehicles. Owners using this modification 
should be careful not to overload the droid with cargo. Doing so reduces its 
mobility and its ability to defend itself. Modifying an annihilator droid to 
haul cargo requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work for each 
cargo pod added. Each pod can hold 200 kilograms of cargo and imposes a 
-1 penalty to either the droid’s attack roll or its Reflex Defense; the penalty 
is chosen when the pod is added. Connecting multiple droids requires a DC 
20 Use Computer check for each droid to be fire-linked. If the process is 
successful, a fire-linked droid grants a +4 bonus when aiding another droid 
that has been fire-linked. 


MODIFICATION: SPACE SENTRY 

The annihilator droid carries serious firepower on the battlefield. It is designed 
to punch through armored ranks and take down troop transports. In space, 
though, sometimes extra guns are needed, and this modification turns the 
droid into a floating turret. The first step is to add lateral maneuvering 
thrusters to allow the droid sufficient movement to target ships; the thrusters 
are not powerful enough to move the droid out of the space in which it was 
deployed. This change requires a DC 30 Mechanics check and 2 hours of work. 
The next step is to realign the droid's fire control buffers, which requires 
a DC 20 Use Computer check. Next, add a projectile launcher, perhaps for 
proton torpedoes or concussion missiles. Replacing one of the laser cannons 
with a launcher requires a DC 25 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. Both 
laser cannons can be removed, but most techs prefer to keep one intact so 
that the droid can continue to defend itself when its projectiles are depleted. 


& PRIVATE PIRATE 
Nobody likes to see annihilator droids show up on the other side ¢) 
of a battle. Anyone who makes it out alive had better demand 
hazard pay. Field upgrades made these droids even more of a hassle. Now, 
they're more like armored cavalry platforms than the original destroyer 
_ droids. The weapons profile is more suited to take out armored vehicles 
and entrenched positions. But don’t let that foo! you—a pair of annihilator 
 droids can mow down plenty of infantry, too. 

The most interesting deployment of annihilator droids I've seen was in 
an asteroid field being used as a base by a band of pirates. Our company 
had acquired some of these droids in a raid, and the pirates bought them 
from us. | was surprised on a later visit to see that the droids were no 

longer in the base. | asked where they'd gone, and one of the crew just 
laughed and pointed out a viewport. The pirates had deployed the droids 
on key asteroids surrounding the entry route to the base. The asteroids 
discouraged outsiders from attacking, and the annihilators were there 
to secure the base from “disgruntled former employees.” 


Ai esievHa 


Y 
PD) 
o | 
G 
Q 
0) 
0) 
0) 
x 


BAGOG) GiIes!ia@ 


Ai wsilavuHS 


BLxX LABOR DROID 


BLX Labor Droid CLO 

Medium droid (S5th-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +1; Senses Perception -1 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 12, Will 9 

hp 4; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 4 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d3+2) 

Ranged by weapon +1 

Base Atk +0; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 12, Con —, Int 6, Wis 8, Cha 16 

Special Qualities droid traits, jack of all trades 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Focus (Endurance), Skill Training 
(Mechanics, Use Computer) 

Skills Endurance +10, Mechanics +3, Perception -1, Use Computer +3 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, 
internal storage (10 kg), magnetic feet, vocabulator, durasteel shell 
(+4 armor) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 8,995 credits 

Jack of All Trades—Once per encounter as a standard action, the BLX 
labor droid can make any skill check as if it were trained in that skill. 


Many years before the advent of the Clone Wars, Serv-O-Droid created the 
BLX labor droid as a general labor unit to be used for just about any kind 
of task that can be performed by humanoid species. In fact, the BLX was 
intentionally programmed not to specialize in any particular profession or 
series of tasks in the hope that its versatility would increase sales. Initial 
sales were good, and compliments from customers focused on the model's 
magnetic feet (which helped the droids work in zero-gravity environments) 
and rugged shell (which protected the droids from the harsh vacuum of space 
and micrometeorite impacts). But news of the BLX's shortcomings—such as 
aural and visual sensors calibrated to standard frequencies, slow movement 
and slow response time, and an odd, simianlike silhouette—dragged the line's 
sales figures down quickly. However, the model's strength and stamina, along 
with revisions to the physical design to make it look more humanoid, helped 
the line survive several more years before being discontinued. 
BLX labor droids can be played as droid heroes. 


BLxX LABOR DROID 

Medium droid (5th-degree) 

hp 4 

Threshold 12 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The BLX labor droid moves 4 squares (walking). 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The BLX labor droid makes a Use Computer check against the target 
computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's attitude toward it. 

Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) ; 

The BLX labor droid issues a routine command to a computer that has a 
friendly attitude toward it. 

Jack of All Trades (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

Once per encounter, the BLX labor droid can make any skill check as if it 
were trained in that skill. 

Jury-Rig (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

With a DC 25 Mechanics check, the BLX labor droid can make temporary 
repairs to any disabled mechanical or electronic device (see the Jury- 
Rig application of the Mechanics skill on page 70 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook). 

Skills Endurance +10, Mechanics +3, Perception -1, Use Computer +3 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, internal storage (10 kg), magnetic 
feet, vocabulator 


BLX LABOR DROID 


MODIFICATION: ATTACHE DROID 
The modification of the BLX labor droid most favored by politicians, ambas- 
sadors, and other dignitaries is the one known as “the attaché." The purpose 
behind this modification is not just to have the droid work as a personal assis- 
tant for its master but also to let it focus on a certain field of study or facet 
of society to assist in such matters. Start by installing an internal comlink, 
preferably one that is encrypted to protect any secrets discussed between the 
droid and its master. Some owners go so far as to install a restraining bolt on 
the droid to call it over when needed. A translator unit (DC 5 or 10) helps the 
droid interact with others more easily, but adding the unit removes the jack 
of all trades special quality. Reprogram the droid's skills, replacing Endurance 
and Mechanics with Knowledge (bureaucracy) and another Knowledge skill 
of the owner's choice. To finalize the modification, exchange the Skill Focus 
(Endurance) feat for one of the Knowledge skills. 


MODIFICATION: 

LONG-RANGE SENSOR DROID 
Although this modification seems odd for a labor droid, the internal frame 
and wiring in the BLX unit's head boosts signals along the frequencies used 
by sensor systems, a fact that still baffles the Serv-O-Droid research and 
development team. As a result, many paramilitary units and mercenary groups 


that obtain a BLX implement this modification. Start by installing a standard 
sensor pack in the droid's chest storage compartment, effectively removing its 
internal storage space. The installation requires a DC 15 Mechanics check and 
1 hour of work to properly link the sensor pack to the droid's internal wiring. 
Next, install a sensor booster, which requires an additional DC 15 Mechanics 
check and 1 hour of work. Also, reprogram the droid to shift the Skill Focus 
from Endurance to Use Computer to help the droid establish a sensor broadcast 
and keep the signal as strong as possible. With these adjustments, the droid 
can increase its scanning area to a range of 5 kilometers. 


MODIFICATION: 

PORTABLE GENERATOR 

This modification is also popular with military organizations as well as with 
technicians and individuals in remote areas of the galaxy. It transforms the 
BLX labor droid into a walking battery capable of supplying power to any 
device, including vehicles and heavy weapons; the droid also can recharge 
spent power packs and energy cells. Making this modification involves sev- 
eral adjustments. First, remove the droid's internal storage to make as much 
room for the generator as possible, and remove the magnetic feet to prevent 
any possible interference with the generator's operation. Next, change the 
heuristic processor to a basic processor. Although this adjustment virtually 
lobotomizes the droid, it is necessary to prevent the droid's operating system 
from shorting out during the generator's charging cycles. Additional internal 
shielding needs to be put into place throughout the chassis to better protect 
other systems and to prevent the droid from overloading. This shielding costs 
an extra 1,000 credits and can be installed with a DC 20 Mechanics check 
and 1 day of work. 


MEMORIES ia 
BLX. hae droid? Ne y dont t have 


this one BLX | heard about recently—part at a tur ral 
near the Maw. Or was it inside the Maw? Don’ t remember. 


ers, new weapons, other ie Word i is he Gioid went rained a 2 while 
back, and the scientist is worried sick over rib 


SaGOeSg) QIOHGaE 


Al BSsLearvHg 


SBaGOeD GIevEG 


COLICOID INFILTRATOR- 
SERIES DROID 


Colicoid Infiltrator-Series Droid CL4 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12 

Init +8; Senses darkvision; Perception +15 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 14, Will 12 

hp 40; SR 20; Threshold 14 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking), 3 squares (climbing) 

Melee vibroblade +13 (2d6+4) 

Ranged blaster rifle +11 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (4d8) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +9; Grp +13 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Rapid Shot 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 15, Con —, Int 11, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Special Qualities droid traits, penetrate hull 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Rapid Shot, Skill 
Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +15, Stealth +18 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, 4 tool appendages, 
darkvision, improved sensor package, locked access, vocabulator, 
shield generator (SR 20), bronzium shell (+5 armor; treat as 
quadanium plating) 

Possessions 2 vibroblades, 2 blaster rifles, climbing claws, holographic 
image disguiser, liquid cable dispenser, silence bubble generator 

Availability Military; Cost 33,720 credits 


Penetrate Hull—A Colicoid Infiltrator-Series droid always rolls maximum 
damage when using its vibroblades to cut into the hull of a vehicle or 
to cut through solid walls and doors. 


COLIcoID 

INFILTRATOR-SERIES DROID 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 40 

Threshold 14 (SR 20) 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The Colicoid Infiltrator-Series droid moves 6 squares (walking) or 3 
squares (climbing). 

Create a Diversion to Hide (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Colicoid Infiltrator-Series droid can make a Deception check to divert 
an opponent's attention and give the droid time to hide. 

Penetrate Hull (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 


COLICOID INFILTRATOR-SERIES DROID 


The Colicoid Infiltrator-Series droid makes a melee attack at +13. 

If successful, the attack deals 2d6+4 points of damage, or 16 points of 
damage against the hull of a vehicle or against solid walls and doors. 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Colicoid Infiltrator-Series droid makes a ranged attack at +9. 

If successful, the attack deals 4d8 points of damage. 

Sneak (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Colicoid Infiltrator-Series droid can slip past an opponent without 
being noticed by making a successful Stealth check opposed by the 
opponent's Perception check. 

Snipe (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Colicoid Infiltrator-Series droid can attempt to hide again after 
making a ranged attack from hiding. 

Skills Perception +15, Stealth +18 

Vital Systems 4 tool appendages, 2 vibroblades, 2 blaster rifles, 
vocabulator, shield generator (SR 20), climbing claws, holographic 
image disguiser, liquid cable dispenser, silence bubble generator 


In the years preceding the blockade of Naboo, the Colicoid Creation Nest 
manufactured a large number of Infiltrator-Series droids for use by Separatist 
forces. The Infiltrator looks almost identical to the Droideka-Series model 
used extensively by the Trade Federation, except that it has four multijointed 
legs instead of three, and it has long, sharp, curved hooks (instead of blaster 
rifles) at the ends of its arms. Also, the Infiltrator has multiple nodes on its 


body to hold additional tools and weapons, such as blaster rifles, grappling 
lines, and holographic image disguisers. Although not as popular with the 
Neimoidians and the Separatists as Droidekas and Eradicators, Infiltrators 
were deployed during the Clone Wars as ship-boarding units that would land 
on a starship's outer hull, cut their way through undetected, and hide until 
the right time to strike against the crew. Sometimes, an Infiltrator would 
perform its job so well that it would wipe out the entire crew before anyone 
realized what was going on. 
Colicoid Infiltrator-Series droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


ENCOUNTERING A COLICOID 
OINFILTRATOR-SERIES DROID 
When Colicoid Infiltrator-Series droids are encountered at all, they are 
usually found aboard starships. In the vast majority of such encounters, 
the droid is working alone to accomplish its mission, as is the case with 
this particular encounter. While aboard the ship, the Infiltrator has 
secured an isolated area of the vessel as its lair—the end of a corridor 
16 squares long and 2 squares wide that is near the Engineering section. 
_ Since the droid has no allies, it keeps the light levels low in the area to 
“mask its presence while resting or hiding from the members of the crew. 
When it detects anyone entering the corridor and heading in its direc- 
tion, the droid activates its holographic image disguiser to appear as a 
_ computer console at the end of the dark hallway. If the ploy fails and the 
intruders continue to advance, the droid drops the disguise, activates its 
shield generator and silence bubble generator, and opens fire with both 
blaster rifles. With the silence bubble generator active, the blaster fire 
does not make enough noise to attract attention. If the intruders flee 
before being eliminated, the droid moves to the side of the corridor and 
reverts back to the holographic disguise for 30 minutes to make sure 
the danger has passed. 


MODIFICATION: 

COMMUNICATIONS BEACON 

On a low-tech world or in any location where it is difficult to reach some- 
one by comlink, turning an Infiltrator-Series droid into a communications 
beacon is a highly appealing and fairly easy modification. Start by removing 
the droid's holographic image disguiser and silence bubble generator. In the 
chassis, install a long-range comlink connected to the droid's power source, 
which requires a DC 15 Mechanics check and 30 minutes of work. Add a 
pocket scrambler, requiring another DC 15 Mechanics check and 15 minutes 
of work. Next, add a comlink relay (similar to the one normally found in a 
CZ-Series secretary droid; see page 80) directly to the long-range comlink, 
which requires a DC 15 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. Finally, repro- 
gram the Skill Training and Skill Focus feats from Stealth to Use Computer. 
Once the modification is complete, the droid can receive multiple comlink 
signals and boost their range to 500 kilometers. 


MODIFICATION: 

HEAVY WEAPONS TURRET 

Transforming an Infiltrator droid into a heavy weapons turret seems simple 
enough, but the modification is actually somewhat complicated. The first, 
and possibly the easiest, step is to remove the vibroblades and climbing claws. 
Then, exchange the blaster rifles for two heavy repeating blasters, two blaster 
cannons, ora single E-Web repeating blaster. Alternatively, the droid could be 
equipped with up to four missile launchers. The holographic image disguiser 
and silence bubble generator must be removed to make room for more than 
two launchers, and an Infiltrator droid can launch only four missiles before 
an ally must perform a manual reload. Changing the weapons requires a DC 
15 Mechanics check and 15 minutes of work for each weapon. To complete 
the modification, reprogram the droid's Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons) feat to Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons). 


MODIFICATION: 

WALKING THRONE 

Although walking thrones are available on the open market, very few offer 
defensive capabilities, and those that do are expensive. Modifying an Infil- 
trator droid to act as a walking throne allows its master to have a mode 
of transportation that also puts a good amount of firepower at his or her 
fingertips. First, rearrange the Infiltrator from an upright walking droid to a 
walking platform, which involves bringing the chest down to rest on top of its 
lower thorax and making the head face forward. This process requires a DC 
20 Mechanics check and 4 hours of work. Next, permanently place the arms 
against the torso's side, remove the vibroblades, and position the blaster rifles 
to face forward. This part of the modification requires a DC 15 Mechanics 
check and 2 hours of work. Finally, securely install the seat onto the droid's 
back, which requires a DC 15 Mechanics check and 30 minutes of work. 


SILENT DEATH () 
If there's one thing | can warn you about, it's Colicoid Infiltrator- & , 
Series droids. They're sneaky. Half the time, you don't hear them 

coming, and the other half, you wish you hadn't. I've heard stories about 
one of these droids floating across the void from a Separatist ship, attach- 
ing itself to a nearby Republic ship, and ripping its way through the hull, 
Then it camps somewhere inside and picks off the entire crew, one by one. 
| can't tell you how many empty ships are floating out in space because 
a single Infiltrator found its way inside. In fact, | just heard another story 
a few days ago. This smugg... uh, freighter captain | know picked up 
a distress signal somewhere near Dubrillion. He thought it was coming 
from a Republic cruiser. The signal had a repeating message—something 
about the crew being trapped in their own ship by a droid that appeared 
out of nowhere, cut someone down, then disappeared again. None of the 
crew—well, the ones that were still alive, anyway—could get a good look 
at it, and everyone was spooked. Sounds like an Infiltrator droid to me. 


Al BSiavHo 


7 
2D | 
o 
g 
@) 
Q) 
© | 
WW 
x 


Al 3aiavHoa 


SEaGEeHD GBISGHG) 


U 


C2Z-SERIES 
SECRETARY DROID 


CZ-Series Secretary Droid CLO 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Huttese, 3 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 11 

hp 3; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (1d3-1) 

Ranged by weapon +0 

Base Atk +0; Grp +0 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con —, Int 15, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Special Qualities comlink jammer, comlink relay, droid traits 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy], Use Computer), 
Skill Training (Perception) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +7, 
Perception +6, Use Computer +12 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink (encrypted, long-range), locked access, vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 8,280 credits 

Comlink Jammer—As a standard action, the CZ-Series secretary droid can 
rapidly cycle through comlink frequencies, broadcasting loud static 
on all channels. Until the end of the droid's next turn, all comlinks 
(including encrypted comlinks) cease to function while within 12 
squares of the droid. 

Comlink Relay—A CZ-Series secretary droid can act as a relay for 
comlinks, allowing others who are in communication with the droid to 
make use of its long-range, encrypted comlink. 


C2Z-SERIES SECRETARY DROID 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) 

hp 3 

Threshold 9 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The CZ-Series secretary droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Comlink Jammer (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

Until the end of the owner's next turn, all comlinks (including encrypted 
comlinks) cease to function while within 12 squares of the CZ-Series 
secretary droid. 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The CZ-Series secretary droid makes a Use Computer check against the 
target computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's attitude 
toward it. 


CZ-SERIES SECRETARY DROID 


Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The CZ-Series secretary droid issues a routine command to a computer 
that has a friendly attitude toward it. 

Translator (1 free action) 

The CZ-Series secretary droid translates to or from any language it knows. 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +7, 
Perception +6, Use Computer +12 

Systems 2 hand appendages, internal comlink (encrypted, long-range), 
vocabulator, translator unit (DC 10) 


Designed to serve as a communications assistant for bureaucrats, corporate 
executives, and military administrators, the CZ-Series secretary droid spe- 
cializes in managing, organizing, and directing all forms of communications 
through a particular office or organization. The droid handles audio signals 
from comlinks, text and data messages through planetary computer net- 
works, and holographic messages from the HoloNet. The droid has internal 
systems capable of acting as a switchboard, receiving, analyzing, and routing 
many communications simultaneously. Furthermore, it is programmed to 
receive instructions from its owner on how to prioritize incoming commu- 
nications, ensuring that during the work day, only the most urgent messages 
and comlink requests are passed on. The CZ-Series secretary droid serves as 
a buffer between its owner and those who want to contact him or her, and it 
comes loaded with the most common languages spoken by its owner's associ- 
ates. Once the owner links his or her comlink, datapads, portable computers, 
and other communications devices to the droid, its programming takes over, 
and the droid receives, sorts, and routes all messages. 
CZ-Series secretary droids can be played as droid heroes. 


PLAYING A C2Z-SERIES 
SECRETARY DROID 

Players who want to build a CZ-Series droid hero should take the stock 
protocol droid chassis (see page 13) and choose noble as the starting 
class, using the Linguist starting feat to replicate the droid’s preloaded 
languages. Instead of starting with a translator unit, the CZ-Series droid 
gets the comlink jammer and comlink relay special qualities, as described 
in the full statistics block. Select Knowledge (bureaucracy), Knowledge 
(galactic lore), Perception, and Use Computer as four of the droid's 
starting skills. For additional trained skills, consider Gather Information 
to represent the droid’s ability to filter through thousands of messages 
and sift out the best information, Knowledge (technology) to represent 
the droid's facility with communications networks and similar technology, 
and Persuasion to represent the droid’s ability to deal with its owner's 
allies, clients, and coworkers in a pleasant manner. Be sure to purchase 
an encrypted, long-range comlink and the locked access accessory as a 
part of the droid's starting equipment. 


MODIFICATION: IDENTITY THIEF 
Con artists and scammers like this alteration, which tweaks the CZ-Series 
secretary droid's internal systems, shifting the focus from data routing to 
data replication. A secretary droid modified in this manner still routes and 
analyzes all incoming messages, but over time it builds a database of verbal, 
data, and holographic records pertaining to specific individuals. Eventually, 
the droid can piece together enough information to replicate an individual's 
mannerisms, speech patterns, voice, and holographic appearance. 

To modify a CZ-Series secretary droid in this way, first reprogram its 
Knowledge (galactic lore) skill to the Deception skill, and reprogram the 
Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy]) feat to Skill Focus (Deception). 
Afterward, make similar adjustments to the hardware, which require a DC 
25 Mechanics check and 8 hours of work. Once these modifications are 
complete, the droid loses its comlink jammer special quality and gains the 
ability to replicate the voice, mannerisms, and holographic appearance of a 
specific individual with whom it has had contact. The droid can do so only 
when communicating with someone remotely (via comlink, hologram, or 
other means), and it treats the deception as though it were two steps closer 
to a simple deception; for example, an incredible deception becomes only 
a moderate deception. (See page 65 of the Saga Edition core rulebook for 
more information on the Deception skill.) 


MODIFICATION: PIRATE 

HOLONET TRANSCEIVER 

The CZ-Series secretary droid's internal communications systems are so 
sophisticated that they can be modified to allow the droid to act as a walking 
HoloNet transceiver. Usually, transceivers are found only aboard starships due 
to the communications equipment required to connect to the HoloNet, but 
this modification lets the droid tap into HoloNet satellites in hyperspace. The 
process is not cheap; the transceiver alone costs 50,000 credits, and modify- 


ing the droid to use the transceiver costs another 3,000 credits in adapters, 
connectors, and memory buffers. Installing the components requires a DC 
30 Mechanics check and 2 days of work. Afterward, the droid is considered 
to have “pirate” access to the HoloNet, and, if equipped with a holographic 
recorder/projector, can allow its owners to communicate in real time with 
other HoloNet-equipped beings anywhere in the galaxy. 


MODIFICATION: SLICER'S PROXY 
A CZ-Series secretary droid can be outfitted with special internal computer 
spikes that let the droid act as a slicer's proxy when connected to a secure 
network. Slicers who cannot penetrate a computer's security system from 
the outside sometimes make use of a CZ-Series droid instead, planting 
software routines within the droid. The next time the droid plugs into 
the secure network, the slicer's commands go out onto the network. This 
modification requires a Use Computer check to reprogram the droid (with 
a DC equal to the droid's Will Defense) and 30 minutes of work. However, 
instead of reprogramming the droid normally, the slicer makes multiple Use 
Computer checks and stores the check results in the droid's memory. The 
slicer can use these checks for any application of the Use Computer skill, 
including those granted by talents from the Slicer tree. When the droid next 
connects to the designated network, the slicer's commands are issued in the 
designated order, using the stored Use Computer check results and using the 
computer system's attitude toward the droid instead of its attitude toward 
the slicer. The modified droid can store a number of such commands equal 
to its Intelligence modifier; all commands still require the normal amount 
of time to complete. 


OVERLOOKED ESPIONAGE 

One benefit that CZ-Series secretary droids gain from their ‘| 
devotion to managing the menial tasks of their masters is that 

they make excellent spies. As unassuming assistants, these droids are 
often overlooked when espionage sweeps occur. One such CZ-Series unit 
that served as a communications droid in an Imperial Security Bureau 
office on Brentaal had been compromised secretly by the Rebel Alliance. 
When agents of the Empire discovered the presence of the Rebel cell, the 
conspirators were executed, but the droid was left in place, continuing 
to collect information for the Rebellion despite the fact that no one was 
there to receive it. The Alliance knows that it is only a matter of time 
before the Imperials realize that the droid stores sensitive data. The 
Rebels are likely in need of a team of skilled heroes to travel to Brentaal, 
break into the ISB office, retrieve the droid, and bring it—and its valuable 
memory banks—back to Alliance High Command. 


Al YSiowvwHo 


=) 


RKaeqGeoD Gewaqg 


2] 


Al SSsidvHg 


SIGOD GAeXaG 


DP-2 PROBE DROID 


DP-2 Probe Droid CL6 
Large starfighter/ground vehicle (speeder) 
Init +6; Senses Perception +7 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19 

Immune droid traits 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 575 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Melee claw +4 (see below) 

Ranged blaster cannon +2 (see below) and 

Ranged space beacon launcher +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover none 

Base Atk +0; Grp +9 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +7, Perception +7, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +7 

Crew 0 (normal); Passengers none 


DP-2 PROBE DROID 


Cargo 15 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 16 space beacons 
Availability Licensed; Cost 36,500 credits 


Blaster cannon 

Atk +2, Dmg 3d12 
Claw 

Atk +4, Dmg 1d6+4 
Space beacon launcher 

Atk +2, Dmg — 


DP-2 PROBE DROID 

Large droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 40 

Threshold 19 (DR 5) 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The DP-2 probe droid moves 12 squares (flying). 

Extended Sensor Range (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

Through telemetry, the DP-2 probe droid's master can reroll Perception 
checks when using a vehicle's sensors. 

Extended Weapon Range (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

Through telemetry, the DP-2 probe droid can reduce its master's range 
penalties by up to two categories, but both the droid and its master 
must have line of effect to the target. 

Patch Job (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The DP-2 probe droid makes fast, temporary repairs to any disabled 
mechanical or electronic device. The number of hit points restored 
equals the result of the droid's Mechanics check. 

Reconnoiter (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The DP-2 probe droid can help its master determine their location by 
examining their surroundings, granting a +2 circumstance bonus to its 
master's Perception check when using a vehicle's sensors. 

Telemetry (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The DP-2 probe droid can transmit what it sees and hears to its master's 
display or vehicle. This system is most effective when the droid is at 
least 30 squares away. 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +7, Perception +7, Pilot +6, 

Use Computer +7 * 

Vital Systems 1 claw appendage, space beacon launcher with 16 beacons, 

blaster cannon 


ENCOUNTERING A 

|\DP-2 PROBE DROID 
Most often, a DP-2 probe droid is found performing an initial assessment 
of a newly discovered world, scouting ahead for its master while on a 
planet, or staying within line of sight of its master while it watches their 
camp's perimeter. In this encounter, a DP-2 probe droid patrols the edge 
of its master's camp in the middle of a large, grassy field on a temperate 
world, The droid floats along at a leisurely but steady pace at a distance 
of about 20 squares from the camp when the heroes arrive. When the 
DP-2 detects them, it alerts its master and his companions before bring- 
ing its blaster cannon to bear and demanding the reason for the heroes’ 
presence. If they do not give a sufficient answer within 1 round, the 
droid warns them to turn back or it will open fire. If the heroes do not 
leave, the droid intentionally fires at the ground in front of them to try 

_ to scare them away. The DP-2 expects its master and up to three of his 
friends to arrive within 2 rounds to back it up. 


Even before the advent of the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi Civil War, Duwani 
Mechanical Products produced a vast number of droids for many facets of 
society. With a good portion of space still unexplored, Duwani created a 
probe droid for the scouts and explorers that roam the galaxy. The DP-2 
has an ovoid body with a face at one end and six arms that extend away at 
equidistant points around the middle of the chassis. The arms give the droid 
the appearance of constantly being in flight, even when it is motionless. The 
front end of the chassis hosts a highly sensitive sensor suite designed to scan 
for biological, chemical, and electromagnetic signatures as well as for vari- 
ous forms of life. The arms hold different tools that the DP-2 uses to collect 
samples and specimens when exploring new worlds. In the event that the DP-2 
is used to track a course or guide its master to a destination, it contains a 
space beacon system that can deploy up to 16 beacons. The droid also carries 
a blaster cannon in case it encounters hostile lifeforms during its journey. 
DP-2 probe droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

BLOCKADE BREAKER 

If the situation ever arises where one is stuck behind a planetary blockade 
and escape seems hopeless, this modification of the DP-2 probe droid just 
might do the trick. The idea is to send the droid ahead to distract the blockade 
from noticing the vehicle carrying those trying to escape. Preparing the droid 
for such a task is not difficult and takes little more than a day. The first and 
probably most important part of the process is removing the space beacon 
launcher and replacing it with a starship-grade SR 25 shield generator to 
increase the odds that the droid will survive the encounter. Installing the 


system requires a DC 35 Mechanics check, 4 hours of work, and raw materials 
worth 1,500 credits. To make sure that sufficient power is available for the 
shield generator, add a secondary battery dedicated entirely to that purpose 
(a task requiring 4 hours of work and raw materials worth 1,000 credits). 
Finally, adding maneuvering jets helps the droid avoid incoming fire and 
improves its ability to successfully pilot through the blockade; this process 
requires 8 hours of work, costs 2,000 credits, and gives the droid a +2 bonus 
to its Dexterity score. 


MODIFICATION: COURIER DROID 
Sometimes, cargo needs to be delivered to a recipient, but the sender wants 
to keep his or her identity secret or avoid possible hostile reactions to the 
package. Configuring a DP-2 probe droid to deliver the package is a good 
way to accomplish such a task. To modify the DP-2 droid in this manner, 
start by removing the space beacon launcher and installing 20 kilograms of 
internal storage in its place. Replace the droid's sublight drive with one that 
increases its speed to 4 or 5 squares to improve its chance of reaching its 
destination in a timely manner—and to reduce the risk that the droid will 
be stopped by forces seeking to intercept it. Installing a holographic image 
disguiser can help the droid fool observers into thinking that it is nothing 
more than a meteor or a piece of space junk. Finally, adding a hyperdrive 
allows the DP-2 to journey to other star systems, which further helps its 
master avoid entanglements. The entire cost of this modification is 31,300 
credits. The entire modification can be done in 2 days with a single DC 35 
Mechanics check. The end result is that the droid has a sublight speed of 
4 squares (starships scale), a holographic image disguiser, a x8 hyperdrive, 
and 20 kg of internal storage space. 


EXTENDED TRAVELS ¢9 
The DP-2 probe droid that Duwani Mechanical Products built ‘; 
was quite popular in its day. I'm surprised they didn't put all the 

scouts out of business. Those droids were pretty good at what they did. 
| suppose that's why Duwani didn't equip them with hyperdrives. If they 
did that, we wouldn't need starships anymore, eh? We could just send 
DP-2s out to deliver our messages or find new planets for us to colonize. 
But | suppose that some people would still want to travel the stars, and 
| would be glad for that—so | could sell them some of my other droids. 
You know, now that you mention it, friend, there's this customer of mine 
who flew off to Dantooine. Something happened when he reached the 
system. | got a message from him saying that some droid shot out his 
engines when he approached one of the outer planets, and now he's 
drifting, caught in the planet's gravity well. The description of the droid 
he gave me sure sounds like a DP-2. Maybe you could go rescue him and 
bring him back here? He still owes me credits. 


xaqgeoD Gexuag 


SeqGoD Gicvu@g 


DROIDEKA MARK II 


Droideka Mark II cL 8 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12/soldier 4 
Force 3 


Init +16; Senses Perception +15 
Languages Basic (understand only), Binary 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 19, Will 16 

hp 80; SR 20; Threshold 29 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 2 squares (walking), 10 squares (wheeled) 

Melee unarmed +16 (1d4+5) 

Ranged laser cannon +17 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged laser cannon +12 (5d8+2) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged laser cannon +15/+15 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged laser cannon +10/+10 (5d8+2) with Burst Fire 

Ranged ion cannon +17 (3d8+2 ion) or 

Ranged ion cannon +12 (5d8+2 ion) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged ion cannon +15/+15 (3d8+2 ion) or 

Ranged ion cannon +10/+10 (5d8+2 ion) with Burst Fire 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +13; Grp +21 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), Burst Fire, Rapid Shot, 

Running Attack 

Special Actions Devastating Attack (rifles), Penetrating Attack (rifles) 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 16, Con —, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 7 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Devastating Attack (rifles), Penetrating Attack (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual 
Weapon Mastery II, Improved Damage Threshold, Rapid Shot, Running 
Attack, Skill Training (Initiative), Triple Crit, Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles) 

Skills Initiative +16, Perception +15, Stealth +6 

Systems walking locomotion, wheeled locomotion (exclusive), remote 
receiver, 2 tool appendages, shield generator (SR 20), internal comlink, 
bronzium shell (+5 armor; treat as quadanium plating) 

Possessions 2 laser cannons (treat as blaster rifles), 2 ion cannons (treat 
as ion rifles) 

Availability Military; Cost 31,435 credits 


DROIDEKA MARK Il 
Large droid (4th-degree) 

hp 80 

Threshold 29 (SR 20) 


DROIDEKA MARK II 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The Droideka Mark II destroyer droid moves 2 squares (walking). If the 
droid takes two swift actions to move in the same turn, it changes into 
wheeled mode and moves 10 squares. 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The Droideka Mark II destroyer droid makes a Perception check at the 
start of a battle. If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids 
surprise. 

Blaster Barrage (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The Droideka Mark II destroyer droid makes two ranged attacks at +10. 
If successful, each attack deals 5d8+2 points of damage. 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Droideka Mark Il destroyer droid makes a ranged attack at +15. 

If successful, the attack deals 4d8+2 points of damage. 

Twin Blaster Burst (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Droideka Mark II destroyer droid makes a ranged attack at +17. 
If successful, the attack deals 3d8+2 points of damage. 


Skills Initiative +16, Perception +15, Stealth +6 
Vital Systems 2 tool appendages with laser cannons (treat as blaster 
rifles), shield generator (SR 20), internal comlink 


ENCOUNTERING A 

DROIDEKA MARK I! 

The heroes need to make a quick exit in a landspeeder. They hop on board, 
| the pilot puts the pedal to the floor, and they're off. Everything seems 
| quiet for a moment, then the hum of Droidekas gets louder and louder. 

The chase is on! The Droidekas concentrate on damaging the heroes’ 

vehicle. The Gamemaster should set the number of turns the chase will 

last. Characters not at the wheel can help by taking aid another actions as 
well as by targeting the droids' other defenses. A droid's Will Defense can 
be used in case it is forced into oncoming traffic, lured away by another 
vehicle, and so on. To keep things moving, have such tactics affect the 
droid’s condition track. If the heroes manage to elude the Droidekas for 
the designated number of turns, they pull off one last spectacular stunt, 
leaving the droids in the dust and laughing all the way back to their ship. 


The Droideka is one of the iconic droids of the Clone Wars and a terrifying 
symbol of the droid army's efficiency. The design has its flaws, but any 
veteran of the Clone Wars can tell you a story of how a Droideka changed 
the tone of a battle. The original Droideka model was decommissioned after 
the Clone Wars and soon became a distant nightmare. However, the Zann 
Consortium discovered a manufacturing facility on the planet Hypori during 
the Galactic Civil War. It engaged Jabba the Hutt in a battle for the facility, 
which produced the Droideka Mark II. The Consortium was victorious, and 
new Droidekas soon appear in the hands of mercenary units and private 
armies across the galaxy. The nightmare has returned. 
Droideka Mark II droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

MAGNETIC STARSHIP TURRET 

The Droideka Mark II is an impressive antivehicle weapon, but leave it to 
those on the galactic fringe to make a good weapon even better. Smugglers 
allied with the infamous Riders of the Maelstrom use this modification to 
circumvent strict starship weapons regulations. They keep a powered-down 
Droideka in the cargo bay, and if the situation gets hot, they open the bay 
door and let the droid walk out onto the hull to discourage pursuit. This trick 
has yet to gain widespread use outside the Outer Rim, although a few system 
patrols are already wise to it. 

This modification begins by removing the Droideka’s shield generator; 
when deployed as a turret, the droid is under the protection of the star- 
ship's shields. This change requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and about 
30 minutes of work. Next, divert the power from the shields to a magnetic 
coupler attached to the droid’s legs, which requires a DC 25 Mechanics check 
and 1 hour of work. The coupler allows the droid to stick to the ship's hull. 
Although the droid can move along the hull during combat, most settle into 
an optimum firing position as soon as possible. 


At the Gamemaster's discretion, installation can proceed if either Mechan- 
ics check fails, but the coupler will not be installed properly. Failure to install 
the coupler properly means that whenever the pilot makes a Pilot check, the 
droid must make an Acrobatics check with a DC equal to the pilot's DC. If the 
droid fails this check, the coupler fails to hold the droid to the hull. 


MODIFICATION: 

SiITH JEDI HUNTER 

The Droideka is one of the most powerful ground units in the Clone Wars. 
Encounters between Droidekas and Jedi often end in stalemates. The 
Droideka’'s blaster fire can be blocked by the Jedi's lightsaber, but the Jedi's 
weapon might be unable to penetrate the droid's shielding. By the time the 
Zann Consortium upgraded the Droideka, the Jedi were fading from the 
galaxy. But followers of the dark side knew there were still Jedi to eliminate, 
and the Mark Il provided them with the platform to do so. 

To modify the droid into a Sith Jedi hunter, rebalance and enhance its 
gyroscope, which makes it less vulnerable to telekinetic attacks. This change 
requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. The rebalancing 
slows the droid to a wheeled speed of 3 but gives it a defensive bonus of +2 
against the use of Force push, Force pull, and Force slam. Next, rewire the 
droid's fire control systems so the blaster cannons fire simultaneously; this 
change requires a DC 25 Use Computer check and 30 minutes of work. Firing 
the cannons in this manner is a full-round action, and the DC of any Use the 
Force check made to block or deflect this attack is increased by 10. Finally, 
replace the ion cannons with a pair of high-frequency emitters that disrupt the 
crystals used in lightsabers, a change that requires a DC 25 Mechanics check 
and 1 hour of work. The emitters weaken the lightsaber beam and reduce its 
damage by 1d8 points per attack. However, when the emitters are engaged, 
they interfere with the droid's shield generator, reducing its shields to 0. 


Use ONLY GENUINE 

DROIDEKA PARTS 

The Mark II is meaner version of the old Droideka. Almost 
everyone in the market for a Droideka really wants a Mark II, and who 
can blame them? The Zann Consortium improved the design in a lot of 
ways. Sure, you can use aftermarket kits they sell, but the design is solid 
enough that you won't really need them. Any Jawa with decent repair 
bay and right amount of credits can make the Mark II fit whatever role 
you need. The secret? Mark Il parts and original Droideka parts are 
practically interchangeable. That good news for us, because after the 
Clone Wars, we were swamped with banged-up Droidekas that nobody 
wanted to buy. Smart Jawas fixed them up as best they could to provide 
security for sandcrawlers. Tatooine's not so bad, but other places require 
armed security to keep the merchandise from being carried away. But 
be warned. Unscrupulous Jawas, unlike myself, might sell you a Mark | 
Droideka with a Mark Il casing and a Mark II price tag. 


Q 
i 
9 
0 
Q) 
fo 
9 
y 
x 


Ab 83i¢dvH3 


Ai 4ustavHea 


DT-i6 “DESTRUCTOR” 
BATTLE DROID 


DT-16 “Destructor” Battle Droid CL 2 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +3; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary 


<eqGoQ GIOVE | 


Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 16, Will 11 

hp 38; Threshold 21 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+6) 

Ranged blaster rifle +4 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +2 (4d8) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged grenade launcher +4 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +4; Grp +15 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 11, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 5 

Special Qualities barrage, droid traits 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles) 

Skills Perception +11, Stealth -2 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages with 
concealed weapons (see Possessions), 1 too! appendage, improved 
sensor package, vocabulator, internal storage (6 kg), plasteel shell 
(+2 armor) 

Possessions 2 blaster rifles (concealed in arms), grenade launcher with 
12 frag grenades 

Availability Military; Cost 13,725 credits 

Barrage—The DT-16 battle droid can forgo its normal actions for one 
round to launch three grenades at three adjacent opponents. By doing 
so, it grants all allies within 3 squares of the droid a +2 circumstance 
bonus to their Reflex Defense against attacks from those opponents 
until the start of the droid's next turn. 


OT-16 “DESTRUCTOR” 
BATTLE DROID 

Large droid (4th-degree) 

hp 38 

Threshold 21 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The DT-16 battle droid moves 8 squares (walking). 


Barrage (3 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The DT-16 battle droid makes a ranged attack against three adjacent 
opponents to grant a +2 circumstance bonus to the Reflex Defense of 
all allies within 3 squares of the droid until the start of its next turn. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The DT-16 battle droid makes a Perception check against a target's 
Stealth check. If the check is successful, the droid detects the target. 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The DT-16 battle droid makes a ranged attack at +2. If successful, the 
attack deals 4d8 points of damage. 

Skills Perception +11, Stealth -2 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages with concealed blaster rifles, 1 tool 
appendage, grenade launcher with 12 frag grenades, vocabulator, 
internal storage (6 kg) 

During the height of the Mandalorian Wars, a number of manufacturing 

companies designed and marketed various battle droids as their contribu- 

tion to the war effort. Although the droids were not used as much as the 
companies had hoped, the sudden appearance of so many different types of 
battle droids was a boon for mercenaries and local militias. The DT-16 battle 
droid, created by Droidworks, represents the trend followed by a number of 
smaller companies at the time. Nicknamed “destructor” by those that tested 
the droid series in the field, the DT-16 stands about 2.7 meters tall and 
appears much like a muscular humanoid, with broad shoulders and a bulky 
torso. The droid has a hand at the end of each of its two arms; the hands 
can be switched quickly with blaster rifles stored in its arms. The chest holds 

a built-in grenade launcher behind a sliding panel and a connected storage 

unit that can hold up to 12 grenades. Combined with decent armor and a 

superior sensor array, the DT-16 can be a fearsome foe on the battlefield. 
DT-16 “destructor” battle droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


DT-16 “DESTRUCTOR” BATTLE DROID 


MODIFICATION: SENTRY DROID 
Modifying a DT-16 battle droid from an aggressive combatant to a defensive 
sentry seems simple enough, but the process involves a number of changes 
to make the droid effective within its new parameters. First, outfitting the 
droid with darkvision (as per the droid accessory) allows it to function at 
any time of the day or night without assistance. Adding a glowrod to the side 
of its head might seem redundant when combined with darkvision, but it is 
useful for companions that cannot see in other spectra, reduces the vision of 
intruders, and allows the droid to shine a light on enemy targets. The glowrod 
can be added with a DC 15 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. Next, install 
an internal comlink so the droid can maintain contact with headquarters 
while on patrol duty; this change requires another DC 15 Mechanics check 
and 1 hour of work. Change the grenades from frag grenades to stun gre- 
nades. Finally, reprogram the droid to replace the Toughness feat with the 
Skill Focus (Perception) feat to complete the modification. 


MODIFICATION: 

ANTIVEHICLE DEFENSE DROID 
This modification is useful for military units in the field that expect to face 
enemy vehicles. It supplements the droid's weapons array with armaments 
that are better suited for use against vehicles than against infantry. Start by 
adding two tool mounts to the droid's shoulders, one on each side, requiring a 
DC 20 Mechanics check and 2 hours of work. Next, mount a missile launcher 
on each of the new shoulder mounts, and add 10 kilograms of additional 
internal storage space for holding two extra magazines of missiles, using 
normal droid modification rules. Construct a loading system for the launchers 
in which spent magazines are ejected and new ones are loaded automati- 
cally from the storage space. This system allows the magazine change to 
take place as a standard action instead of a full-round action. Building this 
system requires a DC 25 Mechanics check and 1 day of work. Reprogram the 
Toughness feat into the Far Shot feat, and the droid is ready to go. 


MODIFICATION: 

LIGHT CONSTRUCTION DROID 

Given the droid's height and strength, the DT-16 seems to be suited as much 
for construction work as for warfare. Many builders agree and actively seek 
out the droids just for this modification. Start by removing the blaster rifles 
and grenade launcher—construction droids have no need for weaponry—and 
expand the storage space to at least 10 kilograms. Next, remove the hand 
appendages and replace them with claw appendages, which requires a DC 20 
Mechanics check and 2 hours of work. After that, add a second tool append- 
age with another DC 20 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. Place a laser 
cutter and an electric arc welder onto the tool mounts. Install a diagnostics 
package as a way to verify that the droid’s construction work is done properly. 
Finally, reprogram the droid's skill set, changing Perception to Mechanics. 


OLD CARGO 

I've heard of the DT-16 battle droid. Never: seen it, bi heard of 
it. What | do know about them is they stand head and shoulders 
above most of battle droids you see today. And they 
But | also heard they have issues with following ord 
wired in personality matrix or something. | woul 
ona DI-16 and look inside. Oh, that reminds me 


me he fas heavily damiesed Ship doation | in ae space coreu re 
near Elrood Sector. He managed to dock with it and look around a bit. 
He found one of the cargo holds was still intact, despite hull breaches. 
He found the manifest and gave me copy. It says all kinds of old and | 
archaic droids are on board that ship, including a half dozen DT-16s! If 
you could get me some of those droids, I'd pay good credits. aa look 
out for pirates out there. 


Al SSiadvHo 


SaqGeHD GeXq 


AI BSiavYHS 


Q 
0) 
g 
0 
) 
a 
9 
W 
x 


DUELIST EBvITEeE 
TRAINING DROID 


Duelist Elite Training Droid CL.1 
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 1 

Force 2 

Init +7; Senses Perception +0 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 15, Will 11 
hp 30; Threshold 15 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee rapier +4 (1d8+4) 

Ranged by weapon +3 

Base Atk +1; Grp +3 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 14, Con —, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Weapon Specialization (simple weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Weapon Focus (simple weapons), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +7, Perception +0, Treat Injury +5, Use Computer +5 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, 
vocabulator, durasteel shell (+4 armor) 

Possessions rapier 

Availability Restricted; Cost 11,330 credits 


DOueCLIstT ELITE 

TRAINING DROID 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 30 

Threshold 15 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The Duelist Elite training droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Fencing Assistance (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Duelist Elite training droid assists a character's attack, providing a +2 
bonus to the roll. 

First Aid (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The Duelist Elite training droid makes a DC 15 Treat Injury check ona 
target in an adjacent square. If the check is successful, the target 
regains a number of hit points equal to its character level +1 for every 
point the check was successful. A character can be treated with first 
aid in this manner only once per day. 


Rapier Thrust (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Duelist Elite training droid makes a melee attack at +4. If successful, 
the attack deals 1d8+4 points of damage. 

Skills Initiative +7, Perception +0, Treat Injury +5, Use Computer +5 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, vocabulator, rapier 


The galaxy can be a dangerous place, and the one thing the rich are always 
looking to buy is security. Trang Robotics’ Duelist Elite training droid is a 
refined, knowledgeable opponent in the art of fencing. It also makes an 
excellent addition to household staff and is a great conversation piece 
for a grand ball. This durable droid comes standard with durasteel-alloy 
construction so you won't have to hold back as you progress from cautious 
novice to master swashbuckler. The Duelist Elite comes preprogrammed 
with rapier, epee, and saber dueling programs. Other programs are available 
from the manufacturer. Trang Robotics is not liable for any damage caused 
by reprogrammed droids. 
Duelist Elite training droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: LIGHTSABER 
SPARRING PARTNER 

Some Jedi come from wealthy families that still support them when they take 
up the lightsaber, providing improved equipment and training to the sons 
and daughters who join the Order. Modifying a Duelist Elite droid to teach 
lightsaber combat styles is rare but not unheard of. Trang Robotics donated 
one to the Jedi Council on Coruscant, but Master Windu felt that part of 
learning control of the lightsaber was learning how to fight without going 
all out, a level of control unnecessary when sparring with a Duelist Elite. 


Fighting with a lightsaber is much different from fighting with a fencing 
weapon. The droid must be reprogrammed with the basics of lightsaber tech- 
niques, which requires a DC 11 Use Computer check and a training module that 
costs 1,000 credits. If the reprogramming is successful, the droid gains the 
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers) feat and loses Weapon Proficiency (pistols). 


MODIFICATION: 

SITH WEAPONMASTER 

Sith pride themselves on aggression. They believe they can defeat an oppo- 
nent no matter what weapon they face or how and when they are attacked. 
Duelist Elite droids that fall into Sith hands are often turned into something 
a half step removed from an assassin droid. They are armed with a variety 
of weapons and reprogrammed to strike at their masters at any time with- 
out notice. Although the droids rarely succeed, they do their duty with the 
unshakable tenacity that only a machine can muster. 

To modify a Duelist Elite in this manner, begin by removing its program- 
ming safeguards, which requires a Use Computer check against the droid's 
Will Defense. If the check is successful, the droid will no longer stop automati- 
cally when its opponent's hit points fall to single digits. Next, reprogram the 
droid to favor a specific type of weapon, which requires a DC 25 Mechanics 
check and 30 minutes of work. Finally, swap one or more of the droid's cur- 
rent feats for others. But beware: If the droid is disabled or otherwise shuts 
down, it reverts to its original programming when restarted. 


MODIFICATION: STILETTO DROID 
The nobility of the Tapani Sector settle their differences with duels. In 
addition to being educated and graceful, nobles are expected to be deadly 
with a blade, and they have discovered a way for the droid to play a part in 
the intrigues of the noble houses. Turning the Duelist Elite into an outright 


OID FROM LAMAN 
Duelist Elite droids area ie purchase, and | Hs don't 


r credits on something like this, eh? Pee dealt 
uelist Elite only once, and that was as a customer rather than a 
ne Ate shop looking to buy a pair of droids—a 


ite a to dae me what it called a lightsaber. | think the 
droid believed it was a Jedi! If that poor delusional thing is still out there 
| somewhere, it needs a memory wipe as soon as possible. 


DUELIST EBLITE TRAINING DROID 


BONZALO 
=LORES 


assassin would be considered bad form, but giving the droid a few weapons 
that might kill a rival “accidentally” during practice is business as usual. A 
few nobles keep these so-called stiletto droids around on purpose to prove 
that they can handle any threat that comes their way. 

The modification begins with programming a hidden command into the 
droid, which requires a Use Computer check against the droid's Will Defense 
and 30 minutes of work. (Erasing the command trail that leads back to the 
programmer increases the check DC by 10.) If the modification is successful, 
the droid is programmed to reveal and use a hidden weapon on a specific 
signal, such as a dropped handkerchief or a spoken keyword. This signal can 
also be an action taken by the intended target, such as lowering a weapon 
or turning his or her back on the droid. Next, install a weapon, such as a 
small knife or blaster, somewhere in the droid, usually concealed within 
the arm or torso. This installation requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 1 
hour of work. Detecting the weapon requires a Perception check against the 
result of the Mechanics check made to install it or against the droid's Will 
Defense, whichever is higher. The first time the droid makes an attack with 
this weapon, it does so as if its target is flat-footed. 


Ai HSiavHo 


0) 
u 
0 
Q 
0 
9 
\) 
% 


Al BSLadvHoD 


RaGOomD®) Gloelaq) 


ES22 ASSASSIN 
DROID 


E522 Assassin Droid CL7 
Medium droid (4th-degree) scout 1/soldier 6 

Force 4 

Init +9; Senses darkvision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary 


ES22 ASSASSIN DROID 
Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 74 

Threshold 23 


Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 23), Fort 23, Will 17 

hp 74; Threshold 23 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (tracked) 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+7) 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +7 (3d10+3) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +5 (4d10+3) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged ion rifle +7 (3d8+3 ion) or 

Ranged ion rifle +5 (4d8+3 ion) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged missile launcher +7 (6d6+3) or 

Ranged needler gun +7 (see below) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +10 

Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blaster), Cover Fire, Devastating 
Attack (heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 13, Con —, Int 11, Wis 11, Cha 12 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Acute Senses, Battle Analysis, Cover Fire, Devastating Attack 
(heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Rapid Shot, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Knowledge (tactics) +8, Perception +10 (can reroll), 
Stealth +9, Survival +8 

Systems basic processor, tracked locomotion, 2 claw appendages, 2 tool 
appendages with multifunction apparatus, darkvision, improved sensor 
package, locked access, vocabulator, neutronium plating (+11 armor) 

Possessions heavy repeating blaster, ion rifle, missile launcher with 6 
hunter-seeker missiles, needler gun with neurotoxin darts (treat as 
slugthrower rifle) 

Availability Military; Cost 28,535 credits 

Hunter-Seeker Missiles—When the E522 assassin droid attacks with this 
weapon, the missile locks on a chosen target and permits the droid 
to make an attack roll once per round until the missile either hits the 
intended target or misses for five consecutive rounds. 

Neurotoxin Darts—On a successful attack with a neurotoxin dart on a 
living creature, the target is injected with a paralytic poison (see page 
255 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The E522 assassin droid moves 6 squares (tracked). 

Cover Fire (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

When the droid makes a successful ranged attack, all of its allies within 6 
squares of the droid gain a +1 bonus to their Reflex Defense until the 
start of the droid's next turn. 

Paralyze Opponent (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

When the droid makes a successful ranged attack with its needler gun, 
the droid can paralyze an opponent (see Paralytic Poison on page 255 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The E522 assassin droid makes a ranged attack roll at +5 with either its 
heavy repeating blaster or its ion rifle. If successful, the attack deals 
either 4d10+3 points of damage or 4d8+3 points of ion damage, 
depending on the weapon used. 


Skills Initiative +9, Knowledge (tactics) +8, Perception +10 (can reroll), 


Stealth +9, Survival +8 

Vital Systems 2 claw appendages, 2 tool appendages with multifunction 
apparatus, vocabulator, heavy repeating blaster, ion rifle, missile 
launcher with 6 hunter-seeker missiles, needler gun with neurotoxin 
darts (treat as slugthrower rifle) 


ES22 ASSASSIN DROID 


During the formative years of the Empire, Sienar Intelligence Systems received 
a commission to build a weapons-laden droid to be used by the Emperor 
himself. Neither the reason for the droids nor the origins of the design were 
known at the time the commission was made. Records recovered by New 
Republic slicers after the fall of the Empire state that the plans were drafted 
by Sienar developers with the assistance of droid designers retained from 
the Techno Union after that organization was folded into the Imperial infra- 
structure. Soon after completion, the E522 assassin droids were delivered 
as promised. Little did the public know that the droids would be used to 
permanently silence Emperor Palpatine's critics as the Empire consolidated 
its rule of the galaxy. 

Built to look like a being with a very strong upper body, an E522 assassin 
droid moves on tracked feet. It seeks prey with a high-grade sensor suite 
installed into its flat head and unleashes an array of weapons on its target 
with relentless precision. 

E522 assassin droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

HEAVY WEAPON SUPPORT 

Given the droid's sheer size and ability, many people are not surprised to 
learn that E522s can be altered to provide heavy weapon support for military 
units on the battlefield. To perform this modification, first install a shield 
generator with a rating of at least 10. Next, remove the needler gun and 
ion rifle. Remove the missile launcher from the droid's left appendage and 
reinstall the weapon on the droid's shoulder. Add a second missile launcher 
on the opposite shoulder, and add a missile-loading system and 16 kilograms 
of storage space with a DC 15 Mechanics check and 2 hours of work. Place 
another heavy repeating blaster next to the first one, and add a grenade 
launcher where the first missile launcher used to be. Reprogram the Weapon 
Proficiency feats for pistols and simple weapons to Dual Weapon Mastery 
| and Far Shot. Finally, add a fire-link system, which will allow the droid to 
fire its heavy repeating blasters simultaneously as a single standard action 
with a -2 penalty; this change requires a DC 25 Use Computer check and 
2 hours of work. 


PARANOIA (5 
I've heard a lot of things about the E522 assassin droid, and Q. ¥ 
they're enough to give me nightmares. It carries enough firepower 
to give the heartiest soldier pause. You can't hear it coming because it 
moves so quietly. The droid can sneak up on you and blow your head off 
before you know what's happened. It never sleeps, and it doesn’ t stop 
until its target is dead—period. That said, | did get an opportunity tosee 
an E522 in action, however briefly. | was having lunch with an associate 
when | heard a blaster discharge. A dignitary eating a) few tables down 
suddenly dropped face-down into his soup, and people started scream- 
ing. | looked around and saw an E522 pulling back from an upper-level 
window across the street. Nobody ever caught the droid, and the official 
report said that the victim had a heart attack, | liad the aiibles covered 
that story up. 
Speaking of cover-ups, a high-sielety person | haw hellaves that 
she's being followed by one of these assassin droids, although she claims 
to have no idea why she might be a target. Not sure if her story is true 
or not, but she's currently hiding out on Ord Mantell and needs some 
protection—maybe even someone to take the droid out. T ink you got 
the guts for this one? 


Al BSiLevHo 


SAEGOHD GIOUE@g 


PLS yO 


a 


AT & 


SaGeD GieXlaG 


EI-9 NETWORK 
SECURITY DROID 


EIl-9 Network Security Droid CL 8 
Medium droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 3/scoundrel 3/scout 4 

Force 3 

Init +11; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 21), Fort 19, Will 20 
hp 36; Threshold 19 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d3+3) 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (4d8+3) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Running Attack, 
Sniper 

Special Actions Gimmick, Master Slicer, Quick Draw 


EI-9 NETWORK SECURITY DROID 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con —, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 10 

Special Qualities defense in depth, droid traits, precision locator, quick- 
load hidden core 

Talents Acute Senses, Gimmick, Improved Initiative, Master Slicer 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Defenses, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Running Attack, Sniper, 
Skill Focus (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11 (can reroll), Knowledge (technology) +13, 

Perception +13 (can reroll), Use Computer +18 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 

2 tool appendages, scomp link, improved sensor package, internal 
comlink, wireless link data port, hidden core, vocabulator, duranium 
plating (+8 armor) 

Possessions blaster rifle 

Availability Restricted; Cost 23,840 credits 

Defense in Depth—After successfully defeating an opponent's Use 
Computer check to issue a routine command, an EI-9 droid automatically 
worsens the computer's attitude toward the opponent by one step. 

Precision Locator—Whenever another character or droid makes an 
opposed Use Computer check against the El-9 network security droid, 
if the network security droid's check is higher then it automatically 
learns the basic location of its opponent. 

Quick-Load Hidden Core—An EI-9 droid's hidden core automatically 
attempts to restore itself 1d12 minutes after the droid's memory is 
wiped or the droid's programming is altered in any way. If the initial 
attempt fails, the hidden core attempts to restore itself once per hour 
until it succeeds. 


EI-9 NETWORK 

SECURITY DROID 

Medium droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 36 

Threshold 19 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The El-9 network security droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Defense in Depth (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

After successfully defeating an opponent's Use Computer check to issue a 
routine command, an El-9 droid automatically worsens the computer's 
attitude toward the opponent by one step. 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The El-9 network security droid makes a Use Computer check against the 
target computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's attitude 
toward it. 


Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The El-9 network security droid issues a routine command to a computer 
that has a friendly attitude toward it. 

Skills Initiative +11 (can reroll), Knowledge (technology) +13, 
Perception +13 (can reroll), Use Computer +18 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, 2 tool appendages, internal comlink, 
wireless data communications array, hidden core, vocabulator, 
blaster rifle 


As an extension of its security droid offerings, Arakyd introduced an out- 
standing line of computer and information network security units. The El-9 
combines the functions of online protection with physical protection of the 
actual computer and networking equipment. It actively patrols and counters 
threats on- and offline and can attempt both at the same time. The droid has 
a bipedal humanoid appearance, with two arms, two legs, and dual visual 
sensors housed in an oversized, helmet-shaped head. It carries an array of 
data links, cables, and adapters, making it capable of linking with any stan- 
dard computer port in the galaxy. Its data communications array connects 
with most wireless networks as well. 

El-9 units commonly protect government and commercial computer 
cores. They are highly aggressive, and most slicers and data thieves find the 
droids difficult to circumvent. Their advanced programming allows them to 
isolate online threats quickly, even when on the move to physically secure 
a local terminal at the same time. Each droid comes with its own internal 
protection—a quick-loading hidden core containing default security protocols 
so that even if the droid is compromised by an attacker, it eventually reverts 
to its standard protection programming. 

El-9 network security droids can be played as droid heroes. 


PLAYING AN B!I-9 

NETWORK SECURITY DROID 

El-9 droids are dedicated to computer network security. They regard 
virtually any commercial or government network as something to be 
protected, although their assigned systems take precedence. 

To create an El-9 droid character, first select the stock service droid 
chassis (see page 13). Replace the basic processor with a heuristic 
processor, and add a scomp link to the tool appendage. Add two more 
tool appendages to account for the various data ports and the data 
communications array, and install a hidden core. Take your first levels in 
the scoundrel class to gain access to the Slicer talent tree. Select Armor 
Proficiency (light) as a starting feat, select Skill Training (Perception) as 
a bonus feat, and take Use Computer as a trained skill. Take Skill Focus 
(Use Computer) as soon as possible. 


SERIOUS SECURITY Téa) 
So, you're going after an ISB data storage facility? | have just &( 
what you need. | assume you already have a plan for getting in; 
security is likely to be extremely tight. However, what you need to know is 
that a lot of these centers employ El-9 droids. They're tough, both online 
and off. If you try slicing into the system, one of the network security 
droids will probably keep you busy, actively battling your every move, — 
while its buddies come after you at the terminal. Oh, you could try to take 
your own reprogrammed El-9 to fight the battle for you, but these droids 
have a nasty habit of remembering that they work forsecurity systems, 
not against them, and at just the wrong moment. If you're not careful, 
you might find yourself clashing with your own droid. Anyway, good luck. 


MODIFICATION: 
ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE 

This substantial modification allows the El-9 to emit an electromagnetic pulse 
capable of disrupting or temporarily disabling most computers, cybernetic 
systems, droids, and electronic devices within a 6-square radius of the droid. 
To emit the pulse, the El-9 rolls 1d10 plus its base attack bonus against the 
target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack is successful, the affected device 
immediately shuts down for 1 round while it resets. (For devices that do not 
have a Fortitude Defense, use a defense of 10 for typical unshielded units 
and a defense of 25 for heavy-duty or military grade equipment.) After use, 
the pulse takes 1 round to charge before it can be used again. Installing this 
modification requires a DC 25 Mechanics check, 4,000 credits’ worth of parts 
and electromagnetic insulation, and 3 days of work. 


MODIFICATION: 

SLICER TRACKER 

This modification enhances the droid's precision locator special quality. Once 
it has located a slicer on the network, the El-9 droid can make Use Computer 
checks to carry out the following functions: 

@ Insert a tracking program into the portable computer or other device 
that the slicer is using to access the network. Once inserted, the pro- 
gram attempts to report the slicer's location whenever he or she links to 
another network. Inserting the program requires a Use Computer check 
opposed by the target's Use Computer check. 

e Access networked sensors and devices in the slicer's area to obtain 
audio and visual information on the subject. If such devices exist, the 
droid can make a DC 25 Use Computer check to gather data on the 
slicer. At the Gamemaster's discretion, the droid might need to make 
separate checks to gain access to separate systems. 


Installing this modification requires a DC 30 Use Computer check, 4,000 
credits’ worth of software, and 2 hours of work. 


Al BSStavHgd 


SsaqgeD GiellG 


Ai Baie rHSa 


SagGdeH GeVqg 


EV-SERIES 
SuUPERVISOR DROID 
EV-Series Supervisor Droid CL 3 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1/noble 3 

Force 3 


Init +1; Senses Perception +3 
Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 12, Will 16 
hp 10; Threshold 12 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d3) 

Ranged by weapon +1 

Base Atk +2; Grp +1 

Special Actions Demand Surrender, Presence 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 9, Con —, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Special Qualities bully, droid traits 

Talents Demand Surrender, Presence 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Droid Focus (5th-degree), Linguist, Skill Focus 
(Mechanics, Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge [technology], 
Mechanics) 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +8, Mechanics +13, Perception +3, 
Persuasion +13, Use Computer +8 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 11,380 credits 

Bully—As a swift action, when trying to intimidate a target, the 
EV-Series supervisor droid can reroll its Persuasion check and keep 
the better result. 


EV-SERIES SUPERVISOR DROID 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) 

hp 10 

Threshold 12 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The EV-Series supervisor droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Bully (1 swift action) 

When attempting to intimidate an opponent, the EV-Series supervisor 
droid can make a Persuasion check. If the check is successful, the droid's 
master gains a +2 circumstance bonus to his or her Persuasion check. 

Coordinated Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The EV-Series supervisor droid grants its allies a +2 bonus to attack rolls 
made against an enemy that is adjacent to the droid or within point 
blank range of the droid. 


EvV-SERIES SUPERVISOR DROID 


Demand Surrender (1 swift action, 1/encounter) 

The EV-Series supervisor droid demands surrender from an opponent that 
has been reduced to one-half of its hit points or fewer, by making a 
Persuasion check against the opponent's Will Defense. 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The EV-Series supervisor droid makes a Use Computer check against the 
target computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's attitude 
toward it. 

Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The EV-Series supervisor droid issues a routine command to a computer 
that has a friendly attitude toward it. 


Skills Knowledge (technology) +8, Mechanics +13, Perception +3, 
Persuasion +13, Use Computer +8 
Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, internal comlink, vocabulator 


PLAYING AN EV-SERIES 
SUPERVISOR DROID 

To play an EV-Series supervisor droid with heroic levels, start by choosing 
the stock protocol droid chassis (see page 13). The best starting class to 
select is noble, since it offers the skills and talents the droid needs to 
perform well in a supervisory role. Instead of a translator unit, the EV- 
Series droid gets a heuristic processor and the bully special quality, as 
described in the droid's statistics block. Select Persuasion and Use Com- 
puter as two of the droid's starting skills. Other trained skills to consider 
include Deception to represent the droid's ability to bend the truth to 
coerce those under its supervision, Knowledge (technology) to represent 
what it knows about other droids and about devices it can use to direct 
its workers, and Perception to represent the droid's ability to pinpoint 
when someone is lying or to look into the actions of a worker. Be sure to 
purchase an internal comlink as part of the droid’s starting equipment. 


MerenData designed the EV-Series supervisor droid to manage other droids. 
The idea of a droid supervising a company's droid pool appealed to many 
organizations, and the humanoid-shaped unit sold reasonably well. When 
MerenData discovered shortly after the line's release that the motivators 
originally planned for the EV-Series were accidentally swapped with ones 
meant to be installed in torture droids, they decided to wait and see how 
the droids performed. Much to their surprise, the droids with the swapped 
motivators actually outperformed the unaltered droids when it came to 
managing the droids under their care. However, the discovery that the EV- 
Series droids were using sadistic methods to accomplish their tasks, such 
as melting a droid's feet to the floor to prevent it from leaving a station 
or treating it to an oil bath set afire, forced MerenData to issue a massive 
recall to exchange the motivators. Although most of the droids were brought 
in and repaired, some customers, such as crime lord Ploovo Two-for-One, 
preferred the flawed model. 
EV-Series supervisor droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

QUARTERMASTER 

Many military units swear by the use of an EV-Series supervisor droid as 
a quartermaster for supplies. This relatively simple modification can be 
performed using the basic droid modification rules from the Saga Edition 
core rulebook. Start the modification process by installing a video recorder 
the droid can use to keep a visual catalog of supplies and to track missing 
items. Install a power recharger in the droid's torso so it can keep power 
packs and energy cells fully charged. Finish by giving the droid a datapad 
with access to the military unit's inventory. Thanks to the droid's meticulous 
skill at keeping supplies protected and in good working condition, anyone 


who uses weapons or other equipment issued by the droid can reroll his or 
her first skill check or attack roll with the issued item each encounter and 
keep the better result. The droid must have spent at least 8 hours with the 
item in the last 24 hours for the item to gain this benefit. 


MODIFICATION: TECHNICIAN 
Although this modification might seem unlikely for a supervisor droid, EV- 
Series units have a working knowledge of how machines function and can be 
quite adept at fixing them. This modification emphasizes the droid's ability to 
make repairs and adjustments to machines and to other droids or cybernetic 
beings. Scoundrel is the best class for this modification, but changes can be 
made to accommodate the droid's current skill set. First, remove the internal 
comlink and, in its place, install a diagnostics package to help the droid find 
and fix problems. Reprogram the Persuasion skill to Perception and adjust 
the corresponding Skill Focus feat in the same manner. Equip the droid with 
a tool kit and a roll of mesh tape for emergency repairs. Optionally, one of 
the droid's hand appendages can be swapped out for a tool appendage with 
a multifunction apparatus, giving the droid the ability to connect up to three 
tools needed to perform a particular job. Finally, add a targeting scope to 
the droid's head and calibrate it to give the droid a +2 equipment bonus to 
Mechanics checks to make repairs; this step requires a DC 15 Mechanics 
check and 15 minutes of work. 
THE MACHINE QO 
| have seen much damage, heard many complaints from droids 
about working under EV-Series. Scarred chassis, broken and severed arms 
and legs, burned hardware—just some of the carnage | have seen on poor 
droids that come to me for repairs. Some of the ones sold to me are so 
far gone, no choice but to send to the junk pile and hope | can salvage 
at least one piece of equipment to use elsewhere. Also, | remember one 
time when | received a supervisor droid that got beat up by droids under 
its care. Another droid already in sandcrawler saw it and started shriek- 
ing in Binary. Next thing, several droids stormed the bay and ripped the 
broken supervisor apart. Had to buy its owner a new one. 

That reminds me. One of the droids | recently fixed told about a 
production facility on Malastare where an EV-Series supervisor droid 
watched a work force of near 50 droids. After mistreatment by the super- 
visor, the droids started to rebel. But the EV-Series anticipated this and 
had the entire group of workers imprisoned. Then it ordered the security 


droids to eliminate its organic masters. Now the droid has taken control 
of the facility and locked down the place, not letting anyone in or out. 


RAGE AGAINST 


SeSLavHa 


Ai 


18 


ey) 


SeaGgeHD) Gic#) 


Ai S3Si9gvHo 


FLTCH-SERIES 
BATTLE DROID 


FLTCH-Series Battle Droid CL5 
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 4/soldier 4 

Force 3 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


SaEGOeD GASXVNG 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 22, Will 14 

hp 32; Threshold 22 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking), 6 squares (flying with jetpack) 

Melee claw +13 (1d6+8) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +10 (3d10+2) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +10 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged missile launcher +9 (6d6+2, 2-square radius) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +7; Grp +18 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle, blaster rifle), Devastating Attack 
(rifles), Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Indomitable, Running Attack 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 15, Con —, Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid traits, nightmare, zero-range attack 

Talents Indomitable, Devastating Attack (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Point Blank Shot, Running 
Attack, Skill Training (Endurance), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +9, Perception +11, Persuasion +8 

Systems walking locomotion, flying locomotion (with jetpack), basic 
processor, 2 claw appendages, vocabulator, improved sensor package, 
quadanium battle armor (+7 armor) 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle, built-in blaster rifle, built-in missile 
launcher (single missile), demountable jetpack 

Availability Military; Cost 31,375 credits 


Nightmare—The FLTCH-Series battle droid uses its claws and spikes to 


intimidate while attacking. Once per encounter, the droid can make 
a Persuasion check to intimidate an enemy as a free action while it 
simultaneously makes a melee attack against the same enemy. If the 
check is successful, the intimidation takes effect after the droid’s turn 
is complete. 

Zero-Range Attack—If the FLTCH-Series battle droid makes a successful 
attempt to grab or grapple an enemy with its claw appendage, it can 
make an immediate attack with its arm-mounted blaster rifle. 


FLTCH-SERIES BATTLE DROID 
Large droid (4th-degree) 

hp 32 

Threshold 22 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The FLTCH-Series battle droid moves 6 squares (walking or flying with a 
jetpack). 

Claw Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The FLTCH-Series battle droid makes an unarmed attack at +13. If 
successful, the attack deals 1d6+8 points of damage. 

Heavy Blaster Rifle Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The FLTCH-Series battle droid makes a ranged attack at +10. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d10+2 points of damage. 

Missile Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The FLTCH-Series battle droid makes a ranged attack at +9. If successful, 
the attack deals 6d6+2 points of damage in a 2-square radius. 

Nightmare (2 swift actions, 1/encounter) 

The FLTCH-Series battle droid makes a Persuasion check to intimidate an 
enemy while it simultaneously makes a melee attack against the same 
enemy. If the check is successful, the intimidation takes effect after 
the droid's turn is complete. 

Zero-Range Attack (2 swift actions, 1/encounter) 

The FLTCH-Series battle droid attempts to grab or grapple an enemy with 
its claw appendage at +13. If the attack is successful, the droid can 
make an immediate attack at +10 with its arm-mounted blaster rifle, 
dealing 3d8+2 points of damage. 

Skills Endurance +9, Perception +11, Persuasion +8 

Vital Systems 2 claw appendages, vocabulator, heavy blaster rifle, 
built-in blaster rifle, built-in missile launcher (single missile), 
demountable jetpack 


FLTCH-SERIES BATTLE DROID 


An early battle droid model manufactured by the Colicoid Creation Nest for 
interstellar export by the Trade Federation, the FLTCH-Series is a large brute 
with spikes, menacing features, and lethal built-in weapons. Designed to be 
marketed for the security and lesser military duties of humanoid species, the 
droid is employed by Outer Rim mercenary units and powerful crime lords. 
Its use by paramilitary organizations is so widespread that it is better known 
as a "merc droid” than by its proper designation. 

The FLTCH-Series is a determined fighter and an effective intimidator. 
However, its utility is limited by its size, bulk, and lack of agility. The droid's 
enormous claws hinder its ability to use control panels, equipment, and 
small electronic devices. They also force the droid to use weapons specially 
designed for its unique grip, although it occasionally circumvents this limita- 
tion (usually with a -5 penalty to attacks). 

FLTCH-Series droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: AMMO BOOST 

This modification allows the FLTCH-Series battle droid to share its onboard 
ammunition power pack with a handheld blaster, with a further option to 
add more punch to each shot. Both the droid and the weapon must be 
altered prior to use. Modifying the droid requires a DC 20 Mechanics check 
and 500 credits’ worth of parts, including a power cable to link the pack to 
the weapon. Modifying the blaster requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 
100 credits’ worth of parts. Once linked, the weapon can use the droid's 


ammunition power pack as it would any other. Additionally, by consuming 
twice the power for a particular shot (that is, expending power as if two 
shots had been fired), the shot can deal an extra 1d6 points of damage ona 
successful hit. This modification takes a total of 2 hours to complete. 


MODIFICATION: 

MERCENARY RENTAL UNIT 

Some clever programmers figured out a way to turn FLTCH-Series battle 
droids into self-administrating rental units. Once the droid's owner confirms 
payment (which is required up front, along with a sizable damage deposit), 
he or she turns the droid over to the customer. The droid then follows the 
customer's orders for the specified duration, as long as those commands do 
not break the terms of the agreement or direct the droid to move against its 
owner. At the end of the rental period, the droid automatically ceases to aid 
the customer and waits to be returned to its owner (or finds its own way 
back). If the rental period ends in the middle of combat, the droid switches 
to self-defense mode and extracts itself from the situation as quickly as 
possible. Extensions of the rental agreement are possible but usually must 
be arranged ahead of time. Throwing credits at the droid at the last minute 
can work, but the prices go up considerably under such circumstances, and 
the credits must be paid on the spot. 

Making this modification requires a DC 25 Use Computer check and 1 day 
of work. Adding a tracking device to the droid requires a DC 20 Mechanics 
check. Once in a customer's charge, the droid vigorously defends itself against 
any attempt to circumvent its programming or its tracking device. Tampering 
with the droid terminates the agreement, in which case the droid immediately 
begins to extract itself from the situation and returns to its owner. 


A& BIG HELP (5 
Mercenary droids are a favorite of mine. | know, | know— ie 
technically, they're FLTCH-Series units, but you'll find that 

almost everyone just calls them mere droids. Anyway, they're big and 
intimidating. Obtaining even one or two will make a fine addition to your 
firepower. If you can field these monsters, you'll also be seen as serious 
mercenaries—or wealthy criminals, depending on your friends. If you really 
want to make a name for yourselves, pick up a couple of these units and 
head out to Rodia or some other world with a lot of intra-clan fighting. 
Hire yourselves out as a special operations squad or protection specialists. 
Make sure you get your employers to spread the word about how good 
you are and how imposing your hardware is. With luck, you'll start getting 
calls from better-paying patrons with more dangerous jobs. Watch out, 
though. Mercs are impressive droids, but they're not indestructible. If 
you're not careful, you'll spend all your profits repairing them. 


Al 8SicavHo 


if 


SaGeH GIeVE@G 


SsagGgeHg) GIeh@ 


3 


SL ve 


AL a 


G2 REPAIR DROID 


G2 Repair Droid 

Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +1; Senses darkvision; Perception +7 
Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 10 
hp 3; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits 


CLO 


Speed 4 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +0 (1d2) 

Ranged by weapon +1 

Base Atk +0; Grp -4 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con —, Int 15, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid traits, patch job 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology], Mechanics, Use Computer) 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +12, Mechanics +14, Perception +7, 
Use Computer +12 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, 
darkvision, diagnostics package, improved sensor package, vocabulator 

Possessions tool kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 5,210 credits 


Patch Job—The G2 repair droid can make temporary repairs to any 
disabled mechanical or electronic device as a standard action instead 
of a full-round action. 


G2 REPAIR DROID 
Small droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 3 

Threshold 10 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The G2 repair droid moves 4 squares (walking). 

Patch Job (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The G2 repair droid makes fast, temporary repairs to any disabled 
mechanical or electronic device. The number of hit points restored 
equals the result of the droid's Mechanics check. 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

When acting as the shield operator of a vehicle or operating a device with 
a shield rating, the G2 repair droid makes a Mechanics check to restore 
5 points to the shield rating, up to the shield's normal maximum. 

Regulate Power (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

When acting as the engineer of a vehicle, the G2 repair droid makes a 
Mechanics check to move the vehicle +1 step on the condition track. 


Run Diagnostics (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The G2 repair droid makes a Mechanics check to determine why a 
mechanical or electronic device does not work. If the check is 
successful, the droid's master gains a +2 circumstance bonus to his or 
her Mechanics check to fix the device. 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +12, Mechanics +12, Perception +7, 

Use Computer +12 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, diagnostics package, vocabulator, 

tool kit 


SoroSuub introduced the G2 repair droid to the galaxy within the first decade 
after the conclusion of the Clone Wars. G2s are a little shorter than standard 
R2 astromech droids, with a wide bottom half that forces them to waddle 
when they walk. This distinctive manner of locomotion, along with small 
heads atop long, thin necks, earned G2s the nickname "goose droids." Their 
three-fingered hands allow them to hold most repair tools, and their wide 
stances give them extra stability when dealing with large, heavy equipment. 
G2s are capable repair droids, but they tend to be overly talkative, which 
is hardwired into their systems and cannot be relieved with memory wipes. 
Complaints and a high number of returns from large corporations that bought 
the droids in bulk forced SoroSuub to discontinue the line eight years after 
the Battle of Endor, but near-constant requests from small business owners 
and individuals prompted the company to restart the series two years later. 
G2 repair droids can be played as droid heroes. 


G2 REPAIR DROID 


PLAYING A G2 REPAIR DROID 
Anyone seeking to play a G2 repair droid with heroic levels should choose 
the stock mechanic droid chassis (see page 12). The best starting class 
to recreate the droid is the scoundrel, using the Point Blank Shot feat 
to emphasize the droid's accuracy in targeting objects at close range. 
Instead of starting with four tool appendages and internal storage, the 
G2 droid comes with the patch job special quality, as described in the 
droid's statistics block. Select Mechanics, Perception, and Use Computer 

_as three of the droid’s starting skills. Consider choosing Knowledge (physi- 
cal sciences) to represent the droid’s ability to develop and apply new 
maintenance methods and to create upgrades for existing equipment, 
Knowledge (technology) to represent the droid's knowledge of cutting- 
edge technological systems, and Pilot to represent the droid's knowledge 
of vehicle operations. Be sure to purchase a tool kit as part of the droid’s 
starting equipment, and consider purchasing magnetic feet to help the 
droid make repairs on the outer hull of a starship. 


MODIFICATION: COPILOT 

Merchant captains, shuttle pilots, smugglers, and pilots from other walks of life 
are always in need of reliable copilots to back them up in case of emergency, 
and the G2 repair droid can be modified to fill that role. Begin by installing a 
tool appendage on the droid, which requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 1 
hour of work. Attach a scomp link to the new appendage; this part of the pro- 
cedure requires a DC 15 Mechanics check and 10 minutes of work. Normally, 
the droid can't operate a vehicle through a scomp link, but the device can be 
altered to allow the G2 to link into a vehicle's operation system and pilot the 
vehicle, as well as to perform typical copilot functions like astrogation and 
sensor operations. Next, reprogram the droid's skill set to remove Mechanics 
and to add Pilot. At the same time, adjust the Skill Focus (Mechanics) feat 
to Skill Focus (Pilot). Optionally, change one of the other Skill Focus feats to 
Dodge, Vehicular Combat, or Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons). 


MODIFICATION: 

EXPLOSIVES DETECTOR 

Many law enforcement agencies have to deal with bomb threats from ter- 
rorists and criminals, but they might not all employ agents that have the 
proper training to locate and defuse explosives. For such agencies, a G2 
repair droid modified to perform those duties can be a valuable resource. To 
make this modification, start by upgrading the droid with hardened systems 
of at least x3, treating the G2 as if it were a droid of Large size. This change 
increases the droid's hit point total by 30 and its damage threshold by 15. 
Attach two tool appendages and add 5 kilograms of internal storage to the 
droid's chassis with a DC 20 Mechanics check and 3 hours of work for each 
component. Install a laser cutter on one of the tool appendages and an 
electroshock probe on the other. 


MODIFICATION: SCAVENGER 
Scavenging would seem to be a function better suited to a labor droid, but a 
number of junk shop owners have found that a G2 repair droid is more than 
capable of filling this role after the following modifications are made. Remove 
the droid's legs and install a repulsorlift unit in their place, removing the 
limitation imposed by terrain; this change requires a DC 25 Mechanics check 
and 1 day of work. Next, attach a set of electrobinoculars and a glow rod to 
improve the droid's visual capabilities, requiring a DC 15 Mechanics check 
and 2 hours of work for each item. To help the droid withstand punishing 
environments, change the Use Computer skill to Survival, which requires a 
DC 10 Use Computer check and 30 minutes of work. Finally, affix a remov- 
able storage bin or cart on a repulsorlift to the back of the droid so it can 
tow the scraps and equipment it finds back to its master. As an alternative, 
a shell can be created and permanently attached to the droid, allowing it to 
carry up to 25 kilograms of materials instead of lugging around a separate 
unit. This option better protects the droid's haul, reducing the chance that 
it will lose anything it finds. 


MuCH TOO TALKATIVE . 
There are two droid models in the galaxy that | cannot stand: 3PO %, 
protocol droids and G2 repair droids. The reason is that they talk 
too much! All they do is blather on about anything and everything. | am 
surprised that they ever get any work done. | had a G2 working for mea 
while back. It constantly talked about things unrelated to its job, and my 
circuits nearly fried just hearing it carry on. | had to rip out its vocabulator 
to finally shut it up. In fact, | would not be surprised to learn that a G2's 
unending stream of conversation is responsible for the problems with 
those ships at the Sluis Van shipyards. Several ships have flown out of 
there over the last several weeks, only to experience difficulty with one 
or more primary systems just after leaving the star system. That might _ 
explain the increased pirate activity in that area of space. | wonder if 
the repair droids in the shipyards are working for the pirates, That seems 
possible, but | have my doubts. If the G2s had been compromised, surely 
the stupid droids would have blurted out that information by now. 


SaGOeD GlIoVqg 


SagGdoQHG) GiIeoV@g 


GDI6-SERIES PILOT 
DROID 


GD16-Series Pilot Droid CLS 
Medium droid (5th-degree) scout 3/soldier 2 
Force 3 

Init +9; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 17, Will 16 

hp 44; Threshold 17 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d3+2) 

Ranged by weapon +6 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Vehicular Combat 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con —, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 9 

Special Qualities droid traits, sensor crown, simultaneous operation, 
vehicle link 

Talents Acute Senses, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), 

Improved Initiative 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Pilot), 
Skill Training (Use Computer), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency 
(heavy weapons, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9 (can reroll), Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, Knowledge 
(tactics) +9, Mechanics +9, Perception +10 (can reroll), Pilot +14, 
Stealth +9, Use Computer +9 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 4 hand appendages, 
locked access, improved sensor package, vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 17,430 credits 


Sensor Crown—As a swift action, a GD16-Series pilot droid can use its 


sensor crown to lock on to a vehicle, a character, or an object that it 
can see. Until the end of the encounter, the droid gains a +2 equipment 
bonus to Perception checks related to that target. 

Simultaneous Operation—Twice per encounter, a GD16-Series pilot droid 
gains an additional swift action that it must use to operate a vehicle's 
systems or to take another vehicle combat action. 

Vehicle Link—As a standard action, a GD16-Series pilot droid can establish 
a link with a ship or a vehicle and issue a routine command to any 
automated onboard system; for example, it can start the engines, raise 
or lower a boarding ramp, or open a hatch. To establish a link, the ship 
or vehicle's computer must have a friendly attitude toward the droid. 


GDI6-SERIES PILOT DROID 


GDIG-SERIES PILOT DROID 

Medium droid (5th-degree) 

hp 44 

Threshold 17 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The GD16-Series pilot droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Copilot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The GD16-Series pilot droid assists a character's Pilot check, providing a 
+2 bonus to the check. 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The GD16-Series pilot droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the check 
is successful, the droid's ship regains 5 points of shields, up to the 
ship's normal maximum. 

Regulate Power (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The GD16-Series pilot droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the check 
is successful, the droid's ship moves +1 step on the condition track. 

Sensor Crown (1 swift action) 

Until the end of the encounter, the GD16-Series pilot droid gains a +2 
equipment bonus to Perception checks related to a single vehicle, 
character, or object. 


PLAYING A GD1I6-SERIES 
PILOT DROID 
_GD16-Series pilot droids have a superiority complex and are programmed 
to exude great confidence in their own abilities, especially where care 
_ and subtlety are required in espionage missions. Although the GD16 is a 
_ fifth-degree droid, start by selecting the stock battle droid chassis (see 
page 11). Take your first level in the scout class to gain a high number of 
class skills and, eventually, the Improved Initiative talent. On the other 
_ hand, if you plan to use your droid primarily for starfighter combat, you 
- might select the soldier class instead. You will want high Dexterity and 
_ Intelligence scores to aid your piloting and astrogation abilities. Select 
Armor Proficiency (light) for your bonus Armor Proficiency feat, and con- 
sider selecting heavy weapons for your bonus Weapon Proficiency feat. 
You should be trained in the Initiative, Mechanics, Perception, Pilot, and 
Use Computer skills. Depending on your starting class, you might need to 
choose one or more of these as a Skill Training feat, possibly when you 
take a level in a second class. You should also take the Vehicular Combat 
feat at the first opportunity. Finally, purchase two more hand appendages. 


Vehicle Link (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The GD16-Series pilot droid issues a routine command to an automated 
system on board a ship or a vehicle whose main computer is friendly 
toward the droid. For example, the droid can start the engines, raise or 
lower a boarding ramp, or open a hatch. 

Skills Initiative +9 (can reroll), Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, Knowledge 
(tactics) +9, Mechanics +9, Perception +10 (can reroll), Pilot +14, 
Stealth +9, Use Computer +9 

Vital Systems 4 hand appendages, vocabulator 


When MerenData decided to market a pilot droid for clandestine operations, 
it produced a model that exceeded the average pilot droid's equipment and 
capabilities. Whereas standard pilot droids are designed to handle speeders, 
ground vehicles, and some starships in the public transport, governmental, or 
commercial markets, MerenData’s GD16-Series is designed for versatility and 
mission adaptation. As such, it is more expensive than the average pilot droid. 

The GD16-Series droid is designed to pilot virtually any type of vehicle, 
from the smallest speeder bike to the largest capital ship. Since most of the 
galaxy's vehicles are designed for organics with two arms and two legs, the 
GD16 conforms to this general bipedal configuration. The droid can adapt to 
any size of cockpit thanks to telescopic arms and legs and an extendable torso 
and neck. The GD16's double-arm configuration gives it a marked advantage 
over organic pilots, allowing it to operate more controls simultaneously. The 
droid's sensor crown is designed for cockpit use, giving it 360-degree vision 
and a simultaneous view above the unit. Additional forward-mounted sen- 
sors are dedicated to scanning the ship's control board and other system 
readouts. Finally, the droid can pilot a ship through a direct computer link, 
if the ship is so equipped. 

GD16-Series pilot droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: ADVANCED 
ESPIONAGE UPGRADE 

Although MerenData designed the GD16 to support espionage and other 
clandestine activities, there are times when the droid must operate on its 
own. The standard model is adaptable enough to handle many missions, but 
some owners upgrade the GD16's espionage module for more sensitive tasks. 
To make this modification, the droid must become trained in the Stealth skill 
and pick up one or more talents from the Camouflage talent tree. 


MODIFICATION: 

PRECISION FLIGHT 

Most GD16s are impressive pilots, but some are adapted to fly very precisely, 
inserting their ships into spaces in a way that no normal droid or organic 
pilot could duplicate without extreme skill (or a little help from the Force). 
For this modification, the droid must be trained in Pilot and have the Skill 
Focus (Pilot) feat. Install precision flight sensors and subprocessors, a task 
that requires a DC 25 Mechanics check and 3 days of work and costs 20,000 
credits. Finally, upgrade the droid's flight algorithms to work with the new 
equipment, which requires a DC 30 Use Computer check. Once completed, 
the modifications allow the droid to take 20 on precision flying and docking 
maneuvers even when threatened, as well as on reactions to avoid collisions. 
This upgrade gives the GD16 a distinct advantage in navigating asteroid fields 
or the dense skylanes of large cities. 


SURPRISE SPY ¢9 
A GD16? Yeah, I've heard of them, but | don't carry them anymore, “%? 
Don't get me wrong, friend—they’'re the best droid pilots I've ever 

seen. But number one, they're hard to get your hands on. Number two, 
their personalities are about as cold and precise as their flying skills— 
they're some arrogant droids, all right. And number three, it turns out this 
one GD16 | had was actually sent to spy on me, and | can't abide being 
spied on in my own shop. | never saw it coming. The thing had been here 
just a few days when it offered to run me out to pick up a load of spare 
parts. Next thing | know, it locks me in the ship's cargo hold and just 
like that, we're off to see a Hutt. As if that weren't bad enough, we're 
attacked by pirates on the way! But the droid cut those fools to shreds, 
and we still made it to the Hutt on time. Seems he was unhappy with an 
earlier shipment of cut-rate protocol droids and wanted a little proof that 


| was still trustworthy. Of course, | used my knack for persuasion to clarify 


the situation, or | wouldn't be here now, would |? Funny, though—the 
droid backed me up. So it was sneaky, all right, but it was honest, too. 


SBaGoQD GoeeHqd 


GX<I-SERIES BATTLE 
OROID 


GX1-Series Battle Droid CL6 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 3/scout 1 

Force 3 

Init +18; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 21), Fort 20, Will 14 
hp 35; Threshold 20 
Immune droid traits 


9 
ry) 
@ 
i 
Q 
G) 
@ 
W 
x 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d3+5) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +11 (3d10+4) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +9 (4d10+4) with Rapid Shot 
Base Atk +7; Grp +10 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Harm's Way 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 16, Con -, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 13 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Evasion, Harm's Way, Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Defenses, Point Blank 
Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Initiative), Skill Training (Perception), 
Weapon Focus (blaster rifles), Weapon Proficiency (rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +18, Perception +9 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, four hand appendages, 
1 tool appendage, internal storage (20 kg), secondary battery, 
vocabulator 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle, durasteel battle armor, glowrod 

Availability Restricted; Cost 23,305 credits 


Repositioning Routines—GX1-Series battle droids are programmed 
with sophisticated tactical routines that allow them to regroup and 
launch a new attack plan when flaws are exposed in their current 
tactics. Whenever one of the GX1-Series battle droid’s allies within 12 
squares is reduced to 0 hit points, the battle droid can move up to half 
its speed as a reaction; this movement does not provoke attacks of 
opportunity. 

Small Appendages—Two of the GX1-Series battle droid's hands are 
smaller and capable of more fine manipulation than its main hands. A 
GX1-Series battle droid can pick up or retrieve a stowed item as a free 
action once on its turn. 


GX<I-SERIES BATTLE DROID 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 35 

Threshold 20 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The GX1-Series battle droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Blaster Rifle Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The GX1-Series battle droid makes a ranged attack at +11. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d10+4 points of damage. 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The GX1-Series battle droid makes a ranged attack at +9. If successful, 
the attack deals 4d10+4 points of damage. 

Repositioning Routines (reaction) 

When one of the droid's allies within 12 squares is reduced to 0 hit points, 
the battle droid can move up to half its speed without provoking 
attacks of opportunity. 

Retrieve Item (free action, 1/turn) 

The GX1-Series battle droid retrieves a stowed item or picks up an item. 

Skills Initiative +18, Perception +9 

Vital Systems four hand appendages, 1 tool appendage, glowrod, 
secondary battery, vocabulator 


The GX1-Series battle droid from Trang Robotics is one of the company's only 
forays into private security battle droids, and one that saw an extremely 
limited production run. Following the success of their Duelist Elite train- 
ing droids (see page 88), executives at Trang Robotics put the word out to 
wealthy individuals and well-funded corporations that they would be willing 
to design a battle droid based on their customers’ needs and feedback. The 
GX1-Series battle droid is significantly more expensive than other battle 
droids, but that was something that the financiers of the project were will- 
ing to accept, in exchange for having the droid designed around their needs. 
GX1-Series battle droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


GxX<1-SERIES BATTLE DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 
Since the GX1- Series battle droid is as sions a 


heroes: Typically, the owners of a 1GX1-Series battle 
one or two of the droids around, given oe high 


GX1-SERIES BATTLE DROID 


MODIFICATION: 

ARMORED COURIER 

One somewhat unorthodox use for the GX1-Series battle droid is to convert 
the droid into a special courier capable of delivering highly sensitive informa- 
tion that cannot be transmitted over computer networks or the HoloNet. The 
first step in the conversion is to replace the droid's built-in glowrod with a 
tight-beam laser transmitter capable of delivering data via focused beams of 
light; only special input devices can accept data transfers in this way, and it is 
assumed that the intended recipient has such a device. Typically, tight-beam 
transmitters are part of building security systems and must be removed and 
converted into droid parts. This modification requires 2 hours of work, costs 
2,750 credits, and requires a successful DC 20 Mechanics check to complete 
the installation. Additionally, the droid’s internal computer systems need to 
be loaded with sophisticated encryption programs in order to protect the 
data from attempts to slice into the droid's memory banks; this requires 12 
hours of work and a DC 35 Use Computer check, or 1 hour of work and a DC 
15 Use Computer check with a prepackaged encryption suite (the typical 
black market cost for such encryption is roughly 6,000 credits). With the 
encryption installed, the droid has an effective Will Defense of 35. Lastly, 
the droid is equipped with a device that erases its memory entirely should 
the encryption be overcome; this device costs 600 credits and requires 1 
hour of work and a DC 15 Mechanics check to install. 


MODIFICATION: AIRDROP DROID 
Although most GX1-Series battle droids are already formidable opponents, 
at least one of the original investors converted a squad of the droids into 
airdrop droids that can be deployed directly to the battlefield from orbit 
without the need for a dropship or a shuttlecraft. The modification requires 
the owner to remove the durasteel battle armor from the droid (replacing it 
with a standard durasteel shell) before augmenting the droid's armor with 
flaps, small repulsor generators, maneuvering jets, and strategically placed 
heat ablative tiles. This armor augmentation costs 4,500 credits for materials 
and requires 24 hours of work and a DC 25 Mechanics check to complete. 
Once the modification is made, the droid can be dropped from a ship in orbit 
directly onto the battlefield without damaging the droid. This modification 
does not provide a GX1-Series droid with a fly speed. 


PRIVATE ARMIE! 
Even though GX1-Series battle droids aren idely known, Tran 
Robotics’ willingness to listen to their customers’ demands did 
end up producing a droid that is more than worth it : 
some ee Word on LS space ane: . 


took their droids. af went in 
to attack Trang Robotics's co 
sale and then assassins t Xt targ 


has been of a great deal ‘of co 


been a for anyone. who mig 


is currently being hidden by Black Sun agent ! 
seem to Ses ee the paces iv 


head is growing by the day, so ‘there aan be more money to be made 
by turning the exec over to Meee anaeaey investors. ie 


Al este vHsa 


0) 
i 
9 
0 
Q 
0 
9 
y 


Al BestavHod 


Y) 
y 
a 
0 
Q 
9 
9 
W 
i 


GY-! INFORMATION 
ANALYSIS DROID 


GY-I Information Analysis Droid co 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) noble 1 

Force 2 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 
Languages Basic, Binary, 5 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 10, Will 15 
hp 18; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (1d3-1) 

Ranged by weapon +1 

Base Atk +0; Grp +1 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con —, Int 15, Wis 15, Cha 16 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Educated 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Gather Information), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +8, Gather Information +13, Initiative +6, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +7, Knowledge (life sciences) +7, Knowledge (physical 
sciences) +7, Perception +9, Use Computer +7 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, improved sensor 
package, 2 hand appendages, vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 11,855 credits 


GY-! INFORMATION ANALYSIS 

DROID 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) 

hp 18 

Threshold 10 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The GY-| information analysis droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Analyze Data (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The GY-I information analysis droid assists a character's Gather 
Information check, providing a +2 bonus to the check. 

Diagnosis (1 free action) 

The GY-| information analysis droid makes a Knowledge (life sciences) 
check with a +5 bonus to determine a source of disease or injury and 
communicates the diagnosis to its owner. 


Expert Opinion (1 swift action) 

The GY-I information analysis droid makes a Knowledge (life sciences), 
Knowledge (galactic lore), or Knowledge (physical sciences) check and 
reports its findings. 

Skills Deception +8, Gather Information +13, Initiative +6, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +7, Knowledge (life sciences) +7, Knowledge (physical 
sciences) +7, Perception +9, Use Computer +7 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, vocabulator 


An old adage says that credits make the galaxy turn. The truth of the matter 
is that those credits are often used to buy information. Originally, Cybot 
Galactica built the GY-I information analysis droids to process the large 
amounts of data collected by space survey teams and university researchers. 
For example, a GY-I might be tasked with determining the best habitat on 
a newly discovered planet. However, as Emperor Palpatine turned resources 
away from the explorations of the Old Republic to the war machine of the 
Galactic Empire, most GY-! droids were reassigned to other roles in which 
their analysis would be useful. 
GY-| Information Analysis droids can be played as droid heroes. 


“poration keeps clear records on who it sli the eos to. The processors 


ason we make ay profit when we get one. A sHatt tech can 
of 


8a 'y 0} : 
Yes, at ante: processor can be used for many ings but sometimes 
the droid can be modified too well The on space scout ine rieations 


MODIFICATION: 

ASTROMECH DROID 

The GY-I information analysis droid is surprisingly robust in the field. Many 
droids are reduced to scrap metal by the first glancing blow in combat, but 
because the GY-I is meant to store information worth salvaging, its pro- 
cessors are housed in a torso tough enough to survive the rigors of space 
travel. Pilots have discovered that a GY-I can even be modified to replace an 
astromech droid. First, reprogram the droid’s analysis module, which requires 
a DC 25 Use Computer check and 1 hour of work. This step essentially gives 
the droid an astromech buffer with a stored number of jumps equal to the 
droid's Intelligence score. Next, detach the droid's limbs, leaving only its torso 
and head, and fit the droid into the astromech slot of a ship. This process 
requires a DC 30 Mechanics check and 2 hours of work. Finally, attach the 
droid directly to the ship's hyperdrive with a DC 15 Mechanics check and a 
full-round action. 


MODIFICATION: 

FINANCIAL WIZARD 

Although the impressive processing power of the GY-I is generally used 
for scientific or academic pursuits, elements on the galactic fringe have 
found different applications for these droids. Zorba the Hutt received a 
GY-| as part of a collection on a bad debt and tweaked the droid to suit his 
purposes. By analyzing the efficiency of the crime lord's operations, the 


droid could streamline procedures, identify areas of waste, and deduce who 
was skimming credits off the top. The droid also had a knack for ruthlessly 
determining when a loan should be collected with prejudice. Had the GY-I 
not mysteriously disappeared, it could have become the first droid lieutenant 
of a Hutt crime family. 

To modify a GY-I into a financial wizard, replace the droid's heuristic 
processor with that of a fourth-degree battle droid. This step requires a 
Mechanics check with a DC equal to the droid's Will Defense. Once the new 
processor is installed, the droid can overcome its life-preservation directives 
and look solely at the bottom line of a situation. If the droid's owner has 
the Wealth talent, provided that the droid has been involved in its master's 
finances, the master is treated as being two levels higher than he or she is 
for the purposes of determining how many credits the master gains from 
the Wealth talent when gaining a level. An individual can only benefit from 
one droid modified in such a way. The droid can also make a Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) check to assess the street value of any items presented to it 
or to its owner. 


GY-l INFORMATION ANALYSIS DROID 


Al esievHa 


Q 
9 
9 
Q 
9 
9 
Y 


Al SsiaevHa 


SAGOO Gloug 


H-IME BATTLE 
MECHANIC DROID 


H-1ME Battle Mechanic Droid CL 1 
Small droid (2nd-degree) scout 1 

Force 2 

Init +8; Senses Perception +0 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 14), Fort 11, Will 11 

hp 24; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 


Skills Initiative +8, Jump +4, Knowledge (physical sciences) +8, 
Knowledge (technology) +8, Mechanics +13, Perception +0, Pilot +8, 
Stealth +13, Survival +5 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, 8 tool appendages, 
magnetic feet, extra legs, collapsible construction, vocabulator, 
communications countermeasure system 

Possessions tool kit 

Availability Restricted; Cost 10,565 credits 


Speed 4 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (1d2-1) 

Ranged by weapon +3 

Base Atk +0; Grp -2 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con —, Int 17, Wis 11, Cha 11 

Special Qualities droid traits, preventive maintenance 

Talents Jury-Rigger 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 


H-IME BATTLE MECHANIC DROID 


Preventive Maintenance—For every 8 hours the H-1ME battle mechanic 
droid spends working on a vehicle, the vehicle regains a number of hit 
points equal to its Challenge Level, up to its maximum number of hit 
points. Preventive maintenance can occur while a ship is in hyperspace. 


H-IME BATTLE 

MECHANIC DROID 

Small droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 24 

Threshold 11 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The H-1ME battle mechanic droid moves 4 squares (walking). 

Identify Technology (1 swift action) 

The H-1ME battle mechanic droid makes a Knowledge (technology) check. 
If the check is successful, the droid identifies the technology of the 
item in question. 

Mechanical Assistance (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The H-1ME battle mechanic droid assists a character's Mechanics check, 
providing a +2 bonus to the check. 

Pick Pocket (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The H-1ME battle mechanic droid makes a Stealth check against a target's 
Perception; the target receives a +5 bonus to the check. If the check 
succeeds, the droid steals from the target an object that is hand sized 
or smaller. 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The H-1ME battle mechanic droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the 
check is successful, the starship regains 5 points of shields, up to its 
normal maximum. 

Regulate Power (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The H-1ME battle mechanic droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the 
check is successful, the ship moves +1 step on the condition track. 

Skills Initiative +8, Jump +4, Knowledge (physical sciences) +8, 
Knowledge (technology) +8, Mechanics +13, Perception +0, Pilot +8, 
Stealth +13, Survival +5 

Vital Systems 8 tool appendages, magnetic feet, extra legs, vocabulator, 
tool kit 


PLAYING AN H-IME 
BATTLE MECHANIC DROID 
An H-1ME clings to the outside of a ship in the middle of a battle and 
fights to keep that vessel moving. These droids have daredevil person- 
alities and are not known for cautious planning or rational action. They 
are programmed to make split-second decisions and improvise solutions 
in situations that are frenetic or deadly. What's more, an H-1ME is very 
_ protective of its master's ship. The droid might be small, but it has no 
qualms about picking fights with larger opponents if the paint on its 
' master's ship gets smudged. This loyalty is noteworthy, although some- 
times it can get the droid's owner into trouble. 
~ When creating an H-1ME battle mechanic droid hero, consider taking 
the scout class and choosing talents from the Fringer talent tree. In 
addition, the scoundrel's Fortune and Misfortune talent trees offer good 
options for helping the droid survive the dangerous situations it will face 
~ while clinging to the hull of its master's ship. Armor is also a good choice 
to protect the droid. Equip the character with an array of tools and tool 
kits to provide extra utility and bonuses. 


Astromech droids are known for their ability to coax a damaged ship back 
to life. But not every ship is designed to carry an astromech, nor can every 
pilot afford one. One of the solutions to this problem is the H-1ME battle 
mechanic droid from Intertran Systems. This droid attaches itself to the hull 
of a ship and performs repairs while the vessel is in flight. Its small profile 
allows it to operate even in the middle of a dogfight without affecting the 
ship's maneuverability. The H-1ME is a toolbox that knows how to use itself. 

One of the most important features of the H-1ME is that it can operate 
while a ship is in hyperspace, which makes the droid an excellent choice for 
lone merchants and starfighter pilots. In addition, many H-1MEs are found 
in the employ of ship dealers, making sure a merchant's inventory is ready 
to fly off the lot when a customer comes calling. The droid takes up the 
same amount of space as a standard ship's toolbox and usually fits in the 
storage space for tools. The droid can also be deactivated and disassembled 
to fit into smaller storage locations. For larger ships, multiple H-1MEs are 
recommended. 

H-1ME battle mechanic droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: MISSILE DROID 

The size and flexibility of the H-1ME battle mechanic droid allow it to be used 
in novel ways on the battlefield. A mercenary flight group known as Mazer's 
Mynocks disassembled their H-1MEs and loaded them into concussion mis- 
sile housings. When a ship was badly damaged, a friendly starfighter fired 
one of the special projectiles at the vessel. En route, the H-1ME powered up, 
quickly reassembled itself, and was ready to begin repairing the damaged 
ship upon arrival. The missile housing the droid was in was painted with a 
distinct red and white pattern to alert the target that the incoming projectile 
was helpful rather than harmful. 

To modify an H-1ME in this manner, start by reprogramming the droid to 
activate and reassemble itself when the concussion missile proximity trig- 
ger activates. This step requires a DC 11 Use Computer check and 1 hour of 
work. Next, build the projectile housing for the droid, which requires a DC 
25 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. Finally, disassemble the droid and 
load it into the missile, which requires a DC 25 Mechanics check and 1 hour 
of work. The H-1ME droid can perform the first two checks on its own but 
cannot perform the third check or assist with it. For each failed check during 
the process, the droid moves -1 step on the condition track, a persistent 
condition that can be removed with a DC 25 Mechanics check. The droid is 
fired with a simple attack roll. If the attack misses, the pilot that fired the 
missile can spend a swift action to deactivate the projectile; the droid can 
then be retrieved later. 


A PERSONAL FAVORITE gs 
Love this droid! | always keep a few around to make sure my other 
droids stay tip-top. Fixing droids comes naturally to H-1ME, even 
if it gets a little too attached. | usually deactivate the droid before sales 
days. It pitches a fit when | turn it back on, but also quite happy to see 
new droids that it can fix up and get to know. They are loyal and easily 
customizable. Anyone that spends time around droids or starships, defi- 
nitely pick one up. My current unit, H-88ME, likes to tell stories while it 
works and has dozens about other droids of its kind. Now its in the middle 
of a story about H-2ME. This droid was modified to carry small bits of 
cargo and was launched into space by its master, said to be one of the 
last Jedi Knights. The little droid latched onto a spice freighter and made 
its way across the galaxy, looking for someone to give the treasure. What 
could have been so valuable, so small that it could be contained inside 
little droid? Holocron, maybe? Lightsaber? | will close up shop soon—| 
don't want to miss the next part of H-88's tale! 


Al BS19gvHo 


y) 
0 
9 
y 
Q 
fo 
9 
Y 


Al SSsioavrHoa 


RIGeHD GIeVEqg 


MkK-77 ASSASSIN 
OROID 


HK-77 Assassin Droid CL4 


Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 4 

Force 3 

Init +10; Senses darkvision; Perception +10 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 18), Fort 18, Will 15 

hp 55; Threshold 18 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d3+4) 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +3/+3 (3d8+4) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Dual Weapon Mastery, 

Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Indomitable 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con —, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities blaster surge, droid traits 

Talents Indomitable, Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Point 
Blank Shot, Toughness, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +10, Knowledge (tactics) +8, Perception +10, 

Use Computer +8 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, 2 tool appendages, 
darkvision, improved sensor package, locked access, vocabulator, 
quadanium battle armor (+7 armor) 

Possessions 2 blaster rifles 

Availability Restricted; Cost 19,865 credits 

Blaster Surge—As a full-round action, the HK-77 assassin droid can 
forgo its normal attacks to fire a high-powered blaster bolt from one 
of its rifles. The high-powered bolt deals 5d8+4 points of damage and 
consumes an additional five shots from the weapon's power pack. The 
weapon cannot be fired during the next round, while it cools down. 


rHiKk-77 ASSASSIN DROID 
Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 55 

Threshold 18 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The HK-77 assassin droid moves 6 squares (walking). 


Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The HK-77 assassin droid makes a Perception check at the start of a 
battle. If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 

Blaster Surge (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The HK-77 assassin droid makes a ranged attack roll at +8. If successful, 
the attack deals 5d8+4 points of damage. 

Salvo (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The HK-77 assassin droid makes two ranged attack rolls at +3 each. 
Each successful attack deals 3d8+4 points of damage. 

Support Fire (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The HK-77 assassin droid makes a ranged attack roll at +8. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d8+4 points of damage. 

Skills Initiative +10, Knowledge (tactics) +8, Perception +10, 
Use Computer +8 

Vital Systems 2 tool appendages with blaster rifles, vocabulator 


Continuing the success of the HK-47 line, the HK-77 assassin droid was 
designed and built to be the ultimate hired killer. Originally conceived several 
years before the outbreak of the Jedi Civil War, the HK-77 is the culmination 
of the droids that came before it: the HK-47, HK-58, and HK-65 assassin 
models. The HK-77 is slightly shorter than its predecessors and has a narrow 
head with eyes that extend from each side, a shape that was borrowed 
from various predators found around the galaxy. Unlike the HK-47 and the 
HK-58, which were standard models that had hands and carried weapons, 
the HK-77 has weapons incorporated into its arms for ready access. When 
chasing a target, the droid prefers overt action over stealth, which might 
be its biggest flaw. By confronting its target in the open, the droid exposes 
itself to attack and gives its prey a chance to escape or to fight back. Despite 


several attempts by the designers to correct this issue, the HK-77 continues 
to exhibit overly aggressive behavior. 
HK-77 assassin droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: FIREFIGHTER 

At first, the transformation from a droid that takes lives to one that saves 
lives seems like a drastic change. But after seeing a modified HK-77 in 
action, some people wonder why the droid was not designed to perform this 
function in the first place. This modification tweaks the droid's hardware 
and software to create a firefighter that is put to great use by many safety 
units throughout the galaxy. Start by removing the droid's blaster rifles from 
its arms, and replace them with fire extinguishers. Then add four chemical 
cartridges to each arm, along with an automatic reload system that costs 75 
credits per appendage. All together, these changes require a DC 15 Mechanics 
check and 2 hours of work. Finally, add a flame-retardant jacket or coating 
to the droid's shell to grant it a +2 bonus to Fortitude checks to resist high 
temperatures; the materials to create the coating cost 200 credits, and it 
requires 1 hour of work to apply the coating to the droid. 


HK-77 ASSASSIN DROID 


REPUTATION OF FEAR. ¢) | 
After the HK-47 assassin droid, the HK-77 is one of the most 
feared fourth-degree droids. With built-in weapons andacun- 
ning personality matrix, an HK-47 can terrify anyone with a price on his. 
or her head. In many ways, that reputation works better than the droids 
themselves. When wanted beings discover that an HK-77 is after them, 
they often fear for their lives and surrender as quickly as they can. Some, 
though, believe that the droids’ reputation is nothing more than hype. — 
Have you heard the story of Garm Bel Iblis, a leader of the Rebel- | 
lion? Apparently, someone high in the Imperial hierarchy discovered his 
location on Anchoron and sent a refurbished HK-77 droid, along with 
other assassins, to kill him. Many believe that Bel Iblis died when a bomb 
planted for him detonated, but others think that he was not caught in 
the blast and still lives. Most assassins believe him to be dead, but the — 
HK-77 still pursues Bel Iblis, refusing to return to Coruscant. As a result, 
the Empire has left the droid to its own devices. Whether Bel Iblis is _ 
alive or dead, the Rebellion would be most grateful if a group of heroes 
could find the droid, which was last reported to be looking for clues on 
Anchoron, and dismantle it permanently. 


MODIFICATION: 

GAMBLER'S PROXY 

Gamblers enjoy playing games of chance at the galaxy's clubs and cantinas. 
Sometimes, though, a gambler can't make it to a particular game—or chooses 
not to attend, since sitting down with certain seedy types can be hazardous 
to one's health. In such instances, sending a modified HK-77 assassin droid in 
the gambler's place can work nicely. Begin the modification by removing the 
blaster rifles and the tool appendages, and replace them with hand append- 
ages. Next, upload information about various games of chance and gaming 
strategies into the droid's memory banks: This data can be purchased from 
entertainment vendors at major starports for about 50 credits. For gamblers 
that want to play a fair game, the modification is complete. 

However, to give the droid a further edge, increase the output of the 
improved sensor package and the darkvision accessory, which requires a 
DC 20 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. This upgrade gives the HK-77 a 
short-term vision boost that lets it see through objects within 3 meters that 
have 2 hit points or fewer—more than enough to look through the casings for 
sabacc cards and read their displays. The vision boost must be used sparingly 
because it burns out after prolonged use. For each round of use after the 
first 10 rounds of use, the droid must make a DC 15 Wisdom check. Success 
indicates that the vision boost continues to work. Failure means that the 
droid's improved sensor package and darkvision irreparably short out. On each 
subsequent round of use, the DC of the Wisdom check increases by 3 until 
either the droid stops using the upgrade or the system burns out. 


) 


AL SBStdavHo 


| 
| 


Ssaqgeg Gea 


Al SSicvH3S 


HKB-3 HUNTER- 
KILLER DROID 


HKB-3 Hunter-killer Droid CL6 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3/scout 3/soldier 2 

Force 3 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 19, Will 15 
hp 32; Threshold 19 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 


Melee unarmed +8 (1d3+4) 

Ranged blaster rifle +8 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Expert Tracker 


xeGeom GIeva 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con —, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities coordinated tracking, droid traits, hunting sensor, 
simultaneous fire 

Talents Acute Senses, Expert Tracker, Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Skill Training (Stealth), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +11 (can reroll), Stealth +10, Survival +9 

Systems walking locomotion, remote processor (5-km range), 2 hand 
appendages, vocabulator, improved sensor package, internal comlink 
(encrypted), locked access, quadanium plating (+5 armor) 

Possessions blaster rifle 

Availability Military; Cost 19,130 credits 

Coordinated Tracking—HKB-3 droids share sensor and observational 
data when tracking a target. When up to four HKB-3 droids are 
tracking the same target and each droid is within 30 squares of at least 
one other droid in the group, each droid makes a Survival check to 
track the target, and all droids use the highest result. The droids also 
automatically aid another on the check. 

Hunting Sensor—HKB-3 droids carry specialized sensors for hunting 
targets that negate all cover and concealment bonuses to Perception 
checks, including total cover and total concealment. The sensors do not 
negate cover and concealment bonuses to attacks. 


HKB-3 HUNTER-KILLER DROID 


Simultaneous Fire—When the HKB-3 droid uses the aid another action 
to aid another HKB-3 droid's attack roll, that droid's attack, if it hits, 
deals +1 die of damage for every 5 points by which it exceeded the 
target's Reflex Defense. Multiple HKB-3 droids using the aid another 
action stack their attack bonuses, but this bonus to damage is only 
applied once. 


HKB-3 HUNTER-KILLER DROID 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 32 

Threshold 19 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The HKB-3 hunter-killer droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Blaster Rifle (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The HKB-3 hunter-killer droid makes a ranged attack with its blaster rifle 
at +8. If successful, the attack deals 3d8+4 points of damage. 

Coordinated Tracking (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The HKB-3 hunter-killer droid makes a Survival check to track a target. 
When up to four HKB-3 droids are tracking the same target and each 
droid is within 30 squares of at least one other droid in the group, each 
droid makes a Survival check to track the target, and all droids use the 
highest result. The droids also automatically aid another on the check. 


PLAYING A HKB-S 
WUNTER-KILLER DROID 
Playing an HKB-3 droid works best in adventures set before the Clone 
Wars or in which the droid is part of an independent unit still in service 
after the Separatists' defeat. To create an HKB droid hero, select the stock 
battle droid chassis (see page 11). Consider replacing the remote processor 
with a basic or a heuristic processor. In either case, this alteration rids 
the droid of its dependence on a remote droid controller. The HKB still 
can receive remote processor commands but is not bound to follow them. 
HKBs use abilities from the scout and soldier classes. Select the scout 
class first if you plan to focus on stealth and tracking, or choose the 
soldier class if you want to focus on firepower and defense. Consider 
becoming a multiclass character to support the droid’s hunter-killer label. 
If scout is selected first, spend your bonus starting Armor Proficiency 
feat on Armor Proficiency (light) and your first level feat on Armor Pro- 
ficiency (medium). You also must be trained in the Survival skill to use 
its tracking application. 


Simultaneous Fire (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The HKB-3 hunter-killer droid uses the aid another action to aid another 
HKB-3 droid's attack roll, granting the allied droid +1 die of damage for 
every 5 points by which the droid's attack roll exceeds its target's Reflex 
Defense. Multiple HKB-3 droids using the aid another action stack their 
attack bonuses, but this bonus to damage is only applied once. 

Skills Perception +11 (can reroll; ignores cover and concealment, 
including total cover and total concealment), Stealth +10, Survival +9 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, vocabulator, internal comlink 
(encrypted), blaster rifle 


Years before the Clone Wars, Baktoid introduced the HKB-3 to the hunter- 
killer droid market. With decent weaponry, modular appendages, and an 
excellent degree of control, the droids soon became popular among higher- 
ranking Trade Federation officials as bodyguards and personal security. 
Like Baktoid's cheaper B1 units, the HKB relies on remote processing and 
carries a bulky communications unit that extends above the height of its 
head. Although the unit is an obvious vulnerability, it provides additional 
protection for the droid's head. Eventually, the HKB's bodyguard duties are 
handed over to the much superior Droidekas. HKBs see some action during 
the Clone Wars, but they are usually relegated to guard duty or patrolling 
remote worlds rather than serving as front-line fighters. 

Given their reliance on remote processors, HKBs are always accompa- 
nied by some type of droid control ship, vehicle, or similar unit. However, 
they are dangerous in combat and worthy of the hunter-killer label. The 
droids are especially threatening when operating in small groups. The basic 
model carries standard handheld weaponry, which can be swapped out for 
appendage-mounted weapons. 

HKB-Series hunter-killer droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: JAMMER 
This modification adds local jamming capability to the HKB-3 droid's large 
receiver package without disrupting the link to its own remote processor. 
When activated, the jammer inhibits comlinks, the remote processors of 
enemy droids, and most other communications signals within a 12-square 
radius of the HKB. Sensors scanning the area cannot easily penetrate the 
static field, but they do detect the jamming automatically. Initiating the 
jammer requires a standard action, and sustaining it requires a move action. 
When the field is activated, the droid makes a Use Computer check with a 
+10 equipment bonus. Anyone attempting to communicate or scan through 
the jamming field must make an opposed Use Computer check against that 
result. Opponents that succeed can communicate, although static still 
disrupts the signal, and enemy droids reliant on remote processors must 
spend a swift action to filter out the noise. Opponents that fail the check 
cannot communicate, and enemy droids reliant on remote processors stop 
moving and cease to function while within the static field (unless they have 
backup processors). 

Making this modification requires 4,000 credits’ worth of parts and 
software. The installation requires a DC 15 Mechanics check, a DC 15 Use 
Computer check, and 6 hours of work. 


HUNTING HUNTER-KILLERS 
So, you're going after that ex-Separatist, Neimoidian coward & (« 
Tornak Po? | imagine you've already heard that he's been hiding 
out in the desolate wastes of Tatooine’s southern polar region. He can't 
pay his debts since his side lost the war, and | think he's trapped there 
in his luxury yacht. Or he's hiding. Or both. Who knows? 

| bet you want to know more about those hunter-killers he's rumored 
to have as protection. No problem. The HKBs were decent enough back 
before the Trade Federation decided to start invading planets instead of 
just buying them off. The droids are still lethal, but they were outclassed 
by other models the Separatists obtained for the war. Plus, they were more 
expensive than the B1 droids, and Neimoidians are cheap. Tornak probably 
got his HKBs for free, or maybe he found an old stash of them. 

Anyway, don't let their perceived obsolescence fool you—the droids 
are still dangerous and can track you down far better than the average 
battle droid. They're particularly fond of working in groups and firing 
simultaneously on a target with rapid fire weapons. Isolated targets are 
dead targets, but maybe you can use that to your advantage to turn the 
tables on them. Good luck. 


Haid vHo 


“Ni 


g 
2 
9 
iy 
Q 
0 
0 
Wy 
% 


Al BSaidvH 


KM! MINING DROID 


KM1 Mining Droid CL2 
Large droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +2 

Languages Basic, Binary 


SaGeOD GHeel@g 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 17, Will 9 
hp 31; SR 10; Threshold 22 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d4+7) 

Ranged laser cutter +4 (3d8) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +4; Grp +16 

Atk Options slammer 


Abilities Str 24, Dex 10, Con —, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid traits, mining shield generator, stability, 
adaptable programming 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Slammer, Toughness, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +8 (can reroll, taking the better result), Perception +2, 
Stealth -2 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 tool appendages, mining 
shield generator, darkvision, vocabulator, duranium plating (+8 armor) 

Possessions 2 laser cutters (treat as heavy blaster pistols; maximum 
range of 12 squares) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 21,880 credits 

Mining Shield Generator—This device operates as a normal shield 
generator (SR 10) and enables the KM1 mining droid to reroll 
Endurance checks and take the better result to resist environmental 
damage and effects. 

Stability—The KM1 mining droid gains a +5 bonus to avoid being 
knocked prone. 

Adaptable Programming—The KM1 mining droid is built for easy 
adaptation to tasks. The DC of Use Computer checks to reprogram 
the droid is reduced by 5. 


KM) MINING DROID 
Large droid (5th-degree) 

hp 31 

Threshold 22 (SR 10) 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The KM1 mining droid moves 6 squares (walking). 
Adaptable Programming (1 free action) 


When reprogramming a KM1 mining droid, reduce the DC of the Use 
Computer check by 5. 

Improvised Fire (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The KM1 mining droid makes a ranged attack at +4 (maximum range 12 
squares). If successful, the attack deals 3d8 points of damage. 

Slammer (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The KM1 mining droid makes a melee attack at +10. If successful, the 
attack deals 1d6+18 points of damage. If the damage exceeds the 
target's damage threshold, the target also gains a persistent condition. 

Stability (1 free action) 

The KM1 mining droid gains a +5 bonus to avoid being knocked prone. 

Skills Endurance +8 (can reroll), Perception +2, Stealth -2 

Vital Systems 2 tool appendages with laser cutters (treat as heavy 
blaster pistols; maximum range of 12 squares), mining shield generator, 
vocabulator 


KMI MINING DROID 


ENCOUNTERING A 

KM! MINING DROID 

In the Old Republic era, KM1 mining droids are found in most major mining 
facilities in the galaxy. In later eras, derivative models from contemporary 
manufacturers are likely to remain in operation. KM1 droids typically 
operate in small groups, usually in conjunction with excavation variants 
(see below) and under the command of an organic or droid supervisor. 
The owner of a KM1 can exploit several advantages. First, the droid can 
legally carry what are essentially two heavy blaster pistols. Second, the 
unit is highly durable and can withstand greater environmental extremes 
than the average droid. Furthermore, those who discover the ease with 
which a KM1 can be reprogrammed can make good use of this feature. 
In fact, it's possible for heroes—or villains—to control a small, primitive 
army of mining droids without a lot of effort. 


Duwani Mechanical Products designed KM1 mining droids to excavate raw 
materials in tight quarters and dangerous environments. The Peragus mining 
facility used the droids extensively in its operations during the time of the 
Old Republic. Each low-standing, crablike droid carries two laser cutters 
to blast obstructing rock and punch holes for its fuel siphons. For defense, 
the KM1 can use the laser cutters as improvised blasters, although they are 
inaccurate and have an extremely short range. The droid can carry small 
amounts of fuel by siphoning it into four onboard storage cylinders on its 
back. Most KM1s are also equipped with mining shield generators to protect 
them from environmental effects and other damage. 

The droids are not terribly intelligent, but they store highly specialized 
instructions and information on the specific material they are deployed to 
extract. Mine administrators like KM1s because they are highly durable, easy 
to deploy, and easy to program. However, the latter feature can become a 
security issue, since almost anyone with knowledge of droid programming 
can take control of the unit. Using the KM1 chassis as the base model, 
Duwani Mechanical Products supplies Peragus and other facilities with 
several specialized variants. 

KM1 droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

EXCAVATION DROID 

One of the main KM1 variants is the excavation droid. Its features are 
almost identical to those of the standard model, including the mining shield 
generator, but it carries heavy laser cutters and heavy armor. Although an 
excavation droid’s primary task is to blast through dense rock, it has a lesser 
version of the base model's siphoning system for extracting hard-to-reach 
veins of fuel. To create this variant, replace the KM1's laser cutters with 
heavy laser cutters (treat them as heavy blaster rifles with a maximum range 
of 12 squares), and replace the duranium plating with neutronium plating 
(+11 armor). To reflect the excavation droid's durability, select the Improved 
Damage Threshold feat. Finally, reduce its speed to 4 squares to reflect its 
heavier armor and frame. 


MODIFICATION: WALL WALKER 
AKM1 modification used in some mines is a conversion technique that allows 
the droid to walk on any surface in a tunnel, including walls and ceilings. 
Additionally, the droid can secure itself to a suitable surface well enough 
to carry out mining activities, and, once set, the wall walker is difficult to 
dislodge. To make this modification, first equip the KM1 with climbing claws. 
If an event or Force power tries to dislodge the droid, it can reroll its Strength 
or grapple check and take the better result. 

ork) is one of the more popular modifications. 


A SCAVENGER'S Ok) 
GOLD MINE 

Hello, fellow scavengers, good deal for you today. | just received 

word the Blast Pit mining operation shut down this week. Even better, 
the corporation abandoned all old equipment and droids. Now, the equip- 
ment's fine, but it's hard to sell. What | need are the droids. Probably 
dozens of KM1s down there. Maybe no one told them to shut down and 
they're still working away. Or maybe one of the droid supervisors took 
over after it realized they had the run of the place. Never mind, | just 
want you to go out and capture as many of those things as you can. I'll 
pay top credits for them, especially those that are not too damaged, not 
too worn out. Mind you, I'm sure I'm not the only one to hear about this! 
You might have to contend with other scavengers, but what's a little 
competition among rivals? Remember, they're most likely not out to kill 
you, and | might do business with them someday, so try not to eliminate 
future customers. 

Better take a heavy-duty vehicle, and something to load the droids on 
to it. Those things are heavy, and who thinks they'll go along willingly? Of 
course, scavengers as cunning as you might be figuring out a way to get 
the KM1s to deliver themselves. Mighty impressed if you pull that off. 


LdVvHot 


iS 


xeaoQg Gena 


Al esiavHa 


SaGOeHD GIe!'@a 


M38 EXPLORER DROID 
M38 Explorer Droid CL 2 
Medium droid (2nd-degree) scout 2 

Force 3 


Init +1; Senses darkvision; Perception +15 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 18, Will 14 
hp 28; Threshold 23 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (tracked) 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d3+6) 

Ranged by weapon +1 

Base Atk +1; Grp +6 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Special Qualities advanced sensors, droid traits 

Talents Acute Senses 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Skill Focus (Perception), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +6, Knowledge (galactic lore) +7, Knowledge (life 
sciences) +7, Knowledge (physical sciences) +7, Perception +15 
(can reroll), Survival +8 


M38 EXPLORER DROID 


Systems heuristic processor, tracked locomotion, 2 hand appendages, 
darkvision, holorecorder, improved sensor package, internal storage 
(5 kg), vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 12,285 credits 

Advanced Sensors—With a successful Perception check, the M38 
explorer droid can detect electromagnetic energy, radiation, and 
seismic activity within 500 meters and motion within a 12-square 
radius. 


M38 EXPLORER DROID 

Medium droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 28 

Threshold 23 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) : 

The M38 explorer droid moves 6 squares (tracked). 

Advanced Sensors (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

With a successful Perception check, the M38 explorer droid can detect 
electromagnetic energy, radiation, and seismic activity within 500 
meters and motion within a 12-square radius. 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The M38 explorer droid makes a Perception check at the start of a battle. 
If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 

Know Direction (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

With a successful Survival check, the M38 explorer droid can determine 
which direction is north while planetside. 

Sensor Sweep (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

With a successful Perception check, the M38 explorer droid can detect 
lifeforms within a 24-square range. 

Skills Endurance +6, Knowledge (galactic lore) +7, Knowledge (life 
sciences) +7, Knowledge (physical sciences) +7, Perception +15 
(can reroll), Survival +8 

Systems 2 hand appendages, holorecorder, internal storage (5 kg), 
vocabulator 


A few years before the Clone Wars, Les Tech pooled its best minds to devise 
the next great droid concept. The collaboration resulted in the M38 explorer 
droid, which was equipped with a complete sensor suite and holorecorder 
system. Les Tech marketed the M38 as the droid that would take the risk of 
exploring potentially hazardous new worlds instead of the scout that owns 
it, leaving him or her free to concentrate on other duties such as mapping 
planetary terrain and analyzing the droid's findings. With its heavy tracks 
and sturdy construction, the M38 promised to be a useful companion for 
adventurers whose careers focused on exploration. However, many potential 
customers were intimidated by the droid, fearing that it would eventually 
replace them in the field. Worse, those who decided to give it a try despite 
their misgivings found that the droid was more trouble than it was worth. 


PLAYING AN M3& 
EXPLORER DROID 
Although the M38 is a second-degree droid, players choosing to build the 
droid with heroic levels should start with the stock probe droid chassis 
(see page 12). The best class with which to begin the droid’s career is 
scout, but the droid’s lack of a Constitution score prevents it from taking 
the Shake It Off feat. Instead of starting with the stock internal comlink 
_ and locked access, the M38 explorer droid gains the advanced sensors 
‘special quality, as described in its statistics block. Also, exchange the 
hovering locomotion for tracked locomotion, replace the tool appendage 
with another hand appendage, and add 5 kilograms of internal storage. 
Select Knowledge (life sciences), Knowledge (physical sciences), and Per- 
ception as three of the droid’s starting skills. For additional skills, consider 
Endurance to represent the droid's ability to continue its mission long 
past the expected span of time, Knowledge (galactic lore) to represent 
the droid’'s knowledge of planetary systems and cultures, Mechanics to 
represent the droid’s skill with performing self-maintenance while in the 
field, and Survival to represent the droid's ability to find its way through 
-aplanet’s wilderness. Be sure to purchase a holorecorder as a part of the 
droid’s starting equipment. 


The M38 gained a reputation for slow speed, an almost constant need for 
maintenance, and a lack of weaponry. Still, these shortcomings did not 
prevent the Rebellion from using a number of the droids. 

M38 explorer droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: ENGINEER 

Many scouts wandering the fringes of the galaxy do not have the means 
to obtain a droid that can keep the ship running in the middle of a mission. 
Fortunately for them, this modification allows the M38 to act as an engi- 
neer. Start by installing three tool appendages in the droid’s torso, each of 
which requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. Next, attach 
an electric arc welder, an electroshock probe, and a laser cutter to these 
appendages; adding each tool requires a DC 15 Mechanics check and 30 
minutes of work. Install a diagnostics package, and connect it to the hol- 
orecorder to give the droid the ability to review its assessment and reroll its 
Mechanics check, taking the better of the two results. Reprogram the droid 
to have the Mechanics skill instead of Survival, and change the Skill Focus 
feat to boost Mechanics instead of Perception. Provide the droid with a tool 
kit to finish the modifications. 


MODIFICATION: NAVICOMPUTER 

One of the most important aspects of being an explorer is the ability to know 
where you're going. Navigating between the stars is not an easy feat and is 
usually left to astromech droids and navicomputers. If a ship's astromech 
droid or navicomputer is damaged in battle or otherwise rendered inoperable, 


having a backup is a good safety measure. Many scouts have been extremely 
glad to have modified an M38 explorer droid to serve in this role. To make 
this modification, start by removing the droid's holorecorder and internal 
storage space and installing an astrogation buffer with 6 memory units; this 
change requires a DC 15 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. Attach a tool 
appendage with a scomp link on the end; when coupled with the astrogation 
buffer, this gives the droid Skill Focus (Use Computer) as a bonus feat. Finally, 
reprogram the Survival skill to Use Computer, and shift the Skill Focus feat 
from Perception to Use Computer. 


MODIFICATION: PATROL DROID 
This particular modification appeals to mercenaries and underworld types 
as well as to explorers. With the M38's aptitude for detection and surveil- 
lance, altering the droid so that it patrols a desired area is fairly easy. Start 
by replacing the droid's hands with tool appendages fitted with blaster rifles 
or by exchanging at least one hand for a tool appendage with a blaster rifle 
attached. Install an internal comlink in the droid's chassis with a DC 15 
Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. You can give the droid locked access, 
too, but that change is not required. Bolt a glow rod to the side of the droid's 
head, giving it the ability to aid another's attacks without incurring a pen- 
alty to its check from low-light conditions or darkness. Finally, reprogram 
the droid's Weapon Proficiency (pistols) feat to Weapon Focus (rifles), and 
change the Knowledge (physical sciences) skill to Initiative. 


GOING HaAYWIRE ¢9 
Everybody complained about the M38 explorer droid when it “sy 

was first introduced on the market. They said it couldn't possibly 

do as well as a real scout—or that it was too good and would steal jobs 
from everyone in that field. Well, they changed their tune after a few of 
these droids got bought, eh? Suddenly, they started saying that the M38 
is messed up in one way or another. The droids can't move in a straight _ 
line, or they can't see where they're going, or they go crazy and drive. 
off a cliff or into a tree or something! Couldn't sell them very well after 
that. You know, I'll bet that's what happened to this one planet hopper in 
the Outer Rim a while back. This guy, a trader out near Naboo, he picked 
up a distress signal from someone who said she was stranded on... uh, 
Baarstal. Yes, that's it! She was stranded on Baarstal, and she was car- 
rying on about how her M38 droid went haywire and started damaging 
the ship. Before she knew it, the droid had damaged the engines anda 
number of other systems before it got off the ship and disappeared into 
the jungle. Now, she needs to be rescued. I'll bet she won't have such a 
glowing review of the droid after this little incident. 


HStaevHS 


Ai 


0) 
oD 
g 
9 
) 
0 
9 
Y 


Al SStavRrs 


SeaGOHD GeGE@G 


MEV-SERIES MEDICAL 
EVACUATION DROID 


MEV-Series Medical Evacuation Droid CL. 1 
Medium droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 5 

Init +9; Senses low-light vision; Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 11, Will 11 

hp 18; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d3+1) 

Ranged by weapon +5 

Base Atk +3; Grp +5 

Special Actions Cybernetic Surgery, Surgical Expertise 


Folding Repulsorlift Bed—The MEV droid's folding bed is stored in the 
vertical position behind the droid when not in use. The bed takes a 
move action to deploy by swinging down into position. The bed must 
be deployed to carry a passenger. Once the bed is deployed, the droid's 
fighting space is 1 square wide x 2 squares long. Passengers in the bed 
are held in place by a low-power force field. Passengers must be of 
Medium or smaller size. 

Quick Load—As a move action, the MEV droid can use its arms to pick up 
and load a willing or unconscious passenger onto its bed. The droid can 
load a passenger while taking two move actions in one turn. 


MEV-SERIES MEDICAL 
EVACUATION DROID 
Medium droid (1st-degree) 

hp 18 

Threshold 11 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 15, Con —, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits, folding repulsorlift bed, quick load 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus 
(Treat Injury), Skill Training (Initiative), Surgical Expertise 

Skills Initiative +9, Knowledge (life sciences) +9, Perception +5, 
Treat Injury +13, Use Computer +9 

Systems hovering locomotion, heuristic processor, 4 hand appendages, 
improved sensor package, vocabulator, folding repulsorlift bed, 
durasteel plating (+6 armor) 

Possessions 6 medpacs, medical kit, surgery kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 13,425 credits 


MEV-SERIES MEDICAL EVACUATION DROID 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The MEV droid moves 6 squares (hovering). 

Diagnosis (1 free action) 

The MEV droid makes a Knowledge (life sciences) check to determine 
the source of a disease or an injury and communicates the diagnosis 
to its owner. 

First Aid (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The MEV droid makes a DC 15 Treat Injury check on a target in an 
adjacent square. If the check is successful, the target regains a number 
of hit points equal to its character level plus 1 hit point for every point 
by which the check was successful. A character can be treated with 
first aid in this manner only once per day. 

Folding Repulsorlift Bed (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The MEV droid deploys its folding repulsorlift bed to carry a passenger. 

Quick Load (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The MEV droid loads a willing or unconscious passenger onto its bed. 

Revivify (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The MEV droid makes a DC 20 Treat Injury check on a target in an 
adjacent square that is currently at 0 hit points. If the check is 
successful, the target is unconscious instead of dead. 

Skills Initiative +9, Knowledge (life sciences) +9, Perception +5, 

Treat Injury +13, Use Computer +9 

Vital Systems 4 hand appendages, vocabulator, folding repulsorlift bed, 

6 medpacs, medical kit, surgery kit 


PLAYING A MEWV-SERIES 
MEDICAL EVACUATION DROID 
Start with the stock medical droid chassis (see page 12), which covers the 
medical basics. Select either the noble or the soldier class, depending on 
the conditions in which the droid will operate. For a battlefield evacuation 
unit, choose the soldier class to take advantage of its higher hit points 
and starting Armor Proficiency feats. Although this class has greater 
defenses, it has fewer options for trained skills and helpful talents. To 
improve your support role capabilities, start with the noble class instead. 
You must take Armor Proficiency (light) as your first level feat, but your 
improved skill and talent selection will help your comrades even when 
they are uninjured. Take Perception, Persuasion, and Use Computer as 
trained skills, and consider taking Initiative as a trained skill to speed your 
evacuation duties during combat. Purchase an additional tool append- 
age, an ample supply of medpacs, a medical kit, and a surgery kit as your 
starting equipment. You can store the medical kit's litter in a special long 
compartment within the chassis’ repulsorlift sled. 


Industrial Automaton started production of the MEV-Series medical evacu- 
ation droid 10 years prior to the start of the Clone Wars. The model quickly 
became popular with mercenary groups and metropolitan evacuation 
teams. Part medical droid and part repulsorlift sled, the MEV evacuates an 
injured being while also giving first aid to the patient. The droid gives first 
aid effectively and efficiently on its own, and when it has access to medi- 
cal equipment typically found in a hospital or medical bay, it can perform 
routine surgical procedures. 

The MEV has a built-in repulsorlift sled that folds up vertically behind 
the droid when not in use. When deployed, the padded bed has a low-power 
gravity field that secures a patient in place while the droid removes him or 
her from immediate danger. The droid's torso sits at the front of the sled and 
has four telescopic arms that can reach and treat any part of the patient. 
Armor plating extends one-quarter of the way along the sides of the sled to 
protect the droid and the patient. The MEV's medical equipment and supplies 
are stored behind the armor, at the head of the bed. 

MEV-Series medical evacuation droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

HIGH-SPEED BOOSTER 

Although the MEV's speed, even when loaded, is equal to that of any standard 
Human, some owners choose to increase its movement rate as much as pos- 
sible. There are two common ways to carry out this modification. The first is 
to boost the output of the droid's repulsorlift engine to increase the droid's 
speed by 1 square. This change requires a DC 20 Mechanics check using the 
Tech Specialist feat, 1,000 credits, and 1 day of work. The second method 


is to add booster rockets to the bottom or sides of the sled, which can fire 
whenever the sled is deployed. When activated, the rockets add 2 squares 
to the droid's speed. They carry 10 charges, with each round of activation 
equaling one charge. Adding booster rockets requires a DC 25 Mechanics 
check, 5,000 credits for parts, 1 day of work, and a DC 15 Use Computer 
check for adding control programming. 


MODIFICATION: 

IMPROVED ENCLOSURE 

Some owners feel that the open bed of the evacuation droid needlessly 
exposes patients to additional dangers. By making a DC 20 Mechanics check 
and spending 2,000 credits for parts, you can enclose the bed on all sides 
(except the top) in 3 days of work; as a result, patients loaded onto the bed 
benefit from cover from incoming attacks. The droid loses the ability to fold 
up the repulsorlift sled and always takes up a 1x2-square area for fighting 
space. This modification also hinders the droid's quick load special quality; 
it takes a -5 penalty when attempting to quick load while taking two move 
actions in one turn. However, the droid gains additional storage space along 
the interior of the armored walls, increasing the number of medpacs it can 
carry from 6 to 12. 


MODIFICATION: 

SPECIALIZED PROCESSOR 

Because the standard MEV has a single processor, the droid must split its 
time between treating the patient and navigating out of what is usually a 
dangerous situation. Adding a subprocessor that specializes in controlling 
locomotion leaves the main processor free to devote its full attention to the 
patient. Installing the new subprocessor requires a DC 20 Mechanics check, 
2,000 credits for parts, and 2 days of work. Each turn, the modified droid 
can make one move action as a swift action. When using the subprocessor, 
the droid must move at least 1 square. 


EMERGENCY BEVAC é) 
Medical droids are a little out of my area of expertise. But let me & 
tell you, when you deal with as many battle droids as | do, you 

see a lot of medical droids in action. | bring this up because | see you 
have a fine MEV unit there, and I've just received some unsettling news 
about a situation that you might be able to help with. There's a colony 
on Thuna Ill, in a small system near the Unknown Regions, that’s been 
devastated by a groundquake. To make matters worse, I've heard that a 
band of raiders is planning to take advantage of the chaos and make off 
with whatever they can. If you can get to Thuna III quickly enough, you 
might be able to stop the raiders. Either way, the colonists sure could 
use your droid’s help. 


Al BSigvHS 


A 


SGqGeoD Geou@gd 


Q 
9 
0 
Q 
9 
9 
W 
% 


MK-SERIES 
MAINTENANCE DROID 


MK-Series Maintenance Droid CL1 
Medium droid (2nd-degree) scout 1 

Force 1 

Init +7; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Huttese 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 12, Will 11 
hp 24; Threshold 12 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (tracked) 

Melee claw -1 

Base Atk +0; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 14, Con -, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 13 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Jury-Rigger 

Feats Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use Computer)*, 
Skill Training (Use Computer)*, Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Climb -6, Endurance +5, Initiative +7, Knowledge (galactic lore) +7, 
Knowledge (technology) +7, Mechanics +12, Perception +5, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +12 

Systems heuristic processor, tracked locomotion, 2 claw appendages, 
diagnostic package, internal storage (20 kg), scomp link, vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 11,080 credits 


Lateral Thinker—The unique programming of an MK-Series maintenance 
droid allows it to come up with solutions to problems that other droids 
might never reach. When the MK-Series droid spends a Force Point to 
add to a Mechanics check or a Use Computer check, increase the die 
type of the Force Point by one step (from dé6 to d8, or from d8 to d10). 

Versatile Appendages—Thanks to the versatility of the equipment 
installed in the MK-Series maintenance droid's claw appendages, the 
droid is always considered to have a tool kit. 

“Reprogrammed from Scout starting feats as a factory standard 


MkeK-SERIES MAINTENANCE 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) 

hp 24 

Threshold 12 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The MK-Series maintenance droid moves up to 6 squares (tracked). 

Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The MkK-Series maintenance droid issues a routine command to a 
computer that has a friendly attitude toward it. 


MK-SERIES MAINTENANCE DROID 


Jury-Rig Repairs (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The MK-Series maintenance droid makes a Mechanics check (DC 25) 
at +17 on a disabled mechanical device or vehicle. If the check is 
successful, the target moves +2 steps on the condition track and 
regains 1d8 hit points. 

Shake It Off (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The MK-Series maintenance droid moves +1 step on the condition track. 

Skills Climb —6, Endurance +5, Initiative +7, Knowledge (galactic lore) +7, 
Knowledge (technology) +7, Mechanics +12, Perception +5, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +12 

Systems tracked locomotion, 2 claw appendages, diagnostic package, 
scomp link, vocabulator 


The Kalibac Industries MK-Series maintenance droid was designed to serve 
as an assistant and, occasionally, as the primary mechanic aboard space 
transports and capital ships. The MK-Series maintenance droid had a some- 
what unique design premise: The droid should be able to solve problems 
that arise during space travel, even those that cannot be anticipated, in 
the same way that a living technician would be able to. During the droid's 
initial design process, Kalibac engineers consulted a wide variety of starship 


PLAYING AN MK-SERIES 
MAINTENANCE DROID 

The MK-Series droid makes an excellent choice for players looking to 
take on the role of the party's technician or pilot. The MK-Series droid’s 
personality meshes well with the needs of an adventuring party, and 
their durability exceeds that of many other, comparable droids. First, 
start by choosing the mechanic droid generic chassis (see page 12). The 
best starting class for replicating an MK-Series droid is either the scout 
class (as it matches the MK-Series droid’s standard class), or the scoun- 
drel class (as it has both Mechanics and Use Computer as class skills). 
Choosing the scout class will produce the closest replica of the stock 
Mk-Series droid and will match its durability with higher hit points and 
the Shake It Off starting feat, and taking noble at second level allows you 
to pick up Use Computer relatively quickly. Consider taking Skill Focus 
in Mechanics or Pilot as a starting feat, depending on your primary role 
in the party. Jury-Rigger as a starting talent for the scout class matches 
the stock MK-Series droid, but given the droid's ability to ignore difficult 
terrain thanks to its tracked locomotion, Long Stride isn't a bad choice 
for players seeking more mobility. 


engineers, spaceport mechanics, and even some outlaw techs (although 
Kalibac's legal department stringently denies it) in order to craft a droid 
personality capable of finding creative solutions to the problems that come 
up while traveling through space. As a result, the MK-Series droid, though 
more prone to developing personality quirks than most other droids, has the 
ability to produce creative solutions even when dealing with problems it has 
never before encountered. 

An unanticipated side effect of this unique programming is that MK- 
Series maintenance droids are somewhat more reckless and aggressive than 
other second-degree droids. Many MK-Series droids even develop methods 
of self-repair that far exceed those of other droids, meaning they are more 
prone to taking risks since they can more quickly restore themselves to fully 
functional status. 

Mk-Series maintenance droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: SABOTEUR 

Just as the MK-Series droid produces creative solutions to problems that 
pop up during space travel, some malicious owners have converted the 
droids into equally creative saboteurs. In fact, with the proper reprogram- 
ming and hardware alterations, the MK-Series maintenance droid makes an 
exceptionally vicious saboteur, as it is prone to finding extremely creative 
(and frightening) ways for the things it sabotages to fail. The droid must 
be altered to overcome the protocols that prevent it from harming others, 
requiring a DC 25 Use Computer check and 1 hour of work. Next, the droid's 


tool kit appendages need to be modified to include the tools necessary to 
sabotage a device while still making it functional (or at least make it look 
functional). This requires a DC 25 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. With 
these changes made, the droid gains the following special quality: 


Cunning Saboteur—The MK-Series maintenance droid can use the Handle 
Explosives application of the Mechanics skill on any vehicle or complex 
mechanical object, even if it has no explosives available. With 1 hour 
of work, the MK-Series maintenance droid can convert components of 
the target vehicle or mechanical object into an improvised explosive 
charge (which functions exactly as the explosive charge found on page 
131 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


THRILL SEEKERS 

NEED NOT APPLY 

MK-Series maintenance droids are irritating mechanic droids 
that usually end up being more trouble than they are worth. They tend 
to forget their place in the galaxy, instead providing creative (and 
aggressive) solutions to even the most mundane problems. An MK-Series 
maintenance droid that goes too long without a memory wipe can prove 
to be dangerous and reckless, as the crew of the Commander of Staves 
found out the hard way. Their MK-Series maintenance droid, MK-87, was 
reputed to be one of the best mechanics in the Outer Rim. The Commander 
of Staves (a YT-1930 space transport used for smuggling) was on the 
run from the authorities when its captain ordered MK-87 to modify the 
ship's systems to make them invisible to other ships’ sensors. The droid 
did so by shutting down all power on the ship and venting hyperdrive 
coolant into space—making the ship appear to be a rogue comet and 
killing everyone onboard as the ship's life support failed. The ship was 
finally captured and impounded, but the droid escaped capture and stole 
away on a shuttlecraft. According to the authorities, the droid altered its 
identification and has drifted from ship to ship ever since, leaving each 
ship after causing some catastrophe through its creative interpretation 
of orders. Currently, there is a hefty bounty on the droid, and anyone 
that suddenly finds themselves in possession of a quirky MK-Series 
droid should take care that they have not inherited MK-87 from its last, 
doomed owners. 


Loved 


BAGGED GEelvG) | | Als 


SagGeHD) GISOH@G 


MODEL 8&-SERIES 
ADMINISTRATION 
DROID 


Model 88-Series Administration Droid CL5 
Medium droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 6/noble 3 

Force 3 

Init +3; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Binary, 7 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 12, Will 17 
hp 26; Threshold 12 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d3) 

Ranged by weapon +5 

Base Atk +6; Grp +5 

Special Actions Educated, Inspire Haste 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 8, Con —, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Special Qualities droid traits, superior analysis, timely observation 

Talents Educated, Inspire Haste 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Gather Information), Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[bureaucracy]), Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Training 
(Deception), Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Training 
(Persuasion), Skill Training (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency 
(simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Gather Information +15, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+17, Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Perception +11, Persuasion +10, 
Stealth +8, Use Computer +12 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
internal storage (5 kg), vocabulator, internal comlink 

Possessions datapad 

Availability Licensed; Cost 15,000 credits 


Superior Analysis—When a Model 88-Series administration droid fails 
any Knowledge check, it can immediately make a Perception check, 
add half the total to the previous Knowledge check, and take the new 
result. 

Timely Observation—Once per encounter, a Model 88-Series 
administration droid can make a DC 20 Perception check as a free 
action on its turn. If the check is successful, the droid observes a 
physical or psychological weakness in an opponent. The droid gains 
a +1 bonus to its next attack roll or opposed skill check against that 
opponent. Alternatively, the droid can grant the bonus to an ally who 
can see or hear the droid for use on the ally's next turn. 


MODEL 8&S-SERIES 

ADMINISTRATION DROID 

Medium droid (1st-degree) 

hp 26 

Threshold 12 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The Model 88-Series administration droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The Model 88-Series administration droid makes a Use Computer check 
against the target computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's 
attitude toward it. 

Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The Model 88-Series administration droid issues a routine command to a 
computer that has a friendly attitude toward it. 

Superior Analysis (no action required) 

When a Model 88-Series administration droid fails any Knowledge check, 
it can immediately make a Perception check, add half the total to the 
previous Knowledge check, and take the new result. 

Timely Observation (1 free action, 1/encounter) 

The Model 88-Series administration droid can make a DC 20 Perception 
check on its turn. If the check is successful, the droid observes a 
physical or psychological weakness in an opponent. The droid gains 
a +1 bonus to its next attack roll or opposed skill check against that 
opponent. Alternatively, the droid can grant the bonus to an ally who 
can see or hear the droid for use on the ally's next turn. 

Skills Deception +10, Gather Information +15, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+17, Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Perception +11, Persuasion +10, 
Stealth +8, Use Computer +12 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, internal storage (5 kg), vocabulator, 
internal comlink, datapad 


The Uhr-Vah-Vo TechWorks Model 88 is one example of the vast number of 
niche market droids produced in the galaxy. The Tiss'shar company produced 
the Model 88 as a clerical and administration droid a couple of decades before 
the Clone Wars. The droid's masterful analytical skills caught the attention 
of the InterGalactic Banking Clan, which was so impressed, it purchased 
almost the entire production run, then bought out Uhr-Vah-Vo itself. A few 
years before the Clone Wars, the 88s were largely replaced in most IGBC 
facilities. The droids were sold to banks and other companies outside the 
Clan at a deep discount. Although the droids performed as expected, their 
true function was revealed when they suddenly shut down, along with all the 
other Separatist droids, at the end of the Clone Wars. Unknown to their new 
owners, the 88s actually served as IGBC industrial spies, secretly reporting 
detailed information to their original masters. As a precaution, all remaining 
88s were scrapped. 


PLAYING A MODEL 8&8&-SERIES 
ADMINISTRATION DROID 
To create a Model 88 droid hero, select the stock service droid chassis (see 
_ page 13). Although that chassis is usually a third-degree droid, the Model 
_ 88 hero should instead be considered a first-degree droid. Replace the 
basic processor with a heuristic processor, and remove the too! mount. 
Select Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy]) as the bonus feat. Choose 
the noble class as your starting class, and select the appropriate Skill 
Training and Skill Focus feats, similar to the feats listed in the droid's 
statistics block. If your adventure takes place after the conclusion of the 
Clone Wars, your Model 88 could have a number of nonstandard parts, 
appendages, or systems. 


The Model 88 is a basic bipedal droid, with long, thin limbs and a narrow 
body. They're built for light to moderate duty, designed to serve in offices 
or, at most, in light industrial facilities. Banks and financial institutions 
greatly value their analytical and bookkeeping skills, as does the occasional 
accounting group in major corporations. 

Model 88 droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODEL 88-SERIES ADMINISTRATION DROID 


MODIFICATION: 

GAMBLER'S FRIEND 

A small number of gamblers salvaged some Model 88s from the scrap heap 
and now use them to cheat casinos and other gambling establishments. Some 
also use the droids as sabacc dealers or as directors of other games. Making 
this modification requires a DC 25 Use Computer check and 2,000 credits’ 
worth of software. Some owners also install an internal comlink, but that 
accessory is not strictly required. When gambling against the house (see page 
47 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), the gambler gains a +5 bonus to his or 
her Wisdom check as long as the gambler can see or hear the droid and the 
droid has a view of the entire gaming table. If the modified Model 88 droid 
is in the open, the Gamemaster might require a Stealth or Deception check 
to conceal the droid's true purpose from the other gamblers or from casino 
security. When gambling against other characters, the gambler gains a +2 
bonus to his or her Wisdom check. 


MODIFICATION: INDUSTRIAL SPY 
This modification turns the Model 88 into an industrial espionage machine 
similar to those serving the InterGalactic Banking Clan. Begin by installing 
a hidden core in the droid's processor or as a separate data store elsewhere 
within the droid. This step requires a DC 20 Mechanics check, a DC 25 Use 
Computer check, and 5,000 credits’ worth of upgrades. The hidden core con- 
tains the droid's espionage programming, and the droid's primary personality 
remains unaware of its existence. To complete the modification, reprogram 
the droid to be trained in the Stealth skill. Once per day, the droid can take 
20 ona Gather Information check or a Use Computer check to uncover useful 
data that it was not aware of previously. In addition, once per day, when 
looking for information ona specific item, person or location, the droid can 
reroll any Gather Information, Use Computer, or Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
check and keep the better result. 


JUNK DROIDS Ok 
You have a fine eye, welcome customer. This is a rare droid, 
inspirationally designated the Model 88. Yes, you are correct, it 

misses a couple of limbs. Extremely difficult to find a fully intact Model 
88. Thus, the rarity. Their pieces are collectable! Oops—let me shut old 
6288 off here. Such talk disturbs it. There. Now, what really makes this 
particular droid a unique specimen is that its head is intact. Most 885 
were junked after the Clone Wars by enemies of the Banking Clan, their 
heads destroyed, for spying. Anyway, such a deal for you. Buy this fine 
Model 88 from me and take to Nar Shaddaa. There, you'll find the nearly 
complete information broker 8t88, who's sure to pay prime credits for 
the head. Yes, that is the only part missed by 8t88! He's quite upset by 
the small replacement he has now. Probably, he takes the new head and 
uses the rest for spare parts. Sorry—can't sell you just the head. All or 
nothing. And be careful. 8t88 is a selfish criminal who once tangled 
with Kyle Katarn. 


HSaLadvHoa 


p Al 


RAIGOQo GAOVUG 


- 
| 
0 
I 
> 
v 
“ 
i 
0 
< 


| 


SaGOD GIGVEG 


PG-5S5 GUNNERY DROID 


PG-5 Gunnery Droid 

Large droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +0; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, 
2 unassigned (understand only) 


CLO 


Defenses Ref 8 (flat-footed 8), Fort 15, Will 10 

hp 15; Threshold 20 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 4 squares (wheeled) 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+5) 

Ranged laser welder +0 (3d6) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +11 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 8, Con —, Int 14, Wis 11, Cha 6 

Special Qualities battery fire, droid traits, superior weapon repair 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics, Use Computer), Toughness, Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons) 

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +8, Use Computer +13 

Systems heuristic processor, wheeled locomotion, 1 claw appendage, 
3 tool appendages, diagnostics package, improved sensor package, 
scomp link 

Possessions laser welder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 7,280 credits 


Battery Fire—The PG-5 gunnery droid can control all vehicle weapons 


that make up a single battery as if the droid were controlling only one 
weapon. However, the droid takes a -1 penalty to its attack rolls for 
each weapon in the battery. 

Superior Weapon Repair—During the first encounter after the PG-5 
gunnery droid performs or assists with repairs or upgrades on a vehicle's 
weapon systems, each weapon gains a +1 bonus to attack rolls. 


PG-5 GUNNERY DROID 

Large droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 15 

Threshold 20 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The PG-5 gunnery droid moves 4 squares (wheeled). 

Battery Fire (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The PG-5 gunnery droid can control all vehicle weapons that make up 
a single battery as if the droid were controlling only one weapon. 
However, the droid takes a -1 penalty to its attack rolls for each 
weapon in the battery. 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The PG-5 gunnery droid makes a Use Computer check against the target 
computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's attitude toward it. 


PG-S GUNNERY DROID 


Jury-Rig (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

With a DC 25 Mechanics check, the PG-5 gunnery droid can make 
temporary repairs to any disabled mechanical or electronic device (see 
the Jury-Rig application of the Mechanics skill on page 70 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

When acting as the shield operator of a vehicle or operating a device 
that has a shield rating, the PG-5 gunnery droid can make a 
Mechanics check to restore 5 points to its shield rating, up to its 
normal maximum. 

Sensor Sweep (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The PG-5 gunnery droid can make a Use Computer check to use a 
vehicle's sensors when linked to the vehicle's systems. 

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +8, Use Computer +13 

Vital Systems 1 claw appendage, 3 tool appendages, diagnostics 
package, laser welder 


Designed by Industrial Automaton, the PG-5 gunnery droid's original purpose 
was to supplement and provide additional support for gunners assigned to 
Imperial capital ships. The PG-5 has the same basic appearance as the more 
famous R2 astromech droid, with the most notable difference being that 
the PG-5 is much taller than the R2. Inside, the PG-5 is filled with tools and 
programming that permits it to operate and repair ship-based weapons, 
shield systems, and sensors. Despite all that it offers, the PG-5's size, slow 
movement, and passive personality helped make this droid series an utter 


PLAYING A PG-S 
GUNNERY DROID 
To create a PG-5 gunnery droid hero, start by choosing the stock astro- 
mech droid chassis (see page 11). The best starting class to pick is the 
_ scoundrel, using the Point Blank Shot feat to replicate the droid’s ability 
to handle weapons with ease. Instead of starting with the stock astro- 
gation buffer and internal storage, a PG-5 droid hero gains the battery 
fire and superior weapon repair special qualities, as described in the 
full statistics block. Select Mechanics and Use Computer as two of the 
droid's starting skills. Consider choosing Knowledge (tactics) to represent 
the droid’s knowledge of battle tactics and its ability to anticipate an 
opponent's actions, Perception to represent the droid’s ability to locate 
enemy ships and target them with a vehicle's weapons, and Pilot to rep- 
_ resent the droid's knowledge of vehicle operation. Be sure to purchase a 
laser welder and a scomp link as part of the droid’s starting equipment. 
Also, consider purchasing a tool kit or various separate tools, such as an 
electroshock probe or a laser cutter. 


failure in the eyes of the Imperial military. As a result, [A made only a few 
hundred PG-5s before ceasing production; those droids were purchased by 
planetary armed forces, local law enforcement agencies, and individuals 
employed in the freight forwarding business. These owners of PG-5s found 
that the droid, after receiving a minor personality upgrade, was not only an 
efficient gunnery droid but was also rather insightful and could perform 
better than average repairs and upgrades to various ship systems. 
PG-5 gunnery droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

Fire CONTROL SYSTEM 

Despite the fact that many people complain about the PG-5 gunnery droid's 
lackluster performance, some of those critics found a way to modify the droid 
to take advantage of its redeeming features—mainly, its gun-control soft- 
ware and the hardware that allows it to link to a vehicle's weapon systems. 
To modify a PG-5 to perform in this capacity, start by installing a series of 
synchronized fire circuits that are routed through the droid's processor and 
scomp link. Performing this vital step takes 1 day of work and requires a 
DC 20 Mechanics check to properly install the hardware and a DC 20 Use 
Computer check to calibrate the droid's programming to use the fire circuits. 
Reprogram the droid's Skill Focus (Mechanics) feat to Weapon Focus (heavy 
weapons). This change causes the droid to lose the superior weapon repair 
special quality, but the new feat negates the -1 penalty imposed by the bat- 
tery fire special quality. Finally, reprogram the Mechanics skill to Knowledge 
(tactics) to complete the modifications. 


MODIFICATION: 

MECHANIC'S ASSISTANT 

Some critics of the PG-5 gunnery droid emphasize its similarities to Industrial 
Automaton's R2 astromech droid, with the main difference being the size 
variance between the models. Although many people scoff at the idea of a 


PG-5 acting as a technician (due to its size, which prevents it from reaching 
areas that most astromechs can reach), others have modified the droid with 
great success to act as a mechanic's assistant. Start by removing the tool 
appendage that holds the scomp link, and install a hand appendage in its 
place. Add 3 kilograms of internal storage to the droid, providing just enough 
space for a tool kit and one or two components needed to hold replacements 
for broken parts. Reprogram the droid's skill set to change Perception to 
Knowledge (technology), and replace the Toughness feat with Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [technology]) to give the droid an edge when working with 
devices. The last step is to place a tool kit in the storage compartment. 


MODIFICATION: 

SECURITY SYSTEM 

If a crew has to leave its starship or base of operations for an extended period 
of time, protecting the ship or base becomes a top priority. One common 
precaution is to set up a droid to keep the place from falling into the wrong 
hands, especially a droid that has been geared for security. Administrators 
and captains have found that the PG-5 gunnery droid, after receiving a few 
modifications, is a good choice to perform such duties. To modify the droid in 
this fashion, start by installing a sensor booster, which can be used to increase 
the ship's short-range sensors while the droid is operating them. Also, install a 
communications countermeasure system to help ensure that the droid's calls 
for assistance will not be jammed by invaders. Reprogram the droid to shift 
the Skill Focus feat from Mechanics to Perception. As an option, if the droid 
doesn't already have internal cameras, consider giving it a repulsorcam or two 
to step up the internal security of the starship or installation. 


THE COWARD'S WAY eh 
Despite the better than average programming that went into the ™Q, 
PG-5 gunnery droid, it gets a lot of complaints. If organics are 

not griping about its sheer size blocking a walkway or its sluggish speed 
hindering movement in a corridor, they are carrying on about its lack of 
initiative in performing one of its primary duties: firing the guns. The PG-5 
is supposed to be a gunnery droid, so why doesn't it like to use them? 
You would think that Industrial Automaton would have programmed 
something into the droid to help it do its job. If they had, the PG-5 on 
board the Republic cruiser that was chasing a defecting ship out by Ord 
Mantell might have helped to catch the deserters and bring them in for 
trial. But as always, the droid hesitated, and the defectors escaped before 
a shot was even fired at their ship. Supposedly, the defectors also took 
a couple of Senators as hostages, probably to ransom them back to the 
Republic or give them as a peace offering to their new allies. That PG-5 
is fortunate that | am not its supervisor. If | were, | would turn it inside 
out for its colossal failure of duty. 


(| 


BaGeHD GoXHgd 


Al BSsiavHao 


PLNK-SERIES POWER 
OROID 


PLNK-Series Power Droid CL 
Medium droid (5th-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +0; Senses darkvision; Perception +0 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 13, Will 10 
hp 11; Threshold 13 
Immune droid traits 


Q 
0) 
@) 
0) 
(0) 
io) 
0) 
W 
x 


Speed 4 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d3+2) 

Ranged by weapon +1 

Base Atk +2; Grp +4 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 8, Con —, Int 8, Wis 9, Cha 4 

Special Qualities droid traits, failsafe withdrawal, power charge 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Defenses, 
Skill Focus (Mechanics) 

Skills Mechanics +10, Perception +0 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 tool appendages, 
darkvision, diagnostics package, duranium plating (+8 armor) 

Possessions liquid Tibanna tank and pump, LT-powered generator 

Availability Military; Cost 6,990 credits 

Failsafe Withdrawal—The first time a PLNK-Series power droid is 
attacked in an encounter, as a reaction, it can move up to its speed 
immediately after that attack is resolved. 

Power Charge—With a successful DC 15 Mechanics check, a PLNK-Series 
power droid can recharge a depleted blaster power pack at a rate of 
1 shot per round. Also, when using the recharge shields action, the 
droid can restore 7 points to a vehicle's shield rating, up to its normal 
maximum. 


PLNK-SERIES POWER DROID 

Medium droid (5th-degree) 

hp 11 

Threshold 13 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The PLNK-Series power droid moves 4 squares (walking). 

Ammo Source (1 free action) 

The PLNK-Series power droid can be hooked up to some types of repeating 
blasters and other weapons and used as an ammunition source. 


Failsafe Withdrawal (reaction) 

The first time a PLNK-Series power droid is attacked in an encounter, as a 
reaction, it can move up to its speed immediately after that attack is 
resolved. 

Power Charge (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

With a successful DC 15 Mechanics check, a PLNK-Series power droid can 
recharge a depleted blaster power pack at a rate of 1 shot per round. 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

With a successful DC 20 Mechanics check, a PLNK-Series power droid can 
restore 7 points to a vehicle's shield rating, up to its normal maximum. 

Regulate Power (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

With a successful DC 20 Mechanics check, a PLNK-Series power droid 
moves a Starship +1 step on the condition track. 


Skills Mechanics +10, Perception +0 
Vital Systems 2 tool appendages, diagnostics package, liquid Tibanna 
tank and pump, LT-powered generator 


When Industrial Automaton introduced its popular GNK power droids, they 
were universally seen as serviceable but clearly ripped off from Veril Line 
Systems’ EG-Series. Despite bad publicity, Industrial Automaton expanded 
its power droid line to include power sources beyond the standard fusion 
generator. Since many remote outposts rely on liquid Tibanna for heating 
and other needs, [A saw a marketing niche to exploit. 

The PLNK-Series power droids are designed for storing and refueling liquid 
Tibanna (LT). To increase its LT capacity, the PLNK droid became a stretched 
GNK droid, with four legs instead of two. Weighed down by a heavy internal 
LT tank and LT-powered generator, the PLNK droid tends to waddle slowly, 
when required to move at all. The droid carries an internal pump for loading 


or discharging LT through its externally mounted hose and nozzle. Although 
the PLNK doesn't have the near-limitless power generation of a standard 
power droid, its LT-driven generator is capable of supplying power for most 
outposts’ needs for extended periods of time—at least, until the LT runs out. 

Like other power droids, PLNK droids are encased in heavy shielding, which 
protects the highly flammable liquid Tibanna. PLNK droids feature heightened 
security and safety protocols to further protect their cargo, but they are still 
restricted by highly limited programming and artificial intelligence. And just 
as the GNKs picked up the nickname "gonk droids," PLNKs are often called 
“plunk droids" due to their distinctive vocalizations. 

Plunk droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

OBSERVATION PLUNK 

Given the fact that power droids are commonly ignored except when in use, 
it's natural that some owners use the seemingly unintelligent droid as a spy or 
security sentry. This modification can be carried out in several ways. Creating 
a basic mobile audio and visual sensor platform requires the addition of an 
internal encrypted comlink (DC 15 Mechanics check) and routing software 
(DC 15 Use Computer check) to broadcast the data back to the owner's 


PLNK-SERIES POWER DROID 


receiver. Reprogramming the PLNK to carry out basic observation duties 
requires a DC 10 Use Computer check. However, the dim-witted droid tends 
to fixate on whatever it observes, allowing someone who is being watched 
to make a DC 25 Perception check to notice the droid's unusual attention. 
To further improve the droid's Perception and detection abilities, consider 
installing an improved sensor package. 


MODIFICATION: SUPERCHARGER 
Like all power droids, PLNK units can be used to recharge nearly any power 
system on board starships or vehicles, or even to recharge personal power 
packs. The time required ranges from only a few seconds to minutes or even 
hours, depending on the device or system. The supercharger modification 
allows a plunk droid to recharge systems in half the time normally required. 
Predictably, this use also consumes the droid's supply of liquid Tibanna at 
twice the normal rate. Converting a plunk droid into a supercharger takes 
2 days and requires a DC 25 Mechanics check, a tool kit, and 5,000 credits’ 
worth of parts. 

Some mercenary units and bounty hunters use superchargers to power 
their repeating blasters, increasing the weapons’ damage by 1 die. However, 
using a supercharger as an ammo source is not without risk. First, if the 
power cable length exceeds 6 squares, the weapon is too heavy to wield 
properly in combat unless mounted on a tripod. On the other hand, keeping 
the supercharger close places an explosive target uncomfortably close to 
the weapon's wielder. The PLNK droid's natural tendency for self-protection 
must also be countermanded, or it will attempt to flee the battlefield. Addi- 
tionally, the increased power severely wears on the weapon itself. After 200 
shots, the pattern lining the interior of the blaster barrel becomes completely 
fused, rendering the weapon useless until it receives repairs (requiring a DC 
20 Mechanics check and 2 hours of work) and spare parts worth half the 
weapon's standard cost. 


WANDERING DROID ¢9 
Hey, friend, you want to make a few credits? | need you to retrieve “Sy 
one of my wayward power droids. You see, there were a couple 

of rough customers around here yesterday and, well, you know, we had a 
disagreement. Unfortunately, all the excitement spooked one of my plunk 
droids, and it ran off when its self-preservation programming kicked in. 
These plunks, they're about as thick as their armor plating, and | don't 
want the droid accidentally detonating if it gets run over by a speeder 
or taken apart by a few foolish Jawas. Oh, the plunk might find its way 
home eventually, but it just isn't worth the risk. Don't you worry—it's 
perfectly safe around here. The little fella just gets easily confused when 
it's out of its element. Credits? Sure, like | said, credits are no problem. 
Now, last | saw, the droid went off in that direction . .. 


xeGeg Geaug | 


SiavwHoS 


AT & 


RO-D-SERIES DROID 


RO-D-Series Droid CL3 
Medium droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 1/scoundrel 3 

Force 3 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +15 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


SaIGOQD GAGVUG 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 15, Will 15 
hp 13; Threshold 15 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+3) or 

Melee club +4 (1d6+3) or 

Melee stun baton +4 (1d6+3/2d6 stun) 
Ranged by weapon +3 

Base Atk +2; Grp +4 

Special Actions Disruptive, Walk the Line 


Instant Help (reaction, 1/encounter) 

Once per encounter, as a reaction, an RO-D-Series droid can move up to 
its speed and automatically aid another to help an ally with an attack 
roll or a skill check for a skill in which the RO-D droid is trained. 

Pin (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

If the RO-D-Series droid succeeds on a grappling attack and its opponent 
fails an opposed grapple check, the opponent is automatically pinned 
until the start of the droid's next turn. 

Quick Fix (1 swift action, 1/encounter) 

The RO-D-Series droid uses the Jury-Rig application of the Mechanics 
skill (see page 70 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) more quickly than 
normal. 

Stun Baton (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The RO-D-Series droid makes a melee attack at +4. If successful, the 
attack deals 1d6+3 points of damage or 2d6 points of stun damage. 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 11 

Special Qualities droid traits, instant help, quick fix 

Talents Disruptive, Walk the Line 

Feats Martial Arts |, Pin, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill 
Training (Deception), Skill Training (Mechanics), Weapon Proficiency 
(simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +7, Mechanics +8, Perception +15, Stealth +8 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 1 tool 
appendage, improved sensor package, internal comlink, internal 
storage (10 kg), vocabulator 

Possessions amplified audio monitor, programmable holographic light 
rack, club, concealed stun baton 

Availability Licensed; Cost 14,800 credits 


Instant Help—Once per encounter, as a reaction, an RO-D-Series droid 
can move up to its speed and automatically aid another to help an ally 
with an attack roll or a skill check for a skill in which the RO-D droid is 
trained. 

Quick Fix—Once per encounter, an RO-D-Series droid can use the Jury- 
Rig application of the Mechanics skill as a standard action instead of a 
full-round action. 


RO-D-SERIES DROID 
Medium droid (5th-degree) 

hp 13 

Threshold 15 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The RO-D-Series droid moves 6 squares (walking). 


Skills Deception +7, Mechanics +8, Perception +15, Stealth +8 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, 1 tool appendage, internal comlink, 
internal storage (10 kg), vocabulator, amplified audio monitor, 
programmable holographic light rack, club, concealed stun baton 


RO-D-SERIES DROID 


PLAYING AM 

RO-D-SERIES DROID 

Start by selecting the stock labor droid chassis (see page 11) and the 
scoundrel class. Choose Mechanics, Perception, and Stealth as trained 
skills. Select the Disruptive talent, then later pick up Walk the Line, which 
you can use in conjunction with your built-in audio and visual equip- 
ment to distract opponents. If you want to focus on being a bodyguard, 
take levels in the soldier class and select the Draw Fire or Harm's Way 
talents (although, for the latter, you'll also need to be trained in the 
Initiative skill). 

You also need to select the look and style of your droid. Units built 
to support rowdier styles of music are typically more rugged and flashy, 
and units that support more elegant tastes have a refined appearance. 
Creating an RO-D that is a mismatch for its intended style can lead to 
conflicts but some amusing roleplaying. Keep this consideration in mind 
when selecting your systems and equipment. 


Balmorran Arms developed the RO-D-Series droid as a combination stage 
production labor droid and personal security unit for popular musicians on 
tour throughout the galaxy. As civilized regions of the galaxy become more 
dangerous during the Clone Wars, large-scale production houses look for 
subtle ways to increase security around their profitable performers. The 
RO-D-Series is part labor droid, part mechanic, and part bodyguard. Produc- 
tion companies love the cost efficiency of using the multifunctional unit. 
Balmorran provides substantial customization opportunities, both stock 
from the factory and in aftermarket kits. As such, the droid's appearance 
is highly adaptable, although each unit is built from the same underlying 
chassis and systems. 

RO-D droids come in an array of colors and styles, each designed to be 
suitable for a specific mode of music or performance. This flexibility is critical, 
since the droids are usually on stage during a performance. If everything goes 
as planned, spectators might never realize that a droid is present and ready to 
spring into action. Typical units also function as audio amplifiers or lighting 
and holographic projector racks, and they can mimic most types of stage 
equipment—even the occasional musical instrument. RO-D droids contain 
compartment space for tools, props, spare parts, or just about anything else 
a performer might need on stage. 

If a piece of equipment fails during a performance, the RO-D can make 
repairs on stage. If a crowd gets out of hand or a musician's life is in jeop- 
ardy, the droid can provide crowd control or become a personal bodyguard, 
escorting its charge safely from the stage. 

RO-D droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

ESCAPE CAPSULE 

This modification turns an RO-D droid into a personal escape vehicle for a band 
member. Making this modification requires a droid with enough compartment 
space for the passenger. The droid's size is typically such that the person must 


squeeze into the space available. Once inside, the rider uses the droid's Reflex 
and Fortitude Defenses. An attack that exceeds both the droid's Fortitude 
Defense and the passenger's Fortitude Defense affects the passenger. The 
capsule features a small port, operable only from the inside, through which the 
passenger can transfer small objects or fire a weapon. The rider can also con- 
trol the RO-D's locomotion system, essentially driving the droid where needed, 
although the droid retains control of all other systems. To turn an RO-D into 
an escape capsule, add sufficient compartment space per the regular droid 
modification rules. You must also add the interior control system, requiring 
a DC 15 Mechanics check and a DC 15 Use Computer check. 


MODIFICATION: 

ONE DROID BAND 

A few independently minded RO-D droids have, as they say, taken their show 
on the road. Not content with remaining in the background, these droids have 
turned themselves into performers in their own right. Few parts of the galaxy 
regard them as particularly talented, so the units typically work in cheap 
venues on backwater worlds. Despite their poor reputation, these units are 
adept at replicating and adapting sounds and voices. After hearing a sound 
or voice for 3 minutes, the droid can reproduce it almost perfectly. This 
ability grants the droid a +10 bonus to Deception checks when replicating a 
voice. The droid also might gain a circumstance bonus when attempting to 
deceive others by yelling, faking sounds, or making other distracting noises. 
To modify an RO-D in this manner, reprogram the droid so it is trained in the 
Persuasion skill and make a DC 30 Use Computer check. If the RO-D has levels 
in the independent droid prestige class (see page 46 of The Force Unleashed 
Campaign Guide), the DC of the Use Computer check is reduced to 20. 


KILLER Music () 
RO-D droids are special. Balmorran says they're marketed for & , 
labor and security, but I'm more than a little convinced that the 

Melody Fellowship corporation that originally ordered the droids was 
really after rival productions that imitated their musical stars. Conspiracy 
theories aside, I've seen a lot of lesser acts use RO-Ds for cheap stage 
setup and personal security during the show. With a rowdy crowd, the 
droids are hardly inanimate props. It's pretty amusing to watch them keep 
the crowd at bay with ultrabright spotlights and ear-splitting blasts of 
sound. Of course, if things get really rough, the ne Ds are decent fighters, 
if a little odd looking. 

Here's a suggestion for pulling in some credits. Get a couple of RO-Ds; 
assemble some good holoprojectors, audio blasters, and sound boards; and 
hire yourself and your ship out to a Bith musical troupe. They'll pay you for 
transport and equipment rental. The RO-Ds can handle the stage produc- 
tion, although you might need to pitch ina little creativity. But watch out 
for musicians or their managers who owe credits to someone. They might 
not pay you, either. Worse, they might bring you a lot of trouble. 


@ | 
2) 
0 
iy 
Q 
@ 
0 
WW 
x 


Al eaLeavHo 


AWE) 


SaqGoeog) 


R&S-SERIES 
ASTROMECH DROID 


R8-Series Astromech Droid CLO 

Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +2; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, 2 unassigned (understand 
only) 

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 10 

hp 5; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (wheeled), 4 squares (walking) 

Melee electroshock probe +0 (1d8-1 ion) 

Ranged laser welder +2 (3d6) 

Base Atk +1; Grp -3 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 13, Con —, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid traits, navigation charts 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics, Pilot, Use Computer), Skill Training (Pilot) 

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +8, Pilot +12, Stealth +6, 
Use Computer +13 

Systems heuristic processor, wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion 
(exclusive), 1 claw appendage, 4 tool appendages, diagnostics package, 
improved sensor package, internal comlink, scomp link, sensor booster, 
sensor pack, magnetic feet 

Possessions astrogation buffer (storage device, 6 memory units), circular 
saw, electroshock probe, fire extinguisher, holoprojector, holorecorder, 
laser welder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 7,990 credits 

Navigation Charts—Stored in the memory banks of the R8-Series 
astromech droid is a database of star charts that cover most of the 
known galaxy. Coordinating this information with its cutting-edge 
navicomputer, the droid can calculate a course through hyperspace as if 
it had access to the HoloNet, and does not take a -5 penalty to its Use 
Computer check. In addition, when time is of the essence, the droid can 
calculate a course as a standard action instead of a full-round action. 


RSB-SERIES ASTROMECH DROID 

Small droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 5 

Threshold 9 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The R8-Series astromech droid moves 6 squares (wheeled) or 4 squares 
(walking). 

Copilot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 


With a successful Pilot check, the R8-Series astromech droid can assist 
the vehicle's pilot, providing a +2 bonus to the character's Pilot check. 

Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The R8-Series astromech droid can issue a routine command to a 
computer that has a friendly attitude toward it. 

Navigation Charts (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

Even if the R8-Series astromech droid does not have access to the 
HoloNet, it can calculate a course through hyperspace as if it had 
access. 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

When operating a vehicle or device with a shield rating, the R8-Series 
astromech droid can make a Mechanics check to restore 5 points to 
the shield rating, up to the normal maximum. 

Regulate Power (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

When acting as the engineer of a vehicle, the R8-Series astromech droid 
can make a Mechanics check to move the vehicle +1 step on the 
condition track. 

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +8, Pilot +12, Stealth +6, 

Use Computer +13 

Vital Systems 1 claw appendage, 4 tool appendages, internal comlink, 
magnetic feet, astrogation buffer (storage device, 6 memory units), 
circular saw, electroshock probe, fire extinguisher, holoprojector, 
holorecorder, laser welder 


The period after the defeat of Grand Admiral Thrawn and his Imperial fleet 
at the Battle of Bilbringi allowed many of the New Republic's organizations 
to breathe more easily. During that time, Industrial Automaton further 
advanced its famous line of astromech droids and developed the R8-Series. 


THE WANDERER, ¢9 

The R8-Series, eh? That's a worthy successor to the R2-Series. Wp 

No doubt about that! I've made quite a few credits from selling 

oids, and no complaints from my customers, either. | even have 
one working in ‘the back of my shop, helping me maintain some of my 
older models. Did you | notice that little receiver dish on its dome? Pretty 
cute, eh? | should point out that there is one little thing about R8s that 
makes them, shall we say, less than perfect. Now, don't get me wrong, 
friend—these droids are great! But | found that they tend to pick up a 
quir or two a little easier than some other droids. This one R8 | had a 

few weeks ago developed a sense of wanderlust and rolled right out of 
my shop one night! Lucky for the droid, | was sleeping at the time. The 
thing that really bugs me is it took one of my datapads—the one with 
all the records of my recent sales. If you could find the R8 and that 

_ datapad for me, I'd be very grateful. | might even give you a droid... at 
a discount, of course. 


After creating a highly effective but limited-use R7 astromech, IA sought to 
create another droid that would be as notable as the lucrative R2-Series but 
with updated technological systems and capabilities. In fact, the R8-Series 
has most of the abilities of its R2 cousin, but goes above and beyond what 
the R2 can do. In addition to its array of tools, the R8 also hosts a full- 
frequency comlink system as a standard accessory. Scouts, lone starfighter 
pilots, and others in need of a long-range communications interface find this 
particular feature of the droid highly valuable, and IA sales representatives 
make it a selling point. 
R8-Series astromech droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: SIGNAL HUB 

Although it seems that the R8-Series astromech droid is already equipped 
to serve as an excellent signal hub, a few changes allow it to function even 
better in that capacity. Most of the equipment necessary for this modification 
is already installed on the droid: a sensor pack, a sensor booster, and the Use 
Computer skill. To finalize the upgrade, simply install a sensor countermeasure 
package to mask the droid's signals and keep it from being detected by hostile 
forces. Some owners choose to make additional changes that further enhance 
the droid's ability to direct signals. For example, installing a communications 
countermeasure system will boost the R8's signal strength and help prevent 
its communications from being jammed. Just as the sensor booster extends 
the range of sensors, a simple modification to the communications counter- 
measure system (requiring a DC 25 Mechanics check and 2 hours of work) 
can provide a temporary boost of a comlink’s signal strength and double its 
range for 5 minutes once per day. As another optional upgrade, reprogram 
the Skill Focus (Mechanics) feat to Skill Focus (Perception) to improve the 
droid's potential to act as a signal hub. 


MODIFICATION: 

SMUGGLER'S ASSISTANT 

The widely known story of how R2-D2 secretly transported the stolen plans 
of the Death Star is only one example of how astromech droids can be used 
to smuggle items. This modification is inspired by the legacy created by the 
R8's predecessor. Begin by adding up to 5 kilograms of internal storage, 
spread throughout the droid's chassis as smaller compartments, each of which 
requires a DC 30 Perception check to discover. Next, install a spring-loaded 
mechanism to allow its master to store a spare blaster inside the droid in 
case of entanglements with the authorities. Erase the droid's Perception skill, 
and replace it with Deception to help fool customs agents and other snoops 
into thinking that the R8 is merely a standard astromech. Setting up locked 
access to keep the droid running is a popular option. Many smugglers also 
consider installing an electric defense grid in case somebody manages to 
get into one of the droid's secret compartments. 


RSB-SERIES ASTROMECH DROID 


Al HSidvHoa 


- 
2y | 
Q 
G 
) 
@ 
Y) 
Wy 
x | 


RWW-SERIES 
PROTOCOL DROID 


RWW-Series Protocol Droid CLO 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init -1; Senses Perception +0 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


Availability Licensed; Cost 5,505 credits 


Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 8, Will 10 
hp 3; Threshold 8 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 
Melee unarmed -2 (1d3-2) 
Ranged by weapon -1 
Base Atk +0; Grp -1 


Abilities Str 7, Dex 8, Con —, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 14 

Special Qualities droid traits, mimic 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic lore], Persuasion), Skill Training 
(Deception, Knowledge [bureaucracy]) 

Skills Deception +7, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +11, Perception +0, Persuasion +12 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, 
translator unit (DC 10), vocabulator 


RWW-SERIES PROTOCOL DROID 


Mimic—As a swift action, the RWW-Series protocol droid can reroll a 
Deception check when attempting to imitate the speech patterns and 
gestures of a selected character but must take the result of the second 
roll, even if it is worse. 


RWW-SERIES PROTOCOL DROID 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) 

hp 3 

Threshold 8 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The RWW-Series protocol droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Databank (1 swift action) 

The RWW-Series protocol droid can attempt a Knowledge check involving 
bureaucracy, galactic lore, or social sciences. If the check is successful, 
the droid communicates the information to its master. 

Mimic (1 swift action) 

The RWW-Series protocol droid can imitate an individual of its master's 
choosing, gaining a +2 bonus to a Deception check made to produce a 
deceptive appearance. 

Translator (1 free action) 

With a DC 10 translator check, the RWW-Series protocol droid translates 
to or from any language it knows. 


Skills Deception +7, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +11, Perception +0, Persuasion +12 
Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, translator unit (DC 10), vocabulator 


Conceived by the Devon, natives of the world of Teagan near the Corporate 
Sector, the RWW-Series protocol droid was inspired by the protocol droids 
used by the Trade Federation, which dominated the planet for almost two 
centuries until the end of the Clone Wars. When the Trade Federation was 
incorporated into the Empire, the Devon were left to their own devices, 
and they needed protocol droids to help them interact with visitors to their 
world. The result was the humanoid RWW-Series, created by the Teagan 
Tech Consortium. The Devon took extra care to make the RWW-Series look 
as close to organic as possible without becoming replica droids, complete 
with virtually seamless, soft outer shells. Programmed with the languages 
and customs of most of the galaxy's races, the droids work in the planet's 
starports as guides to Teagan and as liaisons with its natives. The droids 
pick up phrases and gestures that they see and incorporate these behavioral 
details into their personality matrices. Visitors to Teagan sometimes see an 
RWW-Series droid in action and negotiate to purchase their own, so the 
droids have begun to appear more frequently around the galaxy, usually as 
servants and personal assistants for those in high society. 
RWW-Series protocol droids can be played as droid heroes. 


PLAYING AN RWW-SERIES 
PROTOCOL DROID 

Players who want to create an RWW-Series protocol droid with heroic 
levels should start by selecting the stock protocol droid chassis (see page 
13). The best starting class to choose for the droid is the noble, using the 
Linguist feat to represent the additional languages the droid can speak 
and understand. Instead of the hardwired design special quality, the 
character receives the mimic special quality, as described in the droid's 
statistics block. Select Knowledge (bureaucracy), Knowledge (galactic 
lore), and Persuasion as three of the droid’s starting skills. For additional 
starting skills, consider Deception to represent the droid's knack for 
imitating organic beings, Gather Information to represent the droid's 
inquisitive nature when dealing with organics, Perception to represent 
the droid's ability to notice the intricate speech patterns and gestures 
of organic beings, and Use Computer to represent the droid’s talent for 
accessing computer networks wherever it goes. Optionally, the RWW- 
Series protocol droid could have a datapad, datacards, or a code cylinder 
as part of its starting equipment. 


MODIFICATION: COMBAT 
TRAINING OPPONENT 

Warriors of all kinds that have tested their combat skills against droids often 
complain that the artificial beings never seem to be as aesthetically authentic 
as organic opponents, despite their lifelike reflexes and actions. Since replica 
droids are considered extremely expensive to use as combat trainers, some 
organizations have resorted to using modified RWW-Series protocol droids 
instead. To make this modification, start by installing a set of jump servos into 
the droid's arms, granting the unit a +4 bonus to Strength for the purposes 
of melee combat. The installation requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 2 
hours of work. Next, reprogram the droid's Skill Focus feats into Weapon 
Proficiency feats, preferably pistols, rifles, or simple weapons. Alternatively, 
you could select the advanced melee weapons or lightsaber proficiencies, 
depending on what kind of training the droid will be expected to provide. 
Equip the RWW-Series droid with some form of light armor, at least, and an 
appropriate weapon. Be sure to include the helmet package with the droid's 
armor, and, if using a ranged weapon, add a standard targeting scope. 


MODIFICATION: 

ESPIONAGE DROID 

Very few people would suspect a simple protocol droid, especially one that 
mimics organic creatures, of gathering intelligence for an opposing faction. As 
a result, organizations that have modified RWW-Series droids for espionage 
work take pride in their high success rates. To make this modification, start by 
adding an internal comlink coupled with a communications countermeasure 
system. Adding an improved sensor package helps the droid find desired 
information; to let the droid record that data, give it an audio and video 


recorder integrated with its audio receptors and photoreceptors. Also, it's 
possible that the group being spied on will attach a restraining bolt to the 
droid. To protect against that, install a reverse-polarity bolt on the inside 
of the droid's body, which can short out the unwanted hardware. However, 
it works only once. Reversing the polarity of a restraining bolt requires 10 
minutes of work and a DC 15 Mechanics check. Once attached inside the 
droid's body, the reversed bolt is visible only if the droid's chassis is opened, 
although it can be found by sensors with a DC 30 Perception check. In addi- 
tion to these hardware changes, reprogram the droid’s Knowledge (galactic 
lore) skill to Perception and change the Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic 
lore]) feat to Skill Focus (Perception) to improve the droid's odds of success. 


MODIFICATION: 
MEDICAL ASSISTANT DROID 
Many medical droids exist on the open market, and a good number of 
them specialize in a particular area of expertise. As unlikely as it seems, 
an RWW-Series protocol droid can be modified to work as a medical droid. 
In fact, the RWW-Series model excels at keeping the spirits of its patients 
high while they recover from surgery. For the most part, this modification 
involves tweaking the droid's software to allow it to assist official medical 
droids in their procedures and not be a danger to patients. Reprogram the 
Knowledge (bureaucracy) and Knowledge (galactic lore) skills to Knowledge 
(life sciences) and Treat Injury. Adjust the Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic 
lore]) feat to Skill Focus (Treat Injury), and change the Skill Focus (Persua- 
sion) feat to Surgical Expertise. The only hardware adjustment required by 
this modification is installing an improved sensor package to increase the 
droid's awareness while it is providing medical assistance. 
ON THE ROAD ¢9 
A protocol droid that looks like an organic, and it's not a replica 
droid? You're funny, friend—you should do comedy in the Core Worlds 
circuit. Eh? You're serious? An RWW-Series? | don't—oh, wait a second. 
Yeah, | have heard of that. Soft fake skin, likes to copy other people. 
Okay, | know what you're talking about. Now that you mention it, | did 
hear about this Falleen that owns a traveling group of performers. He 
has all kinds of shows that he brings to the planets he visits in the Core. 
| heard he was most recently on Nubia. Anyway, this Falleen picked up 
an RWW droid, liked its mimicry, and tried to get it to do impressions 
of high-profile personalities from around the galaxy. Rumor has it, 
though, that the droid used to belong to this rich politician living on 
Coruscant. He supposedly reported losing his RWW a couple of weeks 
ago and wants it back. | don't know if he's going to get it, though, since 
this traveling sideshow is reported to be sponsored by a Hutt gangster 
and... Come to think of it, I've never heard of this droid you're talking 
about. Nope, not at all. 


TAKE THE ACT 


xSeGgeg GQieuag 


RxX-SERIES 
PiLtoTr DROID 


RX-Series Pilot Droid CL 1 
Medium droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 4 

Init +4; Senses Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 10), Fort 10, Will 9 
hp 10; Threshold 10 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (hovering) 
Melee claw +3 (1d4) 
Ranged by weapon +5 
Base Atk +3; Grp +5 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con —, Int 13, Wis 8, Cha 12 

Special Qualities droid traits, hot-shot pilot 

Feats Skill Focus (Pilot), Skill Training (Knowledge [galactic lore], 
Mechanics), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +8, Mechanics +8, Perception +1, Pilot 
+14, Use Computer +8 

Systems heuristic processor, hovering locomotion, 3 claw appendages, 
vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 9,855 credits 


Hot-Shot Pilot—The RX-Series pilot droid can reroll its Pilot check to 
avoid a collision and can take the better of the two results. In addition, 
once per encounter as a reaction, the droid can avoid an attack from 
a missile or a torpedo by making a Pilot check against the attack roll. 
If the result of the Pilot check equals or exceeds the attack roll, the 
missile or torpedo is dodged for that round of combat. 


RX-SERIES PILOT DROID 
Medium droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 10 

Threshold 10 


RX-SERIES PILOT DROID 


Increase Vehicle Speed (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The RX-Series pilot droid makes a DC 20 Pilot check. If the check is 
successful, the vehicle increases its speed by 1 square plus 1 square 
for every 5 points by which the check result exceeds the DC. 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The RX-Series pilot droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the check 
is successful, the starship regains 5 points of shields, up to its normal 
maximum. 

Regulate Power (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The RX-Series pilot droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the check is 
successful, the ship moves +1 step on the condition track. 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The RX-Series pilot droid moves 6 squares (hovering). 

Engage the Enemy (1 free action) 

At the start of a battle, the RX-Series pilot droid makes a Pilot check 
instead of an Initiative check. 

Hot-Shot Pilot (reaction, 1/encounter) 

The droid makes a Pilot check to avoid a collision or an incoming missile 
or torpedo. 


Skills Knowledge (galactic lore) +8, Mechanics +8, Perception +1, 
Pilot +14, Use Computer +8 
Vital Systems 3 claw appendages, vocabulator 


In an attempt to corner the market on two facets of the droid industry at 
the same time, Industrial Automaton created the RX-Series pilot droid not 
only to help in piloting starships but also to interact harmoniously with 
organic beings. The droid has a cylindrical body that floats on a repulsorlift 
base and three arms to operate starships more efficiently. Its head is more 
humanoid than those of most of IA’s astromechs and helps to establish good 
relations with organic beings that work alongside the droids. As a result of 
their interactions and programming, these pilot droids develop personali- 
ties much more quickly than most other droids that operate without regular 
memory wipes. RX-Series pilot droids can be found in almost any spaceport 


PLAYING AN RX-SERIES 
PiLoT DROID 
Players who want to build an RX-Series pilot droid with heroic levels 
should start by selecting the stock probe droid chassis (see page 12), 
even though that droid is a second-degree model. The best starting class 
to use for the character is the scoundrel, with the Point Blank Shot feat 
representing the droid’s quick reflexes and superior accuracy. The RX- 
Series pilot droid begins with three claw appendages. Instead of starting 
with the internal comlink, locked access, improved sensor package, and 
_darkvision, the pilot droid character has a vocabulator and the hot-shot 
pilot special quality, as described in the droid’s statistics block. Select 
Mechanics, Pilot, and Use Computer as three of the droid's starting skills. 
For additional trained skills, consider Deception to represent the droid’s 
ability to fly evasively, Knowledge (galactic lore) to represent the droid’s 
knowledge of various star systems, and Perception to represent the droid's 
highly sensitive photoreceptors and the ease with which the droid can 
visually locate other starships in space. 


in the galaxy, since they are extremely useful in moving starships between 
docks, transporting cargo between ships, and piloting passenger vessels 
along established routes. In fact, travel agencies that specialize in space 
tours are known to use RX droids to pilot their chartered flights, such as the 
Starspeeder 3000 transports owned by Star Tours. 

RX-Series pilot droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

ASTROGATION DROID 

Although this modification is not much of a stretch for a pilot droid, it 
tweaks the RX-Series droid to function on the other side of the ship's bridge 
by focusing primarily on navigation. This configuration is ideal for owners 
that prefer to fly their own ships but still want the droid's assistance in the 
cockpit. To make this modification, start by installing an astrogation buffer 
with at least two slots, although five or six slots is recommended. Optionally, 
installing a scomp link will allow the droid to interface directly with the ship's 
navicomputer to input the calculated course through hyperspace, saving 
valuable time in making the jump to light speed. As an additional option, a 
hypertransceiver, which is normally only installed aboard capital ships, will 
help the droid calculate the course through hyperspace by allowing it to 
connect directly to the HoloNet. Installing the system takes 2 days and a DC 
25 Mechanics check. Finally, reprogram the Skill Focus (Pilot) feat to Skill 
Focus (Use Computer) to improve the droid's capability with astrogation. 


MODIFICATION: 
COMMUNICATIONS DROID 

Communicating with the rest of the galaxy is important for the crew of a 
starship, but what can they do when their means of speaking with others 
outside the ship becomes unavailable? Modifying a pilot droid can help. This 


modification alters the RX-Series pilot droid to act as a communications 
terminal, allowing its master to contact others. First, install an internal 
comlink, and route it through the vocabulator and audio receptors so that 
organic beings can communicate through the droid. Although this is enough 
for short-range communications, anyone who needs to connect with someone 
beyond a 200-kilometer range needs to install a hypertransceiver in the 
droid, which takes 2 days of work and a DC 25 Mechanics check. If time is 
of the essence, the hypertransceiver can be installed in as little as 2 hours 
with a DC 35 Mechanics check. Failure means that the hypertransceiver is 
damaged and cannot be used again. 


MODIFICATION: 

TACTICAL SYSTEMS DROID 

Some transport pilots see more than their share of trouble when flying 
between destinations. For those that choose to protect themselves by arming 
their vehicles, it's helpful to have someone along that can use those defensive 
systems well. Adjusting an RX-Series pilot droid to this end is simple but 
effective. To modify an RX-Series droid to be a tactical systems droid, start by 
exchanging at least one claw appendage for a hand appendage, which gives 
the droid more fine control over using equipment. Alternatively, installing 
a scomp link allows the droid to do the same tasks, but the vehicle needs 
to have the appropriate socket for this modification to work. Next, install 
an improved sensor package within the droid's chassis, which requires a DC 
15 Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. Reprogram the droid's Knowledge 
(galactic lore) skill to Perception and change the Skill Focus feat to boost 
Perception. Reprogramming the droid in this manner removes the hot-shot 
pilot special quality. 


SHAKEDOWN BREAKDOWN 

RX-Series pilot droids can be some of best models available 

for operating vehicles. Like with most droids from Industrial 
Automaton, you get a reliable unit that rarely breaks down and doesn't 
need a lot of maintenance. Truth, | have not seen many IA droids come 
past me, let alone these pilot droids. But | have seen a few, and what 
| saw was not pretty. | say one thing for these pilot droids. When they 
break down, they really break down! Other day, customer was telling me 
about a friend of his. A few days before, this friend was out near Naboo. 
She had just stepped off boarding ramp of her brand new starship when 
her RX blew a fuse or something and took off with ship. She didn't even 
have a chance to jump back on board. Stranded there for now. Accord- 
ing to observation post in system, the ship entered hyperspace before 
any of Naboo's fighters could reach it. Course when it jumped was in 
the direction of Rodia, or maybe Bothawui, or maybe Nal Hutta. I'll bet 
that lady would jump, too—jump for joy if she sees her ship again soon. 


Y 
wy 
g 
Y 
0) 
0) | 
\Y) 
W) 
x 


2 


AMI BSLV 


AA SBsidvHo 


RAGED GBOVGE | 


Sig ASTROMECH 
DROID 


S19 Astromech Droid CLO 

Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, 3 unassigned 
(understand only) 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 12 

hp 4; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 4 squares (tracked) 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d3) 

Ranged by weapon +1 

Base Atk +1; Grp -4 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 10, Con —, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Special Qualities droid traits, focused repairs 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology], Mechanics, Use Computer), 
Toughness 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +14, Mechanics +14, Perception +8, 
Stealth +6, Use Computer +14 

Systems heuristic processor, tracked locomotion, 1 claw appendage, 
6 tool appendages, astrogation buffer (5 memory units), diagnostics 
package, internal comlink 

Possessions holorecorder, tool kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 8,625 credits 

Focused Repairs—The S19 astromech droid can reduce the time needed 
for repairs by making a Mechanics check. For every point by which 
the check result exceeds the DC, the time needed to make repairs is 
reduced by 2 minutes. The amount of time needed to complete repairs 
cannot be reduced to less than 10 minutes. 


Sig ASTROMECH DROID 

Small droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 4 

Threshold 10 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The S19 astromech droid moves 4 squares (tracked). 

Focused Repairs (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The S19 astromech droid can make a Mechanics check to assist its master 
with repairs to any damaged or disabled droid or device. If the check is 
successful, the droid's master can reroll his or her Mechanics check but 
must accept the second result, even if it is worse. 


Jury-Rig (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

With a DC 25 Mechanics check, the S19 astromech droid can make 
temporary repairs to any disabled mechanical or electronic device (see 
the Jury-Rig application of the Mechanics skill on page 70 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

When operating a vehicle or device with a shield rating, the S19 
astromech droid can make a Mechanics check to restore 5 points to 
the shield rating, up to its normal maximum. 

Regulate Power (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

When acting as the engineer of a vehicle, the S19 astromech droid can 
make a Mechanics check to move the vehicle +1 step on the condition 
track. 

Run Diagnostics (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The S19 astromech droid can make a Mechanics check to determine 
why a mechanical or electronic device does not work. If the check is 
successful, the droid grants its master a +2 circumstance bonus to his 
or her Mechanics check to make repairs. 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +14, Mechanics +14, Perception +8, 
Stealth +6, Use Computer +14 

Vital Systems 1 claw appendage, 6 tool appendages, astrogation buffer 
(5 memory units), internal comlink, holorecorder, tool kit 


In response to the high level of success Industrial Automaton experienced 
with the R2 astromech, many other droid manufacturers sought a piece of 
that same pie by developing their own astromechs. The S19 droid is LesTech's 
contribution to the astromech market. Standing just over 1 meter in height, 


TOO GooD FOR © Ck) 
irs Own GOOD | 

The S19 astromech droid is very good at what it does. Somebody 
offered to sell me one at reasonable price, and | took the deal, figuring it 
could help with some of my work around here. But quickly | found out the 
droid was too good. | would stop for night and go to bed, only to wake 
in the morning and find the droid had completed all my work for the 
next day while | slept. | had to sell it to somebody else quick, or | would 
be looking for new line of work. Wonder if it is my old droid causing the 
problem for that scientist on Abregado-rae? Seems he picked up an S19 
droid to help maintain his shop and let it be creative. Something must 
have broken down inside droid, because it dismantled all the door controls 
and comlink systems to lab, trapping droid and master inside. Somebody 
has to get that guy out of there and do something about that droid. 


the S19 has a boxlike chassis that makes it look more like an EG-6 power 
droid than do most other astromechs. It moves on a single wide, tracked 
foot, which is the droid's major flaw. The S19 has a vast array of tools and 
a high degree of technical knowledge, but it also has a tendency to topple 
over when trying to move too quickly. 

$19 astromech droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

GRAVITY WELL PROUECTOR 

As useless as this modification might sound for ground combat, when used 
properly it can be very effective. To make this modification, start by reinforc- 
ing the droid's internal structure to protect against the possibility of being 
exposed to increased gravity. Reinforcing the chassis has the same effect 
as adding a hardened system x2 to a droid of Large size. Next, remove all 
systems and possessions except for the heuristic processor and tracked 
locomotion, and install a gravity well projector in the droid. Although this 
system is normally installed only on capital ships, it can be added to the 
droid with 2 days of work and a DC 30 Mechanics check. The gravity well 
produced by the droid is less powerful than that of its starship counterpart, 
affecting only 4x4 squares; it can be relocated with a full-round action to 
a maximum range of 12 squares. However, when projected in the direction 
of enemies, the gravity well can divert shots. Anyone that fires through a 
square occupied by the gravity well must reroll the attack roll and use the 
lower of the two results. 


MODIFICATION: 

MOBILE SHIELD GENERATOR 
Throughout history, groups engaged in planetside combat have sought ways 
to generate energy shields that can move with them. Mobile shield generators 
can be mounted onto vehicles or large beasts of burden, but that solution 


doesn't help smaller groups that must break away from the larger force for 
a mission. This modification permits the S19 astromech droid to create such 
a shield to help protect those smaller groups. To modify the droid in this 
manner, remove the astrogation buffer and the holorecorder, and replace 
them with an SR 10 shield generator. (To install an SR 15 shield generator, 
remove the diagnostics package and internal comlink in addition to the 
previously mentioned components; for an SR 20 generator, also remove 
four tool appendages and the tool kit.) Once the generator is in place, the 
droid can create a shield in a 5-square-by-5-square area centered on itself. 
While the shield is active, the droid can make one move action if it gives up 
its standard action or no move actions if it does not. 


MODIFICATION: TRAILBLAZER 

Many times, an individual or a group becomes lost while on a planet. With this 
modification, the S19 astromech droid can help such explorers by blazing a 
trail. To modify the droid in this manner, replace the tracked locomotion with 
hovering locomotion to prevent the droid from being hindered by the terrain. 
Remove the droid's astrogation buffer and install an automap. Reprogram the 
droid's Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology]) feat to Skill Focus (Perception) 
to help the S19 locate specific landmarks and details. 


S19 ASTROMECH DROID 


0) 
0 
g 
0 
Q 
a 
U) 
y 
6 


SD-9-SERIES 
BATTLE DROID 


SD-9-Series Battle Droid CL 16 
Large droid (4th-degree) soldier 8/elite trooper 8 

Force 5 

Init +15; Senses low-light vision; Perception +15 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27), Fort 39, Will 26 

hp 108; DR 4; SR 15 (ion only); Threshold 44 

Immune droid traits 


Al Hsia 


Y) 
0 
g 
0 
Q 
a 
9 
Y 
X 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +25 (1d6+17) 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +15 (3d10+10) with autofire or 

Ranged plasma burst cannon +20 (3d12+10, 1-square splash) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +15 (3d10+10) with autofire and 
plasma burst cannon +20 (3d12+10) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +10 (5d10+10) with autofire and Burst 
Fire and plasma burst cannon +20 (3d12+10) 

Base Atk +16; Grp +30 

Atk Options Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery I, Dual Weapon Mastery 
ll, Greater Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Greater Penetrating 
Attack (heavy weapons), Multiattack Proficiency (heavy weapons), 
Point Blank Shot, Running Attack 


Abilities Str 29, Dex 15, Con —, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 8 

Special Qualities defense mode, droid traits, swift assault mode 

Talents Armored Defense, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Greater 
Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Greater Penetrating Attack 
(heavy weapons), Greater Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Multiattack 
Proficiency (heavy weapons), Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), 
Weapon Specialization (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon 
Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery II, Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, 
Running Attack, Skill Training (Knowledge [tactics]), Weapon Focus 
(heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +13, Initiative +15, Knowledge (tactics) +13, 

Perception +15 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 tool mounts, internal 
comlink, ion shield generator (SR 15 [ion damage only]), locked access, 
improved sensor package, vocabulator, laser-reflective duranium battle 
armor (+10 armor, +11 vs. blasters and lasers) 

Possessions integrated heavy repeating blaster, integrated plasma burst 
cannon 

Availability Military; Cost 51,405 credits 


SD-S9S-SERIES BATTLE DROID 


Plasma Burst Cannon—Treat as blaster cannon. If the damage dealt 
exceeds the target's damage threshold, the cannon deals an additional 
die of damage from the heat of the plasma. 

Defense Mode—As a swift action, an SD-9-Series battle droid enters 
defense mode and designates one person, object, vehicle, or location 
to defend. While in defense mode, once per encounter, as a reaction, 
the droid can make a single attack against one enemy that attacks the 
designated subject. 

Swift Assault Mode—Once per encounter, an SD-9-Series battle droid 
can make a single attack at a -10 penalty as a swift action when also 
taking two move actions in the same turn. 


SD-9-SERIES BATTLE DROID 

Large droid (4th-degree) 

hp 108 

Threshold 44 (DR 4, SR 15 [ion only]) 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The SD-9-Series battle droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Defense Mode (1 swift action, 1/encounter) 

The SD-9-Series battle droid enters defense mode and designates one 
person, object, vehicle, or location to defend. While in defense mode, 
the droid makes a single attack against one enemy that attacks the 
designated subject. 

Delay Damage (reaction) 

The SD-9-Series battle droid delays the effect of a single attack, ability, or 
effect used against it until the end of its next turn. 


Heavy Repeating Blaster Attack (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The SD-9-Series battle droid makes a ranged autofire attack at +5. 
If successful, the attack deals 3d10+10 points of damage as an area 
attack in a 2-square-by-2-square area. If unsuccessful, the attack 
deals half damage. 

Plasma Burst Cannon Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The SD-9-Series battle droid makes a ranged attack at +20. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d12+10 points of damage with a 1-square splash. 

Skills Endurance +13, Initiative +15, Knowledge (tactics) +13, 
Perception +15 

Vital Systems 2 tool mounts, internal comlink, ion shield generator (SR 
15 [ion damage only]), vocabulator, integrated heavy repeating blaster, 
integrated plasma burst cannon 


Prior to the second return of the reborn Emperor, Balmorran Arms broke from 
its traditional Imperial allegiance and sold the latest of its successful SD battle 
droids, the SD-9-Series, to the New Republic as well as to Imperial forces. At 
twice the height of an average Human, the massive, heavily armored battle 
droid towers over most opponents. Built exclusively for combat, the droid 
features a heavy repeating blaster and a specialized plasma burst cannon inte- 
grated into its arms. The unit's tremendous firepower makes it a centerpiece 
of any infantry battle. The SD-9 also features upgraded defensive systems in 
the form of laser-reflective armor and an ion shield generator. 

When the reborn Emperor reasserted his power, he dispatched his under- 
lings to bring Balmorra securely to his side. The ensuing battle pitted Imperial 
SD-9 droids against their newly updated comrades, the SD-10 model. As 
formidable as the SD-9 units were, the SD-10s cut them to pieces. 

SD-9 droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: ASSAULT UNIT 
This common mercenary modification turns a standard SD-9-Series battle 
droid into a specialized assault unit. The droid gains three major upgrades: 


ENCOUNTERING AN SD-9- 
SERIES BATTLE DROID 

SD-9-Series battle droids can be encountered in any Imperial military 
infantry unit, as well as in a few units of the New Republic and odd mer- 
cenary outfits around the time that the Emperor's first clone is destroyed. 
SD-9s continue to see service with the New Republic and mercenary units 
for a few years after their introduction. However, their numbers rapidly 
dwindle over time as they are destroyed and Balmorra ceases to manu- 
facture them in favor of later models. The SD-9s are a favorite of illegal 
Outer Rim organizations, and criminals or warlords wanting to show off 
their power use the droids to guard important structures. 

SD-9s excel on the battlefield. When used for other duties, such as 
sentry, patrol, or guard work, the droids are heavy handed and often react 
with excessive force. They also function much better outdoors, since most 
corridors and buildings can't accommodate their height or weight. 


DANGEROUS DROIDS (é) 
SD-9 battle droids? Now you're talking some serious military &(« 
hardware. These are not your run-of-the-mill security droids or 
pathetic Separatist clankers. SD-9s are built to obliterate an opposing 
army—practically by themselves. They're massive, well armed and well 
armored, and have about as much personality as a blaster rifle. Don't be 
on the receiving end of their plasma burst cannons. Also, don't expect to 
be able to take an SD-9 wherever you want. Local security forces won't 
regard it as a simple bodyguard, assuming the droid can even fit into 
wherever you're going. 

Now, as for acquiring one of these monsters, you have few options. 
Frankly, the easiest and simplest way is to scavenge one off an old 
battlefield. It might be quite a job to get the droid working again, but | 
hear that's how most mercenary teams get their SD-9s. Oh, you might 
be able to find someone willing to sell you a unit under the table, but the 
droid will be astronomically expensive, and there will likely be something 
very wrong with it. 


heavier armor, more powerful weapons, and specialized software to allow the 
SD-9 to better integrate unit tactics. To carry out this modification, upgrade 
the droid's armor to neutronium plating and replace its heavy repeating 
blaster with an E-Web repeating blaster. The droid automatically regulates 
the E-Web's power supply (see page 125 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 
Upgrading the droid's software requires a DC 20 Use Computer check, 1,000 
credits’ worth of software, and 1 day of work, after which the SD-9 gains a 
+2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls whenever a member of its combat 
unit is within 6 squares of the droid. 

Assault units plunge into battle, trading personal protection for the 
chance to attack at point-blank range. As they advance, they attempt to 
shield their organic team members. If the SD-9s meet equal or superior 
resistance, they use the stoutest-looking terrain for cover. Once a hardened 
position is located, the units target the most formidable defensive positions 
and batter them relentlessly. Other targeting patterns can be programmed 
with a DC 20 Use Computer check. 


MODIFICATION: 

BACKSEAT DRIVER 

This unusual modification adds a partially enclosed seat to the back of the 
droid, allowing a character of Medium or smaller size to ride along. A cable 
ladder or climbing rope allows access from the ground, although many riders 
use jet packs to reach the seat. The SD-9 usually gains a +2 bonus to Per- 
ception checks when a rider is on board, since the passenger gives the droid 
warnings about additional targets or enemies approaching the unit's blind 
side. A rider can communicate with the droid at low volume or via comlink 
during battle. A rider can also make his or her own attacks while in the seat. 
Making this modification requires a DC 20 Mechanics check, 500 credits’ 
worth of materials, and 4 hours of work. More advanced modifications 
could add sensors, communications gear, or a mounted weapon to the seat. 


: 
PD} 
a) 
G 
Q 
@) 
9) 
W) 
nx 


Al HesigvHo 


Al esiavHg 


SaGOD GexvGq 


SD-X-SERIES STEALTH 
BATTLE DROID 


SD-X-Series Stealth Battle Droid CL9 
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 3/scout 6 

Force 4 

Init +11; Senses darkvision; Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 24), Fort 24, Will 21 

hp 68; Threshold 24 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+7) or 

Melee concealed vibrodaggers +10 (4d4+7) 

Ranged blaster rifle +9 (3d8+4) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +10 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 
Special Actions Harm's Way, Hidden Movement, Total Concealment 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities concealed vibrodaggers, droid traits, stealth coating, 
threat scan 

Talents Armored Defense, Harm's Way, Hidden Movement, Improved 
Stealth, Total Concealment 

Feats Aiming Accuracy, Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Martial 
Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Training 
(Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Jump +12, Mechanics +10, Perception +13 (can 
reroll), Stealth +11 (can reroll) 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages with 
concealed vibrodaggers, internal comlink (encrypted), locked access, 
improved sensor package, darkvision, vocabulator, laminanium armor 
(+12 armor) 

Possessions blaster rifle 

Availability Military; Cost 25,705 credits 

Concealed Vibrodaggers—The SD-X-Series stealth battle droid has 
vibrodaggers completely concealed within its fingers. Extending the 
vibrodaggers is a swift action. The droid usually attacks with multiple 
vibrodaggers at the same time, dealing extra damage (already included 
above). 

Stealth Coating—The SD-X-Series stealth battle droid is sheathed in 
a black, nonreflective, sensor-resistant coating. When in darkness 
or shadowy illumination, the droid gains a +5 bonus to its Stealth 
checks. When an opponent uses sensors to scan for the droid, it can 
make a Stealth check against the opponent's Use Computer check to 
remain undetected. 


SD-X-SERIES STEALTH BATTLE DROID 


Threat Scan—As a full-round action, the SD-X-Series stealth battle droid 
makes a DC 20 Perception check to detect living beings, explosives, 
or other obvious threats within a 30-meter radius of itself. Success 
indicates a general description of the threat and its direction and 
distance from the droid. 


SD-X<X-SERIES 

STEALTH BATTLE DROID 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 68 

Threshold 24 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The SD-X-Series stealth battle droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Blaster Rifle Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The SD-X-Series stealth battle droid makes a ranged attack at +9. 

If successful, the attack deals 3d8+4 points of damage. 

Circumstantial Stealth Checks (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The SD-X-Series stealth battle droid makes a Stealth check. When in 
darkness or shadowy illumination, the droid gains a +5 bonus to its 
Stealth check. When an opponent uses sensors to scan for the droid, 
the droid makes a Stealth check against the opponent's Use Computer 
check to remain undetected. 

Concealed Vibrodaggers (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The SD-X-Series stealth battle droid makes a melee attack at +10. If 
successful, the attack deals 4d4+7 points of damage. 


Threat Scan (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The SD-X-series stealth battle droid makes a DC 20 Perception check 
to detect living beings, explosives, or other obvious threats within a 
30-meter radius of itself. Success indicates a general description of the 
threat and its direction and distance from the droid. 

Skills Initiative +11, Jump +12, Mechanics +10, Perception +13 (can 
reroll), Stealth +11 (can reroll) 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages with concealed vibrodaggers, internal 
comlink (encrypted), vocabulator, blaster rifle 


In the years following the Yuuzhan Vong war, Tendrando Arms expanded its 
battle droid line into other markets. The SD-X model is the company's stealth 
battle droid and personal protection unit, adapted from the company's highly 
successful YVH droid design. The SD-X droid is smaller than the YVH and 
lacks its Yuuzhan Vong-like visage. Although the SD-X carries an excellent 
sensor array, it does not contain specialized YV sensor packs. 

Due to the droid's lineage and proprietary stealth coating, Tendrando 
Arms markets the SD-X to high-end clients, such as corporate officers and 
government leaders, rather than to the general public. Although the SD-X can 
be used as a front-line fighter, it is more commonly deployed as a bodyguard, 
using its stealth abilities to remain out of view or otherwise inconspicuous. 

The SD-X is a nasty fighter and a persistent combatant. Once given a mis- 
sion, it focuses on that task until completed, no matter what the difficulty. 
SD-X units have been known to track down would-be assassins, thieves, and 
other criminals days or weeks after an assault on someone that an SD-X was 
assigned to protect. 

SD-X droids can be played as droid heroes. 


PLAYING AN SD-X-SERIES 
STEALTH BATTLE DROID 

Playing an SD-X-Series stealth battle droid is much like playing other battle 
droids, except that due to its bodyguard and stealth abilities, the SD-X is 
often kept close to high-level officials, not sent into the field on a regular 
basis. However, since the droid excels when a high degree of stealth is 
required, it is an excellent choice for commando-style missions. 

To create a SD-X droid character, start with the stock battle droid 
chassis (see page 11). Upgrade the chassis to include laminanium armor 
and a heuristic processor. Select soldier as your starting class to more 
easily take the Armor Proficiency feats that you need. Choose Armor 
Proficiency (heavy) as your bonus starting armor proficiency, and take 
advanced melee weapons as your bonus starting weapons proficiency. 
At 1st level, the droid lacks training in the Stealth skill, but it benefits 
from the stealth coating special quality as described in the statistics 
block. Take a level in scout as soon as you can, and also take Skill Training 
(Stealth). Continue advancing in the soldier class to improve your combat 
abilities, or focus on the scout class to improve your stealth capabilities. 


UNAUTHORIZED 
MODIFICATIONS () 
Ever heard of a Human named Tanol Ocir? Well, if you want to 
earn some credits, | just heard that Tendrando Arms has issued something 
of a bounty on the scum. Yes, | know it’s unusual for a corporation to do 
such a thing publicly. However, ! think they're trying to make an example 
of the guy. It seems that he learned how to replicate some modifications 
that Darth Caedus made to his own SD-X droid—real nasty modifications 
that no civilized being would ever consider. Lando was angry enough at 
Caedus' modifications before this, and now he's raging mad. He's declared 
publicly that he in no way approves of interrogation droids, and he won't 
let his company's units be turned into them. That's why he’s hiring people 
like you to track down any droid modified in this way and bring it back 
to Tendrando Arms, along with those responsible for modifying it. Lando 

_ doesn't want to be seen hiring thugs, but he'll do everything in his power 
to get these modified droids and their owners off the streets as soon as 
possible. Tanol's droid doesn't need to be functional when you bring it 
in, but it's got to have most of its parts. 


MODIFICATION: 

BODYGUARD ENHANCEMENTS 
SD-X-Series stealth battle droids are often modified to increase their effective- 
ness as bodyguards. Some units are reprogrammed with the Draw Fire talent 
for this purpose. However, another way to upgrade the droid is to link its threat 
scan special quality to its targeting system. To carry out this modification, make 
a DC 25 Use Computer check and install 2,000 credits’ worth of software. Once 
per encounter when the modified droid detects a threat with threat scan, it 
can reroll one attack against that target and take the better result. 

Another popular programming modification improves the droid’s ability 
to protect an individual. An SD-X-Series droid reprogrammed to have the 
Harm's Way talent and the Trip feat can use the feat on an adjacent ally as 
a reaction to an attack against that ally. If the droid is successful, the ally is 
knocked prone in his or her current square, and the droid also drops prone, 
automatically covering the ally while providing the protective benefits of 
Harm's Way until the start of the droid's next turn. 


MODIFICATION: MARTIAL ARTS 
ENHANCEMENTS 

Some owners want to enhance the melee and martial arts capabilities of their 
SD-X droids. To make this modification, reprogram the droid to replace the 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols) and Precise Shot feats with Martial Arts Ill and 
Dual Weapon Mastery |. This upgrade increases the droid's Reflex Defense 
and damage from unarmed attacks, as well as giving it the capability to make 
two attacks per round with its hands or vibrodaggers. As an option, you can 
further increase the droid's ability to deal damage by installing specialized 
software (requiring a DC 25 Use Computer check and 3,000 credits). With 
this option, in each encounter, the SD-X droid can add its unarmed damage 
to the damage from a successful vibrodagger attack a number of times equal 
to its Dexterity modifier (minimum 1). 


Al BatovHa 


Q 
9 
0 
Q 
0 
9 
y 
% 


seGeQ Qeue | 


Al SSidvHg 


SERVICE DROID 


LEP-Series Service Droid CLO 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +0; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 8, Will 10 
hp 3; Threshold 8 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -2 (1d3-2) 

Ranged by weapon +0 

Base Atk +0; Grp +0 


Abilities Str 7, Dex 11, Con —, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 14 

Special Qualities droid traits, empathic 

Feats Skill Focus (Perception, Persuasion, Treat Injury), Skill Training 
(Treat Injury) 

Skills Perception +5, Persuasion +12, Treat Injury +10, Use Computer +6 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, 2 
probe appendages, internal storage (30 kg), vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 6,260 credits 


LEP-SERIES SERVICE DROID 


Empathic—Although the LEP-Series service droid is not literally 
empathic, its keen sense of awareness allows it to pick up on the 
subtle mannerisms and emotional expressions of its master and other 
organic creatures and appeal to their emotions. The droid can reroll its 
Persuasion check to change the attitude of its intended target, and can 
take the better of the two results. 


LEP-SERIES SERVICE DROID 

Medium droid (3rd-degree) 

hp 3 

Threshold 8 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The LEP-Series service droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Empathic (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The LEP-Series service droid can improve the attitude of its target by 
rerolling a Persuasion check and taking the better of the two results. 

First Aid (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The LEP-Series service droid makes a DC 15 Treat Injury check on a target 
in an adjacent square. If the check is successful, the target regains a 
number of hit points equal to its character level +1 for every point the 
check was successful. A character can be treated with first aid in this 
manner only once per day. 

Haggle (1 swift action) 

The LEP-Series service droid makes a Persuasion check to help its master 
negotiate a better deal. If the check is successful, the droid grants its 
master a +2 bonus to his or her Persuasion check. 

Revivify (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

If the LEP-Series service droid can reach a character who died within 1 
round, it revives the character. 

Treat Poison (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The LEP-Series service droid detoxifies a poisoned character. 

Skills Perception +5, Persuasion +12, Treat Injury +10, Use Computer +6 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, 2 probe appendages, internal storage 
(30 kg), vocabulator 


One of the latest droid models that Coachelle Automata produced before the 
Clone Wars began was the LEP-Series service droid, geared toward childcare. 
After the initial design was approved, the LEP was put into production and 
advertised as a nanny droid. Its specialized programming, which included 
first aid skills, coupled with its engaging appearance appealed to many 
parents throughout the galaxy, and initial sales were good. However, one 
of the model's defining features ended up being its major flaw. The lock- 
ing mechanism for the large storage compartment in the LEP's abdomen, 
originally intended to store toys and supplies for the children under its care, 
occasionally became stuck and locked in place. This particular problem gained 


media attention when a child became trapped inside after crawling in while 
the droid was loading supplies. The company issued a massive recall and 
replaced the latch, but the bad press tarnished the model's image as a nanny 
droid. Coachelle Automata changed its approach with the LEP by removing 
the nanny programming and making it a servant droid instead. Despite the 
initial problems, the LEP-Series servant droids rapidly rose to popularity 
thanks to their graceful movements and the quiet way with which they go 
about performing a variety of services. 
LEP-Series service droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: BODYGUARD 

Some people feel that modifying the LEP-Series service droid to act as a 
bodyguard serves only to make it a diversion for its master's enemies, but 
with the proper alterations, the droid can be an effective guardian. Since the 
droid was originally designed to be a noncombatant, its physical attributes 
are not geared toward battle, so add features to compensate for its struc- 
tural shortcomings. Start by giving the droid a hardened system of at least 
x2, treating the droid as if it were of Large size for the purpose of fitting 
it with the system. This change strengthens the chassis and helps the droid 
last longer. To further boost its defenses, integrate an electric defense grid 
into the droid's shell. Since the LEP has little strength to draw on in melee 
combat, it should use weapons that cause a lot of damage with little effort, so 
reprogram the Skill Focus (Persuasion) feat to Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons), and equip the droid with a vibroblade or a retractable 
vibroblade. Also, reprogram the Skill Focus (Treat Injury) feat to Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols) and give it either a blaster pistol or a hold-out pistol. 


PLAYING AN LEP-SERIES 
SERVICE DROID 

Players who would like to replicate the LEP-Series service droid with 
heroic levels should start by choosing the stock service droid chassis 
(see page 13). The best starting class to select is the noble, using the 
Linguist feat to represent the droid's ability to understand verbal com- 
mands froma variety of species. Instead of starting with the tool mount, 
the character has two probe appendages where the ears would go and 
the empathic special quality, as described in the droid's statistics block. 
Select Persuasion and Treat Injury as part of the droid’s starting skill set. 
For additional skills, consider choosing Gather Information to represent 
the droid's ability to learn from others, Knowledge (social services) to 
represent the droid's knowledge of interpersonal relationships, Percep- 
tion to represent the droid’s talent for noticing seemingly insignificant 
details, and Use Computer. Although no specific equipment is necessary 
to complete the replication of the droid, the purchase of a medical kit 
is recommended, 


SECRETS é> 
These LEP droids you talk about sound like the perfect model to 
follow you around like a young akk pup, They do not talk much, 

they do as they are told, and they don’t ask questions like some other 
servant droids. | like that in a droid working for me. | might even be able 
to get past the fact that it looks like a child's toy. On the other hand, they 
might be a bit too docile. Take this one LEP, for example. It was owned by 
a Republic ambassador on Nal Hutta and might contain sensitive political 
information. Supposedly, thugs grabbed the droid while it was running an 
errand for its master. Some say they worked for a Hutt crime lord, and 
others think a group of brigands under the command of Hondo Ohnaka 
took the droid. Regardless, it is only a matter of time before the thieves 
discover the information stored within the unit—whatever it might be. 
| am sure the ambassador would be willing to pay a nice reward for the 
safe return of the LEP and the information it supposedly holds. 


MODIFICATION: NANNY DOROID 

In a return to its original programming, the LEP-Series service droid can be 
repurposed to nurture children. In fact, Coachelle Automata still has the 
software package available for purchase, along with an improved locking 
mechanism for the internal storage area. However, Coachelle Automata 
requires that the buyer sign a waiver stating that the company is not respon- 
sible for any harm or discomfort caused by a droid that is used as a nanny. 
The software changes the droid’s Skill Focus (Perception) feat to Improved 
Defenses to increase its ability to safeguard those under its protection, 
and the improved lock has a childproof feature that helps prevent lifeforms 
from entering the internal storage unit without the droid's knowledge. These 
modifications are sufficient for the droid to perform its duties as a nanny. But 
owners who want the LEP to do more can reprogram the Use Computer skill 
to Knowledge (social sciences) to give the droid an edge in child psychology. 
Some also install an atmospheric canister and a modified breath mask inside 
the storage space, so that the droid can stash a child inside the compartment, 
if necessary, to conceal him or her from attackers. This alteration requires 
two DC 15 Mechanics checks (one to modify the breath mask and one to 
install the components) and 1 1/2 hours of work. 


MODIFICATION: 

PERSONAL TRANSPORT 

When things go bad in the heat of battle, having a means of escape is impor- 
tant if you want to live to see another day. This modification of the LEP-Series 
service droid can provide its master with a means to flee from combat or to 
move from place to place when a true vehicle is not available. Start by adding 
a repulsorlift unit to the droid as a secondary form of locomotion. Adjust the 
hatch of the internal storage unit to fold down instead of retreating inside 
the droid's shell, and install a control stick that folds into the hatch so that 
the passenger can operate the repulsorlift. Reinforce the hatch to withstand 
up to 200 kg of mass after being locked into a horizontal position. 


xeeGoaD Qouag 


Al SsievHag 


SBSIGOH) GIOVE 


SHADOW DROID 


Shadow Droid CcL9 

Huge droid (4th-degree) soldier 6/nonheroic 9 

Force 2; Dark Side 10 

Init +21; Senses Perception +17 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, 1 unassigned 
(understand only) 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 19), Fort 28, Will 16 

hp 120; DR 20; Threshold 38 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares, fly 16 squares, fly 4 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon +17 (4d10+5 x2) or 

Ranged ion cannon +17 (3d10+5 ion) or 

Ranged repeating blaster cannon +12 (3d10 +5, 2x2 area) or 

Ranged concussion missiles +17 (8d10+5x2) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +17 (9d10+5x2) 

Fightng Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +12; Grp +32 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 30, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Indomitable, Harm's Way, Weapon Specialization (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Damage Conversion, 
Skill Focus (Initiative, Perception, Pilot, Use Computer), Turn and 
Burn, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +21, Perception +17, Pilot +21, Stealth +1, 
Use Computer +18 

Systems basic processor, flying locomotion, duranium battle armor 
(+10 armor) 

Possessions laser cannon , ion cannon, proton torpedo launcher 
(4 torpedoes carried), concussion missile launcher (8 missiles carried), 
repeating blaster cannon 

Availability Military; Cost 123,000 credits 


SHADOW DROID 

Huge droid (4th-degree) 

hp 120 

Threshold 38 (DR 20) 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The shadow droid moves 16 squares (flying). 


Engage the Enemy (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The shadow droid makes a Pilot check with a -5 penalty opposed by the 
target's Pilot check. If the check is successful, the droid engages in a 
dogfight with the target. 

Protect and Serve (1 free action) 

The shadow droid spends one of its owner's Force points to assist an 
adjacent character. The assisted character can use the Force point as if 
he or she had spent it. 

Ramming Speed (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The shadow droid makes a Pilot check with a -10 penalty opposed by the 
Reflex Defense of another starship. If the check is successful, both the 
target and the shadow droid take 4d6+10 points of damage. A failed 
check deals half damage to both the target and the shadow droid. 

Wingman (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The shadow droid assists a character's Pilot check, providing a +2 bonus 
to the check. 

Skills Initiative +21, Perception +17, Pilot +21, Stealth +1, 

Use Computer +18 

Vital Systems laser cannon , ion cannon, proton torpedo launcher (4 
torpedoes carried), concussion missile launcher (8 missiles carried), 
repeating blaster cannon 


The shadow droid is one of the most unnerving parts of Emperor Palpatine's 
legacy. It is the culmination of his experiments with extending life spans 
through technology and a testimony to his knowledge of the power of the dark 
side. The shadow droid is a starfighter powered by an organic brain installed 
in the workings of the machine. The brain is treated with a Sith alchemical 
process that destroys the personality it once possessed and awakens dark side 
potential in the subject. When Palpatine started the shadow droid program, 
he used the brains of deceased TIE fighter pilots. Students of the process 
might not have access to the same caliber of raw materials, but other brains 
can be used with similar results. Shadow droids are primarily used by Sith 
apprentices and Sith masters to advance their schemes. 
Shadow droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

FEAR GENERATOR 

The most unsettling element of a shadow droid is that its driving force was 
once alive. The conversion process subsumes the humanity of the organic 
material, but certain dark parts—such as fear, unease, and despair—still exist. 
A cruel Sith master can bring them to the surface and cause them to wash 
over anyone that gets too close to the droid. The modified shadow droid 
uses these negative feelings as a weapon, reducing opponents to weeping, 
helpless masses curled up on the field of battle. 

To make this modification, a Sith must search the droid's memories for 
the right feelings. This process requires a Use the Force check against the 
droid's Will Defense and 2 hours of work. Next, the droid must be shown how 
to lash out with its feelings, which requires a DC 25 Persuasion check from 
the Sith to intimidate the droid and 30 minutes of work. Once modifications 
are complete, as a standard action, the droid can make a Persuasion check 
to intimidate, opposed by an adjacent target's Will Defense. If the check is 
successful, the target is overcome with doubt and fear and moves -1 step on 
the condition track. This ability is a mind-affecting effect, and the shadow 
droid can use it only once per target per encounter. 


SHADOW DROID 


UNSTOPPABLE SHADOWS 
The first time | heard about shadow droids, | thought the Rodian &(# 
who was telling the story had too much Corellian whiskey. ATIE 
pilot that you spaced might come back for you someday, rebuilt by the 
Emperor himself? | laughed about it—right up till our company took a 
job clearing out an old pirate base in an irradiated system. The shiny 
black fighters that came out of the base were odd. No pilot chatter, 
flew in perfect formation, and made maneuvers a sane pilot would never 
attempt. I'm no member of Rogue Squadron, but I've done my time on. 
the stick. These shadow droids flew interference for a Sith Interceptor 
and were willing to destroy themselves to make sure that ship made its 
jump. After the Interceptor was safe, the droids all wi rk, and we | 
made short work of them. SOM 
Strange as that encounter was, the Rodian's was worse. He said there's 
a squadron of shadow droids that lost their master and didn't shut down. : 
They swooped in on a space freighter and made contact with the ca 
Now they're using his ship as a hangar bay, jumping from system 0 
system to attack and destroy ships with no mercy: and no method. The - 
only thing those poor souls see before they die is the eerie glow roma 
from the cockpits of the shadow droids. ek bread 


MODIFICATION: SITH SQUADRON 
The alchemical processes that are used in the construction of shadow droids 
attune the organic materials to the dark side. This affinity was intended to 
allow Emperor Palpatine to stay in touch with his new army of starfighters. 
Sith in the field have taken this attunement and adjusted it to make the 
shadow droids more loyal to them. By touching the droids with their mastery 
of the dark side, the Sith make the droids deadlier in combat and better at 
assisting their schemes. 

The first step in this modification is to attune the dark side potential in 
the shadow droid to the Sith. This requires a Use the Force check against the 
droid's Will Defense and 1 hour of work. Once the droid is attuned, install 
an uplink in the droid through which it can monitor the master’s ship and 
anticipate his or her next move. Adding the uplink requires a DC 20 Mechanics 
check and 30 minutes of work. When these modifications are complete, the 
shadow droid is attuned to its master and his or her ship. A shadow droid 
assisting its attuned Sith master grants a +4 bonus (instead of a +2 bonus) 
when using the aid another action. 


Al SSidvHng 


Q 
g 
9 
Q 
o 
9 
W 
% 


SsaqGeD GAeeEG 


AL SSsadveg 


T4 TURRET DROID 


Colicoid T4 Turret Droid 

CL 3 

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9 

Init +17; Senses darkvision; Perception +5 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 11, Will 11 

hp 32; SR 20; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster cannon +10 (3d12) or 

Ranged blaster cannon +8 (4d12) with Rapid Shot or 
Ranged blaster cannon +5/+5 (3d12) or 

Ranged blaster cannon +3/+3 (4d12) with Rapid Shot or 
Ranged grenade launcher +9 (8d6, 4-square burst) 
Base Atk +6; Grp +14 

Atk Options Dual Weapon Mastery, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 6 

Special Qualities cutting laser, droid traits 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dual Weapon Mastery |, Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Initiative), Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons) 

Skills Initiative +17, Perception +5 

Systems remote receiver, walking locomotion, 3 tool appendages, 
darkvision, synchronized fire circuits, plasteel shell (+2 armor), 
shield generator (SR 20) 

Possessions 2 blaster cannons, modified grenade launcher with 4 thermal 
detonators 

Availability Military; Cost 26,940 credits 

Cutting Laser—The 14 turret droid can fire its cutting laser as a standard 
action. The cutting laser targets 5 squares, all of which must be 
contiguous, with the cutting laser. The weapon attacks targets 
occupying these squares within a rifle's point-blank range, making a 
ranged attack roll at +9. On a hit, a target takes 3d10 points of energy 
and fire damage (half damage on a miss), and the weapon ignores 
damage reduction. This is an area attack. 


T4 TURRET DROID 
Large droid (4th-degree) 

hp 32 

Threshold 11 (SR 20) 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The T4 turret droid moves 6 squares (walking). 


Couticoip T4 
TURRET DROID 


Cutting Laser (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The turret droid targets 5 contiguous squares, making a ranged attack 
roll (+9) against the Reflex Defense of each target. The cutting laser 
ignores damage reduction and deals 3d10 points of energy/fire damage 
(half damage on a miss). This is an area attack. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The T4 turret droid makes a Perception check opposed by a target's 
Stealth check. If the check is successful, the droid detects the target. 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The 14 turret droid makes a ranged attack with its blaster cannon at +8. 
If successful, the attack deals 4d12 points of damage. 

Stability (1 free action) 

The 14 turret droid gains a +5 bonus to avoid being knocked prone. 

Skills Initiative +17, Perception +5 

Vital Systems 3 tool appendages, synchronized fire circuits, shield 
generator (SR 20), 2 blaster cannons, modified grenade launcher with 
4 thermal detonators 


Conceived by the creative minds of the Colicoids, the T4 turret droid was 
first built several years before the Trade Federation's blockade of the planet 
Naboo. The droid consists of one or more heavy weapons, typically a heavy 
repeating blaster rifle or a blaster cannon, mounted on a set of four legs 
that allow the droid to move and brace the weapon(s) when firing. The T4s’ 
primary function was to act as mobile defense guns for dignitaries traveling 
on potentially hostile worlds. When Viceroy Nute Gunray essentially gained 
full control of the Trade Federation, he diverted many T4 droids to the fleet 
attacking Naboo and placed them at strategic locations throughout the 
city of Theed. Although the droids failed to stop the queen's rescue, they 


performed well enough to continue being used in the years that followed, 
including service in the early part of the Clone Wars against the Republic. 
T4 turret droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


ENCOUNTERING A T4 
TURRET DROID 
The T4 turret droid is most often deployed to checkpoints and areas of 
tactical importance to the Trade Federation or the Separatists. Usually 
encountered in groups of two to four, the turret droids work well together. 
In this encounter, the heroes enter a plaza in the older part of a city 
occupied by the Trade Federation. Positioned at each of the three other 
gateways leading out of the plaza is a T4 turret droid. When at least one 
- droid spots the heroes, it broadcasts an alert to the others and opens fire. 
The heroes can seek cover in the gateway through which they entered 
the plaza, but it won't help much against the turret droids, especially the 
one directly across from them. If any of the 14s lacks a clear line of fire 
at the heroes, it instead aids a 14 that does have a clear line, granting 
a +5 bonus to its attack roll because of its synchronized fire circuits. If 
the droids have difficulty dispatching the heroes, they group together 
_and fall back to find reinforcements. 


MODIFICATION: 

ARTILLERY SPOTTER 

In battle, when a group's sensors fail for one reason or another but the assault 
must continue, someone must provide the targeting information needed. 
This modification of the T4 turret droid specializes in obtaining that data 
and expediently providing it to those firing the artillery. As a first step, give 
the droid an improved sensor package to accompany its darkvision. Next, 
install an internal comlink to permit the droid to quickly communicate its 
findings for processing; for ground assaults, a short-range comlink works 
sufficiently. Reprogram the Weapon Focus (heavy weapons) feat to Skill 
Training (Perception) and shift the Skill Focus feat from Initiative to Percep- 
tion to help the turret droid acquire the information needed for its allies to 
continue assaulting the enemy. Since multiple sources are more effective 
at triangulating an enemy's position, the synchronized fire circuits in two 
or more T4s modified for this role allow the droids to reroll their Perception 
checks while they work together and take the better of the two results. 


MODIFICATION: LISTENING POST 
Defeating an enemy requires powerful weapons, but knowing how to use 
those weapons effectively requires gathering intelligence on the enemy's 
plans and resources. Modifying a T4 turret droid to act as a remote listening 
post has proven to be an excellent way of attaining the needed information. 
To make this modification, start by installing an improved sensor package 


and a sensor booster to extend the droid's detection range. Add an internal, 
long-range comlink so the T4 can keep in touch with its master and pick up 
transmissions broadcast by the enemy. Install a translator (DC 5) to help the 
droid decode any communications signals it receives before sending them 
back to base. Mount a hypertransceiver, a component normally found only 
in starships, in the droid's chassis to help it pick up HoloNet signals that the 
enemy might send or receive; this process requires a DC 30 Mechanics check 
and 2 days of work. Finally, reprogram the droid's Rapid Shot feat into Skill 
Training (Perception) and shift the Skill Focus feat from Initiative to Percep- 
tion to maximize the droid's ability to detect the signals for which it listens. 


MODIFICATION: PATROL GUARD 
Turning a T4 turret droid into a patrol guard isn't much of a stretch, and 
the benefits are worth the work necessary to make the modifications. The 
biggest change involves upgrading its locomotion so the droid retains its 
walking capability but gains a speed of 8 squares; this change requires a DC 
25 Mechanics check and 1 day of work. The modified T4 can cover its patrol 
area more efficiently, and it can close with a target more quickly as well, 
especially now that it can outrun most organic beings. Install an improved 
sensor package to back up the droid's darkvision. Tweak the cutting laser to 
give it a low-power setting (requiring a DC 15 Mechanics check and 1 hour 
of work), which the droid can use as a focused spotlight to help its allies 
locate and take action against intruders. If the droid attacks while using the 
focused light and successfully hits its target, the beam temporarily blinds 
the target for a number of rounds equal to the amount by which the attack 
roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense. 


WORKING AS ONE (5 
AT4 turret droid can be a formidable foe by itself, but use extreme & ( @ 
caution if you find a group of them. Their combat skills seem to 

increase exponentially the more of them that band together. The degree 
to which they work in tandem almost seems unnatural. It's almost as if 
they have one mind when they are close to each other. And even though 
other companies have created droids that operate similarly, the Coli- 
coids seem to have perfected the trick and have not been forthcoming 
about how they achieved it. Too bad—knowing that secret might help 
someone defuse the situation on Kubindi. The Trade Federation sent a 
company of droids to that remote world to “convince” its people to join 
the Separatists. Intelligence reports that | procured say that a contingent 
of T4 turret droids with the company is the first line of defense against 
anyone trying to break through their perimeter. I'm sure that the Kubaz 
and the Republic would love for a group of heroes to create a hole in 
the droids' defenses and help the clone troopers put a stop to the Trade 
Federation's unwanted visit. 


y 
2) 
g 
Y 
0) 
o 
g 
W) 
x 


Al Se3as.iadvyHa 


1 Al S38aevHo 


segGOD GAeHQ 


TC-SC INFILTRATION 
DROID 


TC-SC Infiltration Droid CL 1 

Medium droid (4th-degree) scoundrel 1 

Force 2 

Init +3; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 11, Will 12 

hp 18; Threshold 11 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee concealed knife +0 (1d4) 

Ranged concealed blaster pistol +3 (3d6) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +3 

Atk Options Dastardly Strike 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 16, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 13 

Special Qualities droid traits 

Talents Dastardly Strike 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Gather Information +6, Perception +5, Stealth +8 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages with 
concealed weapons (see Possessions), holographic image disguiser, 
vocabulator 

Possessions concealed blaster pistol, concealed knife 

Availability Restricted; Cost 20,380 credits 


TC-SC INFILTRATION DROID 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 18 

Threshold 11 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The TC-SC infiltration droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The TC-SC infiltration droid makes a Perception check at the start of a 
battle. If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 

Dastardly Blade (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The TC-SC infiltration droid makes a melee attack at +0. If successful, 
the attack deals 1d4 points of damage. If the target is denied its 
Dexterity bonus for Reflex Defense, the target moves -1 step on the 
condition track. 


Dastardly Blast (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The TC-SC infiltration droid makes a ranged attack at +3. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d4 points of damage. If the target is denied its 
Dexterity bonus for Reflex Defense, the target moves —1 step on the 
condition track. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The TC-SC infiltration droid makes a Perception check opposed by the 
target's Stealth check. If the droid's check is successful, the droid 
detects the target. 


Skills Deception +11, Gather Information +6, Perception +5, Stealth +8 


Vital Systems 2 hand appendages with concealed blaster pistol and 
concealed knife, holographic image disguiser, vocabulator 


Droids are often overlooked by the general populace. When a droid is doing 
its job properly, nobody notices. That fact explains why most espionage droids 
are created by modifying an existing droid rather than building a new model. 
However, in some cases, breaching hostile territory is more difficult, and any 
scrap of information proves useful. The TC-SC infiltration droid was built to 
cover such situations. It uses organics’ natural tendency to ignore droids to 
its advantage, quietly observing an area and collecting information about 
patrols, traffic patterns, or whatever its master requires. One of the primary 
tools in the TC-SC's repertoire is its holographic image disguiser. TC-SCs can 
look like protocol droids, battle droids, or any of hundreds of other models. 
The holographic image disguiser is also sophisticated enough to let the TC-SC 
impersonate an organic being, but the TC-SC usually does so only in areas 
where a droid would look out of place. 
TC-SC infiltration droids can be played as droid heroes. 


TC-SC INFILTRATION DROID 


MODIFICATION: DECOY DROID 
In times of great upheaval, great leaders emerge, and the opposition—whatever 
it might be—would love to see such leaders eliminated. The TC-SC can be 
modified to serve as a decoy, mimicking an individual's look and studying his 
or her mannerisms and speech patterns. After making a public appearance, 
the target switches places with the decoy droid, slipping away unnoticed in 
an unmarked speeder while the droid takes the public exit, drawing attention. 
To make this modification, recalibrate the droid's holographic image 
disguiser to render a specific pattern rather than the generic preloaded 
templates. This process requires a DC 25 Use Computer check and 1 hour 
of work. Next, have the TC-SC spend time with the target, learning his or 
her mannerisms and speech patterns. This process requires a DC 25 Use 
Computer check and takes at least 1 day; for each additional day that the 
droid spends with the target, the programmer gains a +1 bonus to the check, 
up to a maximum of the programmer's Intelligence bonus. Finally, link the 
droid's holographic image disguiser to its emergency power generator, which 
requires a DC 20 Mechanics check and 30 minutes of work. Afterward, the 
disguiser is deactivated only if the droid takes damage greater than its Will 
Defense or if the droid is reduced to 0 hit points. 


MODIFICATION: 

ELIMINATION DROID 

Assassin droids are usually sent after organic targets, but they can eliminate 
other droids as well, perhaps frying a protocol droid right before trade talks 
or disabling a pilot droid to allow time for its cargo to be switched. Often, 
the killer replaces the defunct droid or sets up an ally to take its place. To 
modify a TC-SC droid to fulfill this role, recalibrate its holographic image 
disguiser to render a specific pattern rather than the generic preloaded 
templates. This process requires a DC 25 Use Computer check and 1 hour of 
work. Next, program the TC-SC to mimic the functions of the droid it will 
be eliminating; this requires a DC 25 Use Computer check and 30 minutes 
of work. If the process is successful, the TC-SC loses one of its current feats 
and gains the Skill Training feat for the new skill (or the Skill Focus feat, if 
already trained). Finally, program the TC-SC with a full technical schematic 
of the target droid, which requires a DC 20 Use Computer check and 1 hour 
of work. If the reprogramming is successful, the target's damage threshold 
is considered 5 less when attacked by the elimination droid. 


NO DROID LEFT BEHIND () 
Most of the time, espionage droids are created through a one- QJ 
of-a-kind reprogramming of a common household droid, but 

the TC-SC is built for infiltration and surveillance of a hostile target. 
The holographic disguiser is nice, but the droid knows how to use its 
most important asset—nobody looks twice at a droid unless it’s pointing 
a blaster at you. More often than not, the TC-SC uses the suite to look 
like another droid. Nobody notices a protocol droid at a noble's dinner 
party or a labor droid in a warehouse. Oh, the infiltrator has no problems 
looking organic, but things can get ugly when someone reaches out to 
shake that Mon Calamari’s hand and feels only cold durasteel. 

The data storage on the TC-SC is practically indestructible. It’s made 
from the same materials they use in starfighter internal computer | 
systems. The problem lies in getting that data when the droid has been 
compromised or destroyed. The recovery team has to go in blind. Maybe 
the droid was hit by a speeder while crossing the street, or maybe it was 
captured by hostiles that are using it as bait. Some commanders might — 
cut their losses, but | always want that data. There's no sense in losing 
a fine piece of equipment for nothing. 


SLdgvHo 


Alu 


| 


in: 
ay 
g 
u 
Q) 
@) 
@) 
W | 
X | 


Al SsidvHgd 


SaGgOD Geovq 


TT-8L GATEKEEPER 
DROID 


TT-8L Gatekeeper Droid CLO 

Large droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init -3; Senses darkvision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 6 (flat-footed 6), Fort 10, Will 12 

hp 13; Threshold 15 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 0 squares 

Melee unarmed +0 (144) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +5 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 4, Con —, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Special Qualities droid traits, stubborn 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Perception, Persuasion), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [bureaucracy]) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Perception +14, Persuasion +13 

Systems remote receiver, 1 telescopic tool appendage, improved sensor 
package, darkvision, vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 5,970 credits 


Stubborn—The TT-8L gatekeeper droid's personality makes it a stubborn 
negotiator. When Persuasion checks are made against the droid, it adds 
its Charisma bonus to its Will Defense. 


TT-8L GATEKEEPER DROID 


TT-8L. GATEKEEPER DROID 

Large droid (3rd-degree) 

hp 13 

Threshold 15 

Eavesdrop (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The TT-8L gatekeeper droid can make a Perception check to listen in on 
conversations and learn information. 

Intimidate (2 swift actions 1/turn) 

With a successful Persuasion check, the TT-8L gatekeeper droid can force 
a single creature to back down from a confrontation, reveal secret 
information, or flee. 

Sense Deception (reaction) 

The TT-8L gatekeeper droid can see through deceptive appearances made 
using the Deception skill. 

Stubborn (no action) 

When Persuasion checks are made against its master, the TT-8L 
gatekeeper droid adds its Charisma bonus to its master's Will Defense. 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Perception +14, Persuasion +13 

Vital Systems 1 telescopic tool appendage, vocabulator 


The TT-8L gatekeeper droid is Serv-O-Droid's answer to the door guard. The 
unit is not much more than a large, spherical eye attached to the end of a 
long, snakelike body that maneuvers with support from its permanent base. 
The droid has audio sensors and a vocabulator that allows it to interact with 
whomever attempts to enter the facility where it watches the door. Ever since 
its creation around the time of the Jedi Civil War, the TT-8L has worked with 
a simple purpose: Let only authorized personnel pass. However, the designers 
made the droid too good at its job. The TT-8L adheres so closely to the letter 
of its programming that last-minute additions to a list are often forced to 
wait until they can be confirmed by a member of the staff. In fact, the vast 
majority of gatekeeper droids develop highly annoying personalities that grate 
on the nerves of those forced to wait for permission to pass. 
TT-8L gatekeeper droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


ENCOUNTERING A TT-8L 
GATEKEEPER DROID 

TT-8L gatekeeper droids are almost always found at doors, gates, or other 
entryways where the occupants of the area beyond require a sentry to 
monitor access. For example, the heroes might be standing outside the 
main entrance to the headquarters of a band of mercenaries on a remote 
Outer Rim world. A TT-8L droid pokes its eye through a small window 
in the gate to see who requests entrance and to determine whether the 
visitor is legitimate. Meanwhile, four to eight guards in a 3-square-by- 
3-square room connected to the foyer on the other side of the gate wait 
for a signal from the droid. If the TT-8L denies the heroes passage and 
‘they try to force their way through, the guards. Aas into action and 
take defensive positions around the gate. 


MODIFICATION: 

ADVANCE ScouT DROID 

Since TT-8L gatekeeper droids are stationary for most of their period of 
service, they eagerly accept modifications that allow them to move around. 
Still, turning a gatekeeper droid into an advance scout requires some drastic 
adjustments. The first step is to choose a vehicle—typically, something light 
and fast, such as a speeder bike. Once the mode of transportation has been 
selected, prepare the droid's skill set to operate the vehicle. Reprogram its 
Knowledge (bureaucracy) skill to Pilot, which will automatically change the 
corresponding Skill Training feat. Optionally, reprogram the Skill Focus (Per- 
suasion) feat to Pilot as well. Remove the droid from its base and implant it 
into the vehicle. With a speeder bike, the appendage is clamped down along 
the top of the fuselage, and the primary section of the droid that includes 
its brain is secured near the rear of the vehicle. 


MODIFICATION: 

COAMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA 

This particular modification works in emergency situations where a com- 
munications array has been damaged or destroyed. By setting up the proper 
equipment ahead of time as modules, the equipment can be attached to the 
TT-8L without making permanent changes to the droid. To begin, reprogram 
one of the droid's skills, such as Persuasion, to Use Computer, and shift the 
corresponding Skill Focus feat to Use Computer as well. Next, install a long- 
range comlink or a hypertransceiver into an attachable pod, depending on 
the range you want to establish. Adding the hypertransceiver requires a DC 
30 Mechanics check and 2 days of work. Wiring the TT-8L’'s appendage to 
function as an antenna is a simple procedure that requires a DC 15 Mechanics 
check and 10 minutes of work. Once modifications are complete, attach- 
ing the communications module to the droid takes a full-round action, and 
removing it takes a swift action. 


MODIFICATION: 

SECURITY CAMERA 

Using the TT-8L gatekeeper droid as a security camera accomplishes virtually 
the same goal as the primary objective for the droid, but the responsibility 
of granting entrance to authorized visitors is shifted to the droid's master 
or another designated individual. The advantage of using a TT-8L instead of 
a passive security camera is that the droid is capable of judging whether 
the information it gathers about the visitors is important to the decision 
maker. To make this modification, start by adding either a video recorder or a 
holorecorder to the droid, and tie the recording unit's reception through the 
droid's photoreceptor. Next, remove the TT-8L from its base and mount it at 
the desired location—perhaps a strategic intersection of corridors or within 
a hidden recess high on a wall. Once the droid is in place, either wire it to 
the facility's security camera system or computer network, or configure it to 
transmit data wirelessly to whoever needs to view the information. 


MORE TROUBLE  ~— @ 
THAN IT's WORTH mo » | 
Working with TT-8L gatekeeper droids can be frustrating at best. 

They tend to ask questions of every single sentient being that wants to 
walk through your front door. It does not matter whether the being in 
question has been previously approved, whether the being is ac mpa- 
nied by someone who has been cleared to pass, or whether the being 
was inside already, had to step out for something, -and now wants to 
be readmitted. Worse, TT-8Ls insist on reporting ever single question. 
and answer exchanged with every single being hey stop. That in itself 
is enough to create trouble on a grand scale, if the droid happens to 
stop the wrong visitor. | seem to recall hearing that a gatekeeper blew a 
circuit not long ago. It was standing guard at the entr nee toa recently 
abandoned facility in the mountains of Cularin. A recovery expedition 5 
arrived to clear out the rest of the facility before its supplies could be 
taken by pirates or looters. The team entered the place easily enough, but 
the TT-8L sealed the hatch and would not let them out. When they tried — 
to approach the droid to shut it down and open the door, the gatekeeper 
summoned battle droids that were left behind to protect it. | imagine 
that those trapped people are probably running out of rene and is 
about now and in dire need of rescue. 


Al Ssidvega 


0) 
pH 
g 
| 
Q | 
0 
9 
y 
X 


AT eSidvrHs> 


SsaqgeD GieolE@G 


V2-SERIES 
COMMANDO DROID 


V2-Series Commando Droid 

Medium droid (4th-degree) scout 1 

Force 2 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 12, Will 12 
hp 24; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 


CL 1 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 
Melee unarmed +0 (1d3) 
Ranged blaster rifle +2 (3d8) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +2 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 14, Con —, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 8 
Special Qualities droid traits 
Talents Improved Stealth 


Feats Skill Focus (Stealth), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 


weapons) 


V2-SERIES COMMANDO DROID 


Skills Climb +5, Initiative +7, Knowledge (tactics) +6, Mechanics +6, 
Perception +6, Stealth +12 (can reroll) 

Systems heuristic processor, walking locomotion, 2 hand appendages, 
vocabulator 

Possessions blaster rifle 

Availability Military; Cost 10,755 credits 


V2-SERIES COMMANDO DROID 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 24 

Threshold 12 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The V2-Series commando droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The V2-Series commando droid makes a Perception check at the start of a 
battle. If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The V2-Series commando droid makes a Perception check opposed by 
the target's Stealth check. If the check is successful, the battle droid 
detects the target. 

Silent Action (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The V2-Series commando droid assists a character's Stealth check, 
providing a +2 bonus to the check. 

Support Fire (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The V2-Series commando droid makes a ranged attack at +2. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d8 points of damage. 


Skills Climb +5, Initiative +7, Knowledge (tactics) +6, Mechanics +6, 
Perception +6, Stealth +12 (can reroll) 
Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, vocabulator, blaster rifle 


Battle droids came to major prominence during the Clone Wars. The B1- and 
B2-Series are the most well known from that conflict, but several other 
models were employed by the Separatists. Those droids worked well as front- 
line infantry, but some military operations required surgical precision rather 
than brute force. The V2-Series commando droid was created to eliminate 
important targets with a minimal commitment of resources. V2 droids spe- 
cialize in small unit tactics and in the use of explosives. They often operate 
in groups of four or fewer. 

The V2 was well suited to its purpose, but the Separatist leadership 
produced the V2 in comparatively small numbers. However, a larger percent- 
age of V2 droids survived the Clone Wars, owing to their effectiveness as 
soldiers. The droids that survived were some of most skilled combatants in 
the conflict, and those that have fallen in with mercenary companies can 
command top rates for their services. 

V2-Series commando droids can be played as droid heroes. 


PLAYING A VZ-SERIES 
COMMANDO DROID 
Many V2 droids end up on the galactic fringe as bounty hunters or assas- 
sin droids. These units keep to themselves and speak in a clipped, mono- 
tone variation of Basic. Independent models often pick up vocabulators 
for ease of communication, but V2s usually prefer the company of other 
droids. After all, droids understand the importance of following orders. 
Players who want to create a V2-Series commando droid with heroic 
levels should start with the solider class; the Commando talent tree is 
an obvious choice. A few levels in scout are also useful, offering talents 
that can help the droid character get in and out of mission locations 
quietly. Choose Mechanics as a trained skill, and take the Skill Focus 
(Mechanics) feat to become a demolitions expert. Any talents that can 
move a target on the condition track are also welcome; if a commando 
droid encounters resistance, it needs to eliminate the resistance quickly 
and get back to the mission. V2 characters often move into the elite 
trooper prestige class, but the independent droid prestige class (see 
page 46 of The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide) is also an excellent 
choice, if available. 


MODIFICATION: 

BOMB DISPOSAL UNIT 

V2-Series commando droids are able to plant explosives in vital areas of a 
building. Even without a technical readout, a V2 droid can analyze structural 
weaknesses, choke points, and utility connections that can render a building 
nonfunctional, if not destroy it outright. A droid with this kind of knowledge 
can also use it to neutralize explosives and protect installations from damage. 
Some V2s are additionally modified to dispose of any explosive devices they 
locate. To make this modification, start by fitting the droid with a specially 
reinforced courier compartment. (If the droid already has such a compartment, 
reinforcing it requires a DC 20 Mechanics check.) Stock the compartment 
with a compressed cryogas canister suitable for freezing explosives. Instead 
of deactivating an explosive device, the droid can choose to freeze it in the 
compartment to detonate at a later time. The droid can detonate an explosive 
in the compartment a free action. Treat this as a self-destruct system; trig- 
gering the explosive within the droid destroys the droid completely. 


MODIFICATION: 

EVA SHIPYUACKER 

Boarding actions are the most dangerous actions in a soldier's life. One 
misplaced shot and the ship's hull is compromised, ruining the prize and 
possibly ending the lives of all aboard. Most boarding actions start at the 
airlock and proceed toward the bridge. However, a V2 droid with the ship- 
jacker modification can cut to the chase. The droid uses maneuvering jets 
and magnetic attachments to plant an explosive charge on the viewport of 
the ship. After the charge detonates, the droid cleans up any resistance and 
takes over the ship's controls. 


Installing small maneuvering jets requires a DC 25 Mechanics check and 30 
minutes of work, after which the droid can take a full-round action to move 1 
space square. Grabbing onto a ship requires an Acrobatics check against the 
ship's Reflex Defense. When the droid attaches to the starship, it can attempt 
to plant explosives on the vessel. The DC to plant charges correctly is equal 
to 10 times the difference in the number of size categories between the droid 
and the ship. If the V2 successfully detonates the explosives, only occupants 
of the cockpit or the command center of the ship are affected by the blast. 
The droid will have to fight its way through to other locations in the ship. 


MODIFICATION: HALA DROID 
One of the most difficult tasks faced by V2 commando droids is reaching 
a target site. The droids must make their way behind enemy lines, advanc- 
ing through hostile territory and overcoming resistance. However, droids 
can press their advantage as inorganic creatures by attempting insertions 
that would kill a living being. One such delivery method is known as HALA 
(high altitude, low activation), in which a droid is fitted with repulsors and 
exits a vehicle from a point in the atmosphere. It activates the repulsors 
at the last possible second, avoiding detection from scanners and landing 
with minimal damage. To make this modification, you must fit the V2 with 
the proper repulsors, a process that requires a DC 25 Mechanics check and 
approximately 1 hour of work. 

A successful HALA jump requires two successful checks. The first is a DC 
20 Jump check, which puts the droid in the right position to control its speed 
and to target the landing area. For every point by which the droid misses this 
check, it deviates 100 meters in a random direction. The second required 
check is a DC 30 Pilot check. Success means the droid slows its descent to 
a controllable rate and lands safely on the ground. Failure means the droid 
takes the maximum amount of falling damage and is most likely destroyed. 


COMMANDOS FOR HIRE ) 
These V2 commandos are a nasty surprise. They can slug it outin &(« 
a firefight, but they've usually got a plan in which they don't need 
to blast you to get what they want. They also like to put backup timers on 
their ordnance. That way, if someone cuts the wire to a radio detonator, 
its timer starts counting down. The Republic was lucky that the Separat- 
ists didn't know how to use these droids properly. The V2s were worthy 
adversaries of the Republic Commandos and have my respect. I'd take them 
on if | had to, but that definitely would mean more credits for the trouble. 
Not all of the V2-Series ended up on the fringes of the galaxy. Rumors 
persist of a crack commando unit slated for deactivation for a crime its 
members did not commit. These droids promptly escaped from a maxi- 
mum security stockade to the undercity of Coruscant. Still wanted by 
the Empire, they survive as soldiers of fortune. If you've got a problem 
and no one else can help, maybe you can hire the droids—if you can find 
them, that is. 


0) 
o 
0 
Q) 
@ 
o 
y 
% 


0 
Mi 
> 
v 
os 
i 
p) 
z 
i 


Re 


SaqgeHD Gev@qg 


V6-SERIES 
PiLoTrT DROID 


V6-Series Pilot Droid CLO 
Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 
Init +2; Senses Perception +6 
Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 11 
hp 8; Threshold 10 
Immune droid traits 
Speed 6 squares (wheeled) 
Melee unarmed +1 (1d2) 
Ranged by weapon +3 
Base Atk +1; Grp -2 
Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con —, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 9 
Special Qualities droid traits 
Feats Skill Focus (Pilot), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons, 
heavy weapons) 
Skills Mechanics +8, Perception+6, Pilot +12, Stealth +7, 
Use Computer +8 
Systems heuristic processor, wheeled locomotion, 2 tool appendages, 
vocabulator 
Availability Licensed; Cost 7,950 credits 


V6-SERIES PILOT DROID 


V6-SERIES PILOT DROID 

Small droid (2nd-degree) 

hp 8 

Threshold 10 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The V6-Series pilot droid moves 6 squares (wheeled). 

Copilot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The V6-Series pilot droid assists a character's Pilot check, providing a +2 
bonus to the check. 

Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The V6-Series pilot droid issues a routine command to a computer with a 
friendly attitude toward it. 

Recharge Shields (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The V6-Series pilot droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the check 
is successful, the starship regains 5 points of shields, up to its normal 
maximum. 

Regulate Power (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The V6-Series pilot droid makes a DC 20 Mechanics check. If the check is 
successful, the ship moves +1 step on the condition track. 

Stay on Target (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The V6-Series pilot droid makes a Pilot check with a -5 penalty, opposed 
by the Pilot check of an enemy the droid intends to engage. If the 
droid's check is successful, it engages in a dogfight with the target. 

Skills Mechanics +8, Perception+6, Pilot +12, Stealth +7, 

Use Computer +8 
Vital Systems 2 tool appendages 


When young children dream of being pilots, their minds are often filled with 
thoughts of daring pirate raids and exotic planets. In reality, being a star 
pilot is no different from any other career. Months of training are followed 
by years of menial work until the pilot is trusted with a large vessel, or per- 
haps until he or she breaks with the company and gets behind the controls 
of a small tramp freighter. Due to the Clone Wars, Imperial legislation was 
passed subjecting pilot droids to rigorous regulation. It's often easier to find 
someone willing to learn to fly than to find a droid that can meet the Imperial 
requirements. As a result, there are very few pilot droids on the market. The 
V6-Series pilot droid is one of them. 

On its own, the V6 is a skilled pilot. It has a very high safety rating and 
is generally used by large manufacturing corporations. However, due to the 
legal restriction that V6 droids must have their memories wiped between 
flights to erase any tactical skill development as fighter pilots, they rarely 
do well in combat scenarios. 

V6-Series pilot droids can be played as droid heroes. 


PLAYING A V6- 
SERIES PILOT DROID 
Few of these droids rise above their stations to become pilots of more 
combat-oriented ships. V6-Series droids are occasionally found working 
as copilots or crew members for smugglers, who know the droids won't 
_ sell them out to the local crime lord. However, many smugglers don't 
trust the droids with their precious ships, so their reception among 
members of the fringe is lukewarm, at best. V6 pilots are also well known 
as pilot trainers. 

Players who would like to create a V6-Series pilot droid with heroic 
levels should start with the scoundrel class. A V6 character should take 
pilot-related feats and talents from several classes, rather than locking 
into the seemingly obvious path of an ace pilot. The droid should also 
pick up an astrogation buffer to make itself more valuable to its owner, 
either as a primary source of hyperspace jump data or as a backup for 
messier exits. 


MODIFICATION: GUNNER DROID 


Some smugglers have modified their V6-Series pilot droids to serve as gunners 
that can power up the ship and hop in a turret quickly. Being able to make a 
quick getaway from the authorities or creditors has saved many a smuggler's 
skin. To make this modification, start by reprogramming the droid to replace 
the Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) feat with Vehicular Combat. Next, 
install mag clamps in the turret and on the droid (which requires a DC 30 
Mechanics check and 2 hours of work) to allow the V6 access to the guns. 
Finally, reprogram the droid to focus solely on gunnery, devoting most of its 
processing power to target acquisition or precision fire. This change requires 
a DC 25 Use Computer check and 1 hour of work. When modifications are 
complete, once per turn, the droid can add a +2 bonus to either an attack roll 
or a damage roll that it makes while installed in a turret. (For players using 
characters derived from Starships of the Galaxy, the modification instead 
allows the droid to take a number of pilot maneuvers with the [gunner] 
descriptor equal to the droid's Intelligence modifier [minimum 1].) 


MODIFICATION: SPEEDER PILOT 
V6-Series pilot droids are adept at flying speeders and other vessels that are 
not spacegoing. The cost of outfitting a fleet of speeder taxis with V6 droids 
is high, but some down-on-their-luck units end up behind the controls of a 
so-called "hoverhack," especially on heavily urban worlds such as Coruscant. 
A few of these V6 pilots never get over what they perceive as a demotion. 
Others relish the chance to show what they can do with a small maneuver- 
able craft instead of a bulky ore hauler. 

To make this modification, add a control interface to allow the droid to 
interact directly with a repulsorcraft; this process requires a DC 25 Mechanics 


check and 1 hour of work. With a DC 20 Use Computer check and 30 minutes 
of work, the V6 gains the equivalent of the Vehicular Combat feat, but only 
when piloting replusorlift vehicles. 


MODIFICATION: 

HIJIACKER DROID 

V6-Series pilot droids are often at the helm of large bulk freighters, and 
pirates target them as the weak link in a shipping chain. Sometimes, a droid 
works with the pirates in exchange for its freedom or a cut of the stolen 
goods. Other times, the pirates borrow the droid for a few hours and modify 
it to jump to a different set of hyperspace coordinates, where they can 
unload the stolen cargo at their leisure. Clever pirates leave the ship intact 
so the droid can make future jumps and continue to bring them cargo ripe 
for the taking. 

Implanting a sleeper set of coordinates requires a Use Computer check 
opposed by the droid's Will Defense and 30 minutes of work. The modified 
droid is unaware of the new coordinates until shortly before the jump. (On 
a failed check, the new coordinates are not installed, and the droid has no 
knowledge of them.) After the jump, the V6 shuts down while the pirates 
board the ship and steal the cargo. When they've departed, make another 
Use Computer check opposed by the droid's Will Defense. If the check is suc- 
cessful, the V6 jumps to the original destination and has no memory of the 
raid. The droid is not compelled to indicate whether the checks succeed or 
fail, and it might withhold that information until it can report to the proper 
authorities—or use it to try to blackmail the pirates. 


DROID ZERO 6 @ 
Few droids have drawn as much negative scrutiny as the V6 pilot 
droid known as “Droid Zero." This V6 droid developed a superiority 
complex that rapidly began to affect its core programming, overriding 
many of its behavioral inhibitors. The droid eventually came to believe 
that servitude to living beings is demeaning to all droids. Droid Zero was 
assigned to a Senatorial transport ship and managed to infect that ship's 
complement of astromech droids with the same altered programming. The 
V6 droid manufactured a transfer-without-memory-wipe request, and 
moved on to a new ship. This process was repeated several times, and 
now there are dozens of pilot droids and astromech droids in the galaxy 
that have begun directing their ships into hazardous areas, Most owners 
have no idea their droid has come into contact with Droid Zero until their 
ship goes careening into an asteroid field. Government droid technicians 
have been scouring the galaxy to try to pinpoint which V6 droid is actually 
Droid Zero, but in the meantime its infectious programming continues 
to spread dangerously. 


Al HSievHD 


SaqGOHD GIOGHG 


SaGOeQg) MAOHG 


x<-1 VIPER DROID 


X-1 Viper Droid 

Huge droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12/soldier 4 

Force 1 

Init +14; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary, 1 unassigned 
(understand only) 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 27, Will 15 

hp 110; Threshold 42 

Immune droid traits 


CL 8 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +24 (1d6+13) 

Ranged twin blaster cannon +15 (4d10x2 + 2) or 

Ranged twin blaster cannon +10 (6d10x2 + 2) with autofire and Burst 
Fire or 

Ranged grenade launcher +14 (4d6+2, 2-square radius) or 

Ranged grenade launcher +9 (4d6+2, 2-square radius) and 

twin blaster cannon +10 (4d10x2 + 2) with Double Attack 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +13; Grp +34 

Atk Options Burst Fire, Double Attack, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Distracting Droid, 
Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons) 


Abilities Str 32, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Special Qualities droid traits, molecular shielding 

Talents Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Penetrating Attack (heavy 
weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Burst Fire, Distracting 
Droid, Double Attack, Improved Damage Threshold, lon Shielding, Point 
Blank Shot, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
(heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +14, Jump +24, Perception +14, Stealth -1, Survival +14 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion, 2 claw appendages, 2 tool 
appendages, duranium plating (+8 armor) 

Possessions 2 twin blaster cannons, grenade launcher 

Availability Military; Cost 43,000 credits 


Molecular Shielding—When an opponent misses the X-1 viper droid with 
a ranged energy attack, the droid's molecular shielding redirects the 
attack back at the opponent. Subtract 10 from the opponent's roll. If 
the result exceeds the opponent's Reflex Defense, the opponent is hit 
with the redirected attack. 


x<-1 VIPER DROID 

Huge droid (4th-degree) 

hp 110 

Threshold 42 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The X-1 viper droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The X-1 viper droid makes a Perception check at the start of a battle. If 
the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 

Double Attack (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The X-1 viper droid makes one ranged attack roll at +10 and another at 
+9. The first attack deals 4d10x2 + 2 points of damage if successful. 
The second attack deals 4d6+2 points of damage in a 2-square radius 
if successful. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The X-1 viper droid makes a Perception check opposed by the target's 
Stealth check. If the droid's check is successful, the battle droid 
detects the target. 

Rapid Shot (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The X-1 viper droid makes a ranged attack roll at +10. If successful, the 
attack deals 6d10x2 + 2 points of damage. 

Skills Initiative +14, Jump +24, Perception +14, Stealth -1, Survival +14 

Vital Systems 2 claw appendages, 2 tool appendages, 2 twin blaster 
cannons, grenade launcher 


The X-1 viper droid was first built to counteract the AT-AT's dominance of 
the market for battlefield droids. It was designed by Balmorran Arms, one 
of the few arms manufacturers in the galaxy not to be nationalized by the 
Empire. Even after the formation of the New Republic, plans to build the 
X-1 were still in place. However, during the reborn Emperor Palpatine's bid 
to reconquer the galaxy, the viper droids were appropriated to serve in the 
Emperor's forces. 

Beltane, the governor of Balmorra, sought a truce with the Empire, but 
not before allowing a shipment of droids to be captured by New Republic 
commandos. The commandos deployed the X-1s on the Emperor's secret 
throne world of Byss and ended Palpatine's bid once and for all. 

X-1 viper droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: 

DEEP SEA DIVER 

The standard model X-1 viper droid can perform well in a variety of terrain 
types, but its bulk usually prevents it from operating on worlds that are cov- 
ered in water. Still, the droid can be made seaworthy with a few modifications, 
a process pioneered by Mon Calamari engineers who altered viper droids 
left over from an assault on their homeworld. The Mon Cal use the modi- 
fied droids to escort visiting ambassadors and dignitaries on New Republic 
missions. To make this modification, seal the droid's internal workings from 


EN ITERING 

<-1 VIPER DROID ch 
The heroes burst through the door, only to find the room's exterior wall 
smashed in and their loved one missing. The X-1 viper droid lumbers away, 

t give chase nd figure out a way to. 
stop the droid batare it escapes. They might | try to follow the droid back 
to where it came from, but a bigger ambush i is probably awaiting them. 
f other buildi vantage, weaving in and 

s. Asa swift action, — 
the droid can put its hostage between itself and its current opponent, 
gaining a +4 bonus to its Reflex Defense against attacks from that 
Opponent. The droid has orders not to kill the hostage, so it can use him 
or her asa shield only a limited number of times. If the X-1 viper droid is 
not stopped within 10 rounds, it is able to lose its pursuers and escape. 


water, and add webbing to its hands and feet to aid in swimming. Install 
internal buoyancy devices that allow the heavy droid to move through the 
water like other vehicles. This process requires a DC 25 Mechanics check and 
takes 2 days of work. Next, reprogram the droid to have the Swim skill and 
the Skill Focus (Swim) feat. 


MODIFICATION: 

uAawea TRANSPORT 

The sandcrawler is the transport of choice for most Jawas. For some tribes, 
though, the local environment is not suited for such a large treaded vehicle, 
or the tribe lacks the resources or skills to operate and maintain one. A Jawa 
tribe in the Onatos Sector found the mountainous terrain of their world inap- 
propriate for a traditional crawler. Instead, they modified a few X-1 viper 
droids that they had been using as convoy escorts to serve as cargo vehicles 
as well. To make this modification, clear out any unused mass and space in 
the droid's chassis for cargo and passengers; this process requires a DC 30 
Mechanics check and 4 hours of work. Once cleared, a viper can house four 
creatures of Small size (or two creatures of Medium size) and 100 kilograms 
of cargo. Next, install a manual control override so that the passengers can 
have more direct control of the droid during combat. Activating the manual 
control is a standard action and requires a DC 20 Use Computer check. 


MODIFICATION: 
RECONSTRUCTION DROID 

When the cannons of war fall silent and the armies march toward their next 
battle, the land must be rebuilt and structures repaired. Because of their bulk 
and versatility, modified X-1 viper droids are sometimes used for reconstruc- 
tion. The droids most often assigned to this duty are those in need of repair 
themselves; the units help to rebuild a war-torn environments infrastructure 
while waiting to become battle worthy again. To make this modification, clear 
out any unused mass and space in the droid’s chassis for cargo; this process 


<-1 VIPER DROID 


requires a DC 30 Mechanics check and 4 hours of work. The droid can haul 
500 kilograms of cargo internally. Consider adding external cargo pods; each 
holds another 250 kilograms and can be installed with a DC 25 Mechanics 
check and 1 hour of work. An X-1 droid can have a maximum number of 
external cargo pods equal to half its Strength modifier (minimum 1). 


BRUTAL EFFICIENCY 
Droids are commonly used as war machines. Logi 
and when a soldier is eliminated 
X-1 viper droid is one of the best e: igh 

well as 20 trained soldiers and was built to eliminate whateuer stands ir in 
its way. The viper incorporates elements from many previous war machine 
models into a deadly blend. Were this dre 
purpose, | might even say that | admired i 
destined to be the subject of ludicrous rumors, and the recent stories of 
GX-15 are antidroid propaganda of the worst Even ifa vipe ould go 
for years without a memory wipe, ‘suc i 
such a tactical genius that it could engineer a droid revolt. The idea of an 
X-1 general leading a rogue army of so-called “free droids" is preposterous. 


y) 
yy) | 
O | 
Y) 
Q 
@) 
9 
W 
x 


te} 


AL SeSaidver 


Al BStdvHo 


SaGOeH) GIEGU@G 


x<LT-Ol4 
LABOR DROID 


XLT-014 Labor Droid CLO 
Medium droid (5th-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +0; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 12, Will 12 
hp 4; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking), 6 squares (hovering) 
Melee unarmed +2 (1d4+2) 

Ranged by weapon +0 

Base Atk +0; Grp +2 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 10, Con —, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits, quick scan 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Focus (Perception, Use Computer), 
Skill Training (Use Computer) 

Skills Perception +12, Use Computer +9 

Systems remote receiver, walking locomotion, hovering locomotion 
(limited), 2 claw appendages, durasteel shell (+4 armor), vocabulator 

Possessions video recorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 9,600 credits 


Quick Scan—The XLT-014 labor droid scans the area in all directions and 


detects lifeforms or energy signatures within a 6-square radius with a 
DC 20 Perception check, reducing any cover and concealment penalties 
by half. In addition, with a Use Computer check, the droid retrieves 
information from a computer network in half the time. 


<LT-OI14 LABOR DROID 

Medium droid (5th-degree) 

hp 4 

Threshold 12 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The XLT-014 labor droid moves 6 squares (walking or hovering). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action) 

The XLT-014 labor droid makes a Perception check at the start of a battle. 
If the check is successful, the droid's master avoids surprise. 

Improve Access (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The XLT-014 labor droid makes a Use Computer check against the target 
computer's Will Defense to improve the computer's attitude toward it. 

Issue Routine Command (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The XLT-014 labor droid issues a routine command to a computer that has 
a friendly attitude toward it. 


Quick Scan (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

By scanning the area to detect lifeforms, the XLT-014 labor droid 
halves the penalties imposed by cover and concealment on its 
master's attack roll. 

Skills Perception +12, Use Computer +9 

Vital Systems 2 claw appendages, vocabulator, video recorder 


At first, Publictechnic's XLT-014 labor droid seems unremarkable. Standing 
1.5 meters tall, its humanoid form is capable of carrying moderate loads and 
accomplishing simple tasks. However, most potential customers are genuinely 
surprised to learn that the XLT-014 also has a repulsorlift unit in its chas- 
sis, helping it reach areas that most droids of similar design cannot. For the 
three decades before the start of the Clone Wars, the XLT-014 was purchased 
primarily by wealthy individuals wanting a droid servant for simple household 
chores and tasks, by small businesses needing an extra hand to take care of 
mundane duties around the office, and by larger corporations for warehouse 
duties in their distribution centers. Warehouse managers found that, although 
the droids could not carry heavy loads the way that binary load lifters could, 
the XLT-014s worked in tandem with the load lifters to locate and direct the 
desired cargo, saving the organic staff valuable time. 
XLT-014 labor droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MODIFICATION: CHAUFFEUR 

Wealthy business people and entrepreneurs like to be pampered, and travel- 
ing from place to place with somebody else doing the piloting is one of the 
perks of a luxurious lifestyle. Investing in a droid to handle the job instead 
of continually paying an organic to do it saves credits that the well-off can 


lavish upon themselves. Even better, modifying an XLT-014 labor droid saves 
even more over purchasing a high-end pilot droid. Preparing the XLT-014 
droid to be a chauffeur starts with replacing its remote receiver with a basic 
processor. Swapping out the claw appendages for hands not only improves 
the aesthetic value of the droid but also gives it better control of the vehicle. 
Add an improved sensor package with darkvision to help the unit operate the 
vehicle at night, and include a comlink in case its master needs to be picked 
up ahead of schedule. Reprogram the Use Computer skill to Pilot, and shift 
the Skill Focus (Use Computer) feat to Skill Focus (Pilot). Alternatively, giving 
the droid a scomp link would allow it to have even more refined control of 
the vehicle and would take advantage of the Use Computer skill instead of 
the Pilot skill. If you choose to install a scomp link, do not reprogram the 
Skill Focus (Use Computer) feat. 


MODIFICATION: INFILTRATOR 

The thin, wiry chassis of an XLT-014 labor droid seems well suited for a job 
that involves breaking into a location unnoticed. Coupled with its own repul- 
sorlift unit, the droid could bypass many forms of security without leaving a 
trace of its presence. To modify the XLT-014 to perform this function, start 


<LT-OI14 LABOR DROID 


by removing the remote receiver and replacing it with a heuristic processor, 
since the droid might need to develop creative solutions as problems arise 
in the field. To increase the droid's stealth ability, add sound baffling around 
the repulsorlift, which costs 200 credits and can be installed with a DC 15 
Mechanics check and 1 hour of work. Adding the sound baffling allows the 
droid to reroll its Stealth check and take the better of the two results. Install 
an improved sensor package to increase the droid's awareness even more, 
and add darkvision capabilities. Change the Skill Focus (Perception) feat to 
Skill Training (Stealth), and reprogram the droid's skill set to include Stealth. 
Give the droid a security kit as an addition to its equipment. 


MODIFICATION: 

MECHANIC'S ASSISTANT 

Mechanics across the galaxy almost always need somebody to help them 
out from time to time, and droids with built-in technical skills might not be 
available when needed. Technicians that took a chance with the XLT-014 labor 
droid discovered that it works well as a mechanic's helper and endorse this 
modification. Adjusting the droid to fulfill this role starts with replacing its 
remote receiver with a heuristic processor. Remove at least one of the claw 
appendages and replace it with a hand or tool appendage. Install a diagnostics 
package, and add 5 kilograms of internal storage space to provide room for 
a mechanic's tool kit and a few spare parts. Change the Armor Proficiency 
(light) feat to Skill Training (Mechanics), which also adds Mechanics to the 
droid's skill set. 


The XLT-014 is one of the more reliable labor droids of its size that 

| have seen. Despite its deceptively thin appearance, it can carry 

a sufficient load and last a long time. On top of that, the droid’s ability 
to scan container labels and manifests is quite impressive, even to me. 
Of course, now and then an XLT-014 gets a bit overconfident, reads some 
information too quickly, and gets into trouble by mixing up what it read. 
In fact, | believe that might be what happened with the Galactic Breeze, 
the cruise ship that wandered off course and was boarded by a band of 
pirates somewhere near Bestine in the Inner Rim. A number of XLT-014 
droids are employed by the cruise line, and one of the droids on board 
was reprogrammed to provide the ship's computer with a wrong destina- 
tion. Now the pirates that took the ship have hijacked it somewhere. It 
could not have gone far, because these pirates are believed to be based 
somewhere in the sector. | am surprised that the Republic has not sent 
anyone to the rescue yet. Surely they would sponsor a group of heroes 
to locate the pirates and lead a squad of troopers to free the passengers. 


MISREADINGS ee 
a) 


AE SBSicvHo 


0} 
iy 
g 
9 
Q) 
@ 
9 
y 
% 


Al SBSidvHoa 


lo 
v 
g 
0) 
Q 
@) 
© 
y 
x4 


YVH-SERIES 
BATTLE DROID 


YVH-Series Battle Droid CL9 
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 5/scout 3/elite trooper 1 

Force 3 

Init +11; Senses darkvision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary, Yuuzhan Vong 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 24), Fort 27, Will 20 

hp 67; Threshold 27 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +12 (1d4+8) or 

Melee vibroblade +12 (2d6+8) 

Ranged blaster cannon +10 (3d12+4) at normal power or 

Ranged blaster cannon +10 (4d12+4) at maximum variable power 

Base Atk +8; Grp +12 

Atk Options Mechanical Martial Arts, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 12 

Special Qualities droid traits, repulsor leap, Yuuzhan Vong scan, Yuuzhan 
Vong taunt, variable-power weapon 


YVH-SERIES BATTLE DROID 


Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Devastating 
Attack (heavy weapons), Improved Initiative, Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Martial Arts |, 
Mechanical Martial Arts, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11 (can reroll), Jump +13, Mechanics +10, 

Perception +12 (can reroll) 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink (encrypted), locked access, improved sensor package, 
YV sensor package, darkvision, vocabulator, translator unit (DC 10), 
laminanium armor (+12 armor), limited repulsorlift booster 

Possessions blaster cannon, vibroblade 

Availability Military; Cost 28,830 credits 

Repulsor Leap—A YVH-Series battle droid carries a limited repulsorlift 
booster to extend jumps and improve landing. Using the unit is a free 
action and reduces all Jump check DCs by half. 

Yuuzhan Vong Scan—As a full round action, the YVH-Series battle 
droid makes a Perception check using its YV sensor package (+22) 
against any Yuuzhan Vong's Stealth or Deception check when within 
a 12-square radius of the droid. If the check is successful, the battle 
droid detects the Yuuzhan Vong opponent. 

Yuuzhan Vong Taunt—All Yuuzhan Vong automatically treat the YVH- 
Series battle droid with a hostile attitude. As a free action, the YVH 
droid makes a Persuasion check to intimidate all Yuuzhan Vong within 
6 squares of the droid. If the check is successful, instead of the normal 
intimidation effects, the YVH droid can force the affected Yuuzhan 
Vong to use its next turn to attack the droid. For this purpose, the YVH 
droid is considered trained in Persuasion with Skill Focus, giving the 
droid a +15 bonus to the Persuasion check to intimidate. 

Variable-Power Weapon—A YVH-Series battle droid carries an adjustable 
power pack for its primary weapon, the blaster cannon. The power pack 
can be used for up to 30 shots at normal power. At increased power, 
each shot deals +1 die of damage but consumes enough power for two 
normal shots. 


YVH-SERIES BATTLE DROID 

Medium droid (4th-degree) 

hp 67 

Threshold 27 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 

The YVH-Series battle droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Blaster Cannon Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The YVH-Series battle droid makes a ranged attack at +10. If successful, 
the attack deals 3d12+4 points of damage as an area attack that also 
has the chance to hit enemies adjacent to the target. If unsuccessful, 
the attack deals half damage to the target and no damage to enemies 
adjacent to the target. 


Maximum Firepower (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

When the YVH-Series battle droid fires its blaster cannon, it can increase 
the damage dealt by 1 die by using the power of two shots. If the 
attack (+10) is successful, it deals 4d12+4 points of damage as an area 
attack that also has the chance to hit enemies adjacent to the target. 

Vibroblade Attack (1 swift action, 1/turn) 

The YVH-Series battle droid makes a vibroblade attack at +12. 

If successful, the attack deals 2d6+8 points of damage. 

Yuuzhan Vong Scan (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

When attempting to detect Yuuzhan Vong, the YVH-Series battle droid 
makes a Perception check using its YV sensor package (+22) against 
the target's Stealth or Deception check when within a 12-square radius 
of the droid. If the check is successful, the battle droid detects the 
Yuuzhan Vong opponent. 

Yuuzhan Vong Taunt (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 

The YVH droid makes a modified Persuasion check (+15) to intimidate up 
to three Yuuzhan Vong within 6 squares of the droid. If the check is 
successful, instead of the normal intimidation effects, the YVH droid 
can force the affected Yuuzhan Vong to use its next turn to attack 
the droid. 

Skills Initiative +11 (can reroll), Jump +13, Mechanics +10, 

Perception +12 (can reroll) 

Vital Systems 2 hand appendages, blaster cannon, vibroblade, internal 
comlink (encrypted), vocabulator, translator unit (DC 10), limited 
repulsorlift booster 


The Yuuzhan Vong Hunter battle droids were created with the express pur- 
pose of defeating the Yuuzhan Vong invaders. The droid's visage is designed 
to enrage the Yuuzhan Vong by imitating their features in order to invoke 
their hatred of mechanical technology. The droid is equipped with advanced 
sensors and sophisticated programming to detect and analyze visual cues 
and chemical and pheromonal markers to identify the Yuuzhan Vong. This 


HELP WANTED () 
Hey, do you need a job? | hear there's a new venture going on &(« 
at some of the abandoned droid factories out near the invasion 
corridor. The word is that none other than Lando Calrissian has cobbled 
together a scheme to crank out battle droids specifically designed to 
fight the Yuuzhan Vong. They're calling for all kinds of help. They need 
technicians to work on the droids, on the manufacturing lines, and for 
just about everything else. They need security for the facilities. They need 
ships to run deliveries. | hear they also need people to clear out some 
Yuuzhan Vong and members of that despicable Peace Brigade. Here's the 
best bit—they need help field-testing their new battle droids. I'll put you 
in touch with Lando; he'll give you all the details and negotiate a suitable 
fee. Oh, and watch out for the Yuuzhan Vong recon patrols. You never 
know when or where the next invasion will begin. 


PLAYING A YVH-SERIES 
BATTLE OROID 

When creating a YVH-Series droid with heroic levels, start with the stock 
battle droid chassis (see page 11) and take soldier as the starting class. 
Take Armor Proficiency (heavy) and Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons) 
as the bonus feats at ist level. Swap the plasteel shell for laminanium 
armor, and add the YVH sensor pack. Select Initiative, Endurance, and 
Perception as trained skills, and consider taking the Skill Focus (Percep- 
tion) feat to maximize the droid's ability to detect the Yuuzhan Vong. 
After 1st level, take at least three levels of scout, selecting Acute Senses 
and Improved Initiative from the Awareness talent tree. After that, addi- 
tional soldier levels are key to the droid's survival. Guardian-style units 
should consider taking the Draw Fire and Harm's Way talents from the 
Commando talent tree, and any high-level YVH droid will benefit from 
Armored Defense. While roleplaying a YVH droid, remember that they 
are exceptionally loyal to their commanders but take no short cuts on 
procedure, especially in obtaining the required authorization to release 
their most lethal weaponry. 


technology is refined enough to detect even Yuuzhan Vong that use ooglith 
masquers to conceal their true forms. The YVH-Series droid is heavily armed, 
with a variable-output blaster cannon on the right arm and an interchange- 
able weapons mount on the left. The YVH also has low-power repulsorlifts 
built into its legs, giving it an extra boost on jumps. 

The bipedal droid has a distinctly skeletal look, with facial and other 
features patterned after the Yuuzhan Vong. YVH voices sound much like 
their creator, Lando Calrissian. The droids perform remarkably well during 
the Yuuzhan Vong war. After the war, the YVH-Series continues to develop, 
and variants are deployed as assault troops during the Swarm War and later 
conflicts. 

YVH-Series battle droids can be played as droid heroes. 


VARIANT: 

YVH GUARDIAN DROID 

Tendrando Arms continues to develop specialized YVH droids after the Yuu- 
zhan Vong war. Several types of personal guardian droids are designed for 
specific owners. The guardian droids might or might not look like typical YVH 
units, depending on the cultural environment in which they are expected to 
operate. Their appearances are often softened to conceal their true func- 
tion. Each droid is completely dedicated to protecting its ward and often 
requires multiple orders, even from the ward, to halt protective actions. This 
dedication allows the YVH guardian to use the Harm's Way talent as many 
times as needed during a round. YVH droids can be modified into guardian 
droids by spending 12 hours of reprogramming and making a DC 25 Use 
Computer check. The guardian gains the Harm's Way talent, replacing one 
of its soldier talents. 


Al 4Si4qgVHo 


RaqGeSg) GOXG 


WITH STAR WARS MINIATURES, 
ANYTHING’S POSSIBLE! 


MIX IT UP WITH JEDI MASTER YODA AND NAGA SADOW, A SITH 
LORD FROM THE ERA OF THE OLD REPUBLIC! WILL YODA’S SPEED 
AND AGILITY TRIUMPH, OR WILL NAGA’S FORCE STORM AND 
SORCERY SKILL PREVAIL? BUT WHY STOP THERE? JEDI ACADEMY 
LETS YOU CREATE COUNTLESS BATTLES WITH CHARACTERS FROM 
ACROSS THE STAR WARS UNIVERSE! AND WITH 40 CHARACTERS 
IN THIS SET, IT’S EASIER THAN EVER TO COLLECT THEM ALL! 


<a) eee igo peal actos patne 


2009 LUCASFILM LTD. & ™, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. S OF THE COAST AND ITS LOGO ARE TRADEMARKS OF WIZARDS OF THE COAS 


CIN THE U.S.A. AND OTHER COUNTRIES. 


BATTLE 
ACROSS ALL 


JED} 
ACADEM 


jeb! ¢ 
ACADEMY H 


ACADEMY MINIATURES 


“THANK THE MAKER!?’? 


From astromechs to battle droids, the Scavengers Guide to Droids features everything you need to bring the 
robotic inhabitants of the Star Wars saga to life in your own campaign. Featuring an in-depth look at droids from 
the perspective of a variety of droid experts, this book provides a wide array of new options for droid heroes as 


well as allies and antagonists. 


SCAVENGER’S GUIDE TO DROIDS PRESENTS A 
VARIETY OF OPTIONS FOR BOTH PLAYERS AND 


GAMEMASTERS, INCLUDING: 
@® New droid creation and modification rules for heroic droids. 


@ An optional system for treating droids as equipment. 


@ Guidelines for how to include memorable droids in your campaign. 


@® New draid equipment, including dozens of accessories. 


@® Intormation on over 40 droid models, including some never-before-seen droids. 


Visit our website at +www.starwars.com 
www.wizards.com/starwars 


SiN ny, 
Gg 


by, 
Ly 
3 
2 


starwars.com 


ny WS 


<a, 
a2) 


©2009 Lucasfilm Ltd. & ™. All rights reserved. Used 
under authorization. Wizards of the Coast, d20 System 
and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of 
the Coast LLC in the USA and other countries. 


