GALAXY” 


GARY ASTLEFORD OWEN K.C. STEPHENS ROONEY THOMPSON 


STARSHIPS OF THE GALAx<yY™ 


GARY ASTLEFORD, OWEN K.C. STEPHENS, RODNEY THOMPSON 


DESIGNERS Gary Astleford, Owen K.C. Stephens, PRODUCTION MANAGERS Shari Overbay, Cynda Callaway 
Rodney Thompson 


DEVELOPER Rodney Thompson 


GRAPHIC DESIGNERS Keven Smith, Michael Martin 


CARTOGRAPHER Christopher West 


Frank Parisi, Sue Rostoni Angelika Lokotz 


Siiagsyrs 


. ; Jeffrey Carlisle, Gonzalo Flores, Langdon Foss, 
Christopher Perkins Tomas Giorello, Ron Lemen, Mark Tedin, 


Francis Tsai, Christopher West 


DIRECTOR OF RPG R&D Bill Slavicsek SPECIAL THANKS Leland Chee 


MANAGING EDITOR Kim Mohan IMAGING TECHNICIAN Travis Adams 


Some rules mechanics are based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook by Bill Slavicsek, Andy Collins, and JD Wiker, the original Dungeons & Dragons® rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson, and the new Dungeons & Dragons game designed by 
Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. 


This Wizards of the Coast game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission. To learn more about the Open Gaming License and the d20 System™ License, please visit www.wizards.com/d20. 


ABSIVWS FBAL AIO SHIHSYHvVLs 


U.S., Canada, Asia, GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE 

Pacific, & Latin America Hasbro UK Ltd Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. Caswell Way "t Hofveld 6D 

P.0. Box 707 Newport, Gwent NP9 OYH 1702 Groot-Bijgaarden 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRITAIN Belgium 

Questions? 1-800-324-6496 Please keep this address for your records +32 2 467 3360 


WWW.WIZARDS.COM WWW.STARWARS.COM 
ISBN: 978-0-7869-4823-9 
620-21714720-001-EN 
987654321 
FIRST PRINTING: DECEMBER 2007 


©2007 LUCASFILM LTD. & @ OR ™ WHERE INDICATED. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 
USED UNDER AUTHORIZATION. 


Dungeons & Dragons, d20 System, Wizards of the Coast, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use 
of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental, Printed in the U.S.A. 


CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION ....4 


Lock S-Foils in Attack Position!....5 


Get Everyone Involved.......... 6 
Starship Specialists............ 6 
Starship COD OX aiis-s.< a nisaesje a wis 6 
Make it Your Own............5- 6 
Enhanced Encounters .......... 7 
Updated Statistics............. 7 


CHAPTER |: STARSHIP 
ADVENTURES....8 


Starship BasieSisssscs «= vain 3x aces 9 
Getting Your Own Starship...... 9 
Permits and Licenses.......... 10 
Travel in Realspace............ 11 
Travel in Hyperspace.......... 12 
Communications ............. 13 
Docking, Fuel, and Maintenance. . 14 

Starship Talents.......--....00. 15 
Affecting Targets............. 15 
Specific Talents .............. 15 

NEW Talent « sv ssicarcs ccna see vere 16 
FORCE TALIS, 0.0.056 becuase eens 16 
Noble Talénts..2.0+-cisceas cine 16 
Scoundrel Talents............. 16 
Ace Pilot Talents.............. 17 
Officer Talents. + sieess os ces 18 

SPAVSHID SKITS. cssssos 6:6 esaracereirese sins 18 
Deception ¢ sisnssie + x pvmemsiee vases 18 
PERCE PUION: sncetiars 5.x eaivenns-a e-ecena 18 
Stealths « ¢ «sais x ¢ xwaieas wanes 18 


Use Computer 
Starship: Feats seine s 2 cnawies «cries 
NEW FESS! ccerecaie x 6 soncraser ois serene 


CHAPTER II: STARSHIP 


COMBAT 2 nie nie 22 
Starship Maneuvers............. 23 
Learning New Maneuvers...... 23 
Using Starship Maneuvers...... 24 
Maneuver Descriptors......... 24 


Starship Maneuver Descriptions .. 24 
Making Starship Encounters 

INterestinginss ss esses 4 wae 30 

SEAL ESIMA lh sisiite s c-e:nveievis os apse 31 


Handling Large Battles ........ 31 
But I'm Not a Pilot!............. 32 
Designing Starship 

Combat Encounters.......... 32 

Give Objectives Other than 

DESHHUCEION: ecvrcisats satscerts.« 33 


Build Interesting Battlefields ... 33 
Create Exciting Scenarios with 


Complications............. 35 
Challenge Level Adjustments for 
Starship Disparities........ 35 


na ll: STARSHIP 


MODIFICATIONS . .36 
How to Use this Chapter......... 37 
Cost Modifiers............2.005 38 

A Note on Costs.............. 38 
Emplacement Points............ 38 


Gaining Emplacement Points ... 38 
Unused Emplacement Points ... 39 


Nonstandard Modifications ...... 39 
Installationiscae se vicewasermeta ss 39 
Installation Work Force........ 39 
Installation Time ...........-. 39 
Installation Checks ........... 40 
Starship Systems............005 40 
Movement Systems........... 40 
Defense Systems ............. 43 
Weapon Systems............. 44 
ACCESSONIES is <a. tnaiens vanina ess 48 
StOEK SHIPS: nic: ciseseiee o vssaeeia ess 53 


CHAPTER IV: STARSHIP 


Tactical Eire ss sus as vasces as 55 

FOGUSCAIFIRES..« careresn cenparssers 05 « 55 
Acclamator-class Assault Ship. ... 56 

Acclamator-ll............0005 57 
Action VI Transport...........-. 58 
Advanced Ship (Template) ....... 59 
Aethersprite Interceptor......... 60 
ARC-170 Starfighter............ 61 
Archaic Ship (Template) ......... 62 
AM WIVIG) ssccsnnncs @ drctonaas <5 ate: Ws 63 
Banking Clan Frigate............ 64 


Baudo-class Star Yacht.......... 65 


BAWING sacs cian as pees stem 66 
Carrack-class Light Cruiser ...... 68 
Chiss Claweraft..............2- 69 
Citadel-Class Cruiser............ 70 
CloakShape Fighter............. 71 
Commerce Guild Destroyer....... 72 
Goralskipper sss sc masss + cman 73 
Corvette, Corellian ............. 74 

The’ CR70 Corvette: sess = sizes 75 


Dreadnaught-class Heavy Cruiser. . 76 
The Outbound Flight Project.... 77 


Droid Starfighters.............. 78 
Dynamic-class Freighter......... 80 
Eta-2 Actis Interceptor.......... 82 
EAWING acs cieicwis 2 5 cist os caer s 83 
Firespray-31 Patrol Craft........ 84 
Original Prototypes ........... 85 
STAVE | ici spsscessaee armeaatie ¢ seniceenees 85 
Geonosian Starfighter........... 86 
Ginivex-class Starfighter........ 87 
Ghtroc 720 Freighter............ 88 
Gozanti Cruiser .............0.. 90 
Kraytts HOROF ss «cscs vasras ss 91 
Gunship, Corellian.............. 92 
Hapan Battle Dragon ........... 93 
Hapes Nova Cruiser............. 94 
Imperial Assault Shuttle......... 95 
Imperial Star Destroyer.......... 96 

The Victory Il-class 
Star Destroyer ............ 98 

The Pellaeon-class 
Star Destroyer ............ 99 
Interdictor Cruiser............. 100 
Origin of the Vindicator....... 101 
Imperial Customs Corvette. ..... 102 
J-Type Star Skiff ...........08. 103 
Junker (Template) ............. 104 
KEWING) o's ase ae adenee sans 105 
Lambda-class Shuttle.......... 106 
Lancer-class Frigate ........... 108 
Mankvim-814 Light Interceptor. . 109 
Marauder Corvette............ 110 
Medium Transport............. 111 
Miy'til Fighter/Bombers........ 112 
Miy'til Assault Bomber....... 113 
Mon Calamari MC80 Cruiser.... 114 
Home One tos a vices se xersiae 6 115 


Mon Calamari Star Defender.... 116 
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter.... 118 
Nebula-class Star Destroyer. .... 119 
Nebulon-B Frigate............. 120 
P-38 Starfighter .............. 121 
Predator-class Starfighter...... 122 
Prototype (Template) .......... 123 
Rebel Assault Frigate Mk I...... 124 
Rebel Assault Frigate MkIl .... 125 
Republic Cruiser............... 126 
Scimitar Assault Bomber ....... 127 
SUT AMPH ERALON sseusnis asi essusinia cen one 128 
Sith InterceptOticiscsccscces gen 130 
Skipray Blastboat ............. 131 
SoroSuub Patrol Fighter........ 132 
Star Galleon-class Frigate ...... 133 
StarViper (Virago)............. 134 
Strike-class Medium Cruiser .... 135 
Super Star Destroyer........... 136 
Executolis «casmees canaws yore 137 
LOUSARKY dis gino tie ances Soar 138 
ECIPS@xes cases samme aes 138 
System Patrol Craft............ 140 
CapabllitieSssia: + < ase se sete 140 
Theta-class Shuttle............ 141 
TIE Fighter’ « « ssc vs saa oe a caw 142 
TIENBOIROG scsicnce:n c-oscetoeoa a veets 142 
TIE Interceptors: + « sasiee seein 143 
THEAGWAN COM cies ss csacvcennwe enc 144 
TIE Defendetissecis + scsssyies aces 145 
Trade Federation Battleship... .. 146 
The‘Cope'Shipies ss saan axes 147 
Venator-class Star Destroyer.... 148 
V-19 Torrent Starfighter........ 149 
V-wing Starfighter ............ 150 
X-83 Twintail Starfighter....... 151 
WING sescis' sch sisxensid wo deauhehes 3 was 152 
T2GSXIS.  sssverase a s.aigtavseu sw vtenass 152 
WROSBRY sc cesainte Mosinee araauize 153 
YT-Series Transports........... 154 
NIR2OOO: « ssscaceit 6 = srtsnnens 9-3: Bdnacs 154 
NTH 2AOO! carssonsesra eccesiverson-areiaeans 155 
Millennium Falcon........... 156 
NVATING) sins tects sen eransnairw steve 158 
Y-wing Longprobe........... 159 
Y-wing Courier.............. 159 
Z-95 Headhunter.............. 160 


SINnSinog 


ABRYVWE GAL JO SHHSEVLS 


TRODUCTION 


— 


RRS 


The cold stillness of space is shattered by the chaos of dozens of turbolasers 
- discharging at once. An Imperial Star Destroyer fires broadsides at a Nebulon- 
_ B frigate, the two passing one another in opposite directions like oceangoing 
__ ships passing in the night. In between exchanges of heavy weapons fire, a trio 
_ of TIE fighters twists between glowing laser blasts while two X-wing fight- 
ers mimic their movements, swirling around in a deadly dance. A Corellian 
Corvette, leaking atmosphere and listing heavily, slams into the bridge of the 
Star Destroyer, setting off a chain reaction that destroys both vessels. 

Sound exciting? It does. Want it in your Star Wars campaign? You 
should. 

That is what Starships of the Galaxy is all about. This book is designed to 
give Gamemasters and players everything they need to inject space combat, 
on both small and large scales, into any Star Wars Roleplaying Game cam- 
paign. This book contains new options for heroes looking to make their mark 
on the galaxy from the cockpit of a starfighter and features information for 
Gamemasters to help make this happen. Whether you are simply looking for 
some new ships to throw into the mix or want to make space combat a larger 
part of your campaign, this book provides everything you need to enhance 
your Star Wars starship-based experience. 


SOREL 


q 


LOCK S-FOILS IN 
ATTACK POSITION! 


The contents of this book are intended to allow players and Gamemasters to 
inject starship combat into an ongoing campaign. The Star Wars Roleplaying 
Game Saga Edition core rulebook presents basic rules for space combat that 
mimic the rules for character combat and provide a quick and easy way to 
integrate starship combat into the game. Although those rules are perfectly 
ie for most encounters, some players and GMs may wish to include more 
rh and diversity in their space combat. Likewise, Gamemasters who 
wan run a campaign that focuses on a starfighter squadron will likely 
need more robust rules for space combat and more options for enemies, 
allowing them to create diverse encounters in starships just as they would 
at character scale. 

This book was designed as a campaign supplement that expands starship 
combat to be more than just the occasional chase scene in which the heroes 
escape from TIE fighters without engaging in serious combat. By using the 
options in this book, a Gamemaster can shift the focus in a campaign to 
starship combat or simply expand existing space combat encounters to make 
them more exciting. Though adding options from this book will likely add 
complexity to your game, the new mechanics presented here will expand 
and enhance your spacefaring adventures. 


5 
3 


NOILONGOYULNI 


} 


NOILOINAOMLNI 


ASIWES SBHL JO SHHASHVLAS 


Although many of the rules in this book can be used for vehicles on the 
ground (or even in the air), most of the book focuses on starships operating 
in space. Starship statistics still contain atmospheric movement speeds (fol- 
lowing the standard format established in the core rulebook), but the new 
mechanics are mostly geared toward starship combat. 


GET EvERYONE INVOLVED 

In the past, one of the more common drawbacks to starship combat was that 
it left many players sitting and waiting for the encounter to end due to their 
lack of starship-relevant skills. Even when participating, many characters 
found their options limited by their roles aboard the ship. One of the primary 
goals of Starship of the Galaxy is to make starship combat more accessible 
to characters of all roles and archetypes. For example, the noble will find 
information on using her talents for inspiration and leadership in starship 
combat, while the scoundrel will be able to disrupt and damage his opponents 
just like he does in character-scale combat. Starships of the Galaxy should 
encourage all players—not just pilots and gunners—to get involved and use 
their special abilities in space combat scenes. 

Moreover, this book presents a variety of new options for the core classes 
and relevant prestige classes (such as the ace pilot and the officer). Members 
of each class will find new talents (and even new talent trees), some new 
uses for skills, and some new feats that will round out their characters. The 
goal of these new abilities is to get each character more involved in space 
combat. The Saga Edition rules set goes a long way toward encouraging this 
behavior; even characters untrained in the Pilot skill have some capacity to 
pilot a ship, and their ability to make attacks with vehicle weapons is equally 
enhanced by many of the same talents and feats that affect normal ranged 
attacks. Essentially, any character's basic abilities make that character 
capable of participating in space combat in one way or another. 


STARSHIP SPECIALISTS 

One of the best uses for this book, as mentioned above, is enabling char- 
acters to take full advantage of the new starship combat rules presented 
here. These new options range from the aforementioned talents and feats 
to an entirely new space combat maneuvers system. Similar in design to the 
Force system from the Saga Edition core rulebook, this maneuvers system 
turns starship combat into more than just a matter of moving and shooting. 
With the expanded system presented in this book, starship combat becomes 
a more tactical affair for some characters, letting them do incredible things 
when behind a flight stick. 

Fortunately for heroes not piloting the ship, there are plenty of new 
options in this book as well. Engineers and other technically inclined char- 
acters will find a number of new rules in this book that should make it easier 
for them to jump in and participate in space combat. Similarly, many of 
the starship maneuvers can be used by gunners as well as pilots, allowing 


weapons operators to take advantage of special bonuses and abilities just 
as pilots might. With this book in hand, you won't have to be an ace pilot 
just to be effective at starship combat, encouraging all character types to 
take part in space combat encounters. 


STARSHIP CODEx 

Though the new character options certainly make starship combat more 
appealing, the bulk of this book is dedicated to presenting statistics and 
information for a wide variety of starships, ranging from small starfighters 
to massive capital ships and space stations. Players might be tempted to view 
this book as a catalog of potential purchases, and as heroes rise in stature 
and wealth, many new options (including those available in this book) become 
open to them. The Starship Codex (Chapter 4) also serves Gamemasters as 
a collection of challenges just waiting to be thrown at the heroes. Whether 
you are looking for a new personal starfighter or the perfect ship to add to 
an admiral's fleet, that chapter should have you covered. 

The Starship Codex presents ships of all types and sizes, drawn from the 
full breadth of the Star Wars saga and Expanded Universe of comics, novels, 
and video games. The majority of the statistics in this book are for the stock, 
unmodified versions of these ships, making it easier for players to obtain 
these ships and make them their own. For example, rather than presenting 
statistics for the Ebon Hawk (from the Knights of the Old Republic video 
game series), this chapter contains statistics for the stock version of this 
ship (the Dynamic-class freighter), which players can then modify to their 
own tastes. In some cases, statistics are presented for “famous” versions 
of these ships, but each one also contains the stock statistics for the vessel 
without modifications. 


MAKE IT YOUR OWN 

Starships of the Galaxy presents a complete guide to modifying your starship 
to make it the way you want it. Han Solo's famous line about having made 
a few “special modifications” to the Millennium Falcon comes to life in the 
form of the starship modification rules. Want to put a new engine in your 
freighter? Want to upgrade the laser cannons on your X-wing? Want to give 
that old Corellian Corvette some new hull plating? Now you can, and it's not 
just a matter of paying someone else to do it. Techie characters will enjoy 
getting their hands dirty and making the modifications themselves, using 
new abilities to enhance the modifications. 

The starship modification rules can also be used to build a starship from 
scratch. Though doing this is far more time-consuming than heroes simply 
purchasing a new starship and enhancing it to fit their needs, these rules 
allow you to take a standard, base model of ship and add each component 
individually to come up with a custom spacecraft. Though most good outlaw 
techs will prefer the tinkering and reworking of a starship that the modifica- 
tion rules provide, a noble seeking her own custom space transport might 


use these rules to order a ship directly from the factory, giving her a ship 
that is unlike any other vessel in the galaxy. 

Additionally, some of the ships in this book are presented with deckplans 
suited for use by adventuring heroes. These deckplans allow players and 
Gamemasters to create interesting adventures aboard the starship itself; after 
all, you never know when you're going to need to repel boarders or ambush 
stormtroopers after hiding in your own smuggling compartments. 


ENHANCED ENCOUNTERS 

Gamemasters will find this book exceptionally useful for designing starship 
combat encounters. One of the primary goals of this book is to help make 
space combat just as exciting, dynamic, and engaging as character combat. 
One of the means by which this is accomplished is in helping Gamemasters 
design interesting encounters. An encounter's design is critical to holding 
the players’ interest, and the advice and options in this book should make it 
easy for Gamemasters to come up with encounters that are more interest- 
ing than simply shooting at enemy ships from a distance. Additionally, the 
information in this book should make it easier for the Gamemaster to keep 
all members of the party—not just the pilot and gunners—engaged and 
interested in space combat encounters. 

Good space combat encounter design involves more than just populating 
the battlefield with interesting enemies. Chapter 2 of this book provides new 
options for space combat terrain (such as debris fields and gaseous nebulae) 
and helps Gamemasters introduce complications and other new factors into 
combat to increase tension or provide a sense of urgency. Gamemasters who 
take full advantage of this book should be able to create starship combat 
encounters that not only challenge their players but also create memorable 
battles like those seen in the Star Wars films. 


UPDATED STATISTICS 

This book features a number of updated and expanded statistics for ships 
appearing in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition core rulebook. In 
some cases, the statistics in this book are different from those featured in 
the core rulebook, having been changed due to new rules presented in this 
book or to improve game play. Although the statistics in the core rulebook 
will still work for your game, those found in this book should supersede the 
ones from the core rulebook in most cases. However, since no two starships 
of the same model need to be identical, Gamemasters should feel free to use 
statistics from both books to provide variety in game play. 


NOLLOMGIOMLN! 


ASIWEe) SAL dO SHHSYVLS 


LO ORE ERIE: SIT BL 


CHAPTER |! 
P ADVENTURES 


The very title of the Star Wars setting makes it clear—most adventures are 
going to take place at least partially in space. Whether they're running past 
an enemy blockade of a planet, escaping Star Destroyers through an asteroid 
field, or fighting epic space battles to decide the fate of the galaxy, Star Wars 
heroes are going to end up in space. This chapter provides advice on adding 
_ starship-scale encounters to a game and rules for heroes to go beyond being 
part-time pilots and fighter jockeys. 


STARSHIP BASICS 


This section covers some of the basics of starships and space travel, giving 
players and Gamemasters a sense of how space travel and starships work in 
the Star Wars universe. Gamemasters should feel free to use as much or as 
little of this material as they like; though this section includes information 
on established protocols and traditions of the Star Wars universe, none of 
these features are so integral to the central themes of Star Wars that they 
“Cannot be ignored if so desired. 


GETTING YOUR OWN STARSHIP 

Many adventuring parties might see fit merely to obtain passage on a hired 
vessel as a part of their adventures, and that's perfectly fine. Others will 
want to obtain their own ships as soon as possible, which usually means at 
the time of character creation. Although nobles with the Wealth talent will 
quickly build up enough credits to buy a used freighter, there are several other 
ways for players to obtain a ship within the first few sessions of a campaign, 
provided the Gamemaster agrees to one or more of the following options. 


Joining an Organization 

Large organizations, such as the Rebel Alliance or the Judicial Department 
Ce} R ¢ Senate, can make starships available to heroes who work 
* for them. The organization still owns the starship and can take it back if 
the heroes refuse a mission or violate the organization's rules; however, at 
the Gamemaster's discretion, the heroes might have the option to buy their 
tarship from the organization when they accumulate enough funds. 


A Wealthy Benefactors 
Serving a wealthy individual might allow the heroes to have access to a 
starship. Convincing a noble to sponsor your group's endeavors might be 
difficult (typical Will Defense 20, must achieve attitude of helpful), but the 
result is usually a mutually beneficial relationship that can last an entire 
campaign. In exchange for a cash advance to buy a starship, the noble asks 
the heroes to perform tasks until they repay the loan (generally devoting 
about 1/2 the normal adventure rewards for this purpose). This situation 
can lead to a variety of adventure hooks: Perhaps the heroes need to escort 


iQ 
T| 
>| 
vu 
4! 
al 

10 


i H#SiavnoS 


SPSNLNAGageY HIHSYVvsSs 


sts for upkeep on a per-__ 
be applied to starships and 
ping track of such expenses instead of 
ibed i in this section. Generally, a star- 


a Senator to a dangerous planet, or they need to deliver precious cargo 
to refugees deep behind enemy lines at the behest of their benefactor. 


Legitimate Financing 

As a general rule, legitimate financing (such as through a bank) is available 
with a down payment of 20% of the starship's cost, with monthly payments 
equal to 2% of the starship's cost for the next five years. You can make 
a Persuasion check to haggle and reduce the size of the down payment, 
treating the loan officer as indifferent (unfriendly for characters who have 
a criminal record). 


Loan Sharks and Gangsters 

Less appealing but much more interesting is the option of seeking out a loan 
shark and obtaining an under-the-table loan. Repayment terms are steep 
(usually at least 10% of the ship's value every month for three years), and 
missed payments can result in interest rates so high that the loan can never 
be repaid. If the heroes don't pay off the loan shark quickly enough, he might 
decide to send his thugs to rough up the heroes—or worse. 


Shipjacking and Theft 

A third option for obtaining a vessel is to steal one from a legitimate owner, 
either before the campaign begins or as the objective of the heroes’ first 
adventure. Shipjacking is an old profession in the Star Wars setting, and it 
is extremely dangerous. The authorities (and the original owners) are con- 
stantly on the lookout for stolen starships, and if the heroes fail to properly 
falsify the documentation that identifies the ship as theirs, they could find 
themselves the subjects of a rather uncomfortable investigation. 


PERMITS AND LICENSES 

All starship owners and operators are required to have at least three different 
pieces of registration aboard their ships at all times, each of which is obtained 
through the Bureau of Ships and Services, or BoSS (see sidebar). 


¢ Captain's Accredited License: Certifies that the captain is capable of 
piloting and operating the starship. Cost: 200 credits. Requirements: DC 
15 Pilot check, 10 years of starship experience (any character who takes 
the Spacehound talent at 1st character level automatically qualifies); 
experience requirement can be waived for additional “expediter fee” of 
300 credits. Time: 1 day. 

¢ Ship's Operating License: Tracks the ship's make, manufacturer, port of 
origin, transponder codes, and owner. Cost: 1,000 credits. Requirements: 
captain's accredited license, ship must pass inspection (all systems func- 
tioning, no escape pods missing, no illegal modifications, functioning 
transponder code), DC 10 Knowledge (bureaucracy) check. Time: 1 day. 

¢ Arms Load-Out Permit: Registers the ship's weapons. Cost: By weapon 
availability (see page 118, Saga Edition core rulebook). Requirements: cap- 
tain's accredited license, ship's operating license, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
check (DC varies by weapon availability). Time: By weapon availability. 


Though these registrations are required by law, many starship captains 
operating on the fringes of society forge these documents to hide the ship's 
true identity (or their own). Forging BoSS documents requires a Deception 
check, counting as both a deceptive appearance (to produce a BoSS-secure 
datapad that seems authentic) and deceptive information (to create plausible 
ship records). However, such forgeries won't appear in the BoSS computer 
system, so they will not survive close scrutiny. 


Transponder Codes 
Every starship has a transponder code, a unique signal that allows that ship 
to be distinguished from any other. If you look up a specific transponder 


capacity. Whenever a used sti 
track (to the point where 
rolls, skill and ability che 
condition becomes persist 


: THE BUREAU OF SHIPS AND 
SERVICES (BOSS) 
i One of the oldest and most eccentric organizations in the galaxy, the 
Bureau of Ships and Services is the galactic agency responsible for 
Managing the data related to the massive number of starships flying 
through the galaxy at any time. An independent organization main- 
_ taining neutrality in all galactic conflicts, the BoSS has survived for 
_ thousands of years, continuing to compile starship data in its arcane 
" record-keeping system. 
Information on a ship's licenses, certifications, and transponder codes 
nas kept on file at the BoSS at all times. This data is distributed to local 
i spaceports upon request, but it is very expensive; as a result, most small 
! spaceports (such as Mos Eisley) purchase an update only once or twice 
_ ayear, ee such locales a natural haven for a pirates, and 


a the BoSS datebase without the oe access oe 


code in a BoSS database, you can find the ship's name, type, modifications 
and armament, owner, and even history (including the time of its arrival and 
departure from every legitimate spaceport in the galaxy). 

A ship's transponder code is built into the ship's sublight engines, so any 
attempt to remove or alter the code can fuse the wiring and destroy the 
engine. Some smugglers and pirates have been known to mask their tran- 
sponder signal to preserve anonymity, but most governments will attempt 
to capture or destroy such a ship immediately. Instead, many criminals and 
others operating outside the law will tamper with their transponders to 
broadcast false transponder codes. Though highly illegal, altering a tran- 
sponder code will allow a ship to identify itself by another name. (See page 
53 for details on altering transponder codes.) 

IFF Transponders: Military ships also broadcast a unique transponder 
code that identifies the ship by its type, designation, and allegiance. These 
Identify Friend/Foe (IFF) transponders are separate from the transponders 
built into starship engines, and they are not included on civilian starships. 


TRAVEL IN REALSPACE 

All starships have sublight drives to propel them through space, using them 
when taking off, landing, or flying within a star system. Starships also have 
ion drives capable of incredible acceleration (thousands of times the force 
of gravity) due to a combination of exceptional thrust and manipulation of 
the starship's mass relative to that of its exhaust. In addition, repulsorlift 
drives are preferred for delicate maneuvering during takeoff and landing; 
in fact, the mass manipulation that makes ion drives so efficient in deep 


space is markedly less efficient in atmosphere, so almost all starships use 
both drives in conjunction during atmospheric flight, particularly when near 
the surface of a planet. 

You can use the following guidelines to determine travel time in realspace 
for an average starship: 


DISTANCE TIME REQUIRED 
Surface of planet to orbit 1-5 minutes 
Orbit to safe hyperspace jump distance 1 minute 
Planetary orbit to planet's moon 10-30 minutes 
Planetary orbit to another planet in same system 2-6 hours 
Planetary orbit to outer edge of system 12-24 hours 


HSaleavHo 


SSBNLNIAIaAGY AHASHVssSs 


| HSLevHoS 


SSeSnNLNAgaegy AHAHSHvssSs 


TRAVEL IN FIYPERSPACE 

The only way to span the long distances between star systems is to travel 
through hyperspace. Hyperspace is described by many scientists as another 
dimension, though its true nature is still a mystery. When a starship's 
hyperdrive activates, the vessel accelerates well beyond the speed of light 
as it enters hyperspace. A starship in hyperspace is effectively cut off from 
communication with starships in realspace. For the duration of a trip through 
hyperspace, a Starship effectively does not exist in realspace. 

Large objects that generate substantial gravity, such as stars and planets, 
produce what is known as a “mass shadow" that projects into the realm of 
hyperspace, and one of these mass shadows can destroy a starship that 
collides with it. As a result, a starship's course through hyperspace must 
be plotted carefully. All hyperdrives have built-in safeguards that prevent a 
ship from entering hyperspace too close to a mass shadow and cause a ship 
to revert to realspace if a mass shadow is detected in time. Ultimately, this 
situation led to the rise of interdictor vessels and other technologies designed 
to keep ships from fleeing into hyperspace. Interdiction vessels use gravity 
well generators to keep other ships from activating their hyperdrives, and 
some pirates have been known to drag massive asteroids into well-traveled 
hyperspace lanes in order to bring prey out of hyperspace. 


Detecting Hyperspace Travel 

When a starship enters or exits hyperspace, it produces a short burst of 
Cronau radiation. Any starship, station, or sensor array within the same star 
system can detect a Cronau radiation burst with a DC 25 Use Computer check 
made as a reaction. Success indicates that the sensor operator detects the 
ship entering or exiting hyperspace, and is aware of its point of arrival or 
departure. Tracking a ship through hyperspace also relies on the presence 
of residual Cronau radiation. Taking a full-round action to make a DC 25 
Use Computer check measures the amount of Cronau radiation as well as 
the angle of departure of the vessel fleeing into hyperspace, indicating the 
most likely destination. Cronau radiation lingers for several hours after a ship 
has fled into hyperspace, though each hour since the ship made the jump to 
lightspeed increases the DC of the Use Computer check by 5. 


Astrogation 
Plotting a suitable hyperspace course requires incredibly difficult calculations; 
normally, only a character trained in the Use Computer skill can calculate a 
jump to hyperspace. However, the use of a navicomputer (see page 42) not 
only grants a bonus on the Use Computer check but also allows an untrained 
character to plot a course to hyperspace. Some small starfighters, having no 
room for a navicomputer, instead use astromech droids programmed with a 
finite number of jumps to provide a hyperspace course. 

The difficulty of plotting a course through hyperspace is determined 
by how recently you have updated your astrogation data, as shown on the 
table below. j 


pc AGE OF ASTROGATION DATA 


10 Less than 1 day 

15 At least 1 day but less than 1 standard week (5 days) 

20 At least 1 week but less than 1 standard month (35 days) 
25 At least 1 month but less than 1 standard year (368 days) 
30 At least 1 year old 


You can acquire astrogation data in several different ways. 

Using Your Own Data: If you use your own data, the age of the data is 
determined by the last time you finished a journey between the two planets 
in question. 

The Space Ministry: This organization (called the Imperial Space Ministry 
during the days of the Galactic Empire) is a bureaucracy whose influence is 
felt all across the galaxy. It disseminates hyperspace travel information and 
enforces the laws and regulations of the space lanes. Responsible for provid- 
ing spacers with the 5,947-datapage Spacers’ Information Manual (a compi- 
lation of the latest laws, regulations, addenda, and other red tape; available 
to all pilots when renewing their certifications for a mere 25 credits), the 
Space Ministry is the keeper of the law in the space lanes, and it provides 
local spaceports with up-to-date hyperspace navigational data. 

Astarship can download the latest Ministry-provided astrogational updates 
either directly through the HoloNet (prior to the Clone Wars) or from spaceport 
control (any era); this service costs 150 credits and requires a current captain's 
accredited license and ship's operating license (see Permits and Licenses, page 
10). Generally, data for the Outer Rim is less than 1 month old, data for other 
regions is less than 1 week old, and data for major hyperlanes or routes within 
the same sector (Gamemaster's determination) is less than 1 day old. No data 
is available for the Deep Core, Unknown Regions, Wild Space, classified instal- 
lations, and any planet without a certified spaceport. 

Those who operate outside the law can usually obtain the data with a 
proper bribe (typically 300 credits with a DC 10 Gather Information check) 


or by making a Use Computer check to access secret information in the 
spaceport's computer (Will Defense 20, indifferent). 

The Hyperspace Navigator's Guild: In the early days of the Old Repub- 
lic, the Hyperspace Navigator's Guild was responsible for maintaining the 
charts and navigational records used for hyperspace travel. The Navigator's 
Guild (based on the planet later known as Empress Teta) employed a variety 
of scouts and pilots whose sole responsibility was to chart new and faster 
hyperspace lanes, opening up new avenues to known worlds. Though the 
need for the Navigator's Guild would eventually dwindle, during its time the 
Guild was one of the most important institutions in the galaxy. Even in later 
eras, the organization remains one of the best sources for new hyperspace 
routes, particularly those in Wild Space and the Deep Core, and on the fringes 
of the Unknown Regions. 

Purchasing astrogation data for traveling between any two planets costs 
500 credits. This data is less than 1 week old for most destinations and less 
than 1 month old for destinations in Wild Space or the Deep Core. When 
available, data for the Unknown Regions is usually less than 1 year old. 


Hyperspace Hazards 

Traveling through hyperspace can be exceptionally dangerous. If a starship 
is disabled because of a poorly plotted hyperspace course (as described on 
page 237 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), the Gamemaster usually chooses 
the point at which the ship drops out of hyperspace at random. Gamemasters 
looking for a more in-depth description of the hyperspace mishap can use 
the table below to determine the exact result of a poorly plotted course. 


D20 RESULT 

1-5 Starship passes too close to a supernova, overloading internal 
computer systems with solar radiation. Use Computer checks 
aboard the starship take a -5 penalty until all persistent 
conditions are removed. 


6-10 Starship skirts the edge of a black hole, causing the intense gravity 
to warp the vessel's structural integrity. The starship's armor bonus 
is reduced by -5 until all persistent conditions are removed. 


11-15 Starship nearly collides with a massive gas giant, corroding the 
ship's hull plating and causing the ship to take an additional 10% 
of its total hit points in damage. 


16-19 Starship flies through a superdense cluster of stars, the stress 
of which causes the ship's hyperdrive to burn up. Starship's 
hyperdrive is destroyed. 


20 Reroll on the table above twice. 


COMMUNICATIONS 

All starships are equipped with basic systems that allow for communica- 
tion in realspace. Typically, starship communications systems are limited to 
contacting ships and planets within the same star system, although subspace 
radios can reach distances of up to several light-years. Opening a channel 
to a willing recipient is a simple matter (covered under the new uses of the 
Use Computer skill, page 19). Once a channel is open, the ships can com- 
municate freely. Some starships, particularly capital ships, also boast video 
and holographic communications systems that allow crewmembers on either 
vessel to see one another. 


HoloNet 

The HoloNet is an instantaneous communication system that allows planets 
to stay in contact despite the vast distances between systems. A HoloNet 
transceiver transmits and receives information through hyperspace, allowing 
the communications to travel millions of times faster than the speed of light 
across vast distances. Countless hyperwave transceivers (simple satellites 
equipped with a variety of communications gear) are embedded in hyperspace 
and transmit signals from one side of the galaxy to the other. This network 
allows for instantaneous, three-dimensional holographic communication at 
virtually any distance, making it one of the primary means of communication 
for space fleets and planetary governments. During the Clone Wars and the 
reign of the Empire, the HoloNet is reserved for military use only, and news 
must be transmitted between worlds by other means (such as subspace radio 


SEYAANAAGY DIHSUVALS 


eae 


waLlavAo 


SSVNLNIGAGY AHSHvss 


D20 RESULT* 
1-10 No system damage 
11-15 Starship becomes "used" (see sidebar, page 10) 


16 Communications/sensors destroyed 

17 Weapons destroyed 

18 Hyperdrive destroyed 

19 Sublight engines destroyed 

20 Life support destroyed; 2d12 hours of life support remaining 


*If a result is not applicable (for example, a used starship cannot become 
“more used"), roll twice and apply both results. 


relays). However, some slicers are able to connect to HoloNet satellites and 
broadcast pirate signals across the network, gaining access to its information 
and enabling clandestine transmissions. A HoloNet node's security is difficult 
to penetrate, however (Will Defense 20, hostile). 

Most smaller military vessels have hypertransceivers, allowing access 
to the HoloNet and instantaneous communication over great distances but 
lacking the bandwidth and range of a HoloNet transceiver. 


METOSP (Message to Spacers) 

Upon arrival in a star system, most starships immediately connect to the 
communications frequency responsible for broadcasting the prerecorded 
Message to Spacers, abbreviated METOSP. A METOSP might be as simple as 
a welcome message, but it usually informs incoming ships about flight haz- 
ards (blockades, dangerous weather, debris, collisions) and local regulations 
or customs that could be relevant (embargoes, tariffs, landing procedures). 
All METOSPs are broadcast in Basic, though many worlds also broadcast 
in native languages and common languages such as Bocce, Huttese, and 
Binary. A METOSP provides star pilots with contact information for space- 
port control and often includes information on landing patterns and space 
traffic lanes. Most METOSPs are brief, and if more information needs to be 
communicated on a particular subject, the METOSP will refer listeners to 
other broadcast channels. 


Planetary Information Channels 

Most planets also provide incoming space traffic with basic computer com- 
munications channels. These channels connect the ship to planetary infor- 
mation networks that provide everything from communications directory 
assistance to tourism information and planetary maps. Planetary information 
channels allow you to make Use Computer checks to access information (per 


the normal use of the skill) relevant to that planet, and it is possible for a 
slicer to access other functions (Will Defense 20, indifferent). 


DOCKING, FUEL, AND 
MAINTENANCE 

All starships require refueling, restocking, routine maintenance, and a place 
to dock where they can get these services. 


Docking Fees 

Docking fees vary substantially from planet to planet, but they average 
around 20 credits per day in an average spaceport. Long-term storage is 
also available in some locations (200 credits per month). It generally requires 
about eight hours to get a ship out of storage and ready for flight. 


Refueling and Restocking 

All ships must have fuel to operate; a ship without fuel is adrift and immobile, 
effectively disabled. In general, most starships refuel each time they put into 
port, and during refueling other essential ship consumables (such as water 
and oxygen) are restocked as well. 

Refueling: For a starship of Colossal or smaller size, refilling one day's 
worth of fuel (approximately 1 kg of fuel) costs about 50 credits. Larger 
starships are substantially more expensive: Multiply the cost by 100 for every 
size category above Colossal. A starship uses this much fuel after one day 
of flight in realspace or hyperspace, after one hour of flight in atmosphere 
or combat, or in a single jump to lightspeed. 

Restocking: Consumables cost about 10 credits x the number of living 
creatures on board x days of operation. 


Routine Maintenance 

After twenty hyperspace jumps, a starship needs to undergo routine main- 
tenance. Routine maintenance includes a thorough check of essential ship 
systems (including the backup hyperdrive and escape pods), replacing coolant 
and other ship fluids, and a complete scrubbing of air filters and recycling 
systems. Routine maintenance costs the same as about four days of fuel (200 
credits for a ship of Colossal or lesser size). If a ship does not receive routine 
maintenance after twenty hyperspace jumps, roll twice when checking for 
system damage (see below). 


System Damage 

Some Gamemasters might wish to introduce complications when a ship 
is disabled from taking damage. Whenever a starship is disabled by being 
reduced to 0 hit points, the ship has a chance of sustaining system damage 
requiring emergency repairs. Roll d20 and refer to Table 1-2; if a system 
is destroyed, it must be replaced (which can typically be done only at a 
spaceport or dry dock). 


STARSHIP TALENTS 


As a general rule, talents apply to starship-scale combat in the same way 
they apply to character-scale combat. Guidelines on how to determine line 
of sight in starship scale and how specific talents function on that scale 
are given below. 

No talents relating to melee combat are relevant at starship scale. Even if 
you ram or collide with an enemy ship, having melee-related talents doesn't 
give you any advantage. (You can of course use melee-related feats normally 
if engaging in melee combat at character scale while on a starship.) Ranged 
talents that add to damage do so before any multiplier from the weapon is 
applied. For example, a TIE fighter pilot with Weapon Specialization (heavy 
weapons) firing his laser cannons deals 4d10+2x2 points of damage on a 
successful hit. 

Unless a talent specifically says it affects the hit point total or condition 
track of starships, it doesn't. Many such talents can still be used against 
specific characters, such as enemy pilots, under the right circumstances 
(see below). 


AFFECTING TARGETS 

In many cases, talents work only on creatures able to see, hear, and under- 
stand you, or those to which you have line of sight. However, it is possible to 
use communications equipment on board vehicles to meet these conditions, if 
both sides involved are willing and have access to basic communications gear. 
You can make a Use Computer check (see page 19) to be in communication 
with a character so long as you and a willing target have either two-way 
video/holo communication or both two-way audio communication and IFF 
transponders using the same “friend” encryption code. Of course, you might 
find yourself the victim of communications jamming, making it impossible 
to get through to other vessels. 

Unless otherwise noted, a talent's requirements can be satisfied under 
the following circumstances. 

Target Must See, Hear, and Understand You (commander or system 
operator): This can be established by being in communication with the target 
or targets, but the target must still be able to understand your language. 

Mind-Affecting Effect (commander or system operator): To use 
a mind-affecting effect while on board a vehicle, you must be in com- 
munication with any target that is not on board the same vehicle. A 
mind-affecting effect can affect only living targets (such as the crew of 
a starship), not nonliving targets (such as the starship itself or a droid- 
operated vehicle). 

Line of Sight (commander, gunner, or system operator): If you are using 
a talent that can target a starship, you are considered to have line of sight so 
long as you are your vehicle's commander or systems operator and you have 
line of sight between your vehicle and the target vehicle. In addition, you 
have line of sight to any target with which you are in communication. 


SPECIFIC TALENTS 

Some talents might be exceptions to the rules outlined above or otherwise 
work in a unique way when used against a vehicle. These talents are dis- 
cussed below. 


Jedi Talents 

Adept Negotiator/Master Negotiator: You affect the condition track of 
a specific character (usually the vehicle's commander), not a starship. 

Battle Meditation: This affects all allied gunners within 6 squares at 
starship scale. 

Force Haze: You may use this talent to hide a single vehicle while you 
are on board. The vehicle can't have a size penalty to Reflex Defense, Ini- 
tiative, or Pilot checks greater than your heroic level. Thus, a Gargantuan 
starship (size penalty of -5) can be hidden only by a character of 5th level 
or higher. 

Force Intuition: You may use this talent to determine the Initiative of a 
starship if you are the pilot. 


Noble Talents 

Demand Surrender: Unlike other mind-affecting effects, you need 
only to hail a vehicle to demand surrender. You can demand surrender 
of a vehicle that has been reduced to one-half or fewer of its hit points, 
even if the crew is uninjured. You make your check against the vehicle's 
commander; all nonunique crews are assumed to have a Will Defense of 
10. If the CL of the target vehicle is greater than your heroic level or the 
CL of your vehicle, the target gains a +5 bonus to its Will Defense. You 
can't use this talent to demand surrender from a vehicle that is more than 
one size larger than yours under any circumstances—Star Destroyers don't 
surrender to X-wings. 

Rally: Unlike other mind-affecting talents, Rally affects both allied vehicles 
and characters with less than half their hit points. The vehicle gains a +2 bonus 
to its Reflex Defense, all crewmembers gain a +2 bonus to their Will Defense 
so long as they are on board, and all gunners gain a +2 bonus on damage 
with vehicle weapons (before multiplier, if any). Any crewmember who has 
less than half its hit points also gains the normal benefits of this talent even 
if it leaves the vehicle, but note that these bonuses do not stack. 

Weaken Resolve/Improved Weaken Resolve: Unlike with other mind- 
affecting effects, you need only to hail a vehicle to weaken the crew's resolve. 
When you deal damage that equals or exceeds a vehicle's damage threshold, 
you may use this talent; in addition, you may ready an action to use this 
talent after any gunner on your vehicle deals damage that equals or exceeds 
a vehicle's damage threshold. You make your check against the vehicle's 
commander; all nonunique crews are assumed to have a Will Defense of 10. 
The effect is automatically negated if the target vehicle's Challenge Level is 
greater than your heroic level or your vehicle's Challenge Level. 


SSUALNAAGY DIMSYCLES 


| HStavHS 


| See LawvwHa 


o 
> 
0 
O 
a 
U 
> 
Y) 
g 
VY 
z 
qd 
Cc 
D 
W) 
0) 


Scoundrel Talents 

Dastardly Strike: This talent can be used only against characters, not 
objects or vehicles. 

Fool's Luck: If you use this talent to grant yourself a luck bonus to your 
defenses, this bonus also applies to the defenses of any vehicle you are on 
(even if you are not the pilot). 

Skirmisher: You gain the benefits of this talent with vehicle weapons 
only if you are the vehicle's pilot. 

Stellar Warrior: This talent works with both vehicle weapons and per- 
sonal weapons used aboard a starship. 

Walk the Line: This talent has a range of 6 squares at starship scale. 


Scout Talents 

Acute Senses: This talent applies to Use Computer checks made to 
perceive enemy ships (see Starship Skills, page 18). 

Evasion/Uncanny Dodge: If you are the pilot, this talent applies to your 
vehicle. 

Hidden Movement/Improved Stealth: These talents apply to Stealth 
checks made while piloting a starship (see Starship Skills, page 18). 


Soldier Talents 

Battle Analysis: If you succeed at both a DC 15 Knowledge (tactics) check 
and a DC 15 Use Computer check, you may use this talent to determine what 
vehicles are reduced to at least half their maximum hit points. 

Devastating Attack/Penetrating Attack/Weapon Specialization: If 
you select heavy weapons as the weapon group these talents apply to, you 
may use the talents with vehicle weapon attacks. 

Draw Fire/Harm's Way: If you are the pilot of a vehicle, you may use 
this talent to protect allied vehicles. You may use it to protect vehicles no 
more than one size category larger than your own. 

Indomitable: This talent does not affect the condition track of a 
vehicle. 


Bounty Hunter Talents 
Hunter's Mark: This talent can be used only against characters, not 
objects or vehicles. 


Gunslinger Talents 
Debilitating Shot: This talent can be used only against characters, not 
objects or vehicles. 


New TALENTS 


The following new talents are particularly useful to characters involved in a 
great deal of starship activity. 


FORCE TALENTS 
The following new talent is intended for use by any character who has the 
Force Sensitivity feat. 


Sense Talent Tree 
The following new talent is intended for use as a part of the Sense talent 
tree. 
Force Reflexes: When activating a starship maneuver, you may spend a 
Force Point to reroll your Pilot check, keeping the better result. 
See Chapter 2 for more information on starship maneuvers. 
Prerequisites: Force Sensitivity, Starship Tactics, Force Pilot. 


NOBLE TALENTS 
The following new talent is intended for use with the noble class. 


Lineage Talent Tree 
The following talent is intended for use as a part of the Lineage talent 
tree. 

Engineer: You are trained in the Mechanics skill. Additionally, when 
installing new systems into a vehicle, the efficiency of your designs reduces 
the time it takes to install the system by 25%. 

Prerequisites: Educated, trained in the Knowledge (technology) skill. 


ScOuUNDREL TALENTS 
The following new talent tree is intended for use with the scoundrel class. 


Outlaw Tech Talent Tree 

Scoundrels learn a variety of tricks that allow them to squeeze more life 
out of ailing technology, enhancing their gear in ways the manufacturer 
never intended. 

Fast Repairs: Whenever you jury-rig an object or vehicle, the vehicle 
gains a number of temporary hit points equal to the result of your Mechan- 
ics check. Damage is subtracted from these temporary hit points first, 
and temporary hit points go away at the conclusion of the encounter. 
Prerequisites: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Hot Wire: You can use your Mechanics check modifier instead of 
your Use Computer check modifier when making Use Computer checks 
to improve access to a computer system. You are considered trained 
in the Use Computer skill for purposes of using this talent. If you are 
entitled to a Use Computer check reroll, you may reroll your Mechanics 


check instead (subject to the same circumstances and limitations). 
Prerequisites: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Quick Fix: Once per encounter, you may jury-rig an object or vehicle that 
is not disabled. All normal benefits and penalties for jury-rigging still apply. 
Prerequisites: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Personalized Modifications: As a standard action, you may tweak the 
settings, grips, and moving parts of a powered weapon you wield, tailoring 
it to your needs. For the remainder of the encounter, you gain a +1 equip- 
ment bonus on attack rolls and a +2 equipment bonus on damage rolls with 
that weapon. You can use this talent only on powered weapons (those that 
require a power cell to operate), including weapons connected to a larger 
power source (such as vehicle and starship weapons). 


ACE PILOT TALENTS 
The following new talents and the Squadron Leader talent tree are intended 
for use with the ace pilot prestige class. 


Expert Pilot Talent Tree 
The following talents are intended for use as a part of the Expert Pilot 
talent tree. 

Blind Spot: You can fly a vehicle you pilot so close to a target at least 
two sizes larger than your vehicle that it is difficult for the target to avoid or 
attack you. You must be adjacent to the target (at starship scale) to use this 
talent. As a swift action, make an opposed Pilot check against the target. If 
you succeed, you move into the same space as your target. You move with 
your target if it moves (assuming your vehicle has sufficient speed to keep 
up), and you must make another opposed Pilot check each round as a swift 
action to stay in its blind spot. 

As long as you stay in the target's blind spot, any attack you make against 
the target gains a +2 bonus, and the target takes a -2 penalty on attacks 
made against you. 

Close Scrape: Whenever you are piloting a vehicle of Colossal size or 
smaller, you may make a Pilot check as a reaction to turn a critical hit into a 
normal hit. The DC for the Pilot check is equal to the attack roll total of the 
critical hit. If you are successful, the damage from the attack is not doubled 
(though it is still considered an automatic hit). 

Improved Attack Run: You do not have to move in a straight line when 
using the attack run action. 

Vehicle Focus: Choose a single type of vehicle from the following list: 
airspeeder, capital ship, space transport, speeder, starfighter, or walker. When 
you are the pilot or gunner of that type of vehicle, you gain +2 to all attack 
rolls with a vehicle weapon, and may take 10 on any Pilot checks made while 
piloting that type of vehicle, even when you are otherwise unable to. 
Prerequisites: Wisdom 13. 


Wingman: As a swift action, you can make a DC 15 Pilot check to assist 
any allied starfighter or airspeeder within 2 squares at starship scale. If you 
succeed, the pilot of that vehicle gains a +5 bonus on all opposed Pilot checks 
relating to the dogfight action until the start of your next turn. 

Prerequisites: Wisdom 13. 


Gunner Talent Tree 
The following talents are intended for use with the Gunner talent tree. 

Crippling Hit: Whenever you make an attack that causes a vehicle to 
move -1 or more steps down the condition track, you may also cause it to 
lose one of the following systems: hyperdrive, one weapon or weapon battery, 
or communications. The system remains inoperative until the target regains 
all steps on the condition track. 

Prerequisite: Expert Gunner, System Hit. 

Great Shot: When firing a vehicle weapon, you treat the distance to the 
target as though it were one range category less than it actually is. For exam- 
ple, when targeting an enemy at short range, you treat it as though it were at 
point blank range for the purpose of determining bonuses or penalties. 

Synchronized Fire: Once per encounter, you may ready to fire a single 
weapon at the same target as an ally, and you coordinate with a single 
weapon of your ally. If both attacks hit, you add the damage of the two 
weapons together before applying the target's SR or DR, and treat it as a 
single attack for purposes of exceeding the target's damage threshold. 

Prerequisite: Expert Gunner. 


Squadron Leader Talent Tree 
You are an expert at leading a squadron of smaller vehicles into combat as 
a unit. 

All talents in the Squadron Leader talent tree apply to other airspeeders, 
starfighters, and space transports in a squad you command. A squadron 
includes any airspeeder, starfighter, or space transport you pilot, plus a 
maximum number of vehicles equal to your ace pilot class level plus your 
Charisma modifier (minimum one other ship). Vehicles must be able to com- 
municate with you to gain the benefit of your Squadron Leader talents, and 
you designate which vehicles are in your squadron at the beginning of your 
first turn as a free action. 

Each squadron can benefit from the talents of only a single squadron 
leader. A squadron leader is normally designated when an encounter begins, 
but vehicles without a squadron leader can join a squadron as long as both 
the vehicle and the squadron leader are willing, and the squadron leader has 
not reached his maximum squadron size. 

Begin Attack Run: As a swift action, you designate a single target. When 
using the attack run action against that target, vehicles in your squadron 
gain a +5 bonus on their attack rolls (instead of the normal +2). You may 
have only one target designated at a time. 


f{ eSelLdvHa 


SOUALNEAGY aIMSeUVLS | 


SSPNLNIAAGY HASHvVvLASs 


Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 

Regroup: Once per encounter as a standard action, you can move all 
vehicles in your squadron +1 step on their condition tracks. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13. 

Squadron Maneuvers: Choose one talent that you already possess. The 
talent you select must be from the Expert Pilot or Gunner talent trees. Once 
per encounter as a standard action, you can impart the benefits of the chosen 
talent to all members of your squadron. Once gained, its benefits last until 
the end of the encounter. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13, any other ace pilot talent. 

Squadron Tactics: Once per encounter, when you use a starship 
maneuver, you grant all ships in your squadron the ability to use the same 
maneuver once on their next turn. The pilot of each ship that chooses to 
use the maneuver must make any Pilot checks or attack rolls the maneuver 
requires—your success or failure with the maneuver has no bearing on the 
success of other units of your squadron. 

Prerequisite: Charisma 13, Wisdom 13, any other ace pilot talent, Squadron 
Maneuvers, Starship Tactics. 


OrriceR TALENTS 
The following new talent tree is intended for use with the officer prestige 
class. 


Naval Officer Talent Tree 
You are skilled at commanding starships and small fleets. 

Combined Fire: As a swift action, you may designate a single creature, 
vehicle, or object within your line of sight as the target of combined fire. 
Any weapon batteries attacking that target deal an extra die of damage for 
every 2 points their attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense (instead 
of every 3 points). In addition, when using the tactical fire option for a capital 
ship (see ship descriptions in Chapter 4), you may designate a weapon or 
weapon battery to make a single attack. 

Fleet Deployment: As a full-round action, you can designate a number of 
vehicles equal to your class level and within your line of sight. Those vehicles 
may immediately move a number of squares equal to their speed. 

Prerequisites: Charisma 13. 

Fleet Tactics: As a standard action, you may designate a single vehicle 
as the target of a large-scale assault. If you succeed on a DC 15 Knowledge 
(tactics) check, all allied gunners within line of sight deal 1 additional die of 
damage to the target with each successful ranged attack until the start of 
your next turn. This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisites: Charisma 13, Fleet Deployment. 

It's a Trap!: You are skilled at sensing the plans of enemy naval officers 
and counteracting them. Once per encounter as a reaction, you can grant 


the pilot of any single vehicle within line of sight (including a vehicle you are 
commanding) an immediate move action. 

Legendary Commander: When you are the commander of a capital ship, 
calculate its Reflex Defense using your heroic level plus one-half the ship's 
armor bonus (round down), the pilot's heroic level, or the ship's armor bonus, 
whichever is more. In addition, all gunners on your ship add one-half your 
heroic level or one-half their heroic level, whichever is more, to damage rolls 
with vehicle weapons. Finally, you treat any generic crew as being one quality 
level higher (maximum of ace). 

Prerequisites: Charisma 13, Intelligence 13, Born Leader. 


STARSHIP SKILLS 


Several skills can be used in new ways in starship-scale encounters. Anyone 
can attempt these uses if filling the appropriate position on a starship (nor- 
mally the pilot or systems operator). 


DECEPTION 

If you are the pilot of a vehicle, you can make Deception checks to feint or 
create a diversion to hide. Add your vehicle's size modifier and Dexterity 
modifier to your Deception check, and take a -5 penalty if you are not trained 
in the Pilot skill. If you successfully feint against a target, it is considered 
flat-footed against only your first attack, not those of any gunners on your 
vehicle. 


PERCEPTION 

Perception is considerably less effective at the greater distances involved 
in starship-scale combat. As such, you take a -5 penalty on your Perception 
check for every square of range (rather than for every 10 squares). 


STEALTH 

If you are the pilot, you can use Stealth to sneak in a starship just as you do 
normally. Add your vehicle's size modifier (as detailed in the Stealth skill) 
and Dexterity modifier to your Stealth check, and take a -5 penalty if you 
are not trained in the Pilot skill. The Stealth check result sets the DC of a 
Use Computer check to locate you with a vehicle's sensors or the Perception 
check to notice you with normal senses (normally impossible at starship 
scale, but not when you try to hide your starship in a swamp or the back 
of a hangar). 

Normally, you can make a Stealth check in a vehicle only if you have con- 
cealment or cover (for example, from asteroids, other starships, or even clouds 
in the upper atmosphere). You can even attempt to hide against the hull of 
an enemy starship that is at least two sizes larger than your vehicle, provided 
that you make a Deception check to create a diversion to hide and you can 
reach the enemy starship with a single move action. (Han Solo uses this trick 
to hide on the Star Destroyer Avenger in The Empire Strikes Back.) 


USE COMPUTER 
The following are some expanded applications of the Use Computer skill. 

Astrogate (Trained Only): As mentioned on page 42, a navicomputer 
allows a character aboard a starship to make a Use Computer check to 
astrogate untrained. 

Additionally, you may choose to plot a hyperspace course more aggres- 
sively than normal, reducing your travel time by increasing the chance of 
something going wrong. For every 5 points by which you increase the Use 
Computer check DC, you may reduce your travel time by 1 day; if this would 
reduce the travel time to less than 1 day, you instead reduce the remaining 
travel time by one-half, to a minimum of 1 hour. You must make the decision 
to increase the Use Computer check DC before making the check. Alterna- 
tively, you may gain a +5 circumstance bonus on your Use Computer check 
if you voluntarily double the travel time. 

Use Communications: As a swift action, you can make a DC 5 Use 
Computer check to hail a vehicle (DC 0 if the other vehicle is using an 
IFF transponder with the same encryption codes as yours); if willing, that 
vehicle's system operator can then open communications as a reaction. You 
can also attempt to establish secure communications, but doing this requires 
both system operators to make a Use Computer check as a move action. The 
greater of the two check results sets the DC for any attempts to intercept 
their communications. 


As a standard action, you can attempt to intercept communications 
between two other vehicles. If the other vehicles take no special precautions, 
this is a DC 20 Use Computer check; otherwise, the DC is set by the higher of 
their Use Computer check results for securing communications. Furthermore, 
if the other vehicles are using encrypted communications systems (such as 
an encrypted comlink or IFF transponders with matching encryption codes), 
add 10 to the DC. If your check result fails by 10 or less when attempting 
to intercept encrypted communications, you can identify what encryption 
protocols they are using. (“It might be an Imperial code.") 

Use Sensors: Using a ship's sensors involves making Use Computer checks 
for much the same functions as the Perception skill is normally used. You 
make a Use Computer check to use a ship's sensors to avoid surprise, notice 
targets, or search a ship's exterior for hidden weapons or compartments. On 
starship-scale maps, your Use Computer check has a —-5 penalty for every 
10 squares between you and the target, and you take a -5 penalty on your 
check if attempting to detect a target that is powered down or otherwise 
not emitting an energy signature. Obstacles, cloaking devices, jammers, and 
sensor masks can also impose penalties. 

In addition, you may attempt to learn more about a target by making a 
Use Computer check (modified by range, as above). A DC 10 check result 
identifies the size of a vehicle and determines whether it has shields active. 
A DC 15 check result reveals the exact make of the starship (if the observer 
would recognize it—alien ships are simply identified as being of unknown 
manufacture) and the number of weapons it has (but not the exact type of 
weapons). The first time a vehicle moves within 30 squares of yours, you 
may make a Use Computer check as a reaction to identify it. Further efforts 
require a move action. 


STARSHIP FEATS 


Many feats designed primarily for character-scale combat still function in 
vehicles. The training that makes an ace pilot a dangerous shooter in the 
chaotic tumult of a dogfight also serves him well during a running blaster- 
fight with a squad of stormtroopers. The relevant feats from the Star Wars 
Saga Edition core rulebook that apply to starship combat (and how to apply 
them) are discussed below. 

No feats relating to melee combat are relevant at starship scale. Even if 
you ram or collide with an enemy ship, having melee-related feats doesn't 
give you any advantage. (You can of course use melee-related feats normally 
if engaging in melee combat at character scale while on a starship.) 

Ranged feats that add dice of damage do so before any multiplier from 
the weapon is applied. For example, a TIE fighter pilot using Burst Fire with 
his laser cannons deals 7d10x2 points of damage on a successful hit. 

Burst Fire: Vehicle weapons capable of autofire can be used with this 
feat normally. This is, in fact, the only time autofire attacks are useful in 
starship-scale combat. 


0 
iz 
i> 
i 
~ 
la 
Es 


SHPPNLNAa@dy AIASYVLAS 


| HSLlevnS 


SSPNLNAaAGY HAHSHVLsS 


Careful Shot/Deadeye: Pilots can use these feats, but since they must 
spend at least one move action operating their vehicles, they must split their 
aim (two swift actions) and attack (standard action) into two separate turns, 
making it more likely that the target will break line of sight or otherwise 
avoid you. 

Coordinated Attack: You may use this feat to aid an ally's attack. You 
can't use the aid another action to suppress a vehicle, but you can suppress 
an individual gunner (such as the lead gunner for a single weapon battery). 
You may use this feat even if you are using the aid another action as a sensor 
operator using a Use Computer check or a commander using a Knowledge 
(tactics) check. 

Dodge: The pilot of a vehicle may use Dodge to grant the vehicle a 
+1 dodge bonus against a single opponent (whether a vehicle or a single 
character). 

Double Attack/Triple Attack: If you take these feats with heavy weap- 
ons, they work normally with vehicle weapons. 

Dual Weapon Mastery: Vehicle weapons cannot be used in one hand, so 
none of the Dual Weapon Mastery feats apply in vehicle combat. 

Far Shot/Point Blank Shot/Rapid Shot: This feat works normally with 
vehicle weapons. However, if you are using a missile or a torpedo and you 
miss with your attack roll, the projectile does not gain the benefit of this 
feat for the second attack roll. 

Improved Defenses: This feat does not apply to the defenses of a vehicle, 
even if you are piloting or commanding it. This is one reason many pilots 
prefer the Dodge feat to Improved Defenses. 

Triple Crit: It's possible, to take Triple Crit with a specific vehicle weapon. 

Weapon Focus: If you take this feat with heavy weapons, it works nor- 
mally with vehicle weapons. 


NEw FEATS 
The following feats are particularly useful for characters regularly involved 
in starship-related encounters. 


Starship Designer 
You are trained to design (and redesign) starships. 

Prerequisites: Tech Specialist, trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Benefit: You can design a starship from scratch. Doing so takes a mini- 
mum of 30 days and a DC 25 Mechanics check, adding 1 to the DC and 1 
day to the time for every additional 100,000 credits of the design's final cost 
beyond the first 100,000 credits (even a genius starship designer can spend 
years working out the blueprints for a Star Destroyer). Other characters 
trained in the Mechanics skill may use the aid another action to assist your 
Mechanics check; if any assisting character also has the Starship Designer 
feat, divide the starship's cost by the number of characters who have this feat 
(including the primary designer) when determining the time required. 


When making modifications to starships, you never treat the work as if 
though it were a nonstandard modification, even if it normally would be (see 
Nonstandard Modifications, page 39). 

Additionally, you can make custom modifications to starships. Each of 
these modifications has a base cost of 5,000 credits (multiplied by the star- 
ship size cost modifier given on page 38) and requires a DC 25 Mechanics 
check. On a failed check, the modification fails; you must spend half again 
as much time and money to make a second attempt, and you gain a +2 
bonus on your Mechanics check for each attempt after the first. Installa- 
tion of a custom modification normally takes one day per 5,000 credits of 
final cost. 

The same system can be customized multiple times, but doing so becomes 
increasingly difficult and expensive. For every previous custom modification 
on a given system, increase the DC by 5 and the base cost by 10,000 credits. 
No system can be customized more than three times. Multiple benefits from 
successive customizations stack. 

Typical customizations are described below. The Gamemaster may allow 
other modifications. 

Add Emplacement: You add 1 unused emplacement point to a starship. 

Improve Hull: You add a number of hit points to a starship equal to 1/2 
its Strength score (rounded down to the nearest multiple of 10). 

Improve Hyperdrive: You can reengineer a hyperdrive to improve its class 
by 1 step (x2 to x1, x1 to x.75, and so on). The hyperdrive obeys all the 
restrictions of its new class. (This is the primary way that class .75 and class 
.5 hyperdrives come into existence.) 

Improve Shields: The SR of the shields is increased by 5. 

Improve Weapons: You can grant one weapon a +1 equipment bonus on 
attack rolls. 

See Chapter 3 for more information on designing and modifying starships. 


Starship Tactics 
You are trained to make use of starship maneuvers and are skilled at space 
combat. 

Prerequisites: Vehicular Combat, trained in the Pilot skill. 

Benefit: You add to your starship maneuver suite a number of starship 
maneuvers equal to 1 + your Wisdom modifier (minimum of one). You can 
add the same maneuver more than once. 

Special: You can take this feat more than once. Each time you take this 
feat, you add to your starship maneuver suite a number of new maneuvers 
equal to 1 + your Wisdom modifier (minimum of one). 

If your Wisdom modifier permanently increases, you immediately gain a 
number of starship maneuvers equal to the number of Starship Tactics feats 
you have taken. 

See Chapter 2 for more information on starship maneuvers. 


Tactical Genius 
You are a master at using multiple starship tactics over the course of long 
space combats. 

Prerequisites: Starship Tactics, Vehicular Combat, trained in the Pilot 
skill. 

Benefit: You regain all spent starship maneuvers at the end of any round 
in which you roll a natural 20 on an attack roll. 

Normal: Only a natural 20 rolled on a Pilot check to activate a starship 
maneuver restores all starship maneuvers. 

See Chapter 2 for more information on starship maneuvers. 


Tech Specialist 
You can make custom modifications to armor, weapons, vehicles, droids, 
and devices. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Benefit: You can modify a device, suit of armor, weapon, droid, or vehicle 
so that it gains a special trait. Specific traits are given on the table below. You 
may perform only one modification at a time. Unless noted otherwise, you 
cannot grant more than one benefit to a single device, suit of armor, weapon, 
droid, or vehicle, and you cannot apply the same benefit more than once. 

Before beginning the modification, you must pay one-tenth the cost of 
the device, suit of armor, weapon, droid, or vehicle you wish to modify or 
1,000 credits, whichever is more. Completing the modification requires 1 day 
per 1,000 credits of the modification's cost. At the end of this time, make a 
DC 20 Mechanics check; you can't take 10 or take 20 on this check. If the 
check succeeds, the modification is completed successfully, and the object 
gains the desired trait. If the check fails, you lose all credits spent making 
the modification, and the object doesn't gain the desired trait. However, you 
may start over if you wish. 

Other characters trained in the Mechanics skill can assist you, reducing 
proportionately the time needed to complete the modification. At the end 
of the modification process, they can make a Mechanics check to aid your 
check. 

The market value of a modified item is equal to the base cost of the item 
+ double the cost of the modifications made to it (not including credits 
wasted on failed modification attempts). 

Special: Nobles and scoundrels may take this feat as a bonus feat. 


ARMOR TRAIT 
Agile Armor 
Fortifying Armor 


Protective Armor 


DEVICE TRAIT 
Enhanced Strength 
Improved Durability 


Mastercraft Device 


DROID TRAIT 
Enhanced Dexterity 
Enhanced Intelligence 
Enhanced Strength 
VEHICLE TRAIT 
Enhanced Dexterity 
Improved Speed 


Improved Shields 


WEAPON TRAIT 
Improved Accuracy 


Improved Damage 


Selective Fire 


BENEFIT 


The armor's maximum Dexterity bonus increases by 1. 


The armor's equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense 
increases by 1. 

The armor's armor bonus to Reflex Defense increases 
by 1. 

BENEFIT 

Increase the device's Strength score by 2. 

The device's damage reduction increases by 1, and 
it gains extra hit points equal to one-quarter of its 
maximum hit points. 

Skill checks made using the device gain a +1 
equipment bonus, or the device's existing equipment 
bonus increases by 1. 

BENEFIT 

Increase the droid's Dexterity score by 2. 

Increase the droid's Intelligence score by 2. 
Increase the droid’s Strength score by 2. 

BENEFIT 

Increase the vehicle's Dexterity score by 2. 
Increases the vehicle's speed by one-quarter of its 
base speed (minimum 1 square). 

Increases the vehicle's shield rating by 5. 


BENEFIT 

The weapon gains a +1 equipment bonus on attack 
rolls. 

The weapon deals +2 points of damage with a 
successful hit. If the weapon has a damage multiplier 
(for example, 6d10x2), apply the extra damage 
before applying the multiplier. 

An autofire-only ranged weapon can be set to fire 
single shots, or a single-shot ranged weapon can be 
made to have an autofire mode. (Not allowed for 
weapons that have a burst radius or splash radius.) 


i eSiLdvHt 


SSUMALNEAAGY BAIHSYUVLS 


1APTER Il 
OMBA 


> 
-” 
, 
ve oo 
» 
A 
vo 


dh 


Qh 
Starship combat in the Star Wars universe is fast-paced and frantic: 
Starfighters clash in a void littered with obstacles and debris, capital ships 
fire broadsides at one another, and transport ships run blockades while 
evading pursuit. All of these scenes are examples of the kind of excitement 


_ that starship combat generates. 


The rules set for starship combat presented in the Saga Edition core 
rulebook works for fast and cinematic space battles, but some players and 
Gamemasters might wish to add additional depth to their starship encounters. 
This chapter presents new rules as well as guidelines for including additional 
mechanics and options for starship combat. 


STARSHIP MANEUVERS 


The starship maneuvers system provides new options for any character acting 
as a pilot or a gunner during a starship-scale encounter. Similar to the system 
for using Force powers, the starship maneuvers system allows characters to 
perform incredible stunts or make use of advanced tactics in order to gain the 
upper hand in starship-scale combat. Except for maneuvers used by gunners, 
only pilots of starfighters and airspeeders may make use of the mechanics in 
this section—capital ships and space transports are too large and cumber- 
some. (However, see the combat thrusters modification, page 40.) 

A starship maneuver is a special action that allows a pilot or gunner to do 
something beyond the bounds of the Pilot skill and the abilities provided by 
the ace pilot prestige class. Starship maneuvers enhance attacks, strengthen 
defenses, reduce damage, or produce other unique effects. 


LEARNING NEw MANEUVERS 

A character who takes the Starship Tactics feat (see page 20) automatically 
learns a number of starship maneuvers equal to 1 + her Wisdom modifier 
(minimum one). A character can learn additional starship maneuvers by taking 
the Starship Tactics feat again or by increasing her Wisdom modifier. 

For example, Syal Antilles is a 5th-level soldier with a Wisdom score of 13 
(+1 modifier). When she advances to 6th level, she takes the Starship Tactics 
feat and immediately gains two starship maneuvers. She chooses attack pat- 
tern delta and Corellian slip. At 8th level, Syal raises her Wisdom score from 
13 to 14, thereby increasing her ability modifier from +1 to +2; at that time, 
she gains an additional starship maneuver (since she has taken the Starship 
Tactics feat once); she chooses target lock. At 9th level, Syal selects the 
Starship Tactics feat again, granting her three new maneuvers. She chooses 
Tallon roll, angle deflector shields, and a second use of Corellian slip. 


> 
Re) 


ll HetlavHs 


ALVEWOS) AHSH8VLS 


USING STARSHIP MANEUVERS 
When your character uses a starship maneuver, make a Pilot check. The check 
result determines the starship maneuver's result. 

Most maneuvers have varying degrees of success, but some (including 
all maneuvers with the [attack pattern] descriptor) have an all-or-nothing 
effect. For those with multitiered effects, your check result determines the 
maximum effect you can achieve, though you can also choose a lesser effect. 
If your check is too low to activate the starship maneuver's most basic effect, 
nothing happens, the starship maneuver is spent, and the action is wasted. 

Your Starship Maneuver Suite: Your character's starship maneuvers 
collectively form a suite. When your character uses a starship maneuver, that 
maneuver is spent and is no longer available for use by your character until 
it is recovered. You may have multiple uses of the same starship maneuver 
in your suite. 

Regaining Starship Maneuvers: You have different ways to regain spent 
starship maneuvers, making them available for use once more. 

When a starship combat sequence is over and you have a chance to rest 
for 1 minute, you regain all starship combat maneuvers. 

If you roll a natural 20 on a Pilot check to activate a starship maneuver 
(but not for any other uses of the Pilot skill), you regain all spent starship 
maneuvers at the end of your turn. 

You can spend a Force Point as a reaction and immediately regain one 
spent starship maneuver. 

Some unique abilities allow you to regain spent starship maneuvers in 
other ways. 


MANEUVER DESCRIPTORS 

Some starship maneuvers fall into special categories that affect how they 
are used and who can use them. The following descriptors are applied to any 
relevant starship maneuvers mentioned in this chapter: 

Attack Pattern: Maneuvers that have the [attack pattern] descriptor 
represent formations and flying patterns that form an overall starship combat 
strategy. An attack pattern maneuver differs from other maneuvers in that, 
once activated, its effects last until the end of the encounter. Additionally, 
you may gain the benefit from only one attack pattern maneuver at a time, 
and if you activate an attack pattern maneuver while already gaining the 
benefits of another, the second maneuver replaces the effects of the first. 

Dogfight: Maneuvers that have the [dogfight] descriptor represent 
tactics and actions that apply only in close combat situations. A dogfight 
maneuver may be activated only while your ship is engaged in a dogfight 
with another starship or group of starships. 

Force: A maneuver that has the [Force] descriptor is one that relies on 
the user's connection to the Force for its benefit. Only characters who are 
trained in the Use the Force skill may make use of Force maneuvers, and 
activating a Force maneuver is considered using the Force. 


Gunner: A maneuver that has the [gunner] descriptor does not require 
you to be the pilot of the ship in order to activate the maneuver. Any gunner 
maneuvers may be activated either by the pilot (using pilot-controlled weap- 
ons) or by a character serving as a gunner aboard a starship or airspeeder. 


STARSHIP MANEUVER 
DESCRIPTIONS 


The following starship maneuvers are available to any character who has 
the Starship Tactics feat (see page 20). Each Force power includes the fol- 
lowing information: ‘ 


Starship Maneuver Name [descriptor] 
If a starship maneuver has a descriptor, it appears in square brackets after 
the starship maneuver's name. The name of the starship maneuver is followed 
by a brief description of the starship maneuver's effect. Time: The type of 
action needed to use or activate the starship maneuver. Target: The target 
or targets affected by the starship maneuver. 

Make a Pilot check OR Make an attack roll. The results of the Pilot 
check or attack roll are described here. 

Special: Some starship maneuvers have special rules, which are covered 
here. 


Ackbar Slash 

A starship tactic made famous by the Mon Calamari Admiral Ackbar, the 
Ackbar slash involves a ship moving into the midst of enemy forces in order 
to cause an opponent to strike its own allies. Time: Reaction. Target: One 
adjacent opponent. 

Make a Pilot check. When you are the target of an attack made by an 
adjacent opponent that misses, you may activate this maneuver. The results 
of the Pilot check are as follows: 

DC 20: The missed attack is instead redirected to a different adjacent 
opponent of your choice. Compare the original attack roll to the Reflex 
Defense of the new target; if the attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex 
Defense, resolve damage as normal. 

DC 25: As DC 20, but add a +1 circumstance bonus to the redirected 
attack roll. 

DC 30: As DC 20, but add a +2 circumstance bonus to the redirected 
attack roll. 

DC 35: As DC 20, but add a +5 circumstance bonus to the redirected 
attack roll. 

Special: The new target of the redirected attack may not in turn use the 
Ackbar slash maneuver to redirect that attack. 


Afterburn 
This maneuver allows a pilot to throttle up and blast past enemies, to avoid 
becoming entangled in dogfights. Time: Full-round action. Target: You. 

Make a Pilot check. The result of the Pilot check determines the effect, 
if any: 

DC 15: You immediately take the all-out movement action as a free action. 
Additionally, during this action you gain a +1 maneuver bonus on all Pilot 
checks made to resist another pilot initiating a dogfight. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the maneuver bonus on Pilot checks increases 
to +2. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the maneuver bonus on Pilot checks increases 
to +5. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except the maneuver bonus on Pilot checks increases 
to +10. 


Angle Deflector Shields [attack pattern] 

This attack pattern focuses deflector shields in a particular direction, making 
it easier to absorb incoming attacks coming from a certain angle. Time: Swift 
action. Target: You (and special; see text). 

Make a Pilot check. If you succeed on a DC 15 Pilot check, you success- 
fully activate this maneuver. While you are engaged in combat, choose a 
single other vehicle or space station as the target of angle deflector shields. 
Your SR is considered doubled for the purpose of absorbing attacks originat- 
ing from that particular target. However, your SR is considered halved (round 
down) for the purpose of absorbing attacks from all other opponents. 

You may change the target of this attack pattern as a swift action. 

Special: You must be piloting a vehicle that has SR 5 or more to use 
angle deflector shields. 

You may choose to deactivate this attack pattern with a swift action. The 
maneuver remains spent if you do so. 


Attack Formation Zeta Nine [attack pattern] 

This attack pattern is typically used to approach capital ships or other vessels 
that have heavy firepower. It emphasizes the role of shields over firepower. 
Time: Swift action. Target: You. 

Make a Pilot check. If you succeed on a DC 20 Pilot check, you success- 
fully activate this maneuver. While you are using attack formation zeta nine 
as your chosen attack pattern, you subtract 1 die of damage from all vehicle 
weapon damage rolls to add +20 to your vehicle's SR. 

Special: You must be piloting a vehicle that has SR 5 or more to use 
attack formation zeta nine. 

You may choose to deactivate this attack pattern with a swift action. The 
maneuver remains spent if you do so. 


Attack Pattern Delta [attack pattern] 

This attack pattern utilizes close-range maneuvering by allied ships to make 
it more difficult to target and hit an individual vessel. The attack pattern 
typically requires the vessels to fly in a straight line toward their target, 
shielding the ships to the rear. Time: Swift action. Target: You. 

Make a Pilot check. If you succeed on a DC 20 Pilot check, you success- 
fully activate this maneuver. While you are using attack pattern delta as your 
chosen attack pattern, you gain a +1 maneuver bonus to your vehicle's Reflex 
Defense any time you are adjacent to an allied starfighter or airspeeder. 

Special: If any adjacent allies are using attack pattern delta as well, your 
maneuver bonus to Reflex Defense increases to +2. 


Corellian Slip 
A teamwork-focused starfighter tactic, the Corellian slip maneuver allows a 
pilot to destroy an opposing starship that threatens one of his or her allies 
by flying at the enemy vessel head-on. Time: Full-round action. Target: One 
enemy airspeeder or starfighter within (2 x your vehicle's speed) squares. 

Make a Pilot check. When you activate this maneuver, you move up to 
twice your vehicle's speed in a straight line through your opponent's square. 
If something halts your movement before you enter your opponent's square 
(such as being drawn into a dogfight), the maneuver fails to activate. When 
you enter your opponent's square, you make an attack as a swift action 
against the target. The result of the Pilot check determines the effective- 
ness of the maneuver: 

DC 15: lf you destroy your target with your attack, a collision does not 
occur. 

DC 20: As DC 15, but add a +1 circumstance bonus to your attack roll. 

DC 25: As DC 15, but add a +1 circumstance bonus to your attack roll 
and +1 die of damage. 

DC 30: As DC 15, but add a +2 circumstance bonus to your attack roll 
and +1 die of damage. 

DC 35: As DC 15, but add a +2 circumstance bonus to your attack roll 
and +2 dice of damage. 


Heald vHo 


a 


LVEWOOD AHMSYUVLS 


saLavHo 


AEWOED HiHSyvsLS 


Special: If you fail to successfully activate this maneuver, you still move 
through your opponent's square and a collision occurs. You do not get to 
make an attack as a swift action, and you cannot make a Pilot check to avoid 
the collision. (Your opponent may do so, however.) 


Counter [dogfight] 
This maneuver allows a pilot to take a quick action while engaged in a dog- 
fight after being the target of an attack. Time: Reaction. Target: You. 

Make a Pilot. The result of the Pilot check determines the effect, if any: 

DC 20: You may immediately take one swift action. 

DC 25: You may immediately take one move action. 

DC 30: You may immediately take one standard action. 

Special: You may activate this maneuver only as a reaction to being 
attacked by another vehicle with which you are engaged in a dogfight. The 
result of the attack is resolved before you take your action, and your Initia- 
tive is not modified by this maneuver. 


Darklighter Spin 
Originally an improvised combat maneuver, the Darklighter spin maneuver 
allows you to attack multiple targets with your starship's weapons. Time: 
Standard action. Target: One 2x2-square area within weapons range. 
Make a Pilot check. You may make a starship-scale area attack with a 
vehicle weapon even if it is not normally capable of making area attacks at 
starship scale. The vehicle weapon must be capable of autofire. The result 
of the Pilot check also determines the success of your attack: 
DC 25: You may make an autofire attack at the normal -5 penalty. 
DC 30: As DC 25, except you take only a -2 penalty on your attack roll. 
DC 35: As DC 25, except you take no penalty on your attack roll. 


Devastating Hit [gunner] 

This maneuver lets you score an incredibly precise hit on a target, punching 
holes in vital systems and potentially disabling your target. Time: Standard 
action. Target: A single vehicle within weapons range. 


Make an attack roll. The result of the attack roll determines the effect, 
if any: 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 0-4: You deal normal weapon damage 
to the target, +1 extra die of damage. 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 5-9: You deal normal weapon damage 
to the target, +2 extra dice of damage. 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 10 or more: You deal normal weapon 
damage to the target, +3 extra dice of damage. 


Engine Hit [gunner] 

This maneuver allows you to target an opponent's engines, slowing them 
down with a successful hit. Time: Reaction. Target: One vehicle that you 
just attacked. 

Make an attack roll. If you deal damage to a vehicle with a critical 
hit or deal damage to a vehicle that is equal to or greater than its damage 
threshold, you may activate this maneuver as a reaction. Compare the 
result of your attack roll to the target's Reflex Defense to determine the 
effect, if any: 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 0-4: Target's speed is reduced by 1 
square for the remainder of the encounter. An engineer aboard the target 
ship may spend a full-round action to repair the damage to the engines (DC 
20 Mechanics check). 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 5-9: As above result, except the 
target's speed is reduced by 2 squares (DC 25 Mechanics check to repair). 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 10 or more: As above, except the 
target's speed is reduced by 3 squares (DC 30 Mechanics check to repair). 


Evasive Action [dogfight] 
This maneuver allows a starship to slip free of close pursuit, escaping from 
a dogfight more easily. Time: Move action. Target: You. 

Make a Pilot check. The result of the Pilot check determines the effect, 
if any: 

DC 15: You immediately attempt to disengage from the dogfight (no action 
required). You gain a +2 bonus on your opposed Pilot check to disengage. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the bonus on your Pilot check is +5. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the bonus on your Pilot check is +10. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except the bonus on your Pilot check is +20. 


Explosive Shot [gunner] 
You target critical ship systems and fuel cells, causing your target to explode 
with incredible force. Time: Reaction. Target: All targets adjacent to a ship 
you just destroyed. 

Make an attack roll. Compare the result of the attack roll to the Reflex 
Defense of all targets adjacent to a vehicle you just destroyed. The result of 
the attack roll determines the effect, if any: 


| 


Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 0-4: Target caught in the explosion of 
the destroyed ship, dealing 3d10x2 points of damage to the target. 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 5-9: As above, except target takes 
4d10x2 points of damage from the exploding ship. 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 10 or more: As above, except target 
takes 5d10X2 points of damage from the exploding ship. 

Special: You activate this maneuver as a reaction to making an attack 
that destroys a vehicle (that is, reduces the target vehicle to 0 hit points 
with an attack that deals damage equal to or exceeding the target's damage 
threshold). 


Howlrunner Formation [attack pattern] 

This attack pattern divides an attacking force into two or more groups, 
making it easier to attack an enemy's flanks. Time: Swift action. Target: 
You. 

Make a Pilot check. If you succeed on a DC 20 Pilot check, you success- 
fully activate this maneuver. While you are using howlrunner formation as 
your chosen attack pattern, you gain a +1 maneuver bonus on attack rolls 
made with vehicle weapons while adjacent to any other allied airspeeder 
or starfighter. 

Special: If any adjacent vehicles are using how/runner formation as well, 
your maneuver bonus on attack rolls increases to +2. 


| Have You Now 
This maneuver allows a ship to close in on its target, striking from short range 
with devastating effect. Time: Swift action. Target: One adjacent vehicle. 

Make a Pilot check. The result of the Pilot check determines the effect, 
if any: 

DC 15: lf you successfully damage the target of this maneuver this turn, 
compare your attack roll to the target's Fortitude Defense. If your attack 
roll exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the target moves -1 step down 
the condition track. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except you gain a +1 maneuver bonus on your attack 
roll. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except you gain a +2 maneuver bonus on your attack 
roll. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except you gain a +5 maneuver bonus on your attack 
roll. 


Intercept 
This maneuver allows a ship to fire thrusters and intercept a passing target, 
engaging it in a dogfight. Time: Reaction. Target: You. 

Make a Pilot check. If an enemy starfighter or airspeeder moves into 
a square up to 2 squares away from you, you may activate this maneuver 


to attempt to initiate a dogfight. The result of the Pilot check determines 
the effect, if any: 

DC 20: You may initiate a dogfight as an attack of opportunity against a 
target up to 2 squares away. If successful, you immediately move 1 square 
toward your target as a reaction. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except you gain a +1 maneuver bonus on your Pilot 
check to initiate the dogfight. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except you gain a +2 maneuver bonus on your Pilot 
check to initiate the dogfight. 

DC 35: As DC 20, except you gain a +5 maneuver bonus on your Pilot 
check to initiate the dogfight. 

Special: You activate this maneuver as a reaction to a starfighter or 
airspeeder moving into a square up to 2 squares away from you. 


Overwhelming Assault [attack pattern] 

Vehicles that use an overwhelming assault attack pattern concentrate their 
fire on a single target to the exclusion of all others. Time: Swift action. 
Target: You (and special; see text). 

Make a Pilot check. If you succeed on a DC 20 Pilot check, you activate 
this maneuver. While you are engaged in combat, choose one other vehicle 
as the target of overwhelming assault. On your action, before making an 
attack roll, you may choose to subtract a number from all vehicle weapon 
attack rolls you make against that target and add twice that number to all 
vehicle weapon damage rolls (before multipliers are applied). The penalty 
on attack rolls applies to all attacks you make until the start of your next 
turn, but the bonus on damage rolls applies only on attacks against the 
target you designate. 

You may change the target of this attack pattern as a swift action. 

Special: You may choose to deactivate this attack pattern with a swift 
action. The maneuver remains spent if you do so. 


HSLavHD 


LVEWED dIMSYVLS 


eSalavHo 


AVYEWOD HHSSvVv.sAsS 


Segnor's Loop 

This maneuver allows a pilot to accelerate quickly away from an opponent 
before returning to make an attack. Time: Reaction. Target: One target 
within weapons range. 

Make a Pilot check. If you end your turn farther away from your target 
than when your turn began, you may activate this maneuver as a reaction 
to make an immediate attack run against that target. The result of your 
Pilot check determines the penalty to your Reflex Defense imposed by the 
attack run: 

DC 20: The attack run imposes a -10 penalty to Reflex Defense instead 
of the normal -2. 

DC 25: The attack run imposes a -5 penalty to Reflex Defense instead 
of the normal -2. 

DC 30: The attack run imposes the normal -2 penalty to Reflex 
Defense. 

DC 35: The attack run imposes a -1 penalty to Reflex Defense instead 
of the normal -2. 


Shield Hit [gunner] 

This maneuver allows you to target an opponent's shield generators, reducing 
their effectiveness with a successful hit. Time: Standard action. Target: A 
single vehicle within weapons range. 

Make an attack roll. If your attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex 
Defense, you deal normal weapon damage to the target (reduced by DR and 
SR as normal). Additionally, the target has its shields reduced in power by 
the attack. The amount by which the target's SR is reduced depends on the 
result of your attack roll: 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 0-4: Target's SR is reduced by 5. An 
engineer aboard the target ship may use the recharge shields action to restore 
the loss to shield rating as normal. 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 5-9: As above result, except the ship's 
SR is reduced by 10. 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 10 or more: As above result, except 
the ship's SR is reduced by 15. 

Special: The damage from your attack is reduced normally by the target's 
DR and SR; apply the effect of shield hit after resolving damage. If your 
damage exceeds the SR of the target's shields, its SR is reduced by 5 in 
addition to any effect from this maneuver. 


Skim the Surface 

This maneuver allows a starship to get down beneath a larger ship's shields, 
dealing damage that bypasses shields and directly impacts on the hull. Time: 
Full-round action. Target: One starship or space station of Colossal (frigate) 
or larger in size whose fighting space you fly through. 


Make a Pilot check. You may move up to twice your speed, passing 
through the target's fighting space before ending your turn in an unoc- 
cupied square. When you enter the target's fighting space, you attempt to 
dip below the target's shields, allowing you to make a single vehicle weapon 
attack against the target that ignores the target's SR. You take a penalty 
on your attack roll while making this attack, determined by the result of 
your Pilot check: 

DC 20: You take a -10 penalty on your attack roll. 

DC 25: You take a -5 penalty on your attack roll. 

DC 30: You take a -2 penalty on your attack roll. 

DC 35: You take a -1 penalty on your attack roll. 

Special: If your Pilot check result to activate skim the surface is 19 or 
lower, you collide with the target vehicle. You may not attempt to avoid the 
collision, but the target may do so if it wishes. 

Any gunners aboard a ship using skim the surface that has readied an 
action to attack during the maneuver may take their attacks when the pilot 
does. Such attacks ignore SR and take the same penalties on the attack 
roll as the pilot does. A gunner who readies an action to attack in this way 
moves his or her place in the initiative order to immediately before the 
pilot's, as normal. 


Skywalker Loop [dogfight] 

This maneuver allows a pilot to loop a vehicle through the same location it 
just left, launching a surprise attack on an unsuspecting opponent. Time: 
Reaction. Target: One target engaged in a dogfight with you. 

Make a Pilot check. If you are engaged in a dogfight and an opponent 
fails his opposed Pilot check to make an attack against you, you may activate 
this maneuver with a DC 20 Pilot check as a reaction. If successful, you may 
make an attack of opportunity against that opponent. 


Snap Roll 

This maneuver lets a pilot peel his or her vehicle away from its current location 
with incredible speed, causing attackers to fire at where it was just moments 
ago. Time: Reaction. Target: You. 

Make a Pilot check. Your Pilot check result replaces your Reflex Defense 
until the start of your next turn. If your Pilot check result is lower than 
your normal Reflex Defense, you may choose to retain your normal Reflex 
Defense. 

Special: You use this maneuver as a reaction to an incoming attack; when 
you do so, you make your Pilot check and replace your Reflex Defense before 
the result of that attack is resolved. You must declare that you are using this 
maneuver before the attack is resolved and damage is rolled. 


Strike Formation [attack pattern] 

Pilots who use a strike formation attack pattern devote themselves to over- 
whelming an enemy with damage rather than concerning themselves with 
their own defense. Time: Swift action. Target: You. 

Make a Pilot check. If you succeed on a DC 20 Pilot check, you activate 
this maneuver. While you are using strike formation as your chosen attack 
pattern, you add +1 die of damage as a maneuver bonus on all damage 
rolls made with weapons aboard your ship, but take a -2 penalty to Reflex 
Defense as well. 

Special: You may choose to deactivate this attack pattern at any time 
with a swift action. The maneuver remains spent if you do so. 


Tallon Roll [dogfight] 

This maneuver allows a pursuing starfighter to stay with a maneuvering 
opponent even when its target is attempting to escape. Time: Reaction. 
Target: One target engaged in a dogfight with you. 

Make a Pilot check. Whenever you are engaged in a dogfight and one of 
your opponents attempts to disengage from that dogfight, you may activate 
this maneuver as a reaction. The result of your Pilot check determines the 
effect of this maneuver: 

DC 20: If the target fails to disengage, you may make an attack of oppor- 
tunity against the target. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except the Biss takes a -1 penalty on its opposed 
Pilot check to disengage. 

DC 30: As DC 25, except the penalty is -2. 

DC 35: As DC 25, except the penalty is -5. 

Special: You use this maneuver as a reaction to an opponent attempt- 
ing to disengage from a dogfight; you must declare that you are using this 
maneuver after the opponent declares the attempt but before the opposed 
Pilot check takes place. 


STARSHIP MANEUVERS. AND 
CREW QUALITY 

Though the generic crews aboard starships do not come with any stock 
maneuvers, Gamemasters who allow the use of the maneuvers system 
may wish to allow generic crews to make use of some maneuvers in 
combat. Use the guidelines below to determine the feats and maneu- 
vers (of any type) available to a generic crew. If a given vehicle has any 
weapons not operated by the pilot, it may also gain additional gunner 
maneuvers (given in parentheses): 

e Untrained or Normal: None. 

© Skilled: Vehicular Combat, 1 maneuver (+1 gunner maneuver). 

e Expert: Vehicular Combat, 2 maneuvers (+2 gunner maneuvers). 

© Ace: Vehicular Combat, 4 maneuvers (+4 gunner maneuvers). 


The table below lists some of the most common maneuvers for starships 


that fill certain roles. When a Gamemaster wishes to add the maneuver _ 


system to a generic starship's repertoire, he need only consult the table 
below, determine the relevant maneuvers for that starship’s role, and 


then choose a number of maneuvers from that list based on the crew's _ 
quality. (Gunner maneuvers al are matkee with an este J, 


“STARSHIP ROLE “SUGGESTED ‘MANEUVERS 


Bomber angle deflector shields, attack nab delto, 
devastating hit*, evasive action, explosive shot*, 
overwhelming assault, Segnor's loop, shield hit*, skim 
the surface, strike formation 

Superiority attack pattern delta, attack formation zeta nine, _ 

Corellian slip, Darklighter spin, howlrunner formation, 

| have you now, shield hit*, Skywalker loop 

Interceptor Ackbar slash, afterburn, Corellian slip, counter, 

Darklighter spin, | have you now, intercept, Skywalker 

loop, snap roll, Tallon roll, target lock, thruster hit* 

Scout afterburn, attack formation zeta nine, counter, engine 
hit*, evasive action, snap roll, Wotan weave 

Shuttle/Transport  Ackbar slash, angle deflector shields, engine hit*, 
evasive action, shield hit*, thruster hit*, Wotan weave 


AVEWOSD HAHSUVLS 


ALVEWOD AHSYvVvLs 


Target Lock [dogfight] 
This maneuver allows a pilot to focus on a single target, lining up a shot with 
careful precision. Time: Standard action. Target: One target with which you 
are engaged in a dogfight. 

Make a Pilot check. The result of the Pilot check determines the effect, 
if any: 

DC 15: When attempting to attack the target in a dogfight, you gain a 
+1 maneuver bonus on opposed Pilot checks and attack rolls. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the maneuver bonus on opposed Pilot checks 
increases to +2. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the maneuver bonuses on opposed Pilot checks 
and attack rolls increase to +2. 

DC 30: As DC 15, except the maneuver bonus on opposed Pilot checks 
increases to +5 and the maneuver bonus on attack rolls increases to +2. 

DC 35: As DC 15, except the maneuver bonuses on opposed Pilot checks 
and attack rolls increase to +5. 

Special: If the target of this maneuver successfully disengages from the 
dogfight, the benefit of this maneuver is lost, even if you initiate a dogfight 
with that target again. 


Target Sense [Force] 
This maneuver allows a Force-sensitive pilot to target opponents without the 
use of a vehicle's targeting computer. Time: Swift action. Target: You. 

Make a Use the Force check. When you activate this maneuver, it 
allows you to use your Charisma bonus on your attack rolls made in this 
round. This replaces the vehicle's Intelligence bonus on attack rolls made 
with the vehicle's weapons. Your Use the Force check determines the bonus 
this maneuver grants: 

DC 20: You may add your Charisma bonus on all attack rolls made until 
the start of your next turn. 

DC 25: As DC 20, except you gain an additional +2 maneuver bonus on 
your attack rolls. 

DC 30: As DC 20, except you gain an additional +5 maneuver bonus on 
your attacks rolls. 

Special: The bonus on attack rolls provided by this maneuver stacks with 
the bonus provided by the battle strike Force power. 


Thruster Hit [gunner] 

This maneuver allows you to target an opponent's maneuvering thrusters, 
reducing the maneuverability they provide to a ship. Time: Reaction. Target: 
One vehicle that you just attacked. 

Make an attack roll. If you deal damage to a vehicle with a critical hit or 
deal damage to a vehicle that is equal to or greater than its damage threshold, 
you may activate this maneuver as a reaction. Compare the result of your 
attack roll to the target's Reflex Defense to determine the effect, if any: 


Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 0-4: Target takes a -1 penalty to 
Reflex Defense, Initiative checks, and Pilot checks for the remainder of the 
encounter. 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 5-9: As above, except the penalty 
is -2. 

Exceeds Target's Reflex Defense by 10 or more: As above, except the 
penalty is -5 and the target can move only ina straight line. 


Wotan Weave 
This maneuver allows the ship to fly in a corkscrew, moving forward as normal 
but making the ship difficult to hit. Time: Swift action. Target: You. 

Make a Pilot check. When you fight defensively or use the total defense 
action, you may make a Pilot check as a swift action in the same turn to 
improve your Reflex Defense at the expense of lost speed. The result of the 
Pilot check determines the effect, if any: 

DC 15: Your vehicle's speed is reduced by one-half (round down), but you 
gain an additional +1 maneuver bonus to your vehicle's Reflex Defense until 
the start of your next turn. 

DC 20: As DC 15, except the maneuver bonus is +2. 

DC 25: As DC 15, except the maneuver bonus is +5. 

Special: If the Wotan weave would reduce your vehicle's speed to 0 
squares, you automatically fail to activate this maneuver. 


MAKING STARSHIP 
ENCOUNTERS 
INTERESTING 


Many Gamemasters avoid starship-based encounters for fear of boring 
(or overwhelming) some of their players. The fact is that starship combat 
works much the same way as character-scale combat, and it can be just 
as exciting. Neither the players nor the Gamemaster need to specialize in 
starship rules to add a few starfighter combat encounters to a campaign, 
but players who want to focus their characters on being ace pilots have 
plenty of ways to become more adept than a typical character trained in 
the Pilot skill. 

For the Gamemaster, the key to starship-scale combat is tailoring 
encounters to fit the different roles of the heroes. A group that includes 
four ace pilot characters is going to be more interested in dogfights and 
skirmishes with numerous smaller craft, while a group using a single light 
freighter most likely expects fights to involve the whole crew working 
together against whatever foe threatens them. Although it's a good idea to 
take the players out of their comfort zone at times, don't overdo it: Any feat, 
talent, or starship maneuver taken to support a particular type of encounter 
is “wasted” if those encounters don't show up at least occasionally. 


Combined Encounters 

There's no requirement that an encounter deal only with starships. Often, 
having an encounter combine starship-scale and character-scale elements 
creates a more interesting result. While the heroes most interested in starship 
activities are dealing with attacking raiders or flying through an asteroid 
field, other characters might have to deal with more typical character-level 
threats. Since the initiative system is capable of keeping track of both starship 
scale and character scale at once, there's no reason an encounter can't have 
TIE fighters, X-wings, stormtroopers, and Rebel commandos all in action at 
the same time. Although range is different in starship scale and character 
scale, the time frame is the same for both. 

There are two basic ways to create combined encounters: split-screen 
encounters, and character-scale encounters on board starships that are 
already engaged in space combat. The split-screen method assumes that 
action is taking place at different locations and different scales at the same 
time. The end of Return of the Jedi is a perfect example of this: Luke fights 
Vader on the Death Star while Lando fights a few TIE fighters inside the 
station's superstructure, Admiral Ackbar engages in fleet combat, and Han, 
Leia, and Chewbacca battle stormtroopers around the Imperial deflector 
shield station. 

Encounters on starships engaged in combat work the same way, except 
the two scales can more directly affect one another. If pirates have boarded 
the heroes’ Corellian Corvette as it flies through a blockade, the heroes might 
be engaged in fighting a holding action to keep the pirates from rushing 
the ship's bridge while shooting down starfighters swarming around the 
outside of the ship. 


START SMALL 
If the idea of running a starship-scale battle worries you, start on a very 
small scale, both in the number of ships and the risk to the heroes. Allow the 
players and yourself to get used to the rules with a battle with the heroes, 
ona large capital ship, fighting two or three starfighters. Not only will the 
smaller number of ships make things easier, the fact that the heroes are in 
little danger allows everyone to grow comfortable with starship battles. 
When the heroes get ships of their own, use the same basic idea. Set up 
the first few hostile starship-scale encounters against ships of a much lower 
Challenge Level than typical for the heroes’ level. Once you get a feel for 
what kinds of encounters the heroes deal with easily, you can begin giving 
them greater challenges. 


Proportional Battles 

An epic battle that features thousands of starships on a side is clearly going to 
be difficult to run, and it will likely involve players waiting for long stretches 
between turns as dozens or hundreds of GM characters shoot at each other. 


Although that much action looks great on a movie screen, it can bog down 
a roleplaying game. 

Instead, try to keep each encounter down to a size at which the heroes, 
their nearby allies, and a few noteworthy enemies are the main focus. If an 
adventure calls for a massive star battle with the Rebellion trying to defeat 
a squadron of Star Destroyers before they can jump to hyperspace, don't try 
to run the whole fight. Tell the players that the heroes are assigned to stop 
one of the Star Destroyers, and run only that part of the battle. 


HANDLING LARGE BATTLES 

Even when you follow the advice above, there are still times when you'll want 
to have a large number of opponents in a single battle. At such times, use 
the tips in this section to keep large battles running smoothly. 

Weapon Batteries: Capital ships should use weapon batteries to keep 
things moving along—no one wants to make attack rolls for the dozens 
of weapons on a Star Destroyer. There are two ways you can use weapon 
batteries: 

Narrow Salvo: This method, the default use of a weapon battery (as 
described on page 170 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), is ideal for capital 
ships that are attacking other capital ships and space stations because it 
brackets the target while concentrating fire, dealing significant damage to 
targets that have a high SR or DR. 

Proximity Spread: Instead of trying to land multiple hits, a weapon bat- 
tery can spread its fire in a way that maximizes the chance that one will hit 
(ideal for attacking starfighters). A proximity spread is resolved as an area 
attack, but it affects only 1 starship-scale square on the battle grid. As with 
autofire, the weapon battery takes a -5 penalty on its attack roll. 

Tactical Fire: If a ship has a tactical fire ability, use it in any situation 
where it might apply. Tactical fire greatly speeds up large battles, especially 
when capital ships are present. 

Fighter Groups: Fighter groups are formations of two to six starfight- 
ers or airspeeders that act almost as a single unit, greatly speeding up large 
battles. Anyone trained in the Pilot skill can join a fighter group by moving 
into the same space as a willing allied vehicle of the same size. The fighter 
group then acts on the initiative count of the last pilot to join, occupying 
the same space on the battle grid. The fighter group's leader (designated 
by mutual consent) makes all decisions and actions for the group. (A pilot 
can leave a fighter group at any time by delaying his initiative count until 
immediately after the group's turn.) 

The fighter group uses the group leader's attack bonus and skill modi- 
fiers, but the worst defenses and damage for each weapon type in the group. 
When attacked, the group leader may either designate a vehicle operated 
by a generic crew as the target or determine the target randomly. On the 
group's turn, the group leader can gain one of these benefits: 


AVONO® AINSUVLS 


fe 
Ir 
> 
v 
| 
Ae 
aod al 
ee 


AVEWOD AHSHvLs | 


e Act as a weapon battery (+2 on attacks per additional vehicle, plus 
narrow salvo or proximity spread, as above). 

e Gain a +2 circumstance bonus per additional vehicle on either opposed 
Pilot checks for dogfighting, Use Computer checks to operate sensors, 
or Perception checks. 


Connect Space to the Adventure 

In most Star Wars campaigns, characters end up on starships quite often. 
Any time they travel between worlds, visit stations, or even go long distances 
on the same planet, they're likely to do it in a starship. These are natural 
opportunities for starship-scale conflict and good times for foes to make 
themselves known. After all, tracking down four diplomats on the surface 
of a whole planet is a lot harder than waiting for their ship to fly out of the 
atmosphere. 

Similarly, setting up certain kinds of challenges almost guarantees some 
starship-scale encounters in an adventure. If a Hutt crime lord has a fleet 
of pirate ships he uses to extort merchants and miners, and he never leaves 
his own star yacht, the heroes are going to have to deal with those ships at 
some point. Just set up a situation that calls for some starfighter dogfighting, 
and the players will seek out the encounters for you. 


But i'M NoT A PILOT! 
Despite what Han Solo might think, being a starship pilot in the Star Wars 
universe isn't as specialized a skill as being a fighter pilot in the real world. 
Although ace pilots are certainly a rare breed—and highly valued by any 
military that can recruit them—most individuals can fly a starship well enough 
to be of some use in starship-scale combat scenes. There might be a few 
exceptions—an Ewok fresh off the forest moon of Endor, for example—but 
as a general rule, unless you have a good reason to assume that a group of 
characters can't fly starfighters, they probably can. Obi-Wan Kenobi didn't 
fly a fighter in the opening sequence of Revenge of the Sith because he was 
a master pilot: He flew one because there was a fight going on in space, and 
he needed to be part of it. 

In many ways, starship-scale combat is the same as any other arena in 
which characters can specialize. Not everyone is a sniper, but that doesn't 
stop diplomats and engineers from picking up a blaster when things get rough. 
It makes no more sense for a consular to refuse to get involved in starship 
combat than it does for a mercenary to refuse to negotiate when the fighting 
stops. Even if whizzing around in starfighters and space transports isn’t the 
focus of your character, there's no reason not to be involved in those scenes 
when they take center stage. Whatever your character's area of expertise 
is, it will come along soon enough. When the situation called for it, Leia 
was able to copilot the Millennium Falcon through an asteroid field, and 
Anakin Skywalker found that his experience with Podracers was enough to 
be familiar with the basic controls of a starfighter. In fact, characters who 


haven't focused on starship-scale combat might find that they have talents 
and skills the ace pilots don't, and these can still be useful in a starship-scale 
scene. Given this, you shouldn't fear space battles just because you're out 
of your element; instead, look at them as a change of pace, an opportunity 
to find a new way to meet a challenge. 


DESIGNING STARSHIP 
COMBAT ENCOUNTERS 


Creating interesting starship encounters can be a challenging task. Unlike 
in character-based encounters, Gamemasters are limited by the more con- 
strained nature of starship combat: The heroes are confined to an environ- 
ment that might limit their abilities, and coming up with encounters that 
do more than just pit two squads of starfighters against one another takes 
more work. Despite this, creating an exciting starship combat encounter can 
make an adventure much more memorable, encouraging players to become 
just as involved as they would in ground-based encounters. 

One of the most important elements of a good starship encounter is giving 
each player something to do. Gunners should have plenty of targets, a goal 
that is relatively easy to accomplish. Pilots should have plenty of obstacles 
to maneuver around and ships to fly past, making the environment of the 
encounter very important. Engineers and system operators should be engaged 
in interacting with both the pilot and the gunners, providing bonuses to 
attack rolls or detecting hazards before the ship flies through them. Character 
combat holds players’ interests because each player has something to do in 
every round. Engaging players in the same manner during a starship combat 
encounter requires the Gamemaster to design aspects of the encounter that 
give every player something to do in every round. 

Certainly, designing a starship encounter that keeps several players active 
on every turn can be daunting. An alternative solution is to create encounters 
that encourage several characters to fly their own starship. For example, 
in a party of four characters, one character might serve as the pilot of the 
party's transport, one might serve as the gunner aboard that transport, and 
the other two would pilot starfighters in the same encounter. This gives three 
players—the three pilots—the ability to move and attack in each round, just 
as they would in character combat. Even characters untrained in the Pilot 
skill can perform basic movement and actions, and trained pilots can help 
protect those untrained pilots during starship combat. 

To simulate larger battles and more significant space combat sequences, 
Gamemasters should consider stringing together a series of encounters that 
act as plot sequences of their own. Though individual encounters are great 
for simulating events like fast getaways—such as when the Millennium Falcon 
flees the first Death Star—sometimes the story can call for a longer scenario 
better played as a series of encounters rather than one long encounter. An 
individual encounter should have a clearly defined goal—whether it's simply 


the destruction of all enemies or something more complex—and as that 
goal is accomplished, the heroes should move on to the next encounter in 
the sequence. Each encounter then brings with it new foes, new obstacles, 
new objectives, new environmental effects, and even a new battlefield. 
Large-scale conflicts, such as the Battle of Yavin, are actually composed of 
multiple smaller encounters strung together into a sequence that tells an 
ongoing story (in this case, that of Luke Skywalker's discovery of his faith in 
the Force and the destruction of the Death Star). 

The following section provides hints and guidelines for Gamemasters look- 
ing to create more compelling and engaging starship combat encounters. 


Give OBYIECTIVES OTHER 

THAN DESTRUCTION 

One of the best ways to make a starship combat encounter more engaging is 
to give the players an objective other than simply eradicating the opposition. 
Although destroying one's opponents can certainly be a key component in 
accomplishing that objective, it doesn't necessarily have to be all of it (and, 
in fact, it rarely is). When designing an encounter, try to pick an objective 
that still allows the heroes to engage their enemy in combat (though stealth 
encounters can work, they are much more difficult to execute aboard star- 
ships) while giving them some other goal to focus on. A goal other than all- 
out destruction also encourages the heroes to be more cautious and think 
tactically rather than going in with blaster bolts flying. Just as you might not 
have character combat just for combat's sake, starship combat encounters 
should serve the purpose of moving the plot forward. 

One option for an alternative objective is an encounter in which the 
heroes are required to protect something or someone. Escort missions are 
common among starship pilots in the Star Wars setting, and providing the 
heroes with the goal of protecting something from coming to harm means 
that the players will have to do more than unleash their weapons. Protecting 
something requires the heroes to think tactically (they do not want to be 
too far away from their charge at any time) while still allowing for the high 
action and dogfighting that makes space combat exciting. The encounter 
might require the heroes to escort a ship through dangerous territory, fend 
off attackers as escaping Rebels board transport ships, or keep enemy vessels 
from getting close enough to detect a secret base. 

Alternatively, the heroes might simply be trying to get from one place 
to another through an encounter or series of encounters. The heroes of the 
Star Wars movies experience several encounters trying to get to a particular 
location. For example, Obi-Wan and Anakin try to get to the Invisible Hand 
during the Battle of Coruscant, and Wedge Antilles and Lando Calrissian 
attempt to penetrate the core of the second Death Star so that they can 
destroy it at the Battle of Endor. Other encounters might involve the heroes 
trying to get to a safe place to make a jump to lightspeed, while others might 
involve running a blockade or dashing to obtain sensor readings before being 


captured or destroyed. Getting from point A to point B might seem like a 
simple goal, but with the right combination of obstacles and enemies, it can 
be both challenging and exciting. 

Finally, the heroes might have the task of obtaining something during a 
starship combat encounter. This could be a job as simple as using a tractor 
beam to drag away a derelict ship, or it might involve the heroes actually 
landing somewhere, obtaining an item, and rejoining combat. In some cases, 
the object in question might be another starship, requiring the heroes to 
disable the ship with ion weapons rather than simply destroying it. Encoun- 
ters of this kind are very similar to encounters in which the heroes need to 
protect something, but in this case they are protecting it only so they can 
take it for their own. 


BUILD INTERESTING 
BATTLEFIELDS 

Another key element of good space combat encounters is creating combat 
arenas that are interesting. Certainly, encounters involving two groups of 
ships engaging one another in open space can be fun, but adding a certain 
element of environmental challenge to the encounter makes it that much 
more memorable. For example, the Millennium Falcon's daring escape from 
the forces of the Empire is made far more interesting by the fact that it flees 
through an asteroid belt wrought with peril, and Obi-Wan Kenobi's dogfight 
with Jango Fett in Slave /is made more exciting by the hazards found in the 
rings of Geonosis. Just as in character-scale combat, adding terrain features 
to space battles creates more lively combat sequences that require creativity 
and tactical thinking on the parts of the heroes. 

The presence of environmental obstacles also creates a more dynamic 
battlefield, adding another dimension to the placement and movement of 
starships. Terrain challenges in space combat necessitate movement and 
encourage players to be more creative in their actions. The following terrain 
hazards can be part of any space combat sequence. 


Asteroids, Debris, or Other Objects 

Space is a lot less empty than one might think, and a square that contains 
asteroids, debris, or other objects is difficult to move through and can 
potentially damage a starship. It requires 2 squares of movement to enter 
a square that contains an object hazard. Additionally, any vehicle passing 
through asteroids or debris must succeed on a Pilot check or take collision 
damage, as given on the table below. Finally, a square that conains asteroids 
or debris provides cover (+5 cover bonus to Reflex Defense) against any 
attacks passing through or into the square. 

Vehicle Traffic: Vehicle traffic functions the same as any other object 
hazard, but such squares of traffic are usually arranged in straight lines with a 
single designated direction of movement. Generally, these squares are sparse 
if you move with traffic, moderate if you move through traffic, and heavy if 


AVEWOS AHSUVLS 


AVEWOSD HHSHVLAS 


Heald vedia 


you move against traffic. In addition, if you move with the flow of traffic at 
the same speed (usually no more than 2 squares per round), you gain a +10 
circumstance bonus on your Pilot check to avoid a collision. 

Unless a particular vehicle in a line of traffic is significant for some 
reason, it is generally not necessary to use normal vehicle combat statistics 
to represent their movement or the effects of a collision. 


HAZARD PILOT CHECK DC COLLISION DAMAGE 
Sparse objects 15 4d6+20 
Moderate objects 25) 6d6+30 
Dense objects 35 8d6+40 


Damaging Environment 

Though most space combat takes place in a vacuum, some battles might take 
place in thick dust clouds, the upper atmosphere of a corrosive gas giant, 
electromagnetically charged nebulae, or even in close proximity to a star—and 
any of these features can damage a vehicle. If a vehicle is in a damaging 
environment square at any point during the pilot's turn, the hazard makes an 
attack roll using the modifier given in the table below. If the attack equals 
or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the vehicle takes full damage. If 
the attack roll fails, the vehicle takes half damage. Specific guidelines for 
different environments are described below. 

Corrosive Gases: Occasionally encountered in planetary atmospheres and 
some nebulae, corrosive gases can also be the result of a massive industrial 
accident (such as a fuel tanker spilling antimatter, hypermatter, or large 
amounts of radioactive fuel in orbit). Corrosive gases ignore the target's SR 
(but not DR) when dealing damage. Corrosive gases might also provide poor 
visibility (see Visibility, below). 

Dust Clouds: Usually encountered as a part of an asteroid field (see 
above) or as a part of a planetary ring system, light and moderate dust 
clouds provide poor visibility while heavy dust clouds provide very poor vis- 
ibility (see Visibility, below). Dust clouds deal no damage if a vehicle doesn't 
move, but they deal +1 die of damage for every square of movement during 
the pilot's turn. 

lonic Discharges: Some nebulae (and a few planetary atmospheres) 
produce nearly continuous discharges of highly ionized particles, dealing 
ion damage to all vehicles within affected squares. 

Radiation: In close proximity to a star or other source of intense elec- 
tromagnetic radiation, a vehicle can take substantial damage. Generally, 
these hazards will extend to all squares on the battle grid, but you might 
designate some squares as being in the shadow of a planet or moon, thus 
avoiding the effects of radiation. 


INTENSITY ATTACK BONUS DAMAGE 
Light +15 2d10x2 
Moderate +30 4d10x2 
Heavy +45 6d10x2 


Enclosed Terrain 

The Star Wars universe is full of examples of space combat that take place 
within an enclosed environment, such as the trench run on the Death Star. 
Any time a vehicle is in a square that is adjacent to enclosed terrain, that 
vehicle runs the risk of catastrophic collision. If a pilot in such a square fails 
a Pilot check by 5 or more, that pilot's ship has a collision with the wall, 
taking damage as though colliding with a Colossal (station) object; unlike 
most collisions at starship scale, the vehicle still takes half damage even after 
a successful Pilot check to avoid the collision. Additionally, some enclosed 
terrain squares have protrusions or other hazardous elements, increasing the 
DC of all Pilot checks made in adjacent squares by 5. 


Periodic Damage 

Some hazards in combat produce periodic effects that happen intermittently. 
These hazards typically affect only certain squares and generally do not 
take effect in every round. For example, a nebula charged with static might 
produce a burst of electricity along a certain path every 1d4+1 rounds, or 
an automated cargo hauler might pass through the middle of the battle grid 
every other round on a regular delivery schedule. 

When a periodic damage hazard is present on a battlefield, it affects only 
certain squares and automatically damages any target within 1 square of 
those squares. Periodic damage hazards always occur on an initiative count 
of 10. Since such hazards can vary widely in form and effect, the following 
guidelines should provide Gamemasters with a general idea of how much 
damage the hazard should do, and how often. 


HAZARD FREQUENCY DAMAGE DEALT 
Rare and light Every 1d4+1 rounds 3d10x2 
Often and light Every other round 3d10x2 
Frequent and light Every round 3d10x2 
Rare and moderate Every 1d4+1 rounds 6d10x2 
Often and moderate Every other round 6d10x2 
Frequent and moderate Every round 6d10x2 
Rare and severe Every 1d4+1 rounds 3d10x5 
Often and severe Every other round 3d10x5 
Frequent and severe Every round 3d10x5 


Visibility 

Clouds, storms, nebulae, and dust can all obscure the visibility of any targets 
inside, creating natural hiding places for pirates or starfighters wishing to 
spring an ambush. In conditions of poor visibility, all nonadjacent targets 
have concealment. In very poor visibility, adjacent targets have concealment 
and nonadjacent targets have total concealment. Specific guidelines for 
different environments are described below. 

Clouds, Fog, or Vapor: Ordinary clouds, fog, or vapor normally provides 
poor visibility, but very thick clouds (such as just before a major storm or in the 
aftermath of a volcanic eruption) might provide very poor visibility. Voleanic 
eruptions might also be corrosive (see Damaging Environment, above). 

Nebulae: Gaseous nebulae usually provide poor visibility, but the thicker 
gases of a very young nebula might provide very poor visibility. In addition, 
some nebulae might be corrosive or create ionic discharges (see Damaging 
Environment, above). 

Storms: Ordinary storms (heavy rain, snowfall, dust storms, and so forth) 
provide poor visibility and impose a -2 penalty on Pilot checks. Severe storms 
(tropical storms, hurricanes, blizzards, and the like) provide very poor visibility 
and impose a -5 penalty on Pilot checks. 


CREATE EXCITING SCENARIOS 
WITH COMPLICATIONS 

One of the best ways to create tension in a space combat sequence is to 
present complications that affect the way combat takes place. Although 
battles in which starships simply square off against one another are fine, a 
battle with some larger complication can increase the level of tension and 
excitement. Complications are factors that affect combat without affecting 
the battlefield itself. 

One of the most often-used complications is a time limit. Placing a limit 
on the amount of time—in rounds or otherwise—that the heroes have to 
complete their task creates a sense of urgency that makes space combat more 
exciting. For example, the attack of the Death Star in A New Hope became 
all the more desperate because they had to stop the battle station before it 
destroyed Yavin 4. A variant of the time limit is having a space limit, a sort of 
“finish line" for the encounter: Perhaps the heroes must reach a certain point 
to escape to the safety of hyperspace, or perhaps they must stop a shuttle 
carrying an Imperial governor before it reaches a Star Destroyer in orbit. 

Similarly, limiting the perception or communication of space combatants 
can add an air of the unknown to a combat encounter. In addition to terrain 
that impairs visibility (see above), other examples might include a wide-area 
jamming field that makes it impossible for heroes to communicate with one 
another or a sensor-scrambling field that imposes penalties on Pilot checks 
as the ship's onboard computers struggle to clear out the interference. 


CHALLENGE LEVEL 
ADJUSTMENTS FOR STARSHIP 
DISPARITIES 

Gamemasters might wish to consider altering the experience rewards for 
heroes aboard starships that are clearly superior to their enemies’ ships. For 
example, heroes aboard a Corellian Corvette clearly outgun enemies aboard 
a Lambda-class shuttle; as such, they have a distinct advantage over their 
foes. Rather than awarding full experience points for such a mismatched 
encounter, a Gamemaster can optionally alter the effective Challenge Level 
of the enemies to account for the disparity. 

First, calculate the Challenge Level value of the heroes’ vehicle (or aver- 
age value for multiple vehicles). Unless the heroes have the aid of a generic 
crew—such as when on board a capital ship—subtract the CL modifier for the 
crew's quality from the given CL for the vehicle (see the Crew Quality sidebar 
on page 174 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Second, take that number 
and divide by 2 (rounding down), then subtract the result from the CL of 
all opponents in the encounter. The new result is the enemy's adjusted CL. 
Use this adjusted CL when determining both the difficulty and the rewards 
(experience or credits) of an encounter. 

Example: Four 5th-level heroes flying X-wings (CL 10) clearly outmatch 
enemies in TIE fighters (CL 7). The CL value of an X-wing is 9 (CL 10, minus 
1 for a skilled crew); dividing 9 by 2 and rounding down yields a result of 
4. Subtracting 4 from the CL of the TIE fighters gives them an adjusted CL 
of 3. Thus, two to four TIE fighters would be an appropriate challenge for 
the heroes. 

If the same heroes were flying a lone YT-1300 (CL 6), the disparity is not 
quite so great. The CL value of a YT-1300 is 6 (no adjustment for a normal 
crew); dividing by 2 yields a result of 3. Subtracting 3 from the CL of the TIE 
fighters gives them an adjusted CL of 4. Thus, one to two TIE fighters would 
be an appropriate challenge for the heroes. 


i) SSLavnS 


IWES) NASYVLS 


AYE 


Pa 


—“CHAPTER III 
MODIFICATIONS 


PTR eR ae TER 


as 


As soon as heroes get their hands on a starship, they want to modify it. The 
desire for faster hyperdrives, more weapons, better shields, and possibly 
even some space for smuggled goods generally comes even before the first 
payment to a Hutt loan shark is due. Modifying a starship gives players a 
sense of ownership that makes them more connected to a campaign, and it 
serves other useful purposes as well. 

Heroes who want to improve a starship have a built-in reason to take 
risks to earn credits (or the help—and the use of the repair bay—of a grate- 
ful military group). Although Star Wars focuses on heroic action-adventure 
rather than the act of cobbling together credits for tinkering with a ship, 
many characters are simply more motivated if they know there's a material 
reward on the line. Furthermore, a starship acts as a good base of operations, 
allowing heroes to have a place that seems like home even as they gallivant 
across the galaxy. Finally, as the heroes gain levels, a better-equipped ship 
prepares them for greater challenges. 

A Gamemaster should find these rules also useful for enhancing starships 
flown by friends and foes of the heroes as well as for creating new starships to 
represent the thousands of different models of spacecraft found throughout 
the galaxy. Though designing a new model of starship is a lengthy process, 
it gives you a completely new class of starship from which you can build 
yet more variants. 


How TO USE THIS 
CHAPTER 


At its core, this chapter is a catalog of new options to add to a starship. 
Though it includes rules for figuring the cost of a new system, what resources 
the system needs, and how long it takes to install it, these are-secondary 
concerns. Some players love carefully calculating how many quad lasers they 
can add to a freighter before they have to sacrifice some cargo space, and 
the rules are here for them to do that. 

There's nothing wrong, however, with just choosing a new system and 
asking the Gamemaster what it will take to add it to your ship. Acquiring 
new starship components can be as easy as doing the right job for the right 
patron or paying a professional to bring your ship up to par with your needs. 
The GM might not make everything available when you want it, but eventu- 
ally you should see improvements become available without having to count 
every credit and every day in the dock. 

Similarly, if you're a Gamemaster, you don't need to worry about these details 
any more than you want to. If the heroes’ ship seems underpowered compared 
to other starships of an appropriate Challenge Level, you might add an extra 
system or two (perhaps contributed by a patron, friend, or even a bounty hunter 
who steals their ship and modifies it before the heroes get it back). This chapter 
should be a jumping-off point for more adventure and excitement, not a chore 


0 
Ms 
> 
a 
ae 
Gl 
2 


0 
II 
> 
v 
od 
i] 
Al 


( 
Sstns) NOILYSIAIGOow HnssvsLs 


in number-crunching. The style of campaign you're running is going to impact 
the relative value of any starship so much that no hard-and-fast set of rules 
could tell you for sure what to allow for the heroes, anyway. Simply use your 
best judgment: If it turns out that a ship is overpowered, simply arrange for 
a new system to short out when the starship next moves down its condition 
track. Make sure you provide an explanation to the players, though—faulty parts, 
incompetent labor, and sabotage are all reasonable possibilities. Each of these 
reasons can spark new adventures as, for example, the heroes track down the 
crooked outlaw tech who sold them a shoddy engine motivator. 


Cost MODIFIERS 


It costs more to build a hyperdrive that can move a capital-class ship than 
one fora starfighter. Bigger starships are simply costlier to improve or modi- 
fier. Thus, each size of starship has a cost modifier, which is applied to the 
base cost of starship systems added to starships of that size. For example, 
regenerating shields have a base cost of 5,000 credits. When added to a 
Colossal ship, this price is multiplied by the ship's cost modifier of x5, for 
a final cost of 25,000 credits. If added to a Colossal (cruiser) starship, the 
modifier is x500, for a final cost of 2,500,000 credits. 


STARSHIP SIZE COST MODIFIER 
Colossal (station) x5,000 
Colossal (cruiser) x500 
Colossal (frigate) x50 
Colossal x5 
Gargantuan x2 
Huge x1 


& NOTE ON CosTs 

All costs given in this chapter are, by necessity, approximate. The Star Wars 
galaxy is a vast market, and it's impossible to create a system that realistically 
represents the thousands of factors that could affect a major purchase's final 
cost. As a result, the Gamemaster should feel free to modify these prices up 
or down as much as necessary to suit the plot of an adventure, the storyline 
of a campaign, or even personal preference. 


EMPLACEMENT POINTS 


You must meet certain size, bracing, and power requirements before adding 
a system to a starship. Often, it simply isn't practical to add numerous new 
systems to an existing starship. Emplacement points represent the numerous 
factors that combine to limit how many systems a single starship can have. 


Each modification or new system has a rating in emplacement points to 
represent the effort required to add that feature to an existing starship. The 
more emplacement points a modification requires, the greater its demand in 
terms of room, bracing, power, and integration with other systems. 

If you lack the emplacement points to support a system, you can still install 
it; however, more time and credits are needed to add the subsystems that 
enable your new systems to function. For every emplacement point you lack for 
a system, add 2 days to the base installation time, 5 to the Mechanics check DC 
to install it, and 20% to the system cost. Additionally, any starships that have 
modifications installed in this manner are automatically considered “used” (see 
page 10), and any systems added without sufficient emplacement points are 
damaged beyond repair if the starship is disabled. This represents the harder 
work of finding ways to route power to your system, squeeze through already 
jammed conduits, and overcome the limitations of your overstuffed starship. 
Additionally, Gamemasters should feel free to rule that some modifications 
cannot be installed without sufficient emplacement points, such as passenger 
conversions when no cargo space is available. 


GAINING EBEMPLACEMENT POINTS 
Aship can gain additional emplacement points in one of three ways. Existing 
systems can be removed, making their emplacement points available for new 
systems. Thus, if a smuggler decides he needs a quad laser more than he needs 
maneuvering jets, he can remove the jets and gain the emplacement points 
needed to install a quad laser. Removing systems in this way takes half as 
long as installing them would take and involves no associated cost. In fact, 
the old system can normally be sold for 1/4 of its original value (assuming 
it's in good working condition and you can find a buyer). 

Alternatively, a starship can give up cargo capacity to gain more emplace- 
ment points (a favorite tactic among pirate and Rebel engineers). The freed 
space makes it much easier to reroute power lines, add small power genera- 
tors, and securely lock new systems into the ship's superstructure. It takes a 
number of tons of cargo capacity equal to a starship’s cost modifier for size 
(see Table 3-1: Cost Modifiers) to equal 1 emplacement point. For example, 
to gain an additional 4 emplacement points for a Corellian Corvette, you 
must sacrifice 200 tons of cargo capacity: 1 ton x 50 for a Colossal (frigate) 
starship for each point. 

Finally, a starship of Colossal or larger size can gain emplacement points by 
removing escape pods, gaining 1 emplacement point per 10% of the escape 
pods removed. However, doing this is illegal on anything other than a military 
starship, and it takes only a DC 10 Perception check to notice. A first offense 
might lead to a fine of 1,000 credits, a second 5,000 credits, and a third offense 
results in the ship being impounded and the captain's accredited license being 
revoked. A decent bribe and a Persuasion check might avoid this unpleasant- 
ness, however, particularly in a seedy spaceport on a backwater planet—and 
some such spaceports don't bother with safety inspections in any event. 


< 


UNUSED POINTS 


UNUSED POINTS 


STOCK SHIP 


STOCK SHIP 

Action IV transport 3 Firespray-31 3 
Baudo-class star yacht 2  Ghtroc-720 3 
Blockade runner 5 J-Type transports iz 
Citadel cruiser 3 Republic cruiser 5 
CloakShape fighter 2  SoroSuub patrol fighter 3 
Corellian gunship 5 Star Galleon-class frigate 4 
Dreadnaught 3 YT-series 10 
Dynamic-class freighter 6 


UNUSED EMPLACEMENT POINTS 
Any off-the-rack starship has some unused capacity, allowing some modi- 
fications to be made more easily. A standard, unmodified starship design 
generally has 1 unspent emplacement point. In some cases, this capacity is 
later used for a “standard” upgrade. For example, an unmodified V-19 Torrent 
has 1 unspent emplacement point, but it became standard practice to use 
this to install a hyperdrive generator in later models of the starfighter. 

Some stock ships are renowned for being easily modified. In part, this is 
the result of extra attachment points, power outlets, access hatches, and 
unused carrying capacity left over after the ship's core systems are installed. 
Such ships have even more unused emplacement points, allowing multiple 
systems to be added without removing anything or dealing with additional 
expenses. (Stock starships designed by the Corellian Engineering Corporation 
have 5 unused emplacement points unless otherwise specified.) For ships with 
more than 1 spare emplacement point from the Saga Edition core rulebook 
and this book, see Table 3-2: Unused Emplacement Points. 


NONSTANDARD 
MODIFICATIONS 


Rare or nonstandard system modifications (including those deemed by the 
Gamemaster to be ill suited for installation on a given ship) require substan- 
tially more effort to install, doubling the number of emplacement points 
required and multiplying the cost by 5. A modification is nonstandard if the 
starship does not have any similar system in its stock version. For example, 
adding a hyperdrive, shields, or a passenger compartment to a TIE fighter 
would be nonstandard, but adding new laser cannons (or replacing its existing 
laser cannons) would not. The GM is the final arbiter of what systems are 
sufficiently dissimilar to qualify as nonstandard, and particularly unusual 
combinations may be forbidden altogether. 


INSTALLATION 

Installing a new system, or modifying an old one, is normally a matter 
of work force, time, and a Mechanics check. This assumes the starship 
in which you are installing the system is otherwise fully functional, the 
system to be installed is freely available, and you have the tools and space 
needed. Remember that making Mechanics checks aboard a starship that 
has moved down the condition track incurs the normal penalties associated 
with that spot on the track. Under less optimal conditions, the time, money, 
and Mechanics check DC required could be increased by as much as 100%, 
and the Gamemaster may decide that modifications are impossible in these 
circumstances. Frequently, a given modification might be possible only if the 
heroes get hold of the system directly, such as stealing a shield generator 
from a Trade Federation shipyard, recovering mothballed fighters from an old 
Imperial supply depot, or trading rare spices to a Hutt crime lord for the last 
known example of a particular hyperdrive component. Whenever possible, 
a GM should make modifying the heroes’ starship as much an adventure as 
a design issue. 


INSTALLATION WORK FORCE 

The bigger a ship, the more people it takes to make modifications. For ships 
of Gargantuan size or smaller, a single person can do everything necessary 
(though it's often much easier with help). For Colossal ships, the minimum 
work force is larger: Colossal, 5; Colossal (frigate), 10; Colossal (cruiser), 
20; and Colossal (station), 50. The minimum work force can make a modi- 
fication or add a new system in the normal installation time (see below). It 
isn't practical for a smaller work force to make changes to such big ships, 
regardless of how much time the workers have. If your work force is bigger 
than your minimum, the installation can go faster, but the maximum work 
force that can be used on any given installation is 10 x the minimum work 
force for the ship's size. 


INSTALLATION TIME 
The base time needed to add a modification or system is calculated as follows: 


time (in days) = (emplacement points)x(ship's cost modifier) / 
(number of workers) 


In many cases, a new system can be added to a starfighter with just a single 
day of work. This is possible because many systems are modular, allowing 
different hyperdrives, weapons, and computer systems to be easily removed 
and new ones slotted in. Even something like reinforced bulkheads represents 
a predesigned kit of clamps and brackets that bolt on to existing hull plating. 
Still, some installations take large amounts of time unless a huge work force 
can be brought to the project. 


HeSidwvwrHia 


SSIAY NOMVDIAIGOW JIMSuvLs 
( 


i HS2evVHoS 


SSIAY NOILZDIAIEGOW SINEUVLS | 


INSTALLATION CHECKS 

Proper installation requires a Mechanics check at the end of the installation 
time. The base DC for such a check is 20, +1 for each point of emplace- 
ment a system or modification uses. If the check fails by less than 10, 
the installation is a partial failure. You must spend half as much time and 
money to try again, and gain a +5 bonus on your next Mechanics check 
to install the system or modification. A check that fails by 10 or more is a 
total failure—all the time and money spent is wasted, and you must start 
over from the beginning. 


STARSHIP SYSTEMS 


A starship's systems can be upgraded, replaced, and modified many times 
throughout the ship's operational lifetime. A starship system falls into one 
of four categories: movement, defense, offense, or accessories. Each system 
has a number of factors that affect its cost and availability, detailed in the 
table that accompanies each section. 

Emplacement Points: This value is the number of emplacement points 
required to install the system in a starship without incurring an additional 
cost or time delay. 

Availability: Some starship accessories have limited availability or are 
strictly regulated (see Restricted Items, page 118 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook). A system that is normally available without restriction is catego- 
rized as common. 

Size Restriction: Some systems can be placed only in starships of a 
certain size. Systems are normally limited to ships of a given size or larger, 
and some systems can function only in smaller ships. 

Cost: Sometimes a starship accessory has a flat cost or weight. Often 
the cost is determined by multiplying a base number by the starship's cost 
factor, which is determined by its size. If a cost is given as “base,” you must 
multiply it by the cost modifier for the starship's size (see Table 3-1: Cost 
Modifiers). If the cost is just given as a number of credits, the cost is the 
same no matter what size starship you add the system to. 


MOVEMENT SYSTEMS 

Starship movement falls into three basic categories—character scale, star- 
ship scale, and hyperspace. A starship might be described as "fast" if it has 
an advanced hyperdrive, yet still be relatively slow at starship-scale move- 
ment. Movement systems are extremely popular modifications for pirates, 
smugglers, and—to a lesser degree—military designers. 


Atmospheric Thrusters 

Atmospheric thrusters increase a starship's speed when the ship is flying in 
the atmosphere of a planet. Any starship able to operate in an atmosphere 
has some engine system designed for air flight, normally a combination of 
repulsorlifts and ion engines. Atmospheric thrusters are an augmentation of 


these basic systems, designed to make the starship more competitive with 
a dedicated airspeeder. 

Basic atmospheric thrusters increase a starship's maximum velocity and 
fly speed by 10%, and an advanced atmospheric thruster increases these 
by 25% (rounding down to the nearest square of speed and 10 km/h). Thus, 
an X-wing with an atmospheric thruster has a maximum velocity of 1,150 
km/h and a fly speed of 17 squares at character scale. 

Atmospheric thrusters have no effect on starship-scale movement. 


Combat Thrusters 

Often used by smugglers, bounty. hunters, and blockade runners, combat 
thrusters are modifications to a space transport's existing engines and 
maneuvering thrusters that allow the ship to engage in space combat as 
though it were a starfighter. A ship with combat thrusters is treated as one 
size category smaller than its actual size category for the purpose of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons (thus imposing the penalty for attacking 
targets smaller than Colossal size). Additionally, the space transport is treated 
as a starfighter for the purpose of dogfighting (meaning that it can engage 
in and be engaged in dogfighting) and combat maneuvers (see Chapter 2 for 
more on starship maneuvers). This modification does not change the ship's 
size modifier to Reflex Defense. 


Hyperdrives 

The hyperdrive is the most important piece of technology in the known 
galaxy. Modern civilization was driven by the realization of fast and reliable 
galactic travel thousands of years ago with the advent of the hyperdrive. 
Hyperdrives are rated by numeric class: The smaller the number, the better the 
hyperdrive (see Astrogation in Chapter 12 of the Saga Edition core rulebook 
or page 12 of this book for more information). 

The best hyperdrive ever created is the class .5. It's not possible to install 
a class .5 hyperdrive, because no manufacturer creates such a delicate and 
unreliable piece of equipment. The only way to achieve a hyperdrive of this 
type is to modify a class .75 hyperdrive using the Starship Designer feat. 
Because of its inherent unreliability, class .5 hyperdrives are illegal under all 
but the most unusual circumstances. 

A class .5 hyperdrive is very carefully tuned and delicate, so it tends to mal- 
function much more often than a standard hyperdrive. It requires eight hours 
of maintenance per month and a DC 20 Mechanics check to keep one running 
smoothly. If the maintenance isn't kept up, or the Mechanics check for doing 
so fails, you take a -5 penalty on Use Computer checks made to astrogate until 
the hyperdrive receives proper maintenance. Furthermore, any time you would 
normally have an astrogation mishap, the hyperdrive is instead disabled until 
repaired (normally requiring 1 hour of work and a DC 20 Mechanics check). 

The class 1 hyperdrive is considered the pinnacle of stable hyperdrive 
technology from the Clone Wars forward. It is the favored technology of 


military vessels, but its high cost often results in designers settling for a 
class 2 or class 3 drive, which were state of the art during most of the Rise 
of the Empire era. 

A hyperdrive of class 4 to class 6 is normally either old technology or an 
aftermarket retrofit crammed into a vessel not designed to support a hyper- 
drive. Backup hyperdrives, usually ranging from class 8 to class 15, are often 
used as emergency systems. Though no one wants to wait a month to arrive 


someplace when using a class 10 backup hyperdrive, often the alternative 
is to drift aimlessly in space for centuries. 

Starfighters: Because of their bulk, hyperdrives are always treated as 
nonstandard modifications for starfighters. Some alternatives have been 
devised to allow starfighters to travel through hyperspace without installing 
expensive internal hyperdrives. 

Hyperdrive Sleds: A hyperdrive sled is bolted onto the exterior of a 
starfighter, such as a CloakShape fighter. The sled costs five times as much 


ee 

SYSTEM EMPLACEMENT POINTS AVAILABILITY SIZE RESTRICTION COST 

Atmospheric thruster 2 Common Colossal or smaller 2,000 credits base 
Atmospheric thruster, advanced 5 Common Gargantuan or smaller 5,000 credits base 
Combat thruster 1 Common Colossal 2,000 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class .75 4 Military Colossal (cruiser) or smaller 5,000 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 1 3 Licensed Colossal (cruiser) or smaller 3,000 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 1.5 3 Licensed Colossal (cruiser) or smaller 2,500 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 2 3 Common - 2,000 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 3 2 Common - 1,500 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 4 2 Common - 1,000 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 5 2 Common = 500 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 6 2 Common - 400 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 8 1 Common - 300 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 10 1 Common - 200 credits base 
Hyperdrive, class 15 1 Common - 100 credits base 
Maneuvering jets +2 Z Common - 2,000 credits base 
Maneuvering jets +4 3 Common Colossal or smaller 5,000 credits base 
Maneuvering jets +6 4 Licensed Gargantuan or smaller 10,000 credits base 
Navicomputer, limited 0 Common - 500 credits 

Navicomputer 1 Licensed - 2,000 credits 

Navicomputer, advanced 2 Licensed - 20,000 credits 

SubLight Accelerator Motor 2 Military Gargantuan or smaller 25,000 credits base 
Sublight drive (speed 1 square) 2 Common - 1,000 credits base 
Sublight drive (speed 2 squares) 3 Common - 2,000 credits base 
Sublight drive (speed 3 squares) 4 Licensed Colossal (cruiser) or smaller 5,000 credits base 
Sublight drive (speed 4 squares) 5 Restricted Colossal (cruiser) or smaller 10,000 credits base 
Sublight drive (speed 5 squares) 6 Military Colossal or smaller 20,000 credits base 
Sublight drive (speed 6 squares) 7 Military Gargantuan or smaller 100,000 credits base 


iii BaLavHaS 


SSIAY NOVDIANEGOW SAHSYUVLS 


wealave 


c : 
SEIN NOILYSIDIGOW HAHSHvLs 


a 


as a normal hyperdrive, but it is not considered nonstandard, it requires no 
emplacement points, and it can be added with 1 hour of work and a DC 15 
Mechanics check. A sled does interfere with maneuverability, however, so a 
starfighter takes a -2 penalty to its Dexterity while attached to a sled. 

Hyperdrive Rings: A hyperdrive ring is designed for only occasional or 
temporary use. A ring costs as much as a normal hyperdrive for a starfighter 
of a given size, but it is not considered nonstandard and it requires no 
emplacement points. The pilot of a starfighter must take a standard action 
and make a DC 10 Pilot check to dock with or disconnect from a hyperdrive 
ring. If the Pilot check fails, the docking or undocking was unsuccessful: if it 
fails by 10 or more, a collision occurs, destroying the hyperspace ring. 

In addition to requiring docking and undocking, hyperspace rings have 
some other drawbacks. If a starship attached to a hyperdrive ring takes 


damage equal to or exceeding its damage threshold, the hyperdrive ring is 
destroyed. Like a hyperdrive sled, a hyperdrive ring is bulky and awkward, 
so a starfighter docked to one takes a --4 penalty to its Dexterity. Finally, a 
starfighter can't enter atmosphere or land with a hyperdrive ring attached, 
so it must be left in orbit—and some pirates and shipjackers enjoy the easy 
pickings of an unattended target. 


Maneuvering Jets 
It is possible to increase a starship's ability to pitch, jink, and roll by adding 
additional small ion jets that automatically fire during extreme maneuvers. 
Although all starships include some maneuvering thrusters, special maneu- 
vering jets give more power to perform maneuvers beyond a starship's 
normal capability. 

Maneuvering jets give a starship a +2, +4, or +6 equipment bonus to its 
Dexterity score. 


Navicomputer 

A navicomputer is an astrogation calculator designed to make all the calcu- 
lations necessary to travel through hyperspace. Most starships have navi- 
computers, but those that lack hyperdrives and some fighters that depend 
on astromech droids do not. 

Though extremely expensive, advanced navicomputers exist. These grant 
a +10 bonus on Use Computer checks made for astrogation, rather than a 
typical navicomputer's +5. Additionally, a character aboard a ship that has 
a navicomputer need not be trained in the Use Computer skill to make use 
of the astrogate aspect of the skill. 

Starfighters: Most navicomputers are nonstandard for starfight- 
ers—these ships simply don't have the room for the memory core required to 
store and track the locations of untold billions of celestial objects. Instead, 
starfighters often have limited navicomputers that store only two jumps' 
worth of information, enough to get to a destination and return. Some 
limited navicomputers have a greater memory capacity, but these are rare 
and more expensive. 


SubLight Accelerator Motor 

A SubLight Accelerator Motor (SLAM) is an overdrive system designed to draw 
power from systems not in use to give a starship a brief burst of additional 
speed. A starship's SLAM system provides a +5 bonus on Pilot checks to 
increase a vehicle's speed. This bonus increases to +10 if the pilot is using 
all-out movement. 


Sublight Drive 

A sublight drive is what makes a ship move through space. Though a SubLight 
Accelerator Motor can enhance a ship's space speed, sometimes a new sub- 
light drive is required to reach such speeds with minimal effort from the pilot. 


Replacing a ship's sublight drive can be expensive, though, and many ships DEFENSE SYSTEMS 


cannot reach high speeds due to the bulk of their sublght drives. Additionally, Defense systems include anything that reduces the chance a starship will be 
only military vessels are permitted to use incredibly fast ion drives. A sublight destroyed. They are often less regulated than weapon systems, since even 
drive determines a ship's speed when moving through realspace. 


the Empire acknowledges that citizens and merchants have a right to avoid 
suffering at the hands of pirates and rogue planetary defense forces. 


SYSTEM EMPLACEMENT POINTS AVAILABILITY SIZE RESTRICTION COST 


Armor, +1 A Licensed None 2,000 credits base 

Armor, +2 5 Restricted Colossal or larger 5,000 credits base 

Armor, +3 10 Military Colossal (frigate) or larger 10,000 credits base 

Armor, +4 20 Military Colossal (cruiser) or larger 20,000 credits base 

Jamming suite 1 Common None 5,000 credits base 

Jamming array 5 Common Colossal or larger 20,000 credits base 

Regenerating shields 2 Restricted None 5,000 credits base 

Reinforced bulkheads +10% 2 Common None 2,000 credits base 

Reinforced bulkheads +20% 5 Licensed None 5,000 credits base 

Reinforced bulkheads +30% 10 Restricted None 10,000 credits base 

Shields,SR10 1 Common None a 750 credits base 

Shields, SR 15 1 Common None 1,000 credits base 

Shields,SR20. 1 Common Gargantuan or larger 1,250 credits base Oi 
Shields, SR 25 1 Common Gargantuan or larger 1,500 credits base 2 7 
Shields, SR 30 2 Common Gargantuan or larger 2,000 credits base ie 
Shields, SR 35 2 Common Gargantuan or larger 2,500 credits base i @) 
Shields, SR 40 De Common Colossal or larger 3,000 credits base : x 
Shields, SR 45 2 Common Colossal or larger 4,000 credits base U 
Shields, SR 50 s Common Colossal or larger 5,000 credits base § 
Shields, SR 55 3 Common Colossal or larger 6,000 credits base U 
Shields, SR 60 ce: Common Colossal (frigate) or larger 8,000 credits base 7 l 
Shields, SR 70 3 Common Colossal (frigate) or larger 10,000 credits base 6 
Shields, SR 80 4 Common Colossal (frigate) or larger 12,500 credits base > 
Shields, SR 90 4 Common Colossal (frigate) or larger 15,000 credits base al 
Shields, SR 100 5 Common Colossal (frigate) or larger 20,000 credits base 2 
Shields, SR 125 6 Common Colossal (frigate) or larger 25,000 credits base 

Shields, SR 150 i] Common Colossal (cruiser) or larger 30,000 credits base 2 
Shields, SR 175 8 Common Colossal (cruiser) or larger 40,000 credits base [P 
Shields, SR 200 10 Common Colossal (cruiser) or larger 50,000 credits base it 


Sans NEOILYSIAIGOW HAKSHvLs 


Armor 

A basic level of armor exists on all starships—it's a necessary part of building 
a hull strong enough to survive the rigors of space—and armor never has to 
be completely replaced, just patched up. However, it's possible to add addi- 
tional armor beyond what's needed to keep a starship intact while traveling 
through hyperspace, and doing so can boost a ship's chance of making it 
out of a firefight. Additional armor is heavy and generally obvious, giving 
a starship a blocky, military appearance. Armor is bought as an equipment 
bonus to the armor a starship adds to its Reflex Defense. Skilled pilots often 
prefer ships without heavy armor, since they can use their character level in 
place of a ship's armor bonus in any case. 


Jammers 

Jammers come in many forms, from small jamming suites used in starfighters 
and space transports to massive jamming arrays carried by some capital ships. 
Not all jammers are effective enough to alter game statistics—the jamming 
suite in an ARC-170, for example, has too small an effect on other ships to 
modify game statistics in any way. 

A sensor jamming system is capable of blinding enemy sensors and 
fire-control computers, making the starship carrying the jammer a more 
elusive target. The effectiveness of a jamming suite is limited to small craft 
and space transports, and a single target within 6 squares (starship scale) 
must be selected as the target of the jammer (as a swift action). A jamming 
array affects all enemy starships within 6 squares of the starship carrying 
it, regardless of the size of those ships. 

Aship affected by a jammer takes penalties on Use Computer checks made 
for starship communications or sensors. For a jamming suite, the penalty is -4 
for starfighters and -2 for space transports. For a jamming array, the penalty 
is -6 for starfighters, —4 for space transports, and -2 for capital ships. This 
penalty also applies to enemy fire control systems, although it cannot reduce 
a ship's Intelligence ability modifier on attack rolls below +0. 

Asystem operator can attempt to overcome the effect of a jammer. Doing 
this is a swift action and involves a Use Computer check (with the jammer 
penalty) opposed by the Use Computer check of the ship with the jammer. 
On a successful result, the jammed ship takes no penalties from jamming 
until the start of the system operator's next turn. 


Regenerating Shields 

Because of the importance of shields, many engineers have tried to devise 
ways to improve their performance. For example, the Mon Calamari install 
backup shield generators on their warships to keep their defenses strong, 
while others have added additional power generators or special computers 
to ensure that shield generators have the most power when they need it. All 
these systems are essentially ways to have shields regenerate more quickly, 
even if they work on different principles. 


If you have regenerating shields, your current shield rating increases 
by 10 (up to the ship's maximum shield rating) when you use the recharge 
shields action. Normal shields increase their shield rating by only 5 when 
recharged. 


Reinforced Bulkheads 

The overall durability of a craft can be increased by reinforcing its internal 
bulkheads. Reinforced bulkheads increase a starship's hit points by 10%, 
20%, or 30%. (These improvements don't stack.) 


Shields 

Not all starships have deflector shields, and they are an extremely popular 
addition for those that lack them. However, the energy and space cost of 
shields is extremely high, and it grows with the size of the craft to be pro- 
tected; thus, only the largest vessels have enough power and internal space 
necessary to operate the most powerful shields. 


WEAPON SYSTEMS 

Most starships carry at least one or two weapons, for defense against 
pirates and asteroids if nothing else. Every weapon is required to have an 
arms load-out permit, but as long as a civilian ship isn't bristling with proton 
torpedo launchers, very few officials care to check such things. Similarly, no 
matter what documentation you have, a vessel outfitted with heavy turbo- 
lasers is viewed with suspicion unless it belongs to a well-known ally. 

Several common (and some not-so-common) weapon systems are 
detailed below. Note that the damage given for these weapons is typical, 
not absolute, and naming conventions are far from universal. It's impossible 
to detail every weapon system for every manufacturer throughout every 
era. These values are representative, and a Gamemaster is free to modify 
them as he desires. 


Autoblaster 

Blaster cannons can be designed with a higher cyclic firing rate so long 
as they have sufficient cooling systems to keep the firing elements from 
overheating. Only single-mounted blasters are generally made into auto- 
blasters, however. 


Blaster Cannons 

Blasters are more commonly found on airspeeders and ground vehicles than 
on starships, but they are frequently mounted on starfighters. Blasters are 
somewhat less expensive than lasers, but they have a more limited range. 


Cannon, Double/Quad 
Double and quad versions of blasters, lasers, ion cannons, and turbolasers 
are available, creating reciprocating multibarrel weapons. A double or quad 


cannon has the given availability or the availability of its base weapon, 
whichever is more restrictive. 

Autofire: Double or quad blaster cannons, laser cannons, light ion can- 
nons, and light turbolasers can fire normally or in autofire mode, with a swift 
action required to switch between the two. 

Triple Cannons: Some starships also carry triple cannons. These are 
functionally identical to double cannons, using three cannons (with slightly 
less power individually) instead of two standard cannons, 


Cannon Enhancements 
It's possible to boost the damage output of a blaster, a laser (but not a 
turbolaser), or an ion cannon with a series of modifications designed to 
increase power draw and the cohesion of the energy bolts. Enhanced power 
cyclers, high-volume gas feeds, and larger energization crystals (coupled 
with enhanced or redundant cooling packs and compressors) create multi- 
stage laser weapons that have significantly more stopping power. Advanced 
cannon enhancements are also available, but they are substantially more 
expensive. 

Because these modifications create a multistage laser, such weapons are 
sometimes referred to as turbolasers, but they are substantially weaker than 
the larger weapons mounted on capital ships. 


Concussion Missiles 

Aconcussion missile carries a warhead containing a compact energy pack. 
When one explodes, it gives off a powerful concussive blast that disrupts 
delicate instruments and equipment, causing shock and blast damage to 
more durable targets. Because of their bulk, concussion missiles are gener- 
ally preferred for space transports and capital ships. All concussion missiles 
have a 4-square splash radius. 

Armor-Piercing Concussion Missiles: Although all concussion missiles 
are designed for heavily armored targets, some are optimized for this role; 
however, these warheads require a more precise shot to detonate properly. 
Such missiles have penetration 10 (ignoring the first 10 points of DR or SR) 
but cause a -5 penalty on attack rolls with the weapon. 

Launchers: The ammunition capacity of a concussion missile launcher is 
determined by its size: light, 6; medium, 16; heavy, 30. Additional capacity 
can be added, increasing the cost by 20% for each additional missile (up to 
a maximum of double capacity). 


Docking Guns 

Smugglers and pirates often add character-scale weapons to fighters and 
freighters, in order to allow them to open fire while docked without risking 
blowing up an entire docking facility. Any character-scale ranged weapon can 
be added as a docking gun, though repeating blaster rifles and heavy blaster 
rifles are most common. Docking guns count as heavy weapons once installed 


(regardless of their original weapon category). They draw power from the ship, 
operating as long as the ship has power, instead of requiring power packs. 
The idea has occasionally been used on military vessels—adding heavy 
guns to docking bays to assist in efforts to offload troops onto a battlefield, 
for example. 
The cost of a docking gun is for the mount only—the gun itself is bought 
normally. Docking guns have no effect on starship-scale combat. 


Droid Jammer 

Toward the end of the Clone Wars, many ships were outfitted with special- 
ized jamming equipment keyed to affect droid sensors and avionics. When 
the jammers are employed, attacks from the starship gain a +2 equipment 
bonus to hit automated craft, such as the droid starfighters and tri-fighters 
employed by the Trade Federation. The jammers affect only droid-controlled 
spacecraft within a 5-square radius. 


Fire-Linked Weapons 

Weapons of any type that deal damage can be fire-linked to increase their 
output, using up more space than a double or quad weapon but costing less. 
(Fire-linked turbolasers are often described as “batteries,” but this is not the 
same thing as a weapon battery in game terms.) With every attack, fire-linked 
missiles and torpedoes consume a number of shots of ammunition equal to the 
number of fire-linked launchers. A fire-linked weapon has the given availability 
or the availability of its base weapon, whichever is more restrictive. 

Autofire: Fire-linked blaster cannons, laser cannons, light ion cannons, 
and light turbolasers can fire normally or in autofire mode, with a swift 
action required to switch between the two. 

Optional Fire Link: Some fire-linked weapons, such as missiles and tor- 
pedoes, are designed to have their link deactivated to conserve ammunition. 
The link can be turned on or off as a swift action, and the extra damage and 
ammunition consumption applies only while the link is activated. 


Gravity Well Projectors 

Gravity well projectors are unique weapons in that they do not deal damage 
but instead produce a special effect. Projecting a gravity well is treated like 
firing a weapon in an area attack; the gravity well operator must choose 
a 4x4-square (starship scale) area within the generator's range and make 
an attack roll against a Reflex Defense of 10. If successful, the gravity well 
projector creates a hyperspace interdiction field in those target squares. Any 
starship that starts its turn in a square covered by a hyperspace interdiction 
field may not activate its hyperdrive on that turn. 


lon Bombs 
lon bombs are primitive, fin-stabilized weapons used to knock out electron- 
ics and droid targets on the surface of a world. Because of their primitive 


SeIns NOILWSISIaOw +20 


Satwns) NOILVSIANGOwW Ae ISHBVLS 


fin-stabilized guidance system, the bombs are usable only in an atmosphere, 
and attacks with them take a -5 penalty. lon bombs may target a square 
directly beneath the ship that deploys them. On impact, they create a strong 
ion field that deals 5d10 points of ion damage within a 10-square radius. lon 
bomb racks can hold up to four ion bombs. 


lon Cannons 

lon cannons are generally viewed as defensive armament, but they are 
quite common on pirate and military vessels. lon cannons deal ion damage, 
as detailed in Chapter 9 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. Of starship- 
mounted ion cannons, all but the smallest don't have a cyclic rate of fire 
high enough to allow autofire, even when mounted in double, quad, or fire- 
linked configurations. 

Hapan Triple lon Cannon: The Hapan triple ion cannon is a special capital 
ship weapon that acts like a point-defense weapon (using point-defense ranges 
and taking no penalty for attacking ships of smaller than Colossal size). It is 
also capable of autofire mode, but it may not make starship-scale area attacks. 
Until the New Jedi Order era, Hapan triple ion cannons are illegal outside the 
Hapan Consortium, and the Hapans do not sell them to outsiders. 


Laser Cannons 

Laser cannons are the most common starship weapons, carried by starfighters 
and space transports as primary armament and capital ships as point-defense 
weapons. They generally have a better range than blaster cannons, but they 
are somewhat more expensive. 


Point-Defense Weapon 

Normally, only blaster cannons, laser cannons, and light ion cannons can be 
point-defense weapons. Modifying a weapon to be a point-defense weapon 
costs 4,000 credits per weapon but has no emplacement point requirement 
(other than what is required to mount the weapon itself). A point-defense 
weapon takes no penalty for attacking targets of smaller than Colossal size 
(see page 170 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Proton Torpedoes 
Proton torpedoes use a proton-scattering warhead that essentially causes a 
miniature nuclear explosion on the target's surface. Because of their small 
size and compact launcher, they are preferred for starfighters and other rela- 
tively small vessels. All proton torpedoes have a 4-square splash radius. 
Launchers: A standard proton torpedo launcher holds three torpedoes. 
Additional capacity may be added, increasing the cost by 25% for each 
additional torpedo (up to a maximum of sixteen torpedoes). 


Shieldbuster Torpedoes 
These are plasma-based torpedo weapons that create bursts of radiation spe- 
cifically designed to overwhelm a vehicle's shields. The T-33 used by K-wings 
is typical of weapons of this type. Against anything but shields, shieldbusters 
deal half damage. If an attack from a shieldbuster torpedo exceeds a target's 
SR, the target loses 10 points from its SR (rather than the normal 5). Shields 
damaged in this way can be recharged normally. 

Launchers: A standard shieldbuster torpedo holds four torpedoes. Addi- 
tional capacity may be added, increasing the cost by 25% for each additional 
torpedo (up to a maximum of eight torpedoes). 


Space Mines 

Aspace mine can be deployed as a swift action at any point along a starship's 
movement path. Whenever any ship enters a square in which a space mine was 
deployed, the mine detonates and makes an area attack against the Reflex 
Defense of all ships in that square. On a hit, it deals full damage to the target; 
ona miss, it deals only half damage. It is also possible for mines to be designed 
not to be detonated by ships with specific IFF codes (to allow defenders to 
fly freely past them) or to be command-detonated (requiring a gunner to 
detonate them as a standard action, often after readying an action). 

A space mine has a Stealth bonus of +5 (including size modifiers), which 
sets the DC to notice the space mine. Whenever a starship is about to enter 
the same square as a space mine, the pilot can make a Perception check as 
a reaction to notice the mine and choose a different square to move into 
instead. If the ship has a system operator, the system operator may make a 
Use Computer check as a reaction as well, using the ship's sensors to detect 
the mine. 

A typical space mine has a +5 attack bonus and deals 7d10x2 points of 
damage. An advanced space mine has a +10 attack bonus and deals 9d10x2 
points of damage. A heavy space mine has a +5 attack bonus and deals 
6d10x5 points of damage; however, like all capital ship weapons, it takes a 
-20 penalty on attack rolls against targets of smaller than Colossal size. 

Mine Launcher: All mine launchers hold six mines. Additional capacity 
may be added, increasing the cost by 25% per each additional mine (up to 
a maximum of twelve mines). 


Tractor Beams 

Massive devices that require enormous outlays of energy to operate, trac- 
tor beams are generally found only on capital ships and stations. Tractor 
beams are considered nonstandard modifications for space transports and 
starfighters, making such installations almost impossible for all but the best 
engineers. The rules for tractor beams are detailed on page 174 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook. 


EMPLACEMENT EMPLACEMENT 
WEAPON DAMAGE POINTS AVAILABILITY COST WEAPON DAMAGE POINTS AVAILABILITY COST 
Autoblaster - +0 Restricted x2 lon bomb 5d10 ion ~ Military 500 
Blaster cannon, light 3d10x2 1 Licensed 1,200 lon bomb rack - 1 Military 1,000 
Blaster cannon, medium 4d10x2 1 Restricted 2,500 lon cannon, light 3d10x2 ion 1 Licensed 2,000 
Blaster cannon, heavy 5d10x2 2 Military 5,500 lon cannon, medium 5d10x2 ion 2 Restricted 3,000 
Cannon, double +1d10 +0 Licensed x3 lon cannon, heavy (1) 3d10x5 ion 5 Military 6,000 
Cannon, quad +2d10 +1 Restricted x5 lon cannon, 5d10x5 ion 3 Illegal 12,000 
Cannon enhancements +1010 +1 Military x2 Hapan triple (1) 
Cannon enhancements, +2d10 +2 Military x5 Laser cannon, light 3d10x2 1 Licensed 1,500 
advanced Lasercannon,medium 4d10x2 1 Restricted 4,000 
Concussion missile, light 7d10x2 0 Military 500 Laser cannon, heavy 5d10x2 2 Military 6,000 
Concussion missile, 9d10x2 0 Military 750 Point-defense weapon (1) — 0 Restricted +4,000 
medium Proton torpedo 9d10x2 0 Military === 800 
Concussion missile, 9d10x5 0 Military 2,000 Proton torpedo launcher — 1 Military 2,500 
heavy (1) : Shieldbuster torpedo 10d10x2 0 Mitay = 1000. 
Concussion missile es 2 Military 2,000 Shieldbuster torpedo = — 3 Military 10,000 
launcher, light launcher 
Concussion missile = 5 Military 3,500 Space mine, standard _—_7d10[ts[2 0 Military 1,000 a @ 
launcher, medium Space mine, advanced 9d10x2 0 Military 5,000 a); a 
Concussion missile . 20 Military 30,000 Space mine, heavy 6d10x5 0 Military 5,000 d a 
Hanoy heavy (1) Space mine launcher - 2 Military 5,000 | i 
Docking gun By weapon 1 Licensed +1,000 oem r Military 5,000 x 
Droid jammer Special 1 Licensed 8,000 heavy (1) U 
Fire-linked weapon,2 — +1d10 +1 Licensed x2 Thachar en Special 10 (ieeriged 10,000 R 
Fire-linked weapon, 4 +2d10 +2 Restricted x4 Turbolaser, light (1) 3d10x5 2 Military 5,000 @) 
Fire-linked weapon, Special of Licensed +1,000 Turbolaser, medium (1) | 5d10x5 5 Military 10,000 Y 
punianel “ Turbolaser, heavy (1) 7d10x5 10 Military 20,000 a" 
Gravity well projector (1) Special 5 Military 50,000 1 Colossal or larger starships only g 
a 
= ONE ob ue ee 
— CHARACTER SCALE (IN SQUARES) — — STARSHIP SCALE (IN SQUARES) — Zz 
WEAPON TYPE POINT BLANK SHORT MEDIUM LONG POINT BLANK SHORT MEDIUM LONG 0 
Gravity well projector (1) 0-1,500 [ = 2 0-10 = 2 a Cc 
Shieldbuster torpedo 0-450 451-900 901-2,250 2,251-4,000 0-3 4-6 7-15 16-30 5 
0) 


1 Colossal or larger starships only 


=i ae) 


0| 
Z| 
Peal 
Ia! 
0) 
| 


Sans) NOIAVAIANGOW AHASHV21S 


Turbolasers 

Turbolasers are capital ship weapons designed to use the immense power 
necessary to blast through the dense armor and shielding of other large 
targets. They use turbine generators to build the necessary energy, stor- 
ing it in a capacitor bank until it is discharged. The barrels of turbolasers 
require substantial cooling to survive the enormous energy involved, so many 
are designed to recoil into a cryogenic "sleeve" immediately after firing. 
Because of this longer firing sequence, all but the smallest turbolasers are 
incapable of autofire even when mounted in double, quad, or fire-linked 
configurations. 


ACCESSORIES 

Accessories include any systems that do not fall under one of the previous 
categories. They add functions or improve existing systems on a starship, 
making them more capable and efficient. 


Cargo Jettison System 

A cargo jettison system allows a ship to dump part or all of its cargo into 
space without docking or slowing down. The system is most often used by 
smugglers, though such designs were originally built for large freighters 
hauling explosive materials that might become unstable. A pilot or systems 
operator can dump any single cargo bay, or all cargo on the ship, as a swift 
action. If this is done while the starship is moving in space, it takes a DC 30 
Perception or Use Computer check made as a reaction to notice the action 
from another starship. 


Cargo Pods 
Cargo pods are additional storage space added to a ship to boost its total car- 
rying capacity. Though they allow independent traders to carry more goods, 
they also reduce a ship's ability to maneuver quickly, making them unpopular 
with pirates and military craft. Each cargo pod added to a starship reduces 
its Dexterity score by 2. You can add multiple cargo pods to a starship, but 
cannot add a pod if it would drop the starship's Dexterity below 1. 

The additional carrying capacity is based on the size of the starship. A 
small cargo pod adds (starship's cost modifier) x 1 tons of cargo. A medium 
cargo pod adds (starship's cost modifier) x 5 tons of cargo. A heavy cargo 
pod adds (starship's cost modifier) x 10 tons of cargo. 

A cargo pod can be made detachable (to act as an escape pod) for five 
times the cost. 


Cloaking Device 

A cloaking device creates a field of invisibility around a ship, making it 
nearly impossible to detect with sensors or the naked eye. The oldest form 
is the stygium crystal cloaking device, which uses rare crystals found only 
on Aeten Il, a planet of the Outer Rim. These devices were used extensively 


on military craft during the time of the Old Republic. They were fantastically 
expensive, but fairly small and extremely effective. The supply of stygium 
crystals was so limited that they were almost impossible to find by the time 
of the Empire. A second technology uses hibridium, an ore found on the 
planet Garos IV. These cloaks are much larger and produce a “double-blind” 
effect, making it impossible for those within the ship to see out as long as 
the cloaking field is operating. 

A cloaked ship is considered to have total concealment, and may always 
make a Stealth check to sneak. (Remember to apply the -10 penalty to notice 
a target that has total concealment when making checks to notice a cloaked 
ship.) Noticing a cloaked ship does not negate its concealment, but does 
allow you to make attacks against it, taking the normal penalty on attacks 
for concealment. A starship using a hibridium cloak also treats all other 
targets as having total concealment as long as the cloak is active. 


Cryogenic Chambers 

Cryogenic chambers are hibernation systems that allow live creatures to 
be carried in stasis. Originally developed prior to the invention of safe 
hyperdrive systems, they are now used to haul herds of livestock (often 
nerf or bantha herds) and to transport critically injured passengers. Each 
unit of cryogenic chambers can carry a number of Medium or smaller 
creatures equal to (starship's cost modifier)/5. Large creatures take up 
five times as much space, and Huge creatures take up twenty times as 
much space. 


Docking Clamp 
A docking clamp allows a starship to dock with other starships in space. 
Normally, this accessory is used by passengers to move from shuttles 
to larger ships, but larger vessels can use them as makeshift starfighter 
launches. Once the clamp is in place, creatures can safely move between 
the clamped ships. A starship can maneuver, fight, and even travel through 
hyperspace with ships of smaller size clamped to it. However, if a ship takes 
damage in excess of its damage threshold, all starships attached to it by 
docking clamps are shaken off. 

Docking clamps on smaller ships aren't strong enough to do much more 
than hold the ship in place during routine docking. These are built into the 
cost of all starships and have no special game effect. 


Droid Repair Team 

A droid repair team automatically deploys to repair a starship when it moves 
-1 or more steps down the condition track—no action on the part of the 
crew is necessary to activate it. A droid repair team does not take any action 
other than to make a Mechanics check to jury-rig a starship, moving it +1 
step on the condition track. A droid repair team has a Mechanics check 
modifier of +13. 


eee 


ACCESSORY 
Cargo jettison system 
Cargo pod, light 

Cargo pod, medium 

Cargo pod, heavy 
Cloaking device, hibridium 
Cloaking device, stygium 
Cryogenic chambers 
Docking clamp 

Droid repair team 

Escape pod, small lifeboat 
Escape pod, large lifeboat 
Extended range 

Hangar bay 

Hangar bay, concealed 
HoloNet transceiver 
Hypertransceiver 

Luxury upgrade, basic 
Luxury upgrade, advanced 
Luxury upgrade, extreme 
Medical suite 

Passenger seating 
Passenger quarters 
Sensor array computer +2 
Sensor array computer +4 
Sensor array computer +6 
Sensor enhancement package 
Slave circuits, basic 

Slave circuits, advanced 
Slave circuits, recall 
Smuggler's compartments 
Transponder, |FF 
Transponder, masked 
Transponder, disguised (1) 
Transponder, disguised (2) 
Transponder, disguised (3) 


EMPLACEMENT POINTS 
1 


0 
1 
2 
S 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
8 


OR 2 Oe 2 2 oo oe) 


AVAILABILITY 
Licensed 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Military 
Military 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Licensed 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Licensed 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Military 
Illegal 
Military 
Illegal 
Illegal 
Illegal 
Illegal 


IES 


SIZE RESTRICTION 
Gargantuan or larger 
Colossal or larger 

Colossal (frigate) or larger 
Colossal or larger 

Huge or larger 

Colossal or larger 

Colossal (frigate) or larger 
Colossal or larger 

Colossal or larger 

Colossal (frigate) or larger 
Colossal (frigate) or larger 
Colossal (frigate) or larger 
Colossal or larger 


Colossal or larger 


Colossal or larger 
Colossal or smaller 


COST 
1,000 credits base 
500 credits base 
1,000 credits base 
1,500 credits base 
50,000 credits base 
100,000,000 credits base 
500 credits base 
2,000 credits base 
5,000 credits base 
400 credits base 
800 credits base 
100 credits base 

10 credits base 
1,000 credits base 
50,000 credits base 
2,000 credits base 
10,000 credits base 
20,000 credits base 
50,000 credits base 
3,000 credits base 
200 credits base 
500 credits base 
5,000 credits base 
25,000 credits base 
50,000 credits base 
15,000 credits base 
1,000 credits base 
4,000 credits base 
6,000 credits base 
200 credits base 
1,000 credits 
200 credits base 
500 credits base 
1,000 credits base 
2,000 credits base 


Hl HSitavHd 


al 
D 
2 
@ 
x 
U 
x 
@ 
y 
ul 
> 
al 
0 
Z 
a 
W 
i) 


ett 


SEetns NEOILVYSIIAGOW HHSHvLs 


Hold VHO 


If a starship takes damage that gets past its SR (if any) in a round when 
a droid repair team is active, there's a 25% chance that the droid repair 
team is destroyed. 


Escape Pods 

All space transports and capital ships automatically include enough escape 
pods for all nondroid passengers and crew—they're built into the cost of the 
ship. By law, starships are required to have sufficient escape pods on board at 
all times, but military starships are exempt from this rule and may carry fewer 
than the normal amount (see Gaining Emplacement Points, page 38). 

If a Colossal or larger starship is destroyed, any character on board who 
survives may make a DC 20 Acrobatics check to reach an escape pod. Ona failed 
check, the character is stuck in a bit of wreckage that has enough air and heat 
to keep him alive for about an hour. (Obviously, a character who gets into an 
escape pod prior to a ship's destruction does not need to make a check.) 

Typical escape pods are small, single-use vehicles providing 1 day of life 
support for eight Medium creatures plus rations for another week and just 
enough fuel to reach a nearby planet. Many large ships upgrade their escape 
pods to more capable models. 


Escape Pod CL 1 
Huge starfighter 

Init -2; Senses Perception +0 

Defense Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 25; +2 armor 

hp 40; DR 10; Threshold 35 

Speed fly 8 squares (max. velocity 250 km/h), fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk -5; Grp +20 

Abilities Str 31, Dex 10, Con —, Int 10 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +0, Perception +0, Pilot -2, Use Computer +0 
Crew 0 (untrained); Passengers 8 

Cargo none; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Common; Cost 1,200 


Small Lifeboats: These vessels, which can be installed on ships of Colos- 
sal (frigate) size or larger, provide life support for fifteen Medium creatures 
for up to 1 week, and they have enough fuel to fly across a star system to 
reach a hospitable planet. They include extensive survival gear, including 
emergency shelters, 1 week of rations, water purifiers, and a small hunting 
blaster. One bay includes (starship's cost modifier)/50 lifeboats, and multiple 
bays may be installed. 

Large Lifeboats: These vessels, which can be installed on ships of Colossal 
(cruiser) size or larger, provide life support for up to 50 Medium creatures 
for up to 2 months, and they include a x15 hyperdrive with enough fuel 


for a single hyperspace jump (plus a little left over for the ion engines and 
repulsorlifts to use during landing). Survival gear is similar to that of a small 
lifeboat. One bay includes (starship's cost modifier)/100 large lifeboats, and 
multiple bays may be installed. 


Extended Range 

Some starships need to operate for extended periods without ever return- 
ing to port. Such a ship can be built with oversized fuel tanks, extra stores 
of food, and improved recycling systems. Doing this improves a starship's 
consumables by 10% of its original value (rounded down, minimum 1 
day) x the number of times you’ have installed extended range on the 
starship. 


Hangar Bay 

A hangar bay can be installed on a ship of Colossal (frigate) size or larger. It 
holds secondary craft such as starfighters or shuttles. Each bay has (starship's 
cost modifier)/50 units of hangar space, and multiple bays may be combined 
for more space. The hangar space taken up by a carried vehicle is determined 
by its size: Huge, 1 unit; Gargantuan, 5 units; Colossal, 20 units. A vehicle 
can enter or exit a hangar with two move actions. 

Concealed Hangars: The presence of a concealed hangar isn't obvious 
to an external examination. Determine the hangar space as for a regular 
hangar, above. It takes a DC 30 Perception check to recognize a concealed 
fighter bay for what it is from an external observation, though any thorough 
internal search of a ship reveals it. It takes two full rounds for a starship to 
exit or enter a concealed fighter bay. 


HoloNet Transceiver/Hypertransceiver 

All starships come equipped with basic communications systems, including 
speed-of-light comms and subspace transceivers. These systems allow for 
communication within a star system, including sending and receiving signals 
to personal comlinks. 

Some ships require superior communications and are equipped with 
hypertransceivers or HoloNet transceivers. Hypertransceivers effectively 
have an unlimited range, allowing ships at opposite ends of the galaxy to 
communicate with each other, although such communications can experience 
significant time lag. Hypertransceivers also give a ship access to information 
on the HoloNet, though not with the full detail of a HoloNet transceiver. 
Most military vessels carry a hypertransceiver. 

HoloNet transceivers are extremely rare and expensive systems that 
allow for real-time audio, visual, and holographic communication over an 
unlimited range. HoloNet transceivers function by taking advantage of the 
vast system of HoloNet satellites built during the days of the Old Republic. 
Only the most important ships carry HoloNet transceivers; during the reign 
of the Galactic Empire, HoloNet transceivers have an availability of military 


instead of restricted. All Use Computer checks made to gain information 
with a HoloNet transceiver gain a +5 equipment bonus. 

Hypertransceivers and HoloNet transceivers are the only means of com- 
municating with a starship in hyperspace. However, they can do so only if 
both ships are traveling along the same path in hyperspace or if one ship is 
near the point of arrival or departure for the ship in hyperspace. 

If multiple ships with HoloNet transceivers work together, they can create 
their own secure communications network, such as was done with Banking 
Clan Frigates. 


Luxury Upgrade 

A luxury upgrade is a shipwide increase in the quality of a starship's accom- 
modations. Panels of calming colors, stylish trim, and quality artwork cover 
bulkhead walls and access panels. Bunks and stowage lockers are replaced 
with comfortable beds and wooden wardrobes. Lounges are upgraded with 
recliners, desks, and multipurpose game boards. Music systems are installed 
throughout the ship, and food preparation areas are adapted to allow gourmet 
cooking and fresh food storage. 

A basic luxury upgrade changes a starship from a harsh travel vehicle to 
a comfortable home on the move. An advanced luxury upgrade goes a step 
farther, making the ship the equivalent of an upper-scale hotel. An extreme 
luxury upgrade turns a starship into a palace in space, fit for emperors and 
lords of industry. So satisfying is life on a ship with an extreme luxury upgrade 
that the crew quality of the ship increases by one step (maximum of expert), 
though this has no effect on the statistics of a crew of heroes. 

To maintain such luxury is not cheap, requiring 1/50 of the cost of the 
upgrade each month to keep music current, quality foods stored, and worn 
pillows replaced. After any month when this expense is not paid, the luxury 
level of the ship is reduced one step (extreme to advanced, advanced to 
basic, basic to a typical starship) until proper upgrading is again established 
(including recouping the cost of all missed months of maintenance). 


Medical Suite 

A medical suite, which can be installed on ships of Colossal (frigate) size 
or larger, provides the necessary facilities to maintain the health of a crew 
over a long period. A medical suite includes (starship's size modifier)/5 
medical beds and (starship's size modifier)/50 bacta tanks. (A starship may 
combine multiple medical suites when determining the facilities available.) 
When a starship can't accommodate a bacta tank, a medical bed is usually 
sufficient to stabilize a patient. A medical bed contains monitoring equip- 
ment to keep track of vital signs and the medical gear needed to deal with 
most common injuries and illnesses. Treat a medical bed as a medpac (10 
uses, with a single charge costing as much as a medpac), a medical kit, 
and a surgical kit. 


Passenger Conversion 

Some space transports and small capital ships specialize in transporting 
passengers instead of cargo. One section of passenger space has sufficient 
room for a number of passengers equal to the ship's size modifier, and these 
passengers can either have seats (typically for voyages of only 1 day or less) or 
quarters. In either case, these are steerage-quality accommodations (shared 
rooms, bunk beds, storage lockers, and so on); for higher quality, the ship 
may also have a luxury upgrade (see above). 


Sensor Array Computer 
One of the main functions of a starship's computer is to gather and interpret 
data collected from various sensors. Of course, this can take quite a lot of 
processing power, limiting the computer's ability to perform other tasks. To 
boost overall computer performance, a sensor array computer can exclusively 
process sensor data, leaving the ship's main computer free to aid in targeting 
and handling the ship's many computerized systems. 

Asensor array computer gives a starship a +2, +4, or +6 equipment bonus 
to its Intelligence score. 


Sensor Enhancement Package 

A sensor enhancement package includes sensors superior to those normally 
carried by starships, providing better detection and early-warning capabil- 
ity. A sensor enhancement package gives a system operator a +5 bonus on 
Perception and Use Computer checks made to operate the ship's sensors. 


Slave Circuitry 

Slave circuitry reduces the number of crewmembers required to operate a 
starship. This accessory is most commonly present in older capital ships, 
which require tens of thousands of crew. Basic slave circuitry reduces the 


SIAM NOIVSIZIGOW JIMNSYVL 


| SSeLdvrHs 


Sew NOILYaIANGOowW HHSHvss 


crew requirements of a starship by 1/3, and advanced slave circuitry reduces 
it by 2/3. The crew requirement for a starship is never reduced to less than 
1—only certain exceptional and custom-built slave circuits are capable of 
such a feat, such as those guiding the Katana fleet. The crew quality of a 
starship that has slave circuits is still based on its remaining crew. 

Recall Circuits: Available only for starships equipped with advanced 
slave circuits, recall circuits allow a starship to be summoned by com- 
link to the owner even when no one is aboard the ship. A ship piloted 
by its recall circuits can only lift off, fly directly to the comlink used to 
summon it, and land at that location—it can take no other actions. The 
crew quality of a ship under control of recall circuits is untrained (+0 
check modifier), and anyone in the pilot's position can disable the recall 
circuits as a swift action. 


Smuggler’s Compartments 

Smuggler's compartments are hidden cargo spaces designed to resist detec- 
tion. It takes a detailed inspection and a DC 30 Perception check to find a 
smuggler's compartment. One section holds up to (starship's cost modifier) 
x 200 kg of cargo, and multiple compartments may be combined for greater 


CLASS SIZE STR DEX INT 
Battlecruiser Colossal (cruiser) 124 12 18 
Cruiser Colossal (cruiser) 118 14 16 
Frigate Colossal (frigate) 114 16 16 
Corvette Colossal (frigate) 110 18 16 
Heavy freighter Colossal (frigate) 106 10 12 
Gunship Colossal 50 14 16 
Shuttle Colossal 46 14 14 
Light freighter Colossal 42 10 12 
Bomber Gargantuan 46 18 14 
Superiority fighter Gargantuan 42 22 14 
Interceptor Huge 38 24 14 
Light fighter Huge 34 20 14 


cargo capacity. However, a starship can never have more than 5% of its 
original cargo capacity in smuggler's compartments; beyond that, the missing 
cargo space is immediately obvious to anyone inspecting the ship. 


Transponders 
Because a ship's transponders are built into its sublight engines, it is difficult 
to remove or alter a ship's transponder code. However, there are two options: 
You can mask your ship's code (making it impossible to read), or you can 
disguise your ship's code (making it look like a different code). 

A masked transponder requires you only to reroute engine power to 
overheat the transponder director, but if your Mechanics check to install the 
modification fails by 10 or more, you destroy your sublight engines in addition 
to losing the cost of the modification. Furthermore, a masked transponder 
is immediately apparent to everyone who detects your ship, attracting the 
attention of the authorities. 

A disguised transponder transmits a second signal that modifies the 
broadcast signal pattern of your ship's transponder, making it look like a 
different ship altogether. Activating or deactivating a disguised transponder 
is a swift action. 


SPEED HP DR ARMOR COST 
-/2 2,000 — 20. +16 20,000,000 
-/2 1,500 20 +14 10,000,000 
-/2 800 15 +12 2,000,000 
-/3 600 15 +12 1,000,000 
-/1 400 15 +12 500,000 

12/3 150 15 +12 200,000 
12/3 120 15 +12 50,000 
12/2 120 15 +12 20,000 
16/3 150 10 +8 50,000 
16/4 120 10 +7 50,000 
16/6 90 10 +3 100,000 
16/5 60 10 +3 30,000 


Speed: This entry gives the ship's fly speed in squares, first for character scale and then starship scale. If the first value is a —, the ship does not function 


at character scale. 
Armor: The starship's armor bonus to its Reflex Defense. 


Cost: The cost for the stock ship's basic frame. This does not include the cost of hyperdrives, cargo space, weapons, or shields. It does include the basic 
systems required for a ship to function, including ion drives, life support, and basic facilities. The given cost assumes a typical new starship from a typical 


production facility. 


Do not multiply the costs for stock ships by the cost multiple for ships of that size. All multipliers for the basic starship frame have already been included 


in these costs. 


STARSHIP CREW PASSENGERS CARGO CONSUMABLES EMPLACEMENT POINTS 
Battlecruiser 20,000 5,000 20,000 tons 2 years 200 
Cruiser 5,000 1,000 10,000 tons 2 years 100 
Frigate 1,000 200 5,000 tons 1 year 50 
Corvette 50 200 2,000 tons 1 year 20 
Heavy freighter 10 10 100,000 tons 6 months 5 
Gunship 4 4 5 tons 1 month 20 
Shuttle 4 8 20 tons 1 month 5 
Light freighter 2 6 100 tons 2 months 5 
Bomber 2 0 50 kg 2 days 10 
Superiority fighter 1 0 50 kg 2 days 5 
Interceptor 1 0 50 kg 2 days 5 
Light fighter | 0 50 kg 2 days vi 


Emplacement Points: If you worsen a stock ship's starting value in a category by 25%, you gain a number of emplacement points equal to 10% of the 
ship's stock emplacement points (or twice that many if you worsen it by 50%). For the purpose of the crew required to operate a starship, worsening means 
increasing the crew required (by 25% or 50%). Any emplacement points gained in this way may be kept as spares or used to purchase additional cargo space, 
adding tons of cargo capacity equal to the starship's cost modifier for each emplacement point spent. 


You must make a Use Computer check to access private information in 
order to find the transponder code for a ship similar to yours and then make 
a Deception check to create a deceptive appearance, forging a signal that 
will appear authentic. After this, installation may proceed normally. If suc- 
cessful, your transponder's signal will make you appear to be the mimicked 
ship. You may install more than one disguised transponder signal to give 
your ship different identities that can be turned on and off, but you take a 
-5 penalty on your Deception check for every disguised transponder already 
on your ship. 

IFF Transponders: This is a blank Identify Friend or Foe transponder of 
the type normally installed on military starships, and you can activate or 
deactivate it as a swift action. If you have the proper IFF codes for a given 
military unit, you can upload them to your IFF transponder and appear as a 
“friend” to its sensors. 

If you do not have these codes, you can attempt a Use Computer check 
to improve access to an enemy ship's computer using your IFF transponder, 
sending queries and analyzing the other ship's response. The enemy ship's 
Will Defense is equal to 15 + its Intelligence modifier, its starting attitude is 
unfriendly (-5 penalty on your Use Computer check), and the DC of your Use 
Computer check is increased by 10 due to the encrypted signal. If you manage 
to improve the attitude of the enemy ship's computer to helpful, you have 


successfully loaded your IFF transponder with the correct "friend" codes for 
that unit. If the attitude of the enemy ship's computer ever becomes hostile, 
you will appear as an enemy unit on that ship's sensors. 


STockK SHIPS 


If you need to design a ship from scratch, rather than modify an existing 
ship, simply start with one of the following stock ships. Each stock ship has 
a cost and basic description for a generic, no-frills version of a starship of 
that size. To improve the design, use the starship modification rules to add 
and improve the systems and abilities you need. A lone character can't design 
a starship from scratch without the Starship Designer feat, and even then 
normally needs the aid of a shipyard to build one. 

Once you have determined all the systems you want to add to your stock 
ship, you can determine its Initiative, Perception, base attack, grapple, 
attacks, damage threshold, and fighting space using the standard rules for 
these values (see Chapter 10 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Remember 
to select a crew quality when determining these values. 

There is no hard and fast rule to determine the Challenge Level of a new 
stock starship. The easiest way to do so is to compare the new stock ship to 
comparable ships and use that as the basis of a CL, adjusting as necessary 
for the crew rating of the ship. 


tf) eaeLavHd 


Sens) NOILYSIANGOW SinSsHEvyvLs 


YL, 
~~ CHAPTER IV 


STARSHIP CODEx 


Serena 


BANS 

E This chapter features new starships from a variety of eras and locales. Each 
__ starship has its own entry, with a complete stat block and an illustration 
/ of the starship. Many entries describe multiple ships, sometimes variants or 
_ famous individual ships, to further expand the usefulness of each entry. 

| Additionally, some space transports have deckplans included in their 
‘entries. These ships are among the most suitable vessels for heroes to use 
as a base of operations and means of transport, and the deckplans are 
designed to let Gamemasters use the ships as an adventuring locale as well 
as a means of transport. 


TACTICAL FIRE 

A number of capital ships in this book have a tactical fire option, an alternate 
ability that allows them to function more like commanders than like individual 
ships. Each tactical fire option produces an “aura” around the ship that 
affects the battlefield, replacing all of the capital ship's normal attacks in a 
given round. When engaged in combat against other capital ships, a capital 
ship is better off using its normal attacks because they have the greatest 
chance of dealing the most damage. 

The tactical fire option is provided as a means of using capital-scale ships 
n space combat scenarios without making them another enemy that the 
heroes need to defeat. In essence, using the tactical fire option transforms 
a capital ship from an opponent into an obstacle or complication. This should 

allow you to include capital ships in a combat scenario, adding an interesting se 
element to the fight without the danger of blowing the heroes out of the 
sky with a lucky shot. 


_Al 8aievHS) 


FOCUSED FIRE 
All capital ships have the ability to focus their weapons on a large area of 
space, allowing the vessel to make a starship-scale area attack. Essentially, 
focused fire creates dangerous “terrain” in space by filling large areas of the 
battlefeld with a hail of weapons fire. Much like the tactical fire option, this 
allows Gamemasters to use capital ships in a new way without making the 
ship into a direct combatant. A Colossal (frigate) size ship can attack a single 
i mica square with focused fire, a Colossal (cruiser) size ship can attack a 2x2- 
square area, and a Colossal (station) ship can attack a 3x3-square area. 
The capital ship selects a single laser, turbolaser, or ion cannon system 
as its primary source of focused fire. The capital ship must forgo all other 
attacks in the round it uses focused fire, making an attack roll against a 
» Reflex Defense of 10 (range penalties apply). If successful, that area is 
targeted by focused fire. If a starship ends its turn in an area targeted by 
focused fire, compare the result of the attack roll to the starship's Reflex 
Defense. If the attack roll is higher, the target takes normal damage from the 
chosen weapon system; if the target's Reflex Defense is higher, the target 
takes half damage. 


Al BSiLdaveig 


SEIGO9D HAHASHVLsS 


ACCLAMATOR-CLASS 
ASSAULT SHIP 


Rothana Heavy Engineering Acclamator-class 

Transgalactic Military Assault Ship 

Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 48; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 960; DR 20; SR 120; Threshold 248 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 2 quad turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
4 point-defense light laser cannon batteries +15 (see below) and 
4 proton torpedoes +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +60 

Atk Options autofire (point-defense light laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 86, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 

Use Computer +6 

Crew 20,141 (skilled); Passengers 16,000 (clone troopers) 

Cargo 11,250 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 320 speeder 
bikes, 48 AT-TE walkers, 80 LAAT gunships, and 36 self-propelled heavy 
artillery units 

Payload 100 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x.75, advanced navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


CL 18 


Quad turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 
Point-defense light laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (gunner) 

Atk +5, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


The Acclamator-class assault ship, produced by Rothana Heavy Engineering 
for Kamino's cloners, quickly became a staple of the Old Republic's clone 
legions. Produced on a scale to match that of the clone troopers it was 
designed to carry, dozens of the ships were crewed and ready to depart when 
Jedi Master Yoda arrived to mobilize an invasion force. Though formidable in 
appearance, the ships had never been tested in battle. Given the Acclamator's 


role as the primary delivery system for ground forces, the entire conflict 
hinged on its ability to survive under combat conditions. 

The Acclamator saw its baptism of fire during the invasion of Geonosis. 
A small number of the assault ships were lost to ground fire following the 
deployment of troops to the planet surface, but the casualties were deemed 
acceptable. Those that remained pulled back to provide orbital fire support. 
By the end of the first day, the Separatist forces were scattered and in com- 
plete retreat. The Acclamator had proved its worth and stood as a chilling 
omen of the Star Destroyers that would eventually take its place. 

Following the Clone Wars, the Acclamator was replaced in service by 
newer, larger, and more powerful ships, such as the Victory- and /mperial- 
class Star Destroyers. The Acclamators that remained in Imperial service 
were relegated to duty in rear-echelon areas. Scattered reports reveal that 
Acclamators were used as transports for prisoners and slaves following the 
beginning of the rebellion against the Empire, but these rumors are difficult 
to confirm. Many of the venerable assault ships were eventually decommis- 
sioned and stripped, their hulls broken down and recycled by Kuat Drive Yards 
in order to produce newer and more terrifying weapons. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Acclamator is designed as a legion-level troop transport. Using excep- 
tionally efficient hyperdrive engines, an assault ship is capable of traversing 
the vastness of space in a short amount of time. In addition to 16,000 clone 
troopers, a typical Acclamator carries 48 AT-TE walkers, 80 LAAT gunships, 
36 self-propelled heavy artillery units, and 320 speeder bikes. Once a force 
is deployed, the assault ship has the capacity to function as an orbital com- 
mand center. 


In dire situations, several Acclamators could join forces to perform an 
orbital bombardment designed to eradicate all factors of production (includ- 
ing all sentients). Codenamed Base Delta Zero by Old Republic, Confederacy, 
and (later) Imperial forces, such a technique was sparingly used against 
systems that were too rebellious to be conquered. 

If the Acclamator has one weakness, it is its overspecialization as a ground 
attack platform. Though it can certainly defend itself from small spaceborne 
threats, it doesn't have the staying power or flexibility to stand against a 
concerted attack by capital ships. It is for this reason, more than any other, 
that the Acclamator design was eventually abandoned by the Empire in favor 
of larger, less specialized vessels. 

Tactical Fire: As troop transports, Acclamator-class starships specialize 
in protecting its shuttles until they can land safely. As a standard action, 
an Acclamator-class ship can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all 
squares in a 2-square radius around itself. All allied starships within that 
area gain a +2 bonus to Reflex Defense. 


ACCLAMATOR-II 
The Acclamator II was put into circulation near the end of the Clone Wars. 
Though similar in design and function to the original Acclamator series, the 
second iteration was designed specifically with orbital bombardment in mind. 
Equipped with several batteries of powerful turbolasers, as well as a pair 
of heavy proton torpedo tubes, the Acclamator II was a fearsome sight for 
anyone unlucky enough to be on the receiving end of its deadly payload. 
Though several other variants of the Acclamator appeared during the 
course of the Clone Wars, only the Acclamator II was utilized by the Old 
Republic in significant numbers. 


Capabilities 

When used for planetary bombardment, the Acclamator II exceeded all 
expectations. Armed with two heavy proton torpedo tubes, in addition to 
a full complement of turbolasers, a single assault ship could snuff out life 
on an entire continent in the course of a few hours. Additionally, the ship's 
turbolasers could easily be used in ship-to-ship combat, increasing the 
vessel's survivability during protracted.space battles. 

The heavy torpedoes utilized by the Acclamator II were forerunners of 
those that would eventually see use on Imperial torpedo spheres. Though 
capable of locking on to capital-scale targets in space, the torpedoes were 
specifically tailored to breach planetary shields and spread deadly proton 
energy across population centers. When used against other targets of any 
size, the torpedoes take a -10 penalty on attack rolls (already included in 
its statistics), in addition to any other penalties. 

In order to make room for so many powerful weapon systems, the design- 
ers of the Acclamator II were forced to reduce the ship's troop complement 


by nearly eighty percent. Because of these reductions, this iteration of the 
Acclamator was rarely, if ever, used to land significant numbers of troops. 

Tactical Fire: Specializing in orbital bombardments, Acc/amator //-class 
starships can unleash a heavy assault on a single target, sometimes catch- 
ing other ships in the crossfire. As a standard action, an Acclamator II-class 
ship can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square 
radius around itself. Any ship that is reduced to 0 hit points within that area 
is automatically destroyed, even if the attack that reduced it to 0 hit points 
did not deal enough damage to exceed its damage threshold. 


Rothana Heavy Engineering Acclamator Il-class 
Transgalactic Military Assault Ship 

Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 48; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 960; DR 20; SR 120; Threshold 248 


CL 18 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 4 turbolaser batteries +11* (see below) and 
2 heavy proton torpedoes —5** (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +60 

Abilities Str 86, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 

Use Computer +6 

Crew 20,141 (skilled); Passengers 3,200 (clone troops) 

Cargo 10,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 64 speeder 
bikes, 10 AT-TE walkers, 16 LAAT gunships, and 8 self-propelled heavy 
artillery units 

Payload 60 heavy proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x.75, advanced navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

*Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size, 
ora +10 bonus on attacks against planetary shields. 


Turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 
Heavy proton torpedoes (gunner) 
Atk -5 (-25 against targets smaller than Colossal, +5 against 
planetary shields), Dmg 9d10x5, 4-square splash 


SegqGgeS) AHSyvlSs 


t 


Al HSLeaeC¢HS 


SEaEGOS HIHSYVsLs 


ACTION VI 
TRANSPORT 


Corellian Engineering Corporation Action VI 

Bulk Transport 

Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init -5; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 36; +12 armor 

hp 600; DR 15; Threshold 136 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 650 km/h), fly 1 square 
(starship scale) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +46 

Abilities Str 62, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 8 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 90,000 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x3 

Availability Licensed; Cost 1,000,000 (500,000 used) 


CL7 


The Action VI bulk transport is a moderately successful freighter design 
manufactured by the Corellian Engineering Corporation. As one of the more 
recent entries in the Action line of starships, the Action VI is a prevalent sight 
on the hyperspace lanes, especially in the vicinity of the Inner Rim and the 
Core Worlds. It has much in common with other bulk freighters, and many 
consider it to be the industry standard—albeit a lackluster one. The Action 
VI is a favorite among trade guilds because it is easily modified, readily 
available, and relatively inexpensive. 

Bulk freighters such as the Action VI are responsible for hauling the vast 
majority of cargo from system to system. The ship's engines are typically 
powerful, but the ships themselves are correspondingly slow and unre- 
sponsive. Given the sluggishness of the typical bulk transport, combined 
with the fact that most are sold without armament or deflector shields, it 
is little surprise that they suffer terribly at the hands of pirates and other 
interstellar brigands. 


CAPABILITIES 

Given that they lack even rudimentary defensive systems, unmodified Action 
VI transports are rarely seen outside the safer areas of known space. Those 
that travel in high-risk sectors either stay with a large, escorted convoy or 
rely on major defensive modifications to fend off an attack. 


The major selling point of the Action VI, or of any bulk freighter for that 
matter, is cargo capacity. The Action VI's 90,000-ton cargo capacity means 
that it can haul vast quantities of goods from port to port. However, the 
design of the ship's holds dictates that they must be loaded with similar types 
of goods or materials, rather than mixed cargoes. With some modifications, 
this limitation can be remedied easily enough, but the cost of compartmen- 
talizing each of the massive holds is steep. 

As originally sold, the Action VI has few frills. The Corellian Engineer- 
ing Corporation ceased production of the model decades ago, but it still 
sees modest sales on the secondary market. A few independent shipyards 
produce ships that are similar enough in design that they might as well be 
Action Vls. Due to the fact that most of the available Action Vis are sold 
secondhand, it is quite possible that any one could feature any manner of 
aftermarket modification. 


ADVANCED SHIP 
(TEMPLATE) 


An advanced ship is on the cutting edge of technology, one that includes 
numerous new systems and improvements to old systems. Individual pro- 
totypes of new ship classes, specially modified private vessels for the rich 
and powerful, and special ships built by cultures that have particularly 
advanced technology are all represented by adding this template to standard 
starships. 

Advanced ships are rarely a class of vessel. Even the most cutting-edge 
culture can't make more than a few of these vessels at a time. They require 
regular maintenance (taking 1 day and a DC 30 Mechanics check each week) 
or move -1 persistent step on the condition track until missed Mechanics 
checks are made. 


MODIFICATIONS 
To create an advanced starship, make the following changes to an existing 
starship. 


CL: The CL of an advanced ship is 125% its normal value (round up). 

SR: Increase the ship's SR by an amount based on its size: Huge +5, 
Gargantuan +10, Colossal +20, Colossal (frigate) +30, Colossal (cruiser) +40, 
Colossal (station) +50. If the base ship doesn't have shields normally, give 
it shields with a total SR of double the given bonus +10. 

Hit Points: Increase by 25%. 

Strength: Increase Strength by the following bonus based on size; Huge 
+2, Gargantuan +6, Colossal +10, Colossal (frigate) +16, Colossal (cruiser) 
+22, Colossal (station) +36. Increase Fort Defense, damage threshold, and 
Grapple to represent the new Strength modifier. 

Dexterity: Increase the Dexterity of Huge and Gargantuan starships by 
8, Colossal (station) ships by 2, and all others by 4. Increase Initiative, Reflex 
Defense, and Pilot check to represent the new Dexterity modifier. 

Intelligence: Increase Intelligence by 4. Increase your weapon attack 
bonuses to represent your new Intelligence modifier. 

Weapons: Increase the damage dealt by all weapons by 1 die. 

Cost: Advanced ships are normally cutting-edge prototypes with project 
costs easily reaching millions of credits. 


The following is an example of an advanced starfighter, created by adding 
the advanced ship template to a V-19 Torrent starfighter. 


Advanced V-19 Torrent Starfighter CL 12 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +12; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 23 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +7 armor 

hp 125; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 47 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +9 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +9 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +34 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), fire-link (medium concussion 
missiles) 

Abilities Str 45, Dex 33, Con —, Int 20 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +12, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 6 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1 or x1 with booster ring, limited navicomputer (2-jump 
memory) 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +9, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


SEIGgOS) 2) HSUVLS 


Al weLevno 


SAGO HIHSHvVvLs 


AE THERSPRITE 
INTERCEPTOR 


Delta-7 Aethersprite Light Interceptor CL 10 
Huge starfighter 
Init +13; Senses Perception +8 
Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 65; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 32 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +9 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 
Base Atk +5; Grp +27 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 34, Dex 24, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +13, Mechanics +6 (+11*), Perception +8, Pilot +13, 
Use Computer +6 (+11*) 
“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables none (1 week with booster ring); Carried Craft 
none 

Hyperdrive x1 (with booster ring), 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Military Jedi only); Cost 180,000 (145,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Kuat Systems Engineering developed the Delta-7 Aethersprite when Jedi 
Master Saesee Tiin suggested that the Jedi form its own corps of starfighter 
pilots. In the time prior to the Clone Wars, these fighters provided an eco- 
nomical—and combat-effective—means for Jedi to get from place to place. 
Despite its utility, the Delta-7 was distinctly Jedi in nature. For this reason, 
it was rarely used by Jedi during covert operations. 

Although the design was well received by the Jedi, Saesee Tiin was none- 
theless dissatisfied with the Aethersprite light interceptor's performance. He 
insisted on modifying two Aethersprites to his own specifications, adding 
additional weaponry, a hyperdrive of his own design, and a meditation chair 
in place of the pilot's seat. 

The Delta-7 is available only to Jedi through the Supreme Chancellor's 
office, and is not legally available on the open market. The prices given are 
for a Delta-7 found on the black market, which is rare but not unheard of. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Delta-7 was conceived primarily as a light reconnaissance starfighter, and 
its relatively light armament reflects this. Though not designed for extended 
combat operations, the Aethersprite is a capable weapons platform when 
flown by a Jedi pilot. 

Like its successor, the Eta-2 Actis-class Interceptor, the Jedi Starfighter 
is not hyperdrive capable, and it requires a separate hyperdrive module to 
travel long distances. 

Each Aethersprite comes equipped with an R-4P astromech droid, which 
is hardwired directly into the starfighter. Due to the nonstandard nature of 
the ship's components, the pilot takes a -2 penalty on Mechanics and Use 
Computer checks if the R4-P is not installed. These penalties are also taken 
by the droid (if present) and are reflected in the statistics given above. 


ARC-170 


STARFIGHTER 


Incom/Subpro ARC-170 Starfighter 


Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +5; Senses Perception +6 


CL 11 


Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 


hp 150; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 48 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 


(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) an 


medium laser cannons +4 (see below) and 


proton torpedoes +6 (see below) 


d 


Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 


(astromech droid) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +35 


Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, medium laser cannons), fire-link 


(proton torpedoes) 


Abilities Str 46, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 


Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +5, 


Use Computer +6 (+13*) 


“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 3 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 5 days; Carried Craft none 


Payload 6 proton torpedoes 


Hyperdrive x1.5, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Military; Cost 155,000 (70,000 used) 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Medium laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


Proton torpedoes (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splas 


h 


The Aggressive ReConnaissance fighter, or ARC-170—developed as a joint 
venture by the Incom and Subpro Corporations—serves as both a long-range 
scout and a heavy assault fighter. The ACR-170 is part of a line of starfight- 
ers, including the Z-95 Headhunter, that eventually led to the development 
of the X-wing. The narrow frame, flanked by powerful twin engines and 
S-foils, was innovative at the time of the ARC-170's introduction. Though it 
served with distinction during the later days of the Clone Wars, the fighter 
was never built in the vast numbers of many other designs. 

The ARC-170's ultimate failing was not lack of firepower or ability, but the 
high supply cost to keep it in combat. The starfighter needs regular main- 
tenance and requires a three-person crew, making it expensive in terms of 
training, personnel, and upkeep. As a result, once the TIE fighter replaced it 
in Imperial squadrons, there was very little demand for the ARC-170. Though 
some were liberated by the Rebellion, most were mothballed or scrapped 
simply because the Rebels lacked the flight crews and repair bays necessary 
to keep the older ARC-170s ready for combat. 


CAPABILITIES 
The ARC-170 is a heavy-hitting fighter, with long-range capabilities and 
enough stowage to operate for 5 days without resupply. Though taxing, it 
was possible for the crew to sleep in shifts, allowing the starfighter to be 
alert and ready for action for days at a time. This made it popular as a scout 
and a picket ship, keeping an eye on likely targets, enemy forces, or even 
friendly planets until larger ships could arrive for permanent duty. An ARC- 
170 could be sent deep into enemy territory, and its shield generator gave it 
a good chance of surviving even if it ran into a larger force of fighters when 
performing such missions. 

The durability and range of the vessel came at a cost, however. The ARC- 
170 has slow acceleration and poor maneuverability compared to smaller 
fighters. 


Al SSiavHo 


xEESD HHSYVLS 


Srinl 


xl Is) SIFSSVvLS 


ARCHAIC SHIP 
(TEMPLATE) 


An archaic ship is one from a much earlier era of technology. Despite poten- 
tially having all the same basic technology as modern vessels (laser cannons, 
shields, hyperdrives, and so on), an archaic ship suffers some disadvantages 
when facing vessels from higher levels of technology. The archaic ship 
template can also be used to represent a starship built by a culture whose 
technology is less developed than the galactic norm. 

Even extremely ancient starships can be sufficiently upgraded that they 
no longer suffer the disadvantages of the archaic template. This requires 1 
week of work x the ship's cost modifier and credits equal to 1/10 the ship's 
original cost. For each week of work, you must succeed on a DC 25 Mechanics 
check, or that week's effort is lost. If multiple characters work on upgrading 
an archaic ship, divide the total time required by the number of characters 
who succeed on the Mechanics check. 


MODIFICATIONS 

All the modifications for the archaic ship template apply only when the ship 
is in combat with modern starships. If two archaic ships engage in combat, 
ignore all changes made by this template. 


CL: The CL of an archaic ship is 2/3 its normal value. 

Threshold: Against modern weapons, an archaic ship has only half its 
normal damage threshold. 

SR: Any time the SR value of an archaic ship's shields is exceeded, there 
is a 50% chance they fail entirely. They may be recharged normally. 

Weapons: The weapons of an archaic ship can't score critical hits against 
nonarchaic vessels. 

All attack rolls made by archaic ships against modern vessels take a -2 
penalty, since older scanners have difficulty tracking modern ships. 

Cost: Archaic ships generally can be obtained on the black market for 
50% of their original cost. 


The following is an example of an archaic cruiser, created by adding the 
archaic template to a Dreadnaught. 


Archaic Heavy Cruiser CL 12 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -4; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 53; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,680; DR 20; SR 115 (50% failure chance if SR exceeded); Threshold 
126 
Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged 2 turbolaser batteries +11* (see below) and 
2 light quad turbolaser batteries +11* (see below) and 
2 light turbolasers +3* (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +65 


Abilities Str 96, Dex 10, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 16,210 (skilled); Passengers 3,000 

Cargo 9,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 12 starfighters 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x18), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
17,777,500 used) 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) ae 

Atk +11 (—9 against targets smaller than Ce. Dmg. 7410%5, 
Light quad turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 44105 
Light turbolasers (gunner) 

Atk +3 (-17 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 2d10x5 


A-WING 


Alliance A-wing Starfighter CL9 

Huge starfighter 

Init +12; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 80; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 33 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,300 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +25 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), fire-link (medium concussion 
missiles) 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 26, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +12, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +12, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 40 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 12 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1, limited navicomputer (2-jump memory) 

Availability Military; Cost 175,000 (70,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 7d10x2, 4-square splash 
Jammer (pilot) 

Atk n/a, Dmg special 


Development of the A-wing began in secret shortly after the Battle of Yavin. 
General Dodonna realized that the speed of Imperial fighters had nearly cost 
the Alliance its victory, and he intended to remedy the situation by designing 
a newer, faster starfighter. With the aid of starship engineer Walex Blissex, 
the A-wing was born. Although not as durable as other Alliance starfighters, 
the A-wing is often considered to be the fastest starfighter to see service 
during the Galactic Civil War. 


Though the A-wing is a finicky spacecraft that is often difficult to 
maintain in the field, it has proven itself to be a capable strike fighter and 
reconnaissance craft. Due to its speed and maneuverability, it excels at “hit 
and fade" operations and surgical strikes carried out behind enemy lines. 
Despite its relatively light armament, the A-wing is deadly in the hands of 
a skilled pilot. During the Battle of Endor, A-wings were responsible for the 
destruction of the Super Star Destroyer Executor. 


CAPABILITIES 

A-wings are phenomenally fast and agile spacecraft, making them capable 
dogfighters. A-wing pilots quickly learn to use this fact to their advantage 
in battle, for even a single hit from an enemy weapon can mean a quick and 
fiery death. During its earliest months in service, the A-wing was armed 
only with laser cannons and a sophisticated suite of electronic jammers. In 
time, many A-wings were modified to carry concussion missile launchers, 
adding to the nimble ship's versatility. (This configuration was standard by 
the time of the New Republic.) 

The A-wing's jamming system is capable of blinding enemy sensors and 
fire-control computers, making it an even more elusive target. The effective- 
ness of the jamming suite is limited to small craft and space transports, and 
does little more than make the A-wing a more tempting target for capital- 
scale ships. When activated, the A-wing's jammers cause adjacent ships of 
Colossal size and smaller to take penalties to their Intelligence score (-5 for 
starfighters, -2 for space transports). 


xBGeD NHSYUvis 


SEEGOHD) HHSYvss 


va) 


Al SBSLavHD 


BANKING CLAN 
FRIGATE 


Banking Clan Munificent-class Frigate CL 18 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -3; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 49; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 


hp 1,080; DR 20; SR 165; Threshold 249 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged heavy turbolasers +7* (see below) and 
medium ion cannons +7* (see below) and 
5 twin turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
2 light turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
3 point-defense laser cannon batteries +17 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +61 


Abilities Str 88, Dex 12, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 200 (skilled); Passengers 150,000 compressed battle droids 

Cargo 40,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 12 landing 
craft/shuttles 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 57,000,000 (40,000,000 used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolasers (gunner) 

Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 11d10x5 
Medium ion cannons (gunner) 

Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x2 ion 
Twin turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Light turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +17, Dmg 3d10x2 


The InterGalactic Banking Clan learned early in its existence that security 
meant profit. As a result of that philosophy, the clan decided it needed its 
own communications network separate from the HoloNet, and military ships 
to protect its communications and other investments. The result was the 
Munificent-class star frigate, a ship so closely associated with the business 
that custom-ordered its design that it is almost always referred to as the 
Banking Clan Frigate. 

When San Hill brought the Banking Clan into the Separatists' fold, he 
brought the frigates with him. After the defeat of the Confederacy, most 
of the remaining frigates were scuttled. A few escaped with their crews, 
becoming pirates or (eventually) members of the Rebellion. In many cases, 
the ships were extensively rebuilt by Rebels, radically changing the ships’ 
appearance. 


CAPABILITIES 

Banking Clan Frigates serve as communication ships, troop transports, and 
front-line ships. In an ideal situation, a star frigate could focus on protect- 
ing larger capital ships and eliminating smaller, more weakly armed ships. 
Its prow-mounted heavy turbolasers could punch through the shielding and 
armor of smaller capital ships, allowing the Munificent-class ship to take 
on military-grade targets. In practice, however, the Banking Clan vessels 
often had to contend with Star Destroyers—conflicts that rarely went well 
for the frigates. 

Tactical Fire: The Munificent-class frigate is designed to be a disrup- 
tive presence in the midst of an enemy fleet, using jamming arrays and its 
forward weapons to destroy weaker vessels and disrupt the coordination of 
incoming vessels. As a standard action, a Munificent-class frigate can forgo 
all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius around 
itself. All enemy starships lose any morale or insight bonuses on attack rolls, 
defenses, or skill checks while within that area. 


BAUDO-CLASS 
STAR YACHT 


Baudo-class Star Yacht CL6 


Colossal space transport 

Init -3; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +11 armor 

hp 60; DR 15; SR 15; Threshold 72 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged light laser cannons +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +32 

Abilities Str 34, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 8 

Cargo 35 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x7), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 400,000 (250,000 used) 


Light laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +2, Dmg 2d10x2 


The Baudo-class star yacht is a favorite vessel of the galaxy's wealthy. It 
is especially popular among the younger set of spoiled rich kids who fancy 
themselves as rakes and bravos. It is a good-looking ship, with smooth, 
organic lines that are more reminiscent of a deep sea creature than a high- 
tech pleasure craft. 

The manufacturer of the Baudo yacht is a small shipyard owned by a 
reclusive and eccentric Aqualish named Mendel Baudo. His company produces 
every ship he makes on a custom-order basis, implementing each customer's 
requirements to produce a yacht that is both functional and opulent. The 
basic capabilities and external appearance of each vessel remain the same, 
but the internal amenities can differ vastly from ship to ship. 

Baudo is a difficult being to find, and he accepts contracts only from 
people who are referred to him by his prior customers. He takes his time in 
the construction of each yacht, and he has been known to spend an entire 
standard year ona ship in an effort to get things precisely right. It is rumored 
that he keeps a couple of completed ships on hand for less discerning buyers, 
but he almost always insists on creating each ship to order. 


CAPABILITIES 

As far as star yachts go, the Baudo is a standard example of conspicuous 
consumption. No single Baudo is identical with any other one; each is built 
according to the requirements and specifications of its buyer. The differences 
rarely affect the performance of the vessel; rather, they embellish the ship's 
luxury and appeal in ways that only the original owners will appreciate. One 
Baudo might have the internal bulkheads lined in polished hardwood and 
precious metals, while another might include a full bar complete with rare 
spirits from every system in the Core Worlds. 

Though relatively fast given its size, the Baudo is more attuned to a 
slow and steady pace. It doesn’t accelerate particularly quickly at sublight 
speeds, and it features only a class 2 hyperdrive. Despite these deficiencies, 
Baudos are simple to operate, and even amateur pilots find the controls easy 
to use. Its weapon and defense systems include only a single laser cannon 
and modest shields. 


= 


Al SSaeLdvHD 


SEIEGOE9D HHSYvss 


SaIGeD GHHSeVLs 


B-winGc 


Slayn & Korpil B-wing Starfighter CL 10 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +3; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +6 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 90; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 44 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged autoblasters +8 (see below) or 

Ranged laser cannons +8 (see below) or 

Ranged light ion cannons +8 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +8 (see below) or 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 

Atk Options autofire (autoblasters, light ion cannons), fire-link (proton 
torpedoes) 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 15, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 


AL HSltavHa 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 45 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 12 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x2, limited navicomputer (2-jump memory) 
Availability Restricted; Cost 220,000 (120,000 used) 


Autoblasters (pilot) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +8, Dmg 7d10x2 
Light ion cannons (pilot) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +8, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


Designed by Admiral Ackbar, the B-wing starfighter is a mobile weapons 
platform designed to provide heavy assault support to the Rebel fleet. 
Possessing a unique design that includes folding S-foils and a cockpit that 
rotates within its housing in the starfighter's superstructure, the B-wing 
is a difficult craft to master. Heavily armed with a variety of weapons, the 
B-wing can deliver a punishing blow to slower targets (particularly capital 


ships), though it lacks the maneuverability of other contemporary fighters, 
such as the X-wing or the A-wing. 

The B-wing/E2 variant is an upgraded version of the standard B-wing 
fighter. Boasting an elongated cockpit that allows a gunner to ride behind the 
pilot, the B-wing/E2 also features a strongly reinforced hull and upgrades to 
nearly all ship systems. The B-wing/E2 is an especially dangerous opponent 
due to the fact that its pilot need only concentrate on flying the ship, allowing 
the gunner to focus on operating the fighter's weapons. 


CAPABILITIES 

Capital ships often find the B-wing starfighter to be an extremely danger- 
ous opponent. Particularly fearsome are the proton torpedoes, which can 
be brought to bear against a starship with devastating results. In fact, a 
squadron of B-wing fighters was responsible for destroying an Imperial Star 
Destroyer at the Battle of Endor, a feat that no other fighter type could claim 
at the battle. With a gunner aboard, a B-wing fighter can unleash its weapons 
in deadly pairs, giving the fighter a slight advantage even in dogfighting. 


Despite its durability and exceptional armament, the B-wing starfighter is 
still slow, sluggish, and difficult to operate. As a result, most B-wing attack 
groups usually have an escort of faster and more maneuverable starfighters, 
protecting the B-wing until it can slip past the first line of enemy defenses 
and strike at a vulnerable target. Additionally, a character who is not trained 
in the Pilot skill takes a -2 penalty on Initiative and Pilot checks while pilot- 
ing a B-wing starfighter. 

B-wings also feature exceptionally modular weapon,systems, allowing 
them to be modified as per the needs of the mission. When swapping out 
one of the B-wing's weapon systems for another weapon system, reduce the 
time taken to make the modification by half. 


Slayn & Korpil B-wing/E2 Starfighter CL 12 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +3; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 150; DR 10; SR 50; Threshold 48 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +8 (see below) and 
light ion cannons +6 (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +8 (see below) and 
proton torpedoes +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +35 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, light ion cannons), fire-link (proton 
torpedoes) 
Abilities Str 46, Dex 15, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 proton torpedoes 
Hyperdrive x2, limited navicomputer (2-jump memory) 
Availability Restricted; Cost 250,000 (135,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 8d10x2 
Light ion cannons (gunner) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 
Proton torpedoes (gunner) 

Atk +6, Dmg 9d10x2. 4-square splash 


Slayn & Korpil B-wing Shuttle CL 10 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +3; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +6 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 90; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 44 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged light ion cannons +6 (see below) or 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 

Atk Options autofire (light ion cannons) 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 15, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 2 

Cargo 45 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2, limited navicomputer (5-jump memory) 
Availability Restricted; Cost 220,000 (120,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 6d10x2 


Light ion cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 


<S1GIS)) QHSYvLS 


AM Bela vHga 


| 
i] 


2 
D> 
3 
0) 
x 
U 
Q 
@ 
O 
tm 
% 


Al eS icdvHo 


CARRACK-CLASS 
LIGHT CRUISER 


Damorian Manufacturing's Carrack-class Light Cruiser CL 18 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 


Init +0; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 40; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 


hp 1,000; DR 15; SR 130; Threshold 140 

Speed fly 4 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 heavy turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
4 point-defense light laser cannon batteries +13 (see below) and 
5 tractor beam batteries +5* (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +52 

Abilities Str 70, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1,092 (skilled); Passengers 142 (troops) 

Cargo 3,500 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 4 TIE fighters on 
external racks 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 
Point-defense light laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +13, Dmg 2d10x2 
Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +5 (-15 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 

— (grapple +52) 


The Carrack was designed during the waning years of the Old Republic as a 
less expensive alternative to other capital ships. Because of its speed and 
agility when compared to other Clone Wars-era capital ships, the Carrack was 
used as a fast-attack escort for larger vessels. The design also saw heavy use 
as an armed escort for merchant convoys, which were continuously targeted 
by Separatist forces. A group of Carracks assisted in the destruction of the 
Separatist flagship /nvisible Hand during the Battle of Coruscant. 

After the introduction of larger and more powerful capital ships, groups 
of Carracks were most often utilized as scouts and skirmishers for larger 
fleet elements. In addition, the Carrack was popularly used as a personal 


transport for Imperial officers and political dignitaries throughout the rise 
of the Empire. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Carrack is very heavily armed for its size. Given the amount of weaponry 
that a Carrack can bring to bear on a target, it poses a significant threat, 
even to larger enemy vessels. When employed in small squadrons, Carracks 
can wreak havoc on starships ten times their size. 

One reason that Carrack crews are so fond of their vessels is that the 
ship is a sturdy design that incorporates redundant internal bracing and 
compartmentalized bulkheads. Crew survivability ratings for destroyed and 
damaged Carracks are some of the highest on record. Because of the inter- 
nal schematics of the Carrack, it has no significant internal hangar space. 
Instead, the Carrack is equipped with external racks that can transport up 
to four TIE fighters. 

Tactical Fire: The Carrack-class light cruiser is a heavily armed vessel that 
packs quite a punch, and can often combine fire with other vessels easily. 
As a standard action, a Carrack-class light cruiser can forgo all attacks to 
provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. All allied starships attacking 
targets within that area deal +1 die of damage on a successful attack. 


Criss CLAWCRAFT 


Chiss Nssis-class Clawcraft CL 10 

Huge starfighter 

Init +14; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 20 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 90; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +11 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3X3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +29 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 26, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +14, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +14, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 1 (expert) 

Cargo 25 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1.5 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +11 (+6 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


The Chiss use the term “clawcraft” to describe a broad class of fast, maneu- 
verable starfighters popular with their pilots and with military strategists. In 
fact, there have been dozens of models of clawcraft over the history of the 
Chiss Ascendancy, as would be expected of any long-lasting galactic govern- 
ment. When used by non-Chiss, however, the term almost always refers to a 
Nssis-class Clawcraft, a fusion of Imperial and Chiss technology. 

The Nssis-class Clawcraft can be traced directly to the Imperial forces 
under the command of Grand Admiral Thrawn. Thrawn had access to Chiss 
technology in the form of his Household Phalanx and to Imperial resources 
as a grand admiral. Sometime after the Battle of Yavin, Thrawn began trying 
to merge these technologies, resulting in custom-built craft using the ball 
cockpit of the TIE design coupled with the claw-wing design common among 
Chiss Clawcraft. In time, this design was perfected and standardized, becom- 
ing the Nssis-class. Rather than being a hybrid or “ugly,” the Nssis-class 
Clawcraft is a customized fighter design drawing on the strong points of two 
different lines of technology. The design is so efficient that it sees use with 
Imperial forces, the Chiss Ascendancy, and the Empire of the Hand. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Nssis-class Clawcraft was intended to be an improvement over the TIE 
interceptor. It had similar armament to a TIE/In, but added more armor, 
modest shields, and a class 1.5 hyperdrive. Though not as fast on a straight- 
out run asa TIE/In, the Clawcraft was significantly more maneuverable. With 
a week of consumables, the Nssis-class could do anything a TIE/In could, 
additionally acting as a long-range scout or attacking far-off targets in large 
numbers without the aid of a carrier ship. 

Early versions of the Clawcraft had neither astromech droids nor navi- 
computers to plot hyperspace jumps, instead depending on data from a 
beacon ship. Such ships could not make a hyperspace jump more than a day 
away from a beacon ship or similar source of hyperspace coordinates. Later 
models crammed a navicomputer into each Clawcraft. 


AL SSlLavHs 


} 
} 


| 
| 


SIGOD QHIHSHvss 


CITADEL-CLASS 
CRUISER 


Koensayr ILH-KK Citadel-Class Cruiser CL7 
Colossal space transport 
Init -4; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 26; +14 armor 
hp 120; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 830 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +1 (see below) and 
2 ion cannons +1 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +3 (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +1 (see below) and 
2 ion cannons +1 (see below) and 
tractor beam +3 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +36 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Al aSLavHo 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +5 


SEeE9 HIHSHVLS 


Crew 3 (normal); Passengers 14 

Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 2 starfighters 
Payload 12 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 205,000 (120,000 used) 


Laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +1 (-4 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
lon cannons (gunner) 

Atk +1, Dmg 5d10x2 ion 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +3, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 
Tractor beam (pilot) 

Atk +3, Dmg — (grapple +36) 


The Koensayr ILH-KK Citade/-class cruiser is a popular armed transport 
developed during the last years of the Old Republic. It's well regarded as a 
ship able to take a considerable pounding before failing, and many have been 
successfully rebuilt even after being virtually destroyed in battle. Designed 
as a response to increasing fears among the moderately wealthy that star 
travel was not safe, the Citadel peaked in popularity during the Clone Wars 


and waned during the Galactic Civil War. Many were converted into luxury 
yachts, while others became minor warships for Rebels, freebooters, the 
CSA, and pirates. 


CAPABILITIES 

Designed for those who can afford a starship but not a capital ship, the 
Citadel-class is geared for small groups traveling together. It is popular with 
small diplomatic parties, wealthy merchants, mid-level military officers, 
and galactic adventurers. The ships are so durable that most go through 
many owners and many different intended uses. As a result, it's not unusual 
to find one with a mix of tacked-on military hardware, a few smuggling 
compartments, a diplomatic council room, and fading murals painted on 
the bulkheads. 

The factory-installed weapons of the Citadel are largely defensive in 
nature. Citadels also have two docking clamps used as external fighter 
mountings attached to the ships’ undersides. This feature allows the Cita- 
del to carry fighters that lack hyperdrives of their own through hyperspce. 
Military groups working on a budget and some pirate groups have used this 
potential to create small fleets of Citadels carrying TIE fighters or similar 
craft on deep-space missions. 


CLOAKSHAPE FIGHTER 


CloakShape Fighter CL7 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +2; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +7 armor 

hp 140; DR 10; Threshold 47 

Speed fly 15 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +32 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), fire-link (medium concussion 
missiles) 

Abilities Str 44, Dex 15, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +2, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 40 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Payload 16 medium concussion missiles 

Availability Restricted; Cost 60,000 (15,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +4, Dmg 7d10x2, 4-square splash 


The Kuat Systems Engineering CloakShape fighter is a contemporary of the 
Z-95 Headhunter. Originally designed as an atmospheric fighter, the Cloak- 
Shape has proven to be easily adapted to space conflict, though always as 
a short-range fighter. Many Jedi used modified CloakShapes in the years 
before the Clone Wars, modifying them with enhanced maneuverability and 
painting them bright white (causing them to be called Whitecloak fighters). 
When custom Jedi starfighters came into production, this practice ended. 

Sales of the CloakShape were initially very good, and vast numbers were 
manufactured in the first decade of production. When superior designs 
came into production, Kuat Systems Engineering licensed the design of the 
CloakShape so other shipyards (usually small planetary businesses) could 
produce them for local markets. Though overshadowed by later fighters, 
CloakShapes continue to appear in pirate and local planetary defense groups 
well into the era of the Galactic Alliance. 

Efforts to upgrade CloakShapes so they can compete with more modern 
starfighters, usually by adding shield generators and replacing the concussion 


missiles with linked proton torpedo tubes, inevitably fail or cost so much 
they aren't economically viable. Still, some modifications have stood the 
test of time, such as adding maneuvering jets (Initiative +3, Pilot +3, Reflex 
15 [flat-footed 12], Dex 17, +4,800 credits) and a hyperdrive sled with an 
astromech socket for an R2 unit (hyperdrive x3, 10-jump memory, Mechanics 
+13, Use Computer +13, +19,500 credits). 


CAPABILITIES 

The CloakShape depends on durability rather than agility to survive combat. 
Armed with both laser cannons and concussion missiles, these ships pack a 
heavy punch—as long as their payload lasts. The lack of shields limits their 
ability to survive multiple hits, however. As such, they are most popular 
with groups that expect to strike larger, lightly armed vessels such as bulk 
freighters. Some early Rebellion units even successfully took on Imperial 
capital ships with CloakShapes by luring away enemy fighters. This tactic 
proved extremely expensive in the end, because the CloakShapes that were 
used to draw off the enemy fighters inevitably suffered heavy losses in 
dogfighting. 


xBESD HIHSYUVLS 


1 Al eSealadvHlD 


COMMERCE GUILD 
DESTROYER 


Hoersch-Kessel Drive/Free Dac Volunteers 

Recusant-class Light Destroyer CL 19 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 50; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 


hp 1,290; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 250 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged heavy turbolasers +6* (see below) and 
2 heavy turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
3 point-defense double laser cannon batteries +14 (see below) and 
5 point-defense light laser cannon batteries +16 (see below) and 
2 point-defense double light laser cannon batteries +14 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +62 


Al ea laveS 


Abilities Str 91, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 300 (skilled); Passengers 40,000 (battle droids) 

Cargo 10,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

*Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolasers (gunner) 
Atk +6 (-14 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 


RIGGS HHSUVLS 


Point-defense double laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14, Dmg 5d10x2 

Point-defense light laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14, Dmg 3d10x2 

Point-defense double light laser cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +12, Dmg 5d10x2 


The Recusant-class light destroyer was based on technical schematics 
that were stolen from the Mon Calamari by Quarren Separatists. Like so 
many other Confederate warships, the Recusant was controlled in 
large part by automated droid technology. 


The Confederacy produced a large number of Recusant destroyers, deploy- 
ing them en masse against the Republic. During the height of the Clone 
Wars, it was rare to see fewer than four Recusants deployed at once, each 
concentrating its fire on the same target. They were most often used in raids 
against Republic shipping, but the poor judgment of the automated systems 
often resulted in the destroyers biting off more than they could chew. 

After the Separatists were defeated, the Recusant still found use through- 
out the galaxy. The Rebel Alliance had at least one such vessel—albeit heavily 
modified and more amenable to organic crewmen—while another half-dozen 
continue to serve in the fleet of the Corporate Sector Authority. 


CAPABILITIES 

The most significant strength of the Recusant-class light destroyer was its 
heavy armament, including heavy turbolasers in a fixed mount on the ship's 
prow. If the light destroyer had one weakness, it was its droid brain's single- 
mindedness. The ship would stubbornly attack a single target, ignoring all 
others until the object of its ire was finally destroyed or disabled. 

Tactical Fire: The Recusant-class light destroyer is packed to the bulk- 
heads with weaponry, much of which can be turned against starfighters. As 
a standard action, a Recusant-class light destroyer can forgo all attacks to 
provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius around itself. The 
pilots of any ships of Gargantuan size or smaller within that area at the 
beginning of their turn or entering that radius during their turn must suc- 
ceed on a DC 20 Pilot check as a reaction; failure causes the ship to take 
4d10x2 points of damage. 


CORALSKIPPER 


Coralskipper CL 12 
Gargantuan living starfighter 
Init +9; Senses Perception +8 
Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 100; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 44 
Speed fly 8 squares (max. velocity 400 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged volcano cannons +11 (see below) or 
Ranged dovin basal +11 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +5 (crew); Grp +36 
Abilities Str 39, Dex 22, Con 39, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 1 (expert); Passengers none 
Cargo 1.3 tons; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Volcano cannons (pilot) 
Atk +11, Dmg 6d10x2 
Dovin basal (pilot) 
Atk +11, Dmg 7d10x2 dovin basal 


Like all Yuuzhan Vong vessels, their starfighters are grown rather than built 
and are made of entirely biological components. When the Yuuzhan Vong 
fighter-analog vessels were first encountered by the New Republic, their 
true name (yorik-et) was unknown. Pilots noted their obviously coral-based 
construction and their high speed and maneuverability and thus dubbed them 
“coralskippers." Approximately as maneuverable in space as X-wings, though 
lacking a hyperdrive and being much less maneuverable in an atmosphere, 
coralskippers in large numbers spearheaded the Yuuzhan Vong invasion of 
the galaxy. , 


CAPABILITIES 

Though not significantly more dangerous than a New Republic starfighter in 
overall ability, coralskippers initially had the advantage of being an unknown 
and mysterious enemy with strange technology. In fact, coralskippers register 
as asteroids to computers not familiar with them. As a result, targeting com- 
puters intentionally don't lock on to them, preventing attackers from adding 
the Intelligence bonus of their ship to their attack rolls. (Reprogramming a 
ship's computer to recognize coralskippers as a threat takes 1 minute and a 
DC 15 Use Computer check.) 


The SR of a coralskipper represents not a shield generator, but a dovin 
basal, an organic gravity generator able to both move the ship and absorb 
enemy fire. Because it does not have a shield generator, the coralskipper's 
SR is not reduced by any single shot, even when damage exceeds its value. 
This significant advantage stymied New Republic pilots until new tactics 
could be developed to overwhelm coralskippers through concentrated fire: 
A weapon switched to autofire mode can be used to attack a coralskipper, 
reducing its SR as normal if this "splinter shot" attack is successful. The dovin 
basal can also be used as a weapon to damage the shields of enemy ships. 
This is treated as a weapon attack, but the damage applies only to shields 
(though if it exceeds the shield's SR, the SR is reduced by 10, rather than 
the normal 5). The dovin basal can also be used as a tractor beam, though 
the coralskipper is so small this is rarely tried. 

The dovin basal can propel the coralskipper, protect it, and strip away 
enemy defenses. It can excel at one of those tasks at any given time. As a 
swift action, the pilot of a coralskipper can grant himself one of the following 
abilities: a +2-square bonus to movement at starship scale, +5 to SR, or +1 
die of damage with the dovin basal. 


AY BeSaieavHd 


SSIgeoD HIASHvss 


“a ea Aan ea 


lisse 


SEsEgO9 HASYVLS 


Al ueLavnS 


CORVETTE, CORELLIAN 


Corellian Engineering Corporation CR9O Corvette CL 16 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 


Init +0; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 38; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 800; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 138 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 2 turbolaser batteries +10* (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +50 


Abilities Str 66, Dex 18, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 30 to 165™* (skilled); Passengers 600** 

Cargo 3,000 tons**; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 3.5 million (1.5 million used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 

**Maximum values for different configurations; typical values are crew 48, 
passengers 150, and cargo 3,000 tons with given weapons. 


Turbolaser battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +10 (-10 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 


One of the most common and popular vessels produced by the Corellian Engi- 
neering Corporation, the CR90 Corvette serves multiple purposes in fleets 
of all types throughout the galaxy. A smaller capital ship that is just a step 
up from a space transport, the Corellian Corvette is large enough to carry a 
significant complement of passengers or troops while requiring a relatively 
small crew to operate. Durable vessels that complement any battle group 
(and, indeed, they are often seen in Rebel and pirate fleets), many Corellian 
Corvettes are owned by individuals and private organizations. Often referred 
to as blockade runners, these ships boast a distinctive “hammerhead” design 
that is recognizable almost anywhere in the galaxy. 


CAPABILITIES 

Though excellent as consulars or transport ships, Corellian Corvettes also 
see extensive use as military and pirate vessels. Most Corellian Corvettes 
are easily modified (a common trait among many of the ships produced by 
the Corellian Engineering Corporation), and as such they can be tailored to 
a specific owner's needs. The ease with which CR90 Corvettes are modified 
makes adding weaponry, shielding, and even secondary hull plating a simple 
matter, meaning that aftermarket modifications that boost the ship's offen- 
sive capability are among the most common upgrades made to the vessel. 
Pirates, gunrunners, shipjackers, and smugglers favor the CR90 Corvette 
because even a heavily modified ship can appear innocuous at first glance, 


THE VANGUARD C20 
RETROFIT 
When the Corellian Engineering Corporation began producing the CR90 
Corvette as its standard (rather than as an upgrade), current owners 
of CR70 Corvettes were given the option of purchasing an aftermarket 
modification suite that brought the vessels up to date technologically 
with the CR90 Corvette. Known as the Vanguard c20 retrofit, this 
modification enhanced the combat prowess of the Corellian Corvette 
and ensured that the CR70 remained on par with the CR90, essentially 
transforming the former into the latter. The Tantive IV, for example, 
began as a CR70 Corvette that was used by Bail Organa at the tail end 
of the Clone Wars. By the time of the Galactic Civil War, the Tantive IV 
had undergone retrofitting that transformed it into a CR90 Corvette. 
A Vanguard ¢20 retrofit costs 500,000 credits (which includes both 
raw materials as well as labor costs for having the retrofit applied) and 
usually takes 2 to 3 weeks of work by trained professionals. The process 
changes the base statistics for the CR70 Corvette to those of the CR90 
Corvette, though this does not change the crew quality by default. 


making it easy to launch surprise attacks on unsuspecting targets (or sneak 
past the watchful eyes of the authorities). 

Corellian Corvettes often see use in small-scale naval skirmishes, such 
as breaking planetary blockades. In fact, many planetary defense fleets use 
Corellian Corvettes to breach enemy lines and set up flanking maneuvers. 
Since the ship's configuration can be changed to suit a variety of roles 
(including naval combat, escort, troop carrier, and cargo hauler), these ships 
are often considered dynamic assets, allowing their owners to get greater 
use out of the ship when compared to more static vessels. As such, they are 
highly valued in both military and civilian roles (and can often shift between 
the two over the course of a single ship's lifetime). 

Tactical Fire: Corellian Corvettes work well as blockade runners and can 
use their weapons and shielding to punch through enemy lines. As a standard 
action, a Corellian Corvette can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to 
all adjacent squares. All allied starships within this area automatically avoid 
being engaged in a dogfight when moving through a square adjacent to an 
enemy starfighter. 


THE CRZ7O CORVETTE 

The predecessor to the more widely used CR90 Corvette, the CR70 Corvette 
saw frequent use in diplomatic and transport roles. Unarmed and boasting 
additional escape pods, the CR70 was among the most popular civilian 
transports in the galaxy prior to the rise of the Empire. The CR70 Corvette 
had been in service for many years before the outbreak of the Clone Wars, 
and though it was considered an older design, it was still in production in 
large quantities during the years prior to the Battle of Geonosis. 

The CR70 Corvette features an interior layout that is nearly identical to 
that of the CR90 Corvette. The vessel has escape pods where the CR90's 
turbolasers would be, disguised to look like weapon emplacements in order 
to deter pirates and raiders. Without the turbolaser batteries, some inte- 
rior space dedicated to weapon support systems aboard the CR90 acts as 
cargo space or passenger quarters, making space less of a premium aboard 
a CR70. 


Corellian Engineering Corporation CR70 Corvette CL 8 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -1; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 38; +12 armor 
hp 800; DR 15; SR 90; Threshold 138 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 950 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +48 
Abilities Str 66, Dex 18, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 18 to 150* (normal); Passengers 600* 
Cargo 5,000 tons*; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 2.9 million (1.0 million used) 
*Maximum values for different configurations; typical values are crew 30, 
passengers 250, and cargo 5,000 tons. 


Al BSeLtdvHD 


xeGo9 SQIHSYvLS 


Al wealavHoS 


SaEGOD GHHSYeZss | 


DREADNAUGHT-CLASS 
HEAVY CRUISER 


Rendili StarDrive Dreadnaught-class Heavy Cruiser CL 18 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -4; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 53; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,680; DR 20; SR 115; Threshold 253 
Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged 2 turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
2 light quad turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
2 light turbolasers +5* (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +65 


Abilities Str 96, Dex 10, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 16,210 (skilled); Passengers 3,000 

Cargo 9,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 12 starfighters 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x18), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
35,555,000 used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 
Light quad turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
Light turbolaser (gunner) 

Atk +5 (-15 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 2d10x5 


Designed by Rendili StarDrive in the waning days of the Old Republic, the 
Dreadnaught-class heavy cruiser is a heavily armed battleship that remains 
in active use despite being supplanted by superior technologies. The Dread- 
naught-class heavy cruiser came into service well before the beginning of 
the Clone Wars, but by the time the conflict arrived it had already become 
outdated. The newer ships, developed specifically for galaxywide warfare, 
quickly outstripped the Dreadnaught-class heavy cruiser in both power and 
reliability, but despite this fact the bulky heavy cruiser was a mainstay of 
the Republic fleet. 


During the Clone Wars, most Dreadnaught-class heavy cruisers were 
operated by volunteers or planetary defense forces, not clones. The high 
number of crewmembers required to operate a Dreadnaught-class heavy 
cruiser made it a huge drain on personnel; however, the Republic chose to 
man these ships with volunteers, reserving their more advanced ships for 
their specially trained clone units and highly loyal officers. The Dreadnaught- 
class heavy cruiser continues to be found in service throughout the galaxy; 
though the ship is considered antiquated at best, it boasts armament that, 
despite its age, is not to be trifled with. 


CAPABILITIES 
The Dreadnaught-class heavy cruiser's lack of shielding (compared to more 
cutting-edge capital ships, such as the /mperial |-class Star Destroyer) is 
offset by its general toughness, meaning that if a shot does get through, 
it is less likely to reduce the ship's capabilities even if it destroys a large 
chunk of the ship. Most Dreadnaught-class heavy cruisers were built with 
multiple redundant systems, allowing them to fight on despite suffering 
severe hits to certain parts of the ship. As a result, many Dreadnaught-class 
heavy cruisers are used as shields to protect more delicate ships, soaking up 
damage that would devastate a smaller vessel. The Dreadnaught-class heavy 
cruiser's smaller size (compared to the Star Destroyer and its ilk) makes it 
less intimidating than other capital ships, but its sturdiness and reliability 
more than compensates for this drawback. 

Tactical Fire: The Dreadnaught-class heavy cruiser is designed to absorb 
damage intended for other, adjacent, capital ships by interposing itself 
between the target ship and its attackers. As a standard action, a Dread- 


naught-class heavy cruiser can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to 
all squares in a 2-square radius around itself. Any attacks targeting allied 
ships of Colossal (frigate) size or larger within that area are automatically 
directed at the Dreadnaught-class heavy cruiser instead. 


THE OUTBOUND FLIGHT 
PROJECT 

The Outbound Flight Project was a mission whose goal was to explore the 
farthest reaches of the galaxy and beyond. An exploratory mission originally 
proposed by the Jedi, the Outbound Flight Project became the personal 
project of Jedi Master Jorus C’baoth, who fought with the Senate at every 
turn to get the project funded and under way. The Outbound Flight Project 
was created not only to explore new places, but also to set up colonies 
and—unbeknownst to all but a few of C'baoth's confidants—find new Force- 
sensitive apprentices to bolster the numbers of the Jedi Order. 

However, the grand exploratory mission did not go as planned. In the 
Republic's first encounter with the Chiss that would eventually go on to 
become Grand Admiral Thrawn, the Outbound Flight Project was derailed and 
the ship was lost, never reaching its destination in the Unknown Regions. 


Outbound Flight 
The Outbound Flight Project revolved around the use of a massive ship, 
appropriately called Outbound Flight, that was composed of six Rendili 
StarDrive Dreadnaught-class heavy cruisers arranged in a ring around a 
central fuselage, all connected by a web of metal that made all the vessels 
into a single, massive ship. The central fuselage carried the supplies needed 
to feed the crewmembers and passengers aboard Outbound Flight for the 
duration of its journey, and also carried the relevant material for colonizing 
any habitable planets the explorers discovered. Each of the Dreadnaught- 
class heavy cruisers was connected to the central fuselage and to each other 
by a series of access tunnels, and crewmembers could move between the 
six Dreadnaughts or the central core by means of speeders kept aboard for 
just that reason. Additionally, each Dreadnaught-class heavy cruiser could 
be detached from the central core, and it would do so in order to remain 
behind and protect any colonies the mission might find. 
Outbound Flight CL 22 
Colossal (station) capital ship 
Init -6; Senses Perception -4 
Defense Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 114; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 9,000; DR 20; SR 165; Threshold 514 
Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged 15 turbolaser batteries* +15 (see below) and 
3 laser cannon batteries* +13 (see below) and 
5 quad laser cannon batteries* +15 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +126 
Atk Options autofire (quad laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 218, Dex 6, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -6, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 5,000 (skilled); Passengers 46,000 
Cargo 19,000 tons; Consumables 10 years; Carried Craft various 
shuttlecraft 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x18), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (unique) 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x5 
Laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 
Quad laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 


AL SeSlLdavHS 


iP 
oD 
) 
us 
VU 
0) 
(0) 
0) 
W) 
% 


ieee 


VA SealevHo 


REGS SIHSUVLS 


DROID STARFIGHTERS 


Baktoid Armor Workshop Vulture-class Starfighter CL7 

Huge starfighter/ground vehicle (walker) 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor 

hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 32 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares, fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,180 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) and 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover none 

Base Atk +5; Grp +27 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), fire-link (medium concussion 
missiles) 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +9 


Crew 0 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 medium concussion missiles 

Availability Restricted; Cost 19,000 


Laser cannons 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles 

Atk +7, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


A favored weapon of the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the 
Clone Wars, the droid starfighter is a marvel of engineering and artificial 
intelligence. Combining the deadly technology of a starfighter with the 
advanced brains of a battle droid, droid starfighters provide the Separatists 
with an endless supply of combat-worthy vessels without the need to recruit 
and train living pilots. 

Droid starfighters are small, cheap, and expendable, just the way the Trade 
Federation likes them. Mostly manufactured by companies supporting the 
Confederacy, droid starfighters are churned out of factories nearly as quickly 
as Republic forces can destroy them. The only limits on the number of droid 
starfighters that can appear on the battlefront lie within the command and 
control computers or a Droid Control Ship. Though the automated nature 
of droid starfighters makes them more prone to large-scale difficulties (a 
single computer virus can scramble the programming of thousands of droid 


starfighters at a time), it also makes them easier to coordinate and com- 
mand as a group. 

The most common droid starfighter, the Vulture-class starfighter, oper- 
ates in both a flight mode and a walker mode and was used as early as the 
Battle of Naboo. These fighters are common throughout the duration of the 
Clone Wars, but when the Separatist fleet was deactivated, many of these 
starfighters were lost or destroyed. Also used during the Clone Wars was the 
Scarab-class starfighter and the droid tri-fighter. Both craft, while not nearly 
as popular as the Vu/ture-class starfighter, serve throughout the Confederate 
fleet and are seen on almost all fronts of the war. 


CAPABILITIES 

Droid starfighters usually receive their commands from a Droid Control Ship, 
which coordinates their attacks for maximum efficiency. Though the failure 
of a single Droid Control Ship can have devastating results on the starfight- 
ers under its control (as seen at the Battle of Naboo), few squadrons are 
refitted with independent droid brains due to cost issues. For the most part, 
the Confederacy combats this problem by having redundant control vessels 


DROID TRI-FIGHTER 


present at any battle, ensuring that if one such ship is destroyed, the droid 
starfighters will continue to operate. 

Given the computerized nature of its piloting system, a droid starfighter 
can attack with all weapons as though each had its own gunner, despite the 
fact that the ship has no actual crew. This allows the ship to use each of its 
formidable weapon systems in a single round, without the need to coordinate 
multiple crewmembers. 

Droid starfighters also have the added benefit of not being affected by 
the Force or other effects to which living pilots would be susceptible. They 
cannot be bargained with; they cannot be reasoned with; they do not feel 
pity, remorse, or fear. Droid starfighters have all droid immunities, includ- 
ing immunity to mind-affecting effects, and will not willfully communicate 
with enemy starships. They cannot be demoralized and will never contradict 
their orders; in essence, they are the most disciplined starfighter corps in 
the galaxy. 


Phlac-Arphocc Automata Industries Droid Tri-Fighter CL9 

Huge starfighter 

Init +10; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor 

hp 100; DR 10; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon +7 (see below) and 

Ranged 3 light laser cannons +7 (see below) and 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover none 

Base Atk +5; Grp +29 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, light laser cannons), fire-link 
(medium concussion missiles) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +8 

Crew 0 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 6 medium concussion missiles 

Availability Restricted; Cost 40,000 


Laser cannon 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Light laser cannons 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles 

Atk +7, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


Haor Chall Engineering Scarab-class Starfighter CL6 

Huge starfighter 

Init +6; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23; +3 armor 

hp 80; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 43 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 900 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged blaster cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover none 

Base Atk +2; Grp +25 

Atk Options autofire (blaster cannons) 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 0 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Restricted; Cost 17,000 


Blaster cannons 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


xeGOS HIHSUVvLe 


VULTURE STARFIGHTER 


\ 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


0 
I 
> 
i) 
id 
0 
Tl 
< 


<SeGOS JQHSYvLsS 


DYNAMIC-CLASS 
FREIGHTER 


Dynamic-class Freighter CL6 


Colossal space transport 

Init -5; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25; +12 armor 
hp 110; DR 15; Threshold 75 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double laser cannons +3 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +35 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 40, Dex 10, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 


HT RUT chili oe tarmcien OES | 


Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 6 

Cargo 60 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x3, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 80,000 (30,000 used) 


Double laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +3 (-2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


The Dynamic-class freighter is a sturdy if rare type of starship whose origins 
date back to the earliest days of the Old Republic. Manufactured by a subsid- 
iary of Core Galaxy Systems based on the planet Transel, the Dynamic-class 
freighter has been produced only in limited quantities by a single factory on 
that obscure, backwater world. The manufacturing plant that produces the 
Dynamic-class freighter was originally the production facility for a small, 
independent starship engineering firm that was purchased by Core Galaxy 
Systems during a period of rapid company expansion. However, in ensuing 
reorganizations little attention was paid to the Dynamic-class freighter or 
its manufacturing plant, and as a result the ship continued to be produced 
for many years, using the funding from Core Galaxy Systems to build each 
vessel one at a time. 

The Ebon Hawk was a heavily modified Dynamic-class freighter that 
played an integral role in the Jedi Civil War. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Dynamic-class freighter gets its name from the ease with which it is 
modified. The ship is particularly well suited to customization, and the hand- 
crafted feel that each vessel possesses only enhances this reputation. Though 
not particularly fast or tough, the ship is sturdy and can handle extensive 
modifications without losing any efficiency. When a character attempts to 
make a Mechanics check to repair or modify a Dynamic-class freighter, that 
character gains a +2 circumstance bonus on the skill check. 

The basic model of the ship does not have impressive armament or any 
shielding, though the manufacturers were sure to engineer the vessel to 
allow the ship to accept such modifications with ease. Less spacious than 
larger freighters such as the YT-1300, a Dynamic-class freighter can hold 
less cargo but maintains the ability to transport a number of passengers, 
making it a more utilitarian starship than most freighters. 


GSS Post mMofwny— 


. Security/Main Hold 
. Medical Bay 

. Turret Access 

. Engine Room 

. Cargo Hold 

. Garage 

. Part Dormitory 


. Storage Compartment 


Dynamic-class Freighter 


Cockpit 
Communications 


. Starboard Dorimtory 


. Exit Ramp 


| square = [.5 meters 


xeaGeD JHSHVvLS 


Al BSLldvHo 


AM BSaLadvHo 


SEGOO HIASSVLs 


ETA-2 ACTIS 
INTERCEPTOR 


Kuat Systems Engineering Eta-2 Actis Interceptor CL 11 

HUGE STARFIGHTER 

Init +18; Senses Perception +12 

Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 70; DR 10; Threshold 32 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +14 (see below) or 

Ranged ion cannons +14 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (pilot), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +32 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons) 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 26, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +18, Mechanics +12 (+13*), Perception +12, Pilot +18, 
Use Computer +12 (+13%) 

*If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (ace); Passengers none 

Cargo 60 kg; Consumables 2 days (1 week with booster ring); Carried 
Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1 (with booster ring), 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Military; Cost 290,000 (140,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


lon cannons (pilot) 
Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 


A light and fast starship designed for use during the Clone Wars, the Eta-2 
Actis interceptor is a predecessor to the TIE fighter and one of the fastest 
and smallest ships in the Republic fleet. Popularized by the Jedi during the 
waning days of the Clone Wars (and often referred to colloquially as the 
“Jedi Interceptor"), the Eta-2 is a marvel of compact engineering. Featuring 
twin S-foils designed to diffuse engine heat and a more impressive arma- 
ment than other contemporary starfighters, the Eta-2 is a dangerous, if 
fragile, starfighter that helped turn the tide against the onslaught of the 
Confederacy's droid starfighter corps. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Eta-2 Actis interceptor packs a lot of firepower into a very small package. 
Though stripped of any shielding (and possessing only a very limited amount 
of hull strength), the Eta-2 is designed to take advantage of the incredible 
reflexes exhibited by both Jedi as well as expert pilots. Though the ship is 
likely to be destroyed by a solid hit, the Eta-2 is fast and maneuverable, 
allowing it to avoid attacks altogether rather than be able to absorb and 
deflect incoming damage. 

Unlike its predecessor (the Delta-7 Aethersprite fighter) and its successor 
(the TIE fighter), the Eta-2 features a complement of ion cannons that allows 
it to disable foes in combat, adding to the versatility of the ship. Though not 
as heavily armed as other fighters active during the Clone Wars, the Eta-2 
uses its speed and maneuverability to slip past enemy lines and deliver a 
concentrated attack on both starfighters as well as small transports and 
frigates. 

A limited number of Eta-2 fighters were outfitted with concussion mis- 
siles during the Clone Wars. Though such a modification was usually made 
only for special missions, some Jedi and other pilots found the increased 
armament to be a boon when fighting against droid enemies (since there 
was no concern for taking lives). Such a modification was rare, and usually 
required the removal of the ion cannons to compensate for the concussion 
missile launcher and its payload (usually only four missiles). 


E-winGc 


FreiTek Inc. E-wing Starfighter, Type B CL 12 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 150; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 48 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,300 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged triple heavy blaster cannons +10 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +10 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), total 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +38 

Atk Options autofire (triple heavy blaster cannons), fire-link (proton 
torpedoes) 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 23, Con —, Int 17 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +8 (+13*), Perception +8, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +8 (+13*) 

*If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 16 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x2, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Military/Restricted/Licensed; Cost 200,000 (80,000 used) 


Triple heavy blaster cannons (pilot) 

Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +10, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


Shortly after the Battle of Endor, FreiTek was founded by the engineers 
and scientists who had designed the X-wing for Incom. The company's first 
design, which was supported by the fledgling New Republic, was the E-wing 
starfighter. Given that many of the E-wing's design team had been involved 
in Incom's X-wing project, the new starfighter had an excellent pedigree 
from the very beginning. Expectations were also high, especially when the 
versatility and power of the X-wing fighter were taken into account. 


The E-wing was originally conceived as a replacement for the A-wing 
starfighter. Initial trials of the fighter exceeded all expectations, since 
it was fast, well armed, and quite agile. After a time, problems with the 
design of the E-wing's weapon lasers became obvious, requiring that they 
be redesigned. The result was the Type B E-wing. Though it is still host to a 
few minor technical issues, the Type B is a solid design that continues to be 
a favorite among Republic fighter pilots. 

Though they are available only in small numbers, E-wings have nonethe- 
less been distinguished in combat several times. They have seen service 
against the remnants of the Imperial Navy as led by Grand Admiral Thrawn, 
during the Black Fleet Crisis, and in the Yuuzhan Vong War. Given the expense 
of these starfighters, as well as their advanced capabilities, they are almost 
always flown by ace pilots. 


CAPABILITIES 

The E-wing is extremely maneuverable due to its innovative control surfaces. 
These systems are inherently tied to the ship's astromech droid, which must be 
installed for them to function at peak efficiency. To make matters somewhat 
more complicated, the E-wing isn't able to employ standard astromech droids 
unless they are retrofitted (at a cost of 10,000 credits). The R7 astromech 
droid is the standard for which the E-wing was designed, and it can be used 
with no modification whatsoever. So long as the ship is equipped with an 
R7 (or sufficiently modified) astromech droid, the pilot benefits from a +2 
equipment bonus on Pilot checks. 


Al SaldvHd a 


xeon HIHSYUVLS 


Gus 


FIRESPRAY-S3I1 
PATROL CRAFT 


Kuat Systems Engineering Firespray-31 Patrol Craft CL9 
Colossal space transport 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 150; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 78 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged blaster cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged tractor beam +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +40 

Atk Options autofire (blaster cannons) 


Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Al BSLlLavHng 


SRIGOHD QHHSHVZass 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 6 

Cargo 70 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x3 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 120,000 


Blaster cannons (pilot) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Tractor beam (pilot) 

Atk +6, Dmg — (grapple +40) 


Designed to function as a prisoner transport and system patrol ship, the 
Firespray-31 patrol craft is a highly customizable vessel that is favored by 
law enforcement officials and bounty hunters alike. With an unorthodox 
design and a moderate stock armament, the Firespray-31 is a tough and 
durable vessel that can withstand the rigors of patrol and escort duty and 
deliver a punishing counterattack against any assailants. 

The Firespray-31 boasts an unusual design that keeps the cockpit facing 
the sky while landing, but facing forward while in flight. Though such an 
unusual configuration requires some getting used to by the pilot, most owners 
of this system patrol craft insist that the design keeps the engines from being 
damaged when the vessel lands and allows for very rapid vertical takeoffs. 

Though most of the original Firespray-31 prototypes were destroyed 
some time before the Clone Wars, a few of the ships (such as Slave /) made 
their way into the hands of private citizens. Most were constructed from 
blueprints sold by Kuat Systems Engineering to buyers who had the means 


of constructing the ships themselves, since Jango Fett destroyed all of the 
officially manufactured prototype models. Following the rise of the Empire, 
Kuat Systems Engineering began to produce the ship in large numbers, 
advertising the vessels as highly customizable starships that could be used 
for a number of roles, including patrol, pursuit, and escort. Kuat Systems 
Engineering also sold a large number of the craft to Mandalorian mercenar- 
ies, including the Mandalorian Protectors, who continued to use the ships 
up through the Yuuzhan Vong War. 


CAPABILITIES 

The stock Firespray-31 patrol craft boasts a pair of potent blaster cannons 
and a powerful tractor beam, allowing buyers who purchase the ship right off 
the assembly line to put the vessel into service with minimal modifications. 
The ship is modestly armored and has a hull integrity that few similar ships 
can claim; likewise, the Firespray-31 comes standard with shielding, giving it 
an edge over cheaper transport ships such as the YT-1300. The combination 
of a strong hull. and moderately powerful shields allows the Firespray-31 to 
take a beating while continuing to fight on. 


The ease with which the Firespray-31 is modified makes it a favorite ship 
for bounty hunters, the most famous example being Jango and Boba Fett 
and their ship, S/ave /. Unlike most other ships, the Firespray-31 has 3 unused 
emplacement points that can be used to add weapons or other equipment to 
the ship (see page 38 for more information on emplacement points). 


ORIGINAL PROTOTYPES 

When Kuat Systems Engineering began manufacturing the Firespray-31 patrol 
craft, it did so using the blueprints for the prototype stolen by Jango Fett. 
However, the blueprints for the other five prototype models still remained 
in Kuat Systems Engineering's possession, and for a short while were made 
available for sale to those who could afford them. As a result, many of the 
Firespray-31 ships in the galaxy prior to their mass production are actually 
different designs based on variant prototype blueprints. 

When Kuat Systems Engineering decided to mass-produce the Firespray-31, 
it ceased the sales of its prototype blueprints in order to create a single 
"stock" model of the vessel for sale on the general market. However, many of 
the original prototype blueprints have found their way onto the black market 
over the years, meaning that, for the right price, a buyer could obtain the 
blueprints and build his own reproduction of one of the original six prototype 
variants. Locating these blueprints usually requires a week of negotiation on 
the black market, a DC 30 Gather Information check, and 12,000 credits. 

Though the stock Firespray-31, the ship stolen by Jango Fett, is the 
most common, the other prototype models had their own advantages and 
disadvantages as well. One model boasted increased engine strength at the 
cost of shield strength, while another included built-in maneuvering jets 
but reduced hull strength. Gamemasters wishing to introduce these variant 
Firespray-31 prototypes should feel free to tweak the ship's basic statistics 
without spending any of the vessel's 3 unused emplacement points. 


SLAVE | 

Slave | is the personal transport of the bounty hunter Boba Fett. The ship, 
once belonging to his father Jango, is a heavily modified Firespray-31 system 
patrol craft. Armed with more weapons than many capital starships carry, 
Slave | represents an example of how a Firespray-31 can be customized to 
fit the needs of an individual owner. 

Slave | is fast, agile, and includes the combat thrusters modification, 
allowing it to act like a starfighter in space combat. Combined with the excel- 
lent piloting skills of the Mandalorian bounty hunter, Slave / is a dangerous 
foe in space combat that can lay waste to unsuspecting starfighters with 
only a few shots from its more potent weapons. Any target hit by Slave I's 
proton torpedoes is covered in proton tracking devices; the pilot of Slave / 
has a +5 bonus on Use Computer checks made to locate the target again if 
it subsequently escapes from detection. 


Slave | CL 17 
Colossal* space transport 


Init +8; Senses Perception +16 


Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 28; +13 armor 
hp 150; DR 15; SR 45; Threshold 78 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged blaster cannons +18 (see below) or 
Ranged concussion mines +18 (see below) or 
Ranged medium concussion missiles +18 (see below) or 
Ranged ion cannons +18 (see below) or 
Ranged proton torpedoes +18 (see below) or 
Ranged tractor beam +18 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +14; Grp +52 
Atk Options autofire (blaster cannons, ion cannons), Double Attack 
Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +9, Perception 16, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +9 


Crew 1 (unique; Boba Fett); Passengers 6 

Cargo 70 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 

Payload 16 concussion mines, 8 concussion missiles, 4 proton tracking 
beacons 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x8), navicomputer 

Availability Unique Cost not available for sale 

*This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purposes of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using starship 
maneuvers. 


Blaster cannons (pilot) 

Atk +18 (+13 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Concussion mines (pilot) 

Atk +18, Dmg 8d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +18, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 
lon cannons (pilot) 

Atk +18 (+13 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 ion 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +18, Dmg Special (proton beacon) 
Tractor beam (pilot) 

Atk +18, Dmg — (grapple +52) 


KEEOO HHSUVLS 


GEONOSIAN 
STARFIGHTER 


Huppla Pasa Tisc Shipwrights Collective Nantex-class 
Territorial Defense Starfighter CL7 
Huge starfighter 

Init +10; Senses Perception +6 


ans] 


Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 100; DR 10; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 39, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +6 


9) 
I 
> 
a 
i 
® 
b 
< 


SSseeE9 HIASHYVLsS 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


When the Republic's clone army invaded Geonosis, its assault ships, starfight- 
ers, and gunships were met in orbit by swarms of Geonosian fighters. Though 
the Geonosian defenses were eventually swept aside, their swift response to 
the Republic's invasion force bought the Confederacy enough time to mobilize 
its ground forces. Instead of accepting defeat at the hands of the Jedi and 
their clone legions, the Geonosian military castes became even more devoted 
to the cause of the Confederacy. The defeat of their homeworld polarized 
their support for the Separatists and became a rallying cry for the entire 
species. Though limited in numbers, the Geonosian Nantex-class fighters 
were a common sight in just about every major battle to come. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Nantex-class starfighter, dubbed the “beak wing" by the Republic navy, 
is a Geonosian-designed interceptor. Though underestimated by many pilots 
in the early days of the Clone Wars, the Nantex soon earned a fearsome 
reputation. Despite its small size, the Nantex is a durable and effective craft 
in the hands of a Geonosian pilot. 

From the time each one hatches, a Geonosian pilot is paired with a specific 
flight computer. This has the effect of forming a seamless bond between the 
pilot and his starfighter. So strong is this connection that pilots who lose 
their ships in combat often waste away and die within weeks of the loss. 
The fighter's avionics are tailored to Geonosian physiology, and they include 
pheromone emitters and specialized scent stimulators. Though this makes 
the craft impossible for members of other species to operate, it serves to 
further increase the frightening efficiency of Geonosian pilots. 

The Nantex is modular and easily configurable to a number of different 
mission profiles. The forward section of the fighter is equipped with scores 
of small tractor-beam emitters that are used to increase the accuracy of 
the fighter's laser cannon. As a result, a Nantex within 2 squares of a target 
gains a +1 equipment bonus on attack rolls. Geonosian starfighters have 
been clocked at over 20,000 km/h under optimal atmospheric conditions, 
but effective maneuvers are practically impossible at such speeds. 


GINIVEX-CLASS 
STARFIGHTER 


Huppla Pasa Tisc Shipwrights Collective Ginivex-class 

Starfighter 

Huge starfighter 

Init +13; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 80; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 33 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double laser cannons +11 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +28 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 24, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +13, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +13, 
Use Computer +8 

Crew 1 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1, limited navicomputer (5-jump memory) 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


CL 10 


Double laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +11 (+6 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


According to captured Separatist records, only six Ginivex-class starfight- 
ers were manufactured by the Geonosians for Count Dooku. Referred to as 
“fanolades” due to their distinctive fan-shaped solar sails, these fighters 
were as effective as they were exotic. Dooku eventually bequeathed the 
six fighters to his disciple, Asajj Ventress, who had them transported to her 
homeworld of Rattatak. In a short time, the unique starfighters became 
Ventress's calling card, striking dread into any pilot unlucky enough to face 
one in combat. 

During the course of the Clone Wars, Asajj Ventress suffered the theft of 
two of her fighters by Obi-Wan Kenobi and his padawan, Anakin Skywalker. 
The last known location of these appropriated ships was the Jedi Temple 
on Coruscant, but it is assumed that they were subsequently destroyed or 
taken by the Emperor during the Jedi Purge. Ventress's remaining four ships 
vanished with her, and their whereabouts are currently unknown. Rumors 
that several fanblade fighters took part in the Second Battle of Coruscant 
remain unconfirmed. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Ginivex's solar sail is its most distinctive asset. Although it increases the 
target silhouette of the fighter and makes it stand out like a small sun on 
shipboard sensors, it also serves as a transmission plane for deflector shield 
energy. The solar sail increases the Ginivex's shield rating from 30 to 45, 
so long as it is deployed. The extra 15 points of SR are depleted before any 
others, and they recharge at the normal rate. If the solar sail is retracted, 
any SR it provides is immediately lost. As an added bonus, the solar sail can 
be used to propel the Ginivex if its sublight drives are damaged. 

Like other Geonosian fighters, the Ginivex boasts impressive speed and 
maneuverability. Unlike other Geonosian designs, such as the Nantex, the 
Ginivex is designed specifically for human pilots; none of the standard Geono- 
sian avionics are included in the design. In another deviation from Geonosian 
fighter doctrine, the Ginivex-class is equipped with an integral hyperdrive 
engine and a limited-use navicomputer. These additions were incorporated 
at great expense and at the insistence of Count Dooku. 


Al SBSlLdvAs 


xaeGeO HHSYUVS 


Al BStavHoD 


GHTrROC 720 
FREIGHTER 


Ghtroc Industries Class 720 Freighter CL6 


Colossal space transport 
Init -3; Senses Perception +5 


Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 25; +12 armor 
hp 110; DR 15; SR 15; Threshold 75 


SIGOOQ HIHSUVLS 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 750 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double laser cannons +1 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12X12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +35 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 40, Dex 14, Con —, Int 13 

Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 10 

Cargo 135 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 98,500 (23,000 used) 


Double laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +1 (-4 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


Ghtroc Industries produced the class 720 freighter in an effort to compete 
with Corellian Engineering's YT-1300. Despite an ingenious marketing cam- 
paign, factory incentives, and positive reviews, the 720 failed to match the 
popularity of the YT-1300 within the Core Worlds and Inner Rim systems. It 
did manage to gain a foothold among traders within the Outer Rim colonies, 
though this modest success wasn't enough to push Corellian Engineering out 
of its position as industry leader. 

Although Ghtroc Industries eventually fell by the wayside, wallowing in 
the throes of bankruptcy, tens of thousands of class 720 freighters are still 
in operation throughout the galaxy. Many veteran traders, smugglers, and 
pilots consider the 720 to be just as good as, if not better than, the YT-1300. 
The freighters are affordable, easily configured, and user-friendly, making 
them popular with both old hands and rookies. 

Many of the galaxy's pilots have flown a 720 at one time or another. 
When he was investigating Poderis's possible use as an Imperial transfer 
point, Luke Skywalker employed a heavily modified Ghtroc 720 to secretly 
ferry his X-wing fighter. The Ghtroc's cargo bay was gutted by Alliance techs 
and retrofitted with a modified hull section that could break away, allowing 
the X-wing to depart the 720 while in flight. 


CAPABILITIES 

When compared to the stock YT-1300, the Ghtroc 720 has several compelling 
standard features. It comes equipped with a small shield generator, which is 
probably its most attractive benefit. It is also much more maneuverable than 
the YT-1300, and it includes a cargo area that is more than a third larger 
than the YT-1300's. Given the ubiquitous nature of the 720, spare parts are 
easy to find, even in remote or far-flung settlements. 

On the other hand, the Ghtroc is slightly slower than the YT-1300. 
Although it is armed with a double laser cannon emplacement, the weapon 
is in a fixed-forward firing position instead of in a turret mount. Starship 
techs often complain that the Ghtroc's ion drives and hyperdrive are spread 
out between the craft's fore and aft instead of being centrally located. This 
configuration requires that engineers share time between two locations, 
which can be inconvenient under combat conditions. 


Ghtroc Industries class | square = 1.5 meters 


720 Freighter 


Pilot station 
Co-Pilot Station 
System Operator 
Gunnery Station 
Ladder Well 

Port Engine Room 
Starboard Engine Room 
Crew Quarters 
Refresher 

{0 LoungePort 

I Port Cargo Lift 2 — 
(2 Port Cargo Hold 4 
{3 Starboard Cargo Lift 

{4 Starboard Cargo Hold 

{9 Engineering Station 

{6 Repair Bay/Machine Shop 
17 Port Escape Pod Access 
18 Starboard Escape Pod Access 
19 Port Escape Pod 

20 Starboard Escape Pod 
2 Storage #1 

22 Storage #2 

23 Reacor Core 

24 Exit Ramp/Airlock 


co oo —~ oo on & oo NS 


) 


Al esaiavHo 


= 
> 
D 
0) 
x 
U 
Q 
© 
0 
W) 
x 


Bae... 


Al ealLevno 


i 
@ 


os 


GOZANT! CRUISER 


Gozanti Cruiser CL8 
Colossal space transport 


Init -3; Senses Perception +5 


Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 29; +14 armor 
hp 180; DR 15; SR 15; Threshold 79 


SaeGO9) QHHShvLsS 


Speed fly 6 squares (max. velocity 400 km/h), fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged proton torpedoes +4 (see below) and 
2 laser cannon batteries +8 (see below) and 
2 quad laser cannon batteries +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +39 
Atk Options autofire (quad laser cannon batteries) 
Abilities Str 48, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 12 (normal); Passengers 12 
Cargo 75 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 proton torpedoes 
Hyperdrive x3 (backup x12), navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 150,000 (50,000 used) 


Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +4, Dmg 94102, 4-square splash 
Laser cannon battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +8, Dmg 4d10x2 


Quad laser cannon battery (2 gunners) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


The Gozanti Cruiser was designed by the Corellian Engineering Corpora- 
tion, but few were actually built by the CEC. Instead, the design was leased 
to numerous other companies for construction, often on a special-order 
basis. Because of this, the same basic design was produced under differ- 
ent names, including the nickname given to the design during early drafts: 
“Brocklander” ships. 

The Gozanti was conceived as an antipiracy freighter; hence the term 
“cruiser,” which is something of an overstatement. Though heavily armed 
for a civilian vessel, the Gozanti is essentially an armed freighter with 
unusually heavy armor and internal hull bracing. First produced during the 
Old Republic, the ship was intentionally made extremely slow, to prove to 
Republic inspectors that the ship wouldn't be useful as a pirate vessel. The 
tactic worked, and while many independents and even some Hutts ended up 
buying Gozantis for various reasons, none of the ships have ever been used 
in a direct act of piracy. 

The design fell out of favor with shipyards during the reign of the Galactic 
Empire, though the Rebellion happily put any older ships it found into service. 
Soon after the fall of the Emperor, the demand for heavily armed and armored 
civilian ships shot up, and the Gozanti was rushed back into production. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Gozanti is extremely slow for a starship its size—so slow that it cannot 
be used for most perishable cargo deliveries. However, its relative tough- 
ness and extremely heavy armament for a civilian ship make it popular with 
merchants needing to transport valuable materials securely. Although it lacks 
the firepower to hold off a large military craft (and certainly can't outrun 
one), the Gozanti is more than a match for casual pirates using second-rate 
starfighters and retrofitted space transports. 

The very fact that the ship is a marginal cargo vessel often makes it a 
popular choice for conversion into a noncargo vessel. When such ships did 
end up in the hands of criminals and outlaws, they were inevitably turned 
into either prison ships or secure personal transports (often traveling with 
several faster escort ships). A few were converted for use as diplomatic 


vessels, especially in the last days of the Old Republic and the early days of 
the New Republic. Gozantis are also a popular choice for mobile command 
centers, and they have been used as flying fortresses by bounty hunters, 
archeologists, slavers, and even Jedi. 


KRAYT'S HONOR 

Krayt's Honor is a Gozanti cruiser most famous for once defending the per- 
sonal luxury yacht of Jabba the Hutt prior to the Clone Wars. At that time 
it was captained by a Kel Dor, Siqo Vass. However, in an effort to avoid the 
prejudices of increasing humanocentrism, he often had the human female 
Layn Wynest pose as captain. Captain Vass hired his ship out as a Q-Ship, a 
military-grade vessel posing as a common cargo craft to lure pirates in close 
enough to destroy them. Vass was willing to defend legitimate merchant- 
men from any attackers, including Trade Federation starships attempting to 
enforce illegal embargoes. The Trade Federation placed a bounty on Vass's 
head, but the patronage of a grateful Jabba ensured that Krayt's Honor could 
always find a safe harbor. 


Capabilities 

Krayt's Honor was significantly upgunned with the addition of three turbo- 
lasers and a second proton torpedo launcher (and an expanded payload). 
The proton torpedo launchers are fire-linked and often used by the captain 
as an opening salvo (since the captain is trained in Pilot, he gains a +2 
on attack rolls with the proton torpedoes, already added into the ship's 
statistics). Its biggest offensive surprise was its three turbolasers, able to 
pack a heavy enough punch to damage capital ships. However, Captain Vass 
tried not to reveal the big guns’ presence unless forced to, since they were 
highly illegal. 

In addition to its expanded offensive capability, Vass had his ship rein- 
forced and augmented with military-grade deflector shields. The resulting 
defenses weren't enough to hold off a capital-class ship, but could absorb 
a great deal more starfighter hits than the ship's humble appearance would 
suggest. 


Krayt's Honor CL 11 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +8 


Defense Ref 20 (flat-footed 14), Fort 32; +18 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 180; DR 20; SR 50; Threshold 82 
Speed fly 6 squares (max. velocity 400 km/h), fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged proton torpedoes +13 (see below) and 
Ranged turbolaser battery +13 (see below) and 
Ranged 2 laser cannon batteries +15 (see below) and 
Ranged quad laser cannon battery +11 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +47 
Atk Options autofire (quad laser cannon batteries) 
Abilities Str 54, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +8 
Crew 6 (expert); Passengers 12 
Cargo 65 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Payload 24 proton torpedoes 
Hyperdrive x3 (backup x12), navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 150,000 (50,000 used) 


Proton torpedoes (pilo 
Atk +13, Dmg 10d1 
Turbolaser battery (3 
Atk+13,Dmg5d10x5 
Laser cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +15, Dmg 4d10x2 e 
Quad laser cannon battery (2 gunners) 
Atk +11 (+4 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


wo 


REGO HHMSUVLS 


GUNSHIP, CORELLIAN 


Corellian Gunship CL 17 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 39; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 920; DR 15; SR 115; Threshold 139 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged 8 double turbolasers +5* (see below) and 
point-defense quad laser cannon battery +15 (see below) and 
4 heavy concussion missiles +5* (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +51 
Atk Options autofire (double turbolasers) 


Abilities Str 68, Dex 19, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 91 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 300 tons; Consumables 8 months; Carried Craft none 

Payload 120 heavy concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup [x16), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 4.8 million (2.4 million used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Double turbolasers (gunner) 
Atk +5 (-15 against targets smaller than Colossal, +0 autofire), Dmg 
5d10x5 

Point-defense quad laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


SEaGO9 HHSHhVns.s 


Heavy concussion missiles (gunner) 
Atk +5 (-15 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x5, 
4-square splash 


Corellian Gunship is the common name applied to a series of closely related 
ship designs (the most common being the DP20 frigate) built by the Corellian 
Engineering Corporation from the last decades of the Old Republic through 
the time of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. A departure from most CEC designs, 
the gunship is not modular, not easily modified, and not meant to carry a 
significant number of passengers or a large cargo load. It is a small capital 
ship designed to deal with fighters and armed space transports. Originally 
built for use by the Republic Navy, the gunship soon found itself popular 
with merchant companies, wealthy travelers, planetary defense forces, and 
pirates. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Corellian Gunship is primarily an escort vessel, designed to protect bulk 
cargo carriers from attacks by starfighters and space transports or to cover 
larger capital ships from attacks by starfighters. Though it lacks long staying 
power and is often overwhelmed if acting alone, it has proven a useful part 
of many different fleet complements. Although unable to outfight larger 
dedicated military craft, the gunship has the firepower and defenses to 
engage such ships briefly. 

Unlike most capital ships, the gunship does not arrange its heaviest weap- 
ons to be fired in batteries. Instead, each double turbolaser is controlled by an 
independent gunner with no ability to tie in to the fire of the other gunners. 
This disconnected fire control allows the gunship to carry a few extra heavy 
weapons, but it also means the turbolasers can't be fired in batteries. 

Tactical Fire: Corellian Gunships are escort vessels designed to deter 
attackers from targeting protected starships while eliminating incoming 
threats. As a standard action, a Corellian Gunship can forgo all attacks to 
provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. All allied starships within that 
area gain a +1 bonus to Reflex Defense, and enemy starships within that 
area take a -1 penalty to Reflex Defense. 


HAPAN 
BATTLE DRAGON 


Hapan Battle Dragon CL 18 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 57; +15 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 2,280; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 257 
Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 2 turbolaser batteries +12* (see below) and 
2 ion cannon batteries +12* (see below) and 
2 proton torpedo batteries +12* (see below) and 
2 triple ion cannons +4 (see below) and 
tractor beam +4* (see below) and 
4 mass pulse tubes (no attack roll) (see description) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +69 
Abilities Str 104, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 12,190 (skilled); Passengers 500 (troops) 
Cargo 6,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 36 Miy'til or 
X-wing fighters, various support vehicles 
Payload 200 proton torpedoes, 16 pulse mass mines 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x[14), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 
lon cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +12 (—8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 ion 
Proton torpedo battery (5 gunners) _ 
Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x2, 
4-square splash 
Triple ion cannons (gunner) 
Atk +4, Dmg 5d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-16 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 
—(grapple +69) 


The Hapan Battle Dragon is the primary capital ship of the Hapes Consortium. 
Because of the consortium's long isolation, Hapan technology developed 


along somewhat different lines from that of the rest of the galaxy. This 
unusual technology in turn drove the development of the Battle Dragon, a 
ship built with two disclike hull sections and rotating weapon tracks running 
around the outer hull. 


CAPABILITIES 

Early Hapan Battle Dragons had extremely limited targeting computers, 
designed to lock onto only a single vessel at a time. Attempts to fire at more 
than one target in the same round result in a -10 penalty on all attack rolls. 
Later Battle Dragons are updated to more modern technology, and don't 
suffer this drawback. Further, Hapan turbolasers had a slow recharge rate 
(preventing them from firing more often than once every 3 rounds), though 
again these were later updated. 

One advantage Battle Dragons had from their earliest encounters was 
the use of mass pulse mines. A mass pulse mine prevents ships in a 4-square 
radius from entering hyperspace. A mass pulse mine can be dropped at any 
point in a Battle Dragon's movement, and it functions for 10 minutes. 

Tactical Fire: The Hapan Battle Dragon is exceptionally good at falling 
upon prey and keeping it from escaping. As a standard action, a Hapan Battle 
Dragon can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2- 
square radius around itself. All enemy starships within that area have their 
starship-scale speed reduced by 1 square (to a minimum of 1 square). 


XSI) HIS 


BVLS 


SSsqg0O9 HIHSevVv“LsS 


MHMAPES NOVA CRUISER 


Hapes Nova Cruiser CL 17 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 


Init +1; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 13), Fort 52; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,000; DR 20; SR 100; Threshold 152 


Speed fly 4 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 5 turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
2 point-defense laser cannon batteries +13 (see below) and 
2 ion cannon batteries +13* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +64 

Atk Options autofire (laser batteries) 


Abilities Str 94, Dex 20, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +1, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1,790 (skilled); Passengers 600 (troops and support crew) 

Cargo 600 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft 24 fighters, 6 
assault bombers, various support vehicles 

Hyperdrive x1.5, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
20,000,000 used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
: Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (+8 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
lon cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 


Though the Hapan Battle Dragon is a formidable capital ship, encounters 
with smugglers and pirates utilizing small attack craft revealed a weakness in 
its design. A Battle Dragon has little chance of hitting multiple starfighters, 
and it can be picked apart by wings of swift, nimble craft firing at it with 
concentrated fire from missiles and heavy lasers. To solve this problem, the 
Hapes Consortium scoured the galaxy for solid design ideas. 

The resulting Nova-class cruiser is deployed as a dedicated support ship 
for Battle Dragons, or used in small three-ship patrols to guard the borders 
of the Consortium. The crews of the cruisers see their duty as defense, of 
both their patrol routes and any ship they are assigned to guard. 


CAPABILITIES 

With technology and ideas stolen from numerous major shipyards, the 
Novo-class cruiser is a functional cruiser in its own right, but truly shines 
as a support ship. Standard Nova-class tactics call on focusing firepower 
on smaller, faster enemy ships first, and placing the ship between oncoming 
fighter wings and escorted Battle Dragons. When working in small groups 
the cruisers use similar tactics, assigning two or three Nova-class ships to 
take the “primary” role as if they were a single Battle Dragon, and having 
all other cruisers maintain standard tactics. 

Refits of the Nova-class upgrade the turbolasers to a standard firing rate, 
expand consumables to a year, and mount regenerating deflectors, allowing 
its shields to gain +10 SR when the recharge shields action is taken. This 
comes at the cost of downgrading to a complement of twelve fighters. Such 
refitted Nova-class ships are CL 19. 

Tactical Fire: The Hapes Nova-class battlecruiser is an excellent support 
ship designed to work in concert with the Hapan Battle Dragon. As a standard 
action, a Nova-class battlecruiser can forgo all attacks to provide tactical 
fire to all squares in a 2-square radius around itself. Any successful attack 
against an enemy starfighter within that area that deals damage equal to 
or exceeding the target ship's damage threshold automatically moves the 
target ship an additional -1 step down the condition track (in addition to 
the normal -1 step from damage). 


IMPERIAL 
ASSAULT SHUTTLE 


Telgorn Corp Gamma-class Assault Shuttle CL 15 
Colossal space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 360; DR 15; SR 230*; Threshold 78 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged 4 turbolasers +6** (see below) and 
tractor beam +6** (see below) or 
Ranged 4 turbolasers +6** (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 15x15 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +54 
Atk Options autofire (turbolasers) 


Abilities Str 74, Dex 18, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 5 (skilled); Passengers 40 (troops) 

Cargo 5 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 15 concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x18), limited navicomputer (3-jump memory) 

Availability Military; Cost 850,000 (340,000 used) 

“Loses 5 points of SR after every hit; SR reduced to 0 if assault shuttle takes 
damage greater than its current SR. 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolasers (gunner) 

Atk +6 (-14 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 2d10x5 
Tractor beam (gunner) 

Atk +6 (—14 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 

— (grapple +54) 
Medium concussion missiles (gunner) 

Atk +6, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


Assault shuttles, unlike their standard counterparts, are designed specifically 
to carry troops into battle. Telgorn Corp's Gamma-class assault shuttle is an 
excellent example of such a ship. It is well regarded by both Imperial officers 
and troops, due in part to its effectiveness and resilience to damage. The 
shuttle has some of the heaviest deflector shields of any ship in the Imperial 
Navy, and nearly sixty-two percent of its power output is funneled directly 
into them. 

Since its introduction, the Gammo-class assault shuttle has been used 
primarily to assist in the boarding and capture of enemy vessels and space 
facilities. It accommodates Imperial spacetroopers quite well, allowing them 
easy access to their armor, as well as convenient hatchways to expedite their 
entry and egress from the shuttle's main cabin. 


CAPABILITIES 

The shuttle's crew requirements are a pilot, a copilot/navigator, and three 
gunners. Two gunners control the turbolasers, while the third gunner operates 
the missile launcher and tractor beam projector. Its shields are incredibly 
powerful, but the shuttle's generator can't support them under a sustained 
assault: The shields automatically lose 5 points of SR from every successful 
attack (not just those that penetrate SR), and SR is reduced to 0 if any attack 
deals damage that equals or exceeds current SR. 

When it is utilized in boarding actions, the shuttle's primary tactic is to 
disable the enemy vessel using a combination of pinpoint turbolaser blasts 
and ion bursts. Once a target has been rendered immobile, the shuttle clamps 
onto it with its tractor beam and gets close enough to dock so that it can 
deploy its troops. In other situations, spacetroopers are deployed through 
their hatchways and sent to the enemy ship under their own power. All the 
while, the shuttle provides covering fire as the troopers close the distance. 


REESD SINSUVLS 


IMPERIAL 
STAR DESTROYER 


Kuat Drive Yards Imperial Il-class Star Destroyer CL 20 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 


Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 56; +16 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 2,100; DR 20; SR 125; Threshold 256 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 heavy turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
5 turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
4 heavy ion cannon batteries +15* (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +15* (see below) and 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +68 


Abilities Str 103, Dex 14, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Al HSaLlaveg 


Crew 37,085 (skilled); Passengers 9,700 

Cargo 36,000 tons; Consumables 6 years; Carried Craft 72 TIE fighters 
(any variant; see page 142), 8 Lambda-class shuttles (see page 106), 
20 AT-ATs, 20 AT-STs, various support vehicles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x8), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 11d10x5 


SS8E09 HHSeVLS 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 


Heavy ion cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion 


Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +68) 


Few starships inspire terror the way an Imperial Star Destroyer can. A symbol 
of the Empire's might and an instrument of its tyranny, the Imperial Star 
Destroyer is a dagger-shaped vessel of pure destruction. Armed with powerful 
weapons and nearly impregnable defenses, the Imperial Star Destroyer is a 
one-ship command platform that can be used to fill a variety of roles. Star 
Destroyers act as assault warships, planetary defenders, and even escort 
vessels for extremely important ships. An Imperial Star Destroyer carries 
enough troops and assault vehicles to stage an invasion on a lightly defended 
planet, and acts as a mobile fortress from which the Empire can engage in 
entire military campaigns. 

During the height of the Empire, Star Destroyers were deployed in every 
sector, and some planets even have their own Star Destroyers assigned to 
them. The Imperial fortress worlds of the Deep Core often had multiple Star 
Destroyers assigned to the planet, and important planets such as Coruscant 
might have as many as a dozen Star Destroyers, if not more, in orbit at any 
given time. Unlike the Old Republic, the Empire built enough ships to extend 
its reach all the way to the Outer Rim, and multiple Star Destroyers patrolled 
the space lanes on a regular basis. 

Star Destroyers are among the few vessels used for orbital bombardment, 
a favorite tactic of the ruthless Empire. Entire planets have been frightened 


USING THE STAR DESTROYER 
The Star Destroyer is an iconic ship from Star Wars lore that symbolizes 
the might and power of the Empire. At the same time, Star Destroyers are 
incredibly powerful vessels that can put out the kind of firepower that 
can decimate a space transport in an instant. Using Star Destroyers in 
the roleplaying game can be problematic, since although they are easily 
recognizable (and thus help instill a Star Wars feel to the game), they 
can be inappropriately powerful for most encounters. 

The Imperial Star Destroyer can be used in two ways. As an individual 
ship engaging in an encounter, an Imperial Star Destroyer can be a high- 
level challenge that the heroes intend to disable or destroy. These kinds of 
challenges are high on the CL scale and are appropriate only for equally 
high-level heroes. However, including an Imperial Star Destroyer as a set 
piece, something that is a part of the encounter but not a target to be 
destroyed, can be a rewarding way to simulate the action of the movies. 
For the latter situation, a Star Destroyer should almost always use the 
tactical fire option, leaving the actual combat to the ship's complement 
of TIE fighters. This approach allows the Gamemaster to include the ship 
in an encounter without introducing the potential to wipe out the heroes 
with one lucky shot. The Star Destroyer then effectively becomes a “ter- 
rain hazard" rather than an opponent, and XP should not be awarded 
for the Star Destroyer unless the ship is destroyed. 


Hin 


EE 


into submission by the mere presence of an Imperial Star Destroyer in orbit. 
Imperial Star Destroyers are capable of delivering precise orbital strikes— 
destroying only a small section of a planet—as well as delivering bombard- 
ments that wipe out all life and industry on a world (a tactic known as Base 
Delta Zero). Only those planets that have powerful shields can withstand 
the turbolasers of an Imperial Star Destroyer, and some worlds (including 
Caamas) have been devastated by such tactics. 


THE STAR DESTROYER 
DESIGNATION 

Though the term "Star Destroyer" is typically used only to describe 
the dagger-shaped capital ships used by the Empire, the designation 
is general enough that it can be applied to many other heavily armed 
capital ships. However, during the time of the Empire, the term "Star 
Destroyer" comes to be colloquially associated with the /mperial-class 
Star Destroyer. As such, most references to a Star Destroyer are actually 
to the /mperial I- and Imperial Il-class ships. Some larger ships, such as 
the Executor-class star dreadnaught and the Eclipse, are often referred 
to as Star Destroyers, though this is not an official designation and more 
of a generic descriptor. 


CAPABILITIES 

An Imperial Star Destroyer bristles with weapons, and for good reason. With 
twenty turbolaser batteries, a Star Destroyer can pound on other capital 
ships, reducing their shields in a matter of minutes. Likewise, its ion cannons 
can quickly disable ships, allowing the Empire to tear the ship apart and take 
the prisoners alive. Another ten tractor beam generators ensure that few ships 
will escape its grasp, especially smaller capital ships. Though less effective 
against starfighters, a Star Destroyer is not to be trifled with. Even the best 
starfighter corps fears the armament of an Imperial Star Destroyer, since a 
lucky shot from a turbolaser will turn even the most nimble starfighter into 
a smoldering cloud of debris in an instant. 

Tactical Fire: An Imperial Star Destroyer is designed to provide heavy 
gunnery support in any situation, and excels at disrupting other capital ships 
above all. Its weakness against other ships, such as starfighters, is usually 
overcome by its own complement of starfighters. As a standard action, a 
Star Destroyer can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in 
a 2-square radius around itself. All allied starships attacking targets within 
that area gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls. 


SEgEGOD QIHSyuvssS 


sEeeGO9D SHIHSYVL 


THE VICTORY IIi-CLASS 

STAR DESTROYER 

Produced after the end of the Clone Wars, the Victory //-class Star Destroyer 
is a deep-space interdiction vessel designed to serve as a sector patrol ship. 
Unlike its predecessor, the Victory I-class Star Destroyer, this ship boasts 
no limited-resource weapons (such as concussion missiles or proton torpe- 
does) and instead utilizes turbolasers and tractor beams while patrolling the 
space lanes. Though smaller and less durable than the /mperial //-class Star 
Destroyer, the Victory /I-class ships are still incredibly powerful and often 
operate in pairs. Since the ship lacks a large TIE fighter complement, the Vic- 
tory Il-class Star Destroyer is often paired with escort ships or fleet carriers 
that have a large number of starfighters that can be quickly deployed. 

The Victory //-class Star Destroyer makes extensive use of ion cannons to 
halt an enemy vessel without destroying it. Usually assigned to interdiction 
duty, the Victory I/-class Star Destroyer specializes in capturing and secur- 
ing enemy ships while dealing minimal damage to the vessels themselves. 
For this reason, the Victory //-class Star Destroyer is often used to capture 
smugglers and pirates when the Empire needs information, leaving the heavy 
assault work to the larger Star Destroyer types. 


Rendili StarDrive Victory Il-class Star Destroyer CL 18 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 51; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 


hp 1,380; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 251 
Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 4 heavy turbolaser batteries +14" (see below) and 
4 double turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
2 heavy ion cannon batteries +14* (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +14* (see below) and 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +63 


Abilities Str 92, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 5,200 (skilled); Passengers 2,040 (troops) 

Cargo 6,107 tons; Consumables 4 years; Carried Craft 24 TIE fighters 
(any variant; see page 142), 5 Lambda-class shuttles (see page 106), 
10 AT-ATs, 15 AT-STs, 10 Juggernauts, various support vehicles 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

*Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 
Double turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 ion 


Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 
— (grapple +63) 


THE PELLAEON-CLASS 

STAR DESTROYER 

Named for Grand Admiral Gilad Pellaeon, a brilliant Imperial officer who 
studied under the tutelage of Grand Admiral Thrawn, the Pellaeon-class Star 
Destroyer is one of the largest and most powerful vessels in the Imperial 
Fleet. Coming into service more than a hundred years after the Battle of 
Endor, the Pel/aeon-class Star Destroyer can be found both in Darth Krayt's 
Empire and in Emperor Roan Fel's Empire-in-exile. The Pellaeon-class Star 
Destroyer combines the best aspects of the /mperial I/-class Star Destroyer 
and the Executor-class star dreadnaught to produce a starship of unparal- 
leled engineering and firepower. 

Typically used as a command ship and flagship of the various Imperial 
fleets, the Pellaeon-class Star Destroyer boasts an impressive starfighter 
complement in addition to its own weapons. The Pellaeon-class Star 
Destroyer also features a heavily sloped forward hull that gives the main 
gun batteries an excellent view of the battlefield, increasing their fire arcs 
while still keeping the turbolasers close to the hull for protection. The tall, 
sloping profile of the Pellaeon-class Star Destroyer allows the ship to be 
shorter in length than the /mperial /I-class Star Destroyer while still carrying 
a significant complement of landing craft and starships, presenting a smaller 
profile when firing broadsides at other capital ships. 


Kuat Drive Yards Pellaeon-class Star Destroyer 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 47), Fort 57; +14 armor 
hp 2,350; DR 20; SR 140; Threshold 257 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 heavy turbolaser batteries +16 (see below) and 
5 turbolaser batteries +16 (see below) and 
4 heavy ion cannon batteries +16 (see below) and 
3 tractor beam batteries +16 (see below) and 
5 proton torpedo batteries +16 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); ‘Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +69 
Abilities Str 105, Dex 14, Con -, Int 22 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2 
Use Computer +6 


CL 28 


Crew 8,450 (skilled); Passengers 2,700 (troops) 

Cargo 11,000 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 48 Predator- 
class starfighters, 6 shuttles 

Payload 200 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x.75, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 12d10x5 
Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +16 (—4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d105 ion 


Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 
— (grapple +69) 


Proton torpedo battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5, 
4-square splash 


see SJIHTSUviLs 


AI SBSLldvHo 


Al eelavna 


SEgeOOo HHSYVLs 


INTERDICTOR CRUISER 


Immobilizer 418 Interdictor-class Heavy Cruiser CL 17 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 52; +15 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,500; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 252 
Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 light quad turbolaser batteries +12* (see below) and 
4 gravity well projectors +12 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +64 
Abilities Str 94, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 2,807 (skilled); Passengers 80 (troops) 
Cargo 5,500 tons; Consumables 1.2 years; Carried Craft 24 starfighters 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x8), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
52,240,000) 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Light quad turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Gravity well projector (gunner) 

Atk +12 (4x4 square starship-scale area attack), Dmg special 


The Immobilizer 418 Interdictor-class heavy cruiser is a capital starship used 
to pull ships out of hyperspace and prevent them from reentering, trapping 
them in realspace and keeping them from escaping. The Immobilizer 418 
uses four massive gravity well generators that produce a gravity shadow 
in hyperspace (similar to that projected by a planet or a star) that makes 
hyperspace travel through that area impossible. When an Immobilizer 418 has 
its gravity well projectors fired up, any ships traveling through hyperspace 
in the vicinity immediately revert to realspace, and no ship within a hyper- 
space interdiction area can make the jump to lightspeed until the gravity 
well generators are shut down. 

The Immobilizer 418 was developed in response to the hit-and-run 
tactics of the Rebel Alliance. The success of the Immobilizer 418 once 
again gave the Empire an advantage over Rebel tacticians, though 
fortunately for the Alliance, only a relatively small number of 
Interdictor-class heavy cruisers were converted for use 
during the Galactic Civil War. However, the ships were 
so successful that some Star Destroyers were retrofitted 


with gravity well generators in order to provide a more powerful platform 
for interdiction technology. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Immobilizer 418 is typically accompanied by a contingent of more heavily 
armed vessels, not only to lie in ambush but also to protect the /nterdictor- 
class heavy cruiser from the ships they are trapping. Pulling a Rebel fleet 
out of hyperspace typically makes the Immobilizer 418 the primary target 
of the trapped fleet, and as a result the ship needs protection in order to 
keep from being destroyed. 

Once the Immobilizer 418 has: pulled the targets from hyperspace, 
the ship's crew must keep the gravity wells focused on the trapped fleet; 
otherwise their prey will escape into hyperspace simply by outrunning the 
Immobilizer and its fellow ships. Directing a gravity well is no simple matter, 
requiring the same kind of precision and expertise as is required to operate a 
tractor beam, and the Immobilizer 418's crew is specially trained to maintain 
gravity wells in the heat of combat. 

Tactical Fire: The Vindicator-class heavy cruiser and the Immobilizer 
418 were both designed to keep enemy ships from fleeing, by the use of 
either firepower or gravity wells. As a standard action, an Immobilizer 418 
or Vindicator-class heavy cruiser can forgo all attacks to provide tactical 
fire to all squares in a 2-square radius around itself. All enemy starships 
moving into that area must succeed on a DC 20 Pilot check or stop moving 
for the remainder of the round. Once a ship is within this area, no further 
Pilot checks are required, though if a ship leaves this area and then moves 
into it again, a new Pilot check must be attempted. 


ORIGIN OF THE VINDICATOR 

The Immobilizer 418 is actually a refit of the Vindicator-class heavy cruiser. 
The Vindicator-class ship's tractor beams, point-defense weapons, and 
turbolaser batteries were stripped out during the refit, making room for 
the massive gravity well generators and their associated systems. Not all 
Vindicator-class ships were converted to /nterdictor-class heavy cruisers, 
and some remain armed and active in the Imperial fleet. 


Vindicator-class Heavy Cruiser CL 18 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 54; +15 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,800; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 254 
Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 light quad turbolaser batteries +12* (see below) and 
5 light turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
4 point-defense laser cannon batteries +14 (see below) and 
4 point-defense light ion cannon batteries +14 (see below) and 
tractor beam battery +16* (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +66 
Abilities Str 98, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 2,551 (skilled); Passengers 400 (troops) 
Cargo 8,000 tons; Consumables 1.5 years; Carried Craft 24 starfighters 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x8), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
43,000,000) 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Light quad turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Light turbolaser battery (5 gunners) . 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14, Dmg 4d10x2 
Point-defense ion cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14, Dmg 4d10x2 ion 
Tractor beam battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), 

Dmg — (grapple +66) 


GRAVITY WELL PROVECTORS 
Gravity well projectors are unique weapons in that they do not deal 
damage but instead produce a special effect. Projecting a gravity well is 
treated like firing a weapon in an area attack; the gravity well operator 
must choose a 3x3-square (starship scale) area within the generator's 
range and make an attack roll against a Reflex Defense of 10. If suc- 
cessful, the gravity well projector creates a hyperspace interdiction 
field in those target squares. Any starship that starts its turn in a 
square covered by a hyperspace interdiction field may not activate its 
hyperdrive on that turn. 


} 


| 
| 
| 
| 


Al SSildvHgd 


SseeGOeD QHmSyvsLs 


MPERIAL Most star systems have at least one Customs Corvette patrolling them, 
with some of the larger systems being patrolled by three or more. Even remote 


Customs co ORVETTE star systems can expect a visit from Customs once every three or four weeks, 
depending on how thinly the Customs fleet is spread. Customs ships often 

Rendili Star Drive Light Corvette CL 14 wait patiently near common hyperspace exit points, scanning passing ships 

Colossal (frigate) space transport for obvious signs of illicit cargo. 

Init +0; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 33; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat CAPABILITIES 

hp 320; DR 15; SR 45; Threshold 133 The Imperial Customs Corvette is an excellent ship, well designed for its 


intended use. Though it is not meant to go toe to toe with bona fide war- 
ships, it is more than capable of dealing with freighters, transports, and some 
starfighters. The six double laser cannon turrets mounted along the ship's 
flanks only add to its threatening demeanor. Each light corvette is assigned 
a single stormtrooper platoon for use during boarding actions. 

These ships can easily remain on patrol for two months at a stretch, 
longer than that if their consumable supplies can be refreshed by the crew 
during capture operations. The light corvette is also able to enter a planet's 
atmosphere, something that sets it apart from the largest ships in the 
Imperial fleet. 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged double laser cannon battery +14 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +45 

Abilities Str 56, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 58 (skilled); Passengers 20 (troops) 

Cargo 500 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x8), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Al eaLavno 


Double laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +14, Dmg 4d10x2 


Rendili Star Drive's light corvette is the mainstay 
of the Imperial Customs Office. Because Rendili 
Star Drive sells the craft to the Customs Office 
under a sole source contract, it is almost 
universally referred to as the Imperial Customs 
Corvette. These ships prowl the space lanes like 
sleek predators, ordering civilian starship traffic to halt for inspection 
at their captains’ whims. In addition to enforcing Imperial customs 
laws, the ships are also used to deter pirates, as well as to perform 
search and rescue operations. 

In addition to Rendili’s smaller Imperial Customs Frigate, the Customs 
Corvette is the bane of both smugglers and honest merchants alike. Even 
freighter captains who have nothing to hide dread the thought of being 
boarded by a Customs crew. Although the majority of Customs officers 
are honest Imperial citizens, a handful of others wallow in their own 
corruption like dianogas in sewage. Even though bribery is common- 
place throughout the Imperial bureaucracy, these uniformed criminals 
are dreaded by honest traders due to their unpredictable appetites and 
whims. 


SEGO9D HIASHVLsS 


wZJ-TYPE STAR SKIFF 


J-Type Star Skiff CL 14 


Colossal* space transport 

Init +8; Senses Perception +12 

Defense Ref 20 (flat-footed 14), Fort 29; +14 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 200; DR 15; SR 50; Threshold 79 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +14 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +10; Grp +49 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 48, Dex 22, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +12 

Crew 3 (ace); Passengers 3 

Cargo 10 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x.5, navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
5,000,000 used) 

*This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purposes of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using starship 
maneuvers. 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 


As the Clone Wars raged and numerous Senators became increasingly 
uncomfortable with the political climate of the republic, even the most 
peaceful of traditions had to be reexamined. The J-Type star skiff was the 
first diplomatic vessel of Naboo to be armed (with a modest pair of linked 
lasers) and the first to have a gunner's console. Its design also sacrificed the 
sleek, all-chromium hull to place more practical (and sturdy) access grills and 
powerful sublight engines. Still a thing of beauty, the star skiff was clearly 
designed with potential combat, escape, and repair in mind. 

Though Queen Apailana of Naboo herself never used the armed star skiff, 
it was loaned out to Senator Amidala, a sign of the Senator's great popularity 
with her homeworld and her monarch. After Amidala died, the star skiff was 


retired, because it had become a painful reminder of the Senator's last days 
in service to her people. However, other Senators, seeking to increase their 
own standing and political power, began purchasing similar vessels (often 
with faux chromium, to save on costs). 


CAPABILITIES 

Lovingly and skillfully hand-crafted, as are all royal vessels built by the Theed 
Palace Space Vessel Engineering Corps, the star skiff is superior in design 
and construction to any mass-produced vessel. A class .5 hyperdrive allows 
it to carry out diplomatic missions with alacrity, its interior reflects the full 
comfort of an advanced luxury upgrade, and its considerable storage space 
allows any number of diplomatic gifts to be transported in style (and could 
even double as small cabins for a few guests). However, it also has laser 
cannons that are augmented to the edge of laser technology, two medical 
beds, and a shield generator as powerful as those on most gunships. Though 
far too expensive to be practical as a warship, a star skiff could fly next to 
Naboo starfighters as a flag vessel if the situation called for it. 


0 
Tt 
> 
v 
dd 
|e 
i) 
ee 


<I) NHISYvLS 


ie we wt 


Al eSlavns 


xaGOS JIHSuvLs 


QJUNKER (TEMPLATE) 


The junker template represents starships (most often fighters and space 
transports, though a junker capital ship is certainly possible) that are badly 
put together. Many junkers are older starships that haven't been properly 
maintained for so long that it's simply not possible to bring them back to fully 
functional status. Junkers can also represent ships that are poorly designed, 
making them junkers right off the assembly line. 

Junkers can also be used to represent “uglies,” starships constructed from 
parts of different ship designs. The most common uglies are TYE-wings, which 
combine the ball cockpit of a TIE fighter with the engines of a Y-wing. TYE- 
wings are slower than TIEs and lack the increased durability of Y-wings, but 
because spare parts for those two models are so common, combining them 
into clunky, ugly hybrid starfighters sometimes makes sense. 


MODIFICATIONS 

CL: Reduce the CL of a junker by 20% (round down). 

Initiative: Reduce a junker's Initiative by 5 after all other 
modifications. 

Abilities: Reduce Strength by 4, Dexterity by 2 and Intelligence by 2 
(all minimum 10). Recalculate all statistics derived from these abilities’ 
modifiers. 

Systems Failure: A junker is always on the verge of falling apart, and 
sometimes does so in the middle of combat. Every time a junker moves down 
-1 step on its condition track, one of its systems fails. A failed system is 
totally nonfunctional and remains that way until the junker moves back up 
the condition track. Roll percentile dice to see what system fails (see below). 
If you roll a system your junker does not have (such as rolling a hyperdrive 
malfunction on a ship lacking a hyperdrive), simply ignore the result—you 
got lucky. 


D% FAILED SYSTEM 

01-30 Hyperdrive 

31-60 Engines (reduce starship-scale speed by 1 square, and character- 
scale movement by the same percentage) 

61-85 One weapon or weapon battery (determine which randomly) 

86-95 Computer core (-5 to all Perception and Computer Use checks 
made with the starship's equipment) 


96-100 Shields 


Patchwork: The one benefit of a junker is that its cobbled-together 
systems are easier to patch back together into the semifunctional state 
they normally operate in. Reduce the DC of any Mechanics check made on 
a junker by 2. 


The following is an example of a junker TYE-wing, created by adding the 
junker template to a TIE/In fighter (and representing a Y-wing with TIE fighter 
wings instead of engine nacelles). 


Junker TYE-wing CL5 

Huge starfighter 

Init +2; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 20; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 30 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +22 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 30, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 60,000 (25,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


K-WING 


Koensayr Manufacturing BTL-58 K-wing CL 12 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +10; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 160; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 48 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
quad laser cannon +7 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +7 (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
quad laser cannon +7 (see below) and 
proton torpedoes +7 (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
quad laser cannon +7 (see below) and 
shieldbuster torpedoes +7 (see below) or 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +35 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannon, quad laser cannon) 


Abilities Str 46, Dex 20, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 4 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 440 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Payload 18 proton torpedoes, 4 concussion missiles, 6 plasma torpedoes 
Availability Military; Cost 250,000 (120,000 used) 


Laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Quad laser cannon (gunner) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (gunner) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 
Proton torpedoes (gunner) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 
Shieldbuster torpedoes (gunner) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


The Koensayr Manufacturing BTL-S8 K-wing is an assault starfighter intro- 
duced as part of the New Republic Defense Fleet. These ships are designed to 
serve as bombers and heavy starfighters, roles previously filled by increas- 
ingly aged Y-wings. The K-wings serve well during the Black Fleet Crisis, 
though their crew complement of four eventually causes them to become 
less popular as the New Republic continues to have major crises (making 
it difficult to train enough bombardiers and gunners for the whole K-wing 
fleet). Though still in use for decades after their deployment, they are much 
less common after the Yuuzhan Vong war. 


CAPABILITIES 

The prototypes and first production wave have no built-in weaponry; they 
carry whatever armament is appropriate to an individual mission. A typical 
load is given in the statistics block. Any normal missile or mine payload (or 
weapon system designed for a starfighter, with an emplacement point cost 
no higher than 0), can replace any of the given missile payload choices with 
a DC 10 Mechanics check and 5 minutes of work. 

Asecond generation of K-wing designs added two turrets and reconfig- 
ured the cockpit to increase the bombardier's field of vision. The quad laser 
in the forward turret was augmented to be a multistage laser and thus is 
often called a turbolaser, though it remains a starfighter class weapon, not 
a capital ship turbolaser. 

K-wings have no hyperdrive, and thus must be carried to striking distance 
of each battle. They do have a SLAM system (see page 42), allowing them to 
move quickly into attack positions once they are deployed. In case of emer- 
gency, the cockpit of a K-wing can detach and act as an escape pod. 


x<tSIG ols) NHASYVLS 


HSLaAVvHD 


xEGSS JIHSUVLS 


LAMBDA-CLASS 
SHUTTLE 


Sienar Fleet Systems Lambda-class Shuttle CL 12 
Colossal space transport 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged blaster cannon battery +6 (see below) and 
blaster cannon +4 (see below) and 
twin laser cannons +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +38 
Atk Options autofire (blaster cannons, twin laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con -, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 6 (skilled); Passengers 20 
Cargo 80 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (likely valued at 240,000) 


Blaster cannon battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Blaster cannon (copilot) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Twin laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 


One of the most recognizable Imperial spacecraft is the Lambda-class shuttle. 
A workhorse of the Imperial fleet, Lambda-class shuttles have transported 
Imperial luminaries such as Lord Darth Vader, as well as Emperor Palpatine 
himself. It is perhaps ironic that one particular Lambda, the Tydirium, was 
employed by the Rebel Alliance to deliver a strike force to the forest moon 
of Endor. It was this strike team that ultimately brought the second Death 
Star's defensive shields down, allowing the Rebel fleet to converge and 
subsequently destroy the space station. 

The Lambda design was developed as the direct successor to the Theta- 
class shuttle by a group of former Cygnus Spaceworks engineers. These 
engineers had been enticed into defecting to Sienar, lured by promises of 
high pay and tangible benefits. Even though Sienar was responsible for the 


ship's design and initial production run, Cygnus Spaceworks was later sub- 
contracted to produce a heavily armed military version that was equipped 
with ten laser cannons. 

The Lambda was not used solely by the Empire. Even though upward of 
ninety percent of all Lambdas were in Imperial possession, the nonmilitary 
version, produced by Sienar, was available for sale on the open market for a 
short time, and numerous craft were sold to different sector governments, 
corporate fleets, and other private parties. Similarly, the Rebel Alliance 
kept a small fleet of the shuttles on hand for the transportation of sensitive 
personnel between different fleet elements. These shuttles were identical 
to the standard model, but lacked the code transponders of those utilized 
by the Empire. 

Following the collapse of the Empire, Cygnus Spaceworks continued to 
produce Lambda shuttles. Many of these shuttles were put to use by both 
the New Republic and the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Lambda shuttle is best known as a multiuse transport, capable of ferry- 
ing both troops and dignitaries. When used as a troop transport, it excels at 
high-profile missions that require a significant amount of discretion. When 
the ship is used as a personal transport for Imperial dignitaries and officers, 
the cargo space is often converted into a comfortable living area with many 
of the amenities of a star yacht. Those Lambdas used to ferry troops are 
much less comfortable, and are equipped with bench seating and a limited 
number of bucket seats. 

Though the ship was designed primarily for space flight, the tri-wing 
construction of the Lambda gives it excellent stability when flown in an 
atmosphere. It is a fast ship when compared to others of its class, yet it is 
especially vulnerable to enemy fire when landing or taking off. Though it is 
equipped with a number of effective weapon systems, the Lambda is unable 
to outmaneuver most starfighters. Because the Lambda is well armed, it does 
not technically require a fighter escort. Regardless, few of the shuttles trav- 
eled alone, depending on the sensitivity of their individual missions. 


Sienar Fleet Systems 
Lambda-class Shuttle 


| square = |.0 meters 


Pilot Station 
Co-Pilot Station 
System Op Station 
Gunnery Station 
Auxiliary Station #1 
Auxiliary Station #2 
Entry Ramp — 
Lower Level Maintenance Hatch f 
Emergency Life Support Cabinets 

. Equipment Storage 

. Passenger Bucket Seats 

. Port Bench Seating 

. Starboard Bench Seating 

. Refresher 

. Weapons/Storage Locker = 

. Gargo Holds (accessible to lower level) 


When not used as a troop transport, the Lambda is capable of carrying open to the cargo/passenger area, but a blast door can be closed between 
up to 80 tons of cargo. These cargoes consist primarily of mundane supplies, the two compartments if circumstances dictate it. 
such as spare parts and other consumables. It is rare, though not unheard of, Lambda-class shuttles are rarely modified from their base configuration, 
for a shuttle to arrive insystem by itself in order to deliver supplies. Much though some exceptions to this rule obviously exist. The specifications of the 
of the time, Lambdas ferry supplies directly from orbital stations and ships Emperor's personal shuttle, for instance, were highly classified, and can be 
to planetary surfaces. extrapolated based only upon rumors and hearsay. It has been put forth that 

The Lambda is normally operated by a crew of six, including a pilot, a Palpatine’s shuttle was equipped with a cloaking device, as well as a secure 
copilot, a navigator, a gunner, a communications officer, and an engineer. HoloNet transceiver, heavier weaponry, and an ultra-efficient hyperdrive. 
In a pinch, the ship can be flown by a single individual, though he would be Since it was destroyed with the second Death Star, none can say for certain 


hard-pressed to monitor all the ship's vital systems. The cockpit is typically if any of these reports are accurate. 


SaGOeD HIHSYVLsSs 


Al a#aleavHo 


SAIEGOH HIHSHvVvLs 


LANCER-CLASS 
FRIGATE 


Kuat Drive Yards Lancer-class Frigate CL 14 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init -3; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 38; +12 armor 

hp 800; DR 15; SR 125; Threshold 138 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 4 point-defense quad laser cannon batteries +12 (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +48 

Atk Options autofire (quad laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 66, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 850 (normal); Passengers 40 (troops) 

Cargo 300 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Point-defense quad laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +12 (+7 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


After the Imperial defeat at the Battle of Yavin, Naval Command 
developed the Lancer-class frigate as an antifighter 
escort for larger ships that might be susceptible to 
the Alliance's starfighter tactics. Although it is the 
size of a light cruiser, the Lancer was designed to 
destroy small ships at close range. Early Lancers 
were plagued with severe fire control malfunc- 
tions that could shut down more than half of 
the ship's laser cannons, making the craft less 
than useless. 

Overall, the Lancer was eventually considered a 
failure by Imperial command. Because the ship was too 
expensive to see much more than sporadic deployment within 


Though no specific Lancers in the Imperial Navy have distinguished them- 
selves, one frigate—captured by the Rebel Alliance—has been made famous by 
its success. The Fowler, a late-model Lancer captured by Alliance forces near 
Malastare, was put into service as an anti-TIE fighter platform. Retrofitted 
with an improved hyperdrive, the Fow/er was sent on strike missions, provid- 
ing cover for Y-wing fighters. In its role as an antistarfighter platform, the 
Rebel Lancer racked up an impressive number of kills, surviving long enough 
to be decommissioned after the formation of the New Republic. 


CAPABILITIES 

Because it is slower than its intended targets, the Lancer-class frigate is 
unable to actively seek out and engage enemy starfighters on its own. Instead, 
it is used by the Empire as a picket vessel, deployed on the outskirts of a 
fleet's perimeter. The ship's excellent capabilities in an antistarfighter role 
are perhaps its greatest weakness when it comes up against capital ships. 
The relatively light laser cannons it is equipped with cannot compete with 
the armor and shields of capital-scale ships. Likewise, the range of capital- 
scale weaponry far exceeds that of the weapons the Lancer employs, thus 
guaranteeing that it is an easy target when pitted against them. 

Tactical Fire: The Lancer-class frigate is exceptionally good at punching 
through enemy starfighters' defenses, weakening their shields so that allied 
fighters can finish them off. As a standard action, a Lancer-class frigate 
can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. Enemy 
starships of Gargantuan size and smaller have their SR halved while within 
these squares. 


the Imperial Fleet, the majority of Lancers are assigned to planetary defense 
and rear guard actions. Despite this, Grand Admiral Thrawn employed the 
Lancer's capabilities to excellent effect, using them to raid New Republic 
worlds that were largely equipped with starfighter-based defenses. 


MANKVIM- 814 
LIGHT INTERCEPTOR 


Feethan Ottraw Scalable Industries Mankvim-814 Light 
Interceptor CL5 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +3; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 21; +6 armor 
hp 50; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 41 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,450 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged light laser cannons +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +26 
Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 32, Dex 17, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 1 droid (normal); Passengers none 
Cargo none; Consumables 2 hours; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 15,000 (6,000 used) 


Light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 


Another cheap and expendable fighter used by the Confederacy during 
the Clone Wars, the Mankvim-814 Light Interceptor (often referred to as 
the Techno Union fighter) was a speedy but fragile starship constructed on 
the planet Utapau. Though flown mostly by droid pilots, the 
Mankvim-814 boasted an actual cockpit and controls, so that 

a living pilot could take the controls of the ship (unlike the 
droid starfighters, which featured no cockpit whatsoever). 
Bulbous and sleek, the Mankvim-814 was a fast ship that 
relied upon its speed for defense rather than the strength of its hull 
or shields. 

During the latter days of the Clone Wars, the Techno Union needed 
starfighters desperately for its war efforts, and the Mankvim-814 is the 
result of this need. When the Clone Wars ended and the Empire rose, the 
Mankvim-814 was relegated to the ranks of mostly forgotten ships from the 
time before the Emperor. However, the Mankvim-814 continues to be used 
heavily in the Corporate Sector, where many of the remnants of the Techno 


Union reside. Though originally built on Utapau, the Mankvim-814 continues 
to see limited production runs in the Corporate Sector, and some members 
of the Corporate Sector Authority utilize the starfighters to augment their 
already expansive fighter corps. 


CAPABILITIES 
The Mankvim-814 is a speedy starfighter that can blast its way across the 
battlefield in a matter of moments. Among the fastest of all starfighters, 
the Mankvim-814 isn't as maneuverable as some ships in the days of the 
Galactic Civil War and tends to be used only by civilians looking for a quick 
ship, regardless of defenses or armament. Though the Techno Union cared 
little for the ship's defenses (after all, most pilots were expendable droids), 
the ship does have minimal shielding to give it some durability. However, if a 
shot penetrates the vessel's shields, the chances of its survival are slim. 
Hastily put together (and likely engineered just as rapidly), the Mankvim- 
814 is not the most survivable ship ever produced, though it is fast enough 
that many of the models left over from the Clone Wars were converted into 
one-person courier vessels. Since the ships do not have a hyperdrive, they are 
effective only within a star system, and most are used to ferry small cargoes 
or sensitive messages between nearby planets and moons. 


Al SBSalLdvria 


HESS CINISEVLS 


MARAUDER CORVETTE 


Sienar Technologies Marauder Corvette CL 14 

Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init -3; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 37; +12 armor 

hp 720; DR 20; SR 115; Threshold 137 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 double turbolaser batteries +10* (see below) and 
tractor beam battery +8* (see below) and 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +47 

Atk Options autofire (double turbolasers) 


Abilities Str 64, Dex 15, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 177 (normal); Passengers 80 (troops) 

Cargo 300 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft 12 starfighters, 2 
landing barges, 4 shuttles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 2,400,000 (1,450,000 used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Double turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +10 (-10 against targets smaller than Colossal) (+5 autofire), 
Dmg 4d10x5 


3EEO9 JHIHSUVLS 


Tractor beam (3 gunners) 
Atk +8 (-12 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +47) 


The Marauder was designed by Sienar Technologies to serve as a light Repub- 
lic patrol cruiser. However, for some reason the Republic Senate would not 
approve purchase of the starships. Sales were opened to other governments 
and organizations, but never met Sienar's high expectations. Eventually, the 
rights to produce the design were sold to the Corporate Sector Authority, 
which liked the ship's combination of firepower, range, and economical build- 
ing and operating costs. As a result, two types of Marauders exist—those built 
by Sienar during the early days of the design (well prior to the Clone Wars) 
and those built by the Corporate Sector Authority shortly after the Clone 
Wars. There are few differences between the two types externally, though 
the Sienar models generally have nicer (if older) interiors. 


Like many patrol ships, the Marauder makes a perfect pirate vessel if it 
falls into the wrong hands. Older Sienar-built frames are often mothballed 
by the groups that originally bought them, and then end up as pirate or 
planetary defense ships (or even armed luxury yachts). The Rebel Alliance 
also found Marauders easier to come by than many other capital ships, 
and pressed them into service to cover a variety of roles, including escort, 
merchant raider, starfighter carrier, and mobile repair ship. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Marauder is often called a "pocket cruiser,” since its armament is suf- 
ficient to allow it to function as a front-line warship. It does best, however, 
when facing smaller capital ships or serving as an escort vessel. The Marauder 
is vulnerable to attack by swarms of starfighters, and is designed to carry 
twelve fighters of its own to provide fighter cover. Many Marauders convert 
some cargo space to carry extra fighters and shuttles, as well as small walk- 
ers and other ground craft. 

Several Marauders were used by the Rebel Alliance as missile cruisers and 
starfighter carriers. These vessels had all their double turbolasers removed 
and replaced with four concussion missile launchers. Depending on how 
many concussion missiles were carried, as many as 36 starfighters could be 
supported by such a ship as well. 

Tactical Fire: Marauder Corvettes are excellent starfighter support craft, 
but their vulnerability to outside attack requires their escorts to stick close 
to the ship. As a standard action, a Marauder Corvette can forgo all attacks 
to provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. Allied starships of Gargantuan 
size and smaller gain +2 on attack rolls while in the affected area. 


MEDIUM TRANSPORT 


Gallofree GR-75 Medium Transport CL 8 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -5; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 34; +14 armor 
hp 400; DR 15; SR 45; Threshold 134 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 650 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged 4 point-defense double laser cannons +1 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +44 
Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 58, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot —5, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 6 (normal); Passengers 40 
Cargo 19,000 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x4, navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 350,000 (125,000 used) 


Point-defense double laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +1 (-4 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


Though numerous transport ships are employed across the galaxy, the 
Gallofree Yards transport is one of the most ubiquitous and often-used. 
It is a sleek-looking vessel, especially considering its size, but its outward 
appearance belies its slow and ponderous nature. The ships can be used as 
freighters, but due to their low speed are most often used as short-range 
transports, moving goods and passengers from planet to planet, planet to 
station, or star system to star system. 

During the Clone Wars, the Gallofree was popular with the Republic Navy 
as a resupply craft. Large numbers of the transports were used to supple- 
ment the Old Republic's extensive supply lines, enabling those lines to be 
stretched thin without significant interruption to the flow of goods to the 
front. A scant few were modified with improved shields and heavy weaponry 
and used to lure unwary pirates to their doom. 


As the Clone Wars wound down and the Rise of the Empire began, many 
of these venerable transports found themselves in the employ of the Rebel 
Alliance. Following the Battle of Endor, many Gallofrees were modified into 
salvage ships. They became integral to the New Republic's initial campaigns 
against the Imperial Remnant, because parts and equipment salvaged from 
long-dead ships were valuable commodities. 


CAPABILITIES 

In its stock configuration, the Gallofree GR-75 is utilitarian and unexciting. 
Equipped with a large cargo hold and precious little in the way of defensive 
systems, it is a sitting duck on the space lanes unless accompanied by an 
escort. Its sublight engines and hyperdrive are slow, and it maneuvers like a 
sick bantha. The ship is relatively easy to modify, however, given the appro- 
priate parts and mechanical expertise. 

The GR-75s used by the Alliance are often equipped with upgraded weap- 
onry, shields, and engines. Internal systems are often rearranged, giving each 
Gallofree a unique floor plan depending on its specific function. Most often, 
the GR-75 is utilized to move troops and material. Others are modified to 
serve as hospital ships, landing craft, or salvage vessels. Regardless of its 
specific function, the GR-75 rarely looks different from the outside. 


19 
by 
5 
(0) 
a 
U 
Q 
@) 
0) 
Ww 
X 


Al SSLladvHoD 


Al eSilavHa 


SAIGOO) HHSYvLss 


Miyv'Tit. FPiGHTER/ 
BOMBERS 


Olanji/Charubah Miy'til Fighter CL9 

Huge starfighter 

Init +10; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 90; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (pilot), +5 or 
total (astromech droid, see description) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +6 (+13*) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 25 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 6 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1.5 (backup x12), 5-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Military; Cost 210,000 (85,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


The Miy'til is a small, fast, lightly armed starfighter built by Olanji/Charubah 
for use by the Hapes Consortium. The manufacturer enjoys great support 
from the Hapan royal family, guaranteeing that no other starfighter is con- 
structed in large numbers within the Consortium. Of course, that protection 
lasts only as long as the Miy'til is seen as a quality product worthy of the 
Hapan tradition of beauty and excellence. Although it's true that Olanji/ 
Charubah goes to great lengths to polish and decorate every Miy'til, it 
also constantly reevaluates the design to ensure that it remains current 
with other starfighters. 


Because of the Hapes Consortium’s long history of isolationism, it's impos- 
sible to say exactly when the Miy'til first entered service, but it's certain 
to be after the Clone Wars. Many starship engineers fled the losing side of 
that conflict, and it seems likely that some took refuge in the Consortium 
and brought their starship design expertise with them. The Miy'til is the 
standard starfighter of all Hapan military units, carried in fair numbers by 
Battle Dragons and smaller ships. Although X-wings are also valued for their 
better ability to sustain damage, the Miy'til is piloted with pride by its pilots 
as proof of Hapan equality with other starship designers. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Miy'til fills its role as a space superiority starfighter brilliantly. As a small, 
fast craft, the ship makes it easy for the Hapans to get wings of fighters 
wherever they are needed quickly. Outfitted with a week's worth of supplies 
and a good hyperdrive, patrols of Miy'tils can sweep through large volumes 
of space with very little additional support. 

The original generation of Miy'til fighters placed an astromech droid ina 
top-mounted socket, similar to how ARC-170s carry them. Later generations 
built a fully enclosed compartment for onboard astromechs, giving them 
slightly better protection. Many of the older Miy'til are still in service. Com- 
mand fighters also exist, which add a third laser cannon, two ion cannons, and 
a second missile launcher. Such command fighters are extremely expensive, 
but highly valued by wing leaders. Members of Hapan noble families often 
own Miy'til fighters that they modify yet further, personalizing them as a 
sign of rank and wealth. 


Miy'Ti. ASSAULT BOMBER 

To satisfy military planners who argued that a single starfighter couldn't do 
everything, the designers at Olanji/Charubah built the heavier, larger Miy'til 
assault bomber. However, a successful design and political support isn't 
always enough to turn a design into an effective fleet. Though the Miy'til 
assault bomber is a magnificent starfighter, especially in its primary mission 
of direct assault, the Hapan Consortium doesn't have the spare manufac- 
turing capacity to build enough assault bombers to meet its military needs. 
Though not unreasonably expensive individually, the new starfighters can't 
be built in the same slips as a standard Miy'til. As a result, only one shipyard 
slip has been reconfigured for assault bomber construction, resulting in low 
overall numbers. 

One benefit of smaller numbers is the increased ease of keeping them 
secret. No one outside the Hapan military has a good idea of the exact capa- 
bilities of the assault bombers. They are never deployed outside the Hapan 
Cluster, being reserved for home defense and generally stationed only on 
the most renowned Battle Dragons. 


Capabilities 

Slower, shorter-ranged, and requiring more support, the assault bomber is 
intended to be put into use only when a heavy assault (generally against 
large capital ships) is called for. The starfighters must be carried into battle, 
and they are equipped with hyperdrives only for very short-range hyperspace 
jumps prior to an attack and as an emergency escape option. 


Though there's nothing revolutionary about the assault bomber, it does a 
simple thing very well. With the pilot controlling the starfighter's lasers, the 
gunner is free to focus on where to place missiles to do the most damage. 
With an impressive payload for a starfighter, a Miy'til assault bomber can 
hammer at large targets numerous times, to either help weaken shields or 
finish off ships already exposed to turbolaser fire from Battle Dragons. 


Olanji/Charubah Miy'til Assault Bomber CL 11 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 27; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 47 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +34 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 44, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 (+13%) 

*If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 2 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 400 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 32 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup 12), 5-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
150,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (gunner) 
Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


KEIEGOD HNVMSuv.S 


al BSlavHn | 


aen eae 


MON CALAMARI 
MC8EBO0O CRUISER 


Mon Calamari MC80 Star Cruiser CL 19 


Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -1; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 54; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 


hp 1,800; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 254 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 4 turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
5 heavy ion cannon batteries +11* (see below) and 
tractor beam battery +15* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +66 


Abilities Str 98, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 


SagGOOD QNHSYeVLS 


Crew 5,402 (skilled); Passengers 1,200 (troops) 
Cargo 20,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 36 A-, B-, 
X-, and/or Y-wing fighters, two stock light freighters 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x9), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against 
targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than 
Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 

Heavy ion cannon battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg 3d10X5 ion 

Tractor beam battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +66) 


Of the dozens of Mon Calamari warships that joined the Rebel fleet, the 
MC80 is the most powerful. As equipped, the MC80 is the largest ship in 
the Rebel arsenal. Even though the MC80 is a full 400 meters shorter than 
an Imperial-class Star Destroyer, it is more than capable of giving its larger 
opponent a sound beating. The recklessness of Imperial commanders, com- 
bined with the skill of the Mon Calamari gun crews, cost the Empire several 
of their most powerful warships. Following these losses, the Empire began 
to take the Mon Calamari threat more seriously. 


No two MC80s are the same, despite the fact that they have identical 
alphanumeric designations. Their capabilities are roughly the same, but their 
external appearance and internal structure are quite different. When placed 
side by side, the variations between these enormous ships can be noticed by 
beings that are attentive enough to see them. 

The crew complements of Alliance MC80s feature a large cross-section 
of galactic species, but the command crews of these vessels are made up 
exclusively of Mon Calamari volunteers. The reasons for this are practical 
rather than elitist, since the controls and other ship systems were created 
with Mon Calamari physiology in mind. Although a human might be able to 
contribute to the control of such a warship, he would never be as adept at 
doing so as his Mon Calamari counterparts. 

It is often said by galactic historians that the Rebel Alliance would never 
have gained victory over the Galactic Empire if not for the generosity and 
sacrifice of the Mon Calamari. No one knows this more than the Mon Cala- 
mari themselves. Regardless, the Mon Calamari are a humble species, and 
they have never sought glory for their role in the conflict. 


CAPABILITIES 

Despite the superior engineering that went into their construction, the 
fact remains that Mon Calamari ships are smaller and less well armed than 
Imperial Star Destroyers. In order to make up for these deficiencies, the Mon 
Calamari have developed several tactics that take advantage of their ships’ 
exceptional speed and maneuverability. Although the Imperial Navy's initial 
contact with Mon Calamari cruisers resulted in the destruction of several 
Star Destroyers, this was a result of the recklessness and audacity of Imperial 
Commanders. The Empire has learned its lesson, and such careless behavior 
on the part of its naval crews can no longer be assumed. 

It is rare for a Mon Calamari cruiser to directly engage an Imperial Star 
Destroyer. There are so few MC80s that such tactics would quickly decimate 
the Rebel fleet. Even if losses were equal on either side, the Empire would 
still have a vast numerical advantage over the Alliance. The one thing that 
often makes all the difference are the small, well-equipped starfighters that 
are so commonly employed by the Alliance. A single MC80 is equipped with 
as many as 36 fighter craft, and this number can include any ratio of A-, B-, 
X-, or Y-wing starfighters. More often than not, an MC80 will sit at a safe 
distance and provide covering fire for its fighter wing and support ships. 

Aside from its agility and the superior starfighters in its launch bay, the 
MC80 has one other benefit over the Imperial Star Destroyer: a series of 
highly advanced backup shield generators. These generators allow an MC80's 
deflector shields to recharge at twice the normal rate, adding to the ship's 
overall durability. For every three swift actions taken to recharge its shields, 
an MC80 will regain 10 shield points instead of the normal 5. This benefit 
has made all the difference in a number of battles. 

Tactical Fire: Mon Calamari MC80 Star Cruisers often use their advanced 
shields to protect their fellow starships from harm. As a standard action, an 
MC80 cruiser can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares ina 
2-square radius around itself. All allied starships within that area gain +10 
SR as long as the star cruiser's SR is greater than 0. 


FOmME ONE 

Though no two Mon Calamari Star Cruisers are exactly alike, most fall into one 
of two categories. The Liberty type (named after the Liberty, which fought 
at the Battle of Endor) is considered the “standard” design type for all MC80 
cruisers. The other variant, referred to as the Home One type (named for the 
Rebel command ship), is slightly tougher and more heavily armed. Though 
only a small number of MC80 Star Cruisers fit this profile, most starship 
designers consider it to be a subclassification of MC80 cruisers and not an 
entirely new class of ship. 


Home One CL 19 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -1; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 54; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,950; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 254 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 6 turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
6 heavy ion cannon batteries +15* (see below) and 
tractor beam battery +15* (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +66 


Abilities Str 98, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 5,402 (skilled); Passengers 1,200 (troops) 

Cargo 20,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 120 A-, B-, X-, 
and/or Y-wing fighters 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x9), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 

— (grapple +66) 


xBEOD HMHSUuvLS 


Al SSLodvHoS = 


& 


Al delays 


SEIGOO HHSUVLS 


MON CALAMARI 
STAR DEFENDER 


Mon Calamari Star Defender CL 45 
Colossal (station) space station 
Init -3; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 20 (flat-footed 19), Fort 72; +19 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 2,700; DR 20; SR 400; Threshold 572 
Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 25 heavy turbolaser batteries +17* (see below) and 
25 turbolaser batteries +17* (see below) and 
25 point-defense laser cannon batteries +17 (see below) and 
25 heavy ion cannon batteries +19* (see below) and 
8 tractor beam batteries +17* (see below) and 
5 heavy concussion missile batteries +17* 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +84 
Abilities Str 134, Dex 12, Con —, Int 24 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 68,174 (skilled); Passengers 12,500 (troops), 200,000 (support ship 
crews/refugees) 
Cargo 200,000 tons; Consumables 6 years; Carried Craft 168 
starfighters, 48 heavy starfighters, up to 1,000 other small craft 
Payload 6,000 medium concussion missiles 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x12), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 11d10x5 
Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17, Dmg 4d10x2 
Heavy ion cannon battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +19 (-1 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 

— (grapple +84) 
Heavy concussion missile battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 12d10x5, 

4-square splash 


The death of the Emperor and the destruction of the second Death Star were 
massive blows to the Empire, but they were far from conclusive defeats. 
The Empire had dozens of battle groups still controlling vast sections of 
space, and many of those battle groups had a Super Star Destroyer to lead 
them. Though Admiral Ackbar had successfully engaged and destroyed the 
Executor, the very difficulty of that victory convinced him that Imperial 
Super Star Destroyers were the greatest threat the fledgling New Republic 
would face for the next several years. The Republic had nothing that could 
go toe-to-toe with a Super Star Destroyer. Though design and construction 
of such ships would take years, the decision was made to commit to a Super 
Star Destroyer scale of ship. The result is the massive, 17-kilometer-long 
Viscount-class Star Defender. 

For obvious political reasons, no one in the New Republic was going to 
allow their most powerful ship to be called a Star Destroyer. To symbolize 
the change in philosophy, the classification of Star Defender was created. A 
Viscount-class is equipped with the firepower and support ships to defend an 
entire star system, without fleet support if necessary. The sheer size of the 
Viscount-class caused numerous delays in its construction, and by the time 
the first ship of its type was completed (25 years after the Battle of Yavin), 
the threat of enemy Super Star Destroyers was minimal and the Imperial 
Remnant was seen as an annoyance rather than a well-matched foe. Indeed, 
many Super Star Destroyers had fallen into the Republic's control, reducing 
the pressing need for Star Defenders. The Viscount did track down and engage 
a few warlords who turned to mass piracy, but such engagements were rare 
events. Many political agents began to suggest that the Viscount-class had 
been a waste of resources, and that the Mon Calamari should cease building 
the next few in the class. 

The Yuuzhan Vong invasion changed that opinion. Suddenly the galaxy 
was once more embroiled in massive warfare, and the need for ships able to 
engage entire fleets was again clear. As the New Republic collapsed and was 
replaced by the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances, the Viscount-class Star 
Defenders were among the few ships that could face Vong attack forces with 
a fair expectation of success. Ships of the class formed the backbone of the 
Galactic Alliance defense fleet and were crucial to the Alliance's survival at 
the Battle of Mon Calamari. 


CAPABILITIES 

As with the Super Star Destroyers that inspired its creation, it's difficult 
to overstate the power of a Viscount Star Defender. Each ship carried the 
firepower of a small fleet, enough support ships to take control of a star 
system, and massive deflector shields to protect the ship itself. In general 
the electronics, computers, and sensors of a Viscount-class are superior to 
those of a Super Star Destroyer. Conversely, a Viscount does not carry nearly 
as many ground troops or heavy walkers, and it completely lacks the mobile 
garrisons common in Super Star Destroyers. The designers of the Viscount- 


class assume that its fights will take place in areas where the planetary 
population supports the ship, rather than in areas where the Star Defender 
must oppress the populace. 

When fully stocked, a Star Defender carries a mix of support vessels. 
Optimally this includes 120 X-wings/Y-wings/E-wings, 48 A-wings, and 48 
B-wings or K-wings. It also has enough troop transports and landing barges 
to carry its troop complement planetside and dozens of shuttles, patrol 
craft, and support vessels, allowing the Star Defender to carry all its own 
resupply cargo up from a planet or space station. Although the hangar bays 
and flight decks of a Star Defender can support hundreds more starships, 
its operating doctrine calls for these berths to be left open so that damaged 
ships flying in the Viscount's support fleet can be taken in and repaired or 
evacuated. Lacking the massive open docking bay of Star Destroyer designs, 
a Star Defender can carry ships only of Colossal (frigate) size or smaller, but 
it can carry dozens of such ships. If no larger support ships are available, a 
Viscount can often carry its entire support fleet internally. 


CONCENTRATE YOUR FIRE 

When extremely large ships—such as Super Star Destroyers and Mon 
Calamari Star Defenders—enter the fray of battle, they can pose an 
incredible threat to other starships. The high number of weapons they 
bring to bear makes it statistically probable that several of their attacks 
will result in critical hits. Smaller ships, such as space transports and 
starfighters, will almost certainly be wiped out instantaneously thanks 
to the likelihood of one of these massive capital ships scoring a critical 
hit, since no size disparity can save them. When using these massive 
vessels in an encounter, Gamemasters should be careful to limit the 
number of attacks originating from these ships that are aimed at vessels 
occupied by player characters and important NPCs. Instead, consider 
placing other large, threatening targets on the battlefield for these ships 
to shoot at. If these massive vessels are tied up attacking one another, 
they will spare few shots for passing space transports and starfighters, 
allowing player characters to move about the battlefield without the 
risk of errant critical hits. 


if additional spaceships are carried, escape pods are provided for everyone), 
a HoloNet transceiver, dozens of docking clamps (to directly dock with other 
capital ships), and a droid repair team large enough for the entire ship. 
Tactical Fire: The Star Defender is the ultimate defense vessel, capable 
of protecting its allies from incoming assaults. As a standard 
action, a Star Destroyer can forgo all attacks to provide 
tactical fire to all squares in a 3-square radius 
around itself. All allied starships in that 
area gain +20 SR and a +1 bonus 
to Reflex Defense. 


Like many Mon Calamari ships, the 
Viscount-class Star Defender has backup shield 
generators, giving it regenerating shields. This makes 
it even more difficult to take down than other ships of its 
size class, since its shields can quickly recover from massive bom- 
bardment. This capacity is backed by the incredibly massive armor the 
ship carries (which is the reason its hangar bays aren't as large as a Super 
Star Destroyer's). It is also equipped with hundreds of bacta tanks, enough 
lifeboat and lifepod escape pods for 500,000 personnel (to ensure that even 


SEEGOD HIHSVvLS 


Al Hee LeiVvHD 


SegeoQ HIHSYVLsS 


NABOO ROYAL N-1 
STARFIGHTER 


Theed Palace Space Vessel Engineering Corps N-1 Royal 
Starfighter CL 8 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +6 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 60; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 42 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +29 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), fire-link (proton torpedoes) 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 (+13*) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 10 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Restricted; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +6, Dmg 10d10x2, 4-square splash 


An example of the beauty and artistry of the Naboo people, the N-1 
starfighter is the premier space combat vessel for the security volunteers of 
that tranquil world. Designed to be aesthetically appealing as well as eco- 
logically friendly, the N-1 starfighter was a moderately armed space combat 
vessel created to protect Naboo and the space around it from pirates and 
raiders. Despite the pleasing appearance of the N-1, the vessel is a capable 
defense fighter that sees a surprising amount of action while protecting the 
peaceful world of Naboo. 

Each N-1 starfighter is embellished with a chromium coating on the nose 
and forward sections of the engines, a sign that it is a part of the Naboo Royal 


House. Primarily used for defensive missions, the N-1 fighter also serves as 
part of the monarchy's honor guard when traveling abroad, escorting the 
Royal Transport ships throughout the galaxy. N-1 starfighters are sometimes 
loaned to VIPs and other important visitors to escort their starships while in 
the Naboo system, though this is a relatively rare occurrence. 


CAPABILITIES 

Unlike many other planetary defense fighters, the N-1 starfighter is equipped 
with powerful weapon systems. Despite its outward appearance as a piece 
of art, the N-1 carries laser cannons and proton torpedoes that rival those 
used by strictly military vessels. The mere presence of proton torpedoes 
puts the vessel in a higher class of combat starships, allowing it to drive off 
raiders that have competitive weaponry. Though N-1 pilots are not always 
the most experienced, the weapons aboard the ship can usually make up 
for the discrepancy. 

At first glance, the N-1's offensive capabilities seem out of place for a 
world where war and violence are eschewed. However, the N-1 is used as 
a vehicle of deterrence, responding to attacks by pirates and raiders with 
enough force to encourage enemies to seek out other star systems to prey 
upon. Additionally, the N-1 starfighter's shields and other defense systems 
are robust enough that even persistent attackers will suffer heavy casualties 
in the time it takes to penetrate Naboo's defenses. 


NEBULA-CLASS 
STAR DESTROYER 


Nebula-class Star Destroyer CL 26 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init +1; Senses Perception +8 


Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 56; +16 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 2,100; DR 20; SR 250; Threshold 256 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 4 heavy turbolaser batteries +18* (see below) and 
4 turbolaser batteries +18* (see below) and 
4 heavy ion cannon batteries +18* (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +16* (see below) and 
2 heavy concussion missile batteries +16* (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +5; Grp +81 


Abilities Str 102, Dex 16, Con —, Int 22 
Skills Initiative +1, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +1, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 7,039 (expert); Passengers 1,600 (troops) 

Cargo 15,000 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 60 
starfighters (any), 12 space transports (any) 

Payload 240 heavy concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

*Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +18 (-2 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 11d10x5 
Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +18 (-2 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg 8d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +18 (-2 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg 3d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam battery (4 gunners) 
Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +81) 
Heavy concussion missile battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x5, 
4-square splash 


The Nebula-class Star Destroyer is the largest warship in the New Republic's 
“New Class" modernization program. The ships were to serve as the backbone 
of a new, unified fleet to help the New Republic establish its territories and 
defend its new borders. Because of its long design period and high cost, 
relatively few of the ships had been completed by the time of the Yuuzhan 
Vong invasion, and political pressure kept them close to the Core Worlds as 
reserves. Once the ships finally saw combat, they acquitted themselves quite 
well against the extragalactic invaders. 


CAPABILITIES 

A Nebula-class can take on anything short of a Super Star Destroyer and is 
designed to act as a respectable threat even to those adversaries. Coupled 
with the support ships that almost always accompany it and the ship's own 
complement of craft, a Nebula can face down any threat short of a massed 
armada. 

Avariant, the Endurance-class fleet carrier, also exists. It trades the heavy 
turbolasers, all but two turbolaser batteries, half the tractor beams, the ion 
cannons, and 1 month of consumables for the ability to carry an additional 
two wings of heavy starfighters and four batteries of point-defense laser 
cannons. 

Tactical Fire: The mere presence of a Nebula-class Star Destroyer can 
turn the tide of battle, thanks to its impressive fire support. As a standard 
action, a Nebula-class Star Destroyer can forgo all attacks to provide tactical 
fire to all squares in a 2-square radius around itself. All attacks made against 
a starship of Colossal (frigate) size or larger within that area deal triple 
damage on a critical hit. If the attack would normally deal triple damage on 
a critical hit, it deals four times as much damage instead. 


xEEGO9 HIHSUVLS 


Al HeSlLavHa 


> 
a 
@ 
x 
U 
Q 
) 
Y 
W 
1% 


Ai BSL. divVHo 


| 
i 
| 
| 


NEBULON-B FRIGATE 
Kuat Drive Yards Nebulon-B Frigate CL 16 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 37; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 720; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 137 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 2 turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
2 point-defense laser cannon batteries +14 (see below) and 
2 tractor beams +4* (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +49 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 64, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 920 (skilled); Passengers 75 (troops) 

Cargo 6,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 24 fighters 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 


Point-defense laser cannon battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 2d10x2 


Tractor beam (gunner) 
Atk +4 (-16 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +49) 


In the earliest days of the Rebellion, the Alliance was hugely successful in its 
attacks against Imperial shipping and supply convoys. Much of the reason 
behind these successes was the Empire's reluctance to assign its valuable Star 
Destroyers to something as menial as escort duty. What the Empire required 
was a less expensive capital ship with the capacity to carry TIE fighters. 

Well armed and able to carry two dozen TIE fighters, the Nebulon- 
B quickly stymied the majority of Alliance raids on Imperial shipping. 
Rebel pilots were dismayed to discover that raids on convoys, which 
were once considered to be veritable cakewalks, had become much more 
dangerous. 

Despite the Empire's dominance in regard to the Nebulon-B, the Alliance 
has managed to acquire several of the ships for its own use. A number of 


these ships were captured by daring attacks on Imperial dockyards, while 
others were placed under Alliance control by their sympathetic captains. 
These Nebulon-B frigates functioned as the Alliance's primary assault ships 
during the early stages of the Galactic Civil War, until the Mon Calamari 
joined the cause against the Empire. 

Several of the Alliance's Nebulon-B frigates, such as the Redemption, 
are modified to function as medical frigates. Up to 700 wounded can be 
tended aboard a single cruiser, and the most technically advanced medical 
equipment available is used to treat them. In addition to organic doctors, 
these ships employ numerous medical droids. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Nebulon-B escort frigate was incredibly well suited to a number of 
tasks, such as antistarfighter screening and suppression of mid-sized 
warships. Aside from performing escort duty, the Nebulon-B was easily 
adapted to other purposes. It was well suited to long-range patrols, able to 
go up to two years before its stores ran dry. Search and rescue duties were 
second nature for the Nebulon-B, and several such frigates were employed 
as deterrents to space pirates and smugglers. Because the Nebulon-B was 
equipped with sophisticated scanners and deep-space antenna arrays, it 
performed exceptionally well as a command center during space battles 
and planetary assaults. 

Tactical Fire: The Nebulon-B escort frigate acts as a combination com- 
mand ship and defensive vessel. As a standard action, a Nebulon-B can forgo 
all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. All allied starships 
within that area gain a +5 insight bonus on Pilot checks. 


P-38 STARFIGHTER 


Buuper Torsckil Abbey Devices Porax-38 Starfighter CL 10 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +6; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +6 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 90; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 44 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1, limited navicomputer (4-jump memory) 
Availability Military; Cost 120,000 (50,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


Prior to the occupation of Utapau by the Separatists during the Clone Wars, 
the port administrator at the time, Tion Medon, instructed that the planetary 
militia was to hide its starfighter fleet in the multitude of caves and 
recessed sinkholes that covered the planetary surface. With the 
arrival of Obi Wan Kenobi, the hidden starfighters (including several 
squadrons of P-38s) were readied for battle. 

When the Republic invasion force landed, the fighters were sent 
out on sorties in support of clone-piloted ARC-170s. Although the 
Porax-38 was the standard model available to pilots during the Clone 
Wars, several variants also saw use. The most influential variant was the 
P-38 “Jenta." The Jenta was the primary ground assault craft of the militia, 
and it proved invaluable when used to neutralize droid forces on the ground, 
thanks to its fin-guided ion bombs. 


CAPABILITIES 

The P-38 was specifically manufactured to hold Utai pilots, rather than the 
taller Pau'an who ruled the planet Utapau. With some effort, the starfighter 
can be modified to suit Medium characters, but this can be costly given the 
rarity of spare parts outside Utapau space. Smaller species, such as Ewoks 
or Jawas, find the fighter much more comfortable. 

Foremost among the P-38's strengths is its advanced sensor system, which 
grants a +2 equipment bonus on Use Computer checks made when operat- 
ing sensors. The ship is also outfitted with specialized jamming equipment 
that is keyed to affect droid sensors and avionics. When the jammers are 
employed, a P-38 pilot gains a +2 equipment bonus on attack rolls against 
automated craft, such as the droid starfighters and tri-fighters employed by 
the Trade Federation. The jammers affect only droid-controlled spacecraft 
within a 5-square radius. 

The Jenta variant of the P-38 carries the same equipment as the stan- 
dard fighter, with the addition of six fin-guided ion bombs. Because of their 
primitive fin-stabilized guidance system, the bombs are usable only in an 
atmosphere, and attacks with them take a -4 penalty. On impact, they create 
a strong ion field that deals 5d10 points of ion damage within a 20-square 
(character-scale) radius. 


Al HSLdvea 


xaGSQ AINSYVLS 


cS) 


SE EE 


SS8eOE9 HIHS8vsLs 


Al eSLavno 


PREDATOR-CLASS 
STARFIGHTER 


Predator-class Starfighter CL 11 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +10; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 21 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 100; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 44 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 39, Dex 28, Con -, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


The Predator-class starfighter is one of the foremost weapons in Darth Krayt's 
Imperial fleet. Designed over a hundred years after the Empire's defeat at 
Endor, the Predator-class fighter bears more than just a passing resemblance 
to the Imperial TIE fighter. However, the Predator-class starfighter is far more 
than just turbolaser fodder; these ships are fast, agile, shielded, and a far 
more formidable foe than even the most advanced starfighters 
used during the Galactic Civil War. These ships boast 
hyperdrives that allow them to travel over long distances 
without the need of a capital ship, though most Imperial 
vessels carry a complement of Predator-class starfight- 
ers for protection. 

The Predator-class starfighter has two variant cockpit 
styles; the more traditional, TIE fighter-like cockpit is reserved for squad 
leaders and commanders, while the remaining ships have a cockpit with a 
diagonally slashed set of viewing slots. Though the standard cockpit offers 
a reduced view of the battlefield, the interior of a Predator-class starfighter 
contains advanced computer technology with sophisticated heads-up dis- 
plays to compensate for the reduction in visibility. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Predator-class starfighter shares many of the characteristics of the 
TIE series, most notably the TIE defender. Though more lightly armed, 
the Predator-class fighter boasts shields and increased hull strength that 
makes a single Predator-class ship last longer in combat. The Predator-class 
starfighter is also incredibly fast and agile, making it more adept at avoiding 
incoming attacks than its predecessors. In fact, the combination of enhanced 
durability with technology designed to avoid taking damage at all makes the 
Predator-class starfighter a fearsome ship to face in combat. 

The Predator-class starfighter is primarily used as a space superiority 
fighter. Launched out of special hanging racks aboard larger capital ships, a 
Predator-class starfighter does not need to swarm over its enemies in huge 
numbers like its predecessors. Instead, small wings or squadrons of Preda- 
tor-class fighters are dispatched to handle most problems, with impressive 
results. A Predator-class starfighter can stand up to nearly any comparable 
starfighter, including the X-83 TwinTail fighters, and as such Darth Krayt's 
Empire has seen a much higher survival rate among pilots of Predator-class 
ships than the Empire ever did with TIE fighter pilots. The Predator-class 
starfighter is also the favored starfighter of the Imperial Knights, whose 
Force-assisted piloting makes them as deadly in a cockpit as they are in a 
lightsaber duel. 


PROTOTYPE 
(TEMPLATE) 


The prototype template represents the model of a starship that is used to 
find any hidden flaws and test new systems before the starship goes into 
production. A prototype is lovingly hand-built by teams of engineers, since 
no mass-production line exists to churn it out yet. Some classes of ships are 
always built as prototypes, and then have the prototype template removed 
as a final construction stage. 

The prototype template can also be used to represent a unique ship built 
by a small group that has no intention of ever turning it into a mass-produced 
starship. Some pirates and rich traders have custom ships hand-crafted for 
their use, and occasionally a ship is so extensively rebuilt that it qualifies as 
a prototype of a new class of ship. Some Rebel Alliance capital ships built 
from older vessels fall into this last category. 

A ship can have the prototype template removed by a massive overhaul 
that reengineers all its systems to normal tolerances. This is a time-consum- 
ing and expensive proposition. It has a base cost of 50,000 credits modified 
by the starship's cost modifier based on size (see Cost Modifiers, page 38), 
and takes 1 day per 5,000 credits of that cost. 


MODIFICATIONS 

Threshold: A prototype isn't quite as resistant to incoming damage, 
since it doesn't have the benefit of being redesigned after every bad 
design element has been discovered. Lower its damage threshold by an 
amount equal to its size modifier (-1 Large, -2 Huge, -5 Gargantuan, 
-10 for Colossal and larger). 

Abilities: Increase Strength, Dexterity, and Intelligence by 2. Prototypes 
have the advantage of having their systems double-checked, fine- 
tuned, and carefully recalibrated, and they enjoy a level of precision 
engineering impossible to maintain on a production line. Recalculate 
all statistics derived from these abilities’ modifiers. 

Speed: The careful tuning of a prototype's engines gives it a +1-square 
bonus to starship-scale movement. 

Random Benefit/Drawback: A prototype always has at least one benefit 
and one drawback over standard starships of its class, which are lost in 
mass production. (Some prototypes have two benefits and drawbacks.) 
Roll randomly to see which statistic increases and which is reduced: 
armor (+2/-2), hit points (+10%/-10%), SR (+25%/-25%), starship- 
scale speed (+1 square/-1 square), crew (-70%/+30%), passengers 
(+50% total/-50% total), cargo (+50% total/-50% total), carried 
craft (-75%/+25%), or weapons (double number of one weapon 
type, half number of one weapon type). You can't have a benefit and 
drawback in the same category. 


Maintenance Requirement: A prototype manages to maintain its high 
precision tuning only if it is regularly given good maintenance. A 
prototype requires 8 hours of maintenance a month and a DC 20 
Mechanics check to keep it running smoothly. If the maintenance isn't 
kept up, or the Mechanics check for doing so fails, the prototype loses 
its +2 ability increases and its random benefit (but not its random 
drawback), and moves -1 step down its condition track. 


The following is an example of a prototype, using a Dreadnaught and convert- 
ing it into a Rebel Assault Frigate with benefits to crew twice, and drawbacks 
to hit points and carried craft. The final versions of the assault frigates were 
further modified from this baseline. 
Rebel Assault Frigate Prototype CL 18 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -3; Senses Perception -4 
Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 54: +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,440; DR 20; SR 115; Threshold 244 
Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged 2 heavy turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 

2 light quad turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 

2 turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +66 


Abilities Str 98, Dex 12, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1,459 (skilled); Passengers 3,000 

Cargo 9,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 3 shuttles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x18), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
40,250,000 used) 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 
Light quad turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 2d10x5 


Al SSiavHoa 


ZEEOD SHIHNSYUVLS 


REBEL ASSAULT 
FRIGATE MK I 


Rebel Assault Frigate Mk | CL 16 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -2; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 52; +13 armor 

hp 1,500; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 252 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 3 light turbolaser batteries +11* (see below) and 
4 quad turbolaser battery +11* (see below) and 
3 turbolaser batteries +11* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +62 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon batteries) 


| ~ BUT eaS 


SAGO HNHSHvLs 


Abilities Str 94, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 5,000 (normal); Passengers 100 (troops) 

Cargo 7,500 tons; Consumables 1.5 years; Carried Craft 1 
Imperial assault shuttle 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than 
Colossal size. 


Light turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg 2d10x5 

Quad turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg 4d10x5 

Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg 7d10x5 


The Rebel Assault Frigate is a unique addition to the Alliance 
fleet due to its origins. Though they are hardly recognizable as 
such, these Alliance craft are heavily modified Imperial Dreadnaughts. 
Although it is common for the Alliance to modify and adapt starships to its 
own specifications, the Assault Frigate is set apart by the sheer amount of 
modification that it has seen. 


When the Alliance acquired a number of Old Republic-era Dreadnaughts, 
the initial excitement was replaced by apprehension. The crew requirements 
of the old warships were astronomical, especially considering the Alliance's 
limited pool of available crew. True, the ranks of the Alliance swelled with 
every new atrocity committed by the Empire, but this growth was neither 
fast nor specialized enough to generate several of the 16,000-member crews 
that Dreadnaughts ordinarily require. Something needed to be done in order 
to make use of the Dreadnaughts, which were badly needed if the Alliance 
was to have a chance of defeating the Empire. 

To begin with, huge amounts of the Dreadnaught's superstructure have 
been removed. Not only does this increase the engine capacity of the vessels, 
but the reduced mass of the ship greatly increases fuel efficiency. In order to 
improve the ship's maneuverability, two large solar fins were installed along 
the assault frigate's dorsal ridge. Even with these adjustments, the crew 
complement of the frigate would still be too extreme. In order to reduce the 
number of crewmembers required to operate the assault frigate, automated 
systems, including large numbers of droids, have been implemented through- 
out the design. These automated systems reduce the crew requirements of 
the vessel by nearly sixty percent. 

The Alliance has precious few of these ships in operation, mostly due 
to the expense of retrofitting captured or salvaged Dreadnaughts. Those 
that have been put into service have performed exceptionally well, with 
no losses reported prior to the Battle of Endor. Though the extensive 

automation of ship systems requires additional maintenance, the trade- 
off is well worth the extra work. 


CAPABILITIES 

Compared to the Dreadnaught, the Rebel Assault Frigate is slightly less 
resilient, but this is the only area in which the Dreadnaught exceeds the 
assault frigate's capabilities. Due to its widespread modifications, the assault 
frigate has augmented deflector shield capacity, a wider range of weaponry, 
increased speed, and greater maneuverability. 

Because much of the assault frigate's superstructure has been stripped, 
it lacks docking bays and landing platforms. To make up for this deficiency, 
Alliance techs have installed twenty umbilical docking fixtures along the 
ship's surface, six of which are large enough to accommodate a standard Alli- 
ance transport. The remaining fourteen of these fixtures are better suited to 
docking starfighters and light freighters. Ships connected to these umbilical 
fixtures cannot be carried through hyperspace, and can be seriously damaged 
if an attempt is made to do so. 

The only concession made by Rebel techs in regard to smaller ships is 
the inclusion of a modified Imperial assault shuttle at the top of the assault 
frigate's superstructure. When properly docked, the assault shuttle can 
accompany the frigate into hyperspace with no adverse effect. 

Tactical Fire: Rebel Assault Frigates (both the Mark | and Mark Il 
models) put out large amounts of firepower that can make it difficult for 
attacking starships to line up a clear shot. As a standard action, a Rebel 
Assault Frigate can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares 
in a 2-square radius around itself. Enemy ships within that area take a -2 
penalty on attack rolls. 


REBEL ASSAULT FRIGATE MkKII 
The Rebel Assault Frigate Mk Il is a further development of the Alliance 
project to modify captured or salvaged Old Republic Dreadnaughts. Although 
the Mk Il uses the same Dreadnaught hull as the Mk |, it looks vastly different 
from its cousin. Only experienced starship engineers who know what to look 
for can tell that the two ships are related. 

Although the Mk | assault frigate retained a good deal of the Dread- 
naught's hull design, the Mk Il is a much more original design. The design was 
produced by engineers and technicians within Rendili Star Drive who were 
sympathetic to the cause of the Alliance. Working in secrecy, they took the 
original assault frigate several steps beyond the Alliance's vision. Unfortu- 
nately for the effort, Rendili Star Drive caught wind of the covert project and 
shut it down from the inside out. Many of these rogue engineers were killed 
or captured, but a few managed to defect to the Rebel Alliance. As a result, 
the Alliance fleet has far fewer Mk II assault frigates than Mk Is. 


Capabilities 

Like the Rebel Assault Frigate Mk I, the Mk Il uses a large array of automated 
ship systems, reducing its reliance on organic crewmen by an additional 
180. 


Aside from the external differences between the Mk | and Mk II, one other 
significant change sets the Mk II apart: a shield generator based on Mon 
Calamari designs. This feature allows the Mk II assault frigate to regenerate 
its shield rating at twice the normal rate, increasing it by 10 for every three 
swift actions taken to recharge it. 
Rebel Assault Frigate Mk II CL 17 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 52; +13 armor 
hp 1,500; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 252; regenerating shields 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 3 light turbolaser batteries +11* (see below) and 

3 quad turbolaser batteries +11* (see below) and 

3 turbolaser batteries +11* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +62 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon batteries) 

Abilities Str 94, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +5 


Al HSLagvHo 


Crew 4,820 (normal); Passengers 100 (troops) 

Cargo 7,500 tons; Consumables 1.5 years; Carried Craft 1 Imperial 
assault shuttle 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Light turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 
Quad turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 


SaGoOQ QIHNSYVLS 


SAEGOH HAHSYVLAsS 


REPUBLIC CRUISER 


Corellian Engineering Corporation Consular-class Cruiser CL 8 
Colossal (frigate) space transport 
Init +0; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 14), Fort 39; +14 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 960; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 139 
Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +51 
Abilities Str 69, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 8 (skilled); Passengers 16 

Cargo 1,000 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 1,250,000 (400,000 used) 


Corellian Engineering Corporation's Consular-class cruiser is in service toward 
the end of the Old Republic, though decades before the Clone Wars. It is 
an economic and simple starship, a change from the more grandiose ves- 
sels the Republic built before budgets got tight. This simple and utilitarian 
design does not sit well with all Republic diplomats, but it does make the 
ships appealing to Jedi negotiators who seek to draw as little attention to 
themselves as possible. 

Though they were built to be unarmed diplomatic vessels, the ease of 
changing out the salon pod (as well as the highly modifiable nature of all 
CEC vessels) naturally led to the addition of weapons on Consular-class 
cruisers when times got hard. Modified vessels served in the Judicial Forces 
and made up part of a war fleet during the Stark Hyperspace War. Several 
of the cruisers, including the flagship /nvincible, were heavily modified into 
Republic light assault cruisers (over the course of months in a major ship- 
yard), while others were given more modest battle pods to replace their 
typical salon pods. 

During the Clone Wars, Consular-class ships with 
specialized salon pods served as fighter carriers, missile 
cruisers, medical ships, long-range scouts, and point- 
defense escorts. After the war, ships of this type were 
often left for junk, scrapped, or sold to private enterprises. 
Many ended up as pirate craft, planetary patrol ships, and Rebel 
Alliance cruisers. Smugglers also valued modified Consular-class 


ships, but could rarely afford them. (Those who succeeded in acquiring one, 
such as Rebel sympathizer Rif Taranu and his Dead Reckoning, were gener- 
ally very successful.) 


CAPABILITIES 

A Consular-class cruiser is designed to be a utilitarian ship, able to perform 
multiple types of missions. One major component of the Consular-class is 
the salon pod, an easily swapped-out section of the lower front of the ship. 
Each pod was an area of luxury accommodations and secure communications 
equipment. Different salon pods catered to different species, allowing a single 
Consular with a dozen or so pods kept in spacedock to serve as a diplomatic 
vessel for multiple Senatorial groups as they needed it. Salon pods can also 
be ejected from the starship to act as lifeboat escape pods. 

Other kinds of pods can be swapped out as well, including pods with 
concussion missiles, bacta tanks, or sensor and jamming suites. Such pods 
might have as many as 20 emplacement points’ worth of systems and 
can be swapped out in a matter of minutes. Combined with the 5 unused 
emplacement points common to most CEC starships, the ability of a Con- 
sular-class to adapt to new missions is only as limited as the mechanics 
who are modifying it. 


SCIMITAR 
ASSAULT BOMBER 


Sienar Fleet Systems Scimitar Assault Bomber CL 11 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +5; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 150; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 48 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 2 medium concussion missiles +6 (see below) and 
light laser cannons +8 (see below) 

Fighting Space 8x8 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +35 

Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 46, Dex 19, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 200 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 16 medium concussion missiles 

Availability Military; Cost 120,000 (45,000 used) 


Medium concussion missiles (copilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 
Light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


The Scimitar Assault Bomber was developed by Imperial engineers 
at the behest of Grand Admiral Thrawn following the Battle of 
Endor. Thrawn saw the need for a craft that would be more 
effective than the aging TIE bomber, which suffered from 
poor maneuverability and a distinct lack.of shields. The result 
was a dedicated bomber that combined the best features of 
the TIE bomber and the TIE interceptor, as well as some of 
the more successful features of the fighter craft used by the 
Alliance. It was dubbed the Scimitar, in honor of the Scimitar 
Assault Wing, the Empire's most decorated and experienced 
bomber wing. 


Though the ship was effective when used in large numbers, deployment 
of the Scimitar was impeded by the fact that the Empire's strength was at 
the lowest point that it had been in years. The once-powerful war machine 
had crumbled, its supply lines either nonexistent or stretched hopelessly thin. 
Those Scimitars that saw combat performed quite well, earning a reputation 
as dangerous prey among the New Republic pilots who opposed them. 


CAPABILITIES 

Despite its Imperial pedigree, the Scimitar is not a TIE design, even though it 
shares some of the TIE's features. For one, it incorporates powerful shields, 
something that was nigh unthinkable within the previous Imperial regime. 
Even though it wasn't equipped with a hyperdrive, making it reliant on larger 
ships for transport between star systems, it did incorporate another feature 
that was new to experienced pilots: an escape pod. In emergency situations, 
the forward section of the ship could be detached, allowing the pilot and 
copilot to survive their vessel's destruction. Thrawn's reasoning was that 
the experienced crews that manned the bombers were at least as valuable 
as the ships they flew. 

When deployed, Scimitars would launch from their mother ship en masse, 
descending upon their objective in a swarm. Once their target had been 
acquired, each bomber would launch its full complement of missiles in a 
single, sustained volley, virtually guaranteeing its destruction. The ship's 
laser cannons could be angled as well, allowing the Scimitar to make brutally 
effective strafing runs against ground targets. 


xEGOD HNHSUVLS 


ealLldveig 


(sews 


BEEs 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


u 
> 
mn 
@ 
x 
U 
Q 
@ 
Y 
) 
x 


Set 


>} 
a ee 


vSelLavHo 


AL 


SITH INFILTRATOR 


Modified Republic Sienar Systems Armored Star Courier CL 16 
Colossal* space transport 
Init +7; Senses Perception +12 


Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +11 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 90; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 74 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,180 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +15 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +10; Grp +44 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 20, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +12 


Crew 1 (ace); Passengers 6 

Cargo 2.5 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft 1 Sith speeder 

Hyperdrive x1.5 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purposes of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using starship 
maneuvers. 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +15 (+10 autofire), Dmg 3d10x5 


ONE OF A KIND? 

The Sith Infiltrator is the only produced example of a starship design 
by Sienar Design Systems. Though technically a prototype, the ship was 
given directly to Darth Sidious, and no other examples of the ship were 
manufactured. As a result, the Sith Infiltrator is widely thought to be one 
of the few unique starships in the galaxy, although some have doubts 
as to the veracity of this statement. 

Though the Scimitar remains under Emperor Palpatine's control 
throughout the reign of the Empire, at least one other person— an 
Imperial Inquisitor by the name of Valin Draco—owns and pilots a ship 
strikingly similar to the Sith Infiltrator. Whether this is the Scimitar or 
merely a ship of similar design is unknown. The vessel makes its berth 
on the Imperial fortress world of Prakith at the Citadel Inquisitorius, and 
few have ever witnessed the ship's arrival or departure. 

Though Sienar Design Systems produced only one Sith Infiltrator, it is 
theoretically possible that the blueprints for the vessel could have found 
their way into the hands of a third party. However, unlike with other 
starship blueprints, merely owning the plans for this ship is extremely 
dangerous. It is said that Darth Sidious had every engineer and mechanic 
who worked on the Sith Infiltrator executed (lending credence to Raith 
Sienar's claim that he had nothing to do with the ship's design). If the 
plans ever found their way into the hands of another person, chances 
are that the Sith Lord would be equally ruthless—not to mention what he 
would do to someone who actually tried to build a replica of the ship. 


Sleek, deadly, and unique, the Sith Infiltrator (codenamed the Scimitar) is the 
personal vessel of Darth Maul prior to the Battle of Naboo. Designed by Sienar 
Design Systems as a prototype armored star courier, the Sith Infiltrator never 
saw production as a full line of ships, but rather remained in the prototype 
stage indefinitely. The first working prototype of the ship was given by Darth 
Sidious to his apprentice, and it served as Darth Maul's personal transport 
ship until his death at the hands of Obi-Wan Kenobi. 

The Sith Infiltrator is clearly a vessel created for stealth and subterfuge. 
Its design, which appears to be inspired by the same design philosophy as 
that of the TIE fighter series, gives the vessel a low but menacing profile. 
Everything about the ship's appearance suggests darkness and secrecy, 
encouraging others to avoid the ship at all costs. 

Following Darth Maul's death on Naboo, the Sith Infiltrator was taken to 
a top-secret hangar in Theed for inspection. In truth, Supreme Chancellor 
Palpatine had the vessel hidden away until such a time as he needed it again. 
Though his subsequent apprentices would have no need of the Sith Infiltrator, 
the vessel was secretly maintained and kept in working order as a precaution 
in case the Sith Lord needed the transport on a moment's notice. 


Sith Intiltrator 


Cockpit 
ee Seating Upper Deck 
Cargo Hold 

Maintenance Crawlspace 
Engineering Access Chamber 

Ready Room 

Sleeping Compartment/Holding Cells 
Storage Bays 

. Aft Airlock 


CAPABILITIES 

The Sith Infiltrator itself is a precise and deadly weapon, much like a light- 
saber. Armed with six laser cannons that can fire with a combined power 
rivaling that of many turbolasers, the ship is exceptionally deadly, and a 
single shot from its weapons can vaporize even a durable space transport. 
The Sith Infiltrator is designed to leave no witnesses to its passing, and the 
impressive power of its weapons ensures that anyone who gets a good look 
at the ship doesn't live to tell about it. 


| square = [.5 meters 


The Sith Infiltrator is outfitted for stealth as well. Sleek and fast, it can 
slip past an enemy without being noticed. However, to ensure the ship's 
secrecy, it is outfitted with a stygium crystal cloaking device, allowing it to 
become effectively invisible. The ship also boasts an impressive sensor suite 
that grants any character aboard an additional +5 equipment bonus on Use 
Computer checks when attempting to detect other starships with sensors 
(see page 19 for more rules on detecting starships with sensors). 

The ship also carries all the personal effects of a Sith Lord. These include 
Dark Eye probe droids, bombs, poisons, torture devices, and other weapons 
of war. 


Se) 


ave 


Ail os 


SEGO9D SQIHSYUvLsS 


BEE 
SAIGO9 AHASYvVvLs 


Al eSildavHya 


SItTH INTERCEPTOR 


Sith Interceptor CL5 

Huge starfighter 

Init +9; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 21; +3 armor 

hp 50; DR 10; Threshold 31 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +21 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 32, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 
Cargo 40 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


The Sith interceptor is a starfighter seen during the days of the Jedi 
Civil War. Mass-produced and designed with a philosophy 
that would later be embraced by the Galactic Empire, 

a Sith interceptor is both light and agile, relying on 
the strength of numbers over that of its hull or shields. 
Thousands of Sith interceptors might be used in any given 
battle, and some enemy pilots even refer to squadrons of 
the ships as "swarms" because of the overwhelming number 
of ships the Sith might field at any time. Though most pilots 
consider a single Sith interceptor to be little challenge, the odds are 
rarely so favorable; many battles see Sith interceptors outnumbering 
their opposition by a ratio of ten to one. 


CAPABILITIES 

Those who favor the Sith interceptor might call it “light,” but most pilots 
would merely call it fragile. A single good hit from a laser cannon is usu- 
ally enough to seriously damage, if not destroy, a Sith interceptor. Despite 
its fragility, the Sith interceptor is still a dangerous opponent that can 
linger in battle for quite some time. The ships are relatively nimble and can 
avoid damage from larger ships. Though they suffer in comparison to other 
starships, their numbers are usually enough to make up for their fragile 
nature. 

The pilots of Sith interceptors learn quickly to rely on one another for 
assistance during combat (often using the aid another action to increase 
their chances to hit enemy starships or to suppress incoming fire). Addition- 
ally, Sith interceptors tend to fly in small groups, or wings, to ensure that at 
least of few of their number make it to their target to deal damage upon the 
enemy. The Sith care little for the lives of their pilots, and if their interceptors 
are destroyed in the process of making an attack run, this is considered an 
acceptable loss. 


SKIPRAY BLASTBOAT 


Sienar Fleet Systems GAT-12h CL 15 
Colossal* space transport 
Init -1; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 14), Fort 33; +14 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 230; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 83 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) and 
heavy ion cannons +5* (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) and 
heavy proton torpedoes +5 (see below) or 
Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) and 
heavy concussion missiles +5 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +45 
Abilities Str 56, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 4 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 20 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Payload 4 heavy proton torpedoes, 8 heavy concussion missiles 
Hyperdrive x2, limited navicomputer (4-jump memory) 
Availability Military/Restricted/Licensed; Cost 624,000 (250,000 used) 
*This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purposes of 
being targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using 
starship maneuvers. 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than 
Colossal size. 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +5, Dmg 5d10x2 
Heavy ion cannons (gunner) 
Atk +5 (-15 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
ion 
Heavy proton torpedoes (gunner) 
Atk +5, Dmg 10d10x2, 4-square splash 
Heavy concussion missiles (gunner) 
Atk +5, Dmg 9d10X2, 4-square splash 


The Sienar Fleet Systems GAT-12h, commonly referred to by the nickname 
"Skipray," was released into service just prior to the Battle of Yavin. It was 
distinguished from the start as the smallest Imperial vessel (except for a 


handful of TIE prototypes) to be equipped with hyperdrive engines. The 
original design was intended to be used as an unescorted system patrol craft, 
capable of fending off starfighters and small capital ships. 

Even though the naval units that used the Skipray raved about the vessel's 
awesome performance, it never quite caught on with Imperial high command. 
Despite its capabilities, the ship was never accepted, and became another 
victim of the volatile politics that often controlled Imperial Naval doctrine. 
As a result, a large number of Skiprays wound up in service to planetary 
militias, corporate navies, mercenaries, pirates, and smugglers. 


CAPABILITIES 
The Skipray blastboat was intended to fill the void between smaller “snub” 
fighters and larger capital-scale ships. In this regard, the Skipray was a 
complete success. Though a few Imperial fleet elements were equipped with 
Skiprays, the bulk of the ships were assigned to planetary defense forces 
or space stations. When possible, the GAT-12h is deployed in conjunction 
with TIE fighters, or is teamed with one or more other blastboats. When 
working in tandem, Skiprays team up to disable larger enemy ships before 
peeling off to deal with the incidental threat posed by starfighters and/or 
space transports. 
Given its capabilities, it is somewhat surprising that the GAT-12h hosts 
a crew of only four: a pilot, a copilot/sensor operator, and two gun- 
ners. One gunner controls the ship's laser cannons, while the 
other operates its ion cannons, missiles, and proton 
torpedoes. Though it is somewhat sluggish in 
space, the Skipray is incredibly maneuver- 
able when employed as an atmospheric craft. 
In an atmosphere, the blastboat gains a +2 
bonus to its Dexterity score. 


1 Al eaiavna 


xEGO9 QIHSYvsLs 


- 


| 


SIGOH HAHSYVLAsS 


SoROSUUB 
PATROL FIGHTER 


SoroSuub Cutlass-9 Patrol Fighter CL5 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +2; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 26; +6 armor 

hp 80; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missile +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +31 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Al BS LavHo 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +2, 
Use Computer +5 

Crew 1 (normal); Passengers none 

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 2 weeks; Carried Craft none 

Payload 8 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 140,000 (65,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Medium concussion missile (pilot) 

Atk +4, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


During the height of the Old Republic, the SoroSuub 
Corporation decided to design and build a starfighter it 
could produce, modify, and utilize for its own needs. This patrol 
fighter was the Cutlass series, the last (and most successful) 
model of which was the Cutlass-9. Originally intended purely 
as a corporate asset, the Cutlass-9 was popular enough to spur 
some sales to other species, especially nonhumans. As the Old Republic began 
to groan under the weight of its own success, many humanocentric com- 
panies began treating nonhuman buyers as second-class citizens. SoroSuub 
never had that attitude, and sold many more Cutlass-9s as a result. 


Once the Empire came to power, SoroSuub had to tread a much more 
careful line. Having supported the Confederacy of Independent Systems, 
the company had to take extreme measures to prove itself to the Empire. 
One such step was to stop production of the Cutlass-9, which the Empire 
saw as a ship preferred by malcontents and rebels. By the time SoroSuub 
underwent an internal revolution and switched to supporting the Rebel 
Alliance, the Rebels needed capital ships far more than fighters, and no 
further Cutlass-9s were built. Being sturdy and easily modified vessels, some 
survived in independent hands, but they became increasingly rare after the 
end of the Galactic Civil War. 


CAPABILITIES 

The basic Cutlass-9 was a simple fighter, with two mid-grade lasers and a 
single concussion missile launcher. It had a class 2 hyperdrive with a navi- 
computer and weak shields, making it a good long-range fighter when it was 
produced. Because it was always intended to be modified to suit the needs 
of SoroSuub, it was built with additional unused power conduits (giving it 
3 unused emplacement points). This additional capacity was often used to 
upgrade the shields or hyperdrive, or to add more powerful lasers and mis- 
sile weapons. As the Clone Wars spurred development of starfighters, the 
Cutlass-9 went from cutting-edge to outdated. It was possible to upgrade 
it with the unused emplacement points, but few owners bothered. 


STAR GALLEON-CLASS 
FRIGATE 


Kuat Drive Yards Star Galleon CL 16 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -3; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 41; +13 armor 
hp 1,120; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 141 
Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 2 turbolaser batteries +12* (see below) and 
heavy concussion missiles +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +0; Grp +51 
Abilities Str 72, Dex 14, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 150 (normal); Passengers 300 (troops) 
Cargo 100,000 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft cargo hold 
(see description) 
Payload 16 heavy concussion missiles 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x15), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
*Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 
Heavy concussion missiles (gunner) 

Atk +4, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


The Star Galleon was initially conceived as a transport vessel that could 
escort itself in hostile space. Given the rise of piracy on major trade routes, 
combined with the Navy's need to wage a civil war on a galactic scale, such 
a design was heartily embraced by Imperial Command. Since its introduc- 
tion, the Star Galleon has earned a reputation for being nearly impossible to 
capture. Only the most desperate pirate bands dare to assault a Star Galleon, 
and even then they do so at great risk. 


CAPABILITIES 

With its thick armor, heavy deflector shields, and formidable weaponry, the 
Star Galleon is able to stand its ground against small capital ships and snub 
fighters. Ideally, it is supposed to be deployed in flotillas of between three 
and five such vessels, with each providing covering fire for the rest. The ships 
are more often encountered at the center of a supply convoy, supported 
by several smaller escort ships. Despite their durability and firepower, Star 
Galleons are slow and sluggish when compared to their adversaries, and 
additional escort, when available, is always preferred. 

The defensibility of the Star Galleon doesn’t end with its armament and 
shielding. Strategically designed choke points combine with reinforced 
emplacements to provide the ship's guards with a limitless supply of defen- 
sible positions. As many as 300 troops, typically drawn from the ranks of 
Imperial Naval troopers, can be assigned to defend a single Star Galleon. 

As if this wasn't enough, the Star Galleon's cargo hold is nestled in the 
center of the craft. The hold is designed as a separate vessel, equipped with 
its own hyperdrive. In dire circumstances, the cargo hold can be detached and 
enter hyperspace, conveying itself and its contents to a designated point in 
space. Imperial forces, informed of the hold’s location by a homing beacon, 
can then retrieve the cargo. 

Tactical Fire: The Star Galleon is designed to be one of the most surviv- 
able frigates in the Imperial fleet. As a standard action, a Star Galleon can 
forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. Enemy star- 
ships within that area deal -1 die of damage on successful attacks against 
any target. 


AA SBSaLavHia 


g 
> 
i 
o 
x 
i 
q 
0 
9) 
Wy 
% 


ti BSLavHga 


STARVIPER (VIRAGO) 
MandalMotors StarViper Assault Fighter CL 12 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +3; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 12), Fort 27; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 140; DR 15; SR 40; Threshold 47 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged heavy double laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1010 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +34 

Atk Options autofire (heavy double laser cannons), fire-link (proton 
torpedoes) 


SSsEgO9 HASSVLS 


Abilities Str 44, Dex 24, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 

Payload 6 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Heavy double laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +6, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


The Virago was the personal starship of Prince Xizor, Black Sun's Underlord. 
He personally commissioned MandalMotors to design a unique starfighter 
for his personal use. Xizor's demands were steep: He required a ship that 
could match the TIE interceptor in speed and that was both versatile and 
combat-capable. The spacecraft that was produced as a result was the first 
Star Viper-class assault fighter, and the criminal prince christened his ship 
the Virago. To ensure that his ship remained unique and unrivaled, Xizor 
purchased all rights to the new design. 

The Virago served Xizor well for many years, paying for itself many times 
over. It was eventually lost over Coruscant when Xizor's skyhook was destroyed 
by the Imperial Super Star Destroyer Executor. MandalMotors wasted little 
time in regaining the rights to the Star Viper design following Xizor's death. The 
newest iteration of the Star Viper is not as fast or as agile as Xizor’s original 
prototype, but MandalMotors felt that some concessions were unavoidable 
in order to bring the price into line with the market as a whole. 


CAPABILITIES 

The Star Viper-class assault fighter is distinctive, in large part due to its 
four independently adjusting wing nacelles. Two microthrusters within 
each wing provide exceptional maneuverability in space. As the starfighter 
travels through space, each wing moves separately from the others. This 
fluid motion gives the Star Viper a shifting, albeit graceful, silhouette as 
it effortlessly performs complex maneuvers. Though they are efficient in 
the vacuum of space, the wings and thrusters are best left retracted during 
atmospheric flight. 

In addition to being nimble and fast, the Star Viper is also incredibly well 
armed. A pair of heavy double laser cannons are mounted on either side of 
the ship's cockpit. The cannons are mounted on articulated arms that, when 
extended, allow for an extremely wide field of fire. Two forward-firing proton 
torpedo launchers complete the starfighter's weapons package. The ship is 
well armored and includes a formidable shield generator. 

The latest Star Viper design lacks some of the original's maneuver- 
ability and has a Dexterity score of only 20. In addition, its shield rating 
is only 20. 


STRIKE-CLASS 
MEDIUM CRUISER 


Loronar Corporation Strike-class Medium Cruiser CL 18 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 

Init -3; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 54; +14 armor, Vehicular Combat 


hp 1,200; DR 20; SR 125; Threshold 154 


Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 2 turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
4 light turbolaser batteries +13* (see below) and 
2 ion cannon batteries +13* (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +13* (see below) and 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +66 


Abilities Str 98, Dex 12, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 2,112 (skilled); Passengers 1,020 (troops) 

Cargo 9,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 18 starfighters, 
2 AT-STs and 4 additional AT-STs or 2 AT-ATs, various dropships and 
support craft 

Hyperdrive x2 (x12 backup), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
17,000,000 used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 
Light turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg 2d10x5 
lon cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than 
Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +13 (-7 against targets smaller than 
Colossal), Dmg — (grapple +66) 


The Strike-class is designed from the ground up to be a flexible, efficient, 
modular starship with half the functionality of a Victory Star Destroyer for 
25% of the cost. Strike cruisers became an important tool in the Imperial 
fleet, able to be equipped for any mission and built in numbers great enough 
to replenish those lost in battle. The Rebel Alliance valued the few Strike 
cruisers it captured, often modifying them to serve in specific missions. 
The Imperial Remnant depends on these ships even more heavily than Star 
Destroyers, since this is one of the few classes of capital ship it still has the 
capacity to produce in large numbers. 


CAPABILITIES 

The greatest advantage of the Strike cruiser is its flexible nature. With 6,000 
tons of cargo space and modular troop and hangar sections, it can easily go 
from being a starfighter carrier to a planetary assault ship or system garrison 
flagship. The amount of cargo and number of troops, starfighters, or walkers 
carried by a Strike cruiser can be doubled (along with all support craft needed 
for the increased complement) by reducing some other cargo category by 
50%. Thus, a ship might have only 510 troops but 36 starfighters, or carry 
2,040 troops but have only 4,500 tons of cargo space. 

Tactical Fire: Strike-class medium cruisers have a modular design that 
allows them to fulfill a variety of roles. As a standard action, a Strike-class 
cruiser can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2- 
square radius around itself. All allied ships within that area gain either a 
+1 bonus to Reflex Defense or a +1 bonus on attack rolls (commander's 
choice), but not both. 


a0) 
d 
> 
wv 
@ 
us 
U 
Q) 
(0) 
© 
Uy 
% 


co) 


AL SSLdvHeg 


" 
D 
2 
@ 
i 
7 
|| Q 
) 
0) 
W) 
} x 


Al HSlavHg 


SUPER STAR 
DESTROYER 


Fondor Shipyards Super Star Destroyer CL 40 
Colossal (station) space station 
Init -4; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 74; +18 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 3,000; DR 20; SR 400; Threshold 574 
Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged 25 heavy turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
25 turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
25 heavy ion cannon batteries +15* (see below) and 
8 tractor beam batteries +15* (see below) and 
25 heavy concussion missile batteries +15* (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +86 


Abilities Str 138, Dex 10, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 280, 734 (skilled); Passengers 38,000 (troops) 

Cargo 250,000 tons; Consumables 6 years; Carried Craft 144 
starfighters, various support craft 

Payload 50,000 heavy concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


THE VENGEANCE 


a 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 11d10x5 
Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Heavy ion cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 

— (grapple +86) 
Heavy concussion missile battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5, 

4-square splash 


The 19-kilometer-long Super-class Star Destroyers were the largest class of 
ships built by the Empire. (Though a few larger mobile space stations, such as 
the two Death Stars, were also put into service, they were neither common 
enough to qualify as a class nor, properly speaking, starships.) Each was 
equipped to shatter the backbone of enemy fleets, smash planetary defenses, 
and land enough troops to control important population centers. The only 
possible weakness of the ships is their lack of point-defense weapons, leaving 
them potentially vulnerable to massed fighter attacks if they lack escorts. 
Some confusion exists about the official name of the Super Star Destroyer 
classes, much of it rooted in the idea that nothing 19 kilometers long qualifies 
as a mere "destroyer," super or not. This misunderstanding is based in the fact 
that the term Star Destroyer does not indicate a Destroyer-class vessel that 
happens to bea starship (unlike the terms star cruiser and star dreadnaught). 
A Star Destroyer is named after the idea of a ship that has the power needed 
to destroy entire star systems, an ominous naming convention that goes back 
to the days of the Old Republic. Any ship that follows the design basics of 
those early ships (including a combination of massive firepower and a dagger 
shape to focus that firepower forward) can be a class of Star Destroyer. For 
this reason, the term Star Destroyer is always capitalized, unlike star frigate 
or star cruiser. A typical Star Destroyer qualifies as a star cruiser, and a Super 
Star Destroyer qualifies as a star dreadnaught. 
Super Star Destroyers sometimes served as mobile repair bases, starfighter 
carriers, or communications ships (carrying dozens of HoloNet transceivers), 
but most served the standard Super Star Destroyer role of sector com- 
mand ship and mobile headquarters. Two Super Star Destroyers 
c that fit this model are the Executor (described below) and 
the Vengeance. The latter vessel served as the com- 
mand ship for the Dark Jedi named Jerec, and 
though visually distinctive it had the 
same specifications as other 
Super Star Destroyers. 


om piteert a ares Me 


cases were” Sa “= er 


ExXeCUTOR 

The Executor is Darth Vader's command ship, and the flagship of the Death 
Squadron. Built in secret at Fondor Shipyards, the Executor was designed 
as a terror weapon just as surely as the Death Star was. Although it lacked 
the Death Star's planet-destroying superweapon, the Executor became a 
harbinger of Imperial aggression and Darth Vader's personal attention to a 
problem. More than one Rebel force fled a mission as soon as the Executor 
arrived insystem, making the ship in practice a more successful tool of fear 
than the Death Star. 

The destruction of the Executor came at the Battle of Endor, when 
Admiral Ackbar had the entire firepower of the Rebel fleet directed at the 
Executor alone. Although that assault managed to breach the Executor's 
shields, the ship survived even that apocalypse in functional condition. It 
was not until an A-wing fighter smashed into the Executor's bridge that 
the ship lost functional control. It fell into the second Death Star and was 
destroyed on impact. 


Capabilities 
The mass of the Executor is an advantage in terms of the power of the shields 
it can carry and the weapons it can mount, but it's a drawback in terms of 


IE en Do tem a8 


sere Se Ee 


keeping the ship supplied. More than one hundred times as massive as an 
Imperial-class Star Destroyer, the Executor can hold far more resources than 
the Empire normally has available to fill it. The massive hangar of the ship can 
hold thousands of fighters and a not inconsiderable number of small capital 
ships, but such an arrangement is rarely advantageous. Standard practice 
sets the complement of the Executor at 144 TIEs of various types, 200 sup- 
port ships, three pregenerated garrisons, and hundreds of heavy walkers. In 
theory, the ship can carry many times that number of troops and vessels, 
but such resources are never available. 

Nor is it realistically necessary. The Executor always has at least few 
escort ships with it, giving it whatever ground support is required. In space 
battle, the Executor is unmatched by anything the Alliance can bring to 
bear short of a massed fleet, which the Rebels are unlikely to risk in conflict 
with Vader's ship. 

Tactical Fire: Super Star Destroyers of all kinds are exceptionally dan- 
gerous foes that can eradicate almost any enemy in mere moments. As a 
standard action, a Super Star Destroyer can forgo all attacks to provide tacti- 
cal fire to all squares in a 3-square radius around itself. All allied starships 
within that area gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and deal +1 die of damage 
ona successful attack. 


Al SSstavHg 


xegq@osD JAnsEevLs 


3 
“ 
, 


SEIGgO9D HHSYvLss 


LUSANKYA 

The Lusankya is the Executor's sister ship, with keel laid and final rivet 
finished at the same time as Vader's flagship. By having all expenses for the 
Lusankya attributed to construction of the Executor, the Empire kept the 
existence of the second Super Star Destroyer secret from the galaxy at large. 
The Lusankya was covered in a superframe of girders and electronics, then 
lowered onto Coruscant disguised as a massive planetary shield generator 
and its repulsorlift cradle. The fact that a Super Star Destroyer was at the 
heart of the "generator" was kept secret, allowing the Lusankya to serve as 
a secret prison facility. Exactly why the Emperor went to such great lengths 
to hide a Super Star Destroyer is unknown, though it's certainly possible that 
he intended the ship to serve as an emergency command vehicle, should his 
throne world ever come under siege. 

As events occurred, the Lusankya was used by intelligence officer Ysanne 
Isard to flee Coruscant after the Emperor's death. She built a command group 
around the ship and engaged in such gambits as the Bacta War. Eventually 
she was defeated and killed, and the Lusankya entered the service of the 
New Republic. For twenty years the ship acted as a medical research and 
quarantine ship, a research vessel, and the command ship of an extensively 
built-up Rogue Squadron. During the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, the Lusankya 
suffered extensive damage and was stripped of weapons and turned into a 
suicide weapon to destroy the largest Vong battle-operational worldship. 


Capabilities 

Though the Lusankya has fewer heavy weapons than a typical Super-class 
Star Destroyer, it uses the saved space for extensive personnel quarters. 
It needs less overall crew and has superior computers (an advantage of 
constantly receiving computer upgrades while hidden within Coruscant), 
but can carry more troops and thousands of prisoners. With the addition of 
point-defense lasers, the Lusankya is perfectly equipped to single-handedly 
smash through a planet's defenses and take command of its major cities. 
Unlike other Super Star Destroyers, which rely on support ships to some 
degree, the Lusankya is by itself enough to forge a new, if small, multiplanet 
government. 


Lusankya CL 36 
Colossal (station) space station 
Init -4; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 74; +17 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 3,000; DR 20; SR 350; Threshold 574 
Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged 15 heavy turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
25 turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
25 point-defense laser cannon batteries +15 (see below) and 
10 heavy ion cannon batteries +15* (see below) and 
8 tractor beam batteries +15* (see below) and 
10 heavy concussion missile batteries +15* (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +86 


Abilities Str 138, Dex 10, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 207,381 (skilled); Passengers 57,000 (troops), 115,000 (prisoners) 

Cargo 250,000 tons; Consumables 6 years; Carried Craft 72 starfighters, 
up to 1,000 other small craft 

Payload 10,000 heavy concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x8), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (—5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 11d10x5 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (—5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15, Dmg 7d10x2 
Heavy ion cannon battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (—5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 4d10x5 ion 
Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (—5 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +86) 
Heavy concussion missile battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (—5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5, 
4-square splash 


ECLIPSE 
The only two Eclipse-class ships to be built began construction at approxi- 
mately the same time as the destruction of the first Death Star, though 
their development was shrouded in so much secrecy that little else can be 
said about the process. The first of the line briefly fell into the hands of 
Tyber Zann, head of the criminal Zann Consortium, but the crime lord real- 
ized the Empire would never allow him to keep the ship (and would place 
his destruction above even that of the Rebel Alliance if he tried), and he 
abandoned it in space. 

Neither ship of the class was completed prior to the death of the Emperor. 
As the most powerful ships left in the known galaxy, they naturally served as 
focal points for efforts to prevent the Empire from collapsing, but ultimately 
both were destroyed before they could begin reconquering the galaxy. 


Capabilities 
At 17.5 kilometers in length, the Eclipse-class is shorter than the Super- 
class Star Destroyers, but it's a mistake to think of them as smaller. In fact, 
an Eclipse masses much more than any other Super Star Destroyer ever 
built, and uses much of the additional mass to carry a keel-mounted axial 
superlaser. The Eclipse-class axial superlaser is two-thirds as powerful as 
one of the component projectors of a Death Star superlaser, and thus lacks 
the power to destroy a planet-sized target. It can, however, smash through 
any conceivable shields and render a planet uninhabitable or destroy any 
lesser target. The weapon is difficult to aim, however, requiring the entire 
ship to be aligned to do so. As a result, the superlaser takes a -20 penalty 
on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal (cruiser). 

The fighting capacity of an Eclipse-class Super Star Destroyer is 
unmatched, and neither ship was destroyed by conventional forces. Had 


they not fallen to sabotage and trickery, it's not unreasonable to think the 
two massive ships might have rebuilt the Empire one system at a time, with 
or without supporting starships. 
Eclipse CL 50 
Colossal (station) space station 
Init -4; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 20 (flat-footed 20), Fort 182; +20 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 6,000; DR 20; SR 500; Threshold 682 
Speed fly 1 square (starship scale) 
Ranged superlaser +7** (see below) and 
25 heavy turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
25 turbolaser batteries +15* (see below) and 
25 point-defense laser cannon batteries +15 (see below) and 
15 heavy ion cannon batteries +15* (see below) and 
20 tractor beam batteries +15* (see below) and 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +194 
Abilities Str 354, Dex 10, Con —, Int 20 
Skills Initiative -4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -4, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 712,645 (skilled); Passengers 150,000 (troops) 
Cargo 600,000 tons; Consumables 10 years; Carried Craft 600 
starfighters, 96 fighter/bombers, various support craft 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x6), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal 
(cruiser) size. 


Superlaser (gunner) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal [cruiser]), 
Dmg 8d10x50 
Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 10d10x5 


Turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15, Dmg 6d10x2 
Heavy ion cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion 


Tractor beam battery (5 gunners) 
Atk +15 (-5 against targets smaller than Colossal), 
Dmg — (grapple +194) 


avn) 


Al Sa. 


d 
> 
0 
a) 
i 
U 
@ 
a 
O 
y 
% L 


seeo9 JIHSYVvLs 


SYSTEM PATROL 
CRAFT 


IPV-1 System Patrol Craft CL 13 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init +0; Senses Perception +5 


Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 12), Fort 36; +12 armor 

hp 660; DR 15; SR 165; Threshold 136 

Speed fly 4 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged point-defense light turbolasers +2 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +2* (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +46 


Abilities Str 63, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +0, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 12 (normal); Passengers 10 (troops or prisoners) 

Cargo 200 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft 2 shuttles 

Payload 24 medium concussion missiles 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
3,000,000 used) 

*Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Point-defense light turbolasers (gunner) 
Atk +2, Dmg 5d10x5 

Medium concussion missiles (gunner) 
Atk +2 (-18 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x2, 
4-square splash 


The IPV-1 is a typical system patrol craft, a starship designed to guard a single 
star system. Built by Sienar, the IPV-1 was originally designated the Indepen- 
dent Patrol Vehicle to represent its primary mission—operating independently 
in antipirate and antismuggling activities. After the rise of the Empire, it was 
designated an Imperial Patrol Vehicle, though little else changed. Ships of 
this type are also often called monitors or system frigates. 

Since a system with a serious problem is likely to have larger and more 
powerful fleets assigned to it, IPV-1s are used only to hold down essentially 
secure systems and rarely get the most promising recruits as crew. IPV-1 
crews also develop strong relationships with local officials and businessmen, 
since the IPV-1 has no hyperdrive and is normally assigned to the same system 


for years at a time. This situation leads to creeping laxity regarding military 
protocol, or even corruption and outright rebellion. An IPV-1 makes a perfect 
pirate ship if it can find a vessel able to carry it through hyperspace or can 
have a hyperdrive installed—a fact not lost on the crews of such ships. 


CAPABILITIES 

Though a capital ship, an IPV-1 isn't primarily designed to fight other capital 
ships. It's an antipirate vessel, focused on catching and destroying smaller 
ships, especially armed light freighters. An IPV-1 can take a considerable 
amount of damage for its size, but its short-range light turbolasers pose 
little threat to anything bigger than a frigate. As its crews are fond of saying, 
however, an IPV-1 can outrun anything it can't outfight. Lacking a hyperdrive 
of its own, an IPV-1 depends on powerful ion engines to get it into action 
before targets can escape into hyperspace. 

During the Galactic Civil War, numerous IPV-1s were used for missions 
far from their original design expectations. Before the development of the 
Lancer-class frigate, some Imperial commanders used spare IPV-1s as escort 
vessels, either carried inside a Star Destroyer or equipped with jury-rigged 
hyperdrives. 

Tactical Fire: As a standard action, an IPV-1 system patrol craft can forgo 
all attacks to provide tactical fire to all adjacent squares. All attacks made 
against enemy starships of Colossal size or smaller within that area score a 
critical hit on a natural 19 or 20 (though a natural 19 must still be able to 
hit the target's Reflex Defense, or else the attack misses). 


THETA-CLASS 
SHUTTLE 


Theta-class Shuttle CL 11 
Colossal space transport 
Init +5; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 825 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged quad laser cannon +4 (see below) and 
laser cannons +4 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +38 
Atk Options autofire (quad laser cannons) 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 5 (skilled); Passengers 16 
Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x15), navicomputer 
Availability Restricted; Cost 1,000,000 (210,000 without luxury 
upgrades) 


Quad laser cannon (gunner) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +4, Dmg 4d10x2 


Officially, the Theta-class is a "personnel transport" rather than a shuttle, 
a sign of how hard its manufacturer (Cygnus Spaceworks) works to prevent 
the Theta from being considered ordinary or pedestrian. The Theta-class 
was aimed squarely at the rich and important, and it quickly became the 
shuttle of choice among Old Republic (and later Galactic Empire) Senators. 
Its combination of speed, comfort, range, and safety made it a perfect choice 
for those of rank on Coruscant and elsewhere who needed to travel in both 
safety and style. The design elements that made the Theta such a success 
were mimicked in many later designs, including the Lambda-class shuttle. 


For those who can afford it, a luxury-upgraded Theta is perfect both 
for short trips with a dozen or so passengers, and for longer trips with a 
smaller complement. Some Thetas were converted to act as light freighters, 
especially after the Galactic Senate was disbanded and the Empire sold many 
Thetas at auction. Such vessels rarely have the appointments of an original 
Theta, however, and are too small to carry enough cargo to be economically 
viable in most cases. Some end up being repurchased by collectors of the 
original, classic design. 


CAPABILITIES 

Not much larger than a typical snub fighter, a Theta-class is designed to 
provide all the comforts of a luxury transport plus the fighting power of a 
military craft and the safety of a major space liner. A Theta is too small to 
survive against a capital ship, but it has a respectable chance against a small 
number of light attack craft or airspeeders. This fact is particularly remark- 
able when you consider the amount of space it takes to convey 21 people 
in luxurious comfort for a two-month trip. In fact, the quarters do become 
claustrophobic during anything longer than a day trip, but the knowledge 
that even a massive hyperdrive failure would not result in death by starvation 
was often important to Senators. 

A typical Senatorial shuttle includes an extreme luxury upgrade, a Holo- 
Net transceiver, a medical bed, and slave circuitry. Individual Senators and 
other wealthy owners often added their own modifications, including droid 
repair teams, sensor jammers, cargo jettison systems, and even smuggler's 
compartments. 


a) 


| 
I 


Al SStavHo 


SaGO9 JQIHSYUVLS 


Bae e 


Tit FiGHtTerR CAPABILITIES 


In order to save on production costs, the TIE/In lacks many of the features 
that are considered to be standard on other starfighters. The relatively fragile 
craft is not equipped with deflector shields, a hyperdrive, or a life support 
system. In order to survive the rigors of space when piloting their fighters, 
TIE pilots must don distinctive, fully sealed flight suits. Without the proper 


Sienar Fleet Systems TIE/In Fighter CL7 
Huge starfighter 
Init +8; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat supports or docking scaffolds, TIE fighters are also unable to land in any sort 
hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 32 of conventional manner. 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares Although the TIE's versatility is somewhat limited by these deficiencies, 
(starship scale) it does have several points in its favor. Its agility, combined with its small 
Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) size and speed, makes it a difficult target for all but the most talented or 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total well-trained gunners. TIE fighters, being inexpensive and easy to produce, are 
Base Atk +2; Grp +24 deployed in large quantities. Imperial starfighter tactics stress that enemies 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) must be overwhelmed by sheer force of numbers, and casualty rates among 
as Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 TIE pilots are much higher than average. 
| Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8 
ql Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none TIE BOMBER 
4 Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none Designated the TIE/sa, the TIE bomber is one of the few TIE craft that does 
TI Availability Military; Cost 60,000 (25,000 used) not incorporate its sister craft's distinctive hull shape. Instead, it employs a 
; | distinctive double hull design, with two cylindrical pods mounted side by side 
2 Laser cannons (pilot) between two bent solar array panels. The starboard pod houses the cockpit 
Ag Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 and flight controls, while the portside pod stores the bomber's payload. Rebel 


pilots commonly referred to TIE bombers as “dupes.” 
During the Battle of Hoth, these formidable bombers were tasked with 


The Empire, wanting to standardize its starfighter fleet with smaller ships, desnaying Webel transpuns tut were laqgely foiled by Allmes X-wings, 


ff selected ie Te we Rapist by peanuial of diapanate miadels Wat aed Following the Rebel evacuation of the icy planet, a squadron of TIE bombers 
rently in use. In time, and with continual upgrades to the design, the TIE/In , : a 
> " : . : ‘ : razed what little remained of Echo Base before joining in the search for the 
became the standard Imperial starfighter craft. It is relatively inexpensive ; : : ; . 
wv ‘ , 2 ‘ Millennium Falcon amid Hoth's asteroid belt. Several squadrons were also 
to produce, and though often maligned by both Imperial and Alliance pilots, é 5s ; ‘ : 
Fh Tes nasi nelenn effective used against Alliance capital ships during the Battle of Endor. 
7 Capabilities 
no) TIE bombers form the backbone of the Imperial Navy's strike capability. 
| 0) They are commonly deployed against enemy capital ships, space stations, 
| 0 and ground targets. They are able to employ heavy weapons, delivering 
| W payloads with uncanny precision. TIE bombers are most often equipped 
U% with a rack of sixteen medium concussion missiles. Two forward-mounted 


laser cannons, used primarily for strafing runs and self-defense, are also 
standard armament. 

Several other payload configurations are used, depending on specific 
mission parameters. Instead of missiles, as many as eight proton torpedoes 
can be loaded into the ship's ordnance pod. By decreasing the missile or 
torpedo payload by half, up to eight proton bombs or six orbital mines can 
also be deployed. When providing ground support, a TIE bomber is capable 
of carrying as many as 64 thermal detonators that are used to carpet-bomb 
enemy infantry formations. Nonconventional payloads include leaflets filled 


with demoralizing Imperial propaganda, as well as supply canisters for iso- 
lated Imperial infantry units. 


Sienar Fleet Systems TIE Bomber CL9 
Gargantuan starfighter 


Init +7; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26: +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 130; DR 10; Threshold 46 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 


Abilities Str 43, Dex 16, Con —, Int 17 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 15 tons (bomb bay); Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 16 medium concussion missiles 
Availability Military; Cost 150,000 (60,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 3d10x2 


Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


TIE INTERCEPTOR 
After the Battle of Yavin, Imperial Naval commanders demanded a starfighter 
that could counter the speed and firepower of the X-wing fighters that the 
Rebel Alliance had employed. The TIE interceptor, which incorporated several 
of the TIE advanced prototype's features, was the ultimate result. Prototypes 
similar to the initial interceptor design had undergone testing prior to the 
Battle of Yavin, but these had seen little action outside Sienar's test yards. 
It was only a short time later that the final TIE interceptor design was 
integrated into existing starfighter squadrons. The Imperial Navy's eventual 
plan was to replace all standard TIE fighters with TIE interceptors. This 
lofty goal was never quite met, with interceptors representing only twenty 
percent of all TIE fighters by the time the Battle of Endor took place. As the 
number of interceptors in the Imperial Navy increased, it became standard 
procedure to include at least one squadron of TIE/In starfighters aboard 
each Star Destroyer. 


Capabilities 

The TIE interceptor is a consummate dogfighter, possessed of increased speed 
and maneuverability when compared to the standard TIE fighter. Not only is 
the interceptor faster and more agile than the TIE fighter, it also incorporates 
four fire-linked laser cannons mounted on the tips of its bent, dagger-shaped 
solar arrays. The solar arrays themselves featured a horizontal notch that 
improves pilot visibility to both sides. Although it lacks shields, armor, and 
life support, the TIE interceptor has proven to be more than a match for the 
X-wing fighter. Interceptor tactics are nearly identical to those utilized by 
standard TIE fighters. 


LEGO JHIHSYVLS 


AL SeSLlavHg 


hi hh 


SIEgOH) HASHvVssSs 


AL VSaLavHo 


Sienar Fleet Systems TIE Interceptor CL 8 
Huge starfighter 


Init +11; Senses Perception +6 


Sienar Fleet Systems TIE Advanced x1 CL9 
Huge starfighter 


Init +9; Senses Perception +8 


Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 90; DR 10; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), fire-linked (laser cannons) 


Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 90; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 34 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged heavy blaster cannons +10 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +29 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster cannons) 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +11 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 75 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 120,000 (50,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


TIE ADVANCED 

The first TIE advanced prototype was built by Sienar Fleet Systems to 
Darth Vader's specifications. Only limited quantities of these starfighters 
were produced, due in large part to the fighter's excessive price tag. Those 
prototypes that did see use were instead assigned to elite squadrons and 
utilized to great effect during high-risk sorties against the Rebel Alliance. 
Vader himself flew the first prototype during the Battle of Yavin, taking the 
lives of many Rebel pilots in the process. 

Despite the fact that the TIE advanced was manufactured only in limited 
quantities, it can still be found in use many years after the collapse of the 
Empire. These fighters, rare as they are, occasionally turn up on the open 
market, or are found mothballed in abandoned Imperial caches throughout 
the Core. Lando Calrissian, for instance, utilized modified TIE advanced 
starfighters for sport in the Dubrillion asteroid belt. 


Capabilities 

The TIE advanced is much more robust than the standard TIE/In. This is 
due to a sturdier frame, which is visually obvious when one examines the 
fighter's thicker wing struts and elongated rear deck. Utilizing the same 
powerful drive system that would eventually propel the TIE interceptor, the 
TIE advanced was exceptionally swift for its size. Despite this, the larger 
mass of the fighter, further exacerbated by the presence of a hyperdrive and 
shield generators, meant that it was no faster and less maneuverable than 
an unmodified TIE fighter. 


Abilities Str 38, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 1 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 150 kg; Consumables 5 days; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x4, limited navicomputer (10-jump memory) 
Availability Military; Cost 160,000 (65,000 used) 


Heavy blaster cannons (pilot) 
Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


TIE DEFENDER 

Sienar Fleet Systems, under the direct supervision of Admiral Demetrius 
Zaarin, produced the TIE defender in complete secrecy shortly before the 
Battle of Endor. The defender's design was cutting-edge, and completely 
outside the scope of standard Imperial starfighter doctrine. Because of the 
project's secrecy, the upper-echelon Naval officers who had panned the 
TIE advanced project were never made aware of the TIE defender. Had such 
information been made available, it is doubtful that the defender would 
have seen the light of day. 

Because only a handful of defenders were produced, they did not see 
widespread use during the Galactic Civil War. Ironically, the TIE defender's 
first use in combat was against rogue naval elements commanded by Admiral 
Zaarin himself. In the end, the defender was instrumental in engineering 
Zaarin's ultimate defeat. At least one element of defenders from Onyx 
Squadron participated in the Battle of Endor, but they were too few to swing 
the battle in the Empire's favor. 


Capabilities 

The TIE defender deviates from standard Imperial starfighter design philoso- 
phy in a number of ways. Not only is it a heavily armed assault fighter, it is 
equipped with a hyperdrive, heavy deflector shields, and thick armor plating. 
Because of its durability and firepower, the defender is capable of facing 
Alliance starfighters, such as the X-wing and Y-wing, on their own terms. In 
addition to four fire-linked laser cannons, the defender comes equipped with 
a pair of medium ion cannons and the ability to fire proton torpedoes. 


The TIE defender is much faster than any other TIE variant. An array of 
maneuvering jets on each of the defender's three wing assemblies allows it 
to perform turns, dives, and complex acrobatic maneuvers with ease. It is 
also more than five times as expensive to produce as a standard TIE fighter. 
As a result, it is rarely deployed except in the most dire and unusual of 
circumstances. 

Sienar Fleet Systems TIE Defender CL 11 

Huge starfighter 

Init +15; Senses Perception +8 

Defense Ref 21 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 100; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,680 km/h), fly 8 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +10 (see below) or 

Ranged medium ion cannons +10 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +10 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +29 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons), fire-link (proton 
torpedoes) 

Abilities Str 39, Dex 28, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +15, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +15, 
Use Computer +8 


Crew 1 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x2, limited navicomputer (10-jump memory) 
Availability Military; Cost 200,000 (80,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Medium ion cannons (pilot) 

Atk +10 (+5 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +10, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


xeGO9 JHIMSUVLS 


Al SStdvHo 


Al SeSLlavHo 


EEE 


SaGgOo SNASevLs 


TRADE FEDERATION 
BATTLESHIP 


Hoersch-Kessel Drive Inc. Lucrehulk-class Battleship CL 18 


Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -3; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 54; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,800; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 254 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 5 turbolaser batteries +16* (see below) and 
5 heavy turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
5 point-defense quad laser cannon batteries +14 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +66 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense quad laser cannon battery) 


Abilities Str 98, Dex 13, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 150-300 (skilled); Passengers 100,000+ 

Cargo 5 million tons; Consumables 1.5 years; Carried Craft 1,500 droid 
fighters (any variant), 6,250 AATs, 1,500 troop carriers, various support 
vehicles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

*Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 


Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Point-defense quad laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


The mainstay of the Trade Federation space fleet, the Lucrehulk-class battle- 
ship is a dangerous and heavily armed vessel that can be a threat to any ship 
that gets too close. These battleships come in two varieties: normal battle- 
ships, and Droid Control Ships. The Droid Control Ships are far more rare, and 
usually were nestled behind a defensive screen where they could organize the 
droid starfighters and ground troops accordingly. Each Droid Control Ship 
houses massive command and control computers which broadcast control 
signals to all nearby droid troops and starfighters, coordinating their actions 
and issuing commands. Without the Droid Control Ships the droid members 
of the Confederacy could not function. 

Originally designed as freighters but retrofitted with weapons, the 
Lucrehulk-class battleship was further upgraded at the start of the Clone 
Wars to be a more formidable combat vessel in comparison to the Republic 
space fleet. Since the ships are usually not engaged in direct combat with 
enemy starships, the Droid Control Ships were given a lower priority than 
other Lucrehulk-class battleships, and as such retain the same armament 
that they had around the time of the Battle of Naboo. 


CAPABILITIES 

Trade Federation battleships operate much like any other capital ship. They 
use turbolasers and heavy laser cannons to pound opposing capital ships 
into submission, while the point-defense quad lasers remain effective against 
starfighter assaults. Since the Lucrehulk-class battleships are converted 
freighters they carry no special systems designed specifically for combat, 
and have a number of design flaws that make them vulnerable to attack. 
These ships have extremely volatile reactors positioned near the cargo bays, 
and (as at least one Droid Control Ship at the Battle of Naboo discovered) 
an attack from within a cargo bay can destroy an entire ship. 


Tactical Fire: Though their droid gunners are less capable of adaptation 
than living gunners, Trade Federation battleships can spray an enormous 
volume of laser fire into its immediate area, making it difficult for starfighters 
and space transports to approach. As a standard action, a Trade Federation 
battleship (or Core Ship) can forgo all attacks to provide tactical fire to all 
squares in a 2-square radius around itself. All enemy starships of Colossal 
size and smaller within that area take a -1 penalty to Reflex Defense and a 
-1 penalty on attack rolls. 


Hoersch-Kessel Drive Inc. 
Lucrehulk-class Droid Control Ship 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -3; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 54; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,800; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 254 


CL 18 


Though Core Ships are tough, they can be brought down more easily 
than when attached to the cargo ring. Slow and lacking maneuverability, 
Core Ships are not the ideal landing craft; they are typically deployed to a 
planet only when the ship's operators believe that a long-term occupation 
is called for. Core Ships serve as mobile ground fortresses, carrying within 
them a large number of droid troops that can be deployed quickly. For more 
rapid (or more temporary) invasions, the Trade Federation continues to use 
normal landing craft and troop carriers, since a Core Ship on the ground is 
far more vulnerable than one in space. 

Hoersch-Kessel Drive Inc. Lucrehulk-class Core Ship CL 17 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 

Init -3; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 52; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,500; DR 20; SR 130; Threshold 252 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 7 quad turbolaser batteries +16* (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +66 

Abilities Str 98, Dex 13, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 150-300 (skilled); Passengers 150,000+ 

Cargo 4.3 million tons; Consumables 1.5 years; Carried Craft 1,500 droid 
fighters (any variant), 6,250 AATs, 1,500 troop carriers, various support 
vehicles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Quad turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 
Atk +16 (—4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 7d10x5 


THE CORE SHIP 

The Lucrehulk-class battleship is unique among capital ships in that it can 
separate into two sections. The spherical central section of the starship can 
detach from the cargo arms, descend to land on a planet, and act as a mobile 
command center. When detached from the cargo arms, this spherical vessel 
is known as a Core Ship. Additionally, while operating independently, a Core 
Ship has a slightly different armament than it makes use of while attached 
to the rest of the vessel, revealing several weapon systems that normally do 
not have an open firing arc when surrounded by the cargo ring. 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged turbolaser battery +16* (see below) and 
2 heavy turbolaser batteries +14* (see below) and 
2 point-defense quad lasers +14 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +64 
Atk Options autofire (point-defense quad laser cannon battery) 


Abilities Str 94, Dex 13, Con -, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 150-300 (skilled); Passengers 30,000 droid troops 

Cargo 75,000 kg; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 10 shuttles 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (6 gunners) 

Atk +16 (-4 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5 
Heavy turbolaser battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (-6 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Point-defense quad laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +14 (+9 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


0 

= 

> 

v 

4 
oO) 
Dies 
< 


REGS SIMSUVLS 


) 


VENATOR-CLASS 
STAR DESTROYER 


Venator-class Star Destroyer CL 19 


Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -3; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 52; +13 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 1,590; DR 20; SR 200; Threshold 252 


Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 2 heavy turbolaser batteries +11* (see below) and 
2 medium double turbolasers +5* (see below) and 
4 point-defense laser cannon batteries +13 (see below) and 
2 tractor beam batteries +9* (see below) and 
4 proton torpedoes +5* (see below) and 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 (ships in 
flight deck when plates open) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +64 


Abilities Str 95, Dex 12, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 7,400 (skilled); Passengers 2,000 (troops) 

Cargo 20,000 tons; Consumables 2 years; Carried Craft 192 V-wing or 
V-19 Torrents, 192 Eta-2s, 36 ARC-170s, 40 heavy airspeeders, 24 
heavy walkers, various support craft 

Payload 64 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (black market value 
50,000,000 used) 


“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Heavy turbolaser battery (4 gunners) 

Atk +11 (-9 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5 
Medium double turbolasers (gunner) 

Atk +5 (-15 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 
Point-defense laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +13, Dmg 4d10x2 


Tractor beam battery (3 gunners) 
Atk +9 (-11 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 
— (grapple +64) 
Proton torpedoes (gunner) 
Atk +5 (-15 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 9d10x2, 
4-square splash 


The Venator-class Star Destroyer was the brainchild of designer Lire Blissex, 
who created it to serve as a multipurpose warship during the Clone Wars. Also 
called a Republic attack cruiser, the ship was very successful as an escort and 
a battle-group leader and often served as a flagship for Jedi commanders. 

An able warship and among the most dangerous ships of its era, eventually 
the Venator serves best as part of a massive fleet, acting as both a primary 
fighting ship and a starfighter carrier while supporting numerous more spe- 
cialized capital ships. By itself, or as part of a group with smaller ships, the 
Venator lacks the ability to carry out long-range missions. Its relatively small 
capacity for supplies, coupled with its need for constant influx of dozens 
of new fighters and fighter parts, forces a Venator to either stay near Core 
worlds or support a long supply line of large freighters. 


CAPABILITIES 

Intended to be in the thick of the fighting beside its own starfighter comple- 
ment, the Venator carries several point-defense laser cannon batteries. These 
are thickest around its massive flight deck, to ensure that enough firepower 
exists to prevent enemy fighters from entering the ship. 

To allow its hundreds of fighters to quickly launch and be recovered, a 
Venator has a dorsal flight deck with sliding armored doors. When a Venator's 
dorsal flight deck is opened, the ship's armor bonus is reduced by 2 (Reflex 
Defense 11, 10 flat-footed). After too many ships of the class were lost to 
hits into the open flight deck, the feature was abandoned for future Star 
Destroyer designs. 

Tactical Fire: A Venator-class Star Destroyer is an excellent starfighter 
carrier capable of operating close to the action and supporting its fighter 
corps. As a standard action, a Venator-class Star Destroyer can forgo all 
attacks to provide tactical fire to all squares in a 2-square radius around 
itself. All allied starships of Gargantuan size or smaller within that area gain 
a +2 bonus on attack rolls and increase their damage dice by one step (for 
example, from 4d10x2 to 4d12x2). 


V-19 TORRENT 
STARFIGHTER 


V-19 Torrent Starfighter CL9 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 100; DR 10; Threshold 44 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +31 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), fire-link (medium concussion 
missiles) 

Abilities Str 39, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 

Payload 6 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1 or x1 with booster ring, limited navicomputer (2-jump 
memory) 

Availability Military; Cost 135,000 (70,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


The V-19 Torrent starfighter came into prominence at the beginning of the 
Clone Wars and was the favorite ship of the Galactic Republic during the 
early days of the conflict. Though the V-wing starfighter and the ARC-170 
fighter would later replace it, the V-19 Torrent served as a fast and agile 
fighter that was critical to the Republic's victory at the Battle of Muunilinst. 
The V-19 Torrent is a capable ship that draws a great deal of inspiration from 
folding-wing designs, such as those that would later be implemented in the 
Theta- and Lambda-class shuttles. 

V-19 prototypes saw their first use at the Battle of Geonosis, and were 
quickly rushed into production after that success. Though these ships were 


rarely seen in the first days of the Clone Wars, by the midpoint of the war 
they were serving the Republic on nearly every front. Early models of the 
V-19 Torrent did not boast hyperdrives (instead using TransGalMeg booster 
rings), but a retrofit later in the war saw hyperdrives installed in almost all 
of the remaining fighters. 


CAPABILITIES 

The V-19 starfighter is a moderately durable space superiority fighter that, 
while lacking shields, can take a few shots before succumbing to attrition. 
The starfighter has a tough hull that allows it to last a bit longer than some 
future starfighters (such as the TIE fighter) and is maneuverable enough to 
be able to avoid taking too much damage. Though the Torrent is nowhere near 
as capable of absorbing weapons fire as a shielded starfighter, the number 
of V-19 Torrents deployed often outweighs the losses suffered. The V-19 
embodies the first steps toward the philosophy of lightly armored fighters 
in massive quantities that would form the core of Imperial starfighter design 
throughout the reign of the Empire. 

Additionally, the V-19 Torrent is more than adequately armed, and actu- 
ally boasts armament superior to that of other contemporary ships. A pair 
of concussion missile launchers backs up the ship's powerful laser cannons, 
providing a diverse weapons platform from which the Torrent can launch a 
variable assault. Despite their lack of shielding, V-19 Torrents can serve as 
adequate front-line fighters, especially when supported by capital starships 
or other starfighter squadrons. 


; 


Al HSatdgvHo z 


xt) HNASUvLs | 


Al BeSatLoVvVHS 


SAIGOH) HQIHSHvLs 


V-WING STARFIGHTER 


Kuat Systems Engineering 

Alpha-3 Nimbus V-wing Starfighter 
Huge starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 


CL8 


Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23; +3 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 80; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 33 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,450 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged light laser cannons +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +25 

Atk Options autofire (light laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 36, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 (+13°*) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 60 kg; Consumables 15 hours; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1 (with booster ring), 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Military; Cost 102,500 (45,000 used) 


Light laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 


Designed to act as a short-range fighter in the waning days of the Clone 
Wars, the Alpha-3 Nimbus V-wing is a solidly built starfighter that remains in 
service throughout the Galactic Civil War. Engineered by Walex Blissex for use 
by the Galactic Republic, the V-wing starfighter boasts light armament and 
some shielding but leaves heavy assault missions to other starfighters. Unlike 
the TIE fighter, which would replace the V-wing as the Empire's starfighter of 
choice early on, the V-wing makes use of an astromech droid for repairs and 
pilot assistance. Despite the astromech’'s presence, the V-wing starfighter is 
not, on its own, hyperspace-capable and must rely on a hyperdrive booster 
ring to travel at faster-than-light speeds. 


CAPABILITIES 

Though less durable and more lightly armed than other craft of its time, the 
V-wing starfighter is among the fastest ships in the galaxy and remains so 
for years to come. Not quite as agile as its successor craft, the V-wing makes 
an excellent pursuit fighter capable to catching up to slower starships and 
running them down. Similarly, V-wings are often used in hit-and-run mis- 
sions where getting past the enemy's defenses is a matter of speed; in many 
ways, the V-wing serves as the inspiration for the Rebel Alliance's guerrilla 
tactics, since some veterans of the Clone Wars will go on to serve under the 
Alliance banner during the Galactic Civil War. 

The V-wing starfighter also makes an excellent escort fighter. Requiring 
only a single pilot and capable of running circles around almost any space 
transport, the V-wing can race ahead to engage any threats while still being 
quick enough to return and protect the transport if trouble arises. Though 
weaker than many escort fighters, the V-wing can usually create enough of 
a diversion for its charge to escape or delay an attack until reinforcements 
can arrive. Additionally, since the V-wing doesn't usually have hyperdrive 
capability, the ship must be launched from a larger vessel (such as a Star 
Destroyer), and as such is usually limited to missions within the same star 
system or to escorting shuttlecraft launched from a capital ship. 


<-83 TWINTAIL 
STARFIGHTER 


X-83 TwinTail Starfighter CL 12 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 20 (flat-footed 13), Fort 29; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 170; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 49 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +36 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 48, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6 (+3*), Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 (+13*) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 6 days; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x1, navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 160,000 (75,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 8d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +7, Dmg 10d10x2, 4-square splash 


The X-83 Twintail starfighter is the Incom Corporation's eventual successor 
to the wildly popular X-wing series. Frequently used by the Jedi in the years 
before the rise of Darth Krayt, the X-83 is a sturdy and agile fighter that 
can take a beating and continue to fight. Built upon many of the same basic 
principles that made the X-wing so popular, the TwinTail fighter relies on its 
durability as much as its firepower, and it makes an excellent choice for a 
well-balanced fighter that can fulfill a number of roles. 

X-83 Twinlail starfighters also have a reputation for being a bit quirky, 
since their astromech droids are hardwired into the ship and can eventually 


develop a personality as all droids do. Unless its droid receives regular memory 
wipes, a ship can develop idiosyncrasies as the droid exerts more control 
over its computer systems. Some X-83 pilots allow their ships to develop 
personalities in this manner, believing it makes the ship respond better when 
the droid can anticipate the pilot's actions. 


CAPABILITIES 
The strength of the TwinTail lies in its balance between durability and 
firepower. The X-83 TwinTail has shields comparable in strength to some 
transports and light frigates, while it boasts a stronger hull than most 
shuttlecraft. Small, dense, and tough, the Twintail can take a beating, and its 
shields can absorb a large amount of damage before they fail, making these 
fighters exceptionally good choices for front-line combat. Some squadrons 
of TwinTails are used to absorbing the brunt of the initial damage from 
opposing forces and soaking up attacks so that more delicate fighters can 
move through a defensive screen unscathed. 

Though the TwinTail has a reputation for durability, its weapon systems 
are also second to none. Its laser cannons combine to produce a high-yield 
energy output that can devastate any target put before them. A single Twin- 
Tail ship is more than a match for most fighters one-on-one, and even when 
outmatched it can usually take down most of the opposing forces before 
succumbing to their assault. 


Al SeSatadvHo9 


xEGOO JHIHSYUVLS 


2 or tS 


Salo} S)) HASHvL 


Al HStavHa 


x<-WING 

Incom T-65B X-wing Starfighter CL 10 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +7; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), fire-link (proton torpedoes) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6 (+3*), Pilot +7, 
Use Computer +6 (+13*) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Military; Cost 150,000 (65,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Proton torpedoes (pilot) 
Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


The X-wing was designed following the formation of the Empire. Incom 
Corporation, suspected by the Empire of harboring Rebel sympathizers, 
was forced to halt production of non-Navy combat craft during an Imperial 
Security Bureau investigation into allegations of treason within the company. 
Members of the X-wing design team were placed under arrest while they were 
interrogated by Imperial agents. As the Imperial investigation intensified, a 
group of Rebel commandos infiltrated the facility and rescued the X-wing's 
senior design team, taking all T-65 plans and prototypes with them. 

Following the acquisition of the X-wing's schematics, the Alliance began 
to produce and test small numbers of the new starfighter. Most of the initial 
trials were done under combat conditions. With its efficacy proven beyond 
a doubt, Rebel factories ramped up production of the T-65B. The craft soon 
became a favorite of Rebel fighter pilots, and it has been a staple of Rebel 
strategy ever since. 


CAPABILITIES 

The T-65B is an excellent all-around starfighter, capable of filling a number 
of roles with little or no modification. Not only is it maneuverable and easy 
to fly, it is equipped with modest shields, heavy weaponry, and an integrated 
hyperdrive. It is also a durable craft, capable of sustaining heavy damage 
while remaining operational. Were it not for this inherent sturdiness of design, 
the Rebel Alliance could never hope to match the sheer number of Imperial 
fighters that are thrown against it. 

Each X-wing is equipped with a socket that is capable of carrying an 
astromech droid. The astromech droid is an integral component of the X-wing, 
and only adds to the starfighter's versatility. Not only can the diminutive 
droid see to minor repairs, it also uses its systems to help compute and store 
hyperspace coordinates. 


T-65XUI3 

The T-65XJ3 was developed as an offshoot of the T-65XJ during the Yuuzhan 
Vong invasion. The starfighter's design implemented a number of technical 
changes that were designed to give it an edge against the bizarre technology 
utilized by the Yuuzhan Vong. As such, it represents the pinnacle of starship 
design, and it is a favorite of Jedi starfighter pilots. 


Capabilities 

Compared to the earlier T-65XJ, the XJ3 incorporated increased shield 
capacity, backup shield generators, more efficient fire control, and improved 
maneuverability. The backup shield generators allow a pilot to recharge his 
shields at twice the normal rate, increasing the current shield rating by 10 
points, up to the XJ3's normal maximum of 30. 

The starfighter's weaponry has likewise been upgraded, including wing- 
mounted heavy laser cannons and three proton torpedo tubes armed with 
four heavy proton torpedoes apiece. Further, the laser cannons are “stut- 
ter-fire" capable, allowing them to bypass the dovin basal defenses used by 
Yuuzhan Vong vessels. A Yuuzhan Vong ship's dovin basals provide only half 
shield rating when defending against stutter-fire lasers. 
Incom T-65XJ3 X-wing Starfighter CL 11 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +9; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 21 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 150; DR 10; SR 30; Threshold 48 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 4 squares 

(starship scale) 

Ranged heavy laser cannons +8 (see below) or 
Ranged proton torpedoes +8 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 

(astromech droid) 


Base Atk +2; Grp +35 

Atk Options autofire (heavy laser cannons), fire-link (proton torpedoes) 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 26, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6 (+3%), Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +6 (+13*) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 35 kg; Consumables 3 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 12 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 

Availability Military; Cost 315,000 (220,000 used) 


Heavy laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +8 (+3 autofire), Dmg 7d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +8, Dmg 10d10x2, 4-square splash 


T-65B8BR 

Incom's T-65BR, commonly referred to as the Recon X-wing, was originally 
developed as an attempt to replace the venerable Y-wing Longprobe. Despite 
these initial intentions, Longprobes were never completely put out to pasture 
by the introduction of the T-65BR. Although it is widely accepted that the 
T-65BR is an excellent reconnaissance craft, it is by no means inexpensive to 
produce. This situation has led to the New Republic's doctrine of “Improve and 
Replace,” whereby older X-wings that are already in service are overhauled 
and converted into recon craft with similar, if not identical, capabilities. 


Capabilities 

A T-65BR with sensors active shows up like a beacon on even the weakest 
interstellar detection equipment. These sensors, when paired with the T- 
65BR's high-speed hypertransceiver, allow the pilot to transmit sensor data 
to base in real time. These sensors provide a +10 equipment bonus on Use 
Computer checks to operate sensors, but impose a -10 penalty on Stealth 
checks to hide the ship. 

The ship's pilot is paired with an astromech droid that can take control of 
the ship should the pilot require rest. Given the sensitive nature of the ship's 
onboard systems, it is the pilot's obligation to prevent his craft from falling 
into enemy hands. This is accomplished through the use of a self-destruct 
switch. When activated, the switch simultaneously erases all onboard com- 
puter memory, detonates a shaped charge that destroys the ship's astromech 
droid, and injects the pilot with a lethal toxin. A dead man's switch, tied to 
the pilot's vital signs, then detonates a large baradium charge, effectively 
destroying whatever remains. 


Incom T-65BR X-wing Starfighter CL9 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +7; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 46 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +33 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +7 (+9*), Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6 (+3%), 
Pilot +7 (+9*), Use Computer +6 (+13*) 

*/f the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Military; Cost 150,000 (95,000 used) 


Al SaitagvHo 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


xaGoS HMSUVLS Uy 


S8GOe9 HIHSYUvL.s 


YT-SERIES 
TRANSPORTS 


Corellian YT-1300 Transport CL6 

Colossal space transport 

Init -5; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 

hp 120; DR 15; Threshold 76 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12X12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +36 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 6 

Cargo 100 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 100,000 (25,000 used) 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +2, Dmg 4d10x2 


The YT series is a popular line of light freighters built by the Corellian Engi- 
neering Corporation that includes the YT-1300, the model of vessel that 
includes the Millennium Falcon. The first YT freighters were built during 
the height of the Old Republic, and new models continue to be produced in 
every era since. The core design of the YT series is built around two basic 
components—a disc-shaped main body and a large external cockpit area 
with extensive windows. Although some models moved away from these 
core design elements, they would return in later designs. Indeed, CEC made 
a point of reusing as many of the same parts as possible between designs, 
which had the advantage of allowing many different YT lines to be produced 
at one time without retooling the CEC shipyards. As a side effect, this helped 
make all YT ships extremely modular and easily modified, a fact that went 
far to explain the line's ongoing popularity with independent traders, smug- 
glers, and pirates. 

By far the most successful YT designers are the YT-1300 (found in the 
Saga Edition core rulebook), YT-2000, and YT-2400. However, all YT ships 
have at least small dedicated followings and in some cases are the subject 


of collector's clubs and vintage ship shows. Further, because the YT ships 
are so easily modified, it's not always easily to tell what stock ship is at the 
core of a particular customized YT vessel. 


CAPABILITIES 

All YT-series ships are solid light freighters, renowned for being sturdy and 
reliable. Their greatest asset is their easily modified nature. With less effort 
than for nearly any other ship line, a YT-series vessel can be fine-tuned to 
act as a smuggler, bulk hauler, luxury transport, or even a gunship or patrol 
craft. Every YT-series ship has 10 unused emplacement points as a stock 
ship (see page 38 for more information on emplacement points), and new 
captains are quick to use them to add more guns, better shields, or whatever 
else their minds can conjure up. This adaptability is intentional, and has often 
led to authorities claiming that CEC designs the ships for use by smugglers 
and pirates. The CEC points out that thousands of YT ships are being used 
by law-abiding free traders and small companies. Of course, how many of 
those “law-abiding” customers are actually smugglers or spies is unknown 
and, more important, not provable in court. 


YT-Z2Z000 

The YT-2000 was designed to be a straight improvement of the YT-1300, 
borrowing successful concepts from other YT designs as well (such as the YT- 
1930's symmetrical layout). Because it was produced in a more turbulent era, 
the YT-2000 boasted heavier standard shields and weapons than most civilian 
freighters, a fact that caused many Imperial officials to view its “civilian” 
market with suspicion. Extensive corporate espionage leaked the early design 


specifications to competing shipyards, leading to CEC putting the YT-2000 
into production before all its potential drawbacks had been worked out. As a 
result, the ship is somewhat touchier than most of the extremely reliable YT 
designs (a character making a Mechanics check to modify or repair a YT-2000 
takes a -2 penalty). However, its extensive cargo capacity, good defenses, 
and amazing maneuverability for a ship its size, coupled with plenty of spare 
space and power to make custom modifications, catapulted the YT-2000 in 
popularity among its owners. The line was discontinued early not because of 
poor sales, but so CEC could push the new YT-2400 design, which had not 
been compromised by espionage or rushed design work. 


Corellian YT-2000 

Colossal space transport 

Init -2; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 27; +15 armor 

hp 180; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 77 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 2 double laser cannons +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +37 

Atk Options autofire (double laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 44, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot + -2, 
Use Computer +5 


CL8 


Crew 4 (normal); Passengers 7 

Cargo 115 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 150,000 (45,000 used) 


Double laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +2 (-3 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


YT-2400 

The YT-2400 is CEC’s bid to produce a “perfect” light freighter. An upgrade 
of the YT-2000 design, it incorporates everything learned during the run of 
the long and successful YT line. Though it uses many of the same technology 
upgrades as the short-run YT-2000, the YT-2400 returned to the off-center 
cockpit arrangement. Though for both smaller and larger craft a center- 
mounted cockpit makes sense, it turned out that many pilots preferred an 
offset cockpit so they could easily dock their ships with the cockpit side 
directly against a wall or similar obstruction. 

Though the YT-2400 isn't as sturdy as the YT-2000, it has thirty percent 
more cargo capacity, an escape pod built into the cockpit section (+5 to 
Acrobatics checks to enter the escape pod from the cockpit if the YT-2400 
is destroyed), and better maneuverability. Since most owners end up adding 
additional weapons and defenses after purchase anyway, the slightly reduced 
martial capability of the YT-2400 does little to discourage sales. 

Among the most well-known YT-2400s is the Outrider, the ship of smug- 
gler and mercenary Dash Rendar. 


AL SSi.avHo 


REGO HHSYUVL 


D 


aa DIHSUVLS 


Corellian YT-2400 CL 10 

Colossal space transport 

Init -1; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 15), Fort 27; +15 armor 

hp 120; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 77 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12X12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +37 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot + -1, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 3 (normal); Passengers 6 

Cargo 150 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 130,000 (32,000 used) 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +2, Dmg 5d10x2 


MILLENNIUM FALCON 

The Millennium Falcon is among the most famous starships in the galaxy. 
Originally a stock YT-1300, it's not clear how many hands and technicians 
the vessel went through before it came to the possession of Lando Calris- 
sian. Though cobbled together from different ships, the Falcon is proof that 
the whole is often more than the sum of its parts. It is often flown under 
false registration, and has been identified at the Argos, Sunlight Franchise, 
Longshot, and Shadow Bird, among other aliases. 

It served Lando Calrissian, Han Solo, and Princess Leia and was at vari- 
ous points piloted by any number of copilots and allies. (For this reason, the 
statistics given here assume a “typical” crew of ace smugglers; if the ship 
is encountered with Lando, Han Solo, or Chewbacca flying it, their abilities 
may be used rather than those of a generic crew.) 


Capabilities 
The Millennium Falcon is a fast, agile ship able to take and dish out consider- 
ably more damage than its appearance would suggest. Any other description 
of its abilities is a generalization and guess, because the ship is constantly 
modified, upgraded, damaged, jury-rigged, and redesigned. The configura- 
tion given here is typical, and a good representation of the ship's status as 
of the Battle of Yavin. At this time it has smuggler's compartments, a cargo 
jettison system, a medical bed, a docking clamp, a hypertransceiver, and a 
sensor array computer (+2, included in statistics). 
Millennium Falcon CL 12 
Colossal” space transport 
Init +6; Senses Perception +12 
Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 14), Fort 26; +14 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 180; DR 15; SR 45; Threshold 76 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 6 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged 2 quad laser cannons +13 (see below) and 
medium concussion missiles +15 (see below) and 
docking gun (blaster cannon) +15 (see below) 
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +10; Grp +56 
Atk Options autofire (quad laser cannons), fire-link (medium concussion 
missiles) 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +12 


Crew 4 (ace); Passengers 6 

Cargo 100 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none 

Payload 8 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x.5 (backup x10), navicomputer 

Availability Unique; Cost not available for sale 

*This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purposes of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using starship 
maneuvers. 


Quad laser cannon (gunner) 

Atk +13 (+8 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +15, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 
Docking gun (blaster cannon) (pilot) 

Atk +15, Dmg 3d12, character scale only 


Corellian Engineering 
Corporation 


YT-I300 Stock 
Light Transport 


(Freight Configuration) 


Al SSlLdavHg 


Ga -Geaoeey- aay 


Boarding Ramps 
Docking Rings 
Main Corridor 
Observation Deck 
Cockpit Access Corridor 
Cockpit 

Main Hold 

Circuitry Bay 

Refresher 

10 Freight Loading Room 

ll Cargo Holds 

{2 Engineering Bay 


SaGgE9D HIASHvss 


cco™mocn & wn 


{ 


Al eaLavno 


x<SGI@S)) HASUVLS 


Y-WING 


Koensayr BTL-S3 Y-wing CL 10 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +5; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 46 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
ion cannons +5 (see below) or 
Ranged proton torpedoes +7 (see below) and 
ion cannons +5 (see below) 
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +33 
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons), fire-link (proton 
torpedoes) 
Abilities Str 42, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6 (+13*) 
“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 2 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Military; Cost 135,000 (60,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
lon cannons (gunner) 

Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 
Proton torpedoes (gunner) 

Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


Built by Koensayr Manufacturing, the Y-wing was designed to be used in 
the Clone Wars, but wasn't in production until after that conflict ended. 
Having already spent the money to retool shipyards to produce the ships, 
and unable to interest the Empire in the design, Koensayr began selling the 
ships to anyone who had credits to spare. Officially all such purchases were 
to legitimate planetary or business concerns, but Koensayr was happy to 


look the other way if a Hutt or a Rebel managed to produce even halfway 
realistic documents supporting a sale. 

As a result, the Y-wing fighter, lovingly called the "wishbone" by Rebel 
Alliance pilots, was the workhorse and backbone of the early Rebellion. As 
the X-wing became increasingly available to the Rebellion, Y-wings became 
second-line starfighters used only because so many were available. Plans to 
decommission all Y-wings are periodically drawn up, but some of the ships 
continue to serve through the Yuuzhan Vong invasion and the conflicts 
that follow it. 


CAPABILITIES 

Although not as swift as an X-wing or as powerful as a B-wing, the Y-wing 
was a sturdy, well-shielded craft with a powerful attack in the form of two 
ion cannons and proton torpedo tubes. Ungainly for a snubfighter, the Y-wing 
served as a joint fighter/bomber, able to both enter dogfights with TIE fight- 
ers and take out armored targets, such as enemy freighters and planetary 
bunkers. Few ships its size mounted ion cannons, and the success of the 
Y-wing is one reason that the B-wing was similarly armed. 


Y-WING LONGPROBE 

The “Longprobe" variant of the Y-wing is a scouting vessel. It replaces a 
gunner with additional supplies and fuel, a navicomputer, a backup hyper- 
drive, and a sensor enhancement package. This is hardly enough to turn it into 
a dedicated long-range scout, though it can do a better job at that task than 
a typical starfighter. One side effect of this alteration is that Longprobes are 
unusually well armed for a scout, making them more likely to get home to 


report their limited intelligence, and occasionally allowing the Longprobe pilot 
to blow up some valuable target uncovered during a scouting mission. 

Even so, very few Longprobes were sent out on their own. Because of their 
high availability, such jury-rigged scouts were generally sent out in groups 
of six to twelve fighters, called recon teams. Although a single Longprobe 
wasn't a particularly effective scout ship, a group of these fighters could 
scour a fairly large area of space in a reasonable time frame. Longprobe 
pilots actually took great pride in doing good jobs despite their secondhand 
equipment. 


Koensayr BTL-A4 LP "Longprobe" CL 10 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +5; Senses Perception +11 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 46 


Y-WING COURIER 
The Y-wing Courier is another example of what happens when technicians 
have lots of ships of one type, but are told to produce ships of another. 

By gutting the ion cannons, the Courier added room for several additional 
passengers, extra fuel and supplies, and a backup hyperdrive. The main 
cockpit was also modified to have its canopy split and fold open, allowing 
all aboard to get on or off simultaneously. The cockpit was also designed to 
eject from the rest of the starfighter to serve as an escape pod (no Acrobatics 
check required to enter). 


Koensayr BTL-S3 "Courier" CL8 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +4; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 
hp 120; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 46 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +9 (see below) or 

Ranged ion cannons +9 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +9 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons), fire-link (proton 
torpedoes) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 18, Con —, Int 20 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +11, Pilot +5, 
Use Computer +6/+11 to operate sensors (+13/+18 to operate 
sensors*) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 220 kg; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1 (x12 backup), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost 185,000 (90,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
lon cannons (pilot) 

Atk +9 (+4 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion 
Proton torpedoes (pilot) 

Atk +9, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) and 
proton torpedoes +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5 
(astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), fire-link (proton torpedoes) 


Abilities Str 42, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +6 (+13*) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Crew 2 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers 3 

Cargo 800 kg; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Payload 4 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1 (x12 backup), 10-jump memory (astromech droid) 
Availability Military; Cost 210,000 (90,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (gunner) 

Atk +5, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


Al BSLaAavHo 


xEGO9 DIMSUVLS 


| 


mara 
saqgeg SAIASSVLS 


Z-95 HEADHUNTER 


Incom/Subpro Z-95 Headhunter CL9 

Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +3; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 120; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 46 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged triple light blaster cannons +5 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missiles +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +33 

Atk Options autofire (triple light blaster cannons), fire-link (medium 
concussion missiles) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 85 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Payload 6 medium concussion missiles 

Availability Restricted; Cost 80,000 (45,000 used) 


Triple light blaster cannons (pilot) 

Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 
Medium concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +5, Dmg 7d10x2, 4-square splash 


The Z-95 Headhunter is a venerable starfighter design that still sees use 
throughout the galaxy. Even though it is no longer produced, either by 
Incom Industries or Subpro Corporation, unlicensed copies and variants can 
be found throughout the Outer Rim territories. Without taking into account 
the number of knock-offs in circulation, there are still more Headhunters in 
service with planetary fleets, customs personnel, paramilitary organizations, 
and law enforcement agencies than any other starfighter. 

The original Headhunters were more akin to atmospheric fighters than 
starships. After several generations of continued development, the Z-95 
was Close to the form and function that it would become famous for. The 
T-65 X-wing owes much of its success to the Z-95, and the two craft are 
obvious cousins when placed side by side. It should come as little surprise 
that many of the galaxy's heroes have flown the Headhunter on more than 
one occasion. 


For its time, the Z-95 Headhunter was a state-of-the-art starfighter 
that made an indelible mark on the galaxy. Space combat tactics of the 
time were designed with the Z-95 in mind, and many modern maneuvers 
are based on those originally flown in the Headhunter by the starfighter 
aces of yesteryear. 


CAPABILITIES 
The stock Z-95 is not equipped with hyperdrive engines, but it wasn't long 
before Alliance technicians created a number of variant Headhunters that 
could traverse hyperspace. Prior to implementing hyperdrives, the Rebel 
Alliance was reluctant to assign the craft to its fleet, instead keeping a 
handful of Headhunters for short-range defense in remote sectors. Though 
still a relative rarity in the Alliance fleet, they are ubiquitous enough to 
be utilized for sensitive operations in areas where their discovery will not 
immediately reveal the Alliance's presence the same way that an A-wing or 
X-wing would. 

Another point in favor of the Z-95 is its durability and ease of repair. It is 
a rugged craft that can take a beating and keep flying. Use of the craft is so 
widespread, and so many have been manufactured over the years, that it is 
a simple matter to find spare parts, even on most backwater worlds. 


“SHE’S THE FASTEST HUNK OF JUNK IN THE GALAXY. . .”’’ 


Throughout the Star Wars® saga, space battles have determined the fate of entire 
worlds and altered the course of galactic history. They set the scene for heroes to 
meet their destinies, putting victory and glory—aor death and defeat—within the 


range of a turbolaser cannon. 


zi , — * 
a Bs . 
2h : eA wisn 
f : ‘ \ 
j }~ om 
\ of 
. ti, 
\ a = 
Sy sae 
1 
2 <= 
os 
| 
j 
\\ 
——— Visit our website at www.wizards.com/starwars 
FEATURING: itl, 
starwars.com 


() Statistics and descriptions for nearly 100 starships, spanning all Star Wars eras. 
ISBN: 978-0-7869-4823-9 


| ll | in) 


(_) New character options, including talents and feats, as well as expanded uses 
9" 780786" 948239 | | | 


of character abilities featured in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition 


core rulebook. 


(_)A starship upgrade and enhancement system. 
(3) To uSB this accessory, iF ers and Gamemasters also need ©2007 Lucasfilm Ltd. & ™. All rights reserved. Used under authorization. > 
yet Wizards of the Coast, d20 System and their respective logos are Sug. Retail: US $34.95 CAN $44.00 
trademarks of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. in the USA and other countries. Printed in the U.S.A. 21714720( 


the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition core rulebook. 


