2 
a) . —— 
| ' = ) 
af 
ANS ae 
= \ 
tu 
A 
¢ 
¢ al . a ih 


K : "ine 


1 } 
J. 1 
2» 1 AR. WAR: 
' : "7 
ROLEPLAYING GAME 


TeeereeceAweSt TF THE GALAX Y 


‘ke 
ROONEY THOMPSON ROBERT J SCHWALBE 
Ae 


THREATS OF THE GALAXY 


GARY ASTLEFORD, ERIC CAGLE, ROBERT J. SCHWALB, JOHN SNEAD, PATRICK STUTZMAN, RODNEY THOMPSON 


Si1igqayupD 


ASYVNVE) SAL AO SLVEe8AL 


CRERITS 


a) Gary Astleford, Eric Cagle, John Snead, (eS 
| DESIGNERS | Robert J, Schwalb, Patrick Stutzman, PRODUCTION MANAGERS Shari Overbay, Cynda Callaway 


Rodney Thompson 


Ryan Sansaver 


ated 


| beveorer Rodney Thompson ART DIRECTOR 


— 


_ —s 


EDITOR | Kim Mohan [oauEn DESIGNER Ryan Sansaver, Emi Tanji 


—_ nea vi - oe a 


= ; 
LUCAS LICENSING fei r APH! iN it 
myst er | Frank Parisi GRAPHIC DESIGNER Keven Smith 


ee o = — a 


DESIGN MANAGER Christopher Perkins PRE-PRESS MANAGER Jefferson Dunlap 


3 i I 10ON . : 
MANAGING EDITOR Kim Mohan ae beans pl gee eta 2 Christopher Tardiff 


Drew Baker, Francis Tsai, Franz Vohwinkel, 


{ . : INTERIOR ARTISTS | Gonzalo Flores, Jeffrey Carlisle, Mark Tedin, 
CUI BONES a slat ah 1) Bill Slavicsek Tomas Giorello, UDON Comics, Walter O'Neal, 


Warren Mahy 


CARTOGRAPHER J Christopher West | IMAGING TECHNICIAN Travis Adams 


v 


SPECIAL THANKS } Leland Chee 


} 


Rules mechanics in this took are based on the Stor Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Owex K.C. Stephens, and Rodney Thomson, the original DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® rules created by E. Gary Gygax and 
Dave Arneson, and the new DUNGEONS & DRAGONS game designed by Janathao Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. 


This Wizards of the Coast” game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written ptrivission. To learn more about the Open Gamirig License and the d20 System™ Lictase, please 
visit www.wizards.com/d20. 


U.S., Ganada, Asia, GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE 
Pacific, & Latin America Hasbro UK Lid Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 
Wizards cf ive Coast, Inc. Caswell Way 


Box 707 Newport, Gwent NPS GYH 0) 
e WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRITAIN Belgium 
Questions? 1-800-424-6496 Please keep this ess for your records +42 2 467 3360 SBN: 978-0-7869 


Seb2t 


FIRST PR 


NG 


#22008 LUCASFILM LID). & @ OR ™ WHERE INDICA 
USED UNDER AUTHORIZATION. 


ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, 


of We 
of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. This product is @ work of fiction. Any simila 


rds of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. This material is proteceed under the c of the United States of Amer Juction or unauthorizect 


a. Ary F 
places, of events is purely coincidental. Ps 


t, and their re: 


ale trademarks 
hibited without the express written pec 


ective logos 


DUNGECHS & DRAGONS, 320 System, Wizards 


use of the material or art main red in the: LS.A. 


y ta actual peop 


CONTENTS 


LINTRODUCTION . 4 
Using this Book............00. 5 
Building Great Encounters...... 6 

Environment................ 6 
AdversarieS. 0.0... cece eee 7 
Common Abilities............ 7 

"CHAPTER 
CHARACTERS... @& 
Adept; Force, .c2ccceenneniets 10 

Dathomiri Witch........... 10 
Tribal Shaman. .........0.. 11 
ASSASSIN» de siSchds ererteeeiepeioeees 12 
Malkite Poisoner.......... 13 
BOdYQUAIG’, ni c2eicswiese poe 14 
Captain Typho............. 14 
Bounty Hunter.............. 16 
Aurra Sing................ 16 
BOSSKis.c.ccr bands catenraaiyas 7 
JangoFett:.nicckeeonneeens 19 
BrU tess hana Geary /itca ine ees 20 
Bureaucrat..............05. 21 
Commando............0255. 22 
Squad Leader...........0, 22 
Elite Commando........... 23 
CON ATHISE De teueeeahigeds 24 
Crime Lord............22005 25 
Black Sun Vigo............ 26 
Hutt Crime Lord........... 27 
Dark Jedi................... 28 
The Reborn..............5 29 
Dark Jedi Master............ 30 
JEFOO% fc ica ceectacaeasnesececnies 31 
Dark Side Adept...........5. 32 
Primitive Dark Side Adept... .32 
Desann 2.0202. 33 
New Species: Chistori...... 34 
DiploMativins cc taddquenee teste 35 
DOCH: si .sntpapsite ges Bam chaceets 26 36 
Emergency Crew...........- 37 
ENGINED cs: 5d.sue sate haneas 38 
Gambler... 0... 0... cere ees 39 
Infiltrator....... ccc eee eee 40 


Information Broker........... 41 
Jedi Knight :2 ce seve sinecenenes 42 
Jedi Refugee........... 008, 43 
Jedi Duelist......0......2.. 44 
Imperial Knight............. 44 
Jedi Master...........0.000 0. 46 
Jedi Sage Master........... 47 
Jedi Battlemaster........... 48 
Jedi Sentinel Master ........ 48 
Jedi Padawan....... 00.00.08. 50 
Jensaarai Defender........... 51 
Martial Artist.........-...... 52 
MECC ates icpete gs sneteahinscutsincgie aeiae 54 
Mercenary wns. neteeseeae nie 55 
Mercenary Scout........... 55 
Mercenary Heavy 
Infantry....... cc eee 56 
Mercenary Captain........... 58 
MYSHC: Jscctestanenn tans dames 59 
OffCEr.o5 een deeednese as 60 
Intelligence Officer ......... 61 
Outlaw Tech. .........22..... 62 
PlOlyisstep st eriares ae ames 63 
PHGESACE sei ccnceshepieitsentid geoncd 64 
Pilot, Elite. .............0 eee 65 
Piatt cde ndereteaankane 66 
PRIVGCOET sf eee ea asinica sarees 66 
Pirate Captain. ...........08, 68 
Police Officer..............-. 69 
Politician, Veteran............ 70 
Bail Organa................ 71 
Saboteuii gis as peek dations g 72 
Twi'lek Saboteur............ 73 
Sector Ranger............20. 74 
Special Enforcement Officer. .75 
Security Personnel ........... 76 
Security Specialist.......... 76 
Royal Handmaiden.......... 77 
Ship Captain................- 78 
Ship GUANE Tac ovate beens 79 
Sith Apprentice .............. 80 
Darth Maul............2... 80 
Sith LOldsssscacet et saey weiner 82 
Fallen Jedi Sith Lord......... 82 


Lumiya, 
Dark Lady of the Sith..... 83 
Darth Bane..........00 eae 84 
SCE ke cee tere western ds 86 
Zakarisz Ghent............. 87 
Smuggler ..............0. ee 88 
Tajon Karrde.............-. 89 
SOIC sisiysetendaainescs 90 
SpecForce Heavy 
Weapons Specialist ...... 90 
Soldier Commander........... 92 
Clone Commander CC-2224. .92 
Soldier, Elite... 00... ccc. e eee 94 
SpecForce Elite Soldier ...... 95 
SPVisawisealeioledenwesenaicae 96 
Bothan Spy.............04- 97 
Swoop Gang Leader........... 98 
Swoop Gang Member......... 99 
Technician .............0005 100 
ThaGeP niacin een tes acuc 101 
Wiarrioy, EMG i ccawewenesc cas 102 
Mandalorian 
Supercommando....... 102 
CHAPTER Ils 


CREATURES... 1IO4 


Corellian Banshee Bird ....... 106 
Corellian Sand Panther....... 107 
Dragonsnake ............-.. 108 
GUNDE Ks: nites corona salwet teeter 109 
1: | dy ee ee 110 
Kintan Strider............... 111 
Knobby White Spider ........ 112 
KOUHUN --ciceadetnaewad peas 113 
Krayt Dragon............005 114 

Canyon Krayt Dragon ...... 115 
Mantellian Savrip ..........- 116 
MaSSIFF ei ccutccki ee edpeien 118 
MyN0CKig oe catetedenanieses 119 
Narglatch.............0.08. 120 
NaSHtaN csc eithednneaeier 121 
RANCOM ie a cavncecd paste ats 122 

Tyrant Rancor..........-.. 123 


WA COP sisrasate blogic te ecaarengedea 123 


BONO: < secede wences paresis 124 
SarlaCCsnxes.cavcni eects 125 
Valattylscinaree dev eemeae 126 

Training a Varactyl......... 126 

Utai Varactyl Handler ...... 127 
NOMSKT i235s.e doe cotsrdreniatin bs 128 
Womp Rat .............02.. 129 
Womp Rat Pack............. 130 
Ysalamiri...... se cece ee eee 131 

CHAPTER ili: 

DrRoOIODS..... 132 
Artillery Droid ..........0... 134 
Assassin Droid. ............. 135 
Astromech Droid............ 136 


R4 Series Astromech Droid. .137 
R5 Series Astromech Droid. .137 
R7 Series Astromech Droid. .138 
R2-R Series 


Astromech Droid....... 139 

Battle Droid... ..........00- 140 

B3-A Series Ultra 

Battle Droid ........... 141 

IG Series Lancer Droid...... 141 
Buzz Droid. ................ 
Construction Droid 
Demolitions Droid........... 
Espionage Droid............. 
Interrogation Dreid 
Medical Droid ....... 
Power Droid......... : 
Probe Droid ................ 
Protocol Droid.............. 

TC Series Protocol Droid ,...151 
Replica Droid......-......4. 152 

GUE jsndincatuoet verte aonb alee 152 
Sabotage Droid ............. 154 
Security Droid. ............. 155 
Seeker Droid 
Sentry Droid ; 
War Droid... .....-.020- sees 

Sith Elite Warbot.......... 159 
Worker Droid ............... 160 


SiNSinNoOD 


| 


¢] 
x 
5) 
J | | 
a | 
(0) 
VY 
qj 
a 
W 
a 
> 
(Pr 
> 
x4 
< 


-ANTRODUCTION 


Se, 


Part of the enduring appeal of Star Wars is the richness of the galaxy, the 
sense of wonder evoked by the countless worlds, the fantastic creatures, 
the compelling characters, and of course the droids. There is a sense of 
something larger, that the Star Wars universe is a thriving place filled with 
endless possibility. The detail is astonishing—each character, place, and thing 
has a history, a purpose, and a role in the larger universe, and together, they 
create the backdrop on which the heroes’ stories are told. 

Threats of the Galaxy is a companion volume to the Star Wars Saga Edi- 
tion Roleplaying Game, offering an enormous selection of creatures, droids, 
and people with which you can populate the galaxy. With entries drawn 
from nearly every era of the Star Wars universe and spanning every level of 
game play, this book is a comprehensive volume that gives you even more 
tools to create exciting and compelling encounters worthy of joining those 
on the silver screen. 


USING THIS BOOK 


This book contains a host of characters, creatures, and droids with which you 
can populate the many worlds and environments of the Star Wars universe. 
Chapter One presents a variety of characters, covering just about every 
major archetype and giving you statistics and advice for using them in the 
game. Chapter Two describes some of the most notorious and monstrous 
creatures in the galaxy. Chapter Three presents a selection of droids found 
in the films and the Expanded Universe. 


FOR THE GAMEMASTER 

This book is an invaluable reference for Gamemasters. GMs can pull statis- 
tics straight out of the book for use at the game table without having to 
write up the characters themselves. Likewise, GMs can use the creatures 
as monstrous foes and minions to pit against their players, while the droids 
chapter is an excellent expansion to the droids described in the Saga Edi- 
tion core rulebook. 


FOR THE PLAYER 

There's also plenty of information in this book for players. The character 
entries can help guide players’ decisions about what sorts of feats, talents, 
and skills they should select as they advance their characters. The book 
also features new species, gear and vehicles, talents, and feats, most of 
which are available to any sort of character. Finally, the droids chapter gives 
players more options for purchasing droids and more choices for building 
droid heroes. 


AXV1IVHD SHA SAO SAVSSHL . r 


LNT 


NOILIDNaO0On 


ASVAIVE) SHA Je SsAaveyHns E 


BUILDING GREAT 
ENCOUNTERS 


Threats of the Galaxy is first and foremost a toolbox for building great 
encounters. Each entry in this book is an opportunity to dazzle players 
with interesting and exciting foes, but a statistics block does not make an 
encounter great or exciting by itself. Your job, as Gamemaster, is to put 
these characters, creatures, and droids together in such a way as to create 
a balanced threat that's both engaging, cinematic, and ensures that all the 
players involved have something to do. Mastering this process takes time 
and experience, but there are a few key pieces of advice that can help you 
along the way. 


WHAT YOU NEED TO PLAY 

As with any Star Wars game supplement, you need the Saga Edition 
core rulebook (sometimes abbreviated SE) to make full use of the 
information in Threats of the Galaxy. This book also uses material from 
an earlier supplement, Starships of the Galaxy (abbreviated SG), but that 
supplement is not essential. 


ENVIRONMENT 

The action sequences in the films never take place in a 5-square-by-5-square 
room, and neither should yours. Consider the droid manufacturing plant on 
Geonosis from Attack of the Clones. Anakin and Padmé run through a mas- 
sive industrial environment, weaving their way through dangerous machinery 
while battling an almost endless number of guards. Although Anakin is more 
than a match for these minor soldiers, he's constantly dealing with the 
changing and very hazardous atmosphere, even losing his lightsaber to the 
well-timed stamp of a machine. 

When building an encounter, one of your first considerations should 
always be where the encounter will take place, It’s fine for the occasional, 
unexpected fight to happen in a mundane environment, but when planning 
for a fight, be sure to fill the scene with all sorts of interesting tactical ele- 
ments to enliven the encounter’s circumstances. 

For your first few encounters, limit yourself to just a few interesting 
elements. The more factors you add, the harder the combat becomes to 
manage. As a good rule of thumb, select three things to make the encounter 
more engaging, preferably including an environmental hazard, interesting 
terrain, and something that gives all the players an opportunity to engage 
the encounter. 


Environmental Hazards 

An environmental hazard affects both the heroes and their enemies, giving 
both groups something else to contend with other than just blasting each 
other to pieces. An easy choice is just to use weather. Fog and rain give 
stealthy characters a chance to use their sneakier abilities while also eve- 
ning the odds for lopsided fights by granting everyone concealment. For 
higher-level heroes, you can up the ante by adding lava, scalding steam 
jets, aggressive machinery, extreme temperatures, acid raid, poisonous gas, 
spontaneous pit traps, conveyor belts, and more. An environmental hazard 
should be dangerous and increase the complexity of the encounter, but not 
to the extent that the hazard becomes the encounter itself. 


Terrain 

Combats in Star Wars are rarely of the mundane sort. They occur in places as 
interesting as the characters involved. The same should be true of encounters. 
Unusual terrain adds complexity to the encounter, creates Opportunities, and 
ultimately allows tactical-minded players to take advantage of their circum- 
stances. A combat should provide opportunities to jump, climb, slide, balance, 
and so on. There should be different levels, different chambers, places to explore 
and places to avoid. Terrain should also include cover, which can take the form 
of barriers, curving corridors, and just about anything else you can think of to 
make movement and the exchange of blaster fire more interesting. 

Terrain is also important for controlling the scope of the battlefield. Star 
Wars is full of huge, sweeping environments, and battle scenes are often 
doubly exciting because of all of the action going on in the background. The 
trick is to create the illusion of space by providing large areas, but with limited 
options for movement. For example, when Qui-Gon Jinn fought Darth Maul 
on Naboo, their duel spread across a large area, though in truth their move- 
ment was somewhat restricted. Much of the fighting took place on narrow 
bridges or in the deadly tunnel equipped with the energy barriers. This duel 
covered a lot of ground, and the environment changed as it developed, but 
although there was a sense of space, the particular encounters took place 
in controlled environments where the Jedi fought on the bridge, the tunnel, 
and finally the power generator area, where Qui-Gon was killed. 


Something for Everyone 

Of the three considerations, this is the hardest to anticipate. Each group will 
have a different mix of characters, with different capabilities and motiva- 
tions. You should pay close attention to the choices the players make and 
reward those choices in the encounters they face. A character who Is a skilled 
pilot might not have much to do when not battling TIE fighters in space, 
but an encounter in a starship hangar could give that character a chance to 
make use of his skills much as Anakin did when Padme led her forces into 
the palace to liberate Naboo from the Trade Federation occupiers in The 
Phantom Menace. 


ADVERSARIES 

Creating Star Wars encounters takes flair, an ability that's hard to regulate 
with strict guidelines. The Saga Edition core rulebook establishes a solid 
foundation for building encounters in recommending Challenge Levels and 
variety in the encounters, but this 's just the start. As with location, there 
are three major considerations when selecting adversaries: numbers, variety, 
and function. 


Numbers 

The numbers and types of opponents to use in an encounter is probably the 
toughest decision you'll make. In Star Wars, it's not only acceptable, but 
expected, for the heroes to face numerous foes. Each enemy combatant 
doesn’t stand a chance against a single PC, let alone a group of them, but 
together they present a suitable challenge for groups of any level. 

When selecting the number of opponents, it's usually better to use more 
low-level opponents than fewer high-level opponents. The more enemies 
on the battlefield, the more targets the characters have to choose from and 
engage. On the other hand, you don't want to overwhelm the heroes, or at 
least not every time, so it's best to use somewhere between four and eight 
opponents at a time. Remember, the encounter's CL should be within 1 or 2 
of the party's average level, so the individual CLs of the various opponents 
should be 4 or 5 lower than the heroes’ level. 


Variety 

There's a certain visceral sense of enjoyment that comes from blasting 
stormtroopers, but even that grows tiresome after a while. By mixing up 
the opposition, you can draw from a wide selection of abilities to help make 
the encounter more interesting. 

The best way to do this is to select similarly themed opponents of varying 
Challenge Levels. This could include pairing up a soldier commander with 
a few soldiers and a medic, or an Imperial officer with a squad of storm- 
troopers. However, don’t overlook combinations of different types. There’s 
no reason why an encounter can’t include a creature and characters, droids 
and characters, or a mix of all three. 

Variety is also served by approaching the same broad character archetype 
from a number of directions, resulting in “similar” characters at an array of 
different Challenge Levels. That's why you'll find, for instance, the officer 
(CL 8), the commando squad leader (CL 10), and the mercenary captain (CL 
5) in these pages. All of these characters fill the same basic role, but their 
specific abilities and CLs set them apart from one another. 


Function 

Ultimately, the question you need to answer when constructing the encounter 
is: What ts its function? Haw the encounter fits into the adventure’s storyline 
helps guide your choices about what the heroes should ultimately face and 


when. An encounter that is not much more than an obstacle for the PCs 
doesn't need as much detail and variety as the final battle between the heroes 
and their nemesis, so spend your time and creativity wisely. 

Obstacles are the simplest encounters. By themselves, these encounters 
add little to the story or development of the plot and merely serve as a device 
to control the pacing of the adventure. Individual opponents should be far 
oelow the heroes’ average and as a whole, the group's Challenge Level should 
be 1 or 2 lower than normal. 

Minor encounters are a bit more involved than obstacles since they 
affect the outcome of the adventure's story. A minor combat encounter 
features opponents tied directly to the adventure’s plot, and the results 
of the combat might have consequences for the adventure’s outcome. As 
with obstacles, the individual opponents can and should be far below the 
characters’ average level, but the total Challenge Level ought to be within 
1 of the PC's average level. 

The last function is the major encounter. This is the big one, where the 
player characters square off against their nemesis in a climactic battle and 
the outcome brings about the end of the adventure and sets up the next 
chapter in the campaign. The CL for these encounters can creep over the 
PCs’ level, and it should. The major villain might be able to handle a group 
of heroes, but in most cases, you might need to insulate the villain with 
minions and lower-level adversaries to draw out the fight and to expand the 
possibilities and developments for the various characters involved. 


COMMON ABILITIES 

Many of the characters, creatures, and droids described in this book 
have sensory abilities that were originally explained in the Saga Edition 
core rulebook. For convenience and to avoid repetition, those abilities 
are defined below. 

Darkvision: A character, creature, or droid that has this ability can see 
in the dark, ignoring concealment and total concealment due to darkness. 
Darkvision is black and white only, so there must be at least some light 
to discern colors. It is otherwise like normal sight, and a creature that 
has darkvision can function with no light at all. 

Low-Light Vision: A character, creature, or droid that has this ability 
can see without penalty in shadowy illumination, ignoring concealment 
{but not total concealment) due to darkness. It retains the ability to 
distinguish color and detail under these conditions. 

Scent: A character, creature, or droid that has this ability ignores 
concealment and cover when making Perception checks to notice oppo- 
nents within 10 squares, and it takes no penalty from poor visibility when 
tracking (see the Survival skill, SE 73). 


ASVINVEe) GAA de StlveaehnAa 


CHAPTER 1 
CHARACTERS 


& 


This chapter presents a selection of character archetypes. From noble Jedi 
Masters to villainous Sith Lords, vicious swoop gangs, loyal soldiers, trad 
ers, medics, elite warriors, and more, all represent the people who shape 
the galaxy. You can use them as written or change them to fit your needs 
Each entry presents one or more sets of generic statistics to give you a 
ready-to-run character. Also, the entries include guidance about how the 
characters fit into the larger universe as well as tips and advice for building 
encounters that feature them. Many of the individuals featured herein func 
tion as villains, but not all Some of them work equally well as contacts, allies, 
minions, or supporting characters, folks the heroes meet over the course of 
their adventures who provide aid or information. The Star Wars universe ts 
filled with interesting individuals, good, bad, and neutral, and where these 
generic characters fall on that spectrum ts up to you 

Most of the generic characters in this chapter are not associated with 
a species. The omission is intentional; to make this book useful in as many 
situations as possible, no species is defined so that (for instance) a soldier 
can be a soldier whether you're running games set in the Old Republic, Rise 
of the Empire, or during the Legacy era. lo make full use of these statistics, 
you might want to determine a species. This decision isn't always necessary, 
though, especially for minor encounters, since the traits of a character's spe 
cies might not come into play However, for combat encounters, it’s best to 
select a species and adapt the statistics block as necessary The easiest way 
is to just use the Human species, since it can also represent a whole host 
of near-Humans, and then give the character one extra trained skill and a 
bonus feat. For the trained skill, select from the class skills available to the 
character's first listed class. 

For other species, be sure to account for how ability modifiers affect the 
statistics—ability score penalties might prevent certain feat selections, while 
bonuses could result in improved defenses, higher skill modifiers, and perhaps 
even extra Force powers. Also, every generic character uses Medium as its 
size, by default; if the species you select for a character is bigger or smaller 
than Medium, be sure to apply size modifiers when appropriate 

Some entries also include statistics for unique, named characters These 
characters, drawn from the films and the Expanded Universe, demonstrate 
specific examples of the archetypes in the setting, while also providing 
ready-to-use villains and support characters straight out of the book. Even 
if a character is not present in the era you're using, you can Change the 
character's name and background, and you'll have a new and compelling 
character to use as an adversary or ally for the heroes 


SHSs1ovyvHoa 


SYuSLeVNvVHS | 


ADEPT, FORCE 


Force Adept cL 3 
Medium soldier 7/Force adept 1 

Force 3 

Init +9; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 20), Fort 22, Will 23 

hp 83; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroaxe +7* (2d10+20) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +10 

Atk Options Cleave, Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons), 
Melee Smash, Power Attack 

Special Actions Damage Reduction 10, Equilibrium 

Force Powers Known [Use the Force +12): battle strike, Force slam, 
move object, surge 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 10, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Talents Damage Reduction 10, Devastating Attack (adv melee weapons), 
Equilibrium, Melee Smash, Weapon Specialization (adv melee 
weapons), Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (2}, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (adv melee weapons), 
Weapon Proficiency (adv melee weapons, pistol, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +9, Perception +10, Use the Force +12 

Possessions vibroaxe 

“Includes 4 points of Power Attack. 


The galaxy is a vast place, and the Jedi and the Sith are not the only keep- 
ers of knowledge of the Force. Many planets boast their own population of 
talented individuals who are in tune with the Force, although the methods 
they employ to harness its power can vary wildly. Depending on the world, a 
Force adept might be seen as a valuable and revered members of society or 
vilified as a suspicious, even evil practitioner of mysterious power. Regardless, 
Force adepts are respected by all for their ability to call upon the power of 
the Force to perform amazing deeds. 

The Force adept provided here represents a more violent individual in tune 
with the dark side. By tapping into his inner rage, the Force adept turns his 
weapon into an extension of his body, using his might and personal Charisma 
to get what he wants. Although this Force adept lacks a lightsaber, he's stil! 
a dangerous individual in melee combat, calling upon the dark side to bolster 
his natural abilities and become a whirling dealer of death. 


FORCE ADEPT ENCOUNTERS 
Some Force adepts band together, forming cabals that instruct new recruits 
in the way of the Force (although they might call it something else)—each 


group has its own flavor and techniques, some of which can be baffling for 
more “traditional” Force-users, such as the Jedi or the Sith. Force adepts also 
have a close connection with mystics (page 59), although Force adepts are 
much more proactive than their contemplative counterparts. 

The martial-oriented Force adept described above could be found alone 
or leading a group of warriors, who both respect and fear his combat prow- 
ess. Force adepts found on more primitive worlds might ride steeds, such 
as varactyls (page 126), instead of vehicles. Because of his connection with 
the dark side, this Force adept could also accompany Dark Jedi adepts or 
Sith apprentices, who see the value in utilizing Force adepts’ skills and the 
potential of converting them wholly to the dark side. 


DATHOMIRI WITCH 

The Dathomiri Witches are female Human Force-users who hail from the 
primitive world of Dathomir. The Dathomiri Witch described here could repre- 
sent a particularly powerful leader of one of the various clans. Trained in the 
powers of the Force through unorthodox methods, the Dathomiri Witch is a 
master at clouding a person's mind or seeing into the future. Her command of 
the beasts of her planet is second to none, and she often travels with one or 
more animal companions who protect her from harm. Each clan has its own 
interpretation of how the Force should be utilized, but most abide by the edict 
“Never concede to evil.” Members of the clan called the Nightsisters are an 
exception to this rule, since they practice forbidden powers that traditional 
Force-users would recognize as being of the dark side. 


Dathomiri Witch CL 10 
Medium Human scout 7/Force adept 3 

Force 4; Strong in the Force 

Init +11; Senses Perception +19; Force Perception 

Languages Basic, Paecian, | other 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 22), Fort 23, Will 27 

hp 64; Threshold 23 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee spear +6 (1d8+4) 

Ranged spear +8 (1d8+4} 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 

Special Actions Charm Beast, Command Beast, Extra Second Wind, Flight 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): battle strike, move object, 
rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Surroundings 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 18 

Talents Adept Spellcaster, Charm Beast, Command Beast, Flight, Force 
Talisman, Force Perception 

Feats Extra Second Wind, Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Skill Focus 
(Ride), Skill Focus (Survival), Skill Focus (Use the Force], Strong in the 
Force", Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +11, Endurance +10, Initiative +11, Perception +19, 
Persuasion +9 (+19 when charming beasts), Ride +16", Stealth +11, 
Survival +18, Swim +9, Use the Force +19 

Possessions Spear, Force talisman, Dathomiri rancor companion 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


Dathomiri Witch Encounters 

Regardless of their actual status in the clan, all Dathomiri Witches are trained 
in the art of war and are fierce and capable combatants when pressed. A witch 
knows that she's never far from her clan sisters and can rely on her spells {Force 
powers] to call them for aid. Because of her command of beasts, it's possible 
that a Dathomiri Witch could be found riding on the planet's most dangerous 
predator—the dreaded rancor—making for a seriously challenging encounter. 


TRIBAL SHAMAN 

Among primitive cultures, certain Force adepts serve as tribal healers or witch 
doctors, using the power of the Force to cure ailments and mend bones. In 
addition to their control of the Force, tribal shamans are also proficient in 
more mundane cures, although their techniques and methods might seem 
unorthodox compared to physicians in more civilized cultures. Among many 
groups, tribal shamans also serve as "healers of words,” acting as respected 
(and neutral) mediators between disagreeing parties. The wise words of the 
tribal shaman go a long way in repairing any damage caused by political 
disputes and inspire unity and confidence among their people. 


Although tribal shamans are focused on curing the sick and tending to 
the wounded, not all of them have taken a vow of nonviolence. Some even 
accompany their warriors into battle; however, their status and relative 
lack of fighting prowess means that they are kept to the rear of combat and 
protected by a cadre of their kinfolk. 


Tribal Shaman CL 9 

Medium noble 5/scout 2/Force adept 2 

Force 4 

Init +8; Senses Perception +12 

Lanquages Basic, 1 other 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 21), Fort 24, Will 27 

hp 77; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +5 (1d4+4) 

Ranged knife +4 (1d4+4) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +5 

Special Actions Equilibrium, Extra Second Wind, Force Focus 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +12): farseeing, mind trick, 
vital transfer (2) 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (vital transfer) 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 8, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Talents Coordinate, Equilibrium, Force Focus, Force Power Adeot (vital 
transfer), Force Recovery 

Feats Extra Second Wind, Force Sensitivity, Force Training, !mproved 
Defenses, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Focus (Treat Injury], Weapon 
Proficiency (pistol, rifles, simple weapons), Toughness 

Skills Endurance +11, Perception +12, Persuasion +17, Ride +8, Survival 
+12, Treat Injury +17, Use the Force +12 

Possessions knife, 4 medpacs 


Tribal Shaman Encounters 
Tribal shamans commonly travel with thugs (generic warriors} or even martial 
artists (representing elite warriors of the tribe), who protect them from harm. 

Because of their unique connection to the Force, some tribal shamans 
might be considered insane or at least more than a little strange, speaking 
in odd cadences and staring off into space. That said, a tribal shaman could 
also be called upon to serve as an ambassador or representative for a people, 
who respect his wisdom on such matters—the other party must contend with 
his unusual behavior, all the while trying not to disrespect the clan and its 
customs and traditions. 

When forced to defend himself or his people, a tribal shaman might use 
mind trick to divert an opponent's attention or otherwise convince that 
individual to leave and never come back. 


| HSBLidcdvwHoa 


Sve LeaVavAo 


}: eSLlavHo J 


Sve LeavevAs 


ASSASSIN 
Assassin CL 10 
Medium scoundrel 7/soldier 3 

Force 3; Dark Side 12 

Init +13; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, 2 others 


Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 22), Fort 21, Will 22 
hp 45; Threshold 11 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +13 (2d6+7) or 

Melee vibroblade +11 (3d6+7) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+5) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +11 (3d8+5) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle}, Careful Shot, Dastardly Strike, 
Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons), Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Sneak Attack +3d6, Sniper 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 17, Con 8, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Dastardly Strike, Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons), 
Sneak Attack +3d6, Weapon Specialization (advanced melee weapons) 

Feats Careful Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Strike, Skill 
Training (Gather Information}, Skill Training (Pilot), Sniper, Weapon 
Finesse, Weapon Focus {adv melee weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifle, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +12, Gather Information +12, Initiative 
+13, Perception +11, Persuasion +12, Pilot +13, Stealth +13 

Possessions blaster rifle with enhanced targeting scope, blaster pistol, 
vibroblade, concealed holster, electrobinoculars, liquid cable dispenser, 
encrypted comlink, utility belt with medpac, 200 credits 


All assassins kill for money. Where particular assassins differ is in the tech- 
niques they use. Some are deadly snipers, taking a position far from the 
watchful eyes of sentries and passersby to wait for that one clear shot before 
slipping away. Others are more direct, removing their mark with a well-placed 
thrust of a vibroblade when the target least expects it. 

Being an assassin is dangerous work. One who goes it alone must acquire 
his own customers, pay for equipment out of his own commissions, and lacks 
any kind of protection when a victim's friends come looking for revenge. 

Some organizations, such as the Assassins Guild, offset the risks of the 
blood trade by offering skilled killers the protection they need to make a 
living in this nasty business, Gaining membership in the Assassins Guild ts 
easy; a candidate simply needs a sponsor to vouch for him. The guild is not 
particularly selective about who joins, since it is powerful enough to punish 
those who betray its secrets. 


ASSASSIN ENCOUNTERS 

Assassins are hidden killers, watching and waiting for the moment when 
their target is most vulnerable. For the assassin, the attack isn't personal. 
It's just a job, and one that pays well. 

Assassins focus on eliminating their targets with the least amount of 
work possible. They aren't interested in collateral damage, since extra deaths 
don't bring in any more credits. That said, an assassin isn’t afraid to kill a 
few bystanders if that’s the only way to get to the target. 

When on a job, an assassin might work alone or might operate as the 
leader of a small team. He might use assassin droids, espionage droids, or 
vicious creatures such as the lethal kouhun (page 113) as tools. These servants 
are expendable resources, and their use helps to keep the assassin’s hands 
clean. If an assassin ever finds himself outmatched, he is not above retreat- 
ing—intending to strike again later and with a great deal more force. 


MALKITE POISONER 
The remote world Malkii is famed for producing some of the most skilled 
poison manipulators in the galaxy, 

Poisoners operate in deep cover, impersonating nobles and wealthy citi- 
zens as a means to get close to their mark. So he can strike when the time 
is right, a Malkite Poisoner conceals numerous toxins all over his body, from 
the folds of his clothing to hidden compartments in his belongings. Each 
dose is so well hidden that a Malkite Poisoner can carry his toxins past even 
the most resolute security teams. 


DATADAGGER 
Simple Weapon 
A datadagger is an elaborate and decorative code cylinder (SE 134) that 
contains a hidden weapon. When the wielder twists the hilt, a needlelike 
blade extends from the socket. Since the blade is so well hidden within 
the code’s electronics, it is hard to detect (+5 bonus to the Stealth 
check to conceal the object and no circumstance bonus if the examiner 
touches the wielder). 

Size Tiny; Cost 500; Damage 1d4; Stun Damage —; Weight 0.1 kg; 
Type Piercing; Availability Illegal. 
MALKITE POISONER TALENT 
TREE 
You have mastered the deadly arts of poison from the masters on Malkii. 


Malkite Poisoner CL 13 You can employ a wide array of lethal toxins with which you can quickly 


Medium scoundrel 9/noble 4 


i and efficiently destroy your targets. 
Forge By Bark Side} . Malkite Techniques: Once per encounter, you can apply a toxin 
Init +14; Senses Perception +14 ae ees é 
; . ; to any nonenergy slashing or piercing weapon as a standard action. ‘all 

Tabiuanes Basie Bocte, High Galactic lf an attack roll with that weapon also exceeds the target's Fortitude q) 
Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 26), Fort 25, Will 27; Dodge, Mobility Defense, that target is poisoned. Each round on the creature's turn, v 
hp 63; Threshold 25 2 the poison makes an attack roll (1d20 + your heroic level) against the la 
Speed 6 squares target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the target takes *) 
Melee datadagger +12 (1d4+6) or damage equal to 1d6 + one-half your heroic level and moves -1 step 
Melee vibroblade +13 (2d6+6) along the condition track. A target moved to the end of the condition ; 
Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +12 (3d4+6) track by the poison is unconscious but continues to take damage as @ ¢ 
Base Atk +9; Grp +12 long as the poison continues to attack. The poison attacks each round i 
Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Malkite Techniques, Point Blank Shot, until it misses or until the victim is cured with a Treat Injury check (DC D | 

Running Attack, Sneak Attack +16, Triple Crit (datadagger) 10 + your heroic level). 2 | 
Special Actions Knack, Presence, Weaken Resolve Modify Poison: You can modify the delivery method of a poison B 
Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 16 (contact, ingested, inhaled, injury} to another delivery method by suc- ol) 
Talents Dastardly Strike, Knack, Malkite Techniques, Numbing Poison, ceeding on a Knowledge (life sciences) check (DC equal to the poison's & | 

Presence, Sneak Attack +1d6, Weaken Resolve Treat Injury DC). The poison’s capabilities and specific effects are iH 
Feats Dodge, Improved Defenses, Mobility, Point Blank Shot, Running unchanged. 

Attack, Skill Training [Persuasion], Skill Training (Stealth), Skill Training Prerequisite: Malkite Techniques. 

(Use Computer], Triple Crit (datadagger], Weapon Finesse, Weapon Numbing Poison: Any target you poison is automatically denied } 

Focus (advanced melee weapons}, Weapon Proficiency (advanced its Dexterity bonus to its Reflex Defense for as long as it remains = 

melee weapons, pistols, simple weapons) poisoned. 
Skills Deception +14, Gather Information +14, Initiative +14, Knowledge Prerequisite: Malkite Techniques. 

(bureaucracy) +13, Knowledge (life sciences) +13, Mechanics +13, Undetectable Poison: The Treat injury DC needed to cure a poison 

Perception +12, Persuasion +14, Stealth +14, Use Computer +13 you have used against a target increases by 5. 
Possessions datadagger, vibroblade, hold-out blaster pistol, 2 canisters Prerequisite: Malkite Techniques. 

of dioxis, 2 doses of knockout drops, 2 doses of paralytic poison, Vicious Poison: Any poisons you have used against a target gain 

encrypted comlink, credit chip with 1,000 credits, utility belt, a +2 bonus to their attack rolls made against that target's Fortitude 

security kit Defense. 


Prerequisite: Maikite Techniques. 


| HSidvWHOS 


Svea LaVevAga 


BODYGUARD 


Bodyguard CL6 
Medium soldier 5/nonheroic 3 

Force 8 

Init +11; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 18, Will 17 
hp 63; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d3+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Pin, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Draw Fire, Harm's Way, Tough as Nails 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Draw Fire, Harm's Way, Tough as Nails 

Feats Pin, Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Initiative), Skill Training 
(Perception), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Perception +11, Persuasion +10, Treat Injury +11 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink 


Celebrities and influential individuals appear to live happy and successful 
lives doing what they do. They appear unafraid of whatever life throws 
their way. In truth, however, even the rich and famous have enemies, and 
the bodyguard stands as the last line of defense against those who would 
infringe on the life of his client. 

Simply put, a bodyguard Is a paid professional whose task is to protect the 
life of his patron against anyone who would dare to threaten it. Ideally, he 
makes sure his client does not even know of any existing threats and allows 
her to do what she wants to do. A bodyguard puts aside his own needs and 
sets the priorities of his client above his own, even to the point of risking 
his life to protect his employer. 

Typically, a bodyguard is quiet and maintains a serious composure, as if 
he is concentrating. He must do so, for one mistake could cast him the life 
of his charge. He dresses inconspicuously, choosing to wear clothes that hide 
his blaster pistol and afford him some measure of protection while allowing 
him to blend in where he and his client will be. 


BODYGUARD ENCOUNTERS 

Where one finds the rich and famous, a bodyguard will not be very far away. 
Either in plain sight or hiding close by in the crowd, he is always seconds 
away from his client, ready to take action against whoever imperils his 
patron's safety. 


Bodyguards are most often found in the company of noble-ciass char- 
acters, whether they be politicians on Coruscant, well-to-do merchants 
on Neimoidia, or the royalty of Hapes. Many times, a bodyguard is hired 
on retainer for a specific person, since the majority of high-society people 
prefer being protected by some-one they recognize to help them feel a little 
safer. However, some bodyguards rent themselves out on a temporary basis, 
wishing to move from job to job instead of tying themselves down to one 
person for an extended period. 

Ultimately, a bodyguard wants a peaceful job without any trouble, but 
he is not afraid to whip out his blaster and use it if the situation calls for it. 
He strives to resolve conflicts quickly, preferring to get the one for which 
he is responsible out of harm's way and leaving the miscreant that caused 
the incursion to the local law enforcers. 


CAPTAIN TYPHO 

Born on Naboo and raised in the shadow of the Royal Naboo Court, Gregar 
Typho grew up wanting to serve the Queen as one of her guard. He finally 
got his chance and completed his training at many of the same offworld 
academies attended by his uncle, Captain Panaka. Typho joined the Palace 
Guard and served with pride in that capacity until the Trade Federation 
blockaded the planet. 


During the fateful battle, Typho fought alongside his uncle, showing 
courage and resolve in the heat of battle. Despite his exceptional training, 
he became injured and Jost his left eye. The serious wound did not slow 
down the young soldier. Recognized for his valor and his uncompromising 
loyalty, Typho was promoted to captain and assigned as Amidala's Head of 
Security when Padme stepped down from the throne and became Senator 
of the Chommell Sector. Although many accused Typho of using his family 
connections to gain the distinguished position, they did not realize that it 
was not his uncle who made the decision. 

Following his uncle's lead, Typho did his best to implement stronger 
security measures and adopted many of Panaka's practices, including the 
use of disguised handmaidens to protect the Senator. Had the use of decoys 
not been put into place, Padmé would have surely died when her Naboo 
Royal Cruiser was destroyed on a landing pad on Coruscant on the day of the 
Military Creation Act vote. After a second attempt on the Senator's life, he 
was told to remain behind and keep up appearances by guarding the decoy, 
Dormé, as if she were the Senator, while Padmé returned to Naboo with the 
Padawan Anakin Skywalker. 

After the outbreak of the Clone Wars, Typho stayed close to Amidala’s 
side, choosing to apply tighter security during the conflict. He traveled with 
her aboard her yacht and stayed at her apartments on Coruscant and Naboo. 
Four months into the war, Yoda was aboard Padmé’s starship when he sensed 
a disturbance in the Force coming from the planet Ilum. Yoda suggested 
they on a rescue mission to the icy planet. 

Typho sternly disapproved, stating that the risks were too high. Despite his 


a 


objections, the captain was coerced through the Force by Yoda to proceed 
with the rescue. 

Captain Typho continued to serve under Amidala throughout the Clone 
Wars, defending her against assassination attempts on Coruscant and Naboo 
Following the end of the war, a troubled Padmé prepared to depart to Mus- 
tafar to confront her husband about the death of the younglings at the Jedi 
Temple. Typho tried to go with her, but she insisted on traveling with only 
C-3P0. The next time Typho saw her was at her funeral 

Remaining in the Naboo security force and choosing not to side with 
the Empire, Typho worked to establish a spy network to keep watch over 
the Imperial occupation, even as the Empire wanted to keep an eye on the 
Naboo Royal Security forces. Months after Amidala's passing, he worked 
with Ferus Olin to remove the Imperial presence from Naboo, even though 
the victory was only temporary. 

Captain Typho is a highly skilled and able soldier whose loyalties lie strictly 
with Naboo and its leadership. Stern yet sincere, he is not afraid to express 
his thoughts and opinions to get the job done and is always looking out for 
Amidala's best interests. His dedication to Padmé and Naboo is unswerving 
He is an expert shot, despite the loss of his eye, and a capable pilot. 
Captain Typho CL8 
Medium Human soldier 5/noble 3 
Force 4 
Init +12; Senses Perception +11 
Languages Basic, Gunganese, High Galactic, Huttese 


Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 21), Fort 22, Will 23 

hp 70; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d6+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (4d6+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +7; Grp +10 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 
Special Actions Born Leader, Distant Command, Draw Fire, Harm's Way, 
Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Born Leader, Distant Command, Draw Fire, Harm's Way, 

Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Careful Shot, Deadeye, Improved 
Defenses, Linguist, Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill 
Training (Gather Information), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

is Gather tnformation +10, Initiative +12, Knowledge (tactics) +10, 
Perception +11, Pilot +12, Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, blast vest, comlink 


S 


ram 


Q 
és 
> 
a 
D 
0) 
ql 
W 
at] 
0) 


| BSBidvy7gd 


SUSLAVEVHS® f 


BOUNTY HUNTER 
Bounty Hunter CL 10 
Medium nonheroic 3/scout 4/bounty hunter 5 

Force 4; Dark Side 4 

Init +9; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, 1 other 


Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 23), Fort 24, Will 20 
hp 82; Threshold 24 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +12 (2d6+6) 

Ranged blaster carbine +13 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged stun grenade +13 (4d6+4 stun, 2-square burst} 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine), familiar foe +2, Hunter's Mark, 
Pin, Trip 

Special Actions Hunter's Target 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 17, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Special Qualities familiar foe +2 

Talents Acute Senses, Expert Tracker, Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target, 
Nowhere to Hide 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Training (Climb), Skill Training 
({Endurance], Skill Training [Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Training 
(Perception), Pin, Trip, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 
pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +13, Endurance +13, Gather Information +10 {can reroll when 
checking to locate a specific individual, must take second result), 
Knowledge (galactic lore} +12, Perception +12 (can reroll, must take 
second result), Survival +12 

Possessions vibroblade, blaster carbine, blaster pistol, 4 stun grenades, 
encrypted comlink, credit chip with 50 credits, electrobinoculars, glow 
rod, flight suit, field kit, binder cuffs, utility belt 


Bounty hunters occupy the ambiguous gray area between heroes and villains. 
For the most part, they are neither good nor evil: they just have a job to do. 
In some ways, bounty hunters perform a useful service, since they hunt down 
criminals and other fugitives, bringing them in dead or alive. However, bounty 
hunters rarely consider the ramifications of what they do or even care about 
whom they serve. To a bounty hunter, it almost never matters what a target 
is accused of or why there’s a bounty on his or her head. Bounty hunters are 
often employed by some of the most despicable villains in the galaxy. They 
can be found haunting the courts of Hutts, scouring the Outer Rim worlds 
for fugitive slaves, or toiling in the service of the Emperor. 


BOUNTY HUNTER ENCOUNTERS 
Although some bounty hunters prefer to go it alone, many farm small crews, 
with the most notorious member leading a small team of ordinary hunters. 
These groups form up for short times, usually until a job is done, but some- 
times they collapse when greed or grudges get in the way. Hunters are not 
reluctant to betray even those closest to them, making their alliances tenuous 
at best. Should a job turn sour, they might turn against one another, perhaps 
giving their prey the chance it needs to slip away. 

A typical bounty hunter encounter usually involves a skilled bounty hunter 
of note, supported by a crew of two to three minions. If you use any of the 
unigue bounty hunters described below, you can also use the generic bounty 
hunter (above] as a tough minion and the bounty hunter in the Saga Edition 
core rulebook as lesser minions. Bounty hunters who are intent on bringing 
back their marks dead rather than alive might pair up with an assassin to 
ensure that the job's done right. 


AURRA SING 

If cald detachment is a rule for bounty hunters, Aurra Sing is the excep- 
tion. Born to a spice addict on Nar Shaddaa, she had Force potential, a trait 
a mysterious Jedi known only as the Dark Woman discovered. Freed from 
the horrors of her birth world, she spent several years studying at the Jedi 


Temple in Coruscant, but her life would take another turn. While she was 
ona mission to Ord Namurt, star pirates captured young Sing, telling their 
prisoner that the Dark Woman had sold her to them. Sing was enraged and 
clung to the hate filling her heart, giving her the resolve to spend the rest 
of her life hunting Jedi. 

She learned much from the pirates. She became a pilot, a navigator, a 
killer, and a fighter. Her expertise worried the cutthroats and they thought 
she might turn against them, so at the first opportunity, they sold her to a 
Hutt named Wallanooga, who soon after turned her over to the Anzati, a 
oreed of alien vampires, to settle an old debt. These new masters saw in Sing 
a useful tool, and trained and altered her body to suit their purposes. When 
their modifications were complete, they set her loose on the galaxy, at which 
point she promptly returned to the Hutt and killed him in cold blood. 

Free for the first time, Aurra Sing did what she could to survive. She 
became a ruthless killer and bounty hunter, specializing in Jedi, whom she 
blamed for all of the ills in her life. With her training, talents with the Force, 
and augmentations given to her by her former Masters, she scoured count- 
less worlds in her search for her former mistress to get the revenge she so 
desperately craved. 
Aurra Sing CL 12 
Medium near-Human scoundrel 3/Jedi 2/scout 4/bounty hunter 3 
Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 12 
Init +14; Senses Perception +13; Force Perception 
Languages Basic, Bocce 
Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 26), Fort 27, Will 25; Elusive Target 
hp 94; Threshold 27 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+7) or 
Melee lightsaber +9 (3d8+7) with Rapid Strike 
Ranged slugthrower rifle +13 (2d8+6) or 
Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+6) or 
Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+6) and 

blaster pistol +8 (3d6+6) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 
Atk Options autofire (slugthrower rifle), Careful Shot, familiar foe 

+1, Melee Defense, Paint Blank Shot, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, 

Skirmisher, Sneak Attack +1d6 
Special Actions Gauge Force Potential 
Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13}: battle strike, Force slam, 

move object 
Abilities Str 13, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 14 
Special Qualities familiar foe +1 
Talents Acute Senses, Elusive Target, Improved Initiative, Force 

Perception, Gauge Force Potential, Skirmisher, Sneak Attack +1d6 


Feats Careful Shot, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Force Sensitivity", Force 
Training, Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Strike, Running 
Attack, Skill Training (Pilot), Skill Training (Survival), Skill Training 
(Use the Force), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons] 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Gather Information +13, Initiative +14 (can reroll, 
must take second result), Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Perception 
+13 (can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +134, Pilot +14, 
Stealth +14, Survival +12, Use the Force +13 (can reroll, must take 
second result) 

Possessions 5 lightsabers, slugthrower rifle with 4 clips, 2 blaster pistols, 
utility belt, flight suit, Rhen-Orm Biocomputer, ion-repulsorlift swoop, 
Corellian blockade runner (as Corellian corvette) 

H Human bonus feat or trained skill. 


RHEN-ORM BIOCOMPUTER 

The Anzati surgically implanted a biocomputer in Aurra Sing’s skull 
to expand her range of awareness and sense those who have uncom- 
mon “luck.” The computer processes information received from a long 
antenna that protrudes from her forehead. The result of this implant is 
that when Aurra Sing makes a Survival check to track an opponent, she 
adds ner quarry’s Force Point total as an equipment bonus to her checks. 
A Rhen-Orm Biocomputer must be installed by a character who has the 
Cybernetic Surgery feat, and is counted as a cybernetic prosthesis. 


BossK 

Born to the cruel Cradossk, leader of the Bounty Hunters Guild on Trandosha, 
Bossk made a name for himself hunting escaped Wookiee slaves, a danger- 
ous profession for just about any species aside from the Trandoshans. Bossk 
expanded his targets to include non-Wookiees, giving him fame and cred- 
ibility as a skilled bounty hunter. 

It was during these early years that Bossk had his first encounter with Han 
Solo and his partner Chewbacca, After cornering the pair on a planet that 
served as a refuge for escaped Wookiees, he tried to take Solo's partner alive, a 
deed that would certainly improve his standing among his peers. He failed, and 
Solo destroyed his ship, stranding the bounty hunter on the wretched planet 
and leading to the grudge that Bossk would carry for the rest of his days. 

When he finally escaped on the newly purchased Hound's Tooth, Bossk 
returned to nis homeworld to find the Bounty Hunters Guild in tatters. Bossk 
murdered his father and devoured his remains, just as the guild collapsed into 
two warring factions. The savagery of Bossk's act catapulted him to head of 
the Guild Reform Committee—those younger bounty hunters committed to 
the destruction of their rivals, the true guild, which they believed had long 
outlived its usefulness. 


SHeLavev7Aa 


SraLeyvyEvwAs) F) 1 


As the guild disintegrated, Darth Vader handpicked Bossk and other hunt- 
ers to hunt down the Millennium Falcon. Although Bossk’s fellows saw this as 
a great opportunity to bring in Han Solo—the bounty on his head was quite 
steep—Bossk wanted Chewbacca. His efforts ultimately failed as setback 
after setback, most of which were orchestrated by Boba Fett, brought him 
to the brink of ruin, culminating with a stint in prison. 


Bossk 

Medium Trandoshan scout §/soldier 3/bounty hunter 4 

Force 4; Dark Side 3 

Init +9; Senses darkvision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Dosh, Shyriiwook 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 30), Fort 28, Will 23; Dodge, 
Uncanny Dodge | 

hp 128; Threshold 28 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +14 (1d4+10) 

Ranged blaster rifle +13 (3d8+6) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +11 (4d8+6] with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged flamethrower +13 (3d6+6, 6-square cone) or 

Ranged stun grenade +13 (4d6+6 stun, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +13 (2d4+6) or 

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +11 (3d4+6) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +10; Grp +14 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), familiar foe +2, Hunter's Mark, 
Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Demolitionist, Hunter's Target, Shake It Off 


CL 12 


Abilities Str 18, Dex 17, Con 16, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Special Qualities familiar foe +2, limb regeneration (SE 31) 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Demolitionist, Hunter's Mark, 
Hunter's Target, Improved Initiative, Uncanny Dodge | 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Exotic Weapon Proficiency 
(flamethrower}, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Shake It Off, Skill 
Training (Endurance), Toughness, Vehicular Combat, Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +14, Initiative +9 (can reroll, must take second result), 
Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Mechanics +12, Perception +12 {can 
reroll, must take second result}, Pilot +14, Stealth +14, Survival +12 

Possessions blaster rifle, flamethrower with 2 chemical cartridges, 
grenade launcher with 10 stun grenades, sporting blaster pistol, 
padded flight suit (+3 armor), binder cuffs, utility belt, Haund’s Tooth 


Hound's Tooth 
Bossk flies a modified YV-666 light freighter. Its hangar holds a small scout 
ship called the Nashtah Pup, a modified Z-95 Headhunter (SG 160). 


Hound's Tooth 
Colossal* space transport 
Init -1; Senses Perception +12 


CL 12 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 30; +10 armor 

hp 180; DR 15; SR 60; Threshold 80 

[rule] 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,190 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged quad laser cannon +12 (see below) or 

Ranged medium concussion missile +12 (see below) 

Ranged ion cannon +12 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale}; Cover total 

Base Atk +10; Grp +55 

Abilities Str 50, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +7 


Crew 1 (Bossk); Passengers 4 prisoners 

Cargo 20 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 1 smail scout ship 

Payload 6 medium concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x1.5 (backup x6), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost not for sale 

* This ship is treated as a Gargantuan starfighter for the purpose of being 
targeted by capital ship weapons, dogfighting, and using starship 
maneuvers. 


Quad laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +12 (+7 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2 


Medium concussion missile (pilot) 
Atk +12, Dmg 8d10x2 


lon cannon (pilot) 
Atk +12, Dmg 6d10x?2 ion 


YANGO FETT 

Bounty hunter, assassin, and mercenary, in his day Jango Fett was one of 
the most feared individuals in the galaxy. After the death of his parents, 
Mandalorian warriors adopted, trained, and raised him, a debt he would 
repay when he led them during the Mandalorian Civil War. 

Perhaps the most important event in Jango Fett's long career was meeting 
Darth Tyranus. After chasing Komari Vosa, the former apprentice of Count 
Dooku, across the galaxy, Jango Fett finally caught up with her and killed 
her; this was no small feat, considering that the fallen Jedi was a skilled 
lightsaber duelist and a master of the Force. It turned out the entire enter- 
prise had been a test to see if Jango Fett would be a worthy candidate to 
become a template for a new clone army. Tyranus offered an incredible sum 
of money, but Fett’s true desire was an unmodified clone to raise himself, a 
clone ne would name Boba. 

Jango Fett spent the next decade devising training regimens for the 
clones, instructing them in Mandalorian culture and fighting techniques while 
seeing to the education and training of his “son.” During this time, Jango 
also undertook a variety of missions on behalf of Tyranus and occasionally 
others, including bounty hunting. 


Jango Fett CL 15 

Medium Human scout 3fscoundrel 3/soldier 3/gunslinger 3/bounty nunter 
2/elite trooper 1 

Destiny 1; Force 8; Dark Side 8 

Init +16; Senses low-light vision; Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Huttese 


Defenses Ref 37 (flat-footed 33), Fort 33, Will 29 

hp 104; Threshald 33 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares (jetpack) 

Melee combat gloves +15 (1d6+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +17 (4d6+8) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster pistol +14 (4d6+8) and 
blaster pistol +14 (4d6+8) or 

Ranged flamethrower gauntlet +17 (3d6+7, 6-square cone) or 

Ranged rocket dart +17 (3d6+7) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged saberdart +17 (1d4+7 plus poison) or 

Ranged whipcord +17 (grab) or 

Ranged missile launcher +17 (6d6+7} 

Base Atk +13; Grp +17 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Deadeye, familiar foe +1, Lucky Shot, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Trigger Work, Triple Crit (blaster 
pistol], trusty sidearm +1 

Special Actions Improved Quick Draw, Knack, Quick Draw, Shake It Off 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 18, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Special Qualities delay damage, familiar foe +1, trusty sidearm +1 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Exotic Weapon Mastery, 
Improved Armored Defense, Improved Initiative, Improved Quick Draw, 
Knack, Lucky Shot, Notorious, Trigger Work 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Careful Shot, Deadeye, Dua! 
Weapon Mastery I, Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Quick 
Draw, Rapid Shot, Shake It Off, Triple Crit (blaster pistol), Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +14, Initiative +16 (can reroll, must take second result), 
Knowledge (tactics) +14, Mechanics +14, Perception +16 (can reroll, 
must take second result), Persuasion +8 (can reroll when intimidating, 
must take second result), Pilot +16, Stealth +16, Survival +14 

Possessions combat gloves, 2 blaster pistols, flamethrower gauntlet with 
chemical cartridge, rocket dart launcher, saberdart launcher, whipcord, 
Mandalorian armor {+8 armor, +3 equipment; as battle armor with 
helmet package; 4 weapon attachments), flight suit, jet pack (with 
integrated missile launcher), antisecurity blades, Slave / {SG 85) 


| H¥SidvwHo 


=f] 


Sx LOVE 


SHeLevavAs) 


BRUTE 


Brute CL 1 
Medium nonheroic 3 

Dark Side 4 

Init +7; Senses Perception +0 


Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will 9 
hp 9; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d4) 
Ranged blaster carbine +4 (3d6) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +3 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine] 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 9, Cha 10 

Feats Toughness, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +7 

Possessions blaster carbine, tough-looking clothes 


Brutes are ubiquitous members of galactic society and can be found any- 
where, even on the most peaceful of planets. Brutes are typically crude 
and unsubtle, regardiess of whether they work for some crime lord or act 
independently. Most are motivated by a simple agenda—greed, power, fear 
of superiors, or even, on occasion, loyalty. They are rarely well armed or 
armored, making do with whatever they can find, although they constantly 
look to find something better (or rob Someone who has superior equipment), 
Brutes strive to gain more status and wealth and will do almost anything to 
get it, up to and including murder. In turn, brutes typically despise authority 
figures, esoecially police officers, military figures, and Jedi, 

The brute presented here could be a gun-toting gang member or an 
organized crime soldier. Alternatively, the statistics could also represent 
a militia member or a raw conscript who has little training (in which case, 
remove the Dark Side Score]. 


BRUTE ENCOUNTERS 
By their very nature, brutes can be found almost anywhere. They serve as 
nameless antagonists in every situation—from the high streets of Coruscant 
to the lowly slums of Tatooine. Brutes commonly travel in pairs or larger 
groups, each group representing a Street gang, a crime syndicate hit squad, 
ora tribe of warriors. By their very nature, brutes typically respond to threats 
or opposition with muscle and violence, but they can be swayed by intimida- 
tion, persuasion, or bribes. However, not all brutes are antagonistic—they 
can also be used as nameless allies and warriors on the side of the heroes. 
The brute works fine as a generic spearholder, cannon fodder to be used in 
the background, or an ordinary {if tough) nonplayer character for the GM to 

use throughout adventures. 
Encounters involving brutes typically occur at lower levels, where they are 
a threat to the heroes. When the heroes have advanced to 6th level or beyond, 
the number of brutes required to make a credible threat runs over a dozen, 
making them difficult to coordinate in combat. Thus, individual brutes should 
be scaled up to represent stronger threats, or another archetype should be 
cnosen. Alternatively, a group of brutes could be paired up with 
much powerful leaders (often with heroic levels) or droids 
equipped with serious firepower. 


BUREAUCRAT 


Bureaucrat CL 

Medium nonheroic 3 

Init +1; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, 1 other 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 10 

hp 6; Threshold 9 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d4-1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +2 (3d6) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 10, Can 8, Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 14 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), Skill Training (Knowledge 
[bureaucracy]], Skill Training (Perception), Skill Training (Use 
Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Deception +8, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +12, Perception +6, 
Persuasion +8, Use Computer +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, code cytinder, credit chip with 100 
credits, datapad 


Bureaucrats are minor officials who represent a government or a political 
paticy. From petty administrators attending backwater spaceports to the 
more prominent public servants in the Core Worlds, bureaucrats can be found 
wherever there is at least a semblance of civilization. Bureaucrats might fill 
a number of different roles, but they are all cogs in the political machine, 
and through their efforts, they ensure that the engines of society are well 
lubricated and in perfect working order. 

Ideally, a bureaucrat manages, governs, or oversees some process, but a 
great many use their political power for less idealistic reasons. Some bureau- 
crats see their positions as stepping stones to greater status, and therefore 
use every trick to climb the Jadder. Even bureaucrats who have no designs 
or ambitions beyond doing a good job tend to be self-important individuals, 
thinking that their role is far more important than it actually is. 


BUREAUCRAT ENCOUNTERS 

The bureaucrat represents a broad spectrum of characters who perform 
useful (or not so useful) services. Bureaucrats might be minor desk clerks 
whose job it is to sort out the arcane and esoteric information stored in 
mounds of datapads. Or they could be minor officials overseeing the comings 
and goings at a battle station. Although many encounters with bureaucrats 
might leave the player characters itching to loose a few well-olaced shots 
somewhere in the direction of a hapless administrator, a meeting with an 
bureaucrat should rarely end in violence. 


Bureaucrats can range from irritating obstacles to fonts of critical 
information. Fanatics dedicated to the letter of the law or those who covet 
a promotion and toady up to their superiors might be an insurmountable 
barrier, preventing the characters from pursuing a critical line of investiga- 
tion. Such encounters require the heroes to find creative ways around these 
characters, since blasting them could have repercussions. 

Of course, bureaucrats can also be useful allies. By dint of their position 
alone, they have access to information that might pertain to a mission, and 
if properly massaged, they could become a viable and consistent source of 
intelligence. 

Bureaucrats are often well protected, with security droids or security 
personnel never far away. Lesser bureaucrats might have a handful of mer- 
cenaries to watch over them, while high-ranking bureaucrats might enjoy 
the protection of a personal bodyguard in addition to a team of security 
specialists. When a fight breaks out, the bureaucrat is usually the first to 
head for the exit, leaving the conflict to the trained professionals. 


| ¥SLavHg 


_}—_—_—— 


Q 
sg 
D | 
on 
> 
Gy 
i 
oy 
0) 


SLeLaAvAvHS | 


COMMANDO 


Commando CL6 
Medium nonheroic 8/soldier 4 

Force 1 

Init +14; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, 1 other 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 16), Fort 20, Wil! 15 
hp 66: Threshold 20 


1 eSLeavHoD 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +12 (2d4+4) or 

Melee vibrodagger +10 (3d4+4} with Rapid Strike 

Ranged blaster rifle +13 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +11 (4d8+2) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (4d6+2) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Indomitable, Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 15, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Indomitable, Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Rapid Strike, 
Skill Training (Initiative), Skill Training (Stealth), Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +14, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Stealth +14 

Possessions blaster pistol, blaster rifle, commando armor (as armored 
flight suit, +5 armor), secure comlink 


A commando is a type of soldier who specializes in fighting in hostile and 
dangerous environments, undertaking difficult missions for which regular 
troops lack the training and equipment. Most commandos go to deadly 
worlds, planets that feature harsh environmental conditions, where they are 
expected to drop in, engage the enemy, and get the job done. Sometimes 
commandos precede regular ground troops to clear a well-quarded area 
of enemy forces before the body of the troops lands. Experts in stealth, 
demolitions, and hit-and-run tactics, commandos are a vital part of any 
army’s forces. 


COMMANDO ENCOUNTERS 

Commando teams consist of smal! groups of two to four individuals under 
the command of an officer, usually a squad leader or an elite warrior. For 
larger missions, several teams might work together, splitting up to achieve 
smaller objectives that are related to tackling a larger problem. Such large 


strike teams are reserved for the most deadly and important missions, usually 
to destroy a vital communications array, sabotage a warship, or seize vital 
intelligence about an enemy's plans. 

Commandos in an encounter should be devastating opponents, setting up 
ambushes against the player characters and using the terrain and environ- 
ment to their benefit. They strike fast and hard before melting away, disap- 
pearing into the surroundings. Cammandos often employ hit-and-run tactics 
to chip away at their opponents’ resources rather than Face their adversaries 
head-on. In fact, such groups might circle around their opponent's position 
to disrupt supply lines and destroy support (or escape) vehicles. 

Commandos can also serve as supplemental forces for a group of high- 
level characters. As highly trained specialists, commandos might compensate 
for the heroes’ weaknesses when they are dealing with difficult objectives, 
covering them while they work toward completing their mission goal. 


SQUAD LEADER 

Commandos rarely work alone, though they do tend to function best in 
small squads with defined roles. Commando squad leaders usually have 
some officer training and are skilled at making snap decisions in the heat of 
battle. A commando squad leader makes it his first goa! to ensure that the 
mission is completed with as few casualties as possible. Squad leaders not 
only inspire the commandos in their squad, they also ensure that they carry 
out their assigned mission. 


Commando Squad Leader CL 10 
Medium nonheroic 8/soldier 5/officer 3 

Force i 

Init +16; Senses Perception +14 


Languages Basic, 1 other 


Elite Commando CL 14 
Medium soldier 14 

Force 4 

Init +14; Senses Perception +7 


Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 21), Fort 24, Will 23 

hp 93; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +16 (2d4+6} 

Ranged blaster rifle +17 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +15 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (5d8+4) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged blaster pistol +17 (3d6+4) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +15 (4d644] with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +14; Grp +17 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Burst Fire, Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Indomitable, Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Tough as Nails) 

Talents Armored Defense, Assault Tactics, Indomitable, Tactical Edge, 
Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency [light), Burst Fire, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Skill Training (Initiative], Skill Training (Stealth), Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +16, Knowledge (tactics) +14, Perception +14, Stealth +16 

Possessions blaster pistol, blaster rifle, commando armor {as armored 
flight suit, +5 armor], secure comlink 


Evite COMMANDO 

Elite commandos are the most skilled veterans of combat in many armies. 
An elite commando has seen more missions than many squads combined, 
and he has learned from his experiences and become a formidable soldier. 
Elite commandos often embady the phrase “one-man army” in that they can 
often accomplish any mission with only a blaster and basic supplies. Elite 
commandos are extremely deadly and difficult to stop once they embark on 
a mission, and they are equally at home in remote reaches of the galaxy as 
they are in the urban jungles of the Core Worlds. 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 29), Fort 29 (+32 against extremes of cold 
and heat), Will 24 
hp 129; Threshold 29 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrobayonet +15 (2d6+8]) 

Ranged blaster pistol +16 (3d6+7) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+7) and 
blaster pistol +11 (3d6+7) with Double Attack or 

Ranged blaster rifle +17 (3d8+7) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +12 (5d8+7] with Burst Fire 

Base Atk +14; Grp +16 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Burst Fire, Charging Fire, Coordinated 
Attack, Cover Fire, Double Attack (pistols), Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Triple Crit (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Demolitionist 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 9 

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Cover Fire, Demolitionist (2), 
Improved Armored Defense, Juggernaut 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Charging Fire, 
Coordinated Attack, Double Attack (pistals}, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Skil Training (Stealth), Toughness, Triple Crit {blaster rifle), 
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, 
heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +13, Initiative +14, Knowledge (tactics) +12, Mechanics 
+12, Stealth +14 

Possessions blaster pistol, blaster rifle (with vibrobayonet, folding stock, 
and targeting scope), battle armor (+8 armor, +2 equipment), 1 
explosive charge, 2 blacks of detonite with 2 timers, secure comlink, 
field kit, glow rad, medpac, utility belt 


Svea LeVvyvyvAs) |} vaLadwHo 


Sve LevevAe) 


| eSLagwHa 


CON ARTIST 
Con Artist CL 3 
Medium nonheroic 3/scoundrel 2 

Force 1; Dark Side 1 

Init +8; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, 2 others 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 11, Will 13 
hp 11; Threshold 11 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +2 (144) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +4 (3d4+1) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Disruptive 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con 9, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Talents Disruptive 

Feats Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus 
(Persuasion), Skill Training [Initiative], Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons] 

Skills Deception +13, Gather Information +8, Initiative +8, Persuasion +13 

Possessions knife, hold-out blaster pistol, cheater, code cylinder, 
concealed holster, credit chip with 200 credits 


A sucker is born every minute, which is just the way the con artist likes it. By 
defrauding, deceiving, and lying to his marks, a con artist survives by tricking 
naive rubes out of their hard-earned credits. Most con artists are small-time 
crooks. These individuals might sell fraudulent goods, peddiing junk that they 
try to pass off as the next big thing. They deal in stolen goods, rubbish, lies, 
and just about anything else they think they can sell. 

Although many con artists prefer a quick turnaround—they meet a mark, 
deceive that target, take the credits, and disappear all within a few min- 
utes—the dangerous con artists are the ones who play the long con. These 
experienced grifters pick a mark and set up an elaborate cover meant to play 
to the mark's expectations. Once they have gained their target's confidence, 
they pull off the crime, usually walking away with a considerable fortune. 


CON ARTIST ENCOUNTERS 

Most brushes with a con artist wind up being irritating setbacks, minor 
annoyances that impart a valuable lesson: Trust no one you don't know. It’s 
a big galaxy, after all, and people need to make a living even if it’s by shady 
means. In time (and perhaps after not too many lost credits), the heroes will 
know how to spot these tricksters and steer clear of them. The problem is that 
only the least talented con artists try the same trick repeatedly. The real slick 


types are the ones who know every game in the book, who are comfortable 
setting up long and elaborate cons that leave the characters scratching their 
heads in wonder about what just happened to them. 

Common con artists work alone or in small groups, since dividing up the 
spoils leaves little for the crew when the stakes are not great in the first 
place. The long con artists work in larger teams, with each member playing 
a particular part in the deception to guide their victim in the direction they 
want. Often, these teams feature individuals who have differing talents, 
including technicians and traders, but these crews could include just about 
anyone. 

Con artists prefer to avoid violent encounters and thus are careful 
about the victims they select. They don’t usually keep company with thugs 
and brutes, since these folks lack the finesse and subtiety needed for their 
profession. Instead, con artists protect themselves with blackmail and 
threats, or better still, by leaving the victim so befuddled that he has no 
idea what just happened. 


CRIME LORD 


Crime Lord CL 12 

Medium noble 7/scoundre! 2/crime lord 3 

Force 2; Dark Side 14 

Init +7; Senses Perception +18 

Languages Basic, High Galactic, Rodese, 6 others 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 25), Fort 22, Will 29 

hp 47; Threshold 29 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +9 (2d6+6) 

Ranged sporting blaster +9 (3d4+6) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +9 

Atk Options Improved Disarm, Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, 

Sneak Attack +1d6 

Special Actions Born Leader 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 8, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 18 

Special Qualities command cover 

Talents Attract Minion, Born Leader, Connections, Distant Command, 
Educated, tnspire Fear |, Notorious, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Feats Improved Defenses, Improved Disarm, Linguist, Melee Defense, 
Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Gather 
Information), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Persuasion], Weapon 
Focus {advanced melee weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +20, Gather Information +20, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+14, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, Perception +18, Pilot +12, 
Persuasion +20 (can reroll when intimidating, must take second result), 
Ride +12, Use Computer +14 

Possessions sporting blaster, antique vibroblade, datapad, encrypted 
comlink, enforcers (including several thugs and an 8th-level minion), 
fine quality clothing, 5,000 credits 


Not all crime lords are brutish thugs who crack heads to get things done. The 
crime lord described here is a well-educated, cosmopolitan individual raised 
in the upper crust of society. Blessed with a sense of refinement and class, 
this crime lord also has an overwhelming ego and a sense of entitlement 
that drives him to acquire wealth through underhanded methods, especially 
techniques that humiliate the victim as well as ruin him financially. On the 
surface, this crime lard is sophisticated, witty, and charming, out underneath, 
he is cold, calculating, and cruel. Surrounded by beautiful objects and attrac- 
tive people, he craves the new, exotic, and dangerous, going to great lengths 
to acquire anything that catches his fancy. 

Although trained in ranged weapons, this crime lord carries an exquisite 
antique vibroblade and finds great pleasure in dueling with worthy opponents 


or gutting lowly minions to test his skills. Because of his twisted sense of 
honor, he enjoys using dirty tactics to catch his adversary off guard before 
delivering the killing stroke. 


CRIME LORD ENCOUNTERS 

This crime lard is likely to be encountered in the upper echelons of society, 
playing sabacc in fine casinos, fraternizing with holovid stars, or dining 
in top-notch restaurants—all the while wheeling and dealing with various 
contacts. In these types of locales, the crime lord is likely to be surrounded 
by hordes of sycophants and hangers-on, making combat a risky (and highly 
visible} prospect. Considering himself a “respected businessman,” the crime 
lord is likely to use legal methods first, augmented by his considerable con- 
nections and influence, to bring the law to bear on anyone that causes him 
even an inkling of trouble. If that fails, the crime lord unleashes his goons 
and hired personnel, trashing the neroes’ base of operations, setting them 
up for blackmail, and wrecking their reputation. 

This crime lord could also be a patron of sorts, calling upon the heroes to 
acquire some rare, hard-to-get art object or to do other “favors.” Ever on the 
lookout for capable individuals, he might even try to recruit the heroes into 
his organization, offering them generous amounts of wealth and orivilege—all 
for a price, of course. 


| eSatagvT1gd 


SHIeaLeaVvavAS) 


U 


SvSLeVeEVAs) 


BLACK SUN VIGQ 


The Black Sun is an enormous criminal venture that has incredible power. 
Its influence pervades almost every aspect of society, with tendrils of cor- 
ruption seeping into the government. Its two primary sources of income are 
piracy and smuggling, although the Black Sun has its fingers in every illicit 
activity possible. A single boss controls the Black Sun, designating power 
to nine Vigos (an old Tionese term for the word “nephew"), each of whom 


controls his own sector and region of influence. 


Most Vigos cultivate an air of nobility, taste, and culture, which only their 
immense wealth and power can provide. The Vigo presented here does not 
fit that category. Brutish, tough, and absolutely merciless, he controls his 
criminal empire by breaking heads and using force to take what he wants. 
Although perfectly capable of negotiating or using persuasion, a Black Sun 


Vigo prefers the sort of diplomacy that comes out the end of his gun. 
Black Sun Vigo CL 14 
Medium Radian soldier 6/scoundrel 1/crime lord 7 

Force 3; Dark Side 10 

Init +15; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Rodese, 2 others 


Black Sun Vigo 

Medium Bith scoundrel 7/crime lord 5/gunslinger 2 
Force 4; Dark Side 14 

Init +14; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Bith, Huttese 


CL 14 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 28), Fort 24, Will 30 
hp 65; Threshold 24 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +14 (3d8+8) 

Base Atk +11; Grp +13 

Atk Options Deceptive Shot, Lucky Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Running Attack, Skirmisher 

Special Actions evolved intellect, Fool's Luck, Impel Ally |, Impel Ally It 


Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 26), Fort 26, Will 29 
hp 92; Threshold 26 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee pistol whip +11 (1d6+7) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +14 (3d8+9) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +9 (3d8+9) and 
heavy blaster pistol +9 (3d8+9) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +11; Grp +14 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack (pistols), Point Blank Shot, 
Sneak Attack +1d6 

Special Actions Indomitable, Presence, Weaken Resolve 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Special Qualities command cover 

Talents Attract Minion (2), Gun Club, Indomitable, Inspire Fear |, Inspire 
Fear Il, Notorious, Presence, Sneak Attack +1d6, Weaken Resolve, 
Weapon Specialization (pistols) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Combat Reflexes, Double Attack (pistols), Point 
Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Gather Information), 
Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Focus (Survival), Skill Training (Gather 
Information), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons} 

Skills Acrobatics +15, Deception +18, Gather Information +18, Initiative 
+15, Knowledge (galactic lore) +15, Perception +13, Persuasion +13 
(can reroll when intimidating, must take second result}, Survival +18 

Possessions heavy blaster, datapad, encrypted comlink, enforcers 
(numerous thugs plus 2 11th-level minions), 2,000 credits 


Abilities Str 9, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover, evolved intellect, heightened 
awareness, meditative trance, trusty sidearm +1 

Talents Deceptive Shot, Fool's Luck, Impel Ally |, Impei Ally I, Inspire Fear 
|, Inspire Fear Il, Inspire Fear Ill, Knack, Lucky Shot, Skirmisher 

Feats Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery II, Dual Weapon 
Mastery III, Quick Draw, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running 
Attack, Skill Focus (Deception), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Deception +20, Gather Information +15, Initiative 
+14, Perception +14 (can reroll, must take second result), Stealth +14 

Possessions 2 heavy blaster pistols, comlink, dark clothing, datapad, 500 
credits, various personal belongings 


BitTH SPECIES TRAITS 
All Bith have the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, -2 Constitution. Bith have highly 
evolved minds but are physically frail. 

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Bith have na special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Bith base speed is 6 squares. 

Evolved Intellect: Once per encounter, a Bith can treat any single 
Intelligence-based skill check as though it were a natural 20 on the 
die. 

Heightened Awareness: A Bith can choose to reroll any Perception 
check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Meditative Trance: Bith gain all of the benefits of resting for 8 hours 
after 4 hours of meditation, including natural healing and removing 
persistent conditions. 

Automatic Languages: Bith. 


Black Sun Vigo Encounters 

The Black Sun Vigo represents a perfect “boss” to be confronted at the end 
of an adventure, after the heroes have faced hordes of thugs and minions. 
Thanks to his vast wealth, a Black Sun Vigo can arm his enforcers with the 
best weapons, armor, and vessels to make life miserable for anyone that rubs 
him the wrong way. Unlike the crime lord described above, this Black Sun Vigo 
prefers getting into a scrap to "make an example" of his enemies, but is smart 
enough to make a tactical retreat if things go wrong. He rules through fear 
and intimidation, demanding utter subservience from his minions, and has 
little compunction about sending them into potentially suicidal situations. 

In addition to dozens or potentially hundreds of thugs at his command, a 
bodyguard, elite warrior, or martial artist to serve as his "heavy" to intimi- 
date people and break heads could also accompany the Black Sun Vigo. He 
also makes use of numerous specialists such as medics, pilots, slicers, and 
technicians to complete various illegal tasks or to help support his immense 
staff. 

Considering their vast wealth and prestige, Black Sun Vigos often have 
access to fast ships armed to the teeth, and many keep small fleets of fight- 
ers to protect their strongholds or to be used as raiders when piracy is the 
goal for the day. 


HutTT CRIME LORD 

Hutts embody many of the traits that make ideal crime lords—ambition, 
ruthlessness, greed, and a massive ego. In fact, most citizens of the galaxy 
immediately equate Hutts with a life of crime, a reputation that most Hutts 
foster and appreciate. The Hutt crime lord despises both physical labor and 
personal combat, leaving such tasks to slaves and hired thugs. The Hutt 
crime lord presented here is armed, but uses his blaster only when things go 
horribly wrong. He uses his treasured stun baton freely, however, shocking 
slaves that move too slowly or bashing in the brains of any minions that fail 
to appease him. 


Hutt Crime Lord CL 11 
Large Hutt noble 5/scoundrel 2/crime lord 4 

Force 3; Dark Side 13 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +18 

Languages Basic, Huttese, 8 others 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 21), Fort 24, Will 29 {34 against mind- 
influencing effects) 
hp 90; Threshold 29 


Speed 1 square 

Melee stun baton +6 (2d6+5 stun} 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +12 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Demand Surrender, Fool's Luck, Presence, 
Weaken Resolve 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 6, Con 14, Int 18, Wis 16, Cha 18 

Special Qualities command cover, Force resistance 

Talents Attract Minion, Born Leader, Demand Surrender, Fool's Luck, 
Inspire Fear {, Notorious, Presence, Weaken Resolve 

Feats Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus 
(Deception), Skill Focus (Gather Information), Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[bureaucracy], Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic lore]}, Skill Focus 
(Perception), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +19, Initiative +8, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +19, Knowledge (galactic lore) +19, Knowledge (social 
sciences} +14, Knowledge (tactics) +14, Knowledge (technology) +14, 
Persuasion +19 (can reroll when intimidating, must take second result), 
Use Computer +14 

Possessions blaster pistol, stun baton, enforcers (several thugs plus 1 8th- 
level minion} 


Hutt Crime Lord Encounters 

Most Hutts prefer to handle their affairs through proxies, rarely if ever 
exiting the safety and comfort of their fortresslike headquarters. Heroes 
who are forced to face a Hutt crime lord often do so at the Hutt's advan- 
tage—a crime lord's home is riddled with traps, barriers, escape routes, and 
dozens of heavily armed minions. Hutts are also fond of keeping dangerous 
pets—the dreaded rancor being just one possibility—and delight in watch- 
ing victims feebly try to defend themselves for the amusement of the Hutt 
and his sycophants. One way to gain entry into a Hutt's fortified base is to 
present oneself as a gladiator for hire, allowing someone to be both armed 
and relatively close to the Hutt during combat. 


| eSBLavHoa 


Q 
5 
a 
> 
® 
J 
w) 
2 
0 | 


HSiaWwHO 


| 
| 


z 


SYIOLEVUVHE) 


DARK JEDI 


Dark Jedi CL7 

Medium Jedi 7 

Force 8; Dark Side 14 

Init +5; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 18, Lightsaber Defense 22), Fort 18, Will 20: 
Deflect 

hp 66; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +9 (2d8+6) or 

Melee lightsaber +7 (3d8+6) with Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Cleave, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Lightsaber Defense, Power of the Dark Side 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): battle strike, dark rage, 

Force siam 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Talents Deflect, Lightsaber Defense, Power of the Dark Side, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Cleave, Force Sensitivity, Farce Training, Martial Arts |, Rapid Strike, 
Skill Focus (Use the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +10, Use the Force +15 

Possessions lightsaber, dark-colored Jedi robes 


Embracing the light side of the Force is the Jedi Order, guardians of peace and 
justice in the galaxy. Surrendering to the dark side and opposing the Jedi are 
the enigmatic Sith. The Dark Jedi, not truly belonging to either organization, 
fall somewhere in the middie of that ancient canflict. 

Those Force-users who claim to be Dark Jedi are, for the most part, former 
members of the Jedi Order who succumbed to the temptation of the dark side 
and left the Order. Many who leave the ranks of the Jedi isolate themselves 
to learn and experiment with the Force, but others do find one versed in 
the ways of the dark side to complete their training. Some of them are even 
seduced by the Sith to serve under them with the hope of furthering their 
knowledge of the Force. 

However, some of those classified as Dark Jedi might be Force-sensitive 
individuals who have never been trained by the Jedi and actually began their 
instruction under another Dark Jedi. Still others might not have started life 
being sensitive to the Force and were granted the ability artificially. In any 
case, Dark Jedi pose a significant threat to freedom throughout the galaxy 
by opposing those who have sworn to protect it. 


\ 


\ 


‘\ 


DARK JEDI ENCOUNTERS 
The potential for Dark Jedi to be located anywhere in the galaxy 2 

is high. Since a large number of them live by themselves to follow 

their dark pursuits, one could choose just about any planet to make 

his home and settle in. Whether they decide to live an urban lifestyle or 
establish themselves in the wilderness, Dark Jedi will locate a haven and 
make themselves difficult to detect, if they so choose. Historically, they have 
been found in such locales as the forests of Dathomir, the hidden caverns of 
Wayland, the Separatist fleet under the command of Count Dooku, and the 
halls of the Imperial capital serving the Emperor himself, enforcing the will 
of their master throughout the galaxy. 

Although Dark Jedi might live alone, many make astonishing connections 
to accomplish their goals. Some will seek out and serve under masters of 
the dark side of the Force, such as a Dark Jedi Master or a Sith Lord, while 
others will go the other direction and recruit non-Force-using individuals 
such as mercenaries or pirates, making themselves the master of the Force 
within the group. Others might try to pass themselves off as true Jedi and 
associate themselves with diplomats and politicians in legitimate govern- 
ments, using the institution's backing to reach their objectives without fear 
of crossing the local authorities. 


Facing a Dark Jedi in battle is a risky venture at dest, considering the 
resources at that individual's disposal. The dark side of the Force combined 
with anger or passion can cause even skilled Jedi to balk momentarily. 
Whether by himself or with supporters, a Dark Jedi enters combat with little 
hesitation and tends to focus his energy on Force-using heroes who oppose 
him before turning on any others, using his lightsaber and any offensive 
Force powers to quickly finish the fight. Most Dark Jedi have little sense of 
honor and will retreat to fight another day when the battle turns against 
them, sometimes leaving their associates behind. 


THE REBORN 

The Reborn is the achievement of the dream of artificially imbuing the ability 
to perceive and manipulate the Force into beings that didn't have it before. 
Working as Dark Jedi warriors, the Reborn serve as the foot soldiers of the 
faction known as the Empire Reborn, dedicated to returning the ideals of 
Emperor Palpatine back to the galaxy at large. 

The Reborn originated with Desann, one of Luke Skywalker's former 
students at tne Jedi Praxeum who fell to the dark side, and Hethrir, a former 
apprentice to Darth Vader and servant of the Emperor. By deceiving Kyle 
Katarn into giving away the location of the Valley of the Jedi and the Farce 
nexus located there, Hethrir increased his powers fourfold by absorbing 
energy from ancient Jedi and Sith spirits. After gaining that power, the two 
Dark Jedi were able to imbue others with the power of the Force and use them 
as warriors to threaten the New Republic and Skywalker's New Jedi Order. 

Dispatched by Desann and the Empire Reborn, the Reborn worked in con- 
junction with units of the Imperial Army to perform various missions across 
the galaxy. Desann used these missions not only to further the cause of the 
Empire Reborn but also to help train the Reborn for Desann’s ultimate goal: 
the death of Skywalker and the destruction of his Jedi. They were stopped 
by Kyle Katarn and Rogue Squadron. 

Ashort time later, those Reborn who survived the assault assembled under 
the leadership of Tavion Axmis, Desann's apprentice. With the assistance 
of the Imperial Remnant, Tavion created a Sith cult called the Disciples of 
Ragnos and named it the New Reborn. Striving to continue Desann's work, 
the cultists eventually made their way to Korriban, where they were defeated 
within the ancient Sith tombs in the Valley of the Dark Lords by Jaden Korr 
and a band of Jedi from Skywalker's academy. 

The Reborn are easily recognized by their orange cloaks and simple, red- 
bladed lightsabers. Even though they have been granted the ability to use 
the Force, their aptitude to wield it is not very strong, but their ability with 
the lightsaber compensates for this shortcoming. 


The Reborn 

Medium Human nonneroic 6 
Dark Side 12 

Init +9; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 12, Will 11; Dodge 
hp 19; Threshold 12 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +5 (2d8+4) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +7): battle strike (2) 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 12, Cha 9 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Skill Training (Use the 
Force), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons} 

Skills Endurance +8, Initiative +9, Perception +9, Use the Force +7 

Possessions lightsaber, orange cloak 


j esiavyo 


: 


SHeaLoeaVevnga 


| HeLagwHoD 


) 
|| 2 
1] > 
a 

> 

Q 

oj 

Uy 

ay 

0) 


DARK JEDI MASTER 


Dark Jedi Master 

Medium Jedi 9/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 3 

Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 18; Strong in the Force 
Init +20; Senses Perception +20; Force Perception 
Languages Basic 


CL 17 


Defenses Ref 32 (flat-footed 31), Fort 30, Will 31: Block, Deflect, Dodge 
hp 135; Threshold 30 
Immune fear 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+12] or 

Melee lightsaber +19 (3d8+12] with Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +17; Grp +19 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Triple Crit 
(lightsaber) 

Special Actions Power of the Dark Side, Redirect Shot, serenity, 
Telekinetic Power, Telekinetic Savant 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): battle strike (3), dark rage, 
Force grip (2), Force lightning (2), Force slam (2), Force thrust (2), 
move object, rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Force 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Quicken Power 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con 12, tnt 10, Wis 18, Cha 14 

Special Qualities serenity 

Talents Block, Deflect, Force Intuition, Force Perception, Power of the 
Dark Side, Redirect Shot, Swift Power, Telekinetic Power, Telekinetic 
Savant, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), 
Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the 
Force, Triple Crit (lightsaber), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons] 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Initiative +20, Perception +20, Use the Force +20 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes, utility belt with medpac 


The Dark Jedi are Force-attuned individuals who reject the teachings of the 
Jedi and, for some, the Sith. Most are fallen Jedi who have failed to live up 
to the ideals and lifestyle of the Jedi and instead embrace the baser emo- 
tions that lead to corruption and evil. Every Dark Jedi is a tragedy, a terrible 
shame that stains the illustrious history of the Jedi Order, but when a Jedi 
Master falls, it is a tragedy beyond compare. 


NEw DARK SIDE TALENT: 
DRAIN KNOWLEDGE 
The following talent is part of the Dark Side talent tree (SE 101). 

Drain Knowledge: As a standard action, you can spend a Force Point 
to drain the knowledge of an enemy you touch; you must succeed ona 
Use the Force check (DC equal to the target's Will Defense} to activate 
this talent, and if you fail to activate this talent, you may not try again 
on the same target for one day. If successful, you immediately become 
trained in one skill that the target is trained in; if you are already trained 
in that skill, you instead gain Skill Focus in that skill. This training or 
focus lasts for one day. Additionally, your target moves -1 persistent step 
along the condition track, and the persistent condition can be removed 
only by resting for 8 hours. 

Additionally, you can choose to instead sift through the mind of 
the target, looking for a specific piece of knowledge or information. 
Doing so requires you to make a Perception check against the target's 
Will Defense; success indicates that you pull the relevant information 
from the target's mind. When you do so, you do not gain the training 
or focus normally granted by this talent, but otherwise the talent func- 
tions as normal. 

Using this talent increases your Dark Side Score by 1. 


DARK JEDI MASTER 
ENCOUNTERS 

Dark Jedi Masters are excellent high-level villains for just about any era. Since 
Dark Jedi are not bound by the Rule of Two that limits the number of Sith in 
the galaxy, Dark Jedi Masters can coexist with the Emperor and any of his 
apprentices (Darth Maul, Darth Tyranus, or Darth Vader). Dark Jedi Masters 
have their own Dark Jedi apprentices, and there's no limit to the number of 
cronies they might employ. 

Although many Dark Jedi Masters have grand designs of their own, 
hatching evil plots in the shadows of the galaxy, some, such as Jerec {see 
below), are actually in the employ of the Sith, serving as Imperial Inquisitors, 
Hands of the Emperor, or in just about any other capacity the Dark Lord of 
the Sith can conceive. 


wEREC 
Asa Jedi, Jerec learned the fundamentals of the Force, and more important, 
he learned the value and power of knowledge. 

When the opportunity arose for him to lead a team of Jedi into the 
Unknown Regions in search of lost artifacts, he took it, never suspecting (or 
caring, if he did suspect) the growing trouble in the Republic. While he was 
away, the Clone Wars raged, the Republic collapsed, and the Emperor emerged 
as the undisputed master of the galaxy. So when Jerec returned, nearly 
reaching Coruscant, he was shocked to find himself captured by an Imperial 
Inquisitor. His story might have ended there, had it not been for his willingness 
to set aside his loyalties and embrace the dark side of the Force. 

Jerec languished in Palpatine's employ. Loathing Darth Vader, he sought 
ways to discredit his rival and supplant him, but the Emperor would have none 
of it. During the Rebellion against the Empire, Jerec served as an Imperial 
Inquisitor, hunting down his former comrades and destroying them wherever 
he found them. He managed to avoid the collapse of his masters’ reign when 
the Emperor was finally defeated by the Rebellion. 
Jerec CL 19 
Medium Miraluka Jedi 10/Jedi Knight 2/Jedi Master 2/noble 5 
Destiny 2; Force 7; Dark Side 16; Strong in the Force 
Init +17; Senses Force sight; Perception +17; Force Perception 
Languages Basic, Bocce, High Galactic, Huttese, Miralukese, Zabrak 
Defenses Ref 36 (flat-footed 33, Lightsaber Defense 38), Fort 35, Will 36; 

Block, Deflect, Dodge 
hp 144; Threshold 35 
immune fear 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee lightsaber +20 (2d8+11} or 
Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+11) and 

lightsaber +17 (2d8+11) with Double Attack or 
Melee vibroblade +20 (2d6+11) 


Base Atk +17; Grp +20 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Double Attack (lightsabers), Melee 
Defense, Running Attack, Whirlwind Attack 

Special Actions Drain Knowledge, Lightsaber Defense, Power of the Dark 
Side, Quick Draw, serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): battle strike, dark rage, 
farseeing, Force grip, Force lightning (2), Force slam, mind trick, move 
object, negate energy, rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Improved Telepathy 

Force Secrets Multitarget Power 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 17, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Special Qualities Force sight, serenity 

Talents Block, Connections, Deflect, Drain Knowledge, Force Perception, 
Lightsaber Defense (2), Multiattack Proficiency (lightsabers), Power of 
the Dark Side, Wealth 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force 
Sensitivity, Force Training (2], Improved Defenses, Linguist, Melee 
Defense, Quick Draw, Running Attack, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill 
Training (Gather Information), Strong in the Force, Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, lightsabers, simple weapons), Whirlwind 
Attack 

Skills Acrobatics +17, Gather Information +17, Knowledge (galactic lore] 
+16, Initiative +17, Perception +17, Persuasion +17, Use the Force +17 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), vibroblade 


! 
SHeaLavHIvHa) [i esleavHo 
L 
Th 


0 
I 
>| 
|v 
14 | 
® 
2 


SvaLeavevA|a 


DARK SIDE ADEPT 


Dark Side Adept CL6 
Medium nonheroic 3/noble 5 

Force 2: Dark Side 14 

Init +4; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, 3 others 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 19 
hp 26; Threshold 15 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +5 (3d4+2) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +5 

Special Actions Dark Presence, Power of the Dark Side, Presence 
Farce Powers Known (Use the Force +10): dark rage, mind trick, surge 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Talents Dark Presence, Power of the Dark Side, Presence 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Linguist, Skill Training (Knowledge 
[galactic lore], Persuasion}, Skill Training (Use Computer), Skill Training 
(Use the Force], Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Perception +11, 
Persuasion +10, Use Computer +10, Use the Force +10 

Possessions knife, hold-out blaster pistol 


This dark side adept represents the hangers-on, sycophants, and ambitious 
bureaucrats who curried the Emperor's favor after the disintegration of the 
Senate. The Emperor intended to train a new breed of noble, one completely 
subservient to the dark side, to replace the planetary governors who were 
hoping to have a more direct hand in his control over the galaxy. Many of 
his subjects were drawn from the fawning Senators and other officials who 
had long been loyal to Palpatine's government and continued to serve their 
Emperor after the demise of the Republic. Each would-be servant received 
rudimentary instruction in the Emperor's vision of the Force until the cor- 
ruption in their bodies matched that in their spirits. 


PRIMITIVE DARK SIDE ADEPT 

There are many more Force traditions than those upheld by the Jedi or twisted 
by the Sith. On a primitive world, the indigenous species might ‘earn of the 
Force in a variety of ways. In some cases, the Force serves as magic, sorcery 
that's misunderstood; for others, the Force is the will of the gods. But for 
a few, the Force is an expedient energy source that allows them to further 
their own ambitions. 

Primitive dark side adepts are savage Force-users who exploit the Force 
for their own wicked ends. Such characters could use their powers to take 
over their tribe and exert their will through terrifying methods, ruling through 
fear and destruction. Others might support powerful warlords, using their 
dark magic to augment and enhance their master's abilities. Regardless of 
the role, these dark side adepts are dangerous, for they often have no idea 
what it is they do. 


DARK SIDE ADEPT 
ENCOUNTERS 

Dark side adepts fill many roies in the galaxy, representing everything from 
foul warlocks twisted by hatred and fear to carefully cultivated elite warriors 
who exist only to serve the whim of the Emperor. What unites them is that 
none of them subscribe to a particular Force tradition. 

The typical dark side adept is a minion, a crony in Service to a higher and 
darker Force-user. Many dark side adepts are politicians and bureaucrats 
whom the Emperor or some other dark side wielder has singled out because 
of their unique skills. Such individuals are loyal to the Emperor, but rarely to 
each other, and they are quick to use treachery to advance their standing 
in the eyes of their master. 

Primitive dark side adepts might enjoy the support and protection of 
their savage people or they might be shunned, cast out and forced to live 
in isolation. In the case of the former, a dark side adept could emerge as 
a Significant threat, using his Force powers to bend others to his will and 
spread his wickedness throughout the land. In the case of the latter, though, 
the dark side adept seeks revenge, turning his fear into a powerful weapon 
and dominating the minds of dangerous predators and queer creatures to 
serve as his soldiers. 


The more powerful dark side adepts can become major villains in their own 
right. Since they are not a part of a Force tradition, they lack the support 
of other Force-users. Instead, they build their strength through mundane 
means, by hiring mercenaries, bounty hunters, and assassins. 


Primitive Dark Side Adept CL9 
Medium scout 7/Force adept 2 

Force 6; Dark Side 15 

Init +9; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 21), Fort 23, Will 25; Dodge, Mobility 

hp 76; Threshold 23 

Resist Evasion 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee force pike +5 (2d8+3) 

Ranged slugthrower rifle +6 (2d8+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire (slugthrower rifle), Channel Aggression 

Special Actions Damage Reduction 10, Power of the Dark Side, 
Shake It Off, Telekinetic Savant 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +11): farseeing, Force grip, 
Force slam (2), Force thrust, move object 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (move object) 


Abilities Str 9, Dex 11, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 15 

Talents Channel Aggression, Damage Reduction 10, Evasion, Power of the 
Dark Side, Telekinetic Savant 

Feats Dodge, Force Sensitive, Force Training (2), Mobility, Shake It Off, 
Skill Training (Use the Force), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +8, Endurance +11, Initiative +9, Jump +8, Perception +11, 
Stealth +9, Survival +11, Swim +8, Use the Force +11 

Possessions force pike, slugthrower rifle with 3 clips, dark robes, fetish 


DESANN 

Desann suffered terribly among his own people, for they had never encoun- 
tered the Force or users of the Force. When his powers began to become 
evident, he was cast out and ridiculed as a freak, abused by friends and family 
alike. Desann escaped his world when he was discovered by Luke Skywalker, 
who recognized his potential. Under the guidance of the Jedi Master, Desann 
finally found the acceptance he craved. 

Nonetheless, fear and anger were his constant companions, and he had a ten- 
dency to bully the other students at Skywalker's academy. Rather than making 
friendships, he sabotaged the family he had found and became an outsider. The 
situation finally deteriorated beyond repair when he accidentally killed a student 
who had the gall to stand up for himself in the face of Desann's cruelty. 


Rather than face the consequences of his actions, Desann fled the Jedi 
Praxeum on Yavin 4 and continued his training on his own, experimenting 
with the Force and using his powerful emotions to compensate for his lack 
of experience. He dabbled, fumbled, and eventually learned to harness the 
hatred and anger necessary to master the dark side. Although many of his 
abilities find their origins in the fundamentals presented to him by his former 
master, Desann is largely self-taught when it comes to the dark mysteries 
of the Force. 

When Desann had learned enough, he sought out the remnants of the 
Empire and sold his services to a splinter group known as the Empire Reborn. 
Commanding a powerful ship and supported by a fleet of starfighters, Desann 
would prove a potent foe for the New Jedi Order. 


Desann CL9 

Medium Chistori scout 2/Jedi 5/Force adept 2 

Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 14 

Init +11; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, Chistori 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 23, Will 25 

Resist Evasion 

hp 65; DR 2; Threshold 23 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +10 (2d8+7) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +10 

Atk Options Channel Aggression, Cleave, Crippling Strike, Power Attack 

Special Actions Force Focus, Power of the Dark Side, rage, Shake It Off 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +9): battle strike, dark rage, Farce 
grip, Force lightning, mind trick, move abject 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Special Qualities Cold-Blooded, rage 

Talents Evasion, Channel Aggression, Crippling Strike, Force Focus, Power 
of the Dark Side 

Feats Cleave, Force Sensitive, Force Training {2], Power Attack, Shake It 
Off, Skill Training (Initiative), Skill Training (Use the Force), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons} 

Skills Endurance +11, Initiative +11, Jump +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) 
+10, Perception +11, Pilot +11, Survival +11, Use the Force +9 

Possessions lightsaber, encrypted comlink, Doomgiver (as imperial !-class 
Star Destroyer) 


BSeeoLeVavAls) 


| | SSLavHD 


SveLeavevAs) 


Desann Encounters 

Desann makes an excellent villain for mid-level campaigns set after the fall 
of the Galactic Empire. Desann is almost always accompanied by either a 
Dark Jedi or a cadre of his Reborn (page 29}. During the turmoil following 
the Galactic Civil War, Desann can be found in many parts of the galaxy on 
his quest to secure more successful methods for creating his armies of dark 
side Force-users. 

Though he is not as powerful as many Jedi Masters, Desann is a dangerous 
foe nonetheless. He is a skilled warrior who has large amounts of resources 
at his disposal. Desann might also be encountered with mercenaries and 
other soldiers, particularly those loyal to the Imperial Remnant. Additionally, 
Desann has the backing of Imperial Admiral Fyyar, and he can bring down 
the resources of the Empire (including legions of stormtroopers) on those 
who get in his way. 


New SPECIES: CHISTORI 

The Chistori are a race of obscure saurian humanoids. So scarce is the infor- 
mation on these people that even the Jedi Archives have no information on 
the Chistori homeworld. What little is known about this species comes from 
their interaction with others. Fierce and warlike, they are quick to anger and 
tend to use excessive force to deal with even the smallest slights. Asa result, 
few spacefaring species have any reason to seek them out. 

Personality: The same talents that make them excellent warriors shows 
through in the Chistori's interaction with other species, with most encounters 
ending in violence. Chistori are an impatient species and have little use for 
the rigidity of order and discipline, preferring instead to go their own way 
and do as they please. 

Physical Description: The reptilian Chistori stand about 1.9 meters tall 
and have lithe, though muscled, builds. Thick scales cover their bodies, usually 
blue or purpie on their backs and brown and tan on their chests, abdomens, 
and faces. Their most pronounced feature is a large snout under which is a 
hinged jaw filled with sharp teeth perfect for rending flesh. 

Homeworld: The Chistori homeworld is unknown, and many Chistori who 
wander the galaxy either have forgotten where they come from or guard this 
information with their lives. 

Language: Lacking experience or even contact with other cultures means 
that the Chistori speak only the language of their people. Eventually, neces- 
sity forces these stubborn warriors to pick up Basic, but they still use words 
from their own language in everyday speech. 

Example Names: Desann, Cydon Prax. 


Adventurers: The few Chistori who find reasons to leave their homeworld 
find work as bounty hunters, soldiers, and assassins, professions that reflect 
their particular talents and capabilities. Interestingly, the Force seems almost 
completely unknown to the Chistori, either as a religion or as practiced by 
the Jedi. For this reason, Chistori Jedi are exceedingly rare. 


*COME, JOIN ME. 
YOU KNOW IN YOUR 
HEART YOU'LL 
NEVER BE ONE OF 
THEM.” 


—- DESANN 


DIPLOMAT 


Diplomat CL3 

Medium nonheroic 6/noble 1 

Force } 

Init +3; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, High Galactic, 4 others 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 11, Will 16 

hp 19; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4-1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +4 

Special Actions Presence 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Talents Presence 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill 
Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Perception), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +16, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +10, Perception +16, Persuasion +16 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink with holo capability, datapad, 
diplomat’s robes 


Diplomats are the representatives of the galaxy. They represent the interest of 
their people in the larger political arena, acting on behalf of a single planet, 
an entire sector, a Corporate interest, or any other geographical, political, 
or economic body. Whether squaring off against a rival organization under 
the glowering attention of Jedi arbitrators or pleading their case before the 
august body of the Senate, Diplomats are charged with being the voice of 
the people they represent and empowered with the ability to forge agree- 
ments and negotiate deals. 

Although their principal functions are clear, some diplomats have other 
ambitions beyond their responsibilities. It is not uncommon for a diplomat to 
jockey for a seat on a senate or to maneuver into a greater position within 
his homeworld's government. Furthermore, there seems to be at least one 
diplomat in any group of them who doesn't keep the best interests of his 
people in mind, wallowing instead in the payoffs and gifts bestowed by 
those who would exploit his status. Still, these individuals are the exception; 
most are conscientious members of their community, driven to do what’s 
best for their charges. 


DIPLOMAT ENCOUNTERS 

Rare is the diplomat who doesn't travel with a large entourage. A diplomat 
is the principal connection a group of people has to the larger world, and 
the loss of this envoy can have dreadful consequences. Asa result, security 
personnel guard these vital agents. 

A diplomat can also expect to have assistants in the form of a personal 
physician, lesser administrators, and other hangers-on to attend to her 
needs. In almost every case, one or more of these attendants are bodyquards 
who keep close to their charge in case an enemy somehow Slips past the 
security detail. 

Since her principal function is negotiation, when on a mission, a diplo- 
mat likely cloisters herself away behind heavy blast doors and permacrete 
walls to broker deals and argue about the future of the galaxy with other 
diplomats. 


LesiavHo 


SYueaLOVavHS) 


} eaiagvHo 


SuPLOVUvHS® 


DOCTOR 

Dector CL 1 

Medium nonheroic 3 

Init +2; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 10}, Fort 10, Will 12 

hp 9; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d4-1) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +3 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 12 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Treat Injury), Skill Training 
(Perception), Surgical Expertise, Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Knowledge [life sciences} +8, Perception +8, Treat Injury +13, 
Use Computer +8 

Possessions portable computer, datapad, data cards containing patient 
files, medical kit, 2 medpacs, surgery kit, MDS-50 medisensor 


Doctors are skilled physicians trained to handle a variety of injuries and ail- 
ments, from blaster injuries to an outbreak of Gamorrean rot. Like medics, 
doctors are expected to respond quickly and think fast on their feet, but 
unlike their field counterparts, doctors’ patients are typically brought to 
them. Doctors usually need a medical environment to perform surgery or 
install cybernetic parts to replace irreparably damaged limbs and organs. 

A typical doctor could be part of a much larger medical institution, per- 
haps working in a Core Wortd hospital or as part of a facility that trains other 
would-be physicians. He or she might be a “country” doctor who oversees 
the health needs of a small community. Others still could be military doc- 
tors, working in hospital tents or ona capital ship where they attend injured 
soldiers, desperately trying to stay on top of the mounting casualties. Finally, 
a doctor might be a vile surgeon who practices his cutting-edge techniques 
on unwilling subjects. 


DOCTOR ENCOUNTERS 

Typically, doctors are not opponents the heroes should face on the battlefield. 
Instead, doctors serve to keep the characters on their feet between battles, 
repairing extensive injuries and fixing physical ailments. Sometimes a doctor 
is all that stands between a hero and death, especially when a character is 
suffering from a vile poison or obscure disease. 

Many doctors run private businesses, perhaps out of small shops on an 
industrial world or as part of a large hospital's trained staff. Others serve 
in military outfits, lending their talents to the war effort by patching up 
casualties oefore sending them back to the front lines. 


Doctors of all types employ medical droids to aid in the prognosis and 
treatment of their patients. In some cases, a doctor might leave most of 
the medical practice to the droids while focusing on research and study. 
Military doctors receive the same level of protection that would be provided 
for any specialty staff—either soldiers or security personnel, depending on 
the outfit. 


MDS-SO MEDISENSOR 

Sweeping this smnali, handheld sensor over the subject’s body produces 
a summary of the patient's vital signs. An MDS-50 medical sensor can 
be used as a swift action on an adjacent creature or character, providing 
the user with the target’s current hit points, its place on the condition 
track, and the presence of (but no specifics on) diseases, poison, or 
radiation exposure. 

Cost 75; Weight 0.1 kg. 


EMERGENCY CREW 


Emergency Crew Member CL 1 

Medium nonheroic 4 

Init +1; Senses Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14}, Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 9; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +3 (3d6) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Skill Focus 
(Mechanics}, Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +7, Mechanics +12, Use Computer +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, combat jumpsuit [+4 armor), comlink, datapad, 
code cylinder, fire extinguisher, heat sensor, mesh tape, tool kit, utility 
belt, holster 


There's nothing easy about fighting in space. When the shields fail, when laser 
blasts rock the ship and fires rage out of control, it falls to the emergency 
crew to keep the ship together long enough for the real engineers and techs 
to come in and put the ship back together again. A ship's emergency crew 
also has the dubious honor of defending a vessel when it's boarded by enemy 
forces. So in addition to putting out fires and getting systems up and run- 
ning, it is responsible for holding off pirates, stormtroopers, and any other 
force that intends to take over the ship. Part firefighter, part technician, 
and part warrior, the emergency crews are the first line of defense when a 
ship becomes imperiled. 


EMERGENCY CREW 
ENCOUNTERS 

The emergency crew is the first response to any danger a ship faces. These 
are the individuals who work to extract an injured starfighter pilot from his 
damaged ship, who put out the flames when the ship is struck by a torpedo, 
and who give their Jives to defend the rest of the crew when intruders blast 
their way inside to take the ship by force. 

An emergency crew team consists of four to six members. The various 
crews might be broken into different functions, such as fire brigade, secu- 
rity, and mechanics. Leading each team is a specialist—soldier, technician, 
or engineer—who can put these crew members to best use. Despite the fact 
that these teams might have different primary functions, each is expected 
to pitch in whenever the ship is in danger. 


“WE'LL TAKE IN.” 


— CORUSCANT FIRE 


YOU 


=) 


| YalawHo 


SHeLeVeVvASs) 


See LeaVHavHns 


1 esidgvHoa 


ENGINEER 


Engineer CL2 
Medium nonheroic 3/scoundrel 1 

Force 2 

Init +3; Senses Perception +2 

Languages Basic, Binary, 4 others 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 12, Will 12 
hp 12; Threshold 12 


Speed 6 squares 
Melee stun baton +2 (2d6 stun) 
Base Atk +2; Grp +3 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 11, Cha 10 

Talents Gimmick 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill 
Focus (Use Computer), Tech Specialist (SG 21], Weapon Proficiency 
(simple weapons] 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +9, Mechanics +14, Use Computer +14 

Possessions stun baton, padded flight suit (+3 armor), comlink, code 
cylinder, blank datacards, datapad, fusion lantern, portable computer, 
fusion lantern, mesh tape, tool kit, utility belt 


Behind every technological wonder in the galaxy is an engineer who had 
the vision and expertise needed to make the impossible possible. Engineers 
are skilled technicians who specialize in the construction, maintenance, and 
modification of machines. These individuals know the ins and outs of starship 
design, droids, and weaponry. 

In addition to the technology specialist described here, combat engineers 
fill an important role in the military organizations of the galaxy, These 
individuals apply their technical expertise to the business of warfare. Most 
of them see to the assembly of powerful artillery to pound enemy forces, 
but others might attend to constructing bridges for foot soldiers or building 
breastworks, landing platforms, and barracks. Whatever a military unit needs, 
it’s the engineer's responsibility to make it happen. 


ENGINEER ENCOUNTERS 

Engineers are ubiquitous. The demand for new technology keeps engineers 
busy manufacturing new droids, weapons, starships, and all manner of other 
technological wonders. One is likely to find engineers in the company of a 
wide assortment of characters, from squads of soldiers to teams of techni- 
cians arguing about how to fix the hyperdrive computer in a dilapidated 
frigate. 

Many technology specialists work in small teams consisting of a few peers 
and twice as many technicians to deal with the mundane aspects of their 
jobs. Droids are also common companions for these engineers, with construc- 
tion droids and power droids being the most likely. In addition, nearly every 
engineer employs an astromech droid to run diagnostics and communicate 
with the machine's onboard computer. 

As for combat engineers, one or two can be found attached to a company 
of soldiers, though entire units of combat engineers do exist as well, such as 
the Combat Engineers Battalion of the Grand Army of the Republic. These 
engineers are better armed and armored, and have the additional support 
of military personnel to give them covering fire while they work out the 
logistics of a problem. 

Generally, though, an engineer is not a combatant and is not likely to join 
a firefight. Engineers leave such engagements to the professionals. Instead, 
they modify gear, improve armor, and optimize vehicles, while working to 
keep support equipment in top working order. 


GAMBLER 


Gambler CL4 

Medium scoundrel 4 

Force 7 

Init +4; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Rodese 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 14, Will 17 

hp 25; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d4+1) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +5 (3d4+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +5 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Fool’s Luck, Quick Draw 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 15 

Talents Fool's Luck, Gambler 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus 
(Perception), Skill Training (Gather Information), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Gather Information +9, Knowledge (galactic lore) 
+8, Perception +14, Persuasion +9, Stealth +9 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, comlink, expensive clothes 


Cunning and smooth, the gambler always seems to have everything in per- 
spective and to know exactly what he is doing. At least, that is his attitude 
when it comes to money and the high life. A gambler is the kind of person 
you look for when you are out for a good time. 

Agambler's life revolves around playing games, wagering on contests, and 
mixing with high society. The money he earns is nice, but a gambler knows 
that both profit and loss are part of his chosen profession. When times are 
tough, a gambler is good at concealing the fact that he's strapped for cash. 
While he's waiting for his next big strike, he rubs elbows with the social 
lions and high rollers around him, always looking for a way to get Dack in 
the good graces of Lady Luck. 

In order to mingle with those who enjoy fame and fortune, a gambler uses 
his skill at deception to get into the best parties and social gatherings. Once 
he's in the door, he's good at insinuating himself into the confidence of his 
newfound friends—without letting on that it’s al) a ruse. The only thing he 
cares about is ltning his pockets. 


GAMBLER ENCOUNTERS 

Gamblers spend most of their time either inside the gaming halls of the 
galaxy’s casinos, most often the ones found on Coruscant, Rodia, or Ord Man- 
tell, or traveling to or from one. When they are not sitting at the sabacc table 
or watching the jubilee wheel, gamblers can typically be found schmoozing 
with the rich and famous. They know where the parties are and know how to 
get through the front door, or the back door if it comes down to it. A gambler 
might also be able to provide a means to get away from local authorities on 
the next Juxury cruise leaving the system—for a price, of course. 

Gamblers are good at picking up tidbits of information from their con- 
versations at the game table or from their friends at the latest social event. 
Always looking for a quick score, gamblers are willing to of fer what they know 
for a fee. They can help people get into the governor's ball, past the Moff's 
security detail, or connected with the movers and shakers of society. 

Physical violence is the gambler’s bane. Even though a gambler might be 
at least halfway decent with a blaster, he prefers to face off against someone 
in a game rather than a gunfight. 


“HE'S A CARD PLAYER, 
GAMBLER, SCOUNDREL. 
YOuwW'D LIKE FIM." 


- FAN SOLO 


1 eSiagwHo 


SHeLavevns) 


P| eaiawHo 


SVUaLeVvsvA® 


INFILTRATOR 


Infiltrator CL9 
Medium scout 5/scoundrel 4 

Force 2; Dark Side 2 

Init +7; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, 2 others 


Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 21), Fort 20, Will 21 

hp 56; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d6+6) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +9 (3d4+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Foo!'s Luck, Hidden Movement, Knack 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Fool's Luck, Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth, Knack, 
Total Concealment 

Feats Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus 
(Acrobatics), Skill Focus (Stealth}, Skill Focus (Use Computer), Skill 
Training (Acrobatics), Skill Training (Deception), Skill Training (Use 
Computer}, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +17, Climb +11, Deception +8, Initiative +7, Jump +16, 
Mechanics +10, Perception +10, Stealth +17 (can reroll, must take 
second result), Use Computer +15 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, concealed holster, security kit, 
encrypted comlink, utility belt (miniaturized), syntherope, droid caller 


Infiltrators are experts at breaking into secured areas. The motivation 
behind this illegal act varies depending on the individual. The most common 
sort of infiltrator is self-employed—someone who breaks into homes and 
businesses to commit burglary. Other infiltrators could be “bag men” for 
spy organizations, criminal interests, or corporations. Security firms often 
employ infiltrators to test out a building's security measures, locating weak 
Spots that could be exploited by criminals and competitors. 

Infiltrators must be strong, dexterous, and acrobatic, since they often find 
themselves crawling through air ducts, scaling sheer walls, and leaping from 
impressive heights to get to their intended target. In addition, infiltrators 
are good at bypassing alarms and detectors of all kinds. Most infiltrators shy 
away from combat, considering their current job a failure if they are spotted 
in the first place. They rarely carry anything more than a hold-out blaster 
pistol or a knife, to be used only as a last resort. 


INFILTRATOR ENCOUNTERS 

Because of an infiltrator's skill at getting into places unnoticed, heroes 
are unlikely to be aware of his presence unless he wants to be found. An 
infiltrator could be hired by the heroes’ enemies to sneak into their ship or 
headquarters in order to steal important plans, sabotage their computers, 
or plant incriminating evidence. If everything goes accordingly to pian, the 
heroes will find out that something is wrong only when their computers 
malfunction or they find their precious goods missing. Some infiltrators like 
to flaunt their success by leaving behind some kind of “calling card” to let 
their victims know who did the deed. 

Although some infiltrators operate alone, others are part of specialized 
teams, typically including slicers, technicians, and commandos, who serve 
as the infiltrator's eyes and ears or as support to help the infiltrator get in 
and out of the target area. Infiltrators sometimes use droids (such as the 
ASN-121 assassin droid or the Mark VII seeker droid) in their work in order 
to scout ahead, deactivate security measures, and provide some protection 
if things get violent. These droids are sometimes Small or smailer in size and 
have the ability to hover so they can get into hard-to-reach places. 


INFORMATION BROKER 


Information Broker CL 5 

Medium nonheroic 3/scoundrel 4 

Force 3 

Init +4; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 14, Will 15 

hp 23; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +6 (1d4+3) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +6 (3d4+2) or 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +4 (4d4+2) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (4d6+2} with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Knack 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 11, Cha 13 

Talents Gimmick, Knack 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Gather 
Information), Skill Training (Deception), Skill Training (Stealth), Skill 
Training (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +14, Perception +8, Persuasion 
+9, Stealth +9, Use Computer +10 

Possessions knife, hold-out blaster pistol, blaster pistol, comlink, pocket 
scrambler, code cylinder, credit chip with 200 credits, 400 unmarked 
credits, portable computer, electrobinoculars, holocam, utility belt, 
holster, concealed holster 


Nothing stays secret forever. Dealing in rumor and whisper, information 
brokers (sometimes known as infochants) trade secrets for credits and 
favors. They and their agents lurk in the shadows, listening for snatches of 
conversation, illicit meetings, and any other knowledge that could bring a 
high price. Of course, these unsavory sorts recognize that information has 
value only if there are those who want it, and so they also keep abreast of 
trends and political developments to find potential customers who might be 
interested in a dataslate filled with intelligence. 

Most information brokers are staunchly neutral, concerned only with buying 
and selling what they need to know and what they learn. Jt usuatly doesn't 
matter what implications could arise when they share information, since 
conflict tends to breed more juicy tidbits, which in turn generates more profit. 
Information brokers are keenly aware that information doesn't stay valuable 
forever, so they often work quickly to unload the “goods” they acquire. 


Information brokers might be slicers—experts who can hack into computer 
systems, plunder their contents, and vanish without notice. They might be 
smugglers, moving illegal cargo, and meeting other criminal elements who 
might be willing to exchange a few choice insights in exchange for whatever 
the smuggler might know. What unites them all, methods aside, is that they 
keep their finger on the pulse of the galaxy. 


INFORMATION BROKER 
ENCOUNTERS 

Trading in information is dangerous business. Secrets are meant to be kept, 
and those who reveal the dirty Jaundry of an influential person risk finding 
themselves tossed out of an airlock. Infochants and brokers know this, and the 
dest ones are certain to protect themselves and their lucrative business with 
an army of thugs and bodyguards. When they do agree to meet a potential 
customer, it is always under the watchful eyes of the information broker's 
brutes, who are quick to remind unruly clients who is in charge. 

Few information brokers work alone. Ones of lesser stature might function 
in small cooperatives in which the various members bring different talents 
to the table. Included in these groups are slicers, spies, and possibly even 
outlaw techs. Leading the group is a veteran infochant who sorts out the 
useful material and discards the rest. 


1 eaiavHa 


Svea LaVveVywA® 


| eaiavHo 


Ste LoavevAe) 


WJEDI KNIGHT 

Jedi Knight CL 12 
Medium Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5 

Force 6 


Init +13; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic, 1 other 


Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 24, Lightsaber Defense 27), Fort 26, Will 27; 
Deflect 

hp 104; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +15 (2d8+7) or 

Melee lightsaber +13 (3d8+7) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +12 (2d8+7] and 
lightsaber +12 (2d8+7) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +12; Grp +14 

Atk Options Battle Meditation, Cleave, Double Attack {lightsabers), 
Power Attack, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Lightsaber Defense, Redirect Shot, Soresu 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +11): battle strike (2), farseeing, 
Force thrust, mind trick, move object, surge (2) 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Force Power Mastery (mind trick) 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 10 

Special Qualities build lightsaber 

Talents Battle Meditation, Deflect, Force Fortification, Lightsaber 
Defense, Multiattack Proficiency (lightsabers), Redirect Shot, Soresu 

Feats Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(2), Power Attack, Rapid Strike, Skill Training (Endurance}, Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers}, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Endurance +13, Initiative +13, Perception +9, 
Use the Force +11 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), encrypted comlink, Jedi robes 


Jedi Knights are members of the Jedi Order who have passed the trials and 
been knighted by the Jedi Council. They form the backbone of the Jedi Order 
and are expected to perform many of the day-to-day tasks and missions 
that are required to keep the Order running smoothly. Each Jedi Knight is 
expected to uphold the Jedi Code, to support the Order in word and deed, and 
to serve as a guardian of peace and justice. Jedi Knights are also responsible 
for training the next generation of Padawans, though taking on an apprentice 
has never been a requirement. 


Although ali Jedi Knights are technically equals, seniority among the 
Knights plays a large part in determining an unspoken pecking order. Indi- 
vidual ability and accomplishment also figure prominently into a Knight's 
standing among his comrades. Relatively young Jedi Knights who are 
accomplished in the use of the Force, or who are responsible for perform- 
ing great deeds, are often treated with as much deference as older, more 
experienced Knights. 

During the days of the Old Republic, the Jedi were far more common, 
and their exploits were often lauded by the public. As time passed and their 
numbers thinned, the supposed shortcomings of the Jedi Order became more 
apparent. Though they were capable warriors, the Knights were too few to 
wage wars alone on behalf of the Republic. When that scarcity was combined 
with careful smear campaigns engineered by the minions of Palpatine, aver- 
age citizens began to look upon the Jedi Knights with less favor. 

A Jedi is often distinguished by his simple robes and his fightsaber, which 
is the weapon of a Jedi Knight. Following the Jedi purge, most surviving Jedi 
went underground. Many of those who refused to hide were destroyed by 
the Emperor's servants. Even those Jedi who sought to conceal their identi- 
ties were hard pressed to avoid the Empire's concerted effort to find them 
and wipe them out. 


wZJEDI KNIGHT ENCOUNTERS 

Jedi Knights are the most numerous members of the Jedi Order, and as 
such are often the most visidle. Since they are responsible for carrying out 
missions on behalf of the Order and the Republic, Jedi Knights will often be 
encountered in the course of fulfilling these duties. 

By their nature, Jedi Knights are contemplative warriors who rarely rush 
into a conflict. They are patient, using violence only asa last resort or in the 
defense of innocent life. Once unleashed, a Jedi Knight will fight tirelessly 
to defeat his enemies. Though a Jedi Knight’s most powerful weapon is the 
Force, he never uses his powers in a craven, cruel, or self-serving manner. 

Since the lightsaber is his primary mode of defense, a Jedi Knight prefers 
to close to melee range with opponents in an attempt to end a fight swiftly. 
Incoming blaster fire is deflected or redirected back at opponents, and in the 
face of overwhelming odds, a Jedi Knight will never hesitate to withdraw in 
order to readdress his plans. 


WJEDI REFUGEE 

With the fall of the Republic and the rise of tne Empire, the Jedi found 
themselves on the wrong side of galactic authority and were all but wiped 
out at the conclusion of the Clone Wars. Despite the deft machinations of 
Emperor Palpatine, a few Jedi survived this purge and continued to live on in 
the galaxy. Some Jedi, such as Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda, went into hiding to 
protect themselves until it was time to fulfill their destinies. Others, however, 
chose not to stand by and watch as the galaxy descended farther into dark- 
ness, and took a more active hand in defending the galaxy against evil. 

These Jedi refugees take on many roles. Some attempt to fight the Empire 
and the dark side in clandestine fashion, keeping a low profile and making 
sure that no one can connect them to their Jedi heritage. These Jedi refugees 
work behind the scenes, subtly manipulating events to stymie the Empire at 
every turn. If they must use the Force or their lightsabers, they do so ina 
way that draws no attention to themselves, trying to ensure that the Empire 
never learns of their involvement. Surviving Jedi who act in this manner know 
that they cannot hope to tackle the Empire on their own, and, believing that 
all other Jedi are dead, they struggle against the forces of evil while trying 
to preserve the Jedi tradition. 

Other Jedi refugees take a more active hand, such as Jedi Master Rahm 
Kota, who formed his own militia to take the fight to the Empire. These Jedi 
seek out like-minded individuals and launch overt attacks against Imperial 
installations and resources, inflicting as much damage as possible in an 
attempt to show the galaxy that the monolithic Empire can be defeated. 
These Jedi are almost constantly on the run, because they take no pains to 
hide their abilities or affiliation from the prying eyes of the Empire. With 
Darth Vader and the Emperor’s agents always close on their heels, these Jedi 
refugees strike hard and fast before retreating back into the shadows until 
the Jedi hunters let down their guard once more. 


Jedi Refugee CL 12 
Medium Jedi 7/scoundrel 2/Jedi Knight 3 

Force 5 

Init +13; Senses Perception +13 


Languages Basic, Bothan, Sullustese 


Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 24), Fort 24, Will 26; Dodge, Block, Deflect 
hp 86; Threshold 24 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+6) or 

Melee lightsaber +9 (3d8+6) with Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Dastardly Strike, !mproved Disarm, Melee 
Defense, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Force Haze 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +14): battle strike, farseeing, Force 
disarm, Force stun, mind trick, move object, rebuke, surge (2) 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Special Qualities build lightsaber 

Talents Block, Clear Mind, Dastardly Strike, Deflect, Force Fortification, 
Force Haze, Shii-Cho 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(3), Improved Disarm, Melee Defense, Rapid Strike, Skill Training 
(Deception), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Initiative +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, 
Perception +13, Use the Force +14 (can reroll when avoiding detection 
by the Force, must take second result) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), loose-fitting clothes, comlink 


| BBL.evHg 


SHOLAVEVAS 


0 
I 
\> 
v 
id 
i 
2] 


SvELeveavAa) 


Jedi Refugee Encounters 
Jedi refugees make excellent mentors and allies for any heroes in the Dark 
Times or the Rebellion era. Unless the heroes are upstanding citizens of the 
Empire, they might cross paths with one or more Jedi refugees at any point 
during their careers. Most Jedi refugees are wary about new allies at first, 
given the Empire’s many attempts to infiltrate their inner circle, but once a 
potential ally proves to be loyal, they are quick to return the sentiment. 
Jedi refugees are rarely found in the presence of other Force-users. Most 
encounters with Jedi refugees will include a small number of allies, usually 
soldiers or other rebellious agents who help the Jedi further his or her goals. 
Jedi refugees work well with soldiers who can provide ranged attacks and 
cover fire as the Jedi moves into melee. Additionally, a Jedi refugee encounter 
might include a pilot and a fast vehicle, allowing the Jedi to flee quickly in 
case the Empire shows up. 


JED! OUELIST 

The lightsaber, chosen weapon of the Jedi, is the symbol of everything 
that the Jedi Order stands for. It is an elegant weapon for a more civilized 
age, and those Jedi Knights who focus on its use, called Jedi duelists, can 
perform amazing feats when using the weapon. Jedi duelists dedicate much 
of their careers to the study of the lightsaber. Where other Jedi might excel 
at investigation or negotiation, a Jedi duelist is called in when violence is 
the most likely solution to the problem. Jedi duelists have a great deal of 
prowess in other areas as well, but their skill with the lightsaber makes 
them stand out. 

Jedi duelists are among the most knowledgeable about lightsaber fighting 
styles in the entire Order. Some duelists specialize in a single lightsaber style 
(the Jedi duelist presented here is an Ataru master), while others dedicate 
themselves to the study of all lightsaber forms in the hope of better under- 
standing how the weapon can be used. Jedi duelists often see the lightsaber 
as an implement of spirituality and use practice of the various lightsaber 
forms as a kind of meditation. When lost in lightsaber practice, a Jedi duelist 
finds himself opening up to the Force completely, nearly surrendering his very 
will to the Force as it guides the humming blade of the weapon. 


Jedi Duelist Encounters 

When a Jedi duelist is the primary character in an encounter, he is usually 
supported by other Jedi, in order to keep the duelist from becoming the sole 
target. Additionally, other Jedi who specialize in controlling the combat arena 
with Force powers—such as Force slam and Force thrust—make excellent 
companions for a Jedi duelist because they keep the battlefield open and 
allow the duelist to approach enemies with greater ease. 


Jedi Duelist 

Medium Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 6 

Force 6 

Init +14; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 25}, Fort 25, Will 29: Block, Deflect 

hp 90; Threshold 25 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+13) or 

Melee lightsaber +16 (3d8+13) with Rapid Strike or 
( ) 
( 


CL 13 


Melee lightsaber +18 (3d8+13) with Mighty Swing or 

Melee lightsaber +13 (2d8+13) and 
lightsaber +13 (2d8+13) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +13; Grp +16 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Ataru, Double Attack (lightsabers), Mighty 
Swing, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Redirect Shot 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +11): battle strike (3), Farce disarm, 
Force slam, Force thrust, negate energy, rebuke, surge (2) 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Force Trance, 
Improved Sense Force 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 18, Cha 10 

Special Qualities build lightsaber 

Talents Ataru, Block, Deflect, Greater Weapon Focus [lightsabers}, 
Greater Weapon Specialization [lightsabers), Redirect Shot, Weapon 
Specialization (lightsabers) 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, 
Force Training (3), Mighty Swing, Rapid Strike, Skill Training 
(Acrobatics), Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Initiative +14, Use the Force +11 

Possessions Jedi robes, lightsaber (self-built) 


IMPERIAL KNIGHT 

The Imperial Knights are a members of a Force-using tradition that arises 
during the time of Darth Krayt, some 130 years following the Battle of Yavin. 
Like Jedi Knights, the Imperial Knights were trained in the ways of the Force, 
including the use of lightsabers. Unlike the Jedi, however, Imperial Knights 
swore fealty to the Emperor of the period, Roan Fel, above all else. As such, 
members of the New Jedi Order did not recognize the Imperial Knights as 
true Jedi. 


Of the traits that set !mperial Knights apart from their Jedi cousins, the 
most prominent were their use of silver-bladed lightsabers and red battle 
armor. Perhaps the most interesting affectation used by the Imperial Knights 
were gauntlets composed of cortosis weave, which would cause any light- 
saber blade that came into contact with them to become nonfunctional. 

When a Sith Lord proclaimed himself Emperor, the Imperial Knights who 
survived the coup worked with the former Emperor in an effort to bring down 
the usurper, [hough only a small number of Imperial Knights are thought to 
have survived the coup, it is possible that others managed to do so. 


Imperial Knight CL 10 

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 3 

Force 6; Dark Side 3 

Init +12; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 27), Fort 28, Will 24; Deflect 

hp 109; Threshold 28 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +15 (2d8+9) or 

Melee lightsaber +13 (3d8+9) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +11* [2d8+17) or 

Melee lightsaber +13* (3d8+22) with Powerful Charge and Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 

Atk Options Battle Meditation, Power Attack, Powerful Charge, 
Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Equilibrium, Redirect Shot 

Farce Powers Known (Use the Force +10): battle strike, Force slam, 
rebuke, surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Special Qualities build lightsaber 

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Meditation, Deflect, Equilibrium, 
Improved Armored Defense, Redirect Shot 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, 
Improved Defenses, Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike, 
Weapon Focus (lightsabers], Weapon Proficiency [lightsabers, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Endurance +13, Initiative +12, Use the Force +10 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built}, battle armor (+8 armor, +2 
equipment), comlink, cortosis gauntlet, various personal belongings 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack. 


Imperial Knight Encounters 

During the time of Darth Krayt, Imperial Knights acted as the sworn protec- 
tors of Emperor Roan Fel. As such, they are rarely encountered away from 
the Emperor. Following the coup by Darth Krayt that put the Sith Lord on the 
galactic throne, the Imperial Knights who remained behind might be found 
anywhere, working to put a stop to the new Emperor's rule. 

Tactically, ‘mperial knights are similar to Jedi. They work well together, 
using their lightsabers to redirect blaster shots against their foes until 
they can close to melee range. When fighting other lightsaber-wielding 
Force-users, Imperial Knights attempt to use their cortosis gauntlets to 
deactivate their enemies’ weapons for a few minutes. Given their layalty to 
their Emperor, Imperial Knights are less concerned with maintaining a bal- 
ance between light and dark. As such, some might employ powers that are 
normally designated as dark side. 


“IMPERIAL KNIGHTS! 
SAVE YOUR EMPERORI” 


—- MOHRGAN 


1 SSidvHya 


SreLeaVveavA® 


| HSLavHo 


wWEDI MASTER 

Jedi Master CL 15 
Medium Jedi 7/Jedi Knight S/Jedi Master 3 

Force 6 


Init +14; Senses Perception +10 
Languages Basic, 1 other 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 28, Lightsaber Defense 31), Fort 30, Will 31; 
Deflect 
hp 137; Threshold 30 


SeeaLoVvavrAg 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +18 (2d8+8) or 

Melee lightsaber +16 (3d8+8) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +15 (2d8+8) and 
lightsaber +15 (2d8+8) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +15; Grp +17 

Atk Options Battle Meditation, Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), 
Power Attack, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Damage Reduction 10, Force Focus, Lightsaber Defense, 
Redirect Shot, serenity, Soresu 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +12): battle strike (3), farseeing, 
Force thrust, mind trick (2), move object, rebuke, surge (2), 
vital transfer 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Force Power Mastery (mind trick) 

Force Secrets Distant Power, Quicken Power 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 10 

Special Qualities build lightsaber, fearless, serenity 

Talents Battle Meditation, Damage Reduction 10, Deflect, Force Focus, 
Force Fortification, Lightsaber Defense, Multiattack Proficiency 
(lightsabers], Redirect Shot, Soresu 

Feats Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training 
(3), Power Attack, Rapid Strike, Skill Training (Endurance), Weapon 
Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Endurance +14, Initiative +14, Perception +10, Use 
the Force +12 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), encrypted comlink, Jedi robes 


Jedi Masters have reached the top of their craft within the Jedi Order. 
Achieving the title of Jedi Master requires patience, perseverance, and above 
all, faith in oneself. A deep understanding of the Force is a must, for a Jedi 
Master is able to unlock powerful secrets that few Jedi even dream of com- 
prehending. It is not a journey that is quickly made, and few Jedi survive long 
enough to complete it. Those who do are widely respected, and justly so. 


For a Jedi Knight to become a Jedi Master, he is usually required to take 
on a Padawan learner. That Padawan must be fully trained as a Jedi Knight 
before the teacher can be considered as a Jedi Master. Not only does training 
a Padawan take years, it also requires inhuman patience and the ability to 
instruct another sentient being in the often esoteric ways of the Force. 
Success is never assured, and a Padawan who does not have the proper 
mindset or talent might never come to face the trials. Such a failure might 
not become apparent for several years, but when discovered would require 
the would-be Jedi Master to take on a new apprentice. 

For most of the history of the Jedi tradition, only Jedi Masters were 
placed on the Jedi Council. This state of affairs changed during the Rise 
of the Empire, wnen Anakin Skywalker was appointed to the Council by 
Emperor Palpatine. Although the Council respected Palpatine's insistence that 
Skywalker be made a member, it refused to grant the young knight status as 
a Jedi Master. This perceived insult, combined with Anakin's overwhelming 
arrogance, was instrumental in bringing the young Jedi to the dark side of 
the Force. 


WTEDI MASTER ENCOUNTERS 

Jedi Masters are sent on important and dangerous missions by the Jedi 
Council. Some operate alone, while others continue to instruct Padawans 
long after they have achieved the title of Master. These latter individuals 
travel with their Padawans, an arrangement that allows them to instruct their 
students in a more hands-on fashion. It also exposes their apprentices to 
riskier, high-priority assignments, which increases the learner's confidence 
all the more. 

Whether or not a Jedi Master is encountered in the company of his 
Padawan learner, he is an opponent who cannot be underestimated. Though 
he might try to bring a conflict to a peaceful resolution, he is always able 
to bring forth his lightsaber, as well as his considerable knowledge of the 
Force, in order to pursue what the Order refers to as “aggressive negotia- 
tions.” Few mundane opponents can stand against the skill and ability of 
a Jedi Master. 


wEDI SAGE MASTER 

Some Jedi Masters are known as scholars even among their peers. These 
individuals, sometimes called Jedi Sage Masters, are the keepers of knowl- 
edge, and they spend much of their time deep in research or contemplation. 
They seek to test the boundaries of what is possible, while at the same time 
passing on this knowledge to those around them. If a question or problem 
comes to light that cannot be answered by members of the Jedi Council, 
these scholars are consulted. 

Though they are seldom seen outside the walls of the Jedi Temple on 
Coruscant, Jedi Sage Masters do sometimes venture out in order to conduct 
field research. This research might involve the excavation of a Sith temple 
or the observation of a new species or life form. Keeping the archives up 
to date requires a constant influx of information. Jedi scholars and their 
apprentices, along with non-Jedi experts, are at the forefront of this never- 
ending process. 

Jedi Sage Masters are often asked to meet with potential Padawan 
learners in order to judge their Force potential. In this regard, they uphold 
their duty to help teach new Jedi by discerning which students have the 
most aptitude with the Force. They often take on Padawans of their own, 
especially if a candidate is intellectually adept and eager to Jearn more 
mundane abilities. 

Although the Jedi Sage Master detailed in this entry is an expert in 
galactic lore as well as physical and tife sciences, Jedi scholars are a diverse 
group. The Knowledge skills in this statistics block can be replaced with any 
other Knowledge specialty. Given their knowledge of customs and philo~ 
sophical thought, scholars who specialize in the social sciences often excel 
ina consular role, while those who focus on tactics might serve as generals 
among the Jedi. 


Jedi Sage Master CL 15 

Medium Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 3 

Destiny 1; Force 6 

Init +8; Senses Perception +19; Force Perception 

Languages Basic, 7 others 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 28), Fort 28, Will 32 

hp 92; Threshald 28 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +16 (2d8+7) 

Base Atk +15; Grp +16 

Atk Options Improved Disarm, Melee Defense 

Special Actions Adept Negotiator, Force Focus, serenity, Skilled Advisor 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19): farseeing, Force disarm, Force 
stun (2), mind trick (2), move object, negate energy, rebuke (2), sever 
Force, vital transfer 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force, Improved Telepathy 

Force Secrets Distant Power, Multitarget Power 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 8, Int 17, Wis 16, Cha 15 

Special Qualities build lightsaber, fearless, serenity 

Talents Adept Negotiator, Force Focus, Force Perception, Force 
Persuasion, Foresight, Gauge Force Potential, Master Negotiator, 
Skilled Advisor, Visions 

Feats Force Training (3), Force Sensitivity, Improved Disarm, Linguist, 
Melee Defense, Skill Focus (Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [physical sciences]), Skill Focus (Use the Force], Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Knowledge (galactic lore) +20, Knowledge (life 
sciences) +20, Knowledge (physical sciences) +15, Perception +19, 
Persuasion +19, Use the Force +19 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


Jedi Sage Master Encounters 

Even though a Jedi Sage Master is somewhat less combat-oriented than 
his peers, this does not mean he should be trifled with. Though they are 
sometimes typified as stodgy old codgers with their noses buried in old 
holocrons, Jedi Sage Masters are some of the most powerful members of 
the Jedi tradition. The knowledge that they possess on an individual basis is 
staggering, and they can call upon the lessons of the past in order to solve 
the problems of the future. 

In combat, a Jedi Sage Master concentrates on self-defense and disarming 
an opponent. Negotiation is an important component of his strategy, and he 
is not above using the Force in order to facilitate a peaceful resolution to a 
potentially dangerous situation. 


| BatLavwHo 


SVeLoevevAs) 


] usiagvHo 


WU 
ab 
> 
0) 
D 
0 
4 
W 
ay 
@ 


wZwED! BATTLEMASTER 


Jedi Battlemaster CL 15 

Medium Jedi 8/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 2 

Force 5 

Init +19: Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-f footed 28, Lightsaber Defense 31), Fort 29, Will 30; 
Block, Deflect 

hp 122; Threshold 29 

Speed & squares 

Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+14] or 

Melee lightsaber +19 [3d8+14] with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +16 (2d8+14) and 
lightsaber +16 (248+14) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +15; Grp +18 

Atk Options Double Attack (tightsabers), Power Attack, Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Juyo, Lightsaber Defense, Redirect Shot, serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +14): battle strike (3), 

Force slam (2), move object, surge (3) 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery (2) 

Force Secrets Multitarget Power 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Special Qualities build lightsaber, fearless, serenity 

Talents Block, Deflect, Greater Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Greater 
Weapon Specialization (lightsabers}, Juyo, Lightsaber Defense, Redirect 
Shot, Weapon Specialization [lightsabers] 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Power 
Attack, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Initiative), Skill Training (Acrobatics), 
Skill Training (Endurance}, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Endurance +13, Initiative +19, Use the Force +14 

Possessions lightsaber (self built), Jedi robes 


Since it is the traditional weapon of their Order, every Jedi has some degree 
of expertise with the lightsaber. Jedi Masters who focus on the use of the 
lightsaber to the exclusion of all else, however, are some of the deadliest 
individuals in the galaxy. Few beings can match their skill with an energy 
blade, and many a conflict has hinged upon the martial prowess of such 
skilled Jedi Masters. 

The path of the Jedi Master leaves little room for mistakes. Jedi who 
hone their combat skills must do so in such a way that they are not tainted 
by the horrors of war. The battlefield is an environment filled with stress 
and danger, and it is almost impossible to experience these rigors without 


being changed, either emotionally or spiritually. Jedi Masters must let the 
extremes of emotion wash over them, accepting them as they might accept 
any other event. They might recognize the ultimate futility of conflict, but 
they must also recognize that some goals can be accomplished only through 
the application of military might. 

It is not enough for a Jedi Master to know how to strike—he must also 
know when to strike. “Aggressive negotiations” {a Jedi euphemism for 
combat) are used only as a last resort, after diplomacy and reason have 
failed. The desired outcome of such action is always peace, and strength of 
arms must always be tempered with the wisdom to know when it is prudent 
to relent. The Jedi battlemaster is obligated to recognize these facts, and 
to act accordingly. 


Jedi Battlemaster Encounters 

Of all the Jedi, the battlemaster is perhaps the most physically dangerous. 
Despite his obvious superiority on the battlefield, he is still only a single 
being. He rarely attacks large groups of foes, preferring to instead fight in an 
intelligent and logical manner. Fast attacks, tempered with feints and tactical 
withdrawals, are often the order of the day for the lone battlemaster. When 
in the company of one or more other Jedi, he is more willing to take greater 
risks if doing so will end the conflict sooner. 

If the battlemaster has a weakness, it is his focus on the martial aspects of 
the Jedi tradition. Though he can be a capable negotiator if necessity dictates 
it, a battlemaster understands that he is far more skillful when wielding a 
weapon. He will defer to other Jedi Masters, or even Knights, in the event 
that they are more formidable negotiators than he is. If a foe offers to sur- 
render or negotiate terms, a battlemaster always considers such proposals 
carefully before either accepting or rejecting them. 


wJEDI SENTINEL MASTER 

The Jedi sentinels were established during the days of the Old Republic. They 
were taught to withstand the influence of the dark side of the Force, and 
they did so with varying degrees of success. Due to this resistance, they were 
often employed to actively seek out rogue Jedi and servants of the dark side. 
They were most commonly denoted by their yellow-bladed lightsabers, but 
this old tradition is not always adhered to. 

Sentinels are dangerous individuals, due to their specialized training as 
well as their ability to find, track, and eradicate threats to the light without 
being taken over by the dark. Because of their near-constant exposure to 
the servants of the dark side, few sentinels rise to the rank of Jedi Master. 
The ones who do are lauded for their strength of character, though even they 
are sometimes considered suspect by their peers. 

Some Jedi argue that constant exposure to the dark side is a lure that 
cannot be withstood forever, even by individuals who are sworn to destroy it. 
For this reason, Jedi sentinels are often viewed with wariness by their fellows 


in the Jedi Order. Although this attitude can be a sore spot for some, it is a 
rare sentinel who shows much concern about the paranoia of others. Most 
sentinels take it in stride and expect nothing less. 

Sentinels are a rare breed of Jedi, and those who reach the rank of Jedi 
Master are rarer still. Despite this scarcity, they have long been a part of 
the Order, and the malignant plans of many evil beings have been brought 
to heel due to the tenacity of these brave souls. 


Jedi Sentinel Master Encounters 

A sentinel who has risen to the rank of Jedi Master makes an excellent 
mentor or patron, either for a single Jedi or for a group of heroes; such an 
individual is not above using others to help him in his effort to destroy dark 
side influences. A sentinel Master might also be employed as an opponent 
for characters who continually flaunt their power in malicious and inap- 
propriate ways. In the case of characters who are lost to the dark side, a 
sentinel Master and his allies present the players with a difficult long-term 
enemy to avoid or defeat. 

The sentinel Master is a sworn enemy of the dark side, but he is not a 
foolish adversary. He will often bide his time, using his powers and contacts 
in an effort to isolate and judge his enemies. Once he has done his research, 
a sentinel Master acts as judge, jury, and executioner. He is not above allow- 
ing his enemies to repent their wicked ways, but such a decision is rarely 
made lightly. 


Jedi Sentinel Master CL 16 
Medium Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 4 

Force 6; Strong in the Force 

Init +9; Senses Perception +22; Force Perception 

Languages Basic, 2 others 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 30), Fort 30, Will 33 
hp 112; Threshold 30 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +17 (2d8+7) 

Base Atk +16; Grp +17 

Atk Options Dark Side Scourge, Melee Defense 

Special Actions Force Focus, serenity 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +22): battle strike, farseeing, 
Force disarm, Force slam, mind trick (2), move object, rebuke (2), 
sever Force (2), surge 

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force, Improved Sense Surroundings 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Quicken Power 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 18 

Special Qualities build lightsaber, fearless, serenity 

Talents Clear Mind, Dark Side Sense, Dark Side Scourge, Force Focus, 
Force Fortification, Force Perception, Foresight, Resist the Dark Side, 
Visions 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Improved Defenses, Melee 
Defense, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training {Initiative), Strong 
in the Force, Weapon Focus [lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +15, Perception +22, 
Pilot +14, Use the Force +22 (can reroll when avoiding detection by 
the Force, must take second result; can reroll when sensing opponents 
with a Dark Side Score of 14, must take second result) 

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Jedi robes 


“IM NOT LOOKING 
FOR A FRIEND, 
I'M LOOKING FOR A 
wJEDI MASTER.” 


- LUKE SKYWALKER 


SHeLagvevyAs) 


| HBaLtawvwHa 


O 
5 
a) 
i 
c 
0) 
) 


wEDI PADAWAN 


Jedi Padawan CL5 
Medium Jedi 5 

Force 7 

Init +4; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, 1 other 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 17; Deflect 
hp 57; Threshold 17 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +7 (2d8+2) or 

Melee lightsaber +5 (3d8+2) with Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options Rapid Strike 

Special Actions Equilibrium 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +8): move object, surge 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Talents Deflect, Equilibrium, Telekinetic Savant 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Rapid Strike, Skill Training (Pilot), 
Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency [lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +9, Perception +8, Use the Force +8, Pilot +9 

Possessions lightsaber, Padawan robes, comlink 


A Jedi Padawan is more than simply a young student of the Force; she is 
also an apprentice Jedi. Becoming a Padawan requires sensitivity to the 
Force as well as initial training in its use and in the use of a lightsaber. After 
having proven herself worthy of further training, a Padawan is apprenticed 
to a Jedi Knight or Jedi Master who then trains her in the mysteries of the 
Force and in the philosophy of the Jedi. Very little of this education is formal 
instruction or classroom training. Instead, a Padawan travels with a Jedi, 
aiding him in his missions, observing his actions, and learning in a direct 
and immediate fashion how to truly be a Jedi and to personally embody the 
Jedi philosophy. 

This apprenticeship is not without risk; Jedi sometimes take their 
Padawans into exceptionally dangerous situations, but it is the responsibility 
of a Jedi to protect his Padawan, and the responsibility of a Padawan to listen 
to and heed her Master’s instructions. Padawans from species that have hair 
typically grow a single braid to signify their status, and cut the braid off when 
they become Knights. A Jedi teaches a single Padawan at one time. 


JEDI PADAWAN ENCOUNTERS 

Jedi Padawans can be encountered anywhere in the galaxy, but each is almost 
always found near to her Master, aiding him in his missions. Even Padawans of 
adolescent age can help with dangerous missions involving delicate negotia- 
tions or vital espionage. Others help their Masters in the difficult and often 
risky tasks of galactic peacekeeping, and much of the way a Padawan learns 
is by fighting at her Master's side. 

A Padawan might be encountered alone when she has been assigned to 
complete a less dangerous part of a mission or on the rare occasion when 
her Master decides that a particular endeavor is simply too perilous for 
her. The strong bond between Padawan and Master and the responsibility 
that Jedi feel for their Padawans means that sometimes Padawans become 
tempting targets for kidnappers who are intent on distracting or influencing 
a particular Jedi. 


“TRULY WONDERFUL, 
THE MIND OF A 
CHILD Is.” 


—- YODA 


wWwENSAARAI DEFENDER 


Jensaarai Defender CL8 

Medium Jedi 5/soldier 3 

Force 5; Dark Side 1 

Init +11; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 23), Fort 22, Will 20; Block, Deflect 

hp 85; Threshold 22 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee lightsaber +13 (2d8+6) or 

Melee lightsaber +11 (3d8+6) with Mighty Swing 

Base Atk +8; Grp +11 

Atk Options Mighty Swing 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +10): battle strike (2), 
Force slam, surge 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Talents Armored Defense, Attune Armor, Block, Deflect, 
Improved Armored Defense 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force 
Training (2), Mighty Swing, Skitl Training (Initiative), Weapon Focus 
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (simple, lightsabers) 

Skills Initiative +11, Use the Force +10 

Possessions ceremonial armor (+7 armor), lightsaber, comlink, 100 credits 


The Jensaarai are Force-using warriors from Suarbi 7/5. Originally founded 
by rebel Jedi in the waning days of the Republic, the Jensaarai embrace some 
Sith teachings while still practicing a great deal of Jedi philosophy. Though 
they tread close to the dark side in many of their practices, the Jensaarai 
still maintain the discipline required to serve the Force. 

Tne Jensaarat are much like Jedi in their study of martial practices, but 
differ in that a significant event in their training involves the creation of a 
custom suit of ceremonial armor tailored to the individual Jensaarai Defender. 
These ceremonial suits of armor resemble creatures that represent person- 
ality traits and favored philosophies of their bearers, and Jensaarai attune 
themselves to their armor in order to fight at maximum efficiency. Though 
the bulk of the Jensaarai are found on Suarbi 7/5, many venture out into 
the galaxy to explore and learn more about other worlds before returning 
to their duties. 


YJENSAARAI ENCOUNTERS 

Jensaarai Defenders are relatively secretive, and they fight only when forced 
to. They dedicate themselves to protecting their people, the inhabitants of 
Suarbi 7/5, and the other Jensaarai. When engaged in combat, they tend to 
fight hard and are unwilling to surrender. They focus their Force power use 
on defensive situations, preferring to confront enemies head-on rather than 
through the Force. Jensaarai Defenders usually attack voraciously, hoping 
to eliminate any threat to their safety and secrecy before the enemy can 
escape. Jensaarai have a particular disdain for Jedi, and they will seek out 
a Jedi on the field of combat whenever one is present, to the exclusion of 
all other foes. 

Encounters involving a Jensaarai Defender rarely include Force-users 
from other traditions Vedi ar otherwise). Jensaarai Defenders are formidable 
enemies when encountered in small groups, especially when they can get 
close enough to engage their enemies in melee combat. Additionally, some 
Jensaarai design their armors based on favored creatures, and mignt even 
have one of those creatures as a pet; for example, a Jensaarai Defender 
whose armor resembles a vornskr might bring her pet vornskrs into battle 
to fight at her side. 


SeeLevevAe) 


1 eSicqgvHo 


6 


SMeaLOVvavAs) 


MARTIAL ARTIST 


Martial Artist CL7 
Medium soldier 7 

Force 2 

Init +10; Senses Perception +8 

Lanquages Basic, 1 other 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 18), Fort 21, Will 17 
hp 77; Threshold 21 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +10 (1d10+8) or 

Melee force pike +10 (2d8+7) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +12 

Atk Options Expert Grappler, Melee Defense, Melee Smash, Stunning 
Strike, Unbalance Opponent 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Expert Grappler, Melee Smash, Stunning Strike, Unbalance 
Opponent 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Martial Arts |, Martial Arts U, 
Martial Arts Ill, Melee Defense, Skill Training (Acrobatics), Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons} 

Skills Acrobatics +10, Endurance +10, Initiative +10, Jump +11, 
Perception +8 

Possessions force pike, combat gloves, utility belt with medpac 


Martial artists have trained their bodies to become fiving weapons. Depending 
on the technique in which one trains, a martial artist can be anything from 
an aggressive brawler who pummels his foes senseless to a graceful, fluid 
practitioner who uses his enemies’ strength against them. 


Regardless of the technique each one uses, martial artists excel at close 
combat—many eschew using ranged weapons of any kind. On worlds where 
weapons are highly regulated or rare, martial artists are relatively common, 
since they do not need weapons to protect themselves or fight their foes. 
There are also Force-using martial arts schools (outside of the Jedi tradition) 
that train individuals in ways to harness their inner power for combat. Both 
the Jedi and the Sith monitor martial artists and their schools for potential 
recruits, knowing that such exceptional individuals who are in tune with 
their own power and with the Force have the proper qualities to make ideal 
candidates. 


MARTIAL ARTIST ENCOUNTERS 
Martial artists can easily fill the same niche as brutes (page 20), but instead 
of barely trained combatants, the heroes find themselves facing a capable 
melee warrior. Despite their name, martial artists could serve as bodyguards 
or even soldiers or commandos who specialize in close combat—they might 
still carry blasters, but use them only for situations that their furious fists 
cannot handle. 


Many martial artists can be found in the employ of crime lords or working 
as gladiators on many worlds, where their skills are used for the entertain- 
ment of the masses. Heroes who find themselves in the clutches of such 
criminals might wake up on the dloodstained floor of a gladiatorial pit or 
arena, Surrounded by martial artists ready to beat them senseless yet again. 
Weapons might be thrown onto the ground for the combatants to use, or 
possibly not—the crowd might demand to see each fighter survive using only 
his or her bare hands. 

Alternatively, martial artists could represent freedom fighters who use 
their own dadies as weapons to overthrow their oppressors. Such individu- 
als could easily slip past checkpoints and scanners on the lookout for illegal 
weapons or armor, which martial artists do not need. Then, once they are 
inside the target area, the intruders spring into action. 


MASTER OF TERAS KASI 
Terds Kasi is a powerful and deadly martial arts form that enables its wielder 
to deal devastating amounts of unarmed damage. 


Master of Terads Kasi CL 14 

Medium soldier 7/elite trooper 7 

Force 2 

Init +15: Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic, 1 other 

Defenses Ref 32 (flat-footed 26), Fort 30, Will 24 

hp 129; DR 3; Threshold 30 

Speed G squares 

Melee combat gloves +19 (2d10+13) or 

Melee combat gloves +17 (3d10+13) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee combat gloves +14 (2d10+13) and 
combat gloves +14 (2d10+13) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +14; Grp +20 

Atk Options Double Attack (simple weapons), Expert Grappler, Melee 
Smash, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Strike, Stunning Strike, Unbalance 
Opponent 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities damage reduction 3, delay damage 

Talents Expert Grappler, Melee Smash, Stunning Strike, Teras Kasi Basics, 
Teras Kasi Mastery, Unarmed Counterstrike, Unarmed Parry, Unbalance 
Opponent 

Feats Armor Proficiency [light, medium], Double Attack (simple weapons), 
Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Martial Arts II|, Point Blank Shot, Rapid 
Strike, Weapon Focus {simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency {advanced 
melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +15, Endurance +14, Initiative +15, Perception +12 

Possessions combat gloves, utility belt with medpac 


“THE ART OF TERAS 
KASI IS ABOUT 
CONTROL AND 

MASTERY OF ONE'S 

SELF." 


—- JOCLAD DANUA, 
YED!I KNIGHT 


1 eSidwHa 


SHSLIVAIVASD 


1 eSBLlavHd 


SHeLeavevA® 


MEDIC 


Medic CL3 

Medium nonheroic 6/soldier 1 

Force 5 

Init +8; Senses Perception +4 

Languages Basic, 1 other 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 13, Will 12 

hp 29; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +5 (1d4) 

Ranged blaster carbine +5 (3d8) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +5 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine) 

Special Actions Battle Analysis 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 12 

Talents Battle Analysis 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Focus (Treat Injury), Skill Training 
(Knowledge [tactics]), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency {pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons] 

Skills Initiative +8, Knowledge (tactics) +9, Treat Injury +14 

Possessions knife, blaster pistol, blaster carbine, 2 stun grenades, combat 
jumpsuit (+4 armor), comlink, field kit, medical kit, 2 FastFlesh 
medpacs, holster 


When a Soldier falls in battle, it is the duty of the medic to tend to him there 
or drag him back from the front lines to the field hospital. What separates 
a medic from a doctor is that a medic receives rudimentary combat train- 
ing to enable him to fight alongside his companions against enemy forces. 
Although possessed of some combat ability, a medic is not an ideal fighter 
and spends most of his time tending to the wounded. 


MEDIC ENCOUNTERS 

Medics are attached to military units, usually in a ratio of one medic for 
every dozen or so soldiers, more or less depending on the quality of the unit. 
Mercenary companies have fewer trained medics than other combat groups, 
leaving most mercenaries to tend to their own wounds. 

A medic is an important and valued member of any outfit. Since the medic's 
main responsibility is saving lives, most units don't risk their medics without 
good reason. In fact, soldiers often take risks to keep their unit's medic safe, 
even exposing themselves to gunfire to deal with a threat to the medic. In 
exchange, the soldiers expect the medic to move quickly when one of the 
team falls. While the medic applies a medpac, the rest of the team provides 
covering fire until the medic and his injured patient can return to cover. 


FASTFLESH MEDPAC 

A FastFlesh medpac offers a broader range of medical instruments and 
agents than does a standard medpac. Each FastFlesh medpac has enough 
materials for a single use. A character who benefits from a FastFlesh 
medpac or a standard medpac cannot again derive benefits from any 
medpac for 24 hours. 

Using a FastFlesh medpac grants you a +5 equipment bonus ta a 
Treat Injury check made to perform first aid. Otherwise, this medpac 
functions as a normal medpac. 

Cost 600; Weight 0.5 kg. 


MERCENARY 


Mercenary Soldier cL 3 

Medium nonheroic 6/soldier 1 

Force 5; Dark Side 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 14, Will 12 

hp 22; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +6 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster rifle +6 (3d8) or 

Ranged frag grenade +6 (4d6) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle) 

Special Actions Combined Fire 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Combined Fire 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, improved 
Defenses, Skill Training (Endurance), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +8, Initiative +9 

Possessions combat gloves, blaster rifle, frag grenade, combat jumpsuit 
(+4 armor), comlink, field kit, company insignia 


Mercenaries are professional soldiers who fight for anyone who will pay 
them. Their loyalty extends only so long as the credits keep rolling in, and 
even then they might break a contract if the job sours or seems hopeless, A 
mercenary doesn't sign on for causes and doesn’t care about the nature or 
identity of his employer, only that he is paid and paid on time. Their fickle 
nature and lack of regard for the reasons behind a conflict make mercenaries 
unattractive soldiers for many, but for those who have coin to spend and are 
desperate enough, a company of mercenaries can make do in the absence 
of more disciplined troops. 

Mercenary companies are organized in the same ways as other military 
units. Soldiers make up the bulk of the fighting outfit, and supporting them 
are numerous specialists such as scouts and heavy infantry. 


MERCENARY SCOUT 

Although particulars can vary, any mercenary company is certain to employ 
at least a small team of scouts. Trailblazers and rangers, they sweep ahead 
of the main body, gathering intelligence about enemy positions, striking at 
supply lines, and sabotaging equipment. 


Mercenary Scout 

Medium nonheroic 3/scout 2 
Force 5; Dark Side 1 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 
Languages Basic, 1 other 


CL3 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 13, Will 13 


Melee knife +3 (1d4+1) 

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +5 (3d4+1) or 
Ranged sporting blaster rifle +5 (3d6+1) 
Base Atk +3; Grp +5 

Atk Options Far Shot, Point Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 14, Con 11, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 10 
Talents [mproved Stealth 


Feats Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Initiative), Skill Training 


(Survival), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 
Skills Initiative +9, Perception +8, Stealth +9 (can reroll, must take 


second result), Survival +8 


Possessions knife, sporting blaster pistol, sporting blaster rifle with 


standard targeting scope, combat jumpsuit (+4 armor), encrypted 


comlink, electrobinoculars, field kit, mesh tape, utility belt 


| eSsitagwHgD 


SeeaLeaVeYyHAs) 


avHo 


MERCENARY HEAVY INFANTRY 
Mercenary heavy infantry forms the backbone of any mercenary squad. 
Equipped with heavy weaponry and superior armor, they lead the vanguard 
in assaults, drawing fire from their enemies while the rest of the mercenaries 
attack from the flanks, all the while mowing down enemy soldiers with a 
barrage of blaster fire. Heavy infantry units are often far more experienced 
than ordinary soldiers and are typically composed of grizzled veterans who 
have been through their fair share of campaigns. 


Mercenary Heavy Infantry CL4 
Medium soldier 4 

Force 5 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 18, Will 14 
hp 50; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +6 {1d4+5) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +4 (4d8+2) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +7 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +5 (4d8+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle), Coordinated Attack, 
Devastating Attack (rifles), Rapid Shot 


SeeaLeVeavyvwAs) 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 11 

Talents Devastating Attack (rifles), Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Rapid Shot, 
Skill Training (Mechanics), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +8, Initiative +9, Mechanics +7, Perception +8 

Possessions combat gloves, heavy blaster pistol, heavy blaster rifle, 2 
explosive charges with timers, battle armor (+8 armor, +2 equipment), 
comlink, electrobinoculars, field kit 


FAMOUS MERCENARY 
COMPANIES 

The Expanded Universe is fuil of famous and infamous soldiers-for-hire. 
Perhaps the most widespread use of these military groups came during 
the Rebellion against the Galactic Empire. As the casualties mounted, 
the Rebel Alliance turned to hiring mercenary companies to shore up 
its flagging numbers. Since the Galactic Ernpire had restrictions against 
hiring mercenaries, many companies signed on to fight alongside the 
Rebellion, while some remained neutral in the conftict. 

Ailon Nova Guard: An ancient and distinguished unit, the Ailon Nova 
Guard consisted largely of non-Human warriors. Having long worked for 
the Galactic Republic, the Guard believed Senator Palpatine to be an ally, 
an individual who shared its belief in the survival of the fittest. However, 
their exploitation oy the Emperor and the endless suicide missions he 
sent them on taught them the error of that way of thinking, so after the 
Battle of Endor, they helped to wipe out !mperial remnants. 

Black Curs: Formed for the express purpose of getting revenge on 
the Galactic Empire, this mercenary outfit of smugglers and outlaws 
worked for the New Republic by selling it information and monitoring 
Imperial movements. 

First Sun Mobile Regiment: Specializing in search-and-destroy mis- 
sions, the First Sun Mobile Regiment found regular service in the employ 
of the Galactic Empire. The relationship eventually soured after orders 
came down for the First Sun to execute one of its own companies. 

Laramus Base Irregulars: These soldiers had a reputation for taking 
on extremely dangerous missions. During the Galactic Civil War, they 
tried to stay out of the fighting, but when the conflict spilled onto the 
world that held their base, they were forced to take action. The Irregulars 
eventually joined the New Republic in fighting against the last holdouts 
of the Empire. 

Mistryl Shadow Guard: This elite group of all-female mercenar- 
ies formed after the Empire rendered their homeworld uninhabitable. 
Vowing never to serve the Empire—although, inexplicably, there have 
been exceptions—the Mistryl Shadow Guards gained a reputation for 
ruthless efficiency as assassins and soldiers. 

Red Moons: Led by a former Colonel of the New Republic, the Red 
Moons was an aggressive mercenary band dedicated to wiping out the 
remnants of the Empire. Although a mercenary company, it worked only 
for those employers who shared its agenda. 

Sabaoth Squadron: in the years leading up to the Clone Wars, the 
Sabaoth Squadron worked for Count Dooku to strengthen Separatist 
defenses and combat the pirates who were harassing the Separatist 
worlds. 


MERCENARY ENCOUNTERS 
Mercenaries do not fight for free. Before they sign up to join the army of 
their employer, they must negotiate the terms of their contract. The contract 
spells out the duties and expectations placed on the mercenaries, specifying 
how many engagements they are to fight in, the terms of their payment, 
reimbursements for supplies, and so on. 

One of the biggest myths about mercenary companies is their unreliabil- 
ity. Mercenary companies cannot afford to switch sides in the middle of a 
battle, because when they do, they diminish their reputation and reduce their 
chances of landing another contract down the road. Traitorous companies 
do exist, but they are the exception rather than the rule. Once a mercenary 
company signs on, it almost always abides by the letter of the contract until 
that agreement expires. 

Mercenaries are grim opponents, having cut their teeth on numerous 
engagements and having witnessed the horrors of war time and again. In 
no rush to join the casualty list, they are cautious in their tactics and don’t 
take unnecessary risks. Mercenaries also don't take things personally, since 
their next employer might be the folks they're fighting now. 

A company of mercenaries is organized along similar lines to other military 
groups. The core of any unit is the foot soldiers, those grunts who do the bulk 
of the fighting. Core units of mercenary soldiers have the support of heavy 
infantry, which lays down covering fire or might even lead the charge. Scouts 
and outriders range ahead to assess enemy positions, while a support staff 
made up of medics, surgeons, technicians, pilots, and other personnel ensures 
that the unit is properly outfitted and attended during engagements. 

Mercenaries can be allies or adversaries. The heroes might hire a group 
of meres to protect their headquarters, to accompany them on missions, 
or provide them with a bit more muscle when following up leads on a par- 
ticularly thorny investigation. In these cases, the quality of the mercenaries 
determines their price, with the better-known and better-equipped soldiers 
commanding the highest prices. Quality mercenaries don't take on long 
contracts, since they know from experience that a relationship could turn 
sour at any time. 

A mercenary band might invite the PCs to join its ranks. In such a case, 
a mercenary company is an excellent vehicle to propel the heroes through a 
variety of adventures, carrying them to new worlds and new environments 
depending on who will pay them and how much. Such scenarios also give 
the heroes a chance to rise up in the ranks of their company until one day 
they might lead the group to even greater glories. 


As enemies, mercenaries can fill a variety of roles. The most common 
and acceptable use for mercenaries is in a support role for a major villain, 
Mercenaries could serve as a personal guard, safeguarding the villain’s lair 
or a location that’s of particular importance to his plans. Since the villain is 
paying the mercenaries for their service, they might not share his goals and 
might eventually be inclined to stop working for him, if he proves treacher- 
ous or particularly evil. 

Lesser-known and greener mercenaries are not as selective about whom 
they work for, since they are largely concerned with developing their own 
reputation. Lowly meres take service with anyone who will pay them, hoping 
to build their resumes. These novice groups can be found working for minor 
crooks, up-and-coming crime lords, or aliens that harbor darker designs 
behind friendly facades. 


1 eStidwvwHoa 


SHsaLevyvevAs 


| eSLiadvwHga 


SvaLeavevwng 


MERCENARY CAPTAIN 


Mercenary Captain CL5 
Medium soldier 2/noble 3 

Force 8; Dark Side 1 

Init +9; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 20, Wilt 18 

hp 56; Threshold 20 


Speed 6 squares 
Melee combat gloves +5 (1d4+3}) 
Ranged heavy blaster pistol +7 (3d8+2) or 
Ranged heavy blaster pistol +2 (3d8+2] and 
blaster pistol +2 (3d6+2) 
Base Atk +4; Grp +6 
Special Actions Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Distant Command 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Talents Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Distant Command 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Dual Weapon Mastery I, Linguist, 
Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics]}, Toughness, Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +8, Initiative +9, Knowledge (tactics) +13, 
Perception +10 

Possessions combat gloves, heavy blaster pistol, blaster pistol, 
battle armor (+8 armor, +2 equipment) with helmet package, 
electrobinoculars, field kit, utility belt 


Although mercenaries might not be an official part of any standing army, 
and might not be soldiers dedicated to some cause or other, they are soldiers 
at heart. If they plan on surviving to earn their pay and see more work, they 
needa strong leader to guide them and represent their interests to potential 
employers. This is where the mercenary captain comes in. 

A leader on the battlefield and a shrewd negotiator between jobs, the 
mercenary captain is responsible for commanding his unit and maintaining 
the necessary discipline within his ranks. Mercenary captains ascend to 
command roles in a variety of ways. Some are ex-soldiers themselves, having 
left the ranks of the Grand Army of the Galactic Empire or the New Republic. 
Others might be disenfranchised nobles, and others could be disgraced war- 
riors, accused rightly or wrongly of some past crime. Regardless of their past, 
mercenary captains have chosen a life that allows them to use their natural 
leadership skills. It might not be much glory, but it’s enough. 


MERCENARY CAPTAIN 
ENCOUNTERS 

The mercenary captain is the heart and soul of a mercenary unit. The captain's 
personality shapes the unit, deciding which jobs they take and which they 
skip. The mercenary captain also affects the quality of the soldiers who serve 
under his command. Cruel captains breed equally cruel soldiers, while lazy 
captains attract lazy mercenaries. As a result, a mercenary captain is often 
the best representative of a company’s capabilities on the battlefield, and a 
wise leader who's looking to expand his or her army by hiring mercenaries 
would do well to look closely at the sort of leader who commands them. 

Most encounters with mercenary captains include mercenary soldiers 
or heavy infantry under the captain's command. The captain leads these 
forces into combat, using their tactical expertise to good effect. Combat 
against these characters should be harrowing, with the enemy well prepared 
and benefiting from advantageous positioning. Mercenary captains do not 
squander their troops, or they'll find themselves out of work. 

When negotiating service of mercenaries, it's always with the mercenary 
captain that the heroes must deal. Captains are usually shrewd negotiators 
who look for the best arrangement for themselves and without overly com- 
mitting their forces. Most mercenary captains are not interested in long- 
term employment, preferring short jobs with a quick turnaround. The more 
dangerous the task, obviously, the higher the pay they demand. 


MYrysTic 


Mystic CL 4 

Medium nonheroic 6/scout 3 

Force 4; Strong in the Force 

Init +4; Senses Perception +15; Force Perception 

Languages Basic, 1 other 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 15, Will 15 

hp 45; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee quarterstaff +5 (1d6+1) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +5 

Special Actions Shake It Off 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +15): farseeing, mind trick (2), 
move object, rebuke (2) 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Force Perception, Visions 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Shake It Off, Skill Focus (Use 
the Force), Skill Training (Stealth), Skill Training (Use the Force], Strong 
in the Force, Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Perception +15, Persuasion +10, Stealth +9, Survival 
+11, Use the Force +15 

Possessions quarterstaff, robes, fetish, pouches of strange powders 


In the remote corners of the galaxy are places that have never heard of the 
Jedi, the Sith, or even the Force. However, the Force flows through all living 
things, and so, many isolated cultures learn to use the Force in their own way. 
As is to be expected, explanations for these strange powers run the gamut, 
from gifts from the gods to mastery over some magical power. Regardless 
of what they consider to be the source of the power, those who succeed in 
harnessing this energy are referred to as prophets, sorcerers, Or mystics. 

Blessed (or cursed} with the ability to use the Force, mystics are not 
exactly certain what energy they tap when they perform miraculous acts. 
Since the source of their power is unknown to them and their people, how 
mystics fit into their societies varies from world to world. Many mystics are 
reviled, hated, and feared, and thus face lonely existences as exiles, shunned 
by families and friends alike; these individuals might become dark side adepts. 
Others are seen as prophets, holy men, or powerful magicians who wield 
forces beyond understanding. Such mystics command enormous respect and 
power, having a great deal of influence over their people. 


MYrsTic ENCOUNTERS 

Although many mystics are powerful in the Force, most lack formal train- 
ing and thus are not formidable opponents. Instead, mystics best serve as 
advisors; one might offer guidance to a chieftain in exchange for an exalted 
place in the tribe. Alternatively, a mystic might be a hermit, a figure of great 
wisdom but one who dabbles in powers beyond mortal conception, and only 
those in the direst need seek out their knowledge. 

On worlds that have numerous Force-users, mystics might band together 
as a separate society. The purpose and nature of these groups depends on 
the techniques they develop and how their understanding of these powers 
evolves. Some groups function as mystical orders of priests, while others 
might act as cabals of sorcerers who push against the limits of reality through 
their haphazard explorations of the Force. 

However, with misunderstood power comes negative reactions—there are 
many tragic cases of individuals strong in the Force who are driven from their 
villages because of the strange abilities they demonstrate. Rare are the exiled 
mystics who do not turn to the dark side, for fear, hate, and anger are their 
constant companions, twisting these lost souls into creatures of evil. 


| esstevHg 


SYiaLeEVvyvHa® 


a BHSiadvHoS 


SUaLOVEVHD | 4 


if 


OFFICER 


Officer CL 8 
Medium nonheroic 6/soldier 3/officer 3 

Force 2 

Init +7; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Bocce, 4 others 


Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 19), Fort 20, Will 23 
hp 62; Threshold 20 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +11 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Cover Fire 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics 
Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Cover Fire) 

Talents Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Cover Fire, Deployment Tactics 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses, Linguist, Skill Focus 
(Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Use 
Computer), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 

weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +18, Perception +13, Persuasion +19, 
Use Computer +13 

Possessions blaster pistol, code cylinder, officer's uniform, encrypted 
comiink, utility belt with medpac 


The officer described here represents a leader who goes out in the field, 
commanding alongside her troops. She is trained in quickly assessing the 
battlefield and deploying her troops in the most effective way possible—with 
the hope of keeping losses in both soldiers and equipment to a minimum. 
This sort of officer leads by example, giving orders from the front lines of 
combat, often scoffing at the plans concocted by the higher-ups in the 
safety of the rear deployment zone. An officer must make tough decisions, 
putting her troops in extremely hazardous, and sometimes suicidal, positions 
to get the job done. Officers carry little in the way of weapons or armor, 
relying on other troops for protection and transportation. Depending on 
their actual rank, this “entourage” can be anything from a bodyguard and 
an airspeeder all the way up to a brigade of troops, heavily armored tanks, 
and a contingent of battle droids. 


It is important to remember that an officer's rank isn’t necessarily tied 
to her level as a game character—a brigade commander might have fewer 
heroic levels than the lieutenant of a platoon, especially if that lieutenant 
has seen intense combat. Heroic levels represent a character's participation 
in action-filled adventures or missions of deep intrigue, not the number of 
years she spent as a desk jockey. 


OFFICER ENCOUNTERS 

Officers are almost never encountered alone—even on “solitary” missions, 
they are often accompanied by a retinue of noncommissioned officers and 
enlisted personnel. The officer presented here works best as the commander 
of a squad of 6-10 soldiers or a platoon of 20-30 soldiers, with accompanying 
support vehicles, equipment, and droids (the exact number depends on the 
CL of the encounter). This sort of officer is a capable fighter in her own right 
but works best when she is able to direct the movement of her troops. 

An officer might be assigned to lead a group of highly trained specialists 
in order to complete a specific mission. Typical allies include commandos, 
elite soldiers, medics, and pilots—possibly with the officer being the least 
powerful member of the group. 


INTELLIGENCE OFFICER 

Intelligence officers delve into mounds of intercepted codes, plans, and 
reports to determine the best way to bring down the enemy by knowing 
more than they do. Handpicked for their natural intelligence and personal 
charm, intelligence officers are masters at teasing out information from a 
variety of sources. Most are expert interrogators, using a mix of “carrot and 
stick” to cause an enemy agent to spill his guts, revealing vital data or even 
convincing him to become a turncoat. Although they bear great similarities to 
spies, intelligence officers are part of a strict chain of command and have far 
more restrictions placed upon them when performing their duties. In short, 
spies collect the data and intelligence officers process it. 

Because of the valuable knowledge they possess, intelligence officers 
are considered key targets and highly sought-after prizes. As a result, they 
are heavily protected by their units to keep them falling into the hands of 
the enemy. 


Intelligence Officer CL 10 

Medium noble 7/officer 3 

Force 3 

Init +9; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Bothese, Durese, High Gatactic, Huttese, 
Quarrenese, Ryl 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21], Fort 20, Will 26 

hp 42; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 {1d4] 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +9 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Born Leader, Demand Surrender, Presence, 

Shift Defense |], Weaken Resolve 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 8, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 17 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Shift Defense 1) 

Talents Born Leader, Demand Surrender, Presence, Shift Defense |, Shift 
Defense Il, Weaken Resolve 

Feats Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus 
(Deception), Skill Focus (Gather Infarmation), Skill Focus (Knowledge 
{social sciences]), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Persuasion), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons} 

Skills Deception +18, Gather Information +18, Initiative +9, Knowledge 
(bureaucracy) +13, Knowledge (galactic lore} +13, Knowledge (social 
sciences} +18, Perception +18, Persuasion +18, Use Computer +13 

Possessions blaster pistol, code cylinder, encrypted comlink, datapad, 
officer's uniform 


Intelligence Officer Encounters 

Intelligence officers rarely go into the field on their own—they use the 
information gleaned by spies and other sources to make their assessments 
from the safety of headquarters. Most heroes are likely to encounter an 
intelligence officer after they have been captured and are undergoing 
interrogation. Intelligence officers are smooth operators who rarely get 
riled up (unless they choose to) and are extremely difficult to intimidate 
or crack. During such interrogations, two to four soldiers or a single elite 
soldier accompanies an intelligence officer to provide both protection and 
an intimidation factor. 

When encountered in the field, intelligence officers are heavily protected. 
One might be accompanied by a squad of up to eight soldiers, or a pair of elite 
soldiers, as well as a personal bodyguard. In totalitarian regimes, particularly 
the Empire, intelligence officers might have orders to commit suicide if they 
are captured, which they carry out after destroying any physical evidence 
they might possess. In turn, these regimes impose punishment on any troops 
that kill, rather than capture, enemy intelligence personnel. 

Intelligence officers make extensive use of droids in their work—protocol 
droids for translation and diplomatic situations, probe droids for intelligence 
gathering on far-flung worlds (particularly the Viper series probe droid), and 
specially designed interrogation droids. 


9 
Zz 
> 
v 
4 
Li) 
2 


SeeLavevAlg 


f E : 
Sve LovevAa [| j veiavHo ) 


OUTLAW TECH 
Outlaw Tech CL 4 
Medium scoundrel 2/scout 2 

Force 4 

Init +9; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Binary, Durese, Sullustese 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17], Fort 16, Will 17 
hp 30; Threshold 16 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d4+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +4 

Atk Options Hyperdriven, Point Blank Shot 
Special Actions Jury-Rigger 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Hyperdriven, Jury-Rigger 

Feats Improved Defenses, Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge 
{technology]), Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skil! Focus (Use Computer), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons] 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +9, Initiative +9, Knowledge 
(technology) +15, Mechanics +15, Persuasion +9, Use Computer +15 
Possessions blaster pistol, concealed holster, credit chip, datapad, hacked 
code cylinder, security kit, comlink, tool kit, utility belt, 500 credits 


The outlaw tech combines technological know-how with criminal tendencies. 
He is an expert at breaking and entering, and is as comfortable hijacking a 
starship as he is hotwiring a speeder. His tools are some of his most valued 
possessions, and they range from high-end datapads to specialized security 
kits. He prides himself on getting the job done quickly, and approaches each 
new assignment with childlike zeal. He is an opportunist, but he's also willing 
to plan ahead when time allows him the luxury of doing so. 

Because he is both charismatic and intelligent, an outlaw tech is just as 
capable at gaining a mark’s confidence as he is at hacking a code cylinder. 
This versatility allows the outlaw tech to be more flexible in the field, and 
to approach each new situation differently depending on the circumstances. 
He knows how to do his homework, because he has friends on the street who 
can feed him the information he needs. An outlaw tech also keeps up on 
the latest technology, even if he can't afford it, because he might someday 
come up against it in the course of his job. 


ENCOUNTERS 
Outlaw techs are everywhere, plying their trade throughout the galaxy with 
varying degrees of success. They work on the wrong side of the law, and are 
often pitted against the authorities whether or not they succeed on their 
current job. Particularly gifted outlaw techs might find steady employment 
with criminal syndicates or less than savory corporate interests, but most 
work on a freelance basis. Some even work as legitimate technicians, using 
the information they gather during their normal work hours to develop new 
plans and schemes. 

Though capable in a fight, outlaw techs are not frontline combatants. 
They prefer to fight from a distance, using cover and concealment as they 
snap off well-aimed shots from a blaster pistol. They're not above shoot- 
ing someone in the back, especially if doing so will bring a quick end to a 
potentially messy firefight. Utilizing their skills to seal a blast door between 
themselves and their enemies is also perfectly acceptable. Hand-to-hand 
combat is never something that outlaw techs seek to engage in; they prefer 
to leave such activity to the soldiers and thugs who do it best. 


OQOuTLAW TECH 


PiLotT 


Pilot CL5 

Medium nonheroic 4/scout 4 

Force 2 

Init +14; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 17, Will 15; Dodge, Mobility 

hp 35; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+1) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Special Actions Acute Senses 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Acute Senses, Improved Initiative 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Mobility, Skill Focus (Initiative), 
Skill Focus (Pilot), Skill Training (Perception), Vehicular Combat, 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols) 

Skills Initiative +14 (can reroll, must take second result), Perception +8 
(can reroll, must take second result), Pilot +14 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, padded flight suit (+3 armor), comlink, 
tool kit, R2 series astromech droid, vehicle or starship 


Although almost everyone in the civilized portions of the galaxy can drive 
an airspeeder or steer a vehicle through routine routes, pilots are the true 
experts. The pilot described here can represent anyone from a fighter pilot, 
to a ship captain, to a tank commander—as long as a vehicle needs some- 
one to do some tricky handling, the pilot is the one to do it. As a result, 
pilots are in high demand, especially for jobs that involve charting unknown 
territory or flying through hazardous regions. Even the most conservative 
pilot is accustomed to taking risks and knows how to push his vehicle to the 
edge if necessary. Many pilots, especially if they own their own vehicles, 
are also capable mechanics and can lend a hand to ensure that their craft 
is working at its best. Pilots are skilled at avoiding trouble and keeping their 
vehicles, cargo, and passengers safe from harm. 


“1m A PILOT, YOU 
KNOW, AND SOME 
DAY I'M GOING TO 
FLY AWAY FROM 
THIS PLACE." 


ANAKIN SKYWALKER 


PILOT ENCOUNTERS 

When not in their vehicles, pilots are typically encountered around hangar 
bays, barracks, repair shops, or cantinas, relaxing before their next mission. 
If a pilot is part of a unit of some kind, such as a Rebellion squadron or a 
planetary militia, he has a rank, which comes with duties and a chain of 
command, and thus must follow orders. Independent pilots pursue their own 
agendas and could be hired for or persuaded to undertake any number of 
missions. Pilots who man a spaceship commonly call that vessel home. As 
a result, most pilots are extremely protective of their vehicle and are loath 
to place it in serious risk unless the price is right. Although a pilot might 
not seem to be much of a threat when he's not flying his ship, it should be 
remembered that he can turn the interior of his vessel into a nightmare for 
intruders—decompressing corridors, turning off the gravity, flooding the 
engine room with radiation, and the like—all from the safety of the bridge 
or cockpit. 

Pilots are often accompanied by members of their unit or their ship's 
crew and can call on them for help if things go wrong. Typical allies include 
the ship's captain, gunner, medic, engineers, or officers (thugs can be used 
to represent generic crew). In addition, many pilots own astromech droids 
that help them by plotting astrogation coordinates or monitoring their ship's 
internas workings. 


1 HSiLeeHoS 


Sx eaLAVeVAS) 


@ 
——— 
SMS LOVeVAs) | SaiawHo } 


PILOT, ACE 


The ace pilot is a rare example of true excellence in piloting starships. When 
he is seated in the cockpit of his craft, the starfighter becomes an exten- 
sion of his will, with the pilot and the vessel becoming as one. Deadly in the 
extreme, these pilots have survived numerous dogfights. They have racked 
up an impressive number of kills and can outmaneuver just about any foe. 
Ace Pilot CL 14 
Medium scoundrel 7/ace pilot 7 

Force 8 

Init +15; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, 2 others 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 28), Fort 29, Will 26; Dodge 
hp 98; Threshold 29 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+7) 

Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+7) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +13 

Atk Options Double Attack (heavy weapons), Hyperdriven, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack, Spacehound, Starship Raider 

Special Actions Elusive Dogfighter 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 17, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Special Qualities vehicle dodge +3 

Talents Elusive Dogfighter, Hyperdriven, Keep It Together, Relentless 
Pursuit, Spacehound, Starship Raider, Stellar Warrior, Vehicle Evasion 

Feats A Few Maneuvers (see sidebar), Dodge, Double Attack (heavy 
weapons), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus 
(Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, 
simple weapons] 

Skills Initiative +15, Knowledge (tactics] +14, Mechanics +14, Perception 
+13, Pilot +20 (can reroll when initiating dogfight and take better 
result), Use Computer +14 

Possessions blaster pistol, flight suit, comlink, breath mask, medpac, field 
kit, fusion lantern, starfighter, astromech droid 


“YOU'RE GOOD, 
CORRAN, BUT 
YOU'RE NO LUKE 
SKYWALKER." 


—- WEDGE ANTILLES 


ACE PILOT ENCOUNTERS 

Ace pilots—from the Rebel starfighter pilot who racks up two dozen kills 
to the TIE interceptor pilot who screams into dogfights leaving glowing 
shards of molten metal in his wake—can be irreplaceable allies or dreadful 
opponents. Word of these characters’ exploits travels quickly through the 
galaxy. As their reputation grows, they become almost legendary. This can 
attract ambitious would-be ace pilots who want to become the next “top 
gun'—a desire that is almost never fulfilled. 


New FEAT: 

A& FEW MANEUVERS 

You can weave, juke, and roll to avoid enemy fire in the 
thick of combat. 

Prerequisites: Dodge, Vehicular Combat. 

Benefit: When piloting a vehicle of Colossal size or smaller, 
you grant a +2 dodge bonus to your vehicle's Reflex Defense. Fur- 
thermore, if you are the target of a missile or torpedo attack and 
the attack roll misses by 5 or more, the projectile self-destructs 
harmlessly. 


PiLotT, Brite 

Elite Pilot CL 10 
Medium scoundrel 4/soldier 3/ace pilot 3 

Force 5 


Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +7 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 26), Fort 25, Will 21; Dodge 

hp 68; Threshold 25 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pisto! +10 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Double Attack (heavy weapons), Elusive 
Dogfighter, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Spacehound, Starship Raider 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Armored Defense, Improved Armored Defense, Elusive Dogfighter, 
Spacehound, Starship Raider, Vehicular Evasion 

Feats Armor Proficiency (lignt), Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Double Attack 
(heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Pilot), 
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +7, Pilot +17, 
Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, armored flight suit (+5 armor) with helmet 
package, starship 


Where the ace pilot is a legendary figure with a score of kills under his 
belt, the elite pilot described here reoresents the somewhat more common 
starfighter pilots who have seen their fair share of combat. Although they 
might not have the fame (or infamy) of ace pilots, elite pilots can hold their 
own ina fight and enjoy a bit more freedom than their more renowned 
counterparts do. 

Elite pilots also represent those veteran squadrons of starfighters whose 
names are spread throughout the galaxy, such as Rogue Squadron and Saber 
Squadron of the 181st Imperial Fighter Group. Though few of the members 
stand out from the rest, they are experts at fighting in formation, and their 
shared exploits are enough to cause their enemies concern. 


EuwItTe PItoTrT ENCOUNTERS 

An elite pilot is not much without his ship, but in his cockpit he's a terror. 
Encounters with these characters should almost always be in starfighter 
combat, pitting the heroes against these hardened veterans in hair-raising 
dogfights. Furthermore, elite pilots rarely operate on their own and are typi- 
cally part of a larger squadron. 

Elite squadrons are those groups that have survived several confrontations 
in important battles around the galaxy. Like the ace pilot, these squadrons 
attract a fair bit of attention, gaining enemies from unexpected quarters 
who want to take them down a notch or to prove they themselves are 
the better. These squadrons might be tasked with escorting an important 
transport that bears important passengers, patrol a contested section of 
space, or safeguard a space station that happens to be the site of tense and 
unpopular negotiations. 

When organized into squadrons, most elite pilots count at least one of 
their number as an ace pilot. This hotshot might be a talented pilot to whom 
they owe much of their success, or he might be their squadron commander. 
Elite pilots are usually protective of their aces and take risks to keep them 
safe. 

Elite pilots do not have to be openly antagonistic to the heroes; they might 
even fight on the same side. Rivalries brew in competing squadrons, and it’s 
possible that one or more heroes might compete with the members of a rival 
squad. As long as these rivalries are friendly, rarely is there trouble. It's when 
things get out of hand that allies can turn into nasty enemies. 


it i eBidcvrHoa 


SsoeLeavevng 


| eaiavHa 


PIRATE 


Pirate CL6 
Medium nonheroic 6/scout 2/scoundre} 2 

Force 2 

Init +5; Senses Perception +5 


Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 16, Will 14; Dodge 
hp 42; Threshold 16 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroaxe +8 (2d10+3) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +7 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Sneak Attack +1d6 
Special Actions Jury-Rigger, Shake It Off 


Q 
Ig 
> 
1) 
> 
Q 
J 
w) 
2 
(y 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Jury-Rigger, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Point Blank Shot, Shake It Off, 
Skill Training (Endurance, Pilot), Weapon Focus (advanced melee 
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons] 

Skills Deception +9, Endurance +11, Mechanics +5 (can reroll when jury- 
rigging, must take second result), Pilot +11 

Possessions vibroaxe, heavy blaster pistol, 2 stun grenades, utility belt 


The pirate moniker can be applied to just about anyone who makes a living 
robbing and Stealing ships. From bloodthirsty crews lurking on the fringes of 
space to professional thieves plying the trade lanes, pirates are an age-old 
problem in the galaxy and one not likely to go away any time soon. Generally, 
pirates are little better than bandits, lying in wait to beset a passing ship. 
However, not all pirates fit the cruel image attributed to most of their kind. 
Many follow a strict code of conduct, being more selective about whom they 
hit, how often, and when. Some pirates never kill, while others strike only 
at ships loyal to the Empire. It can be difficult, however, to figure out what 
sort of pirate is about to be encountered, and sometimes it’s better to shoot 
first and sort out the details later. 


THE BLAZING CLAW 

For thousands of years, the Blazing Claw has served as the synnbol of 
piracy. Although innumerable variations of the symbol exist, they are 
all more or less adaptations of the same image: a fiery talon. This image 
has been romanticized somewhat on holovids, with the result that many 
average citizens hold pirates in high regard, but those who operate deep- 
space ships have no such illusions. To them, the Blazing Claw means just 
one thing: the threat of death. 


PRIVATEER 

in addition to pirates, the galaxy is also home to privateers—civilian ships that 
hire out their crews to a government to serve as professional bandits. Priva~ 
teers all operate under letters of marque and reprisals,-contracts between 
themselves and their employers that describe the terms of the relationship, 
setting the length of employment, clearly defining the rights of tne employer 
and the privateer, and detailing any compensations that are to result from 
the terms of service. Privateers are just as ruthless as other pirates, but they 
operate from behind a veneer of legitimacy. 


Privateer CL9 

Medium nonheroic 4/saldier 3/scoundrel 5 

Force 5 

Init +13; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, 1 other 

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 20), Fort 22 (26 against extreme heat or 
cold), Will 21 

hp 55; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +11 (2d6+8} 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +12 (3d8+6) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +10 (4d8+5) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +9; Grp +11 

Atk Options Hyperdriven, Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Spacehound, Starship Raider 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Hyperdriven, Spacehound, Starship Raider, Weapon Specialization 
{advanced melee weapons, pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Training (Initiative, Mechanics, Pilot], Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee 
weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Initiative +13, Persuasion +11, Mechanics +12, 

Pilot +13 

Possessions vibroblade, heavy blaster pistol, all-temperature cloak, 

flight suit 


PIRATE ENCOUNTERS 

A pirate or privateer attack is swift and brutal, often the result of an ambush. 
Pirates use asteroid belts and strange stellar phenomena to mask their pres- 
ence while waiting for their prey, and often employ a number of smaller scout 
ships to watch for potential targets. Pirates might be greedy, but they aren't 
stupid: They'll let a heavily armed warship slip through their fingers if they 
don’t stand a chance against it. 

If pirates have starfighters, they send these smaller snub fighters out 
to herd the larger prey into their trap, where one or more pirate ships can 
emerge from hiding and cut off their prey's escape. Although pirates hit 
hard and fast, they don't want to destroy their prey, since doing so would 
defeat the purpose of piracy. Instead, they direct their attacks to cripple 
their prey, targeting engines and sensors, and weakening the target so it 
can't make the jump to hyperspace. Once the ship is sufficiently damaged, 
the pirates demand surrender; failing that, they'll board and attempt to take 
the ship by force. 


After a raid, pirates immediately strip the target of anything they deem 
valuable, both for personal profit and to recoup whatever losses they might 
have incurred in the attack. What they do with prisoners depends on the 
pirate captain and the situation. Most pirate captains aren’t too interested 
in keeping prisoners but might do so if they stand to make a profit, whether 
by ransoming the victims back to families or just selling them into slavery. 
Other pirates don't choose to deal with living cargo at all, and so they might 
let the survivors keep their ship, strand them on a remote world, or even 
just execute them. 

Between raids, pirate crews go about their business as any other ship 
crews might. They make repairs, recruit new crew members, and spend their 
credits on personal pleasures. Aside from keeping the crews happy, these 
furloughs are also great ways to gather information. Pirates are ever watchful 
for bounty hunters and Imperial warships, but are even more interested in 
news about targets for their next raid. 

Although pirates are generally reluctant to choose sides in a conflict, 
during the Galactic Civil War many pirates fought on the side of the Rebel- 
lion. The Empire's attitude toward non-Humans, coupled with its draconian 
tactics, often put the Empire at odds with the views of many pirate crews. 
As such, many pirates trained their attacks on cargo ships that were moving 
munitions, foodstuffs, and other goods to Imperial emplacements, thus 
weakening the Empire's war effort. 

In addition to independent pirates, the Rebel Alliance was notorious for 
hiring privateer fleets to shore up its forces, Although supporting these 
contracts came at great cost to the Rebellion, the effort was worth it since 
the privateers were experts at hit-and-run tactics and thus could weaken 
the Empire's fleets. More important, though, employing privateers allowed 
the Alliance to reduce pirate attacks along some dangerous routes and thus 
prevent its own ships from falling prey to unexpected attacks. 


SeHeLevevA|a 


| SeSsiadwHroga 


| 


| 


SPOILAIVSVH®) 


PIRATE CAPTAIN 
Pirate Captain cL 11 
Medium scoundrel 5/noble 4/ace pilot 2 

Force 8 

Init +12; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic, 3 others 


Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 25), Fort 23 (28 against extreme heat or 
cold), Will 23 

hp 66; Threshold 23 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +9 (2d6+5) or 

Melee vibroblade +4 (2d6+5) and 
vibroblade +4 (2d6+5) with Double Attack 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+5) or 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +8 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Double Attack (advanced melee weapons), Hyperdriven, 
Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Spacehound, Starship Raider 

Special Actions Demand Surrender, Presence, Quick Draw 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 17 

Special Qualities vehicle dodge +1 

Tatents Demand Surrender, Hyperdriven, Presence, Spacehound, Starship 
Raider, Vehicular Evasion 

Feats Double Attack {advanced melee weapons), Linguist, Melee Defense, 
Point Blank Shot, Quick Draw, Skill Training (Persuasion), Toughness, 
Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (advanced melee weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Gather Information +13, Initiative +12, Knowledge 
{tactics} +11, Persuasion +13, Pilot +12 

Possessions vibroblade, blaster pistol, hold-out blaster pistol in 
concealed holster, encrypted comlink, all-temperature cloak, 
utility belt, capital ship 


Pirate captains are an eclectic mix of characters, encompassing everything 
from flamboyant rogues commanding rotting ships to grim-faced brutes 
who slaughter and kill with caprice. Like most pirates and privateers, pirate 
captains rarely choose their lot, and most have had their status thrust upon 
them. Pirate captains come from a variety of backgrounds and include dis- 
graced nobles, ex-slaves, and fugitives from justice. What separates these 
characters from their crews is a special quality that gives them the edge to 
claw their way to the top of the heap and take charge. Yet, any thug can 
rule through brute force, so it also takes cunning and strength for a captain 
to hold his command. 


The first priority of any pirate captain is to keep his crew happy. Mutiny is 
acommon problem among pirates, and although every captain has a certain 
amount of goodwill born from the loyalties he earned when he took com- 
mand, no pirate will risk his life for his captain when he's poor or hungry. 
Therefore, pirate captains usually mask their personal greed to ensure that 
they take care of their men. 


PIRATE CAPTAIN ENCOUNTERS 

A pirate captain is the heart and soul of a pirate ship. It is his ambitions, his 
beliefs, and above all, his agenda that shapes the character of his crew. A 
captain's approach to piracy is reflected in the actions of his crew, so a brutal 
captain likely has bloodthirsty brutes under his command, while a generous 
and capricious captain might have a lot of undisciplined rogues as a crew. 
So, the sort of pirates the heroes encounter are the best indication of the 
sort of person who leads them. 

Atypical pirate captain commands a freighter or larger vessel that enjoys 
the support of a number of smaller starfighters. The captain leads from the 
deck of his ship, directing the battle from his ship's command center. Make 
no mistake—pirate captains are typically skilled pilots themselves, and on 
smaller runs, a pirate captain might pilot a smailer craft to lead his crew 
through the thickest of combats. 


POLICE OFFICER 


Police Officer CL 2 
Medium nonheroic 6 

Init +4; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 10, Will 9 
hp 14; Threshold 10 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee stun baton +5 (2d641 stun) 
Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) 
Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Atk Options Pin 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Pin, Skill Training (Endurance), Skill 
Training (Knowledge [oureaucracy]), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons} 

Skills Endurance +8, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +8, Perception +7 

Possessions blaster pistol, stun baton, combat jumpsuit (+4 armor), 
encrypted comlink 


Police officers are charged with keeping the peace and enforcing laws. 
Depending on each world and its laws, a police officer can be anything from 
little more than a monitor who has little authority to a brutal instrument 
of the state. The vast majority of police officers fall in the middle ground. 
They have the authority to detain suspicious individuals, make arrests (with 
sufficient evidence), and use deadly force in self-defense or to protect 
bystanders from harm. Most police officers are overworked and underpaid, 
out continue to do an otherwise thankless job for the sake of keeping the 
streets safe. Customs and laws of various worlds make bribery a possibility 
when dealing with police officers—minor violations might be overlooked for 
the right amount of credits. 

The statistics provided here can aiso be used for security guards, pri- 
vate defense contractors, and other individuals dedicated to community 
protection. 


POLICE OFFICER ENCOUNTERS 
Police officers typically wear light armor and carry sidearms, which is enough 
protection and firepower to deal with regular criminals and to deter suspects 
from doing anything drastic. Many police officers are required to keep their 
blasters on stun setting as a means of preventing unnecessary fatalities. 
They also carry stun batons for close combat. Most police officers assigned 
to a vehicle also carry more powerful (or specialized} weapons to deal with 
bigger threats. A police "cruiser" typically carries a blaster rifle, an ion rifle, 
three stun grenades, and an ion grenade. On more authoritarian or violent 
worlds, police officers have their weapons to do lethal damage and commonly 
use rifles and heavier armor. 

Police officers are usually assigned to work in pairs and are under standing 
orders to call for backup if things become dangerous. On average, additional 
police officers arrive within 1d10 minutes after a call is made. Wealthier 
worlds also team police officers with droids to provide additional firepower 
or reduce the chance of an officer getting injured. These droids are linked 
into the local precinct's systems, sending a constant stream of information 
back for use as evidence. 


0 
I 
> 
TI 
4 
1) 
B 


SHreLeveyve 


{ 
] 
| 
| 


i HaiavHga 


SeeLeaVvvA|) ) 


POLITICIAN, VETERAN 


Politician, Veteran CL 11 
Medium nonheroic 6/noble 9 

Force 5 

Init +7; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, 5 others 

Defenses Ref 20 [flat-footed 20), Fort 18, Will 22 

hp 12; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+3) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +11 (3d4+4) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +10 

Atk Options Coordinated Attack, Melee Defense 

Special Actions Born Leader, Presence, Weaken Resolve 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 11, Con 9, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Connections, Presence, Weaken Resolve, Wealth 

Feats Coordinated Attack, Linguist (2}, Melee Defense, Skill Focus 
(Deception), Skill Focus (Gather Information), Skill Focus (Persuasion), 
Skill Training (Gather Information), Skill Training [Knowledge 
[bureaucracy]}, Skill Training (Persuasion), Skill Training (Use 
Computer), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +19, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +13, Persuasion +19, Use Computer +13 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, datapad with data cards, personal 
holoprojector, holorecorder, fine robes 


Politicians are some of the most prominent movers and shakers in the galaxy. 
The veteran politician has spent years honing his craft, mastering the tools 
of intrigue needed to survive in the halls of power. Veteran politicians rep- 
resent any number of political figures, including powerful bureaucrats and 
ambassadors, judges and princes, ministers, and any number of counselors 
and advisors. Althougn their titles vary, their talents and abilities are more 
or less the same, 

Standing out from the rest of the political entities infesting the galaxy 
are two important groups, representing the government of the Old and New 
Republics as well as the cold tyranny of the Galactic Empire. 

The first political group, and the most enduring, is the Senators. In each 
of the major political phases dominating the core of the galaxy—the Galac- 
tic Republic, the Galactic Empire, and the New Republic, as well as other 
key eras—the Senators served their homeworlds, sectors, or even private 
consortiums. Senators were principally responsible for representing their 
constituents’ interests in the Senate, but at various times, they would act 


as heads of state as well. Such power attracted the ambitious and corrupt, 
but also the noble, creating an interesting tension between self-serving 
interest and the idealism of those who championed the cause of freedom 
and justice. 

The Senate has always been a critical component of the galactic govern- 
ment, but during the dark days leading up to the Clone Wars, the Senate 
was rife with corruption, so much so that it languished and proved unable 
to attend to any threat at all. This weakness enabled the charismatic Senator 
Palpatine to seize the position of Supreme Chancellor, after which he steadily 
worked to consolidate his power. 

With the outbreak of the Clone Wars and the formation of the Grand 
Army of the Republic, Palpatine installed regional governors, called Moffs, 
to oversee the galaxy's sectors and exert control over unruly populations, 
nominally to shore up their defenses against the Separatists. This act further 
weakened the Senate, reducing it to the point of utter uselessness. [hrough 
the support of his growing military presence and the authority he vested in 
the Moffs, the Supreme Chancellor was eventually able to dissolve the Senate 
and reform the outmoded Republic into the Galactic Empire. 

After the conclusion of the Civil War, and the apparent death of the 
Emperor, the ways of the Galactic Republic were restored and a new Senate 
was formed. Although divisiveness, infighting, and the sweeping troubles that 
plagued the old Senate remain, this body has regained its former power and 
influence, forging ahead to create a new society founded on the principles 
of democracy and justice. 


VETERAN POLITICIAN 
ENCOUNTERS 

Considering their power and influence, veteran politicians are not the sorts 
of opponents the heroes are likely to face in combat. Politicians are shielded 
from harm by a network of security personnel and bodyguards, who make 
sure nothing befalls their charge. One or more of these protectors escort 
the character out of danger while the rest of the security detail lays down 
covering fire. 

Veteran politicians are better suited to be potent allies, lending their 
influence for the benefit of the player characters, or as charges, significant 
personalities whom the heroes need to protect from assassins and rivals. 
Veteran politicians can be cooperative, but haughtiness and arrogance are 
common character traits attributed to these figures. 

As adversaries, veteran politicians make for excellent “faceless villains." 
They don't move directly against the PCs; they use mercenaries, assassins, 
and bounty hunters to attend to their enemies. Taking the fight to a politi- 
cian is a challenge, since a wise politician conceals his criminal acts and ties 
up loose ends. A direct assault against this sort of hidden enemy can have 
sweeping repercussions if the heroes don't first uncover hard evidence of 
their opponent's villainy. 


BAIL ORGANA 
Noted as one of the principal architects of the Rebellion, Bail Organa—the 
adopted father of Leia Organa—long championed the cause of freedom and 
was a staunch supporter of democracy. At first, Bail Organa was one of 
Chancellor Palpatine's close allies, for both were disgusted by the stagnancy 
pervading the Galactic Senate, but as Palpatine’s power grew and the Senate's 
role waned, Organa’s suspicions and fears came to the forefront. His associa- 
tion with his former ally weakened, and soon he became Palpatine's active 
opponent, fighting against the formation of the clone army and later against 
Palpatine’'s naked grabs for power. It was during this time that Bail Organa 
joined forces with the Jedi High Council, many members of which shared 
Organa's concerns about the Clone Wars and Palpatine's growing strength. 
In the end, Bail Organa’s efforts and those of his allies, Mon Mothma 
and others, failed and the Galactic Empire was born. Organa continued to 
serve in the Senate, hoping to bring about change from within. The Emperor 
would eventually force his hand as the cruelties and evil of the Empire grew 
unchecked. After the Empire wiped out hundreds of protestors, Bail Organa 
was resolved to topple the regime and helped form the Alliance to Restore 
the Republic, which eventually became known as the Rebel Alliance. 


Bail Organa cL9 
Medium Human noble 9 

Force 8 

Init +10; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Mon Calamarian, Sullustese 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 14, Will 18; Dodge 
hp 50; Threshold 14 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (2d6+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Melee Defense 

Special Actions Born Leader, Inspire Confidence, Presence, Quick Draw 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 15, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Connections, Educated, Inspire Confidence, Presence 

Feats Dodge, Linguist, Melee Defense, Quick Draw, Skill Focus 
(Deception), Skill Focus (Knowledge [bureaucracy]), Skill Focus 
(Perception), Skill Training (Initiative), Skill Training (Pilot), Skill 
Training (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +16, Gather Information +11, Initiative +10, Knowledge 
{bureaucracy} +15, Knowledge (galactic lore] +10, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +10, Perception +16, Persuasion +11, Pilot +10, Treat Injury 
+11, Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, datapad 


Sve LavevAsa) 


i HSiavHoS 


SSseLoveavAs) 


SABOTEUR 


Saboteur CL 8 
Medium scoundrel 4/soldier 4 

Force 7 

init +6; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, 1 other 


Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20], Fort 21, Will 20 
hp 58; Threshold 21 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +8 (2d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+4] or 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (4d6+4) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Knack 


Abilities Sty 13, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 12 

Talents Demolitionist, Knack, Gimmick 

Feats Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill 
Focus [Mechanics}, Skill Focus (Stealth}, Skill Training (Knowledge 
([technology]), Skill Training (Pilot), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Knowledge (technology) +10 Mechanics +15, 
Perception +10, Pilot +11, Stealth +16, Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster pistol, viorodagger 


Saboteurs are experts in destroying all forms of machinery. They know how to 
swiftly and silently gain access to their objectives and either destroy them or 
subtly render them useless. The best saboteurs can damage weapons, vehicles, 
and other targets so that they appear in perfect condition and then suddenly 
fail in a catastrophic manner, preferably at the worst possible moment. For 
example, a sabotaged protective force field might collapse the moment it 
came under heavy attack, when any repair effort would come far too late. 
Both wars and commercial contests are often won through superior tech- 
nology, and these conflicts attract saboteurs who aid their side by disabling 
or destroying their opponents’ technology. Saboteurs are especially useful if 
their enemy has developed some powerful new secret weapon, such as the 
clone soldiers that are used in the Clone Wars or the two Death Stars used 
during the Galactic Civil War. When one side relies exclusively upon a new 
technology, a single saboteur can decide the course of the conflict. 


A saboteur must be both a skilled technician who specializes in causing 
devices to fail and a spy or commando trained in stealth and deception. To 
be successful, he must be able to swiftly disable or destroy a device, either 
oy subtly altering its circuits or planting a thermal detonator in the precise 
location that does the most damage. Because saboteurs work behind enemy 
lines and often must go into the heart of enemy factories and research labs, 
being a saboteur is exceptionally dangerous. As such, the vast majority either 
work alone or with no more than a handful of trusted companions. 


SABOTEUR ENCOUNTERS 

Saboteurs are most commonly encountered in factories and research labs 
that are developing or producing important technologies. These factories 
and laboratories typically have exceedingly tight security, making sabotage 
a difficult challenge. 

Most saboteurs choose between two modes of operation. Some are brave 
and stealtny commandos who sneak or shoot their way into heavily guarded 
installations, perform their destruction, and rapidly leave. Some of these 
commando saboteurs are sufficiently skilled that they can perform delicate 
and difficult-to-detect sabotage in a few minutes, but most either cause 
obvious, large-scale destruction or swiftly hide a thermal detonator or other 
explosive that can be triggered later. 

Other saboteurs are more like specialized spies who infiltrate a secure 
installation using a glib tongue, a talent for disguise, and skill at misdirection 
to become an employee. Once inside a location, this kind of saboteur might 
work there for weeks, discreetly sabotaging various vital pieces of equipment, 
and taking the time to make certain that each device will fail in precisely 
the manner she wishes it to. Then, when she has completed her mission, she 
simply stops coming to work. 


TWI'LEK SABOTEUR 

Twi'lek saboteurs specialize in infiltration and subtle sabotage. Being a 
Twi'lek saboteur, like being a spy, demands a mixture of skill, dedication, and 
a willingness to live in the shadows and to embrace secrecy and deception 
as a way of life. For a Twi'lek the key to successful sabotage is the same as 
the key to all other forms of success—understanding and subtly manipulating 
people. Ultimately, even the best security can be overridden by a sympa- 
thetic guard who decides to make an exception for someone who claims to 
be late for work and is worried about getting fired or who has forgotten 
his ID badge. After getting past security, the Twi'lek either sneaks off and 
stealthily finds a way to his objective or continues to bluff his way past every 
obstacle, perhaps pretending to be a repair technician who has been ordered 
to "fix" the very device he is intent upon sabotaging. Twi'leks eschew armor 
and heavy weaponry, rarely carrying more than a hold-out blaster pistol, 
because they know that having to use heavy weapons or armor means that 
they have already failed. 


Twi'lek Saboteur CL6 

Medium Twi’lek scoundrel 4/soldier 2 

Force 4 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Ryl, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 18}, Fort 20, Will 18 

hp 39; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +5 (1d4+3) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +6 (3d4+3) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Knack 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Special Qualities deceptive (SE 32), low-light vision 

Talents Demolitionist, Knack, Gimmick 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Linguist, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus 
(Persuasion), Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Knowledge 
{[bureaucracy]), Skill Training (Knowledge {technology]), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +16 (can reroll, must take second result}, Knowledge 
{bureaucracy} +10, Knowledge (technology) +10, Mechanics +10, 
Perception +9, Persuasion +16, Stealth +14, Use Computer +10 

Possessions knife, hold-out blaster pistol 


Twi'lek Saboteur Encounters 

The most skilled Twi'lek saboteurs avoid notice altogether. The other employ- 
ees in a factory or research lab are unlikely to remember the friendly but 
easily forgettable Twi‘lek technician who worked there for a short while. 
However, these same people will rarely be able to forget the time when their 
prized weapon or vehicle failed spectacularly during its first major test. In 
the case of corporate sabotage, the people involved instead remember the 
time that a piece of new technology catastrophically backfired when the 
corporation's leaders demonstrated it before the Queen of Naboo, in an effort 
to convince her government to purchase it. The only time the presence of a 
Twi'lek saboteur becomes obvious is when something goes wrong, such as 
someone noticing a minor discrepancy between her actions and the person 
she is impersonating or a security droid hearing a soft noise coming from 
a hallway or storage room that should be empty. At this point, the Twi‘lek 
will either try to swiftly accomplish her job and flee, or leave quickly and 
try again another day. 

Hiring a Twi'lek saboteur is often somewhat challenging, since Twi'leks 
are not inclined to trust others. She attempts to find out all she can about 
a prospective client before accepting any offer of employment, so that she 
can be certain that her employer will not double-cross her 


SYELIVUVHS® s | sade 


| HSiavHo 


SveLevsvAg 


SECTOR RANGER 


Sector Ranger CL7 

Medium soldier 4/scout 2/scoundrel 1 

Force 2 

Init +11; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Bocce, 3 others 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 22), Fort 20, Will 20 

Resist Evasion 

hp 66; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+4) or 

Melee stun baton +6 (2d6+4 stun) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +9 (3d8+3) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +8 

Atk Options Hyperdriven, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 13, tnt 14, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Evasion, Hyperdriven, Improved 
Armored Defense 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Linguist, Martial Arts |, 

Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Shake It Off, Skill Training (Gather 
Information), Skill Training (Use Computer}, Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +8, Initiative +11, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+10, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Perception +10 (can reroll, must 
take second result), Pilot +11, Use Computer +10 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, stun baton, combat jumpsuit (+4 armor), 
encrypted comlink 


Established in the days of the Old Republic, Corps of Rangers is law enforce- 
ment agency with wide-ranging powers. Sector Rangers were given the 
power to track and apprehend criminals throughout an entire region of the 
galaxy, often encompassing hundreds or thousands of planets. Because their 
powers were involved in law enforcement, and not military or political, Sector 
Rangers must walk a delicate line of jurisdictions, local laws, and customs. 
Sector Rangers are trained to be cautious and methodical in their gathering 
of evidence or employment of their powers, so as not to have criminals be 
released due to legal loopholes or mistrials. Other than a name change, Sector 
Rangers changed little during the time of the Empire. Sector Rangers had the 
right to commandeer local policemen or make use of Republic (or Imperial) 
vessels in the course of their duties, although most avoided doing so unless 
the situation at hand required such draconian methods. 


SECTOR RANGER ENCOUNTERS 


Sector Rangers are highly trained and competent individuals that are used to 
tackling difficult cases on their own. They are capable combatants, usually 
more than a match for the scum they track down and apprehend. On particu- 
larly dangerous cases, Sector Rangers often travel in pairs or groups of four, 
with their own ship and complement of droids. Considering the highly unusual 
circumstances that most Sector Rangers find themselves in, they could be in 
the company of almost any type of archetype~mercenaries, pilots, slicers, 
or even gamblers—each possessing some unique skill that proves helpful to 
the Sector Ranger in bringing criminals to justice. 


SPECIAL ENFORCEMENT 

OFFICER 

Special Enforcement Officers (also known as SEOs) are Sector Rangers 

granted additional powers and leeway in their duties. Considered the elite of 

the organization, Special Enforcement Officers are typically expert trackers, 

investigators, and interrogators, using their remarkable powers of observation 

and encyclopedic knowledge to hunt down criminals. Many SEOs go about 

their duties undercover, allowing them to infiltrate criminal organizations and 

bring it down from the inside. They receive training in a wide range of subjects 

so as to be prepared for whatever bizarre and dangerous circumstances they 

find themselves in. Special Enforcement Officers have a higher rank than 

regular Sector Rangers, which sometimes rubs the regular rangers the wrong 

way when the SEO uses it take over a ranger's investigation or pull him off of 

his case to assist the SEO's own. Most Special Enforcement Officers are held 

in regard and represent the ultimate goal for a Sector Ranger to eventually 

attain through years of service. 

Special Enforcement Officer CL 13 

Medium scout 5/noble 4/bounty hunter 4 

Force 3 

Init +12; Senses Perception +18 

Languages Basic, Bocce, High Galactic, Huttese, 4 others 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 27), Fort 24, Will 27 

hp 60; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+6) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +11 (3d8+6) 

Base Atk +10; Grp +11 

Atk Options familiar foe +2, Hunter's Mark, Keen Shot, Pin, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Demand Surrender, Presence 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 9, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 17 

Special Qualities familiar foe +2 

Talents Acute Senses, Demand Surrender, Expert Tracker, Hunter's Mark, 
Keen Shot, Nowhere to Hide, Presence 

Feats Linguist, Martial Arts [, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill 
Focus (Gather Information), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Focus 
(Perception), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Skill Training (Deception), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Gather Information +19 (can reroll when checking 
to locate a specific individual, must take second result], Initiative 
+12, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +14, Knowledge (galactic lore) +14, 
Perception +18 (can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +19, 
Pilot +12, Use Computer +19 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, Sector Ranger uniform, encrypted 
comlink, datapad 


Special Enforcement Officer Encounters 

As mentioned above, many Special Enforcement Officers operate undercover 
and operate under a number of aliases and disguises—thus, no one can ever be 
entirely sure who is and isn't an SEO. Because Specia! Enforcement Officers 
are assigned the most dangerous and “biggest” of cases, they often overlook 
lesser transgressions by their contacts in order to maintain a decent working 
relationship, although they might discreetly (or even anonymously) provide 
information to local law enforcement officials about the criminal affairs 
of anyone they encounter during a mission. SEOs keep strange company, 
making them perfect additions to a group of heroes who might or might not 
be aware of the Special Enforcement Officer's occupation. 

Special Enforcement Officers can bring a tremendous amount of resources 
to bear onto their targets, up to and including small fleets of Republic ships, 
platoons of regular police (page 69}, and the like. Special Enforcement Offi- 
cers often work alongside Jedi in their pursuit of criminals, although most 
SEQs chafe at the Jedi’s dwellings on the Force or refusal to get involved 
in certain types of cases. In turn, most Jedi respect Special Enforcement 
Officer's dedication and natural ability, but are also turned off by the cyni- 
cism that is all too common for these world-weary individuals. 


|) eaiLaevHna 


Q 
IL 
> 
3 
> 
@ | 
a 
oe 
Oo 


|] HsiavHo 


SMleLoavaVvHga 


SECURITY PERSONNEL 


Security Personnel CL 2 

Medium nonheroic 6 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 22; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee stun baton +4 (2d6 stun) 

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 11 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses, Toughness, Weapon 
Focus [pistols], Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +9 

Possessions stun baton, blaster pistol with holster, blast helmet and vest 
(+2 armor) with helmet package, security pass, binder cuffs 


The galaxy is a dangerous place, filled with all sorts of nasty characters. As 
a result, security is one of the primary concerns for mast people of wealth, 
prestige, and power. To protect against villainy and to safeguard the common 
citizen against crime, governments maintain extensive security forces, These 
groups often consist of law enforcement officers who police the streets on 
foot or through the air in airspeeders. Like military units, security personnel 
typically follow a rigid rank structure, with guards outranked by detectives, 
sergeants, and so on all the way to the commander at the top. 

Security personnel are not restricted to law enforcement agencies. These 
characters can also represent the personal security forces of powerful figures 
in the galaxy. Security personnel might be private soldiers of a corporate 
sector czar or the armed guards of a powerful crime lord. They can be found 
protecting ambassadors and diplomats, veteran politicians, and just about 
anyone who holds power and has enemies. 


SECURITY SPECIALIST 

The security specialist is an elite guard who has the benefit of special train- 
ing and extensive experience. Similar in many ways to bodyguards, security 
specialists are typically the last line of defense between their employer and 
his or her enemies. Security specialists are commonly trained in close-combat 
fighting and are equipped to deal with just about any sort of foe. Security 
specialists vary a great deal, as necessary for their particular mission, so you 
should customize this statistics block to meet your needs. 


Security Specialist CL5 
Medium soldier 5 

Force 4 

Init +4; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 21 (26 with riot shield) (flat-footed 19), Fort 21, Will 16; 
Dodge 

hp 67; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee stun baton +7 (2d8+5 stun) 

Ranged blaster rifle +7 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +7 (3d8+2) or 

Ranged stun grenade (4d6+2 stun) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Melee Smash, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot, Stunning Strike 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Melee Smash, Stunning Strike 

Feats Armor Proficiency (tight, medium), Dodge, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot, Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons] 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +7, Mechanics +7, Perception +8 

Possessions stun baton, blaster rifle, heavy blaster pistol, 2 stun grenades, 
battle armor (+8 armor, +2 equipment), riot shield, breath mask, 
comlink, binder cuffs, medpac, glow rod 


SECURITY PERSONNEL 
ENCOUNTERS 

Security personnel protect a certain group of people or a specific person. 
As law enforcement agents, they might patrol in pairs or in small teams to 
respond to crimes and protect innocent villains from violence, robbery, or 
anything else that would harm them. When faced with a significant threat, 
security personnel double or triple their numbers and supplement their 
strength with security specialists and soldiers as the situation demands. 

In some instances, a security team might include a number of droids. 
Patrol droids might fill in for security forces or accompany them as they make 
their rounds. Likewise, security droids can also augment a security force's 
strength, though battie droids and military security droids are rare after the 
Clone Wars. On the other hand, within the Trade Federation and the Separatist 
Movement, droids served almost exclusively as security forces. 

Security specialists are more advanced versions of standard security 
personnel. These are special operatives selected for their unswerving loyalty 
and discipline. Governments and employers relied on them to crack down on 
unruly Civilians or to provide the best protection available. Security specialists 
are less numerous than standard security personnel and might be charged 
with leading a security team. Typically, security specialists answer directly to 
theiremployers, but in the case of some wealthy and powerful charges, they 
might deal with a bodyguard who oversees the entire security detail. 


ROYAL HANDMAIDEN 

The Royal Handmaidens are an exclusive security force charged to protect 
the elected Naboo monarch, most notably Queen (and later Senator) Amidala. 
The Royal Handmaidens were all young, about the same age as Amidala, and 
very similar in appearance, allowing them to step in as decoys to keep their 
mistress safe. Although these are the most famous security specialists, it’s 
ikely that other, similar organizations exist in the galaxy. 


Royal Handmaiden CL6 

Medium Human nobie 3/soldier 3 

Force 4 

Init +9; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Gran, Gungan, High Galactic, Rodese 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 17}, Fort 18, Will 20 

hp 41; Threshold 18 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d8+3) 

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +6 (3d4+3) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Bolster Ally, Harm's Way, Inspire 
Confidence, Quick Draw 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Talents Battle Analysis, Bolster Ally, Harm's Way, Inspire Confidence 

Feats Linguist, Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Melee Defense, Point Blank 
Shot, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Deception), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +16, Initiative +9, Knowledge (tactics) +9, Perception 
+10, Persuasion +11, Pilot +9, Treat Injury +10, Use Computer +9 

Possessions sporting blaster pistol, comlink, handmaiden’s outfit 


> 


| eStadwHo 


SyvELavevAs) 


SeeLevevAeg) 


7] esiavHno 


SHiP CAPTAIN 
Ship Captain CL 13 
Medium soldier 3/scoundre! 7/officer 3 

Force 5 

Init +8; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, 2 others 


Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 25), Fort 25, Will 27 
hp 71; Threshold 25 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +12 (2d4+6} or 

Melee vibrodagger +7 (2d4+6) and 
vibrodagger +7 (2d4+6) with Double Attack 

Ranged blaster pisto! +12 (3d6+6} 

Base Atk +10; Grp +12 

Atk Options Coordinated Attack, Double Attack (advanced melee 
weapons), Hyperdriven, Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Spacehound, Starship Raider 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Tough as Nails 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 15, Wis 11, Cha 13 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Stellar Warrior) 

Talents Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Hyperdriven, Spacehound, 
Starship Raider, Stellar Warrior, Tactical Edge, Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Double 
Attack (advanced melee weapons], Melee Defense, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics]), Skill Training 
(Persuasion), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +13, Mechanics +13, Perception +11, 
Persuasion +12, Pilot +13, Use Computer +13 

Possessions vibrodagger, blaster pistol in holster, code cylinder, comlink, 
uniform, rank insignia, capital starship 


A ship captain is the commanding officer of a starship. The title applies to all 
sorts of ships, from transport vessels all the way up to star dreadnaughts. The 
title of ship captain is independent of actual rank, and it's just as possible for 
a commander to hold the title as it is for an admiral. On the deck of a ship, 
the captain is the ultimate authority of the vessel (unless, of course, Darth 


Vader happens to be on board). 


SHiP CAPTAIN ENCOUNTERS 

A ship captain is not much without a ship, and thus encounters featuring 
these characters ought to include a ship of at least frigate size. Smaller 
vessels, including personal transports and shuttles, might also have ship 
captains, but these are typically pilots with the title to reflect their authority 
and are in no way in the same class as the ship captains described here. 

A Ship captain commands the entire crew and support pilots of his or 
her ship, and might be responsible for hundreds if not thousands of subordi- 
nates. Falling under the ship captain's authority are any special forces such 
as ground assault teams, scouts, and secondary vessels accompanying the 
captain's ship, though each of these smaller ships have their own captains 
as well. 

In addition to the main vessel, most ships under the command of these 
characters also include a number of starfighters. The ship captain does not 
pilot one of these craft except in the most unusual circumstances, but he does 
command them from the deck of his ship, transmitting tactical information 
to his forces in response to developments. 

Ship captains attain fame or infamy in equal numbers. The mere names 
of some of tne more successful Imperial captains can inspire fear in their 
enemies, and cause opposing admirals to adjust their tactics based on the 
reputation of the foe they oppose. 


SHIP GUNNER 


Ship Gunner CL7 

Medium nonheroic 4/scoundrel 3/soldier 3 

Force 3 

Init +7; Senses low-light vision; Perception +8 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 20, Will 18 

hp 38; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +9 (14444) 

Ranged blaster cannon +11 (3d12+5) or 

Ranged blaster cannon +6 (3d12+5) and 
blaster cannon +6 (3d12+5) with Double Attack or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +10 {2d8+3]) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Double Attack (heavy 
weapons), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Spacehound, Starship Raider 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Devastating Attack (neavy weapons), Spacehound, Starship 
Raider, Weapon Specialization (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Double Attack (heavy weapons), Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Training (Knowledge [tactics], Use 
Computer), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +8, Use Computer +10 

Possessions blaster cannon, heavy blaster pistol, armored flight suit (+5 
armor} with helmet package 


The ship gunner controls one or more weapon systems not directly under the 
control of the pilot. Typical sorts of weapons a gunner might employ include 
the composite-beam laser on the LAAT/i gunship or the blaster cannon on 
the Incom-T47 airspeeder. In most cases, the pilot retains control over some 
of the weapon systems, but the gunner’s role is largely to free up the pilot 
to maneuver the ship, while the gunner unleashes a torrent of fire against 
enemy vehicles. 

Ship gunners are prevalent in starships of just about any size and can also 
be found operating the batteries on ground vehicles and other atmospheric 
craft. Most armored assault vehicles and walkers include a broad spectrum 
of weapons and might employ multiple gunners. 


SHIP GUNNER ENCOUNTERS 

Ship gunners appear in skirmishes involving armored vehicles or large-scale 
space battles. Gunners function as part of a ship's crew, and a shtp with a 
full crew complement will have at Jeast one gunner for each gunner position 
on the vessel. In these cases, the gunner’s most vital attribute is his attack 
bonus, with his other statistics rarely coming into play. This said, most gun- 
ners are pilots as well, and they can fill in for a wounded or dead pilot or 
copilot as needed. 

In atmospheric encounters, gunners function in much the same way, usu- 
ally as part of a walker's or armored assault vehicle's crew. Again, a gunner 
can also serve as a pilot and might be called upon to fill in for an injured 
comrade. Should the vehicle be disabled, a gunner is an effective combatant 
and fights along with the rest of the surviving crew. A ship gunner's training 
with heavy weapons allows such a character to perform double duty and 
function as heavy infantry when needed, laying down suppressive fire with 
a blaster cannon or missite launcher as the situation demands. 


0) 
a 
> 
2) 
> 
0) 
<j 
W 
ry 
GQ 


i HSaiavHoS 


SVeaLoavavAg) 


SITH APPRENTICE 


Sith Apprentice CL 13 
Medium scoundrel 7/Sith apprentice 6 

Force 8; Dark Side 15 

Init +13; Senses Perception +13; Force Perception 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 25), Fort 27, Will 27; Block, Deflect, Dodge, 
hp 98; Threshold 27 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +13 (2d8+8) 

Ranged blaster pistol +13 (3d6+6) 

Base Atk +11; Grp +13 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Running Attack, Sneak Attack +1d6 

Special Actions Force Fortification, Power of the Dark Side 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13): battle strike, dark rage, 
Force lightning 

Force Techniques: Force Point Recovery, Improved Sense Force, Improved 
Telepathy 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 11, Wis 15, Cha 15 

Talents Block, Deflect, Force Fortification, Force Perception, Power of the 
Dark Side, Sneak Attack +1d6, Swift Power 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Dodge, Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Point 
Blank Shot, Running Attack, Skill Training (Stealth), Skill Training (Use 
the Force}, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +13, Initiative +13, Perception +13, 
Stealth +13, Use the Force +13 

Possessions tightsaber, blaster pistol in concealed holster, personal 
holoprojector 


During the Rise of the Empire and after, as set down by Darth Bane (page 84), 
there are only two Sith at any one time: a Master and his apprentice. These 
apprentices are the products of their training, twisted into cruel monsters 
of depthiess evil. Although apprentices are useful minions, a Sith Lord must 
always be watchful for treachery, because the need for revenge burns hot in 
every Sith's heart, and it is just a matter of time before an apprentice seizes 
the opportunity to murder his Master and claim his mantle. 


SiTH APPRENTICE 

ENCOUNTERS 

Every Sith apprentice secretly believes in his superiority over his Master and 
watches for the time to strike, to cut down the Dark Lord of the Sith and take 
his place. Treachery, then, is something for which a Sith Lord must be ever 
watchful. Thus, a Sith Lord dispatches his trained apprentice on a variety of 
missions, sometimes alone, others with a squad or company of minions, and 
if the apprentice dies, the Sith Lord can simply train a replacement. 

Sith apprentices are vicious and aggressive. Most despise the Jedi, seeing 
them as weak and foolish, too wrapped up In outdated ideals to see the true 
power of the dark side. Thus, Sith apprentices are ever eager to test their 
greater skills against their rivals and delight in the chance to face the Jedi. 
When faced with these opponents, a Sith apprentice is likely to take on one 
or more single-handedly, ignoring other opponents simply for the chance to 
vent his hatred on the Sith's age-old foes. This is a clear weakness and one 
that has gotten the better of more than one servant of the dark side. 


DARTH MAUL 

When Darth Sidious discovered the Force potential in a young Zabrak, he 
snatched the child away and subjected him to an intense training ordeal 
designed to strip away his humility and compassion. Soon after, Sidious 
abandoned the youngster on an isolated worid, telling him that he would 
have to find some way to survive in the hostile climate for a month until he 
returned. Alone and pursued by vicious assassin droids, the Zabrak suffered 


terribly until he was too weakened, too exhausted to continue fighting. Just 
as he surrendered to the relentless droids, Sidious returned and provoked the 
apprentice into attacking him. When the Zabrak finally gave into his anger 
and hatred, he succumbed to the dark side of the Force and transformed 
into a slave of evil, becoming Darth Maul. 

Darth Maul is part assassin, part spy, and all killer. His unique talents and 
his enduring hatred of the Jedi made him the perfect tool for eliminating 
Darth Sidious's enemies. Furthermore, Darth Maul revealed his talent as a 
skilled technician when he constructed a wide range of Sith devices from 
ancient Sith holocrons and specifications. With his incredible fighting talents 
and his terrifying array of weapons and equipment, Darth Maul proved to be 
one of the most dangerous characters in the Rise of the Galactic Empire. 
Darth Maul CL 15 
Medium Zabrak Jedi 7/Sith apprentice 8 
Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 14 
Init +16; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic, Huttese, Ryl, Zabrak 
Defenses Ref 34 (flat-footed 30, Lightsaber Defense 35), Fort 31, Will 30; 

Block 
hp 152; Threshold 31 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee double-bladed lightsaber +20 (2d8+12) or 
Melee double-bladed lightsaber +20 (2d8+12) and 

double-bladed lightsaber +20 (2d8+12) 

Melee unarmed +18 (1d8+10) 

Base Atk +15; Grp +19 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Dark Scourge 

Special Actions Lightsaber Defense, Power of the Dark Side 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +13): battle strike, dark rage, Force 
grip, Force slam, mind trick, move object 

Force Techniques Force Power Mastery (battle strike), Improved Move 

Light Object, Improved Sense Force, Improved Sense Surroundings 
Abilities Str 17, Dex 19, Con 16, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 12 
Talents Block, Dark Scourge, Lightsaber Defense, Power of the Dark Side, 

Stolen Form (Jar’Kai, Juyo, Niman), Weapon Specialization (lightsabers) 
Feats Acrobatic Strike, Dual Weapon Mastery 1, Dual Weapon Mastery Il, 

Dual Weapon Mastery III, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (2), Martial 

Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 

(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skilis Acrobatics +16, Initiative +16, Jump +15, Mechanics +15, 

Perception +9 (can reroll, must take second result), Use the Force +13 
Possessions double-bladed lightsaber (self-built), 3 Dark Eye probe droids, 

personal holoprojector, Bloodfin, Scimitar 


Razalon FC-20 Speeder Bike 

One device the Sith apprentice Darth Maul relied on was a Razalon Speeder 
Bike, a small, lightweight vehicle noted for its quiet operation. Its distinctive 
U-shape design made the vehicle a comfortable ride and easy to operate (+2 
equipment bonus to Pilot checks). 


Bloodfin Razalon FC-20 Speeder Bike CL 15 
Medium ground vehicle 


Init +23; Senses Perception +9 


Defenses Ref 32 (flat-footed 25), Fort 13; +0 armor 
hp 36; DR 5; SRO; Threshold 13 


Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 180 km/h) 
Fighting Space 1x1; Cover total 
Base Atk +15; Grp +18 


Abilities Str 17, Dex 24, Can —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +23, Mechanics +15, Perception +9, Pilot +18, 
Use Computer +10 


Crew 1; Passengers 0 
Cargo 2 kg; Consumables —; Carried Craft — 
Availability Licensed; Cost 4,000 (new), 1,000 (used) 


E 


SHSaLeVvgvng® 


| eaiavyHs 


SeeLeayvyeavyAg 


| HSBLavHoS 


SitTH LORD 


Sith Lord 

Medium noble 7/Sith apprentice 8/Sith Lord 4 
Destiny 2; Force 7; Dark Side 16 

Init +16; Senses Perception +22; Force Perception; Gauge Force Potential 
Languages Basic, 5 others 


CL 18 


Defenses Ref 33 (flat-footed 31, Lightsaber Defense 34), Fort 31, Will 34; 
Block 

hp 105; Threshold 31 

Immune fear 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +19 (2d8+10) or 

Melee lightsaber +16 (2d8+10) and 
lightsaber +16 (2d8+10) with Double Attack or 

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+10) and 
lightsaber +11 (2d8+10) and 
lightsaber +11 (2d8+10)} with Triple Attack 

Base Atk +17; Grp +19 

Atk Options Double Attack (lightsabers}, Melee Defense, Triple Attack 
(lightsabers} 

Special Actions Damage Reduction 10, Gauge Force Potential, Lightsaber 
Defense, Power of the Dark Side, Telekinetic Power, temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17): farseeing, Force disarm, Force 
grip (2), Force lightning (4), Force slam, Force thrust, mind trick, move 
object (2), rebuke (2), surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Force Power Mastery (Force 
lightning), \mproved Sense Force, Improved Telepathy 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Multitarget Power, Quicken Power 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 11, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Special Qualities fearless, temptation 

Talents Connections, Block, Damage Reduction 10, Dark Side Adept, Force 
Perception, Gauge Force Potential, Lightsaber Defense, Multiattack 
Proficiency (lightsabers), Power of the Dark Side, Telekinetic Power 

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Training (4), Linguist, Melee 
Defense, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Triple Attack (lightsabers), 
Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, simple 
weapons} 

Skills Deception +17, Initiative +16, Knowledge (galactic lore) +16, 
Perception +22, Persuasion +17, Pilot +16, Use Computer +16, Use the 
Force +22 (can reroll when activating a Force power with the [dark 
side] descriptor, must take second result) 

Possessions lightsaber, Sith robes 


Since the time of the first fallen Jedi, the Sith have survived in one form or 
another for thousands of years. As the passage of time marched forward, 
the ancient teachings of the Jedi were forgotten, twisted, and corrupted. 
Few Sith Lords, then, came from the formal training of the Jedi, and new 
Sith Lords learned the methods of the dark side from other Sith Lords until 
they could rise up and claim the mantle for themselves. Although they lacked 
the formal instruction of their Jedi counterparts, these Sith Lords proved 
every bit their equal, making up for their lack of discipline with hatred, and 
for their lack of combat training with savage brutality. 


FALLEN JED! SITH LORD 


Sith Lords are the inheritors of the first renegade dark Jedi who rebelled 
against the rigid teachings of the Jedi Order to explore the mysteries of the 
dark side of the Force. The initial conflict between the Jedi factions eventually 
led to the exile of these fallen Jedi to the fringes of space until they came 
upon a planet inhabited by a primitive and savage people called the Sith. 
The evil Jedi descended on the world, conquered the primitives, and declared 
themselves the Lords of the Sith. 


Fallen Jedi Sith Lord CL 18 
Medium Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 4/Sith apprentice 5/Sith Lord 2 

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 18 

Init +17; Senses Perception +13 


Languages Basic, 3 others 


Defenses Ref 34 (flat-footed 31, Lightsaber Defense 35), Fort 33, Will 35; 
Block, Deflect 

hp 148; Threshold 33 

{mmune fear 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+11) or 

Melee lightsaber +19 (3d8+11) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +19 (2d8+11) and 
short lightsaber +19 (2d6+11) 

Base Atk +18; Grp +21 

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Combat Reflexes, Rapid Strike, Running 
Attack, Wicked Strike 

Special Actions Lightsaber Defense, Power of the Dark Side, Redirect 
Shot, Shien, temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +18}: gattle strike (2), dark rage, 
Force disarm, Farce grip (2), Force slam (2), Force lightning (2), move 
object, negate energy (2), surge (2) 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Force Power Mastery, Improved 
Move Light Object, Improved Sense Surroundings 

Force Secrets Multitarget Power 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 17, Con 15, Int 16, Wis 18, Cha 18 

Special Qualities fearless, temptation 

Talents Block, Deflect, Djem So, Elusive Target, Force Deception, 
Lightsaber Defense, Power of the Dark Side, Redirect Shot, Shien, 
Wicked Strike 

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Combat Reflexes, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual 
Weapon Mastery II, Force Sensitive, Force Training (3), Rapid Strike, 
Running Attack, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +17, Deception +18, Initiative +17, Jump +16, Use the 
Force +18 

Possessions lightsaber (self-ouilt), short lightsaber, Sith robes 


LUMIYA, 

DARK LADY OF THE SITH 

Before the Dark Lady of the Sith came into being, there was a promising 
Imperial Intelligence cadet named Shira Elan Colla Brie. Trained to fight for 
the Empire, she worked hard to become an expert pilot, a skilled combatant, 
and above all a spy. It was during her training she caught the eye of Darth 
Vader. Recognizing her talents and her knack with the Force, Vader guided 
her training, helping her to learn the power of the dark side of the Force. 

Her first assignment was to infiltrate the Rebellion and work her way into 
the Rogue Squadron. Her charisma, beauty, and piloting skills made her a 
popular member of the team, and so it didn’t take long before she met Luke 
Skywalker. She worked hard to ingratiate herself with the Rebels, secretly 
feeding information to Darth Vader and the Empire. 

Everything changed, though, on a secret mission to strike against an 
Imperial fleet to recover a powerful alien that was thought to be able to 
assist the Rebellion’s efforts to communicate with their allies across the 
galaxy. As part of the mission, Shira, Skywalker, and others were to pilot TIE 
fighters. In the ensuing dogfight, Luke's computer went out, and so he relied 
on the Force to pick out his targets, which ultimately led to the destruction 
of Brie’s ship. 

While Luke Skywalker faced the charges leveled against him for shoot- 
ing down a fellow officer, Brie somehow survived the destruction of her 
starfighter long enough for Darth Vader to find her. Although she survived, 
she was terribly injured, necessitating the replacement of her limbs and 
organs with cybernetic replacements. When she emerged from the bacta 
tank, she was a woman changed, more machine than Human, and so it was 
that the Dark Lady of the Sith was born. 

Lumiya, as she now called herself, trained further with Vader, learning 
the ways of the Force and even some Sith techniques. She eventually trav- 
eled to Ziost—a terrible planet of grave importance to the Sith—to continue 
her training on her own terms, but soon afterward she learned that both 
Darth Vader and the Emperor were dead after the Battle of Endor. Filled with 
hatred for Luke Skywalker and the so-called Alliance, she vowed she would 
get revenge regardless of the cost. 


D 


SeVeLoaVvavyvAs) 


| HBidwHoS 


7 SaiagvHo 


( 
SHSLOVEVHS) | 


Lumiya, Dark Lady of the Sith CL 19 

Medium Human soldier 5/scoundrel 3/ace pilot 3/Force adept 3/Sith 
apprentice 3/Sith Lord 2 

Destiny 2; Force 7; Dark Side 18 

Init +18; Senses low-light vision; Perception +18 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Sith 


Defenses Ref 42 (flat-footed 38), Fort 34, Will 38 
hp 125; Threshold 34 
immune fear 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightwhip +20 (2d4+10; reach 2) or 

Melee lightwhip +18 (3d4410; reach 2} with Rapid Strike 

Ranged palm blaster +20 (3d6+9) 

Base Atk +16; Grp +20 

Atk Options Channel Aggression, Channel Anger, Combat Reflexes, Rapid 
Strike, Spacehound 

Special Actions Equilibrium, Power of the Dark Side, temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +23): battle strike (2), 
dark rage, forseeing, Force grip, Force slam, Force stun, mind trick, 
negate energy (2) 

Force Techniques Improved Force Trance, Improved Telepathy 

Force Secret Quicken Power 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 18, Con 42, Int 14, Wis 18, Cha 18 

Special Qualities fearless, temptation, vehicle dodge +1 

Talents Armored Defense, Channe! Aggression, Channel Anger, Dark Side 
Adept, Dark Side Master, Equilibrium, Force Pilot, Improved Armored 
Defense, Power of the Dark Side, Spacehound, Swift Power, 

Vehicular Evasion 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Combat Reflexes, Force 
Sensitive, Force Training (2), Improved Defenses, Rapid Strike, 

Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Use the Force], Skill Training 
(Deception), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency 
(lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +23, Endurance +15, Initiative +18, Knowledge (tactics) 
+16, Mechanics +15, Perception +18, Pilot +23, Use the Force +23 (can 
reroll when activating a [dark side] Force power, must take second 
result or spend Force Point and take better result] 

Possessions lightwhip, custom armor (as armored flight suit with helmet 
package; modified, +8 armor), cybernetic prosthetics (4, both arms and 
legs, equipped with palm blaster assemblies in each arm), utility belt 
with medpac, Sith robes 


Palm Blasters—The Dark Lady's prosthetic arms conceal blasters, the 
barrels of which open in the palms of her hands. As a swift action, she 
can “draw" the blasters and fire them as if they were blaster pistols. A 
power pack contained inside her body powers these weapons. 


DARTH BANE 

Long have the Jedi carried the shame of the Sith, for it was the Jedi’s inability 
to wipe out the infection within their ranks that allowed the first renegades 
to flee into exile, to form a twisted society, and to brew the utter wicked- 
ness that would eventually spread throughout the galaxy. Ever since that 
moment of mercy, the Sith have been a plague, leading to two full-blown 
Sith wars. It wasn't until the Battle of Ruusan that the Jedi believed the Sith 
threat was at an end, for in this climactic battle, the Sith and the Jedi who 
fought them were utterly destroyed by a weapon of cataclysmic proportions. 
Believing they had ended the threat, even at such a great cost, the Jedi put 
the matter to rest. 

However, one Sith survived: Darth Bane. An apprentice of a powerful Sith 
Lord, he managed to escape the devastation and fled the ruins of the world. 
During his flight, the specter of an ancient Dark Lord forced his vessel to 
crash-land on Onderon's moon, Dxun. There he encountered the orbalisks, 
which quickly swarmed over his body, changing him into something more 
than Human. As he grappled with the transformation and the realization that 
he was the last of his kind, he was struck by an epiphany. 

The Sith’s gravest weakness was that they inevitably turned against one 
another. The divisiveness that seemed always to result would prevent the 
Sith from getting the revenge they so craved. It was then, on this smail 
moon, covered with parasites that fused themselves to his body, that Darth 
Bane decreed, as the last of the Sith, henceforth there would be only two: 
a Master and an apprentice. 


Darth Bane CL 20 
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5*/Sith apprentice 3/Sith Lord 5 
Destiny 3; Force 10; Dark Side 22; Strong in the Force 

Init +20; Senses Perception +21 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Ryl, Sith 

Defenses Ref 38 (flat-footed 33), Fort 36, Will 39; Block, Deflect 

hp 194; DR 10 [applies to lightsabers); Threshold 36 

Immune fear 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee lightsaber +25 (2d84+15) or 

Melee lightsaber +23 (3d8+15) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee lightsaber +20 (2d8+15) and 
lightsaber +20 (2d8+15) with Double Attack 

Base Atk +20; Grp +25 

Atk Options Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), Great Cleave, Lightsaber 
Throw, Melee Defense, Power Attack, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, 
Severing Strike, Wicked Strike 

Special Actions Equilidrium, Juyo, Power of the Dark Side, temptation 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +20): battle strike (2), dark rage, 
farseeing, Force grip, Force lightning (3), Force slam, mind trick, move 
object, rebuke (2), surge 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move Light Object, 
Improved Sense Surroundings 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power, 
Quicken Power 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 20, Con 17, Int 17, Wis 22, Cha 20 

Special Qualities fearless, temptation 

Talents Block, Deflect, Djem So, Equilibrium, Force Deception, Juyo, 
Lightsaber Throw, Power of the Dark Side, Severing Strike, Swift Power, 
Weapon Specialization (lightsabers), Wicked Strike 

Feats Cleave, Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitive, Force Training 
(2), Great Cleave, Melee Defense, Power Attack, Rapid Strike, Running 
Attack, Strong in the Force, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon 
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +20, Deception +20, Endurance +18, Initiative +20, 
Knowledge [galactic lore) +18, Perception +21, Use the Force +20 
Possessions lightsaber (self-built], orbalisk armor [+10 armor and grants 

DR 10 that applies even to lightsabers), Sith robes 


* Darth Bane was a member of the Brotherhood of Shadow, a dark side 
organization made up of renegade Jedi. While this group studied the dark 
side extensively, it passed down many of the fighting forms of the Jedi to 
its students. 


ORBALISK ARMOR 
When on the moon Dxun, Darth Bane stumbled upon a dormant colony of 
orbalisks. These parasitic creatures, exclusive to Dxun, feed by attaching 
themselves to a host. As a byproduct of their parasitism, the orbalisks 
form a dense plating that protects their host—an armor of exceptional 
strength even against lightsabers. 

When a host is covered in orbalisks, the creatures grant damage 
reduction 10 to that individual. Untike normal forms of damage reduc- 
tion, the orbalisks’ protection applies even to lightsabers. 


SitTH LORD ENCOUNTERS 

Sith Lords should be the elite villains of your campaign. They are the undis- 
puted masters of the dark side of the Force. Any Sith Lord encountered after 
the Battle of Ruusan is a calculating plotter, a fiend of intrigue who hides 
his presence behind countless false identities and minions to ensure that he 
can keep working toward his goal, which is ultimately the utter destruction 
of the Jedi. A Sith Lord is unlikely to reveal himself willingly, reserving his 
confession to a likely apprentice at a time when he is most likely to turn the 
subject toward the dark side. 

Instead, a Sith Lord relies on a host of minions to further his agenda. The 
most important minion is his Sith apprentice, though a Sith Lord is careful to 
limit his time with his minion lest he create an opportunity for his apprentice 
to betray him. Instead, the Sith Lord uses the apprentice as a tool, overseeing 
vital missions and ensuring that his plans proceed as intended. 

Beneath the Sith apprentice, there can be any number of dark side thralls 
serving the Sith Lord, including dark side adepts, dark Jedi, and other cor- 
rupted servants. It's important to note that these servants are not technically 
Sith even though they are usually quite skilled in the dark side of the Force 
and might harbor the same hatred toward the Jedi that their Masters do. In 
some rare cases, a lesser minion might prove himself worthy to replace the 
Sith apprentice, which, as his Master does with his greatest ally, is something 
for which the apprentice always watches. 


SYS LAVEVAS® 


| SSiagvHo 


SHE LeaVvevAg 


SLICER 


Slicer CL5 

Medium scoundrel 5 

Force 1 

Init +4; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary, Huttese 

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 17), Fort 15, Will 18 

hp 32; Threshold 15 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d4+1) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +5 (3d4+2]) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +5 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Trace 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14 Con 10, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Gimmick, Master Slicer, Trace 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology]), Skill Focus 
(Deception), Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use Computer}, 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Gather Information +15, Knowledge (galactic lore] 
+10, Knowledge (technology) +15, Perception +9, Persuasion +9, 
Mechanics +15, Use Computer +15 (can reroll when improving access 
and take better result) 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, security kit, code cylinder (forgery), 
encrypted comlink, 10 datacards, lectroticker (+6), credit chip, 
portable computer 


While most heroes find adventure throughout the galaxy, slicers roam 
the electronic highways of the HoloNet and find plenty of excitement and 
danger along the way. Slicers are experts at breaking into secured computer 
networks—the more secure the computer, the bigger and better the chal- 
lenge. Slicers often find work with large organizations that can supply them 
with necessary equipment, programs, information, and credits to meet their 
demands. Others are independents, slicing into computer networks for infor- 
mation to sell to the right bidder or just for the sheer thrill of proving their 
skill at being able to move in and out of highly protected networks. 

In addition to being technically brilliant, the most successful slicers must 
also possess decent interpersonal skills, in order to con passwords and other 
sensitive information from people when their computer skills won't or can't 
apply. They typically know the ins and outs of large organizations and can 
easily bypass red tape to get what they want. 


SLICER ENCOUNTERS 


Slicers pride themselves on getting in and out of computer systems without 
anyone even knowing they are there. In most cases, slicers don’t deal with 
people face to face, relying instead on messages sent through the HoloNet, 
couriers, or proxies in order to keep their identity secret and their (often 
illicit) businesses secure. Slicers are rarely physical threats, although those 
in the military have at least minimal training so they can defend themselves 
if necessary. However, if a slicer can gain access to a computer network, he 
can shut off lights, activate fire extinguishers, power up droids, and the like, 
turning a location into a tangle of hazards. 

Slicers also commonly work with other specialists, forming highly trained 
teams that can infiltrate any secured location. These specialists include 
assassins, commandos, infiltrators, outlaw techs, and spies, with the slicer 
often located far from the scene, opening doors and bypassing security 
measures from the safety of his remote terminal. 


ZAKARISZ GHENT 

Zakarisz Ghent is a legendary slicer and associate of the famous smuggler 
Talon Karrde (page 89). Ghent was extremely intelligent and had a preter- 
natural gift when it came to computers and codes. The first hint of Ghent's 
technical brilliance came when he cracked a near-impossible Imperial code 
in two months on his own. Although a genius when it comes to slicing or 
deciphering codes, Ghent is hopelessly naive, absent-minded, and disinter- 
ested in anything that wasn't programmed in Binary. 

Ghent's slicing has proven key during several crucial times in the New 
Republic era. His skills helped acquit Admiral Ackbar from false charges of 
bribery during the Thrawn Crisis. He helped uncover an Imperial Intelligence 
infiltration of the New Republic headquarters. After the death of Thrawn, 
Ghent joined up with New Republic Intelligence, eventually rising to the 
position of Chief of Cryptography. Finally, Ghent unlocked hidden holograms 
inside R2-D2, revealing Luke Skywalker’s mother to be Padmé Amidala and 
chronicling the way in which she died. 


Zakarisz Ghent CL 10 

Medium Human scoundrel 10 

Destiny 1; Force 4 

Init +12; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Mon Calamarian 

Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 23), Fort 22, Will 21; Dodge, Mobility 

hp 58; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Fool's Luck, Knack, Trace 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 18, Wis 8, Cha 16 

Talents Fool's Luck, Knack, Gimmick, Master Slicer, Trace 

Feats Dodge, Improved Defenses, Melee Defense, Mobility, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Knowledge 
{galactic lore]), Skill Focus (Knowledge [technology]), Skill Focus 
(Persuasion), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons] 

Skills Deception +18, Gather Information +19, Initiative +12, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +19, Knowledge (technology) +19, Mechanics +19, 
Perception +9, Persuasion +18, Pilot +12, Use Computer +19 (can reroll 
when improving access and take better result] 

Possessions blaster pistol, encrypted comlink with holo capability, 
datacard, datapad, portable computer (Intelligence 16] 


New SLICER GEAR 

Slicers, like members of any other profession, rely on a number of tools 
to get the job done. Although the primary tools of the slicer are portable 
computers and datapads, a variety of other equipment is available to help 
slicers (and even those not adept at computer use) overcome electronic 
obstacles. Slicers commonly make use of the following equipment. 


Computer Spikes 

Computer spikes are single-use programs built into a basic piece of 
computer hardware that plugs directly into another computer system. 
Designed to bypass computer security and help improve access to 
protected systems, a computer Spike interfaces with another computer 
system and uses untraceable programs to chip away at the target 
system's defenses. A computer spike can be activated as a swift action, 
after which it makes a single Use Computer check (with a bonus of +2 
or higher, determined by its cost and quality) that can be used only to 
improve access. All computer spikes are considered illegal. 

Cost 1,500 credits per +2 skill bonus; Weight 1 kg. 


HiBaka 2000 Mem-Stik 

Frequently utilized oy slicers to smuggle valuable information past 
security guards and police, the HiBaka 2000 Mem-Stik is a tiny piece of 
hardware that holds a moderate amount of information without taking 
up too much space, Though a Mem-Stik does not have enough space to 
carry a computer programs, it can hold simple text, image, and video 
data [as well as under 1 minute of holographic data). AMem-Stik is Fine 
in size and can be hidden inside the power pack slot of a standard blaster 
pistol (granting a +10 equipment bonus to Stealth checks to hide the 
Mem-Stik}. A blaster that has a Mem-Stik in its power pack slot cannot 
be fired without first reinserting the power pack. 

Cost 50 credits; Weight —. 


Lectroticker 

Asmall electronic device used to bypass low-grade security systems, a 
lectroticker consists of several small wires connected to a sense-plate. 
When the sense-plate is inserted into a standard security lock {such 
as those found on doors throughout the galaxy), the sense-plate is 
charged with varying amounts of energy, scrambling the signals sent to 
the electronic lock and footing its systems into thinking that the correct 
access card has been provided. A lectroticker can be activated as a swift 
action, after which it makes a single Mechanics check (with a bonus of 
+2 or higher, determined by its cost and quality) to disable an electronic 
lock. All Jectrotickers are considered illegal. 

Cost 1,500 credits per +2 skill bonus; Weight 1 kg. 


| eSiaewHga 


Sve LOVEVA® 


SMUGGLER 


Smuggler CL7 
Medium scoundrel 4/scout 2/noble 1 

Force 3; Dark Side 1 

Init +10; Senses Perception +5 

Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, Huttese 


Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 18, Will 22 
hp 41; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +3 (1d4+2) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +7 (3d6+3} or 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +7 (3d4+3) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Hyperdriven, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 
Special Actions Knack 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Talents Barter, Connections, Hyperdriven, Knack 

Feats Improved Defenses, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus 
(Deception), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Pilot}, Vehicular 
Combat, Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons] 

Skills Deception +16, Initiative +10, Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, 
Persuasion +16 (can reroll when bartering, must take second result), 
Pilot +10, Stealth +10 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, hold-out blaster pistol (concealed), 
Corellian YT-1300 transport, comlink, utility belt, ilicit cargo 


Regardless of the era or location in the galaxy, there are always those who 
want to move goods (or people) from one place to another without paying 
taxes or coping with government interference, or even just for discretion’s 
sake. Smugglers are experts at moving this cargo (or individuals}, secretly 
hauling illegal goods under the noses of bureaucrats, soldiers, and even 
crime lords who might want the items for themselves. Smugglers possess 
a blend of social charm and incredible piloting ability, relying on the latter 
when their deceptions fall through. They pride themselves on the speed and 
discreetness of their deliveries, although a few take risky ventures just for 
the thrill of thumbing their noses at the authorities that try to squash their 
livelihood. Some have a “no questions asked” policy regarding the goods 
they transport, while others are more particular about what they'll carry in 
their cargo holds and might not transport certain items such as illegal drugs, 
weapons, or sentient beings bound for slavery. 


SMUGGLER ENCOUNTERS 


Smugglers can be found almost anywhere, from the seediest of cantinas, to 
starship docks, to the upper echelons of society, where they hope to land high- 
paying jobs. Because they must often slip past authority patrols and check- 
points, smugglers and their ships can also be found in deep space or traveling 
along dangerous routes that no “sane” individual would think of going through 
(or investigating). Smugglers rarely stay in one place for long and consider their 
ships home, although some have regular ports-of-call to link up with contacts 
and pick up passengers and steady streams of cargo. A few smugglers even 
have legitimate jobs, working as Republic ship commanders or diplomats, all 
the while moving illicit goods back and forth to pad their income. 

Smugglers rely on stealth and deception to get the job done—a patrol 
vessel that is aware of their presence is a threat to be avoided. Although 
they are capable fighters, most smugglers shun combat, which places both 
their lives and their cargo at risk. Many smugglers carry goods for even less 
savory individuals, such as crime lords, who take a dim view when their goods 
are damaged or destroyed during transport. 

Smugglers are typically encountered with members of their ship's crew, 
sometimes bolstered by additional personnel, such as slicers, gamblers, merce- 
naries, and technicians {who keep their ships in pristine operating condition). 


TALON KARRDE 

Talon Karrde is a notorious information broker and the creator of the famous 

Smugglers’ Alliance. His ship, a heavily modified Action V! Transport called 

the Wild Karrde, serves as his base of operations. Although Karrde started out 

in smuggling, gathering intelligence and information was both his passion 
and his specialty. Eventually, Karrde’s organization grew to such a degree 
that it was believed to harbor more secrets than both the Republic or the 

Empire had any reason to suspect. Karrde strove to remain a neutral party, 

regardless of whom he worked for, although he was known to have aided 

such famous individuals as Han Solo and Luke Skywalker. 

Talon Karrde is an educated and sophisticated individual with great busi- 
ness acumen and a strong sense of loyalty to those who work under him. 
Despite his illicit businesses and his penchant for dealing with disreputable 
people, Talon Karrde had a deep underlying sense of honor that always pushed 
him to eventually do the right thing. 
Talon Karrde CL 12 
Medium Human scoundrel 7/crime lord 5 
Force 5 
Init +13; Senses Perception +17 
Languages Basic, Bocce, Huttese, Shyriiwook 
Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 25), Fort 23, Will 27 
hp 80; Threshold 23 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+7' 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +11 (3d8+6) or 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +9 (4d8+6) with Rapid Shot 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Hyperdriven, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Sneak Attack +1d6 

Special Actions Demand Surrender, Disruptive, Impel Ally !I, Presence 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 17 

Special Qualities command cover 

Talents Attract Minion, Demand Surrender, Disruptive, Hyperdriven, Impel 
Ally |, Impel Ally ti, Presence, Sneak Attack +1d6, Stellar Warrior 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), 
Skill Focus (Gather Information), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus 
(Persuasion), Skill Focus (Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus 
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +19, Initiative +13, Knowledge 
(galactic lore) +14, Mechanics +14, Perception +17, Persuasion +19, 
Pilot +17 

Possessions heavy blaster pistol, toolkit, modified Action VI Transport 
(Wild Karrde), fine clothing 


Talon Karrde Encounters 

Talon Karrde was most active during the time of the New Republic, although 
heroes could encounter a younger version of him around the time of the 
Battle of Yavin. One of Karrde's traits was surrounding himself with capable 
and loyal allies who would protect him from harm, including fellow smuggler 
Zakarisz Ghent (page 87) and Mara Jade (he later became the “father of the 
bride” at her wedding to Luke Skywalker). During the early years of the New 
Republic, Karrde could also be encountered with his two pet vornskrs (page 
128) named Sturm and Drang—he learned that by docking their tails, the 
Force-sensing beasts could be domesticated, making loyal and affectionate 
companions and fierce protectors. 

Given his line of work, the most dangerous aspect of encountering Talon 
Karrde is the numerous foes that were out to get him. The vicious Admiral 
Thrawn, intelligence agencies, bounty hunters, rival smugglers, and crime 
lords all had it out for Karrde, who proved smart (and lucky) enough to evade 
them all and thrive. Of course, anyone hunting Talon Karrde is unlikely to 
catch him off guard, since his massive network of informants and spies alerts 
him to any potential danger long before it can manifest itself. 


VCx<-350 LIGHT FREIGHTER 
The VCX-350 is a Corellian Engineering Corporation space transport often 
used by smugglers after the fall of the Galactic Empire. Designed for long- 
range travel and boasting the newest technology, the VCX-350 light freighter 
can be found in almost any smuggler fleet, including Talon Karrde's. 


CEC VCX-350 Light Freighter 

Colossal space transport 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +13 armor 

hp 150; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 78 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 980 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale}; Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +40 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons} 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con -, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 

Use Computer +6 


CL 10 


Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers 8 

Cargo 250 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x11) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 300,000 (175,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot or gunner} 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 


7] esiavHs 


Sree 


ds | 


1 BSidvHga 


SveLovavwns 


SOLDIER 


Soldier CL2 

Medium nonheroic 6 

Init +4; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 15 {flat-footed 14), Fort 11, Will 10 

hp 22; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +4 (2d6) 

Ranged blaster rifle +5 (3d8) or 

Ranged frag grenade +5 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +5 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle], Coordinated Attack 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons] 

Skills Endurance +9 

Possessions vibrobtade, blaster rifle, 2 frag grenades, combat jumpsuit 
(+4 armor), comlink, datapad with maps, field kit 


Soldiers are the troopers in the galaxy’s legions. Unlike clones and droids, 
these individuals are not manufactured, and many of them volunteer to fight 
for their government. Having received basic training in a variety of martial 
abilities ranging from hand-to-hand combat to heavy weapons, they are 
the core of any military force. They consist of the individuals who answered 
the call of duty, were drafted into the teeming ranks of the Galactic Empire, 
or who followed their conscience and took up arms to fight alongside the 
Rebellion. 

The average soldier, as presented here, represents the common troopers 
found in sector forces in the Rebel Alliance, but can also be used for those in 
the employ of just about any military organization. After the Clone Wars, the 
Galactic Empire recruited Human soldiers to fill its diminished ranks. Some 
of these recruits became stormtroopers, while others moved on to become 
officers. This soldier can also represent individuals who might be mustered 
to defend a single world against invaders or who serve as the personal guard 
of a powerful noble. 


SPECFORCE HEAVY WEAPONS 
SPECIALIST 

While much of the Rebel Alliance's military was tied up in the sector forces 
spread throughout the galaxy, the Alliance High Command employed Spe- 
cial Forces, also known as SpecForces. Organized in about ten divisions, 
SpecForce soldiers were each trained to perform a specific function so they 
could undertake the most dangerous and important missions. While the 
sector forces defended Alliance worlds, the SpecForces were used to mount 
counterattacks and unravel the Galactic Empire's hold on the galaxy. 

The SpecForce soldier presented here is a typical member of the 6th regi- 
ment HWS. These soldiers received extensive training in heavy weaponry 
to support friendly forces and soften entrenched enemy positions by laying 
down a brutal barrage of artillery and blaster fire. Of the various regiments 
in SpecForces, these soldiers had the highest casualty rates, since once they 
were detected on the battlefield, the Empire moved swiftly to eliminate their 
emplacements. 


‘it's AN INVASION 
ARMY.” 


—- OBI-WAN KENOBI 


SpecForce Heavy Weapons Specialist CL5 
Medium nonheroic 6/soldier 3 

Force 2 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +6 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 20 [flat-footed 18}, Fort 16, Will 13 

hp 42; Threshold 16 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +9 (1d4+6) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +9 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +9 (3d10+5) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +7 (3d10+5} when braced or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +4 (5d10+5) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged missile launcher +10 (6d6+5, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blaster), Burst Fire, Devastating 
Attack (heavy weapons), Suppression Fire 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Talents Devastating Attack (heavy weapons}, Weapon Specialization 
(heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium], Burst Fire, Skill Training 
(Mechanics), Suppression Fire, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, simple weapons} 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +9, Mechanics +9 

Possessions combat gloves, heavy blaster pistol, heavy repeating blaster, 
missile launcher with 2 magazines, battle armor (+8 armor, +2 
equipment) with helmet package, datapad, field kit 


NEw FEAT: 
SUPPRESSION FIRE 
You can lay down a hail of blaster fire to pin your enemies. 

Prerequisites: Strength 13, Burst Fire, Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons). 

Benefit: When you use the aid another action to impose a penalty 
to an enemy's attack rolls and your attack rall exceeds the target's Will 
Defense, that enemy must end its next turn in a position where it has 
cover from you if possible. Targets whose level is equal to or higher than 
your character level are immune to the effect of Suppression Fire. This 
is a mind-affecting fear effect. 


SOLDIER ENCOUNTERS 

Soldiers are, obviously, combat encounters for the most part. They are 
typically used to hold a position after SpecOps agents, commandos, or elite 
soldiers have taken the site. Soldiers, although brave and possessed of some 
combat ability, do not compare to veteran crews, and thus make up for their 
relative inexperience with numbers. 

Small teams of soldiers are organized into squads consisting of four to six 
members and led by a higher ranking soldier (use statistics for a SpecForces 
heavy weapons specialist). In addition, they are likely to have a medic on 
hand as well. Companies consist of two to five squads. Heading up these 
larger forces is a soldier commander. 

For large-scale engagements, a military force relies on transport vehicles 
to deptoy troops where needed. During the Clone Wars, the LAAT/i gunship 
(SE177) served well in this capacity, able to carry up to thirty passengers at 
a time, while clearing out an area with its heavy weaponry before deposit- 
ing its cargo and lifting off to gather another company of troops. Walkers, 
assault tanks, and gun batteries can also provide covering fire for these 
assault troops. 

Special Forces are another matter entirely. The SpecForces were created 
to provide small groups of specialized soldiers who could handle missions 
beyond the abilities of ordinary troopers. Recruits were selected from among 
the exceptionally brave, those with unique capabilities, and those who were 
nearly fanatical in their loyalty to the Rebellion against the Empire. As a 
result, most of the soldiers who made up these units were ex-lmperials, 
refugees from scorched worlds, and just about anyone else who had an axe 
to grind against the Empire. 

A typical SpecForces unit consists of a tight-knit group of three to eight 
members. Each mission involves a very specific objective, and once that 
objective is achieved, the unit withdraws and leaves it to the regulars to clean 
up the mess. Since the nature of the mission is extremely dangerous and 
leaves no room for error, SpecForces rarely include non-SpecForces person- 
nel in their units and rely on the main body of their force to supply medics, 
technicians, and other support. Although entrusted with a great deal of 
autonomy and responsibility, SpecForces still abide by the chain of command. 
The executive officer is usually a high-level soldier commander, commando, 
or elite soldier who acts as a liaison with the Alliance High Command. 

The SpecForce soldier is a good example of any veteran soldier who nas 
specific training, so you can use this statistics block to represent any sort 
of heavy weapons specialist you might need. You can also use this character 
to model other SpecForce soldiers such as SpaceOps troopers, pathfinders, 
urban combat specialists; and so on. 


SHOLOVSEVAS) 


1 SSidwHoa 


a 


c=)) 


See LevevH 


SOLDIER COMMANDER 


Soldier Commander CL6 

Medium nonheroic 6/soldier 3/officer 1 

Force 2 

Init +12; Senses Perception +11 

Languages Basic, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 19 

hp 40; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +8 (1d4+2) 

Ranged blaster pistol +10 (3d6+2) or 

Ranged blaster rifle +10 (3d8+2) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Coordinated Attack, Cover Fire, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 13, Cha 15 

Talents Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Cover Fire 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Knowledge [tactics], Skill Training 
(Initiative), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (tactics) +17, Initiative +12, Perception +11, 
Persuasive +42 

Possessions knife, blaster pistol, blaster rifle, combat jumpsuit (+4 armor), 
field kit, electrobinoculars, datapad, uniform, insignia 


The soldier commander encompasses a broad range of military ranks held 
by those who lead squads and companies of troopers and soldiers. Examples 
include the Rebel field officers who fought a delaying tactic against the 
Empire while the Alliance evacuated Echo Base as well as the commanders 
hat led the ground assault against those same Rebels from their AT-AT walk- 
ers. “Commander” is indeed a rank, and one recognized in various military 
groups throughout the galaxy, but for these purposes, it can cover any people 
n charge, from sergeants to field marshals. 

The most obvious role of the soldier commander is to lead those under 
his command toward a specific military objective—holding the line, rooting 
out the enemy from a well-defended base, raiding supply lines, and so on. 
[he soldier commander is the ultimate authority on the field, and it’s his 
experience and expertise on which the rank-and-file soldiers depend to 
survive the engagement. 


SOLDIER COMMANDER 
ENCOUNTERS 

Soldier commanders lead other martial characters, and so they are found in 
the company of troopers, soldiers, and similar combatants. A soldier com- 
mander usually occupies a central position, directing his men as needed 
to best deal with the enemy. Soldier commanders have a well-developed 
understanding of tactics and strategy, which means that soldiers under their 
command fight more efficiently and with better positioning. 

Deployment is a critical factor for the typical soldier commander. If given 
the chance to get the jump on his enemies, he positions his soldiers behind 
cover and scattered in small groups to set up a crossfire if possible. Once 
combat is joined, a soldier commander holds his position to direct his troops, 
using Assault Tactics each round, until his position is compromised. A soldier 
commander is no shirker in fighting, though, and when not giving orders, he 
adds his blaster fire to those of the soldiers under his command. 


CLONE COMMANDER CC-2224 

At the start of the Clone Wars, CC-2224 was just another clone commander 
charged with leading the newly unveiled clone troopers against the Separatist 
Movement. Specifically designed by his handlers on Kamino to fill a leadership 
position, CC-2224 consistently showed a penchant for individual thought and 
independence, making him stand out from the other commanders. As was 
often the case, those clones that showed special qualities quickly caught the 
attention of the watchful Kaminoans, who selected him for special training. 


Even with his unusual personality qualities, CC-2224 might have passed 
by unnoticed were it not for his association with famous Jedi. As commander 
of the 7th Sky Corps, his first assignment was to work alongside Jedi Master 
Mace Windu and then after the Battle of Skor Il, he was reassigned to Gen- 
eral Obi-Wan Kenobi. Working alongside the famed Jedi Knight was a task 
CC-2224 had anticipated, but complications in the Clone Wars as well as 
special missions to thwart the plans of Count Dooku kept General Kenobi 
and his partner Anakin Skywalker from the clone force, leaving command 
to fall more or less on 2224's shoulders. 

It was during this time that CC-2224 was removed from command 
temporarily to undergo a special training program designed to augment 
field commanders that showed a flair for independent action. The process 
utterly awakened 2224's personality and he soon after took the name Cody 
and personal affectations began to show up in his actions and his armor, as 
well his installation of a jetpack on his clone armor. 

Elevated to the rank of clone marshal commander, he returned to com- 
mand and worked closely with Obi-Wan, this time more extensively. A 
friendship formed between the pair, but even the camaraderie that had 
developed would not be enough for Cody to ignore Order 66 when it came. 
When he received the instructions, it was with some reluctance that he 
gave the command to fire on his former friend, setting aside his respect and 
loyalty for his Jedi ally. 


Clone Commander CC-2224 Encounters 

When it comes to clone trooper commanders, Cody is the exception rather 
than the rule. For most commanders, you can just use the clone trooper 
commander in the Saga Edition core rulebook (SE 281). However, Cody and 
others like him such as Commanders Bly and Gree work well as elite soldier 
commanders and function as high-ranking clone commanders who oversee 
several companies. Before Order 66, any of the characters might work along- 
side Jedi heroes fighting in the Clone Wars against the Separatist movement, 
and afterward, of course, the same heroes might find themselves fighting 
for their lives against their old allies. 

Cody fills the same position as other soldier commanders in combat, 
using his tactical knowledge to position his troops in the best ways possible 
and exploiting terrain with Field Tactics and positioning with Deployment 
Tactics. Cody, however, is a far more competent commander than his less 
individualistic counterparts and adapts to new battlefield developments as 
needed to ensure victory. 


Clone Commander CC-2224 “Cody” CL 12 
Medium soldier 7/officer 5 

Force 3; Dark Side 5 

Init +15: Senses low-light vision; Perception +15 


Languages Basic, High Galactic, Mando'a 


Defenses Ref 31 (flat-footed 27}, Fort 28, Will 28 
hp 97; Threshold 28 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +14 (1d4+8) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +17 (3d10+6) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +15 (4d10+6) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged frag grenade +16 (4d6+6, 2-square burst] or 

Ranged ion grenade +16 (4d6+6 ion, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +16 

Atk Options autofire {heavy blaster rifle), Careful Shot, Charging Fire, 
Coordinated Attack, Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Running Attack 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics, 
Field Tactics, Harm's Way 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 18, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Battle Analysis) 

Talents Armored Defense, Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Deployment 
Tactics, Field Tactics, Harm's Way, Improved Armored Defense 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Careful Shot, Charging Fire, 
Coordinated Attack, Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid 
Shot, Running Attack, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +13, Initiative +15, Knowledge (tactics) +13, Perception 
+15, Pilot +15, Use Computer +13 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle, frag grenade, ion grenade, clone trooper 
armor [+6 armor, +2 equipment} with helmet package, jetpack, 
encrypted comlink (miniaturized) with holo capability, utility belt with 
medpac 


See LaveavAoa 


SOLDIER, EBLvIte 

Elite Soldier CL 10 
Medium soldier 7/elite trooper 3 

Force 2; Dark Side 4 

Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Durese, High Galactic 


Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 20), Fort 27, Will 20 
hp 93; DR 1; Threshold 27 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed attack +14 (1d6+7) 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +17 (3d10+9} or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +15 (4d10+9) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged frag grenade +15 (4d6, 2-square burst) or 

Ranged ion grenade +15 (4d6 ion, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +15 

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle), Deadeye, Devastating Attack 
(rifles}, Penetrating Attack (rifles), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
Rapid Shot, Sniper 


| SeSatavyod 


Sve LeVEvAs) 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Armored Defense, Devastating Attack (rifles), Greater Weapon 
Focus (rifles), Greater Weapon Specialization (rifles), Penetrating 
Attack (rifles), Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Deadeye, Martial Arts |, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Sniper, Weapon Focus (rifles), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +11, Initiative +13, Knowledge (tactics) +12, 
Perception +10, Use Computer +12 

Possessions heavy blaster rifle, battle armor (+8 armor, +2 equipment), 
2 frag grenades, ion grenade, encrypted comlink (miniaturized), utility 
belt with medpac 


Elite soldiers are some of the best and deadliest warriors that an army, mer- 
cenary force, or planetary guard has to offer. Taught to master the essentials 
of combat and basic soldiering, elite soldiers receive special, highly intensive 
training to specialize in particular ways of killing. Because of the time and 
cost involved in training such troops, they are used sparingly for specific 
missions in which their skills can utterly dominate the enemy. 

Elite soldiers are often put together in small units of talented individu- 
als—such units are almost equal in capability to a full platoon or even a 
company of regular troopers. Other elite soldiers are placed in command 
of normal troops, leading by example and bolstering their firepower and 
usefulness on the battlefield. Certain elite soldiers serve as bodyguards for 


high-ranking officials or characters, who might be quite powerful in their 
own regard. Wherever there is conflict in the universe, elite soldiers are on 
hand, doing the dirty work that few others are capable of handling. 


ELITE SOLDIER ENCOUNTERS 
Elite soldiers can be found in nearly any dangerous situation, where they 
serve the will of their superiors. Their duty could include serving on traditional 
battlefields, protecting sensitive areas, or engaging in clandestine operations. 
As befitting their status, elite soldiers are equipped with the best armor, 
weapons, and gear that their superiors have to offer, including cutting-edge 
technology not readily available to regular troops. 

Elite soldiers are commonly teamed with commandos, soldiers, and soldier 
commanders, forming the vanguard of armies or leading assault forces where 
surgical precision is called for. Some elite soldiers form the equivalent of 
“terror squads," meant to inflict as much damage in as grandiose a way as 
possible in order to send a political message or to break down the will of 
the enemy. These elite soldiers specialize in heavy weapon, demolitions, and 
psychological techniques that maximize the impact of their actions. 


On occasion, elite soldiers work alongside droids, especially battle droids, 
who bring additional firepower to a conflict. Any droids assigned to work 
alongside elite soldiers are considered expendable assets—the cost of a droid 
is negligible compared to the expense involved in the training and outfitting 
of an elite soldier. Because of this, droids are sent in as decoys to draw fire 
while the elite saldiers flank the enemy in order to complete their mission. 


SPECFORCE ELITE SOLDIER 
First implemented by Crix Madine as the Alliance Special Forces Unit, and 
then continued later as New Republic Special Forces, the elite unit known as 
SpecForces is one of the most dangerous military units in the galaxy. Stealthy 
commandos who are among the first to enter the field of battle, SpecForce 
soldiers are trained to be brutally efficient and highly mobile, allowing them 
to infiltrate a target area and secure it quickly and with minimal violence. 
SpecForce agents pride themselves on their speed, efficiency, and ability to 
continue fighting when most soldiers would be down and out of the fight. 
A SpecForce soldier is a multipurpose combatant whose sharpshooting 
abilities are rivaled only by his stealth. SpecForce soldiers are quiet and 
deadly, and specialize in commando missions where they can put these abili- 
ties to good use. SpecForce agents are sometimes used as front-line assault 
troops as well, breaking through the ranks of an enemy army and making 
way for the rest of the troops. 


SpecForce Elite Soldier Encounters 
The statistics presented above represent an elite member of SpecForces, a 
cut above the rest of his comrades and likely a veteran of many years. Such 
a soldier comes along only once in a long while, and an elite SpecForce agent 
is a one-man instrument of destruction. However, SpecForce agents never act 
alone, and an elite SpecForce soldier would likely be encountered along with 
other members of SpecForces. Encounters with a SpecForce elite soldier might 
use the elite soldier as a leader or commander figure for an entire squad, 
whose ranks would be filled out with both soldiers and commandos. Such a 
squad would also benefit from the presence of a soldier commander, making 
it easier for the SpecForce elite soldier to bring down his targets. 
Alternately, a SpecForce elite soldier could be paired with commandos 
in encounters designed to focus on stealth and subterfuge. A SpecForce 
elite soldier might be encountered with several infiltrators as well, who 
run interference for the SpecForce agent as he oicks off enemies one at a 
time. The SpecForce elite soldier also benefits from the ability to find cover 
and take the full attack action (allowing him to make two attacks at only 
a minor penalty), so in some encounters the SpecForce elite soldier would 
benefit from being teamed up with melee combatants (such as some of Luke 
Skywalker's Jedi from the Praxeum), who do not detract from the SpecForce 
agent's efficiency thanks to the Precise Shot feat. 


NEw SOLDIER TALENT 
The following new talent is considered a part of the soldier's Commando 
talent tree. 

Hard Target: You can catch a second wind as a reaction instead of 
as a swift action. 

Prerequisite: Tough as Nails. 


SpecForce Elite Soldier CL 13 
Medium soldier 7/scout 3/elite trooper 3 

Force 3 

Init +14; Senses low-light vision; Perception +16 


Languages Basic, 1 other 


Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27), Fort 31, Will 26 
hp 132; DR 1; Threshold 31 


Speed 8 squares 
Melee knife +13 (1d4+7) 
Ranged blaster rifle +16 (3d8+8} or 
Ranged blaster rifle +14 (4d8+8) with Rapid Shot or 
Ranged blaster rifle +15 (3d8+8) and 
blaster rifle +15 (3d8+8) with Double Attack or 
Ranged blaster pistol +15 (3d6+6) 
Base Atk +12; Grp +15 
Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle), Double Attack (rifles), Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Running Attack 
Special Actions Extra Second Wind, Hard Target, Tough as Nails 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 15, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 13 

Special Qualities damage reduction 1, delay damage 

Talents Armored Defense, Hard Target, Improved Stealth, Long 
Stride, Multiattack Proficiency (rifles) (2), Tough as Nails, Weapon 
Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency {light, medium), Double Attack (rifles), 
Extra Second Wind, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, 
Running Attack, Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Stealth), 
Toughness, Weapon Focus [rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills [nitiative +14, Mechanics +12, Perception +16, Stealth +19 (can 
reroll, must take second result), Use Computer +12 

Possessions blaster pisto!, blaster rifle with standard targeting scope, 
knife, SpecForce armor (as armored flight suit, +5 armor) with helmet 
package, encrypted comlink 


| Y¥SidwvHo 


8 


evASE) 


SveaLov 


6: usiadvHo 


SveaLevevyAsa 


SPY 


Spy 
Medium scoundrel 2/scout 5 


Force 3 
Init +5; Senses Perception +9 
Languages Basic, 2 others 


CL7 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 18, Will 18; Dodge, Mobility 
hp 50; Threshold 18 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +7 (2d4+4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Improved Disarm, Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 13 


Talents Acute Senses, Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth, Gimmick 
Feats Dodge, Improved Disarm, Linguist, Melee Defense, Mobility, Point 
Blank Shot, Skill Training (Acrobatics), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 


rifles, simple weapons) 


Skills Acrobatics +10, Deception +9, Gather Information +9, Perception 
+9 (can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +9, Stealth +10 


{can reroll, must take second result), Use Computer +9 
Possessions blaster pistol, vibrodagger 


The ultimate job of a spy is to collect information, atmost always informa- 
tion that someone else doesn't want him to have. In his efforts to obtain 
this information, a spy might need to impersonate someone, steal, bribe 
informants, seduce important people, discreetly listen at doors, blackmail 
unwilling clerks and data-handiers, and occasionally fight his way into or 
(more often) out of a secure installation. Above all, spies must be versatile, 
and it often helps to also be ruthless. Every mission is different, and many 
people and organizations are exceedingly skilled at keeping their information 
out of the hands of their enemies. 

Most spies use one of two primary methods to obtain the information 
they seek. The first is to infiltrate an organization, either by impersonating 
someone who works there, by obtaining a false identity and getting a job 
there, or by sending in an espionage droid to spy on the target from within. 
Once inside, the spy or his droid is free to listen at doorways, obtain access 
to secure computers, or simply perform a job and learn what he [or it} can. 
The second method is for the spy to obtain information by force or threats. 
He might sneak into a secure facility and blow open a safe, or he might care- 
fully watch someone who has access to the information he wants and either 
kidnap the person and obtain the needed information through threats or use 
his observations to blackmail the person into doing his bidding. Individuals 
and corporations, as well as planetary governments, hire or employ security 
staff whose job is to uncover spies within their organization and prevent 
Spies from gaining access to their people and information. The battle of wits, 
and occasionally blaster bolts, between spies and security personnel is one 
of the primary challenges of this difficult profession, and successful spies 
must learn ways of outthinking or tricking their target's security. 


SPY, ENCOUNTERS 

Whenever corporations, governments, or the wealthy attempt to keep impor- 
tant or potentially valuable information secret, there are spies attempting to 
uncover this information. Some spies work for rival governments or corpora- 
tions and are motivated by loyalty or ideology. Others are private contractors 
who seek information so they can sell it to the highest bidder—which might 
be the organization or person they obtained it from. 

The most important quality any spy must have is the ability to remain 
unnoticed. As a result, a spy's presence is almost never obvious. However, 
sometimes an important official or one of his bodyguards or aides sees an 
unexpected shadow under a doorway, notices that a particular servant or 
repair technician seems unfamiliar or unusually nervous, or hears a faint noise 
as a spy breaks into a room down the hall. Such incidents might be the only 
warning that characters have about the presence of a spy. Sometimes a spy 
isn't even present. Instead, a character might notice that someone who has 
access to sensitive information is acting particularly nervous. If the character 
follows this person and avoids being noticed, she might discover the person 
meeting with a spy in a dark alley or dimly lit tavern. 


BOTHAN SPY 

Bothans are widely acclaimed as the best spies in the galaxy. In large part, 
this reputation is due to the excellent quality of the Bothan Spy Network 
(also known as the Bothan spynet). This mysterious and widespread orga- 
nization was formed centuries ago to protect and serve the interests of the 
Bothan people. However, it also sells information and services to the highest 
bidder and often gives discounts or even freely offers valuable information 
to organizations whose interests also serve the needs of the Bothan people. 
Bothan spies were instrumental in uncovering information about both Death 
Stars during the Galactic Civil War. They freely gave this information to the 
Rebels because the leaders of the spynet feared that the Empire might soon 
subjugate or enslave the Bothan people. 

Bothan spies are typically fiercely loyal to their own people and especially 
to their comrades in the spynet. The combination of paranoia and fierce 
loyalty that is so common among Bothans is especially widespread among 
Bothan spies, many of whom have difficulty trusting others, especially indi- 
viduals outside the spynet. However, once he gives his trust to someone, a 
Bothan spy is usually willing to defend that person to the death. 


Bothan Spy CL8 

Medium Bothan scoundrel 2/scout 6 

Force § 

Init +5; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Bothese, Basic, 2 others 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 19, Will 20 

hp 48; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +7 {2d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +9 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, Improved Disarm, Melee Defense, 

Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Quick Draw 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Talents Acute Senses, Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth, Gimmick 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Improved Disarm, Linguist, Melee Defense, Point 
Blank Shot, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Gather 
Information)®, Skill Training (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency 
(oistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +12, Deception +15, Gather Information +15, Perception 
+10 (can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +10, Stealth +12 
(can reroll, must take second result), Use Computer +11 

Possessions vibrodagger, blaster pistol 


Bothan Spy Encounters 

As some of the galaxy’s premier spies, Bothans are often charged with 
missions deemed impossible by other spies and intelligence agencies. As a 
result, many Bothan spies regularly risk their lives breaking into the most 
secure facilities in the galaxy or attempting to impersonate someone ina 
situation when discovery means torture followed by execution, However, 
every Bothan spy knows he can rely upon the other members of the spynet 
to aid him. Bothan spies are sometimes forced to work alone, but when 
possible they work in small teams, with each team member complementing 
the others’ abilities. 

Bothan spies usually avoid taking a direct path to their goal, such as 
attempting to shoot their way into a secure installation. They generally do 
not attempt to break into a secure installation unless there is no other way 
to accomplish their mission. Even more than other spies, they are most fond 
of bribing or blackmailing people who have the information they are seek- 
ing or using their talents of impersonation to walk in the front door of the 
facility they want to enter. 


| HStevHa 


Q 
a 
> 
au 
au 
® 


1 eSaLavHoD 


Swoorp GANG LEADER 


Swoop Gang Leader CL7 
Medium scoundrel] 7 

Force 4 

Init +6; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, 2 others 


Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 17, Will 18 
hp 39; Threshold 17 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d6+1) or 

Melee vibrodagger +6 (2d4+4) or 

Melee vibrodagger +4 (3d4+4) with Rapid Strike 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (3d8+3) 

Base Atk +5: Grp +8 

Atk Options Fortune's Favor, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Strike, Skirmisher, 
Sneak Attack +2d6 

Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 13 

Talents Fortune's Favor, Skirmisher, Sneak Attack +2d6 

Feats Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Strike, Skill Focus (Pilot), Skill 
Training (Gather Information), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +9, Gather Information +9, Mechanics +10, 
Perception +8, Persuasion +9, Pilot +16, Use Computer +10 

Possessions vibrodagger, heavy blaster pistol, modified Raptor 
speeder bike 


Swoop gangs infest the galaxy. Composed of thugs, hoods, and common 
criminals, they cause no shortage of trouble in their communities. At the 
head of these gangs are swoop gang leaders, veteran gang members who 
have clawed their way to the top using a combination of skill, cunning, and 
persistence. 


Swoore GANG LEADER 
ENCOUNTERS 

Most swoop gangs are small, consisting of two to four malcontents under 
the command of a charismatic leader. They prowl about their community, 
get into fights with other swoop gangs, and cause trouble wherever they go. 
These are easily the most common representatives of swoop gangs, but some 
are quite a bit larger, with members found on multiple worlds throughout 
a sector. As with any group, the nature of one of these gangs has a lot to 
do with its leader. 


Ikas-Adno R-2000 Raptor Speeder Bike 

The R-2000 Raptor speeder bike is designed by lkas-Adno, a prominent 
manufacturer of speeder bikes. The R-2000 is highly customizable, and 
though more rare than the Nightfalcon model, it can be found in almost all 
sectors of the known galaxy. 


Modified R-2000 Raptor Speeder Bike CL7 

Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +5; Senses Perception +8 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15; +0 armor 

hp 56; DR 5; SR 0; Threshold 20 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 750 km/h) 

Ranged laser cannon +8 (4d8+3) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Cover total! 

Base Atk +5; Grp +20 

Abilities Str 21, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +10, Perception +8, Pilot +23, 
Use Computer +10 

Crew 1; Passengers 0 

Cargo 1 kg; Consumables — 

Availability Licensed; Cost 10,000 (new), 7,000 (used) 


Swoore GANG MEMBER 


Swoop Gang Member CL 2 
Medium nonheroic 4/scoundrel 1 

Force 2 

Init +8; Senses Perception +2 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 11, Will 11 
hp 15; Threshold 11 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibrodagger +3 (2d4) 

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Skirmisher 


Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 10 

Talents Skirmisher 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Pilot), Skill Training (Initiative), 
Weapon Training (advanced melee weapons, pistals, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +8, Pilot +13 

Possessions vibrodagger, blaster pistol, used Nebulon-Q swoop racer 


Swoop gang members are drawn from the idle youth of a local community. 
Many swoop gang members have little interest in being responsible members 
of society and are common Criminals, terrorizing locals and stealing what 
they need to get by. A swoop gang to these disaffected young people is like 
a large family, with bonds as close as those between siblings. Most swoop 
gang members ride used and dangerous swoop bikes painted in a variety of 
colors and patterns, usually working in their gang's blazon somewhere on 
their bikes. Many wear distinctive clothing, marking their membership in a 
particular group. Tattoos are also quite common. 


Swoor GANG MEMBER 
ENCOUNTERS 

Swoop gang members prefer safety in numbers and don't stick around to fight 
by themselves. Swoop gangs stake out their territory and spend much of their 
time making their rounds and causing trouble. Most times, it's enough for 
them to be seen, and they go on their way, but many swoop gangs engage 
in criminal acts including theft and vandalism. 

When not beating up people or destroying property, swoop gang members 
haunt their local hangout. Most communities that are home to swoop gangs 
have swoop bars that specifically cater to those who like the fast life. Here, 
gang members rub shoulders with their rivals, socialize with their friends, 
and swap lies. Fignts are common, especially late in the evenings, but most 
times these are little more than scraps. 


Mobquet Nebulon-Q Swoop Racer 

Gang members, pirates, and other scum use the Nebulon-Q swoop racer 
because of its affordable price, its high speed, and its intimidation factor. 
It's a bike for those who live fast and die young. However, it is difficult to 
control and imposes a —5 equipment penatty to all Pilot checks (included in 
the statistics below). 


Nebulon~Q Swoop CL 2 
Large ground vehicle (swoop) 

Init +7; Senses Perception +2 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 13: +0 armor 

hp 20; DR 5; Threshold 18 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 600 km/h) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Cover total 

Base Atk +3; Grp +16 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +2, Perception +2, Pitot +7, 
Use Computer +2 


Crew 1; Passengers 0 
Cargo 2 kg; Consumables — 
Availability Licensed; Cost 5,500 (new), 1,050 (used) 


| HStavHg 


{| 


SvegLaVvEvHs) 


1 esiawHoS 


— 
SvenLovrgyvrAls) 


TECHNICIAN 


Technician CL 1 

Medium nonheroic 2/scoundrel 1 

Force 2 

Init +2; Senses Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 other 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 11, Will 12 

hp 10; Threshold 11 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d4} 

Ranged blaster pistol +2 (3d6) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +2 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Gimmick 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use 
Computer), Tech Specialist (SG 21}, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple 
weapons] 

Skills Mechanics +13, Pilot +7, Use Computer +13 

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, personal computer, code cylinder, 
tool kit 


Technicians are characters who maintain and modify existing technol- 
ogy. A technician might oversee the upkeep and repair of equipment on a 
mining colony, work in the hangar bay of a capital ship repairing damaged 
starfighters, or be employed by a city to keep its mechanized services in 
working order. In each case, he brings extensive mechanical experience to 
technical problems and can usually sort out any trouble given enough time 
and sufficient motivation. 

Not all technicians are legitimate in their chosen trades. Many work for 
smugglers, pirates, and crime lords, taking a cut of the profits in exchange 
for keeping their gear in working order. Such characters might also dabble in 
the shady practices of slicers, using their expertise to defeat security systems. 
Technicians are found along the full spectrum of morals, with some taking 
pride in the good they do and others using their talents to defraud. 


TECHNICIAN ENCOUNTERS 

Maintenance technicians might work singly or in small teams of two to four, 
For larger Jobs, such as repairing extensive damage on a starship or modify- 
ing larger mechanical devices, they might work in crews of a dozen or more 
members. In addition to the techs, these teams also employ a wide range of 
droids to assist in communicating with computers and provide technical read- 
outs of the devices they are working on. Astromech droids and labor droids 
are typical companions, but many technicians also employ power droids and 
occasionally protocol droids to deal with stubborn computers. 


Criminal technicians go wherever the credits are and can find work ina 
variety of places, since everyone on both sides of the law depends on their 
skills. Technicians can be found in the company of smugglers, installing hidden 
cargo holds to throw off inspectors and maintaining ships between runs. 
Pirates and crime Jords also have use for technicians; they set them to repair- 
ing vehicles and droids and modifying weaponry to maximize its utility. 

Technicians also work with military outfits. When an assault vehicle or 
walker takes damage in regular use, it falls to the technician to get it back 
in working order. During the Clone Wars, the Separatist Movement employed 
a veritable army of technicians to maintain its combat droids and droid tri- 
fighters. Though much of this responsibility feil to labor droids, technicians 
kept the work force in working order. 


TRADER 

Trader CL 1 

Medium nonheroic 4 

Init +2; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 11 

hp 7: Threshold 9 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +2 (1d4-1) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +3 (3d4) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +3 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 9, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 13 

Feats Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training 
(Perception), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +13, Perception +8, Persuasion +13 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, datapad with inventory disks, 
trade goods 


If there's a constant in the galaxy aside from conflict and war, it's commerce. 
Whether they are associated with the Trade Federation or corporate cartels 
or the trading guilds, traders and merchants are everywhere. From the surly 
junk deater on an Outer Rim planet to the slick starship salesman pushing the 
latest design from Incom, there's a trader for any and every commodity. 

Most traders operate legitimate businesses, working as dealers, manu- 
facturers, tinkers, or merchants. Traders also include illicit dealers, peddlers 
of drugs and poisons, and fencers of stolen goods and illegal weaponry. 
Since every trader's main interest is turning a profit, many slip back and 
forth across the line of legality, purchasing goods on the cheap from smug- 
glers or moving black market goods on the side to help offset the expense 
of their operations. 


TRADER ENCOUNTERS 
Given the pervasive presence of traders in the galaxy, the heroes are likely to 
encounter traders just about anywhere they go, A trader can supply heroes 
with useful gear, replace damaged or faulty equipment, or sell them a star- 
ship. Profit is clearly the trader's motivation, and a good trader knows just 
what to say and what not to say to make sure he comes out ahead in any 
bargaining situation. 

Most traders run small operations that consist of the trader himself plus 
a few helpers, including a technician and some common laborers or labor 
droids to move merchandise around the warehouse. A well-off trader might 
also have muscle on hand to deal with unruly customers and to collect pay~ 
ments from delinquent clients. 


Larger operations have far more employees and could include several 
traders who all work for the same guild. Each trader has a staff of employ- 
ees, security personnel, and droids. The operation also boasts one or more 
ground vehicles to move goods around as well a transport vessel to carry 
merchandise to a variety of destinations. 

The largest trading organizations are corporations. These are massive 
cartels with their own laws, representatives, and industries, functioning 
almost as independent societies. During the Rise of the Empire, the Trade 
Federation was one of the largest corporate guilds. It had representatives in 
the Senate and could field massive droid armies replete with assault vehicles, 
air support, and capital ships to ensure its commercial advantage. Although 
the Trade Federation was a sprawling entity that formed a key component 
in the Separatist Movement whose formation triggered the Clone Wars, 
fundamentally its membership was made up of common traders who joined 
together for protection and economic balance. 


| esiavnD 


0 


SUPLOVUVED 


| eSidwHgo 


Sve LevevAa 


WARRIOR, ELITE 

Elite Warrior CL 15 
Medium nonheroic 3/soldier 8/elite trooper 5 

Force 5 


Init +15; Senses low-light vision; Perception +16 
Languages Basic, 1 other 


Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 25), Fort 28, Will 24 
hp 116; DR 2: Threshold 28 


Speed 6 squares 
Melee gun club +18 (1d6+9) or 
Melee combat gloves +18 (1d6+10) 
Ranged heavy blaster pistol +17 (3d8+6) or 
Ranged heavy blaster rifle +18 (3d10+8) or 
Ranged heavy blaster rifle +16 (5d10+8) with Controlled Burst or 
Ranged heavy blaster rifle +15 (3d8+8) and 
heavy blaster rifle +15 (3d8+8) with Double Attack or 
Ranged heavy blaster rifle +10 (3d8+8) and 
heavy blaster rifle +10 (3d8+8) and 
heavy blaster rifle +10 (3d8+8} with Triple Attack 
Base Atk +15; Grp +18 
Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle), Burst Fire, Charging Fire, 
Controlled Burst, Devastating Attack (rifles), Double Attack (rifles), 
Gun Club, Point Blank Shot, Triple Attack (rifles) 


Abilities Str 17, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Armored Defense, Controlled Burst, Devastating Attack (rifles), 
Gun Club, Multiattack Proficiency (rifles), Weapon Specialization 
(rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium}, Burst Fire, Charging Fire, Double 
Attack (rifles), Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Toughness, Triple 
Attack (rifles), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +14, Initiative +15, Perception +16 

Possessions combat gloves, heavy blaster rifle with enhanced low-light 
targeting scope, heavy blaster pistol, Corellian powersuit [+7 armor) 
with helmet package, utility belt 


Elite warriors include a broad array of professional soldiers who benefit 
from advanced combat training and who are familiar with a large variety of 
weaponry. Many elite warriors are former rank-and-file soldiers who have 
proved their fighting expertise to their superior officers. A few might be 
members of a veteran squad, their experience giving them the edge they 
need to survive. Other elite warriors could be members of legendary fighting 
outfits, noted for their discipline and their record of victories. 


MANDALORIAN 
SUPERCOMMANDO 

The Mandalorians are a breed of elite warriors, drawn from a variety of spe- 
cies and trained in the fighting arts passed down through countless genera- 
tions of warriors since the time of their founder, Mandalore. Known by their 
distinctive armor, made famous by such bounty hunters as Jango Fett and 
his son Boba Fett (and which served as inspiration for the clone troopers’ 
armor during the Clone Wars), Mandalorian Supercommandos often strike 
terror in the hearts of those who must face them. 

The origins of this esteemed group are murky, but some claim they were 
founded by a reptilian species eons ago. As these people wandered the gulfs 
of space, leaving a trail of destruction in their wake, they welcomed into their 
ranks any who had the mettle and drive to learn their fighting techniques. 
After the original Mandalorians died out, their heirs remained bound to the 
principles of honor and excellence in warfare that have helped spread their 
name to nearly every corner of the galaxy. 

Part of the reason the Mandalorians retain their own culture, despite 
the regular infusion of other species, is their adherence to a set of six key 
principles. All of them wear Mandalorian armor, speak the ancient language 
of Mando’a, effectively defend themselves and their families, raise their heirs 
in the traditions of the Mandalorians, support the clan, and ultimately answer 
the call to war by the Mandalore—the leader of the Mandalorian clans. 


Mandalorian Supercommando CL 16 

Medium Human soldier 7/elite trooper 9 

Force 5; Dark Side 2 

Init +16; Senses low-light vision; Perception +15 

Languages Basic, Mando'a 

Defenses Ref 37 (flat-footed 33), Fort 34, Will 28 

hp 144: Threshold 34; DR 4 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee force pike +21 (2d8+15] or 

Melee force pike +16 (2d8+15] and 
force pike +16 (2d8+15) with Double Attack or 

Melee combat gloves +19 (1d6+12) or 

Melee vibrobayonet +21 (2d6+15} or 

Melee vibrobayonet +16 (2d6+15) and 
vibrobayonet +16 (2d6+15) with Double Attack 

Ranged blaster carbine +19 (3d8+8) or 

Ranged light repeating blaster +14 (3d8+8) or 

Ranged light repeating blaster +17 (3d8+8) when braced or 

Ranged frag grenade +19 (4d6+8, 2-square splash) 

Base Atk +16; Grp +19 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine, light repeating blaster}, Cleave, 
Combat Reflexes, Double Attack (advanced melee weapons), Great 
Cleave, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack 

Special Actions Indomitable, Tough as Nails 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 17, Con 15, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities delay damage 

Talents Armor Mastery, Armored Defense, Greater Weapon Focus 
(advanced melee weapons}, Greater Weapon Specialization (advanced 
melee weapons}, Improved Armored Defense, Indomitable, Second Skin, 
Tough as Nails, Weapon Specialization (advanced melee weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Double 
Attack (advanced melee weapons), Great Cleave, Martial Arts |, Point 
Blank Shot, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (advanced melee weapons}, 
Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, heavy 
weapons] 

Skills Endurance +15, Initiative +16, Perception +17, Pilot +16, 
Treat Injury +15 

Possessions force pike, combat gloves, light repeating blaster with 
vibrobayonet, extended stock, underslung grenade launcher, 4 frag 
grenades, blaster carbine, Mandalorian battle armor (+8 armor, +3 
equipment) with helmet package, all-temperature cloak, field kit, 
electrobinoculars, utility belt 


EwLITE WARRIOR ENCOUNTERS 

An encounter with one or more elite warriors is especially dangerous, since 
these soldiers have far more advanced training than their lesser counterparts 
do. Skilled in a variety of fighting techniques, from hand-to-hand combat to 
the use of heavy weaponry, elite warriors are equipped to face and destroy 
just about any threat that comes against them. The presence of a single elite 
warrior can shift the tide of a large battle. 

Elite warriors have many similarities to commandos, and in fact, they 
might lead small teams of these other soldiers. The elite warrior is gener- 
ally chosen for the most dangerous missions, often against overwhelming 
numbers. Such missions fall on these characters’ shoulders because they, 
and only they, can get the job done. Asa result, elite warriors are often dis- 
patched to poisonous worlds, sent to lead the vanguard of an attack against 
an entrenched unit, or even used as shock troops, dropping in and wiping out 
all resistance to securing a landing site for the main force. 

The Mandalorian clans are among the best of the elite warriors. Using 
fighting techniques passed down through the centuries and equipped with 
cutting-edge weaponry and armor, they are a devastating force to encounter. 
In fact, so effective are the Mandalorian warriors that the Emperor based 
the Imperial Guard on their fighting techniques and style of armor. Although 
mercenaries by trade, they are far superior to other mercenary bands. Man- 
dalorian warriors have at various times in their history fought on all sides, and 
might even switch sides during a conflict if the enemy offers better pay. 


| HSLawvHo 


Q 
a 
> 
ay 
D | 
Q | 
ol 
QQ 
2H 
0) 


lewis i 


NN 


i The galaxy is a dynamic place, infinitely vast and teeming with life. The 

~ countless species that populate the myriad of worlds form the very basis 

_ of the Living Force, which is the invisible energy field that binds all things 

_ together into a unified whole. In our daily lives, it is often easy to forget that 
the galaxy’s sentient species make up only a small portion of its population 
The vast majority of life forms in the galaxy are nonsentient, and these include 
the flora and fauna that make each planetary system unique. 

As the spacefaring species have continued to traverse the stars, they have 
taken their own animals and beasts with them. Pets, beasts of burden, and 
livestock of all types have plied the space lanes alongside their masters at 
one time or another. As a result, a number of species are ubiquitous to the 
average galactic citizen. Banthas, for example, can be found on nearly every 
civilized world. Pests such as womp rats and mynocks have also spread across 
the stars, stowing away in cargo holds or latching onto starship hulls 

Yet even the ready placement of these familiar species cannot completely 
overshadow the sheer oddity of the unknown, For every species we are famil 
iar with, there are a million more throughout the galaxy that we have never 
seen, which await discovery. It is these unknown elements that make the 
galaxy a rich and exotic place, a place where surprises are a daily occurrence, 
and where new challenges wait at the end of each hyperspace jump. 

Though heroes in the Star Wars universe often face enemies that look and 
act much as they do, it is sometimes more challenging for them to be opposed 
by primal creatures that inhabit the galaxy’s jungles, deserts, and wastelands 
Driven by instinct and largely neutral in temperament, these creatures aren't 
concerned with factions or political affiliations Rebel or Imperial? Jedi or 
Sith? What does a rancor care? More than likely, it is concerned only with 
who is the hunter, and who is the hunted 


INTELLIGENT 
CREATURES 


A few creatures in this chapter boast Intelligence scores higher than most 
beasts. These few creatures, including the Dathomiri rancor and the Mantel 
lian Savrip, are considered something between a beast and a sapient creature. 
Though some creatures (such as the aforementioned Dathomiri rancor) are 
likely inappropriate for use as heroic characters, intelligent beasts sometimes 
make good NPCs and allies for the party, as well as challenges Dealing with 
such a creature isn't easy, since animal instinct still dominates much of its 
behavior, but Gamemasters wishing to introduce a slightly different twist 
on the traditional role of NPC allies might consider using @ beast with an 
Intelligence score greater than 2 


ssunivayo a i weLowne 


i eeatdvHa 


SesenALVeeg 


CORELLIAN 
BANSHEE BIRD 


Corellian Banshee Bird CL 2 
Smail beast 3 
Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 11, Will 12 
hp 16; Threshold 11 

Speed 10 squares (flying) 

Melee claw +6 (1d3+1} 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +1 

Atk Options Running Attack 

Special Actions banshee's wail 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 18, Con 12, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 14 
Special Qualities low-light vision 

Feats Running Attack, Weapon Finesse 

Skills Perception +8 


Banshee's Wail—As a Standard action, a Corellian banshee bird can emit a 
loud wail that disorients opponents. The Corellian banshee bird makes 
an attack roll (1d20+6), comparing the results to the Will Defense 
of all targets within 12 squares. If the attack roll equals or exceeds a 
target's Will Defense, that target moves -1 step along the condition 
track. A single target cannot be affected by more than one Corellian 
banshee bird's wail per turn. If this ability would push a target to the 
end of the condition track, instead of falling unconscious the target 
falls prone and may not take any actions. This is a mind-affecting 
effect. 


The Corellian banshee bird is a dangerous avian predator that gets its name 
from its distinctive wail. The screech of a banshee bird can be heard from 
miles away, and the creature typically uses it to flush out hidden prey as 
it swoops down on a hunting ground. On Corellia, banshee birds are often 
sought after by wealthy individuals and offworld nobles as pets: like many 
other birds, banshee birds can be tamed by a skilled trainer and made into 
relatively domesticated creatures. However, unlike other birds, banshee birds 
cannot be kept caged for any significant amount of time; they are extremely 
claustrophobic creatures, and as a result those who do have them as pets 
usually keep them in large, open spaces (such as an aviary) in order to allow 
them to stretch their wings and fly. Corellian banshee birds are fast and 
dangerous predators but make good companions, because they are loyal to 
those who treat them well and vicious against anyone they perceive as a 
threat to them or their masters. 


CORELLIAN BANSHEE BIRD 
ENCOUNTERS 

Corellian banshee birds are encountered only in the wild on Corellia or on 
other worlds that have savannahs covered in tall grasses or forests with dense 
undergrowth. Heroes are most likely to encounter a Corellian banshee bird as 
a companion to another character, most likely a noble or other high-ranking 
officia] who can afford to have one of the expensive birds tamed. Addition- 
ally, banshee birds are highly sought after by hunters of all kinds throughout 
the galaxy, since their distinctive wail can be used to drive prey out of thick 
undergrowth and into the sights of a hunter's blaster rifle. Some bounty 
hunters use Corellian banshee birds when hunting down prey on worlds 
that have a large amount of wilderness; the banshee bird's natural hunting 
instincts, combined with its ability to flush out prey, has proven invaluable 
in capturing many bounties. 

Corellian banshee birds are a favorite pet among crime lords, particularly 
those who have a very public and sinister persona. A Corellian banshee bird ~ 
has a distinctly predatory appearance, and many crime lords use them to 
intimidate their foes and supplicants alike. 


CORELLIAN 
SAND PANTHER 


Corellian Sand Panther CL7 

Medium beast 8 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision, scent; Perception +7 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 12, Will 12 

hp 52; Threshold 12 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +9 each (1d4+8 plus poison) and 
bite +9 (1d6+8) 

Fighting Space 1% square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +5; Grp +11 

Atk Options ambush, poison 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 23, Con 16, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Special Qualities low-light vision, scent 

Feats Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Perception), Skill Training 
(Survival) 

$kills Perception +7, Stealth +16, Survival +7 

Ambush—A Corellian sand panther deals an extra 2d6 points of damage 
with its natural weapons against a flat-footed opponent. 

Poison—If the claws of a Corellian sand panther deal damage to a living 
target, the target is also poisoned. If the poison succeeds on an attack 
roll [1d20+9) against the target's Fortitude Defense, the target moves 
-1 step along the condition track. The poison attacks each round until 
cured with a successful DC 15 Treat Injury check. 


Corellian sand panthers are feline predators with coats of soft fur, long tufted 
tails, and large, wide paws. Most sand panthers live in deserts, although 
some species can be found in more temperate zones. Usually a sand pan- 
ther has a light yellow coat that blends in well with its sandy surroundings, 
although a few rare albino and silver-colored panthers have been found. 
Furriers, who make expensive garments and bags from the fine hides, covet 
their coats. However, sand panther hunting has been illegal for centuries on 
Corellia, and sand panthers are found on only a few other worlds. Poach- 
ers sometimes manage to take a few pelts from the Corellian wilderness, 
but the overall rarity of such furs continues to make them very expensive, 
affordable only by the galaxy’s wealthiest elite. The sand panther is one of 
the galaxy's quietest stalkers, often able to move within centimeters of its 
prey without alerting it. 


CORELLIAN SAND PANTHER 
ENCOUNTERS 

Obviously, Corellian sand panthers are most likely to be found in the wilder- 
ness of Corellia, although illegal exporting by big game hunters, collectors, 
and poachers has spread the species to a few other planetary systems. 
Sand panthers are normally solitary hunters, although small family groups 
sometimes hunt together and are able to take down all but the hardiest of 
prey. Corellian sand panthers are remarkably patient hunters and can spend 
days tracking down and stalking a target, waiting for the most opportune 
moment to strike. They are smart enough to divide and conquer, waiting for 
an individual to become separated from the herd (or adventuring group) 
before silently pouncing. 

Encounters involving Corellian sand panthers are likely to occur in the 
wilds of Corellia or on some backwater planet where the creatures have 
been released to repopulate. They serve well as “surprise” encounters when 
the heroes feel at their safest—in camp or marching through the trackless 
waste with no potential threats in sight. Corellian sand panthers are prized 
by wealthy individuals, especially crime lords, who raise them for use in 
“hunting games" in which victims are released into a compound and slowly 
stalked and killed by these efficient hunters while the owner looks on. 
Notoriously difficult to tame, a captured Corellian sand panther will never 
be found as a “pet” to be stroked by its owner—the creatures are simply too 
temperamental and thus are always kept in cages or allowed to roam in 
high-security preserves. 


i i eSatadvHga 


0 
N 


SeHniveeis) 


ii Siew 


SSsnLveea 


DRAGONSNAKE 


Dragonsnake CL 12 

Large beast 13 

Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 15, Will 12 

hp 136; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares, 12 squares (swimming) 

Melee 2 claws +16 each (1d6+13) and 
bite +16 (1d8+13) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +9; Grp +21 

Atk Options ambush, Cleave, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 12, Con 20, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities low-light vision 

Feats Cleave, Power Attack, Skill Training (Perception), Skill Training 
(Stealth), Toughness 

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +13, Stealth +7 

Ambush-—A dragonsnake deals an extra 2d6 points of damage with its 
natural weapons against a flat-footed opponent. 


The dragonsnake is one of the deadliest predators found on Dagobah. It is 
a swift but patient hunter, lying motionless for hours, waiting for prey to 
come within range. When prey approaches, it lunges forward in the water 
and either engulfs the target with its large mouth or grabs it with its two 
clawed forelimbs and drags it underwater. Although slow-moving creatures 
on land, dragonsnakes move with surprising swiftness when they attack in 
the water. They are exceptionally silent swimmers and excel at gliding silently 
forward in the water until they come within striking range. Dragonsnakes 
can swallow whole any Small or smaller creatures, but must rend and tear 
larger prey in order to consume it. They are solitary hunters; each beast claims 
a single lake, bay, or other moderately large body of water as its territory. 
Because they must come ashore to lay their eqgs, dragonsnakes always make 
their lairs fairly close to shore. 


DRAGONSNAKE ENCOUNTERS 
Dragonsnakes are voracious but not exceptionally bright predators. As a 
result, they regularly attack anything of Medium or smaller size that comes 
close. Most dragonsnakes lie in wait within a few yards of the shoreline, so 
that they can lunge forward, stretching out their long forelimbs and necks and 
literally snatch their unsuspecting prey from the shore and drag it underwater. 
Here, most prey is helpless to resist the dragonsnake's attacks. 

Dragonsnakes have been known to attack literally anything that moves, 
including small droids, large pieces of wind-blown trash, or even tent flaps 
blowing in the wind. They swiftly spit out objects that prove indigestible and 
can do so with surprising force. They are also intensely territorial, defending 
their lakes or bays against both others of their own kind and against any 
other large predators, or anything that they perceive to be a large preda- 
tor. They will not attack any creature of Large or larger size on the shore, 
but they attack any creature or object of Huge or smaller size that travels 
through, under, or a yard or two above the surface of their watery domain 
and attempt to drive these intruders away. As a result, they occasionally 
attack landspeeders and even low-flying starships. 


GUNDARK 


Gundark 
Medium beast 10 
Init +9; Senses low-light vision, scent; Perception +13 
Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 15), Fort 16, Will 13 
hp 105; Threshold 16 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee 4 slams +15 each (1d4+13) and 
bite +15 (1d6+13) or 
Melee club +15 (1d6416) or 
Melee club +15 (2d6+16) with Mighty Swing or 
Melee club +11* (1d6+24) 
Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +7; Grp +15 
Atk Options Crush, Miahty Swing, Pin, Power Attack 
Abilities Str 27, Dex 18, Con 22, Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 13 
Special Qualities constrict, low-light vision, scent 
Feats Crush, Mighty Swing, Pin, Power Attack 
Skills Acrobatics +9, Climb +13, Initiative +9, Perception +13, Stealth +9, 
Survival +8 


CL 10 


Constrict—A gundark that succeeds in grappling an opponent can use 
the Crush and Pin feats as normal. When crushing, however, a gundark 
deals 2d6+13 points of damage. 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack, 


Gundarks are a widespread and robust species, known as one of the most 
dangerous creatures in the galaxy. Gundarks have four arms, broad hands 
and feet with opposable digits, ears nearly as wide as their heads, and a 
covering of short hair that ranges from brown to gray in color. They can be 
found the galaxy over, but most live in temperate climates. 

Gundarks are considered to be semisentient by most galactic authorities. 
As such, they are protected from exploitation, even after the Empire's rise 
to power. This protection does little to stop black market trade in gundarks, 
which is little better than slavery. Because of the gundarks' reputation as 
fearless and aggressive combatants, they are most often sold to underground 
gladiatorial arenas, or to hunters who see them as the ultimate sport. 

The primitive society of gundarks consists of smal! matriarchal family 
units. Multiple families sometimes gather together into tribes, allowing them 
to support one another. While the females hunt and gather food, the males 
construct homes and teach young gundarks how to fight. Defense of the 
home falls to the males, and it is a task they excel at. 


GUNDARK ENCOUNTERS 

Gundarks are most often found in the wild. They exist on a number of plan- 
etary systems across the galaxy. They are aggressive, and will kill and eat 
just about anything or anyone that they can catch. They most often attack 
from ambush, hiding until their prey ventures close enough that they can 
initiate a grapple. This grapple leads to a constriction attack, which is one 
of the gundark’s most feared abilities. 

In some focales, gundarks are popular opponents in clandestine gladiato- 
rial arenas. Gundarks that manage to survive multiple bouts often gain fan 
followings of their own. The creatures prefer to fight with their bare hands, 
delivering a flurry of brutal punches with all four of their heavy arms, but 
they will not shy away from using clubs and other simple weapons if such 
implements are available. 


i eaiavHo 


Seeniwegss) 


rer § 


KATARN 


Katarn cL 8 
Medium beast 8 
Init +8; Senses low-light vision; Perception +7 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 15), Fort 13, Will 13 
hp 60; DR 5; Threshold 13 


Speed 10 squares 
Melee 2 claws +11 each (1d10+9) and 
bite +11 (1d44+9) and 
horns +11 (2d4+9] 
Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +6; Grp +11 
Atk Options maternal rage, Power Attack 


Abilities Str 20, Dex 18, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 9 

Special Qualities low-light vision, maternal rage 

Feats Power Attack, Skill Focus (Climb), Skill Training (Survival) 

Skills Climb +79, Initiative +8, Jump +9, Perception +7, Stealth +8, 
Survival +12 

Maternal Rage—if her pups are threatened, a female katarn enters a 
maternal rage. This rage grants the mother a +2 bonus to melee attack 
rolls and damage rolls and a +2 bonus to Fortitude and Will Defense, 
but it also causes a -2 penalty to her Reflex Defense. A maternal rage 
lasts for a number of rounds equal to 5 + the mother's Con modifier. 
After raging, the mother moves -1 persistent step along the condition 
track, and the persistent condition can be removed only if the katarn 
rests for 10 minutes. 


The katarn is a predator native to the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk. It 
is a lizardlike quadruped with a thick hide and rows of sharp spurs along 
its legs. These spurs make katarn excelient tree climbers; they are able to 
move at their full speed when climbing up or down trees. The creature has a 
narrow, beaklike mouth that is lined with several rows of teeth. Though the 
bite of a katarn is not particularly fearsome in combat, it is quite effective 
when used to root tree-burrowers from their arboreal homes. 

Katarns mate every few years, and females that become pregnant leave 
their mates as soon as they are ready to give birth. The female climbs high 
into the forest canopy in search of a likely spot to deliver her young. Once 
the pups are born, she savagely protects them from predators until they are 
old enough to fend for themselves. 

The katarn is an important part of Wookiee mythology and tradition. 
Wookiees believe that the katarn once hunted them, which in turn taught the 
Wookiees how to resist or escape the katarn in order to survive. Over time, 
the Wookiees became the hunters and the katarn the hunted, and things will 
remain that way until such time as their positions are reversed once more. 


KATARN ENCOUNTERS 
Katarn are considered to be some of the most intelligent predators in the 
galaxy. They stalk their prey for long periods, preferring to attack from 
ambush instead of making frontal assaults. They shy away from attacking 
prey that appears to be larger or stronger than they are, and a katarn will 
never attack a large group unless it is young, inexperienced, starving, or 
enraged. When stalking its prey, a katarn is capable of moving very quietly. 
It will get as close as it can prior to pouncing, then attack with its claws. 
Stories are often told of katarn befriending other beings, thereafter 
becoming loyal companions and guardians of their chosen cohorts. On 
the rare occasion that such a pairing does take place, it is usually after a 
wounded katarn has been saved from an opponent, though tales persist of 
female katarn befriending individuals who stumble into their nests shortly 
after their pups have left. Whatever the circumstances, such incidents have 
been difficult to reproduce under controlled conditions. 


~ 


KINTAN STRIDER 


_Kintan Strider CL5 
Large beast 6 


Init -1; Senses low-light vision: Perception +2 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 16], Fort 16, Will 12 
hp 63; fast healing 5; Threshold 26 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee 2 claws +10 each (1d6+9) or 

Melee tree branch +10 (1d8412} 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +4; Grp +15 


Abilities Str 22, Dex 8, Con 22, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 6 

Special Qualities fast healing 5, low-light vision 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 
Skills Endurance +11, Perception +7 

Possessions tree branch {treat as mace) 


Fast Healing 5—A Kintan strider automatically regains 5 hit points every 
round at the end of its turn, up to its normal maximum, until it is killed. 


Now extinct on its home planet, the Kintan strider can be found on various 
other planets of the galaxy, where it is used as a quard beast by Hutt crime 
lords or as an opponent in gladiatorial combat in less civilized societies. 
Kintan striders are enormous beasts with huge shoulders and arms that nearly 
drag on the ground. A Kintan strider does not have a neck—its overexag- 
gerated face sits squarely in the middle of its chest, protected by a thick 
layer of fat and hide. 

Although they are barely intelligent, Kintan striders have learned how 
to use branches and poles as weapons, bashing their prey with powerful 
two-handed swings. Some even utilize these weapons to shovel food in 
their mouths, giving the appearance to uneducated observers that they are 
actually sentient, tool-using beings. Kintan striders possess incredible heal- 
ing abilities and can come back from wounds that would easily kill beasts 
of similar size. 

Although few citizens of the galaxy have ever seen a Kintan strider, almost 
everyone knows the creature as a piece in the game called Dejarik and is 
familiar with its signature move, the Kintan strider death gambit. 


KINTAN STRIDER ENCOUNTERS 
lronically, the one place this creature will never be encountered is the 
planet for which it is named. Millennia of hunting by the planet's primary 
species, the Nikto, nearly wiped out the strider population. After the Hutts’ 
domination of the Nikto, the few hundred surviving striders were shipped 
offplanet, to be bred in captivity or released into the wilds on other, more 
hospitable worlds. 

Heroes might run into a Kintan strider within a crime lord's headquarters, 
where these creatures are kept as fodder for blood sports, or in “execution 
pits” where criminals are bludgeoned to death and eaten by these raven- 
ous beasts, Crime lords who consider themselves notable Dejarik players 
sometimes mimic the game in real life, by utilizing the same types of beasts 
found in the game within their collection of deadly creatures. True “masters” 
of this macabre game also employ the famous Kintan strider death gambit, 
in which the strider is sacrificed during the gladiatorial display in order for 
the victor to fall prey to some other creature kept in reserve. 


coenivane fh i) eSiavHs =) 


ra i ii eSiavHo 7) 


KNOBBY 
WHITE SPIDER 


Knobby White Spider CL8 
Huge beast 9 
Init +6; Senses darkvision; Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 22, Will 11 
hp 130; Threshold 37 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee sting +14 (1d8+12 plus poison] and 
bite +14 (2d6+12} or 

Melee sting +12 (2d8+12 plus poison) with Rapid Strike and 
bite +12 (3d6+12) with Rapid Strike 

Fighting Space 3X3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +6; Grp +24 

Atk Options Rapid Strike, poison 


Abilities Str 26, Dex 14, Con 34, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Rapid Strike, Skill Training 
(Endurance), Toughness 

Skills Endurance +21, Jump +15, Perception +5 


Poison—lf the sting of a knobby white spider deals damage to a living 
target, the target is also poisoned. If the poison succeeds on an attack 
roll (1d20+10) against the target's Fortitude Defense, the target moves 
-1 step along the condition track. A target moved to the end of the 
condition track by the poison is immobilized, but not unconscious. The 
poison attacks each round until cured with a successful DC 15 Treat 
Injury check. 


The knobby white spider is a landspeeder-sized predatory arachnid native to 
the swamps of Dagobah. In addition to living amid the pillartike roots of the 
planet's enormous gnarltrees, it is also a part of the gnarltree's bizarre life 
cycle. To reproduce, gnarltrees occasionally extrude mobile roots that drop 
off the tree when they are no larger than an astromech droid. These roots 
immediately begin hunting live prey so they can grow. When this “spider” 
reaches Huge size, it locates a clear area and takes root. It shoves its eight legs 
deep into the ground, and these legs become the first of the new gnarltree's 
roots. The transformation from spider to tree is swift; within three months 
after rooting, the creature's skin has sufficiently darkened and thickened that 
it has become indistinguishable from any other young gnarltree. Unlike most 
other animals, knobby white spiders have complete radial symmetry. They 
have a stinger near the end of each leg capable of delivering their poison 
and a ring of eight eyes underneath their eight legs, allowing them to see 
in all directions at once. 


KNOBBY WHITE SPIDER 
ENCOUNTERS 

These creatures exist in their mobile phase for five to seven years, during 
which time they grow from Small to Huge size. During this time, they are 
exceedingly voracious predators. They attack any prey of their own size or 
smaller and often attack creatures one size category larger than they are. 
They are nearly fearless, relying on both the exceptionally durable nature of 
their vegetable construction and the deadliness of their poison to protect 
them from harm. Because of their exotic metabolism, they require no sleep 
and need to spend no time resting, mating, digesting, or doing anything 
other than stalking the gnarl forests, hunting prey for the entirety of their 
lives. They are utterly tireless and will track large prey for many hours, but 
can be distracted from this pursuit if they encounter prey that is smaller 
and thus easier to overcome. 


“THERE'S 
SOMETHING ALIVE 
DOWN THERE.” 


—- LUKE SKYWALKER 


KOUHUN 


Kouhun CL 2 
Diminutive beast 3 
Init +10; Senses darkvision; Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 15), Fort 11, Will 12 
hp 19; Threshold 11 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee bite -1 (104 plus poison) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 0 squares 
Base Atk +2; Grp -16 

Atk Options poison 


Abilities Str 4, Dex 18, Con 12, Int 1, Wis 14, Cha 12 
Feats Skill Training (Initiative), Skill Training (Perception) 
Skills Initiative +10, Perception +8, Stealth +25 


Poison—lf a kouhun deals damage to a tiving target, the target is also 
poisoned. If the poison succeeds on an attack roll (1d20+10) against 
the target's Fortitude Defense, the target takes 4d6 points of damage 
and moves -1 step along the condition track. If the attack fails, the 
target takes half damage and doesn’t move on the condition track. 
Kouhun poison attacks each round until cured with a DC 25 Treat 
Injury check. 


Kouhuns are pale-colored, centipedelike arthropods around 30 centimeters 
long, Native to the jungle-planet Indoumodo, they are attracted to warmth. 
In the wild, they live in vast hollow trees and hunt dog-sized creatures that 
nest in crevices deep in the tree. They are a favorite of assassins across 
the galaxy because they are small and swift-moving, and their poison is 
exceptionally deadly. In addition, in most intelligent species the symptoms 
of kouhun poisoning resemble those associated with heart attack and other 
natural deaths. Although the creatures are naturally white in color, feeding 
them various natural dyes causes them to change color. If an assassin takes 
the time to determine the dominant colors of a victim's dwelling before 
using a kouhun to deliver poison, and introduces a corresponding dye into 
the creature, then the kouhun gains a +3 bonus to Stealth checks (for a total 
modifier of +28) while it is in the victim's dwelling. 


KOUHUN ENCOUNTERS 
Except for their occasional presence in zoological exhibits or poison research 
facilities, Kouhuns are found almost exclusively in the possession of assas- 
sins. There are also small breeding colonies of kouhuns in the poorest and 
most run-down districts of some of the most urbanized worlds, including the 
underlevels of Coruscant, but all of these colonies trace their origin to kou- 
huns that escaped from the cages of assassins. Kouhuns make ideal weapons 
for assassins—an assassin can deliver them in person, have them carried ina 
small droid to the victim’s vicinity, or even mail them in a package. 
Kouhuns can enter a dwelling through slightly opened windows, ventila- 
tion ducts, or other similarly tiny apertures. Once inside, they home in on the 
victim's body heat and kill the victim with their poison. Kouhuns are quite 
aggressive but also somewhat timid in certain conditions. They usually either 
hide or freeze in place if their victim moves or turns on a light. However, as 
soon as the light goes out and the victim ceases to move, they attack. They 
attempt to flee and hide from attackers, unless they are cornered, in which 
case they attempt to fight back. 


| HSBLavHO 


Q 
2) 
® 
"J 
c 
>) 
Ww 
Ome 


Wl eSaidvyHoa 


A: 


Seensveys) 


Ss 


KRAYT DRAGON 
Krayt Dragon, Greater CL 16 
Colossal desert beast 17 

Init -2; Senses low-light vision, tremorsense; Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 30, Will 12 
hp 399; DR 15; Threshold 80 


Speed 10 squares 
Melee bite +24* {4d6+40/x3) and 
tail slap +24* (3d6+40) or 
Melee bite +28* (4d6+48/x3) with Powerful Charge 
Fighting Space 8x8; Reach 6 squares 
Base Atk +12; Grp +54 
Atk Options devour, Powerful Charge, Triple Crit (bite) 


Abilities Str 54, Dex 6, Con 48, Int 1, Wis 13, Cha 10 

Special Qualities camouflage, low-light vision, tremorsense 

Feats Improved Defenses, Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Skill Focus 
(Stealth), Skill Training (Perception), Triple Crit (bite) 

Skills Perception +6, Stealth +8 


Tremorsense—A krayt dragon automatically senses the location of 
anything that is in contact with the ground and within 100 squares (no 
Perception check required]. 

Camouflage—A krayt dragon's natural coloration changes to mimic its 
surroundings. Krayt dragons ignore their size modifier when they make 
Stealth checks. 

Devour—If a krayt dragon hits with its bite attack against a Huge or 
smaller opponent, it can automatically make a grapple check with its 
bite attack at its full bonus (even if it has already taken a full-round 
action). If the grapple check is successful, the dragon can begin 
devouring its target. Any creature being devoured takes 1d8+22 points 
of damage each round it is in the krayt dragon's maw. When the 
creature reaches 0 hit points, it is swallowed by the krayt dragon and 
continues to take 1d6 points of acid damage each round. 

* Includes 10 points of Power Attack. 


The greater krayt dragon is a truly massive beast. This 100-meter-long desert 
titan lives among the endless dunes of Tatooine. A greater krayt dragon 
actually submerges itself in the shifting sands, and can use its ten powerful 
limbs to swim through the dunes. 

Tatooine natives rarely see a living krayt dragon, although the titanic 
bones of these creatures dot the landscape and are highly prized as building 
material or trade goods. The gigantic reptile prefers to lurk under the warm 
desert during the day, moving about at night as it slinks close to the surface 
of the sand. A greater krayt dragon attacks with its massive Jaws or whiplike 


tail; its claws have evolved exclusively for locomotion. Krayt dragons subsist 
on the largest prey, including herds of banthas and dewbacks. Anything that 
moves across a krayt dragon’s field of vision is fair game, though. 


GREATER KRAYT DRAGON 
ENCOUNTERS 

If a truly determined hunter were to penetrate the beast's armored hide 
and slay a krayt dragon, that hunter would be rewarded with an Emperor's 
ransom in dragon pearls—ordinary stones polished to priceless perfection 
in the dragon's stomach. A single such stone could fetch well over 100,000 
credits. A greater krayt dragon contains 2d4+2 such polished gems. 

Krayt dragons are always encountered singly—although it’s possible to 
run into a krayt dragon that is in the middle of assaulting a herd of animals, 
adding to the danger as these panicked animals run for their lives. Too stupid 
to notice (and too tough to care) that they aren't edible, krayt dragons com- 
monly attack landspeeders, Jawa sandcrawlers, and other large vehicles. A 
krayt dragon's lair can sometimes be discerned by the “melted” remains of 
some vehicle that sat a long time in the creature's stomach before it was 
Spat up as being indigestible. 

Enterprising and extremely foolhardy hunters sometimes stalk krayt drag- 
ons with massive firepower or on swoops, allowing them to make numerous 
hit-and-run attacks, in the hope of killing a krayt dragon and stealing the 
dragon pearls inside. Predictably, casualties on such ventures are high. 


@ 


CANYON KRAYT DRAGON 

Canyon krayt dragons are smaller versions of the greater krayt dragon, but 
still immense monsters nonetheless. Canyon krayt dragons prowl the craggy 
mountains that border the Jundland Wastes of Tatooine. Single-minded and 
ferocious, the only thing a canyon krayt dragon fears is a greater dragon; 
sometimes these two titanic beasts clash when one strays into the other's 
territory. Canyon dragons are weaker than greater dragons, but their smaller 
size works well in the twisting ravines and gullies of their Jair, allowing them 
to entrap herds of banthas, eopies, or rontos (page 124) with little more than 
ruthless predatory instinct and determination. 

Canyon krayt dragons also have 1d4+4 of the same “dragon pearls” in 
their stomachs as their greater cousins do and are considered slightly easier 
prey for hunters. That said, killing a canyon krayt dragon is a remarkably 
dangerous task—most treasure seekers prefer to locate a dying or recently 
deceased canyon krayt dragon to loot the stomach without facing the risk 
of having to go down its mouth the hard way. 


Canyon Krayt Dragon Encounters 

As befitting their name, canyon krayt dragons are likely to be encountered in 
the cliffs and winding canyons that surround the immense dunes of Tatooine's 
Jundland Wastes. Because most of the indigenous creatures on that planet 
live in the relative “safety” of these rocky crags, the canyon krayt dragon 
has plenty of prey to devour, making it dangerous for anyone who thinks he 
can stay out of harm's way by taking to the mesas and cliffs. 

Because of the huge amount of food they require, canyon krayt dragons 
stalk herds of animals, such as banthas, making it hazardous for characters 
to be near such a group for a long period of time. However, unless a krayt 
dragon is particularly hungry or aggravated, it is likely to ignore most Medium 
cr smaller creatures fin other wards, most heroes} unless they open fire 
or make a lot of noise or visual distractions. Sand people sometimes hunt 
juvenile canyon krayt dragons, which provide tremendous amount of [ill- 
tasting) meat for their tribes, as well as raw materials for crafting items, or 
even shelter—the hide of a krayt dragon makes a fine canopy that repeals 
even the most intense heat from Tatooine’s twin suns. 


Krayt Dragon, Canyon CL 14 
Colossal desert beast 15 


Init -1; Senses low-light vision, tremorsense; Perception +12 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 29), Fort 25, Will 12 
hp 292; DR 10; Threshold 75 


Speed 10 squares 
Melee bite +24* (4d6+28/x3) and 
2 claws +24* each (3d6+28/x3) or 
Melee bite +28* (4d6+35/x3) with Powerful Charge 
Base Atk +11; Grp +48 
Fighting Space 6x6; Reach 4 squares 
Atk Options devour, Powerful Charge, Triple Crit (bite) 


Abilities Str 44, Dex 8, Con 40, Int 1, Wis 14, Cha 6 

Special Qualities low-light vision, tremorsense 

Feats Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill 
Training (Climb), Triple Crit (bite) 

Skills Climb +22, Perception +4 7 


Tremorsense—A krayt dragon automatically senses the location of ! 
anything that is in contact with the ground and within 100 squares (no v 
Perception check required}. 

Devour—If a krayt dragon hits with its bite attack against a Huge or 
smaller opponent, it can automatically make a grapple check with its 
bite attack at its full bonus (even if it has already taken a full-round 
action}. If the grapple check is successful, the dragon can begin 
devouring its target. Any creature being devoured takes 1d8+22 points 
of damage each round it is in the krayt dragon's maw. When the 
creature reaches 0 hit points, it is swallowed by the krayt dragon and 
continues to take 1d6 points of acid damage each round. 

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack. 


Seun.veua 


SaUAALvaU® “Tt SaiavHo ) 


MANTELLIAN SAVRIP 


Mantellian Savrip CL6 
Large beast 6 
Init +2; Senses Perception +6 
Languages Savrip 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 8 
hp 39; Threshold 20 
Speed 8 squares 
Melee claw +8 (1d6+7) and 

bite +8 (1d8+7 plus poison) or 
Melee claw +8 (2d6+7) with Mighty Swing 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 2 squares 
Base Atk +4; Grp +13 
Atk Options Mighty Swing, Power Attack, poison 
Abilities Str 18, Dex 8, Con 20, Int 6, Wis 6, Cha 4 
Special Qualities ferocious, primitive, survivor 
Feats Mighty Swing, Power Attack, Toughness 
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +2, Survival +1 


Ferocious—A Mantellian Savrip can choose to reroll any failed attack roll 
with one of its natural weapons, but the result of the reroll must be 
accepted even if it is worse. 

Poison—If the bite of a Mantellian Savrip deals damage to a living target, 
the target is also poisoned. If the poison succeeds on an attack roll 
(1d20+10) against the target’s Fortitude Defense, the target moves 
-1 step along the condition track. A target moved to the end of the 
condition track by the poison is immobilized, but not unconscious. The 
poison attacks each round until cured with a successful DC 15 Treat 
Injury check. 

Primitive—iViantellian Savrips do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
rifles, or heavy weapons) as starting feats at 1st level, even if their 
class normally grants them. 

Survivor—A Mantellian Savrip can choose to reroll any Perception, 
Stealth, or Survival check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted 
even if it is worse. 


Mantellian Savrips are a type of large humanoid native to the planet of Ord 
Mantell. Despite walking upright on two relatively short legs, Savrips are 
able to move with surprising speed. Their arms, by comparison, are long, 
and their hands nearly drag across the ground as they walk. They have long 
necks and reptilian heads that, when combined with their formidable claws 
and thick armored hide, only adds to their intimidating appearance. When 
standing straight up, Savrips can reach up to 4 meters in height. However, 
they spend much of their time hunched over, a practice that exaggerates 
their already prodigious mass. 


Savrips are a long-lived species. Some specimens are thought to be as 
much as five hundred years old, though such elderly Savrips are rare, given 
the violent lives that they often lead. The creatures speak a primitive language 
composed of roars, shrieks, and growls. This language, known as Savrip, is 
largely incomprehensible to other creatures. Although modern translation 
equipment and droids have had some success in deciphering simple linguis- 
tic concepts, the Savrip language continues to baffle linguists. Rumors of 
Savrips that have learned to speak Basic have yet to be confirmed by any 
legitimate source. 

Though considered to be only semisentient by most galactic authorities, 
Savrips are actually a sentient, albeit primitive, species. They represent the 
original natives of Ord Mantell, which were forced to flee into the wilderness 
of their homeworld when it was colonized by the Old Republic thousands of 
years ago. Violent conflicts arose between Ord Mantell’s colonists and the 
Savrips almost immediately following the initial drive to colonize the world. 
The Savrips, being an aggressive species, were partially to blame for this 
friction, while the expansionist mindset of the colonials also played a large 
part in the initial conflict. 

Given the Savrips’ limited technology, they stood little chance against the 
weapons that were available to the colonists. Sizable bounties were placed 
on Savrip hides, a practice that continues well into the Rebellion era. Big 
game hunters from as far away as Rodia came to the planet to test their 
skills against the famed Mantellian Savrip. Thousands of hunters, professional 
and amateur alike, were killed by Savrips in the decades that followed, but 
the death toll for the Savrips themselves, though never recorded, was easily 
in the tens of thousands. As the Savrip population declined, encounters 
with colonists became less frequent. Big game hunters, which had been a 
large source of planetary income for decades, took their guns elsewhere. 


Ord Mantell’s economy recovered in short order, but the Mantellian Savrip 
population continues to remain low. 

Ord Mantell's surviving Savrip tribes are passionately territorial, and they 
tend to attack intruders on sight. Though Savrips have always been aggres- 
sively protective of their tribal lands, the fact that most of the intruders that 
they encounter actively hunt the Savrips has only reinforced their behavior. 
Savrips display absolutely no fear of their enemies, and even juvenile Savrips 
will fight to the death, even if an escape route is available. Savrips manufac- 
ture simple hand weapons, such as clubs and other bludgeons, and they set 
traps and snares that often prove deadly for unwary travelers. 

Given their sinister reputation, Savrips are popular features in under- 
ground blood sports and gladiatorial arenas across the galaxy. Though trade 
in Savrips is illegal on most civilized worlds, such activity has nonetheless 
allowed them to spread to systems beyond Ord Mantell. As a result, Savrips 
feature prominently in galactic lore. They are widely perceived as one of the 
strongest creatures in the galaxy, and images of them have been adopted as 
heraldic symbols by noble houses, education institutions, mercenary units, 
and sports teams. In fact, one of the most powerful pieces in the game of 
Dejarik is the Mantellian Savrip. 


MANTELLIAN SAVRIP 
ENCOUNTERS 

Mantellian Savrips are thought to display little in the way of tactics, but this 
assumption could not be farther from the truth. The typical Savrip, upon 
confronting an intruder, lets out a deafening roar before charging blindly into 
the fray. Savrips are not concerned with the number of opponents they face, 
nor are they intimidated by displays of superior firepower. In many cases, a 
Savrip's terrible reputation is the most effective weapon it possesses. 

Victims who stand their ground against an enraged Savrip risk being 
pulverized by the advancing creature, while nearly sixty percent of those 
who flee manage to escape with little or no injury. Given their speed and 
power, it is unlikely that Savrips would be unable to catch their quarry unless 
they didn't want to. Conversely, Savrips have also been known to set simple 
traps, such as camouflaged pits, to catch enemies and prey. These traps are 
always placed along the most convenient avenue of escape. A Savrip, during 
its initial charge, attempts to herd its prey in the direction of the trap, and 
foes that retreat blindly are often ensnared. 

Though they are native to Ord Mantell, Savrips can often be encountered 
on other worlds. They are popular attractions in underground fighting rings, 
and gamblers will bet thousands of credits on the outcome of a fight that 
features one or more Savrips. They are excellent hand-to-hand combatants 
and prefer to use their claws when fighting. When facing particularly for- 
midable foes, Savrips sometimes use large clubs or rocks in addition to their 
natural weaponry. They can sustain a surprising amount of damage before 
being disabled, which guarantees that a fight featuring a Savrip is never a 
dull or anticlimactic affair. 


MANTELLIAN SAVRIPS 

AS HEROES 

Unlike many other beasts, Mantellian Savrips can be played as heroes. 
Anyone who wants to play a Mantellian Savrip as a heroic character can 
use the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +4 Strength, -2 Dexterity, +4 Constitution, -4 
Intelligence, -4 Wisdom, —4 Charisma. 

Large Size: As Large creatures, Savrips take a -1 size penalty to 
Reflex Defense and a —5 size penalty to Stealth checks. 

Speed: Savrip base speed is 8 squares. 

Natural Armor: Savrips have a tough hide that protects them from 
harm. They gain a +2 natural armor bonus to their Reflex Defense. A 
natural armor bonus stacks with an armor bonus. 

Natural Weapons: A Savrip can rake with one of its claws instead 
of making an unarmed attack. The claw attack deals 1d6 points of 
slashing damage (plus Strength modifier) and does not provoke attacks 
of opportunity. Due to the presence of its natural weapons, a Savrip is 
always considered to be armed for the purposes of threatening adja- 
cent squares and making attacks of opportunity. Natural weapons are 
considered simple weapons. 

Poison: {f the claws of a Savrip deal damage to a living target, the 
target is also poisoned. If the poison succeeds on an attack roll (1d20 
+ the Savrip's character level) against the target's Fortitude Defense, 
the target moves -1 step along the condition track. A target moved 
to the end of the condition track by the poison is immobilized, but not 
unconscious, 

Primitive: Savrips do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
or heavy weapons) as starting feats at 1st level, even if their class 
normally grants them. 

Rage: Once per day, a Mantellian Savrip can fly into a rage as a 
swift action. While raging, a Savrip temporarily gains a +2 rage bonus 
to melee attack rolls and melee damage rolls but cannot use skills that 
require patience and concentration, such as Mechanics, Stealth, or Use 
the Force. 

A fit of rage lasts for a number of rounds equal to 5 + the Savrip’s 
Constitution modifier. At the end of its rage, a Savrip moves -1 persistent 
step along the condition track. The penalties imposed by this condition 
persist until the Savrip takes at least 10 minutes to recuperate, during 
which time the Savrip can't engage in any strenuous activity. 

Automatic Languages: Savrip (speak only) 


a 


Seunsavays 


2) 
I 
> 
| 
4 
Ly) 
2 


BSeMnavaua 


MASSIFF 


Massiff cL3 
Medium desert beast 4 

Init +2; Senses darkvision, scent; Perception +9 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 14, Will 12 

hp 42; Threshold 14 


Speed 6 squares 
Melee 2 claws +7 (1d4+6) and 
bite +7 (1d6+6) 
Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +3; Grp +7 
Atk Options Pin 


Abilities Str 18, Dex 10, Con 18, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 12 
Special Qualities darkvision, scent 

Feats Pin, Toughness 

Skills Perception +9 


Massif fs are bulky, well-armored predators originally from Geonosis and now 
found on several worlds. They are most common on Geonosis and Tatooine. 
Massiffs were domesticated thousands of years ago by the Geonosians, 
who use them as sentries and guard beasts. Because of their usefulness, 
the crews of some Geonosian ships carried them to guard their vessels and 
sold others to offworlders. Standing a meter high at the shoulder, these 
animals make fearsome guards, and their keen senses allow them to easily 
notice the approach of any intruders. Massiffs are voracious eaters capable 
of wrestling down large, slow-moving prey. However, their wild diet consists 
mostly of various types of small vermin as well as Carrion and any smaller 
carrion-eaters who fail to flee when massiffs arrive at a carcass. 


“ON TATOOINE, 
THE VERY AIR AND 
SUNLIGHT ARE 
ONE'S ENEMIES." 


—- SHARAD HETT 


MASSIFF ENCOUNTERS 

The natives of Geonosis keep massiffs primarily to guard their encampments 
from intruders and to eat the various forms of vermin native to that world. 
Wealthy Geonosians breed these animals for ferocity, and they often bet 
large sums of money on fighting matches between prize specimens. Massiffs 
are also common in the encampments of the Tusken Raiders on Tatooine, 
where they guard the raiders’ camps. Both the Geonosians and the Tusken 
Raiders rarely bother to train their massiffs to capture intruders. Instead, 
massiff quard beasts are typically free to capture and devour any intruders 
they can bring down. Massiffs can also be found guarding vessels whose 
crews originate from either Geonosis or Tatooine. In port, these creatures 
keep intruders from venturing onto the ship, and in space, they hunt down 
and Sometimes devour stowaways. On some ships, they are allowed to freely 
roam through the cargo compartment, a fact that should deter passengers 
from visiting the cargo bay without being accompanied by the massiff's 
trainer. Wild populations of massiffs are common on both Geonosis and 
Tatooine, and though they are relatively slow-moving creatures, they are 
excellent trackers and can pursue prey not swift enough to easily outdistance 
them for many miles. 


MYNOCK 

Mynock CL 1 

Small space-dwelling beast 2 

Init +6; Senses darkvision; Perception +8 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 13), Fort 15, Will 12 

hp 21; Threshold 15 

Speed 10 squares (flying, in space only) 

Melee 2 wing buffets (slam) +0 each (13) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 7 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp +1 

Atk Options Running Attack 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 20, Con 20, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities survive in vacuum, fly through space 

Feats Running Attack 

Skills Perception +8 

Survive in Vacuum—Mynocks are silicon-based life forms that take 
no damage from exposure to vacuum. However, they take the same 
damage from being in a planetary atmosphere that ordinary life forms 
do from being in vacuum. 

Fly through Space—Mynocks can fly in the vacuum of space, and can 
maneuver without any hindrance or penalty in vacuum. 


Mynocks are one of the few species of space-dwelling life believed to have 
evolved in vacuum. They cannot survive for more than a few minutes inside 
any sort of atmosphere. A mynock has a wingspan of a little over a meter. If 
attacked, it defends itself by hitting opponents with its exceedingly tough 
wings. 

These silicon-based based life forms originated in the rings of the planet 
Ord Mynock. Today, they are found throughout the galaxy. Their magnetically 
charged wings allow them to catch the stellar winds and literally fly through 
space. They five in asteroid fields and planetary rings and make their nests on 
smal} asteroids. Mynocks normally subsist on a mixture of stellar radiation 
and the charged particle fluxes put out by stars, but are often attracted to 
richer energy sources, such as the power plants of passing starships. They 
are regarded as dangerous pests by all star-travelers; ships that approach 
airless worlds are often inspected for mynock infestations, and those that 
have attracted any of the creatures are usually quarantined. 


MYNOCK ENCOUNTERS 

Mynocks are most commonly encountered in asteroid fields, where they 
attempt to attach themselves to the hulls of starships with their suckerlike 
mouths. They absorb energy from the starship's power plant. A sufficient 
number of mynocks attached to the hull can put a strain on a ship's power 
generation. Also, in an effort to obtain even more nourishment, mynocks 
regularly chew through power cables and hull plates. Their attempts to do 
this can both compromise the hull’s integrity and do substantial damage 
to the ship. 

The easiest way to dislodge them is to take the ship into a planetary 
atmosphere, which kills any mynocks that do not flee into space. However, 
Ships that are far from a planet often cannot afford to risk the possibility 
of mynocks damaging their vessel. In such a case, the most common way to 
get rid of the creatures is for crew members to put on space suits, venture 
out onto the hull, and attempt to shoot the mynocks, forcibly pry them from 
the hull, or attack them with jets of compressed air. Doing this is relatively 
easy if only a few mynocks are on the ship, since individuals are fairly timid. 
However, mynocks become more aggressive in swarms. Groups of half a dozen 
or more mynocks often gang up and attack crew members. 


0 
| 
|\> 
v 
4 
1) 
2 


SEN LVAYy® 


SsSnLveass) 


| BSidvwHgd 


NARGLATCH 
Narglatch CL6 
Huge aquatic beast 7 
Init +7, Senses low-light vision, scent, Perception +1 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 17, Will 11 
hp 80; Threshold 27 
Speed 8 squares, 4 squares (swimming) 
Melee 2 claws +13 each (1d8+11) and 
bite +13 (2d6+11) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 
Base Atk +5; Grp +23 
Atk Options Pin 


Abilities Str 27, Dex 14, Con 24, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 11 
Special Qualities low-light vision, scent 

Feats Pin, Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Initiative) 
Skills Initiative +7, Stealth +12 


The narglatch is a stealthy predator found on planets such as Naboo and 
Orto Plutonia. It is a solitary hunter that moves extremely silently, stalking 
prey with incredible focus. Narglatches are also strong swimmers, but prefer 
to hunt on the land. 


The male narglatch has additional fleshy spikes on its back and shoulders, 
while females are much more smooth. Narglatches have densely padded feet 
that silence footfalls. They have long, powerful tails that end in broad fans, 
acting like a rudder both during swimming and high-speed chases. Since 
young can hunt immediately upon birth, mothers abandon them as soon as 
they are born. Pregnant females always have twins, which are in turn always 
a mate and female. These cubs hunt together until maturity, making them less 
vulnerable to other predators (particularly mature narglatches). 


NARGLATCH ENCOUNTERS 

Despite the fact that they are neither the largest nor fiercest creatures 
that prowl the swamps of Naboo, narglatches are still extremely dangerous 
predators, rightly feared and respected by the inhabitants of that planet. 
Extremely territorial, narglatches are likely to attack any Medium creatures 
(such as the heroes) that dare venture into their enormous territory. Although 
most narglatches are solitary, heroes could encounter nearly mature paired 
siblings, drastically increasing the danger of the encounter. 

Narglatches can operate on land or in the water, although most encoun- 
ters with them occur on land. Narglatches stalk prey close to the shore's 
edge so they can tackle land-based creatures and drag them into the water, 
where they eventually drown. Narglatches have also been known to lurk at 
the very edge of a body of water, with their snouts barely sticking out—to the 
untrained eye, they resemble nothing more than a rock jutting from the water. 
Even the vehicles piloted by the Human and Gungan populations of Naboo are 
not safe from the predation of narglatches, who strike from cover in order 
to get at the “sweet meat” inside. Unlike most wild animals, narglatches are 
not easily scared off by loud noises, even that of blaster fire. 

The narglatch can also serve as any generic aquatic-based predator that 
excels on stealthy attacks. 


Nashtah CL9 
Medium beast 9 
Init +11; Senses low-light vision, scent; Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 11, Will 15 
hp 58; Threshold 21 


Speed 14 squares 

Melee bite +10 (1d8+8) and 
barbed tail +10 (1d3+8) and 
claw +10 (1d6+8) or 

Melee claw +8 (2d6+8) with Rapid Strike and 
barbed tail +8 (2d3+8) with Rapid Strike and 
claw +8 (2d6+8) with Rapid Strike 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +10 

Atk Options leap attack, Rapid Strike 


Abilities Str 19, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 1, Wis 19, Cha 7 

Special Qualities low-light vision, scent 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold (2), Rapid Strike, Toughness 
Skills Initiative +11, Jump +8, Perception +8, Survival +8 


Leap Attack—As a full-round action, a nashtah can make a leap attack at 
the end of a charge of at least 2 squares in distance. This leap attack 
allows it to make six separate claw attacks against a single opponent. 


Also known as Dravian hounds, nashtahs are vicious reptilian predators 
native to Dra Ill. They resemble lizards with six legs, several rows of jagged 
teeth, and barbed tails. Powerful muscles ripple beneath their thick green 
hides. They can grow to lengths of 1.5 meters, but their innate strength is 
far greater than their size might otherwise imply. 

Nashtahs hunt prey in small packs. They are relentless, rarely giving up 
the chase once they've managed to scent their prey. Packs of the beasts 
have been known to pursue prey for days or weeks, never stopping even 
when presented with easier fare. Despite their vicious reputation, nashtahs 
are quite dedicated to their mates and offspring, at least until their young 
are Capable of surviving on their own. 


NASHTAH ENCOUNTERS 

Poachers around the galaxy prize nashtah young, which can be trained 
as hunting animals if they are caught early enough in their lives. Nashtah 
hatchlings that are older than three months are impossible to train. Even 
those that are trained from oirth are difficult to control and maintain, and 
often require shock collars in order to make them more manageable. Many 
planets have acquired populations of nashtahs as a result of specimens that 
have escaped captivity, and as a result importing nashtah has become illegal 
in many systems. 

Despite (or perhaps because of} the nashtah's fearsome reputation, the 
creatures are widely sought as guard animals by wealthy aristocrats and 
criminals. If the possibility of having to fight a nashtah isn’t enough to 
dissuade intruders, then actually facing one usually does the trick. Anyone 
who keeps nashtahs as guard animals must take special care when handling 
them, since they are just as likely to turn on their masters as they are to hunt 
down and eliminate intruders. 

Nashtahs are reckless when attacking, and they don't seem to be affected 
by the wounds they've suffered until they finally keel over dead. When hunt- 
ing as part of a group, they still act as individuals, neither helping nor hinder- 
ing their companions. Once a nashtah has damaged an opponent, it will not 
switch targets or cease attacking until that opponent has been defeated. 


il eSastagrHga 


SsEenhsAvaeg® 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
Mu] 
2 


RANCOR 

Dathomiri Rancor CL 11 

Huge beast 9/scout 3 

Force: 2 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 

Languages Paecian 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 10 

hp 146; fast healing 5; Threshold 26 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee bite +18 (1d8+15) and 
claw +18 (2d6+15) 

Ranged sling +7 (1d4+15) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +8; Grp +27 

Atk Options Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 28, Dex 9, Con 23, Int 5, Wis 10, Cha 15 

Special Qualities fast healing 5, low-light vision 

Talents Acute Senses, Expert Tracker 

Feats Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack, Skill Training (Survival), 
Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +11 (can reroll, must take second result), Survival +11 


Fast Healing 5—A rancor automatically regains 5 hit points every round 
at the end of its turn, up to its normal maximum, until it is killed. 


In addition to being slightly larger and stronger than most other rancors (SE 
276), Dathomiri rancors are considerably more intelligent, and their claws 
function as hands. They can speak, they have an enduring culture, and they 
can both make and use simple tools. Although no one knows if they learned 
fire and tool use from the Humans who colonized Dathomir many centuries 
ago, today these rancors chip knives and other tools from stone, use fire for 
both warmth and cooking, and have elaborate histories and tales of heroism 
that they pass on from one generation to the next. Although they might have 
once had their own language, today all Dathomiri rancors speak Paecian, 
the native language of the Witches of Dathomir (page 10). Like the witches, 
these rancors are matriarchal. Each of their small bands of between a half 
dozen and a dozen adult rancors is led by the largest and oldest female in 
the band, who is known as the herd-mother. 

These rancors’ intelligence makes them extremely dangerous to those 
who attack them or intrude into their territory. In addition to communicating 
with each other and occasionally calling upon the witches for aid, Dathomiri 
rancors use slings and other primitive missile weapons and can build simple 
traps such as deadfalls and pit traps. 


DATHOMIR!I RANCOR 
ENCOUNTERS 

Dathomiri rancors are most often found in either their own rude villages, 
which consist of a few huts of undressed logs and thatch, or in the villages 
and towns of the Witches of Dathomir. The rancors and the witches have a 
close relationship that borders on cultural symbiosis. Some rancors partner 
themselves with individual witches. These partnerships are for life, and the 
rancor serves as the witch's mount, companion, and protector. 

Most of Dathomir's intelligent rancors are not partnered with witches, 
because the rancors outnumber the witches by more than a factor of ten. 
However, all of the witches’ villages have a quarter set aside for their rancors, 
and some witches share their own dwellings with their bestial allies. The 
villages of the unpartnered rancors are often built near one of the villages 
of the witches, so that they can seek aid from the witches. Rancor herd- 
mothers often go to the witches for advice and for help with rancors that 
have become ill. In return, the wild rancors work with the partnered rancors 
to help the witches defend their villages and use their immense strength to 
help clear land, build roads, and perform other similar tasks for the witches. 
Foolish hunters occasionally travel to Dathomir for the challenge of hunting 
prey as clever and deadly as the intelligent rancors, but the rancors and the 
witches deal with them very harshly. 

Away from Dathomir, intelligent rancors are almost always found in the 
company of a witch who has decided to travel offworld. Naturally, anyone 
who threatens or even seriously harasses a witch must deal with her rancor’s 
wrath. Almost all rancors who travel offworld learn to understand Basic, but 
like Wookiees, they are incapable of speaking it. 


Most of the other Dathomiri rancors found away from Dathomir are in 
zoos and menageries owned by individuals who are sufficiently unscrupulous 
and immoral to keep sentient beings in cages. When the Witches of Dathomir 
learn of an intelligent rancor being held captive against its will, they send 
one or two witches and their rancors to free it, sometimes by using payment 
or threats, but most often by force. The only other Dathomiri rancors found 
away from Dathomir are those few unpartnered rancors that want to travel 
offworld and either join interstellar circuses or make a living as bodyguards 
for those who value the intimidation factor that being protected by a hulk- 
ing rancor provides. 


TYRANT RANCOR 

A rare variety of rancor only found on a few worlds throughout the galaxy, 
the tyrant rancor is much larger than most other rancors. Most tyrant rancors 
live on worlds where food is abundant; xenobiologists speculate that most of 
them are actually the descendants of rancors that were relocated from other 
worlds to habitats that were unprepared for a predator of its size, aJlowing 
the tyrants to run rampant over the ecosystem and grow to incredible size. 
Tyrant rancors are of much the same disposition as most normal rancors but 
are much stronger and heartier, making them extremely dangerous opponents 
in any environment. 


Tyrant Rancor CL 15 

Gargantuan beast 15 

Init +11; Senses low-light vision; Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 25, Will 8 

hp 307; fast healing 10; Threshold 45 

Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +20* each (2d6+26) and 
bite +20* (3d6+26) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Reach 3 squares 

Base Atk +11; Grp +40 

Atk Options Bantha Rush, Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 9, Con 40, Int 2, Wis 7, Cha 15 

Special Qualities fast healing 10, low-light vision 

Feats Bantha Rush, Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack, Toughness 

Skills Initiative +11 

Fast Healing 10—A tyrant rancor automatically regains 10 hit points 
every round at the end of its turn, up to its normal maximum, until it 
is killed. 

* Includes 5 points of Power Attack. 


TRA'COR 

The tra‘cor is a subspecies of rancor found on the remote world of Socorro. 
Much smaller than the typical rancor, the tra’cor is an aquatic creature that 
spends most of its life beneath the surface, consuming fish and other marine 
life. Though the tra’cor is amphibious, it can survive for only short periods 
outside the water, since it dehydrates quickly. Tra’cor have large tails that 
resemble those of some serpentine sea creatures, adding a natural weapon to 
the creature’s arsenal that most rancors do not possess. Though the tra’cor is 
deadly in any situation, underwater it is exceptionally fast and can overtake 
its prey ina matter of seconds. 


Tra'cor CL6 
Large aquatic beast 7 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +3 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 17, Will 10 

hp 81; fast healing 5; Threshold 22 


Speed 6 squares, 8 squares (swimming) 
Melee 2 claws +9* each (1d6+11)} and 

bite +9* (1d8+11) and 

tail +9* (1d6+11) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 2 squares 
Base Atk +5; Grp +14 
Atk Options Bantha Rush, Cleave, Power Attack 
Abilities Str 22, Dex 11, Con 25, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 13 
Special Qualities fast healing 5, low-light vision 
Feats Bantha Rush, Cleave, Power Attack 
Skills Swim +14 


Fast Healing 5—A tra'cor automatically regains 5 hit points every raund 
at the end of its turn, up to its normal maximum, until it is killed. 
* Includes 2 points of Power Attack. 


ii SeSaitidwHo 


SPSnLvass) 


i) esiavHo 


San Ls,vgeg) 


RONTO 


Ronto CL 3 
Huge desert beast 4 
Init -1; Senses poor vision, scent; Perception +1 


Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 19, Will 11 
hp 54; Threshold 29 


Speed 8 squares 

Melee slam +11 (1d8+10) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +3; Grp +21 

Abilities Str 26, Dex 9, Con 28, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 6 

Special Qualities poor vision, scent 

Feats Skill Focus (Endurance), Toughness 

Skills Endurance +11 

Poor Vision—Rontos have very poor vision and take a -5 penalty to 
Perception checks involving sight. 


Towering beasts of burden, rontos are mammals prized for their ability to 
shrug off Tatooine's intense heat, although they do require large amounts of 
water. Their size makes them particularly effective at discouraging preda- 
tors, and their sense of smell is acute enough to detect a krayt dragon [page 
114) from up to a kilometer away. However, rontos are somewhat skittish 
in urban environments: their poor eyesight cannot adjust quickly enough to 
the sudden movements of smaller creatures and vehicles. 

A ronto’s first instinct when confronted with such potential threats in 
close proximity is to get away, regardless of any burdens or passengers it 
might be carrying. A spooked ronto will often throw its riders to the ground 
and then lumber off in a random direction until it can no longer sense the 
tnreat. Although Jawas are particularly fond of these easily trained animals, 
the little scavengers are also poorly suited to controlling a panicked ronto. 


RONTO ENCOUNTERS 

Rontos are common sights on Tatooine, as they struggle under the weight 
of various goods or haul heavy wagons while being barely controlled by 
their owners. In the wild, rontos are relatively harmless, since they typi- 
cally run away from danger. However, if a ronto is cornered or its young are 
threatened, the creature will turn on the menace and attempt to smash it 
to a bloody pulp. 

The most common encounters with rontos occur in Tatooine's few towns 
when someone, accidentally or otherwise, startles a ronto, causing it to go 
ona rampage. In fact, unscrupulous characters (which are all too common 
on Tatooine) sometimes do just that to create a diversion in order to engage 
in some illicit activity or to Cause massive amounts of property damage. 
Some gang leaders and crime lords have been known to extort money from 
or “teach a lesson” to individuals by placing them in an enclosed space with 
a ronto and then goading the creature into a frenzy. 

Rontos can also be encountered in caravans snaking along the scorching 
sands of Tatooine—a welcome sight to anyone lost in the desert without 
supplies. Jawas are the most common handlers, although Tusken Raiders 
sometimes herd rontos, making it dangerous to assume that every meeting 
with such a caravan will be an amicable one. 


SARLACC 
Sarlace CL 12 
Colossal beast 13 

Init +0; Senses tremorsense; Perception +10 

Defenses Ref 7 (flat-footed 7), Fort 28, Will 10 

hp 234; DR 10; Threshold 83 

Speed 0 squares 

Melee 9 tentacles +18 each (special) and 
bite +18 (4d64+15) 

Fighting Space 6x6; Reach 4 squares 

Base Atk +9; Grp +38 

Atk Options Pin 

Abilities Str 28, Dex 10, Con 44, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 7 

Special Qualities camouflage, tentacle grab, tremorsense 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Improved Defenses, Pin, Skill Training 
(Stealth), Toughness 

Skills Perception +10, Stealth +11 

Camouflage—A Sarlacc ignores its size modifier when it makes Stealth 
checks. 

Tentacle Grab—lf a Sarlace hits with one of its tentacles against a Huge 
or smaller opponent, it can automatically make a grapple check with its 
tentacle attack at its full bonus (even if it has already taken a full- 
round action). If the grapple check is successful, the Sarlace can make 
an opposed grapple check each round to move the grappled creature 1 
square closer, until it pulls the creature into its maw. 

Tremorsense—A Sarlacc automatically senses the location of anything 
that is in contact with the ground and within 100 squares (no 
Perception check required). 


A Sarlacc is a massive, fearsome monster that hides itself underground and 
drags in unwary passersby to slowly digest them over the course of several 
centuries. Only a small portion of the Sarlace’s gigantic body peeks out of 
the ground—its mouth. As a result, the Sarlace gains improved cover (already 
factored into the Sarlacc's Reflex Defense) and is extremely resistant to damage 
since all its vital organs are at least a dozen meters under the sand and rock. 

The Sarlace feeds by using its nine gripping tentacles to draw victims 
into its great maw. When prey of Large or larger size reaches the Sarlacc's 
mouth, that creature is subjected to attacks until it is broken down into more 
manageable chunks. Medium and smaller creatures are simply stuffed into 
the Sarlace's mouth, then carried along by esophageal action into its primary 
stomach (to be digested immediately) or one of several secondary stomachs. 
Creatures in the primary stomach take a cumulative 2d6 points of damage per 
round; they can escape back through the alimentary canal by succeeding on 
an Acrobatics check opposed by the Sarlacc’s Strength check (+9 modifier). 


Victims in a secondary stomach fare somewhat better, because the 
Sarlace actually stores its meals in a sort of conscious suspended animation 
until it is ready to devour them, Held tight to the stomach lining by meter- 
long bondlike cilia (opposed Strength check to escape), such a creature 
is exposed to somewhat weaker digestive juices, taking a cumulative 1d6 
points of damage each day. Creatures in this predicament are sustained by 
the Sarlace through nutrients in its system that seep in through the victim's 
skin, preventing the prey from dying of hunger or thirst. 


SARLACC ENCOUNTERS 

Albeit the most famous, the Sarlacc found on Tatooine is neither the sole 
example of nor typical of the species. The Sarlacc is most at home in damp 
environments, such as swamps and bogs. However, being hardy and adaptable, 
Sarlaccs can be found in almost any terrain. Because they are stationary crea- 
tures, encountering a Sarlacc is more akin to a terrain hazard than a fight with 
a beast—in order to fight a Sarlacc, you have to travel to where it lairs. 

The Sarlacc can be an obstacle for the heroes to overcome if they are 
charged with retrieving something (or someone) trapped within the gullet of 
this enormous beast. In addition to the hazards involved in trying to get to 
the remote location where a Sarlacc resides, the heroes must then figure out 
how to get inside the beast and back out again without becoming a meal. 

On planets other than Tatooine, a Sarlace might serve as a “sacred area” 
where the natives go to dispose of their criminals, pariahs, or cursed items. In 
such a case, any individuals caught harming a Sarlacc might find themselves 
tossed inside by angry natives. 


B i) BSLaVHO J 


SsyALvan® 


i) SBiavHo 


HS) 


SeeunLsvye 


VARACTYL 


Varactyl CL 4 
Huge beast 4 
Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +4 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 9), Fort 21, Will 12 
hp 62; Threshold 31 


Speed 10 squares 
Melee bite +11 (1d8+40) and 
claw +11 (1d6+10] and 
tail lash +11 (1d4+10) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +3; Grp +21 
Atk Options Running Attack, Trip 


Abilities Str 26, Dex 18, Con 32, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Special Qualities excellent climber, low-light vision 

Feats Running Attack, Skill Focus (Climb) 

Skills Climb +20, Endurance +13, Jump +10, Perception +4, Stealth -4, 
Swim +10 


Excellent Climber—A varactyl can choose to rerol] any Climb check, but 
the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Trip—A varactyl that hits with a tail lash attack can attempt to trip an 
opponent (as if using the Trip feat) as a free action that does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity. 


Varactyls are a large saurian species native to the planet Utapau. They are 
lizardlike in appearance, with green scales that thicken into armored plates 
on the varactyl's head. Quills, some of which resemble feathers, sprout in a 
ridge that runs from the creature's head to the tip of its tail. The plumage of 
the female of the species tends to be more vibrant than that of the male. 

As cold-blooded animals, varactyls are more active during daylight hours. 
They spend much of the day sunning themselves as they cling to the walls of 
Utapau's sinkholes. They are excellent climbers and can travel across vertical 
surfaces with incredible speed and agility. When they aren't warming them- 
selves, they hunt for lichens and roots to eat. At night, varactyls retreat into 
burrows that they create in sinkhole walls. They do so to avoid the dactillion, 
a birdlike predator that is also native to Utapau. 

Although they are native to Utapau, varactyls have also been encoun- 
tered on a handful of other worlds. For instance, Kashyyyk maintains a small 
population of the creatures, though the details of how they came to the 
Wookiee homeworld are somewhat mysterious. It is assumed that one or 
more varacty! eggs ended up on Kashyyyk in the possession of a smuggler, 
but this has yet to be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. 


VARACTYL ENCOUNTERS 

Varactyls are most commonly encountered in one of two instances: in the 
wild, or when they are used as mounts or pack animals. Given their docile 
nature, wild varactyls tend to avoid conflict unless their young are threat- 
ened. In such cases, the creatures will impose themselves between their young 
and the threat, if possible, and press forward, viciously attacking with beak 
and claw. Females are more likely to lead such a charge than are males, but 
males are more than capable of joining in the fray. 

When facing smaller creatures, including Humans and Human-sized spe- 
cies, varactyls are much more likely to charge, using their mass to propel them 
into their enemy. Their ability to scale sheer surfaces makes them especially 
mobile when traversing the sinkholes and caves of Utapau. The native lizard 
riders use this to their advantage. 


TRAINING A VARACTYL 

Though the natives of Utapau might make training the creatures look 
easy, most wild varactyls have an unfriendly attitude toward anyone who 
approaches them. If that attitude can be shifted to indifferent (either by an 
Utai wrangler, by use of the Charm Beast talent, or by some other means) 
the animal can be approached, though cautiously. If the creature's attitude 
can be shifted to friendly, it will allow another person to ride it as a mount, 
though it is often resistant to the rider's commands [causing the rider to 
take penalties on Ride checks for unfavorable circumstances). Only when 
a varactyl’s attitude is shifted to helpful does it accept riders without any 
resistance. 


UTAI VARACTYL HANDLER 

The Utai, sentient natives of Utapau, domesticated varactyls thousands of 
years ago, and they continue to use the creatures as mounts and beast of 
burden. Utai make exceptionally good varacty! handlers due to their natural 
rapport with beasts and their years of experience. Each varacty! handler 
receives extensive instruction on the best way to train and care for the 
large beasts, and thanks to their excellent hand with the large animals most 
domesticated varactyl become loyal, friendly mounts. 

High-backed saddles, especially made for varactyls, are used in order 
to grant their riders the stability necessary to control the beasts. Varactyls 
have excellent memories concerning the riders they have served. Individual 
varactyls can maintain unwavering loyalty for years, if not decades, toward 
riders who have treated them well. 


UTA! SPECIES TRAITS 
All Utai have the following species traits. 

Abitity Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Charisma. Utai are sturdy 
and hard-working, but they do not make good leaders. 

Small Size: As Small creatures, Utai gain a +1 size bonus to their 
Reflex Defense and a +5 size bonus to Stealth checks. However, their 
lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of Medium 
creatures. 

Speed: Utai base speed is 4 squares. 

Animal Handler: The Utai are naturally gifted when it comes to 
dealing with beasts and wild creatures. An Utai can choose to reroll 
any Ride check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it 
is worse. Additionally, an Utai can make Persuasion checks to change 
the attitude of an undomesticated creature that has an Intelligence of 
2 or jower. 

Cooperative: An Utai automatically succeeds when attempting to 
aid another ona skill check, as long as the target is adjacent to and can 
near and understand the Utai. 

Low-light Vision: Utai ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Automatic Languages: Utapese. 


Varactyl Handler CL 1 
Small Utai nonheroic 2 

Init +2; Senses low-light vision: Perception +3 

Languages Utapese 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 11), Fort 11, Will 12 
hp 7; Threshold 11 


Speed 4 squares 

Melee stun baton +2 (2d6+1 stun) 
Base Atk +1; Grp -3 

Special Actions animal handler 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 13 

Special Qualities animal handler, cooperative, low-light vision 

Feats Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge [life sciences]}, 
Skill Training (Ride), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +5, Persuasion +12 (can change the 
attitude of undomesticated beasts], Ride +7 (can reroll, must keep 
second result) 

Possessions stun baton, personal belongings 


NEw RIDING FEATS 

Skilled riders know how to manipulate their mounts to make them more 
effective in combat. The following new feats should allow beast riders 
more flexibility during mounted combat. Each of these feats also applies 
to riding a speeder bike as well, allowing a rider to gain the benefits of his 
or her skill and experience regardless of the exact form of the mount. 


Momentum Strike 
You know how to put the full weight of your momentum into attacks 
while riding a mount or a speeder bike. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Pilot or Ride skill. 

Benefit: When riding a beast as a mount or on a speeder bike (as a 
passenger or a pilot), you add +1 die of damage to any melee attacks 
if your mount or vehicle has already moved at least its speed this turn. 


Mounted Defense 
You are able to react to incoming attacks, using your mount or speeder 
bike to absorb attacks against you. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Pilot or Ride skill. 

Benefit: When riding a beast as a mount or on a speeder bike (as a 
passenger or a pilot), once per encounter you can redirect any attack 
made against you at your mount or vehicle instead. The decision to redi- 
rect the attack is made after the result of the attack roll is determined 
out before damage or other effects are resolved. 


8 


SEPnways 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
bs] 
a 


SeEnsaveaes) 


VORNSKR 
Vornskr CL7 
Medium beast 7 

Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 15), Fort 13, Will 12 
hp 52; Threshold 13 


Speed 8 squares 

Melee 2 claws +8 each (1d6+6) and 
bite +8 (1d8+6) and 
tail +8 (1d4+6 plus poison) or 

Melee 2 claws +6 each (2d6+6) with Rapid Strike and 
bite +6 (2d8+6) with Rapid Strike and 
tail +6 (2d4+6 plus poison) with Rapid Strike 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +5; Grp +18 

Atk Options Combat Reflexes, poison, Rapid Strike 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 17, Con 17, Int 5, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities Force Perception, low-light vision 

Feats Combat Reflexes, Force Sensitivity, Rapid Strike, Skill Training 
(Stealth) 

Skills Perception +8, Stealth +11, Use the Force +8 

Force Perception—A vornskr's sensitivity to the Force grants it Force 
Perception, an ability that works like the Sense talent of the same 
name. 

Force Sensitivity—Vornskrs have Force Sensitivity as a bonus feat. 

Poison—If the tail of a vornskr deals damage to a living target, the target 
is also poisoned. If the poison succeeds on an attack roll (1d20+8) 
against the target's Fortitude Defense, the target moves -1 step along 
the condition track. A target moved to the end of the condition track 
by the poison is immobilized, but not unconscious. 


Native to the planet Myrkr, the vornskr is a doglike predator with an innate 
sensitivity to the Force and Force-users. These furred quadrupeds have long 
egs tipped in sharp claws, powerful jaws filled with deadly fangs, and long, 
whiplike tails tipped with poisonous spines. They are aggressive, fast, and 
incredibly strong for their size. Vornskrs are nocturnal, hunting after dark in 
packs consisting of between three and five individuals. 

One of the vornskr's primary prey animals is the ysalamiri (page 131), a 
izardlike creature that is also native to Myrkr. Ysalamiri project a bubble- 
shaped field that nullifies the use of Force powers, which makes it difficult 
for vornskrs to locate them. Vornskrs sometimes mistake a Force-user for 
a group of ysalamiri, leading them to attack. The presence of Force-users 
enrages vornskrs, a behavior that no amount of training can eliminate. 


VORNSKR ENCOUNTERS 

Vornskrs are dangerous predators that are widely sought as guard animals. 
The creatures are incredibly difficult to train, and even specimens that are 
raised in captivity are too wild to be truly domesticated. Vornskrs that have 
their tails clipped are made somewhat less aggressive by the process, but 
they are also deprived of their paralytic poison as a result of the surgery. 
Regardless of the method used to domesticate vornskrs, they will always 
continue to be agitated by Force-users. 

Whether they are encountered in the wild, or as part of a security detach- 
ment, vornskrs use their Force abilities to locate and track their prey. They 
are ferocious animals, but nonetheless cunning. They prefer to attack in small 
groups, using numbers and surprise to knock their opponent off balance 
before delivering a paralyzing tail lash. Once the foe is immobilized, they 
move in for the kil] as a group. When facing multiple adversaries, a pack of 
vornskrs pair off and attempt to disable those individuals who appear to be 
most threatening. If the tide turns against them, they retreat and regroup, 
returning only if they are trained to do so. 

On their home planet of Myrkr, vornskrs are most often encountered after 
dark when they are hunting for ysalamiri. They spend the daylight hours 
asleep, with a single member of the pack left awake to keep watch. 


WOMP RAT 


Womp Rat CL 2 
Medium desert beast 3 
Init +1; Senses low-light vision; Perception +7 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 12, Will 11 
hp 25; Threshold 12 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee bite +3 (1d6 +2) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +2; Grp +3 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 10, Con 14, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 8 
Special Qualities low-light vision, overwhelm 
Feats Skill Training (Endurance), Toughness 

Skills Endurance +8, Perception +7 


Overwhelm—Womp rats gain a +2 bonus to melee attack rolls for each 
adjacent allied womp rat. 


Womp rats are large rodents native to the deserts of Tatooine. They breed in 
sizable colonies and are both scavengers and hunters. Individual womp rats 
subsist by eating carrion or hunting small animals, often including wandering 
pets and, on rare occasions, small children. Groups of womp rats sometimes 
work together to bring down larger prey, including young banthas, as well 
as lone Jawas, Sand People, or other intelligent beings who find themselves 
poorly armed and alone. However, they are not especially dangerous except 
when hunting in groups, and their tactics consist largely of attacking a single 
target at once. If there are sufficient numbers of womp rats, they are often 
willing to attack Medium or Large targets. Although never acclaimed for 
their bravery, womp rats are often renowned for both their endurance and 
their determination. They are perfectly adapted for life in the deep desert 
and can go for days without either food or water. 


WOMP RAT ENCOUNTERS 

Wild womp rats are considered vermin by all of Tatooine's sentient species. 
The local government provides a bounty on womp rats, and several dozen 
nermits and eccentrics earn most of their meager living hunting these crea- 
tures. Small groups of womp rats regularly scavenge garbage on the outskirts 
of towns, but they rarely come near settlements in large numbers. Although 
they have never been successfully domesticated, a few people catch young 
womp rats and keep them as half-feral pets. Most often, their owners keep 
them to guard their homes or businesses, using them as cheaper and less 
deadly alternatives to massiffs (page 118). 

Out in the open desert, womp rats are far more deadly and regularly 
travel in packs of up to twenty. On occasion, a large enough pack of womp 
rats have brought down a small bantha caravan. One of the most dangerous 
things about womp rats Is that they are both relatively bright and cowardly. 
Many learn to recognize a blaster being pointed at them and flee when this 
happens. Womp rats almost never attack targets that are Medium or larger 
without half a dozen or more of their fellows at their side. 


USED TO BULLSE 
WOMP RATS IN 
T-16 IME. 
THEY’ MUCH 
BIG TWO 


ii eSLeawHo 


Wl 
Py) 
b 
q 
c 
ay 
W 
@ 


i] eStidwHa 


SeenAveu® 


WOMP RAT PACK 


Womp Rat Pack cL 4 
Large desert beast pack 3 
Init +1; Senses low-light vision; Perception +7 


Defenses Ref 11 {flat-footed 11), Fort 12, Will 11 
hp 26; Threshold 22 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee bite +3 (1d6+2] 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +2: Grp +8 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 10, Con 14, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 8 
Special Qualities low-light vision, overwhelm, pack traits 
Feats Skill Training (Endurance}, Toughness 

Skills Endurance +8, Perception +7, Stealth -4 


Overwnelm—Womp rat packs gain a +2 bonus to melee attack rolls for 
each adjacent allied womp rat pack. 

Pack Traits—The melee attack of a pack is an area attack that affects all 
squares within reach. The ranged attacks of a pack are considered to 
have a 1-square splash. Area attacks deal an extra 2 dice of damage 
against a pack or swarm. 


PACKS AND SWARMS 

The womp rat pack statistics given here represent a womp rat that has 
been modified to fit the "pack" species trait. Creatures that have the 
"pack" or “swarm” species trait are actually a group of three or more 
individual creatures that move and fight as a single unit. They occupy 
the same space and are treated as a single creature for the purpose of 
combat, though they might be described as a cluster of several creatures. 
For example, a womp rat pack has a single statistics block and acts like 
a single creature, but might actually be three or four womp rats in the 
context of the encounter's description. Typically, a pack or swarm has 
a CL 2 higher than the base creature's CL. 

To create a pack or swarm, make the following changes to the sta- 
tistics block of any beast: 

Increase the creature's size by one category, and apply all relevant 
modifiers. 

Double the creature's hit points. 

Increase the creature's damage threshold by 10. 

All melee attacks are considered melee area attacks, affecting all 
squares within reach. An adjacent allied pack or swarm is not affected 
by a pack or swarm's area melee attack. 

All ranged attacks are considered to have a 1-square splash. 

Area attacks deal an extra 2 dice of damage against a pack or 
swarm. 


Womp rats, like many other animals, travel in packs in order to protect 
themselves and bring down prey more easily. A womp rat pack can swarm 
over its prey in a flurry of claws and teeth, bringing the target down in a 
matter of seconds. Though they are still no match for most people familiar 
with the womp rat, a womp rat pack can sometimes overwhelm unprepared 
beings that they encounter in the wild. 


WOoOMP RAT PACK ENCOUNTERS 
A womp rat pack is a more formidable version of the womp rat, best suited 
for wilderness encounters on worlds such as Socorro and Tatooine. The 
womp rat pack is particularly proficient at bringing down multiple enemies, 
and in groups of two or three, womp rat packs can be dangerous foes that 
can swarm over a party of several characters. A womp rat pack can also be 
paired with more intelligent characters, such as bounty hunters and crime 
lords, who might use a womp rat pack as a distraction to cover their own 
activities in combat. 


YSALAMIRI 


Ysalamiri CL 1 
Tiny beast 1 
Init -2; Senses Jow-light vision; Perception -2 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 8, Will 8 
hp 2; Threshold 8 


Speed 2 squares, 2 squares (climbing) 
Melee bite -3 (1d4-4) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 0 squares 
Base Atk +0; Grp -14 


Abilities Str 3, Dex 7, Con 6, Int 2, Wis 6, Cha 6 

Special Qualities arboreal grip, low-light vision, nullify Force 

Feats Skill Focus (Stealth) 

Skills Climb +1, Perception -2, Stealth +13, Survival -2 

Arboreal Grip—Ysalamiri have a +20 species bonus to opposed grapple 
checks made to resist being removed from the tree to which they are 
attached. 

Nullify Foree—The Force-nullifying bubble that each ysalamiri creates 
has a 6-square radius centered on itself. Characters and creatures 
cannot employ Force powers, Force techniques, or Force secrets within 
a ysalamiri's bubble, nor can they make a Use the Force check of any 
kind. Force powers activated outside the bubble cannot penetrate 
it, and they cease to function if the user of the ability moves into 
the ysalamiri's radius. This ability is automatic; the ysalamiri cannot 
control it or turn it off. Force-users who are affected by the ysalamiri's 
nullify Force ability are immediately aware of it, and though they 
might not understand the source of the interference, they immediately 
recognize that attempts at using the Force are entirely futile. 


Ysalamiri are tiny creatures native to the planet Myrkr. They grow to be up 
to half a meter long, are covered in fur, and superficially resemble snakes 
with legs. The typical ysalamiri spends most of its life in a motionless state, 
attached by its claws to the metal-rich trees that form its primary habitat. 
The creatures are difficult to remove from the trees once they have attached 
themselves, and they will die 1d4 days after being removed. 

The most interesting aspect of the ysalamiri is its ability to push back or 
repel the Force in a spherical area centered on itself. It has been hypothesized 
that this ability evolved as a defense mechanism against the ysalamiri's pri- 
mary prey animal on Myrkr, the vornskr (page 128). Since vornskrs depend 
on Force powers in order to locate and bring down prey, the ysalamiri’s 
ability to push back the Force makes the small creatures much harder for 
these predators to locate. 


YSALAMIRI ENCOUNTERS 


Despite their ability to nullify the Force, ysalamiri are largely peaceful and 
inoffensive. They remain immobile for most of their lives, and are largely 
incapable of physically defending themselves against predators. If attacked, 
ysalamiri remain motionless, as they are anchored to a tree. 

Ysalamiri are occasionally sought out by individuals who wish to use 
them as shields against Force powers. This tactic was first employed by 
Grand Admiral Thrawn in his assault on the New Republic. It is possible 
that ysalamiri might be utilized in this fashion to foil the powers of Jedi 
and other Force-users. Prior to this time, ysalamiri were largely unknown 
throughout the galaxy, so it is quite unlikely that they wousd be encountered 
in the earlier eras. 


"i esidgwHa 


SeSnsvesse) 


(tne SS 
z CHAPTER 1 


es, Ne 
This chapter features a small sample of the many thousands of models of 
droids in use across the galaxy. There is at least one model of droid made for 
nearly every imaginable purpose, from loading standardized cargo containers 
onto starships to picking honey melons on the forest moon of Endor. However, 
because of both cost and convenience, all across the galaxy droids are used 
for tasks different from those they are programmed for. A surplus battle droid 
might work as a bouncer in a tavern, and a fruit-picking droid might be used 
for scrubbing floors in a hotel. Because droids are programmed to serve their 
owners, even droids that perform entirely unsuitable occupations usually do 
the best that they can manage, but problems and complications can arise. 

Many of the droids described here come equipped with tools that can be 
used as powerful weapons. However, only 4th-degree droids can freely use 
weapons on sentient living beings. Other droids possess behavioral inhibi- 
tors that prevent such attacks. Droids that have heuristic processors can 
sometimes find ways around these limits, but generally can do so only in 
extreme circumstances, such as using violence to prevent mass murder or 
to stop a potentially lethal attack on their owner. The only consistent way 
to avoid these limitations is to reprogram the droid with programming from 
a 4th-degree droid, which requires a DC 35 Use Computer check if the droid 
was not originally designed to be 4th-degree (SE 192). 

Characters who have sufficient funds are free to purchase any of these 
droids that they can both afford and find a way to buy, and will undoubtedly 
run across many others in the course of their adventures. In addition, some 
of these droids can be played as characters. Playing one of these droids fol- 
lows the rules on page 187 of the Saga Edition core rulebook about playing 
a standard droid model. Regardless of the number of levels a droid might 
be described as having, a droid you play as a character normally starts play 
with no more than three levels in the nonheroic class or one level in any 
heroic class. 


A NOTE ON DROID 
MODELS 


Though the droids in this chapter have generic names (such as artillery droid 
and war droid), most of the droid entries present specific models from the 
Star Wars universe. The droids have been placed in generic categories to allow 
Gamemasters to use their statistics for droids in that particular role, and not 
just for a specific model of droid. Though the statistics in this chapter reflect 
the particular specifications of these established droid models, Gamemasters 
should feel free to adapt (or even use unchanged) these statistics for their 
own droid models. The differences between an R5 series astromech droid 
and the astromech droids created for use in starships made by a brand-new 
corporation for your home campaign are probably negligible enough to simply 
use the R5 statistics. In some cases, Gamemasters might wish to tweak the 
statistics to better suit their needs. 


saioyugd i iW sSiewHoS 


Wl HastadvwHoD 


ARTILLERY DROID 


VX Series Artillery Droid CL 12 
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 12 

Force 1 

Init +8; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13 

Languages Binary 


Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 24), Fort 26, Will 23 
hp 90; Threshold 31 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (tracked) 

Ranged missile launcher +15 (6d6+8, 2-square splash) or 

Ranged fight concussion missile +15 (+5 against targets smaller than 
Huge) (4d10+8x2, 2-square splash) 

Base Atk +12; Grp +14 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Double Attack (heavy 
weapons), Far Shot, Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Sniper, Triple Attack (heavy weapons) 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Indomitable, Tough as Nails 


SQi@9ia) 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Battle Analysis, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Indomitable, 
Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Tough as Nails, Weapon 
Specialization (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Coordinated Attack, Double 
Attack (heavy weapons], Improved Damage Threshold, Improved 
Defenses, Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Sniper, Triple Attack 
(heavy weapons}, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
{heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +13 

Systems tracked locomotion, 2 tool appendages, basic processor, 
improved sensor package, integrated comlink 

Possessions 2 missile launchers with 4 magazines, light concussion 
missile launcher with 2 light concussion missiles 

Availability Military; Cost 30,000 


The VX series artillery droid is one of the oldest but most reliable military 
droid models in the galaxy. The earliest models of the VX series artillery droid 
date back thousands of years to the time when the Czerka Corporation began 
supplying the droids to both sides of the Jedi Civil War. Since that time, the 
technology behind the VX series has always been upgraded to stay with the 
times, but the basic design of the droid has remained the same. The VX series 
droid has been used in almost every major galactic conflict, and continues 
to be a favorite of militaries of all kinds. 
VX series artillery droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


ARTILLERY DROID 

ENCOUNTERS 

The VX series droid works best when it does not have to be on the front lines 
of a battle. As an artillery droid, the VX series droid can stay far behind any 
other combatants and unleash a rain of missiles down on its opponents. 
Artillery droids work well when teamed with military units (including soldiers 
and mercenaries), and can be particularly devastating against large groups of 
tightly clustered enemies. Despite their good Reflex Defense, artillery droids 
are vulnerable to close-range attacks (particularly melee attacks, since these 
droids have no weapons to make close-range attacks of their own] and are 
usually paired with allies that can keep their enemies at bay. 


LIGHT CONCUSSION 

MISSILE LAUNCHER 

Heavy Weapon 

The light concussion missile launcher is an antivehicle weapon used by 
military units on battlefields where starfighters and heavy artillery are 
often present. A light concussion missile launcher fires a single missile 
at a target on each attack, and the Rapid Shot feat cannot be used in 
conjunction with a light concussion missile launcher. The missile has a 
2-square splash, and attacks with a light concussion missile launcher on 
targets smaller than Huge take a -10 penalty to their attack rolls. 


Light Concussion Missile Launcher: Size Large; Cost 4,000; Rate 
of Fire S; Weight 18 kg; Availability Military. 

Light Concussion Missile: Cost 800; Damage 4d10x2; Stun Damage 
—; Weight 10 kg; Type Slashing; Availability Military. 


ASSASSIN DROID 


ASN-121 Assassin Droid CL9 

Small droid (4th-degree) soldier 9 

Init +12; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +17 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 23), Fort 20, Will 21 

hp 74; Threshold 25 

Immune droid traits, security scans 

Speed 9 squares (flying) 

Melee claw +8 (1d3+3) 

Ranged sniper blaster +12 (3d8 +4) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +7 

Atk Options Cover Fire, Deadeye, Devastating Attack (pistols), 
Penetrating Attack (pistols), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running 
Attack, Sniper 

Special Actions Battle Analysis 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con —, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Talents Battle Analysis, Cover Fire, Demolitionist, Devastating Attack 
(pistols), Penetrating Attack (pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Deadeye, Improved Damage 
Threshold, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Running Attack, Sniper, 
Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons} 

Skills Initiative +12, Knowledge (Tactics) +10, Mechanics +10, Perception 
+11, Stealth +12 

Systems flying locomotion, improved sensor package, darkvision, internal 
storage (2 kg), heuristic processor, quadanium shell (+3 armor), 1 claw 
appendage, 2 tool appendages, one with stabilized mount 

Possessions sniper blaster (treat as heavy blaster pistol) 

Availability Military; Cost 5,730 

Immune to Security Scans—When ordered to do so, these droids emit 
energy beams that render them immune to electronic observation of 
any kind. 


One of the deadliest assassin droids is the dreaded ASN-121. In addition to 
being fast and maneuverable, the ASN-121 is intelligent enough to under- 
stand and execute a wide variety of attack strategies, while also being flexible 
enough to alter its strategies if circumstances change. Its versatile weapons 
and equipment and the added flexibility of being able to carry grenades, 
deadly animals such as kouhuns (page 113), and other small cargo makes it 
suitable for many types of assassination attempts. In addition, these droids 
can emit jamming beams that make them invisible both to security scans 
and to other droids, allowing them to remain unseen in the cities of the Core 


Worlds and the palaces of the rich and powerful. An active ASN-121 droid 
can be noticed only by vigilant living guards. 

These droids were originally developed for use by intelligence agencies 
for both assassination and gathering covert intelligence. However, they are 
now primarily used by freelance assassins, and most are produced in illegal 
droid factories. 

ASN-121 assassin droids can’t be played as droid heroes. 


ASSASSIN DROID ENCOUNTERS 
ASN-121 droids are rarely seen except when they are sent on missions. The 
sight of an ASN-121 droid always means that trouble is near, and usually 
means that an attempt will be made on someone's life very shortly. Older 
and more experienced units often become more of an equal partner than a 
servant to the assassin who owns them, and units fitted with a vocabulator 
are frequently capable of helping their owner formulate plans for an assas- 
sination. ASN-121 droids that become independent often set themselves up 
as especially discreet freelance assassins. 

In addition, a few wealthy criminals purchase ASN-121 droids to foil 
assassinations or other attacks. Some crime bosses keep one of these units 
close by and order it to kill anyone who threatens them. 


i) HSBtdvHa 


SQ1I@U) 


0 


iil HSiavHoa 


SeIOV8G) 


ASTROMECH DROID 


R3 Series Astromech Droid cL 1 
Small droid (2nd-degree} nonheroic 3 

Init +4; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned 


Defenses Ref 14 [flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 10 
hp 10; Threshold 9 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (wheeled), 4 squares (walking) 
Melee electroshock probe +1 (1d8 ion] 
Base Atk +2; Grp +0 


Abilities Str 9, Dex 16, Con —, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 7 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use Computer], Skill Training 
(Pilot), Toughness 

Skills Knowledge (physical sciences] +9, Mechanics +15, Perception +3, 
Pilot +9, Stealth +9, Use Computer +13 

Systems wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, magnetic feet, 
heuristic processor, 6 tool appendages, 1 claw appendage, 1 telescopic 
appendage, diagnostics package, integrated comlink, internal storage 
(2 kg), improved sensor package, darkvision 

Possessions astrogation buffer (storage device, 5 memory units), 
circular saw, electric arc welder, electroshock probe, fire extinguisher, 
holoprojector, holorecorder 

Availability Military; Cost 10,000 


After the huge success of the R2 model (SE 198), Industrial Automaton 
rushed to take advantage of its new dominance in the droid market and 
created two new droid models, the R3 and the R4, to be promoted to two 
totally different sets of customers—high-tech government agencies and 
low-income urban consumers. 

The R3 unit was marketed directly to military organizations, particularly 
the Galactic Republic, the Empire, and the New Republic, due to the special- 
ized and sensitive nature of the droid's programming. Sporting the new Intel- 
lex V computer system, which can store detailed schematics for thousands 
of starships at any given time, the droid is able to perform effectively with 
hundreds of different operational groups aboard large-scale capital ships. 

With the exception of its transparent dome that shows off the new 
computer system and allows its sensors a greater range, the R3 is almost 
identical in appearance to the more successful R2 unit, including the colored 
trim on its white chassis. 

During IA’s initial production run of the R3 line, the Galactic Republic 
purchased about 125 million units, and the Empire extended the contract 
to buy even more to be stationed throughout the galaxy. 

R3 series astramech droids can be played as droid heroes. 


RS SERIES ASTROMECH DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 

Originally designed to be a military droid, the R3 can be seen most commonly 
inside military installations and starships, including imperial Star Destroyers 
and both Death Stars. Droids of this series are used in many capacities and, 
though they work well with any type of military support group, are most 
commonly found accompanying astrogators, gunnery teams, maintenance 
details, and security squads. Although it was not originally designed to 
work in a starfighter, the droid can also be found assisting pilots of all 
types, especially since R3s are able to store up to five sets of hyperspace 
coordinates at one time. 

Aside from military applications, R3 units can also be found working for 
civilian governments. It is not uncommon to find the droid assisting in all 
levels of government, from city clerks and datapad pushers all the way to 
magistrates, Moffs, and even assistants to the Chancellor or Emperor. 

Despite the fact that R3 droids are commonly found with military units, 
they tend not to get involved with any combat actions around them. Instead, 
they look for the nearest cover to get out of the way of the soldiers that are 
involved in the fight. If possible, R3s will plug into a computer network to 
provide support for the troops or communicate with headquarters to advise 
it of the attack and call for reinforcements if necessary. 


R4 SERIES ASTROMECH DROID 
Like the R3 series, the R4 was designed after the success of its predecessor, 
the R2. However, the R4 was created to appeal to lower-income users who 
did not own starfighters but might have speeders or other devices that would 
break down regularly. The R4 was made to be durable but inexpensive, caus- 
ing it to be extremely popular with residents of the Outer Rim Territories. As 
a result, a large number of these droids continue to operate for many years 
after their construction. 

The R4 droid is quite versatile and able to perform many functions within 
the scope of its programming. Although starfighter work was not originally 
conceived for the R4, high demand from various organizations prompted the 
creation of a starfighter variant with the recognizable curved dome from 
the R2 series instead of the truncated cone found on the standard model. 
IA‘s review of R4-P17's rebuilt body and integration into Obi-Wan Kenabi's 
Aethersprite fighter by Anakin Skywalker inspired the cosmetic changes for 
the R4's designed strictly for starfighter work. 

Many of the features available through previous models, such as video 
displays and fire extinguishers, were not made available in the R4 to cut 
down on production costs. As a result, the R4 has more internal storage 
than normal for a droid of its size. 

R4 series astromech droids can be played as droid heroes. 
R4 Series Astromech Droid CL 1 
Small droid (2Qnd-degree} nonheroic 2 
Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +1 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 10 
hp 8; Threshold 9 
Immune droid traits 
Speed 6 squares (wheeled), 4 squares (walking) 
Melee electroshock probe +0 (1d8 ion) 

Base Atk +1; Grp -2 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 14, Con —, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 10 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Skill Training 
(Pilot) 

Skills Mechanics +14, Pilot +8, Stealth +8, Use Computer +12 

Systems wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 6 
tool appendages, 1 claw appendage, diagnostics package, integrated 
comlink, internal storage (8 kg), darkvision 

Possessions circular saw, electric arc welder, electroshock probe, tool kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 2,500 


R4 Series Astromech Droid Encounters 

Much like the R3 series, the R4 can be found virtually everywhere in its 
intended market, most often on Outer Rim worlds. Since the personality 
programmed inta the R4 was more successful than expected, being more 
friendly and loyal than even the R2, most owners come to treat their droid 
as more of a pet or companion rather than a servant. As a result, the droid’s 
memory Is typically not wiped unless it changes owners—and not always 
even then. 

Even though the low-income user in the Outer Rim was the original sales 
target, other people throughout the galaxy have seen the merits of owning 
a R4 droid. Some owners like the appeal of the droid’s pleasant personality 
and used it in such capacities as assisting salespeople in retail stores as far 
coreward as Coruscant and serving drinks in some of Ord Mantell's lower- 
end casinos. R4s have worked aboard space transports as well, such as the 
Tantive lV, operating alongside R2 units performing jobs more fitting for an 
astromech droid. Inservice to the Empire, a few R4s equipped with magnetic 
fault sensors were used to detect flaws and weak spots in the first Death 
Star's atmosphere containment fields. 

Some R4 droids have turned up in the hands of the Rebellion, serving ina 
multitude of ways from computer assistants to messengers and from repair 
assistants to starfighter astrogators. The Rebellion appreciated the model's 
low cost and extensive knowledge of general-purpose vehicles, earning the 
droids a place on many Alliance bases and in Mon Calamari hangar bays. 

Although the R4 line was not originally intended to see combat, many 
units witnessed and participated in more battles than even the R3, especially 
the R4 starfighter variant, and thus the R4 is second only to the R2 as far 
as flight experience is concerned. R4s tend to be a little braver than other 
droids when it comes to a fight. A few have even been eager to jump into 
the fray to help their masters, only to find themselves overwhelmed and 
quickly dispatched. 


RS SERIES ASTROMECH DROID 
Industrial Automaton created the R5 series not because of any need, out 
simply because it could. Because the droid had no real market, the R5 turned 
out to be the company's first true failure. The design cut even more corners 
than the R4, creating a droid susceptible to many technical problems that 
included chronic overheating, jammed servos, loose bearings, blawn motiva- 
tors, and personaltty glitches. Unfortunately for IA, large quantities of the 
droids had already been built by the time the miserable early sales results 
became known. Each sales season that followed was worse than the one 
before, until finally Industrial Automaton quietly retired the RS line. 

The R5 comes equipped with many of the standard features found in the 
R2, including a heavy grasper arm with a 25 kg lifting capacity and a fine 
manipulator arm with an accuracy rating of less than 1 micrometer. Regard- 
less of these functions, the droid does not perform well in many situations, 
including starfighters, due to its ability to store only one set of hyperspace 


| 


i HSeLawHo 


i! ¥SiawvHo 


SGQlOeuUug || 


coordinates at a time. In an attempt to combat its deficiencies, many users 
modify the droid to be more useful. 

Although the R5 unit has a chassis similar to the R2, its bulky head makes 
the droid less attractive to pilots because it creates a larger target profile 
for enemy fire. 

RS series astromech droids can be played as droid heroes. 


R5 Series Astromech Droid CL 1 
Small droid {2nd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +3 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 10 

hp 5; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (wheeled), 4 squares (walking) 

Melee electroshock probe +0 (1d8 ion) 

Base Atk +1; Grp -4 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 10, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 7 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Skill Training 
(Mechanics) 

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +3, Stealth +6, Use Computer +11 

Systems wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, magnetic feet, 
heuristic processor, 6 tool appendages, 1 claw appendage, 1 telescopic 
appendage, diagnostics package, integrated comlink, internal storage 
(2 kg), improved sensor package, darkvision 

Possessions circular saw, electric arc welder, electroshock probe, fire 
extinguisher, holoprojector, holorecorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 1,500 


R5 Series Astromech Droid Encounters 

Even though the RS is not viewed very highly by droid purchasers, it does 
come equipped with many of the same systems and equipment as the R2. 
Those who are looking for a really cheap droid take a chance on the R5. 

Many R5s can be found in the Outer Rim in the hands of owners needing 
some sort of help. Some are working on various types of farms, and a number 
of repair shops bought an R5 with the idea that it was better to own an RS 
than nothing at all to help with repair work. 

Some of those who own RS droids belong to less than honorable organi- 
zations, such as the Hutt clans. Mercenaries are known to use the droids as 
covert scouts or even as makeshift decoys in the battlefield, taking advantage 
of the droid’s holoprojector. 

The Rebellion acquired a large number of R5 units and modified them to 
work with some of their pilots, adding an astrogation buffer to hold up to six, 
seven, or even ten sets of hyperspace coordinates in active memory. 


When it comes to conflict, R5s tend to be outright cowards. Droid pro- 
grammers are puzzled why so many of the same droid line developed this per- 
sonality quirk, much to the chagrin of their pilot owners. One perfect example 
was R5-D2 under the ownership of Rogue Squadron's Wedge Antilles. The 
droid’s horrified shrieks during a dogfight infuriated the squadron leader so 
much that he had the droid's memory wiped and the droid renamed. 


R?7 SERIES ASTROMECH DROID 
After Grand Admiral Thrawn's return and the resurgence of the Empire, 
Industrial Automaton collaborated with Freilek to create a new astromech 
droid for the new E-wing fighter. But the attack at Mon Calamari by the 
Empire's World Devastators forced the droids into service before final test- 
ing could be completed. 

The most sophisticated astromech droid to date, the R7 can perform 
multitasking at incredible speed and can store up to fifteen hyperspace 
coordinates in its active memory. Its major drawback is that it was designed 
specifically for the E-wing and does not perform as well in other starfight- 
ers, receiving a —4 penalty to all skill checks if installed in any fighter other 
than an E-wing. 

The R7's silhouette is very similar to the R2, but its domed head hosts a 
triangular radar eye that immediately sets it apart from its predecessor. 

R7 series astromech droids can be played as droid heroes. 


R7 Series Astromech Droid CL 2 
Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +11; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +6 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 11 

hp 21; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (wheeled), 4 squares (walking) 

Melee electroshock probe +4 (1d8 ion) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +3 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Feats Skill Focus (Knowledge [physical sciences]), Skill Focus (Pilot), Skill 
Focus (Use Computer), Skill Training (Initiative), Toughness 

Skills Initiative +11, Knowledge (physical sciences) +16, Mechanics +13, 
Perception +6, Pilot +16, Stealth +11, Use Computer +16 

Systems wheeled locomotion, walking \ocomotion, magnetic feet, 
heuristic processor, 4 tool appendages, 1 claw appendage, 1 telescopic 
appendage, diagnostics package, integrated comlink, internal storage 
(1 kg], improved sensor package, darkvision 

Possessions circular saw, electric arc welder, electroshock probe, fire 
extinguisher, holoprojector, holorecorder 

Availability Military; Cost 8,000 


R7 Series Astromech Droid Encounters 

The most likely place to find an R7 is in the hangar bay near the E-wing fighter 
with which it is associated. The droid might be performing any number of 
duties, ranging from running diagnostics on the fighter's systems to assisting 
the hangar technicians with ship repairs or helping its pilot calibrate the ship 
for takeoff. If it is part of a squadron, the R7 might be working with other 
astromech droids to help finish a complex task, if not trying to take charge 
of the operation over older models. This behavior is due to the belief held by 
many R7s that they are superior to other droids, including the R2 series. 

Because most people believe the R7 to have little versatility, they would 
not likely believe that the droid could perform other functions beyond its 
programming. For this reason alone, intelligence agents have been known to 
put down a little extra cash to obtain an R7 and modify it for use in covert 
ops. Most people would not suspect an R7 to be slicing into a computer 
network, let alone gathering information for an enemy spy and secretly 
transmitting it to that individual on a regular basis. 

Encounters with R7 droids outside a hangar bay are uncommon, since 
each typically wants to stay close to its ship as often as possible. The attitude 
exhibited by the droid appears almost motherly in nature. As a result, any 
threat posed toward its E-wing will be met fiercely by the droid, and it will 
not cease using all means at iys disposal to drive away an intruder until it is 
called off by its master, shut down, or destroyed. 


R2Z2-R SERIES ASTROMECH 
DROID 

The R2-R series astromech droid is a variant on the wildly popular R2 series 
droid designed specifically for use with Incom Corporation starfighters. The 
R2-R was designed to interact with the Recon-X starfighter {and adapted 
for use with the Y-wing Longprobe starfighter). The R2-R astromech droid 
boasts advanced data analysis software and extensive scouting software that 
allows it to act as. a “second man" on scouting and exploration missions. R2-R 
series astromech droids are capable of flying reconnaissance ships, operating 
sensors, monitoring local communications frequencies, and performing many 
of the more menial and routine tasks on scouting missions, freeing the ship's 
pilot to handle tasks that require more skill and ingenuity. 


R2-R Series Reconnaissance Astromech Droid CL1 
Small droid (2nd-degree) scoundrel 1 : 

Init +2; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +6 

Languages Binary, 2 unassigned {understand only) 

Defenses Ref 16 [flat-footed 14], Fort 10, Will 13 

hp 24; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (wheeled), 4 squares (walking) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol! +2 (304) 

Base Atk +0; Grp -3 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 9, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 7 

Talents Trace 

Feats Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +3, Gather Information +12, Mechanics +7, Perception 
+6, Pilot +7, Stealth +7, Use Computer +12 

Systems wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, magnetic feet, 
heuristic processor, 6 tool appendages, 1 claw appendage, darkvision, 
diagnostics package, improved sensor package, internai storage [2 kg} 

Possessions hold-out blaster pistol, astrogation buffer (storage device, 10 
memory units), data storage unit (storage device, holds up to 50 hours 
of holorecording or 50,000 holo images), holorecorder, holoprojector 


SQieVqg | | it SaieavHoS 


in valavHo 


SQiIelBaE) 


BATTLE DROID 


B3 Series Ultra Battle Droid 

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9 

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 
Languages Basic, Binary 


CL 3 


Defenses Ref 17 [flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 11 
hp 42; Threshold 27 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +13 (1d4+8) 

Ranged 2 heavy repeating blasters +7 each (3d10+2) or 

Ranged 2 heavy repeating blasters +2 each (5d10+2) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged flamethrower +7 (3d6+1, 6-square cone) or 

Ranged missile launcher +7 (6d6+1, 2-square splash) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +18 

Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blasters), Burst Fire 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 13, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium}, Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery 
|, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +12 

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, backup processor, 
quadanium battle armor (+7 armor), hardened systems (2}, integrated 
comiink, improved sensor package, 2 hand appendages, 4 tool 
appendages 

Possessions 2 heavy repeating blasters, flamethrower with 2 chemical 
cartridges, missile launcher with 2 magazines 

Availability Military; Cost 13,400 


The B3 series ultra battle droid occupies an intermediate position between 
the inexpensive B1 and B2 series battle droids (SE 199] and the exceptionally 
deadly but exceedingly expensive Droideka Series destroyer droid (SE 200). 
At less than two-thirds the cost of the Droideka, B3 battle droids can be 
used in considerably greater numbers, but remain heavy-duty shock troops 
that are reserved for especially difficult conflicts. Standing nearly 5 meters 
tall, these droids are too large to use in confined quarters but are otherwise 
devastatingly effective on the battlefield. The B3's mix of both long-range 
and area weapons allows it to be used in a wide variety of conflicts and to 
take on almost any opponents. In addition, its backup processor allows it to 
function independently. 
B3 series ultra battle droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


B3 SERIES ULTRA BATTLE 
DROID ENCOUNTERS 

Used primarily by the Trade Federation, B3 series ultra battle droids most 
often serve as frontline troops for attacks against well-defended or heavily 
fortified positions. Their size, power, and number of armaments allow them 
to swiftly overwhelm most opponents. They are regularly used in place of 
Droideka destroyer droids when budget considerations prohibit the use of 
those more expensive droids. As a result, many medium-security installa- 
tions owned by the Trade Federation are guarded by B3 battle droids. In 
addition, B3 droids are also occasionally sold to local military organizations 
that cannot afford either larger or more expensive military droids. On many 
remote worlds, B3 droids are the heaviest and most powerful droids on the 
field of battle. Qn these worlds, they are also often called out to help put 
down riots or rebellions, and the sight of even a handful of these massive 
droids striding onto the field of battle lets any would-be revolutionaries know 
that their enemy is both well defended and willing to give no quarter. 


B3-A SERIES ULTRA BATTLE 
DROID 
The B3-A series ultra battle droid is a powerful and deadly modification of 
the B3 battle droid. Instead of relying on a remote processor, B3-A droids 
have internal heuristic processors that give them a high degree of both intel- 
ligence and independence. Physically, the B3-A is identical to an ordinary 
B3 battle droid, with the exception of its processor and the addition of a 
secondary battery. However, its programming is far more sophisticated, 
and it has an excellent knowledge of tactics. Its extra battery allows it to 
operate on long missions, far from any support, and so it is most often used 
as a commando unit. 

B3-A series ultra battle droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


B3-A Series Ultra Battle Droid 

Large droid (4th-degree} soldier 5 

Init +8; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 19 [flat-footed 18), Fort 24, Will 16 

hp 72; Threshold 34 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +13 [1d4+9) 

Ranged 2 heavy repeating blasters +7 each (3d10+2) or 

Ranged 2 heavy repeating blasters +2 each (5d10+2) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged flamethrower +7 (3d6+2, 6-square cone} or 

Ranged missile launcher +7 (6d6+2, 2-square splash) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +18 

Atk Options autofire (neavy repeating blasters), Burst Fire, Devastating 
Attack (heavy weapons), Penetrating Attack (heavy weapons), Point 
Blank Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 13, Con —, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Talents Battle Analysis, Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Penetrating 
Attack (heavy weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery 
|, Point Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifle, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Perception +10, Initiative +8, Knowledge (tactics} +8, Mechanics 
+8 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, quadanium battle armor 
(+7 armor}, hardened systems (2), integrated comlink, improved sensor 
package, 2 hand appendages, 4 tool appendages, secondary battery 

Possessions 2 heavy repeating blasters, flamethrower with 2 chemical 
cartridges, missile launcher with 2 magazines 

Availability Military; Cost 16,200 


CL 5 


B3-A Series Ultra Battle Droid Encounters 

B3-A droids are most often used for commando raids on remote or heavily 
guarded enemy encampments. A typical mission consists of one or more 
probe droids performing initial reconnaissance and relaying the informa- 
tion they gather to a small squad of B3-A droids, which attack swiftly and 
attempt to overwhelm their enemies with both surprise and the force of 
their weapons. Often a small team of B3-A droids is used as a surgical strike 
force. A well-shielded landing shuttle secretly drops between five and twenty 
of these droids near their target. The droids attack and, if possible, destroy 
this objective, leaving no survivors or records. Afterward, they climb back in 
their shuttie and depart the world, leaving only smoking ruins and mystery 
behind them. Both the Trade Federation and several other smaller groups use 
these droids to destroy potential threats and to eliminate small and poorly 
defended commercial rivals. 


iG SERIES LANCER DROID 

The IG series lancer droid was invented during the Clone Wars to serve as 
a more mobile ground unit in urban environments. Deployed with success 
on Muunilinst, IG series battle droids devastated Republic forces until they 
were stopped by the Jedi. These droids boast energy lances (similar to force 
pikes) that increase the droid’s reach, an advantage the droids enjoy against 
Jedi whose close-quarters combat abilities are devastating against droid 
forces. 


IG Series Battle Droid 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +11; Senses Perception +3 

Languages Binary 

Defenses Ref 13 [flat-footed 10), Fort 12, Will 10 

hp 15; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee energy lance +6 (2d8+4) or 

Melee energy lance +4 (3d8+4) with Rapid Strike or 

Melee energy lance +8 (3d8+7) with Powerful Charge and Rapid Strike 

Base Atk +4; Grp +7 

Atk Options Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike, Running Attack 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con —, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Feats Powerful Charge, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Weapon Proficiency 
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Pilot +11 

Systems walking locomotion, remote processor, 2 hand appendages, 
internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions energy lance (as force pike, +1 square reach) 

Availability Military; Cost 2,700 


CL 2 


in esiavHo 


Seneovu@qg 


ii) HeLawHo 


O: 


SQi@Xg 


Buzz OROID 
Pistoeka Buzz Droid CL 3 
Tiny droid (4th-degree) soldier 3 

Init +11; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 16), Fort 11, Will 15 
hp 41; Threshold 11 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (flying), 4 squares (walking) 

Melee vibrosaw +8 (2d4+1) 

Ranged plasma cutting torch +8 (2d6+1} 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 0 squares 

Base Atk +3; Grp -2 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons), Penetrating 
Attack {advanced melee weapons), Point Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 6, Dex 20, Con —, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Talents Devastating Attack (advanced melee weapons}, Penetrating 
Attack [advanced melee weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Point Blank Shot, Weapon 
Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +10, Stealth +16 

Systems flying locomotion, walking locomotion (limited), extra leg, 
magnetic feet, basic processor, integrated comlink, durasteel shell (+4 
armor), improved sensor package, 2 tool appendages with stabilized 
mounts, 1 claw appendage 

Possessions vibrosaw (treat as vibrodagger), plasma cutting torch (treat 
as blaster pistol] 

Availability Military; Cost 11,400 


The Pistoeka buzz droid is one of the most widely produced in-battle sabotage 
droids. It is specifically designed to be loaded into discord missiles and fired 
into battle formations at starfighters and other similarly sized starships. The 
discord missile flies into the battle formation at high acceleration and then 
splits apart, revealing a trio of buzz droids. When packed into a missile or 
seeking a target, buzz droids fold themselves into their armored spherical 
shells. When they come within range of a target, the buzz droids open their 
shells, extend their magnetic feet, and lock themselves onto their target. Then 
the droids use their cutting arms and laser cutters to disable or destroy the 
target. Buzz droids’ programming is relatively sophisticated, allowing them 
to rapidly decide upon the most effective tactics for rendering their target 
helpless. If they destroy their first target, buzz droids are programmed to 
detach themselves and seek out a new target. 
Pistoeka buzz droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


PISTOEKA Buzz DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 

Fully intact buzz droids are most commonly found in large space or air 
battles, where massive numbers of them are sent out to overwhelm the 
enemy's ships. The military produces and uses them in vast quantities because 
five of these droids are cheaper than one TIE fighter. As a result, they are 
essentially built to be disposable. After a battle, those buzz droids that are 
capable of flying back to the nearest friendly capital ship do so, while all 
the rest are left for salvage. 


DiscORD MISSILE LAUNCHER 
The discord missile launcher is a weapon that can be installed on any 
vehicle or starship of Huge size or larger. When a discord missile is 
fired, the gunner makes an attack roll against a square within the 
weapon's range (Reflex Defense 10). If successful, the discord missile 
breaks open in the target square and releases three buzz droids (which 
appear in separate squares adjacent to the target square). At starship 
scale, when the weapon breaks open, it fills the target square with its 
buzz droids. When a vehicle enters a square occupied by one or more 
buzz droids, the buzz droids can make an immediate melee attack as a 
reaction against the vehicle with an additional +5 equipment bonus to 
their attack rolls. If the attack succeeds, the buzz droid latches onto the 
vehicle and automatically moves when the vehicle moves. 

Discord Missile Launcher: Emplacement Points 2; Availability 
Restricted; Cost 4,000. 

Discord Missile: Damage Special; Availability Restricted; Cost 


1,000. 


CONSTRUCTION DROID 


_ — 


Used primarily in the demolition and reconstruction of butldings on urban- 
ized worlds, the EVS construction droid is a massive automaton that has 
been used on Coruscant and other worlds for decades. These titanic droids 
tower over the urban landscape and are used to tear down old, dilapidated 
buildings, process the salvaged raw materials, and use them to construct 
state-of-the-art facilities and structures. The droid is equipped with tools 
designed to help make the demolition process go more smoothly; a plasma 
cutter slices quickly through girders and other metal objects, and an implo- 
sion wrecking ball (which emits sonic blasts that shatter permacrete) brings 
down more solid sections of the buildings. 

Like many other 5th-degree droids, the EVS construction droid does not 
have much in the way of a personality, and as a result It can be very difficult 
for engineers and architects to deal with. Over time, even with regular main- 
tenance and memory wipes, an EVS droid will develop a stubborn streak that 
makes it resistant to new programming. As a result, programming a demoli- 
tion and construction project into an EVS construction droid requires three 
days of work (and a DC 30 Use Computer check}, which has the side benefit 
of making the droid difficult to hijack for unscrupulous activities (though 
most of the droid's programmers hardly consider this much of a feature). 

EVS construction droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


EVS Construction Droid CL8 
Colossal droid (S5th-degree) nonheroic 15 
Init +5; Senses Perception +6 


Languages Binary 


Defenses Ref 6 (flat-footed 6}, Fort 10, Will 9 
hp 137; Threshold 65 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee 2 claws +31 each (2d8+20) 

Ranged plasma cutter* +10 (3d6) or 

Ranged implosion wrecking ball* +10 (3d10**) 
Fighting Space 1212; Reach 4 squares 

Base Atk +11; Grp +51 

Atk Options Crush, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Throw 


Abilities Str 50, Dex 6, Con —, Int 8, Wis 8, Cha 4 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Crush, Improved Damage 
Threshold, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Endurance), Throw, 
Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency (simple 
weapons) 

Skills Climb +32, Endurance +32 

Systems walking locomotion, 2 claw appendages, 2 tool mounts, basic 
processor 

Possessions implosion wrecking ball, plasma cutter, duranium plating (+8 
armor) 

Availability Restricted; Cost 120,000 

“May attack only targets within the construction drojd’s reach. 

“ Deals double damage against objects, vehicles, and structures. 


CONSTRUCTION DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 

Most of the time, construction droids work along on a project, plodding 
away until! the work is done with minimal outside assistance or interference. 
However, encounters featuring a construction droid can be far more exciting, 
especially in the middle of an urban environment. Imperial loyalists might try 
to hijack a construction droid, turning the lumbering machine Joose on an 
unsuspecting population. In a less sinister encounter, a construction droid 
might go haywire, tearing chunks out of still-inhabited buildings or throwing 
raw materials across a city. 

Construction droid encounters usually involve the demolition of dilapi- 
dated buildings, and for that reason the combat arena might be littered with 
perils such as fallen girders and permacrete blocks, collapsing bridges, and 
broken buildings. Demolitions droids can be paired with construction droids 
for higher-level encounters, allowing the heroes to take down some large 
droids as they rampage through the city. 


=e E}: <= 


Sas 
SeqQ1eXqg 


ii SSiagvHo 


DEMOLITIONS DROID 


GRZ-6B Demolitions Droid CL8 

Gargantuan droid (5th-degree) nonheroic 16 

Init +8; Senses Perception +14 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11}, Fort 22, Will 12 

hp 106; Threshold 47 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee claw +12 (2d6+12} 

Ranged plasma cannon +24 (3d10+8) 

Ranged laser cutter +12 (3d8+8} 

Base Atk +12; Grp +39 

Atk Options autofire (plasma cannon and laser cutter), Pin 

Abilities Str 35, Dex 10, Con —, Int 8, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Damage Threshold, Pin, 
Skill Training (Mechanics), Skill Training (Knowledge [technology]}, 
Toughness, Weapon Proficiency [heavy weapons, simple weapons), 1 
unassigned 

Skills Knowledge (technology) +12, Mechanics +12, Perception +14 

Systems walking locomotion, durasteel plating (+6 armor), integrated 
comlink, basic processor, 2 claw appendages 

Possessions plasma torch [treat as heavy blaster rifle), laser cutter (treat 
as light repeating blaster rifle) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 43,650 


The GRZ-6B demolitions droid is one of the largest and most powerful 
demolitions droids in common use. It is an enormous block on two legs with 
considerable mass. With a laser cutter in one claw and a plasma torch in the 
other, a GRZ-6B can rapidly disassemble anything from an aging residential 
tower to a wrecked starship, and its durasteel armor allows it to safely be 
used where debris might fall on it. Its intelligence is sufficient to enable it 
to distinguish salvageable parts from junk. 

When dismantling a building or vehicle, it separates out any reusable 
parts and stacks them for easy removal while it cuts up the unusable junk 
and shoves it in the gaping maw of the fusion furnace located in the middle 
of its torso. Here, powerful magnetic fields separate the plasma into its 
component elements, which are then recombined and stored inside the droid 
for later removal. In only a few hours, this droid can transform the hull of a 
ruined starship into a mixture of spare parts and ingots of pure duralloy or 
alusteel ready for industrial use. 

GRZ-6B demolitions droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


GRZ-6B DEMOLITIONS DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 

Found in scrapyards across the galaxy, the GRZ-6B is also in regular use on 
construction sites, where old buildings must be taken down to allow new 
construction. It is also one of the first droids sent in to deal with urban 
areas that have been badly damaged by warfare or natural disasters. The 
GRZ-6B can assess the stability and general soundness of buildings. It then 
demolishes all unstable structures, to prevent them falling down Jater, and 
clears away and recycles the rubble. 

The GRZ-6B is a tireless worker, and because its built-in tools are also 
weapons, the owners of many scrapyards that employ these droids also 
order them to guard the premises when the business is closed. Although 
most retain the nonviolence programming that prevents them fram directly 
harming sentient beings, some unscrupulous business people disable this 
software, while others rely on the fact that this droid can simply harmlessly 
grab and capture intruders and potential thieves, call the authorities, and 
hold its captives until help arrives. 


ESPIONAGE DROID 

The 3PX espionage droid is a governmental espionage droid built using the 
body of the popular 3PO protocol droid (SE 198}. To anything but a detailed 
internal examination, it appears to be a standard 3PO protocol droid. The 3PX 
droid has all the programming and capabilities of the 3PO droid. However, it 
lacks the 3PO0's programming for passive, nonviolent behavior. Instead, 3PX 
droids are capable of defending themselves with deadly force and regularly 
use violence to accomplish their missions, The 3PX is also considerably more 
physically capable than an ordinary 3PO droid, but is programmed not to 
reveal this fact except in emergencies or when it is not being observed. The 
restraining bolt that comes with ordinary 3PO units does not work, and the 
shutdown switch in the back of the droid’s neck merely puts it into a low- 
power waiting mode. In this state, the droid appears to be off and registers 
as off to all sensors, but remains aware of its surroundings and can reactivate 
itself whenever it needs to do so. 

3PX espionage droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


ESPIONAGE DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 

3PX espionage droids are designed to secretly infiltrate a location. Their owners, 
who are usually the local or Imperial government, either arrange to secretly 
replace an existing 3PO droid or deliver a 3PX unit when their target orders a new 
3PO0 droid. For the next few days, weeks, or months, the 3PX draid performs the 
duties assigned to it while also undertaking its true assignment. This assignment 
almost always involves acquiring data or some small object from the person or 
company it is ostensibly owned by and whom it is secretly spying upon. 

If discovered, an espionage droid attempts to flee. However, once it has 
acquired the desired information or object, the droid delivers the informa- 
tion by using its integrated comlink or hands off the object to a contact and 
continues working for a day or two. Then the droid appears to break down 
and seemingly must be taken to a repair facility. The repair people who pick 
up the droid are agents working for the same agency that employed the 3PX 
droid. They deliver a normal 3PO unit in return, leaving those the droid spied 
on unaware that anything unusual has occurred. 


3PX Espionage Droid CL6 
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 1/scoundrel 6 
Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned; translator unit (DC 5) 
Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 17, Will 19 
hp 37; Threshold 17 
Immune droid traits 
Speed 6 squares (walking) 
Melee unarmed +4 (1d3+4) 
Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +3 (3d4+3) 
Base Atk +4; Grp +5 
Atk Options Dastardly Strike 
Special Actions Quick Draw 
Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con —, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 15 
Talents Dastardly Strike, Gimmick, Master Splicer | 
Feats Linguist, Quick Draw, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training 
(Deception), Skill Training {Knowledge [bureaucracy]}, Skill Training 
(Knowledge [galactic lore]), Skill Training (Perception), Skill Training 
(Stealth}, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons} 
Skills Deception +10, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +10, Knowledge (galactic 
lore) +10, Knowledge (social sciences) +10, Perception +12, Persuasion 
+15, Stealth +9, Use Computer +10 
Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, translator unit (DC 5), 
2 hand appendages, improved sensor package, internal storage {2 kq), 
integrated comlink, vocabulator 
Possessions holorecorder, hold-out blaster pistol (in interna! 
compartment) 
Availability Military; Cost 5,550 


ii SBitagwHoa 


G 
3 
0) 
G 
® 


n 
I 
> 
|v 
4 
I 
a 


SQO8@aQ | 


DROID 


CL 4 


INTERROGATION 


TO-D Interrogation Droid 

Medium droid (1st-degree} nonheroic 9/soldier 1 
Init +6; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14 
Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 


Immune droid traits 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 15), Fort 14, Wil} 13 
hp 29; Threshold 14 


Speed 6 squares (wheeled) 

Melee 2 claws +9 each {1d44+1] or 

Melee stun baton +9 (2d6+1 stun) 

Ranged sonic stunner +9 (3d6 stun) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +8 

Atk Options Devastating Attack (pistols), Point Blank Shot 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 12, Con —, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 18 

Talents Devastating Attack (pistols) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Persuasion), 
Skill Training (Deception), Weapon Focus (pistols, simple weapons), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Perception +14, Persuasion +19, Treat Injury +14 

Systems wheeled locomotion, basic processor, 2 claw appendages, 2 
tool mounts, improved sensor package, internal storage (20 kg), 
vocabulator 

Possessions sonic stunner, stun baton, durasteel shell (+4 armor), medical 
kit 

Availability Military; Cost 5,500 


Most droids capable of causing harm to organic creatures through their 
programming were outlawed after the Empire rose to power. Interrogation 
droids remained legal and were primarily used as a tool of the Empire. In fact, 
their mere existence was not a well-kept secret. Rumors of their horrifying 
techniques and wicked cruelty spread throughout the Empire, and those 
citizens who were arrested by the Imperial Security Bureau and survived the 
droids' treatments can tell the tale of their sadistic actions. 
TO-D interrogation droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


INTERROGATION DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 

Interrogation droids are utilized almost exclusively by the Empire and other 
tyrannical governments. One group of Rebels witnessed interrogation droids 
patrolling a sensitive Imperial location and reported seeing the droids firing 
stun bursts, but none of the droids were captured to verify the finding. In 
fact, the ISB has used interrogation droids as lie detectors, looming next 
to a Human interrogator and monitoring the prisoner's heart rate, muscle 


tension, and vocal patterns. Imperial interrogators have observed that the 
droid's mere presence encourages people to cooperate and tell the truth, 
even if the droid is not necessarily there to torture the detainee 

On the rare occasion when an interrogation droid gets caught in the 
middle of a battle, it will do everything in its power to get out of the line of 
fire. It will defend itself if cornered, attempting to create a means of escape. 
Encounters with interrogation draids might also involve intelligence officers 
or other military personnel. 


SONIC STUNNER 
Pistol 
A sonic stunner creates waves of sonic energy that assault the aural 
receptors of anyone it targets. The weapon fires a concentrated burst 
of sonic energy (using technology similar to the sonic weapons used 
by Geonosians) that manipulates the minds of living beings, causing 
them great pain. Even deaf creatures can be harmed by a sonic stunner, 
because it creates high-frequency vibrations that penetrate the brain. 
However, unlike with most blaster weapons, only the target of the attack 
hears any noise, making the weapon otherwise silent. 

Size Tiny; Cost 450; Damage —; Stun Damage 3d6; Rate of Fire S; 
Weight 1 kg; Type Energy; Availability Illegal. 


MEDICAL DROID 


GH-7 Medical Droid CL 1 

Small droid {1st-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 12 

hp 7; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d3) 

Base Atk +2; Grp -1 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 12 

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences}}, Skill 
Focus (Treat Injury), Skill Focus (Use Computer), Surgical Expertise 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences] +14, Perception +10, Stealth +8, Treat 
Injury +14, Use Computer +14 

Systems hovering locomotion, improved sensor package, integrated 
comlink, internal storage (2 kg), 3 hand appendages, 1 tool appendage, 
heuristic processor, vocabulator 

Possessions medical kit (without stretcher), personal holoprojector 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,840 


The GH-7 medical droid is one of the premier medical droids in the galaxy. 
These droids are typically found in the best hospitals and serve as personal 
physicians to the wealthy and the powerful. Their design has won many 
awards. Part of this design includes giving them a calm and gentle voice 
designed to reassure their patients. These droids have been programmed 
for high degree of compassion. In addition, their three hands allow them 
to perform the most delicate surgeries without assistance. The GH-7's tool 
arm allows it to take samples for analysis while using its other three hands 
for complex procedures, and its repulsorlift propulsion allows it to easily 
navigate the hallways and rooms of a crowded hospital. 

As with other medical droids, the programming of GH-7 droids includes 
both the “physician's code” and strong prohibitions against harming any 
intelligent organic being. GH-7 medical droids are incapable of engaging in 
combat except to protect their patients, and even then, they can use only 
weapons set to do stun damage on intelligent, living targets. 

GH-7 medical droids can be played as droid heroes. 


GH-7F MEDICAL DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 

Because they are significantly more expensive than most other medical 
droids, GH-7 droids are rare on poor worlds and in the more troubled por- 
tions of the galaxy. Outside the major hospitals of the Core Worlds, GH-7 
droids are most commonly found as the personal physicians of wealthy 
businesspeople and government officials. However, some wealthy philan- 
throoists donate GH-7 droids to hospitals or clinics on fringe worlds or to 
serve as relief workers. Also, because of the compassion programmed into 
them, many GH-7 droids that gain their independence seek out work in 
poor or troubled regions. Occasionally, travelers run across a GH-7 droid 
working tirelessly at an otherwise poorly funded rural clinic or serving as a 
medic aboard a tramp starship while also performing medical relief work at 
every needy planet the ship visits. GH-7 medical droids excel at all of these 
unlikely positions specifically because their multiarmed, repulsorlift design 
allows them to work in difficult conditions and perform almost all medical 
procedures without assistance. Dozens of GH-7 units have received awards 
for medical excellence, and an almost equal number have been recognized 
for their humanitarian work. 


i YvSLtavwHoa 


0) 
3 
on 
S| 
@ 


} 


SeiO8q 


il SSi0avHo 


POWER DROID 


EG-6 Series Power Droid CL 1 
Small droid (5th-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init -1; Senses darkvision; Perception -1 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 12, Will 9 
hp 5; Threshold 12 


Speed 4 squares (walking) 
Melee unarmed +2 (1d2+2) 
Base Atk +0; Grp -3 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 8, Con —, Int 4, Wis 8, Cha 4 
Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Toughness 
Skills Mechanics +5 


Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 1 tool appendage, 
darkvision, diagnostic package, duranium plating (+8 armor) 

Possessions power generator 

Availability Military: Cost 6,250 


The EG-6 series droid is one of the most recognizable droids in the galaxy. 
Appearing as nothing more than a black box with short legs and no visible 
manipulators, the few people who are unaware of its function wonder why 
Veril Line Systems built it in the first place. Without power droids, however, 
modern society would grind to a halt. 

Inside the walking black box sets a powerful fusion generator, which Is 
well protected by its thick duranium exterior. The EG-6's only function is to 
provide power to machines of all sorts during times when a more permanent 
dower source is not available or convenient, which has earned the droid the 
nickname "walking battery." In fact, the EG-6 is capable of recharging itself 
without needing to shut down, allowing it to function continuously. 

The few embellishments the EG-6 has include a visual sensor with infrared 
capability and highly advanced diagnostic programming that allows the droid 
to perform safety checks on the mechanism it is servicing. 

EG-6 series power droids can be played as droid heroes. 


POWER DROID ENCOUNTERS 

From the towering spires of Coruscant to the moisture farms of Tatooine 
and beyond, the EG-6 can be seen anywhere that technology exists. It is a 
common sight in ship hangars, repulsorcraft pools, and tech domes. 

Even though the EG-6 is not a highly capable droid by itself, it is useful 
for assisting other droids with their work. Astromech droids have worked 
with a power droid that kept watch over the ship they are repairing to make 
sure that other systems do not unexpectedly create a mishap. Small military 
units and mercenary groups have put the EG-6 to use providing the energy 
needed to keep their heavy guns firing or giving emergency power to their 
ship in a time of crisis. 

Despite the droid’s usefulness, its sheer stupidity has caused many a power 
droid to get away from its master and become lost. Such a droid often gets 
picked up by local law enforcement if it's on a world in or near the Core, 
where its owner can reclaim it. If an EG-6 droid gets lost an an Outer Rim 
world, on the other hand, scavengers usually claim it and either become its 
new master or sell it to some other needy party. 


“CSONK. GONK.” 


DOROOID 


PROBE DROID 

DRK-1 Probe Droid CL 1 

Small droid (4th-degree] nonheroic 3 

Init +11; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +15 

Languages Binary, Basic (understand only), 1 unassigned (understand 
only) 


Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 12 
hp 12; Threshold 10 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee unarmed +1 (1d4-1) 

Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6, 2-square burst) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +2 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 20, Con —, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Feats Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training 
(Gather Information), Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons) 

Skills Gather Information +5, Initiative +11, Perception +15, Stealth +23, 
Use Computer +9 

Systems hovering locomotion, heuristic processor, integrated comiink, 
locked access, secondary battery, improved sensor package, darkvision, 
stealth shell (+2 equipment bonus to Stealth checks) 

Possessions holoprojector, grenade launcher with 6 frag grenades 


mation, and report to their masters without anyone being the wiser. 
The DRK-1 probe droid, also known as the Dark Eye, is a stealthy 
and observant droid developed by Arakyd Industries and used 
by the Sith apprentice Darth Maul. Like all probe croids, the 
DRK-1 is designed for passive observation as opposed to more 
overt espionage, and as such most of its systems are dedicated 
o sensors and data transmission. However, unlike most other 
probe droids (which are usually armed only with smail blaster 
pistols}, the Dark Eye can create a swath of destruction with 

its grenade launcher. Though using this feature calls a bit more 
attention to the droid than most owners would care for, such 
havoc can often cover the droid's escape, allowing it to slip away 
and return to its master amid the chaos of a battle. 

DRK-1 probe droids can be played as droid heroes. 


Excelling at espionage, probe droids can move about unnoticed, record infor- 


PROBE DROID ENCOUNTERS 
Probe droids are often the precursors to a larger encounter. Since probe droids 
are sent out to act as advance scouts and spies for a group or organization, 
encountering one usually means that someone more powerful has taken an 
interest in the heroes. A probe droid encounter might actually be little more 
than something to wear down the heroes of keep them occupied until the 
droids’ masters can arrive; in these situations, the owners sometimes enter 
the fray just as the probe droids are being destroyed, prolonging the encoun- 
ter as new enemies enter the battlefield. Probe droids also present many 
opportunities for other kinds of encounters; discovering a damaged probe 
droid might prove to be an interesting skill encounter, requiring technically 
minded heroes to make Mechanics and Use Computer checks to retrieve 
data from the droid, or even calling for Persuasion checks to convince the 

droid to give up its information willingly. 
Dark Eye probe droids work extremely well as assistants in combat due 
to the amount of trouble they can cause with their grenade launchers. The 
Dark Eye's area attacks can keep opponents from bunching up together, 
and since these droids move around the battlefield by hovering, they can 
avoid difficult terrain and other obstacles with ease. Though they are 
relatively fragile, Dark Eye probe droids work well as interference for 
other enemies [inciuding Sith apprentices and other dark side Force- 
users) and can provide their masters with information on the heroes 
without ever being seen. 


} 


SaIOVe) [} ii BBLaVHS 


iit eSiawHo 


= 
Ssaqieug | 


PROTOCOL DROID 


M-3PO0 Series Military Protocol Droid cL 1 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +0; Senses darkvision; Perception +1 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned; translator unit (DC 70) 


Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11}, Fort 10, Will 10 

hp 4; Threshold 10 

Speed 6 squares (waiking} 

Melee unarmed 41 (1d3+1} 

Base Atk +1; Grp +14 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 9, Con —, Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Training (Knowledge [bureaucracy]}, 
Skill Training (Use Computer) 

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +7, Knowledge (tactics) +7, Persuasion 
+8, Use Computer +7 

Systems walking /ocomotion, basic processor, translator unit (DC 10), 2 
hand appendages, darkvision, vocabulator, plasteel shell (+2 armor) 

Possessions audio recorder 

Availability Military; Cost 3,700 


After the huge success of the original 3P0 droid, Cybot Galactica hoped to 
continue its accomplishments by creating and Selling multiple variants of 
the line. Many designs were created, but most of them never made it into 
production. Top officials began to get frustrated at the lack of results, until 
one junior executive thought of a market that had yet to be catered to for 
the organizational and communication skills that only a 3P0 protocol droid 
could bring: the military. 

In the years that followed the introduction of the M-3P0 military protocol 
droid, the presence of this droid model grew, most commonly within planetary 
garrisons and Starfighter bases. Despite the fact that M-3PO0s are highly 
skilled at what they do, they also came with the same annoying personality 
traits commonly associated with the base 3P0 line, a design flaw that proved 
to be extremely unpopular with the troops. 

M-3P0 droids have the standard 3P0 body, colored black, but have a radi- 
cally different head. Snaped roughly like a clamshell, the head was taken from 
Cybot Galactica's discontinued KW traffic controller series and reinforced 
to protect the revamped AA-1 Verbobrain within. 

M-3PO series military protocol droids can be played as droid heroes. 


M-3P0O SERIES MILITARY 
PROTOCOL DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 
Despite their designation as a military droid, M-3PQ0s are not designed for 
combat. On the contrary, their primary function allows them to work as 
administrative organizers, performing such tasks as requisitioning, duty 
roster planning, and personnel file management. Since they are programmed 
with the rules, regulations, and procedures of over six million military and 
paramilitary organizations from the past and present, including ceremonial 
etiquette, historical military principles, and conventions of honor, they are 
virtually guaranteed to perform their duties by the book every time. 

M-3P0 droids are most commonly found at military installations, includ- 
ing starships and space stations. Some military leaders decided to take 
full advantage of the knowledge database stored in the droids' heads and 
employed them as strategy aides and tactical instructors, putting them at 
the front of the briefing room to lecture the troops on what can and should 
be done in a given situation. Although many of the soldiers hated receiving 
training from a droid (let alone a stiff-necked one at that], many of those 
who heeded its lessons returned from the battlefield alive. 

A fair number of soldiers aggravated at their M-3PO units have “acci- 
dentally” left them behind in the Outer Rim. Many of those droids took the 
initiative to reprogram themselves to become soldiers as well. 


TC SERIES PROTOCOL DROID 

The TC series of protocol droids from Cybot Galactica was designed in an 
attempt to supplant the 3PO series of protocol droids. Although successful, 
the TC series never came close to replacing the more famous protocol droid 
model. Unlike the 3PO series, the TC series includes a TranLang II] com- 
munications center, a feature that only a few 3PO series protocol droids 
could boast. In addition to their enhanced communications equipment, all 
TC series protocol droids were designed with the latest technology in nearly 
every system, and they received a total programming rewrite before the line 
was launched to ensure that there were no holdover problems from other 
software packages. 

In almost ail ways, the TC series is one of the most technologically 
advanced and reliable protocol droids on the market, However, its increased 
price coupled with the longstanding reputation of the 3P0 series droids 
ensured that few people made the switch to the TC series protocol droid. 
The TC series droid is popular among wealthy nobles and Senators and ts also 
commonly found aboard Trade Federation starships (since the Federation has 
no difficulty in dealing with price issues). Despite the company’s hope that 
the TC series would replace the 3PO series entirely (thus selling millions of 
new droids to beings wishing to upgrade to the TC series), Cybot Galactica 
decided instead to market the TC series droids as a juxury alternative to the 
3PO0 series, since sales were solid but nowhere near as high as they would 
need to be to replace the older droid model. 

TC series protocol droids can be played as droid heroes. 


TC Series Protocol Droid CL 1 
Medium droid (3rd-degree) noble 1 

Init -1; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned; translator unit (DC 5] 

Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 15 

hp 18; Threshold 10 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed -1 (1d3-1) 

Base Atk +0; Grp -1 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 8, Con —, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 14 

Talents Coordinate 

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +7, Gather Information +7, Knowledge (bureaucracy] 
+6, Knowledge (galactic lore) +6, Knowledge (social sciences) +6, 
Perception +7, Persuasion +12 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, translator unit (DC 5), 2 
hand appendages, vocabulator 

Possessions audio recorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 5,000 


iil SBiadwvwHgaD 


TC Series Protocol Droid Encounters 

TC series protocol droids are most often found in the company of nobles 
and businessmen who have extra credits to spend on an expensive protcco! 
droid. Very few TC series droids make their way into the hands of anyone 
who Is less than wealthy, though it has been known to happen. The TC series 
is very often sought after because of its superior programming, and many 
wealthy owners use TC series droids as majordomos and personal assistants. 
Since the TC series protocol droid has a heroic level, it is much more durable 
than other droids and is slightly more survivable. Additionally, its adility to 
coordinate allies makes it an excellent aide in combat: though it does not 
contribute anything directly, it can enhance the ability of other characters 
to work together. 


SaIGUE) 
a nf 


ry Al mw -% 4 


HD 


ii! esidcw 


REPLICA DROID 
Replica Droid CL4 
Medium replica droid scout 4 

Force 2 

Init +5; Senses darkvision, tow-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic 


hp 38; Threshold 19 


Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 17}, Fort 19, Will 16; Dodge 


Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+5) 

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +6 

Special Actions Extreme Effort 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 16, Con =, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Extreme Effort 

Feats Dodge, Improved Defenses, Skill Focus (Mechanics), Toughness, 
Weapon Proficiency [pisto!s, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +10, Jump +10, Mechanics +12, Perception +10 (can reroll, 
must take second result), Pilot +10 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
locked access, darkvision, improved sensor package, vocabulator 

Possessions blaster pistol, integrated comlink 

Availability Restricted; Cost 9,000,000 


For the longest time, 3P0 protocol droids were the artificially created beings 
that most closely resembled humanoids. Everything changed when recent 
breakthroughs in artificial tissue led to a new age in droid design and the 
creation of the replica droid. 

Human replica droids demonstrated just how real and expensive these 
droids could be. From the follicles of hair on their heads to their simple hand 
gestures and even emotional reactions, HRDs were virtually indistinguish- 
able from the genuine article. The creation of the Human replica droid laid 
the foundation for other races to create their own replica droids. Although 
many species developed their own, the most successful creators were the 
Ssi-ruuk, who used entechment as a means of preserving the consciousnesses 
of important beings. 

After the success of the replica droid became widely known, other com- 
panies began to create their own versions and attempted to market them to 
the general public. Some of those efforts resulted in the synthdroid, which 
saw moderate success about nine years after the Battle of Endor. 

Replica droids can be played as droid heroes. 


GuRi 

Guri appears as a young, attractive Human woman with shoulder-length 
blonde hair and striking blue eyes. Despite her droid nature, only the most 
sophisticated scanning equipment can determine anything strange about her 
physiology. Her skeleton consists of a strong poly-alloy shaped to look like 
actual Human bone. Her organs and tissue are constructed of a specialized 
bio-fiber and function in the same manner as a real Human’s organs would, 
including fully functional respiratory, circulatory, and digestive systems. 
Her skin is the only truly organic part of her body—it is actual Human skin 
cultivated and cloned specifically for her. 

Originally meant to be a prototype, Guri was sold to Prince Xizor, leader of 
the Black Sun criminal syndicate. At his request, she was programmed to be 
his bodyguard and private assassin. While she worked at Xizor’s side, she was 
concerned only with his safety and survival and obeyed him without question. 
In addition to performing as his bodyguard, Guri also serves as Xizor's trusted 
advisor, which has helped him especially at times when he let his emotions 
get the better of him. She performed her task so well that many in Black Sun 
thought she was the actual leader of the organization. Both Xizor and Guri 
did not mind the misconception so much, since it drew attention away from 
him and made her job of protecting him that much easier. 


Guri CL 10 of need or to eliminate their enemies before they have a chance to strike. 
Medium Human replica droid noble 2/scoundrel 4/soldier 4 Others are sent into the field as spies to covertly obtain information from 
Force 4 their rivals and escape without giving them the slightest hint that they had 


Init +14; Senses darkvision, !ow-light vision; Perception +13 
Languages Basic, Falleen, Huttese, Rodese, Ryl; translator unit (DC 5] 
Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 25), Fort 28, Will 24 

hp 89; Threshold 28 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee unarmed +14 (1d6+11) 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+5) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +14 

Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Expert Grappler, Point Blank Shot, Sneak 
Attack +1d6 

Special Actions Presence, Tough as Nails 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 18, Con —, Int 18, Wis 13, Cha 17 

Talents Dastardly Strike, Expert Grappler, Presence, Sneak Attack +1d6, 
Tough as Nails 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Linguist, Martial Arts |, Point 
Blank Shot, Skill Training (Acrobatics, Mechanics, Stealth), Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Acrobatics +14, Deception +13, Gather Information +14, Initiative 
+14, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +14, Knowledge (tactics) +14, 
Mechanics +16, Perception +13, Persuasion +13, Pilot +14, Stealth +14, 
Treat Injury +11, Use Co,..cuter +14 

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
locked access, darkvision, diagnostics package, improved sensor 
package, internal storage (5 kq), transtator unit (DC 5), vocabulator 

Possessions blaster pistol, encrypted integrated comlink, credit chip, 
audio recorder 


REPLICA DROID ENCOUNTERS 
After the Empire became the first organization to successfully create replica 
droids, the idea of creating them spread rapidly to other species interested 
in the concept. These species had different reasons for their need for such 
creations. Their publicly announced justifications ranged from offering 
companions for those unfortunate enough to not find a mate to providing 
entertainment for paying customers such as those found in the pleasure- 
domes of Carosi and Hesperidium. 

Governments with darker agendas implement the use of replica droids as 
doppelgangers after removing undesired individuals from office through less 
than savory means and then accomplish their goals through their puppets. 
Some organizations use them in much the same manner as Guri, having them 
serve as bodyguards and assassins. Replica droids with heightened senses 
and abilities are assigned to key political figures to protect them in times 


been infiltrated. 


New SPECIES: 

REPLICA DROID 

Some players who like to play droids might find the droid rules too daunt- 
ing or time-consuming. Gamemasters might consider allowing them to 
play replica droids, using the following rules (formatted like any other 
Species). When choosing to play a replica droid, a player should select a 
Medium or Small humanoid species that his or her droid replicates. 


Replica Droid Species Traits 
All replica droids have the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, +2 Dexterity, -2 Charisma. Replica 
droids are built to be physically strong, but have to work to fit in seam- 
lessly with organic beings. Additionally, like other droids, replica droids 
have no Constitution score. 

Variable Size: Since replica droids are designed to imitate organic 
beings, their size depends on the species that they copy. Medium droids 
have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size. Those of Small 
size gain a +1 size bonus to their Reflex Defense and a +5 size bonus 
to Stealth checks but have lifting and carrying limits of three-quarters 
those of Medium characters. 

Speed: Replica droids of Medium size have a base speed of 6 squares, 
and those of Small size have a base speed of 4 squares. 

Bonus Equipment: Replica droids can be constructed with two of 
the following droid systems installed: integrated comlink, darkvision, 
diagnostics package, improved sensor package, internal storage {subject 
to size limitations), translator unit (DC 15). 

Droid Traits: Replica droids operate as if they are 4th-degree droids, 
except that they ignore the maintenance requirement (SE 187). Replica 
droids have all droid immunities and normal droid traits. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Seeking to perfectly imitate organic 
creatures, a replica droid that has Deception asa trained skill gains Skill 
Focus (Deception) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and the native language of the copied 
species. 


ii HSiavHS 


Bo) 
) 
0) 
i 


SABOTAGE DROID 
WSB-15 Sabotage Droid CL7 
Small droid (4th-degree] nonheroic 3/scoundrel 6 

Init +7; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 

Languages Basic, Binary 


Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 19), Fort 16, Will 18 
hp 37; Threshold 16 
Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares (tracked) 

Melee 2 claws +6 each (1d3+4) 

Ranged 2 plasma cutters +9 each (3d4+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +4 

Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Disruptive 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 10 

Talents Gimmick, Dastardly Strike, Disruptive 

Feats Deadeye, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Deception), 
Skill Focus (Mechanics), Skill Training {Deception), Skill Training 
{Knowledge [technoiogy]}, Skill Training (Perception), Skill Training 
(Stealth), Skill Training (Use Computer], Toughness, Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +14, Knowledge (technology) +9, Mechanics +14, 
Perception +12, Stealth +17, Use Computer +9 

Systems tracked locomotion, improved sensor package, heuristic 
processor, 2 hand appendages, 2 instrument appendages, 2 tool 
appendages, 2 claw appendages, self-destruct system 

Possessions 2 plasma cutters (treat as hold-out blaster pistols) 

Availability Military; Cost 13,000 


The WSB-15 sabotage droid is physically identical to the WED-15 mainte- 
nance droid. It has all the same systems and abilities, and most WSB-15 
droids are simply WED-15 droids with a different processor. The WED-15 
is a Sth-degree droid with a basic processor, while the WSB-15 is a 4th- 
degree military droid with a heuristic processor, military-grade sabotage and 
weapon use programming, and a small self-destruct unit attached to the 
processor. Although WSB-15s are rarely used in assignments that involve 
attacking sentient beings directly, they are capable of defending themselves 
and can stun or kill living beings or droids that attempt to keep them from 
their objective. As a result, they have been programmed to use their plasma 
cutters as weapons. 
WSB-15 sabotage droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


SABOTAGE DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 
The most effective WSB-15 droids are the ones that no one knows about. To 
get a WSB-15 droid to its target, the droid's owner most often either deliber- 
ately damages a WED-15 droid or simply waits until one needs to be repaired 
or replaced. Then, the owner either waylays or bribes the technicians who 
arrive to repair the WED-15 droid and either substitutes a WSB-15 droid for 
the broken WEB-15 unit or simply removes the WED-15's processor core and 
replaces it with a new one, instantly transforming it into a WSB-15 droid. 
WSB-15 droids can be used to subtly reprogram a droid factory to pro- 
duce droids with personalities and training very different than what it was 
ordered to produce, to create serious malfunctions in starfighers that show 
only up in actual combat, or to engage in a spree of wanton destruction. 
Some WSB-15 units are programmed to continue performing sabotage until 
they are discovered, and then to destroy themselves. In other cases, after 
completing their sabotage, a WSB-15 droid fakes a minor malfunction that 
requires Calling a repair crew, at which point the droid’s owner sends agents 
to replace its processing core with one from a normal WED-15 unit, leaving 
the victim of the sabotage unaware that anything out of the ordinary has 
occurred. 


SECURITY DROID 


Designed by the SoroSuub Corporation, the 501-Z police/security droid is 
an advanced droid model with multiple capabilities. In addition to being a 
combat-ready droid capable of suppressing even the most violent criminals, 
the 501-Z can act in a number of the same roles that biological police 
officers and security experts fill. The 501-2 has an exceptional capacity for 
Human-cyborg interactions (and some say that the droid’s brain was based 
ona protocol droid’s design] and functions well alongside living beings, both 
as a comrade and as their defender. Additionally, the 501-Z boasts advanced 
software that allows it to evaluate an enemy's tactics in the middle of a fight 
and adjust accordingly; unlike some other combat-capable droids, the 501-2 
is far from single-minded when engaging an enemy. Furthermore, the droid 
is programmed with a wide array of investigative techniques and tracking 
skills, allowing it to assist living police officers or security experts in the 
pursuit and capture of escaping criminals. 
501-Z police/security droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


SECURITY DROID ENCOUNTERS 

Since a security droid or police droid is concerned with upholding the law and 
protecting people and places from those who would do them harm, a security 
droid functions well as a member of a biological police squad or security 
team. However, police droids are so expensive that most organizations can 


afford to keep only one or two on staff. The 501-Z has such sophisticated 
programming that it is often regarded as just another member of the security 
force or police unit it 1s attached to; many living beings develop camaraderie 
and working relationships with the 501-Z, and during most encounters they 
act (and are treated) just like a nondroid police officer. 

Security droids also work well with other droids, particularly probe droids 
(which can be used to find criminals and their hideouts), patrol droids (which 
often accompany a security droid on patrol}, and seeker droids (which serve as 
both observers and combat assistants}. A typical police response unit might 
include several police officers, a 501-Z police/security droid, and a seeker 
droid. The 501-Z often uses its Harm's Way talent to keep its fellow police 
officers alive in the heat of combat, and it has a high enough Perception skill 
bonus that very few enemies will ever catch it unaware. 


501-Z Police/Security Droid CL 10 

Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 7/scout 3 

Force 1 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision; Perception +19 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 26), Fort 26, Will 22 

hp 76; Threshold 26 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee stun baton +14 (2d6+9 stun) or 

Melee stun baton +18 (2d6+14 stun) with Powerful Charge 

Ranged stun pistol +10 (3d6+5 stun) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +13 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Powerfu! Charge, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Harm's Way, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 12, Con —, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 73 

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Battle Analysis, Expert Tracker, 
Harm's Way, Improved Armored Defense 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Point Blank Shot, Power ful 
Charge, Precise Shot, Shake it Off, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill 
Training (Perception), Skill Training (Survival), Weapon Focus (pistols), 
Weapon Focus (simple weapons}, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons] 

Skills Endurance +14, Initiative +10, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception 
+19 (can reroll, must take second result), Survival +12 

Systems walking tocomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
improved sensor package, integrated comlink, locked access, 
vocabulator 

Possessions stun baton, stun pistol, duranium plating (+8 armor), 
holorecorder, holoprojector 

Availability Restricted; Cost 14,000 


i) HBtdvwHoaD 


SQIieHgd 


Wt BeasidwHoa 


J 


Bee 
FE) 


Sere 


SEEKER DROID 


Mark VII “Inquisitor” Series Seeker Droid CL6 
Diminutive droid (4th-degree} scout 6 
Force 1 


Init +12; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +18 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 27 (flat-footed 13), Fort 14, Will 19 

hp 46; Threshold 14 

Speed 6 squares [hovering] 

Ranged blaster pistol +8 (3d6+3) or 

Ranged blaster pistol +3 (3d6+3) and 
blaster pistol +3 (3d6+3) 

Base Atk +4; Grp -7 

Atk Options Keen Shot, Running Attack 

Abilities Str 5, Dex 18, Con —, Int 13, Wis 16, Cha 10 

Talents Acute Senses, Expert Tracker, Keen Shot 

Feats Dual Weapon Mastery |, Running Attack, Skill Focus (Perception), 
Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Use Computer], Toughness, Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +12, Knowledge (life sciences) +9, Perception +18 (can 
reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +8, Stealth +32, Survival 
+11, Use Computer +9 

Systems hovering locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 weapon appendages, 
darkvision, improved sensor package, locked access, integrated 
comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions 2 blaster pistols, audio recorder 


The seeker droid is a type of surveillance droid designed not only to locate 
its assigned target, but to neutralize or destroy it. Tne Mark VII, for instance, 
is programmed to utilize special tactics to hunt down and either interrogate, 
kill, or return its target. 

The Mark VII will typically follow its target from a distance, making sure 
to stay out of sight. The droid usually records its target's movements and 
conversations and attempts to predict a suitable time and place to move in 
and ruthlessly complete its task. If the job involves killing its quarry, it will 
do so without hesitation. Otherwise, the droid will force the prisoner to a 
safe location at gunpoint, probably to commence its interrogation. 

A spherical droid roughly 0.2 meters in diameter, the “Inquisitor” model 
is perfectly sized for its purpose. Despite its petite size, the droid packs a 
wide array of sensors and recording devices to carry out its task as well as an 
advanced data probe that permits it to interface with virtually any computer 
system (granting a +2 bonus to its Use Computer checks} and two blasters 
in case it decides to do away with its prey. 

Mark VII Inquisitor series seeker droids can’t be played as droid heroes. 


SEEKER DROID ENCOUNTERS 
Seeker droids can be found virtually anywhere in the galaxy, provided you 
can see them. These elusive droids are so good at staying out of sight that 
most people in the galaxy do not know they exist. Those who have caught 
sight of one of these droids usually pay it no mind, considering it nothing 
more than a messenger drone. 

Although the existence of seeker droids was rare before the rise of the 
Empire, they soon became popular with various parties. Seeker droids were 
employed as Imperial tools to hunt down certain people to extract informa- 
tion or just eliminate an undesired party. The Empire would also use seekers 
as watchdogs to keep an eye on various individuals and make sure they 
stayed on a particular planet or in a defined area. The New Repuolic also 
made use of seeker droids in similar capacities but insisted that the droids 
bear nonlethal weaponry. Bounty hunters have been known to use seeker 
droids when stalking multiple targets at once, ordering the droids to return 
those targets to a location specified by their master for holding until he 
can retrieve them. 


SENTRY DROID 


Imperial Mark IV Series Sentry Droid CL 2 
Diminutive droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +5; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +17 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 15), Fort 8, Will 12; Dodge 

hp 16; Threshold 8 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Melee — 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 0 squares 

Base Atk +4; Grp -9 

Abilities Str 6, Dex 14, Con —, Int 11, Wis 15, Cha 6 

Feats Dodge, Skill Focus (Gather Information), Skill Focus (Perception), 
Skill Training (Gather Information), Weapon Proficiency (pistols) 

Skills Gather Information +11, Perception +17, Stealth +20 

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 2 tool appendages, 
improved sensor package, darkvision, locked access, integrated 
comlink, vocabulator 

Passessions electrobinoculars, holorecorder 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale (estimated cost 7,000) 


If there is a droid equivatent of a classroom tattletale, the Imperial Mark IV 
sentry droid fits the bill. A meddlesome droid, the Mark IV will record a crime 
and then whisk away to the nearest law enforcement authority to report it, 
including such petty offenses as littering and jaywalking. Even though the 
droid provides a valuable service to the Empire, a vast majority of the beings 
that interact with it, including other droids, find it highly annoying. 

The Mark IV is little more than a group of sensor systems on top of a 
repulsortift unit, able to scan in all directions simultaneously while flitting 
about. In addition to its visual scanners, the droid's forward sensor array 
includes an impressive suite of electromagnetic and infrared scanners. Also, 
a holorecorder tied into its built-in macrobinoculars can record incidents 
clearly from as far away as 50 meters. Its broadband antenna/receiver con- 
nects only to coded Imperial alert frequencies. 

The droid's memory holds historical data on law enforcement and the 
immense fmperial Lega! Code in its entirety. Typically, local authorities 
upload descriptions of local laws and regional maps into the Mark IV's 
memory banks to improve the droid’s efficiency when it is deployed to a 
new location. The Mark IV's personality programming is minimai at best, 
since it is not really needed and can sometimes lead to unforeseen quirks 
that hamper its performance. 

Imperial Mark IV series sentry droids can't be played as droid heroes. 


SENTRY DROID ENCOUNTERS 
The Imperial Mark IV was created exclusively for the Imperial and pro-Imperial 
planetary governments and is not available for sale. However, a few units 
have been swiped by thieves, reprogrammed, and sold on the black market, 
despite the fact that tampering with a patrol droid is considered a serious 
offense under Imperial law and is punishable by life at a hard-iabor colony. 
The droid contains a low-frequency transponder that transmits signals back 
to its headquarters, where an interruption in its signal is certain to attract 
attention. 

The droid often accompanies law enforcement agents on routine patrol 
or various police actions around its area of operation. Usually, the Mark IV 
is sent out to act as a forward scout or to locate a particular target. Impe- 
rial stormtroopers have been known to send a Mark IV into a potentially 
dangerous area to act as an intentiona! target and prevent its owners from 
walking into an ambush. 


lili S@SiawHg 


Scie@ucgd [ 


oe 
SqQeve 


ii) HBLaGvHo 


WAR DROID 
SD-6 “Hulk” Infantry Droid CL 14 
Large droid (4th-degree) soldier 7/elite trooper 7 

Force 2 

Init +12; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic (understand only), Binary 

Defenses Ref 29 (flat-footed 28), Fort 27, Will 24 

hp 112; DR 3; Threshold 32 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 8 squares (walking) 

Melee claw +23 (1d6+16) 

Ranged E-Web heavy repeating blaster +13 (5d12+11] with Controlled 
Burst or autofire and 
E-Web heavy repeating blaster +13 (5d12+11) with Controlled Burst or 
autofire 

Ranged ion rifle +13 (3d8+7 ion} and 
ion rifle +13 [3d8+7 ion) 

Base Atk +14; Grp +28 

Atk Options Burst Fire, Controlled Burst, Greater Devastating Attack 
(heavy weapons), Point Blank Shot 

Abilities Str 28, Dex 8, Con —, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Special Qualities damage reduction 3, delay damage 

Talents Armored Defense, Controlled Burst, Devastating Attack (heavy 
weapons}, Greater Devastating Attack (heavy weapons), Greater 
Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Greater Weapon Specialization (heavy 
weapons}, Improved Armored Defense, Weapon Specialization {heavy 
weapons), 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery 
|, Dual Weapon Mastery II, Dual Weapon Mastery III, Martial Arts I, 
Point Blank Shot, Weapon Focus (heavy weapon), Weapon Proficiency 
(heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +21, Initiative +12 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 claw appendages, 2 tool 
mounts, integrated comlink, locked access 

Possessions 2 E-Web heavy repeating blasters, 2 ion rifles, duranium 
plating (+8 armor} 


The Balmorran Arms SD-6 “Hulk" infantry droid is one of the most lethal 
droids on the market. Designed ostensibly for security purposes, the SD-6 
is often used in private militaries and mercenary units as weapons of war. 
The SD-6 has been in service for years, and the militaries of the Republic, 
Empire, and New Republic all used these droids throughout major conflicts 
(though the Republic did set the droids aside during the Clone Wars, for fear 
of confusion with Separatist forces). 


The SD-6 is a formidabie droid that boasts twin E-Web blaster cannons 
and twin ion rifles attached to its upper appendages, allowing it to unleash a 
torrent of blaster fire on its enemies. Despite the presence of this dangerous 
weapons load, the SD-6 still finds its way into the hands of private citizens, 
and is often used to guard hangars and docking bays where the presence of 
heavy weaponry is a deterrent to would-be intruders. 


WAR DROID ENCOUNTERS 

War droids of all kinds, including the SD-6 infantry droid, are typically more 
destructive and rare than more run-of-the-mill battle draids. That fact aside, 
war droid encounters might use a large number of low-level nonheroic battle 
droids while featuring a single war droid or a pair of them to serve as the 
battle droids' commanders. Similarly, a war droid encounter that also features 
low-level soldiers, bruisers, or any other warrior type presents a variety of 
challenges, including the decision of when to whittle down the support troops 
and when to take out the lumbering war droid. 

War droids can also be found in the possession of crime lords and other 
powerful criminals. Not caring for the legalities of awning a war droid, many 
crime lords pick up these war droids secondhand from governments and use 
them as personal security. War droids, which are significantly tougher than 
battle droids, can usually act as an entire illegal security force, and many 
crime lords use war droids to protect their personal starships from shipjackers 
and other thieves. An encounter with a war droid featuring a crime lord will 
usually also include some of the crime lord's minions (low-level bruisers and 
other criminals) and a lieutenant or other more powerful minion. 


SitH SworRoD 

Simple Weapon 

The Sith sword is a weapon created during the days of the Sith Empire 
using arcane alchemical techniques. A Sith sword is physically identical 
to most archai¢ swords, though the alchemical treatment it receives 
makes it nearly as dangerous as a lightsaber. A lightsaber does not ignore 
a Sith sword's DR, and characters who are proficient with the Sith sword 
can treat it as a lightsaber for the purposes of using the Block, Deflect, 
and Redirect Shot talents (and any talents that have those Jedi talents 
as a prerequisite). 

Additionally, a Sith sword becomes more powerful in the hands of a 
character who is steeped in the dark side of the Force. A character pro- 
ficient in the Sith sword's use can spend a Force Point as a swift action 
to gain a bonus to damage rolls with the Sith sword equal to his or her 
Dark Side Score. This bonus to damage applies to the next attack made 
before the end of the encounter, and activating this ability increases 
the wielder's Dark Side Score by 1. 

Size Medium; Cost 3,000; Damage 108; Weight 3 kg; Type Slashing 
or piercing; Availability Illegal, Rare 


SiItH ELITE WARBOT 

The Sith elite warbot is an ancient war droid dating back nearly 5,000 years 
before the Battle of Yavin. These war droids were used during the Great 
Hyperspace War and were powerful soldiers in the armies of the Sith Empire. 
Each Sith warbot was armored and possessed a pair of blasters, though its 
main weapon was its alchemically forged Sith sword (an artifact of the 
dark side that can turn aside lightsabers and deflect blaster bolts). Though 
most of these dark side-tainted war droids were destroyed during the Great 
Hyperspace War, a few survived or were deactivated and placed in hiding. 
Some even reemerged during the Great Sith War and the Jedi Civil War mil- 
lennia later, but most Sith warbots remained entombed in ancient vaults on 
Korriban and elsewhere in the galaxy. In more modern eras, Sith warbots are 
a rare sight indeed, though they have emerged from time to time as explorers 
or Collectors stumble across deactivated and long-forgotten droids. 


Sith Elite Warbot 

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6/soldier 3 

Foree 2: Dark Side 10 

Init +11; Senses Perception +4 

Languages Basic, Binary 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19}, Fort 19, Will 13 

hp 31; Threshold 19 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee Sith sword +11 (1d8+12) or 

Melee Sith sword +11* (1d8+24)] with Powerful Charge 

Ranged biaster pistol +9 (3d6+1) or 

Ranged blaster pisto! +7 (3d6+1) and 
blaster pistol +7 (3d6+1) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +11 

Atk Options Melee Smash, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, Powerful 
Charge 


CL5 


Abilities Str 18, Dex 15, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 12 

Talents Melee Smash, Weapon Specialization (simple weapons) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium], Dual Weapon Mastery I, Dual 
Weapon Mastery Il, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, Powerful Charge, 
Weapon Proficiency (simpie weapons, blaster pistols) 

Skills Initiative +11 

Systems basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 2 tool appendages, locked 
access, vocabulator 

Possessions Sith sword, 2 blaster pistols, duranium plating [+8 armor) 

*includes 4 points of Power Attack. 


AavHD 


it) Sar 


Scliee 


1é 


i] 


lit eaiLaewrno 


7 
o 
9 
0 


WORKER DROID 


PK Worker Droid CL2 
Small droid (Sth-degree) nonheroic 6 

Init +5; Senses Perception +9 

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 12, Will 11 

hp 21; Threshold 12 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares (walking) 
Melee unarmed +6 (1d2+5) 
Base Atk +4; Grp +1 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 14, Con —, Int 9, Wis 12, Cha 8 

Feats Linguist, Skill Training (Acrobatics, Mechanic}, Toughness, 1 
unassigned 

Skills Acrobatics +10, Mechanic +7, Perception +9 

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 
vocabulator 

Availability Licensed; Cost 1,000 


_ The PK worker droid is one of the cheapest and most common droids in use. 


Its long neck and eyelike head are recognized across the galaxy. It is widely 
used for cargo loading and freight handling, but because of its low cost, the 
PK droid is also frequently used in positions where other more expensive 
droids would perform considerably better. Although they are only 7.5 meters 
tall, PK droids are surprisingly strong and agile and are noted for being more 
intelligent than most other labor droids. PK droids are usually programmed 
to be aware of their limitations, and one of their more common faults is 
apologizing excessively. Because of their low cost, parts from PK droids are 
often used in the construction of more expensive droids, and occasionally PK 
roids are subject to aftermarket upgrades, usually as an effort to improve 
their intelligence and to allow them to handle a wider range of tasks. 
PK worker droids can be played as droid heroes. 


PK WORKER DROID 
ENCOUNTERS 

PKs are the most common droids used in warehouses, loading docks, or large 
stores. They are most often employed for loading and cleaning. However, 
their low cost has also led to their use as low-level managers in charge of the 
day-to-day operations of relatively simple facilities such as warehouses and 
small shops. Seeing a PK droid working in such a capacity is widely regarded 
as an indication that the facility is eitner seriously under-funded or that the 
people in charge care far more about saving money than providing useful 


services. Although they are capable of handling a wide variety of tasks, 
their limited intelligence and programming means that PK droids can easily 
oecome confused and sometimes make irrational decisions that they later 
refuse to change unless ordered to do so. 

PK droids are also among the most common personal droids, and are 
regularly used for jobs ranging from ones they are ideaily suited for, such 
as housenold cleaning and low-level maintenance, to unlikely tasks such 
as short-term childcare or acting as a butler. Using a PK worker droid as a 
servant droid is often considered an indication that the owner is someone 


who lacks either taste or money. 


“YOU JUST WATCH YOURSELF. WE’RE WANTED MEN.’ 


This accessory provides everything you need to populate your Star Wars games. Featuring complete statistics for dozens 
of characters, creatures, and droids, this book gives Gamemasters a quick reference guide that can be used to fill 
adventures with enemies, allies, and bystanders drawn from the Star Wars films, novels, comics, and computer games. 


For use with the Star Wars” Roleplaying Game Saga Edition core rulebook and Star Wars’ Miniatures. 


vebsite at www.wizards.com/starwars 


A 
> Lt 


FEATURING: 24 
$ H = 
_) Ready-to-use stats for more than 150 characters, droids, creatures, and vehicles. starwars.ca 
Information on famous heroes and villains from the Star Wars universe 1 ss ISBN: 978-0-7869-4781-2 
Cee 
Ky, nal | 3495 
__) New talents, feats, weapons, equipment, and alien species. \H Bens 
|SYSTEM.. 
Guidelines for creating exciting encounters. 9780786947812 


2008 Lucasfiirn Lid. & All nights reserved. Used under authorization 
Coast ogc 


Wizards ast, d20 Sy e 308 art Sug. Retail: US $34.95 CAN $39.95 
trademarks of Wizards of the Coast. Inc. in the USA and other countries Printed in the U.S.A. 216247 


