i EvP WA. | 


fe a a/ 
RSS>7 Ua f 
GARY ASTLEFORO - HOWEN) KE. STEPHENS ROONEY T 


i THON NASON  eavzato 
4 jl ies NG ~S - ELORES 


iS pa. 
\ 


THE UNKNOWN REGIONS 


RODNEY THOMPSON, STERLING HERSHEY, DANIEL WALLACE 


CREBITS 


ADDITIONAL DESIGN 


Rodney Thompson, Sterling Hershey, 
Daniel Wallace 


PRODUCTION MANAGER 
7} 
GRAPHIC DESIGNERS 


Jonathan Stevens, Patrick Stutzman, 


Cynda Callaway 


Robert Wieland Jino Choi, Breanne Miller 
DEVELOPER Rodney Thompson [PRe-pRess MANAGER | Jefferson Dunlap 
[art DIRECTOR Paul Hebron Pa de I Sot el = Christopher Tardiff 
ia Ray Vallese, Bradley Will 


EDITORS 


[tucas LICENSING EDITOR ] 


Gonzalo Flores 


COVER ARTIST 


Kalman Andrasofszky, Drew Baker, Jeffrey Carlisle, 
Miguel Coimbra, Michael Dubisch, Gonzalo Flores, 
Jason Juta, Robert Lazzaretti, Corey D. Macourek, 
Ramon Perez, Brian Snoddy, Francis Tsai, Franz 
Vohwinkel, Rebecca A. Wrigley 


Frank Parisi 


INTERIOR ARTISTS 


Siicssa 


| MANAGING EDITOR 


DIRECTOR OF RPG R&D 
SPECIAL THANKS | Leland Chee 


| Torah Cottrill 


Bill Slavicsek 


IMAGING TECHNICIAN Ashley Brock, Carmen Cheung 


Some rules mechanics are based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook by Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C. Stephens, and Rodney Thompson, the original Dungeons & Dragons” rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave 
Arneson, and the 3" Edition Dungeons & Dragons game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison. 


SNEIGES]) NRMONDNN 9SHL 


UW This Wizards of the Coast” game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission. 
U.S., Canada, Asia, GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE 
Pacific, & Latin America Hasbro UK Ltd Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 
Wizards of the Coast LLC Caswell Way Industialaan 1 
P.O. Box 707 Newport, Gwent NP9 OYH 1702 Groot-Bijgaarden TEM.. 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRITAIN Belgium WWW.WIZARDS.COM WWW.STARWARS.COM 
Questions? 1-800-324-6496 Please keep this address for your records +32 070 233 277 ISBN: 978-0-7869-5399-8 


620-25096000-001-EN 
987654321 
First Printing: March 2010 


©2010 LUCASFILM LTD. & ® OR ™ WHERE INDICATED. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 
USED UNDER AUTHORIZATION. 


Dungeons & Dragons, d20 System, Wizards of the Coast, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use 
of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast LLC. This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER II: EXPLORATION 
CAMPAIGNS... .66 


INTRODUCTION ...4 Special EffECtSiis ce cers as an 100 || CHIERVI: Deere SPace 
Hazard Statistics Block..... 101 ENCOUNTERS. 190 


Sample Hazards............. 101 


Mini-Adventure #1: 


CHAPTER |: CHARACTER Campaign Outline: Poor 


Ff Aquatic Hazards........... 104 ; ; 
OPTIONS...... a Wayfaring Strangers....... 68 Rai cemn : 105 Guilty Until Proven 
: Act |: One-Way Ticket....... 68 Sic Mice [HROCENG 0 6 oaveican vamanae v 192 
ANZA store © wsntaens @ srnceas x a oisnsss 10 Arid/Desert Hazards ....... 107 
Act Il: The Search for a Cure. .69 Encounter: Shootout at Lunaara 
CHAQE= EON arsasciaemens voens 11 Forest/Jungle Hazards...... 110 
free Act Ill: ALong Shot......... 69 SQUGHE wins cama emacs 194 
SAY TG rors vevainid a acters are nesetic 12 ; : Indoor/Urban Hazards...... 112 se 
‘ Campaign Outline: The Search Mini-Adventure #2: 
REVS 1a. acrsein sn ecmnna aan 12 Space: Hazards wi. seuwsvs sv 114 ; 
a ROM ENGEL a x.seicweier eunrore 70 Danger in the Dark ....... 196 
NMG enss 2 cat somes aes 13 : Subterranean Hazards...... 116 . 
: Act |: The Outer Rim ........ 70 Encounter: Facing the 
SHISTAVANEN escrais a snsvaracew garsies 14 Swamp Hazards........... 119 
Sluissi 14 Act Il: The Danger of WAKEGW so aenirs ira. 5 cevrorsce 198 
SqUiDimaansacesatenaoesa weapn 15 HE SEE sc wmen ce roams nA [HAPTER THREATS . 122 Mini-hcentire me — 
Veroi 16 Act Ill: Return of The Finding of 
et ay ah ee 17 the Mandalorians........ 72 CRISS. nssaa perenne sy r0rd 124 LOStSOUIS: swaesvenwsaw as 200 
baste Sica ete. te 19 Scouting Organizations ....... 73 OPI Ce scscasesicinzonnvastearahrestnze tnaas 127 Encounter: Raiding the n 
fel 94 SERVICE SCOUTS: 5 ones anarnre 73 RiLTKS: estes scenes parenanece aae 130 TRMple xsi sneer ranarenad 202 nt} 
Presi eClane Talents aarateriend 29 Corporate Scouts........... 74 GUISES ss samneresn cceransvens’as nes 134 Mini-Adventure #4: : 
9 ; ee Independent Scouts......... 75 Mnggal-Mnggal............. 137 A Fool's Charge......... 204 o 
Force-Using Traditions........ 32 Soe jf Zz 
The Blazing Chain 32 Exploration in Your Campaign. .76 ARGS cei x sannserin cetarivare ovine 140 Encounter: Armed i 
P al liad Creating New Worlds ......... Sorcerers of Rhand.......... 143 Withdrawal ............. 206 
oi Creating Planets............ SSIFRUUK: sc sewasw amndactnye 146 Mini-Adventure #5: 
- : Ginn Ur aa Planet Generator ........... TORS in cosseaxsorecomsnerscrepiirancensinecard 149 Pursuing Verinos......... 208 
= fel aa Creating New Creatures....... VAQGB Tiss ca casens mmesay sar 152 Encounter: Siege of q 
Melee Weapons.............- 36 . the Compound........... 210 x 
Ranged Weapons............. 37 | cHaren PLANETS. 156 Mini-Adventure #6: e 
Equipment sania SARS Tipe OD  Hieeaed Reee ido .......... 158 Imminent Impact......... 212 2 
DiOldSters.0.2 cmparsess-srysnae centers’ 43 Mita nenils 162 Encounter: Contract R 
AS23 Aerial Survey Droid....43 | yn nn , ho enn 166 ENFORCEMENT cuseasiscncave 214 Zz 
DSH-3 Probe Droid ......... 4b 2. 2. | Giaca.................. 170 Mini-Adventure #7: @) 
Ft Exploration DR os ne ag | _— KeyWords....-..sseeeeseees anni aee i rrpresasiare la DNA cy: 216 g 
MULED RONG. sce.e ciercaone cireres ai «fe 4 0 — a ee 178 Encounter: The Nest......... 218 z 
WarndererSegut  $§ fF fee we me Ue Mini-Adventure #8: 0) 
; Attacks and Damage........ VEROIREM: cfivatemcaameeaiwe 182 W 
Surveyor Droid.......... 46 Pacunewaicn Volik 186 The Mask of @ - 
WED-20 Treadwell.......... OE carci ees eee eg Darth Nihilus............ 220 = 
Vehicl 47 | __ kill Difficulty Class........ ROW NOs 5: anaes ss arated ecicnvacs 188 E ter: Hidden Cov 992 (0) 
ChiCIeS. «002s ee veeeeeeeeees Wind Skiffs............... 188 ncounter: Hidden Cove...... 7] 
SUGISINDS: scearcamnaurisnvarcgess ood 51 (} 
Animal Mounts .............. 59 


EERIE: SE IRM GETS FE SRE 


INTRODUCTION 


Beyond known civilized space lie the vast, mysterious Unknown Regions. 
These officially unexplored areas lie beyond the galaxy’s core, beyond the 
Outer Rim territories, and beyond the galactic disk. The term also applies to a 
massive area of space within the western galactic disk, isolated by dangerous 
and complex hyperspace hazards. Cut off by the lack of known hyperspace 
lanes and the dangers of mapping new routes, the Unknown Regions remain 
largely unexplored throughout all eras of galactic history. 

A Star Wars Roleplaying Game campaign in the Unknown Regions allows 
players to venture into distant, mysterious, and unpredictable realms where 
the normal balance of galactic power is vastly diminished or nonexistent. 
It provides a place for Gamemasters to create their own worlds and stories 
~ without having to account for established continuity and storylines. Traveling 
into these reaches requires exploration, making the journey as much a part 
of the story as the destination. 

Although the Unknown Regions are the least defined areas in the Star 
“Wars galaxy, they are not without recognizable characters, species, and 

threats. Depending on the location and the era, heroes might interact with 
the Chiss Ascendancy, the Ssi-ruuvi Imperium, the insectoid Killiks, or the 
remnants of the ancient Infinite Empire of the Rakata. Heroes might even 
_ battle the Imperial forces of Grand Admiral Thrawn as he attempts to estab- 
~~ lish the Empire of the Hand. 

The Unknown Regions provide a safe haven for the survivors of long 
forgotten civilizations and belief systems. Ancient Sith use the area to 
hide, recover, and rebuild their forces for their ongoing battles with the Old 
Republic and the Jedi. Mandalorians and mysterious Force users also make 
the region their home, whether permanently or temporarily. Any of these 
groups might hold information, material goods, or knowledge that heroes 
~ could find valuable enough to justify the dangers of unreliable hyperspace 
routes and of operating without immediate aid or material support. 


NOILINGOSLINI 


SNOIOSY NMONZIING SHL 


e] NRONDNM FSHL [| 


\ 


SNweie”) 


) 


NOILONGOYMLNI 


THE UNKNOWN 
REGIONS 


Galactic citizens know little about the strange worlds and isolated civiliza- 
tions beyond the reach of the official galactic government of their time. Even 
the frontier worlds on the edges of known space know little of the nearby 
systems of the Unknown Regions. These areas are regarded as isolated and 
dangerous, and only the desperate, brave, or foolhardy venture into them on 
a regular basis. However, over the course of galactic history, new political 
entities and armed invaders emerge from the Unknown Regions to threaten 
isolated worlds or even the greater galactic government of the time. Some 
of these events, such as the one involving the Ssi-ruuk at Bakura, have a 
political impact far beyond the scope of a local conflict. 

The mysterious Unknown Regions provide great opportunities for those 
willing to accept substantial risks and dangers. Every year, scouts and explor- 
ers painstakingly map new hyperspace routes and catalog new star systems. 
Some go in search of valuable natural resources or new civilizations to trade 
with. Colonists enter hoping to establish new homeworlds far from the reach 
of the galactic government. Criminals go in search of secret hyperspace routes 
to hidden strongholds, taking substantial risks to locate those routes. Even 
influential corporate entities occasionally use the unregulated regions for 
their own purposes. 

Official scouting expeditions are regularly commissioned, although their 
scale and level of support vary greatly by era and government. Most galactic 
governments have official scouting agencies, as do regional and corporate 
authorities. The Republic's Outbound Flight expedition is a well-known 
example of a large-scale, officially sanctioned expedition that proves to be 
a complete failure. Less well known, but of greater galactic impact, is the 
Emperor's decree that Grand Admiral Thrawn establish an Empire of the 
Handto extend Imperial control into a region known as Wild Space. 


EXPLORATION BY ERA 


Most of the themes and material in this volume can be used in any Star Wars 
era. Although some starships, some technology, and the history of specific 
species appear in known Star Wars stories, Gamemasters are free to adapt 
these ideas to the eras in which their games takes place. Below are general 
guidelines for material that is appropriate for a specific era. 


THE OLD REPUBLIC 

As a percentage, the Unknown Regions take up a larger area of the galaxy 
during this era, since exploration is just beginning. Although many of the 
worlds that will be influential in the course of galactic history are already 
known, many other planets remain isolated or undiscovered for centuries 
to come. Some species that will be well known in later eras are unheard- 
of at this time. In this era, the galactic disk has large, isolated pockets of 
unknown regions, which remain unexplored until they draw the attention of 
an exploitive corporation, a governmental agency, or another group. In the 
Unknown Regions, explorers are more likely to run across Sith settlements 


WHAT YOU NEED TO PLAY 

As with any Star Wars game supplement, you need the Saga Edition 
core rulebook to make full use of the material in this volume. This book 
also uses material from other supplements, including the Knights of the 
Old Republic Campaign Guide and the Legacy Era Campaign Guide, but 
these supplements are not essential in order to run a campaign in the 
Unknown Regions. Visit the official Star Wars Roleplaying Game website 
at www.wizards.com/starwars for the latest updates and official errata. 


and isolated remnants of the Infinite Empire of the Rakata than in any other 
era. Scouting expeditions are regularly commissioned by the Republic and 
by companies—such as the Czerka Corporation—in search of worlds rich in 
raw materials. The need for hyperspace route mapping is greatest in this era. 


THE REPUBLIC AND 

THE CLONE WARS 

In this era, the major worlds of the Republic and of the future Empire have 
been located. Isolated unknown regions remain within civilized space, but 
few hold any real surprises. Scout services mainly probe the outer boundaries 
of the Republic until the start of the Clone Wars, when they focus on the 
war effort. However, exploration occurs even during the war, because both 
the Separatists and the Republic search for new staging areas and keep a 
watchful eye out for the other's hidden bases. The doomed Outbound Flight 
project is commissioned in this era. 


THE EMPIRE 

Imperial scouts efficiently map large portions of the galaxy, cataloging and 
verifying the existence of a vast array of star systems in order to consolidate 
Imperial contro! and exploit new resources. Remaining pockets of unexplored 
space within the bounds of the Empire are scouted and officially mapped. 
These scouts also serve as Imperial spies and observers, always on the look- 
out for Rebels, illegal activities, and anything that might threaten Imperial 
power. An Imperial scout ship might turn up in any star system unannounced. 
Corporate exploration is much reduced, even by companies allied directly 
with the Empire. Freelance scouting is restricted and discouraged by the 
government. Under the Emperor's orders, Grand Admiral Thrawn enters the 
unknown region called Wild Space to establish the Empire of the Hand. The 
Emperor also orders greater exploration of the Deep Core, where he seeks 
out isolated worlds for his own purposes. 


THE New REPUBLIC AND 
THE GALACTIC ALLIANCE 
After the establishment of the New Republic, the Unknown Regions become a 
greater source of threats to the stability of the galaxy, including the return of 
Grand Admiral Thrawn and the Killik-instigated Swarm War. Some explorers 
find new knowledge within the Unknown Regions, including clues to galactic 


history and lesser-known aspects of the Force. Jacen Solo is rumored to have 
entered the Unknown Regions for this purpose. The New Republic scout ser- 
vice is established to identify new threats from the Unknown Regions, and 
the service is continued and expanded by the Galactic Alliance. 


THE LEGACY ERA 

With the fall of the Galactic Alliance and reestablishment of Imperial rule, 
organized scout services decline dramatically. Although officially sanctioned 
exploration diminishes, the scouts themselves are in high demand from 
competing military forces, as each strives to locate the other's locations and 
weaknesses. In particular, scouts with little concern about their employer 
find lucrative work seeking new healing technologies for Darth Krayt and 
his New Sith Order. Other scouts seek out the Galactic Alliance fleet and 
offer their services as spies. 


NEw WORLDS, 
NEw HAZARDS 


While traveling the Unknown Regions, heroes are likely to face new dangers 
from never-before-seen species, creatures, and space and environmental 
hazards. Throughout this book, Gamemasters can find numerous tools for 
creating new worlds, creatures, and civilizations. Suggestions for creating 
near-Human variants can be found on page 17. Expanded creature-creation 
guidelines, including a variety of creature abilities, begin on page 89. A new 
planet-creation system and iconic planet-creation advice is presented in 
Chapter 3, "Exploration Campaigns." A variety of planetary and space-based 
hazards, ready-made for immediate play, can be found in Chapter 4, "Haz- 
ards." Additionally, eight new worlds are presented in detail in Chapter 6, 
“Planets,” each with a mini-adventure of its own in Chapter 7, "Deep Space 
Encounters." Gamemasters can also use these systems to modify existing 
worlds and creatures for use outside the Unknown Regions. 


HYPERSPACE NAVIGATION 
CHALLENGES 

Few hyperspace routes have been charted in the Unknown Regions, so travel- 
ing through hyperspace into and within the Unknown Regions requires skill 


SITUATION DC OR MODIFIER 
No astrogation data available DC 30 

Locally obtained astrogation data DC 20 or 25* 

No HoloNet access -5 

Traversing the tangle +15 


* Dependent on age of data (see page 12 of Starships of the Galaxy). 


ORIGINS OF THE UNKNOWN 
Although much of the information in this book is presented here for the 
first time, the material here builds upon stories that came before. Most 
characters, civilizations, and stories of the Unknown Regions come from 
the novels, graphic novels, and games of the Expanded Universe, rather 
than from the Star Wars movies. Although this book provides the essential 
information needed to use these related themes in your game, the original 
stories provide additional information and flavor. Among these are the 
Heir to the Empire trilogy, Outbound Flight, Truce at Bakura, The Swarm 
War trilogy, portions of the New Jedi Order novels, and the Knights of 
the Old Republic games and comics. 


and bravery. Unknown Regions routes that exist are not kept up-to-date in 
the galactic charts, and information about these routes is not widely avail- 
able. Entering the Unknown Regions from within the galactic disk requires 
a trip through a chaotic web of hyperspace interference, referred to as the 
tangle. The irregularly shaped tangle extends many light years into the 
western region of the galactic disk. Common modifiers to hyperspace navi- 
gation in the Unknown Regions are shown in Table |-1: Common Unknown 
Regions Astrogation DC Modifiers. Once within the Unknown Regions, some 
astrogation data might be obtained from local spacefaring sources, but this 
information is are normally of limited quality and scope. 


Mapping the Unknown Regions 

Scouts mapping their own forays into the Unknown Regions must spend 
time and effort to accumulate accurate navigation and environmental data. 
A simple hyperspace jump log contains useful data for future jumps, but a 
true charting expedition requires the recording of as much sensor data as 
possible during a jump. Prior to making a hyperspace jump, the mapper must 
make a single DC 20 Use Computer check to initiate sensor sweeps before, 
during, and after the flight. Mapping adds 1d4 hours to the hyperspace flight 
and requires 30 minutes’ worth of scanning before and after the jump for 
verification purposes. After a route has been mapped, it can be transmitted 
by datapad to another navigation system. 


TIME OR MODIFIER 
1 hour to make Use Computer check 
1 minute to make Use Computer check 


+1 hour to make Use Computer check , +1d10 days of flight time 


) 


NOILINAGOYLN] 


| 
X 
W 
C 
Z 
is 
2 
G 
g 
Z 
1) 
W 
9 
9 
Z, 
Gy 


: CHAPTER | 
f- <2 CHARACTER OPTIONS 


‘eacmeecramrcamamiameas SS 


Explorers are curious by nature, driven by complex needs and desires. Some 
love the thrill of discovery. Others enjoy freedom and isolation from the 
complicated, dangerous, and often war-torn galaxy at large. Many are driven 
by profit, working for interstellar conglomerates or private enterprises, in 
search of new resources or planets to exploit. Some seek refuge from a hostile 
government, a vengeful syndicate, or their own troubled past. However, no 
matter what drives beings to the wildest and least understood areas of the 
galaxy, they must rely on their own abilities and skills to survive. 

When exploring the Unknown Regions, adaptable and diversely trained 
heroes perform best. Those trained in survival techniques or adjustable styles 
of combat do well when physically exploring new worlds. Heroes who have 
insightful communications abilities might negotiate successfully with a newly 
encountered species, perhaps deciphering the basics of its culture. Clever 
mechanics might adapt or jury-rig broken machinery in the field, far from a — 
store or a machinist's shop. These are useful tools anywhere in the galaxy, but 
they are vital to heroes operating without support in a strange environment. 

This chapter presents several new species playable as heroes in Star Wars 
campaigns. Many of these species are commonly encountered throughout 
the galaxy and are not restricted to the Unknown Regions. However, their 
nature or history often ties them to the lesser-known regions of space. 
Gamemasters can use the information in Chapter 5 for species and threats 
native to the Unknown Regions. 

Although heroes of the scout class are best suited for standard explora- 
tion duties, heroes of all classes have skills and abilities useful to an explora- 
tion team. In this section, all standard classes and core prestige classes will 
find new talents and feats suitable for expanding their exploration options. 
Two new non-Jedi Force traditions presented at the end of this chapter will 
interest those who want to search out new non-Jedi Force traditions and 
abilities unique to the Unknown Regions. 


| YeSsitagvHga 


f 


SNOIMLdO YSLoIOVvyaVvHo 


1 HSsiavHa 


SNOILAG YEaLesvavrng 


New SPECIES 


Some species are drawn to travel to distant regions of the galaxy, and others 
are native to the isolated pockets. Some are seen in the galaxy only rarely, 
in numbers too small to make a lasting impression. Yet despite the typical 
characteristics of a given species, an isolated individual might end up virtu- 
ally anywhere in the galaxy. 


SPECIES CHARACTERISTICS 
Your character's species determines some of his or her qualities. 


Ability Adjustments 

Find your character's species on Table 1-1: Species Ability Adjustments, and 
apply the adjustments to your character's ability scores. Use the next two 
tables to help determine age, height, and weight. 


SPECIES 


Anzati None 

Chadra-Fan +2 Dexterity, -2 Wisdom 

Ishi Tib +2 Intelligence 

Krevaaki +2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma 

Nikto +2 Strength, -2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma 


Shistavanen +2 Dexterity, -2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma 


Sluissi -2 Dexterity, +2 Intelligence 
Squib -2 Strength, +2 Dexterity 
Verpine None 


ABLE 1-2: AGE BY SPECIES. 
YOUNG MIDDLE 


SPECIES CHILD ADULT ADULT AGE OLD VENERABLE 
Anzati 1-12 13-99 100-649 650-799 800-950 951+ 
Chadra-Fan 1-11 12-15 16-40 41-59 60-79 80+ 
Ishi Tib 1-6 7-11 12-39 40-59 60-79 80+ 
Krevaaki 1-12 13-17 18-62 63-94 95-129 130+ 
Nikto 1-10 =11-15 16-35 36-54 55-64 65+ 
Shistavanen 1-9 10-13 14-40 41-60 61-95 96+ 
Sluissi 1-8 9-14 15-39 40-59 60-75 76+ 
Squib 1-8 9-12 13-38 39-53 54-64 65+ 
Verpine 1-4 5-9 10-40 41-60 61-80 81+ 


SPECIES WEIGHT 


HEIGHT 

Anzati 1.7m 60 kg 
Chadra-Fan 1.0m 20 kg 
Ishi Tib 1.8m 60 kg 
Krevaaki 2.0m 65 kg 
Nikto 1.8m 60 kg 
Shistavanen 1.6m 60 kg 
Sluissi 1.7m 60 kg 
Squib 1.0m 22 kg 
Verpine 1.9m 60 kg 
ANZATI 


Almost every culture in the galaxy has a legend about immortal creatures 
that lurk in the shadows, existing only to feed upon the unwary. And in most 
cases, the Anzati are the monsters of those legends. They have roamed the 
galaxy for eons, cunning predators hidden amid the crowd, capable of invisibly 
and efficiently tracking, killing, and feeding on their prey, taking nourishment 
from their victims’ life energy contained within the gelid substance they 
call soup. Despite their long life span, few Anzati are expert scholars, and 
although they indulge in different pastimes throughout their lives, Anzati 
rarely pursue skills that do not directly relate to the hunt. 

Personality: For Anzati, the hunt for soup is their primary goal, and they 
pursue it with the devotion of an addict craving the next fix. The common 
belief is that Anzati view all others as mere livestock, but only the most deca- 
dent Anzati subscribe to this view. However, Anzati do enjoy the perverse joke 
that forming friendships with other species is akin to playing with their food. 

Physical Description: Although their appearance is similar to that of 
Humans, the Anzati are an unusual species, and are most noted for their lack 
of a readily detectible pulse and for their low body temperature. An Anzat's 
other distinguishing physical trait is a pair of cheek pouches, each of which 
conceals a proboscis that extends for feeding. 

Homeworld: Anzati are native to Anzat, a mountainous world located in 
the Mid Rim. The planet's sky is covered in an omnipresent aurora that has 
deep religious significance for the Anzati. 

Languages: Anzati speak Anzat, an ancient language known only to them. 

Example Names: Akku Seii, Dannik Jerriko, Nikkos Tyris, Rath Kelkko, 
Saljé Tasha, Volfe Karkko. 

Adventurers: Due to their predatory nature, Anzati find themselves drawn 
to the professions of assassin and bounty hunter, which better enable them to 
hunt for nourishment. It is the rare Anzat that does not shun the morality of 
the Jedi Knights, although Force adepts are not uncommon among the Anzati. 


ANZATI 


ANZATI 

SPECIES 

TRAITS 

Anzati share the following species 
traits: 

Ability Modifiers: None. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Anzati 
have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size. 

Speed: Anzati base speed is 6 
squares. 

Presence Sense: The Anza- 
ti's acute senses enable them 
to sense a person's Luck. When 
making a Survival check to 
track a living creature, an 
Anzat gains a species bonus 
equal to the quarry's Force 
Point total. 

Mesmerize: As a stan- 
dard action, an Anzat can 
make a special attack against 
the Will Defense of a single target within 6 squares of the Anzat. The attack 
modifier is equal to the Anzat's character level plus his or her Charisma 
modifier. If the attack is successful, the target loses its standard action for 
its next turn. If the attack fails, the target is immune to this effect for 24 
hours. This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Soup Drinking: As a swift action once per round, an Anzat can use its 
proboscis to drain energy from a grabbed target, moving the target -1 step 
on the condition track as a persistent condition and granting the Anzat bonus 
hit points equal to 5 + half the Anzat's level. The Anzat can repeat this action 
each round until the target escapes the grab or until the target is rendered 
unconscious. If the target survives the feeding attempt, the persistent condi- 
tion is removed after the target rests for 8 hours. 

Hunter's Instincts: Stealth and Survival are class skills for Anzati. 

Low-Light Vision: Anzati ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Automatic Languages: Anzat and Basic. 


CHADRA-FAN 

Known for being among the most cheerful and friendliest beings of the 
galaxy, the Chadra-Fan are found in many places. On their native world, 
hurricanes and tsunamis frequently wipe out their homes, so the Chadra- 
Fan have developed an intense fear of water and choose new homes on arid 
planets. This experience with frequent destruction also leads them to regard 
few things as being truly permanent. Chadra-Fan embrace the moment and 
enjoy themselves as much as they can, living with a contagious zest for life. 


Chadra-Fan are notorious for their love of tinkering, frequently disas- 
sembling and reassembling unattended devices into something different. 
Chadra-Fan find work in industrial research, and conventionally trained 
engineers attempt to duplicate Chadra-Fan creations. 

Personality: Gregarious, exuberant, and outgoing to a fault, Chadra-Fan 
are not picky when it comes to friends and frequently suffer from depression 
if left alone for extended periods of time. They are inquisitive, particularly 
about machinery, and are hard pressed to restrain the urge to tinker with 
any device within reach. 

Physical Description: No more than a meter tall, with flat noses and 
round, dark eyes, Chadra-Fan are covered in fur everywhere except for their 
fingers, toes, and large ears. 

Homeworld: The Chadra-Fan are native to Chad, a world located in the 
region of the Outer Rim known as the Slice. Covered with extensive marshes 
and bayous, the planet has nine moons, which give the world a complex 
tidal cycle. 

Languages: The Chadra-Fan language sounds substantially different from 
Basic, so those Chadra-Fan who speak Basic do so with a very squeaky tone. 

Example Names: Fandar, Gudb, Kabe, T'achak T'andar, Tekli, Tutti Snibit. 

Adventurers: Chadra-Fan prefer the scoundrel and scout classes, which 
better enable them to indulge their boundless curiosity. At least one Chadra- 
Fan is known to have joined the ranks of the New Jedi Order. 


CHADRA- 
FAN 
SPECIES 
TRAITS 

Chadra-Fan share the follow- 
ing species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 
Dexterity, -2 Wisdom. 

Size: As Small creatures, 
Chadra-Fan gain a +1 size 
bonus to their Reflex Defense 
and a +5 size bonus to Stealth 
checks. However, their lifting 
and carrying limits are three- 
quarters those of Medium 
characters. 

Speed: Chadra-Fan base 
speed is 4 squares. 

Heightened Awareness: 
A Chadra-Fan may choose to 
reroll any Perception check, 
but the result of the reroll 
must be accepted even if it 
is worse. 


CHADRA-FAN 


| eSiavHS 


SHoiLasae SsSLoevevwAg 


U 


| SStidvHgd 


SNOILAG) HaLoevevAg 


Tinkerer: When a Chadra-Fan repairs or jury-rigs a droid or a device using 
a Mechanics check, the droid or device regains an additional 1d8 hit points. 

Darkvision: Chadra-Fan ignore concealment (including total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Chadra-Fan. 


ise Tis 


Ishi Tib live in schools—communal groups of thousands of individuals, gov- 
erned by elected representatives who hold office for one-year terms. An Ishi 
Tib does not know the identity of his or her birth parents, because each Ishi 
Tib school assumes responsibility for the welfare of its hatchlings, creating 
a strong sense of community and promoting the needs of the group over 
those of an individual. Unlike species that have wreaked environmental havoc 
upon their homeworlds, Ishi Tib protect their planet, Tibrin, with extensive 
laws legislating ecological preservation. 

During the Clone Wars, the Ishi Tib side with the Confederacy of Inde- 
pendent Systems after Count Dooku liberates their world from the Suribran 
Tu, although Tibrin is still represented in the Galactic Senate. During the 
Galactic Civil War, Ishi Tib who join the Rebel Alliance plan raids against the 
Empire, and several Ishi Tib tactical experts are present at the briefing prior 
to the Battle of Endor. 

Personality: The Ishi Tib are meticulous and exacting, but they are also 
known for their strong reverence for nature. Despite these peaceful traits, 
a primal undercurrent colors their 
moods, and in combat Ishi Tib 
do not hesitate to tear an enemy 
apart with their sharp beaks. 

Physical Description: Ishi Tib 
are green-skinned amphibians with 
protruding eye stalks and beaklike 
mouths. An Ishi Tib's head is like a 
five-pointed star, featuring two eye 
stalks, two cheek pouches, and a 
beak. Ishi Tib must routinely immerse 
themselves in a brine solution 
similar to the water of Tibrin's 
oceans to prevent death from 
dehydration. 

Homeworld: Tibrin— 
located in the Mid Rim—is 
covered by shallow oceans 
dotted with coral reefs and 
sandbars, which serve the Ishi 
Tib as communal centers and 
hubs of commerce. 


IisHi Tis 


Languages: Ishi Tib read, speak, and write in Tibranese, which employs 
honks, squeals, and beak-clacking in its spoken form. The written language 
uses hieroglyphs. 

Example Names: Gume Saam, Suribran Tu, Thilis-Brin, Waks Trode, Vek 
Drow. 

Adventurers: Ishi Tib encountered away from their oceanic homeworld 
are most often ecologists and oceanographers, although a substantial number 
of them find work as corporate accountants or corporate overseers. 


IsH!I TIB SPECIES TRAITS 
Ishi Tib share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Ishi Tib have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size. 

Speed: Ishi Tib base speed is 6 squares. They have a swim speed of 4 
squares. 

Breath Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Ishi Tib cannot drown 
in water. 

Ecological Awareness: Due to their conscientiousness and drive to 
protect the natural environment of their homeworld, Ishi Tib can roll twice 
when making a Knowledge (life sciences) check, keeping the better result. 

Expert Swimmer: An Ishi Tib can reroll any Swim check. In addition, an 
Ishi Tib can take 10 on Swim checks even when distracted or threatened. 

Natural Weapons: An Ishi Tib has a natural weapon, in the form of a sharp 
beak. An Ishi Tib can choose to use its natural weapon, dealing 1d6 points of 
piercing damage with that attack instead of normal unarmed damage. Ishi 
Tib are always considered armed with their natural weapons. 

Low-Light Vision: Ishi Tib ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Tibranese. 


KREVAAKI 


Krevaaki are a peaceful, spiritual species. With minimal interest in acquiring 
wealth, power, or fame, they seek wisdom through exploration and medita- 
tion. Although they are an ancient spacefaring species, Krevaaki are rarely 
encountered in the galaxy at large. Even during the Old Republic era—their 
most active period—groups of more than a few Krevaaki are seldom seen 
at any one location. 

In response to other species’ xenophobia, the Krevaaki cloak their ten- 
tacled bodies with heavy robes or similar garments, leaving only their two 
dominant tentacles exposed like humanoid arms. More than a few beings 
have been caught unaware by the sudden appearance of additional tentacles 
from beneath the folds of a Krevaaki's garments. 

Personality: Krevaaki prefer not to draw attention to themselves, and 
they are thoughtful, wise, and spiritual, refocusing their negative emotions 


KREVAAKI 


through meditation and seeking 
to resolve conflicts peacefully. 
Force-sensitive Krevaaki develop 
a particularly deep understanding 
of the Force. Krevaaki travelers 
seek greater understanding of 
others or of the Force. 

Physical Description: Evolved 
from shallow-water crustaceans, 
a Krevaaki has a red protective 
shell and glassy black eyes. A 
Krevaaki lacks a nose, but com- 
pensates by detecting scents 
with six feelers around its mouth. 
Krevaaki use their eight seg- 
mented tentacles for increasingly 
specialized tasks as they grow 
older. A Krevaaki child uses all 
its tentacles, but adults stand 
upright on six of them, using the 
other two the way other beings 
use their hands. Some tentacles 
develop protrusions similar to opposable thumbs. Tentacles used as legs 
become stronger but less able to dexterously grasp and manipulate smaller 
objects. 

Homeworld: Krevas. 

Example Names: Chal-Vosa, Craasadi, Jol Kion-Tas, Visto Skaasad, 
Vodo-Siosk Baas. 

Adventurers: Krevaaki adventurers are usually scouts and nobles. 
Force-sensitives become Jedi or follow nonviolent Force traditions. It is 
unusual for the meditative Krevaaki to be drawn to the Dark Side, although 
not impossible. 


KREVAAKI SPECIES TRAITS 
Krevaaki share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Krevaaki have no special bonuses or penal- 
ties due to their size. 

Speed: Krevaaki base speed is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: A Krevaaki's tentacles give it an advantage 
in climbing. A Krevaaki who has Climb as a trained skill gains Skill Focus 
(Climb) as a bonus feat. 

Carapace: Krevaaki gain a +1 natural armor bonus to Reflex Defense 
and a +1 natural armor bonus to Fortitude Defense. A natural armor bonus 
stacks with an armor bonus. 


Stoic: Krevaaki physiology and their limited ability to use facial expres- 
sions make them difficult for other species to read accurately. Any creature 
attempting to use the Sense Motive application of the Perception skill ona 
Krevaaki takes a -5 penalty to the skill check. 

Tentacles: Krevaaki use their two dominant tentacles like the arms and 
hands of a humanoid. Krevaaki gain a +2 species bonus to Climb checks and 
a +2 species bonus to grapple checks. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Dromnyr. 


NikToO 


Widely recognized as a slave species of the Hutts, the Nikto have served their 
masters since before the founding of the Old Republic, proving to be cunning 
warriors in the Hutts' battle with the legendary conqueror Xim the Despot. 
Wherever the Hutts are, the Nikto are never far behind. Because of their 
homeworld's radioactive atmosphere, the Nikto have five distinct subspecies, 
each adapted to a specific type of terrain (see page 28). 

Personality: Although lacking in personal charisma, Nikto possess a 
single-minded tenacity that makes them excellent followers. Eons of enslave- 
ment by the Hutts have left them more comfortable with taking orders from 
their masters than with thinking on their feet. 

Physical Description: Tough, leathery skin and a lack of extensive facial 
muscles limit the range of Nikto facial expression. Their deep black eyes 
further enhance their reptilian 
appearance. A Nikto's subspecies 
can be determined by his or her 
skin tone and the presence of 
small spikes or horns. 

Homeworld: Kintan, a radio- 
active planet located within 
Hutt space in the Outer Rim 
Territories. 

Languages: All Nikto learn 
to read, speak, and write their 
own Nikto language along with 
either Basic or Huttese. 

Example Names: Bok, 
Fi-Ek Sirch, Giran, Klaatu, 
Ma'kis'shaalas, Nysad, Wooof. 

Adventurers: Nikto have the 
tenacity to pursue any career, 
but their status as a slave spe- 
cies to the Hutts forces them 
into roles as guards and soldiers. 


NikToO 


3 SSategevHo 


SNOILA@ GEeLavevn> 


| SSLevHo 


SNOILAG YOeLsVvHvHng® 


NikToOo SPECIES TRAITS 
Nikto share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Nikto have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size. 

Speed: Nikto base speed is 6 squares. 

Great Fortitude: Nikto gain a +2 species bonus to Fortitude Defense, 
having evolved to survive the harsh environment of their homeworld. 

Natural Armor: A Nikto's tough hide provides a +2 natural armor bonus 
to Reflex Defense. A natural armor bonus stacks with an armor bonus. 

Survival Instincts: A Nikto can reroll any Survival check, but the result 
of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Automatic Languages: Nikto and either Basic or Huttese. 


SHISTAVANEN 


More commonly known to the galactic populace by the nickname Wolfmen, 
the Shistavanen are an isolationist species that originates in the Uvena 
system. Having evolved from predators, Shistavanens excel at hunting and 
can track prey through crowded urban streets and across desolate plains 
with equal ease. 

Although the vast majority of Shistavanens prefer to remain within 
their home system, a growing minority choose to travel the galaxy's 
hyperlanes. Even during the height of the First Galactic Empire's discrimi- 
nation against non-Humans, Imperial 
Intelligence made frequent use 
of those Shistavanens it could 
recruit; other Shistavanens joined 
the Rebel Alliance. 

Personality: Shistavanens are 
aggressive and forthright to the 
point of rudeness, and they prefer 
the company of their own kind over 
that of other species. Known and 
feared for their surly temperament, 
some Shistavanens overcome their 
natural tendencies and are more 
sociable and outgoing, but only 
a rare few fully overcome their 
cultural prejudices. 

Physical Description: 
Shistavanens have large, slightly 
glowing eyes, pointed ears, and 
pronounced muzzles lined with 


sharp teeth. Their bodies are cov- | 
ered with thick brown or black fur, 


SHISTAVANEN 


and their fingers and toes are tipped with the sharp claws of their predatory 
ancestors. 

Homeworld: Shistavanens come from Uvena Prime, one of several habit- 
able planets in the Uvena System in the Outer Rim Territories. The Shistava- 
nens were quick to colonize the remaining worlds of their system in an effort 
to keep outsiders from getting too involved in their affairs. 

Languages: Shistavanens read, speak, and write Shistavanen, which is 
composed mostly of barks and growls of varying volume and pitch. 

Example Names: Hovrak, Lak Sivrak, Riv Shiel, Severian, Voolvif Monn. 

Adventurers: Those Shistavanens who overcome their species’ xenopho- 
bic tendencies and head out into the galaxy engage in a wide array of occu- 
pations, but most rely on their quick reflexes and keen senses and become 
bounty hunters, explorers, mercenaries, pilots, or sport hunters. Shistavanens 
have also served in both the Old and New Jedi Orders. 


SHISTAVANEN SPECIES TRAITS 
Shistavanens share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Shistavanens have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Shistavanen base speed is 6 squares. 

Natural Weapons: A Shistavanen has natural weapons in the form of 
sharp claws. When making an unarmed attack, a Shistavanen can use his 
or her natural weapons, dealing 1d6 points of slashing damage instead of 
normal unarmed damage. Shistavanens are always considered armed with 
their natural weapons. 

Quick Reflexes: A Shistavanen can reroll any Initiative check, but the 
result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: A Shistavanen who has Perception as a trained 
skill gains Skill Focus (Perception) as a bonus feat. 

Uncanny Tracker: Survival is a class skill for Shistavanens. 

Low-Light Vision: Shistavanens ignore concealment (but not total 
concealment) from darkness. 

Automatic Languages: Shistavanen. 


SLuiIssi 


Sluissi are pioneers of faster-than-light propulsion, having developed space 
travel before their first contact with Duros and Human explorers and the 
Old Republic. Their home planet of Sluis Van is known for centuries as an 
excellent shipyard. The Sluissi use their shipyards to reinforce and expand 
their contact with other species and to maintain and improve their position 
within the Republic. 

Sluissi technicians are renowned for starship construction and modifica- 
tion. Although Sluissi methods are slower than others, customers are willing 
to wait to own the best starship technology available. The Sluissi consider 
starship construction to be an art form. So respected are Sluissi shipyards that 


Sviuissi 


the slow pace of construction is tolerated 
by even the Empire, albeit impatiently. 

Personality: Sluissi are tinkerers 
at heart. Even those who do not 
pursue mechanical arts profession- 
ally dabble in them regularly. Most 
Sluissi encountered away from their 
homeworld and colonies are appren- 
tice mechanics or skilled technicians. 
They have an unhurried style that tries 
the patience of even the most toler- 
ant travelers and clients. Sluissi are 
sociable, even among other species. 

Physical Description: Sluissi 
have long, legless, and distinctly 
serpentine bodies that are covered in 
fine scales, typically ranging in color 
from light brown to dark green. A Sluissi’s 
eyes are round and totally black. A forked 
tongue aids a Sluissi's sense of smell. 

Homeworld: Sluis Van. 

Example Names: Hass Sonax, 
Mektiss Risohr, Secles Uslopos, Sekae 
N'sehnor, Sirlahn Alsek, Ten Dorne, Usahn L'sehl, Vsil Ejahsa. 

Adventurers: Sluissi travel individually or in small groups. They easily 
find work as technicians and starship mechanics throughout the galaxy. 


SvLuiss! SPECIES TRAITS 
Sluissi share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Dexterity, +2 Intelligence. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Sluissi have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size. 

Speed: Sluissi base speed is 6 squares. 

Careful Worker: A Sluissi who takes twice the normal amount of time 
required to use the Mechanics skill gains a +10 circumstance bonus to the 
Mechanics check. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Sluissi quickly learn to tinker with technology. 
A Sluissi who has Mechanics as a trained skill gains the Tech Specialist feat 
(Starships of the Galaxy, page 21) as a bonus feat. 

Serpentine: By coiling their serpentine bodies, Sluissi are able to make 
long jumps without getting a running start. Sluissi are always considered to 
have a running start for Jump checks. They also gain a +5 stability bonus 
when making grapple checks against the Trip feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Sluissese. 


SQuis 
Squibs are known throughout the galaxy for their talents at collecting, 
trading, and haggling. The uneven distribution of natural resources on their 
homeworld led early Squibs to compulsively collect and stockpile goods and 
to develop a maddeningly complex system of barter. But in spite of their 
penchant for needless complexities when negotiating, Squibs are surpris- 
ingly honest in their dealings, following a specific set of rules whenever they 
bargain with someone. For Squibs, the process of haggling is more important 
than the end result. 

Personality: Squibs are cheerful, curious, and overconfident to the point 
of egotism. Although these traits make them likable at first, long-term 
associates eventually view Squibs as either mildly annoying or downright 
obnoxious. To a Squib, no art form is greater than bargaining, which Squibs 
view as the highest form of communication, so saying that a Squib bargained 
well is grand praise indeed. 

Physical Description: Squibs are small, rodentlike humanoids with pink 
skin covered in fur of almost any color, including red, blue, violet, white, and 
brown. Their eyes are large in relation to their skulls, and this—combined with 
their large, tufted ears—gives the Squib a comical appearance. 

Homeworld: Skor II, a pleasant world located in the Outer Rim, is the 
Squibs' planet of origin. Its varied climate and planetary composition causes 
the planet to have a wide range of natural resources that are each found 
only in particular regions of the world. 

Languages: Squibs speak, read, 
and write Squibbian, a language 
evolved from Old High Squibbian, 
which remains in use as a secret 
form of communication, frequently 
to convey the location of trash 
dumps or other such important 
resource finds. 

Example Names: Ebaree- 
baveebeedee, Emala, Grees, Mace- 
millian-winduarté, Sligh, Slythor, 
Smileredon-Verdont. 

Adventurers: Squibs who ven- 
ture out into the galaxy are 
typically scoundrels or scouts 
or, less commonly, nobles. 
Although Squib Jedi do exist, 
they are exceedingly rare. 


squis 


1 YstavHo 


9) 
X 
> 
2 
> 
9 
<| 
Y 
wv 
: 
a 
a 
Z, 
@ 


HeSstdvya 


SNOILA@G YELHaveaVvA|a 


SQuisp SPECIES TRAITS 
Squibs share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Strength, +2 Dexterity. 

Size: As Small creatures, Squibs gain a +1 size bonus to Reflex Defense 
and a +5 size bonus to Stealth checks. However, their lifting and carrying 
limits are three-quarters those of Medium characters. 

Speed: Squib base speed is 6 squares. 

Natural Diplomat: A Squib gains a +5 species bonus to Persuasion checks 
made to Haggle (see page 71 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Additionally, 
Persuasion is always a class skill for Squibs. 

Tech Savvy: A Squib can reroll any Knowledge (technology) check, 
but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. A Squib is 
not limited to common knowledge when making an untrained Knowledge 
(technology) check. 

Weapon Familiarity: Squibs who have the Weapon Proficiency (rifle) 
feat are proficient with the Squib tensor rifle. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Squibbian. 


VERPINE 
The Verpine have been spacefarers for all their recorded history, long before 
they had contact with other species. Verpine have traveled for so long that 
the name and location of their homeworld have been lost to antiquity. They 
are fascinated with technology in all its forms, and consider themselves to 
be experts in all technological 
fields. Any device that falls 
into Verpine hands is prone to 
being taken apart, reassembled, 
and improved with astonishing 
speed and skill. The asteroid 
field that the Verpine have 
transformed into a thriving 
colony is a testament to their 
mastery of technology. 

Verpine society is guided 
by an absolute majority rule. 
Their natural communication 
ability enables the Verpine of a 
community to easily poll every 
individual Verpine within it. 
Each Verpine has an equal say 
in any governmental process, 
and the final decision is binding. 
This approach to government 
enables a single Verpine to 
speak with certainty about his 
or her community's stance on 
any given issue. 


VERPINE 


Personality: Deeply fascinated by technology, a Verpine will risk his or 
her life to protect valuable equipment. Verpine consider technology to be 
the best means for resolving a dilemma and are willing to improve existing 
equipment when necessary. Other species find Verpine to be personable 
and enthusiastic. 

Physical Description: Their height and sticklike limbs give Verpine a 
gangly appearance. Their bodies are covered in green plates of chitin. Each 
Verpine has two large black eyes and dual antennae. Verpine have three 
digits on each hand and foot. 

Homeworld: The Verpine's largest settlement is the Roche asteroid field, 
located in the Mid Rim. Verpine rely extensively on technology to make the 
asteroids habitable. 

Languages: Verpine read, speak, and write Verpine, which they transmit 
to each other through organically generated radio waves. 

Example Names: Garginoolaara, Jurfel, Kyli Ned'Ix, Suskafoo, Zix, Zraii. 

Adventurers: Verpine are frequently scoundrels and scouts, with a focus 
on creating and repairing technology. 


VERPINE SPECIES TRAITS 
Verpine share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifiers: None. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Verpine have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size. 

Speed: Verpine base speed is 6 squares. 

Natural Armor: A Verpine's carapace provides a +1 natural armor bonus 
to his or her Reflex Defense. A natural armor bonus stacks with an armor 
bonus. 

Heightened Awareness: A Verpine can reroll any Perception check, but 
the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Verpine Communication:A Verpine can mentally communicate with any 
Verpine within a 1-kilometer range. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: A Verpine who has Mechanics as a trained skill 
gains Skill Focus (Mechanics) as a bonus feat. 

Automatic Languages: Basic and Verpine. 


SMALLER CHARACTERS 

Species come in a great variety of sizes and heights. Usually these dif- 
ferences are not great enough to affect game mechanics. However, it 
is possible that a character is naturally small enough to qualify for a 
smaller size modifier. With the Gamemaster's approval, a player can 
create a character one size category smaller than the one noted in its 
species description, gaining all the benefits and penalties of that size. _ 


NEAR-HUMANS 


Throughout much of the galaxy, Humans are the most commonly encoun- 
tered species. Not surprisingly, after a millennium of interstellar travel and 
colonization, an enormous number of humanoids share a common genetic 
code. Commonly called near-Humans, these humanoids are substantially the 
same as Humans in look and physiology, but exhibit one or more differences 
significant enough to set them apart. 

The origins of most near-Humans are not known, but the common assump- 
tion is that isolated groups naturally adapt to the specific environmental 
conditions of their current world. These conditions occasionally cause genetic 
mutations, improving the near-Humans' likelihood of survival. However, 
genetic engineering and cloning technology are other possible explanations 
for near-Humans' variation from Human norms. Classification efforts are 
further complicated by the many bipedal humanoid species that are unrelated 
to Humans. Looks can be deceiving. 


UNKNOWN REGION 

LANGUAGES 

Although the Unknown Regions have no widespread common language 
such as Basic, several languages are regularly used among specific 
nomadic groups and within some systems and regions. Trade languages 
are commonly used to bridge the formidable language gap. When 
creating a character native to the Unknown Regions, you can select 
a language from the following list, with your Gamemaster's approval. 
When selecting a new language for an existing character from known 
space, your character might be able to learn one of these languages, 
with Gamemaster approval. 


Altirish* Rakata*™* 

Anzat* Rammocate (trade language) 
Anarrese* Shistavanen* 

Dromnyr* Sluissese* 

Chadra-Fan* Squibbian* 

Cheunh* Ssi-ruuvi* 

Ebruchese* Sy Bisti (trade language) 
Killik* Tibranese* 

Kreva Tof* 

Minnisiat (trade language) Vagaari* 

Nikto Verpine* 


“Local language not widely spoken except on its planet or in its nomadic 
group of origin. 


*“* Widely spoken before the Old Republic era, locally spoken in all other 
eras. 


A WROONIAN (LEFT) AND A THEELIN (RIGHT), TWO NEAR-HUMANS 


In the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition, near-Humans have 
only small differences from Humans. These differences might be cosmetic, 
physiological, or, most commonly, both. Players and Gamemasters wanting 
to create their own near-Human characters should use the following near- 
Human generation system. 


CREATING NEAR-HUMANS 

To create a near-Human, start with the Human species in the Saga Edition 
core rulebook. Next, select one of the traits from Table 1-4: Near-Human 
Traits, replacing either the bonus trained skill or the bonus feat that Humans 
normally receive. Finally, select one, two, or three minor physiological varia- 
tions from Table 1-5: Near-Human Variants. These variants are typically 
cosmetic, but Gamemasters might allow a variant to have a minor mechani- 
cal or roleplaying effect. Variants normally should not cause a near-Human 
character to incur a penalty to attack rolls or skill checks, but it might occa- 
sionally do so at the Gamemaster's discretion. As always, the Gamemaster 
has the final say in trait and variant combinations allowed in his or her game. 


| eSsLavHoD 


SNOILAGG HELeavevnoa 


i SaigvuHg 


J 


SNOILA@ HEaLeveVASs) 


TRAIT 
Ability adjustment 


Additional arms 
Biotech augmentation 
Breathe underwater 
Climate adaptation 


Conductive 


Cultural cybernetics 
Darkvision 
Empath 


Expert swimmer 
Heightened awareness 
Low-light vision 
Natural armor 

Natural weapon 


Naturally acrobatic 
Persistent 

Quick 

Quick healing 
Resistant 

Scent 


Spring step 


Strength surge 


Visually striking 


Weapon familiarity 


DESCRIPTION 
Increase one ability score by 2 and reduce another by 2 to account for emphasis in certain attributes 

(such as strength or intelligence). 

Up to 2 additional arms. When making multiple attacks, the character can reduce the penalty to the attack roll by 2. 


Augmented with biotechnology. Select one bio-implant (see pages 67-68 of the Legacy Era Campaign Guide). 
Amphibious and cannot drown in water. Can have gill slits or similar external features. 


Resistant to a specific climate. Select one: freezing, rarefied atmosphere, searing, smoky, tropical, or watery. When challenged 


by an environmental factor in that climate (chosen from those listed, or others at the Gamemaster's discretion), can reroll an 
Endurance or a Survival check, taking the better result. 


Naturally generate a small amount of electrical energy and use as a natural weapon in an unarmed attack, dealing 1d6 points 


of energy damage. Character is always considered armed with a natural weapon. 

Culture commonly augments members with cybernetics from birth. Select one cybernetic enhancement. 

Gain natural darkvision (see page 257 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Can use the telepathy application of the Use the Force skill untrained, and without having the Force Sensitivity feat. 
Additionally, can sense the emotions of a target if the Use the Force check equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense. 
Can reroll a Swim check. Can take 10 on Swim checks when distracted or threatened. 

Can reroll a Perception check. 

Ignore concealment (but not total concealment) from darkness. 

Thickened skin or natural armor plates grant a natural armor bonus of +1 to Reflex Defense. 

Can use natural claws in an unarmed attack, dealing 1d6 points of slashing damage instead of normal unarmed damage. 
Character is always considered armed with the natural weapons. 

Considered trained in the Acrobatics skill, even if it is not normally a class skill for the character. 

Can reroll an Endurance check. 

Gain +1 to speed. 

At the end of an encounter, regain hit points equal to 1d4 + Constitution modifier (minimum 1). 

Naturally resistant to poisons, disease, radiation, or other hazards, gaining a +2 species bonus to Fortitude Defense. 
Gamemaster can restrict resistance to a single, specific hazard. 

At close range (within 10 squares), ignore concealment and cover for purposes of Perception checks, and take no penalty 
from poor visibility when using the Track application of the Survival skill. 

When using the High Jump or Long Jump applications of the Jump skill, reduce the number of squares required for a 
running start by 2. 

Once per encounter, can reroll one Strength-based ability or skill check, doubling the character's Strength modifier 
(minimum +1), or can add 2 to a single damage roll on a successful melee attack, when Strength normally adds to the roll. 
This does not apply when Weapon Finesse is used. 

Character's appearance is visually surprising or stunning. The character's Charisma bonus is doubled when using the 
Persuasion skill on Humans, near-Humans, and similar humanoids (such as Twi'leks). 

Character selects a single exotic weapon and treats it as a simple weapon instead. Must be commonly used by 
character's native culture. 


VARIATION DESCRIPTION 
Eye variation 


Digit variation 


Eyes are of an unusual color and/or pupils are of an unusual shape. 
Number of digits on each hand or foot is greater or fewer than 5, but without affecting skill use in terms of game mechanics. 


Fins Character has small fins that have no effect on swimming. 


Hair variation 
Shaped 


Character's hair is naturally an unusual color, length, texture, or size. 
Character has been biologically altered by the Yuuzhan Vong shaping process. This can account for the character's 


near-Human trait, or the trait might be cosmetic or for roleplaying purposes. Shaped characters typically gain Yuuzhan Vong 
physical features or are otherwise physically altered. 


Skin color 

Skin texture 
Teeth variation 
Towering 
Webbed digits 


HEROIC CLASSES 


Beyond the boundaries of known space lie adventure, risk, and deadly threats. 
Exploration and trailblazing can change from a great discovery into a deadly 
nightmare in seconds. Heroes must be self-reliant and able to operate far 
from medical or technical aid. Heroes must also be able to quickly adapt to 
bewildering cultures and species, although they might find the environment 
more challenging than many foes they encounter. This section provides new 
talents and abilities for heroes who specialize in exploration and operating 
in deep space. 


JEDI 

As they pursue their duties or follow the will of the Force, Jedi often find 
themselves in little-known areas. Though few engage in exploration for its 
own sake, some follow its path to discover new aspects of the Force. They 
might seek a long-lost or hidden Force tradition or attempt to discover the 
fate of a fellow Jedi or a Sith on the run. 


New Jedi Sentinel Talent 

This new talent expands the Jedi Sentinel talent tree (see page 40 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose talents from 
the Jedi Sentinel talent tree can choose this talent as well. 

Sense Primal Force: Jedi who spend time in a diverse wilderness learn 
the nuances of the living Force at work within a wild ecosystem. When within 
a natural wilderness area, such as a jungle, a forest, a steppe, a swamp, or 
plains, you tap into the vibrant living Force of the area and can use Sense 
Surroundings to detect targets out to a 30-square radius, regardless of line 
of sight. 


Flaps of skin span the character's fingers or toes. 


Skin is naturally a color (or a combination of colors) not normally associated with Humans. 
Obviously unusual skin texture, such as leathery, especially smooth, overly wrinkled, or scaly. 
Teeth are noticeably differently colored, sharper, larger, or smaller than those of typical Humans. 
Over 2 meters tall, although the additional height does not change the character's Size. 


NOBLE 

Nobles who seek out the wilds of the Unknown Regions are usually part of 
a greater exploration team. They might operate as corporate negotiators or 
governmental representatives. Noble families occasionally subsidize their own 
exploration teams to expand their sphere of influence. Political dissidents flee 
to the Unknown Regions in an effort to escape political persecution when 
even fringe worlds cannot sufficiently hide them. The more criminally minded 
also use the Unknown Regions as a convenient base of operations or to hide 
wealth outside the legal boundaries of the dominant galactic government. 


Exile Talent Tree 

You have broken with your family, world, or organization and cannot rely on 
its aid or support. Whether forced or self-imposed, your exile allows you to 
adapt in new ways to the galaxy at large. 

Arrogant Bluster: You take on an air of arrogance, allowing you to dis- 
tract and sway others with your apparent knowledge and experience. When 
you make a successful Persuasion check to change an enemy's attitude, 
the enemy takes a -5 penalty to its Will Defense until the end of your next 
turn. If you spend a Force Point, the duration is extended to the end of the 
encounter. This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Persuasion skill. 

Band Together: You can inspire disparate beings to temporarily ally fora 
common cause. You can use each of the following actions once per encounter: 

© Directed Attack: As a swift action, designate one enemy character or 
vehicle as the target of this talent. Until the end of your next turn, 
whenever an ally within 12 squares of you hits the target, add 1d6 
points of damage to each hit. 


1 BestevHoa 


Q 
XE 
> 
iy 
> 
: 
7 
4 
a 
2 
@ 


HSsiagvHo 


SNOILAIG HaLavavAg 


e Strength in Numbers: Your allies gain confidence in numbers. As a swift 
action, you grant all allies within 12 squares of you and within your line 
of sight a +5 bonus to Will Defense until the end of your next turn. You 
must have a minimum of two allies to use this action. 

Temporary Allies: With a successful Persuasion check, you can turn a 
Gamemaster character with an attitude toward you of unfriendly or 
indifferent into an ally willing to aid you and follow your direction for 
the remainder of the encounter. As a swift action, you direct the Game- 
master character to attack a target, aid another character, or use a skill 
to aid you or your allies. This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Prerequisites: Galactic Guidance, Self-Reliant, trained in the Persuasion 
and Knowledge (galactic lore) skills. 

Galactic Guidance: You share your considerable galactic knowledge to 
inform others’ actions and decisions. Once per encounter, as a reaction, if 
you succeed on a DC 25 Knowledge (galactic lore) check, you enable one 
ally within 6 squares of you and within your line of sight to reroll a failed 
Intelligence- or Wisdom-based skill check (other than Perception). 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Knowledge (galactic lore) skill. 

Rant: You are a master of voicing your opinion loudly, continuously, and 
distractingly. If you succeed in making a Persuasion check to intimidate an 
enemy that is within 6 squares of you and that can hear, see, and understand 
you, you deny that enemy the use of a move action on its next turn, instead 


AN EXILED NOBLE REPAIRS HIS JUMPMASTER SOOO. 


of gaining the normal intimidation results. You grant one ally a move action 
to use immediately (the ally uses the move action as a reaction). 
Prerequisite: Trained in the Persuasion skill. 
Self-Reliant: You need not rely on others when the going gets tough. 
Once per encounter, you can use one talent that you possess from the Inspira- 
tion talent tree on yourself, although you are not normally allowed to do so. 


New Leadership Talent 
The following new talent expands the Leadership talent tree (see page 44 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose tal- 
ents from the Leadership talent tree can choose the following talent as well. 
Coordinated Leadership: You coordinate your actions with other leaders. 
Choose one talent you possess from the Leadership talent tree. The bonuses 
you provide with this talent are now considered to be untyped bonuses, 
allowing them to stack with the bonuses granted by your allies. 
Prerequisites: Born Leader, Coordinate. 


SCOUNDREL 

Scoundrels thrive in any region that lacks sufficient law and order to restrain 
their activities, making the Unknown Regions prime operating territory. 
Scoundrels might seek out unknown areas for use as hideouts, or they might 
find isolated settlements to con and exploit. Some scoundrels provide critical 
transportation services between far-flung outposts or civilizations that lack 
interstellar flight capability. Scoundrels are also the most likely class to use 
the Unknown Regions for their own hideouts or as bases from which to raid 
border worlds on the edges of known space. 


Outsider Talent Tree 

By their nature, scoundrels are outsiders. By blurring the line between lawful 
and lawless, scoundrels operate outside social and cultural norms. Eventually, 
they learn to make the most of their positions. 

Oafish: Whether you come by oafishness naturally or it is all an act, you 
use your lack of sophistication and finesse as an excuse to bluff your way 
into or out of delicate situations. Once per encounter, when you fail either a 
Deception or a Persuasion check, you can add a bonus equal to 1d6 + your 
Wisdom modifier to your Deception or Persuasion check result. 

Outsider's Eye: Your status as an outsider gives you an objective view 
of enemies and acquaintances. Once per encounter, you can make a DC 20 
Perception check as a standard action. If the check is successful, you gain your 
choice of one of the following pieces of information: one Defense score of one 
character or vehicle within your line of sight, or the identity of the character 
or the vehicle within your line of sight that has either the lowest or highest 
current hit points or the lowest or highest position on the condition track. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Perception skill. 


Outsider’s Query: You use your outsider status as an excuse for mistakes, 
missteps, and social offenses. If you fail a Persuasion check to change a 
target's attitude, the target's attitude toward you does not change. You 
can also attempt to change the target's attitude one additional time per 
encounter (see page 71 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Persuasion skill. 

Wary: Your outsider status makes you cautious, observant, and ready 
for action. If an enemy fails a Stealth or a Deception check opposed by your 
Perception check, you can take one move action as a reaction. If multiple 
enemies fail on the same turn (such as when you detect several enemies 
sneaking up on you), the number of move actions you take cannot exceed 
your Dexterity modifier. 

Prerequisites: Outsider's Eye, trained in the Perception skill. 


New Spacer Talents 

The following new talent expands the Spacer talent tree (see page 47 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose talents 
from the Spacer talent tree can choose this talent as well. 

Deep Space Raider: Whether you are taking on military targets on 
behalf of a resistance movement or you are out for personal gain, you are 
experienced at raiding starships and similar targets. You can use each of the 
following actions once per encounter: 

® Cleara Path: Your attack forces an enemy to alter course or move out of 
your way. You must be fighting aboard a starship to use this action. As 
a standard action, make a ranged attack. If the attack hits, on its next 
turn your target must move its speed to a square that is not adjacent 
to you. If the target is an enemy starfighter engaged in a dogfight, the 
target instead must attempt to disengage from the dogfight. 
Covering Fire: You squeeze off several shots as you escape pursuing 
enemies. As a full round action, if you are the pilot of a vehicle, you may 
move the vehicle up to twice its speed and make a single ranged attack 
with one of the pilot-controlled weapons at any point during that move- 
ment. If you hit and deal damage to a vehicle with this attack, the target 
vehicle takes a -2 penalty to attack rolls against your vehicle until the 
end of your next turn. 
Disabling Fire: Make a ranged attack with a vehicle weapon. If you make 
this attack against a vehicle and hit and deal damage, you can choose 
one of the following to take effect until the end of your next turn: one 
of the target's weapons ceases to function, the target's SR is reduced to 
0, the target's hyperdrive is disabled, or the target's speed is reduced to 
2 squares. 
Prerequisites: Spacehound, Starship Raider. 


Scout 

The Unknown Regions present the scout with the greatest opportunities for 
exploration and discovery. Scouts might explore for their own pleasure or in 
the employ of others, for the right amount of credits. Scouts can guide others 
seeking specific individuals or locations. Scouts might serve as trailblazers or 
as stealthy reconnaissance agents observing newly discovered civilizations. A 
scout can also search for new systems that meet the specific requirements of 
an employer, such as a corporation, the Empire, the Rebel Alliance, a criminal 
mastermind, or a despotic warlord. 


New Camouflage Talents 

The following new talent expands the Camouflage talent tree (see page 49 

of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose 

talents from the Camouflage talent tree can choose this talent as well. 
Extended Ambush: During a surprise round, if you make a ranged attack 

against a target that is surprised, you can aim at that target as a free action. 
Prerequisite: Improved Stealth. 


New Hyperspace Explorer Talents 

The following new talent expands the Hyperspace Explorer talent tree (see 
page 28 of the Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide). Any character 
who can normally choose talents from the Hyperspace Explorer talent tree 
can choose this talent as well. 

Silent Movement: You know how to move silently in almost any environ- 
ment. You never suffer from unfavorable circumstances from environmental 
effects associated with noise when you sneak using the Stealth skill. Once 
per round, when you make a Stealth check, you can automatically use the 
aid another action on one ally's Stealth check. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Stealth skill. 


Master Scout Talent Tree 

You are more experienced and talented than the average scout. You draw 
upon your diverse abilities to gain advantages others cannot match. Several 
of these talents draw upon talents from multiple talent trees available to 
the scout class. 

Piercing Hit: You are skilled at fighting armored characters, taking 
advantage of their weaknesses. You can use each of the following actions 
once per encounter: 

© Binding Hit: You dislodge an enemy's armor, causing it to hinder the 
wearer's defenses. Make a melee or ranged attack as a standard action. 

If you hit and damage your target, the target loses its armor bonus to 

Reflex Defense and is flat-footed. This effect remains until the target 

spends a standard action to adjust its armor. 


i YSLavHo 


0) 
© 
> 
2 
> 
| 
Y 
wv 
: 
a 
o 
Z. 
@ 


HaiavHo 


A: 


SNOILI@ YOLIVBVng® 


e Blinding Fire: Make a melee or ranged attack as a standard action. If the 
attack hits and damages the target, the target takes a -2 penalty to all 
attacks until the end of your next turn. Additionally, all other creatures, 
droids, and vehicles have concealment from the target until the end of 
your next turn. 

© Slowing Shot: Your hit damages your target's armor so that the target's 
movement is hindered. Make a melee or ranged attack as a standard 
action. If you hit and damage the target, the target's speed is reduced 
to 2 squares until the end of your next turn. 

Prerequisites: Acute Senses, Keen Shot. 

Quicktrap: You can use Tripwire as a move action instead of a standard 
action. 

Prerequisites: Jury-Rigger, Tripwire, trained in the Mechanics skill. 

Speedclimber: You do not take the penalty when using the Accelerated 
Climbing application of the Climb skill. 

Prerequisites: Long Stride, Surefooted, trained in the Climb skill. 

Surprisingly Quick: In a surprise round, if you are not surprised, you can 
take a swift action in addition to the one other action normally allowed. If 
you are surprised, you can take a single swift action (instead of no actions). 

Prerequisites: Skill Focus (Initiative), trained in the Initiative skill. 

Tripwire: As a standard action, you can set up a simple snare or trap 
across an opening up to 3 squares wide. You must have the required item 
to set the trap. Make a successful DC 20 Mechanics check to set the trap. 
Make a Deception check to conceal the wire. Compare the result of the 
Deception check to the Perception check of the next creature that passes 
through that square (-10 if it observes you setting the trap). If the creature 
fails the Perception check, it takes the result indicated for the trap. If the 
creature succeeds, it can make a DC 10 Acrobatics check to avoid the wire. 
Select one of the following options: 

e Clothesline: Requires thin wire, set at neck height. Success results in the 
target falling prone in the trapped square, ending its actions for the turn 
and taking 1d6 points of damage. 

e Electronic tripwire: Success results in mine damage (treat as frag gre- 
nade, 2-square blast radius centered on one end of the wire). Target is 
automatically hit; roll 1d20+10 against the Reflex Defense of adjacent 
targets. 

e Tripwire: Requires thin wire, set at ankle height. Add 2 to the Deception 
check result. Success results in the target immediately falling prone in 
the trapped square and ending its actions for the turn. 

Prerequisites: Jury-Rigger, trained in the Mechanics skill. 


Mobile Scout Talent Tree 
Always mobile, scouts have developed ways to ride and drive over all types 
of terrain. The following talents enable a scout to become a more effective 
rider and pilot. 

Battle Mount: You know how to fight from a living mount. You can use 
each of the following actions once per encounter: 

© Covered Attack: Once per encounter, when you use Use Mount as Cover 
(but not improved cover) with the Ride skill (see page 72 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook), you can make an attack as a standard action, but 
you must have a free hand to do so. 

e Reduce Profile: You gain additional cover from your mount. When you 
succeed in using the Use Mount as Cover application of the Ride skill 
(see page 72 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), you gain improved 
cover. If you fail by less than 10, you still gain the benefit of normal 
cover. You gain no benefit if you fail by 10 or more. 

e Swift Attack Mount: Once per encounter, the mount you are riding can 
make an attack as a swift action instead of as a standard action. 
Prerequisites: Expert Rider, Terrain Guidance, trained in the Ride skill. 


A SHISTAVANEN SCOUT RIDES A MARU. 


Expert Rider: You can reroll any Ride check, but the result of the reroll 
must be accepted even if it is worse. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Ride skill. 

Terrain Guidance: You effectively guide your mount through rough ter- 
rain. When in control of your mount, you can make a DC 20 Ride check as a 
swift action to negate the effect of difficult terrain on your mount's speed. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Ride skill. 

Mechanized Rider: You use your riding experience to improve your skills 
on a speeder bike or a swoop. When riding a speeder bike or a swoop (or 
similar vehicle), you can use the following applications of the Ride skill (see 
page 72 of the Saga Edition core rulebook): Fast Mount or Dismount, Soft 
Fall, Stay in Saddle, and Use Mount as Cover. 

Prerequisites: Trained in the Pilot and Ride skills. 


SOLDIER 

Military might is useful for a great range of operations within the Unknown 
Regions. Soldiers might hire themselves out as bodyguards for expeditionary 
teams. Mercenary teams might find regular employment from less advanced 
cultures, gaining great wealth through the deployment of high-tech weapons 
systems against their employers’ relatively primitive enemies. Deserters might 
take refuge far from their abandoned stations and organizations. Pirates and 
outlaws of every sort could always use an extra gun, and even the least able 
soldier can find some paying job. 


New Commando Talent 

The following new talent expands the Commando talent tree (see page 52 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Commando talent tree can choose this talent as well. 

Out of Harm's Way: Asa reaction, when you use Harm's Way (which still 
requires a swift action to activate), you can move into the square of the ally 
you are protecting, and move the ally to any legal square adjacent to you. 
This movement does not provoke an attack of opportunity. 

Prerequisites: Harm's Way, trained in the Initiative skill. 


Warrior Talent Tree 

Warriors draw upon their natural aggressiveness, powerful bodies, and 

fighting abilities to defeat their enemies. Whether they fight with primitive 

or advanced weaponry, they are fearsome combatants. 
Champion: You fight for protection, honor, or glory for yourself and 

others. You can use each of the following actions once per encounter: 

© Champion's Pride: Your pride and dedication drives you on in the most 

difficult moments. When you use your second wind, you move +1 step 
on the condition track and remove one fear effect or mind-affecting 
effect in addition to the normal benefit of second wind. 


e Disarming Hit: When you hit and damage a creature and that damage 
equals or exceeds the target's damage threshold, you can make a 
Disarm Attack (see page 152 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) against 
that target as a free action. If using a ranged weapon, you must also 
have the Ranged Disarm feat. 

e Masterful Strike:You land an impressive blow against your enemy. When 
making a successful unarmed or melee attack (except when using a 
lightsaber), increase your damage by 2 for every 5 points by which your 
attack roll exceeds your target's Reflex Defense. 

Prerequisites: Warrior's Awareness, Warrior's Determination. 

Quick Study: You excel at turning an enemy's tricks against it. Once 
per encounter, if an enemy attacks you using a non-Force-related talent, 
you can use the same talent against it on your next turn. You must use an 
appropriate weapon or item, if required by the talent, although you do not 
have to have the prerequisites. You can take this action even if your enemy's 
attack misses you. 

Prerequisite: Warrior's Awareness. 

Simple Opportunity: You can make attacks of opportunity when using a 
ranged or thrown simple weapon against a single target. Area attack weapons 
cannot be used with this talent. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons). 

Warrior's Awareness: You learn your enemy's preferred tactics quickly. 
When an enemy character makes an unarmed or a melee attack against you 
for at least the second time in an encounter, make a Perception check as a 
reaction. If the check is successful, you gain a +1 bonus to your Reflex and 
Fortitude Defenses against that character until the end of the encounter. 
You can use this against only one character at a time, until that character is 
incapacitated or killed, or until you voluntarily switch targets by dropping the 
use of this talent for one full round (you can take other actions normally). 

Warrior's Determination: Your natural determination carries you through 
tough battles. Once per encounter, as a reaction, you can ignore one non- 
Force-related effect, talent, skill, or ability that exceeds your Will Defense. 
If you spend a Force Point, you can ignore one mind-affecting effect, even 
if it is the result of a Force power, technique, or secret. 


1 eS3tavHo 


Q 
2 
> 
2 
> 
9 
| 
Y 
: 
a 
0 
Z 
@ 


1 eSlavHo 


SNOILA@ YaLeaveVvAg 


FEATS 

The feats presented here supplement those found in the Saga Edition core 
rulebook and are suitable for any era of play. Although these feats are 
designed with an emphasis on self-reliance in exploration, any character 
who qualifies can select them. 


ACROBATIC ALLY 
You move an ally around with ease and accuracy by giving him or her a leg 
up or a helpful toss. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Strength 13, trained in the Acrobatics skill. 

Benefit: You can hoist or toss an ally of your size or smaller up to 2 
squares. You and your ally must act on the same initiative number and start 
in adjacent squares. If you succeed on a DC 20 Acrobatics check as a stan- 
dard action, your ally ends up in a square of your choosing up to 2 squares 
above or away from you. This counts as a free action for your ally and ends 
your turn. Your ally can then continue his or her turn. If you fail your check, 
both you and your ally immediately become prone in your square. Your turn 
is ended, but your ally can take his or her turn normally. 

Special: This feat can provoke attacks of opportunity against either 
character. 


ACROBATIC DODGE 
When you react to an attack, your acrobatics training improves your mobility. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Dodge, Mobility, Skill Focus (Acrobatics), 
trained in the Acrobatics skill. 

Benefit: Once per encounter, as a reaction, if a melee attack misses you, 
you can immediately move into an adjacent square without provoking an 
attack of opportunity. 

Special: You must be aware of the attacker to benefit from this feat. 
You can use this feat a second time during the encounter by spending a 
Force Point. 


COMBAT TRICKERY 
You excel at deceiving others with your tricks and masterful feints in combat. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Deception skill. 

Benefit: You can spend two successive swift actions on the same turn 
to make a Deception check against a target's Will Defense. If the check is 
successful, the target is flat-footed against your next attack made before the 
end of your next turn. Additionally, you can spend a Force Point to extend 
your target's penalties until the end of the encounter. 


ELDER'S KNOWLEDGE 
You have gained the wisdom of elders, whether through your own experiences 
or by learning from their instruction. 

Prerequisite: Skill Focus (Knowledge [social sciences]) or (Knowledge 
[galactic lore]). 

Benefit: Once per encounter, you can substitute a Knowledge (social 
sciences) or Knowledge (galactic lore) check for a Wisdom or Wisdom- 
related check. 


FRIGHTENING CLEAVE 

Enemies that see you successfully use the Cleave feat become fearful. 
Prerequisites: Strength 13, Cleave, Power Attack, base attack bonus +4. 
Benefit: Immediately after you use the Cleave feat, each enemy within 6 

squares of you and within your line of sight takes a -1 penalty to its Reflex 

Defense, attack rolls, and skill checks against you until the end of the encoun- 

ter. This penalty stacks to a maximum of -5. This is a mind-affecting effect. 


GRAB BACK 
You are able to counter grab and grapple attacks, redirecting them back on 
your attacker. 

Prerequisite: Dexterity 13. 

Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to your Reflex Defense against grab and 
grapple attacks. If an enemy misses you when making a grab or grapple 
attack, you can immediately make your own grab attack against the same 
enemy as a reaction. If you have a feat that enables you to make a grapple 
attack (such as Pin or Trip), you can make a grapple attack instead. 


FEAT NAME 
Acrobatic Ally 
Acrobatic Dodge 


Combat Trickery 
Elder's Knowledge 


Frightening Cleave 


Grab Back 


Halt 


Heavy Hitter 


Hold Together 
Hyperblazer 


Improved Sleight 
of Hand 

Improvised Weapon 
Mastery 

Instinctive Attack 


Instinctive Defense 
Intimidator 


Maniacal Charge 
Mounted Combat 
Nikto Survival 
Targeted Area 


Trample 


Wilderness First Aid 


Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, Skill Focus 


(Acrobatics), trained in the Acrobatics skill 


Trained in the Deception skill 

Skill Focus (Knowledge [social sciences]) 
or (Knowledge [galactic lore]) 

Str 13, Cleave, Power Attack, 

base attack bonus +4 

Dex 13 


Trip, Weapon Focus in selected weapon, 
Weapon Proficiency in selected weapon, 
base attack bonus +8 

Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), 
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons) 
Trained in the Mechanics skill 

Trained in the Use Computer skill 


Dex 15, Skill Focus (Deception), trained in 
the Deception and Stealth skills 
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) 


Proficient in weapon used, 

living character (not a droid) 
Living character (not a droid) 
Trained in the Persuasion skill 


Trained in the Ride skill 
Member of Nikto subspecies 


Weapon Proficiency in selected weapon, 
base attack bonus +5 


Trained in the Ride skill 


Trained in the Survival skill 


PREREQUISITES 
Dex 13, Str 13, trained in the Acrobatics skill 


BENEFIT 


Hoist or toss an ally of your size or smaller up to 2 squares. 

When a melee attack misses you, move into an adjacent square without provoking 
an attack of opportunity. 

Spend two swift actions to make Deception check to make enemy flat-footed. 
Substitute a Knowledge (social sciences) or (galactic lore) skill check for a 
Wisdom-related skill check. 

When you use the cleave feat, each enemy within 6 squares and line of sight 
takes a penalty to Reflex Defense, skill checks, and attack rolls against you. 
As a reaction, make a grab or grapple attack following a failed grab or grapple 
attack made against you. 

Knock an enemy prone after a successful attack of opportunity, immediately 
end target's remaining actions when also exceeding its damage threshold. 


Add 1 point of damage for every 5 points rolled above the target's Reflex Defense, 
plus additional benefits when you exceed the target's damage threshold. 

Delay the damage caused to a vehicle until the end of the round. 

Cut all calculation time and Use Computer penalties by half when making 

Use Computer checks for astrogation in the hyperspace tangle. 

Reduce hyperspace mapping time by half. 

Use Deception to aid your Stealth check to use Sleight of Hand; use Stealth to 
draw and palm a weapon simultaneously. 

Treat improvised weapons as simple weapons, deal +1d6 points of damage. 


Spend a Force Point to reroll an attack and take the better result. 


Spend a Force Point to increase all defenses by 2 for 1 round. 

When you successfully intimidate, enemy takes —5 to skill checks and -2 to 
attacks for one round. 

Intimidate your enemies when charging, preventing adjacent characters from 
making attacks of opportunity and denying your target its Dexterity bonus. 
Increase speed and avoid attacks when riding a mount. 

Reroll Survival checks in native environment. 

Deal an additional 5 points of damage against one target within a successful 
area attack. 

When using the mounted charge action, attack enemies between you and 
your target. 

Use Basic Survival skill as if you have a medpac for Treat Injury checks. 


HeStagvwHoD 


’ 
; 
; 


| HSLavHo 


SNOILAGG) YSaELOVHvwAs 


A NIKTO SOLDIER HALTS A CHARGING SCOUT. 


HALT 
When making an attack of opportunity, you can stop an enemy in its tracks. 

Prerequisites: Trip, Weapon Focus in selected weapon, Weapon Profi- 
ciency in selected weapon, base attack bonus +8. 

Benefit: If you hit with an attack of opportunity against an enemy of 
up to one size larger than you, compare the same die roll result against the 
target's grapple check (see page 154 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). If 
the die roll succeeds against the grapple check, the target immediately halts 
all movement and falls prone in its current square. The target can spend any 
remaining actions normally. If your attack exceed the target's damage thresh- 
old, the target loses any remaining actions and ends its turn immediately. 
Apply damage normally to the target regardless of the results of this feat. 

Special: If the target is using the charge action when moving past you, 
its charge is ended if you successfully knock it prone, and the target cannot 
charge again on this turn. 


HEAVY HITTER 
You know how to pound targets when firing heavy-weapons emplacements 
and vehicle weaponry. 

Prerequisites: Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
(heavy weapons). 

Benefit: When making an attack roll using a weapons emplacement or a 
vehicle weapon, you add an additional 1 point of damage for every 5 points 
you roll above the target's Reflex Defense. If you exceed the target's damage 
threshold, then on its next turn the target cannot attack and its speed is 
reduced by 2 squares (1 square starship scale). 


HOLD TOGETHER 
Sometimes vehicles seem to hold together by your force of will. 
Prerequisite: Trained in the Mechanics skill. 
Benefit: As a reaction, you can spend a Force Point to delay the effect 
of damage dealt to a vehicle you are riding in or piloting until the end of the 
round. The vehicle must be of Colossal size or smaller. 


HYPERBLAZER 
You are familiar with blazing new routes and navigating the tangled web of 
hyperspace in the Unknown Regions. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Use Computer skill. 

Benefit: When traversing the hyperspace tangle, you reduce by half the 
calculation time and penalties on Use Computer checks for astrogation (see 
page 237 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). You also reduce hyperspace 
mapping time by half when mapping new hyperspace routes. 


IMPROVED SLEIGHT OF HAND 

You manipulate small objects quickly, and they seemingly disappear with 
a flick of your wrist. You excel at hiding objects when observed, even at 
close range. 

Prerequisites: Dexterity 15, Skill Focus (Deception), trained in the Decep- 
tion and Stealth skills. 

Benefit: When using the Sleight of Hand application of the Stealth skill 
(see page 73 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), you can use your Deception 
skill to improve your chance of success. Prior to making the Stealth check, 
you can make a Deception check as a swift action. The opposed Perception 
check of anyone attempting to notice your action must exceed both your 
Deception check and your Stealth check. 

Additionally, you can, as a single action, use Improved Sleight of Hand to 
simultaneously draw and palm a weapon two sizes smaller than you. Make 
a Stealth check as a free action when drawing your weapon to successfully 
conceal it in a position in your hand (or similar appendage), where you can 
use it on a following action. Once the weapon is used, you can attempt to 
palm it again as a swift action. 


IMPROVISED WEAPON MASTERY 
You use improvised weapons with true skill. 

Prerequisite: Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons). 

Benefit: You treat all improvised weapons as simple weapons, and you 
can use them without penalty and with talents and feats designed for use 
with simple weapons. You also deal an additional 1d6 points of damage on 
a successful hit. 


INSTINCTIVE ATTACK 
Your accuracy improves when you act on instinct. Though you might call it 
luck, the Force is with you. 
Prerequisite: Proficient in weapon used, living character (not a droid). 
Benefit: When you use a Force Point when making an attack, you can 
reroll the attack and take the better result. Apply the results of the die from 
the Force Point to the better result. 


INSTINCTIVE DEFENSE 
You naturally know how to avoid attacks and defend your mind and body 
when the Force is with you. 

Prerequisite: Living character (not a droid). 

Benefit: On your turn, as a free action, you can spend a Force Point to 
increase all your defenses by 2 until the start of your next turn. 


INTIMIDATOR 
When you intimidate others, either physically or verbally, you shake their 
confidence so severely that it affects their performance. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Persuasion skill. 

Benefit: When you successfully use the Intimidate application of the 
Persuasion skill against a creature, instead of the normal results, the crea- 
ture takes a -5 penalty to all skill checks (including Use the Force) and a -2 
penalty to all attacks when you are within its line of sight, until the end of 
your next turn. If aboard another vehicle, your enemy must be able to see 
or detect your vehicle. 

Special: You cannot use this feat with the Maniacal Charge feat. 


MANIACAL CHARGE 
You charge your enemies like a battle-crazed berserker. 

Benefit: When using the charge action, you can make a Persuasion check 
as a free action to intimidate your target and each enemy you pass within 1 
square of. When your check succeeds against an enemy you pass, it cannot 
make an attack of opportunity against you. When your check succeeds 
against your target, it loses its Dexterity bonus and is considered flat-footed 
until the start of your next turn. 


MOUNTED COMBAT 
You know how to get the most from a mount in combat and in other dan- 
gerous situations. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Ride skill. 

Benefit: You can make a DC 20 Ride check as a swift action to spur your 
living mount to move faster than its normal speed. If the check fails, your 
mount's speed does not increase and it moves -1 step on the condition track. 
If the check succeeds, your mount's speed increases by 2 squares until the 
start of your next turn. You cannot take 10 on this check. Your mount must 
succeed on a DC 20 Endurance check prior to each subsequent attempt to 
use this feat in the same encounter. 

Additionally, once per round, as a reaction, when you are riding a mount, 
you can negate a weapon hit against either you or the mount by making a 
successful Ride check. The DC of the skill check is equal to the result of the 
attack roll you want to negate. 


A SLUISS! SCOUT CREATES A TARGETED AREA TO PIN 
DOWN A RAKATAN WARRIOR. 


SWNOILAM@G YeLIVHvnsa 


1 SS1tcavHo 


SNEOILAEG HELBVHVHnis 


NikTO SURVIVAL 
You gain an additional boost to your Survival checks, based on your Nikto 
subspecies. 
Prerequisite: Must be a member of the Nikto species (see Nikto, page 13). 
Benefit: Select a Nikto subspecies: Kajain'sa'Nikto (desert), 
Kadas'sa'Nikto (forest), Esral'sa'Nikto (mountains), Gluss'sa'Nikto (ocean), 
or M'shento’'su'Nikto (arctic). In addition to the usual Nikto species traits, 
when you are operating in an environment advantageous to your native 
subspecies, you can reroll any Survival check, taking the better result. 


TARGETED AREA 
Your area attacks deal more damage to one target within the area of effect. 
Prerequisite: Weapon Proficiency in selected weapon, base attack 
bonus +5. 
Benefit: When you make a successful area attack, select a single target 
hit by the attack. That target takes an additional 5 points of damage from 
the attack, before applying the effect of the Evasion talent. 


TRAMPLE 
When charging, your living mount can flatten smaller targets between you 
and your target. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Ride skill. 

Benefit: When you use the mounted charge action, your mount can make 
a single melee attack as a free action. While charging, compare the result to 
the Reflex Defense of each enemy whose square you charge through. Each 
enemy hit by the attack takes claw, gore, or slam damage from the mount's 
natural weapons plus the mount's Strength modifier. You or your mount still 
can make a regular attack at the end of the charge. 

Special: You can use this feat if either you or your mount has taken it. 
Mounts with this feat do not require the prerequisite. 


WILDERNESS FIRST AID 
You know how to treat wounds in the wilderness, using only the natural 
materials around you. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Survival skill. 

Benefit: Once per day, you can make a DC 20 Survival check. If the check 
is successful, when you use the Basic Survival application of the Survival 
skill, you are considered to have a medpac for any Treat Injury checks made 
until the end of the day. 

Special: The Gamemaster can adjust the DC for the current environment, 
raising it for harsh or desert climates or lowering it for more diverse locales. 


FIGHTING FROM MOUNTS 

The Ride skill (see page 72 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), along with 
associated feats and talents found in this and other Star Wars Roleplaying 
Game Saga Edition supplements, covers fighting from a living mount. The 
following combat actions can also be used with mounts, by characters 
trained in the Ride skill. 


Attacks of Opportunity 

When an enemy provokes an attack of opportunity, both you and your 
mount can each make a single attack once per round. You can elect for 
both you and your mount to take the attack of opportunity simultane- 
ously in response to the same provoking action, or you can save one 
or both attacks for a future attack of opportunity in the same round. 
Having the Combat Reflexes feat allows you or your mount to make 
additional attacks, but you cannot share extra attacks with your mount, 
or vice versa. 


Catch a Second Wind 
A mount that has a heroic class or the Extra Second Wind feat can catch 
a second wind once per day as a swift action. 


Fall Prone 

A mount voluntarily falling into a prone position requires a swift action. 
If the mount is trained in the Acrobatics skill, it can fall prone as a free 
action with a successful DC 15 Acrobatics check. 


Mounted Charge 

You can charge while riding a mount. As a standard action, you can move 
your mount's speed (minimum 4 squares) ina straight line, and then you 
or your mount can make a melee attack at the end of movement. You or 
your mount gain a +2 competence bonus to the attack roll and take a 
-2 penalty to Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn. You can 
charge through squares containing low objects and difficult terrain, 
but doing so costs twice as much per square as normal. You can charge 
through squares occupied by enemies smaller than the size of your mount, 
but not squares occupied by enemies of the same size as or larger than 
your mount. After you resolve a charge attack, you can take no further 
actions this turn. You can use feats that modify the charge action when 
making a mounted charge attack. 


Stand Up 

Standing a mount up from a prone position requires a move action. A 
mount trained in the Acrobatics skill can stand up as a swift action with 
a successful DC 15 Acrobatics check. 


PRESTIGE CLASS 
TALENTS 


The following talents expand the talent trees available to the prestige classes 
found in the Saga Edition core rulebook. 


ACE PILOT TALENTS 

Scouts, warriors, and criminals depend on their starships in the unpredictable 
Unknown Regions. With so much time devoted to the complexities of travel 
in the region, many become excellent pilots, anticipating and avoiding even 
the most difficult deep-space hazards. 


New Expert Pilot Talents 
The following new talents expand the Expert Pilot talent tree (see page 207 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Expert Pilot talent tree can choose these talents as well. 
Roll Out: You are an expert at escaping dogfights. When making an 
opposed check to disengage from a dogfight, you can reroll your Pilot check, 
taking the better result. If you fail, you remain in the dogfight, but the gun- 
ners on your vehicle do not take penalties to their attack rolls (see page 171 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 
Prerequisite: Elusive Dogfighter. 


New Gunner Talents 

The following new talents expand the Gunner talent tree (see page 207 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose talents 
from the Gunner talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Fast Attack Specialist: Once per encounter, when piloting a vehicle of 
Gargantuan size or smaller, you can make a full attack as a standard action. 
You can spend a Force Point to use this action one additional time in an 
encounter. 

Prerequisites: Expert Gunner, Quick Trigger. 

Overcharged Shot: You know how to overcharge your vehicle's weapon 
to produce additional damage. As a swift action, you can overcharge your 
vehicle's energy weapon and deal 1 die of damage on your next attack in the 
same turn. However, your weapon loses 1 die of damage on its subsequent 
attacks and cannot be overcharged again, until a full round passes without 
the weapon firing. 

Prerequisites: Expert Gunner. 


BOUNTY HUNTER TALENTS 

Bounty hunters seeking targets in the Unknown Regions can expect to earn 
apremium for their specialized services. They must know their territory well, 
relying on their own knowledge and detective work, since they will receive 
little aid from scattered witnesses and informants. However, bounty hunters 
are able to operate with much greater freedom in the Unknown Regions, 
with no rules or regulations on their activities beyond local restrictions that 
can be easily ignored. 


New Bounty Hunter Talents 

The following new talents expand the Bounty Hunter talent tree (see page 208 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Bounty Hunter talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Familiar Enemies: You can apply your familiar foe bonus against a second 
enemy. If you can see both enemies simultaneously in the same round, you 
need to spend only a single full-round action observing them. Otherwise, 
you must spend a separate full-round action on each enemy. 

Prerequisite: Familiar foe special quality. 

Familiar Situation: You can apply your familiar foe bonus to your For- 
titude and Will Defenses against attacks and actions taken against you by 
the target of your familiar foe special quality. 

Prerequisite: Familiar foe special quality. 

Quick Cuffs: You are fast with the binders. As a swift action, when you 
successfully use the grab action against a target, you can use binder cuffs 
or similar restraints to bind one of the target's arms to one of your arms or 
to an adjacent object. You cannot use improvised materials, such as mesh 
tape, for this talent, and the binders must be in your hands or readily avail- 
able. You and the target both take a -2 penalty to attack rolls and Reflex 
Defense while bound together. 

Prerequisite: Quick Draw feat. 


CRIME LORD TALENTS 

Crime lords operating outside civilized space can become virtual warlords or 
minor governments in their own right. A crime lord might control an entire 
planet or star system with thousands or tens of thousands of beings under 
his or her control. Although they operate beyond all legal jurisdictions, crime 
lords must still fear attacks by rivals as well as by governmental organizations 
determined to pursue criminals no matter where they hide. 


New Infamy Talents 

The following new talents expand the Infamy talent tree (see page 210 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose talents 
from the Infamy talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Master Manipulator: When you make a successful Persuasion check, you 
can immediately make a second Persuasion check against the same target, 
even if it is not normally allowed. The second Persuasion check need not be 
for the same use of the Persuasion skill as the first. For example, if you suc- 
cessfully change the attitude of the target, you can immediately attempt to 
change it a second time, or you can attempt to intimidate the target instead. 

Prerequisites: Notorious, Skill Focus (Persuasion), trained in the 
Persuasion skill. 

Small Favor: You can call in a small favor from someone who owes you. 
Once per day, make a DC 25 Persuasion check. If the check is successful, an 
informant gives you information, granting you a +10 competence bonus to 
one Gather Information or Knowledge check made within the next 24 hours. 

Prerequisites: Notorious, Trained in the Persuasion skill. 


HYStagvHgd 


“Q 
a 
> 
a 
> 
; 
uv 
) 
y 
@ 
Zs 
) 


| HStdvHo 


Q 
Xe 
> 
2 
> 
0 
G 
v 
a 
9 
22 
@ 


New Mastermind Talent 
The following new talents expand the Mastermind talent tree (see page 210 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Mastermind talent tree can choose these talents as well. 
Master's Orders: When an ally uses an action granted to him or her by 
you, the ally can reroll any attack or check made during that action, taking 
the better result. 
Prerequisites: |mpel Ally |, Impel Ally Il. 


EvITeE TROOPER TALENTS 

The Unknown Regions create skilled, tough combatants who can survive 
the areas’ unexpected perils. Elite troopers from known space are often 
protectors or mercenaries. On primitive worlds, superior clan warriors or 
tribal champions are frequently elite troopers. 


New Critical Master Talent 

The following new talents expand the Critical Master talent tree (see page 
42 of the Force Unleashed Campaign Guide). Any character who can nor- 
mally choose talents from the Critical Master talent tree can choose these 
talents as well. 

Extended Critical Range (simple weapons): When you attack with a 
simple weapon, you extend the weapon's critical range by 1 (for example, 
19-20 instead of 20). However, anything other than a natural 20 is not 
considered an automatic hit; if you roll anything other than a natural 20 
and still miss the target, you do not score a critical hit. 

Prerequisites: Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons), base attack 
bonus +10. 


New Weapon Master Talents 
The following new talents expand the Weapon Master talent tree (see page 
211 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally 
choose talents from the Weapon Master talent tree can choose these talents 
as well. 

Extended Threat: When using a ranged weapon eligible to make attacks 
of opportunity, you threaten all squares within a 2-square radius. 

Prerequisites: Weapon Focus and Weapon Proficiency with weapon used. 

Multiattack Proficiency (simple weapons): When you make multiple 
attacks with any type of simple weapon as a full attack action (see page 
154 of the Saga Edition core rulebook), you reduce the penalty to your 
attack rolls by 2. 

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent, 
you reduce the penalty to your attack rolls by an additional 2. 

Two-For-One Throw: As a standard action, you can throw two weapons 
simultaneously. Both weapons target the same enemy or target square and 
are thrown with one hand. Make separate attack rolls for each weapon, 
each at a -10 penalty. The weapons must be similar, such as two grenadelike 


objects or two knives, and they must be no larger than one size category 
smaller than you. The attack cannot exceed short range (typically 8 squares). 

Prerequisites: Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
(simple weapons). 


FORCE ADEPT TALENTS 

The Force adepts of the Unknown Regions have knowledge and abilities 
that are undiscovered or long forgotten by the Force-users of known space. 
Characters from known space should learn these talents from an Unknown 
Regions native, instead of learning them on their own. 


New Force Adept Talents 

The following new talents expand the Force Adept talent tree (see page 214 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Force Adept talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Instrument of the Force: You are particularly in tune with the living 
Force. When you successfully use Search Your Feelings, you gain a Force 
Point that must be used before the end of the encounter. If you use this 
Force Point in a manner that would end in unfavorable results (per Search 
Your Feelings), you raise your Dark Side Score by 1. If you use the Force Point 
in an action that would normally raise your Dark Side Score, you raise your 
Dark Side Score by 2 instead. 

Long Call: When using the telepathy ability of Use the Force, you reduce 
the DC of the Use the Force check by half, as do those Force-users for whom 
you are a willing telepathic recipient. When attempting to contact an unwill- 
ing target, you can reroll and take the better result. By spending a Force Point, 
you can simultaneously contact a number of targets equal to your Charisma 
modifier (minimum two) with a single Use the Force check. 

Prerequisite: Mystical Link. 

Mystical Link: The Force guides you in unexpected ways. As a standard 
action, make a DC 30 Use the Force check. If the check is successful, you 
gain one of the following benefits, as selected by the Gamemaster: one Force 
power is returned to your Force suite; one Force Point that is lost if it is not 
spent before the end of the encounter; an additional use of a Force-related 
talent or feat normally restricted to once per encounter; or roll an additional 
die when making a Force check and select the highest die rolled. 


GUNSLINGER TALENTS 
When operating in areas far beyond the reach of the law or other aid, gun- 
slingers are among the heroes best able to protect themselves. 


New Gunslinger Talents 

The following new talents expand the Gunslinger talent tree (see page 216 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally choose 
talents from the Gunslinger talent tree can choose these talents as well. 


Lingering Debilitation: Once per encounter, when you successfully use 
Debilitating Shot to move a target character -1 step on the condition track, 
the target suffers a persistent condition requiring 4 hours of rest or a DC 25 
Treat Injury check to remove. 

Prerequisite: Debilitating Shot. 

Retreating Fire: When moving away from a pursuing target, if you either 
run or use two move actions during this turn, you can make a single ranged 
attack with a -5 penalty as part of your move action. You can spend a Force 
Point to avoid the penalty. 

Slowing Shot: If you successfully use Debilitating Shot, until the target 
moves to the normal state on the condition track or until the end of the 
encounter, the target's speed is reduced by 2 squares, and it loses its Dexterity 
bonus to its Reflex Defense and is considered flat-footed. These effects occur 
in addition to the effect of Debilitating Shot (see page 216 of the Saga Edi- 
tion core rulebook). If you spend a Force Point, the target's speed is reduced 
by 4 squares or half of its normal speed, whichever is the greater reduction. 

Prerequisite: Debilitating Shot. 

Swift Shot: Once per encounter, you can make a single ranged attack with 
a handheld weapon as a swift action instead of a standard action. However, 
you cannot use your remaining actions for an attack. 


A HUMAN GUNSLINGER USES RETREATING FIRE TO 
ESCAPE A SS!I-RUUK SOLDIER. 


OFFICER TALENTS 

An officer on an extended mission into the Unknown Regions operates 
with great autonomy from his or her host organization and might develop 
unusual tactics. Such an officer might also be specialized in guerrilla tactics 
or command irregular forces within the military or paramilitary organization. 


New Military Tactics Talents 

The following new talents expand the Military Tactics talent tree (see page 
221 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Any character who can normally 
choose talents from the Officer talent tree can choose these talents as well. 

Commander's Prerogative: During the first round of combat in an 
encounter (after the surprise round, if any), you can take your turn before 
any of your allies, but you must use either the share talent prestige class 
ability or a talent from one of the following talent trees as part of your turn: 
Commando, Leadership, or Military Tactics. On the subsequent round, you 
return to your normal place in the initiative order. 

Prerequisite: Trained in the Initiative skill. 

Irregular Tactics: Your tactics confuse enemy commanders and tacti- 
cians that can see or otherwise observe your forces in action, such as when 
using sensors. After using the share talent special quality, make a Knowledge 
(tactics) check as a free action. The result replaces the DC of any talents that 
use Knowledge (tactics) from the Military Tactics talent tree used against 
your or your allies. 

Prerequisite: Share talent special quality. 

Lead by Example: If you have already used a talent in an encounter before 
granting the same talent to an ally with your share talent special quality 
in the same encounter, any character who benefits from share talent gains 
one of the following bonuses when using that talent: Reduce the talent's 
DC by 5; gain an additional +2 bonus to any bonus to attack, Defense, or 
damage used by the talent; or reduce the amount of damage taken by the 
character through the use of the talent by 10 points. If the talent can be 
affected by more than one effect, the character using the talent selects the 
desired effect. 

Prerequisite: Share talent special quality. 

Turn the Tide: Once per encounter, after the first round of combat, you 
can make a Knowledge (tactics) check as a full-round action and compare the 
result to the Will Defense of all enemies within 12 squares of you and within 
your line of sight. If your check is successful, affected enemies must reroll 
their Initiative checks at the start of the next round. Allies within your line 
of sight can choose whether to reroll their check. Rerolls and other modifiers 
to the Initiative skill apply normally to this check for all affected targets. 

Prerequisites: Command Decision, Commander's Prerogative, trained in 
the Initiative skill. 


} 


| HSLdwvwHo 


SNOILIEG PSLOIvVyvAg 


{1 HStdovHo 


SNOILAG PEaLeveavAg 


FORCE-USING 
TRADITIONS 


What new secrets of the Force lurk within the vast and mysterious Unknown 
Regions? Throughout the millennia, Force-users of all types seek refuge 
in wild, uncharted space, including ancient Sith fleeing Jedi shadows and 
sentinels, Order 66 survivors fleeing the Empire, and lesser-known traditions 
seeking their own way in the galaxy. In addition, Force-using natives of the 
Unknown Regions naturally develop their own traditions and ideas regarding 
the power of the light and dark sides. Over the millennia, Jedi, Sith, and other 
followers of the Force have journeyed into the Unknown Regions, following 
rumors of experts and sages as they search for greater understanding or new 
and mysterious techniques. 

The following non-Jedi Force tradition is specifically for use in the 
Unknown Regions. However, Gamemasters should feel free to incorporate 
elements of traditions from other Star Wars Roleplaying Game supplements 
and campaign guides with these or other traditions of their own creation. 
With such diverse influences, virtually any tradition might have made its 
way to the Unknown Regions, but it might have been so adapted, warped, 
or corrupted that its original source is no longer recognizable. 


THE BLAZING CHAIN 

The Blazing Chain is a group of nomadic raiders who ply their way through 
the Unknown Regions in search of poorly defended settlements and star- 
ships from which they can plunder whatever they need. Blazing Chain ships 
are painted with variations of a fiery chain wrapping across the vessel, an 
intimidating and fearsome symbol. Though many call them pirates, the 
members of the Blazing Chain prefer quick raids, living on the spoils for long 
periods of time. Unlike typical raider groups, however, the Blazing Chain uses 
the Force to gain the upper hand. The Blazing Chain does not adhere to a 
single philosophy of Force use. Members add powers and techniques to their 
Force repertoires through trial and error, through the admission of outside 
Force-users to their ranks, and through teaching the techniques commonly 
used in raids. Members of the Blazing Chain cannot build lightsabers and 
rarely use them. Those who manage to obtain lightsabers lack the training 
to use them effectively. 


History 

In the time of the Old Republic, the Blazing Chain starts deep within the 
Unknown Regions as a group of talented pirates and raiders, bolstered by 
members who have rudimentary Force abilities. After the Great Sith War, 
the Blazing Chain encounters Sith ships fleeing into the Unknown Regions. 
Although a few of the less powerful Sith join Blazing Chain crews, most 
encounters between the Sith and the Blazing Chain are violent and deadly. 
However, the Chain learns new techniques from the Sith, even though the 
group rejects the Sith's established philosophy. 


Gradually, the Force-users in the Blazing Chain outnumber those without 
Force abilities. By the time of the Dark Wars, 90 percent of Blazing Chain 
members are Force-sensitive. The Blazing Chain operates as a dozen small 
autonomous fleets, scattered throughout the Unknown Regions. The fleets 
are made up of a wide variety of ships captured over the years. Each fleet 
is lead by an Adacap, a strong-willed, charismatic, and intelligent captain, 
able to keep his or her followers in line through threat, bribery, or genuine 
respect. Rarely does a single leader emerge to head the entire Blazing Chain. 
However, the fleets regard each other as brethren and rarely combat each 
other directly. United raids are carried out on an ad hoc basis. 

One year prior to the Battle of Naboo, members of the Blazing Chain 
Blackshackle fleet fall to the dark side while under the command of Adacap 
Zonsoe. Inspired by tales of Sith power, Zonsoe exchanges the role of raider 
for that of conqueror and begins to take permanent control of some of the 
Blazing Chain's favorite targets and havens. Zonsoe defeats the rival Blaz- 
ing Chain Arcblade fleet, absorbing half of its members into his ranks. Over 
the next five years, the remaining Blazing Chain fleets fight both alone and 
in concert against Zonsoe's forces, finally shattering the Blackshackle fleet 
in a massive space battle that leaves the surviving Blazing Chain fleets 
significantly weakened until after the Battle of Yavin. 

Over the next few years, the Blazing Chain slowly rebuilds its strength, and 
its fleets establish strongholds on isolated worlds. The Blazing Chain expands 
its knowledge of the Force, paying greater heed to the difference between 
the light and dark sides. Although not shunning the dark side completely, 
the Blazing Chain is more aware of its influence and pitfalls. By the fall of 
the Galactic Alliance, the Blazing Chain is once again a formidable threat, 
operating widely in the Unknown Regions. 


Location 

The far-ranging and splintered Blazing Chain can be found in any part of 
the Unknown Regions, although it is commonly encountered within the 
galactic disk and surrounding cloud. A long-isolated fleet might emerge in 
an unexplored pocket of known space, but this is rare. 

Most members of the Blazing Chain live aboard their vessels. The larg- 
est fleets use colony ships as self-contained cities operating far from any 
civilized world. However, a fleet typically operates in a particular sector 
or collection of systems, using deep space or planetary shadowports for 
resupply and socializing. Later Blazing Chain fleets establish well defended 
strongholds on isolated worlds, kept secret from outsiders and other fleets. 
Most strongholds are not homeworlds, but they serve as rallying points, 
supply caches, fortifications, and meeting locations. 


Philosophy 

The Blazing Chain adheres to no single Force philosophy, other than using 
the Force in any way that benefits its members and makes raiding easier. 
Although some adhere loosely to light-side principles, Blazing Chain raiders 


freely use their anger and aggression to call upon the dark side. Although 
some fall to the dark side, the vast majority of Blazing Chain members do 
not. To the Blazing Chain, members falling to the dark side is only a problem 
if it endangers the fleet, ship, or crews. Some ships and fleets run for years 
under a fallen commander. Force training is treated like gunnery or pilot or 
any other training. Skillful Force-users lead classes grounded in practical 
use, rather than theory or philosophy. 

Membership: About 80 percent of the Blazing Chain's members are born 
into the fleet. However, the Blazing Chain accepts nearly any roguish Force 
user into its ranks, as long as the fleet can be persuaded that the candidate 
adds to the group's power and will not betray the fleet to opposing forces 
or rival Blazing Chain fleets. Non-Force-users are also admitted, although 
most find themselves at a distinct disadvantage and unable to rise through 
the ranks. A Force user who has clearly turned to the dark side is considered 
risky and is closely watched, especially after the fall of the Blackshackle fleet. 


Playing a Member of the Blazing Chain 

Blazing Chain members begin as scoundrels, scouts, or soldiers. Some who 
have command abilities begin with the noble class, but few start with the 
Jedi class. Those of the Jedi class normally concentrate on talents from the 
Jedi Guardian and Jedi Sentinel talent trees, and virtually none has experience 
with the Lightsaber Combat talent tree. Members select talents that make 
them difficult to see or hit, such as Force Haze and Elusive Target. They also 
prefer talents from the Alter and Control talent trees and their own talent 
tree, below. Those who have a Dark Side Score greater than 0 often have one 
or more talents from the Dark Side tree. 

Powerful Force-wielding Blazing Chain members eventually take levels 
in the Force adept prestige class. Members can take levels in Sith- or Jedi- 
related prestige classes only if they have access to holocrons or to members 
of those traditions. They might also learn talents of other traditions they 
encounter, if someone is available to instruct them. 


BLAZING CHAIN TALENT TREE 
Blazing Chain members develop abilities that aid them in raids and starship 
combat. They do not rely on lightsabers, so they apply the Force to blasters 
and other weapons in ways that other traditions have not attempted. 
Force Directed Shot: You use the Force to alter the flight of your blaster 
bolt, projectile, or similar missile from a thrown or ranged weapon. As a swift 
action, select one square within 12 squares of you and within your line of 
sight. You treat that square as the origin square for your next ranged attack 
with an energy weapon made before the end of your next turn, and determine 
cover and concealment as though you were firing from that square. You must 
have line of sight to the target of the attack from the square you occupy. 
Prerequisites: Force Sensitivity, trained in the Use the Force skill. 
Negate and Redirect: When you successfully use the negate energy 
power (see page 99 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) against a ranged 
energy weapon (such as a blaster), you can redirect some of the shot's 


energy at an enemy target, in addition to the power's usual benefit. As a 
free action immediately following your successful use of the negate energy 
power, choose one enemy you can see within 6 squares of you, and make a 
Use the Force check against the target's Fortitude Defense. If you hit, the 
target takes energy damage equal to one-half of the damage you negated. 

Prerequisite: Negate energy, Force Sensitivity, trained in Use the Force. 

Rising Anger: You tap directly into your anger to increase the effective- 
ness of your attacks. Once per round as a reaction to an ally taking damage 
or being moved down the condition track by an enemy, you gain a +1 morale 
bonus to your next attack roll. If you use this talent again before you make 
an attack, the bonus increases by 1, up to a maximum of +5. 

Prerequisite: Force Sensitivity, Dark Side Score of 1 or higher. 

Rising Panic: You start a rising panic in an enemy who observes your 
attacks and actions, inhibiting the enemy's ability to respond. Once per round 
as a reaction to an enemy damaging one of your allies or moving one of your 
allies down the condition track, you can make a Use the Force check against 
the target's Will Defense. If the check is successful, you move the target -1 
step on the condition track. An enemy moved to the bottom of the condi- 
tion track by this talent does not fall unconscious, but instead must spend 
its actions fleeing combat for one minute or until it moves up the condition 
track. This is a mind-affecting fear effect. 

Prerequisite: Force Sensitivity, Dark Side Score of 1 or higher. 


A BLAZING CHAIN ADEPT HURLS CRATES AT 
GALACTIC ALLIANCE TROOPERS. 


} HSLavHoD 


SNOILAG) YeaLoVvaeVvng 


CHAPTER II 
EXxXPLORER’'S EQUIPMENT 


RE. : dik 


we 


An explorer is only as good as his or her equipment. Although the best 
explorers can get by with the bare necessities of a breather and a blaster, 
only the reckless and the foolhardy venture out into the unknown expanses 
of the galaxy without the equipment necessary to ensure both success and 
survival. Any veteran scout can tell you that when you're a million light- 
years away from civilization, your wits and your gear make the difference 
between accomplishing your mission and death. Explorers prize durability 
and functionality over aesthetics, because their lives require equipment 
that works over equipment that looks good. Despite what the holos show, 
an explorer's life isn't glamorous. 

Anyone can recognize the need for a reliable weapon when venturing into 
unknown and potentially hostile territory, but those who take up the scouting 
life often need far more, because there are as many potential hazards waiting 
for the unwary as there are stars in the galaxy. A scout soon learns how to 
determine the right tool for the environment he or she is heading into. An 
Aquata breather is of little use on a world that has no moisture and a toxic 
atmosphere. And while a bulky space suit is a lifesaver in the cold darkness 
of space, it can be a liability on a world that has thick vegetation. Those 
whose explorations consist mainly of scouting enemy encampments know 
that being detected by the people you are spying on frequently leads to a 
bad end. Every explorer comes to rely on a core set of equipment, including 
weapons, armor, and transportation. 

Although a good scout can find a use for almost any piece of equipment, 
some pieces have become mainstays in the explorer's arsenal, varying little 
even when the political landscape changes drastically. Some equipment 
can prove just as useful in civilized space as it can on some unknown chunk 
melian ( 


i eatadavHo 


LNSEWNdINgOS s,yusayvordx<xg 


i] SStavwHDd 


U 


ALNIWAINGE S.YsVeoidss) 


MELEE WEAPONS 


Although a reliable melee weapon is frequently a secondary concern, many 
an explorer has faced a situation in which a melee weapon would have been 
far more useful than a blaster. 


Blastsword 

Exotic Weapon 

The favored weapon of duelists from the remote world of Adumar, the blast- 

sword is an odd combination of a standard vibroblade and the inner workings 

more commonly found in blaster weapons. At the tip of the blade sits a small 

metal nozzle, which emits a slight glow and an audible hum when activated. 

When the user successfully stabs a target, the blaster energy discharges. 
A blastsword is well balanced, and its wielder can consider it to be a light 

weapon for the purpose of using the Weapon Finesse feat. A blastsword 

requires a power pack to operate. 


HUMAN DUELISTS PREPARE TO FIGHT WITH BLASTSWORDS. 


Contact Stunner 

Simple Weapon 

Frequently sold as a personal protection device, the contact stunner is a small, 

inconspicuous weapon, the forward end of which is covered with over a dozen 

contact disks, enabling it to deliver a concentrated and, therefore, effective 

discharge when it contacts a target. However, the weapon's lack of mass 

makes it less useful for anything other than rendering a target unconscious. 
Because of its slender and compact design, a contact stunner grants a +5 

equipment bonus to Stealth checks made to conceal the weapon. A contact 

stunner requires an energy cell to operate. 


Electropole 
Advanced Melee Weapon 
Similar to the more common electrostaff, the electropole or static pike is 
an electrified melee weapon used primarily by the Gungans of Naboo and 
the picadors on Geonosis. Both cultures use the weapon for herding beasts 
as well as in battle. Unlike the standard electrostaff and the force pike, the 
electropole can be thrown like a javelin. Experienced users often keep two 
or three electropoles within reach when expecting trouble, one for close 
combat and the rest to be thrown at the enemy. 

Gungans are considered proficient with the electropole if they have the 
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) feat. An electropole requires two 
energy cells to operate. 


Survival Knife 

Simple Weapon 

Asmall hand-held weapon with a sturdy blade, the survival knife can be used 

as both a tool and a weapon, making it popular with explorers and survivalists 

alike. It is frequently issued to pilots in military units in the event they are 

shot down and survive their vehicles’ destruction. The handle is hollowed out 

to allow storage of very small items, typically rudimentary survival tools such 

as a fire rod (see page 40), a short length of binding wire, or an energy cell. 
A character who has a survival knife can always determine which way is 

north thanks to the built-in digital compass. 


Vibro-Saw 
Exotic Weapon 
A large and cumbersome variation of the vibro-ax, a vibro-saw is typically 
used to cut down large vegetation such as trees and exceptionally thick 
vine clusters. However, its impressive cutting power has led the vibro-saw 
to be used to cut through bulkheads in boarding actions by military units 
and pirates alike. The vibro-saw also has the distinct advantage of being 
legal in areas where the possession of any other type of vibro weapon is a 
criminal offense. 

A vibro-saw ignores a target's Damage Reduction. A vibro-saw requires 
two energy cells to operate. 


ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS DAMAGE 


Electropole' 1,500 2d8 


EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE 


Me 


Blastsword 600 3d6 


Vibro-saw . : 400 2d10 


STUN DAMAGE 
Y ata 


STUN DAMAGE 


- 10 kg 


WEIGHT AVAILABILITY 


Bludgeoning and Energy 


Licensed . 


WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Rare 


Slashing | : Licensed 


SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Contact stunner = 700 1d4 Y (2d8) 1.1 kg Bludgeoning or Energy Licensed 
Survival knife? 100 1d6 - 1.4 kg Slashing - 


1Can be thrown 
2Can be thrown, inaccurate weapon 


RANGED WEAPONS 


As explorers travel from world to world, they can encounter a diverse array 
of ranged weapon designs, including variations on standard blasters and 
primitive bows and arrows. The types of sidearms that explorers need can 
vary as much as the environments in which they find themselves. 


Black-Powder Pistol 

Pistol 

The black-powder pistol’s usage or possession is rarely regulated, because it 
is considered antique on most worlds. Although reloading the weapon is slow 
and the weapon has a limited range, its main benefit is that knowledgeable 
explorers can usually scrounge together the materials to produce ammuni- 
tion no matter where in the galaxy they might be. Black-powder pistols are 
notoriously finicky and require frequent maintenance. Many a spacer forced 
to use an ill-kept pistol has had it literally fizzle on him or her. 

A black-powder pistol must be reloaded after each shot and requires a 
full-round action to reload, preventing the use of any feats or talents that 
allow multiple shots. Ammunition can be purchased in sets of 50 shots and 
costs 5 credits per set. 

A character trained in Mechanics can attempt to forage for supplies to 
make his or her own ammunition, requiring a DC 20 Perception check to 
search the area for the necessary materials. One hour and a DC 15 Mechan- 
ics check can produce enough ammunition for 5 shots, and an extra 5 shots 
are produced for every 5 points by which the check result exceeds the DC. 


Concussion Rifle 

Rifle 

A powerful if uncommon weapon, the concussion rifle operates by firing a 
concussive energy charge, creating a powerful shock wave that can knock 
down a full-grown Human. The technology required for these weapons is 
more complex than that used in blaster weapons, so few companies except 
Arakyd Industries and BlasTech produce them. In spite of their rarity, con- 
cussion rifles are popular with Trandoshan mercenaries and slavers and are 
used by several bounty hunters and some unconventional military units. 

A character using this weapon makes an attack roll against the target's 
Fortitude Defense. If the attack is successful, the target is knocked prone 
in addition to the damage dealt by the weapon. A concussion rifle requires 
a power pack to operate. After 25 shots, the power pack must be replaced. 


Crossbow 
Simple Weapon 
A primitive weapon used by cultures lacking access to blaster or black-powder 
weaponry, the crossbow requires more time to reload than a bow, and it 
exchanges range for greater stopping power. In spite of these drawbacks, 
professional assassins use modified crossbows because they are quiet and 
do not show up on weapon scanners. As a further benefit to explorers, 
crossbow bolts can be manufactured by hand with a little time and effort, 
although the quality of such makeshift ammunition might be questionable. 
A crossbow holds only a single bolt at a time, and it requires a move action 
to reload. A case of 10 crossbow bolts costs 20 credits and weighs 0.6 kg. 


I) HSLtavHo 


LNEWAIASGE S,weuedesxs | 


é 


LNIWAING”, S,HaVoies<s) 


0 
ut 
> 
v 
4 
iu} 
a 


EXOTIC WEAPONS RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Magna caster! ee 2,000 = =s E 4 kg Piercing Restricted 
Squib tensor rifle 10,000 3d8 - 5 7.2 kg Energy Restricted, Rare 
Verpine shatter gun’ 15,000 3d10 - S 1kg Energy Illegal, Rare 

PISTOLS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 
Black-powder pistol? 200 ~—-2d4 Sie — 1.4 kg Piercing Rare 


Stun pistol 550 - Y (3d6) Ss 1kg Energy Licensed 


Heavy slugthrower pistol 400 2d8 - = S 2.1 kg Piercing Restricted 


WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


RIFLES COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE RATE OF FIRE 


Targeting blaster rifle! 1,000 3d6 é Y S 4 kg Energy Restricted 


Concussion rifle 1,800 2d10 - S 2.1 kg Energy (sonic) Restricted, Rare 


SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY 


Crossbow? 300 1d8 - S 1.8 kg Piercing - 
1 Accurate weapon: This weapon takes no penalty when firing at targets at short range. 
2 Inaccurate weapon: This weapon cannot attack targets at long range. 


Heavy Slugthrower Pistol Magna Caster 

Pistol Exotic Weapon 

The projectile equivalent of a heavy blaster pistol, the heavy slugthrower Initially an attempt to duplicate both the lethality and simplicity of the 

pistol uses a larger round than a slugthrower pistol, creating greater stop- Wookiee bowcaster, the magna caster is unable to replicate the penetration 

ping power at the cost of increased recoil, which makes accurate firing of or power of the bowcaster. However, its use of a magnetic field generator 

several shots in rapid succession a difficult prospect. In spite of this lack makes the weapon substantially quieter than other ranged weapons, making 

of accuracy, the heavy slugthrower pistol does provide a psychological it ideal for game hunters who track prey easily spooked by the sudden bursts 

advantage, both because of its large size as well as the loud report it makes of light and loud noises of blasters. 

when fired, something to be considered when dealing with a skittish group Its lack of noise gives a magna caster a +5 equipment bonus to Stealth 

of unfriendly natives. checks made to snipe. A magna caster uses a case of bolts instead of a power 
If you use the Double Attack, Triple Attack, or Rapid Shot feat with a pack. After 10 shots, the case must be replaced. A case of 10 bolts costs 50 

heavy slugthrower pistol, you take an additional -1 penalty to attack rolls. credits and weighs 1 kg. 


A heavy slugthrower pistol uses an ammo clip instead of a power pack. After 
8 shots, the clip must be replaced. A clip costs 15 credits and weighs 0.1 kg. 


Squib Tensor Rifle 

Exotic Weapon 

Squibs are among the galaxy's foremost experts on tractor-beam technology, 
having adapted tractor beams to function as effective weapons. The tensor 
rifle, which fires invisible bursts of compressed tractor beams at the target, 
inflicts extensive cell disruption upon living targets hit with successive 
blasts. The weapon is also noted for being incredibly loud, and more than a 
few Squibs have used tensor rifles to get the undivided attention of beings 
who would otherwise dismiss them. 

A character using this weapon makes an attack roll against the target's 
Fortitude Defense. If the attack is successful, the target moves -1 step on 
the condition track, regardless of the actual damage roll. Squibs treat Squib 
tensor rifles as rifles, rather than as exotic weapons. 

A Squib tensor rifle is treated as a rifle for the purpose of determining 
range, and it requires a power pack to operate. After 15 shots, the power 
pack must be replaced. 


Stun Pistol 

Pistol 

Although most blaster sidearms come with a stun setting as a standard fea- 

ture, the stun pistol is designed to be used exclusively as a nonlethal weapon, 

often for crowd control or for subduing enemies without causing extensive 

injury. The weapon proves a popular option with law enforcers as well as with 

bounty hunters who prefer to bring their targets in alive for a higher payout. 
Unlike other weapons set on stun, a stun pistol can be used to attack 

targets up to 20 squares away, instead of the usual range of 6 squares. 
Astun pistol requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, the power 

pack must be replaced. 


Targeting Blaster Rifle 

Rifle 

Although technically a sporting blaster, the targeting blaster rifle generates 
nearly as much firepower as a military-grade blaster rifle. Considered a cyni- 
cal attempt by blaster manufacturers to circumvent restrictions on military- 
grade rifles, this weapon retains the legal status of a sporting blaster rifle and 
relies on overfocusing the blaster beam to significantly increase its punch. 
However, to gain the full benefit of the overfocused beam, the shooter must 
be precise. Targeting blaster rifles can be quickly disassembled for ease of 
storage and just as quickly reassembled when the weapon is needed. Assem- 
bling or disassembling the weapon requires a full-round action. Although the 
weapon is ostensibly designed for the sport hunter who wants something 
with a bit more kick, the targeting blaster rifle is popular with assassins, and 
only extensive lobbying by the manufacturers has prevented these weapons 
from being recategorized as military-grade hardware. 


If you aim prior to making an attack roll, the targeting blaster rifle's 
damage dice change from d6s to d8s. A targeting blaster rifle does not have 
a folding stock. A targeting blaster rifle requires a power pack to operate. 
After 50 shots, the power pack must be replaced. 


Verpine Shatter Gun 

Exotic Weapon 

Created and produced by the Verpine, the shatter gun is an extremely pow- 
erful but deceptively fragile handgun. Utilizing a magnetic coil, the shatter 
gun is nearly silent when fired, but it causes tremendous kinetic damage 
with small metallic projectiles that are accelerated to just under the speed 
of sound. The Verpine could increase the velocity of the projectiles, but the 
resulting sonic boom would be far more detrimental to the shooter than the 
benefit provided. 

Ona successful critical hit, a Verpine shatter gun deals an additional 1d10 
points of damage (after multiplying for the critical hit). Verpine shatter guns 
are extremely fragile, so if the weapon takes any damage, it is considered 
disabled until repaired with a Mechanics check (see page 70 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). Verpines treat Verpine shatter guns as pistols, rather 
than as exotic weapons. 

AVerpine shatter gun is treated as a pistol for the purpose of determining 
range, and it uses a special ammunition clip, which costs 1,000 credits for 
50 shots. After 50 shots, the ammunition clip must be replaced. 


A VERPINE USES A SHATTER GUN TO FIRE AT A 48 


AINSSS) [ J: HSlavHo ) 


ALNEWAIAeS So YsSYod 


ALNEIWAINGE S.YHSVNOWwWss) 


W eealevHo 


EQUIPMENT 


Table 2-4: Equipment presents common equipment used by explorers. Refer 
to the descriptions below for other pertinent information. 


ITEM WEIGHT 
Antidote synthesizer 0.8 kg 
Climbing harness 0.7 kg 
Emergency vacuum seal 0.9 kg 
Fire paste 15 0.1 kg 
Fire rod 25 0.1 kg 
Hypoinjector wristband 350 0.1 kg 
Microlab 1,800 0.8 kg 
Personal multitool 100 0.2 kg 
Personal translator 2,000 0.1 kg 
Plastent 300 2.7 kg 
Portable beacon 1,500 6.8 kg 
Repulsor boots 200 2 kg 
Repulsor hitch 100 3 kg 
Saddle, riding 125 4kg 
Saddle, war 250 6 kg 
Shipsuit 200 1 kg 
Signal wand 300 0.2 kg 
Sonar mapper 400 1 kg 
Subsonic field emitter 120 0.2 kg 
Water extractor 400 3.2 kg 


Antidote Synthesizer 

An antidote synthesizer is a small, portable device that takes the portability 
of a microlab one step farther. If an antidote to a poison or a toxin is needed 
and proper medical attention is not immediately available, an antidote syn- 
thesizer can be used to help the victim survive. The synthesizer can analyze 
a small amount of poison or toxin inserted into the machine's sample tube, 
and within 1d6 rounds it can create 1d4 doses of antivenom or antitoxin 
that each grant a +2 bonus to a Treat Injury check made to treat the poison 
or toxin. To reproduce an antidote after the doses are expended, however, 
requires a new sample of the poison or toxin. 


Climbing Harness 

Providing a measure of safety for a wide array of climbing activities, the 
climbing harness secures the wearer to a climb line, reducing the chances 
of falling by providing several attachment points for anchor lines, as well 
as additional options for securing equipment. A character using a climbing 
harness when making a Climb check falls only when he or she fails the check 
by 10 or more. 


Emergency Vacuum Seal 
Designed to quickly seal a starship's interior compartments during a hull 
breach, the disk-shaped emergency vacuum seal is a biomechanical device 
that has proven useful in such a crisis. When the seal has been placed at the 
site of the breach, a series of micromolecular grips keep it lodged firmly in 
place while a mild electrical current stimulates the colony of microorganisms, 
causing them to quickly multiply and seal the breach. A neutralizing current 
is applied once the seal’s sensors determine the breach has been sealed. The 
result is a temporary but durable hull patch that allows a badly damaged 
starship to make its way back to port for repairs. 

When a character makes a Mechanics check to jury-rig a starship that 
has suffered a hull breach, the use of an emergency vacuum seal allows the 
ship to move +1 additional step on the condition track. 


Fire Paste 

Fire paste is a thick beige substance that can act as a fuel for starting a 
fire. The paste, once squeezed from its tube, can be placed on virtually any 
surface, including ice and wet wood. With a single spark, the paste ignites, 
burning for 3d4 minutes. If applied to a living creature or an object, the 
burning paste causes 1d6 points of damage as long as it burns and remains 
in contact with the creature or object. A single squeeze tube contains 5 
applications of fire paste. 


Fire Rod 

When a fire is needed and nothing is around to create a one, many people 
turn to a fire rod—a 10-cm hollow plastic tube that has two chambers, each 
filled with a chemical that is inert on its own. When the two chemicals are 
mixed, they combine to become a highly volatile substance that ignites within 
seconds. A fire rod burns for 2d8 minutes without any additional fuel. Adding 
wood or other combustible material keeps the fire burning longer. 


Hypoinjector Wristband 

An inconspicuous metal band, the hypoinjector wristband can help a wearer 
avoid succumbing to the effects of poisons and other harmful chemicals. 
The refillable wristband stores up to 8 doses of vaccines, antidotes, or other 
medication. In addition to the hypoinjector, the wristband also houses a 
bioscanner that continually scans the wearer for any foreign chemicals 


that the device can counteract. When a harmful substance is detected, 
the hypoinjector administers the appropriate drug. Refilling the wristband 
requires a standard action per dose or 4 rounds for the entire set. The device 
runs on two energy cells that must be replaced after 5 days of constant use. 


Microlab 

Amicrolab is a handheld portable laboratory for analyzing substances. When 
you need quick identification of a material and you cannot wait for the results 
of a full analysis from another location, the microlab works well enough to 
answer most questions. In some cases, the microlab's analysis is just as good 
as a full examination. A sample of the substance in question is placed in a 
small tube that is then slid into the microlab. A DC 15 Knowledge (physical 
sciences) check is necessary to complete the examination, and the results 
are then displayed on the device's small screen. 


Personal Multitool 

People who explore the untamed wilderness need many tools. In most 
cases, full-sized tools can be unwieldy, especially when cargo space is a 
limited commodity. The personal multitool is a low-tech device that holds 
miniature versions of several simple tools that can be useful in the wilder- 
ness. Although the arrangement of the implements can vary, the standard 
personal-multitool configuration for beings of Medium size includes a 5-cm 
vibroblade, a low-power hydrospanner, a small hydrogrip, a toothpick, and a 
miniature set of eating utensils. These tools are stored within the 6-cm handle 
and each fold out on a hinge. The vibroblade, hydrospanner, and hydrogrip 
are all powered by a single energy cell that must be replaced after 50 hours 
of constant use. The vibroblade can be used as a melee weapon that deals 
1d4 points of damage. 


Personal Translator 

Drawing from the successes of many protocol droids, the designers at Cybot 
Galactica condense the translating abilities of a 3PO unit into a tiny shell that 
can be worn around a person's neck or carried in a pocket. Thus, a person can 
carry a personal translator unit anywhere without having to rely on a protocol 
droid. The universal translator can translate verbal communications in the 
owner's language and up to three other languages of the owner's choosing. 
The device operates at the level of a DC 10 droid translator unit. The translator 
has no photoreceptors or appendages, so it is not able to interpret nonverbal 
forms of communication such as sign language. 


Plastent 

A plastent is a prefabricated high-grade polymer shelter that can be easily 
transported from place to place. Fully inflated, a plastent forms a triangular 
structure about 2 meters tall, providing enough room for four beings of 
Medium size. The temporary structure is light enough to be moved easily and 


sturdy enough to withstand most weather conditions. In addition to providing 
shelter, the plastent can have small pieces of equipment, such as a sensor 
array, mounted onto it. Most models come equipped with an inflation unit 
that can fully inflate the plastent within a few minutes. 


Portable Beacon 

Portable beacons do nothing more than transmit signals that can be received 
only by sensors. A single beacon is about 1 meter long. One end is pointed, 
making the beacon easy to embed in the ground, but a beacon also features 
a built-in tripod, enabling the beacon up be set up on a hard, flat surface. 
Able to transmit a signal to a range of 10,000 km from a planet's surface, 
a portable beacon is commonly used to mark the location of a safe landing 
zone. However, a beacon can be reprogrammed to broadcast a warning or 
a distress signal by connecting it to a datapad and succeeding on a DC 10 
Use Computer check. 


Repulsor Boots 

This footwear allows the wearer to float a short distance above the ground. 
Repulsor boots use a tiny repulsorlift unit in the sole of each boot to elevate 
the wearer up to 0.5 meters above the ground. With careful manipulation and 
positioning of one's feet, the boots can be used to move, but users cannot 
exceed a movement rate of 2 squares per round with this method. Although 
they are not an optimal method of travel, repulsor boots are a great aid 
in climbing, granting the wearer a +10 equipment bonus to Climb checks. 


Repulsor Hitch 

When a large or heavy object needs to be moved and a speeder is not avail- 
able, a repulsor hitch can be used instead. The hitch is a small repulsorlift 
encased in a durasteel shell that can be attached to a cable or another 
extension. When activated, a repulsor hitch can lift items weighing up to 
200 kg, enabling them to be moved. Explorers find that the hitch is especially 
useful for transporting large creatures. Objects weighing more than 200 kg 
are not affected by the hitch, since the repulsor field is not strong enough 
to lift the entire mass. Some droid models, such as the MULE droid (page 
45), are designed to allow a hitch to be attached to their chassis, allowing 
the droids to move heavy objects. 


Saddle, Riding 

Although the styles vary from one corner of the galaxy to another, the basic 
function of a riding saddle remains unchanged: to provide a rider with a 
supportive structure that is fastened to a mount and that often incorporates 
a means of directing the creature. Saddles must be made to conform to 
the type of creature for which they are used. Most vendors who sell riding 
mounts include the cost of a riding saddle with the purchase of the creature. 


| SeSsteavHa 


ALNEWAIAGD So YHSYUuedes(xs) 


1h HStdgvHD 


LNEWAIANGS™) S.MHSIVeodsS$s) 


Saddle, War 

A variant of the standard riding saddle is the war saddle, which offers a 
sturdier platform for the rider, reducing the chances of being knocked off 
the mount and better enabling the rider to guide the beast in combat while 
still fighting effectively. Use of a war saddle on a mount provides the rider 
a +2 equipment bonus to Ride checks made to control the mount in battle, 
to guide the mount with his or her knees, and to stay in the saddle. 


Shipsuit 

Manufactured by Ayelixe/Krongbing Textiles, the shipsuit is a multipocketed 
coverall made of a tough synthmesh fabric, which has been known to last 
through years of regular use. A fitted coverall can also be used as a enviro- 
suit in an emergency, although a separate life support system such as a 
breath mask is required. 

A shipsuit provides enough pockets and pouches to carry up to 24 objects 
of Small size and weighing no more than 1 kg each. The cumulative weight of 
the objects is halved for the purpose of calculating the wearer's total carried 
weight. A character wearing a shipsuit receives a +1 equipment bonus to his 
or her Fortitude Defense when resisting extreme temperatures. 


Signal Wand 

The signal wand is a 0.25-meter-long stick that has multiple functions. One 
of its most popular features is its orbital-range broadband comlink, which 
can transmit a tight-beam signal well beyond a planet's gravity well. If the 
wand is connected to a more powerful energy source, the tight-beam signal 
can travel through subspace to reach interstellar distances. However, the 
user must know exactly where to point the wand to ensure the beam is on 
target. The wand also has a red external light that can be used to transmit 
signals, such as Mon Calamari blink code. 


Sonar Mapper 

Modern sensor systems are reliable and can be used in many circumstances. 
However, in some situations a standard sensor pack does not work. In those 
instances, a sonar mapper can be used instead. A sonar mapper is a special- 
ized sensor system that emits sonar pulses at regular intervals, mapping an 
area through echolocation. The sonar mapper does not provide the detail 
that a sensor pack can, because its dedicated screen displays only the echo- 
location. Also, the sonar mapper does not have as great a range as a sensor 
pack, because it reads the pulses only up to a range of 100 meters with any 
degree of accuracy. The sonar mapper can internally record up to 12 hours 
of readings, making a good backup map if the user becomes lost. 


Subsonic Field Emitter 

More of a convenience than a necessity for wilderness scouts, the subsonic 
field emitter generates a subsonic pulse attuned to the nervous systems of 
nonsentient insects and other vermin, discouraging them from entering the 
emitter's 6-meter broadcast radius and allowing beings within the radius 
to relax without being disturbed by natural pests. Tiny or smaller creatures 
with an Intelligence of 2 or less cannot willfully enter the radius of a sub- 
sonic emitter. 


Water Extractor 

For organic beings, water is a necessity of life. Some worlds have abundant 
water, but others lack this vital liquid. The water extractor can help beings 
who find themselves on a dry world. Working like a condensing canteen 
found in a field kit, the water extractor is a cone-shaped apparatus that 
attracts water vapor from the air, collecting it in specialized bins at the 
broad end of the cone. As the water accumulates, contaminants and toxins 
are filtered out, rendering the water potable. Although the amount of water 
collected varies depending on the moisture content of the atmosphere, field 
tests conducted on Tatooine yielded enough water in a period of 16 hours to 
sustain a humanoid for a full day. 


ANCIENT AND 

ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY 

With the countless number of worlds in the galaxy, heroes can come 
across a wide range of technology, including outdated steam-powered 
groundcars and unusual vessels that employ a bizarre fusion of organic 
and inorganic materials. Instead of trying to devise entirely new equip- 
ment, a Gamemaster can instead use the Advanced and Archaic Ship 
templates from Starships of the Galaxy (see pages 59 and 62) as well 
as the Antiquated Weapon and Antiquated Vehicle templates from the 
Legacy Era Campaign Guide (see page 100). Advanced tech weapons, 
droids, vehicles, and other items are perhaps best handled by providing 
an appropriate bonus from either the Tech Specialist feat in Starships of 
the Galaxy (see page 21) or the Rakatan weapon template from Knights 
of the Old Republic Campaign Guide (see page 79). 

Heroes who encounter such antiquated or advanced technology 
should be allowed to make Knowledge (technology) checks to puzzle 
out what a device does and how it works. The DC of these checks is 
determined by how different the item is compared to those the heroes 
are used to. Such technology can be an interesting adventure hook, as 
the heroes rush to learn what some incredible new piece of technology 
does, or try to ensure that an archaic relic of a long-gone civilization 
finds its proper place in a museum. 


DROIDS 


The following new droid models are among the most common models used by 
explorers throughout the galaxy. Each droid entry also includes a statistics 
block in the protocol format, introduced in the Scavenger's Guide to Droids 
supplement, for explorer heroes using these droids. 


ASZ3 AERIAL SURVEY DROID 
Many scouting droids are geared toward exploring territory on the ground, 
but the AS23 aerial survey droid from Arakyd Industries accomplishes its task 
from the air. The triangular AS23 aerial survey droid is streamlined to cut 
down on wind resistance, letting it easily fly through a planet's atmosphere 
with speed and maneuverability. The droid’s silhouette also resembles that 
of avian predators found throughout the galaxy, encouraging local wildlife 
to give the AS23 a wide berth as it performs its duties. 

Since the primary function of the AS23 aerial survey droid is to gather 
geographical data, its onboard equipment is tailored to achieve that goal. The 
automap installed within its chassis records topographical information, and 
the droid's darkvision is routed directly to the automap to allow the droid to 
gather information on the darkest nights. The information it gathers can be 
stored within its memory banks for later access, or it can be transmitted by 
comlink to its master for immediate review. 

AS23 aerial survey droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


AS23 Aerial Survey Droid CLO 
Small droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1 

Init +4; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +14 

Languages Basic (cannot speak), Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 12 

hp 3; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 9 squares (flying) 

Base Atk +0; Grp -1 

Abilities Str 8, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 7 

Special Qualities droid traits, spotter 

Feats Skill Focus (Perception, Pilot, Survival), Skill Training (Pilot) 

Skills Perception +14, Pilot +14, Survival +12 

Systems basic processor, flying locomotion, automap, darkvision, 
improved sensor package, internal comlink 

Availability Licensed; Cost 23,500 credits 


Spotter—When in flight, the AS23 aerial survey droid can use its 
observation skills to locate enemy targets and relay their locations 
back to its master to assist in targeting for long-range and artillery 
weapons. Any attacks against targets spotted by the droid ignore all 
concealment and reduce cover by 1 step; for example, total cover 
becomes improved cover. 


AS23 Aerial Survey Droid 

Small droid (3rd-degree) 

hp 3 

Threshold 9 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The AS23 aerial survey droid moves 9 squares (flying). 

Engage the Enemy (1 free action) 
The AS23 aerial survey droid makes a Pilot check instead of an 
Initiative check at the start of a battle. 

Know Direction (3 swift actions, 1/turn) 
After making a successful Survival check, the AS23 aerial survey droid 
can determine which direction is north while planetside. 

Spotter (swift 2 actions, 1/turn) 
The AS23 aerial survey droid can locate targets and relay their 
locations to its master, reducing the targets’ cover by 1 step 
and ignoring concealment. 

Skills Perception +14, Pilot +14, Survival +12 

Vital Systems flying locomotion, automap, darkvision, internal comlink 


DSH-3 PROBE DROID 
The DSH-3 probe droid is a compact droid capable of traversing a large area 
of unexplored territory in a short time, recording every detail of its trip. 

After seeing the success of its DRK-1 probe droid series with spies and 
covert scouts, Arakyd Industries expands the line, providing an alternative 
version of the droid called the DSH-3. This droid model looks similar to its 
black cousin, although it has green-gray shell because of Arakyd's failure to 
gain authorization from the Republic to make new droids with the stealth 
shell used by the DRK-1. The DSH-3 employs many of the same systems and 
equipment, but it does not carry weaponry or defensive systems. The droid 
has a high stealth rating and can to hide itself when directly threatened. 
Coupled with the droid's ability to maneuver where other probe droids cannot, 
this makes the DSH-3 a good choice for galactic explorers. 

DSH-3 probe droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


tl HSicdvriga 


ANSWAINGS® So Y~SyeodssEe 


HW esiavHo 


ANEWAINGE®” SHIH) 


DSH-3 Probe Droid CL 1 
Small droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3 

Init +5; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +15 

Languages Basic (cannot speak), Binary, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 8, Will 12; Dodge 

hp 8; Threshold 8 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (hovering) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +1 


Abilities Str 6, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 9 

Special Qualities droid traits, easily hidden 

Feats Dodge, Skill Focus (Perception, Stealth, Survival), 
Skill Training (Stealth) 

Skills Perception +15, Stealth +20, Survival +13 

Systems heuristic processor, hovering locomotion, darkvision, improved 
sensor package, internal comlink, locked access, secondary battery 

Possessions audio recorder, video recorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 13,000 credits 


. 


Easily Hidden—The DSH-3 probe droid can hide more easily than other 
droids of similar size and function. It can take 10 on a Stealth check 
even when distracted or threatened. 


DSH-3 Probe Droid 
Small droid (4th-degree) 
hp 8 

Threshold 8 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The DSH-3 probe droid moves 6 squares (hovering). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action, 1/turn) 
The DSH-3 probe droid can make a Perception check at the start of a 
battle. If the check is successful, its master avoids surprise. 

Create a Diversion to Hide (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
The DSH-3 probe droid can make a Deception check (-1) to divert an 
enemy's attention, giving its master time to hide. 

Easily Hidden (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
The DSH-3 probe droid can take 10 on its Stealth check to sneak even 
when distracted or threatened. 

Sneak (1 swift action, 1/turn) 
The DSH-3 probe droid can slip past an enemy without being noticed 
with a successful Stealth check opposed by the enemy's Perception 
check. 

Track (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
The DSH-3 probe droid can locate tracks with a successful Survival 
check. 


Skills Perception +15, Stealth +20, Survival +13 
Vital Systems audio recorder, darkvision, internal comlink, video recorder 


Fl EXPLORATION DROID 

Designed to be a companion and a protector for those venturing to the edge 
of known space and beyond, the F1 exploration droid packs a lot of function- 
ality within a small frame. As a four-legged droid, the F1 uses its low profile 
to its advantage as it attempts to remain hidden. Its sensor array allows the 
droid to survey its environment through audio, visual, and olfactory sensors, 
much like a natural creature. The F1 also has a motion sensor suite to detect 
nearby anomalies. An internal comlink enables the droid to remain in contact 
when traveling far from its master's camp. 

The F1's features enable the droid to perform well as a security droid, even 
though its core programming does not emphasize that function. Although 
the F1 exploration droid’'s defense capabilities are not as sophisticated as 
other droids, it can deliver a vicious bite with its mechanical jaw. However, 
the droid has enough fine control over its mandible to grasp an organic 
creature without causing damage. This ability is particularly useful if its 
master is wounded; the droid has enough strength to return its master to 
camp for medical attention. 

F1 exploration droids can be played as droid heroes. 


F1 Exploration Droid CL3 
Small droid (5th-degree) scout 3 
Force 3 


Init +7; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +15 (can reroll, 
keeping better result) 

Languages Basic (cannot speak), Binary 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 15 

hp 33; Threshold 15 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 4 squares (walking) 

Melee bite +3 (1d3+2) 

Base Atk +2; Grp -2 

Atk Options Running Attack 

Special Actions Improved Stealth 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con —, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits, motion sensors 

Talents Acute Senses, Improved Stealth 

Feats Running Attack, Skill Focus (Perception, Stealth), 
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +7, Jump +7, Perception +15 (can reroll, keeping better 
result), Stealth +17 (can reroll), Survival +8 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion (2 extra legs), 
1 claw appendage (jaw), darkvision, improved sensor package, 
internal comlink 

Availability Licensed; Cost 12,500 credits 


Motion Sensors—The motion sensor suite installed in the F1 exploration 
droid allows it to reroll its Perception check and keep the better of the 
two results. In addition, this carries over to its master's Perception 
check when trying to locate the same target, allowing the master to 
reroll his or her Perception check and keep the better result. 


F1 Exploration Droid 

Small droid (5th-degree) 

hp 33 

Threshold 15 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The F1 exploration droid moves 4 squares (walking). 

Create a Diversion to Hide (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
The F1 exploration droid can make a Deception check (+0) to divert an 
enemy's attention, giving its master time to hide. 

Motion Sensors (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
When its master uses the Notice Targets application of the Perception 
skill, the F1 exploration droid enables its master to reroll the Perception 
check, keeping the better result. 

Search (1 swift action, 1/turn) 
Using its improved sensors, the F1 exploration droid can help locate 
a specific person or object by granting a +2 bonus to its master's 
Perception check. 


AN Fl EXPLORATION DROID (BOTTOM) AND A SCOUT SURVEYOR 
DROID (TOP) EMERGE FROM DROP PODS ON AN UNEXPLORED WORLD. 


Track (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
The F1 exploration droid can locate tracks with a successful Survival 
check. 

Skills Initiative +7, Jump +7, Perception +15 (can reroll, keeping better 
result), Stealth +17 (can reroll), Survival +8 

Vital Systems claw appendage (jaw), darkvision, internal comlink 


MULE DROID 

The mechanical universal labor eliminating droid, more commonly known as 
the MULE droid, is primarily used as a beast of burden, carrying supplies and 
personal equipment needed by its master. 

The MULE droid uses a powerful repulsorlift engine to move a large 
amount of cargo—up to 10 kg internally and another 40 kg externally. The 
repulsorlift allows the droid to travel smoothly over the roughest terrain. 
However, the droid moves slowly and can attain a maximum altitude of 
only 1 meter. 

The MULE droid's self-diagnostic system is particularly useful. The system 
is a highly sensitive diagnostic network that allows the droid to assess any 
damage it sustains, reporting it to its master or mechanic. This information 
cuts down on repair times. The droid's findings can be accessed by attaching 
a datapad to a socket located behind the droid’s head. 

MULE droids can be played as droid heroes. 


MULE Droid CLO 
Medium droid (5th-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +1; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic (cannot speak), Binary 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 15, Will 11 

hp 9; Threshold 15 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares (hovering) 

Melee claw +6 (1d4+5) 

Base Atk +1; Grp +6 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 10, Con —, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6 

Special Qualities droid traits, self-diagnostic 

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics, Perception), Skill Training (Mechanics), 
Toughness 

Skills Mechanics +9, Perception +12 

Systems basic processor, hovering locomotion, 1 claw appendage, 
diagnostics package, internal storage (10 kg) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 9,000 credits 

Self-Diagnostic—The MULE droid can make a Mechanics check (+11) to 
determine what repairs it needs. By communicating this information to 
its master, the droid grants a +4 bonus to its master's Mechanics check 
to make the repairs. 


il SeStdvHo 


W 
% 
U 
ir 
0 
wv 
W 
a 
(0) 
W 
G 
U 
K 
2 
J 


lt SStadvHoD 


) 
% 
J 
LC 
@ 
Y 
4 
g 
w 
g 
c 
a 
& 
fn 
z 
4 


MULE Droid 

Medium droid (Sth-degree) 

hp 9 

Threshold 15 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The MULE droid moves 4 squares (hovering). 

Avoid Surprise (1 free action, 1/turn) 
The MULE droid can make a Perception check (+12) at the start of a 
battle. If the check is successful, its master avoids surprise. 

Eavesdrop (3 swift actions, 1/turn) 
The MULE droid can make a Perception check to listen in on 
conversations and learn information. 

Notice Targets (reaction) 
As a reaction, with a successful Perception check, the MULE droid can 
notice targets that come within its line of sight. Actively searching for 
hidden enemies is a standard action. 

Self-Diagnostic (1 swift action, 1/turn) 
With a successful Mechanics check (+11), the MULE droid grants a +4 
bonus to its master's Mechanics check on repairs to the droid. 

Skills Mechanics +9, Perception +12 

Vital Systems 1 claw appendage, diagnostics package, 
internal storage (10 kg) 


WANDERER SCOUT 

SURVEYOR DROID 

Emphasizing tasks such as investigating a specific area chosen by its master, 
a scout surveyor droid can explore and report its findings with a precision 
not seen in other droids of its class. 

Built to resemble an arachnid, the SoroSuub Wanderer scout surveyor 
droid is a spherical body supported by eight legs. Fixed atop its body is a 
photoreceptor eye on a swivel mount, enabling the droid to see in virtually 
any direction. Not only does this allow the droid to better view its surround- 
ings, but it also helps prevent an adversary from sneaking up on the droid. 
In addition to the photoreceptor eye, the droid's stun blaster maximizes the 
droid's defense and specimen-capturing capabilities. At the droid's front, 
below its primary sensor array, are four fine manipulator arms, each with a 
grasping claw and surgical tools for dissecting specimens in the field. 

Despite the scout surveyor's success at scouting frontier worlds, owners 
can become frustrated with the droid's lack of personality. The extensive 
scouting and medical protocols programmed into the droid leave no room 
for a personality matrix. Even if an owner adds a personality matrix to it, 
the droid ignores it, continuing to perform its primary function without 
interacting with its master or others. 

Scout surveyor droids cannot be played as droid heroes. 


Wanderer Scout Surveyor Droid €L.1 
Medium droid (Sth-degree) scout 1 

Force 2 

Init +3; Senses Perception +6 

Languages Basic (cannot speak), Binary 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 14, Will 12 
hp 26; Threshold 14 

Immune droid traits 

Speed 6 squares (walking) 

Melee claw +2 (1d4) 

Ranged stun blaster +3 (3d6 stun) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +3 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con —, Int 8, Wis 13, Cha 3 

Special Qualities 360-degree vision, droid traits 

Talents Expert Tracker 

Feats Surgical Expertise, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Climb +7, Jump +7, Perception +6, Survival +6, Treat Injury +6 

Systems basic processor, walking locomotion (extra legs), 4 tool 
appendages, 1 claw appendage 

Possessions stun blaster (treat as blaster pistol set on stun), sensor pack, 
surgery kit 

Availability Licensed; Cost 9,400 credits 


360-Degree Vision—Although it is not able to constantly see everything 


around it, the scout surveyor droid can turn the photoreceptor mounted 
on top of the droid in any direction, allowing the droid to retain its 
Dexterity bonus to its Reflex Defense regardless of being caught flat- 
footed or struck by a hidden attacker. The droid also cannot be flanked. 


Wanderer Scout Surveyor Droid 
Medium droid (5th-degree) 

hp 26 

Threshold 14 


Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The scout surveyor droid moves 6 squares (walking). 

Accelerated Climbing (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
With a successful Climb check (+7), the scout surveyor droid can climb 
at half its full speed. 

Notice Targets (reaction) 
As a reaction, with a successful Perception check (+12), the scout 
surveyor droid can notice targets that come within its line of sight. 
Actively searching for hidden enemies is a standard action. 

Sensor Sweep (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
The scout surveyor droid can detect lifeforms within a 24-square range 
with a successful Perception check. 


Stun Blast (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
With its stun blaster, the scout surveyor droid can make a ranged 
attack at +3. If the attack is successful, it deals 3d6 points of stun 
damage. 

Track (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
The scout surveyor droid can locate tracks with a successful 
Survival check. 


Skills Climb +7, Jump +7, Perception +6, Survival +6, Treat Injury +6 
Vital Systems stun blaster, sensor pack, surgery kit 


WED-20 TREADWELL 

Following in the footsteps of the successful WED-15 Treadwell, Cybot Galac- 
tica's WED-20 Treadwell resembles the older repair droid model. However, 
it performs an entirely different function. The WED-20 Treadwell acts as a 
first-contact planetary-analysis droid. 

When an explorer lands on a newly discovered planet, one of his or her 
first objectives is to collect and record information about the planet. The 
WED-20 Treadwell ventures away from its ship and collects soil and local flora 
samples and video footage of any local fauna. Like the WED-15 Treadwell, 
the WED-20 is equipped with seven arms fitted with tools to collect samples. 
To complete its survey more quickly, the droid can feed a sample into the 
microlab in its base, analyzing the sample as it continues to collect. 

WED-20 Treadwell droids can be played as droid heroes. 


WED-20 Treadwell CLO 
Small droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 2 

Init +3; Senses Perception +13 

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 9, Will 12 

hp 5; Threshold 9 

Immune droid traits 


Speed 4 squares (tracked) 
Melee 2 claws +0 (1d6 -1) 
Base Atk +1; Grp -2 

Special Actions Melee Defense 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 10 

Special Qualities droid traits, scientific focus 

Feats Melee Defense, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences, physical 
sciences], Perception) 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +14, Knowledge (physical sciences) +14, 
Perception +13, Survival +8 

Systems basic processor, tracked locomotion, 2 claw appendages, 5 tool 
appendages, diagnostics package, internal comlink, vocabulator 

Possessions field research kit, microlab, video recorder 

Availability Licensed; Cost 8,300 credits 


Scientific Focus—By adapting its diagnostics package, the WED-20 
Treadwell droid gains a +2 equipment bonus to any Knowledge (life 
sciences) or Knowledge (physical sciences) checks. 


WED-20 Treadwell 

Small droid (1st-degree) 

hp 5 

Threshold 9 

Move (1 swift action, 2/turn) 
The WED-20 Treadwell droid moves 4 squares (tracked). 

Know Direction (swift 3, 1/turn) 
After making a successful Survival check, the WED-20 Treadwell droid 
can determine which direction is north while planetside. 

Patrol Duty (1 swift action, 1/turn) 
The WED-20 Treadwell droid makes a Perception check opposed by the 
target's Stealth check. If its check is successful, the droid detects the 
enemy. 

Scientific Focus (1 swift action, 1/turn) 
The WED-20 Treadwell droid can offer its scientific knowledge to assist 
its master, granting a +2 bonus to a single Knowledge (life sciences) 
or Knowledge (physical sciences) check. 

Telemetry (2 swift actions, 1/turn) 
The WED-20 Treadwell droid can transmit what it sees and hears to 
its master. 

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +14, Knowledge (physical sciences) +14, 
Perception +13, Survival +8 

Vital Systems 2 claw appendages, diagnostics package, field research kit, 
internal comlink, microlab, video recorder 


VEHICLES 
The following vehicles are used by explorers to investigate newly discovered 
worlds. 


48 Roller Wheel Bike 

A single large tire propelled by jet engines on the rear base, the Gallis-Tech 
48 Roller is used for reconnaissance, as a racing vehicle, and as a utilitarian 
transport on remote mining worlds such as Tyne's Horky. Unlike with conven- 
tional wheeled vehicles, the wheel bike's pilot sits within the wheel, using a 
combination of handlebars and leaning to control the vehicle. Although the 
wheel bike operates best on flat surfaces, its wide base makes it stable on 
harsh terrain. Resistance groups have outfitted wheel bikes with low-grade 
blasters for hit-and-run attacks. 


H HSidavHoD 


LNEWAASG® S,.VSHedese) 


LNAWAINGS S.YSXvoies<s) 


Gallis-Tech 48 Roller Wheel Bike cL4 
Large ground vehicle (wheeled) 

Init +8; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 14; +2 armor 

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19 

Speed 10 squares (max. velocity 330 km/h) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5 

Base Atk +0; Grp +9 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +8 
Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 1 

Cargo 20 kg; Consumables 1 day 

Availability Licensed; Cost 8,000 credits (1,500 used) 


Aerosled 

Tangan Industries designs the aerosled for use as a company vehicle and to 
sell on the civilian market. At only slightly longer than 4 meters, the one- 
person aerosled is one of the smallest airspeeders in production. The vehicle's 
size, which makes it easy to store and transport in starships, is one of its 
major selling points. The cockpit is located at the front of the speeder and 
dominates the forward section. All the aerosled's vital systems are tightly 
packed behind the cockpit. With this compact design, the speeder's body is 
streamlined and highly aerodynamic. 

Aerosleds sold on the open market are unarmed. However, Tangan Indus- 
tries sells armed versions to certain clients and maintains a fleet of armed 
aerosleds for use by its internal security force. Typically, at least one pair of 
armed airspeeders patrol each of its installations. 
Tangan Industries Aerosled Mark Ill CLS 
Large air vehicle (airspeeder) 

Init +11; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor 

hp 32; DR 5; Threshold 19 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 780 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 

Ranged laser cannon +7 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +13 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +11 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 
Cargo 24 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 22,000 credits (12,000 used) 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10 


All-Terrain Roller 

The all-terrain roller, which includes a wide variety of designs, uses three or 
four wheels for movement, resulting in a slower land speed but greater safety 
than other one-person utility vehicles. Intended to handle a wide variety of 
terrain, and with maintenance and repairs easier to make than for repulsorlift 
vehicles, the all-terrain roller is popular on remote worlds where repulsorlift 
replacement parts are difficult to obtain. 
All-Terrain Roller CL 1 
Medium ground vehicle (wheeled) 

Init +10; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 12; +1 armor 

hp 20; DR 5; Threshold 12 

Speed 10 squares (max. velocity 120 km/h) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Cover none 

Base Atk +0; Grp +5 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 20, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +10 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 1 
Cargo none; Consumables 1 day 
Availability Licensed; Cost 3,500 credits (500 used) 


Compact Assault Vehicle/Wheeled PX-10 

First used by the Imperial army, the CAV PX-10 is a one-person land-based 
surveillance vehicle for use on worlds that are too remote to warrant full 
occupation but are too valuable to neglect, especially during the Galactic 
Civil War when the Empire seeks to deny the Rebel Alliance every resource 
it can. Rebel forces soon learn that a lone CAV indicates that a particular 
world lacks a significant Imperial presence. 

The PX-10 is small for a military vehicle, and it relies on agility more than 
armor plating to survive combat. The vehicle's susceptibility to sensor jam- 
ming and its light armament keep it from gaining widespread acceptance 
outside the ranks of the Imperial military. However, its utility and its ability 
to easily traverse a wide variety of terrain makes it a popular choice with 
scouts who expect to travel into territory occupied by hostile natives. 


Compact Assault Vehicle/Wheeled PX-10 CL7 
Large ground vehicle (tracked) 
Init +9; Senses Perception +8 


Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 21; +5 armor 

hp 110; DR 5; Threshold 26 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 260 km/h) 

Ranged medium blaster cannon +9 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover total 

Base Atk +5; Grp +21 

Abilities Str 32, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +9 

Crew 1 (expert); Passengers none 

Cargo 100 kg; Consumables 2 weeks 

Availability Military; Cost Not available for sale (25,000 credits on the 
black market) 


Medium blaster cannon (pilot) 
Atk +9, Dmg 5d10 


SCOUTS UNLOAD CARGO FROM A CAV PxX-10. 


Groundcar 

Groundcars are similar to landspeeders, but they move on four or six wheels 
instead of with repulsorlifts. Although this design is considerably slower and 
far more prone to mechanical failure than that of more common speeders, 
groundcars are a cheap substitute on remote worlds. The standard models 
are intended for paved roads, but a common modification to the suspension 
and tires enables a groundcar to be driven off-road. 


Groundcar CLO 
Huge ground vehicle (wheeled) 

Init +5; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 15; +3 armor 

hp 50; DR 5; Threshold 25 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 160 km/h) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +15 

Abilities Str 20, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +5 
Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 4 

Cargo 300 kg; Consumables 1 week 

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,000 credits (1,000 used) 


Land Crawler 

A land crawler is a groundcar specially equipped for harsh terrain, with a 
heavy-treaded rear-wheel assembly. Although land crawlers are considered 
extremely primitive, their large cargo capacity makes them popular with 
salvagers, and their durability helps them withstand the punishing environ- 
ments of backwater worlds. However, land crawlers’ lumbering speed makes 
their use for anything beyond hauling cargo highly impractical. 


Land Crawler CL 
Huge ground vehicle (tracked) 
Init +3; Senses Perception +5 


Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 20; +4 armor 

hp 100; DR 5; Threshold 30 

Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 95 km/h) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +20 

Abilities Str 30, Dex 10, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +3 
Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 6 

Cargo 5 tons; Consumables 1 week 

Availability Licensed; Cost 7,500 credits (3,000 used) 


| eSiavHo 


ANSWANAGCED S.HSYMedess) 


il HSitosvHg 


W 
x 
U 
Pr 
@ 
2) 
W 
4 
0) 
W 
£6) 
c 
U 
x 
W 
z 
4 


Landmaster 

A wheeled, amphibious all-terrain vehicle constructed by Jaffryes Universal 
Automotive, the ARK-II series Landmaster proves to be a surprising success 
for the company. Using four sets of tri-wheels, the Landmaster can handle any 
terrain just as ably as a tracked vehicle, and it also operates while completely 
submerged, retaining buoyancy even when the interior is half filled with 
water. Because the ARK-II is designed to be utterly practical, its detractors 
refer to it as a big metal box. However, the triple layered duranium plating 
and redundant engine array make the Landmaster a perennial favorite with 
explorers who expect to travel through long stretches of dangerous terri- 
tory, particularly as the spacious interior lends itself to easy customization 
for mission-specific requirements. Another factor in the Landmaster's favor 
is the ease of using third-party replacement parts when extensive repairs 
are necessary. 


Jaffryes Universal Automotive ARK-II Series Landmaster CL 8 
Gargantuan ground vehicle (tracked) 

Init +2; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 26; +9 armor 

hp 240; DR 10; Threshold 46 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 240 km/h) 

Ranged medium blaster cannons +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Cover total 

Base Atk +0; Grp +31 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +2, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +2 


Crew 3 (normal); Passengers 10 
Cargo 800 kg; Consumables 1 month 
Availability Restricted; Cost 120,000 credits (30,000 used) 


Medium blaster cannons (gunner) 
Atk +2, Dmg 5d10 


Mobile Recon/Research Vehicle 

Although most exploration missions use a starship as a central base of 
operations, during the later years of the Old Republic the Science and Culture 
Administration puts out an open contract for the design of a land-based 
mobile research center capable of operating for extended periods without 
support. The Hyrotii Corporation's Mobile Recon/Research Vehicle wins the 
final bid. Although sluggish, the MR/RV fulfills the necessary requirements: 
It is remarkably durable, and its variable repulsorlift array enables the craft 
to successfully negotiate a broad array of terrain. The MR/RV can store 
two speeder bikes, enabling the crew to perform long-range preliminary 
patrols. As the Republic gives way to the Empire, MR/RVs fall out of favor 
because of their civilian-grade armament, particularly in light of the speed 
and firepower of the AT-ST, but independent scout teams still find the MR/ 
RV worth the cost of purchase. 


Hyrotii Corporation Mobile Recon/Research Vehicle CLO 

Colossal ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 24; +13 armor 

hp 200; DR 15; Threshold 74 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 200 km/h) 

Ranged light quad blaster cannon +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +36 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2 

Crew 6 (skilled); Passengers 4 

Cargo 2 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft 2 speeder bikes 
(or equivalent) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 220,000 credits (90,000 used) 


Light quad blaster cannon (gunner) 
Atk +5, Dmg 5d10 


Nightfalcon Speeder Bike 

Appealing to civilians, racers, and the military, one of Ikas-Adno's most 
popular vehicles is the 22-B Nightfalcon speeder bike. Marketed as a fast 
and sturdy bike, the Nightfalcon can be seen throughout the galaxy in a 
wide variety of roles, including personal transport, racing bike, and scouting 
speeder. Although not faster or stronger than Aratech's 74-Y or 74-Z speeder 
bikes, the 22-B Nightfalcon offers a combination of speed and strength that 
attracts the attention of both civilians and the military. 


Ikas-Adno 22-B Nightfalcon Speeder Bike CL 2 
Large ground vehicle (speeder) 

Init +15; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 10), Fort 13; +1 armor 

hp 32; DR 5; Threshold 18 

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 400 km/h) 

Ranged laser cannon +2 (see below) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none 

Base Atk +0; Grp +11 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 16, Dex 23, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +15, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +15 
Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 1 

Cargo 4 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 
Availability Licensed; Cost 6,250 credits (1,000 used) 


Laser cannon (pilot) 
Atk +2 (-3 autofire), Dmg 4410 


A WOOKIEE EXPLORER RIDES A NIGHTFALCON SPEEDER BIKE 
OUT OF THE BED OF AN SRV-1. 


STARSHIPS 


The following starships are examples of vessels used to explore the Unknown 
Regions and the outer reaches of the known galaxy. 


Deep-X Explorer 

Many ships that are not designed as exploration vessels are converted into 
scouting ships. The Deep-X Explorer is among the most successful and endur- 
ing of such conversions. Originally designed and built by Uulshos Manufac- 
turing, the DPx yacht is a top-of-the-line personal transport, featuring dual 
engines and a delta-wing body to provide exemplary speed and handling 
for a civilian leisure craft. In the Explorer variant, the engine compartments 
are redesigned to provide maximum performance, incorporating a dual 
hyperdrive system to grant the vessel impressive speed without sacrificing 
reliability. A pair of low-yield blaster cannons protect the Explorer. The ship 
design requires two gunners if the weapons are to be used. 
Uulshos Manufacturing Deep-X Explorer CLS 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +4; Senses Perception +5 


Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +6 armor 
hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 42 


Scout and Retrieval Vehicle 

Used extensively by the fledgling New Republic in the years following the 
Battle of Endor, the SRV-1 is a rugged yet inexpensive vehicle that can 
transport troops and supplies to and from the battlefield and can perform 
reconnaissance duties. The civilian version is unarmed, but the military 
model sports a pair of medium blaster cannons in matching turrets on top 
of the cockpit. 


SRV-1 Scout and Retrieval Vehicle 

Huge ground vehicle (tracked) 

Init +6; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor 
hp 140; DR 5; Threshold 34 

Speed 8 squares (max. velocity 275 km/h) 

Ranged 2 medium blaster cannons +3 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +6 


CL6 


Crew 3 (skilled); Passengers 8 
Cargo 3 tons; Consumables 1 week 
Availability Restricted; Cost 7,500 credits (3,000 used) 


Medium blaster cannon (gunner) 
Atk +3, Dmg 4d10 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged 2 light blaster cannons +3 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +27 


i estiadveri 


U 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative +4, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +4, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 3 (normal); Passengers 3 

Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x1 (backup x8), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 135,000 credits (55,000 used) 


Light blaster cannon (gunner) 
Atk +3, Dmg 2d10x2 


LNSEWAINGS So. HIVueiesss<s) 


LNEWAIAGE” So YSVoeodie!ss) 


Drexl-class Starfighter 

Designed by SoroSuub Corporation, the Drex/-class starfighter is a two- 
person fighter. Its strengths in planetary and short-range defense make it 
better suited for use by customs agencies than by military forces. 

The Drexi-class starfighter, named for a winged predator indigenous 
to the moon of Dxun, can be flown by a single pilot, but optimal operation 
requires a copilot and an astromech droid. The large cockpit allows room 
for the copilot to perform maintenance and emergency repairs during flight, 
working in tandem with an astromech droid. If no copilot is aboard, the 
cockpit is spacious enough to allow 50 kg of cargo space in addition to the 
fighter's dedicated cargo compartment. 

The Drex/-class was originally a prototype for the ship that would eventu- 
ally become the Preybird-class starfighter. However, when design decisions 
led engineers away from the Drexi-class fighter's design, these plans were 
shelved. Some years later, SoroSuub engineers would return to these plans 
for a new model of starfighter, and the Drex/-class starfighter was born. 
SoroSuub Drexi-class “Planetary Defender" Starfighter CL 10 
Gargantuan starfighter 
Init +6; Senses Perception +6 
Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor 
hp 150; DR 10; SR 10; Threshold 48 
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares 

(starship scale) 

Ranged dual laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged concussion missiles +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), 
+5 (astromech droid) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +35 

Atk Options autofire (dual laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +6, 
Use Computer +6 (+13%*) 

Crew 2 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 12 missiles 

Availability Military; Cost 165,000 credits (100,000 used) 

“If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead. 


Dual laser cannons (pilot) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 
Concussion missiles (pilot) 

Atk +6, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash 


JumpMaster 5000 

Designed during the waning years of the Galactic Republic, the JumpMaster 
5000, also known as the JM-5K, performs lengthy reconnaissance and 
exploration missions, such as scouting new hyperspace routes and mapping 
newly discovered systems. It is also specifically designed to allow a single 
crew member to travel across the galaxy for extended periods in relative 
comfort, although it has limited room for additional passengers. The JM-5K 
performs admirably in most regards, but the design is plagued by a hyperdrive 
system both prone to breakdowns and incredibly slow. The first modification 
owners make is replacing the stock hyperdrive system with a faster, more 
reliable engine. Bounty hunters find the ship well suited to their needs, the 
most infamous example being the hunter Dengar and his substantially modi- 
fied JM-5K, the Punishing One, which features vastly improved shields and 
a significant increase in firepower. 


JumpMaster 5000 Scout Ship CL 8 
Colossal space transport 

Init -1; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 

hp 120; DR 15; SR 15; Threshold 76 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +38 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -1, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -1, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 1 

Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 4 months; Carried Craft none 
Hyperdrive x3 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 110,000 credits (40,000 used) 


Laser cannons (pilot) 
Atk +6, Dmg 4d10x2 


} 


LOADING 
RAMP 


tf eSidawHoa 


W 
% 
U 
rr 
o 
3 
W 
4) 
@ 
w@ 
{) 
c 
v 
w 
Z 
q 


ACCESS/ENTRY| 
HATCH Bo 


A JUMPMASTER SOOO INTERIOR 


il SSitdtvHoD 


U 


ANIWAINSe®E SHSHvoOwies<e 


1. BRIDGE 
2. CREW QUARTERS 
3S. PASSENGER QUARTERS 
Hy. CARGO BAY 
5S. GUNWELL 
6. LOUNGE 
7. REFRESHER 
8. ENGINEERING 


“25 2S 


MRX-BR Pacifier 

In the early years of the Empire, members of the Imperial Scout Corps take 
an aggressive stance when visiting new worlds and making first contact with 
indigenous lifeforms. For those explorers, the MRX-BR Pacifier designed by 
Sydon Vehicle Works is an excellent fit. 


The Pacifier can serve two different functions: first contact starship 
or attack vessel. For those using it for first contact, the MRX-BR features 
onboard system arrays that are among the most powerful of the time. Those 
owners using the MRX-BR for more aggressive negotiations find the weapons 
systems more than capable of eliminating opposing forces. 


MRX-BR Pacifier Combat/Contact Vessel CL9 
Colossal space transport 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +11 armor 
hp 60; DR 15; SR 30; Threshold 72 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) or 

Ranged proton torpedoes +5 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +34 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 


Abilities Str 34, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 


Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 3 

Cargo 25 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none 
Payload 8 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x1 (backup x8) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 170,000 credits (100,000 used) 


Laser cannons (gunner) 

Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 
Proton torpedoes (gunner) 

Atk +5, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


Mu-2 Shuttle 
Based upon the success of the Lambda- and Theta-class shuttles, Sienar Fleet 
Systems designs the Mu-class shuttle for long-range applications, particu- 
larly scouting and espionage. The Galactic Empire uses the Mu-class shuttle 
extensively as a scouting vessel searching for the remote, uncharted worlds 
where the Rebel Alliance establishes its bases. The exterior design of the 
Mu-class shuttle owes a great deal to its forebears, using two fold-out lower 
stabilizer wings for maneuverability, although the central fin is replaced by 
a series of sensor arrays to allow the crew to better perform reconnaissance 
duties. The cockpit is significantly redesigned to allow for a smaller crew. 

The Mu-class comes in two models. Model 1 has limited sleeping space 
for crew but provides seating for up to 24 passengers, making it best suited 
to short-range journeys. Model 2 better fulfills the needs of a scouting 
mission, including enclosed cabins and space for food stores. Because of its 
versatility, the Mu-class shuttle is used by the New Republic for years after 
the Battle of Endor. Its ability to ferry large groups to distant points makes 
it an ideal choice for outpost duty as well as exploration. 

The Mu-class shuttle's sensors provide the system operator a +5 equip- 
ment bonus to Perception and Use Computer checks made to operate the 
ship's sensors. 


Sienar Fleet Systems Mu-2 Model 2 Shuttle CL 8 
Colossal space transport 

Init -2; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor 

hp 120; DR 15; SR 25; Threshold 76 


Wl SeSLtavHoa 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 850 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +38 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers 14 

Cargo 100 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x20), navicomputer 

Availability Restricted; Cost 160,000 credits (110,000 used) 


Laser cannons (copilot) 
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


LNEWAINGSD S.YSVvoiesEe 


0 
I 
> 
v 
4 
1] 
2 


ANIEWANAG® So HSEHodesss) 


Preybird-class Starfighter 

Designed several years prior to the Battle of Endor by the SoroSuub Corpora- 
tion, the Preybird-class starfighter is intended to be sold on the open market 
rather than used in Sullust's own defense forces, to placate Imperial overseers 
and retain a small measure of independence for the planet. However, pro- 
tracted disputes over weapons systems cause significant cost overruns, so 
only a few small production runs are finished before the project is cancelled. 
Despite the small number of Preybirds to make it off the assembly lines, a 
large proportion of them find their way into the hands of criminal factions, 
specifically pirate groups such as the Hurrim and the Cavrilhu Pirates. The 
smuggler Mazzic acquires two Preybirds from the initial production run at a 
substantial discount, integrating them into his burgeoning fleet. Toward the 
end of the Galactic Civil War, the Imperial Remnant is forced to supplement 
its dwindling TIE fighter stores by using Preybirds as front-line fighters, 
giving the design a second life and belated fame as a sign of the Remnant's 
weakening position against the New Republic. 
SoroSuub Preybird-class Starfighter CL 10 
Gargantuan starfighter 

Init +8; Senses Perception +6 

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23; +6 armor 

hp 75; DR 10; SR 20; Threshold 43 


Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,150 km/h), fly 4 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannons +6 (see below) or 

Ranged concussion missiles +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +2; Grp +30 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 36, Dex 24, Con —, Int 18 

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 15 kg; Consumables 4 days; Carried Craft none 

Payload 10 concussion missiles 

Hyperdrive x3, navicomputer (5 jumps) 

Availability Rare, Military; Cost 84,000 credits (50,000 used) 


Laser cannons (gunner) 
Atk +6, Dmg 5d10x2 
Concussion missiles (gunner) 
Atk +6, Dmg 8d10x2 


A PREYBIRD STARFIGHTER FIRES UPON A DREXL-CLASS FIGHTER. 


SCT Scout Craft 
From its primary shipyards orbiting the Mid Rim world of Ganzik near the 
Perlemian Trade Route, Mesens Corporation designs and builds the SCT 
scout craft shortly before the Battle of Yavin. One of its best-known starship 
models, the SCT is marketed by Mesens as a long-range exploration vessel, 
drawing interest from governmental agencies and criminal organizations 
alike. The starship's heavy defense systems and superior sensor arrays 
catch the attention of customers, but its low fuel efficiency and limited 
consumables capacity discourage many potential buyers. Some customers 
use the ship's cargo space for additional fuel tanks and as storage for extra 
consumables. 
Mesens Corporation SCT Scout Craft CL 12 
Colossal (frigate) space transport 
Init -5; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 34; +11 armor 
hp 660; DR 15; SR 60; Threshold 134 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 820 km/h), fly 3 squares 

(starship scale) 
Ranged dual turbolaser turret +4” (see below) 
Ranged point-defense dual laser cannon +4 (see below) 


Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +44 
Atk Options autofire (dual laser cannon) 


Abilities Str 58, Dex 10, Con —, Int 18 
Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 8 

Cargo 275 tons; Consumables 3 months; Carried Craft none 

Hyperdrive x3 (backup x12) 

Availability Licensed; Cost 1.2 million credits (720,000 used) 

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Dual turbolaser turret (gunner) 

Atk +4 (-16 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 6d10x5 
Point-defense dual laser cannon (gunner) 

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 


A Mu-2 SHUTTLE FLIES OVER THE WRECKAGE OF AN 
SCT scour SHIP. 


SkyBlind 
When scouts encounter a potentially hostile new world, stealth is the key to 
staying alive and avoiding capture. To help achieve these objectives, Loronar 
Corporation designs the SkyBlind reconnaissance ship. 

The SkyBlind's unusual spherical hull naturally enhances a primary feature 
of the ship: sensor baffling. The absence of flat surfaces on the SkyBlind's 
outer hull means that sensor waves and other electronic detection systems 
have no clear means of reflecting back to the source, making the ship dif- 
ficult to detect. Additional sensor baffling along the hull makes the SkyBlind 
virtually invisible to sensors. 

If the ship's crew decides to chance visiting a hostile planet, they can use 
the SkyBlind's landing sphere to descend to the surface. The landing sphere, 
also designed by Loronar, is available exclusively as an auxiliary craft for the 
SkyBlind. It can take off and land within the ship's cargo bay. Without the 
landing sphere, the SkyBlind's cargo capacity doubles. 


Loronar Corporation SkyBlind Recon Ship CL8 
Colossal space transport 
Init -5; Senses Perception +5 


Defense Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 30; +13 armor 
hp 180; DR 15; SR 45; Threshold 80 


Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 650 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged proton torpedoes +2 (see below) 
Fighting Space 10x10 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +40 


Abilities Str 50, Dex 10, Con —, Int 10 
Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 7 

Cargo 50 tons; Consumables 6 months; Carried Craft 1 landing sphere 
Payload 6 proton torpedoes 

Hyperdrive x3 (backup x20) 

Availability Licensed Cost 650,000 credits (400,000 used) 


Proton torpedoes (pilot) 
Atk +2, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash 


0) 
x 
U 
ig 
(0 
ay 
0) 
a 
@ 
W 
3 
G 
U 
S 
W 
Zz 
d 


ANIWAINSS S YSHXoOodesse 


Landing Sphere CL 2 
Huge air vehicle (airspeeder) 
Init +3; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 20; +4 armor 
hp 100; DR 5; Threshold 30 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 650 km/h), fly 3 squares (starship 
scale) 
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +20 
Abilities Str 30, Dex 10, Con —, Int 10 
Skills Initiative +3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +3, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 7 
Cargo 5 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 


Star Seeder-class Colony Ship 

The Star Seeder-class is a multipurpose colony ship produced by Kuat Drive 
Yards. The cargo area can be quickly and easily reconfigured, allowing 
colonists to transport a variety of different materials, such as construction 
tools, supplies, and plants and wildlife. The ship's hangar has enough room 
for a single shuttle along with a few speeders and other ground equipment. 


A DEEP-X EXPLORER (TOP) FLIES AWAY FROM A STAR SEEDER 
COLONY SHIP (BOTTOM). 


To protect the colonists on their journey, the Star Seeder is armed with six 
turbolaser batteries, a tractor beam projector, and substantial shields. The 
ship is capable of atmospheric entry and maneuvering. 


Kuat Drive Yards Star Seeder-class Colony Ship CL9 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -3; Senses Perception +5 
Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 10), Fort 32; +10 armor 
hp 400; DR 15; SR 45; Threshold 132 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged 6 turbolaser batteries +5* (see below) and 
tractor beam battery +5* (see below) 
Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 
Base Atk +0; Grp +42 
Abilities Str 55, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12 
Skills Initiative -3, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -3, 
Use Computer +5 
Crew 169 (normal); Passengers 800 
Cargo 7,500 tons; Consumables 5 years; Carried Craft 1 shuttle 
Hyperdrive x3 (backup x15), navicomputer 
Availability Licensed; Cost 3 million credits (1 million used) 
“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size. 


Turbolaser battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +5 (-17 against targets smaller than Capital), Dmg 3d10x5 
Tractor beam battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +5 (-17 against targets smaller than Capital), Dmg — (grapple +42) 


Vaya-class Scout Ship 

Used extensively by the Republic Astrogation Survey Team just prior to 
the Jedi Civil War, the Vaya-class scout is an excellent exploratory vessel. 
Although not configured for prolonged combat engagements, the ship is able 
to safely take Republic explorers and scientists into the uncharted regions and 
bring them back. The ship is also popular with independent explorers because 
of its low price as well as its spacious interior, which enables explorers to 
bring their families along on journeys that are not particularly dangerous. 
Some purchase the ships to be used as traveling homes as they go about the 
course of their business. Although Republic officials claim that the Vaya- 
class has a 3 percent failure rate, the design has one striking flaw. During 
the strenuous and complicated maneuvers of combat, the port ion engines 
have a tendency to shut down, causing the vessel to go into a dangerous 
spin. Any time this ship moves down the condition track as a result of taking 
damage from an attack, the pilot must make a Pilot check (DC 20) or the 
ship cannot move until the end of the pilot's next turn. 


Hoersch-Kessel Vaya-class Scout Ship CL9 

Colossal space transport 

Init +1; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 17 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +11 armor 

hp 90; DR 15; SR 35; Threshold 74 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 700 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged light laser cannon +3 (see below) and 

Ranged concussion projectiles +3 (see below) 

Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew) 

Base Atk +0; Grp +34 

Atk Options autofire (light laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 38, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16 

Skills Initiative +1, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +1, 
Use Computer +5 


Crew 3 (normal); Passengers 4 

Cargo 60 tons; Consumables 1 month; Carried Craft none 
Payload 4 concussion projectiles 

Hyperdrive x4 (backup x15), navicomputer 

Availability Licensed; Cost 45,000 credits (15,000 used) 


Light laser cannon (gunner) 
Atk +3 (-2 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 
Concussion projectiles (gunner) 
Atk +3, Dmg 5d10x2 


ANIMAL MOUNTS 

Given the range of technology available throughout most of the galaxy, one 
might wonder why anyone would expend the time and effort to train a live 
animal to serve as transportation instead of simply acquiring a speeder or 
some other form of high-speed transport. 

However, for a large number of scouting missions, stealth is far more 
important than speed. A speeder bike can easily cover a large area, but it 
is also loud and prone to disturbing wildlife, which can lead to disastrous 
results. Mechanical vehicles are also readily detectable by sensors. Vehicles 
can break down or become badly damaged, and when exploring beyond the 
confines of the known galaxy, finding replacement parts can be a tall order. 


A living creature that serves as a mount is quieter than a comparable 
vehicle, and if an enemy's sensors pick up the creature, most operators would 
dismiss it as just another beast. Most beasts are keenly alert to danger and 
have a natural instinct to avoid it, so a living mount is another set of senses 
to help prevent the rider from walking into a bad situation. And when an 
explorer is alone in an unexplored region, a living companion can provide 
comfort that a machine is unable to replicate. 


Aiwha 

A giant flying creature that lives on watery planets such as Kamino and 
Naboo, the aiwha uses its large wing-fins to swim underwater and to fly 
through the sky. Kaminoans keep large herds of aiwhas to serve as domesti- 
cated riding beasts, since the creatures can traverse the perpetually stormy 
seas of Kamino with relative ease. The Gungans of Naboo train the beasts 
to provide airborne transportation and use them in war for reconnaissance 
patrols and as bombers. Given the striking similarities between the two spe- 
cies, the aiwhas and the thrantas of Alderaan are believed to share a common 
ancestor, although no relation has been conclusively proven. 


Aiwha CL 4 
Gargantuan aquatic beast 5 

Init +2; Senses Perception +2 

Defenses Ref 6 (flat-footed 6), Fort 16, Will 11 

hp 47; Threshold 35 


Speed 12 squares (flying), 12 squares (swimming) 
Melee slam +10 (2d6+9) 

Fighting Space 4x4; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +3; Grp +25 

Abilities Str 25, Dex 10, Con 20, Int 2, Wis 11, Cha 8 
Feats Improved Defenses, Skill Training (Swim) 
Skills Perception +2, Survival +7, Swim +14 


AN AIWHA 


ti SStogVHo 


ALNEWAINGaS S.YSYveidses) 


yusStdgvHoa 


ANEIWAINES S.YHSHVoresE) 


Bantha 
Perhaps the most adaptable herbivores in the galaxy, banthas are found 
on numerous worlds and are so well known that their name is used in a 
plethora of proverbs, sayings, and children's stories. Several fringe religions 
see the bantha as a divine messenger. Banthas can survive in most envi- 
ronmental extremes, and are able to go without food or water for several 
weeks. Although many subspecies have adapted to the peculiarities of their 
environments, most banthas have large, curving horns and long, shaggy fur. 
Banthas are commonly used as transportation and as beasts of burden. 
Their meat and hides are highly prized, particularly by the Sand People of 
Tatooine, who use the beasts extensively. 


Bantha CL 2 

Huge beast 3 

Init +1; Senses Perception +1 

Defenses Ref 8 (flat-footed 8), Fort 18, Will 10 

hp 37; Threshold 28 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee gore +11 (2d6+10) or 

Melee trample +11 (1d8+10) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +2; Grp +21 

Atk Options Bantha Rush 

Special Action trample 

Abilities Str 28, Dex 10, Con 26, Int 2, Wis 11, Cha 4 

Feats Bantha Rush, Skill Training (Endurance) 

Skills Endurance +14, Perception +1, Survival +6 

Trample—As a standard action, a bantha can attempt to trample an 
adjacent target that is at least one size category smaller, making a 
melee attack roll against the target's Reflex Defense. If the attack 
succeeds, the target takes damage as normal. If the attack misses, the 
target takes half damage. 


BANTHAS ACROSS 
THE GALAXY 
The bantha serves as an archetypical mount and pack animal anywhere 
in the galaxy. The bantha statistics above represent the baseline for the 
common bantha. Gamemasters should feel free to alter that statistics 
block to make the bantha better fit the environment in which it is found. 
As examples, the dune banthas of Tatooine would have the desert 
species trait, and the white-furred banthas of Nelvaan would have the 
arctic species trait (see page 275 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). The 
Kashyyyk grayclimber subspecies would exchange the Trample attack 
for the expert climber special quality (see the “Sullustans” description 
on page 31 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Aquatic or subterranean 
banthas might be waiting out there in the galaxy for your intrepid group 
of explorers to discover. 


Bergruutfa 
Best known as the mounts of the Teloc hunters, bergruutfas are enormous 
beasts with hides that are thick enough to stop blaster bolts and thicker 
plates of armor covering their heads. Although their natural habitats are 
the plains and jungles of their homeworld, bergruutfas are exported to other 
planets because they are mild-tempered and easily domesticated. However, 
when angered, a bergruutfa becomes dangerous and difficult to stop without 
causing lasting harm to the beast. 

Rebel SpecForce commandos occasionally use bergruutfas as riding 
beasts during the Galactic Civil War, and Weequays are known to capture 
and sacrifice bergruutfas to Quay when away from Sriluur. 


Bergruutfa €L.5 

Huge beast 6 

Init +1; Senses Perception +9 

Defenses Ref 4 (flat-footed 4), Fort 18, Will 11 

hp 81; DR 5; Threshold 33 

Speed 10 squares 

Melee slam +9* (1d8+14) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +4; Grp +22 

Atk Options head butt, Power Attack 

Abilities Str 26, Dex 6, Con 27, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 5 

Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack, Toughness 

Skills Perception +9 

Head Butt—When a bergruutfa makes a successful melee attack against 
an adjacent target, it makes an immediate opposed grapple check. If 
the check is successful, the target is moved back 1 square for every 5 
points by which it failed the check. This movement does not provoke an 
attack of opportunity. A bergruutfa receives a +5 circumstance bonus 
to its grapple check if it charges prior to making the attack. 

*Includes 3 points of Power Attack 


Eopie 

Of all Tatooine's indigenous creatures, eopies are perhaps the most useful 
to that world's residents, providing sustenance as well as being extremely 
useful as pack animals and mounts. And eopies are far more affordable than 
banthas or dewbacks. The eopie's long snout enables it to eat the water- 
sucking weeds that invariably creep up around moisture vaporators, much 
to the pleasure of moisture farmers across Tatooine. Eopies are known for 
being able to survive for weeks without water, as well as for plodding along 
in the worst sandstorms. The eopie's noted lack of panic at a sudden threat 
has lead to a common spacers’ expression: "as steady as an eopie.” 


USING MOUNTS IN COMBAT 

Riding a beast in combat is much like riding a speeder bike or another 
vehicle. The beast uses the rider's actions, such as a move action to move 
up to its speed, or a standard action to use its natural weapons, or 3 
swift actions to allow the mount to move up the condition track with the 
recover action. For the most part, the mount is treated as being under 
the rider's control, especially if the creature has been trained for battle. 
Obviously, being trained in Ride helps maximize the benefit of using a 
live mount in battle. Typically, a mount has better speed than its rider, or 
it possesses a means of travel that its rider does not, such as exceptional 
climbing ability or flight. 

Like vehicles, mounts can take advantage of certain feats that the 
rider possesses, such as Dodge, Mobility, Powerful Charge, and Running 
Attack, in addition to the Momentum Strike and Mounted Defense feats 
found on page 127 of Threats of the Galaxy. 


Eopie CL 1 

Large desert beast 2 

Init +0; Senses Perception +0 

Defenses Ref 8 (flat-footed 8), Fort 14, Will 9 

hp 17; Threshold 19 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee bite +4 (1d8+4) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp +9 

Abilities Str 17, Dex 9, Con 18, Int 1, Wis 8, Cha 4 

Special Quality imperturbable 

Feats Skill Training (Survival) 

Skills Endurance +10, Perception +0, Survival +5 

Imperturbable—Eopies gain a +5 species bonus to Will Defense to resist 
the effect of a mind-affecting attack. In addition, a rider does not have 
to make a Ride check to control an eopie mount in battle. 


Fenwolf 

A popular lupine riding animal, the fenwolf has been exported to as many 
worlds as the bantha, so determining the creature's original homeworld is 
a nigh-impossible task. Many planets have significant populations of wild 
fenwolves because the beasts escaped from their handlers, so scouts on those 
planets find that using fenwolves as mounts gives them a better chance of 
operating without detection. The Rebel Alliance uses fenwolves as often as 
possible, because Imperial personnel are unlikely to bother sending out a 
patrol to investigate a common pest. 


Fenwolf CL3 


Large beast 4 
Init +4; Senses scent; Perception +8 


Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 9), Fort 13, Will 11 
hp 30; Threshold 18 


Speed 8 squares 

Melee bite +7 (1d8+6) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +3; Grp +12 

Atk Options Trip 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 14, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 6 

Special Quality scent 

Feats Skill Training (Survival), Trip 

Skills Perception +8, Survival +8 

Scent—Fenwolves ignore concealment and cover when making Perception 
checks to notice enemies within 10 squares, and they take no penalty 
from poor visibility when tracking (see the Survival skill, page 73 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Kaadu 

When the Gungans migrate into the waters of Naboo, they bring kaadu with 
them to serve as draft animals and war mounts. An everyday sight within 
Gungan bubbled cities, kaadu are not found on any other planet in the galaxy. 
Thanks to their powerful legs, kaadu are incredibly quick, both on land and 
underwater, making them excellent choices for scouting missions and for 
making sudden charges in battle. Their particularly acute hearing enables 
kaadu to avoid predators lurking in Naboo's swamps. 


i eSsitagvyHo 


LNEIWAINGSD SVSvVeiesxs) 


yuStavrTgd 


( 


LNSEWAIANSGE” SHIHOMWNS) 


Kaadu CL 1 
Large aquatic beast 2 
Init +3; Senses low-light vision; Perception +5 


Maru CL 2 
Large beast 2 
Init +9; Senses Perception +5 


Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 9), Fort 13, Will 9 
hp 15; Threshold 18 


Speed 12 squares, 8 squares (swimming) 
Melee kick +4 (1d6+4) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +1; Grp +9 

Special Action sprint 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 9), Fort 12, Will 9 
hp 13; Threshold 17 

Speed 10 squares 

Melee tail slam +3 (1d6+3) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp +9 

Special Action sprint 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 16, Int 2, Wis 9, Cha 10 
Feats Skill Training (Perception) 
Skills Perception +5, Swim +9 


Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 2, Wis 9, Cha 5 
Feats Skill Training (Initiative) 
Skills Initiative +9, Perception +5 


Sprint—Kaadu can move up to 5 times their speed when using the run 
action. 


Kalak 

One of the more plentiful species found on the Outer Rim world of Roon—a 
remote world located in the region of space known as the Cloak of the 
Sith and famed for its Roonstones—the kalak is a nimble quadruped that 
is capable of impressive overland speeds. Kalaks are commonly ridden by 
messengers delivering goods and news. Its numerous and prominent teeth 
enable a kalak to chew leaves from trees and to tear the flesh from anything 
that tries to attack it. 


Kalak CL 1 
Large beast 2 

Init +2; Senses Perception +5 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 9), Fort 14, Will 9 

hp 17; Threshold 19 

Speed 12 squares 

Melee bite +4 (1d8+4) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp +9 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 13, Con 18, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 6 
Feats Skill Training (Survival) 
Skills Perception +5, Survival +5 


Maru 

Native to Alaris Prime in the Kashyyyk system, maru are agile reptilian riding 
beasts, able to cover large distances due to their muscular hind legs. Although 
their forearms are vestigial, maru can use their long tails to defend themselves 
against predators. The Wookiees who inhabit Alaris Prime use maru as pack 
animals and ride them as war mounts, using special harnesses each fitted 
with two bowcasters and a seismic pulse emitter. 


Sprint—Maru can move up to 5 times their speed when using the run 
action. 


Orray 

Orrays are strong, leathery-skinned reptiles native to Geonosis, and they 
are commonly used by Geonosian picadors as riding mounts. The picadors 
rely on the orrays' quick gait to keep them out of reach of the various wild 
creatures used in the Geonosian arenas, particularly such ferocious beasts 
as the acklay and the nexu. To tame an orray, Geonosians remove its stinger- 
tipped tail, making the orray more docile. However, even a docile orray might 
attack its rider with little provocation. Wild orrays can devour thousands of 
larval Geonosians in a single meal, using their long snouts to root inside the 
Geonosians' delicate egg chambers. 


Orray CL3 
Large desert beast 4 
Init +8; Senses Perception +1 


Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 9), Fort 12, Will 9 
hp 19; Threshold 17 


Speed 8 squares 

Melee bite +4* (1d8+7) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +3; Grp +11 

Atk Options Power Attack 


Abilities Str 17, Dex 12, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 6 
Feats Power Attack, Skill Training (Initiative) 
Skills Initiative +8, Perception +1, Survival +6 
“Includes 2 points of Power Attack 


Rakazzak Beast 

Three-meter-tall arachnids from the Forest Moon of Endor, rakazzak beasts 
are commonly used by the Yuzzum as mounts. Carnivorous in the wild, 
rakazzak beasts spin webs to trap prey, which frequently includes Ewoks. A 
rakazzak beast can also actively hunt prey, rearing back on its hind legs to 
ensnare a meal with its forelegs. Rakazzak beasts are commonly preyed upon 
by condor dragons. A rakazzak beast's long legs give it exceptional ground 
speed and also keep its rider high above the attacks of land-based enemies, 
a fact that the Yuzzum use to their advantage against Ewok adversaries. 
Rakazzak Beast CL 2 
Huge beast 3 

Init +11; Senses Perception +3 

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 8), Fort 12, Will 12 

hp 19; Threshold 22 

Speed 10 squares 

Melee 2 claws +7 (1d8+3) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 

Base Atk +2; Grp +17 

Atk Options Pin 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 20, Con 15, Int 1, Wis 14, Cha 4 

Feats Pin, Weapon Finesse 

Skills Initiative +11, Perception +3 


Rockhopper 
The bipedal rockhopper is believed to be a genetic cousin of the Cracian 
thumper, perhaps having evolved from stocks of thumpers transplanted off 
their homeworld. Rockhoppers lack the sharp claws of their cousins, but 
instead they possess strong jaws filled with sharp teeth. They are most com- 
monly found on Roon, where they are ridden in the Roon Colonial Games, 
although specimens have also been found on Biitu in the Outer Rim. 
Rockhopper CL 2 
Large beast 3 
Init +3; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 9), Fort 12, Will 10 
hp 19; Threshold 17 
Speed 8 squares 
Melee bite +3 (1d8+2) and 

tail slam +3 (1d6+2) 
Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 
Base Atk +2; Grp +9 
Atk Options Running Attack 
Special Action sprint 


Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 7 

Feats Running Attack, Skill Training (Endurance) 

Skills Endurance +8, Perception +6 

Sprint—Rockhoppers can move up to 5 times their speed when using the 
run action. 


Ukian Torbull 

As an experiment by the Ukians to breed a hardy pack animal able to survive 
in any environment, the Ukian torbull is only a partial success. Although the 
creature is capable of functioning in a diverse range of environments and is 
easy to domesticate, it also has the major disadvantage of having a voracious 
appetite, requiring feeding and watering at least four times a day. As result, 
the torbull is not popular as a pack beast, especially on worlds where food 
is scarce. Torbulls are also a popular source of food, with the most notable 
dish being a soup made from the creature's tail. 


Ukian Torbull CL 1 
Huge beast 1 


Init -1; Senses Perception -1 


Defenses Ref 11 (flat-footed 11), Fort 17, Will 10 
hp 10; Threshold 27 


Speed 12 squares 
Melee gore +4 (2d6+4) and 
tail slam +4 (1d8+4) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares 
Base Atk +0; Grp +14 
Abilities Str 19, Dex 9, Con 22, Int 1, Wis 8, Cha 3 
Special Qualities tame, thick hide, voracious 
Feats Improved Defenses 
Skills Perception -1, Survival +4 


esiqvyHna 


Tame—A Ukian torbull is exceptionally docile, providing its rider a +5 
favorable circumstance bonus to Ride checks. 

Thick Hide—Ukian torbulls have exceptionally tough hides, providing a +3 
natural armor bonus to Reflex Defense. 

Voracious—A Ukian torbull takes a —5 penalty to Endurance checks made 
to ignore the effects of starvation. 


Yeaqt 

A native creature of the isolated, wealthy world of Velmor, the ycaqt is a 
gigantic, hairless beast supported by a pair of massive legs and possessing 
an equally massive maw that enables it to scoop up more than a dozen liters 
of water and filter out the plankton that is its primary diet. In spite of the 
intimidating size of its mouth, a ycaqt instead relies on its speed and its 
powerful tail to defend itself from predators, because any damage to the 


ALNEWAIASS® SYHSHedess) 


( 


il HStavHo 


| 


LNSEWAIASE” S.YVSVodes<s) 


delicate baleen it uses to filter its food could result in the ycaqt's starvation. 
Early in the history of Velmor, ycaqts are used in battle and for hunting 
by Velmorian nobles, and the creatures retain their cultural significance, 
being used in ceremonial events such as precoronation festivities. Despite 
protests by some nobles, ycaqts are successfully exported to other worlds 
for use in sports. 


Yeaqt CL 
Large beast 2 

Init +2; Senses Perception +1 

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 9), Fort 14, Will 10 

hp 17; Threshold 19 

Speed 12 squares 

Melee tail slam +5 (1d6+5) or 

Melee trample +5 (1d6+5) 

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +1; Grp +10 

Special Action trample 

Abilities Str 19, Dex 12, Con 18, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 4 
Feats Skill Training (Survival) 

Skills Jump +10, Perception +1, Survival +6 


Trample—As a standard action, a ycaqt can attempt to trample an 
adjacent target that is at least one size category smaller, making a 
melee attack roll against the target's Reflex Defense. If the attack 
succeeds, the target takes damage as normal. If the attack misses, the 
target takes half damage. 


ANIMAL COMPANIONS 


Animals that have been domesticated to serve as companions can be par- 
ticularly beneficial to explorers and scouts. Popular holovids show explorers 
with animal sidekicks, usually feral beasts that they have managed to tame. 
Even the notoriously fierce and battle-hardened Mandalorians are known 
to have a soft spot for some animals, particularly those that can handle 
themselves in a fight. 

In many respects, having an animal companion is like including an NPC 
droid or a nonheroic minion as part of the group. And as with allowing too 
many player-controlled NPCs, the Gamemaster should be careful about 
allowing characters to have too many animal companions. The Gamemaster 
should also avoid allowing heroes to select an animal companion that has 
a Challenge Level significantly higher than the heroes’ character level. A 
group of 1st-level characters who have a pet strill will have an easier time 
overcoming combat challenges that would otherwise be balanced for a 
similar group of characters. 


ANIMAL COMPANIONS AND 
GAINING EXPERIENCE POINTS 
If the Gamemaster decides to award an animal companion an equal share 
of the group's earned experience points, eventually the creature will 
gain enough experience points to advance in level. Even though it is a 
player-controlled NPC, the animal companion still follows the advance- 
ment rules on page 273 of the Saga Edition core rulebook. Since heroes 
are exceptional individuals, their animal companions would likely become 
similarly exceptional. 


If the animal companion is under the direct control of a player and pro- 
vides the group with a distinct advantage, specifically in combat encounters, 
the creature should receive an equal share of the experience points for that 
adventure. For example, a voorpak that is the animal companion of a noble in 
a group of five player characters would receive one-sixth of the experience 
points that the group earns. If the animal companion is handled as an NPC 
and largely operates independent of the players, or if it does not provide a sig- 
nificant advantage to the party, then it should not receive experience points. 

Directing a player-controlled animal companion can be simple. The owner 
indicates what actions the creature should take. Domesticated creatures can 
be assumed to obey the commands of their owners, provided the commands 
are not too complex and do not put the creature in too much danger. An 
animal companion acts on its owner's initiative count. 

The creatures described below frequently serve as animal companions. 


Dark Wolf 

Also known as raquor'daan by the Weequays of their native world, Sriluurian 
dark wolves are nocturnal hunters. This stealthy and deadly predator uses 
its poison-laden claws and stinger-tipped tail to bring down prey, and its 
tough, leathery hide protects it from both sandstorms and its own stinger. 
Dark wolves are natural enemies of the equally vicious bandigos, so they 
are treated with great respect by the Weequays, whose legends include 
stories of the fearsome dark wolves. Although they are among the more 
dangerous creatures of Sriluur, dark wolves can be tamed to serve as loyal 
hunting companions. 


Dark Wolf CL3 
Medium desert beast 4 

Init +11; Senses darkvision, scent; Perception +9 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 10), Fort 13, Will 12 

hp 30; Threshold 13 


Speed 10 squares 

Melee bite +7 (1d6+6) and 
2 claws +7 (1d4+6 plus poison) and 
tail attack +7 (1d3+6 plus poison) 

Base Atk +3; Grp +7 

Atk Option poison 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 18, Con 16, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 8 

Special Quality scent 

Feats Skill Training (Initiative, Survival) 

Skills Initiative +11, Perception +9, Survival +9 

Poison—When a dark wolf deals damage to a living target with its claws 
or its stinger, the target is also poisoned. If the poison succeeds on 
an attack roll (1d20+10) against the target's Fortitude Defense, the 
target moves -1 step along the condition track. A target moved to 
the last step of the condition track by the poison is immobilized, but 
not unconscious. The poison attacks each round until cured with a 
successful DC 10 Treat Injury check. 

Scent—Dark wolves ignore concealment and cover when making 
Perception checks to notice enemies within 10 squares, and they take 
no penalty from poor visibility when tracking (see the Survival skill, 
page 73 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


Saber Cat 
A large carnivorous species native to the Mid Rim world of Monastery, the 
saber cat is a ferocious predator. Members of the Order of the Sacred Circle 
are known to keep several tamed saber cats as pets and protectors. The 
creature's name refers to its razor-sharp claws and teeth, but a saber cat also 
possesses a thick horn that can be used as a weapon. Difficult to procure, 
saber cat whelps fetch a high price on the black market, and the unsettling 
appearance of saber cats makes them appealing both as pets and as status 
symbols for crime lords and nobles. 
Saber Cat CL5 
Medium beast 6 
Init +7; Senses Perception +9 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will 11 
hp 33; Threshold 11 
Speed 8 squares 
Melee bite +8 (1d6+5) and 

2 claws +8 (1d4+5) or 
Melee gore +8 (1d6+5) and 

2 claws +8 (1d4+5) 
Base Atk +4; Grp +8 
Atk Option pounce 


Abilities Str 14, Dex 18, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 7 
Feats Skill Training Jump, Stealth), Weapon Finesse 
Skills Jump +10, Perception +9, Stealth +12 


Pounce—When long jumping, a saber cat does not require a running start 
for jumps of 4 squares or fewer and does not double the Jump DC when 
doing so (see page 68 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). If the saber 
cat successfully jumps into or adjacent to a target enemy's square, 
the saber cat can make an immediate attack against the target. If the 
attack is successful, the saber cat can attempt to trip the target (as if 
using the Trip feat on page 88 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) as a 
free action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 


Strill 

A strill is a six-legged Mandalorian hunting animal that has a large, fang- 
filled mouth. Strills are considered to be highly intelligent by their owners. 
Slightly over a meter in length, strills are covered in loose flaps of skin, which 
they use to glide through the air. As it glides, a strill is capable of carrying a 
surprising amount of weight for a creature of its size. Strills have substan- 
tially longer life spans than Humans, so it is common for a Mandalorian to 
pass ownership of a strill to a younger clan member upon his or her death. 
Strill CL 4 
Small beast 5 

Init +4; Senses Perception +13 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 13, Will 12 

hp 39; Threshold 13 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee bite +9 (1d4+8) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +3; Grp +4 

Special Action gliding 

Abilities Str 22, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 3 

Special Quality carrying capacity, gliding 

Feats Improved Defenses, Skill Focus (Perception) 

Skills Perception +13 


Carrying Capacity—Strills are treated as Medium creatures when 
determining their carrying capacity. 

Gliding—As a move action, a strill can glide, which is treated as a Jump 
check with the strill being considered to have a running start. Strills 
gain a +10 species bonus to Jump checks to determine the distance 
cleared. 


fh eSsitdavHgod 


LNEWANAGS® So MHSEYMeodiesss) 


Cc 


CHAPTER Iiill 


EXPLORATION CAMPAIGNS 


Every Star Wars film begins with the same words, which remind us that a 
galaxy full of adventure waits for us. Untold worlds exist beyond the many 
already known by name. Exotic creatures wait after the next hyperspace 
jump to aid or confound the heroes. Every roleplaying session with your 
friends is an opportunity to explore new worlds together and create classic 
adventure stories. The galaxy is a big place. Every world is an adventure 
waiting to happen. 

One of the great appeals of Star Wars is the exotic locations where stories 
can take place. Every planet seems familiar, yet has a unique element that 
makes it memorable. From the giant forests of Endor to the endless deserts 
of Tatooine, the worlds of the galaxy reinforce the familiar yet fantastic tone. 

No matter the era of Star Wars, the galaxy offers thousands of unexplored 
worlds. Explorers continually push beyond the frontier and expand the fringe. 
Some operate as part of a governmental body, looking for worlds to colonize 
and conquer. Some operate as employees of galaxy-spanning companies 
that seek new worlds to exploit for profit. And others operate on their own 
in small, battered ships, trying to carve out a home in the spiraling void. 

This chapter includes suggestions on how to make worlds that will reso- 
nate in your stories. It has resources and advice for building new worlds, as 
well as a planet generator to help when time or inspiration is lacking. It also 
suggests different ways to bring the theme of exploration to the forefront 
of your Star Wars campaign. And, because attitudes about exploration differ 
throughout the eras, summaries of those attitudes are included here. Chapter 
3 introduces two campaign outlines that have exploration as their central 
theme. Each of these campaigns offers suggestions on how to customize the 
campaign to best fit your play style. Also check out the tips and guidelines 
on how to include exploration as a theme in an ongoing campaign. 


WN eSalLavHa ) 


SNOYOIVINYOD NOILvVeOoOTIdxXx”g 


Hl HStevHS 


SNOIVYVAIWYS NOILVHOVWWSSs) | 


CAMPAIGN OUTLINE: 
POOR WAYFARING 
STRANGERS 


This campaign revolves around a group of heroes trying to find their way 
home from the Unknown Regions. The heroes are flung out of known space 
by a hyperdrive accident, and they are trapped on a ship with members of an 
opposing faction. The heroes must first learn to coexist with the opposing 
faction by either converting or eliminating its members. Then, to find medi- 
cal assistance for the engineer who can repair their ship, they must bring 
peace to the sector of space they have been hurled into. Finally, they must 
locate an ancient space station that has the technology to send them home. 
Part of the conflict stems from the heroes being stuck in the Unknown 

Regions with a group of enemies. Many natural pairings fit this idea. All the 
heroes need not be from one of the factions, but having at least one character 
directly involved in the conflict makes for excellent drama. 

© Empire/Rebels 

e Jedi/Sith 

e Republic/Mandalorian 


ACT I: ONE-WAY TICKET 

The campaign begins in the middle of the action, much like the opening 
of Star Wars: A New Hope. The heroes are making the final assault on an 
enemy flagship. They are pursuing Dr. Xita, an eccentric hyperdrive engineer. 
Xita, along with members of the enemy faction, is attempting to escape in 
an experimental craft. The craft possesses a multiphase hyperdrive that 
allows the ship to travel farther and faster while in hyperspace. At the end 
of the encounter, after the heroes have boarded Dr. Xita's ship in order to 
capture him, the experimental hyperdrive is activated, either accidentally or 
deliberately. The multiphase hyperdrive damages itself upon its activation. 
The ship has a backup hyperdrive, but using it to return to civilized space is 
a long and arduous process. 

The heroes find themselves deep in the Unknown Regions, trapped on the 
same ship with their enemies. They must learn to coexist, at least for now. 
Will they survive long enough to find their way home? 

The ship has food and water for two weeks. If the heroes are to have any 
hope of survival, they must find new sources of these necessities. Adven- 
tures on hostile worlds gain the heroes some supplies. However, gear and 
replacement parts for the ship cannot be found in the wild, so the heroes 
must interact with the strange species of this unknown sector. Natives 
willing to trade are unwilling to accept credits. Most of the equipment on 
the ship is vital to their survival, but the heroes can offer their services in 
exchange for parts. 


One of the best ways to highlight the differences of an Unknown Regions 
campaign is to use lesser-known non-Human species. The races described in 
Chapter 1 are a good place to start, as well as the races found in other Star 
Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition rulebooks and in other Star Wars books, 
comics, movies, and television series. Players accustomed to seeing Wookiees 
and Trandoshans in every spaceport will feel more out of place when they 
come into contact with species that are not immediately recognizable. 

Another way to set an Unknown Regions campaign apart is to challenge 
players’ expectations. The decades of Star Wars lore lead players to expect 
certain patterns of behavior from the inhabitants of the galaxy they know. 
A campaign set outside the usual galaxy offers a chance to explore those 
ideas and play with them. Rodians are known as bounty hunters. What if 
the heroes come across a Rodian who was exiled because she was unable to 
kill her first target? Members of other familiar races might have been lost 
in the sector. Perhaps Hutts are the benevolent guardians of a charitable 
monastery, or a planet is at war over a prized Jedi artifact that turns out to 
be a hydrospanner. 

During their initial exploration, the heroes come across a small ship 
pursued by a much larger force of pirate vessels. The fleeing ship transmits 
a distress signal, and the heroes swoop in, sending the raiders fleeing. The 
rescued ship belongs to Grazdoc, a Nebalite trader in the sector. Nebalites 
are cephalopods of Gargantuan size who have ships constructed around their 
bodies like suits of clothing. When Grazdoc needs a face-to-face agent, he 
sends a small protocol droid, X-17-D. The droid is unable to speak, but it com- 
municates through gestures. Grazdoc Is grateful for the heroes’ intervention 
and turns out to be a valuable ally. 

The raiders make excellent recurring villains. They are a gang of low-level 
space thugs who have bribed local authorities to look the other way when 
they bully defenseless ships. Led by a pirate known as Bereliz, the raiders 
operate out of a hidden base that the heroes must locate. The raiders might 
find new allies in the enemy faction on board the heroes’ ship. The enemy 
faction can give inside information to the raiders, revealing any weaknesses 
the heroes might have so the pirates can exploit them. The raiders help the 
enemy faction set up ambushes and attempt to take control of the ship. 
Alone, the raiders are not a great threat, but as the enemy faction attempts 
to take command of the ship away from the heroes, the raiders complement 
the intrigue aboard the ship with an external threat. 

This act concludes when the heroes face off against the raiders and take 
the fight to their hidden base. The raiders have captured Grazdoc and are 
holding him hostage. This is an opportunity to include a classic adventure 
encounter as the heroes make their way into the base. They might use speed, 
combat, or stealth, but the heroes eventually come face to face with Bereliz. 
The pirate leader is a cut above the riffraff in his employ. He makes the heroes 
an offer: If they join him, they can become kings of the sector. If the heroes 
refuse Bereliz's offer, the confrontation quickly becomes violent. 


AcT ll: THE SEARCH 

FOR A CURE 

Before repairs can be made to the multiphase hyperdrive, Dr. Xita succumbs 
to a mysterious sickness. Years of exposure to the multiphase hyperdrive 
have affected his health. The heroes discover from local traders that the 
only cure for his disease lies in the strange technology of the Xaxax, a long- 
extinct race of beings who left powerful technological artifacts scattered 
throughout this part of the galaxy. 

This act also introduces a new set of villains. The local name for the 
members of this organization roughly translates to the Guardians. They were 
brought together to watch over Xaxax technology and ensure that it is not 
used for evil purposes, but the Guardians have grown corrupt after thousands 
of years and jealously guard the advanced technology of the lost Xaxax. 

Astrange piece of ancient technology comes into the heroes' possession. 
Perhaps it is discovered in the treasure trove of Bereliz's defeated raiders, or 
perhaps it is given to the heroes as a token of Grazdoc's gratitude. Studying 
the artifact reveals two facts: The artifact is very old, possibly predating 
the Republic, and the small but highly advanced artifact enables the user 
to communicate across far distances. If the heroes ask local contacts about 
the artifact, they receive cryptic responses. Such technology has been seen 
in the region before, but no one seems to use it. 

The heroes must keep Dr. Xita alive, because he is the only being capable 
of repairing the multiphase hyperdrive. Without constant maintenance by 
Dr. Xita, the ship begins to break down. The backup hyperdrive starts to 
malfunction, as do the weapons. Doors stick. A strange smell issues from the 
air vents. These inconveniences are not life-threatening, but serve to spur 
the heroes to find a cure for Dr. Xita before the ship deteriorates further. 

Many of the adventures and encounters in this act involve the search 
to find a cure for Dr. Xita's illness. Grazdoc puts the heroes in contact with 
various healers—some who have legitimate gifts, some who sell colored water 
to gullible natives. A visit to a primitive Force-sensitive shaman sends the 
heroes on a quest for a rare healing herb on a dense jungle planet. A rumor 
of ancient technology puts the heroes at odds with the Guardians. Through 
these adventures the heroes find treatments for Dr. Xita's symptoms, but no 
cure for the disease that is slowly killing him. 

The main villain of the act is the enemy faction on board the ship. With 
the heroes occupied with the search for a cure, the enemy faction decides 
to seize control of the ship or destroy everyone in the process. The enemy 
faction does its best to sabotage any objectives the heroes have by meth- 
ods such as destroying the translation database, making interactions with 
other races more difficult. It provokes fights with hostiles to force the 
heroes to expend time and energy smoothing things over, and it reveals the 
ship's location to criminals and pirates. It wipes the memories of droids and 
deactivates weapons. The enemy faction has gathered together the enemies 
bested by the heroes, using those allies in its push to seize control of ship 
and destroy the heroes. 


The Guardians are a minor threat in this act because, unlike the raiders, 
the Guardians do not make deals with the enemy faction. The threat they 
represent might seem distant, but the heroes should gradually become aware 
of the depth of the Guardians’ corruption. The Guardians let criminals go. 
They harass the heroes in their search for medicine. They confiscate items 
of ancient technology, which inevitably turn up in a villain's clutches. The 
Guardians don't take direct action against the heroes. Even if the heroes 
launch an attack on a Guardian ship, the Guardians fight to disable. But 
they are only waiting for the right moment to act, and when they strike, the 
Guardians will show the heroes no mercy. 

The climax of the second act comes when the heroes discover a world 
with technology that can cure the mysterious disease that afflicts Dr. Xita. 
The world is said to have been built by the Xaxax, and it appears to have 
been the source of the bits of advanced technology that turn up throughout 
the sector. The Guardians abandoned the world long ago, having looted 
what technology they could locate. Depending on the heroes’ strengths, 
the climactic encounter can incorporate an assault on an ancient fortress, 
a battle over the Xaxax world, or a clash of lightsabers while the rest of the 
heroes race to save Dr. Xita’s life. 


CAMPAIGN OPTION: 

KEEP YOUR ENEMIES CLOSER 
The heroes must learn to live with their enemies while they are stranded 
in the Unknown Regions, instead of constantly battling them for control 
of the ship. You might allow players to make characters who are mem- 
bers of the enemy faction. The players can use what they know about 
the opposing factions in the game to find creative ways to resolve the 
conflict set up in the beginning of the campaign. For example, a Sith 
character might be turned away from the dark side by Jedi characters, or 
a Republic soldier might learn discipline from a Mandalorian. You should 
include encounters that emphasize that all the characters will have to 
work together to survive. 


AcT Ill: A LONG SHOT 

The goals of this segment of the campaign are twofold. The heroes must 
eliminate the Guardians and find their way home. The Guardians observe the 
conflict between the two factions with increasing interest. The Guardians 
are confident that they can bargain with the enemy faction if it wins. If the 
heroes win, they become a threat to the Guardians that must be dealt with. 
During the final battle with the enemy faction, the heroes discover evidence 
of a hidden Xaxax station somewhere in the sector. Dr. Xita remarks on how 
the design of the station mirrors the design of the multiphase hyperdrive. 
The ancient space station is the heroes’ ticket home! Now all they have to 
do is find it. 


HW) SeSatavHDd 


SNEIYVEWYS: NOILVYHOWS=s) 


iii SSiLavHga 


U 


SNEIVEIWYS NOILVYHOMVWSsE) 


The power core for the station was salvaged and split up by the Guardians. 
The heroes must locate and recover enough pieces to power the station for 
one final jump. (The exact number of pieces needed is up to the Gamemaster.) 
One piece is located on a planet where the primitive population worships 
it as a god. Another is used as the power source for the Guardians’ largest 
ship. Another might be hidden among the million fragments of an asteroid 
belt. Dr. Xita can cobble together the pieces into a device that will supply 
enough power to the station for one risky jump home. 

The Guardians keep the location of the station secret, because it's the 
place where they decode and study the artifacts they find. But a small number 
of Guardians oppose their organization's corruption, and they feed informa- 
tion about the ancient station to the heroes. These dissenters are eventually 
discovered and eliminated by the Guardians, but not before having provided 
the heroes with enough clues to locate the station. Ultimately, the heroes 
sow the seeds of rebellion, intentionally or not, and the planets of the sector 
start to rise against the Guardians. 

The heroes and their allies mount an assault on the station, where the 
Guardians make their last stand. The Guardians are led by General Klaxus, a 
shrewd commander. A member of the enemy faction might make a surprise 
return as Klaxus's second in command. This final act offers a great opportu- 
nity for a multilayered showdown. Run a round of space combat, then have 
some of the heroes lead an assault on a vital substation, and then stage a 
duel between one of the heroes and General Klaxus. Cutting between the 
battles is a classic Star Wars tactic, heightening the tension and keeping 
everyone on the edge of their seats. 


CAMPAIGN OUTLINE: 
THE SEARCH FOR 
ENDELAAN 


This campaign features the crew of the ship Spira/ Dancer. The Spiral Dancer 
has been specially built to head into the Unknown Regions for a lengthy 
mission. The players will have adventures along the way to fulfilling their 
ultimate goal of finding a lost planet known as Endelaan. You should adjust 
the reason the heroes need to find Endelaan to fit the era and the characters. 
Endelaan might be an enclave of Jedi who survive Order 66. It might be a new 
homeworld for a species displaced by the Empire or by the Mandalorians, or 
it might be the source of a strange new technology. 

The Spiral Dancer is a large ship with a large crew complement. Select 
a ship appropriate for the era of play. This larger ship allows for a different 
play experience than the typical light freighter often used as a transport. It 
offers a chance to refresh resources used during the course of the campaign. 
Starfighters are destroyed, weapons are lost, and Gamemaster characters 
perish during the campaign. Replacing them is easier because of the resources 
available on the Spiral Dancer. 


THE MULTICHARACTER 
CAMPAIGN 

One challenge of a game featuring a large crew is keeping the heroes 
together for adventures. If, for example, the heroes consist of a protocol 
droid, a medical officer, a hotshot pilot, and a Jedi ambassador, writing 
adventures that require the skills of each character can be difficult. One 
way to resolve this problem is to allow players to make multiple charac- 
ters with different specialties. The players can then choose to play the 
characters who best suit each mission. 


ACT i: THE OUTER RIM 

The first few adventures take place on the known frontier of the galaxy, in the 
Outer Rim. These adventures allow you to use traditional Star Wars elements 
while preparing the heroes for the unique challenges to come. 

Subo the Hutt is the crime lord of the sector, a minor wheel in the larger 
crime family. Subo is a Hutt with refined taste, and he believes himself to be 
a humble art collector, although he engages in the same brutal behavior that 
Hutt crime lords are known for. Subo is fine with his small-time role, because 
he has a much longer view. He, too, is interested in Endelaan, because he 
believes that something on the planet can extend his life indefinitely. While 
the other Hutts poison and kill each other through the years, the secret of 
Endelaan will ensure that Subo is the ultimate inheritor of the crime empire. 

The first of Subo's enforcers isa Human named Jakka. Jakka is not bright 
and brags about his work for Subo. Subo keeps the thug around because 
of his resilience. For some reason, Jakka is difficult to kill, and he has the 
cybernetics to prove it. Jakka is a relentless foe, returning to the pursuit of 
the heroes time and time again after they believe him to be dead. Jakka takes 
pride in his cybernetic replacements and does his best to find those that 
are intimidating and obvious. He remembers any hero who injures him in an 
encounter, and he does what he can to use his new toy on that hero in the 
next encounter. Jakka should ultimately end his career in the final encounter 
of this act, after he has become more machine than Human. 

Renarra is Subo's lieutenant and main advisor. This Wookiee owes a life 
debt to Subo, and she uses her position to her advantage to get out of trouble 
with the authorities. Renarra is as ruthless and cunning as her boss, and her 
temper is legendary. Although she does not engage in the berserker rages 
typical of Wookiees, she is no less deadly in anger. She has sent Jakka and 
other enforcers after targets who have committed only the slightest infrac- 
tions. She is particularly hard on smugglers who fall behind in their debts. 
Subo keeps her in check, but when he wants someone eliminated, Renarra 
gets the job done. She is a stubborn enemy and does not tolerate failure in 
herself or her minions. 


Subo attempts to plant an agent on the Spiral Dancer. He wants to learn 
what the heroes know about Endelaan and tries to persuade at least one of 
the heroes to become a double agent. Subo has studied the heroes well and 
knows how to tempt them. He might offer a Jedi an ancient holocron or per- 
haps a list with the names of all the Force-sensitives in the sector. He might 
offer a soldier a prototype weapon or a scoundrel a chance at a big payday. 
The key is to have Subo make an offer that the hero will find difficult to 
refuse. It should be a tough decision, and one that the hero might regret later. 

The heroes themselves might be immune to Subo's temptations, but not 
everyone on board can resist his charms. On a ship as large as the Spiral 
Dancer, Subo will eventually get to somebody. The traitor onboard is a plot 
that needs to be revealed slowly. Start with a weapons malfunction. Direct 
suspicion onto one of the player characters, and then spread it to the others. 
The heroes should trust one another, but let their suspicion of the rest of 
the crew work its way into the story. The traitor reveals his or her identity 
near the end of the act, but the heroes should feel that they are close to 
uncovering the identity at any moment. 

Most of the adventures are small clashes over artifacts that offer informa- 
tion about Endelaan. Subo leaves Renarra to handle these matters. Renarra 
uses violence as her main tool, arranging burglaries and attacking vulnerable 
crew members whenever she can. After the Spiral Dancer has been identified 
as a threat, Renarra throws any obstacles she can at the crew. She knows 
that she does not have the resources to battle a ship the size of the Spiral 
Dancer, but the crew is another matter entirely. Individual crew members can 
be intimidated, kidnapped, or killed, and the repercussions of these events 
are felt by everyone. 

The conflict with Renarra comes to a head with the discovery of the 
Antara Satrap. This small scout ship visited Endelaan by accident, and vital 
navigation information is stored in its logs. Renarra kidnaps the last living 
relative of the Satrap's captain and tortures the young Human for informa- 
tion. He claims to know nothing about the ship. The heroes come to his 
rescue and discover that one of his family heirlooms points to the location 
of the Satrap. The ship is intact but heavily damaged. The logs require time 
to repair and decipher. Renarra knows that the time to strike has arrived and 
calls in a last favor from the traitor on board the ship. 

When the Satrap is repaired, the traitor makes his or her move. The ship 
is stolen and leads the Spiral Dancer on a chase through the Outer Rim. The 
Satrap jumps into a system, creates as much confusion as possible, and jumps 
away, leaving the heroes to resolve problems such as hostile natives, counter- 
feit artifacts, and red herrings designed to slow the heroes down. The Antara 
Satrap eventually leads the heroes to Subo's personal vessel, the Codexen. 

The Codexen is a large luxury liner that has been converted to cater to 
Subo, his entourage, and his guests. Unlike other examples of Hutt excess, 
the ship is not filled with slave dancers, pet monsters, or other such ephem- 

eral pleasures. Subo considers himself an art collector and a Hutt of refined 


tastes, and his ship is a floating museum. Subo's collection should make the 
heroes reluctant to destroy the ship. The heroes instead find themselves on 
a careful raid of the Codexen, trying to acquire the information that Subo 
has about Endelaan as well as recover the Antara Satrap. Throw in a mix of 
valuable artifacts, the final appearance of Jakka as a henchman, and the 
final confrontation with Renarra, and you have an excellent conclusion to 
the first part of your campaign. 


AcT il: THE DANGER 

OF THE NEBULA 

Having recovered the Antara Satrap, or at least its logs, the heroes now have 
a general idea of Endelaan’s location, and the search for the planet begins 
in earnest. The Spiral Dancer leaves the Outer Rim and the machinations of 
Subo the Hutt behind. This act features adventures with themes of explora- 
tion and discovery. The heroes have had a good dose of classic Star Wars 
adventure on the fringes of the galaxy. This act makes the transition from a 
game featuring familiar Star Wars elements into a game with new elements 
but the same themes. 

The Nebula is the main threat of this act. This ancient cult does not have 
a massive fleet of starships. It does not have the evil powers of the Sith. 
But it does have a prophecy that states that the discovery of Endelaan will 
bring about the end of the galaxy. The Nebula believes itself to be the only 
organization able to stop the prophecy from coming true. When the Spiral 
Dancer arrives, the members of the Nebula know they must act. The secret 
of Endelaan is theirs to protect, and the Spiral Dancer is the biggest threat 
they have faced. 

A campaign in the Unknown Regions is an excellent chance for the heroes 
to make history by discovering a brand-new species. Perhaps they find one 
of those detailed in this book, or perhaps they discover a species you have 
designed. The heroes have a blank slate to work with. The newly discovered 
species might become essential allies. Or they might align with the Nebula 
and work with the secret society to defeat the Spiral Dancer. Give the heroes 
a few encounters that can influence the new species’ opinion of them. 

The Nebula hopes to quietly eliminate the heroes and stop them from 
triggering the prophecy. One of the Nebula's agents starts to spread lies about 
the crew of the Spiral Dancer. These stories are exaggerated versions of the 
heroes’ previous exploits. A soldier's heroic defense of an outpost becomes 
a massacre of legendary proportions. Delicate trade negotiations by the 
communication officer are transformed into the fleecing of an entire planet. 
Distort incidents from earlier in the campaign until the actions become vil- 
lainous. The heroes must work to restore their reputation, and they become 
aware that someone out here is sabotaging their efforts to find Endelaan. 

As they search for the lost planet, the heroes begin to influence the 
Unknown Regions. The technology they bring is different from anything in the 
sector. It should subtly transform the civilizations that the heroes encounter. 


S) NOILYEOVWES SE) [] Wt eaiavHo ) 


SNEIVEWY: 


Hil eSiacvHoa 


SNEIVEIWYS NOILVYHOVWWdESNE) | 


How might a primitive civilization react to a speeder or a blaster? The Spiral 
Dancer develops a black market that sells equipment wherever the ship stops. 
Some view it as harmless, but the problems escalate when a native species 
uses the technology to dominate the other species on the planet. The heroes 
must put things right the best way they can. 

As the Spiral Dancer gets closer to Endelaan, a member of the Nebula 
reveals himself to the heroes. He wants protection from the society and is 
willing to reveal its secrets in exchange for a small parcel to live on when 
Endelaan is reached. This turncoat leads to a series of adventures that include 
verifying his stories and dealing with crew members who are unhappy with 
a traitor coming on board. Ultimately, the traitor truly wants to defect and 
help the Spiral Dancer, but the heroes should face many moments of doubt 
before his good intentions are proven. 

The Spiral Dancer soon comes to be seen as a source of justice in the 
sector. Ships seek out the Spiral Dancer, hoping that it can settle interplan- 
etary conflicts. Without an Empire or a Republic to keep order, the locals 
of many worlds need the Spiral Dancer to act as an intermediary to broker 
treaties and prevent wars. These challenges should offer a mix of diplomacy 
and action. Negotiating a treaty can be difficult, but it becomes much more 
complicated when one of the ambassadors is kidnapped and the Spiral 
Dancer has to rescue her. Some of these challenges are the result of the 
Nebula's interference. The heroes' reputation is in constant fluctuation. For 
every planet where the Spira/ Dancer does some good, the Nebula does evil 
in the heroes’ names. 

The positive influence that the Spiral Dancer creates in the sector eventu- 
ally pays off. The heroes are directed to Mnemos, a planet-sized computer 
database that holds the secret to the location of Endelaan. The Nebula knows 
that this is the best opportunity to stop the heroes, and the organization 
arrives at the planet before the heroes do. Nebula agents sabotage the 
access nodes on the planet, so the heroes must restore the nodes to find 
the location of Endelaan. These encounters should offer multiple ways for 
the heroes to shine. For example, one node might hide a Nebula ambush, 
while another involves a cryptic puzzle that must be solved before time runs 
out and the node is permanently disconnected. These encounters should be 
tailored to your heroes' specialties, giving each one an opportunity to shine 
and to have a hand in locating the planet that they have been searching for 
since the beginning of the campaign. 

Endelaan is within sight. The long journey into the unknown is almost 
complete, and the Nebula makes a last, desperate move. Its agents attempt a 
mutiny on the Spiral Dancerand try to destroy the ship and all on board before 
it reaches the final destination. The heroes begin this encounter stripped of 
their weapons and equipment, and they must find away to overcome the 
Nebula before it destroys the Spiral Dancer. A tense encounter on the bridge 
or in the engineering section either results in the heroes retaking the ship or 
in the destruction of the Spiral Dancer if the heroes fail. 


ACT Ill; RETURN OF 

THE MANDALORIANS 

This act should take place after a break in the campaign. Time has passed on 
Endelaan—perhaps six months, perhaps longer. The heroes have had a chance 
to settle down but, as is always the case in the lives of heroes, something 
arises to thrust them back into greatness again. The heroes’ peaceful life on 
Endelaan is shattered when a fleet of ships darkens the skies and a transmis- 
sion comes from the flagship battle cruiser Victus. The leader wears Man- 
dalorian armor and makes a simple statement: Surrender or die. The heroes 
take up arms once again to defend the lives they have built on Endelaan. 

The invasion force is made up of soldiers dressed as Mandalorians. 
Gamemasters looking for a classic Star Wars enemy need look no further. 
Even if the era in which the game is set is not one where the Mandalorians 
play a role, the invaders look the part. Perhaps they are part of a resurgent 
movement, or perhaps they use the trappings of the Mandalorians to instill 
fear into their victims. They move and attack with the Mandalorians’ deadly 
efficiency. Even if they aren't true Mandalorians, the way they march across 
Endelaan should demonstrate to the heroes that they mean business. 

These Mandalorians are led by a being named Vipsanis. Vipsanis believes 
he is destined to become the new Mandalore, and he plans for his empire to 
begin with Endelaan. Though he might come to respect the heroes’ defense 
of their adopted homeland, Vipsanis is convinced that his destiny cannot be 
denied. He has chosen to invade Endelaan because he knew he would come 
into conflict with the heroes, and Vipsanis knows that if he cannot defeat 
the heroes, his followers will consider him unworthy of the title he seeks. 

The Mandalorians are tough enemies to defeat, and the heroes should 
find their confrontations with Vipsanis's forces challenging. If the heroes 
are successful in some encounters, they are defeated in others. The heroes 
can defend only so many places at once, and the Mandalorians stretch their 
resources to the breaking point. Villages are destroyed, settlements sacked, 
and any of the improvements the heroes made to their surroundings when 
they settled on Endelaan are methodically being reversed. Heroes dislike being 
defeated, so this is possibly the trickiest part of the campaign. Find a balance 
between victories and setbacks. Perhaps the heroes keep getting the best 
of a certain commander even as the Mandalorians move across Endelaan. 

As the heroes’ situation declines, highlight their successes by playing up 
personal victories. Star Wars heroics are usually broad. By this time in their 
careers, the heroes have probably saved the galaxy at least once as well as 
destroyed an evil organization or two. Even as the Mandalorians win, the 
heroes see reasons to keep fighting. Each small success—the valiant defense 
of a Jedi Padawan as she takes up her fallen master's lightsaber, or the soldier 
ensuring that civilians escape as the Mandalorians advance—can feel as 
important as a large victory. 

Vipsanis has nominated Akero as his general in charge of the occupa- 
tion. Akero is a good choice. He is a young warrior in search of glory, and his 
prowess on the battlefield is quickly becoming legendary. Akero challenges 
the heroes at every turn, but unlike Vipsanis, Akero also sees the honor the 


MANDALORIAN SCOUTS OFTEN KEEP STRILLS 
AS ANIMAL COMPANIONS. 


heroes bring to the battle. In his quest to become the Mandalore, Vipsanis 
is blind to the atrocities he is ordering Akero to commit. The heroes have a 
potential ally in Akero. But how can they ask him to work with them against 
Vipsanis without sacrificing his own honor? 

Eventually, the time comes when the heroes have their backs to the wall. 
They retreat to where they have stored the Spiral Dancer. A decision must be 
reached. Should the heroes abandon Endelaan, or should they regroup for 
one last battle? Assuming that the heroes elect to stay and fight, they will 
have to spend time making the Spiral Dancer ready for battle. This might 
require stealing weapons from the Mandalorians, repairing the engines, and 
training resistance fighters. When the heroes get their force ready, they take 
the battle to Vipsanis. 

The main Mandalorian battle cruiser is more than a match for the Spiral 
Dancer. A stand-up fight is a quick route to an airless grave. The Spiral Dancer 
can engage the battle cruiser Victus, but it must do so carefully. Such an 
engagement might involve the heroes piloting a small shuttle and trying to 
sneak around the Mandalorian vessel while it is engaged in battle with the 


Spiral Dancer. The heroes must capture the opposing bridge before their 
fellow crew members aboard the Spiral Dancer are killed. The final encoun- 
ter of the campaign is a grand battle on the bridge of the Victus between 
Vipsanis, his personal guard, and the heroes. 


SCOUTING 
ORGANIZATIONS 


The popular image of the scout is that of a lone pilot with a trusty droid 
heading out into the Unknown Regions and discovering adventure and wealth 
beyond imagination. This is an image scouting recruiters play up in their 
advertisements, and while the myth has some truth, a scout rarely heads out 
without some support back home. The three major types of scouts are service, 
corporate, and independent. Each type has advantages and disadvantages 
to the way it explores the universe. 


SERVICE ScouTs 

Service scouts work for a government, such as the Old Republic or the 
Galactic Empire, often as part of the military. Service scouts are sent to look 
for locations for military bases, to monitor enemy troop movements, or to 
do espionage and courier work. Elite scouts work with small special forces 
units, guiding them into dangerous situations and retrieving them when they 
need to leave in a hurry. Service scout crews are loyal to one another. They 
know they have only each other to count on out in the Unknown Regions, 
so they develop a tight bond. 

Service scouts are mostly concerned with exploration. The more detailed 
the map their government has of space, the better the armed forces can 
deploy for defense and to fend off threats. Scout services in time of war are 
trained in starship combat and hit-and-run tactics. When these scouts muster 
out of the service, they often find themselves in high demand from corporate 
scout divisions. Military service also fosters connections among the inde- 
pendent scouts who were once service scouts. A former service scout who 
encounters another might gain a free drink, information, or a steadfast ally. 

The main advantage of being a service scout is stability. Even when a 
government is not interested in expanding its borders, service scouts are still 
needed to perform routine reconnaissance. The salary is constant, regard- 
less of whether a scout discovers a mineral-rich world or a lifeless asteroid. 
Service scouts not on duty are decommissioned to a reserve status. Such 
scouts are allowed to keep and operate their ships, with the understanding 
that they can be called into active duty at any time. Joining a scout service 
is one of the few reliable ways of obtaining a ship without enlisting the aid 
of a crime lord. If the scout performs above and beyond the call of duty in 
the name of the service, the scout service can award the scout his or her 
ship as a reward. 


i SeSsltavHD 


0) 
% 
U 
r 
0) 
5 
a] 
0) 
Zz 
Q) 
> 
4 
> 
® 
Zh 
(0) 


SBNEIVAIWYVYS) NOILZHOVEssS) 


The disadvantage of being a service scout is the associated bureaucracy 
and red tape. A service scout is sent to a specific sector with rigid mission 
parameters. The commanders back home might give a scout latitude in the 
field, but a service scout who plays too fast and loose with regulations has 
many questions to answer when he or she heads home to resupply. Service 
scouts can be heroic, but they should not expect a parade and a medal when 
they arrive home. 

The Corporate Sector Authority has no official scout service arm, but 
CSA ships are often called upon to perform many of a service scout's duties. 
Unlike corporate scouts, CSA scouts rarely discover new planets, because 
the sector in which they operate is well documented. The main function of 
CSA scout ships is to be on the lookout for ships flying too close to one of 
the sector's planets, trying to acquire insider information. 

The Yuuzhan Vong invasion causes a panic in the New Republic scout 
service. Scout ships are equipped with military-grade weaponry and attached 
to New Republic military units. The scouts are often first on the scene when 
a new Yuuzhan Vong ship appears. Scout ships are also used for Alliance 
SpecOps missions to gather information on a Yuuzhan Vong installation or to 
eliminate a Yuuzhan Vong stockpile. The bond between a unit and its scout 
becomes strong, and many units stay in touch after the New Republic victory. 

Rumors abound regarding the Jedi shadows. Traditional Jedi serve the 
Council, take on Padawans, and are well publicized when they arrive on a 
planet. Jedi shadows typically work alone, although a few operate with 
small, trusted crews. These small bands keep their leader's Jedi background 
hidden, traveling with little to identify the Jedi if the mission goes wrong. 
Shadows slip onto and off a planet at the behest of the Jedi Council, with 
no one the wiser. When a mission is exposed, the Council typically denies 
any knowledge of the shadow's actions and states that the Jedi is a rogue. 
Shadows are often sent to unexplored planets to search for locations strong 
in the Force or to seek rumored Sith enclaves. 

Automated droid scouts make up most of the expansion division of the 
Confederacy of Independent Systems. Unlike the solo droids of the Imperial 
era, droid scouts are small ships sent out to search for planets rich in the 
resources needed for the massive war machines used by the CIS. Each droid is 
assigned a specific function. These scout groups are efficient and find many 
worlds where droid factories and other industrial production can flourish. 
However, the scout teams are unable to adapt to conditions not covered by 
their programming, such as combat or accidental damage. In these situations, 
the scouts have a general order to jump out of the system. But droid scouts 
are then often at a loss about how to proceed, and they exhibit strange 
behaviors until memory wiped. 

To expand their territory, the Mandalorians use scouts as well as soldiers. 
Young soldiers serve as scouts when they first join the Mandalorians. Groups 
of scouts are overseen by an older solider who acts as both commanding 
officer and drill sergeant. This position, known as the Gogi, is given to a 
Mandalorian who has passed his or her prime as a warrior but still has much 
to teach others. Most Mandalorians remember their Gogi fondly and look 


forward to serving as one. The Gogi determines where the scout ship goes 
and what it does, but the ship can be recalled by the army to be sent ona 
specific mission. 


CORPORATE ScouTS 

Each corporate scout works for one of the millions of corporations in the 
galaxy. Corporations are constantly on the lookout for more resources, 
whether ore, elements, or cheap labor. Large corporations have exploration 
divisions looking to expand business opportunities, and some hire out their 
scout services to other companies. These scouts are paid a flat rate and sign 
over all their rights of discovery to the company. The benefit of working as 
a corporate scout is the ability to see the galaxy and go to places no being 
has been before. The corporate scout is one of the important components 
in bringing civilization to the galaxy. 

The focus of a corporate scout's mission is acquisition. Corporations 
want planets that can make money. Whether the planet is inhabited or has 
ancient Sith ruins matters little. If the company wants the rights to the 
planet, the corporate scout must do whatever he or she can to secure the 
planet. A corporate scout might be asked to do nearly anything, including 
negotiating with an undiscovered species or destroying an ancient holy site. 
The scout must be willing to play dirty with other scouts to ensure that his 
or her company comes out on top. 


A CZERKA CORPORATE SCOUT TAKES A READING OUTSIDE HIS 
MRX-BR PACIFIER SCOUT SHIP. 


One of the most prolific scouting divisions is part of the Czerka Mining 
Corporation. Czerka owns hundreds of scout ships and contracts thousands 
more to search for rich mineral deposits. The reports sent back from these 
expeditions make the company one of the most successful in the galaxy 
for centuries. The scout division cares little for planets that do not fit the 
profile set down by the executives. Hundreds of planets discovered by Czerka 
ships go unexplored because they are not of the right composition. Some 
of these are sold to other companies for development, but the locations of 
many simply become lost again. 

Corporate scouts attract employees by offering excellent compensa- 
tion. Corporate equipment is top of the line. Scout companies know that it 
takes money to make money, so they foot the bill for technology upgrades. 
However, corporations are protective of their assets, so corporate scouts are 
wise to carefully review the contracts they sign. Corporations offer bonuses 
for finding planets that fit their desired profile. These bonuses drive scouts 
into the Unknown Regions to find the perfect planet that will enable them 
to retire. Such planets are mythical, but enough stories filter through the 
company to make the idea seem plausible. 

There are drawbacks to working as a corporate scout. Corporations are 
motivated by profit, which can make for hard decisions in the field. A scout 
who earns a bonus for discovering uninhabited planets might be faced with 
a difficult decision if he or she discovers a small colony on the far side of a 
desirable planet. Different divisions might have different goals for a newly 
discovered planet. The scout can become caught up in these power struggles. 
And a corporation's response to a scout's misfortune can be severe. The 
corporation might quickly replace a scout ship destroyed in the line of duty, 
but it might also garnish the scout's credits from future discoveries until the 
cost of the ship has been repaid. 

The Survey and Development arm of the Czerka Corporation is one of the 
best-known corporate scout divisions in the galaxy. The company is one of 
the first to sell colonization rights to planets that it discovers but does not 
want. A common motto throughout the exploration community is “Czerka 
trained the rest of the galaxy.” Most first-generation scouts come out of 
Czerka's program and bring their training with them. They pioneer many of 
the standard protocols that are adopted by countless scouting organizations 
that form afterward. No matter what era a scout is a part of, Survey and 
Development has a hand in how that scout does business. 

Bellixan Endeavors is a scouting business that is a front for the Black Sun 
criminal empire. The Bellixan logo is used to hide ships full of illegal cargo 
with falsified manifests claiming they are filled with soil samples and other 
such mundane items. Guns are often hidden in crates marked as survey 
equipment. Bellixan does have working scout ships and is attentive to its 
employees, but the scouting operation is tiny compared to the smuggling 
conducted using Bellixan ships. Bellixan flourishes in the Rebellion era and 
finds itself targeted by Rebels looking for supplies to fight the Empire. After 


the death of Black Sun leader Xizor, Bellixan scouts become a favorite target 
of privateers allied with the Rebels. Without the support of Black Sun, the 
company quickly folds. 

Sienar Fleet Systems finds itself in a bad situation after the fall of the 
Empire. Many of its TIE factories are either dormant or destroyed. Facing a 
company-ending crisis, designers build the Lone Star scout ship based on 
existing TIE designs. The ship is remarkable because of the purchase program 
the marketing department devises. For every planet the owner discovers and 
signs over to the company during the first year, the owner receives credit back 
on the starship. The popularity of the ship soars as would-be explorers try 
their luck at getting a brand-new starship for free. In addition to the large 
number of ships sold, Sienar also makes lucrative deals selling the rights of 
the planets it acquires to other companies. 

Colony companies such as Anawa are responsible for the expansion of 
civilization into the Unknown Regions. Their scout ships not only discover 
new planets, they also administer the planets for Anawa while the colonies 
develop. Anawa scouts are granted law-enforcement powers until a colony 
can provide its own. Anawa also expects its scouts to patrol nearby systems 
and protect colonists from pirates and undesirables ready to pounce on 
supply-rich colonies. The Empire might be cutting back on exploration to 
divert resources to military pursuits, but companies such as Anawa are there 
to take up the slack. Beings looking to escape the dark times are encouraged 
to consider becoming colonists, and there is always work for scouts with 
the colony companies. 

Siechel Transystem's scouting division is not interested in a whole planet 
but rather in a specific resource. Siechel seeks out water-rich planets and 
sells the water to other planets that need it. Siechel scouts negotiate water 
contracts with planets and haul water across the galaxy. Siechel agents have 
a good reputation as fair merchants who treat clients on both ends with 
respect and integrity. Siechel is contracted by the Galactic Alliance to set 
up a water convoy from Mon Calamari to Tatooine. The job is not glamorous, 
but it is steady work for Siechel's scouts and a great way for a young pilot 
to rack up flight hours. 


INDEPENDENT SCOUTS 
Independent scouts work as freelancers, selling their discoveries to the 
highest bidder. When regular citizens think about scouts, they envision an 
independent scout. These scouts make up single-ship operations crewed by 
up to ten beings. Profits from discoveries are split between the members 
of the crew after the costs of maintaining and repairing the ship are cov- 
ered. The crew determines the command structure of the ship. Some ships 
are commanded solely by the captain. Some captains let the crew vote on 
major decisions. 

Survival is the main concern of an independent scout. Discovering planets 
is an independent scout's primary means of making ends meet, but sometimes 


I YSateavHo 


@ 
% 
0 
ir 
9 
2 
<4 
0 
Z 
@ 
> 
8 
> 
G 
2 
@ 


ii SSsLavHo 


SNEIVEIWYSD NOILVGHOVWSsE) 


lucrative discoveries dry up. At times such as those, scouts dabble in other 
jobs, such as transporting passengers or shipping. Desperate times push the 
independent scout into more questionable activities. Many options exist on 
the frontier, and the odds of running into the law are low. To survive, these 
scouts are willing to expand their roles by taking a bounty, flying escort for 
a crime lord, or running cargo on the Outer Rim. These odd jobs keep the 
ship flying and let the scout plan his or her next expedition. 

The independent scout values freedom above all else. These scouts obey 
no orders but their own. They determine where they go and whom they keep 
in contact with. They can explore deep space for weeks on end. Without 
any backup, these scouts are willing to fight longer and harder to hold onto 
discoveries. The independent scout also can use his or her judgment without 
reprisal in dangerous situations. These scouts do not worry about rules and 
regulations when the chips are down and a difficult choice must be made. 

Support is a challenge for any independent scout. These scouts usually 
work in single-ship operations, so if the hyperdrive motivator blows and 
strands a crew of independent scouts in the middle of nowhere, the crew is 
left to its own resources to get home. No recovery ship or fellow employee 
can be called on for help. Many independent scouts come out of the scout 
service or a corporate scouting division. Independent scouts who have these 
backgrounds have built up the contacts that are necessary for a good support 
network. Independent scouts might not have official support, but sometimes 
a good friend is the difference between life and death. 

Few independent scout organizations exist, but one was born out of a 
large tragedy. The Tommaba Brotherhood is a loose affiliation of scouts 
who are natives of the destroyed planet Alderaan. Many of those who called 
Alderaan home settle on New Alderaan, but others wander the galaxy with- 
out a home. Many of these wanderers end up as independent scouts who 
band together in a loose, informal affiliation. Their name comes from a herd 
animal that wandered the plains of Alderaan. Despite the masculine name, 
both males and females can be members, as long as they are from Alderaan. 

The scout known as Captain Nova is often dismissed as an old spacer's 
tale. Yet, when drinks are flowing at the local cantina, everyone seems to 
have had a friend or a friend of a friend who has encountered the captain. 
Captain Nova's ship, the legendary Runner 309, arrives in the nick of time 
when a spacer runs out of fuel or is attacked by pirates. Nova renders aid, 
offers a salute from his tinted, full-face helmet, and jumps out of the system 
without stopping. Stories of Captain Nova have been reported by everyone 
from Mandalorians to Imperial Knights, but his identity remains a mystery. 
No single being could live so long, could he? 

Many heroes are made in the Battle of Kashyyyk. A young Wookiee named 
Grabathar uses his status as a war hero to begin ThrillSpace Travel. Grabathar 
takes travelers on trips to exotic destinations throughout the galaxy. He 
offers prepackaged tours but also is available for chartering. Business has 
been booming since the end of the Clone Wars, so Grabathar has added other 
captains and ships into his operation and is on the lookout for more spacers 
with the ability to entertain as well as protect passengers. 


The Parallax Chain is a secret society of independent captains who deal 
in the most reviled criminal activity in the galaxy. Most are not outright 
slavers, but they are willing to deal with those who trade in lives for profit. 
The Chain uses scouts as spies and informants. Even during the Empire's peak, 
when slavers were able to operate almost openly, the Chain hides and keeps 
an eye out for opportunities to make profit. The Chain values new planets 
either to exploit for slaves or to use as hideaways for valuable hostages it 
plans to sell back to wealthy parents and corporations. 

One of the longest-running independent scouting operations is the 
Lakhasa Caravan. Amada Lakhasa was a Twi'lek who headed out from Ryloth 
with little more than a beat-up freighter and a few credits for cargo. He 
slowly added children to his family and ships to his fleet. The fleet and the 
family continue to this day. Every Lakhasa ship is named for the relative that 
taught the owner the tricks of the spacer trade. Today, the Lakhasa name 
is well known in ports across the galaxy. Some beings have tried to falsely 
claim membership, only to be visited by the larger and more temperamental 
members of the family. The Lakhasa Caravan knows that all it ever has for 
certain is its good name, and it protects that name vigorously. 


EXPLORATION IN 
YOUR CAMPAIGN 


Adding exploration elements to an existing campaign is simple. Star Wars 
is about wonder, undiscovered places, and exotic elements. Once you have 
a solid idea that engages you, finding a way to engage the players is much 
easier if you know where to look. The tips and tricks that follow should help 
you find the right hook to bring an exploration theme into any campaign. 

One of the best places to look for inspiration for exotic creatures, 
breathtaking locales, and interesting phenomena is the world around you. 
A few clicks on the Web are all you need to find an element to draw your 
heroes into adventure. Nature programs and magazines are other places to 
find ideas. The natural world is filled with conflict and danger. Increasing 
the scale of something such as a beehive is a simple way to create a tense 
encounter for explorers. Imagine your heroes creeping into a gigantic anthill 
to rescue an ally—or into an automated starship factory that works like a 
beehive. Spice up an everyday element with a bit of Star Wars and you are 
on the right track for a memorable adventure. 

Earth's age of exploration is another excellent source of inspiration. 
Personalities such as Columbus and Byrd can be inspirations for allies and 
rivals of heroes exploring the unknown. Blur the myths and legends of history 
together to produce something unique. Everything from the discovery of the 
New World to the space race has dozens of stories, myths, and personalities 
that can fit into an adventure. Embellish, change, mix together, and modify 
the events to fit your storyline. 

Once you have the idea, the next step is getting your players involved. 
Even if one player is specialized in exploration, a good adventure engages the 
whole group and gives everyone in a stake in the story as well as a chance 


A VAYA-CLASS SCOUT SHIP DEPLOYS A HYPERSPACE 
NAVIGATION BEACON. 


to shine. The heroes have those talents and feats for a reason. Designing 
scenes and encounters that utilize them makes everyone happy. Let the noble 
negotiate with the planet's leadership. Encourage the Jedi to explore the 
differences in his philosophy with the shaman. Allow the scoundrel to teach 
the locals how to play sabacc. Even giving a hero a small spotlight can make 
him or her feel good. The players are there to be the stars of the movie. Be 
sure they have interesting things to do. 

Skill checks and dice rolls can heighten the tension of an adventure, but 
they should always be necessary rolls. A good exploration adventure should 
have a clear line from one scene to the next. Hinging a plot point on a die 
roll is challenging. What if the hero fails to see the ancient runes on the back 
of the holocron? If finding a clue is important to the adventure, then the 
heroes should find the clue. Failed checks should never stop the adventure, 
but they should make it more interesting. One way of adding tension to a 
check is to give the heroes an advantage in an encounter if they succeed 
or to make the encounter more difficult if they fail. If you ask for a roll, be 
prepared with something interesting to happen on a success or a failure. 

Pacing is an important part of an exploration adventure. Nobody wants 
to spend time playing the survey team that methodically explores a grassy 
planet indefinitely. Add a ticking clock element to spur your heroes to action. 
If that grassy planet is going to be overrun by the Empire and the heroes need 
to usher some innocents off the planet, that sense of urgency heightens the 
drama and makes the situation more interesting. The heroes must act before 


the end of the scenario, or else something bad happens. The bad outcome can 
be minor or major, but put the pressure on your heroes and watch them shine. 

Heroes don't have to save the galaxy every time. Personal victories are 
just as rewarding for heroes as long as they feel like they accomplished 
something. If every adventure ends with a large enemy ship exploding, the 
heroes will become bored. Star Wars is epic, but it has smaller elements as 
well. Was the turning point on Endor the moment when the Ewoks arrived 
or when Luke Skywalker refused to strike down Darth Vader? Your heroes 
want both of these moments in their journey. Ending a session with a Jedi 
completing her new lightsaber or a scoundrel paying off the last of his debts 
creates an important moment that will be discussed around the gaming table 
for years to come. 

Star Wars is a space fantasy. Elements of science are involved, but the 
laws of physics take a backseat to fast spaceships and explosions in space. 
A good exploration element balances the science with the fantasy. Discover- 
ing a new rock formation is good science, but adding something exotic to 
that discovery makes it Star Wars. What if the rock formation was home to 
a new species? Or the marker to find a lost Jedi temple? Mixing exploration 
and adventure gives heroes the same thrills they got when they first saw 
the exotic vistas of places such as Tatooine and Hoth. Discuss with the rest 
of the group how flexible the laws of science should be in your game. Make 
sure everyone is on the same page, and the game will not become bogged 
down with digressions about realism. 

Another element of exploration is finding new information about the 
familiar. You do not have to go to the Unknown Regions to find things that 
need to be discovered. Remember that planets from the films have much yet 
to be discovered, as well. Heroes could be sent to learn more about places 
such as Hoth, Mustafar, or any of the other planets known to Star Wars fans. 
Many resources detail the planets in the films and books, but there is still a 
lot to room to breathe. Even civilized worlds such as Coruscant hold secrets. 
The lower levels of the city are as dangerous as a canyon on a forgotten world. 
The dangers are just different. Use these familiar elements as touchstones 
for your stories, but expand them to make them your own. 

Wondrous technologies exist in the Unknown Regions. The Jedi and the 
Sith are common origins of these strange devices. Lightsabers and holocrons 
are just two examples of technology that mystifies the rest of the galaxy 
but seems common to these masters of the Force. A lone Jedi who escaped 
to the Unknown Regions could spend her life mastering her Force abilities. 
She might craft a variety of items that have both mundane uses and special 
functions that can be unlocked only by those sensitive to the Force. Sith 
Alchemy is another technology that can harness amazing abilities. Perhaps 
a Sith Master finds the time, patience, and resources to build a ship made 
entirely of alchemical metals. The ship is almost indestructible, and the Sith 
Lord waits for the day he returns to Coruscant for revenge. 

Although Star Wars has a cosmopolitan attitude toward non-Humans, 
space is a large canvas. Wookiees and Rodians might be familiar to fans, but 
they are not the only species out there. If the Empire can build the Death Star, 


J 


i) YstavHo 


SNEIVEWNYS® NOILIVHMOVEss) 


i) HStcavHo 


SNEIVEIWYVYSD NOILVYEHO WWE) 


an undiscovered species can build something just as terrifying. Strange ruins 
can be set up as a classic dungeon crawl or as the main driver of an entire 
campaign. A drifting hulk offers an opportunity for exploration and danger. 
In the Unknown Regions, mystery is an important component of exploration. 
A new technology is a great way to inject some of that excitement from the 
first time you saw Star Wars back into your game. 

Conflict is key to any Star Wars adventure. With “Wars” in the titles of 
the movies, heroes expect a lot of action. A good adventure moves fast and 
keeps the heroes on their toes. Battle is the most common means of resolving 
conflict, but other types of confrontation can be just as exciting as those 
involving blasters and lightsabers. A pen or a computer terminal can be as 
mighty as a vibrosword. Adventures in the Unknown Regions need not be 
about discovering a new planet and fighting with new creatures every week. 
Rival scouts negotiating with a tribal leader for water rights might not end 
in violence, but it has an impact on everyone involved. If the heroes belong 
to a scouting organization, be sure to feature rivals from other organiza- 
tions in an adventure. Nothing hooks a hero into a game like a well-played 
rival. If the heroes have someone working against them, defeating that rival 
is satisfying. Being awarded a contract over a bitter rival can be more fun 
than destroying a technological terror bent on eating planets, because the 
rival makes it personal. 

Acommon theme for exploration adventures is the challenge presented by 
the environment. The heroes must climb mountains, navigate lava pits, and 
survive natural disasters to make it home. Exotic undiscovered planets allow 
you to invent challenges that exceed the normal. Why just add whitewater 
rapids when you can have whitewater rapids populated by fast reptilian 
predators? A cavernous shootout is good, but a shootout with magnetic 
rocks that allow for trick shots and ricochets is better. Exotic elements make 
Star Wars unique and keep encounters more interesting than simply firing 
blasters in initiative order. 

A complementary theme to environmental conflicts is confrontation 
with wildlife. Heroes faced with exotic beasts and dangerous plants have a 
choice: Fight them, or try to outwit them. These creatures can also serve as 
interesting and dynamic terrain in another encounter. Perhaps the heroes 
must sneak past a nest of sleeping beasts to find their way into an enemy 
outpost. Or perhaps the confrontation with the main villain takes place in his 
botanical garden, where exotic plants can influence the battlefield. 

Heroes are often portrayed as having no flaws and showing no fear. But 
interesting conflicts arise when a hero is anxious about the coming action. 
A well-defined hero should have a flaw or two, which can provide excellent 
drama. Characters who value both credits and friendship will have a dilemma 
when one of their friends is threatened by a crime lord. Jedi must put away 
their doubts and fears, because those emotions can lead to the dark side. A 
character afraid of heights should be the one who must solve a problem on 
the outside of the airship while in flight. These difficulties can make a heroic 
triumph all the more satisfying. 


Mix up the encounters in an adventure for maximum effect. Star Wars 
is a galaxy of breathless escapes, fast action, and thrilling chases. Heroes 
who find themselves always blasting stormtroopers eventually find that it 
is not as much fun anymore. Different types of encounters and challenges 
keep everyone's interest longer. If you have a big battle planned for the final 
encounter of the evening, start off with a chase scene ora tense negotiation. 
Not every hero will be suited for every battle in the same way, so having 
encounters that play to different strengths keeps the heroes happier overall. 


How TO COME HOME SAFELY 

A scout who wants to survive in the Unknown Regions needs as much help 
as possible. The guidelines offered here are a combination of common sense, 
hard experience, and the best advice from explorers who have come before. 
Some organizations have regulations that differ from the wisdom given 
below. The differences between what a scout must do for the sake of policy 
and what a scout must do for the sake of survival can be powerful plot hooks 
and springboards into adventure. Scouts go to dangerous places, so having 
the right information can mean the difference between coming home as a 
hero and not coming home at all. 


Exploring a System 

Jumping into a new system can be one of the most challenging parts of 
exploring the galaxy. The safe approach uses a series of small jumps to the 
edge of long-range sensors, then crawling through the system with sublight 
engines. This process is time-consuming and hard on the hyperdrive motiva- 
tor. Veteran scouts pick a specific distance from the system star and jump 
the ship to that distance. The distance is a number of parsecs chosen by the 
scout, often for superstitious reasons. 

If the system is unknown, a hyperspace navigation beacon should be 
released near the edge of the system. These beacons are standard equipment 
on most ships and automatically send data to the Hyperspace Navigator's Guild 
to update navicomputers. After a beacon is deployed, jumping back to the 
system becomes much easier. The Guild recommends deploying the beacon 
right away, but larger exploration organizations encourage their employees to 
deploy the beacon only after a cursory exploration of the system. A few sug- 
gest that if the system has nothing of value to the organization, then naviga- 
tors should not waste a beacon and should move to the next unexplored sector. 

Two methods are recommended for the initial flythrough of an unexplored 
system. The first is the median line. A straight-line course is plotted past 
the system's star, coming as close as possible to each planet in the system. 
The median line is used primarily in systems believed to be uninhabited. This 
method allows for a closer scan of all the planets in the system and lets the 
scout decide which, if any, planets should be surveyed. Corporate scouts 
are taught this method. Any planet in a system might be valuable, so each 
one should receive a cursory scan as the scout heads through the system. 


The other common flythrough method is the return orbit. The scout plots 
a course that takes the ship in toward the system's star, orbits the star once, 
and then slingshots away from the sun back to the original entry point. This 
orbit is useful when a scout wants to slip in and out of a system without 
being detected. Service scouts use this method to avoid detection by enemy 
ships in the sector. The loop around the sun is made to confuse pursuers. 
The scout does not want to let in-system authorities know which planet or 
planets are of interest, so a quick loop and back ensures a good snapshot 
for a later targeted search. Looping back also gives the scout ship a route 
out of the system if it is discovered. 

Some expeditions cover space that has been previously explored. Navi- 
gation beacons can break down and malfunction. A scout might prefer the 
dangerous and rewarding job of discovering new planets and making contact 
with new species, but this is not always the case. Sometimes scouts are 
sent to a system to perform maintenance on a beacon or replace it entirely. 
Organizations might also ask scouts to visit a system to verify survey informa- 
tion. These check-ups can be initiated because of a celestial event such as a 
supernova or because of a simple clerical error in the original scout report. 
Such missions are not glamorous, but they often hold the same danger as 
exploration missions. 


The Planetary Survey 

A scout should complete at least one orbit around a newly discovered 
planet before attempting to land. Most scout services recommend two; one 
equatorial orbit—around the widest part of the planet—and one meridian 
orbit—connecting the north and south poles. Ship sensors should be able to 
pick up any lifeforms or major hazards after two orbits. More orbits around 
the planet increase the chances that the sensors might catch anything that 
might endanger the scout and his or her ship, but in a system with a hostile 
presence, spending the time for extra orbits increases the risk of a scout's 
being spotted by opposing forces. 

Choosing the right landing zone is the next decision a scout must make. 
lfascan of the area reveals no current inhabitants, a higher-altitude land- 
ing zone is the most common choice. A ship on a hill or a low mountain 
has a better chance of receiving transmissions from a landing party as well 
as making transmissions off planet if the ship becomes stranded. A high 
position is also more defensible if the ship is attacked by local wildlife or 
undetected natives. 

Lower-altitude landing zones are chosen by scouts exploring inhabited 
planets. A scout hoping to log a planet and leave without alerting inhabit- 
ants flies in low and avoids large population areas. This technique might 
be used to avoid a hostile encounter, or it might be the first element of a 
recon or an espionage mission. Corporate scouts are often sent in to observe 
competitors in this way, especially if a rival corporation places facilities on 
an out-of-the-way planet. 


Any existing guild registrations appear during the initial flyby of a system. 
If the planet has not been registered, the first task a scout should complete 
after landing is to register the planet with the Hyperspace Navigator's Guild. 
If a planet has already been registered, the scout will not need to further 
explore the planet and can instead focus on a specific planetary mission or 
continue on to the next planet. The registration process helps eliminate claim 
jumping, although the practice still exists. A scout can set down ona planet, 
dreaming of the fortunes the rights will fetch, only to be the victim of pirates 
intent on eliminating the scout and registering the planet as their own find. 

Deciding if they should sample local cuisine is another dilemma scouts 
face. Whether accepting a dinner invitation from the local baron or cooking 
up something after a long day's hunt, a scout who has been living on nutrition 
paste looks forward to fine dining. A ship's scanners can determine whether 
something is edible, but scouts in the field should be cautious. Wise scouts 
bring a few samples of food back to the ship from the first foray and analyze 
them before consumption. Without advice from local guides, local foods 
should be eaten only if no other resources are available. Even then, scouts 
should exercise caution, since a local guide might take the opportunity to 
rob a scout blind if the scout falls ill from a meal. 

A typical planetary survey takes 30 standard hours or, according to the 
rule most scouts use, one full day/night cycle. The longer a scout stays on 
a planet, the more in-depth the survey is, so scout organizations that want 
more information on specific planets require longer stays. Minimum camp 
time can vary from planet to planet within a system. A corporate scout might 
spend more time on planets that have resources his or her employer uses 
but spend little to no time on planets the company has less interest in. An 
independent scout stays on a planet as long he or she can, to ensure that a 
claim can be made and to earn a profit from the discovery. 

Scout ships are primarily collectors of data, but many have small cargo 
bays as well. Scout organizations offer bonuses for items recovered from a 
new planet. Soil samples analyzed in the field are useful, but a large-scale 
organization would prefer to have that soil examined by its own lab techni- 
cians before authorizing any plans for the planet. Independent scouts collect 
local trinkets and knickknacks to sell when they land at civilized ports. Unique 
works of art can bring high prices, so a few scouts move out of the scouting 
business and into the art-dealer business. 

Quarantine for at least 48 hours is recommended after a scout leaves 
a planet. Quarantine exists to ensure that illnesses or dangerous lifeforms 
are unable to spread back to the known worlds. Service scouts, upon arrival 
from an assignment in the Unknown Regions, might spend up to a week in 
quarantine, but corporate scouts have a reputation for bending the quaran- 
tine laws, because time is money to their masters. 


(— b— bd ban | 


[ | 


( 


SNEIVINVE NOVYOITS<ES) 


SNEIVEIWNYS NOILVHOVWWsE) 


i ealavno 


U 


First Contact Etiquette and Protocol 

Different services have different protocols for dealing with intelligent 
lifeforms. First contact with a new species can make or break a scouting 
career. A successful first contact can project the scout into higher ranks 
with more autonomy and more challenging assignments. A blown contact 
can ruin a scout's reputation no matter why the contact went wrong. One 
bad encounter with a new species can have a greater effect on a scout's 
reputation than ten perfect encounters. Encounters with unknown species 
are divided into five categories. 

E1: An E1 encounter occurs when a scout discovers evidence of intel- 
ligent life on a planet. Finds such as ancient ruins or constructed tools are E1 
encounters. Studying this evidence provides insights into the species before 
contact is made. Familiarity with a culture prior to making direct contact can 
provide bonuses to interaction rolls if the scout decides to initiate contact. 
Explorers should proceed with caution, because an inhabited planet is more 
complicated to explore than an uninhabited one. An extremely cautious 
reaction would be to immediately retreat to the ship and attempt to contact 
the species by comlink. 

E2: A scout who observes a new species in action has an E2 encounter. 
The encounter might be the result of careful tracking of a native to its 
domicile or a random encounter on the planet. The difference between an 
E2 encounter and an E3 encounter is the awareness of the natives. Whether 
natives are aware of being watched can change the outcome of any obser- 
vation. E2 encounters are the most rare because scouts usually interact 
with a new species upon discovery. However, service scouts have a higher 
number of E2 encounters than other scouts because they are expected to 
observe and report back to let the high command decide how to handle the 
undocumented species. 

E3: Interacting with a new species is the basis of an E3 encounter. Inter- 
action encompasses a broad range of contacts, including a brief moment of 
greeting, arranging a trade, or rescuing a crewmate from a hostile tribe of 
natives. E3 meetings are the most unpredictable, since neither side can be 
fully aware of the intentions of the other. Independent scouts are the scouts 
most often thrust into E3 encounters, because they have no policies or pro- 
tocols restricting their encounters with new species. This kind of encounter 
is the riskiest, but it also holds the most reward. A successful negotiation 
can offer information that would otherwise require weeks of careful survey 
and exploration, or it can result in profitable trade arrangements being made 
between the scout and the new species. 

E4: In some cases, a scout abandons a post and completely intermingles 
with the new species. This behavior is classified as an E4 encounter and 
often requires follow-up from another scout crew. In an E4 encounter, a 
scout might have fallen in love with a local or might have become lost on 
the planet following first contact. An E4 encounter follow-up is dreaded by 
corporate scouts because they might be heading into a hostile environment. 


The company might also want a recovery of corporate assets such as the 
ship or the original scout. If the ship has been repurposed as a holy site, for 
example, or otherwise incorporated into the local culture, reacquisition can 
be difficult. 

E5: £5 encounters are frowned upon by scouts. These encounters involve 
bringing a native on board the scout's vessel. Much can go wrong, such as the 
native carrying an exotic disease that the medical droid cannot counteract or 
a native attempting to seize control of the vessel. These encounters are rare 
and made only in specific circumstances. The company might understand that 
an E5 encounter is justified when the scout brings a tribal leader on board 
the ship to be treated by the medical droid after an assassination attempt. 
Then again, it might not. 


Establishing Rapport 

When scouts acquire items from newly discovered species, they report the 
items as “artifacts.” Broadcasting any more information might make the scout 
a target of pirates or smugglers looking to make some credits from a hold 
full of jewels and precious metals. So a scout who reports having artifacts 
might have found simple spears or a one-of-a-kind hyperdrive motivator. 
Service scouts and corporate scouts sometimes use code words to let the 
home base know what to expect when the scout arrives. For example, New 
Republic scouts refer to new technology as “Alderaan tapestries” in their 
cargo manifests. 


A SQuIB SCOUT HAS FIRST CONTACT WITH TWO CHISS EXPLORERS. 


TEN ITEMS BEVERY SCOUT 
NEEDS (CRACKEN'S 
ESSENTIALS): 

Backpack: A sturdy pack can keep your arms free and keep your gear 
in operating order. A good scout learns to take only the necessities into 
the field. You cannot be prepared for every situation, but you can bring 
equipment that prepares you for as many situations as possible. A sturdy 
pack can also be used for a fabric supply if an enviro-suit is damaged or 
if a bandage is needed. 

Blaster Rifle: Blaster rifles can be used for defense, for hunting, and for 
other situations when having range on a potential enemy is an advantage. 
Even in close combat situations, the firepower available from a blaster rifle 
is preferable to that of a blaster pistol. The power packs are also easily 
adaptable to charge other items such as light sources and comlinks. And 
when set to overload, they can also be used as explosives. 

Comlink: Any link to aid and civilization is a good idea. Even scouts 
heading to planets that have no long-range communication arrays should 
slip a comlink in with their gear. Comlinks are relatively cheap and can be 
easily disassembled. The small electronics parts can be used as spares for 
vital electronics in items such as enviro-suits and blasters. A quality comlink 
can be rewired to serve as a high-frequency emitter so that it broadcasts 
on a frequency that Humans cannot hear but that scares off wildlife and 
predators. Keeping predators away from a campsite allows for an essential 
element of a successful scouting mission—sleep. 

Knife: A regular knife is preferred over a vibroknife. Vibroknives are 
easier to use, but a vibroknife has a tendency to break when used as a cut- 
ting tool without the power pack. The power pack on a vibroknife is also 
not as versatile as that on a blaster, so a good scout prefers the unpowered 
version. A popular choice is a scout knife or a survival knife. The hollowed 
hilt of each type of knife contains small tools for survival, such as a compass 
and fire-starting tools. The hilt can also be used as a breathing tube or as 
a container for liquid. 

Light Source: Scouts venture into dark places, so a light source can 
be key to staying alive. A reliable light source can be used to barter with 

natives or to a signal a rescue party. Simply switching the light on and 
off can catch somebody's eye. Light sources can also be easily modified 
to function as power packs, and their components can be used to repair 
other equipment. Be sure that whatever you are fixing is more necessary 
than being able to see in the dark. 


Liter of Water: Water is the most important item? you can have when 
you go through the airlock. Even if traveling in a enviro-suit with recyclers, 
a good scout still finds a way to fit a liter of water into his or her pack. 
Recyclers can break down, especially if a trip is longer than expected. The 
usefulness of a watertight container in the field cannot be overstated. If 
necessary, a scout can pour the water into the enviro-suit recycler reservoir 
and use the container to catch fluid out of a leaky repulsorlift drive. 

Medpac: A scout might be hurt out in the middle of nowhere. A medpac 
is the tool that scout needs to get into good enough condition to travel 
to a location where he or she can find civilized medical care. Another way 
to use a medpac is to get into the good graces of a tribe by curing any 
ailments being suffered by influential members. The medicine inside can 
also be valuable to trade with other scouts. A small packet of disinfectant 
can be worth 100 times its mass in valuable minerals to a scout in the field. 

Mesh Tape: Many scouts put mesh tape at the top of the list to put in 
a pack, above even food and water. A good roll of mesh tape has multiple 
uses above and beyond repairing enviro-suits and holding up shelters. 
Veteran scouts are full of stories about how judiciously applied mesh tape 
saved lives. In addition to repairing clothing, fabrics, and containers, mesh 
tape can be used to construct these items. Mesh tape strengthens fabric 
and works as a decent substitute. Mesh tape also serves as an excellent 
restraint for dealing with hostile natives or a fugitive hiding out on an 
unexplored planet. 

Multitool: These small items can be purchased anywhere, from gift 
shops on luxury liners to military supply catalogs. You get what you pay 
for, but a multitool can do wonders to keep you alive on a hostile surface. 
Equipment breakdowns are always a headache and manufacturers use many 
different kinds of fasteners, so a multitool can help with most repairs. A 
multitool can also be used as a last-ditch weapon and as a means to start 
a fire. A multitool saves wear and tear on a scout's regular knife, since a 
sharp edge has many uses outside combat. Many scouts would give up their 
blasters or blades before leaving a multitool behind. 

Nutrition Paste: Having something a scout knows he or she can eat is 
extremely important. The compact size of a nutrition paste tube enables a 
scout to take along a supply without bulking up a pack. But scouts rarely eat 
the contents of the tubes. Paste makes for good bait. Animals are curious 
about new foods, so a more satisfying meal can be had with the creative 

use of nutrition paste near a watering hole. 


i eSsigvHo 


SBNEIVEWYS NOILVMO MES) 


a Sa ee 
NESS) | | ii MSiavHo 


[ai 


SNEIVEWYVYS) NOILZ8ONV 


Scouts barter with natives for a variety of items. Information, weap- 
ons, artifacts, and supplies are all fair game for a scout willing to give up 
something of value to the natives. Credits are of little use in the Unknown 
Regions, but weapons and food are always desirable. Technology often 
impresses natives, since even those who have advanced technology might 
be deficient in a key area. Some scouts make outrageous claims to sell items 
of little value. These scouts sour explorers’ reputations on the frontier. Bad 
deals lead to hostile natives, and hostile natives create challenges for later 
scouts arriving at that planet. 

A major challenge of first contact is avoiding disruption in the develop- 
ment of the species. Service scouts operate under strict interference regula- 
tions, but all scouts should be aware of the consequences of their actions. 
Even a single hold-out blaster can allow a tribe of natives to dominate the 
other tribes on a planet. By the time representatives of civilization return, the 
political dynamics of the planet might have shifted greatly. Scouts are also 
cautioned to make sure they leave little behind as evidence of their passing. 
A corporate scout once left a discarded energy pack on a planet, and when 
he returned, the tribal natives were worshiping it as a deity. 

Properly concluding contact is also a valuable skill for a scout. Leaving 
a planet without a warning can bring suspicion on a scout, making further 
dealings more challenging. The scout should give a planet's natives as much 
warning of his or her departure as possible. Even if little chance exists for 
the scout or any representatives of the scout's organization to return to 
the planet, leaving on friendly terms is a smart move. Having friends in the 
Unknown Regions can make later expeditions much easier. 

Sometimes proper diplomacy never makes it to the table. The natives 
might be hostile, attacking immediately. When a scout is attacked without 
any context or history with a native species, the scout's best response is 
to retreat. Service scouts wait for the backing of their armed forces before 
proceeding. Corporate scouts prefer to return to the company rather than 
risk losing equipment or skilled personnel in combat. Independent scouts have 
no backing, so going up against an unfamiliar species is a deadly proposition. 
A scout always has other systems to explore, and hostile natives sometimes 
require a solution bigger than a single scout ship. 


EXPLORATION 
THROUGH THE ERAS 
Tales from the Old Republic can be excellent inspiration for a campaign that 
centers on exploration and discovery. The earliest days of adventure in the 
Star Wars universe offer heroes a chance to make their mark on galactic his- 
tory. For example, the heroes might discover one of the non-Human species 
that later is known throughout the galaxy. The era also offers a chance to 
play in familiar settings with a fresh spin on events familiar to all the players. 
What if the Ewoks revere C-3P0 as a god because of the efforts of a medi- 
cal droid that visited the forest moon of Endor thousands of years earlier? 
During the Clone Wars, scouts find themselves drawn into the conflict one 
way or another. The scouting data acquired by corporate and independent 


scouts is used to plan troop movement and system garrisons. The terms “scout" 
and “spy” are sometimes interchangeable, and spies often use scout ships as 
cover to explain their presence in restricted and unknown systems. Some 
scouts engage in bidding wars for planets that both the Republic and the 
CIS value. Playing such large organizations against each other is a dangerous 
game, and some scouts who angle for a bigger payday end up dead instead. 

The Empire finds exploration to be largely unnecessary. Many service 
scouts of this era are folded directly into the military or discharged. The 
shroud of secrecy that descends over the government causes many discoveries 
to be lost in a bureaucratic shuffle. More extreme measures are taken with 
those planets that Lord Vader might find useful as he purges the Jedi from 
the galaxy. The independent spirit that leads spacers to the scout service 
makes them difficult to intimidate into silence, so when intimidation fails, 
the next best option is elimination. Scouts who discover lost Sith temples 
or hidden Jedi enclaves are often rewarded with dinner with Lord Vader and 
an after-dinner tour of the airlock. 

Scouts who become wise to Emperor Palpatine and his tactics find patrons 
and allies in the Rebel Alliance. The Rebels are on the lookout for places to 
build hidden bases, place weapons caches, and locate hideouts for operatives. 
Some service scouts still in the employ of the Empire secretly aid the Rebels. 
Scout ships are perfect places to stash weapons and supplies because the 
small ships can reach out-of-the-way places and keep an eye on Imperial 
developments in parts of the galaxy such as Endor. When the Empire falls, 
the first ships to spread the word are scout ships. 

The New Republic makes a concerted effort to explore the galaxy once 
again. It knows that every world it convinces to join the New Republic is one 
less world for the dying Empire to coerce or intimidate. The New Republic 
is also in need of economically viable worlds, because many of the Core 
Worlds delay joining the New Republic. Exploration of new planets is a 
means of locating new allies and resources in the New Republic's struggle 
against the Empire. 

This rededication to exploration pays off with the early discovery of the 
extragalactic threat of the Yuuzhan Vong. Explorers are the first line of 
defense against the invasion. Many of the early casualties of the Yuuzhan 
Vong invasion are among these defenders. The Yuuzhan Vong are infamous 
for the damage they do to the resurgent Jedi community, but the scouts killed 
in the Unknown Regions are as big a blow to the exploration of the galaxy. 

The role of the scout falls into decline during the Legacy era. Exploration 
also falls out of favor with the Galactic Alliance because the Alliance must 
devote most of its resources to combating threats from within during the 
Second Galactic Civil War. Beings with the same free spirit and curiosity still 
roam the stars, but they no longer call themselves scouts. Most fringers do a 
little bit of everything—they explore, they hunt bounties, they smuggle guns. 
Fringers do whatever they can to get by, but they rarely become sucked in 
by the wonder of discovering a new planet. It's a mudball like all the others. 


CREATING 
NEw WORLDS 


Encountering new worlds is central to Unknown Regions adventures. New 
worlds should be only as detailed as the adventure goals require. Some plan- 
ets might require superficial descriptions, but others might need significant 
details for an extended stay or adventure. This section includes two methods 
of world creation: building a planet from scratch (mainly for detailed worlds), 
or using the planet generator to create simpler worlds quickly or on the fly. 


CREATING PLANETS 

Creating an entirely new world gives you great freedom in adventure design. 
Every aspect of a world's environment and history can be generated and tin- 
kered with to enhance the storyline. Although assembling a well-thought-out 
world takes time, the following steps can guide you through the process. You 
can also use elements from the planet generator for inspiration. 


Start with a Basic Idea 

Each planet should start with a strong basic element, idea, or theme that 
makes the planet memorable and plays a central role in its use in an adven- 
ture. This element might be climatic, such as the desert world of Tatooine or 
icy Hoth. It might be ecological, such as the forest moon of Endor or volcanic 
Mustafar. It might be thematic, such as the administrative planet-city of 
Coruscant or the underworld planet-city of Nar Shaddaa. 

Anew world should support your story as much as possible. Create types 
of worlds you want to feature, and avoid elements you don't need in your 
adventure. Star Wars planets typically focus on a single dominant feature 
or environment. All planets have a variety of climates and features, but 
focusing your story on the world's dominant or impressive elements makes 
for a memorable locale. 


Develop Key Themes and Features 
Next, develop the overall theme of the planet. Is it harsh, lush, violent, or 
desolate? Is it friendly or dangerous to the heroes? Is there a society, and if 
so, are the heroes familiar with it? While developing the planet's theme, you 
should also think about memorable features for the heroes to interact with. 
Since Star Wars uses locations and items of a massive scale, bigger can be 
better and very impressive. Examples include climbing through the massive 
wroshyr trees of Kashyyyk or navigating the never-ending city of Coruscant. 
Focusing on a consistent theme enhances your players’ experience in the 
limited time that they spend on the planet. In fact, if they remember and refer 
toa world in shorthand such as "that blazing planet with the nasty, poisonous, 
killer beasts," you can be sure that the planet made an impression. Themes also 
help players anticipate and prepare for what they might encounter. 


Populate the World 

Next, add the overall environmental details, including civilization, foliage, 
and creatures. These items must work together to create a believable planet. 
If something is drastically out of place, you should have a good reason for it, 
to sustain your players’ suspension of disbelief. Don't overlook this technique 
as a source of adventure ideas, however. An out-of-place creature might be 
a major encounter clue for the heroes to follow. 

Decide if the world has a sentient population and, if so, how technologi- 
cally advanced it is. Planets in Star Wars feature civilizations of all levels, 
sometimes with the most primitive and the highly advanced sharing the same 
world. Remember that cultural advancement and technological advancement 
do not necessarily occur at the same rate. A technologically advanced civiliza- 
tion might be primitive in its social structure, perhaps obtaining its technol- 
ogy from visiting traders or by force rather than developing it on its own. 

Consider how widespread the civilization is. For clarity, worlds should 
include only a single civilization, unless you intend to feature the interaction 
of two or more groups in the adventure. Decide how the population lives. Are 
there cities, and if so, of approximately what size and distribution around 
the planet? What form does a city take? Is it made up of standard buildings, 
underground dwellings, underwater structures, or floating platforms? 

Are the planet's inhabitants a new species of your own design, or a known 
species transplanted from elsewhere in the galaxy? One easy option is to use 
the information on creating near-Human species from Chapter 1 to create a 
species that is familiar, yet with a twist of its own. If more than one sentient 
species is on the world, decide how well they get along. 

Most important, decide how the civilization will interact with your adven- 
turers. Determine their basic culture and their tolerance for the actions that 
most heroes engage in. Where they collide with the heroes’ activities, you 
will have ready-made situations for drama and conflict. Outline a basic gov- 
ernment, particularly the portions the heroes might encounter. This includes 
local law enforcement, bureaucrats, and even influential fringe elements. 

Once you determine the reach of the civilization, you will know how much 
wilderness is available for wild creatures and large-scale ecological systems 
such as forests or oceans. Decide which basic environments the heroes are 
likely to encounter. Doing this can help you determine the types and number 
of plants that grow in the area. Additionally, consider the common hazards 
that occur on the world, such as an active volcano, a poisonous rainfall, an 
unstable atmosphere, or frequent earthquakes. See Chapter 4, "Hazards," for 
additional details and ready-made hazards. 

Creatures and beasts are common antagonists in Star Wars adventures. 
Most are hostile and dangerous, although beneficial and helpful creatures 
can make for an equally memorable story. Match your creatures to your 
environment. See the creature generator later in this chapter for sugges- 
tions and inspiration. 


it SeStsgvHo 


SNEIVAIWYVYS NOILHOVWSS) 


ores 


SNEIVEWYVYS NOILVHOMWWESs) 


Hl HYStdvHo 


Name the World 

You can call your new world whatever you want, but some names fit into 
the galaxy better than others. Most planet names in Star Wars are made 
up from scratch, although some are related to real-world names, words, or 
concepts. If the heroes are visiting a completely unknown world, they might 
have nothing more than a star chart identification number. Avoid creating a 
name that is too long or unpronounceable, or the players will shorten it to 
a nickname you probably won't appreciate. 


Adventures and Campaigns 

Ultimately, the planet sets the scene for the adventure. Because Unknown 
Regions adventures deal with mysterious locales, the planet should play 
a prominent role in the adventure. The heroes should sometimes face the 
challenge of overcoming an aspect of the planet. It might be the central 
focus of some adventures, such as surviving a crash on a wild and danger- 
ous world, or it could be an interesting backdrop used for dramatic effect 
to introduce a new culture. 

Give your new world a level of detail that is appropriate for your adventure 
length. For a single adventure, even over several gaming sessions, focus on 
the main encounter area and provide a general overview of the rest of the 
planet. If you plan to use this world for an extended campaign or as a base 
of operations for the heroes, develop specific details, but dole them out as 
play progresses. Each encounter or session should reveal a new facet of 
the planet. Worlds used for campaigns can afford to be more complex in 
environment, culture, or both. 


PLANET GENERATOR 

Need a planet in a hurry or quick inspiration for your new world? The planet 
generator enables you to create a quick overview of a planet featuring a 
few memorable elements. Roll on each table to create a completely random 
world, or pick and choose suitable elements. Feel free to combine the two 
methods as needed. The generator starts with the star system (or equivalent) 
and becomes more detailed with each table. If a result is inconsistent with 
the planet type, skip it or reroll on the same table. 


ROLL TYPE 


1 Binary star system 

2 Black hole 

3-5 Nebula/dust cloud 

6-14 Single star system 

15-18 Double star system 

19 Triple star system 

20 Quadruple (or more) star system 


ROLL 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 


15-17 
18-19 
20 


NUMBER 
None 


OAN DAF WH 


10+ 


Extrasolar world (outside the system); roll again for 
system size and reroll if this result occurs again. 


TYPE 

Artificial or space station 

Asteroid field or belt (no satellites) 

Dwarf planet 

Gas giant 

Planetoid (no satellites) 

Satellite (roll again for planet orbited; ignore asteroid, 
planetoid, and dwarf planet results) 

Terrestrial 


NUMBER 
None 


Rings 
Asteroid cluster 
Artificial debris field 


*For gas giants, add 20 moons and roll twice, ignoring duplicate ring results, 
asteroid clusters, and debris fields. 


A PLANET WITH A HAZARDOUS ATMOSPHERE REQUIRES 
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT TO EXPLORE. 


NUMBER 


100-200 
3-4 201-250 
5-7 251-300 
8-10 301-350 
11-13 351-400 
14-15 401-450 
16-17 451-500 
18 501-600 
19 601-700 
20 701+ 
TABLE 3-8: CLIMATE 2 
ROLL TYPE ; 
1 Arid 9 
2-3 Temperate R 
4 Tropical = 
5 Subarctic —_ 
6 Superheated : i 
a all 
DOMINANT can 
TABLE 3-S: ATMOSPHERE®* © —  ENVIRONMENT*® — yy 
ROLL TYPE ROLL TYPE (SELECT ONE OR MORE SUBTYPES) 9 
(2) None 1 Arctic (glacier, ice shelf, icy, slushy, snowy) > 
3-11 Breathable 2 Atmospheric (clouds, fog, fumes, steam) q 
12-15 Breath mask required 3 Barren (boulder fields, canyons, dusty, eroded badlands, rocky) g 
16-18 Environment suit required 4 Craters (deep, massive, overlapping, shallow, water filled) 
19-20 Hazardous environment suit required 5-6 Desert (arid, dusty, frozen, hot, sandy, searing, rocky) : 
*Based on Human compatibility. 7 Forest (conifer, deciduous, temperate) R 
8 Island (archipelago, atoll, island chain, isolated islands) v 
_— es 9 Jungle (dense, rain forest, sparse, wet) d 
TABL 3-6: H eae = : : 10 Mountainous (ancient and worn, jagged, massive ranges, Gi 
ROLL NUMBER peaks, pinnacles, spires, rocky hills) a 
] 4-8 hours 11 Ocean (frozen/icy, impossibly deep, methane, shallow, 
2-5 9-12 hours underwater features) 
6-8 13-20 hours 12-13 Plains (grassy, salt, savanna, steppes) 
9-12 21-24 hours 14 Subterranean (cave systems, sinkholes, underground canyons) 
13-15 25-30 hours 
16-18 31-35 hours 
19 36-40 hours 


20 41+ hours 


( 


SNEIVIWVD NOILVHOWHSss) n 


i BestavHd 


20 


TYPE (SELECT ONE OR MORE SUBTYPES) 
Swamp (dank, forested, open, overgrown, sprawling, wetlands) 
Urban (dense urban cores surrounded by impassible terrain, 
planetwide city, polluted, sprawling) 

Volcanic (active ranges, continuous lava flows, 

mega-sized, oceanic islands) 

Vacuum 


*Skip for gas giants. Reroll, adjust, or select climate as necessary. 


STRENGTH 

Low 
Standard 
High 


NUMBER 
None (skip following tables) 
A few hundred 
A few thousand 
Tens of thousands 
Hundreds of thousands 
Millions 
Billions 


TYPE 

Atomic 

Computerized 

Industrial 

Middle age 

Stone age 
Technologically advanced 


TYPE 


Affiliated with/controlled by dominant galactic government 
Anarchy/none 
Authoritarian 
Confederation 
Corporatocracy 
Democracy 
Dictatorship 
Federation 

Feudal 

Independent empire 
Military 

Monarchy 
Oligarchy 
Organized crime 
Republic 

Socialist 
Technocracy 
Theocracy 
Tribal/clan 


TYPE 

None (abandoned cities/colony/station) 
Academic 

Agricultural 

Colony 

Entertainment 

Exploration 

Government center 

Hidden base (corporate, criminal, governmental, Rebel) 
High technology 

Industrial 

Leisure 

Medical 

Military 

Mining 

Outpost (recon, research) 

Trading 


TABLE 3-15: SIGNIFICANT —© 
FEATURE ee ee 
ROLL FEATURE 
1 Planetwide aurora 
2 Continent-sized volcano 
3-4 Crater, hundreds of kilometers deep 
5 City is a 20-km square solid structure 
6 Artificially carved and sculpted mountain range 
7-8 Waterfalls, many kilometers high 
9 Nearly constant earthquakes 
10 Constant, extreme thunderstorms 
1 Force nexus (dark side or light side) 
12-13 Frequent ion storms 
14 Sprawling, ancient ruins the size of large cities 
15-17 Battlefield, ancient or recent 
18 Massive test range for weapons or machinery, abandoned 
or in use 
19 Sith tomb 
20 Marooned colony from an ancient known or unknown 


TABLE 3-16: CULTURAL QUIRKS ~ 


ROLL 
1 
2 
5] 


civilization 


QUIRK 

Violence is forbidden and punishable by death 
Protocol droids are believed to be evil spirits 

Not wearing a weapon to a formal dinner is an insult 
to your host 

Official, formal language, such as legal proclamations 
or business deals, is always sung 


Guests thank a host for a good meal by eating messily 
and chewing with their mouths open 

Droids are first-class citizens and organics are slaves 

An item common to the heroes is valuable, such as water, 
glow rods, or mesh tape 

Alliances and friendships are cemented by an exchange 
of hair clippings 

Ships are treated as sentient beings 

Passengers must remove their shoes before boarding ships 
All technology is barred from religious sites 

Pets are given as part of a military alliance; the alliance 
lasts only as long as the pet lives 


TABLE 3-17: 


ROLL 


QUIRK 
There is no concept of ownership—anything anyone wants, 
he or she takes 

Off-worlders are required to wear a certain piece or type of 
clothing at all times 

A variation of Basic is spoken, such as speaking backward 
or adding a prefix to nouns/verbs 

Looking someone in the eye is an insult 

Any gift accepted must be refused three times first 

Males are not allowed to speak in public 

Off-world visitors are believed to be reincarnations of 
deceased relatives 


The leader of the planet must spend the winter as the guest 
of a randomly selected citizen 


FAMILY CUSTOMS 
CUSTOM 

Only unmarried beings can carry weapons in public 
Even-numbered children can hold office; odd-numbered 
children are expected to raise families 

The groom and the best man fight a duel on the wedding day, 
and the winner marries the bride 

The elderly are granted a small ship upon retirement but are 
never allowed to return to the planet again 

Once a year, each family in a village exchanges one of its 
children with another family 

The family ancestral weapon is given as a token of betrothal 
If a wife dies, the husband must join a monastic order 

If a husband dies, the wife must leave her family and 
become a spacer 

If a both of a child's parents die, the child is taught the ways 
of mysticism and, possibly, the Force 

Marriages can be performed only by off-worlders 

The dead must be buried on the same spot where they are 
married, and unmarried beings are buried in space 

Children have their earlobes removed at birth 

At birth, every child is given a bottle of liquor that he or she 
must drink only before heading into battle 


it SStdgvHAga 


@ 
% 
i 
fr 
0 
5 
a 
9 
Z 
@ 
> 
4 
> 
fy 
z2 
@ 


Wi) SSsiagvwHga 


SNOIVEIWYS) NOILYHOMWSE) 


UNEXPLORED WORLDS MIGHT HAVE STRANGE JUXTAPOSITIONS OF 
TECHNOLOGY AND PRIMITIVE LIVING CONDITIONS. 


TABLE 3-17: FAMiLY CusSTOMS 


CONTINUED 
ROLL CUSTOM 
14 A deceased relative is buried with the flowers of the last 


family bride, and a bride wears jewelry belonging to the last 
deceased relative 

The youngest sibling is raised by older brothers and sisters until 
he or she is replaced or reaches the age of maturity 

The status of eldest sibling is determined by an unarmed 

duel that can take place at any time and at any location 

The eldest daughter must return to her homeworld each year; 
if she cannot, she is not permitted to return to the 

planet again 

When a feud begins, both parties abstain from food and sleep; 
the first to pass out from exhaustion is considered to be the 
guilty party 

Starships are available only to married couples 

When a ship jumps to hyperspace, the cockpit lights are 
extinguished in remembrance of family members lost in space 


TABLE 3-18: CITIES AND 


ARCHITECTURE 

ROLL TYPE 

(Hii Different building types are different shapes: for example, homes 
are squares and government buildings are spheres 

2 All cities are built on the tops of large trees/plants 

3 Cities are built on massive barges, and the land is untouched 
by civilization 

4 The more important a building is, the more mirrored 
surfaces it has 

5 All housing is built underground 

6 Every building features a built-in weapon 

7 Every building features a representation of a historical figure, 
such as a bust, a statue, or a painting 

8 Junkyards and prisons serve the same purpose 

i] Repulsorlifts are forbidden within city limits, and beasts of 
burden are used for transport 

10 Every city has a large city center featuring an artificial 
environment completely different from the planet's 
natural climate 

11 Buildings are built of modular materials that are easily 
disassembled and rebuilt 

12 Each building is named for a person famous for a 
noteworthy deed 

13 The single city on the planet exists inside a sphere surrounded 
by a hostile environment 

14 Buildings are cultivated like gardens 

15 The city is a virtual creation explored through electronic data 
sent to a ship in orbit 

16 Residences have no furniture that touches the floor 

17 All buildings are transparent 

18 Restaurants are made entirely of edible substances 

19 Only natives can touch the planet; off-worlders must use a 
series of elevated walkways 

20 The city is a complex connection of airlocks, ships, and other 


space vehicles 


CREATING NEw 
CREATURES 


The galaxy teems with life, and most sentient beings encounter only a tiny 
fraction of the creatures of their own homeworld, let alone the galaxy at 
large. Heroes traveling the Unknown Regions should regularly discover, fight, 
and otherwise interact with creatures they have never seen before. 

In this section, you'll find a step-by-step guide through the beast creation 
process. If you need a simple beast quickly, use the creature generator that 
follows this section. These tables focus on creating threats, rather than 
mounts. See Chapter 2, “Explorer's Equipment," for a selection of mounts that 
the heroes can use. If you want to create a new mount, consider modifying 
one of the existing mounts with information from this section. 

Before creating a beast's statistics, decide on a theme or a concept for 
the beast. Start with a general physical description and a basic idea of how 
the beast behaves and attacks. These details can guide your choices through 
the rest of the process. 


CREATING A BEAST 

This section builds on the beast creation rules originally included in the Saga 
Edition core rulebook (see page 273). The beast creation process is presented 
here in sequence, to aid in expediency. Beasts are not sentient, and have 
levels in the nonheroic beast class. 

1. Roll or select ability scores. Select an Intelligence score of 1 or 
2. An advanced beast species with Intelligence of 3 or above can 
multiclass into heroic classes, but must begin with its first level in 
the beast class. 

2. Increase one ability score by 1 point at every fourth level, if the beast 
is above 1st level. 

3. Select the beast's size and apply the appropriate modifiers (see Table 
16-2 on page 274 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

4. Add hit points (1d8 + Constitution modifier per level). 

5. Beasts do not have Force Points. However, if a beast has the Force 
Sensitivity feat, assign it a number of Force Points equal to one-half 
its beast level (minimum 1). 

6. Select a speed for the creature (usually 6 or 8 squares). If the creature 
has other movement methods (such as swim or fly), select those 
speeds as well (usually 4 or 6 squares). 

7. Determine the beast's defenses and damage threshold. Apply natu- 
ral armor, if any (see below and page 274 of the Saga Edition core 
rulebook), adding a natural armor bonus to Reflex Defense equal to 
or lower than the creature's beast class level. Some natural armor 
grants additional effects as a special quality (and counts as one of 
the beast's special qualities). See Table 3-22: Natural Armor with 
Special Qualities on page 92. 


8. Add feats at the rate for normal characters (see Table 3-1 on page 
37 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). The beast class does not grant 
additional starting feats. 

9. Select a number of trained skills equal to 1 + Intelligence modifier 
(minimum 1; see page 274 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). Apply 
the size modifier to Stealth, as well as modifiers to other skills, such 
as size or feat modifiers. 

10. Select one to three natural weapons (see pages 274-275 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook), and determine the beast's melee attack and 
damage with its natural weapons. 

11. Determine the beast's grapple modifier: base attack bonus + Strength 
or Dexterity modifier (whichever is better) + grapple size modifier 
(see page 153 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

12. Select any special senses, such as low-light vision or darkvision. 

13. Select a species trait (see page 275 of the Saga Edition core rule- 
book), if desired. 

14. Select from zero to three special qualities. You can create them 
yourself, or select from those discussed below. 


CREATURE GENERATOR 

Start with the size and level of the beast. If you need a creature quickly and 
don't feel the need to create its details from scratch, select the pertinent 
items from the Tables 3-20 and 3-21 while following the steps above. Table 
3-19: Sample Creature Ability Scores and Speeds is for convenience, and you 
can modify any score by several points to fit your creature concept. 


Special Qualities 

Special qualities give creatures abilities and features that differentiate 
them from other beasts. Although special qualities are not required, most 
creatures have at least one, and some have up to three. A beast must have 
the appropriate natural ability to have a special quality from one of those 
described below. For example, a beast must be able to make two claw attacks 
in the same turn if it is utilizing the rend special quality. 


Combat Special Qualities 

The following special qualities focus on a beast's combat abilities, and they can 
be applied to beasts of any compatible type. Offense special qualities include 
those that are triggered by making attacks or by specific circumstances in 
battle. Defense special qualities include those that modify defense scores, 
healing, and other abilities that keep a creature going during an encounter. 


OFFENSE SPECIAL QUALITIES 

Ambush—The beast deals an additional 2d6 points of damage with its 
natural weapons against an enemy that is flat-footed or that is denied its 
Dexterity bonus. 


il HatavHa 


g 
% 
U 
fC 
a 
ql 
iD 
z 
Q 
> 
i 
> 
5 
7 
@ 


i) eSsiavHa 


SNEIYVAWYS) NOILYHOVWWESs) 


TABLE 3-19: SAMPLE 


SIZE ABILITY SCORES 

Colossal Str 42, Dex 10, Con 42, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 8 
Gargantuan Str 34, Dex 10, Con 34, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 8 
Huge Str 26, Dex 10, Con 26, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 8 
Large Str 17, Dex 10, Con 18, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 8 
Medium Str 14, Dex 12, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 8 
Small Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 8 
Tiny Str 8, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 11, Cha 8 
Diminutive Str 6, Dex 18, Con 8, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 8 
Fine Str 4, Dex 20, Con 6, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 8 


Constrict—If the beast successfully grapples an enemy, it can use the 
Crush and Pin feats as normal. When crushing, however, the beast deals 
damage equal to 2d6 + its Strength modifier + half its beast class level 
rounded down. 

Devour—lf the beast hits with its bite attack against a target two size 
categories or more smaller than itself, it can automatically make a grapple 
check with its bite attack at its full bonus (even if it has already taken a 
full-round action). If the grapple check is successful, the beast can begin 
devouring its target, and each round the target is in the beast's mouth, the 
beast deals damage equal to 1d8 + its Strength modifier + half its beast 
class level rounded down. If the target reaches 0 hit points, it is swallowed 
by the beast and continues to take 1d6 points of acid damage each round. 

Ferocious—The beast can reroll a failed attack with one of its natural 
weapons. 


ADDITIONAL 

NATURAL WEAPONS 

The following attacks are considered natural weapons attacks (see page 
274 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Tail Attack: A tail attack has reach and deals an amount of blud- 
geoning damage determined by the beast’s size: Fine, Diminutive, or 
Tiny, damage 1, reach 0; Small, damage 1d2, reach 1; Medium or Large, 
damage 1d3, reach 1; Huge, damage 1d4, reach 1; Gargantuan, damage 
1d6, reach 2; Colossal, damage 1d8, reach 3. A tail lash or tail barb attack 
or other tail attack types do not differ in damage or reach, but other 
special qualities or abilities might apply. 

Tail Slam: A tail that has no special qualities associated with it can 
deal slam damage instead of tail attack damage (see “Slam” on page 
275 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). A tail slam attack has the same 
reach as the beast. 


REATURE « 


ND SPEEDS 

FLY SWIM 
4 1 6 4 
4 | 6 4 
6 1 8 6 
6 1 8 6 
8 2 8 8 
8 2 8 8 
6 1 6 6 
6 1 6 6 
4 il 6 4 


Pack Hunter—The beast gives a +4 bonus instead of a +2 bonus when 
using the aid another action. 

Poison—The beast delivers poison through a bite, a claw, or a sting natural 
weapon attack. If the beast deals damage to a living target, the target is 
also poisoned. If the poison succeeds on an attack roll (1d20+10) against 
the target's Fortitude Defense, the target moves -1 step along the condition 
track. A target moved to the bottom of the condition track by the poison 
is immobilized but not unconscious. The poison attacks each round until 
cured with a successful DC 5, 10, 15, or 20 (select one) Treat Injury check. 

Pounce—When long jumping, the beast does not require a running start for 
jumps of 4 squares or fewer and does not double the Jump DC when doing so 
(see page 68 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). If the beast successfully jumps 
into or adjacent to a target enemy's square, the beast can make an immediate 
attack against the target. If the attack is successful, the beast can attempt 
to trip the target (as if using the Trip feat on page 88 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook) as a free action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Rend—If the beast hits with both of its claw attacks in the same turn, it 
rends the enemy for an additional 2d6 points of damage. 

Tremorsense—The beast automatically senses the location of anything 
that is in contact with the ground and within 100 squares (no Perception 
check required). 

Trip—If the beast hits with a tail attack, it can attempt to trip an enemy 
(as if using the Trip feat) as a free action that does not provoke attacks of 
opportunity. 


DEFENSE SPECIAL QUALITIES 
Camouflage—The beast's natural coloration changes to mimic its sur- 
roundings. The beast ignores its size modifier when it makes Stealth checks. 
Fast Healing 5 or 10—The beast automatically regains 5 (or 10 if the 
beast is Gargantuan or larger) hit points every round at the end of its turn, 
up to its normal maximum, until it is killed. 


BEAST LEVEL 1 5 10 
SIZE 

Colossal 21 103 205 
Gargantuan 17 83 165 
Huge 13 63 125 
Large 9 43 85 
Medium 7 33 65 
Small 6 28 55 
Tiny 5 23 45 
Diminutive 4 18 35 
Fine 3 13 25 


“Reflex Defense includes size and Dexterity modifiers, but bonuses for natural armor must be added to this number. For natural armor, you can add up 


to the beast's level to this number. 


BEAST LEVEL 1 5 10 
SIZE 

Colossal +16 +19 +23 
Gargantuan +12 +15 +19 
Huge +8 +11 +15 
Large +3 +6 +10 
Medium +2 +5 +9 
Small +0 +3 +7 
Tiny -1 +2 +6 
Diminutive -2 +1 +5 
Fine -3 +0 +4 


Roar—As a move action, the beast produces a terrifying, rumbling sound 
and makes a Persuasion check to intimidate (see page 71 of the Saga Edi- 
tion core rulebook) any enemy target within 6 squares of it. If the attempt 
succeeds, the target must move away from the beast on the target's next 
turn, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track. This is a mind- 


affecting effect. 


AND DAMAGE THRESHOLDS 
=< — HIT POINTS. ———————— 


15 


308 
248 
188 
128 
98 
83 
66 
53 
38 


15 


+27 
+23 
+19 
+14 
+13 
+11 
+10 
+9 
+8 


20 


410 
330 
205 
170 
130 
110 
90 
70 
50 


20 


+31 
+27 
+23 
+18 
+17 
+15 
+14 
+13 
+12 


DEFENSES* 

Ref 0 Fort 26 
Ref 5 Fort 22 
Ref 8 Fort 18 
Ref 9 Fort 14 
Ref 11 Fort 12 
Ref 13 Fort 11 
Ref 15 Fort 10 
Ref 19 Fort 9 

Ref 25 Fort 8 


Scent—The beast ignores concealment and cover when making Percep- 
tion checks to notice enemies within 10 squares, and takes no penalty from 
poor visibility when tracking (see the Survival skill on page 73 of the Saga 


Edition core rulebook). 


Will 11 


10 


+43 
+34 
pO 


15 


+47 
+38 
+29 
+19 
+13 


DAMAGE 
THRESHOLD 


20 


+51 
+42 
+33 
+23 
+17 
+14 
+8 
+4 
+0 


weaLavHo 


SNOIYVAIWYVYS NOILZHOTWdS$s) 


ii! HSiagvHo 


SNEIYVEWYS NEOILYHOVWWSs) 


EFFECT 


TYPE 
Bony plates 


Dense, layered hair or fur 
Hardened exoskeleton 


As a reaction, can apply DR 5 to mitigate one successful hit per round. 
Can reroll Endurance and Survival checks to counter the effect of cold, taking the better result. 
DR 1 for Small and smaller creatures, DR 2 for Medium and Large creatures, DR 5 for Huge and larger creatures 


against simple weapons and unarmed attacks. 


Leathery scales 


When taking damage that exceeds its damage threshold, the beast takes half damage instead, although it still 


moves -1 step (or more) on the condition track. 


Metallic scales 


When taking damage that exceeds its damage threshold, the beast takes one-quarter damage instead, 


although it still moves -1 step (or more) on the condition track. 


Spiked skin 


Gain an additional +2 to Reflex Defense against melee and unarmed attacks. Once per turn per attacker, if an attacker 


misses on a melee or an unarmed attack against the beast, the beast can make a single attack as a reaction, using its 


spikes as a natural weapon (gore). 
Thickened hide 


Can use Fortitude Defense in place of Reflex Defense against unarmed and melee attacks (except lightsabers). 


*Typically provides natural armor bonus equal to number of beast levels. Can be reduced, if desired. 


Screech—As a swift action, the beast produces a piercing, high-pitched 
sound. The beast makes an attack roll (1d20+10) against the Fortitude 
Defense of every character within 6 squares of it. If the attack succeeds, the 
target takes a -5 circumstance penalty against Perception checks and skill 
checks requiring concentration, and the target has difficulty hearing until 
the end of the beast's next turn. 


Environmental Special Qualities 

The following special qualities focus on abilities generated from the beast's 
adaptation to a specific environment. The beast in question should have the 
associated species trait (see page 275 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 
These special qualities are not available to beasts that cannot physically 
perform the related action. 


AIRBORNE SPECIAL QUALITIES 

Aerobatics—As part of its move action, a flying beast uses the Tumble 
ability of the Acrobatics skill (see page 63 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) 
to fly through a threatened area or the fighting space of an enemy without 
provoking an attack of opportunity. The beast must make a successful DC 
15 Acrobatics check and is considered trained in Acrobatics for the purpose 
of using this special quality. 

Diving Attack—The flying beast dives sharply to attack an enemy at a 
lower altitude. When making a Charge attack (see page 152 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook), in addition to the competence bonus granted by the 
charge attack, the beast gains a +1 circumstance bonus to its attack roll (up 
to a +5 total circumstance bonus) for every square the flying beast moves 


downward. Additionally, the beast can use a move action after resolving the 
charge attack. Until the end of its next turn, the beast takes a -2 penalty to 
its Reflex Defense because of the charge action. 


AQUATIC SPECIAL QUALITIES 

Electroshock—When in water or underwater, the beast produces a 
short-range electrical jolt. As a standard action, the beast makes an area 
attack (1d20+10) centered on one of its own squares against the Fortitude 
Defense of all creatures in adjacent squares. If the attack is successful, the 
target takes 4d6 points of energy damage. If unsuccessful, the target takes 
half damage. 

Ink Cloud—When in water or underwater, as a swift action, the beast 
produces an inky substance, which expands out from the creature in all direc- 
tions at a rate of 1 square per round, up to a 3-square radius. The cloud grants 
concealment to characters within or behind it. Additionally, the beast makes 
an attack roll (1d20+5) against the Fortitude Defense of water-breathing 
creatures within the cloud. If the attack succeeds, the target takes 1d6 points 
of damage and moves -1 step on the condition track. If the attack fails, the 
target takes half damage and does not move on the condition track. 


ARCTIC SPECIAL QUALITIES 

ley Shock—When the beast succeeds with a melee attack using its natu- 
ral weapon and the attack deals damage greater than the target's damage 
threshold, the target takes an additional 5 points of damage and moves -1 
step on the condition track. Targets with the arctic species trait are immune 
to this special quality. 


DARK WOLVES ARE JUST SOME OF THE STRANGE CREATURES 
SCOUTS USE AS COMPANIONS. 


5 


ha 


DESERT SPECIAL QUALITIES 

Dustball—The beast can kick up a huge cloud when in dusty, dirty, or sandy 
terrain. Any square the beast passes through, as well as any adjacent squares, 
provides concealment until the end of the beast's next turn. The beast can 
remain stationary, but it must expend a move action to produce the effect. 
Make an attack roll (1d20+5) against the Fortitude Defense of all targets 
within the cloud. If the attack is successful, the targets are blinded for as long 
as they remain in the cloud (see page 254 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


SUBTERRANEAN SPECIAL QUALITIES 

Rumble—As a full-round action, the beast violently shakes the ground 
around it, making an attack roll (1d20+10) against the Reflex Defense of 
all characters on (or under) the ground within 6 squares of the beast. If the 
attack is successful, standing or sitting targets are knocked prone. If the 
attack fails, the cost of all movement on or through the ground is doubled 
until the end of the beast's next turn (or until it is killed or incapacitated). 
Underground targets caught in a successful rumble attack cannot move. 
Any target that is knocked prone can get up as a full-round action, but the 


target is subject to further rumble attacks. The rumble lasts for a number 
of rounds equal to the beast's Constitution bonus (minimum 2), making an 
attack each round. The beast can extend the duration with a successful DC 
20 Endurance check. 

Underground Speed—The beast can move underground, burrowing 
through dirt and rocky soil but not solid rock. Typically, the beast's speed is 
3 squares when moving underground, although you can alter its speed due 
to the soil conditions. 

Undertow (Subterranean)—This beast can pull its prey under the sur- 
face of the ground. As an attack action, the beast makes an attack against 
a target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack is successful, the target is pulled 
below the surface of the ground and moves -1 step on the condition track. 
The target is unable to take any additional actions until it succeeds on a DC 
15 Climb check as a standard action. 


EMPHASIZING 

STRANGE CREATURES 

In a galaxy already full of bizarre and fantastic creatures, creating a 
beast that the characters perceive as unusual can be challenging. New 
creatures should add to the sense of strangeness of a newly discovered 
world in the Unknown Regions. A good combination of unusual creatures 
on anew world should make for a memorable adventure. 

The strangeness of a creature can be expressed through its physical 
description, a featured ability, or a behavior. Physical strangeness includes 
attributes such as outlandish color or markings, unexpected hide or hair 
texture, and irregular or asymmetrical body shapes or limbs. Behavioral 
strangeness includes unexpected actions, such as working with creatures 
not of the same species, intelligent communications, and unexpected 
planning, target selection, taunting, or movement in a skirmish. 

When using a new creature in an encounter, play up the fact that the 
heroes have no idea what the creature might be capable of. Build the 
suspense. The heroes could run across unusual but threatening tracks or 
the remains of a carcass that is a recently finished meal. They might hear 
howls, screeches, or other bizarre noises that suggest that a dangerous 
beast might be nearby. Perhaps they catch only glimpses of the creature 
as it stealthily approaches or escapes. When the heroes eventually see 
it, emphasize the creature's most bizarre or unusual traits and actions. 
Its fighting style or decision making might be completely unforeseen 
and opposed to what the heroes expect, promoting confusion in their 
interaction with the creature. 


| Y¥SetavHo 


SNQIVYVAIWYVYS NOIVHOIWsSSs) 


) area 
CHAPTER IV 


cre 


is 


SS 

The galaxy is full of obstacles waiting to trip up heroes as they strive to fulfill 
their destinies. Every planet has its own perils—whether menacing plant life, 
an unsafe atmosphere, or something worse—and any explorer can confirm 
that the greatest danger when traveling to a new world is encountering some 
new hazard not yet known to the galaxy at large. Stormtroopers and Sith 
Lords are obvious threats to the safety of just about everyone, but it is often 
the unseen and unexpected hazards that bring heroes down. 

Hazards, first introduced in the Saga Edition core rulebook, appear 
throughout Star Wars films, novels, comics, and other sources. Until now, 
a hazards have been basic rules elements used to address a variety of situations 
oe that might come up during a game. This chapter's goal is to make hazards 
s more appealing as a regular part of adventure and encounter design. When 

‘ ; the heroes visit strange worlds in the Unknown Regions, they should feel 
as if every step could lead them into dangerous territory. By using hazards 
more frequently, you can emphasize the fact that the heroes are far from 
home ina place where many of the galaxy's niceties simply are not present. 

This chapter introduces a new format for hazards, along with rules for 

\ ™ designing your own hazards and suggetions for using them in your adven- 

= tures. Additionally, the chapter provides many sample hazards that are ready 

to be used in a game; these examples also will help guide you in creating 

ea your own hazards. The samples are grouped by environment, so you can 

noose hazards appropriate to the setting and level of your adventure and 
in as needed. 


Ai eSiavHo 


sayuvzvYe 


Al SStdvHoa 


a 
> 
N 
> 
a 
i) 
@o 


HAZARD BASICS 


A hazard is an obstacl€ that can hurt, slow, kill, or otherwise impede your 
heroes, their associates, or their equipment. Usually, hazards are not living 
beings but are sources of potential harm that do not normally receive a full 
statistics block, such as an avalanche, a rockslide, a carnivorous plant, an 
exposed plasma conduit, or a black hole. Some hazards (such as an ice cave, 
an asteroid field, or a laser gate) are associated with particular locations, 
whereas others (such as poisons or diseases) can be mobile. Although haz- 
ards can take many forms, as a rule of thumb, anything that has a chance 
to harm or impede the heroes and is not a creature, a droid, or a vehicle can 
be classified as a hazard. 

The Gamemastering chapter of the Saga Edition core rulebook introduces 
a number of hazards. This chapter recasts many of those hazards in a new 
statistics block format to make it easier for you to drop them into your 
encounters. In addition, if you compare the hazard statistics in this book with 
their descriptions in the core rulebook, you should be able to determine how 
to convert other previously published hazards to the new format. 


HMAZARDS IN COMBAT 
Hazards are a great way to spice up combat in your game, and they can serve 
as small distractions, major threats, or anything in between. You can also 


ESCAPING FROM A SABER CAT IS MADE MORE DIFFICULT 
BY HAZARDS LIKE ROCKY TERRAIN. 


use them to create dynamic terrain in an encounter. For example, the droid 
factory sequence in Attack of the Clones is filled with hazards that break 
up the terrain of the encounter. When designing the battlefield in which 
your encounter takes place, consider using hazards that encourage or force 
movement. For example, a free-swinging girder that sweeps through the 
encounter area every other round forces the heroes to keep jumping out of 
its way, and it also might encourage them to try to bantha rush their enemies 
into the girder's path. This addition creates a more dynamic encounter, and 
treating the girder as a hazard should ensure that it presents an appropriate 
challenge for the heroes. 


HAZARDS ALONE 

Throughout the Star Wars saga, characters often deal with hazards outside 
combat. For example, Luke stumbles through the icy wastes of Hoth, battling 
a blizzard (a clear hazard) in an effort to escape from the wampa. R2-D2 
navigates the droid factory on Geonosis, saving Padmé from certain death 
while dodging hazards the whole time. Similarly, you can use hazards as 
scenes unto themselves, presenting them as obstacles that the heroes must 
overcome before the story can progress. Hazards are great challenges to 
throw at the characters when the pace of the adventure begins to slow, and 
they can add tension to any sequence. 


DESIGNING 
NEw HAZARDS 


Designing hazards is much like designing new terrain or other challenges that 
can spice up an encounter or an adventure. Unlike the process for design- 
ing an enemy character, beast, droid, or vehicle, the process for designing 
a new hazard is somewhat simpler, and it helps you cater directly to the 
needs of your particular adventure by creating elements that add diversity 
to encounters. You can follow a series of basic steps to design a hazard that 
challenges your players and makes sense in the context of the adventure. 

The first step is to determine the basic concept of the hazard. It might 
be a natural hazard, such as a slick patch of ice or a carnivorous plant, or it 
might be an artificial hazard, such as an automated blaster turret or a gravity 
trap. Typically, you should base the hazard's form and function on the setting 
in which it will be used. For example, lava pits on Mustafar make sense, but 
lava pits on Hoth require more of an explanation, and you do not want the 
players to sidetrack the game by trying to find that explanation. Similarly, 
if you know that your heroes will spend time trudging through a network 
of glacial caverns on Csilla, you might design an icy cave-in that will occur 
during a combat sequence on the planet. 

As suggested above, tailor the design of the hazard to the way in which 
it will be used. If you want a hazard to be a minor distraction, design one 
that is a nuisance to the heroes rather than a major obstacle to be overcome. 


Alternatively, if you want a hazard that serves as a set piece for an entire 
encounter, think big and create something that interacts with many or all 
of the heroes on a round-by-round basis. In the Csilla example above, the 
icy cave-in will affect all combatants, so it is best used to create a scene 
full of tension. 
In general, a hazard should do one or more of the following: 
® Provide a flavorful background element that reinforces the details of 
the setting 
* Add tension and danger to a scene 
* Require the heroes to spend actions to deal with the hazard 
* Create interesting terrain that requires the heroes to move to avoid it 
* Give the heroes a chance to use skills to overcome the threat with or 
without combat 


CHALLENGE LEVELS 

Each hazard has a basic Challenge Level (CL), which works like other CLs in the 
game. You choose the CL of the hazard, and it affects everything the hazard 
does. Typically, you should create a hazard with a CL that is less than or equal 
to the average level of the heroes, although from time to time you can use a 
hazard with a higher CL to increase the tension and danger of an encounter. 

As a general rule, you can include one hazard of the appropriate CL in an 
encounter without having to take its CL into account when determining the 
encounter's difficulty. (The heroes still receive experience points for over- 
coming the hazard; this reward is added to the XP they receive for dealing 
with the encounter.) Any hazard beyond the first and any hazard with a CL 
higher than the average level of the heroes should be considered an enemy 
when calculating encounter difficulty. If you are including a skill challenge 
(introduced in Galaxy of Intrigue) in the encounter, take into account the CL 
of all hazards when determining encounter difficulty. 

Continuing the Csilla example, assume that you are designing an adven- 
ture for a group of 8th-level heroes. Since you want the icy cave-in to be 
a significant hazard, you should give it a CL of (or near) 8. Because it is 
the only hazard in the encounter, it does not count when determining the 
encounter's difficulty. 


KEYWORDS 

All hazards have one or more keywords that describe how the hazards func- 
tion mechanically. Some creatures have bonuses against certain types of 
hazards (for example, a beast might ignore environmental hazards in certain 
terrain). The following keywords represent most of the existing mechanical 
elements of hazards, but feel free to create new ones for special conditions 
that are common in your campaign. When you design a hazard, be sure to 
select the right keyword(s) based on its nature. 


CLS IN THE GALAxY 

Most of the hazard-creation rules in this chapter assume that you 
are designing a new hazard to be used in an adventure. The rules also 
assume that you want to create a suitable challenge for your heroes, not 
one that is inappropriate for their level. However, not every hazard you 
design needs be based on the current level of the heroes. Certain loca- 
tions throughout the galaxy are simply more dangerous than others, and 
hazards are a great way to reflect that idea. For example, it is reasonable 
to assume that hazards in the middle of the Emperor's citadel on Byss 
are more dangerous than those found in the run-down spaceport of Mos 
Eisley. You can base the CL of a hazard you design on the circumstances 
surrounding it, but keep in mind that your time in preparing the hazard is 
best spent on something that is an appropriate challenge for the heroes. 


Acid: Hazards with the acid keyword deal acid damage. All acid hazards 
should have the contact keyword as well. 

Area: Hazards with the area keyword make area attacks, and their 
damage can be halved or negated by heroes who have the Evasion talent. 
Not all hazards that deal damage to creatures in more than 1 square are area 
hazards; only those that specifically make area attacks have this keyword. 

Artificial: Hazards with the artificial keyword are manufactured or 
produced and do not occur naturally. 

Atmospheric: Atmospheric hazards are those that fill the air. They are 
also considered to be inhaled hazards for the purpose of being negated by 
a breath mask. 

Contact: Hazards with the contact keyword are triggered by touch. 
Contact poisons and acids are good examples of these hazards. 

Disease: Diseases are a special type of hazard that attack the immune 
systems of creatures. They always attack the Fortitude Defense of a target, 
ignoring equipment bonuses to Fortitude Defense, damage reduction, and 
shield rating. If a disease moves a target down the condition track, it likely 
imposes a persistent condition as well, which cannot be removed until the 
disease is cured or until it fails an attack roll against the target twice. Some 
diseases require special equipment to treat. 

Energy: Hazards with the energy keyword deal energy damage. 

Fire: Hazards with the fire keyword deal fire damage. 

Ingested: A hazard with the ingested keyword is triggered only if con- 
sumed by a creature. 

Inhaled: A hazard with the inhaled keyword affects creatures that breathe 
within its area. Creatures that do not breathe (such as droids) and creatures 
wearing breath masks or environmental suits are immune to the effects of 
an inhaled hazard. 


db 
> 
N 
d 
2 
9 
o 


Al YSsLavHo3 


SQq8V27) 


LavHo 


Al 3a 


Natural: Hazards with the natural keyword are created with no interven- 
tion from sentient beings. 

Poison: Hazards with the poison keyword represent toxins that are harm- 
ful or fatal to creatures. They always attack the Fortitude Defense of a target, 
ignoring equipment bonuses to Fortitude Defense, damage reduction, and 
shield rating. If a poison moves a target down the condition track, it likely 
imposes a persistent condition as well, which cannot be removed until the 
poison is cured or until it fails an attack roll against the target. 

Sonic: A hazard with the sonic keyword deals sonic damage. Sonic damage 
is also considered to be energy damage. 


TRIGGERS 

Every hazard has a trigger—an event that causes the hazard to become 
active or to attack or otherwise interact with something else. Most trig- 
gers are simple and might require only that a target touch or come close to 
the hazard. When designing a new hazard, ask yourself what must happen 
to require you to use the hazard's statistics. Answering that question will 
help you determine the trigger. A trigger can be an event, or it might be a 
metagame concept; for example, one trigger might be a hero passing through 
a doorway, whereas another could be the party making initiative checks at 
the start of combat. There is no absolute rule or formula for coming up with 
an appropriate trigger; the sample hazards in this chapter offer examples that 
should help you create your own. In the hazards presented in this chapter, if 


DANGEROUS LASER TURRET HAZARDS MAKE 
PRISON BREAKS MUCH TOUGHER, 


the target of the hazard differs from the creature or object specified as the 
trigger, that information is included in the trigger line. 

Continuing the Csilla example, if you want the cave-in to take place during 
a combat encounter to heighten the tension, you might choose "A creature 
in the ice cavern fires a weapon that makes noise" as the trigger for the 
hazard. Not only is this trigger thematically appropriate (since loud sounds 
setting off a cave-in is a common trope), but it also seems assured to occur 
once combat breaks out. Because the cave-in will include more targets that 
only the creature that triggered it, you should also include information about 
what the targets will be. 


TABLE 4-1: AVERAGE DAMAGE 
PER DIE 


DIE AVERAGE DAMAGE 
d4 25 
d6 35 
d8 4.5 
d10 55 
d12 6.5 


ADVENTURE CL EASY DC MEDIUM DC 


1 13 18 
2-3 14 19 
4-5 16 21 
6-7 17 22 
8-9 18 23 
10-11 19 24 
12-18 21 26 
14 22 27 
15 22 27 
16-17 23 28 
18-19 24 29 
20 26 31 
AREA 


Every hazard has a specific area in which its attacks take place. When you 
include a hazard in your game, you should decide in advance the area that 
the hazard will affect (unless the area of effect is already included in the 
existing hazard). Hazards such as poisons or animal traps might affect very 
limited areas, perhaps as little as a single square. Other hazards, such as loose 
sand, avalanches, and turret blasters, affect larger but still discrete areas. 
Hazards such as atmospheric hazards and vacuum might affect the entire 
area in which an encounter takes place. When you choose a hazard to use 
in an encounter, choose an area of effect for the hazard that is appropriate 
to its type and its use in your game. 


ATTACKS AND DAMAGE 
Hazards make attack rolls as enemies do, although not always with the same 
focus or direction. Almost everything a hazard does to a creature, a droid, 
or an object is categorized as an attack roll of some kind. A hazard attacks 
one of the three defenses (as appropriate to the nature of the attack), and it 
typically makes no more than one attack per round against the target. When 
you design a hazard, you choose which defense it attacks. In general, attacks 
that can be avoided physically are made against Reflex Defense; those that 
affect the integrity of the body are made against Fortitude Defense; and 
those that attack the mind or intellectual capacity of the target are made 
against Will Defense. A hazard's attack bonus should be equal to its CL + 2. 
Likewise, many hazards deal damage to the target, and some deal damage 
on a miss (representing the fact that, no matter how good the target's 
defenses are, the hazard eventually gets the best of them). On average, a 
hazard should deal damage equal to 10 + one-half its CL. Choose a dice 


R HAZARDS BY CL __ 
HEROIC DC 


MODERATE DC HARD DC 
23 26 31 
24 27 32 
26 29 34 
27 30 35 
28 32 37 
29 33 38 
31 35 40 
32 36 4 
32 SVE 42 
33 38 43 
34 Bi) 44 
36 41 46 


expression (such as 3d8 or 2d4+2) that is likely to produce this average 
damage result. Table 4-1 shows the average damage result per die type. If 
the hazard deals damage of a particular type, select the type as well. Haz- 
ards that are meant to affect vehicles may have a damage multiplier (x2 for 
starfighters and transports, x5 for capital ships). 

Continuing the Csilla example, you know that the cave-in will be CL 8. 
Since its attacks (falling ice and rock) can be avoided physically, the hazard 
attacks Reflex Defense. Its attack bonus is approximately +10 (the hazard's 
CL+ 2), and it deals about 14 points of damage per attack (10 + one-half its 
CL). Looking at Table 4-1, you see that a d12 has an average damage of 6.5, 
so 2d12 has an average damage of 13. Thus, you set the hazard's damage 
expression at 2d12+1 to meet the expected damage dealt. 


ADUUSTING HAZARD 
STATISTICS 

When designing hazards, feel free to vary their statistics a bit to suit your 
heroes. Average damage amounts and attack bonuses can vary by 1 or 
2 points above or below their expected amounts, and you can take the 
statistics and abilities of your heroes into account to design a hazard that 
is exactly as tough as it needs to be. For example, if all the heroes have 
low or middling Fortitude Defenses, you can provide tougher challenges 
by creating hazards that target Fortitude Defense without cranking up 
the CL too drastically. 


SEQ8V2Z7) 


] AL BSa1tagvHD 


SOQ8V2Z7) 


Special Attacks 

A few hazards, such as the vacuum hazard, have special attacks that occur 
only under certain circumstances. Typically, these attacks represent the 
inevitable nature of the hazard (for example, the vacuum hazard's special 
attack automatically deals damage to unconscious creatures). If you give your 
hazard a special attack, it should occur only under specific conditions. Special 
attacks can be a bit more deadly as long as they take place less frequently. 


Cumulative Damage 

Some hazards deal cumulative damage, which is damage that grows larger 
round by round. Cumulative damage is extremely dangerous and should 
be used only in situations when escaping from or eliminating the hazard's 
conditions is necessary for survival. For example, suffocation (drowning) 
uses cumulative damage because each round that you endure the suffocation 
hazard, the situation grows significantly worse. Usually, only special attacks 
deal cumulative damage, and only if they will kill or destroy a target that is 
exposed to the hazard, regardless of the target's level. When a target takes 
cumulative damage, increase the damage by the same amount each round. For 
example, the vacuum hazard deals 1d6 points of damage in the first round, 
2d6 points in the second round, 3d6 points in the third round, and so on. 


The Condition Track 
You can create a hazard that has attacks that move the target down the 
condition track instead of dealing damage (or in addition to dealing damage). 
That movement should be taken into account as a part of the hazard's aver- 
age damage. Moving -1 step on the condition track is worth about the same 
as 5 points of damage, and moving -2 steps is worth about the same as 10 
points of damage. No hazard should move a target more than -2 steps on 
the condition track at a time. For example, if a hazard normally deals an 
average of 15 points of damage, you could reduce its damage to 10 points 
and also have the hazard move the target -1 step on the condition track. 
Many hazards that move a target down the condition track also impose 
persistent conditions. When this occurs, the condition is assumed to have 
a lasting effect on the target's health and well-being. Although you do not 
need to reduce the damage output of a hazard that imposes a persistent 
condition, you should consider reducing the attack's frequency or accuracy 
so that an entire group of heroes are not affected by persistent conditions 
as the result of a single hazard. 


RECURRENCE 
Most hazards have a recurrence—a frequency with which the hazard makes 
its attacks. A hazard should not affect an individual target more than once 
per round; in some cases, the frequency of recurrence can be much lower, 
perhaps once a day, once a week, or even less often. Diseases and poisons in 
particular have infrequent recurrence. Possible recurrence options include: 

e At the start or the end of an affected target's turn 

e Ona particular initiative count 

e When the triggering condition is met 

© Ata specified time interval (such as daily, hourly, or weekly) 


Additionally, a hazard's recurrence indicates how long it continues to attack 
a target. Some hazards, particularly diseases and poisons, continue to make 
attack rolls until successfully treated. Other hazards cannot be stopped (such 
as suffocation in a vacuum) and must be escaped to prevent recurrence. Be 
sure to specify whether a hazard's recurrence can be stopped. 


SKILL DIFFICULTY CLASS 

Heroes can use their skills to interact with many hazards. For example, a 
scout might use a Knowledge skill to identify the nature of a particular 
hazard and a different skill to avoid or disable it. Pick a few skills that can 
interact with your hazard, particularly skills that the heroes have and might 
try to use. Then assign skill Difficulty Classes (DCs) based on the hazard's 
CL; Table 4-2 contains sample skill DCs based on the CL of the hazard. For 
each CL, the table gives an easy DC, a medium DC, a moderate DC, a hard 
DC, and a heroic DC. Most skill DCs for hazards should be easy, medium, or 
moderate; hard and heroic skill DCs should be reserved for skills that have 
only an outside chance of affecting the hazard. 

Some skills can actually be used before the hazard is encountered, allow- 
ing heroes to avoid the hazard (if possible) or prepare to minimize its effects. 
Whenever a hazard's skill line lists a skill that allows the hero to identify it, 
the Gamemaster must determine whether or not identification of the hazard 
is enough to avoid it, based on the current circumstances. 

Continuing the Csilla example, you decide that the heroes could notice 
that the ice on the roof of the cave is cracked and unstable. Thus, you choose 
the Perception skill and assign it a medium DC of 23, since the hazard is CL 
8. Particularly nimble heroes might be able to avoid the falling ice, but that 
could be more difficult given the size of the cave. To reflect that possibility, 
you assign a moderate DC of 28 to an Acrobatics check to grant a hero a +5 
bonus to Reflex Defense against the falling ice. 


SPECIAL BrrectTs 

Unlike beasts and enemies that are built with talents, feats, and other 
existing mechanics, some hazards have unique effects or rules that come 
into play only when the hazard does. These effects are not always negative; 
sometimes they provide special ways to circumvent the hazard, or they are 
neutral effects that neither harm nor help the targets. For example, the 
disease known as the Cardooine chills can affect a creature only once, and 
the Krytos virus is weaker against Humans. Usually, such effects and other 
special rules are determined by the nature of the hazard. Be careful that they 
do not make the hazard too hard or too easy; look at the special effects of 
the hazards in this chapter for inspiration. Typically, when designing your 
own hazard, keep the special effects to a minimum to ensure that the hazard 
remains balanced. 


HAZARD STATISTICS BLOCK 

Finishing the example of the icy cave-in on Csilla, after taking the preceding 
rules into account, you might come up with the following statistics block 
for the hazard. 


Csilla Cave-In CL 8 

The underground ice caverns of Csilla shake and rumble, sending heavy 
blocks of ice crashing to the ground. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature or a droid in the ice cavern fires a weapon that makes 
noise; targets any creature, droid, or object in the area of the cave-in 

Attack +10 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d12+1 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target remains in the area of the cave-in 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 28): As a move action, a character can make an 
Acrobatics check to gain a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense 
against a falling ice attack made against the character at the start of 
his or her next turn. 
Perception (DC 23): A character notices that the roof of the ice 
cavern is unstable and believes that a loud noise could cause a cave-in. 


Each hazard statistics block begins with the hazard's name and CL, fol- 
lowed by a brief description of the hazard and its keyword(s). Next, the 
block describes the trigger, presents the attack value and damage value, 
and explains the conditions of recurrence. The block then lists the skills 
that interact with the hazard and concludes with special effects (if any) 
that come into play. 


SAMPLE HAZARDS 


The remainder of this chapter presents sample hazards that should give 
you enough examples and guidelines to help you design your own hazards. 
The section below starts with hazards from Chapter 14 of the Saga Edition 
core rulebook, which have been reformatted using the rules in this chapter, 
then it explores new hazards based on environment. Some of the hazards 
from the core rulebook do not exactly conform to the suggested hazard 
attack and damage numbers, but have been reproduced in the new format 
for ease of use. 


Acid CL 2 
Acid burns through metal and skin alike, corroding them. 
Acid, contact, natural 


Trigger A creature, a droid, or an object comes into contact with the acid 

Attack +4 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d10 acid (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, until the acid is 
washed off or treated 


Skills 
Treat Injury (DC 14; requires medical kit): The character treats 
the acid. 


Atmosphere, Corrosive CL 4 
The chemicals of a corrosive atmosphere eat away at clothing, objects, 

and flesh. 
Acid, atmospheric, contact, natural 


Trigger A creature, a droid, or an object begins its turn in a corrosive 
atmosphere 

Attack +4 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d6 acid (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence On trigger 


Skills 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 16): The character identifies the 
presence of a corrosive atmosphere. 


Special 
Creatures, droids, or objects that have special protection against a 
corrosive atmosphere, such as environmentally sealed space suits, are 
not affected by this hazard. 


Atmosphere, Toxic CL6 
A toxic atmosphere is filled with chemicals that harm most creatures. 
Atmospheric, contact, natural 


Trigger A creature begins its turn in a toxic atmosphere 

Attack +5 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 1d6, and the target moves -1 persistent step on the condition 
track (Miss: Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence On trigger 


Skills 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 17): The character identifies the 
presence of a toxic atmosphere. 


Special 
Creatures, droids, or objects that have special protection against a 
toxic atmosphere, such as environmentally sealed space suits, are not 
affected by this hazard. 


Al SStdavHga 


Sq8VZ297) 


SqG8V2Z977) [ Al eaiavHo ) 


Atmosphere, Vacuum CL8 

The vacuum of space holds no air and diffuses heat, freezing anything 
exposed to it. 

Atmospheric, contact, natural 


Disease, Krytos Virus CL5 

This genetically engineered virus was produced by the Empire to target 
non-Humans. 

Atmospheric, disease, natural 


Trigger A creature begins its turn in a vacuum 

Attack +20 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 1d6, and the target moves -2 steps on the condition track (Miss: 
No damage, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track) 

Special Attack Automatic hit on attacks against unconscious targets 

Damage 1d6 cumulative; if this damage equals or exceeds the target's 
damage threshold, the target dies. 

Recurrence On trigger 


Skills 
Endurance (DC 10): The character holds his or her breath for 1 round, 
reducing the vacuum's attack roll by 10. Each round the character 
holds his or her breath in this manner, the check DC increases by 2. 


Special 
A creature cannot move back up the condition track until it is returned 
to a breathable atmosphere. 


Disease, Cardooine Chills CL2 

This disease is common throughout the galaxy and is typically only an 
inconvenience. 

Atmospheric, disease, natural 


Trigger A creature is exposed to the disease 

Attack +4 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 1d6, and the target moves -1 persistent step on the condition 
track 

Recurrence Daily, until treated 


Trigger A creature is exposed to the disease 

Attack +10 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d6, and the target moves -1 persistent step on the condition 
track 

Recurrence Daily, until treated 


Skills 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 21): The character identifies the 
disease. 
Treat Injury (DC 21, or DC 16 with bacta tank; requires medical 
kit): The character treats the disease. 


Skills 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 14): The character identifies the 
disease. 
Treat Injury (DC 15; requires medical kit): The character treats 
the disease. 


Special 
Once a creature has been exposed to the Cardooine chills and 
the disease has been treated, that creature cannot contract the 
disease again. 


Special 
The Krytos virus takes a -5 penalty to attack rolls against Humans. 
Once a creature has been exposed to the Krytos virus and the disease 
has been treated, that creature cannot contract the disease again. 


Explosive Charge CLS 

An explosive detonates when triggered by a timer. 

Area, artificial, energy 

Trigger The explosive's timer expires; targets all creatures, droids, and 
objects in a 1-square burst radius 

Attack +10 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 10d6 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence None 


Skills 
Mechanics (DC 16): The character disarms the explosive charge. 


Explosive Trap, Detonite CL 2 
An explosive detonates when triggered by a timer. 
Area, artificial, energy 


Trigger The explosive's timer expires; targets all creatures, droids, and 
objects in a 1-square burst radius 

Attack +10 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 5d6 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence None 


Skills 
Mechanics (DC 14): The character disarms the explosive trap. 


Extreme Heat or Cold CL4 

Extreme heat or cold can punish those who are unprepared for it. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature is exposed to extreme heat or cold 

Attack +6 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d6, and the target moves -1 persistent step on the condition 
track (Miss: Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence Hourly 

Special 
A creature that has taken damage from extreme heat or cold cannot 
regain hit points or move up the condition track until it spends at least 
1 hour in a normal environment. Heavy clothing or armor provides a 
+5 equipment bonus to Fortitude Defense to resist extreme cold but 
imposes a -5 penalty to Fortitude Defense to resist extreme heat. 


Fire CL3 
When clothing or objects catch fire, they continue to burn and take fire 
damage. 


Artificial or natural, fire 


Poison, Paralytic CL5 
An injected poison renders a target immobile for a short time. 

Artificial, contact, poison 

Trigger A creature is injected with the poison 

Attack +10 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage The target moves -1 step on the condition track 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, until treated 


Skills 
Treat Injury (DC 16; requires medical kit): The character treats the 
poison. 

Special 
A creature moved to the bottom of the condition track by this poison is 
immobilized but does not fall unconscious. 


Smoke CL 2 > 
Smoke obscures creatures’ vision, causes them to choke, and burns 
their eyes. 


Atmospheric, natural 


Trigger A creature, a droid, or an object takes fire damage 

Attack +5 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 1d6 fire (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, until the flames 
are extinguished (a full-round action) 


Poison, Dioxis CL8 
Dioxis is an inhaled gas often used in assassinations. 
Atmospheric, natural, poison 


Trigger A creature is exposed to the poison 
Attack +10 vs. Fortitude Defense 
Damage 4d6, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track (Miss: 
Half damage, and no condition track movement) 
Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, until treated 
Skills 
Treat Injury (DC 23; requires medical kit): The character treats 
the poison. 


Poison, Knockout Drops CL 2 
When put into food or drink, this poison renders a target unconscious. 
Artificial, ingested, poison 

Trigger A creature ingests the poison 

Attack +4 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage The target moves -1 step on the condition track 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, until treated 


Trigger A creature begins its turn in smoke 

Attack +4 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 1d6, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track (Miss: 
Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence On trigger 


Special 


Al SSievHS 


Smoke grants concealment to creatures and objects within it. Ie 

> 

Space Sickness CL 1 N 
In zero gravity, some creatures have a hard time maintaining their internal 2 
equilibrium. 0) 
Natural 0) 


Trigger A creature is exposed to weightlessness 

Attack +0 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage The target moves -1 persistent step on the condition track 
Recurrence Once, after 8 hours 


Skills UL 
Treat Injury (DC 20): The character removes the persistent condition. 


Skills 
Treat Injury (DC 14; requires medical kit): The character treats the 
poison. 


Special 
The persistent condition from space sickness is removed from a 
creature after 8 hours of rest. 


0 
r 
> 
v 
“ 
tu] 
2 
< 


SeEG8VZ27F) 


Trash Compactor CL 10 

The powerful walls of the trash compactor crush anything trapped inside. 

Artificial 

Trigger A creature, a droid, or an object begins its turn inside a trash 
compactor that has closed completely 

Attack Automatic hit 

Damage 10d6 

Recurrence On trigger 


Special 
A trash compactor takes 10 rounds to close, remains closed for 5 
rounds, and takes 10 rounds to open fully once more. 


Turret, Blaster CL2 
This automated turret blasts enemies that come within its range. 
Artificial, energy 


Trigger The turret detects a creature or a droid within its line of sight 
Attack +4 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 3d6 energy 

Recurrence Each round, on initiative (Initiative +5) 


Skills 
Stealth: The character makes a Perception check, opposed by the 
turret's Perception check (+5, with darkvision). If the character's check 
is successful, the character is not noticed by the turret. 


Turret, Blaster Rifle CL3 
This automated turret blasts enemies who come within its range. 
Area, artificial, energy 


Trigger The turret detects a creature or droid within its line of sight; 
targets all creatures in a 2x2-square area 

Attack +5 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 3d8 energy (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round, on initiative (Initiative +5) 


Skills 
Stealth: The character makes a Perception check, opposed by the 
turret's Perception check (+5, with darkvision). If the character's check 
is successful, the character is not noticed by the turret. 


AQUATIC HAZARDS 

Adventures in environments such as the homeworlds of species like the Mon 
Calamari or underwater cities like those of the Gungans provide opportunities 
for exciting aquatic scenes. You can use the following hazards to add a new 
dimension of danger to those watery environs. 


Crashing Waves CL 

Waves of water crash into the shore where you stand, threatening to drag 
you out when they recede. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature or a droid is within the area of the hazard on the 
hazard's initiative count 

Attack +4 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage The target is knocked prone and slides one square toward the 
source of the waves 

Recurrence Each round, on initiative (Initiative +5) 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 13): The character can make an Acrobatics check as a 
reaction to avoid being knocked prone by the waves. 


Crashing waves occur along the shore of an ocean, an inland sea, or another 
large body of water. When placing this hazard, the GM should choose a 
direction from which the waves come. This is the direction in which targets 
affected by the hazard are pulled. 


Rough Waters CL 3 

The wind whips across the water, causing whitecaps and tumultuous 
conditions. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature begins its turn swimming in the area of the hazard, or 
the pilot of an aquatic vehicle starts his or her turn in the area of the 
hazard 

Attack +5 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d8+2 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence On trigger 

Skills 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 14): The character identifies 
the presence of rough waters and recognizes the hazard's effects on 
swimming creatures and aquatic vehicles. 

Pilot (DC 14): The pilot of an aquatic vehicle affected by rough waters 
can make a Pilot check as a reaction to avoid the rough waters. 

Swim (DC 14): The character can make a Swim check as a reaction to 
avoid the effects of the rough waters. 


Undertow CL 4 

Underwater currents can suck swimmers down into the depths, keeping 
them there until it is too late. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature begins its turn swimming in deep water 

Attack +6 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage The target is pulled 6 squares deeper underwater, and it is 
immobilized until the start of its next turn (Miss: The target is pulled 3 
squares and is not immobilized) 


Recurrence On trigger 
Skills 
Swim (DC 16): The character can make a Swim check as a reaction to 
keep from being affected by the undertow. 


Avalanche CL 10 

The ground rumbles as the surface above you begins cascading down at 
high speed. 

Natural 


Special 
A creature that is pulled underwater by undertow begins to drown. 
See the Endurance skill (page 66 of the Saga Edition core rulebook) 
for information on holding your breath as well as on the effects of 
drowning. 


Whirlpool CL8 

Tidal forces stir up a dangerous whirlpool, whipping anything caught in the 
whirlpool around and threatening to tear it apart. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature or a droid begins its turn swimming in the area of the 
hazard, or the pilot of an aquatic vehicle starts his or her turn in the 
area of the hazard 

Attack +10 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d10+3, and the target is moved 2 squares in a direction of the 
GM's choice (Miss: Half damage, and the target is moved 1 square) 

Recurrence On trigger 

Skills 
Pilot (DC 18): The pilot of an aquatic vehicle caught in a whirlpool can 
make a Pilot check as a reaction to avoid the whirlpool. 

Swim (DC 18): The character can make a Swim check as a reaction to 
avoid the effects of the whirlpool. 

Special 
Each square within the area of the whirlpool is considered difficult 
terrain. 


A creature, a droid, or a vehicle caught in a whirlpool is subject to its strong 
tidal forces. When creating this hazard, the GM should choose the direction 
in which the water in the area of the whirlpool is moving. This is the direction 
in which targets affected by the hazard are moved. 


ARCTIC HAZARDS 


The first scenes of The Empire Strikes Back show the Rebellion's remote 
base on the ice planet of Hoth. The heroes have to deal with plummeting 
temperatures, avoid wandering wampas, and keep their tauntauns alive 
in the untamed arctic wilderness. Along the way, the Rebels encounter a 
number of other hazards in their efforts to keep their presence hidden. This 
section presents some of the dangers that might be encountered by heroes 
in an arctic environment. The extreme cold hazard presented earlier is also 
suitable for this environment. 


Trigger A creature, a droid, or an object within the area of the hazard 
fires a weapon that makes noise; targets any creature, droid, or object 
in the area of the avalanche 

Attack +12 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d8+1, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target remains within the area of the avalanche 


Skills 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 24): The character identifies the 
weak shelf that could cause the avalanche. 


Special 
If the hazard's attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense by 5 or 
more, the target is buried under the avalanche. 


Being caught in an avalanche during combat is sure to change the nature of 
battle, as the heroes and their foes scramble to get out of the path of the 
avalanche. The sound of a blaster discharge is enough to set an avalanche 
in motion, so this hazard is likely to be triggered by combat. 


Blizzard CL3 

A severe snowstorm blinds you and makes it difficult for you to move. 

Atmospheric, natural 

Trigger A creature starts its turn in a blizzard 

Attack +5 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d4+1, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track 
(Miss: Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence Hourly 

Skills 
Endurance (DC 24): The character forces himself or herself to move 
through the storm, gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Fortitude 
Defense against the blizzard. 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 14): The character identifies the 
blizzard before it reaches him or her. 

Special 
A blizzard grants concealment to creatures, droids, and objects within it. 


Traveling through a blizzard without outside aid can easily cause a group of 
heroes to stray off course and become lost. With the large amount of snow 
falling during such a storm, even sensors and radios become less effective. 
If the heroes are trying to find their way back to a ship ora base, they might 
suffer the frustration of knowing that they are close but are still unable to 
penetrate the storm. 


Al esiagvHo 


a 
> 
N 
> 
0 
9 
o 


Al HsilavHo 


SEHVZ77) 


A blizzard is a good way to sneak in surprises for a party of heroes trek- 
king across frozen plains. For example, a well-hidden wampa or a squad of 
enemies might lurk just behind some large snowdrifts, or another hazard 
such as a frozen lake (below) can increase the danger. 


Freezing Rain CL 4 

You are pelted by tiny pieces of ice and drenched by rain that chills you to 
the bone. 

Atmospheric, natural 

Trigger A creature begins its turn within a storm of freezing rain; an 
object within the hazard is subject to a special effect 

Attack +6 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d6, and the target moves -1 persistent step on the condition 
track (Miss: Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence Every 10 minutes 

Skills 
Endurance (DC 26): The character forces himself or herself to move 
through the storm, gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Fortitude 
Defense against the freezing rain. 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 16): The character identifies the 
freezing rain before it reaches him or her. 


Special 
A creature that gains a persistent condition resulting from this hazard 
cannot move up the condition track until it spends at least 1 hour 
resting in a normal environment. 

Any object exposed to this hazard for at least 1 hour becomes 
difficult to use because of ice build-up; until the ice is removed, attack 
rolls and skill checks that involve the use of the affected object take a 
-2 penalty. 

Not only does freezing rain affect unprotected creatures caught in the middle 
of the storm, but the precipitation coats objects, including buildings and 
vehicles, with ice that makes their use more difficult. Due to the inconve- 
nience this hazard causes, freezing rain makes a good cover through which 
enemies can approach a group of heroes or an unsuspecting installation. 


Frozen Lake CL6 

The opposite shore of the frozen lake appears quite distant, but the hard 
surface looks safe enough. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature begins its turn on the frozen lake; attacks all targets in 
a 4x4-square area centered on the triggering creature 

Attack +8 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d12 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence On trigger and on each subsequent round at the start of the 
target's turn, until the target is rescued 


A BLIZZARD ON HOTH 


Skills 
Jump (DC 27): The character attempts to leap across the weakened 
area of the ice, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to 
avoid the hazard. 
Perception (DC 22): The character locates a weakness in the frozen 
surface and surmise that too much weight could cause it to break. 
Special 
A creature that falls through the ice and is subsequently rescued 
cannot regain hit points until it spends at least 1 hour resting in a 
normal environment. 


On a frigid world such as Csilla or Hoth, the chances of a character break- 
ing through a thick layer of ice while walking across the frozen surface of 
a lake seem slim. This hazard, however, represents a series of underwater 
geysers that have been heated by the planet's core and shoot boiling water 
up toward the surface. As a result, the ice covering the lake has become 
thin and weakened in areas. Since the superheated water rises in random 
locations, any part of the lake's surface might be affected. At any time, a 
creature moving across the surface might step onto a thin patch of ice and 
fall through. 


Icy Cliffs cL 9 

A jagged wall of ice and rock looms over you. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature or a droid begins its turn on the icy cliffs 

Attack +11 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 1d6 for every 3 meters a target falls 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target remains on the icy cliffs 


Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 18): The character uses tumbling skills to slow his or 
her descent, reducing the distance he or she falls by 3 meters. 
Climb (DC 32): The character ascends the icy cliffs more effectively, 
gaining a +5 bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Knowledge (tactics) (DC 23): The character plots a course up the 
cliffs that minimizes the effects of the hazard, granting everyone 
in the party a +1 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the 
hazard. 


Special 
Any creature or droid that is successfully attacked by the hazard loses 
its grip on the cliffs and falls. 


Although the heights of different cliffs can vary, an icy cliff must be at least 
10 meters tall to qualify as a hazard of this type. 


Icy Ground CL2 

The slick surface of the ice makes any movement a gamble. 

Artificial or natural 

Trigger A creature, a droid, or a wheeled vehicle crosses the icy ground 

Attack +4 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d10 

Recurrence On trigger 

Skills 
Jump (DC 19): The character leaps over the ice, gaining a +5 
circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to avoid the hazard. 
Pilot (DC 14): When operating a wheeled vehicle, the character 
maintains control of the vehicle even if the hazard's attack is 
successful. 
Stealth (DC 24): Using the same technique used for moving silently, 
the character can move at half speed and is not affected by the 
hazard's attack. 

Special 
Immediately after the hazard's successful attack, the target is knocked 
prone, ending its move action. The target must spend a move action 
to stand up. As the target attempts to regain its footing, the hazard 
makes an attack of opportunity against the target with a -5 penalty. 
If the attack is successful, the target slips on the ice and falls prone 
again, but it takes no extra damage. 


Attacks made by this hazard can be avoided if the target is using equipment 
that grants better traction on icy surfaces. Spiked footwear, for example, 
provides a hero with the means to keep his or her balance on slippery surfaces 
and to avoid the hazard’s attack. Heroes riding in a vehicle that does not 
touch the ground are not affected by the hazard's attack. 


ARID/DESERT HAZARDS 

The sites of desert worlds such as Tatooine are familiar to us; the Star Wars 
movies depict Mos Eisley, Mos Espa, the Lars homestead, and other locales. 
Of course, those landmarks do not represent everything that can be found 
on arid planets. A variety of desert hazards pose a danger to heroes who 
must travel through regions of dry wilderness, including the extreme heat 
hazard presented earlier in this chapter. 


Dust Devil CL5 

A huge whirlwind of dust and sand threatens to engulf you. 

Area, natural 

Trigger A creature begins its turn within 3 squares of the dust devil 

Attack +7 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d10+1 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within 3 squares of the dust devil 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 26): The character reduces the effects of being 
thrown by the dust devil's special effect, taking half damage if the 
hazard hits the character and one-quarter damage if it misses. 
Perception (DC 16): The character spots the dust devil before it 
reaches him or her. 

Special 
If the hazard's attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense by 5 or 
more, at the end of the round, the target is sucked into the whirlwind 
and thrown 12 squares. Upon landing, the target takes an additional 
3d8 points of damage. 


A dust devil can draw in just about anything. Most creatures that hear 
its unmistakable whistling winds and notice its obvious presence will do 
everything in their power to avoid it. A dust devil is best used in situations 
when the heroes cannot flee, such as during a climactic battle at the end of 
a long journey. While the combat rages, the whirlwind can cut a path across 
the battlefield, attacking everything in its way. 


SQo8V2Z9H) Ey: walavHo ) 


Al eaidqvHo 


SEe8V2Z97) 


A KREVAAK!I JEDI USES THE FORCE TO PROTECT HIS ALLIES FROM A ROCK SLIDE. 


Loose Sand CL 1 

The sand beneath your feet shifts as you move, making progress difficult. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature or a droid begins its turn in loose sand 

Attack +3 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d8+1 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area occupied by the loose sand 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 18): The character tumbles through the sand to 
reach more stable ground, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex 
Defense against the hazard. 
Jump (DC 23): The character attempts to leap out of the loose sand, 
gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 13): The character notices that 
the sand appears loose. 

Special 
If the hazard's attack is successful, the target is restricted to one move 
action per round, but the target cannot leave its square because it is 
unable to find secure footing. If the hazard’'s attack fails, the target 
can leave its square. 


Technically, all sand in a desert is loose, but some areas are less tightly packed 
than others. Creatures unfortunate enough to stand in such an area have a 
hard time moving out of it. Placing loose sand atop a dune or in the middle 
of a dry riverbed could put the heroes in a position where they have little or 
no cover against enemies that find them. 


Rock Slide CL:9 

A large mass of rocks and boulders tumbles down the mountainside 
toward you. 

Artificial or natural 


Trigger A creature or a droid within the area of the hazard fires a weapon 
that makes noise; targets any creature, droid, or object in the area of 
the rock slide 

Attack +11 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d12+1 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area occupied by the rock slide 


Skills 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 23): The character determines from 
the surroundings that the area might be unstable. A minor seismic quake, 
a shot from a blaster bolt, or an explosive could cause a rock slide. 
Survival (DC 28): After observing the area, the character finds a few 
places where he or she could take cover during a rock slide, gaining a 
+5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 


Rock slides can be particularly dangerous to a group of heroes. Their enemies 
can start a rock slide intentionally and perhaps even direct its path by plac- 
ing artificial structures to funnel the rocks or by using the Force to move 
boulders onto a desired course. In addition, you can use a rock slide to steer 
heroes in a particular direction. 


Sandstone Pillars CL6 

Naturally carved stone pillars are the only way to cross the span of the 
canyon. They don't look very stable. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature or a droid begins its turn on a pillar 
Attack +8 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d12 

Recurrence Each time the target reaches a new pillar 


Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 27): The character works to keep his or her balance 
while moving from pillar to pillar, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to 
Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Jump (DC 27): As the character leaps to the next stone pillar, he 
or she aims for the center to avoid destabilizing it. By doing so, the 
character gains a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the 
hazard. 
Perception (DC 22): The character spots a possible weakness in the 
pillar ahead and avoids it, gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex 
Defense against the hazard. 

Special 
A line of 1d4+2 pillars creates a path to the other side of the ravine. 


To reach the other side of a canyon, the heroes must move across a series 
of tall sandstone pillars. The top surfaces of the pillars are mostly flat, but 
wind erosion has thinned the stone to the point that the towers are unstable. 
The heroes discover this when a pillar shifts slightly when a hero lands on it, 
which might cause the hero to lose his or her balance and fall to the canyon 
floor below. If enemies are in pursuit, the heroes might leap hastily from 
pillar to pillar in an attempt to cross the canyon quickly, putting their lives 
in even more peril. 


Sandstorm CL4 

The sand whips past you at blinding speed, eroding any exposed objects or 
flesh. 

Area, atmospheric, natural 


Trigger A creature, a droid, or an object begins its turn in a sandstorm 

Attack +6 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d10+1 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Hourly 

Skills 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 21): The character determines 
that the incoming cloud is a violent sandstorm, and all members of the 
group gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Fortitude Defense against the 
hazard. 
Perception (DC 16): The character detects the sandstorm before it 
reaches him or her. 


Special 
A sandstorm grants concealment to creatures and objects within it. Any 
target wearing a sealed protective suit is not affected by this hazard. 


Creatures caught in the middle of a sandstorm face a number of problems. 
Aside from the large volume of sand blowing across open surfaces and bare 
flesh at high speeds, the storm hinders vision. Enemies several meters away 
who could be seen clearly under normal conditions can barely be seen during 
a sandstorm, if at all. Asandstorm can be a challenging place for combat—or 
it can present a chance for creatures to make their escape from foes. 
Sarlace Pit CL, 12 
In this pit, a sarlacc waits to capture and ingest prey. 
Natural 
Trigger A creature begins its turn in a square occupied by the hazard 
Attack +14 vs. Reflex Defense 
Damage 4d6+2 
Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area occupied by the sarlacc pit 
Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 26): The character avoids the sarlacc's tentacles, but 
he or she still takes damage from the attack. 
Climb (DC 31): The character manages to climb 1 square closer to the 
edge of the pit. 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 21): The character identifies the 
sarlace pit before he or she reaches it, gaining a +5 circumstance 
bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard's attacks. 
Special 
If the hazard's attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense by 5 or 
more, the sarlace grabs the target and pulls it to the bottom of the pit 
at a rate of 2 squares per round. If the target reaches the bottom of 
the pit, it is ingested. 


Whether a creature is standing at the edge of the large pit or on a plank 
extended from a skiff floating over it, looking into a sarlacc pit is enough 
to incite fear. For most heroes, stumbling across a sarlacc is enough of an 
encounter in itself as they struggle to climb out of the pit and away from the 
hungry maw of the creature. They could also chase enemies into the pit (or 
be chased into it themselves), or they could find a victim that needs to be 
saved from being digested over a period of a thousand years. Alternatively, 
the heroes could be captured by their enemies (as in Return of the Jedi) and 
must escape being fed to the sarlacc. 


1 Al YStadavHgd 


db 
> 
N 
> 
a0 
Y) 
) 


SQ8yv27H) | Al usiavHgs 7 


FOREST/JUNGLE HAZARDS 

Regardless of the world, forests and jungles teem with many different kinds of 
life, from the smallest furry rodents to beasts as large as rancors. Hazardous 
elements force the residents of these ecosystems to struggle for survival. The 
hazards presented below represent only a sample of what might be found in 
the forests and jungles the heroes visit. 


Animal Trap CL 3 

This device is designed to entrap a wild creature. 

Artificial, contact 

Trigger A creature enters a square occupied by a trap 

Attack +5 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d4+1, and the target moves -1 persistent step on the condition 
track (Miss: Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence On trigger 

Skills 
Perception (DC 14): The character detects the trap before he or she 
reaches it, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to avoid 
the hazard. 
Mechanics (DC 24): The character successfully disarms the trap. 
Survival (DC 19): The character determines which type of creature the 
trap is designed to capture. For the next hour, the character gains a +1 
bonus to attempts to spot that creature. 

Special 
A creature that gains a persistent condition resulting from this hazard 
cannot move up the condition track until it spends at least 1 hour 
resting in a normal environment. 


Used throughout the galaxy, animal traps can also catch creatures for which 
they are not designed. Setting an animal trap in the middle of a clearing and 
baiting it with food might work to catch some carnivorous species, but most 
traps are hidden in tall grass or similar undergrowth. 


Carnivorous Plants CL 6 
A large plant uses its vinelike tentacles to consume living creatures. 
Natural 


Trigger A creature begins its turn within 3 squares of a carnivorous plant 

Attack +8 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d12 

Recurrence Each round at the end of the target's turn, while the target is 
within 3 squares of the plant 


Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 22): As a reaction, the character avoids being grabbed 
when attacked by the plant, but he or she stills take damage. 


Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 22): The character identifies the plant 
as carnivorous and knows that it will attack if he or she gets too close, 
gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Stealth (DC 27): When the character begins his or her turn within 3 
squares of the plant, the character avoids being detected by the plant 
for 1 round. 

Special 
If the plant's attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense by 5 
or more, the target is grabbed and pulled toward the plant at a rate 
of 1 square per round. If the target reaches the plant, the target is 
swallowed and can be freed only by destroying the plant (Reflex 
Defense 8, Fortitude Defense 14). 


Beings that erect permanent installations in forests or jungles often place 
carnivorous plants along commonly used paths as natural guardians and as a 
first line of defense against interlopers. Some beings might even bring them 
indoors for extra security. 


Flooded River CL 4 

The water in the river is high, and the current is strong enough to sweep you 
away. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature begins its turn in the river 

Attack +6 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d10+1 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, while the target 
is in the river 

Skills 
Survival (DC 21): The character locates the narrowest point at 
which to cross the river. The character and his or her allies gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Swim (DC 26): The character swims at its normal swim speed, gaining 
a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 

Special 
If the river's attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense by 5 or 
more, the target is swept up in the current, moves downstream at a 
rate of 6 squares per round, and is unable to control the direction of its 
movement. 


Combining a flooded river hazard with a waterfall hazard adds an extra level 
of risk for any creatures caught up in the flow, especially if they are involved 
in combat in the water and are not paying attention to where they are going. 


Low-Hanging Branches CL 2 

A number of branches covered in jagged razorvine hang down in your path, 
making it difficult to maneuver past them safely. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature enters a square in which the hazard is located 

Attack +4 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d10 

Recurrence On trigger 

Skills 
Perception (DC 14): The character detects the branches as he or she 
approaches, gaining a +5 bonus to Reflex Defense to avoid them. 

Special 
For targets riding on a creature or in a vehicle that does not provide 
total cover, the hazard's damage is 2d10x2. 


Running into branches while traveling through a forest or jungle is never 
pleasant, especially when moving at high velocity on a speeder bike or a 
riding beast. Although branches cause problems on their own—especially 
those covered with sharp vines—some beings find ways to use the limbs as 
makeshift weapons, pulling them back and releasing them as opponents run or 
ride past. Clever manipulators also use low-hanging branches to divert their 
foes toward another trap planted along a path that looks more appealing. 


Quicksand 

Adeep bog is covered with sand and other natural objects, making it 
virtually unnoticeable. 

Natural 


CL 8 


Trigger A creature begins its turn in a square occupied by the hazard 
Attack +10 vs. Reflex Defense 
Damage 2d8, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track 
Recurrence On trigger 
Skills 
Perception (DC 23): The character detects the quicksand before he or 
she reaches it, gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to 
avoid the hazard. This bonus stacks with the bonus he or she receives 
from a successful Survival check against the hazard. 
Survival (DC 23): The character determines the boundaries of the 
quicksand and gains a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to 
avoid the hazard. This bonus stacks with the bonus he or she receives 
from a successful Perception check against the hazard. 
Swim (DC 28): The character escapes from the quicksand at the end 
of the round. 


Special 
A creature caught in quicksand sinks into it over a period of 5 rounds. 
If the creature fully sinks into the quicksand, it can hold its breath for 
a number of rounds equal to its Constitution score before it must begin 
making Endurance checks to continue to hold its breath (see page 66 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 


The hidden danger of quicksand can be exploited by beings fighting in forests 
or jungles. Aside from its most obvious use as a trap, quicksand can also be an 
excellent hiding place—as long as those using it can get out in a reasonable 
amount of time. Quicksand can also serve as an obstacle preventing heroes 
from obtaining a specific item or artifact. If the desired item is cast into the 
quicksand, at least one of the heroes must risk his or her life to retrieve it. 


Thornbushes 
A large patch of sharp thornbushes blocks your path. 
Natural 


CL2 


Trigger A creature begins its turn in the thornbushes 

Attack +4 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2410 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, while the target 
is in the thornbushes 

Skills 
Jump (DC 19): The character jumps over the thornbushes, gaining a 
+5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to avoid the hazard. 
Perception (DC 14): The character locates a part of the bushes that is 
less densely packed with thorns, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to 
Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Stealth (DC 19): The character minimizes his or her contact with the 
thorns while moving through the bushes. As the character moves, his 
or her speed is reduced by half and the character takes half damage 
from a successful attack by the thorns (and no damage from a miss). 

Special 
This hazard can be avoided by cutting through the thornbushes with an 
edged tool, a melee weapon, or a lightsaber. 


An individual thornbush is not very threatening, but an entire field of thorn- 
bushes can give even the hardiest soldier pause. A large patch could be used 
in a variety of ways. For example, the middle of the thorns could be the 
home for a pack of wild beasts that attack any creatures that disturb them. 
Thornbushes could cover a minefield that has been seeded with explosives by 
the heroes' enemies. Thornbushes can also provide concealment for anyone 
hiding in the thicket. 


Al HSAtagvHo 


a 
> 
N 
> 
2 
9 
O 


Al SS4tagvHo 


SQ8GV2Z97F) 


INDOOR/URBAN HAZARDS 

Even in areas where sentient beings have conquered nature and built cities, 
heroes are not entirely safe from harm. These bastions of civilization, with 
all the facilities and services they offer, bring a whole new set of hazards 
that make urban settings as dangerous as any wild region. The sample haz- 
ards below can be used with any number of artificial structures. Some are 
meant to be encountered outdoors, whereas others are more appropriate 
inside buildings. 


Crowd CL2 

A multitude of beings assembled in one place threaten to block your way, 
sweep you along, or trample you. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature begins its turn in the crowd 

Attack +4 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d10 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is in the crowd 

Skills 
Knowledge (social sciences) (DC 24): The character predicts the 
direction in which various elements within the crowd will move, 
gaining a +5 bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Persuasion (DC 19): The character convinces the crowd to clear a path 
for the character and his or her allies, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus 
to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 


Special 
The general attitude of the crowd can help or hinder the efforts 
of creatures trying to move through it. Table 4-3 determines the 
modifiers (if any) that creatures receive on attempts to make their way 
through a crowd. 


TABLE 4-3: CROWD ATTITUDE 
STEPS ge tab erates See ee 


ATTITUDE EFFECT ON CROWD 

Hostile +5 bonus to attack roll and +1d10 points of damage 
Unfriendly +2 bonus to attack roll 

Indifferent No effect 

Friendly -2 penalty to attack roll 

Helpful -5 penalty to attack roll and -1d10 points of damage 


Although a crowd is made up of a large number of individuals, it acts as a 
single organism when presented with certain stimuli. The crowd can react to 
the presence of creatures interfering with its business in a variety of ways, 
depending on its feelings toward the intruders and what they represent. 
Beyond that, creatures can blend into the crowd to hide from their enemies. 
They can also manipulate a crowd into serving as a secondary defense—for 
example, creatures can try to set the crowd against their pursuers, especially 
if the crowd favors the ones being chased or becomes convinced that the 
pursuers oppose something the crowd supports. 


Electrified Fence CLS 

The metal fence before you crackles with energy. 

Artificial, contact, energy 

Trigger A creature or a droid touches the fence 

Attack +7 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d6, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track 
(Miss: Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is in contact with the fence 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 21): The character tumbles away from the fence, 
gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to avoid the 
hazard. 
Jump (DC 26): The character leaps over the fence without taking 
damage. 


This hazard can be as simple as an electrified chain-link fence, or it can take 
forms such as a powered metal wall, a series of lethal laser beams spanning 
the gap between relay posts, or a force field that seals off a particular area 
up to a certain height. Combatants can use the hazard to keep their oppo- 
nents at bay while firing at them from relative safety. The hazard can also 
keep creatures confined to a specific area and prevent them from fleeing. 


Exposed Plasma Conduit CL9 

A channel for moving superheated plasma has been ruptured, spilling its 
contents into the open. 

Artificial or natural, contact, fire 


Trigger An attack misses a target in a square adjacent to the exposed 
conduit, setting it off 

Attack +11 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d8, and the traget moves -1 step on the condition track (Miss: 
Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is in the area of the plasma spill 


Skills 
Jump (DC 23): The character leaps over or away from the spilled 
plasma, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the 
hazard. 
Treat Injury (DC 18; requires a medpac): The character treats an 
injured creature for plasma burns. 
Use Computer (DC 28): The character slices into the contro! network 
and diverts the plasma flow away from the area, negating the hazard. 


Plasma conduits are most commonly encountered within manufacturing 
facilities or power plants, but they can appear anywhere that plasma is used. 
Since the means of transporting this superheated material must be very 
strong to prevent its accidental release, ruptures are rare. Most of the time, 
combatants who seek to use this hazard to their advantage will create it by 
shooting the conduit themselves. Then they use the unexpected danger as 
a diversion to keep their enemies occupied while they flee, or they let the 
plasma create a means of escape by burning through the floor. 


Malfunctioning Blast Door CL4 

A blast door opens and closes on its own at lightning speed and at random 
intervals. 

Artificial 

Trigger A creature or a droid attempts to move through the blast door 
while it is open 

Attack +6 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d6, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track 

Recurrence Special 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 26): The character dives through the opening, gaining 
a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Mechanics (DC 21): The character fixes the blast door so that it no 
longer operates erratically. 
Use Computer (DC 21): The character bypasses the controls for the 
blast door and forces it to remain open. 

Special 
Each round, the blast door opens on a random initiative count and 
closes on another random initiative count; the Gamemaster makes 
each initiative check for the door. 


A malfunctioning blast door that does not stay open or closed upon request 
can be used in a number of ways beyond simply endangering the heroes. The 
door can provide cover for those on one side or the other, allowing weapons 
fire to pass through only during the times in each round that the door is 
open. In addition, combatants can use the blast door to slow foes down 
while they try to get away. 


THE PRODUCTION ASSEMBLY LINE OF GEONOSIS 


Production Assembly Line CL 12 

A massive network of machines is in full production; moving through the 
room would be extremely dangerous. 

Artificial 

Trigger A creature or a droid begins its turn within the area of the 
assembly line 

Attack +14 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 4d6+2 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area of the assembly line 


Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 26): The character twists and rolls between the 
mechanisms, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense 
against the hazard. 
Mechanics (DC 31): The character sabotages the equipment as he or 
she moves through it, imposing a -5 penalty to the hazard's attacks. 
Use Computer (DC 31): Slicing into the controls, the character shuts 
down the assembly line. 

Special 
If the hazard's attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense by 5 
or more, the target becomes pinned on the assembly line. The hazard 
gains a +5 bonus to attack rolls against the target until the target 
escapes being pinned. 


Creatures trying to move through a production assembly line face a number 
of problems. The line itself, where products are assembled, usually has enough 
space for creatures to maneuver and possibly fight against opponents. The 
mechanisms that run the line provide creatures with cover or concealment 
during a firefight. In addition, the items being assembled might be weapons, 
tools, or other objects that combatants can use during battle. 


Al SSstgavHgd 


SOo8V2Z97F) 


Al HS4AtadwHg 


SQ8VZV7F) 


Speeder Traffic CL 8 

Dozens of speeders zip by as you attempt to cross to the other side of the 
thoroughfare. 

Artificial 

Trigger A creature or a droid begins its turn in speeder traffic 

Attack +10 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 4d6 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is in speeder traffic 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 23): The character weaves and tumbles through the 
traffic, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the 
hazard. 
Jump (DC 23): The character jumps out of the way of an oncoming 
speeder or makes an effort to leap from one speeder to another, 
gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Perception (DC 18): The character watches carefully for oncoming 
speeders, gaining a +1 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against 
the hazard's attacks. 


The last thing that speeder pilots want to see in their path is a bunch of crea- 
tures in the middle of a fight. Nevertheless, combatants who find themselves 
in speeder lanes can use the vehicles in a variety of ways. If combatants 
put the speeders between themselves and their opponents, the vehicles can 
provide cover or prevent their foes from reaching them. If the combatants 
join the traffic to continue their battle between or atop the vehicles, they 
can use the speeders as island platforms from which to launch their assaults. 


SPACE HAZARDS 

Star Wars would not be the same without the events that take place in 
space, such as the Battle of Yavin or the chase through the asteroid field 
in The Empire Strikes Back. Even though most of space is void of substance, 
areas exist that can be hazardous to vessels and their occupants. For most 
of the space hazards described below, the damage dealt has a x2 multiplier 
for starfighters and space transports. For capital ships, change the damage 
multiplier to x5. 


Asteroid Field CL 10 

“The possibility of successfully navigating an asteroid field is approximately 
3,720 to 1." — C-3PO 

Atmospheric, natural 

Trigger A vehicle begins its turn in an asteroid field 

Attack +12 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 4d6x2 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the vehicle's turn, as long as the 
vehicle is within the area occupied by the asteroid field 


Skills 
Perception (DC 19): The character notices asteroids heading toward 
the vehicle. 
Pilot (DC 28): The character tries to avoid hitting any asteroids for 1 
round, gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to the vehicle's Reflex Defense 
to avoid the incoming rocks. 


An asteroid field holds a lot of potential for space encounters. If creatures 
are willing to risk the asteroids and find a large enough rock, they could 
hide within the field and wait to ambush unsuspecting foes. The asteroid 
field could also be used as a line of defense for a group that sets up a base 
of operations inside one of the larger asteroids. Alternatively, the heroes 
could pick up a distress call from a vessel trapped within the field and try 
to help it escape. Of course, an asteroid field makes a good backdrop for a 
high-speed chase scene as well. 


Black Hole CL 20 

The gravity well of this collapsed star is so strong that not even light can 
escape. 

Natural 


Trigger A vehicle begins its turn in the gravity well of the black hole 

Attack +22 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 4d8x2, and the vehicle moves -1 step on the condition track 
(Miss: Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the vehicle's turn, as long as the 
vehicle is within the area occupied by the black hole 

Skills 
Mechanics (DC 36): The character works diligently to keep the ship 
from breaking apart, granting the vessel a +2 equipment bonus to 
Fortitude Defense against the black hole. 
Pilot (DC 36): The character fights the severe pull of gravity and flies 
the vehicle toward safety, moving 1 square away from the center of 
the hazard. 
Use Computer (DC 31): The character detects the black hole on the 
vehicle's sensors, granting a +2 circumstance bonus to the crew's 
Mechanics checks and Pilot checks when dealing with the hazard. 


Special 
The event horizon for the black hole covers an area with a 10-square 
radius (starship scale) centered on the black hole’s central square. 
Within the event horizon, missiles and torpedoes are ineffective, and 
attacks with laser weapons take a -20 penalty. 


Black holes are among the most dangerous cosmic objects known to exist; 
even the Star Destroyers of the Galactic Empire steer clear of them. What 
could bring a group of heroes to such a place? Perhaps they must attempt 
to rescue the crew of a research station being held hostage by pirates, or 
raid a secret military installation positioned in a barely stable orbit. Combat 
just on the edge of the event horizon might be possible, but any ship that 
falls into the gravity well of the black hole must escape or fall victim to the 
hazard's crushing power. 


Depressurization CL? 

The air in your compartment rushes into the vacuum of space. 

Artificial, atmospheric 

Trigger An opening is created between outer space and a compartment 
containing creatures; targets any creature within the area of 
depressurization 

Attack +9 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d6+1, and the creature moves -1 step on the condition track 
(Miss: Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area of depressurization 

Skills 
Endurance (DC 22): The character manages to control his or her 
breathing despite the decreasing amount of air in the area, gaining a 
+2 circumstance bonus to Fortitude Defense against the hazard. 

Special 
After 1d6+4 rounds, the air is completely vented, changing the hazard 
to atmosphere, vacuum, 


Intentionlly depressurizing a room is a last-ditch strategy, since it often 
results in death for anyone in the chamber at the time. But desperate 
combatants can try to use the hazard to their advantage during battle. For 
example, they can force their enemies into space, or they can escape from 
the depressurizing room through an airlock into a normal area and seal the 
hatch behind them. 


Micrometeor Shower CL5 

This dense area of debris is so thick with micrometeors that your deflector 
shields cannot repel them all. 

Artificial or natural, atmospheric 


Trigger A vehicle begins its turn within a micrometeor shower 

Attack +7 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d10+1 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the vehicle's turn, as long as the 
vehicle is within the area occupied by the micrometeor shower 


Skills 
Use Computer (DC 16): The character configures the shields to 
“double front," granting the vehicle a +5 equipment bonus to Fortitude 
Defense against the hazard. 


Micrometeor showers are fields of miniature asteroids or bits of debris 
resulting from damage to other vehicles. Often, micrometeor showers are 
not detected until it is too late to avoid them. Creatures on the run can fly 
into a shower to deter their foes from continuing pursuit, especially if the 
pursuers have few or no shields. Creatures with something to hide or protect 
can position their stronghold where the hazard can benefit them the most. 


Nebula CL 2 

This stellar gas cloud will someday coalesce and become a star, but for now, 
it threatens to interfere with your ship's systems. 

Atmospheric, natural 


Trigger A vehicle begins its turn in a nebula 

Attack +4 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d6x2, and the vehicle moves -1 step on the condition track 

Recurrence Hourly 

Skills 
Mechanics (DC 24): For 1 hour, the character staves off the effects 
of nebula dust and gases (described below). The character can attempt 
another check each hour for as long as the vehicle remains within the 
nebula. 

Special 
The dust and gases from a nebula might affect a vehicle's systems. 
If the hazard's attack roll exceeds the vehicle's Fortitude Defense by 
5 or more, one of the vehicle's systems (of the Gamemaster's choice) 
becomes unavailable and cannot be repaired until the vehicle leaves 
the nebula. 


The brilliant and colorful dust and gases that make up a nebula might reduce 
visibility and damage ships’ systems, but they are not extremely dangerous. 
Thus, many creatures seeking to escape from their enemies consider a nebula 
an excellent place to hide. If combat breaks out within a nebula, each side 
can use the cloud to its advantage, trying to attack the other from a posi- 
tion of concealment. 


Al BSstdvHo 


db 
> 
N 
> 
20 
) 
) 


Al SS34tevyHo 


S@E@8VvZ2V7F) 


Solar Wind CL7 

A large emission of charged particles from a nearby star, probably the result 
of a solar flare, poses a risk of radiation. 

Atmospheric, energy, natural 

Trigger A vehicle begins its turn exposed to a solar wind 

Attack +9 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 3d8x2 ion (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the vehicle's turn, as long as the 
vehicle is exposed to the solar wind 

Skills 
Perception (DC 17): The character detects the solar flare and predicts 
the imminent solar wind. 
Use Computer (DC 22): The character configures the vehicle's shields 
to better protect it from the hazard, granting a +5 equipment bonus to 
the vehicle's Fortitude Defense against the solar wind. 

Special 
Each creature inside the vehicle takes half damage from radiation if 
the hazard's attack is successful and takes no damage on a miss. 


A star releases its solar wind as a mostly steady flow of ions that can cause 
damage to a vehicle's systems, much like an ion cannon. Anyone who detects 
the eruption of a solar flare during combat can use the incident, if they act 
quickly enough, to lure opponents into the solar wind and hope that the ion 
burst is enough to knock out the enemy ship's systems for a while. In addi- 
tion, a solar wind can give away the presence of a cloaked vessel when the 
ions cascade against the cloaking field and reveal the ship. 


Space Minefield CL 15 

Space mines litter the area around your ship. 

Artificial, energy 

Trigger A vehicle begins its turn within a space minefield 

Attack +17 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 3d10x2 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the vehicle's turn, as long as the 
vehicle is within the area occupied by the minefield 

Skills 
Pilot (DC 32): The character dodges the mines as he or she passes 
through the field, granting the ship a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex 
Defense against the hazard for the round. 

Special 
One square of space can contain up to 1d6+3 space mines, but only 
one attack occurs per ship per square. 


Many pilots consider negotiating a space minefield to be attempting suicide, 
but entering such a dangerous area can pay off. After all, somebody took the 
time to plant dozens of mines, perhaps to protect something valuable in the 
area. Any vehicles seeking to cross the minefield can blast one mine at a time 
to open a path or can fly through and trust their pilots’ skills. Combatants in 
a minefield can use a tractor beam to pull mines out of the way or to propel 
them at an enemy ship. 


SUBTERRANEAN HAZARDS 

Of all the different environments one can visit in the Star Wars setting, 
perhaps none hold as much mystery and wonder as subterranean locations. 
The closest we come to seeing a society that lives underground is the one 
found on Utapau in Revenge of the Sith. Although we catch only a glimpse 
of their civilization, we know that much more exists beneath the surface of 
that world, including many dangers that come with a massive network of 
caves and tunnels. The hazards described below can also be used on other 
planets, such as Ryloth or Sullust. 


Cave-In CL8 

The cave quakes violently, causing heavy stones to crash down to the dusty 
floor. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature, a droid, or a vehicle within the cavern fires a weapon 


that makes noise; targets any creature, droid, or object in the area of 
the cave-in 

Attack +10 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 4d6 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target remains within the area of the cave-in 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 28): The character tumbles away from the debris, 
gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Perception (DC 23): The character realizes that the rock ceiling might 
be weak enough to collapse if a loud sound occurs within the cavern. 


In tight underground quarters, a cave-in can be especially dangerous. The 
hazard might be triggered during a subterranean battle, or it could occur at an 
appropriate moment ina story arc. For example, the ceiling might come down 
as the heroes are about to reach their final destination, delaying their progress. 


Lava Flow CL15 

The dark orange glow and blistering heat of the lava are warnings that you 
should stay away. 

Fire, natural 


Trigger A creature, a droid, or an object begins its turn adjacent to a lava 
flow 

Attack +17 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d6, and the target moves -2 steps on the condition track 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is adjacent to the lava flow 


Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 27): The character tumbles away from the lava, 


gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 


Jump (DC 27): The character jumps over or away from the lava, 


gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 


Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 22): The character can predict 
how the lava flow will move; the character and his or her allies gain a 
+1 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 


Special 
Any creature, droid, or object touched by the lava catches fire and 
takes an additional 1d6 points of fire damage each round until the fire 
is extinguished. 


Virtually every planet in the galaxy has magma at its core, and lava can 
appear just about anywhere, including underground. A lava flow makes a 
good barrier. Placing a subterranean stronghold on an island surrounded by a 
lava moat challenges the heroes to find a different entrance. A bridge above 
a lava flow makes an exciting location for a battle as the heroes struggle to 
stay out of the searing magma while trying to defeat their enemies. 


A LAVA FLOW ON MUSTAFAR 


Al BStovHo 


ao 
> 
N 
> 
2) 
0) 
C) 


Al HSsiavHs 


Pit/Sinkhole CL 4 

In your path is a large, gaping hole in the ground. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature, a droid, or an object ends its movement in a square 
occupied by a pit or sinkhole 

Attack +6 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage Special 

Recurrence None 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 26): The character twists to grab the edge of the hole, 
gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to avoid falling in. 
Climb (DC 26): As the character falls into the hole, he or she grabs the 
wall and slows his or her descent, reducing the amount of damage the 
character takes by half. 
Jump (DC 21): By jumping across the opening of the hole, the 
character gains a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to avoid 
falling in. 


Special 
If the hazard's attack against the target is successful, the target falls 
into the hole and takes falling damage when it hits the bottom. 


The pit or sinkhole is a common hazard. The difference between a pit and a 
sinkhole is that a pit has no additional exit, whereas a sinkhole leads to an 
underground passage. Despite its apparent simplicity, a hole hazard can be 
used in many ways: a covered pit that spans a path, a deep sinkhole, a pit 
with spikes or other sharp objects lining the bottom, a pit with a predator at 
the bottom, and so on. Combatants separated by a hole can fight from dif- 
ferent sides, or one group could attempt to force the other toward the edge. 


Rising Water CL.3 

The water level in the cavern is rising fast. You need to find a way out. 

Natural 

Trigger A torrent of water begins pouring into the cavern; targets any 
creature in the area of the rising water 

Attack +5 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage The target moves -1 step on the condition track 


Recurrence Every minute, once the water level is at least 1 square deep 


Skills 
Endurance (DC 19): The character resists the urge to breathe when 
submerged and gains a +2 circumstance bonus to Fortitude Defense 
against the hazard. 
Perception (DC 24): The character spots an opening through which air 
is escaping, which indicates a way out of the cavern. 
Swim (DC 14): The character moves through the water, gaining a +1 
circumstance bonus to Fortitude Defense against the hazard. 


Special 
The water level rises at a rate of 1 square per minute (10 rounds) until 
the cavern is filled with water. Creatures within the filled cavern must 
hold their breath or begin drowning. 


This hazard makes for a good test of wits, especially if the heroes are 
trapped in a cave (whether by accident or by their opponents’ design) with 
no apparent way out. Although the situation seems to grow more dire as the 
water rises, clever heroes will realize that the air must be going somewhere. 
This hazard can also be used to endanger other creatures that need to be 
rescued by the heroes. In addition, setting a battle in a cavern that is filling 
rapidly with water adds both a sense of urgency and a cinematic element 
to the combat. 


Rocky Ground CL 2 

Small stones and rubble litter the floor, making it difficult to keep your 
balance and to move quickly. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature or a droid begins its turn on rocky ground 

Attack +4 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage Special 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area occupied by the rocky ground 

Skills 
Jump (DC 14): The character leaps over the rubble, gaining a +5 
circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to avoid the hazard. 
Stealth (DC 19): Using the same technique used for moving silently, 
the character slows his or her movement to half speed to avoid taking 
damage. 

Special 
If the hazard's attack against the target succeeds, the target falls 
prone. If the hazard’s attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense by 
5 or more, the target falls prone and also moves backward 1 square. 


Rocky ground is common in caves and probably will be present in any 
subterranean encounter. To increase the peril of this hazard and add more 
excitement, use rocky ground near cliffs, pits, and other features that create 
the possibility of a dangerous fall. An epic lightsaber duel on rocky ground 
atop a cliff overlooking a lava flow might be a memorable battle. Likewise, 
rocky ground can add an extra element of danger to combat that takes place 
around a sinkhole. 


Underground Rapids CL7 

A torrent of water rushes through a narrow cavern. A series of wet rocks is 
your only path across the rapids. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature begins its turn in the path of an underground river 

Attack +9 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d6+1, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area occupied by the rapids 


Flash Moss €L3 

A seemingly harmless plant flashes a bright light when it is touched. 

Area, contact, energy, natural 

Trigger A creature, a droid, or a vehicle touches the moss with enough 
pressure to set off its defenses, usually by stepping on the moss or by 
hitting it with weapons fire; targets all creatures in a 6x6-square area 

Attack +5 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage Special 

Recurrence Every 1d6 hours 


Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 27): The character tumbles across the rocks to avoid 
the water, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against 
the rapids. 
Jump (DC 27): The character leaps from rock to rock to avoid the 
water, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the 
hazard. 
Perception (DC 22): The character determines which rocks are least 
affected by the rushing water and offer the most stable footing, 
gaining a +5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 


Water can flow underground just as forcefully as it does on the surface, 
carving its own path through rock and soil alike. As creatures travel through 
subterranean tunnels, they might find or follow an underground waterway, 
perhaps as a means of reaching a particular destination or as a way of avoid- 
ing enemies in pursuit. As happens in rivers on the surface, a series of rocks 
resisting the flow could serve as either an obstacle to the heroes’ progress 
or as a footbridge allowing them to cross the rapids. In either case, dealing 
with the rapids is a risky venture, since heroes who fall into the water can 
be slammed into the rocks. 


SWAMP HAZARDS 

All types of creatures reside in swamps, from the smallest insects to the 
largest predators stalking the murky wetlands. On marsh worlds such as 
Dagobah, the ecosystem is so diverse that it is impossible to catalog every 
species of flora and fauna. Each day, plants and creatures struggle against 
the many dangers that the marshes hold. The hazards presented below are 
only a small sampling of what might be found in a swamp. 


Skills 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 19): The character identifies the 
nature of the moss, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense 
against the hazard. 
Perception (DC 14): The character spots the moss as he or she draws 
closer to it, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against 
the hazard. 

Special 
A creature that is successfully attacked by flash moss is blinded for 
1d6 rounds by a brilliant flash of light (see page 254 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook for more information on blindness). 


Flash moss is a plant most often found in deep swamps, where light barely 
breaks through the canopy to reach the ground. Creatures can exploit the 
plant's natural defense mechanism—a bright flash of light in the face of a 
threat—in a number of ways. If a creature is properly prepared, the flash of 
light can be used to illuminate the surroundings. Crafty creatures can use the 
moss to blind their opponents. The moss can be paired with another hazard, 
such as a pit or strangle vines, to blind a creature and make the creature 
more likely to fall victim to the second hazard. 


THE HAZARDOUS SWAMPS OF DAGOBAH 


AI SBSiavHo 


Se8Vvz27) 


Al HailavHo 


SEBV2Z97F) 


Insect Swarm CL 3 
A dark cloud rapidly approaches, along with a low buzzing sound that 
gradually increases in volume. 
Atmospheric, natural 
Trigger A creature begins its turn in a square occupied by a swarm 
Attack +5 vs. Reflex Defense 
Damage 2d10 (Miss: Half damage) 
Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area occupied by the swarm 
Skills 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 14): The character identifies the insect 
swarm. 
Survival (DC 19): The character realizes that entering a body of water 
or a sealed environment is the best way to avoid the swarm. 
Tiny insects are common in swamps. On their own, they are merely a nuisance, 
but in large groups they become more dangerous. Insect swarms can be a 
diversion, good for distracting pursuers while giving the pursued time to 
regroup. Swarms can also ruin the aim of combatants, drawing their attention 
away from intended targets as they brush the bugs aside. 


Leeches CL 2 
Tiny parasites attach to your skin and suck your fluids for nourishment. 
Natural 
Trigger A creature begins its turn in an area occupied by leeches 
Attack +4 vs. Reflex Defense 
Damage The target moves -1 persistent step on the condition track 
Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, until removed 
Skills 

Treat Injury (DC 19): The character safely removes the leeches. 
Special 

Leeches ignore the effects of a creature's armor, unless the armor is 

natural or airtight. 


At some point, creatures traveling through a swamp must trudge through 
water. When they do, they might encounter leeches. Leeches have a way of 
slipping past the best defenses and latching onto the skin under a creature's 
armor or clothing. Not only do these parasites cause damage to the creatures 
they attack, they can cause a group to be hesitant to enter other bodies of 
water, giving opponents a chance to strike. 


Spiner Plant CL8 
A rare and beautiful flowering plant has a deadly secret. 
Contact, natural, poison 


Trigger A creature touches the plant 

Attack +10 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d8, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track (Miss: 
Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence On trigger 


Skills 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 18): The character identifies the spiner 
plant. 
Perception (DC 23): The character spots the spiner plant before it 
attacks, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against 
the hazard. 
Stealth (DC 28): The character harvests the plant without setting off 
its defense mechanism, gaining a +5 bonus to Reflex Defense against 
the hazard. 

Special 
The thorns of the plant deliver a toxin (see below). 


Spiner Plant Toxin CL8 

The toxin of the spiner plant can dull the senses and impede the natural 
processes of a living creature. 

Contact, natural, poison 

Trigger A creature is hit by the attack of a spiner plant hazard 

Attack +10 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d8, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track and 
gains a persistent condition (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence None 

Skills 
Treat Injury (DC 23, requires a medical kit): The persistent condition 
caused by the toxin is removed. 


The spiner plant, which grows only in moist, humid climates such as swamps, 
has a toxin that can be processed to create a serum that treats a wide variety 
of diseases and poisons. However, harvesting the toxin safely is a difficult 
task, because the plant shoots deadly thorns at creatures that brush against 
it. But an entire adventure could revolve around procuring a spiner plant to 
help in treating a deadly disease. 


Strangle Vines CL6 

A mass of vines hangs down from the trees, creating a curtain of vegetation 
that can choke an unwary creature. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature begins its turn within an area occupied by the vines 

Attack +8 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d6+1, and the target moves -1 step on the condition track 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area occupied by the vines 


Skills 
Endurance (DC 27): If the character is being choked by the strangle 
vines, for 1 round he or she takes only half damage and does not move 
on the condition track. 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 22): The character identifies the 
strangle vines. As a result, the character and his or her allies gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the vines. 

Special 
If the hazard's attack roll exceeds the target's Reflex Defense by 5 or 
more, the vines wrap around the target's neck and begin choking the 
victim. 


Strangle vines wrap themselves around an unsuspecting victim and often 
choke the creature to death. Galactic scholars of botany and life sciences 
cannot agree about why the vines behave in this manner. Strangle vines 
inadvertently guard valuable items left behind by their victims, waiting to 
entrap any creatures that come along later to retrieve the objects. 


Sucking Mud CL 1 

The patch of ground ahead looks different from the turf you have seen 
before now, and the small skeletons visible in the dirt unsettle you. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature or a droid begins its turn in the sucking mud 

Attack +3 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage Special 

Recurrence Each round at the start of the target's turn, as long as the 
target is within the area occupied by the sucking mud 

Skills 
Jump (DC 13): The character leaps over the patch of mud, gaining a 
+5 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against the hazard. 
Perception (DC 13): The character spots the sucking mud, gaining a 
+2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense to avoid the hazard. 
Survival (DC 18): The character knows a technique to escape from the 
mud more easily, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to a Strength check 
to free himself or herself from the mud. 


Special 
If the hazard successfully attacks a creature, the target becomes stuck 
in the mud and cannot move from its current square until it succeeds 
ona DC 15 Strength check to free itself. 


Soil can be composed of many different substances, and some dirt thickens 
when it turns to mud. These patches of sucking mud grab and hold any crea- 
ture that tries to move through them. Combatants who know the location 
of a patch of sucking mud can use it to lure their enemies into a trap. Melee 
combat between two opponents stuck in sucking mud becomes interesting, 
especially if both are trapped some distance from one another. 


Swamp Gas CL 4 

A near-transparent cloud of gas is exuded by decomposing matter ina 
swamp. 

Area, atmospheric, fire, natural 

Trigger A spark or fire-starting energy source, such as a blaster bolt, 
comes into contact with swamp gas; targets all creatures, droids, and 
objects in a 2x2-square area 

Attack +6 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d10+1 fire damage (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence On trigger 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 21): The character rolls away from the swamp gas as 
it ignites, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to Reflex Defense against 
the hazard. 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 16): The character recognizes the 
presence of swamp gas. 


Virtually undetectable to the naked eye, swamp gas can be troublesome when 
it drifts into an occupied area, especially around creatures that are capable 
of making a fire. Combatants who detect the presence of the gas during 
combat often try to use it to their advantage, such as by firing a blaster bolt 
through the gas when it is near an opponent or setting off a grenade near 
the gas to boost the destructive power of the explosion. Clever creatures 
might capture swamp gas in a breakable container and use it as a grenade. 


A| HSLavwHo 


SOQ8V2Z27) 


Sah 


| Hidden from the rest of the galaxy, the Unknown Regions hold many spe- 
_ cies capable of interstellar travel. Their initial contact with civilizations of 


known space is often difficult and violent. Even after a group emerges from 


the darkness of the unknown and meets others, it takes years to establish a 


mutual understanding of cultures, protocols, and spheres of influence. Formal 


relations usually develop slowly, although ad-hoc, emergency, or informal 
agreements can serve both sides in the short term. 


This chapter describes some of the most prominent threats of the 
Unknown Regions and the era in which they were revealed to the galaxy. 
However, explorers from known-space might encounter them decades or 
millennia earlier. Gamemasters should feel free to adapt the threats to meet 
the needs of games set in previous eras. 

Each entry in this chapter includes the following: 

e A basic description of the civilization, group, or threat 

e The threat's central motivations, methods, and history 

© Suggestions for using the threat as enemies or possible allies 

e A sidebar with the traits of any new species introduced 

e An antagonist (a character, a vehicle, or a starship) with a stat 
block suitable for immediate inclusion in an adventure 


All threats are suitable for use in stand-alone encounters or in extensive cam- 
paigns. They can provide enemies or much-needed resources and services to 
heroes operating far from their home base. For campaigns set in and around 
the time of the Swarm War and Legacy of the Force novel series, the Chiss 
Ascendancy and Killiks provide direct links to the established continuity of 
the early Legacy era. The Chiss are a good example of a sophisticated and 
powerful species that emerged from the Unknown Regions and influenced 
the galaxy at large. 

The first time a threat is introduced, the GM should impress upon the 
heroes an initial sense of mystery. Yes, the threat could be dangerous, but 
violence might not be the appropriate action. Over the course of the encoun- 
ter, adventure, or campaign, the heroes should learn more about their new 
adversary or ally. Unsuspected natural abilities or cultural limitations might 
surprise the heroes. The experience might also be the first time the threat 
has encountered beings from known space. Members of the newly found 
civilization might never have seen a Human, a Wookiee, or a Verpine before. 

Both sides should have chances for friendship, conflict, or misunderstand- 
ing. Treat these encounters as prime chances for roleplaying and conflict 
resolution through alternative means. 


SAvSayHL i A eaLavHa j 


Aw HS1tdvHo 


SLVEBAL | 


Criss 


DESCRIPTION 

One of the most striking of all near-Human species, the Chiss are instantly 
identifiable due to their jet-black hair, ice-blue skin, and eyes that glow with 
a penetrating red phosphorescence. 

Many species in the galaxy independently evolved into convergent 
humanoid forms, but genetic analysis indicates that the Chiss are an off- 
shoot of humanity dating back to sleeper ship colonization attempts. More 
than 27,000 years before the Battle of Yavin, one hypothesized lost colony 
settled on Csilla in the Unknown Regions. Always uncomfortably frigid, 
Csilla became near-inhospitable when an ice age blanketed its surface with 
glaciers circa 5,000 BBY. The Chiss held on by going underground, a move 
that further accelerated their divergence from baseline stock. Their unique 
skin tone is believed to have resulted from glacial minerals, and their dis- 
tinctive eyes might have been an adaptation to the low-light conditions of 
their subterranean warrens. 


A CHISS SCOUNDREL 


Life under such conditions gave the Chiss a self-reliant streak that is 
at the root of their notoriously aloof personalities. Many say the Chiss are 
as cold as the ice plains they call home. Not given to passion, the Chiss 
view problems as curiosities to be solved through rigorous application of 
brainpower. They do not let the hot emotions of others interfere with their 
methodical unraveling of logic tangles. 

The most famous Chiss, Grand Admiral Thrawn, is legendary for his ability 
to outthink his opponents by studying the smallest details. Although Thrawn 
possesses exceptional genius even by the standards of his species, his rational 
approach is shared by the ruling families that form the operating structure 
of the Chiss Ascendancy. 

Chiss are almost impossible to enrage. They prefer to act only when all 
issues have been studied from every angle and all data has been analyzed. 
One of the greatest treasures of the Unknown Regions is the great library 
on Csilla, which dates back to the founding of Chiss civilization. The volumes 
among its stacks provide the basic facts that every Chiss absorbs during 
childhood after years of intense schooling. So universal is this reliance on 
data that a Chiss faced with a truly unpredictable scenario (and not gifted 
with Thrawn's ability to learn on the fly) might simply flee. 

For details on Chiss species traits, see page 12 of the Legacy Era Cam- 
paign Guide. 


MOTIVATIONS 

The Chiss exhibit a cold lack of emotion, but their actions are not necessarily 
impartial. Most are motivated by the pursuit of power, and the machinations 
of rival ruling families encourage such competition. The ruling houses—their 
number has ranged from three to twelve at various points in the history of 
the Ascendancy—are acutely aware of any opportunity that might allow 
them to exploit a rival's weakness, and they are quick to take offense at any 
perceived insult against their station. 

Ruling families are composed of clans, and clans are headed by govern- 
ment officials known as Aristocras. Chiss that belong to the same ruling 
house defend one another at every opportunity, whereas those from com- 
peting houses search for facts they can use to snipe and undermine. When 
dealing with the Chiss, it is important to determine the house to which each 
representative belongs. If ambassadors from multiple houses are present, 
an experienced con artist can pit them against one another as each tries to 
secure an advantage. 

For Chiss caught in the middle of slow-simmering house rivalries, much 
time is spent collecting intel that might prove useful for blackmail, even if 
not until years in the future. Such experiences have made the Chiss excellent 
counterintelligence agents. A trained Chiss can see through disguises, evalu- 
ate body language, detect idiosyncrasies in speech patterns, and distinguish 
genuine items from forgeries. 


The long spacefaring history of the Chiss has translated into a superior 
combat force. Chiss starfighter pilots are notorious throughout the Unknown 
Regions, as are their clawcraft fighters—one-person interceptors with dis- 
tinctive crescent wings enclosing small cockpits (see page 69 of Starships 
of the Galaxy). Discipline rules a Chiss starfighter squadron, and pilots are 
certain to spare a disabled starship if it broadcasts its surrender. Pilots and 
other soldiers are traditionally found within the Nuruodo ruling family. Other 
disciplines are the domain of other families, including agriculture (the Csapla), 
science (the Inrokini), and education (the Sabosen). 

The most famous habit of the Chiss is their refusal to act in violence unless 
provoked by the violence of others. This doctrine is a by-product of their cool 
and cautious philosophy. In their view, waiting until their opponent draws 
first blood guarantees that the Chiss are acting in the right. It also divorces 
their actions from any recklessness that might result from impulsive anger 
or incomplete intelligence on the enemy's intentions. 

The Chiss are universally well educated. All Chiss speak Cheunh, but most 
of them are also fluent in at least one other language. 


METHODS 
The Chiss are methodical and cautious, but they respond with lethal force if 
an enemy makes the mistake of firing upon them. The interstellar might of 
the Chiss Ascendancy is represented by the Chiss Expansionary Defense Force 
(CEDF), which patrols the Unknown Regions and keeps tabs on its threats. The 
CEDF is composed of top-of-the-line capital ships. Its claweraft starfighter 
squadrons, originally of Chiss manufacture, began incorporating TIE fighter 
design cues after Thrawn initiated resource sharing with Palpatine's Empire. 
Compared to the other threats in the Unknown Regions, such as the hive- 
minded Killiks, the venal Vagaari, the fanatical Ssi-ruuk, and the nightmarish 
Lugubraa, the Chiss view themselves as a bastion of order in a sea of chaos. 
Those in the civilized galaxy hold a similar view, and the Chiss are the only 
significant Unknown Regions power to make alliances with the Empire, the 
New Republic, and the Galactic Alliance. 


Spacers who encounter the Chiss likely are treated with arms-length 
respect—unless they panic and fire a first shot. However, even if a traveler 
refrains from violence, the Chiss are not guaranteed to let him or her pass 
with impunity. Anyone carrying illegal substances or hauling cargo that 
could conceivably supply the enemies of the Ascendancy finds the goods 
confiscated. 

Those who violate the borders of the Chiss Ascendancy almost certainly 
are intercepted by the naval forces of the Household and Colonial Phalanxes. 
These homeguard forces protect the 28 central colony worlds of the Ascen- 
dancy, including the planets of the ruling families. It is virtually impossible 
to sneak into Chiss space, but intruders can take consolation in the fact 
that, at worst, they might only face prison time on an outlying penal colony. 


HISTORY 

The same hyperdrive technology that brings the ancestors of the Chiss to 
Csilla allows them to explore their region of space and expand beyond their 
glacial homeworld. In time, the Chiss claim 28 colony worlds, nine of which 
serve as headquarters for specific ruling families. Collectively, this stretch 
of systems forms the Chiss Ascendancy. 

Circa 1,000 BBY, agents of Lord Kaan's Brotherhood of Darkness some- 
how make their way to the Unknown Regions, reaching the Ascendancy and 
bringing back a legion of Chiss that settle the dark side planet of Thule. Chiss 
born on Thule soon spread into the larger galaxy. No Chiss, however, earn 
special note until the arrival of Thrawn. 

Mitth'raw'nuruodo, better known by his core name of Thrawn, challenges 
the Ascendancy's first-strike doctrine under the belief that it makes the Chiss 
easy targets. In 27 BBY, Thrawn collaborates with a representative from 
Chancellor Palpatine's Republic to destroy the Outbound Flight mission as 
well as a substantial Vagaari armada. This action (along with similar battles) 
puts Thrawn at odds with the ruling families of the Chiss Ascendancy, which 
banish him to a primitive world. There, a Star Destroyer finds him and brings 
him back to the Empire for Imperial naval training. 


A eSsiavHg 


SLAVYVIASBAL | 


SLVESAL 


A Hs 


a 


ave 


As Palpatine's newest grand admiral, Thrawn begins subjugating the 
Unknown Regions in the Empire's name, using Imperial Star Destroyers 
alongside the native forces of his loyal Household Phalanx. The territory 
Thrawn defines becomes known as the Empire of the Hand, and it maintains 
an uneasy standoff with the Chiss Ascendancy. Many Aristocras unofficially 
support Thrawn's renegade actions, under the belief that his proactive stance 
will keep them safe. 

By this time, the "Far-Outsiders,” or Yuuzhan Vong, have made strikes on 
the fringes of Chiss territory, and the Ascendancy builds stellar fortresses in 
response. After the Battle of Endor, Thrawn's forces clash with the Ssi-ruuvi 
Imperium, allowing the CEDF to invade Ssi-ruuk territory once the reptilians 
strike back against Ascendancy worlds. Their short war leaves the Ssi-ruuk 
crippled and the Chiss the de facto law-and-order power in the Unknown 
Regions. 

In 9 ABY, Thrawn returns to the civilized galaxy to rally the Empire's 
remnants, but he falls to an assassin's blade. Following the collapse of 
Thrawn's plot to return via cloning ten years later, his Empire of the Hand 
largely merges into the Ascendancy. Chiss dominion over the heart of the 
Unknown Regions becomes even more absolute. 

The next war comes between the Chiss and the Vagaari over the remains 
of the Outbound Flight project. Subsequent years see rising tensions with 
the insectile Killiks after two Chiss families that used Killiks as laborers find 
themselves absorbed into the Killik hive mind as Joiners. In 36 ABY, the situ- 
ation eventually escalates into the Swarm War between the Ascendancy, the 
Killik Colony, and the Galactic Alliance. 


USING THE Criss 

In a general sense, the Chiss Ascendancy can stand in for the Galactic Empire 
during adventures set in the Unknown Regions. Like the Empire, the Chiss 
are a well-armed, well-trained military force encompassing a number of 
advanced, orderly worlds. Although the Chiss are not led by a dictator (and 
lack the antialien bias that led Palpatine's Empire to commit atrocities), they 
believe that rigid discipline and superior technology are required to hold the 
forces of anarchy at bay. 

The Chiss are never trigger-happy, but they guard the Ascendancy's 
planets zealously. They intercept any ship that is not where it is supposed 
to be, even if the vessel is light-years from the nearest Ascendancy world. 
Complicating matters is the fact that the Chiss are still expanding the borders 
of their territory. The heroes’ expedition to an unexplored planet could bring 
them into conflict with Chiss scouts who intend to claim the same prize. 

The Chiss do not attack others unless they have been fired upon first, but 
heroes cannot necessarily breathe easy. The first surprise could come when 
they meet elements of Thrawn's Household Phalanx but mistake them for 
vessels of the CEDF. Thrawn's forces have a far more aggressive approach 
to discouraging outsiders. 


Asecond possible surprise is finding that the Chiss are engaged in a war 
with the Vagaari, the Shikitari, the Killiks, or another Unknown Regions power. 
The heroes learn about the conflict the hard way when they are mistaken for 
combatants or hostile smugglers. Few vessels can stand up to a Chiss carrier 
and its clawcraft squadron. 

On the other hand, if diplomacy prevails, the Chiss can be valuable 
allies. If the heroes succeed in getting the Chiss on their side, they might be 
cheered by the sight of the CEDF coming to their rescue during a seemingly 
impossible battle against another Unknown Regions threat. The Chiss always 
honor their promises. 

The data libraries on Csilla have detailed records on the little-known 
hyperlanes that crisscross the Unknown Regions. If the heroes want to 
locate a hidden treasure or find a habitable planet, a journey to the Chiss 
Ascendancy and the libraries of Csilla might be an inescapable first step. 

Adventures set after the Battle of Endor could find the heroes looting the 
scraps left after the Ssi-ruuk-Chiss conflict or smuggling weapons to one 
of the factions of the Swarm War. Another potential scenario is the need to 
penetrate Thrawn's territory to locate a wanted Imperial officer currently 
serving in the Empire of the Hand. The later in the timeline, the more likely it is 
that the Chiss have become members of the galactic community. Particularly 
after the Swarm War, the territory encompassed by the Chiss Ascendancy is 
not really considered "unknown" at all. 


Criss SPECIES TRAITS 
Chiss share the following species traits: 

Ability Modifier: +2 Intelligence. 

Size: As Medium creatures, Chiss have no special bonuses or penal- 
ties due to their size. 

Speed: Chiss base speed is 6 squares. 

Bonus Trained Skill: A Chiss chooses one additional trained skill at 
1st level. This skill must be chosen from the character's list of class skills. 

Low-Light Vision: Chiss ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Automatic Language: Cheunh. 


EBRUCHI 


DESCRIPTION 

The Ebruchi are cruel, ill-mannered pirates who plague the hyperlanes 
between Republic-settled space and the Chiss Ascendancy. To some, the 
Ebruchi are a terror. To militarily superior forces, such as the Chiss and the 
Vagaari, the Ebruchi are a perpetual annoyance. 

Their species has a roughly humanoid configuration, with a squat, lumpy 
build similar to that of Gands. Their grayish heads house two wide-set eyes 
that never blink and a hidden mouth ringed by writhing, fleshy feelers. These 
tentacles are always in motion as they sample airborne scents and can grasp 
chunks of food to force them down the Ebruchi’s narrow gullet. This process 
is messy and, to most species, revolting. 

The Ebruchi are omnivorous. They can survive on rotting garbage if nec- 
essary, but their appetites lean toward the sadistic. They love nothing more 
than swallowing the wet flesh of freshly killed prisoners. 

Their compact bulk makes them appear formidable despite their shorter- 
than-average height, and the muscles are not just for show. An Ebruchi can 
take a terrific pounding, then return the favor. - 

The Ebruchi style of dress matches their stereotype as uncivilized, oppor- 
tunistic pirates. A typical outfit consists of layers of animal skins topped with 
shiny medallions, rings, or crowns. But those who think that an Ebruchi's 


EBRUCHI SPECIES TRAITS 
All Ebruchi have the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, +2 Constitution, -2 Wisdom, -2 
Charisma. Ebruchi are strong and physically resilient but arrogant and 
repulsive to most other species. 

Medium Size: As creatures of Medium size, Ebruchi have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Ebruchi base speed is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Ebruchi are naturally tough and resilient. An 
Ebruchi that has a Constitution of 13 or higher gains Improved Damage 
Threshold as a bonus feat. 

Iron Will: Eoruchi are headstrong and stubborn. They gain a +2 spe- 
cies bonus to their Will Defense. 

Unsettling: Most species find Ebruchi physical traits and habits 
unsettling. Once per encounter, when an Ebruchi successfully uses 
the Persuasion skill to intimidate a target, the Eoruchi can move the 
target -1 step on the condition track instead of applying one of the 
standard intimidation effects. The target must be within 6 squares of 
the Ebruchi, and the effect lasts until the end of the encounter. This is 
a mind-affecting effect. 

Automatic Language: Ebruchese. 


THE EBRUCHI 


appearance is lazily haphazard are mistaken. The Ebruchi put great thought 
into the placement of each item and layer, and all clothing is tended with 
exquisite care. Patches, scarves, necklaces, and intentional holes and tears 
are all signs of rank and achievement, although the nuances of the arrange- 
ments are lost on non-Ebruchi. 

Male and female Ebruchi are nearly identical in appearance. Outsiders 
can distinguish them only because males and females usually wear different 
types of animal skins (although determining the species of animal from its 
fur is exceedingly difficult). It is best to employ gender-neutral pronouns 
when negotiating with the Ebruchi, for a mistaken identification of sex will 
be taken as a scandalous insult. 


MOTIVATIONS 

The Ebruchi are driven by the basest of emotions: greed and fear. Unwilling 
to give an edge to any other being—including members of their own spe- 
cies—they overcompensate to the point of overkill. If a ship shows a hint of 
aggression, they will blast it to fragments; if a subordinate challenges their 
rank, they will retaliate with deadly force. 

Still, the Ebruchi are not foolish, and they take such drastic actions only if 
they believe themselves to be safe from retaliation. This tendency, of course, 
makes them bullies of the worst stripe. The Ebruchi show no kindness unless 
they gain something in the process. They spare the lives of colonists only if 
the weaker beings provide tribute or possess some value as slaves or meat. 


SiLiveEsnt 


[| A ¥eievHo 


A esigvHo 


SLVEeAL 


This greed evolved over centuries spent as interstellar wanderers. Without 
a world of resources to call their own, the Ebruchi lived aboard a fleet of 
aging starships in which a hull puncture could mean instant death by vacuum. 
Pursued by the Vagaari to near-extinction, the Eoruchi assumed a hard 
demeanor of constant desperation, livened by short bouts of pleasure at the 
pain and misfortune of others. The Ebruchi fear starvation, suffocation, and 
enslavement, yet they are far from timid. They have sharpened their hunting 
instincts to ensure that they will be the predators, not the prey. 

Generations in space have given the Ebruchi a mild case of agoraphobia. 
They are distinctly uncomfortable in wide-open spaces, and when on plan- 
etary surfaces, they can be seized with the irrational fear of falling into the 
sky. Starship corridors, by contrast, are reassuringly cramped. If the Ebruchi 
need to maintain a permanent planetary base, they ground one of their 
freighters and live inside it. 

The Ebruchi are a practical species. They enjoy the misery of others, yet 
they rarely inflict it without cause (although it often seems otherwise to 
outsiders). A certain degree of fellowship seems evident in the way that 
Ebruchi accept members of other species into their pirate bands. This, 
however, is just another expression of cold-eyed pragmatism. Worthless 
outsiders are killed, useful but weak outsiders are exploited, and useful and 
strong outsiders occasionally are accepted as fellow pirates. Speciesism is a 
foreign concept to the Ebruchi, since they lack roots and reject mythology. 
In fact, their name for themselves, “Ebruchi,” is the same name they use for 
their pirate fleet. Thus, members of other species that join their band are also 
considered Ebruchi, whether the initiates are Eickarie, Morseerian, or Tarro. 


METHODS 

The Ebruchi share a dim genetic memory of their prehistoric existence as pack 
hunters. Their pirate society is simply a modern expression of this instinct. 
Most Ebruchi actions can be understood through the twin filters of "strength 
in numbers" and "survival of the fittest.” 

When a lone starship wanders into their territory, the Ebruchi intercept 
it with multiple vessels. When small convoys pass through, they approach 
with a large flotilla, demanding that the newcomers surrender and prepare 
to accept boarders. 

However, when confronted by enigmatic enemies, the Ebruchi instead 
present a friendly face, inviting the visitors to meet aboard the Ebruchi com- 
mand vessel for a feast and an exchange of information. Once the hook is 
baited, the Ebruchi seize the ambassadors as hostages. They use this tactic to 
wring out a hefty ransom, or they torture the prisoners to learn the location 
of hidden treasure. If an operation is a wild success, the Ebruchi disable the 
convoy and claim its vessels for their own, then return to the enemy's base 
and loot everything of value. 


The Ebruchi maintain dozens of maintenance and refueling outposts—all 
stolen from their original builders—on various planets, moons, and asteroids. 
The worst crimes of the Ebruchi occur against technologically primitive 
societies, which are easily cowed by blasters and forced to provide tribute. 
Such plunder can include precious metals, casks of sweetened ale, or even 
native children, who are raised as cabin slaves until supplies run low and 
they are eaten. 

The Ebruchi are skilled at space combat, although their vessels are often 
poorly shielded and in need of repair. The primary Ebruchi attack craft are 
heavily armed light freighters with nonstandard weapons welded to the hull. 
These add-ons include torpedo launchers, net traps, and solid-projectile 
cannons, but many are empty of ammunition and intended only to deceive 
and frighten enemies. 

During an attack, several Ebruchi freighters provide cover while other 
freighters use magnetic grapples to affix themselves to the opposing starship. 
Ebruchi pirates then cut their way inside with welding torches and storm 
the vessel, using their trademark shrapnel pistols to shred enemies that are 
packed into tight spaces and slashing with daggers for personal combat in 
close quarters. 

The Ebruchi converse among themselves using an idiosyncratic jargon 
incomprehensible to outsiders. They also speak and understand Minnisiat, 
Rammocate, Sy Bisti, and most other Unknown Regions trade languages. The 
Ebruchi operate close enough to civilized space to have gained a passable 
understanding of Basic. : 


MHisToRY 

Records of other species in the Unknown Regions indicate that the Ebruchi 
have been a menace for centuries, but the ruthless pirates are ignorant of 
their origins. Their contempt for storytelling and record-keeping might be a 
result of their humiliation at the hands of the Vagaari, who boast of smash- 
ing the Ebruchi and sending them whimpering into the fringes of forsaken 
space. It is believed that the Vagaari devastated the Ebruchi homeworld, and 
the desperate survivors fled their dead planet to eventually (and ironically) 
take up the trappings of the slavers that had displaced them. Because the 
Ebruchi refuse to acknowledge failure, they have erased these and similar 
facts from their collective memory. 

In terms of firepower, range, and treasure, the Ebruchi are a mere shadow 
of the Vagaari. They are careful to operate in circuits that bypass Vagaari 
space, although they would never acknowledge this concession even in 
private moments. The Ebruchi have done well within their defined sectors, 
and to the species that suffer under their heels, they are a fearsome and 
merciless enemy. 

The Ebruchi pirates operate under a diffused organizational structure due 
to their need to cover dozens of widely spaced hyperlanes. At least five clans 
exist, each with its own chieftain and hierarchy of captains and lieutenants 


that keep the freighters in line. Each clan (the term is used as a name only, 
since its members do not share blood ties) controls one Ebruchi fleet, which 
consists of two or three smaller armadas. Each armada is in turn made up 
of four or five flotillas. A flotilla consists of at least one frigate-sized com- 
mand ship, up to a dozen freighter-sized attack vessels, and—if the flotilla 
has been lucky on its acquisition raids—a handful of one-person starfight- 
ers. Particularly large flotillas might be split further into scout squadrons. 
Like most civilizations in the Unknown Regions, the Ebruchi lack repulsor- 
lift technology. Their vessels employ noisy gas jets during landing and takeoff. 


USING THE EBRUCHI 

The Ebruchi patrol the galactic northern quadrant, close to the Wild Space 
fringe separating the known galaxy from the Unknown Regions. Therefore, 
they are a probable first threat for heroes just venturing into unexplored 
space. The Ebruchi are not as advanced as other powers the heroes might 
encounter in the region, and their vessels and weapons are often patchwork 
constructions that operate sporadically (if at all). Nevertheless, they can 
easily outnumber the characters and can be deadly in a straight fight. 


Captain Ness 

The Ebruchi leader of the Burning Gear pirate flotilla, Captain Ness is an 
obese sensualist who loves puzzles and has an appetite for everything. 
Unlike most Ebruchi, he is fascinated by other cultures. Ness will urge 
adventurers to spill tales of the wonders they have seen or encourage 
them to challenge his intellect with riddles and games of chance. How- 
ever, he does not desire companionship—only stimulation. As soon as he 
becomes bored, Ness will reach for his shrapnel pistol to put an end to 
the offender's life. 

From his flagship Burning Gear, Ness commands hundreds of pirates 
within the flotilla. He is subordinate to the Ebruchi high captain of the 
armada known as Common Cork, who in turn takes orders from the 
chieftain of the Flux Screw fleet. An urgent report by Ness up the chain 
of command can bring the full weight of this particular clan down on any 
parties brash enough to defy their demands. 

Captain Ness is vain, wearing gold bands around his mouth tentacles 
and purple feathers in the seams of his furs. He can be placated by gaudy 
trinkets and alcohol and possibly even manipulated into helping the heroes 
through promises of treasure to come. But his vengeance will be pitiless 
if he discovers that he has been tricked. 


Captain Ness CL 10 
Medium Ebruchi noble 5/soldier 2/officer 3 

Destiny 1; Force 5; Dark Side 8 

Init +6; Senses Perception +12 


Languages Ebruchese, Sy Bisti 


If the heroes shy away from confronting the Ebruchi, or if they try to 
engage them on diplomatic terms, the pirates judge the characters to be 
weak and exploitable. If their numbers are sufficient, they try to disable and 
board the heroes’ craft. 

If the heroes bluff the Ebruchi, the pirates instead try to negotiate for 
items of value, including starship components, strong drink, sweet delica- 
cies, and shiny objects of seemingly great value. Such negotiations would 
be handled by an officer similar to Captain Ness (see the sidebar), whose 
death would instantly brand the characters as wanted fugitives as long as 
they remained in the Unknown Regions. 

Under the right circumstances, the Ebruchi can be useful trading partners. 
If given sufficient incentive, they might even provide star charts detailing 
specific sectors of the Unknown Regions. But if the heroes lower their guard, 
the Ebruchi will try to double-cross them. 

The Ebruchi can be an irritant throughout the heroes’ sojourn in the ~ 
Unknown Regions, popping up when their ship is damaged and demanding 
an unfair share of whatever the characters have in the cargo hold. Putting 
these thugs in their place can be a cathartic break from a quest. 


Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 23, Will 28 

hp 67; Threshold 28 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d6+7) 

Ranged shrapnel pistol +7 (2d6+5) 

Base Atk +8; Grp +10 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Deployment Tactics, 
Indomitable, Presence, Quick Draw, Vehicular Combat, Weaken 
Resolve 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 16 

Special Qualities command cover, share talent (Indomitable), 
unsettling 

Talents Assault Tactics, Born Leader, Deployment Tactics, Indomitable, 
Presence, Weaken Resolve 


Aw BSstdgvHo 


J 
i 
ay 
J 
0) 


Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Damage Threshold, = 


Martial Arts I, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Skill 
Focus (Persuasion), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons), 
Vehicular Combat 

Skills Deception +13, Knowledge (galactic lore) +11, Knowledge 
(tactics) +11, Perception +12, Persuasion +18, Pilot +11, Use 
Computer +11 

Possessions shrapnel pistol (as slugthrower pistol), expensive garments, 
datapad 


AN BSaADdVvHoD 


SLVEeAL 


KILLIKS 


DESCRIPTION 

Once major players on the galactic stage, the Killiks are long gone by the 
time the first Humans reach the Killik spawnworld of Alderaan. From their 
new home in the Unknown Regions, the Killiks subsist for millennia until 
upsetting the political balance in the Swarm War of 36 ABY. 

Killiks are a genetically diverse population of intelligent insects. Their 
society is composed of hives, also called nests. Members of each hive share 
the same physical characteristics and possess the ability to communicate 
with others through pheromones, electromagnetic transmissions, and long- 
distance telepathy. 

Multiple nests united under a hive-mind link can be considered a single 
organism. Its members always refer to themselves in the third person, and 
each is aware of anything that has been experienced by any other member. 
The hive mind can be thought of as the individual, and the Killiks its eyes, 
ears, and hands. 

Most Killiks are female. Males are needed for reproduction and little 
else, and they are birthed in great numbers only to help seed a new nest. A 
breeding female can lay a thousand eggs per month, hatching larvae that 
grow into work-ready nymphs in under a year. 


A KILLIK 


Although there is great variation in Killik phenotypes, all share certain 
qualities. The majority have six limbs, hopping on the back two while using 
the front four to manipulate objects. Their bodies are sheathed in hard chi- 
tinous exoskeletons, but their joints are lightly armored for flexibility (and 
are therefore vulnerable). Killiks have oversized compound eyes and waving 
antennae, and they breathe through tiny spiracles lining their abdomens. 
Chitin color comes in every hue and shade, although members of the same 
hive share similar coloration patterns. 

Killik hives can be distinguished not only from their members’ appearance 
but also from their job specialties. Some hives consist of superior warriors, 
whereas others excel at construction, music-making, subterfuge, or scouting. 
All Killik hives have palindromic names that are spelled the same forward and 
backward. Individual Killiks have no names other than the name of their hive. 

Killiks have the ability to turn outsiders into fellow hive members or 
“Joiners,” a quality that members of other species find unnerving. This is 
accomplished through exposure to mind-altering pheromones, and the 
process is widely considered to be brainwashing, although the victims usu- 
ally report rapturous fulfillment at the sensation that they finally belong. 


MOTIVATIONS 

Like many insect species, the Killiks wish to swell their numbers through 
increased birth rates and expanded territory. This desire is an instinctual 
response to the threat of extinction, and even other Killik hives can be viewed 
as obstacles to success. Many wars have occurred between nonlinked Killik 
hives, and hundreds of thousands have been exterminated in the millennia 
since the species relocated to the Unknown Regions. 

The yearning to recruit new members as Joiners likely stems from the 
same impulse. Any individual who deals with Killiks runs the risk of falling 
under their spell. The species of the outsider does not seem to matter as 
long as it has the olfactory and cognitive receptors to register pheromones. 
To the Killiks, it is not at all strange to have aliens carrying out the work of 
their hives. In fact, Killiks believe that the galaxy would be better served 
if the random and contradictory efforts of egocentric species instead were 
harnessed under the yoke of universal cooperation. 


KILLIK SPECIES TRAITS 

The Killik species varies greatly in size, form, and function, although they 
all share a similar genetic code. The traits described below apply to most 
Killiks, despite cosmetic or minor size differences. Gamemasters who wish 
to create Killiks with vastly different forms or functions should select from 
the following list of traits and apply changes to the basic traits as needed. 

Size: Killik sizes typically range from Small to Huge, with a few reach- 
ing the extremes of Fine and Colossal. When creating a Killik, apply the 
appropriate size modifiers per Table 16-2: Beast Size Modifiers (page 274 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook). 

Speed: Most Killiks have a speed of 6; those of Huge size or larger 
have a speed of 4. Some Killiks might also be able to fly or swim with 
similar speeds. 

Traits: To include additional traits, see the Creature Generator on 
page 89. 


KILLIKS OF MEDIUM SIZE 
The following traits apply to most Killiks of Medium size. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Intelligence. Killiks are a hardy 
but intensely focused species. 

Medium Size: As creatures of Medium size, Killiks have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Killik base speed is 6 squares. 

Joiners: Whenever a Killik reduces a living creature with an Intelligence 
of 3 or higher to 0 hit points, or the Killik knocks the creature unconscious 


For many years, the Killiks keep their expansionist impulses in check, 
spreading only to a handful of planets in the Unknown Regions and occasion- 
ally exterminating rival hives in warfare. This status quo changes during the 
Yuuzhan Vong invasion, when a starship carrying three Force-users crashes 
ona Killik planet. Once they become Joiners, the Force-strong personalities 
of the trio influence the collective will of the Colony—the Killik government, 
such as it is—resulting in a territorial push in the direction of the Chiss 
Ascendancy. A border war with the Chiss begins as the Dark Nest Crisis in 
35 ABY before exploding into the Swarm War one year later. 


METHODS 

Killik nests are driven by specialization. This uniqueness helps ensure that 
individual nests can survive in diverse climates and geographies, and it also 
assists the species by allowing members to pledge their gifts in the service 
of the Colony's greater good. 


by moving it down the condition track, the Killik can transform the target 
into a Joiner. The target must be helpless for this to occur. The process takes 
1 minute and exposes the target to mind-altering pheromones. Once the 
target becomes a Joiner, its attitude shifts to friendly to the Killik and its 
allies, and the target gains a +10 bonus to Will Defense against attempts 
to use Persuasion to alter its perceptions of its new Killik friends. A target 
transformed into a Joiner in this manner can make a DC 20 Intelligence 
check once per day to remove the effect and return to its original attitude. 
This is a mind-affecting effect. 

Low-Light Vision: Killik ignore concealment (but not total conceal- 
ment) from darkness. 

Hive Mind: Killiks share a hive mind and use their antennae to com- 
municate by telepathy with other members of their species. A Killik within 
1 kilometer of another Killik can communicate with it via telepathy. 

Multiple Limbs: Killiks have four limbs that are generally used as arms 
and hands. When making multiple attacks, a Killik reduces the penalty to 
its attack rolls by 2. 

Natural Armor: A Killik's chitinous exoskeleton provides a +1 natural 
armor bonus to its Reflex Defense. 

Natural Weapons: A Killik has natural weapons in the form of three- 
fingered claws. When a Killik makes an unarmed attack, instead of deal- 
ing normal unarmed damage, it can use its natural weapons to deal 1d6 
points of slashing damage. Killiks are always considered armed with their 
natural weapons. 

Automatic Language: Killik and Sy Bisti. 


SAVEBSAL [| A S3tavHo ) 


A See lavHo 


SLvesnAt 


To most species in the Unknown Regions, the Killiks are known as pro- 
ducers of membrosia, a popular amber-colored alcoholic beverage. Others 
know the Killiks only from the constructions they have left behind. Killik hive 
mounds are the size of multistory buildings and have rounded edges that are 
resistant to wind and erosion. The Killik constructions on Alderaan (called 
the Castle Lands of Oroboro by the planet's Human colonists) stand intact 
for thirty millennia until they are blown apart by the Death Star's superlaser. 

When Killiks go to war, individual hives combine their talents to make the 
Colony a death-bringing machine. The Kolosolok and Rekker nests are the 
heavy hitters—each member of the former can grow up to 50 meters in length 
and plow through enemy fortifications while shielded by an impenetrable 
beetlelike carapace. The members of the Rekker nest average about 3 meters 
in length and use powerful jumps to assault hovering gun platforms and 
low-flying airspeeders. 

The Aebea and the Qeeq hives fill the role of air assault. The Aebea are 
only a meter in length and the Qeeq smaller still, but their perpetually buzz- 
ing wingbeats give them the speed to hover and travel in every direction, 
even backward. 

The Gorog are proven warriors with a poisonous bite. The pale Mollom 
have a gift for digging—a unit of Mollom can topple an emplacement by 
undermining its foundations, or tunnel beneath the heart of an enemy camp 
to allow Gorog or Rekker raiders to launch a surprise attack. The Jooj are 
only a few centimeters in length and easily killed with just a swat, yet they 
never attack in groups of fewer than two dozen. A Jooj swarm can crawl 
beneath an enemy's armor and latch onto the skin with hooked mandibles, 
draining blood every second. 

Not to be forgotten are the Taat, which excel as battlefield healers, and 
the Wuluw, which serve as long-range communicators capable of boosting 
signals far beyond that of typical hive-minded telepathy. 

When a specific need is identified by the communal will, Killiks can create 
an entirely new breed in only a few generations. 


HistToRyY 

In the annals of galactic history, the Killiks predate even the Rakata. More 
than 35,000 years before the rise of the Republic, a spectacularly power- 
ful species known as the Celestials dominates the stars and conscripts the 
Killiks of Alderaan as laborers. The Killiks are believed to have a hand in the 
construction of Corellia's Centerpoint Station (which they call Qolaraloq) 
and to witness the birth of other Celestial wonders such as the Maw cluster 
of black holes and the Vultar System. 


By 30,000 BBY, the Rakatan Infinite Empire reaches its peak, and the 
Celestials are nowhere to be found. The Killiks also abandon the civilized 
galaxy, leaving nothing behind but hive mounds on Alderaan and similar 
structures on the nearby world of Alsakan. The empty constructions ignite 
the imaginations of artists, who create famed works inspired by the lost 
species, such as the moss painting Killik Twilight. 

The Killik nests retreat to the Unknown Regions and remain on a handful 
of isolated planets for thirty millennia. But in the midst of the Yuuzhan Vong 
war, a ship carrying three Force-users—one Jedi and two dark siders—crashes 
in Killik space. The Jedi, Raynar Thul, becomes a Joiner in the powerful Unu 
hive, and his Force abilities lead him to become the public face of a new, 
reunified Killik Colony. 

The two remaining crash survivors become Joiners in the Gorog hive. 
Their evil dispositions poison the Gorog, triggering an unconscious aggres- 
sive streak in the Colony's hive mind and a resultant expansion into Chiss 
territory. The Gorog hive becomes known as the Dark Nest, and one dark 
sider becomes the hive's Night Herald while the other takes up the mantle 
of the Unseen Queen. 

In 35 ABY, the standoff between the Colony and the Chiss turns into open 
warfare. Efforts by the Galactic Alliance to forge a peace in the so-called 
Dark Nest Crisis break down when several Jedi who fall under the influence 
of Killik pheromones announce their new allegiance as Joiners. One year later, 
the situation escalates into a three-way shooting match known as the Swarm 
War. Ultimately, the Dark Nest meets defeat, and the Killik Colony agrees to 
accept relocation restrictions. The Chiss Ascendancy, however, stands ready 
to respond if the Killiks step out of line again. 


USING THE KILLIKS 

The Killiks can be an instinctually repellent foe. Not only do they tap into the 
near-universal aversion to insects, but they possess a method of brainwashing 
that can turn a cocky warrior into a blissful, hive-minded Joiner. 

However, the Killiks are not inherently evil, and they do not roam the 
spacelanes hunting for treasure or slaves. In fact, many worlds on the edge 
of Killik space do a brisk business with outsiders, trading hand-crafted items 
and casks of membrosia for advanced technology. These planets are reliable 
Unknown Regions stopovers where freighter crews can find work and pick up 
cantina chatter that provide hooks for other adventures in the mysterious 
realm. Each time the heroes return to a Killik world, however, they increase 
the risk that one or more of their number will fall prey to the species’ influ- 
ence and become a Joiner. 


Killiks come in hundreds of varieties. In addition to the hives described in 
this entry, the Gamemaster can create virtually any insect species and pres- 
ent it as a previously unknown breed. If the adventure positions the Killiks in 
the middle of an expansionist phase, the heroes might run into new varieties 
that are aquatic, resistant to fire, or resistant to vacuum. 

The Swarm War can also be the focus of an adventure or campaign. It 
brings together the Killiks and the Chiss, as well as any third parties (such 
as the Vagaari, the Ebruchi, or even the Sorcerers of Rhand) that might be 
looking to take advantage of the chaos. 


Killik Dartship 

The Killik dartship is the Colony's starfighter analog, constructed of spitcrete 
and accommodating a single Killik pilot. The ships are not uniform in design, 
but all are long and pointed, with pits that house laser cannons and messy 
rocket propulsion systems. Rare models of dartships employ ion engines for 
superior speed and maneuverability. 

Because the Killiks operate under a single hive-minded consciousness, 
the loss of any one Killik is no more painful than shedding a single drop of 
blood would be for an individual being. For this reason, the Colony is quick 
to employ ramming techniques with its dartships if it believes that the result 
will be more favorable than continued combat. Dartships on suicide runs 
approach their target at the same time, making it difficult to shoot them all 
down without sustaining at least some damage. 

Dartships are carried by Shard-class capital ships, which begin at 1,500 
meters in length and can reach many times that size. These cone-shaped 
vessels are built with a redundant honeycomb structure that gives them 
remarkable hull strength. It is common to see both dartships and Shard- 
class capital ships escorting nest ships, 8,.000-meter behemoths designed 
to ferry the entire population of a single nest to a new world for relocation 
and repopulation. All Killik capital ships are armed with turbolasers and 
proton torpedo launchers. 


Killik Dartship CL9 
Huge starfighter 


Init +9; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor, Vehicular Combat 

hp 100; DR 10; Threshold 34 

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares 
(starship scale) 

Ranged laser cannon +6 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +26 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon) 

Abilities Str 39, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none 

Cargo 70 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannon (pilot) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 

Dartship Ram—Due to its shape and construction, a dartship deals 
6d6+14 points of damage (instead of the normal collision damage for 
a ship of its size) when successfully ramming an enemy ship. Also, if 
more than one dartship rams a target in a single round, each dartship 
that collides with a starship during the same round deals an additional 
1 die of damage to the target. 


A eaiavHg 


= 
i 
i 
b 
i 


A HBSLavHo 


SLvVEeAt 


LUGUBRAA 


DESCRIPTION 

The Lugubraa are found throughout the Unknown Regions as laborers and 
hired muscle. Their reproductive rates can get out of hand rapidly, ruining 
entire ecosystems beyond hope of restoration. 

An adult Lugubraa stands approximately 1.5 meters tall on two stubby 
legs. Its body is a sleek tube that tapers into a short tail. The creature's face 
is dominated by a circular mouth, with rings of teeth that mesh in gearlike 
patterns for chewing, making it nearly impossible for prey to pull free once 
a hungry Lugubraa has latched on. 

A Lugubraa lacks eyes and is blind to visual light, but surrounding its mouth 
are numerous heat spots that detect thermal signatures as well as echoloca- 
tion pingers that can paint a radar map of the surroundings. A Lugubraa has 
no ears, instead detecting sounds through vibrations sensed along the length 
of its skin, which is smooth and thick like that of an oceanic cetacean. Skin 
coloration varies between white and dark gray, but most Lugubraa are so pale 
that they trigger unpleasant mental associations with grubs and maggots. 

A Lugubraa's middle pair of limbs are useless bumps, but its forward 
limbs are longer and end in attenuated tentacles that wrap tightly around 
objects. Tiny suction cups on each tentacle conceal needlelike barbs that 


A LUGUBRAA 


give a Lugubraa extra purchase when scaling cliff faces or holding down 
thrashing victims in preparation for feeding. 

New Lugubraa come to life as “splitlings" that grow on the underbelly of 
an adult and break off when they reach several kilos in mass. They require 
no nurturing and reach full size within a week. 

From birth to six months, Lugubraa have the self-awareness of domes- 
ticated beasts, able to follow simple commands and steadfastly devoted to 
their horde or the owner that has purchased their services. After six months, 
their intelligence reaches that of simple-minded sentients, allowing them to 
communicate in short sentences but still rendering them hopeless when it 
comes to advanced calculations. 

It is rare for Lugubraa to survive more than a few decades, but those that 
do undergo a second cognitive kick-start at approximately age 50. These 
unusual geniuses become leaders and strategists for the Lugubraa hordes, 
plotting ways to acquire more resources and brokering the services of their 
species as mercenaries to interested galactic parties. 


MOTIVATIONS 

Appetite drives the Lugubraa. Their churning mouths connect to gullets that 
never seem satisfied. Although the creatures can digest both inorganic and 
organic matter, they prefer the latter, and they find fresh meat so delicious 
that it qualifies as an addiction. 

Under the right circumstances, a Lugubraa horde can become a raven- 
ous plague consuming everything in its path. Rapid eating accelerates the 
production of splitlings, which in turn contributes to the overall “dumbing 
down" of the horde as ever-greater numbers of animalistic newborns swell 
their ranks. 

If such a horde is left undeterred, it can overrun a continent, stripping the 
region of organic matter before dispatching swimmers to locate new land 
masses (or simply to strip the shoals of coral and sea life). When Lugubraa 
numbers exceed available resources, a horde starves—drawing nutrients from 
minerals is a slow and inefficient process. 

Adult Lugubraa possess sufficient smarts to be of use to various parties in 
the Unknown Regions. Motivated by the need to feed, these for-hire toughs 
sign on as leg-breakers for crime syndicates, sentries for scouting corpo- 
rations, bodyguards for gangsters, and combat grunts for private armies. 
They are content as long as they are well fed, and their job assignments are 
coordinated by elder Lugubraa agents that happily deal in cold, hard currency. 

Elder Lugubraa can be found wherever a substantial horde exists, and they 
use their positions as power brokers to satiate their own desires for fresh food. 
But they also treat their hordes as valued assets, reinvesting some of their 
profits to outfit horde members with armor and weapons, and stocking up on 
high-energy consumables to guard against famine caused by overpopulation. 


LUGUBRAA SPECIES TRAITS 
All Lugubraa have the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity, +2 Constitution, -2 
Wisdom. Lugubraa are tough but lack the intelligence of most sentient 
species. 

Medium Size: As creatures of Medium size, Lugubraa have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Lugubraa base speed is 6 squares. 

Bonus Feat: Lugubraa gain Improved Damage Threshold as a bonus 
feat. 

Darkvision: Although Lugubraa cannot see, their echolocation and 
heat detection abilities grant them the effects of darkvision. 

Natural Weapons: A Lugubraa is always considered armed with 
its barbed tentacles (1d6 points of damage) and dangerous teeth (1d4 
points of damage). 

Lockbite: A Lugubraa that makes a successful grapple attack can 
automatically latch onto a target with its teeth, giving the Lugubraa a 
+5 bonus to any subsequent grapple checks against the target. 

Lugubraa Learning: Before 50 years of age, a Lugubraa can have a 
maximum Intelligence score of 8. Around 50 years of age, a Lugubraa's 
Intelligence score naturally increases by 1d4+2 points. 

Automatic Languages: Lugubraal. 


METHODS 

The Lugubraa's status as a durable mercenary species means that they are 
in use throughout the Unknown Regions, typically encountered in one of 
three capacities: at a sentry post, on a battlefield, or creeping across a 
devastated scar. 

The most visible roles for Lugubraa are as guards, and employers prize the 
creatures for their stoutness, their willingness to obey orders, and their low 
cost. Lugubraa sentries wear metal or plastoid armor and carry two-handed 
spears or power lances. The Lugubraa cannot estimate long distances with 
accuracy and are poor shots with ranged weapons. The only ones they are 
likely to carry are indiscriminate flame projectors or wide-beam sonic stunners. 

A Lugubraa's solid constitution enables it to stand at attention for days 
without rest, but it will react with a burst of energy if a move is made against 
its master. A guard attacks with its weapon until it nears grappling range, at 
which point it pins the enemy with its hand-tentacles and gnaws at exposed 
flesh with its interlocking rings of fangs. Because Lugubraa see via echoes 
and heat, they are not impaired by darkness, flash bombs, or smoke grenades. 

Lugubraa guards are found on most worlds with stellar-class starports, 
where they work as security goons or common laborers. Some corporations 
and planetary governments require visitors to be accompanied by a Lugu- 
braa guard at all times, ostensibly for their own protection but more often 
to ensure that the newcomers stay out of trouble. Some confederations 


mandate that a Lugubraa escort any visiting starship crew traveling from 
planet to planet within their borders, requiring (under penalty of law) that 
they lodge the guard aboard their starship and pay a daily stipend for his or 
her food allowance. 

Lugubraa soldiers are outfitted similarly to the bodyguards but deployed 
in far greater numbers. Due to their ineptitude with ranged weapons, they 
are generally used as first-strike infantry, overwhelming enemy fortifica- 
tions while they receive support from long-range artillery and atmospheric 
flyers. Generals who purchase large orders of Lugubraa mercenaries seldom 
have long-term plans for housing and feeding them and often throw them 
away in suicide waves. 

If sizable numbers of Lugubraa survivors are left on a battlefield, their 
population can grow and eventually pose a dire threat to the native wildlife. 
This scenario—the Lugubraa as the ultimate invasive species—has inspired 
some Unknown Regions masterminds to release seed quantities of the crea- 
tures on enemy worlds as a stealth biological weapon with a long-burning 
fuse. The most notorious example of this tactic occurred with the Croke, 
which introduced the Lugubraa onto their home planets during a civil war 
and are still struggling to wipe out the invaders they have since nicknamed 
the “Leech Legions." 


HisToRY 

The Lugubraa originate in deep space in a vast corridor of dust and ice aster- 
oids that the Wharls call the Stratos Distribution. This unique astrophysical 
environment harbors predatory lightning-jacks, membranous stillsails more 
than 100,000 kilometers across, and forests of crystalline cometary fronds. 
The roots of the Lugubraa evolutionary tree can still be found here, with 
wormlike chewers carving warrens inside mineral-rich rocks. 

Although modern Lugubraa prefer life in planetary atmospheres, they 
are perfectly capable of surviving near-indefinitely in vacuum or in thin and 
toxic atmospheres. After some of their number develop advanced intellects, 
the Lugubraa become more than just a hungry nuisance—their talents for 
combat are shrewdly marketed as a way for them to earn their food. As 
talent brokers, the Lugubraa elders are responsible for the species’ wide 
spread, and their continued presence on so many planets serves as further 
advertising for their services. 

So far, the few examples of Lugubraa overwhelming an ecosystem with 
sheer numbers have not discouraged planetary governments from employing 
them. The most extreme example of environmental catastrophe exists in the 
Croke Reach, where intentional insertion of Lugubraa more than 300 years 
ago escalated over the generations into a bitter struggle for Croke survival. 
The desperate arthropods commissioned the cloners of Kamino to breed a 
genetically altered Lugubraa variant to fight and kill members of its own 
species, but these berserkers proved deadly to Croke settlements as well. 


A FBSLAVHoD 


SAVEeAL 


ana & 


AN BS1LdGgVvHo 


SLveeht 


USING THE LUGUBRAA 

The Lugubraa are a reliable choice whenever sentries, bodyguards, or 
bouncers are required. Because the creatures wield melee weapons, speak 
in grunting sentence fragments, and are not particularly bright, they can—in 
general terms—be used in situations that might normally call for Gamorreans. 

As noted previously, many governments in the Unknown Regions assign 
visitors with a Lugubraa guard as soon as they disembark. Thus, the heroes 
might find themselves stuck with an unwanted addition to their party that 
could prevent them from engaging in illegal activities, but which could prove 
useful when an extra set of muscles is needed. Ditching the escort will only 
attract more attention from local officials, and killing the Lugubraa will bring 
down the full might of the police force. 

Due to their status as a mercenary species, the Lugubraa are likely to 
be involved in any armed conflict that occurs in the Unknown Regions. The 
heroes might be fighting for one faction or another, delivering supplies and 
munitions to the battlefront, or simply trying to escape after their encamp- 
ment is overrun by an invading army. Any of these scenarios will require them 
to battle their way through a horde of blind Lugubraa warriors. 

Even more dangerous is the spectacle of a planet overpopulated with 
Lugubraa. A treasure hunt or scouting expedition to such a world will reveal 
a landscape covered with wriggling, dying Lugubraa, their mouths affixed 
to rock as they try to drain mineral nutrients. The arrival of the heroes will 
turn these half-starved wretches into alert and active predators suddenly 
salivating for a hot meal. 


Lorgrombo 

Lorgrombo is more than 150 years old and possesses a piercing intellect 
that far outstrips those of his dull-minded peers. The elder Lugubraa works 
as a broker for his horde, booking hundreds of thousands of warriors for 
mercenary-minded clients or negotiating the employment of individual 
bodyguards for personal contracts. 

With more than a century of experience in his genius stage, Lorgrombo 
is one of the most well-connected beings in the Unknown Regions. His deals 
have made him party to every major conflict currently burning across the 
galaxy's western disc, and he knows someone in every starport between Killik 
space and the Ssi-ruuvi Imperium. Many beings underestimate Lorgrombo, 
mistaking him for a typical Lugubraa, but those in the know consider him the 
low-tech fringe equivalent of the great Chiss data library on Csilla. 


Lorgrombo considers himself the great-great-grandfather of his horde, 
since most of them are the splitlings of his splitlings and beyond. He is keenly 
aware of planets where his horde has overrun the native lifeforms and run 
amok on continents or islands. After sadly concluding that such incidents 
are bad for business, he is enlisting adventurers to kill as many Lugubraa as 
possible at such sites, but only after identifying and rescuing any specimens 
who have reached their 50-year intelligence threshold. Lorgrombo, who is 
looking to fill a lieutenant's vacancy, will pay a handsome reward for any 
intelligent Lugubraa returned to his care. 


Lorgrombo CL8 

Medium Lugubraa nonheroic 15/noble 3 

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 6 

Init +8; Senses darkvision; Perception +22 

Languages Basic, Ebruchese, Killik, Lugubraal, Minnisiat, Rakata, 
Rammocate, Sy Bisti, Tof, Vagaari 


Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 14), Fort 17, Will 19 
hp 102; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee bite +13 (1d4+1) or 

Melee barbed tentacle +13 (1d6+1) or 

Ranged by weapon +12 

Base Atk +13; Grp +13 

Atk Options Pin 

Special Actions Born Leader, Inspire Confidence 


Abilities Str 10, Dex 8, Con 16, Int 18, Wis 17, Cha 14 

Special Qualities lockbite 

Talents Born Leader, Inspire Confidence 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Elder's Knowledge, Improved Damage 
Threshold, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Pin, Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[social sciences]), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Persuasion), 
Skill Training (Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +16, Gather Information +16, Knowledge (social 
sciences) +23, Perception +22, Persuasion +21, Use Computer +18 

Possessions basic clothes, local currency, comlink 


MNGGAL-MNGGAL 


DESCRIPTION 

Mnggal-Mnggal is the whispered horror of the Unknown Regions—a shape- 
less, pitiless creature that toys with its living prey in the way that a felinx 
tortures a dying scurrier. 

It is difficult to describe Mnggal-Mnggal, because if the stories are true, 
it conforms to no known analogue in the University of Sanbra’s catalog of 
intelligent life. It seems apparent that Mnggal-Mnggal is a single being and 
not a species, although at any given moment, it appears in thousands of 
places simultaneously across the galaxy. 

At its core, Mnggal-Mnggal is a thick gray ooze, opaque in color, slimy in 
texture, and smelling of sweet rot. It exists on the surface of the planet Mugg 
Fallow, where it forms a world-ocean that submerges the planet from pole 
to pole, broken only by empty continents covered with petrified forests and 
crisscrossed by rivers of gray. Beneath the surface, Mnggal-Mnggal pools in 
dark grottos and extends its roots into the core of the dead world it calls home. 

As a fluid being, Mnggal-Mnggal is capable of endless shapeshifting. It 
can interact with its surroundings by forming questing pseudopods, fanged 
mouths, and eyes on stalks. It can also break off pieces of its mass into 
crawling worms and flapping batlike creatures. When its constructs have 
served their purpose, they are reabsorbed into the totality of Mnggal-Mnggal. 

If this were the entirety of Mnggal-Mnggal's existence, Mugg Fallow 
would be an avoidable hazard. But the entity can infect other beings with 
bits of itself, then eat at their insides until only shells remain. These puppets 
appear normal at first glance, but closer inspection will reveal their vacant 
gazes, stiff gaits, and (because they do not breathe or have a pulse) utter 
stillness when at rest. 

After consuming the innards of its prey, Mnggal-Mnggal fills every square 
centimeter of the victim's torso, limbs, and head, and it can animate them 
with sufficient precision to pilot an airspeeder, type on a datapad, or carry on 
a conversation. Since such victims no longer possess lungs or vocal chords, 
Mnggal-Mnggal projects its own “voice” from inside the throat, using speech 
that is emotionally flat and possesses a buzzy distortion. 

Bodies kept animated in this state are still corpses and subject to the 
normal process of decay. After a week, a zombie of this type will begin to 
rot, with the grayish essence of Mnggal-Mnggal leaking from the eyes, 
nose, mouth, or ears. 


MOTIVATIONS 
Mnggal-Mnggal has a single, self-aware intelligence. Some who have spent 
time among the petrified forests of Mugg Fallow claim to have conversed with 
it, and they have filled journals with recollections of its dreamlike observations. 
Mnggal-Mnggal speaks in verse, metaphor, and riddles, often using 
ancient languages or adopting forgotten conventions of speech. Some say 
that it is a deceiver and that every word it utters is either a lie or flattery. 
Mnggal-Mnggal tells tales of the Celestials, the Rakata, and the dawn of the 
Jedi, as well as the current plots of conquerors, the locations of lost wonders, 


MNGGAL-MNGGAL PREPARES TO TAKE A HUMAN HOST. 


and the answers to mysteries that have existed for tens of thousands of 
years. The veracity of this information is unclear. Mnggal-Mnggal relishes 
deceiving the gullible and stringing along the hopeful with truths that will 
remain forever just out of their reach. 

It is clear that Mnggal-Mnggal has malevolent intent. Its primary tactics 
of aggression—infecting other beings and spreading offworld inside their 
husks—do not appear to be based on any sort of survival instinct. Instead, 
Mnggal-Mnggal seems to thrive on the suffering of others. The wrenching 
spectacle of a mother confronted with the reanimated corpse of her own 
child has been repeated on planet after planet, and Mnggal-Mnggal pushes 
the emotional buttons of other beings to persuade them to open airlocks 
and deactivate perimeter fences. 

Mnggal-Mnggal desires control, and the entity has staked its claim to 
thousands of worlds in the great spiral galaxy that it has inhabited far longer 
than the ephemeral beings that are its playthings. Extinguishing individual 
lives appears to be a source of lazy amusement. 


METHODS 
In its raw form, Mnggal-Mnggal is a gelatinous goo that can take any shape. 
Streams and creeping amoebic blobs transport it from place to place; thin 
tendrils and ropy tentacles reach into spaces and operate controls. 
Mnggal-Mnggal's primary method of transference is infecting others. 
Beings that encounter a calm pool of gray liquid might be shocked as the 
surface abruptly explodes, with dozens of droplets coating their faces and 
sliding toward their mouth and nostrils. After Mnggal-Mnggal's essence 


A 8SidgvHo 


SiLvEsAtL 


A esidvHo 


SALVE 


penetrates the cranium, it moves to the internal tissues, consuming blood 
and muscle as it increases its own mass. Within 24 hours, this results in a 
hollowed-out vessel filled entirely with viscous pus. 

The victim, of course, is dead, but the intelligence of Mnggal-Mnggal 
is now in control and can use the body however it desires. Because all are 
animated by the same mind, multiple zombies can essentially communicate 
telepathically as they work together to spew infectious fluid into the faces 
of new subjects. Even animals (in sizes ranging between that of a nexu and 
that of a bantha) can secretly be vessels for Mnggal-Mnggal. 

The "ambush" method of transfer is not the only manner in which 
Mnggal-Mnggal spreads. Small quantities of the gray slime—no larger than 
a bean—can be accidentally swallowed, after which the seed begins a similar 
hollowing (which can take up to a week, due to the greater mass needed for 
conversion). A seed amount can be concealed in food or swirled into a drink 
by an infected victim, or it could be left by a small, wormlike segment that 
finds its way into a galley. 

Those who swallow a piece of Mnggal-Mnggal suffer extreme pain from 
the internal assault. Their strength and stamina plummet, and they register 
Mnggal-Mnggal's sinister intelligence, fully aware of what is happening to 
them. Any substance that induces vomiting can cause the victim to expel 
the Mnggal-Mnggal seed, but only within the first 12 hours after infection. 

The raw ooze of Mnggal-Mnggal is immune to edged and impact weapons, 
and blaster fire causes only minor damage. Killing a pool of Mnggal-Mnggal 
is best accomplished by wide-spray application of fire, acid, poison, or 
noxious chemicals. 


HistToRY 

Mnggal-Mnggal is an ancient creature that claims to have witnessed the 
golden age of the Celestials and their sudden withdrawal from the galaxy 
circa 30,000 BBY. The hyperspatial anomaly that bisects the galaxy would 
easily have been within the capabilities of the Celestials, and some speculate 
that it might have separated Mnggal-Mnggal's influence from the Celestial 
projects taking place near Corellia, Kessel, and other sites in the eastern disk. 

Mnggal-Mnggal might be extradimensional in origin. Its appearance is 
so alien that some have tied it to reports of shapeless beings from beyond 
known space that have wondrous telepathic and healing abilities. 

Mugg Fallow is the central world inhabited by Mnggal-Mnggal, essentially 
representing its brain. The planet might have been inhabited long ago but 
is utterly lifeless now, with fossilized tree trunks the only lingering relics of 
former organic matter. 

This site where Mnggal-Mnggal first evolved (or arrived) is now entirely 
covered with its slime. A fleet of derelict starships encircles the world in a 
dull metallic ring, each one steered into orbit by infected zombies and stored 
there as a macabre decoration. The collection contains vessels from every 
era of space travel, including rare Gree sailships and at least one fully laden 
treasure barge commissioned by Xim the Despot. 


Mnggal-Mnggal has extended its presence onto countless planets, 
moons, and space stations across the Unknown Regions. Since its puppets 
last only a short time before decaying, the most reliable signs of infestation 
are gray pools in caverns and sewer systems. Given time and an absence of 
countermeasures, a world can become as overrun and lifeless as Mugg Fallow 
within a few generations. 

Extended outbreaks are responsible for the decimation of the Viis Empire 
and other game-changing political shifts in the Unknown Regions. The 
Lugubraa and the illusion-casting Croke have fought for decades against 
Mnggal-Mnggal's incursion into their territory, even as they persist in their 
efforts to annihilate each other. Recent reports from civilized space indicate 
that Mnggal-Mnggal has moved beyond the Unknown Regions and onto 
outlying worlds in Wild Space and the Outer Rim Territories. Some observers 
have drawn connections between Mnggal-Mnggal and the plagues created 
under Imperial Project Blackwing. 


USING MNGGAL-MNGGAL 

Mnggal-Mnggal is a clear-cut enemy. The entity is a cruel and evil killer, 
and its actions are not mitigated by the need to feed or reproduce. Almost 
all Unknown Regions inhabitants will support the heroes in burning out an 
infestation of Mnggal-Mnggal, although on particularly primitive worlds, the 
local tribes might take offense to anyone angering the “rot god." 

Common throughout the Unknown Regions, Mnggal-Mnggal can be 
placed on any world of the Gamemaster's choosing. Most likely, first encoun- 
ters occur through infected zombies, which might replace the residents of a 
space depot, a contact the heroes are supposed to meet, or an old friend that 
one of the characters will recognize from a previous encounter. Interactions 
with these victims consistently feel "off," with distinctive signs that include 
communicating without speaking, moving in choreographed patterns, and 
speaking with unearthly voices. Some puppets might be partially decayed 
and ooze gray fluid. 

It is a certainty that such victims will try to infect the heroes by luring 
them close enough to strike their faces with tendrils of ooze. Shooting or 
cutting apart a zombie might cripple the host body but will only release 
Mnggal-Mnggal in its raw form, which will be immune to similar attacks. 

A more subtle assault can result from the ingestion of a small piece of 
Mnggal-Mnggal. This fate might befall a GM character traveling aboard 
the heroes’ ship. If the condition goes untreated, the victim will transform 
into a zombie at the worst possible moment, such as in the middle of 
hyperspace navigation, a tricky asteroid transit, or an intense exchange of 
space dogfighting. 

No one knows whether Mnggal-Mnggal can be killed, but a strike on 
the planet Mugg Fallow would be a logical move. The ships in orbit above 
the site include a few that are bursting with volatile arsenals stored next 
to leaking antimatter engines. Such a vessel, if nudged out of orbit into a 
collision with the planet beneath, could trigger a chain reaction that might 
destroy Mugg Fallow. 


Most cultures in the Unknown Regions are aware of Mnggal-Mnggal, 
although few understand its true nature and instead embellish the sparse 
facts with legend. The Chiss data library on Csilla has the most comprehensive 
collection of Mnggal-Mnggal lore, including the entity's purported origins 
and the coordinates of Mugg Fallow. The Chiss Ascendancy will pay a bounty 
to adventurers for clearing sites of infestation, and they will readily supply 
a list of candidate locations if asked. 


Mnggal-Mnggal 

In its pure state, Mnggal-Mnggal can be found in subterranean pools. It 
fights off visitors by generating batlike fliers and thrashing pseudopods, all of 
which attack by going for the face. Droids (or fully armored characters) that 
cannot be infected in this fashion are instead immobilized and torn apart. The 
gelatinous form of Mnggal-Mnggal can be encountered in amounts as small 
as a cupful or as large as deep lakes that extend to the horizon. 


Mnggal-Mnggal CL 8 

Medium* beast 8 

Init +6; Senses darkvision; Perception +11 

Languages Mnggal-Mnggal plus any languages spoken by its host 

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 12, Will 12 

hp 52; DR 5; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed (pseudopod) +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged flying fragment +8 (1d6+4) 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Running Attack, Trip 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 6 

Special Qualities amorphous, Mnggal-Mnggal seed 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Running Attack, Trip 

Skills Perception +11, Use the Force +2 

Amorphous—Raw quantities of Mnggal-Mnggal have no defined shape 
and can alter their forms at will within the limitations of their current 
sizes. Such alterations can include the creation of pseudopods for 
combat or tendrils for grasping and tripping targets. Mnggal-Mnggal is 
not a natural mimic and cannot imitate or copy other creatures or alter 
its natural color. 

Flying Fragment—As a swift action, Mnggal-Mnggal can separate 
fragments from a larger form that fly through the air as a ranged 
attack. These flying fragments can remain airborne for the duration 
of an encounter before becoming reabsorbed by the larger form. 
Additionally, as a move action, Mnggal-Mnggal can divide into two 
forms that are each one size smaller than the single form, or two forms 
can merge to become one form that is one size larger. 


Mnggal-Mnggal Seed—Mnggal-Mnggal seeds allow the entity to take 
over the forms of other creatures. Once every four hours, make an 
attack roll at 1d20+6 against the Fortitude Defense of a creature that 
swallows a Mnggal-Mnggal seed. After 12 hours, increase the attack 
roll to 1d20+10. If an attack misses, the seed continues to attack until 
physically removed from the creature's body. If an attack succeeds, 
each hour, the target takes 1d12 points of damage and moves -1 step 
on the condition track. Once the target reaches 0 hit points or the 
bottom of the condition track, it is effectively consumed and becomes 
a Mnggal-Mnggal zombie (see below). 

*Mnggal-Mnggal essence in its natural form can range in size from Tiny to 
Colossal. Apply size modifiers as needed. 


Mnggal-Mnggal Zombie 

In the case of a zombified puppet, Mnggal-Mnggal is concealed inside the 
hollow shell of a formerly intelligent being or an inconspicuous animal. 
Such subjects have stiff movements (which are coordinated among multiple 
victims at once), speak in telltale buzzing voices, and share instantaneous 
communication with other Mnggal-Mnggal zombies. The following statistics 
represent a typical Mnggal-Mnggal zombie. Mnggal-Mnggal zombies of 
creatures with unique physiological attributes (such as natural weapons and 
armor) may have additional attacks, defenses, and special qualities. You can 
adjust a Mnggal-Mnggal zombie statistics block to include those attacks and 
special qualities to better reflect the true nature of the host. 


Mnggal-Mnggal Zombie CL8 
Medium* beast 8 

Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +11 

Languages Mnggal-Mnggal 


Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 12, Will 12 

hp 52; DR 5; Threshold 12 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged by weapon +5 

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square 

Base Atk +6; Grp +6 

Atk Options Running Attack, Trip 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 8, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Feats Force Sensitivity, Running Attack, Trip 

Skills Perception +11, Use the Force +2 

*The zombie's size matches that of the consumed victim. Apply size 
modifiers as needed. 


A SeSaLavHg 


J 
a 
ay 
4 
@) 


A BStdvHo 


SLVEasAL 


RAKATA 


DESCRIPTION 

The Rakata are perhaps the most important species alive for professors of 
planetary archaeology and xenoanthropology. They are a link to a long-ago 
past that changed the galaxy forever. 

At first glance, the Rakata do not seem quite so epic. They are smooth- 
skinned humanoids with tall craniums and protruding eyes that jut from each 
side of the head on short stalks. Bipedal in form, the Rakata have three-digit 
hands tipped with claws for digging through packed dirt. 

The Rakata are uniformly lean and close to the same height. It can be 
difficult for outsiders to distinguish between them, although females typi- 
cally have more slender builds. 

Nearly all Rakata have gray or reddish-gray skin, a trait of the dominant 
lineage that survived the ancient plague that thinned their numbers. Very 
rare are representatives of near-extinct Rakata breeds such as the black 
Bukesek of Lehon’s volcanic sands, the crimson-striped Ikalik from the blade 
glades, and the pale blue Droot that originated in the equatorial tidal coves. 

Circa 30,000 BBY, the Infinite Empire of the Rakata achieves galactic 
dominance due to the species’ natural Force-sensitivity and the Force-attuned 
technology that provides perpetual energy and hyperspace travel. But the 
plague that decimates their empire also severs their link to the Force. Modern 
Rakata are Force-blind, and they hunger for a way to restore their connection. 

Rakata speak their native tongue, which is also called Rakata, but they are 
intelligent and pick up new information quickly. The members of the priest 
class, who spend much of their time deciphering dead texts, are more likely 
to understand the speech of newcomers. 

Rakata priests wear long robes and electronic control devices on their 
forearms. Warriors wear angular plastoid armor and carry shock lances. 
Members of primitive tribes might wear armor made of wood and twine and 
brandish fire-blackened spears. 

For details on Rakata species traits, see page 18 of the Knights of the Old 
Republic Campaign Guide. 


MOTIVATIONS 
The Rakata are conquerors. Within a scattering of far-flung planets that 
crosses the entirety of the Unknown Regions, Rakata still play out this ancient 
struggle. The more barbarous tribes within the "Rakatan Archipelago,” such 
as those inhabiting the planets of Fitomp or Hilak, believe that their worlds 
represent all of creation and make war against other native species. On more 
enlightened worlds, such as Makatak and Tulpaa, the day-to-day bloodshed 
is lessened, but the desire to reclaim lost glories is as powerful as ever. 
Most would agree that the Rakata show no outward signs of malice. Yet 
their species once ruled the galaxy through slavery and genocide, and their 
violent cores still erupt to the surface if pushed. An enraged Rakata cannot 
be reasoned with and will ignore its own injuries in a wild effort to destroy 
those it believes to be its enemies. 


Even on the most backward planets, a schism exists between "those who 
fight" and "those who build." Warriors are darkly suspicious of priests who 
harness forces beyond comprehension, and priests are wary of warriors who 
have more muscle than brains. 

On some planets, the Rakatan priest and warrior classes have united to 
wield the wonders of their forebears, including planetary disruptor fields, 
builder droids, and skipships. On other outposts of the Archipelago, the 
priests (also known as Elders) make war against one another using arsenals 
that they barely understand, leaving the landscape pitted and glowing with 
radioactivity. 

All Rakata long to restore the Force connection that vanished many mil- 
lennia ago. They can feel the loss on a spiritual level, speaking of a black hole 
in their chests that consumes life, contentment, and happiness. For priests, 
there is also a practical aspect, since ancient tech cannot be operated to its 
fullest potential by one who lacks aptitude for the Force. 

Scientists among the priest class experiment with living beings in an 
attempt to discern the Force's essence. Such trials include dissecting animals 
and grafting plant tissue into prisoners’ bodies. The crimes of Rakatan vivi- 
sectionists drive the species’ monstrous reputation in the Unknown Regions, 
and such brutality is one reason why indigenous populations fight so fiercely 
to be rid of their Rakatan overmasters. 


THE RAKATA 


METHODS 

In the Unknown Regions, the Rakata can range from rock-throwing primitives 
to apocalyptic mad scientists. The difference is their technology. Tribes with 
the ability to keep old Rakatan tech functional can unleash powers seemingly 
supernatural in scale. However, their Force-blindness means that the Rakata 
can operate the machinery at only a fraction of its desired functionality. 

Some, particularly the Elders of the Makatak and Tulpaa tribes, have 
exhumed buried skipships and become starfarers once more. Just as in 
ancient times, the drives of their vessels work by zeroing in on worlds that 
have high Force concentrations, although the Rakata now lack the ability 
to control this process. The Makatak and Tulpaa have become embroiled in 
a resource fight as each pushes for control over the same life-rich planets. 

Upon reaching a new world, the typical Rakata response is to enslave 
as many natives as possible with a technological show of force, then use 
the same equipment to strip-mine the site of metals, ores, compressed 
gasses, and radioactive plasma. Because the skipships typically arrive at 
rich, unspoiled biospheres, the Rakata have seldom needed to deal with 
advanced civilizations. 

The Makatak and Tulpaa Elders continue to tinker with crumbling Raka- 
tan inventions, puzzling out a way to unlock old mind traps—prison boxes 
that contain an infinite expanse of white nothingness. The two tribes are 
even competing to complete construction on scaled-down versions of 
the great Star Forge that once supplied the Infinite Empire with endless 
battle machines. 

Many tribes that fled the collapse of the Infinite Empire took their slaves 
with them. Tens of thousands of years later, their descendents are still in 
service. Slave species in the Rakatan Archipelago include representatives 
of Infinite Empire worlds in the pre-Republic era, such as the Wookiees of 
Kashyyyk, the Selkath of Manaan, and the Selonians of the Corellian System. 


Overbreeding among the slaves has led to sickly genetic deformities. 
The Wookiee slaves of Malata, for example, are stoop-shouldered and 
hairless, with long front incisors to gnaw timber thickets. Rakatan guard 
beasts are similarly mutated but still come from recognizable stock. On 
Persappa, blue-spotted, amphibious rancors lurk in bubbling brew pools, 
and the bamboo patches of Griwstrick house scurrier-sized offshoots of 
the Corellian sand panther. 


HisTtTorRyY 

Long before the rise of the Republic, the Rakata build their Infinite Empire. 
Centered on the Rakatan homeworld of Lehon in the Unknown Regions, the 
Infinite Empire soon expands by thousands of light years in every direction. 

Their natural Force-sensitivity (perhaps even their predisposition toward 
the dark side) allows them to make machines that operate in the same way. 
Rakatan Force-drives give power to skipships that hopscotch between worlds 
rich in life, leading to an empire with a spotty, patchwork appearance. The 
Rakata enslave all they find and alter the ecosystems of worlds such as 
Tatooine, Kashyyyk, and Vagar Praxut. 

By 30,000 BBY, the Infinite Empire reaches its height, stripping bare such 
planets as Duro and Morseer and forcing the Coruscantis and Corellians 
to build weapons of colossal scale. Rakatan forces defeat the era's other 
major powers, including the Gree and the Kwa, and only the double blow 
of a plague and a civil war weakens their hold sufficiently to permit a slave 
revolt in 25,200 BBY. 

The plague also strips the Rakata of their Force-sensitivity. Blind to the 
energy of the universe, many go mad. Before long, Rakata all but vanish from 
the eastern disk, with the exception of a few holdouts in the Tion Cluster. 

In the Unknown Regions, Rakatan tribes steal whatever they can carry 
from the storehouses of Lehon's idle Star Forge and flee in advance of a 
nuclear war between the warriors and the priests. These refugees fan out 
to settle what comes to be known as the Rakatan Archipelago. 


A HeSLdvHo 


JJ 
ab 
ay 
, 
al 
C) 


A 8SiavHoS 


q] 
db 
2 
v 
Bl 
) 


Lehon returns to prominence in 3956 BBY, after Darth Revan reactivates 
the Star Forge and triggers the Jedi Civil War. But the planet's population 
continues to dwindle, and by 1000 BBY, the Rakata are believed extinct. 

No Republic surveyors have ever located the Rakatan Archipelago. Many 
local species have been abused by this pocket civilization, but other powers 
in the Unknown Regions have largely remained ignorant of the threat. But 
if the Rakata find a way to restore their primeval technology, the Infinite 
Empire could rise once more. 


USING THE RAKATA 

The Rakata are solid antagonists for adventures centered around archaeologi- 
cal scouting or treasure hunting. No matter how primitive a Rakatan tribe 
might appear, the species once ruled the galaxy, and its current members 
are likely sitting on artifacts of unimaginable power that would be worth 
millions of credits to museums, scientists, or private collectors. 

The Rakatan Archipelago is a diffusion of unaligned worlds, and few 
people are aware of its existence. Finding a specific site might be a painstak- 
ing ordeal of following clue after clue, but a Force-sensitive hero can provide 
a handy shortcut if the character knows (and is able) to scan for worlds with 
strong Force signatures. 

On any given planet, Rakatan tribes can be archaic or relatively advanced. 
Some might have activated planetary disruptor fields that disable incoming 
starships and force crash landings. Members of the Rakatan warrior class will 
want to kill newcomers, whereas priests might be intrigued by the visitors’ 
gadgetry. They will be overjoyed if one of the heroes can touch the Force and 
will make every move to enslave the subject for experimentation. 

The Makatak and Tulpaa tribes are home to the most advanced Rakata 
in the Unknown Regions. Both are constructing small (half-kilometer) Star 
Forge orbital factories, which could be the targets of sabotage for the heroes. 
Both tribes possess dozens of mind trap prisons that can be unlocked only by 
use of the Force. If a hero helps the Rakata open one, the trap will disgorge 
Sharu criminals, Kwa super-soldiers, and other unhinged killers locked away 
since the pre-Republic era. 


Elder Ruthic 

Elder Ruthic is an unusual Rakata—a priest with the skills of a warrior. She 
became head of the Tulpaa tribe by exiling the former leaders into the empty 
eternity of a mind trap. 

Unique among Rakata, she has been growing closer to the Force with each 
passing year. This development has given her great insight into the technology 
of her ancestors, and her tribe now sends hundreds of skipships to scour the 
Unknown Regions for slaves and resources. Meanwhile, the metal skeleton 
of a new Star Forge is taking shape in the skies above Tulpaa. 


Ruthic is very bright and not given to anger or excess. The tribal leader 
realizes that the generations before her failed to use all the power available 
to them, and she is determined to uncover every lost secret. Because her 
emerging Force-sensitivity appears to be a fluke, she has ordered her priests 
to cut apart healthy slaves to determine if the Force lies in their blood, their 
organs, or their brains. 

Elder Ruthic is protected by two Gengh-Noghri wherever she goes. These 
offshoots of the Noghri species, brought to Tulpaa from Honoghr's slave 
stock, are over 2 meters in height and have massive crocodilian heads filled 
with flesh-tearing teeth. 

Lurking in the shadows of her ruling temple is Raspir, a pure-blooded Sith 
released from a mind trap prison when Ruthic banished her opponents to 
the same device. Raspir once served Sith King Adas as a court magician. As 
a practitioner of dark Sith magic, he has given Ruthic wise advice on how to 
bend the creation engines of the Star Forge to her will. 


Elder Ruthic 

Medium Rakata noble 4/soldier 3 

Destiny 1; Force 6; Dark Side 2 

Init +9; Senses Perception +16 

Languages Basic, Minnisiat, Rakata, Rammocate, Sy Bisti, Vagaari 

Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 18), Fort 20, Will 22 

hp 61; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +8 (1d6+6) or 

Melee quarterstaff +8 (1d6+6) or 

Melee quarterstaff +3/+3 (1d6+6) 

Ranged by weapon +7 

Base Atk +6; Grp +7 

Atk Options Dual Weapon Mastery |, Instinctive Attack, Melee Smash, 
Stunning Strike 

Special Actions Born Leader, Inspire Confidence 


CL7 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 16 

Special Qualities ancient knowledge, rage 

Talents Born Leader, Inspire Confidence, Melee Smash, Stunning Strike 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dual Weapon Mastery I, Force Sensitivity, 
Instinctive Attack, Linguist, Martial Arts I, Skill Focus (Perception), 
Skill Focus (Persuasion), Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Gather Information +11, Initiative +9, Knowledge 
(life sciences) +10, Knowledge (social sciences) +10, Perception +16, 
Persuasion +16, Treat Injury +11, Use the Force +6 (untrained) 

Possessions ceremonial garb, ceremonial staff, ceremonial gloves (as 
combat gloves) 


SORCERERS 
OF RHAND 


DESCRIPTION 

The Sorcerers of Rhand live deep in the Unknown Regions, hidden by the 
red flow of the Perann Nebula from any disciples of the dark side who wish 
to tap their knowledge. Their reclusiveness is a blessing, for if the Sorcerers 
were to unleash the full entropic power of what they call the Dark, the entire 
galaxy might come to ruin. 

The Sorcerers have no uniform appearance and are not presumed to be 
members of the same species. Yet no one is clear on what, exactly, the Sorcer- 
ers are. Succate, a chronicler from Carrivar, assembled the largest collection 
of information on the Sorcerers 80 years before the Battle of Yavin. According 
to her recounting of a meeting in the central ruin of Rhand, each Sorcerer 
manifests in a unique state of disassembly and decay. One lacked skin and 
oozed bodily fluids with every step. One was merely a blackened skeleton. 
Another appeared to have been turned inside out, with clean white teeth 
poking jaggedly from a raw mass of a head. A fourth existed as a long ribbon 
of flesh that swirled and coiled throughout the Rhandite receiving chamber. 

Succate could not determine whether these were mortal beings that 
had been transformed into such states, supernatural entities that had taken 
strange forms, or simply illusions. But despite their unsettling appearance, 
the presence of additional black-cloaked figures hovering on the periphery 
engendered even more dread—for Succate's imagination conjured even worse 
horrors that might lie beneath their black folds. 

Most Sorcerers appear to walk on two legs, but some hover above the 
ground at a height of half a meter, the hems of their robes dangling above 
the cold stone. Others have four or more legs and scuttle close to the floor 
with heavy blankets draped over their backs. A few rare members of the order 
flap high above their gatherings on wings, unwilling or unable to descend 
to ground level. Meeting an assemblage of Sorcerers is a disorienting and 
sometimes terrifying experience. 


MOTIVATIONS 

An overriding faith in the Dark motivates the Sorcerers of Rhand. This con- 
cept, unrelated to the Force practiced by the Jedi and Sith, is interpreted to 
mean the ultimate end of all existence. Scientists refer to the Dark as the 
concept of entropy, and others brush against its meaning when they complain 
that “things fall apart." But the Sorcerers of Rhand believe that the Dark is 
everything, and therefore the only true source of power. 

The greatest civilization, the grandest palace, the noblest warrior— 
everything collapses, crumbles, and dies. Destruction is inevitable. Nothing 
escapes its grip, not even the universe itself. Most beings spend their time 
building institutions and making rules, revealing themselves in the Sorcer- 
ers’ eyes as small-minded children. In time their work vanishes, unmourned 
and unremembered. 


SORCERER OF RHAND 
SPECIES TRAITS 

The Sorcerers of Rhand are united by a common condition rather than a 
shared genetic code. Although they retain a semblance of their original 
forms, they are twisted beyond the natural abilities of their native species. 
They are transformed over time and adapt to take on the following traits: 

Ability Modifiers: -2 Strength, -2 Dexterity, +4 Intelligence, +2 
Wisdom, -2 Charisma. Sorcerers lose their physical attributes in exchange 
for increased mental abilities. 

Medium Size: As creatures of Medium size, Sorcerers have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Sorcerer base speed is 6 squares. Some are known to hover 
mysteriously instead of walk. 

Bonus Feat: Sorcerers gain the Force Sensitivity feat for free. 

Dark-Infused: Sorcerers gain the Force Training feat for free, but half 
the Force powers selected with this bonus feat must have the dark side 
descriptor, and none can have the light side descriptor. 

Repulsive Appearance: The Sorcerers’ repulsive physical appearances 
allow them to reroll Persuasion checks to intimidate and take the better 
result. They also gain a +5 bonus to their Will Defense when others 
attempt to use the Persuasion skill against them. 

Special Qualities: Each Sorcerer gains from one to three special 
qualities unique to his or her relationship with the Dark. Create these 
qualities, or select one or more using the Creature Generator on page 89. 

Automatic Languages: Basic plus many others. Sorcerers are often 
versed in a multitude of tongues. 


The Sorcerers are realists. They understand that the power of destruc- 
tion, coupled with time, has more ability to change the universe than any 
effort of creation. They devote their efforts to understanding its purpose and 
ultimately divining a way to become agents of the Dark. By manipulating the 
forces of destruction, they can bring their enemies to ruin. 

The Dark also brings with it a kind of future sight. If all things come to 
an end, and if the Sorcerers possess an understanding of the Dark, then they 
can see its effects forward and backward throughout time. By selecting or 
rejecting specific paths of destruction, the Sorcerers can bring about any 
event they desire. 

The Sorcerers understand that the power does not lie with themselves. 
As living beings, they are only temporary constructs to be chewed apart by 
the Dark. But by riding its omnipotent potential, they can follow it to places 
of their choosing. 

The most devout among the Sorcerers of Rhand believe that they can 
join their consciousnesses with the Dark when their mortal bodies rot. In 
this form, they will bring oblivion to the very stars until everything ceases 
to exist and the universe undergoes heat death. 


A Se3idgvHo 


SLVeENHA, 


A HStcdgvHo 


J 
ao 
2 
W 
“J 
() 


The Sorcerers do not care about the traditions of the Jedi and the Sith. 
The idea of a "Force" with a light side and a dark side strikes them as quaint 
and naive. When they tap into the Dark, they are not communicating with 
an energy field created by living things (by definition, a fleeting, transitory 
trifle) but with the fundamental law of reality. 


METHODS 
The reclusive Sorcerers have never been spotted definitively outside the 
twelve star clusters of the Nihil Retreat that form a protective bulwark 
around the Perann Nebula. However, their techniques allow them to operate 
from remote distances, and it is not known how many catastrophes in the 
Unknown Regions have been perpetuated by their meddling. 

Chief among their tools is the gift of Darksight, which allows a Sorcerer 
to see the future as a branching path—each path defined by the forces of 
destruction that trigger change. A Sorcerer can choose a path and encourage 
the inevitability of that future (and its associated outcomes of death and ruin). 

The Sorcerers also wield a type of battle meditation that is essentially a 
more immediate expression of Darksight. While viewing armies 
engaged in warfare, a Sorcerer can sense how close each 
soldier is to death and nudge individuals into decisions 
that bring about their immediate annihilation. 

A more direct method of control also exists 
through the use of Nihil smokestone, a native mineral 
with the ability to act as a mental transmitter and 
receiver. By imprinting slaves with smokestone—via 
skull implants or removable cranial harnesses—one 
Sorcerer can control a horde of so-called Pawns. The 
controlling Sorcerer is required to wear a shadow 
crown made from smokestone, but he or she gains the 
ability to receive the collective sensory input of the 
Pawns or give them primal commands (such as kill, 
run, or feed). Pawns can also be directly controlled 
like the marionettes of a puppeteer. 

Finally, in the rare event that the Sorcerers are 
threatened in a face-to-face confrontation, they 
have mastered an arcane technique for channeling 
the Dark in a sustained, directed burst. A Darkshear 
strike causes the victim to suffer the cumula- 
tive damage of years of atrophy. Armor becomes 
rusted and brittle, power cells drain, and machinery 
jams. Individuals can age 30 years in an instant, 
and individual body parts—a heart, a lung, a knee 
joint—might fail in the midst of battle. The damage 
can sometimes be reversed with bacta, but it might 
require prosthetic replacement. 


HisToRY 

According to Succate's annals, the Sorcerers are the culmination of three 
ancient philosophical schools. The first is the Knell of Muspilli, a death cult 
from the moon trees of the Gunninga Gap that transcribed the Taurannix 
Codex to call forth apocalyptic deities from beyond the Gap's spatial fissure. 

The second school is the Kanzer Exiles, a fanatical flock of reptilians led 
by the Lord Ravager Korman Lao. These exiles expanded their faith through 
mental enslavement and built a world-sized temple near the Valtaullu Rift. 

The third school is an offshoot of the Warriors of the Shadow—Taung 
soldiers beaten by the Battalions of Zhell in the prehistory of Coruscant. 
After surviving the war and a volcanic plume of ash that filled the skies for 
two years, the priestly sisterhood of the Taungs fled to the Unknown Regions 
to seek atonement through meditation and insight. 

Thousands of years bring about the merging of these belief systems on 
the worlds of the Nihil Retreat near the Perann Nebula. Deep within the 
nebula itself, on the planet Rhand that gives the new movement its name, 
the greatest Sorcerers take up residence in the dark ruins of a long-dead 

species. Outposts and monasteries on the twelve planets of the Nihil 
Retreat come to be populated by acolytes of the faith (known as 
Rhandites), who have not yet attained true insight into the Dark. 
Prior to the Battle of Yavin, Lord Cronal, Director of Imperial 
Intelligence and one of Emperor Palpatine's trusted Hands, 
gains understanding of the Dark from the Sorcerers of Rand. 
Cronal renames himself Blackhole, signifying his desire to 
become an event horizon to draw all life into the Dark's abyss. 
Unlike the Sorcerers, Cronal augments his knowledge with Sith 
secrets from Korriban and the teachings of the Prophets of 
the Dark Side on Dromund Kaas. 
In 5 ABY, after using his warrior-puppet Lord Shadow- 
spawn to devastate the Inner Rim, Cronal attempts to seize 
control of Luke Skywalker during the Battle of Mindor. 
Skywalker thwarts his efforts and Cronal vanishes, later 
appearing in Imperial service in a greatly diminished 
capacity. 


USING THE 

SORCERERS OF RHAND 
The Sorcerers of Rhand can offer temptation to any Force- 
user. Their philosophy—based not on living things but on the 
literal end of existence—could prove supremely seductive 
to a dark sider, or an object of unpleasant but necessary 
curiosity to a Jedi who wishes to gain understanding on how 
to reconcile the Dark with the concept of the Unifying Force. 
The Sorcerers are rumored to possess Rakatan forges, 
Taurannix chapbooks, and other relics from throughout the 


A SORCERER OF RHAND 


Unknown Regions. All such items have inherent dark side power and could 
sell for thousands of credits to collectors in civilized space. 

Because the Sorcerers never leave the edges of the Nihil Retreat, the 
heroes must come to them. Reaching the Retreat requires a long journey 
through an empty region of space. With the right cover story, any of the 
Retreat's worlds might accept the heroes as new disciples or pilgrims. Oth- 
erwise, the adventurers might find their ship under attack from Darkshear 
as a Sorcerer in a nearby orbital platform directs waves of entropy to loosen 
bulkhead weldings and pop open airtight compartments. 

True Sorcerers are rare on the Nihil Retreat worlds, and the acolytes that 
live there are little more than obedient thugs. Reaching Rhand inside the 
Perann Nebula is impossible without specific coordinates obtained at the 
Retreat (or the guidance of a Force-user). The Sorcerers in the relic-strewn 
ruins are hallucinatory to behold and nightmarish to fight. Fortunately, they 
still are vulnerable to blaster fire. 


Blessed Toxmalb 

One of the oldest members of the Sorcerers of Rhand, Blessed Toxmalb 
inhabits the High Tower Observatory of Rhand's central ruin. He is a tall, 
bipedal being with sunken holes for eyes and chalky gray skin. Upon closer 
inspection, his "skin" is revealed to be nothing but powdery flakes that shed 
in dry rivulets, giving him a perpetually melting appearance. 

Beneath this shifting layer nest hundreds of tiny flies that buzz about his 
head and bury themselves in his cheeks. The flies do not bite, but if directed 
by Toxmalb, they form a cloud around an enemy's head to force choking 
and suffocation. 

Toxmalb is known as the Rhandite Lorekeeper and stores treasures in 
his aerie for translation. He speaks in a dry croak and is fluent in hundreds 
of languages. Although Blessed Toxmalb is most often encountered in his 
crumbling tower, he sometimes provides his services to visitors as a guide 
through the frightening and mind-bending sights of Rhand. In this same 
capacity, he drops in on the twelve worlds of the Nihil Retreat. 

Toxmalb is skilled in the ways of the Dark and has attained his position 
through a century of Darksight path-walking. He wears a shadow crown 
buried beneath the skin flakes of his forehead, used to control up to a hundred 
Pawns scattered across the Retreat's worlds. Although the Pawns possess no 
true Dark abilities, they serve as an advanced warning system to alert Tox- 
malb to any danger, and he frequently throws them away as cannon fodder. 
Blessed Toxmalb CL 16 
Medium Sorcerer of Rhand noble 7/Force adept 5/Force disciple 4 
Destiny 3; Force 9 (Strong in the Force); Dark Side 16 
Init +8; Senses low-light vision; Perception +21 
Languages Anzat, Basic, Cheunh, Dromnyr, Ebruchese, Killik, Minnisiat, 

Sy Bisti, Tof, Vagaari, and many others 
Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 30), Fort 30, Will 36 
hp 80; Threshold 35 


Immune mind-affecting effects 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+7) 

Ranged by weapon +11 

Base Atk +11; Grp +11 

Special Actions Channel Aggression, Channel Anger, Embrace the Dark 
Side, Force Perception, Power of the Dark Side, Presence, Telekinetic 
Savant, Weaken Resolve, Visions 

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): dark rage, farseeing, Force 
disarm, Force grip, Force lightning, Force slam, Force thrust, mind trick, 
move object (2), rebuke (2) 

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Multitarget Power, Shaped Power 

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Telepathy 


Abilities Str 8, Dex 10, Con 11, Int 18, Wis 16, Cha 6 

Special Qualities darkflies, indomitable, prophet, repulsive appearance 

Talents Channel Aggression, Channel Anger, Embrace the Dark Side, 
Force Perception, Power of the Dark Side, Presence, Telekinetic Savant, 
Weaken Resolve, Visions 

Feats Force Boon, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Improved Damage 
Threshold, Improved Defenses, Linguist, Skill Focus (Knowledge 
[galactic lore]), Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Training (Knowledge [life 
sciences]), Strong in the Force, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +11, Gather Information +11, Knowledge (bureaucracy) 
+17, Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Knowledge (life sciences) +17, 
Knowledge (physical sciences) +17, Knowledge (social sciences) +17, 
Perception +21, Persuasion +11, Use Computer +17, Use the Force +16 

Possessions decaying robes, shadow crown 


Darkflies—Upon command, a swarm of darkflies erupts from Toxmalb's 
head and attempts to choke or suffocate one living target within 12 
squares of Toxmalb. The darkfly swarm moves at speed 8. Make an 
attack roll at 1d20+10 against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the 
attack succeeds, the target takes 1d8 points of damage and moves -1 
step on the condition track. If the attack fails, the target takes half 
damage and does not move on the condition track. Treat as 15th-level 
creatures of Fine size (see the tables on pages 90 and 91). 

Shadow Crown—A shadow crown is a smokestone circlet that enables 
a Sorcerer of Rhand to communicate with and command its Pawns 
(which have been imprinted with smokestone) by enhancing the 
Sorcerer's telepathic abilities. The wearer of the crown must have 
the Force Sensitivity feat. As a swift action, the wearer can receive 
sensory information from any or all of its Pawns, gaining a +2 bonus 
to Perception checks for every Pawn within 12 squares or within line of 
sight (maximum bonus of +10). The wearer can also issue a one-word 
emotive command to any or all of its Pawns. 


AW BSaLgcgvHo 


J 
at 
ay 
W 
q] 
0) 


A esiavHo 


SAVEHBAL 


Ssi-RUUK 


DESCRIPTION 

The Ssi-ruuk are bipedal, warm-blooded reptilians that feed on living animals. 
Standing up to 2 meters tall, they are powerfully built and breathtakingly 
swift predators. Ssi-ruuk warriors can pounce on enemies from great dis- 
tances, pin them under their bulk, and pick them apart with their sharp beaks. 

The volcanic jungles of Lwhekk gave rise to two related (but genetically 
distinct) intelligent species: the Ssi-ruuk and the P'w’ecks. The latter are 
smaller and dull colored, with droopy, tail-dragging gaits. By contrast, the 
Ssi-ruuk seem vibrant and alive, running with their powerful tails held out 
for counterbalance and nostrils flickering with scent-tongues to detect odors 
with crystal clarity. They resemble miniature versions of many of Lwhekk's 
jungle predators, which can grow to heights of 10 meters. 

Their shimmering scales come in one of several brilliant hues: blue, gold, 
yellow, red, green, or black. All are outward signs of caste membership, 
as are the dull brown scales that result from interbreeding between two 
distinct castes. 

Ssi-ruuk have triple lids protecting each eye, allowing them to see in 
low-light conditions while protecting their vision from sudden flashes. They 
speak in a melodic interplay of whistles, trills, and honks, with pitch changes 


A SS!I-RUUK WARRIOR 


that are difficult for non-Ssi-ruuk to emulate. Their three-digit claws can 
manipulate machinery and slash open soft skin, and the Ssi-ruuk often hold 
objects in their mouths as a sort of third hand. 

Most often, the green-scaled warrior caste are the Ssi-ruuk first encoun- 
tered by outsiders. These warriors are taller, broader, and more heavily 
muscled than other breeds. They are heavily armed while out in the field 
and might carry ion stunners and long-barreled energy rifles. Warrior squads 
keep in touch with one another through earpiece communicators and use 
their powerful tails as blunt weapons. 

The Ssi-ruuk do not wear clothing or armor, but they are known to carry 
packs, belts, and bandoliers. 


MOTIVATIONS 

Ssi-ruuvi society is driven by religion, and the ancient text at the heart of 
their faith is the G’nnoch—a pictoglyph etched into the volcanic rock in the 
throne room of the ruling palace. The G'nnoch Holy Myth tells the story of 
the four eggs of creation. The first hatched the deities Ssi and P'w'itthki, and 
the second and third eggs birthed each god's children. After a civil war, the 
children of P'w'itthki agreed to serve the followers of Ssi for all time. The 
fourth egg manifested as a home for the spirits of the dead. 

This “fourth egg"—the Ssi-ruuvi afterlife—explains the species’ expan- 
sionist streak and its strange caution and occasional panic. Other planets 
are considered world-eggs ripe for the taking, but unless they have been 
consecrated in a holy ceremony, any Ssi-ruu that dies on such unclean soil is 
doomed to wander the stars for eternity. Of course, while traveling in space 
from one world to the next, the Ssi-ruuk are not on consecrated ground, so 
an interstellar journey is one of exceptional spiritual bravery. 

The logical conclusion to this dilemma is to have others fight on their 
behalf, and the Ssi-ruuk long ago perfected the technology for doing just 
that. Entechment is the process of draining an individual's life energy and 
using it to power a computer system or a droid starfighter. These ghost 
soldiers retain just enough consciousness to target enemies and respond to 
changing battle conditions, but the horror of their situation eventually causes 
their brain patterns to degenerate into madness. This deterioration does not 
bother the Ssi-ruuk in the least, but it requires them to continually replenish 
their entechment batteries with new energy. Because the act of acquiring 
victims requires combat that, in turn, uses up thousands of enteched battle 
machines, Ssi-ruuvi expansionism is inefficient and fragile. 

Many Ssi-ruuk serving the armadas would prefer to return home to the 
sacred spires of Lwhekk, but the crusades have been mandated by their ruler, 
His Potency the Shreeftut. The scale of the war and the increasing pinch 
felt at home inflames tensions between the religious caste (represented in 
Lwhekk's government by the Conclave) and the political caste (represented by 
the Elders Council). Their struggle over the future of the Ssi-ruuvi Imperium 
is felt aboard even the farthest-flung ship of the fleet. 


Ssi-RuUUK SPECIES TRAITS 
All Ssi-ruuk have the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Wisdom. Ssi-ruuk are physically 
powerful but prone to panic and delay when faced with mortal danger, 
especially in space or on worlds that have not been consecrated. 

Medium Size: As creatures of Medium size, Ssi-ruuk have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Ssi-ruuk base speed is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Ssi-ruuk trained in the Persuasion skill gain 
Skill Focus (Persuasion) as a bonus feat. ‘ 

Force Blind: Ssi-ruuk cannot take the Force Sensitivity feat, cannot 
make Use the Force checks, and never gain Force Points. Although they 
cannot use the Force, they are still subject to its power and effects. 

Keen Smell: Ssi-ruuk use their keen sense of smell to detect changes 
in a target's emotional state. When within 6 squares of a target in the 
same room or open area, a Ssi-ruu can reroll Persuasion checks against 
that target and take the better result. 

Natural Armor: The naturally tough scales of the Ssi-ruuk grant them 
a +2 natural armor bonus to Reflex Defense. 

Automatic Languages: Ssi-ruuvi. 


METHODS 

Entechment is the signature tactic of the Ssi-ruuk. In this process, a live 
subject is hooked to laboratory equipment and undergoes an injection of 
magnetic solution. As the victim's body dies, his or her life energy is drawn 
into computer circuitry, from which it can be shunted into a battle machine 
or an automated starfighter. Force-sensitive individuals who encounter one of 
these constructs detect a profoundly disturbed mind on the brink of burning 
itself out in a suicidal spiral. 

During the invasion of Bakura, the Ssi-ruuk hope to use Luke Skywalker 
to drain life energy from a distance and entech thousands remotely. Later, 
they remain on the hunt for a replacement Force-user of comparable abil- 
ity. Rumors that leak out from the Unknown Regions tell of entire colonies 
falling lifeless in an instant—possible evidence that the Ssi-ruuk might have 
found their subject. 

All decisions from fleet movements to invasion targets are subject to 
the complicated internal politics of the Ssi-ruuvi caste system. The green- 
scaled military class does the fighting not handled by enteched machines, 
but even admirals have no say in macro-level war strategies. Such decisions 
come directly from the Shreeftut, whose words are in turn interpreted by 
blue-scaled politicians and gold-scaled religious leaders. 


Forgotten in this power struggle are the yellow-scaled scientists, who 
study matter and energy, and the red-scaled workers, not to mention the 
brown-scaled mixed breeds and the lowly P'w'ecks, who perform only the 
most menial of duties. Rarely seen within the Imperium are the lithe, black- 
scaled Ssi-ruuk, who serve the Shreeftut as bodyguards and assassins. 

Because the Ssi-ruuk need to entech as many victims as possible to keep 
their empire afloat, they frequently use ion paddle beamers (disc-shaped, 
handheld stunners) when boarding ships or attacking outposts, allowing them 
to take live prisoners. A Ssi-ruu facing death fights with claws, teeth, and 
tail to prevent being forever denied entry into the fourth egg. 

If a consecration ceremony is performed by a member of the religious 
caste, a patch of territory (or an entire world) becomes sacred ground on 
which green-scaled warriors can attack with impunity. Preventing such a 
ceremony from taking place can spell the difference between a colony's 
survival and its utter annihilation. 

Egg-shaped Ssi-ruuvi capital ships range in size from the massive 900- 
meter Shree-class battle cruiser and 750-meter Sh'ner-class planetary 
assault carrier to the nimble 50-meter Fw‘Sen-class picket ship. Their vessels 
are propelled by wasteful fusion drives and suffer a number of weaknesses, 
including unreliable inertial dampers, spotty artificial gravity, and inefficient 
shielding. Conductive nets are used in addition to energy shielding to help 
dissipate laser strikes, but the nets can cause failure in other systems. 


HIisTORY 
The Ssi-ruuk star cluster contains six inhabitable systems besides Lwhekk’s, 
and all of them are cleansed of their original inhabitants as part of the testing 
phase of the entechment process. Approximately a century before the Battle 
of Yavin, the Shreeftut orders a new wave of expansion beyond the worlds of 
the Imperium, pointing to a controversial interpretation of the G'nnoch for 
justification. The Ssi-ruuvi fleet swells in size, and Lwhekk becomes a polluted 
dumping ground as the spire cities fill the jungle with radioactive castoffs. 
As the decades pass, the Shreeftut orchestrates ever more distant con- 
quests, extending the Imperium past its star cluster and across a wide swath 
of the nearest spiral arm. Eventually, their crusades take them to the outlying 
worlds of the Empire. Palpatine contacts the Shreeftut and agrees to sacrifice 
colony worlds in exchange for the secrets of Ssi-ruuvi entechment technology. 
Immediately following Palpatine's death at Endor, word reaches the 
victorious Rebel Alliance that the Ssi-ruuk have attacked the distant planet 
of Bakura. The subsequent battle, recorded in New Republic annals as the 
Bakura Incident, sees the defeat of the Ssi-ruuk and the capture of their 
flagship, the Shriwirr. 


TA esiavHo 


q 
ub 
a) 
S 
| 
0) 


A HBSstdvyHo 


SLAVvVEeAL 


Simultaneous with the Bakura Incident come a number of actions deep 
in the Unknown Regions, at least one of which involves a strike on elements 
belonging to Grand Admiral Thrawn's Household Phalanx. After Thrawn's 
counterattack triggers a shooting war (ensuring the Chiss Ascendancy that 
“first strike" protocol has technically been followed), an armada of the Chiss 
Expansionary Defense Force follows the Ssi-ruuk back to their home star 
cluster and decimates their holdings. By the time the New Republic arrive at 
Lwhekk aboard the recommissioned Shriwirr, the reptilians are in no shape 
to fight anyone. 

Over the next two decades, the Ssi-ruuk rebuild their strength. By this 
time, however, the Yuuzhan Vong have begun preparing a takeover of civi- 
lized space and Unknown Regions alike, and the extragalactic invaders plot 
to minimize the threat of the Ssi-ruuk. Taking advantage of the birth of a 
rainbow-colored Ssi-ruu known as the Keeramak, a disguised Yuuzhan Vong 
agent arranges for the motley mutant to lead Lwhekk's oppressed slaves 
under the banner of the P'w'eck Emancipation Movement. 

The Keeramak makes new contact with Bakura, this time promising peace. 
Eventually, a consecration ceremony turns all of Bakura into sacred ground. 
Thus unencumbered by fear of death, the Ssi-ruuk spring a surprise invasion, 
as the Yuuzhan Vong had planned. The attack fails, but back on Lwhekk, a 
genuine P'w'eck revolt overturns the Imperium's political and religious ruling 
castes. Now under the control of the green-scaled warriors and their guns, 
the citizens of Lwhekk settle in under a military dictatorship. 


USING THE SSI-RUUK 

With the exception of the Chiss, the Ssi-ruuk are the most widely recognized 
major power of the Unknown Regions. Although the details of the Bakura 
Incident are officially classified, most citizens in the post-Endor timeframe 
have heard of these trilling saurians and their bizarre entechment equipment. 


No matter the era, the Ssi-ruuk are always looking to expand their empire 
and obtain more life energy for their entechment batteries. Any expedition 
into the Unknown Regions, whether in deep space or on the surface of an 
unexplored planet, can run afoul of these conquerors. The Ssi-ruuk use every 
opportunity to stun and capture the heroes for later entechment, but they 
unleash deadly force if they feel that their own lives are at stake. 

A squad of green-scaled Ssi-ruuk could be an unpleasant surprise for a 
group of heroes exploring an unknown world. Even if the characters defeat 
the warriors, their presence might be the first sign of a consecration cer- 
emony and a full planetary invasion. 

After the Battle of Endor, the Ssi-ruuk—which have seen the extent of 
Luke Skywalker's power—wish to line up a suitable replacement so they 
can entech users from a distance. During this time period, Force-users find 
themselves the target of intense attention. Force-sensitives who encounter 
Ssi-ruuvi entechment droids for the first time are dazed by the horror of 
trapped, dead minds. 

It is equally possible that the Ssi-ruuk have already obtained a replace- 
ment, perhaps using a Jedi (or a dark sider) to fuel their life-drainer. Reports 
of mysterious exterminations in the Unknown Regions can provide the hook, 
with the ultimate goal of depowering the enemy weapon by rescuing the 
captive Force-user. But the Ssi-ruuk are experts at psychological manipula- 
tion. What happens if the prisoner does not want to escape? 

Finally, any number of reasons—including pursuit, intelligence gather- 
ing, or a hyperdrive malfunction—might bring the heroes to Lwhekk itself. 
In addition to housing billions of Ssi-ruuk, the planet has jungle predators 
that resemble monsters from fantastical holo-features. If killing a single 
Ssi-ruuk is hard enough, imagine facing its ravenous, mindless cousin that 
is over five times its size. 


TOFS 


DESCRIPTION 

The Tofs come from the darkest and most obscure portion of the Unknown 
Regions: the peripheral halo. Far removed from the Chiss, the Vagaari, and the 
Ssi-ruuk in the galactic disk, the Tofs and others in the satellite galaxy they 
call Firefist (and named “Companion Besh" by Republic cartographers) have 
little understanding of, or sympathy for, traditional galactic power plays—with 
the exception of their aborted invasion shortly after the Battle of Endor. 

Tofs are largely Human in appearance, although their skin bears a sickly 
green sheen and they tend to have massive physiques. Most Tofs can grow to 
heights of 2.5 meters, and they are either powerfully overmuscled or grossly 
rotund. Tofs move one slow step at a time and can flatten an opponent with 
one slap of a slab-sized palm. 

Their culture is intentionally anachronistic. Violently opposed to stream- 
lined functionality, the Tofs have instead embraced elaborate dress and 
foppish ritual. Their interstellar vessels resemble traditional sailing ships 
and sport curved hulls and energy-radiating sails. Their royals wear tailored 

greatcoats and powdered wigs. Their soldiers carry cutlasses 
and cudgels and collect battle scars. 

Attire becomes more ornate as Tofs climb the military 

wi «Hierarchies that make up their society. Low-ranking 

™%  deckhands wear simple cloth shirts, leather vests, 

\ and head-scarves. Ship's captains are outfitted with 


THE TOFS 


TOF SPECIES TRAITS 
All Tofs have the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity, -2 Wisdom, +2 Cha- 
risma. Tofs are big, strong, and boisterous, but they often make poor 
choices in the name of sport and adventure. 

Large Size: As creatures of Large size, Tofs take a -1 size penalty to 
Reflex Defense and a —5 size penalty to Stealth checks, and they gain a 
+5 size bonus to damage threshold. Their lifting and carrying limits are 
double those of characters of Medium size. 

Speed: Tof base speed is 6 squares. 

Bonus Feat: Tofs are aggressive and chaotic combatants, firing and 
swinging wildly. A Tof can take either Rapid Shot or Rapid Strike as a 
bonus feat. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Tofs that have Martial Arts | and Strength 
13 can take Mighty Swing as a bonus feat. 

Tof Fearlessness: Tofs are fearless on the battlefield. Once per 
encounter, they can ignore one fear-related or mind-affecting effect used 
against them. They also gain a +5 species bonus to their Will Defense 
when resisting attempts to intimidate them. 

Automatic Language: Tof. 


heavy buccaneer's boots, sparkling rings on nearly every finger, and a waist 
sash that holds a blaster pistol and a carved club. Tofs do not bathe, covering 
their stink with perfumed bows on their tunics and boots. 

Their temperament is crude. Tofs enjoy rough humor and take pleasure in 
food and drink. They are hopelessly immersed in their own culture and see 
no need to understand the ways of other species. After capturing a planet, 
they topple its monuments and erect grotesque statuary of their own design, 
including fanciful depictions of water nymphs and horn-playing dryads. 

Males dominate Tof society. Females are seldom seen and generally kept 
on-planet where they are visited only when Tof vessels return to port. During 
long star voyages, Tof males exhibit reckless lust for humanoid females and 
often make unwanted moves on attractive targets (or prove vulnerable to 
feminine flattery). 


MOTIVATIONS 
Quick to laugh and often grinning from ear to ear, Tofs can be mistaken as 
boisterous and good-natured revelers. The facade is revealed when Tof smiles 
turn cruel and their interest turns toward vandalism and torture. 

The Tofs are single-minded in their pursuit of pleasure. They come from 
a plentiful world where they enjoy many luxuries, and they seldom know 
hunger or hardship. In many ways, these characteristics make them more 
monstrous than the Vagaari or the Killiks, which at least believe that they 
must expand their territory or die. Tofs wage war in the way that bored 
nobles might arrange a hunting expedition, wrecking entire civilizations for 
the sake of their amusement. 


A eSsidevHo 


J 
BI 
0 
> 
d 
0) 


A 4eSlaeavHo 


SLveEsAL 


Breathtakingly wasteful, the Tofs leave a trail of glittering garbage in the 
wake of their rampages. They are boastful and competitive among their own 
kind but dismissive of outsiders. Tofs make exceptions for musicians, jugglers, 
and others whose talents can provide distractions, but they have been known 
to wager on how well a dancer can perform after the loss of a foot or how 
an acrobat might fare against a venomous spring viper. 

Tofs are hedonists for whom temperance is incomprehensible. They gorge 
themselves to excess with food and drink, sexual conquests, or kills on the 
sporting grounds that others call war. Alcohol augments their strength and 
stamina and sharpens their mental focus, at the cost of speed and reaction 
time. Most Tof warriors on the battlefield at any given time are drunk. 

Tof fearlessness is well known and is directly correlated with their confi- 
dence. But when faced with a genuinely formidable or unhinged opponent, 
some Tofs cannot handle the discrepancy between their worldview and reality, 
and they crumple into a state of defeated catatonia. 


METHODS 

Despite the fact that they cultivate an image developed millennia in the past, 
the Tofs are frighteningly modern practitioners of the art of war. The weapons 
mounted on their starsail galleons can shred an orbital installation or ignite 
firestorms across a planet's surface. Tof shuttlecraft resemble longboats but 
easily make orbit-to-surface hops. A Tof blaster might be fashioned with a 
flintlock hammer, but it fires coherent plasma just the same. 

A favorite space combat tactic is to make a flanking pass at high speed, 
firing all side-mounted cannons simultaneously and shredding the enemy 
vessel's superstructure. Tofs also employ a unique ship-mounted weapon 
known as Fotia's Fire, a projectile that spatters glowing, superheated ooze 
on impact and burns away chunks of the target's hull. 

All Tof capital ships, even bulk cruisers, carry at least one starfighter 
squadron to harass enemy ships until the larger vessel can move into posi- 
tion for a broadside attack. Tof starfighters are compact, single-pilot models 
with twin outrigger engines, comparable in performance to the A-9 Vigilance 
interceptor. A single space fleet is led by an officer known as the Supreme. 

Tofs prefer to fight on land. They do not kill for resources, survival, or 
revenge, but simply for amusement, and they view planetary conquest as 
just another item to check off on a lazy-day’'s score sheet. Lacking adequate 
weaponry for sniping, Tofs employ blaster pistols at range but try to spare 
enough survivors to ensure that the fighting eventually gets up close and 


personal. In melee combat, Tofs swing razor-edged cutlasses or clubs made 
of wood or metal. Many Tofs use no weapons at all, preferring to beat their 
enemies to death with their fists. 

The Tof Kingdom is ruled by a hereditary monarch. It goes without saying 
that the throne's succession line is male only, but the king's children, wives, 
and relatives make up a decadent ruling class. Because Tof society uses blood 
sport to overcome boredom and frustration, the king must authorize all mili- 
tary expeditions that mobilize more than 20 percent of the Tof navy (which 
consists of all able-bodied males over the age of 10). Smaller naval group- 
ings are allowed to roam freely and collect whatever spoils they can seize. 


HisTORY 

In the distant past, the Tofs build a seagoing society on the waterworld also 
known as Tof. This high point in their history is known for fantastic ship- 
to-ship battles, narrow escapes from titanic ocean predators, and drinking 
and carousing in the low ports constructed on the planet's island chains. 

Centuries of technological advancement put an end to this golden age, 
but the spirit of the ocean returns following the invention of interstellar 
starships. Presented with a sea of stars, the Tofs inaugurate a new age by 
reclaiming their heritage. With the return of their former trappings, Tof 
society soon becomes synonymous with piracy and the rule of the sword. 
Their outmatched enemies have no chance to defend themselves. Hindered 
by inferior war machines, the shipbuilders of the Faruun and the malleable 
cyborgs known as the Maccabree fall before the Tof juggernaut. 

The Nagai prove to be a more vexing foe. The Tof invasion of the planet 
Nagi comes at a great price, with millions of dead Tofs a testament to the 
hard-won victory. In vengeful celebration, the Tofs desecrate the cold beauty 
of Nagi with their ostentatious statuary, then move on to a new distraction. 

The surviving Nagai, however, do not accept their new status as a con- 
quered people. They launch a resistance campaign and forge an alliance with 
the Maccabree and the Faruun. Meanwhile, Nagai spies reach the Skyriver— 
the vast galaxy that illuminates their night sky—and report that its major 
political power is on the verge of collapse. They believe that the implosion 
of this "Galactic Empire" will give rise to chaos, which the Nagai can exploit 
with a well-timed invasion of the Skyriver. After carving out a position of 
strength, they will return to Firefist and settle their score with the Tofs. 

At first, the plan seems to work. A full Nagai invasion occurs shortly after 
the Battle of Endor, with blitzes against Endor, Iskalon, and Mandalore. But 


the Tofs soon follow. Excited by the prospect of new worlds to smash and 
happy to humiliate the Nagai, the Tofs strike at Trenwyth, Zeltros, and Saijo 
and make a pact with the Dark Lady Lumiya. The leader of the Tof assault, 
Prince Sereno, makes his temporary palace on Saijo, where he becomes 
a target for an Alliance counterattack. Luke Skywalker personally forces 
Sereno's surrender by holding two lightsabers to his throat. 

The bulk of the Tof armada retreats home. The Nagai, however, gain new 
allies and take back their homeworld with help from the Mandalorians. The 
Tofs find themselves in an utterly unfamiliar position—on the defensive. 


USING THE TOFS 

The Tofs have adopted the popular image of pirates from the open sea. Most 
pirate stereotypes are accurate regarding the species, making it easy to get 
a handle on their methods and integrate them into a campaign. Of course, 
unlike true seafarers, the Tofs can attack from any direction, due to their 
position above and perpendicular to the galactic plane. The heroes need not 
mount an expedition to Companion Besh, since the Tofs can simply drop 
"down" into whatever sector the characters are exploring. 

The Tofs are always on the hunt for idle distractions. If tormenting 
the heroes seems likely to supply an afternoon's worth of amusement, 
they will take potshots at the adventurers’ starship or start a brawl in a 
confrontation on land. 

Tofs can be an unwelcome complication to any planetary mission. For 
example, while the heroes are scouting for a mysterious relic of an ancient 
culture, a Tof party might appear and decide to use the object for target 
practice. If the heroes are cataloging exotic new species, Tofs might identify 
some of the same creatures as the quarry for their latest hunting expedition. 
Regardless of the circumstances, as soon as the heroes interfere, the Tofs 
turn their attentions toward the spoilsports who dared to ruin their fun. 

Alternatively, the heroes might stumble into the middle of a full-scale Tof 
invasion. If the Tofs are fighting a vicious enemy like the Vagaari, the heroes’ 
only concern might be to get out of the crossfire. On the other hand, if the Tofs' 
opponent is weak and certain to lose, the heroes might be present as repre- 
sentatives for a party that wishes to save the targeted species from genocide. 


Royal Fortune Light Clipper 

The Royal Fortune-class light clipper is a typical ship of the line in the Tof 
armada. Reflecting the idiosyncrasies of its builders, the 290-meter vessel 
has an ornamental wake-cutting hull and energy emitters deployed in the 
configuration of sails. Royal Fortune clippers are nimble and can easily 
outmaneuver freighters one-fifth their size, and they move speedily through 
hyperspace. Each clipper has 38 laser cannons—19 each to port and star- 
board—plus two quad batteries fore and aft. A Royal Fortune clipper also has 
one Fotia's Fire launcher amidships. The vessels are crewed by a complement 
of 480, commanded by a Tof naval captain. 


Each clipper carries a minimum of 14 starfighters and 4 longboats; each 
longboat can hold 40 crew members. All members of the crew double as 
ground troops in the happy event of a planetary invasion. 

Targeted vessels disabled by a Royal Fortune clipper are boarded by armed 
longboats protected by a starfighter screen. Ships trying to escape from a 
clipper would do well to fire at its rigging, since laser strikes on its energy 
sails can trigger power surges that might disable onboard networks. 
Royal Fortune Light Clipper CL15 
Colossal (frigate) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 


Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 28; +11 armor 

hp 700; DR 15; SR 80; Threshold 128 

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale) 

Ranged 8 laser cannon batteries +12 (see below) and 
2 quad laser cannon batteries +6 (see below) and 
1 Fotia's Fire cannon +4 (see below) 

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total 

Base Atk +2; Grp +40 

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, quad laser cannons) 

Abilities Str 46, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14 

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 

Crew 480 (skilled); Passengers 200 

Cargo 8,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 14 starfighters, 
4 longboat shuttles 

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), navicomputer 

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannon battery (5 gunners) 

Atk +12 (+7 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 

Quad laser cannon battery (2 gunners) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 5d10x2 

Fotia's Fire cannon (gunner) 

Atk +4, Dmg 7d10x2, 2d10x2 for 2 subsequent rounds 


nan watiavHoa 


te 


a 


ee 


fi 


SAVEBAL 


A HStdavHg 


SAVEeAL 


A VAGAARI 


VAGAARI 


DESCRIPTION 

The Vagaari Empire thrives on cruelty and terror. It is so 
effective at spreading fear that even other Unknown 
Regions threats, such as the Ebruchi and the Rakata, 
flee from its forces. Arrogant speciesists, the Vagaari 
believe that all non-Vagaari are idiotic cowards who 
exist only as resources to be farmed. 

A Vagaari is shorter than an average humanoid, 
with a large head dominated by wide violet eyes and 
small ears that lie flat against the skull. With their 
stubby limbs, the Vagaari are not capable of great 
speed, but they are far stronger than they look. Their 
tan skin is mottled with golden swirls that highlight 
their jaws and chin. The most distinctive Vagaari 
feature is a jaw with two mouths, each studded with 
pebbly teeth. 

The Vagaari have separate digestive and respira- 
tory tracts. The upper mouth is used for breathing and 
speaking, and the lower mouth is used for eating. Thus, 
choking is virtually impossible, and many Vagaari chew 
on stimulant-laced leather strips known as pureweed 
while conversing. 

Vagaari fashion is designed for maximum intimida- 
tion. They wear oversized fright masks that bear painted 
expressions of fury, horror, and agony. Off the battle- 
field, they dress in voluminous robes, with roomy folds 
to conceal hidden weapons and poisons. Vagaari soldiers 
wear body armor and decorate their full-face helmets with 
death's-heads and demon mouths. 

Males and females have separate but equally important 
roles within the Vagaari Empire. Males dominate the soldiering, 
piloting, and political classes, and females make up the castes 
responsible for invasion strategy, slave acquisition, and torture. Food prepara- 
tion, sanitation, maintenance, and similar drudge work is performed by slaves. 

The Vagaari are led by a ruler known as the Miskara. An individual cannot 
become the Miskara without the support of a substantial cadre, whose 
members become the new ruling class when their candidate executes a coup. 

Many species in the Unknown Regions have been overrun by the Vagaari, 
but few have reliable data concerning the nature of their attackers. Many 
battles take place in space, where the Vagaari are loath to open visual com- 
munication or meet face to face. On the ground, the Vagaari press-gang 
slaves into storming fortifications and marching across minefields. 


Newcomers to the Unknown Regions hear rumors of the 
Vagaari long before they actually encounter the arrogant species. 
But much of the information they receive is contradictory. The 
most widespread rumor—which happens to be true—is that the 
Vagaari herd slaves into transparent blisters on the outsides of 
their ships, thereby forcing attackers to take the lives of inno- 
cents when they fire on these “living shields.” 

Because the Vagaari did not evolve as a predatory species, 
they carry all their menace in their dress and their attitude. 
A dead Vagaari, its face cleared of hatred, appears mild and 
nonthreatening. 


MOTIVATIONS 

The Vagaari have a near-total lack of empathy and a narcissism 
rivaled only by the Hutts. In their mythology, the gods created 
the Vagaari so that even the deities would have superior beings 
to worship. Although modern Vagaari are not particularly 
religious, their culture provides a perpetual feedback loop for 
this type of arrogance. 

All Vagaari are accomplished actors. Their conviction that 
other species are stupid and gullible gives them the confidence 
to masquerade as members of less-threatening species or to 
convince others that this time, the promise of cooperation with 
the Vagaari will prove fruitful. The Vagaari speak a musical 
trilling language but are fluent in most trade tongues, includ- 
ing Minnisiat, Sy Bisti, and pidgin Basic. 

The Vagaari are nomads, considering attachments (such as 
family and home) to be soft indulgences and wasted energy. 
Such extreme self-interest might seem to indicate a chaotic 
society where all parties are at war with one another, but 
arrogance does not necessarily equal ambition. Most Vagaari 

are highly aware of their own abilities and do not aim beyond 
their stations. 
Still, most Vagaari have blind spots where their smugness 
overrides their common sense. Resourceful parties have exploited 
these weaknesses by appealing to the vanity of the species or by appearing 
so meek and beaten that the Vagaari relax their guard. 

The Vagaari have a vast fleet of ships ranging in size from starfighters to 
half-kilometer battleships, most of which are relatively new and all of which 
are kept in meticulous working order. The costs of maintaining this mobile 
society are immense. Much of Vagaari aggression is driven by the need to 
acquire food, fuel, parts, starships, and slaves. The Vagaari have seen the 
raggedness of other Unknown Regions pirates such as the Ebruchi, and they 
refuse to allow their glorious empire to be reduced to such a sorry state. 


METHODS 

Early in their interstellar explorations, the Vagaari discover a curious fact— 
most rival intelligent species seem to care for other beings. To the Vagaari, 
this puzzling behavior cannot be defended, since it leads to wasteful and self- 
destructive behavior, such as dashing onto battlefields to treat the wounded, 
or sharing food and water with those who can offer nothing in return. The 
Vagaari see no reason not to exploit this universal flaw. 

They begin by chaining slaves together, then kicking a knot of them into 
a corridor ahead of a boarding party. This forces their opponents to hesitate 
or even put aside their weapons in the mistaken belief that the Vagaari wish 
to negotiate for the release of hostages. The tactic works so well that the 
Vagaari soon apply it to space combat, studding the exteriors of their war- 
ships with clear bubbles to house terrified prisoners and broadcasting the 
captives’ cries on public frequencies. Attempts to fire carefully at the hull 
points between the bubbles leaves an attacker vulnerable to a wide-spray 
counterattack, since the Vagaari do not care what they hit. 

Slave shields are in widespread use, and the Vagaari have added to the 
might of their fleet with pseudograv projectors. This technology—stolen 
from an unidentified species—works like an interdiction field by projecting 
an artificial gravity well to pull ships out of hyperspace and into what the 
Vagaari call "crawlspace." It also keeps vessels from escaping once the battle 
has been joined. 

The Vagaari have a deep knowledge of the biologies of other living things, 
probably because they have killed so many. Their knowledge of suspended 
animation is unparalleled, and a Vagaari stasis collar can slow a being's life 
signs to undetectable levels. The Vagaari fit slaves with the collars, then 
stack their time-frozen bodies in cargo holds and pull from the stock only 
when fresh slaves are needed. The collars can also be set for timed release, 
allowing squads of Vagaari raiders to hide from life-sign scans and spring 
shocking ambushes. 

In their wanderings, the Vagaari capture and domesticate the wolvkil—a 
small but fierce furry predator with a decentralized nervous system. Wolvkils 
attack until dead, and even a blaster bolt to the forehead will not stop them 
from charging. The Vagaari wear stasis-collared wolvkils around their necks 
as seemingly innocent shawls, and they send crates of time-delayed wolvkils 
to enemy ships as ostensible peace offerings. 


Line creepers are a nasty form of Vagaari sabotage. These stringy anne- 
lids resemble Coruscant's conduit worms and burrow into a space vessel's 
electrical wiring to trigger shipwide system failures. 

Stinging insects called schostri are another defense employed by the 
Vagaari. These wasplike swarmers nestle in holed gauntlets worn under a 
Vagaari's robes and explode into action when they detect the chemical sig- 
nature of their host's adrenaline. In seconds, a cloud of schostri can deliver 
dozens of stings to an opponent, injecting enough acid venom to kill almost 
any humanoid. 

Schostri toxin dissolved in liquid makes a uniquely deadly airborne poison. 
Released from nozzles on a Vagaari's forearm, this moisture cloud is highly 
corrosive and melts the soft tissues of any being within a 20-meter radius— 
including its user. This last-ditch countermeasure is expensive to manufacture 
and carried only by high-ranking members of the Vagaari Empire. 


VAGAARI SPECIES TRAITS 
All Vagaari have the following species traits. 

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Wisdom. Vagaari are strong but 
self-centered and hostile. 

Medium Size: As creatures of Medium size, Vagaari have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

Speed: Vagaari base speed is 6 squares. 

Conditional Bonus Feat: Vagaari are accomplished actors and 
deceivers. A Vagaari that is trained in the Deception skill gains Skill Focus 
(Deception) as a bonus feat. 

Frightening Visage: Vagaari spend most of their lives trying to 
intimidate others by presenting a threatening appearance. When using 
the Persuasion skill to intimidate, a Vagaari clad in traditional masks and 
garments can reroll a failed Persuasion check and take the better result. 
The Vagaari is considered trained in the Persuasion skill for this action. 

Bioknowledge: Vagaari have great working knowledge of biology 
throughout their sphere of influence in the Unknown Regions. They can 
reroll any Knowledge (life sciences) or Treat Injury check but must take 
the second result, even if it is worse. 

Automatic Languages: Vagaari, Sy Bisti. 


A BsidvHoa 


SAVEeAsS, 


A BeSAidvHoa 


Save, | 


HIisTORY 

The Vagaari homeworld is Vagar Praxut, which lies in the nebula known as 
Kharmort's Miasma, but the planet is almost entirely deserted. Most other 
species view the ever-moving Vagaari as a scourge of leaf-cutters that 
devastate full fields of grain. 

The Vagaari begin infringing on Chiss territory approximately four decades 
before the Battle of Yavin, although the Chiss refuse to retaliate due to the 
“first strike" doctrine that requires them to act only in a defensive capacity. 
That changes with the arrival of Thrawn, who uses the Republic's Outbound 
Flight mission to lure the Vagaari into a trap and decimate their fleet in 
27 BBY. The Vagaari spend the next 50 years rebuilding and plotting their 
revenge on the mongrel Chiss who dared to engineer their defeat. 

In 22 ABY, the Vagaari strike back, attempting to steal the remains of 
Outbound Flight and kill the Chiss negotiators present at the wreck site. Luke 
Skywalker and Mara Jade Skywalker bring the Vagaari plot to a halt, but all 
is not lost for the Vagaari Empire. 

The Vagaari Miskara makes contact with a mysterious representative of 
the "Far-Outsiders" and agrees to help them prepare an invasion that will 
annihilate the Vagaari's enemies. In exchange, the Vagaari begin incorporat- 
ing Yuuzhan Vong biotech as early as 23 ABY, and they benefit hugely after 
the invasion when they seize territories left vacant by the dead. 


USING THE VAGAARI 

The Vagaari are a wide-ranging species that can crop up in any situation 
in the Unknown Regions. Their depredations have even taken them into 
Wild Space and the fringes of the Outer Rim Territories. It is possible for 
the heroes to have had past experiences with these creatures. The Vagaari 
might have devastated the characters’ home colonies, for example, or taken 
their parents as slaves. 

It is equally likely that when the Vagaari make their first appearance, their 
true nature will be a mystery to the heroes. The Vagaari might pretend to be 
trailblazers or traders until they can gauge the strength of the characters. 

Vagaari starships encountered by the heroes will be similarly enigmatic. 
The larger battleships and carriers have telltale prisoner blisters on their 
exteriors, but most Vagaari vessels do not, and they can pass for ordinary 
scout or cargo ships common in the Unknown Regions. 

Finally, because the Vagaari possess pseudograv projectors, they can 
pull a craft from hyperspace for a blindsided surprise attack. Vagaari that 
make it aboard the heroes’ ship through force or subterfuge might unleash 
any weapon in their nontraditional arsenal, including wolvkils, line creepers, 
and schostri. 


Surfeik Cruiser 

The Surfeik cruiser is the backbone of the Vagaari fleet. These vessels, 
originally sold throughout the Unknown Regions by the brilliant engineers 
of the Arized, became Vagaari property after the extermination of the Arized 
homeworld. 

Each ship is 550 meters in length and equipped with a pseudograv projec- 
tor with an adjustable spherical range. Operated by a crew of 500 Vagaari 
and 1,500 slaves, each Surfeik cruiser is armed with 33 laser cannons and 7 
projectile launchers. The projectiles are designed to penetrate partially into 
a hull and detonate, blasting a ragged hole open to space. 

Surfeik cruisers are highly modifiable and can be used as cargo transports, 
invasion vessels, and starfighter carriers (with a typical capacity of one 
squadron). Only dedicated combat models have the “living shield” blisters 
that mark them as Vagaari vessels. 


Surfeik Cruiser CL 16 
Colossal (cruiser) capital ship 
Init -2; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 50; +12 armor 
hp 1,300; DR 20; SR 110; Threshold 250 
Speed fly 2 squares (starship scale) 
Ranged 11 laser cannon batteries +9 (see below) and 
7 projectile launchers +5 (see below) and 
pseudograv projector +5 (see below) 
Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +62 
Abilities Str 91, Dex 14, Con —, Int 16 
Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 500 (skilled); Passengers 1,500 (prisoners) 
Cargo 10,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft 18 starfighters, 
2 shuttles 
Hyperdrive x2 (backup x15), navicomputer 
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale 


Laser cannon battery (3 gunners) 

Atk +9, Dmg 5d10x2 

Projectile launcher (gunner) 

Atk +5 (-15 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 8d10x5, 
1-square splash 

Pseudograv projector (gunner) 


Atk +5 (2x2- or 3x3-square starship-scale area attack), Dmg special 


Living shield blisters—Vagaari use prisoners as living shields, displayed 
in transparent bubbles on the ship's hull. An attacking ship attempting 
to avoid hitting a blister takes a -10 penalty to its attack roll. Battery 
fire, area attack, and splash damage weapons cannot attempt to avoid 
the blisters. 

Projectile launcher—Projectile launchers fire massive, armor-piercing 
projectiles designed to explode after punching through the target's 
hull. The resulting explosion throws debris into space, causing splash 
damage in a 1-square radius around the target. 

Pseudograv projector—Pseudograv projectors do not deal damage but 
instead produce a special effect. Projecting pseudograv waves is treated 
like firing a weapon in an area attack; the gunner must choose a 2x2- 
or 3x3-square (starship scale) area within the generator's range and 
make an attack roll against a Reflex Defense of 10. If successful, the 
projector disrupts hyperspace in the target squares. Any starship that 
starts its turn in a square covered by a pseudograv field cannot activate 
its hyperdrive on that turn, and any starship passing through the target 
area in hyperspace immediately reverts to normal space. 


Vagaari Infiltrator 

Before the Vagaari launch an assault on another world, they first send out 
a small number of infiltrators—Vagaari slavers disguised as traders and 
explorers—to make peaceful contact with the planets that are potential 
targets. Many civilizations in the Unknown Regions are eager to find trading 
partners, so these infiltrators often end up being welcomed in ways that 
are not extended to more official explorers (particularly those of military 
groups like the Chiss Ascendancy). These infiltrators ingratiate themselves 
with the locals, engage in limited trade, and build up goodwill, all the while 
collecting data about the planet's defenses and customs and about optimal 
target sites. Eventually, the infiltrators depart, continuing along their sup- 
posed trade route. Within a matter of days, the Vagaari slaver fleet arrives 
at that planet, taking advantage of the scouting done by the infiltrator. 


Should a Vagaari infiltrator's true plans be revealed, the infiltrator relies 
on the element of surprise. Although strong and capable of defending them- 
selves, most Vagaari infiltrators are not soldiers and instead have cultivated 
their social skills and galactic knowledge. Vagaari infiltrators forced into 
combat will use deceptive feints (made easier by the Combat Trickery feat) to 
expose their enemies to the bonus damage from their Sneak Attack talents. 
When it combines these feints with a stun baton or a blaster pistol set on 
stun, a Vagaari infiltrator can quickly knock an enemy down the condition 


track in the hopes of making a hasty escape to a waiting space transport. 


Vagaari Infiltrator CL5 


Medium Vagaari nonheroic 6/scoundrel 3 
Force 1; Dark Side 6 

Init +4; Senses Perception +10 
Languages Basic, Sy Bisti, Vagaari 


Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 13, Will 15 
hp 26; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee stun baton +9 (2d6+4 stun) 

Ranged blaster pistol +7 (3d6+1) 

Ranged hold-out blaster pistol +7 (3d4+1) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +9 

Atk Options Sneak Attack +2d6 

Special Actions Combat Trickery 


A ¥siavHo 


Abilities Str 16, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 16 

Talents Sneak Attack +2d6 

Feats Combat Trickery, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Focus (Persuasion), 
Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Deception), Skill Training 
(Persuasion), Skill Training (Stealth), Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons) 

Skills Deception +17, Knowledge (galactic lore) +10, Perception +10, 
Persuasion +17, Stealth +14 

Possessions blaster pistol, hold-out blaster pistol, stun baton, comlink, 
datapad, spacer's clothes 


SAveaMHyt, 


LOE eee | 
CHAPTER VI 


PLANETS 


— a 


fi SE 


{ Planets of every type and description exist throughout the galaxy, and the 

_ worlds of the Unknown Regions are inherently mysterious to explorers and 
adventurers. These planets are untamed, and all hold their own secrets. Some 
provide environmental challenges, pitting heroes against natural hazards and 
hostile creatures. Others are home to previously unknown civilizations that 
have their own internal struggles and conflicts. 

This chapter includes eight new worlds created specifically for use in a 
Saga Edition campaign. For the heroes, these planets are truly fresh locales, 
and the only way to learn about these worlds is to explore them—players 
will not find them in any movies, novels, or comics. Although the planets 
are new, each embodies the distinctive feel of Star Wars. These planets are 
meant to serve as new places the heroes can explore during their first trips 
into the Unknown Regions. 

These planets serve as examples of using the world-creation methods 
and suggestions in Chapter 3. In addition, you should feel free to adapt 
these planets to your own campaign, or to adjust the worlds based on your | 
own ideas or inspirations gained from this book. Although the planets are | 
extensively described, each planet has plenty of room for new settlements, 
locales, and creatures. Additionally, Chapter 7 presents a mini-adventure 
associated with each world. You can use each mini-adventure on its own or 
drop it into a longer-running adventure. 

This chapter includes the following information about each world: 

¢ A planetary gazetteer entry 

e A general history covering the time from the Old Republic to the 
Legacy era 

© Descriptions of important or iconic locales, factions, or characters 

e New hazards or creatures created specifically for the world 


1A HSsiavHo 


The information about each planet is self-contained, so that you can 
incorporate the worlds more easily into your own campaigns. The planets’ 
locations might be defined generally within the Unknown Regions, but you | 
should feel free to move them to wherever they are needed in the galaxy. 


SLIANV1d 


KNOWLEDGE CHECKS 14 
IN THE UNKNOWN REGIONS 

In the gazetteer entries in this chapter, unless otherwise specified, all Knowl- 
edge DCs given are for characters who are native to or extremely familiar 
with the Unknown Regions. Characters from known space typically have 
little or no general knowledge about the Unknown Regions. However, if you 
feel that a hero from known space might have a chance of possessing the 
desired knowledge, you can allow that hero to make a check against a DC 
10 higher than the listed value. For the most part, the people of the known 
galaxy have no knowledge of the various planets presented herein, and these 
worlds should be almost completely alien to anyone but the most dedicated 
explorer of the Unknown Regions. 


0 
I 
> 
v 
ad 
ty] 
2 
< 


SLeNYVeE) 


Z244CORE 


244Core enjoys legendary status within its sector of the Unknown Regions. 
The world is said to contain an abundance of riches, raw materials, and 
precious metals. Although the planet has been mined for centuries, none 
of the Unknown Regions companies that compete for control of the world 
make a significant dent in its considerable resources. Far from the powerful 
interstellar corporations of known space, these smaller companies battle one 
another for resources and profits. 


Z44CORE 

Region: Unknown Regions 

Climate: Arid 

Gravity: Heavy 

Moons: 2 moons, 3 major companion asteroid clusters 
Length of Day: 32 standard hours 

Length of Year: 244 local days 

Sapient Species: 10% Human, 30% near-Human, 60% other species 
Government: Corporate 

Capital: Relaali Zone One 

Major Exports: Precious metals, raw ore 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, manufactured items, technology 


Knowledge (Bureaucracy) 

DC RESULT 

10 244Core is a corporate-controlled world. There are no government 
regulations to protect workers—only the employers’ agreements. 
Employees can gain leverage by threatening to work for a competitor. 

15 Corporate control of the planet shifts regularly as the companies 
jockey for power. No single corporation is big enough to hold control 
over the entire planet for long, resulting in constantly shifting power- 
sharing arrangements and complex profit-sharing schemes. 

20 The controlling companies avoid open violence when possible, since 
it is generally viewed as bad for business. However, the companies 
do use industrial espionage, smuggling, skimming, and all other mat- 
ters of bending and breaking the rules to gain advantages over their 
competitors. 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

10 244Core is a nearly legendary world, rich in all kinds of natural 
resources, particularly precious metals. Several large corporations 
regularly vie for control of the planet, although violent confronta- 
tions are uncommon. The best-known companies are Eeook Mining 
and Reclamation, Tor-Ro-Bo Industries, and Pricon Metals. 

15 Life on 244Core is harsh and dangerous. The environment is difficult; 
244Core is subject to heavy gravity and seasonal meteor showers 
from companion asteroid fields. Many settlements are located under- 
ground as protection from errant meteor strikes. Vegetation is dense 
in the lowlands but thins out quickly at higher elevations. 

20 Smugglers regularly make runs to 244Core to supply isolated workers 
with all kinds of goods and services. The smaller corporations occa- 
sionally hire smugglers to move goods offworld in an effort to avoid 
profit-sharing and treaty obligations that are required by agreements 
with the controlling companies. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

10 244Core is controlled by corporations through a tenuous power-shar- 
ing agreement. Since the world has no strong central government, 
there are plenty of ways for smugglers and con artists to manipulate 
the system and gain access to the planet. 

15 Smugglers can find regular work making runs to and from the planet. 
The world's labor force is too small for the jobs required, so merce- 
naries, pilots, and others with technical skills are regularly hired as 
contract workers to fill various needs. The pay is low, but the hiring 
company provides the basic necessities. 

20 The corporations take a dim view of employees jumping ship for a 
competitor. In reality, though, it happens frequently, and talented 
workers can demand high salaries. Employees often become pawns in 
dealings between competing corporations. 


HIisToORY 

Fifty years before the outbreak of the Jedi Civil War, the Systino crime 
syndicate stumbles across the world that someday will be called 244Core 
but which they refer to as Sraato, or “Center of Wealth." Best known for 
large-scale criminal action in the sector, Systino recognizes the advantages 
of controlling a source of wealth that can be taken at will. The syndicate 
soon ships hundreds of slaves to the planet, opening mines on the southern 
continent, where it detects large, accessible deposits of precious metals, 
crystals, and gems. Powered by this secret treasury world, the syndicate 
expands its reach dramatically through bribery and corruption and the 
purchase of better ships and weapons. 


For the next 200 years, the Systino syndicate dominates most of the sec- 
tor's criminal enterprises, wielding profound influence on local and regional 
governments. The operation on Sraato expands across the southern continent 
and onto the island chains at the southern pole. However, one day, the world's 
regular shipments to and communication with Systino headquarters abruptly 
stop. Concerned that its secret source of wealth has finally been discovered, 
the syndicate dispatches a command ship to investigate. Upon arriving in 
orbit, the ship's crew learns that Sraato has sustained massive damage from 
a meteor storm that pulverized much of the planet's southern hemisphere. 
The Systino operation is wiped out, and the dust and debris thrown into the 
atmosphere cause environmental chaos that lasts for 500 years. The crime 
syndicate is forced to abandon the planet. 

Following the departure of Systino from the world, occasional treasure 
hunters arrive, and although a few grow personally wealthy, none is able to 
turn the planet into a viable commercial concern and all eventually abandon 
the world. Only tales remain about Sraato, the planet of impossible wealth. 


Two hundred years before the Battle of Yavin, competing scouts dis- 
patched by rival mining and manufacturing companies rediscover the world 
simultaneously. Tor-Ro-Bo Industries and Eeook Mining and Reclamation 
both claim the planet as their own, quickly establishing settlements and 
mining operations to back up their assertions. With no local government 
able to exert control over either company, the world becomes a chaotic free- 
for-all. The rivals undermine each other's outposts, recruit and kidnap each 
other's workers, and sabotage each other's facilities. Amid the disarray, other 
companies gain footholds elsewhere on the planet, but no single company 
wields enough power to take over completely. Since the competitors cannot 
agree on a name, the world becomes known as 244Core, a shortening of its 
local stellar catalogue number. 

With violence and chaos on the rise, profits plunge. The corporations come 
to realize that continued conflict will bankrupt them all. A skilled negotia- 
tor named Relaali agrees to broker a deal between the rivals. Unknown to 
anyone, Relaali is member of the Omenada Force tradition and has visions 
of the future. In accordance with these visions, he arranges to mediate the 
dispute, then uses his abilities to guide the negotiations. It takes years, but 
Relaali is successful. By 100 years before the Battle of Yavin, the newly 
united planet is nominally led by a Chief Administrator, who is elected by the 
Corporate Committee, a group made up of representatives of every company 
operating on 244Core. 

Although the violence is much reduced, rival organizations still scheme 
to gain a controlling interest in the world. Political intrigue and industrial 
espionage become common. However, the companies are profitable once 
again. The agreement remains relatively stable until the time of Yuuzhan 
Vong invasion of known space. 

Near the end of the Yuuzhan Vong war, a prolonged meteor storm strikes 
244Core, raining meteorites every day for several months. Although there 
are thousands of impacts, the meteorites are quite small. The meteor storm 
does not create the environmental disaster of the past, but most facilities 
are severely affected. The rescue and recovery efforts shatter the balance of 
power. Although the planet attempts to rebuild, law and order deteriorate. 

By the time the Galactic Alliance falls to the resurgent Empire, a new order 
emerges on 244Core. The Eeook Corporation, a successor to Eeook Mining 
and Reclamation, consolidates its operations in the south and establishes a 
security force to protect its holdings. Eeook intends to take over the rest of 
the planet slowly, making small gains while it secures what it already has. 
The remaining companies continue to battle politically and physically in the 
major population centers of the rest of the world. 


1A He LaVvHo 


SLENVIE 


IA SBeStdVHD 


SLENYVTWe) 


LOCATIONS 
244Core includes the following significant or interesting locations. 


Eeookko 

Home to Eeook Corporation's southern regional office, Eeookko is one of 
the most productive mining centers in the southern hemisphere. The city 
is located in Zone 210 in the middle of an enormous crater, 120 kilometers 
across, that was created by an asteroid strike thousands of years before the 
rise of the Empire. The impact exposed veins of precious metals, as well as 
a useful amount of exotic ore from the shattered asteroid itself. Because 
this region of the planet is struck by more meteorites than other locations, 
Eeookko's most critical facilities and living quarters are located more than 
5 kilometers underground. Only about 5 percent of the city is located on 
the surface. 


Relaali 

Located near the equator in the northern hemisphere, in the center of a mas- 
sive island continent, Zone One is the planet's oldest, most heavily populated 
and industrialized zone. It is the traditional capital of the world, home to 
the local offices of every major corporation on 244Core. The central sector 
of Zone One is named after Relaali, the mediator who successfully negoti- 
ated the first power-sharing agreement between rival companies. Relaali 
is a large city surrounded by industrial mining facilities, company-owned 
living quarters, three major ground and speeder transportation hubs, and 
the most sophisticated starport on the planet. Over the centuries, Zone One 
and Relaali have been struck by meteorites, and the impact craters are visible 
in the city's layout. The administrative center, located deep under Relaali, is 
the hub of corporate politics. It is also the planet's primary cultural center. 


Skyscan 6 

Located in geosynchronous orbit directly above Eeookko, the small space sta- 
tion Skyscan 6 operates as part of the Skyscan early warning system, set up 
to detect meteorites and asteroids that threaten the planet's surface. Skyscan 
6 is operated by the Eeook Corporation and manned by 30 beings. They keep 
a constant vigil on the sky, as well as on the operations of their neighbors. 
The station is lightly armed for self-defense against pirates, but it also carries 
heavy missiles for destroying or altering the courses of incoming asteroids. 


The Dump 

The Dump is one of the earliest Systino strip mines, located in a giant valley 
(200 kilometers long and 15 to 30 kilometers wide) near the planet's equa- 
tor. After the best veins in the area were played out, Systino moved into 
the mountains, dumping abandoned compounds, derelict machinery, and 
hazardous waste into the valley. Later operations added to the danger by 
dumping their own broken equipment and hazardous waste into the valley, 
usually from high-flying speeders or cargo freighters. 


FACTIONS 

Systino dominates the early history of 244Core, although elements within 
the syndicate fight one another for power. In the century before the Battle 
of Yavin, corporations large and small battle for control of the planet's 
resources. Following are descriptions of a few major players, but you should 
feel free to create more as desired. 


Eeook Mining and Reclamation 

Eeook M&R is one of the two most powerful mining corporations on 
244Core. It is best known for moderate pay and harsh working conditions, 
and it survives by restricting the movement of its employees, often keeping 
them from leaving or defecting to other companies. When these tactics fail, 
Eeook settles labor unrest by bribing the most troublesome leaders among 
its workforce. Many of Eeook's operations are located in isolated areas of 
the planet, including islands near the south pole. Eeook has the best and 
most professional security force on the planet. The other corporations work 
together to counteract Eeook's attempts to take over the position of Chief 
Administrator. At about the time of the Empire's resurgence, Eeook M&R is 
reorganized into the Eeook Corporation. 


Systino 

Systino is the richest and most powerful criminal syndicate in this area of 
space. The leader of the syndicate is known as the Sio. While financing itself 
with Sraato's resources, the Systino syndicate wields great power over local 
governments, mainly through bribery. Thanks to its great wealth, Systino also 
hires the best smugglers and other associates to run its operations. Although 
higher-ranking lieutenants in the syndicate are aware of the existence of 
Sraato, only the lead bosses and some highly compensated pilots know the 
planet's exact location. Merely confirming the world's existence to the wrong 
people earns the informant a death sentence. 


Tor-Ro-Bo Industries 

Tor-Ro-Bo Industries is much smaller than Eeook M&R, but wields consider- 
able power thanks to its nearly simultaneous discovery of 244Core. Tor-Ro-Bo 
and Eeook are engaged in a constant struggle for control of the resources 
of 244Core. In fact, it is Tor-Ro-Bo that convinces the other corporations to 
invite Relaali to mediate the power-sharing agreement. Using the accord to 
keep rivals in check, Tor-Ro-Bo works behind the scenes to gain additional 
advantages through other means. The company is rumored to be the most 
active employer of smugglers, industrial spies, and, some say, saboteurs. 
Thanks to these methods, Tor-Ro-Bo (or one of its allied corporations) often 
holds the position of Chief Administrator. Tor-Ro-Bo's operations are most 
active in the icy mountains of the northern hemisphere. 


ADVENTURE IDEAS 
Adventures on 244Core should be influenced by the ongoing struggle among 
the corporate factions. New arrivals to the world are treated with suspicion, 
even if they have been hired for legitimate business by one of the corpora- 
tions. The following are some ideas for adventures on 244Core. 

You should review the effects of high-gravity environments (see page 257 
of the Saga Edition core rulebook) when planning an adventure on the planet. 


Bad Timing 

The heroes arrive on 244Core just as one of the seasonal meteor showers 
begins. While descending to the planet's surface, they are surprised by 
incoming meteors and must dodge the fiery rocks. Alternatively, the heroes 
are in a meeting on the planet when they are surprised by a sudden strike 
smashing into the building, or they must dodge disintegrating meteorites 
while traveling across the planet's surface. (These meteorites should be 
quite small, since even moderately sized stones can create large craters, and 
massive rocks can wipe out large areas in an instant.) 


Industrial Espionage 

Tor-Ro-Bo Industries hires the heroes to conduct espionage against the 
Eeook Corporation and pays them to keep their employer's identity a secret. 
The heroes sneak into an Eeook research and development lab, where they 
discover that the corporation is plotting to deflect an upcoming meteor 
shower into the operations of its rivals, including Tor-Ro-Bo. Upon delivering 
the information, the heroes are retained to help Tor-Ro-Bo stop the scheme 
and expose Eeook. The heroes might destroy the ships and droids intended 
to be used in the operation, or they might persuade other corporations to 
stand against Eeook, making the scheme politically untenable. 


Power Grab 

The heroes are hired by a Systino lieutenant to transport a small number 
of mercenaries to Sraato. The lieutenant plans to use the mercenaries to 
assassinate a rival in the syndicate so he can take the rival's place. If other 
syndicate leaders learn of the plot, they send bounty hunters after the heroes. 
If the heroes are captured but can convince the syndicate that they were 
duped into helping the lieutenant, they might strike a deal with Systino to 
make up for their part in the power grab. On the other hand, if the lieuten- 
ant's plot succeeds, the heroes have a powerful ally in the crime syndicate. 
Of course, if their ally believes that the heroes might reveal his deeds, they 
find themselves pursued by silent assassins. 


HAZARDS 


Meteorite Storm CL 10 

Numerous meteorites descend through the planet's atmosphere. While 
most burn up on entry, others strike the ground in a dangerous hail of 
tiny, burning rocks. 

Area, natural 


Trigger A creature or a droid begins its turn in an area affected by a 
meteorite storm 

Attack +12 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 4d6+2 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round on initiative (Initiative +10) 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 24): As a reaction to the meteorite storm's attack, a 
character can make an Acrobatics check to gain a +2 dodge bonus to 
Reflex Defense against the meteorite storm's attacks until the start of 
his or her next turn. 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 19): The character identifies the 
impending meteorite storm. 


Meteor Shower CL15 

Meteor showers in the upper atmosphere of a planet can be extremely 
dangerous for vehicle passing through that area, as most of the meteors 
have not yet been burned away by atmospheric entry. 

Area, natural 

Trigger A vehicle begins its turn in an area affected by a meteor shower 

Attack +17 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 3d10+2x2 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round on initiative (Initiative +12) 

Skills 
Pilot (DC 24): As a reaction to the meteor shower's attack, the pilot of 
a vehicle can make a Pilot check to grant the vehicle a +2 dodge bonus 
to Reflex Defense against the meteor shower's attacks until the start 
of his or her next turn. 
Use Computer (DC 19): The character identifies the impending meteor 
shower with vehicle sensors. 


Meteor showers consist of falling rocks, which usually burn up or explode as 
they plummet through the planet's atmosphere. However, rocks that reach 
the world’s surface or strike a ship in flight can deal plenty of damage. 


IA HSLagvHoS 


e 
bd 
; 
a 


U 


SLEONVYVE) 


IA HalavHo 


ALTIRIA/ANARRIS 


Despite its beautiful landscapes, verdant forests, and lush plains, the world 
known as both Altiria and Anarris has been locked in conflict for most of 
the time that sapient life has existed on it. Two vastly different species, the 
Altiri and the Anarrians, evolved independently on the planet, grew intolerant 
of each other, and now fight to become the dominant species. They inhabit 
the planet's only two continents, which are separated by vast oceans. The 
Altiri and the Anarrians are content for the most part to remain separate, 
but their ongoing war always threatens to erupt. 


ALTIRIA/ANARRIS 

Region: Unknown Regions 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 

Length of Year: 336 local days 

Sapient Species: 49% Altiri, 49% Anarrian, 2% other species 
Government: Representative democracy (Altiri), dictatorship (Anarrian) 
Capital: Cerdana (Altiri), Rastar (Anarrian) 

Major Exports: Foodstuffs, medicine 

Major Imports: Technology, weapons 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

15 The planet known as either Altiria or Anarris (depending on whom you 
ask) is a fertile, temperate world covered with sparse forests and roll- 
ing plains. 

20 The civilizations of the planet are on the verge of being able to travel 
to other star systems, but the constant state of warfare prevents them 
from taking the final step. However, both the Altiri and the Anarrians 
welcome species from other worlds. 

25 The original reason for the war has been lost to history, but many 
outsiders believe that the two species are battling for dominance of 
the planet. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

15 Both species are friendly to visitors from other worlds, and each 
actively promotes its people and continent as the superior force on 
the planet. 

20 Despite their friendly overtures to other species, the Altiri and the 
Anarrians have a deep hatred for each other. 

25 Atiny minority of each species covertly shows tolerance for the other. 
But such individuals are shunned and persecuted by their societies, or 
even tortured and killed. 


HisTtToRY 

Intelligent life on the planet is quite young; the first signs of civilization do 
not appear until about 6,000 years before the Battle of Yavin. It is not known 
whether the Altiri or the Anarrians develop first, but both species flourish and 
claim ownership of their respective continents for a period of 1,500 years. 

The details of the initial meeting between the species are muddy, although 
general facts are agreed upon by historians. The Altiri and the Anarrians 
first encounter each other at sea about halfway between their homelands. 
Each species is frightened by the other's appearance and is unable to com- 
municate, and their fear quickly leads to violence. However, the outcome of 
the story of this first encounter varies depending on who tells it. The Altiri 
maintain that the Anarrians succumbed to their fear and fled, whereas the 
Anarrians say that they slaughtered their enemies and returned home to 
report their findings. 

At the time of the Jedi Civil War, the two species are locked in a global 
war, and no location on the planet's surface is safe from the conflict for 
long. Despite every attempt to wipe each other out, neither side can gain a 
permanent foothold on the other continent. After a decade of heated conflict, 
the war dies down to minor skirmishes at sea. 

Over the next 4,000 years, smaller wars erupt from time to time, usually 
disputes over which species holds the strongest claim to territorial islands 
in the middle of the ocean. The longest of these wars lasts roughly 20 years. 


ALTIRIA/ANARRIS 


SPECIES OF 

THE CONTESTED PLANET 

Throughout most of the planet's history, the two species that developed 
intelligence have contested for dominance. However, they are equal in their 
capabilities, which prolongs their conflict. Their differences separate them 
and fuel their desire to exterminate each other. Both the Altiri and the 
Anarrians believe that they are the superior species and should rightfully 
be the masters of the world on which they live. 


Altiri 

Altiri are a near-Human species that evolved on the eastern continent of 
the planet they call Altiria. Originally wandering nomads, Altiri developed 
a society that places great importance on individual development of one's 
intellect and spirituality. Through artistic expression and cultural aware- 
ness, Altiri focus on expanding their knowledge of the universe by peace- 
ful, scientific means. Their perpetual war with the Anarrians is a glaring 
exception to this lofty goal. 

Altiri are on average 1.7 meters in height. Their skin shades vary from 
light blue to deep indigo, and their hair color includes pure white and darker 
hues such as purple and black. 

Altiri share the following species traits: 

Size: As Medium creatures, Altiri have no special bonuses or penalties 
due to their size. 

Speed: Altiri base speed is 6 squares. 

Visually Striking: Altiri have a visually surprising or stunning appear- 
ance. Their Charisma bonus is doubled when they use the Persuasion skill 
on Humans and near-Humans. 


By the time of the Empire's reign over the galaxy, each continent has 
a new leader, and each leader vows to annihilate the other species. These 
pronouncements start new hostilities that escalate into another global 
war—one that uses more advanced technology and thus is more destructive. 
This time, the fighting also takes place in the air, in the ocean depths, and 
on the planet's two moons. Widespread devastation reaches every corner 
of the world, bringing both species to the brink of extinction. By the time 
the war ends, just before the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, civilization on Altiria/ 
Anarris has regressed to a pre-industrial level. Colonies located between the 
two continents become isolated. The moon bases are cut off from the planet 
as well, although each government claims nominal control of one moon. 


Bonus Trained Skill: Altiri are versatile and accomplished at many tasks. 
An Altiri chooses one additional trained skill at 1st level. The skill must be 
chosen from the character's list of class skills. 

Automatic Languages: Altirish and Basic. 


Anarrians 

Like the Altiri, the Anarrians are a near-Human species, although they 
evolved on the western continent of the world they call Anarris. Their society 
emphasizes the physical aspects of life, and it places great value on strength 
of body. As a result of this philosophy, Anarrians lead a militaristic lifestyle. 
By refining themselves through combat and physical development, Anar- 
rians strive to achieve perfection and a higher status in life. They feel that 
their war against the Altiri is the perfect testing ground for their beliefs. 

Anarrians' bodies are covered in fur that varies in color from light blonde 
to dark brown. An Anarrian has long, pointed ears, and a ridge of small 
horns crosses an Anarrian's face above the brow. Anarrians are on average 
1.8 meters in height and have a maturity rate slightly greater than that of 
Humans but a life span that is shorter. 

Anarrians share the following species traits: 

Size: As Medium creatures, Anarrians have no special bonuses or penal- 
ties due to their size. 

Speed: Anarrian base speed is 6 squares. 

Strength Surge: Once per encounter, an Anarrian can do one of the 
following: reroll one Strength-based ability check or skill check using a 
doubled Strength modifier (minimum +1), or add 2 to one damage roll when 
making a successful melee attack to which a Strength bonus is normally 
added. This benefit does not apply when Weapon Finesse is used. 

Bonus Feat: Anarrians gain one bonus feat at 1st level. 

Automatic Languages: Anarrese and Basic. 


As each society rebuilds, past grievances are not forgotten, and each 
species vows to exact revenge on the other as soon as it is able. Not only 
do both species work to rise from the ashes of the second great war, but 
they also begin an arms race, with each side hoping to gain enough power 
to eliminate its rival once and for all. 

Many islands and the planet's two continents offer natural resources 
such as ores, fuel sources, and fertile land that can be used by each species. 
But after centuries of fighting, those resources are dwindling, and each 
government tries to find new ways to keep its war effort going. While the 
Altiri use their scientists to research new materials and fuels, the Anarrians 
search for new sources of the resources they already use. At the same time, 
both species negotiate with visiting merchants from other worlds to see if 
the raw materials they need can be imported. 


IA HatLdavHo 


U 
e 
> 
ze 
W 
J 
0) 


aig 


IA SStdtvHo 


SLENVYVE) 


LOCATIONS 
The contested planet includes the following significant or interesting 
locations. 


Cerdana 
The capital city of the Altiri, Cerdana is the pinnacle of their society and 
culture. Geographically positioned near the center of the eastern continent, 
along the shores of the world's longest river, the city is considered by many 
beings to be strikingly beautiful. Altiri believe that each structure should 
reflect the designer's personality and function as both a building and as a 
work of art. As a result, many different architectural styles come together to 
create a cityscape that is a perpetually developing example of Altirian culture. 
Cerdana, which has a starport, is also the seat of governmental power 
for the Altiri. As adherents of representative democracy, the Altiri govern 
themselves under the same ideals as those upon which their society focuses: 
the development of the individual and the advancement of the Altiri as the 
superior species of the planet. 


Priva 

The smaller of the world's two moons, Priva is the brightest natural satellite 
in the planet's night sky. Shining white, with blue highlights from its craters, 
the airless moon remains a mystery to both species for centuries until it is 
first colonized by the Altiri around 500 years before the Battle of Yavin. The 
colony, named Shalla after a goddess of peace worshipped early in Altiri 
history, is originally a research station and eventually becomes a starport 
for receiving offworld visitors. But during the second great war, the colony 
is transformed into a defense station, and the starport is altered to become 
a military base. Attacked several times by the Anarrians during the war, the 
station suffers heavy damage. However, it survives and remains operational, 
even after losing contact with the planet near the end of the war. As the 
Altiri nation rebuilds itself, the colony of Shalla serves as a reminder of the 
civilization's highest achievement. 


Rastar 

Strategically placed at the back of a large harbor on the east coast of the 
western continent, Rastar serves as the Anarrian capital. Unlike those in 
the Altirian city of Cerdana, the structures that make up the city of Rastar 
are prosaic. Each part of a building serves some purpose; not a single area 
of the structure is unused. Even the exteriors play a role—each building is 
colored according to the function it serves in society, making it easier for 
the population to navigate the city. 

In addition to being the Anarrian capital, Rastar also houses the majority 
of the nation's armed forces. Large areas of the city are dedicated to the 
training and development of the army and the navy, and half of the harbor 
is set aside to build ships and maintain the fleet. 


The Anarrians live in a totalitarian society under a solitary leader who 
is the strongest, most capable warrior at the time. Rarely does an Anarrian 
ruler live past middle age, since younger, stronger soldiers frequently issue 
challenges for the mantle of leadership. 


Secava 

The larger of the two moons, Secava seems to glow an eerie orange color. 
A few years after the Altiri colonize Priva, the Anarrians settle on Secava, 
building their first permanent structures as a military base to give them the 
upper hand in their ongoing struggle against their enemies. They also begin 
mining operations on the moon to obtain additional resources for their 
war effort. Once their presence on Secava is firmly established, they begin 
launching attacks against the Altirian nation on the planet below as well 
as on the colony on Priva. They do not expect a relatively quick retaliation 
from the other moon, so when the counterattack comes, the inhabitants of 
Kolrak—the Anarrians' lunar city, named for a historical military leader—suffer 
heavy casualties. The Anarrians’ colony falls silent as it rebuilds and prepares 
to launch the next strike. As the battle between the moons rages on, the 
settlers on Secava lose contact with Rastar and fear the worst. Intending 
to exterminate their foes, the Anarrians on Secava prepare a final, massive 
assault against Priva, but a technical system failure delays the offensive for 
the foreseeable future. Still, the Anarrians continue to plot the destruction 
of the Altiri as they wait for the next opportunity to attack. 


Shanuk Island 

Shanuk Island is by far the largest island on the planet. Located approximately 
midway between the two continents, the island used to be covered with lush 
tropical jungles. Now, it is a blasted wasteland because it is a place of stra- 
tegic importance for both nations, which seek to use it as a staging ground 
for assaults on their enemy's continent. The Altiri and the Anarrians have 
waged countless battles on the shores of Shanuk Island, and ownership of 
the island passes back and forth on a regular basis. The claims over Shanuk 
Island are so heavily contested that it has never been held by one govern- 
ment for more than a few years at a time. The island is home to structures 
that have been razed and rebuilt again and again, along with a harbor and 
a landing field where starships of up to Colossal size can take off and land. 


HAZARD 


Forgotten Minefield CL 13 

Unseen explosive devices beneath the surface are triggered by creatures 
moving across the mines’ trigger zones. 

Area, artificial, contact, energy, fire 

Trigger A creature or a droid enters a square containing or adjacent to a 
forgotten land mine; targets the triggering creature and any creature 
or droid in a square adjacent to the mine 

Attack +15 vs. Reflex Defense 


Damage 6d6 and the target is thrown 6 squares in a random direction 
(Miss: Half damage and the target is thrown 3 squares in a random 
direction) 

Recurrence On trigger; only once per mine 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 26):The character makes this check as a part of a 
move action; if the check succeeds, the character can enter squares 
adjacent to a mine during that move action without triggering the 
hazard. 

Special 
Each mine in the forgotten minefield should take up 1 square. There 
should be at least 1 mine per hero placed in the encounter area, plus 
additional mines for particularly large battlefields. 


As a result of the ongoing conflict between the Altirians and the Anarrians, 
there are many locations across the world that have been seeded with explo- 
sives as a deterrant against invasion. However, many times these minefields 
are left unmarked and are forgotten until some unaware citizen stumbles 
across a hidden mine. The following hazard can be used to add some spice to 
a combat encounter on Altira/Anarris, giving the heroes reason to be extra 
cautious during their movement across the battlefield. 


FACTIONS 

On a world torn apart by endless war, various groups are bound to emerge and 
vie for their own particular causes, whether that cause is total domination, 
their own piece of the action, or a permanent, peaceful end to hostilities. 
The following factions are the major organizations found on the planet. 


The Altirian Republic 

Most Altiri unite under the banner of the Altirian Republic, a representa- 
tive democracy that rules most of the eastern continent and several island 
chains around it. The republic's driving goal is the promotion of the Altiri, 
their development into the world's most advanced society, and their eleva- 
tion to rulers of the planet. Republic members fervently state that they seek 
a peaceful existence in which knowledge and the arts are prized over all 
else, and many facets of their society support this ideal. At the same time, 
the republic maintains a sizable military force, the purpose of which is to 
combat the Anarrians. 


The Anarrian Empire 

Most Anarrians are citizens of the Anarrian Empire, the government that 
reigns over the planet's western continent and many of the islands nearby. 
Since its inception around the time of the Mandalorian Wars, the empire 
has fought to gain dominance over the Altiri and establish its rule over the 
world. Thanks to their perpetual state of military readiness and training, the 
Anarrians are prepared to launch an assault on any who stand in their way, 
including rogue cells of Anarrians who choose other philosophies and goals. 


ADVENTURE IDEAS 
Plenty of adventuring opportunities await heroes who visit a world ripped 
apart by civil war. The following ideas are only a few possibilities. 


Doomsday Mission 

An Altirian intelligence agent reports a rumor that the Anarrians are develop- 
ing a doomsday weapon powered by a previously unknown fuel source found 
only on the western continent. Republic leaders ask the heroes to investigate 
and, if the rumor proves true, to sabotage the project. Infiltration of the 
Anarrian Empire is hard enough, but what happens when the heroes learn 
that the doomsday weapon is finished and ready for testing? 


Strange Visitors 

The Anarrians receive word that the Altiri are expecting mysterious ambas- 
sadors from another world for an extended visit to their lands. The nature 
of the visit is not known, but leaders of the empire fear that the Altiri are 
seeking some form of offworld help with their war effort. The heroes are 
asked to spy on the dignitaries and disrupt the proceedings, but those efforts 
become much more difficult once the visitors’ identities are revealed. (You 
can use any species from the Unknown Regions or known space that fits 
into your campaign.) 


Let's Make a Deal 

A Rakata merchant who spends a lot of time on the planet decides to smuggle 
weapons to the Altiri, to the Anarrians, or to both species for a tidy profit. She 
hires the heroes to deliver her proposal to leaders of the respective govern- 
ments and to act as intermediaries throughout negotiations, since she wishes 
to remain anonymous. The characters must determine whether each nation 
is interested and how much it is willing to pay for the merchant's goods. But 
does the Rakata have an ulterior motive beyond simply lining her pockets? 


Unlikely Allies 

A starship crashes on a large island in the middle of the ocean. Days later, 
much of the wildlife and many of the inhabitants of the island become 
infected with an unexplained plague. The government that controls the 
island asks the heroes to travel to the crash site, look into the nature of the 
plague, and try to find a cure before the sickness spreads around the world. 
The heroes’ investigation turns up evidence that the ship was crewed by 
Altirian colonists from Priva and Anarrian colonists from Secava, apparently 
working together on an unknown mission—and that survivors of the crash 
have gone into hiding. 


A SBSLdVvHo 


SLEONVYIVE 


WaLaVHS 


iA 


U 


SLINYVe) 


DURACE 


Durace is a hostile planet in a hostile region of space. It is unforgiving, deadly, 
and generally avoided by those who know about it. When first discovered by 
the Old Republic cruiser Galaaron, the world seemed pleasant enough. But 
at some point in its history, the planet was subject to a large-scale disaster 
that changed Durace into the nightmare that it is today. 

The few scientific studies of Durace have found strange anomalies. The 
atmospheric conditions match those of a planet involved in an interstellar 
collision, but there is no physical evidence of such an event. The world has 
no impact crater and no shrapnel in orbit. Durace has no moons and is the 
lone planet orbiting its star. However, the planet's harsh atmosphere wreaks 
havoc on the scientific instruments needed to solve the mystery. Only those 
beings willing to endanger themselves by spending time on the planet have 
a hope of discovering the truth. 

Few souls dare try to settle on Durace. The many wrecks that dot the 
surface are evidence that civilized species have come to the planet, and the 
smashed vessels have made the world a subject of many of spacer tales. Sup- 
posedly, famous ghost ships such as the Nebula Sta/ker and Another Chance 
have crashed on Durace. A darker account of the Galaaron legend exists as 
well, one that claims the cruiser did not merely discover the planet—it caused 
the disaster that ruined Durace. Some even say the Galaaron’'s crew, as a 
result, were cursed to live on board their cruiser for thousands of years. Jedi 
versions of these legends attribute the curse to the Sith, but no evidence 
supporting the claim has ever been found on Durace. 


DuRACE 


DURACE 

Region: Unknown Regions 
Climate: Toxic and barren 
Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 1 

Length of Day: 32 standard hours 
Length of Year: 314 local days 
Sapient Species: None 
Government: None 

Capital: None 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: None 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

15 Durace used to be a pleasant world, but an unknown disaster trans- 
formed it into a desolate and harsh planet. 

20 The atmosphere is breathable, but the planet's weather (including 
storms, gales, quakes, and lightning) makes colonization difficult. 

25 Durace is home to hostile plants and creatures that eke out a hard 
existence on the ragged world. 

30 Caverns on Durace are said to contain evidence that the world was 
populated with intelligent life before the disaster. 


MHisToORY 

Durace is discovered during the time of the Great Hyperspace War, about 
5,000 years before the Battle of Yavin. The Republic cruiser Ga/aaron briefly 
sets down on the planet to collect supplies and make repairs. A short entry 
in the captain's log notes that the crew enjoys a pleasant few hours outside 
the ship, and it makes no mention of any flora or fauna on the world. 

The next known information about Durace is reported during the Clone 
Wars by a Confederacy probe droid sent into the Unknown Regions. The 
planet is deemed dangerous not only to organic life forms but also to the 
droid armies of the CIS. The toxic seas would quickly corrode battle droid 
circuitry, and the effort required to maintain a garrison on the planet does 
not seem worth it. Durace holds little value economically or tactically. The 
Confederacy decides that if the Republic wants the planet, the Republic 
can have it. 

As the Republic transforms into the Empire, Durace is rumored to be 
a planet where Jedi who escaped Order 66 can find solace. After all, such 
survivors often seek the harshest places to live out their exile. However, no 
trace of any Jedi is ever found on the planet, so either Durace is just a stop 
on the way to an even more secluded hiding place, or the Jedi who go there 
succumb to the dangers of the planet. Some Jedi believe that the Inquisitors 
started the rumor that Durace is a haven for survivors of Order 66. Why 


WHAT HAPPENED 

TO DURACE? 

The disaster that struck Durace is deliberately left as a mystery. It might 
have been natural, such as a comet striking the planet or a shift of orbit. 
On the other hand, the catastrophe might have been caused by a secret 
weapon; the world's remote location makes it a perfect testing ground 
for all sorts of heinous devices and experiments. Regardless, you can 
determine the true cause of the planet's ruin according to the needs of 
your game. The disaster could be an epic plot point in a campaign or a 
background element to illustrate the dangers of exploring the Unknown 
Regions. 


send a Sith apprentice to kill a Jedi when a quake or an acid storm will do 
the job just as well? 

The planet falls into obscurity during the reign of Emperor Palpatine. 
The Emperor places little emphasis on exploring the Unknown Regions, and 
a planet like Durace does not have much to offer the massive war machine 
of the Empire. However, some of the local wildlife is quietly captured and 
shipped across the galaxy. Allegedly, the beasts that evolved to survive in 
the Forest of Broken Glass are very receptive to the ancient alchemical 
techniques of the Sith. Emperor Palpatine alters the more vicious creatures, 
making them even deadlier, and uses them to guard his secret projects 
throughout the galaxy. 

The New Republic reverses the Palpatine doctrine on exploration. During 
this era, Durace is the closest it ever comes to being civilized. An outpost is 
established in orbit, allowing scientists to safely study the planet's dangerous 
weather and topographical phenomena. Outpost 17 also becomes a supply 
port for scouts working in the Unknown Regions and offers a few small 
comforts to weary spacers. 

Outpost 17 is destroyed during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, and afterward, 
strange legends spread about its remains. These stories say that a sizable 
section of the outpost landed on Durace more or less intact and still contains 
a valuable treasure. The nature of the treasure changes with the telling of 
the story—sometimes the wreckage is said to hold enough valuable ore to 
pay off ten freighter loans, and sometimes the prize is the last lightsaber 
built by Grand Master Luke Skywalker. The only way to find out for sure is 
to locate and explore the outpost's ruins. 


ENVIRONMENT 

Durace has very little water. What is available is barely fit for consumption 
thanks to the chemical runoff and pollution from the land masses. The 
jagged terrain consists mainly of sharp rocks and treacherous mountains. 
The ground's distinctive black soil is loose and quickly smears across every 
surface. The planet's high winds blow enough dirt around to clog even the 
most carefully maintained engine. The more moving parts something has, 
the more likely it is that the weather on Durace will foul it up. 

In buffeting the black silt, the gales also contribute to a lack of stability 
on the planet. Large portions of the mountains can crash down in a form 
similar to avalanches seen on icy worlds. These events can also be triggered 
by mechanical events, such as a ship blasting off or a large explosion. 

The black soil comes from the volcanic mountains, whose rapidly cooling 
liquid rock gives the world's surface a rough feel. Durace has very few flat 
areas—even those that look like good landing sites are made of small, shift- 
ing rocks. In some cases, areas that look like solid landing fields are softer 
than expected, causing ships to sink a meter or more after they cut repulsors 
and settle their full weight on the surface. The landscape's jagged rocks can 
also slice through a ship's hull, creating a breach that is not discovered until 
the vessel blasts off. 

Durace's atmosphere is in a constant state of upheaval. Frequent storms 
race across the planet, and ferocious winds tear at the seas. The short bouts 
of calm weather rarely last for more than a day. In addition, the world is 
frequently disturbed by groundquakes and other seismic events that cause 
cave-ins and rockslides. The rain itself is a hazard for its force as well as its 
chemical composition; downpours can eat away at most fabrics and damage 
electronic equipment. Those venturing out onto the surface during a storm 
are advised to wear hardened vac suits. 

Predators thrive on Durace, but the food chain is fraught with danger. 
Even the smallest animals have vicious bites or defensive spikes. One Sith 
holocron has suggested coming to Durace to observe its killer beasts as 
inspiration for brewing alchemical monsters. There is no evidence of a Sith 
settlement on the planet, but several holocrons make reference to animals 
found only on Durace. 

Even the flora is deadly. Many plants have a hard exterior, as if encased 
in plasteel, which protects them from the storms while still allowing them to 
absorb light. Durace also has a variety of carnivorous plants that lure prey 
with brightly colored fruit or musical tones triggered by the blustery winds. 
One predatory plant is a rootless vine with sharp edges that is blown about 
by the gusts and wraps around its victims. The thorns of this vine can break 
vibroblades and crack helmet faceplates. 

The most dangerous plants are those that grow in caves near the moun- 
tains. They subsist off the heat from the planet's core and have sharp thorns 
the size of vibroknives to protect their root systems. These plants pose yet 
another risk for explorers—if a cave-in occurs, intruders might be slashed 
to ribbons by falling plants. 


1A HeLa vHo 


U 
Pr 
> 
z 
Y 
‘J 
@ 


lA SSiavHo 


SLEINYVYVe) 


HAZARDS 


Scavenged Supplies CL4 

Chemicals from the surface and atmosphere of Durace pollute any food or 
water scavenged from the planet's surface. 

Ingested, natural, poison 

Trigger A creature consumes food or water scavenged from the surface of 
Durace without first purifying it 

Attack +6 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage 2d8+3 poison and the target moves -1 step on the condition 
track (Miss: Half damage, and no condition track movement) 

Recurrence Each hour until treated 

Skills 
Survival (DC 16): The character recognizes that the supplies are tainted. 
Treat Injury (DC 21): The character treats the effects of the tainted 
supplies. 


Getting stranded on Durace is not a hopeful experience. There is little in the 
way of supplies available to be scavenged from the surface of the planet, 
and that which is available is often toxic. Any time a character consumes 
food or water scavenged from the surface of Durace without properly filter- 
ing and sterilizing those supplies, use the following hazard to represent the 
supplies’ toxic effects. 


Storm Over Durace CL9 

Purple lightning flashes out of the dark clouds as you descend toward the 
planet's surface. 

Atmospheric, energy, natural 

Trigger A vehicle begins its turn in a storm over Durace 

Attack +11 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d10+3x2 energy (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence On trigger; descending through a storm takes three rounds 

Skills 
Pilot (DC 23): The character reduces the number of rounds it takes to 
pass through the storm by 1 round. 


Durace is constantly wracked by acidic storms, from which bolts of purple 
lightning strike out. While the primary effect of such a storm is similar to the 
toxic atmosphere hazard (see page 101), vehicles passing through the area of 
a violet lightning storm might be struck by the highly charged bolts, which 
can render a ship inoperable if it does not flee the storm quickly enough. 


Jagged Sinkhole CL7 

The vehicle slowly begins to sink into the rocks upon which it sits. Jagged 
shards of volcanic rock dig into the hull of the vehicle, grinding and 
tearing holes as it slips further below the surface. 

Natural 


Trigger A ground vehicle ends its pilot's turn in the area of the jagged 
sinkhole, or any vehicle lands in the area of the jagged sinkhold 

Attack +9 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d10+2x2 (Miss: Half damage); on a hit or a miss, the vehicle 
becomes mired in the jagged sinkhole and cannot move without 
assistance (see the Skills section below) 

Recurrence Each round on initiative (Initiative +8) 


Skills 
Perception (DC 22): The character recognizes the jagged sinkhole. 
Pilot (physical sciences) (DC 22): Using the vehicle's drive systems, 
the character is able to dislodge the ship from the hazard. This skill 
check requires a move action; if the check is successful, the vehicle can 
move as normal. 
Use the Force (DC varies): The move object Force power can be used 
to pull a trapped vehicle out of the jagged sinkhole. 


Vehicles that land on the surface of Durace may sink into the jagged volcanic 
rock that appears to be solid but actually hides a deep sinkhole. 


Carnivorous Plants of Durace cL 11 

A carnivorous plant lashes out at a nearby creature, trying to drain it of its 
life essence. 

Natural 

Trigger A creature or a droid enters a square within 3 squares of a 
carnivorous plant of Durace 

Attack +13 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 4d6+1 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence Each round on initiative (Initiative +10) 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 24): The character makes this check as a part of a 
move action; if the check is successful, the character can pass within 
3 squares of a carnivorous plant of Durace during that move action 
without triggering the hazard. 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 19): The character identifies the 
carnivorous plant. 

Special 
A creature or a droid reduced to 0 hit points by this hazard takes a -10 
penalty to Endurance checks as long as it remains within 3 squares of 
the hazard. 


Durace is home to many species of meat-eating plants. Though fauna is rare 
on the planet, these plants can consume creatures of up to Large size, living 
on the nutrition taken from those creatures for years at a time. 


LOCATIONS 
Durace includes the following significant or interesting locations. 


The Pictograph Caverns 

One of the few clues to life on Durace before the disaster comes from a series 
of caverns found in the mountains near the equator. Primitive carvings on the 
walls of these caves depict a society that lived on the world long before the 
calamity. The carvings that have been discovered so far offer little informa- 
tion about the disaster itself, but scholars are hopeful that more revealing 
pictographs exist elsewhere on the planet. 


The Diamond Desert 

The strange geothermal forces of Durace have turned this desert into a pres- 
sure cooker, compressing the black sand into rare jewels that fetch impressive 
prices on the galactic market. Travelers can literally find diamonds scattered 
among the dunes. These gems range in size from the diameter of a small stone 
to that of a Wookiee's fist. Some of the intelligent predators of the desert 
use these diamonds as bait. The creatures lurk below the dunes until a jewel 
lures unsuspecting explorers out of safe cover, then thrust up through the 
sands to devour the foolish intruders. 


The Forest of Broken Glass 

This forest has no trees. Its name comes from the silicate rock formations that 
jut up from the ground in strange colors and jagged shapes. The formations 
reflect blaster bolts and are highly resistant to damage and to the dramatic 
weather systems that rush across Durace. Travelers caught without shelter 
sometimes take cover in the forest, but they must be extremely careful. The 
fierce windstorms that wrack the planet can shatter the taller rock forma- 
tions, sending a rain of shards down onto a camp of unwary explorers. 


ADVENTURE IDEAS 

Durace is a brutal, unforgiving world, and simply surviving a stay on the 
planet can be a challenge in itself. The sample adventures below offer reasons 
for heroes to visit Durace. 


Hunters 

Duanna Falos has developed a reputation as a fearless hunter—no creature 
is too intimidating for her. She sees the terrible beasts of Durace as a true 
challenge to her skill and hires the heroes to take her on a hunt. However, 
accidents plague the expedition from the start. The heroes soon realize that 
someone within Duanna's entourage is trying to kill her. Is it her put-upon 
Mon Calamari servant? Her bodyguard, who happens to be a jealous former 
lover? Her current lover, who also happens to be her political rival? Can the 
heroes keep Duanna alive long enough to receive the extravagant sum they 
were promised? Or will the murderer arrange for accidents to befall everyone 
on the expedition to ensure their silence? 


Ghost Camp 

The heroes are sent to relieve a survey team on Durace, bringing fresh supplies 
and giving the outpost's crew some much-needed time offworld. But as soon 
as the heroes drop out of hyperspace, they realize that something has gone 
wrong. The outpost's distress transmitter fades in and out weakly, and the 
small settlement has been left open to the caustic elements. The only recov- 
erable log entries are half-mad rantings about ghosts and betrayal. Did the 
harsh conditions on Durace cause one of the scientists to turn on the others, 
or did an outside force tear through the camp and make off with the team? 


A Deadly Discovery 

Images of the pictographs in Durace’s caverns make their way into the pro- 
cessors of GB-3P0, a protocol droid owned by House Bolleon. Lord Bolleon, a 
collector of artifacts and primitive art, sets his droid to the task of translating 
the pictographs. He hopes to uncover their meaning and possibly learn more 
about the calamity that devastated Durace. The droid makes a breakthrough 
but becomes a fugitive when Lord Bolleon turns up dead. GB-3PO0 ends up 
on the heroes’ doorstep, begging for protection so it has time to complete 
the translation. Something is hunting the droid—something that does not 
want the secret of Durace to be discovered. 


Fields of Promise 

Ever since Durace was struck by disaster, the only plants that grow on the 
world are just as hazardous as the planet itself—all except one. A small field 
of rare alparas flowers, which bloom once every 100 years, has been sighted 
on Durace (or so claims a scientist recently returned from an expedition 
to the world). The flowers hold the key to a cure for a mysterious disease 
contracted by one of the heroes, and their appearance might also provide 
insight into making Durace habitable again. The alparas flowers bloom in 
only one place on the planet: a small island in the middle of the Alkaline 
Sea. Landing a ship there is next to impossible, so the heroes must traverse 
ground, sea, and air to reach the plants. 


For You, Half Price 

A Devaronian scoundrel is doing a brisk business selling rare gems that she 
claims come from the Diamond Desert on Durace. A wealthy noble known 
to the heroes purchases one for his wife to show off at the next society ball. 
Before long, however, the noble and his wife turn up missing. The heroes 
soon learn that others who bought diamonds from the Devaronian have also 
quietly disappeared, and before they vanished, several of them were heard to 
be preparing for a hastily arranged trip to Durace. Are the jewels somehow 
drawing their owners to the hostile world, and if so, what will the heroes 
find there when they investigate? 


IA SeSsid0vHo 


SLINVWVeE) 


iA eSslavHo 


SLENVde) 


GIACA 


Giaca is a lush, wild world teeming with life and largely unspoiled by 
civilization. Although it is not a homeworld or a colony for any particular 
sentient species, the planet is not without intelligent inhabitants. Beyond the 
numerous types of wild creatures in its dense forests and massive volcanic 
causeways, Giaca hosts a few scattered outposts of survey teams, criminal 
hideouts, and, it is rumored, an ancient surveillance station. 

Giaca owes much of its quiet existence to the fact that it is isolated by 
a particularly challenging hyperspace tangle; plotting a course to the world 
from any location is extremely difficult. Most visitors must rely on sketchy 
astrogation data that is usually long out of date. Pilots who make regular 
trips to the planet guard their map data jealously and share it only for out- 
rageous prices—assuming that anyone can convince them to share it at all. 


GIACA 

Region: Unknown Regions 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 22 standard hours 

Length of Year: 414 local days 

Sapient Species: 50% near-Human, 50% other species 
Government: None 

Capital: Station 3Z3 (largest outpost) 

Major Exports: Exotic flora and fauna, scientific research 
Major Imports: Foodstuffs, manufactured items, technology 


Knowledge (Life Sciences) 

Heroes can make Knowledge (life sciences) checks after spending several 

hours on Giaca and making a quick investigation of the world. 

DC RESULT 

10 Giaca has an atmosphere that is not hazardous to most species. Tree- 
like growths cover much of the planet's surface. In addition, groves 
of massive bushlike trees occur regularly; each grove can be several 
kilometers across. 

15 The planet is home to many aggressive species of wildlife, some of 
which are poisonous. Many creatures live within the narrow canyons 
formed by the planet's hexagonally shaped columns of basalt. 

20 The poison of the largest predators is the most hazardous. The poison 
of lesser species and plant life can be debilitating but is not typically 
lethal. The biggest predators tend to be found in the largest groves of 
trees. 


Knowledge (Physical Sciences) 

Heroes can make Knowledge (physical sciences) checks after spending several 
hours on Giaca and conducting a quick investigation of the world or after 
making close-range sensor scans. 

DC RESULT 

10 Giaca has a history of widespread volcanic activity. Enormous, hex- 
agonal columns of basalt are common features across the planet, 
located where the largest lava flows formed massive causeways. 

15 Although most of the hundreds of volcanoes have not been active for 
millenia, the volcanoes along a large mountain range in the northern 
hemisphere, running roughly parallel to the planet's equator, remain 
active. Significant areas of the range are shrouded in fumes that are 
dangerous to most species. 

20 The narrow canyons produced by the formation of the basalt columns 
provide a multitude of hiding places for creatures, outposts, and crim- 
inals, with many avenues of escape. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

20 Giaca is rumored to be a wilderness world perfect for hiding from 
authorities or conducting illegal or secret business. Local hyperspace 
interference and distortions make the planet remarkably difficult to 
visit. 

25 A few regional worlds are interested in claiming Giaca. Some have set 
up research stations on the planet that double as surveillance posts 
for keeping tabs on rival claimants. 

30 Giaca is said to be home to an ancient surveillance station of a long- 
lost civilization. The outpost and the surrounding area are rumored to 
be extremely dangerous, possibly contaminated by chemical or radio- 
logical hazards. No one knows if the station truly exists. 


HIisToRY 

Thousands of years before the Jedi Civil War, the Rakata visit Giaca. They 
establish a large surveillance outpost, near the equator, which they use as a 
base from which to survey the planet and map the complexities of hyperspace 
travel around the system. The onset of local volcanic activity, along with a 
loss of interest in the world, cause the Rakata to abandon the station well 
before their Infinite Empire disappears from the galaxy. 

One hundred years before the Jedi Civil War, scouts from the nearby planet 
of Shor rediscover Giaca. For the next fifty years, small Shorak expeditions 
dare the dangerous hyperspace routes to survey the lush world. Although they 
quickly realize that Giaca is suitable for colonization, its difficult location 
delays any such attempts. Eventually, Peroenia, a competing world, learns 
of Giaca's existence and dispatches its own expeditions. For another fifty 
years, all the major regional powers learn of Giaca and send survey teams 
to scout the planet and keep tabs on their neighbors. 


At the end of this time, the Shorak make their first attempt to colonize 
Giaca. However, learning of those plans, ambitious Peroenia commanders 
dispatch a small military force to ambush the colonists. Taking advantage 
of the fact that there are only a few known hyperspace routes to Giaca, 
the soldiers strike the colonists just as their ship drops out of hyperspace 
outside the Giaca System. The attack results in a war between Shor and 
Peroenia that flares up regularly for the next 300 years. Although most of 
the fighting occurs far from Giaca's system, scouts from both forces run 
surveillance missions on the contested world to keep the other side from 
gaining a foothold. Small skirmishes are common between the scouts, but 
only a few minor pitched space battles occur in the system. 

Eventually, the Shorak are victorious, but postwar rebuilding efforts are 
slow. All regional powers manage to reestablish outposts of various types on 
Giaca, but none is especially prominent or powerful. Before long, the outposts 
begin to run into problems with the planet's large, aggressive predators. The 
Shorak establish Station 300 as their primary outpost, but their colonization 
attempt is unsuccessful. Giaca is abandoned to the few criminals and visitors 
who find their way to the world. 

About twenty years before the Clone Wars, the Shorak expand Station 
300 to become Station 3Z3, reigniting the regional powers' interest in the 
planet. Suspecting the Shorak of plotting another colonization attempt, 
Peroenia and other worlds reinforce their own outposts. Skirmishes occasion- 


GIAcCA 


ally break out between competing forces, and an arms race develops among 
the claimants. All sides are still relatively weak militarily, but the clashes are 
enough to delay Shorak plans. 

Finally, by the Battle of Endor, the Shorak further expand and fortify 323 
so that it can protect a new colony that settles in a causeway near the station. 
Peroenia and its allies attempt to slow the arrival of the colonists, but they 
have difficulty repelling the more advanced Shorak ships. The colony is well 
defended, and by the fall of the Galactic Alliance, its population expands to 
50,000. However, the Shorak remain unable to secure the planet and must 
regularly defend their colony against the Peroenians and their allies. 

The struggles of the Shorak, the Peroenians, and their rivals are the best- 
known aspects of Giaca's history, but much more happens on the wild world. 
Although the difficult approach to Giaca prevents anyone from making it 
their primary base of operations, for thousands of years, criminals and fringe 
dwellers make use of the planet without interference from any government- 
related factions. Their stories are not widely known, even among the planet's 
few permanent inhabitants. 


LOCATIONS 
Giaca includes the following significant or interesting locations. 


Station 3Z3 
Station 3Z3 is Giaca's largest outpost and the one most likely to attract the 
attention of newcomers. It is owned and operated by the Shorak, one of the 
larger powers claiming the planet. Since they know they lack the strength to 
enforce such a claim, the Shorak settle for maintaining an obvious presence 
and keeping an eye on everyone else. The station holds several thousand 
individuals and is defended strongly enough that most pirates and raiders 
steer clear. In addition, it is well outfitted and can provide limited aid (when 
it wishes to do so) to those who request help. The station consists of pre- 
fabricated, interconnected shelters atop a series of tall, concentric columns 
of basalt that decrease sharply in height to the forest floor. A few outlying 
buildings serve as hangars for private ships, atop their own basaltic columns 
and connected to the station by metal bridges. 

The station is open to visitors and always eager for news of nearby sys- 
tems. It provides a trading center, and its vigilant security force aggressively 
keeps out most of the criminal element. 


Maruuk’'s Nook 

Maruuk's Nook is a well-hidden bolthole that has been occupied over the 
centuries by hermits, criminals, outlaws, and refugees. Approaching the 
hideout is very difficult, since it lies deep within a long, narrow, angular 
canyon bordered by the sheer vertical faces of 140-meter-tall hexagonal 
basaltic columns. The nook is 60 meters above the canyon floor and 80 
meters from the canyon rim, and it consists of a small network of caves, the 
largest of which can house a small light freighter. Fresh water is plentiful, 
thanks to an extremely tall, narrow waterfall that plunges into the darkness 
along one edge of the nook. The waterfall cannot be seen from the canyon. 


IA BeSLeavHo 


U 
ir 
> 
z 
UY 
d 
0) 


iA HS1idvHO 


SLENVTe) 


The nook has space for a few dozen inhabitants. It offers a motley col- 
lection of furniture and equipment, much of which is broken and ancient. 
Although the nook can provide the occasional useful spare part, most 
inhabitants rely on their own equipment whenever possible. The location of 
the nook is known to very few beings, who share the secret only with those 
they feel need it the most. 


Glasspoint 

One of the better-known locations on Giaca is Glasspoint, a neutral meet- 
ing spot for criminals, faction leaders, and others. It sits atop a hexagonal 
basaltic column that has a black, glasslike appearance. The giant column is 
1 kilometer across and half a kilometer tall, and it stands 2 kilometers from 
the coast of a great inland sea. All approaches from the air and the water 
are plainly visible to anyone at Glasspoint. A few smaller basaltic columns 
clustered around the main column provide landing zones for small craft, 
although most visitors simply land on the main column. The skeletal remains 
of several wrecked starships and speeders bear witness to the outcome of 
past confrontations. 


FACTIONS 
The factions that are active on Giaca are spread out all over the planet. They 
are unlikely to randomly interact with one another. 


Criminals and Rogues 

Most of Giaca's inhabitants follow their own paths and do their best to stay 
out of sight. Whether they are criminals hiding out, rogues planning new 
operations, or just people who have removed themselves from the galaxy at 
large, most want to be left to their own pursuits. The planet is big enough and 
wild enough that outposts can remain isolated for decades, perhaps centuries, 
without detection from the major players. Of all the factions, the Peroenians 
are the most likely to encounter criminal operations while undertaking their 
survey missions, but they have learned to avoid contact whenever possible. 


The Peroenians 

A near-Human species, the Peroenians have long yellow-and-gray-striped 
hair and six digits on each hand and foot. They are avid explorers and learn a 
great deal about Giaca over the centuries. Their main outpost, called Tallpeak, 
holds only a few hundred individuals most of the time. The Peroenians have 
a dozen smaller, often temporary outposts scattered around the planet to 
survey the world and keep an eye on their rivals, especially the Shorak. As 
ancient opponents of that species, the Peroenians increase their presence on 
the planet when the Shorak threaten expansion. The Peroenians are governed 
by a Peroen-Se, Giaca's representative of the Peroenian Monarchy. 


The Shorak 

Near-Humans from the world of Shor, the Shorak are stockier and more mus- 
cular than the average Human. They dye their hair in deep colors and tattoo 
striped patterns down their arms, often incorporating the symbols of their 
family, military, or social affiliations. As Giaca’s oldest and best-equipped 
claimants, the Shorak are the faction most likely to investigate newcomers 
to the system. Although they claim Giaca as their world, they cannot enforce 
their will beyond the lands surrounding Station 3Z3. They challenge any 
opposing claim to the planet with diplomacy and the occasional armed deter- 
rent. Colonization attempts are not tolerated and draw military responses 
in short order. The Shorak government is authoritarian; the local leader is 
governor of all Shorak operations on Giaca, as well as final judge and arbiter. 


ADVENTURE IDEAS 
Adventures on Giaca need not include the Shorak or other claimants to the 
planet. The following are suggestions for typical encounters on Giaca. 


Initial Approach 

No matter what the adventure, if the heroes are flying their own ship to Giaca, 
the hyperspace approach is difficult and worthy of at least one encounter 
during the trip, especially on their first visit. When the heroes make Use 
Computer checks for astrogation, increase the DCs by 5 or 10. A failed check 
drops the ship out of hyperspace somewhere between the system's edge and 
several light years outside the system, and the heroes suffer the standard 
results for hyperspace mishap. Regular visitors to Giaca have their own exit 
points scattered throughout the system. Most of the better-known routes 
drop a ship about 2 hours out of orbit. 


Glasspoint Meeting 

An underworld contact arranges to meet the heroes at the neutral site of 
Glasspoint on Giaca, or the heroes might pursue a target to the area. Either 
way, the heroes receive old and unreliable hyperspace data (see “Initial 
Approach," above). When they finally arrive at the coordinates on Giaca, a 
weather front hundreds of kilometers long obscures Glasspoint. The heroes 
must approach in a heavy thunderstorm and land on a short basaltic column 
adjoining the taller, windswept column where their contact waits. Negotia- 
tions go poorly, and blaster fire erupts as the heroes are ambushed from 
attackers scrambling up from lower columns all around them. 


Shorak Patrol 

While approaching Giaca, the heroes draw the attention of a Shorak patrol. 
This might occur when the Shorak are aggressively defending their claim to 
the planet or when the heroes venture too close to a Shorak ship or outpost. 
The heroes are ordered to set down at Station 3Z3. If they do, the Shorak 
interrogate them until satisfied that the characters make no claims to Giaca 
and have no intention of causing trouble. If the heroes fight back or give the 
Shorak reason to dislike them, they are escorted out of the system while their 
ship is flown by a Shorak pilot to a distant rendezvous point many light-years 
away. If the heroes escape, the Shorak pursue them relentlessly, dispatching 
scouts via airspeeder and starship as needed. The heroes might find refuge 
with criminals, locate their own hiding spot in the wilds of the planet, or 
receive help from the Peroenians or other Shorak rivals. 


Surviving Giaca 

The heroes' ship sustains major damage during the approach to Giaca. 
Although they arrive in the system, they have little control over their craft 
and crash-land on the planet's surface. Their ship skips through the forested 
surface and becomes wedged between a pair of basaltic columns, high above 
the beach of a long coastline or island. The heroes discover they are on their 
own, far from any civilized area. They must escape their damaged craft, 
salvage what they can, and erect a temporary shelter. Soon, they draw the 
attention of local beasts and eventually must fight off a pack of brintaks (see 
below). Whether by search or by sensor, the heroes detect a small outpost 
hundreds of kilometers away. Salvaging what they can, they set off overland, 
possibly aided by damaged speeders. Along the way, the heroes encounter 
long-abandoned equipment, the remains of campsites or survey teams, and 
local wildlife. When the heroes arrive at the outpost, they must negotiate 
for aid and transport to their intended location. 


BRINTAK 

A brintak is a massive, muscular, four-legged beast that towers over most 
humanoids. Its large, elongated head features multiple rows of razor-sharp 
teeth. Its mouth is flanked on each side by barb-tipped, tentaclelike append- 
ages that ensnare and poison a victim while drawing prey into the creature's 
mouth. Brintaks live in many of Giaca's groves of enormous toroc trees. They 
find food in the groves and the surrounding landscape. The largest brintaks 
are solitary hunters, but younger and smaller brintaks hunt in packs of four 
to six. Brintaks are social creatures and live in dens of hollowed-out toroc 
trees, often high above the ground. Packs number up to 20 members. 


Brintak CL 15 
Huge beast 15 


Init +8; Senses low-light vision; Perception +12 


Defenses Ref 25 (flat-footed 23), Fort 18, Will 10; Dodge, Mobility 
hp 188; Threshold 28 


Speed 6 squares 
Melee bite +19 (2d6+7) and 
claw +19/+19 (1d8+7) or 
Melee tentacle +19 (1d8+7 plus poison) 
Base Atk +11; Grp +29 (tentacles) 
Atk Options Crush, Improved Charge, Pin, pounce 
Special Actions roar 


Abilities Str 26, Dex 13, Con 26, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 13 

Special Qualities pounce, roar 

Feats Crush, Dodge, Improved Charge, Mobility, Pin 

Skills Perception +12, Stealth -2 

Poison—On a successful tentacle hit, the brintak’s poison makes an attack 
roll of 1d20+10 against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack is 
successful, the poison deals 1d12 points of damage (in addition to the 
tentacle damage). If the attack is unsuccessful, the target takes half 
damage. 

Pounce-A brintak can make a long jump without a running start and 
without doubling the DC of the Jump check. If successful when 
jumping into or adjacent to a target's square, the brintak can make an 
immediate attack. If the attack is successful, the brintak can attempt 
to trip the target (as if using the Trip feat) as a free action that does 
not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Roar—As a move action, a brintak can produce a terrifying, rumbling roar 
and make a Persuasion check to intimidate any enemy target within 6 
squares. If the check succeeds, the target must move away from the 
brintak at its normal speed on the target's next turn, and the target 
moves -1 step on the condition track. This is a mind-affecting effect. 


A ¥#38iavHo 


SLEINYVE) 


lA SBStdgvHga 


SLENVIe) 


IO 


lol is a small, barren world orbiting an orange star near the edge of the 
Unknown Regions. With no atmosphere, the planet has no native flora or 
fauna and offers very little in the way of natural resources. The sole excep- 
tion is a large amount of a particular ore that is highly prized by companies 
that forge durasteel. 


1IOouU 

Region: Unknown Regions 

Climate: None 

Gravity: Low 

Moons: 0 

Length of Day: 21 standard hours 

Length of Year: 416 local days 

Sapient Species: 56% Human or near-Human, 44% other species 
Government: Corporate 

Capital: Haven 

Major Exports: Minerals 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, medicine, technology 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

20 The planet of lol is a barren world with no atmosphere and no native 
lifeforms. 

25 The government of lol is a corporate state that is a subsidiary of 
Tangan Industries, which has operated a mining colony on the planet 
for many centuries. 

30 The material mined by the colonists of lol is a major component in 
durasteel. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

15 The board of directors of Tangan Industries considers Haven's admin- 
istrator to be the head of the colony, and they believe that all cities of 
lol cooperate harmoniously to mine ore. 

20 The cities put aside their differences when working on issues that 
involve the corporation, but otherwise, they rarely get along. Many 
city leaders feel they are more qualified and more experienced than 
Haven's current administrator, Elexia Nis'tar. 

25 Each city employs and dispatches its own group of miners. The groups 
work in separate locations and rarely interact. However, some sites are 
being mined by groups from multiple cities, which can cause tension 
and even combat between the competing miners. 

30 The colonists of lol had been treated unfairly and were on the verge of 
revolution before Elexia Nis'tar took office. 


HisTOoRY 

At first glance, the planet lol appears to be nothing more than an airless 
world with no redeeming qualities. For millennia, the spacefaring civilizations 
that rise and fall around it believe that to be true as well. 

Approximately 4,500 years before the Battle of Yavin, an independent 
scout vessel drops out of hyperspace too close to lol's gravity well. The pilot 
loses control of the ship and crashes on the planet's surface. Injured and 
losing life support, he dons his spacesuit and attempts to repair the ship well 
enough to sustain life support and call for help. While outside the ship, he 
discovers that the crash has inadvertently uncovered a large vein of an ore 
used in the manufacture of durasteel. After patching the ship, he submits 
his claim to the planet through a tight-beam transmission, naming the world 
after an ancient god of death, and waits to be rescued. His claim is received 
by a cargo vessel in the employ of Tangan Industries, which changes course 
and rescues the scout. However, the captain of the cargo vessel alters the 
transmission to state that the planet has been claimed by Tangan. By the time 
the pilot discovers what has happened, representatives of Tangan Industries 
have already begun a full-scale examination of lol. 

Within two years, Tangan Industries establishes a full mining colony on 
the planet, intending to extract as much ore as it can. In time, the colony 
expands to three cities around the world, all of which are built within sealed 
domes to protect the miners and their families. 

During the time of the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi Civil War, lol is 
found by a group of ships wandering through the area. Led by a Jedi Knight 
known as the Revanchist, they negotiate with the administrator of the colony 
for a sizable amount of fuel and supplies in exchange for technology that the 
Revanchist has no need to keep. Although the transaction is not sanctioned 
by Tangan Industries, its board of directors turns a blind eye since they are 
the ultimate recipients of the technology. 

With their resources reduced by the trade, life becomes harder on lol. 
The corporation raises prices on all products for sale in the colonies, to 
help recover their costs for diverting new supplies to the colony. Within six 
months, production drops significantly due to starvation and lowered morale, 
and the colonists are ready to rebel and run the colony independently of 
Tangan Industries. Calling themselves the Miners’ Union, the rebels storm the 
capitol building, but corporate security repels the attack. The administrator 
opens his doors to the colonists’ leader, and they reach a settlement to reduce 
prices in exchange for the end of the protests. 

As the Empire gains power over most of the galaxy, a covert movement 
within the colonies desires to break away from Tangan Industries and become 
an independent state. For a while, it seems that the colony's administration 
holds the same desire, and the plan almost comes to fruition. But representa- 
tives from the company and the colonists meet to discuss terms and reach a 
settlement, resulting in better living conditions for the colonists that boosts 
their morale and increases productivity. 


LOCATIONS 

On a world that seems to be featureless, one might not expect to find loca- 
tions of significance. But since lol has had a stable population for over 3,000 
years, its residents have managed to find or even make a few sites of their 
own. Most of the naturally occurring locations lie outside the safety of the 
domes or within the underground caverns that have been dug by the miners 
over the years. lol includes the following significant or interesting locations. 


Haven 

The oldest and largest complex of domed structures on lol is known as Haven, 
the colony's capital city. Consisting of five domes, each at least 1 kilometer 
in diameter, the city is also the artificial structure most easily visible from 
orbit. Haven dominates the landscape, especially at night when the city's 
lights illuminate the general vicinity for several kilometers. 

The five domes are completely separate from one another, and each 
focuses on a particular function for the city, such as government and finance. 
They are arranged with the oldest, largest dome, which is also the govern- 
mental dome, in the center, and the others surrounding it. Tubes connect 
the central dome to each of the others, allowing easy travel between them. 

In addition to containing structures geared toward serving its function, 
each dome also has residential areas that house families with at least one 
member who works within the dome. It is possible for a family to have 
another member who works in a different dome, but such arrangements are 
rare, since the corporation encourages members of each family to follow in 
their parents’ footsteps. 


Haven's governmental structure operates as a corporation that is a 
subsidiary of Tangan Industries, the company that has owned the world 
since its colonization. The ruling body is a board of directors selected by 
the colony's Chief Executive Officer, who in turn is hand-picked by Tangan's 
top executives. 

The person serving as administrator of Haven from just after the Clone 
Wars to the time of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion is Elexia Nis'tar, a dark-skinned 
near-Human with platinum blonde hair. The executives who appointed her 
hoped to put someone in place who would serve their needs and act only as a 
figurehead, and Elexia seems like a perfect candidate, especially because she 
is married to Durro, one of the younger Tangan brothers. But Elexia proved 
them wrong by performing her duties responsibly, making the welfare of the 
colonists her top priority. Because she has gained the colonists’ favor and 
has her husband's support, Tangan's executive board allows her to run the 
colony as she sees fit—for now. 

Along with being the governmental seat, Haven serves as the world's 
primary financial hub. Through careful negotiations, Tangan Industries allows 
other companies to offer goods and services to the colonists, including vari- 
ous foodstuffs, entertainment, and technology. In exchange for being permit- 
ted to conduct business on lol, each company must pay royalties to Tangan 
above and beyond the rent they pay for the use of space and resources. 

Haven also houses the planet's sole starport in a dome dedicated entirely 
to its operation. Docking fees are reasonable, and fuel and maintenance are 
offered for the standard costs found elsewhere in the galaxy. All services 
that cater to the starport are found within its dome. Anyone that visits lol 
must go through Haven's security and customs stations before disembarking 
at the docking bay, and they must pass through another checkpoint if they 
wish to travel anywhere in the city beyond the starport dome. 

The starport dome is also the hub for all repulsortrain movement. Two 
repulsortrain tunnels connect the dome to the cities of Menelath and Shirkel. 


Menelath 

The second largest city of lol is originally built as an extension of Haven so 
that colonists do not have to travel far each day to reach the deposits on the 
other side of the planet. Over time, Menelath grows to become a city in its 
own right, but it remains second to Haven in size and importance. Menelath 
consists of a primary dome that handles most of the city's functions and 
two additional domes, linked to the main dome by tunnels, that are used 
mainly as residential zones. 

Life in Menelath is not as comfortable as life in Haven. The domes offer 
most amenities, but the lack of a starport means that few businesses establish 
a presence here. As a result, many residents journey to the capital city ona 
regular basis to procure supplies that are unavailable in Menelath. 

From about six years before the outbreak of the Clone Wars until the fall 
of the Empire, Menelath is run by a Chadra-Fan named Tol Ferin, who also 


IA BeSstdvHoa 


SLENVIVE) 


IA BSidvHoa 


SLENVVE) 


serves as a vice president of Tangan Industries. His loyalty to the company 
is unswerving, and he runs the city according to the instructions Tangan 
gave him when he took office. His approach to governance has caused some 
tension between him and the new administrator of Haven. 


Ralak Canyon 

Because lol's highest concentrations of ore are located in this area, this 
formation is created artificially through centuries of mining. Ralak Canyon 
extends 7 kilometers across the planet's surface and has been measured at 
1 kilometer deep in places. 

As mining progresses in the canyon, natural underground caverns are 
opened, but little effort is made to explore them beyond the first 50 meters. 
Some believe that more ore deposits might lie within, but safety protocols 
prevent miners from venturing too far. 

Despite the number of preventive measures taken by the miners, many 
areas of the canyon are not considered safe. Each year, carelessness results 
in accidents and casualties. 


Shirkel 

Shirkel is the newest city to appear on lol's landscape, built about fifty years 
before the Battle of Yavin. In fact, much of the outer hull of the dome struc- 
ture still has some of its original sheen, giving observers an idea of what the 
other cities looked like from the outside in their younger days. 

The city has only one dome and houses a significantly smaller population 
than the other cities, consisting mostly of miners who work the nearby sites. 
With population growth being very low, expansion of the dome is not a top 
priority, and the colonists in Shirkel must settle for facilities that are less 
extravagant despite being more recently constructed. 

The city is administered by a Twi'lek named Anoon‘olan who also holds a 
vice-presidential position with Tangan Industries. However, most of Shirkel's 
residents give their loyalty to a Human named Kai Lunn, the current leader 
of the Miners’ Union. 


HAZARDS 


Building Decompression CL 14 

One crack, and suddently the entire wall blows outward, sucking anyone 
and anything nearby into the vacuum. 

Natural 

Trigger A transparisteel window or a wall takes at least 20 points of 
damage; targets all creatures within a room or corridor where the 
damaged section is located 

Attack +16 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage No damage, and the target is pulled 20 squares toward the 
damaged wall section (Miss: No damage, and the target is pulled 10 
squares toward the damaged wall section) 

Recurrence On trigger 


Skills 
Climb (DC 27): The character grabs a stable object as a reaction and 
negates the forced movement. Alternately, if the character is already 
secured, he or she can grab an adjacent creature and prevent it from 
being moved by the hazard. 


Special 
Any creature pulled into the same square as the damaged wall or 
window is sucked out into the vacuum by this hazard, and must then 
face the vacuum atmosphere hazard (found on page 102). 


Stray blaster bolts and sabotage are two of the most dangerous things the 
people of lol must face. Since each of the buildings on the surface of lol is 
pressurized and sealed, any breach in the hull of a surface building usually 
results in immediate and violent decompression. Even the tiniest crack in 
a transparisteel window can cause an entire wall to blow out of a building, 
taking anyone in the room out as well before emergency forcefields can snap 
into place and restabilize the pressure and atmosphere within a building. 


Floating Away CL5 

A good push is all it takes to send someone careening across the surface 
of lol. 

Natural 


Trigger A creature or a droid is forcibly moved, such as with a Bantha 
Rush or by a telekinetic Force power 

Attack +7 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage No damage, and the target moves 6 squares in the direction it 
was pushed, and cannot move on its next turn unless it has a fly speed 
(Miss: The target moves an additional 3 squares in the direction it was 
pushed, but it can move normally on its next turn) 

Recurrence On trigger 

Skills 
Climb (DC 16): As a reaction, the character can make a Climb check to 
negate the additional movement by grabbing onto something solid. If no 
stable object is nearby, the Climb skill cannot be used in this way. 

Special 
This hazard can move target vertically as well as horizontally. When 
moved upward, the target immediately falls back down to the height at 
which it began without taking falling damage. 


On planets with low gravity like lol, there is always a danger that, when 
outside of the controlled gravity of artificial structures, one might float 
away from the planet if given a sufficient push. Though lol's gravity is strong 
enough to keep move surface-travelers from floating out into the blackness 
of space, it is light enough that a creature that is sufficiently pushed will 
drift for some distance before landing. 


FACTIONS 

Although most colonists strive to maintain a peaceful coexistence with the 
corporate leaders who oversee lol, various factions within the larger group 
have their own agendas. Some have the colony's best interests in mind, while 
others serve their own ends. Even when factions share the same goal, they 
do not necessarily get along with one another. 


Tangan Industries 

As the corporation that owns the planet and provides jobs and supplies for 
almost the entire population of the planet, Tangan Industries is seen by many 
as the mother and father of civilization on lol. Everything that is present on 
the world exists because of the company, and everything that comes to and 
goes from lol is due to the company's efforts. 

Despite the seemingly generous nature of its charter, Tangan Industries 
is far from a benevolent force on lol. The corporation exercises strict control 
over what merchandise comes into and out of the colony and what the resi- 
dents are allowed to do. The colonists are observed virtually nonstop, because 
Tangan claims that high security must be maintained to keep the colony as 
efficient as possible. Any events that take place apart from work and sleep, 
including family outings, must be approved by management. 


Miners’ Union 
The Miners’ Union is formed to bring the world's miners together as a single 
force that can oppose Tangan's complete control of the colonists’ lives. The 
union confronts Tangan Industries on a number of issues, including employee 
benefits and mines safety. Working conditions for the miners are risky, and 
Tangan, always seeking a profit, tries to resolve the miners’ concerns by doing 
only what is necessary to address each issue. The Miners’ Union sees the 
minimalist effort as cold and uncaring and wants the company to take extra 
efforts to ensure employee safety. Some members of the union occasionally 
take matters further than the conference table and create a situation that 
illustrates their point a little more violently, regardless of whether they have 
the union's support. 

During most of the organization's history, the welfare of its members is 
its top priority and driving goal. On rare occasions, though, its leadership 
seeks to exploit the union's position for personal gain. 


Merchants’ Consortium 

The Merchants' Consortium is a council of representatives from the compa- 
nies that have permission to sell good and services to the colonists. The con- 
sortium meets regularly with the colony's administrators in Haven to discuss 
business matters and to resolve any outstanding issues between the groups. 


Colonists sometimes strike private deals with members of the consortium 
to procure items not normally available through standard means and without 
being noticed by Tangan Industries. As long as the transactions do not affect 
the flow of credits into their coffers, the other merchants turn a blind eye 
to these clandestine arrangements. 


ADVENTURE IDEAS 

Something is always happening on lol that might interest heroes. The follow- 
ing adventure ideas can be integrated into an existing campaign or inspire 
a whole new set of escapades. 


Buried Alive 

A rockslide at Ralak Canyon has buried a group of miners from Haven in a 
recently opened cavern near the canyon floor. Those trapped in the cave will 
run out of air if they are not rescued in time, and the heroes are asked to 
help other miners in the canyon free the victims. However, the other miners 
are from Menelath, and due to recent conflicts with the Haven miners, they 
are in no hurry to provide assistance. 


Power Play 

The heroes learn of an assassination plot against Elexia Nis'tar. They must 
stop the assassin before Haven's administrator is killed. If the heroes succeed, 
Elexia asks them to investigate and determine who hired the assassin. She 
suspects the involvement of one or more of the colony's other leaders, since 
many of them resent her status as head of the colony. 


A Simple Errand 

Kin Thalin, the owner of a small cantina in Haven, claims to have found a 
remote cavern that holds large deposits of rare and valuable crystals. He 
has heard stories that some of the crystals were taken long ago by the 
Revanchist and his fellow warriors to power their weapons. Thalin is willing 
to pay handsomely for a group of heroes to fill a crate with crystals from the 
cavern and deliver it to him. Does he want the crystals for his own purposes, 
or is he acting on behalf of visitors from offworld? 


Revolution 

All communications with the city of Shirkel cease. Elexia Nis'tar worries that 
the Miners’ Union is leading a revolt in the dome in an attempt to take over 
the city. She hires the heroes to infiltrate Shirkel and investigate. The city's 
Twi'lek administrator seems willing to negotiate with the protestors, but the 
miners appear unwilling to listen to what they disparage as more corporate 
lies. The tension in Shirkel is building, and it won't take much provocation 
for things to turn ugly. 


1A BSiagvHo 


U 
ii 
D 
Z 
W 
J 
0) 


IA HeSstewHo 


SLINVWVE) 


O’REEN 

A failed colony world from the bygone era of the Old Republic, O'reen has 
become a fortress planet to rival any of the Core Worlds from the days of 
Palpatine's Empire. Its strict military focus allows O'reen to overcome any 
disadvantages it faces because of its limited technology. 


O'REEN 

Region: Unknown Regions 
Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: 1.1 standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 34 standard hours 
Length of Year: 355 local days 
Sapient Species: 98% O'reenians, 2% other species 
Government: Military dictatorship 
Capital: Fort Maximus 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Military weapons 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

15 O'reen is located just outside the border of the Outer Rim Territories 
and is fiercely independent and self-reliant. 

20 O'reen is controlled by a stringent military regime, and citizenship is 
reserved for those who serve in the planetary militia. 

25 The initial colony was established as an early warning outpost against 
a perceived extragalactic threat, but there is no proof that the threat 
ever materialized. 

30 Although the world's technology level is far behind that of most of the 
galaxy, O'reen has managed to keep fairly close to standard tech levels 
in military weaponry and vessels. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

15 O'reen is ruled by a single military leader who is referred to by the 
honorific of Magnus. 

20 The people of O'reen are accustomed to the regimented lifestyle of the 
military, and every citizen is a capable combatant. 

25 There have been several uprisings by civilians seeking to improve their 
low status, but each attempt has been thoroughly squashed by the 
military. 


HIsTORY 

Shortly after the Great Hyperspace War, the Republic orders the foundation 
of a large number of outpost worlds in the hopes of avoiding another surprise 
invasion, especially in the wake of the destruction left by the Sith Empire's 
aggression. The initial plan is to establish military garrisons well past the 
boundaries of known space, complete with the latest in hyperspatial com- 
munications and the full backing of the Republic, to provide supplies and 
new troops as necessary. However, budgetary constraints combined with 
the costs of rebuilding force the Republic to accept a compromise from the 
Senate. The military garrisons are combined with colonization efforts in an 
attempt to create self-sustaining military outposts. 

The initial test of the advance warning initiative seeks to establish a dozen 
such colonies, with the Republic offering lucrative bonuses to volunteers. 
Unfortunately, the wave of patriotism hoped for by the bureaucrats does 
not materialize, and the Republic is forced to settle for only five colonies. Of 
these, four are deemed failures due to a wide range of unfortunate events, 
including Senate corruption. As a result, the Republic military scraps the 
entire project. As the Republic's budget lacks enough credits to bring the 
colonists home, the last colony is left to its own devices. 

The fifth colony—the one established on O'reen—flourishes despite being 
written off by the Republic and isolated from the rest of the galaxy. This 
success is due partially to the abundant natural resources available to the 
colonists, but the deciding factor is a critical step taken by the military 
officer put in charge of the outpost. A once-promising starship captain who 
had fallen out of favor, he believes that without the strict discipline of the 


O'REEN 


Republic, the colony at O'reen will be doomed to failure. Thus, he decides to 
create a system to exert the required level of control. In a quick and bloodless 
coup, the captain and those under his command establish themselves as the 
dominant authority, a feat made easier by the fact that the original leader, 
the foppish son of a Republic bureaucrat, is disliked by most colonists. Within 
a year, the captain turns the colony around, shaping it into exactly what the 
Republic had hoped for: a well-disciplined and entirely self-sufficient military 
outpost. The surname of the captain is all that remains known of the leader 
who made the colony flourish, and to this day, the title of Magnus is carried 
with pride and dignity by the planet's leader. 

As the years turn into decades, O'reen's original mission becomes an 
increasingly distant memory, and its society develops into a caste system. 
Full citizenship is granted only to those who join the military and serve for a 
minimum of six years. Those who choose not to enlist or are unfit for service 
are deemed “civilians” and given few rights, becoming essentially indentured 
servants of the government. Civilians perform the bureaucratic tasks that 
allow society to function, along with menial jobs that the rest of the galaxy 
has long since given to droids. Attention to duty among the military is 
ensured by the threat that any soldier given a dishonorable discharge will 
lose all rights as a citizen and be expelled from all settlements. These extreme 
measures go a long way toward guaranteeing that only those willing and fit 
to serve enter the ranks of O'reen's military. 

O'reen's next major contact with the galaxy at large comes several 
centuries before the onset of the Clone Wars, when a corporate explora- 
tion vessel chances upon the planet. The captain intends to swoop down, 
impress the natives with a display of technological superiority, and stake a 
claim to the world for his corporate masters. Unfortunately, he drastically 
underestimates the skill and dedication of the O'reen military, which bests the 
corporate vessel and gains its first glimpse of how much galactic technology 
has changed since the founding of the colony. The Magnus orders the ship 
to be repaired and retrofitted, hoping to acquire new military technology 
to use in defending O'reen against future attacks. Until the military catches 
up with the rest of the galaxy in the arms race, it carries out supply raids in 
utmost secrecy, and only when success seems assured—potential hostiles 
must not be allowed to track the raiders to their homeworld. The O'reen 
military defeated a technologically superior ship because its commanding 
officer was an arrogant buffoon, but the next ship might have a commander 
with more formidable military training. 

For centuries, O'reen soldiers and scouts conduct acquisition runs, using 
any means available to gain the latest military technology. All goes accord- 
ing to plan until a Republic military exploration craft comes across O'reen 
while investigating nearby systems looking for Separatist supply depots. 
The ship's captain is untrained in first contact protocol, leading to a violent 
misunderstanding and the capture and enslavement of most of the ship's 
crew. Clone troopers from Vornskr Company, led by Jedi General Morningfire, 


O'REENIANS 
O'reenians are a species of near-Humans with a striking similarity to 
baseline Humans, with the prominent differences being their orange-hued 
skin and their pitch-black irises. The militaristic outlook of their society is 
similar to that of the Chiss, although unlike that species, the O'reenians 
are not averse to striking without provocation if doing so might gain them 
a tactical advantage. Their native tongue is based on a very old dialect 
of Bocce, and it shares enough commonality with that language that 
characters fluent in Bocce can decipher most of what an O'reenian says. 
Given the insular nature of O'reen society, few of its members are likely 
to leave and wander the galaxy, although outcasts are forced into exile 
from time to time. Most O'reenian heroic characters should have at least 
one or two levels in the soldier class to reflect their military upbringing. 
Using the rules for creating near-Humans in Chapter 1, O'reenians have 
the following traits and variations: Heightened Awareness, Persistent, 
Eye Variation (black irises), and Skin Color (orange). 


mount a rescue that ends with the death of the Magnus. In the aftermath, the 
Galactic Senate votes to quarantine O'reen to keep it from sharing military 
knowledge and resources with the Separatists and as an attempt to keep its 
hostile population under control. 

The quarantine is largely unnecessary, since the new Magnus does not 
want to provoke the wrath of the powerful Republic again. Still, it is main- 
tained until several decades after the Battle of Yavin, when the Yuuzhan Vong 
invade the galaxy. The Magnus adopts a "wait and see" approach regarding 
the extragalactic conquerors. When Coruscant is devastated in the wake of 
its capture by the Yuuzhan Vong, all details on file regarding O'reen are lost. 
Although O'reen seems to have been forgotten by the rest of the galaxy, 
the Magnus continues to keep tabs on galactic events, waiting for the right 
opportunity to expand O'reen's control of the region. 


LOCATIONS 
O'reen includes the following significant or interesting locations. 


Fort Maximus 

By far one of the most heavily fortified settlements on the planet, Fort 
Maximus serves as both capital and primary military headquarters. The estate 
of the ruling Magnus is located in the city's center, and the overall design 
reflects the stark military nature of the O'reenians. Multiple defenses make 
it possible for Fort Maximus to withstand a siege for years, if necessary. 
Military production facilities are located underground in protective bunkers 
so that materials can continue to be produced in the event of invasion. Many 
of the city's residents are capable warriors. 


IA BStavHoa 


SLONY Ve) 


1A SSsievHo 


SLINVI1e) 


Orbital Deployment Center 

One of the oldest garrison-cities in existence, Orbital Deployment Center is 
the closest thing to a spaceport on O’'reen. Its primary purpose is to monitor 
activity throughout the system by means of numerous satellites that were 
put in place during the colonization of the world. The satellites were intended 
to help the colony fulfill its mission as an early warning outpost. These days, 
they are used to assess nearby sectors for viable targets for raiding actions, 
and as a hub for storing and analyzing offworld technology that is taken 
into O'reenian custody. Captured technology is dismantled and studied for 
new military advancements the O'reenians can adopt, such as more efficient 
blaster weapons, faster sublight drives, and improved shield generators. 


Epsilon Garrison 

A prime example of the military attitude that pervades O'reenian life, Epsilon 
Garrison is one of the many cities that dot the surface of the world. Although 
not as heavily fortified as the capital, Epsilon Garrison still looks like a military 
base. However, the city also has a strong agricultural industry, producing 
a substantial portion of the crops used to feed many of the neighboring 
garrisons as well as supporting the standing armed forces stationed at Fort 
Maximus. 

What sets Epsilon Garrison apart from other cities is that it is the only 
one to host a significant population of civilians who have started to seriously 
consider a revolution. Although they know that a direct confrontation will 
only get them killed, these civilians are contemplating ways of making their 
voices heard and perhaps even improving the lot of all O'reenian civilians. 


MILITARY LAW 

Life on O'reen is very similar to that under the totalitarian regime estab- 
lished by Emperor Palpatine at the end of the Clone Wars. The Magnus is 
the undisputed military commander, and since every citizen is a member 
of the military, the Magnus is also the supreme governmental author- 
ity. The only way to become a citizen of O'reen is to join the planetary 
militia; nonmilitary residents are labeled "civilians" and are essentially 
indentured servants. Visitors from offworld are automatically considered 
to be civilians and thus subservient to the military unless they prove that 
they are members of another planet's armed forces or they offer fealty to 
the Magnus by enlisting in the O'reenian military. However, visitors are 
infrequent—over the centuries, O'reen has become very insular, preferring 
to keep its contact with outside cultures to a bare minimum. 


HAZARDS 


Orbital Defense Mines CL8 

These nearly invisible satellites spring to life as a ship approaches, moving 
rapidly toward the vessel and detonating once they get close. 

Artificial, energy 

Trigger A vehicle attempts to enter the O'reenian atmosphere 

Attack +10 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 3d10x2 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence On trigger, then on initiative (Initiative +8) for five rounds 

Skills 
Pilot (DC 16): As a reaction, the vehicle's pilot can make a Pilot check 
to reduce the damage caused by an exploding orbital defense mine. 
If the check is successful, the damage taken by the vehicle is reduced 
by half (if the vehicle is already taking half damage from the attack, it 
instead takes one-quarter damage). 
Use Computer (DC 16): The character can make a Use Computer 
check to detect the presence of the mines. Furthermore, as a standard 
action, the character can use the Use Computer skill to use the 
vehicle's sensors to detect the mines, granting the vehicle a +2 dodge 
bonus to Reflex Defense against the mines’ attacks. 


Special 
This hazard assumes that the triggering vehicle is passing through 
the thick net of security satellites surrounding the whole planet. You 
can also choose to have the orbital defense mines only cover certain 
squares; in such a case, the mines trigger when a vehicle enters the 
square of, or a square adjacent to, an orbital defense mine, and there is 
no recurrence. 


The people of O'reen take the defense of their world very seriously. Despite 
this fact, there are many strange and powerful races throughout the Unknown 
Regions that have technology that is unfamiliar to the O'reenians, making it 
difficult for them to sense threats from the outside until it is too late. As a 
result, the O'reenians have created a network of orbital defense mines that 
detect, move toward, and attack any starship approaching O'reen without 
proper transponder identifiers. Whenever the heroes approach O'reen for the 
first time, they may encounter orbital mines. 


O'reenian Fog CL 12 
Thick fog covers the surface of O'reen, providing a good place for criminals 
to hide but also concealing the towering stone structures from those 

who ply the mist. 

Atmospheric, natural 

Trigger A vehicle's pilot ends his or her turn with the vehicle in a space 
filled by O'reenian fog 

Attack +14 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage The vehicle takes damage as though it had collided with another 
vehicle of Colossal (cruiser) size 

Recurrence On trigger 

Skills 
Perception (DC 31): A copilot can use the Perception skill to give 
the vehicle a +2 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense against this hazard, 
warning the pilot about getting too close to a rock formation. 
Pilot (DC 26): As a reaction, the pilot of a vehicle can make a Pilot 
check to reduce the damage caused by the collision. A successful check 
causes the vehicle to take half damage from the collision. 
Use Computer (DC 21): As a standard action, the character can 
use the ship's sensors to try and pierce the fog and find a safe route 
around the jutting plateaus. Success grants a +5 circumstance bonus 
to the vehicle's Reflex Defense against the hazard's attacks. 


Much of the ground level of O'reen is covered in a perpetual heavy fog. Most 
O'reenian cities are built atop tall mesas and plateaus, meaning that most 
travelers don't have to deal with the thick fog. However, the few, rare crimi- 
nals on O'reen often fly their vehicles through the thick fog, staying below 
visual range and navigating by sensors alone. The practice is dangerous, and 
more than a few ships have had deadly collisions with the towering mesas. 


FACTIONS 

O'reen is tightly controlled by the military government, which clamps down on 
attempts by civilians or visitors to upset the ruling order. Still, the military is 
not monolithic, and factions within its ranks harbor their own goals and plans. 


The Magnus 

As the highest-ranking member of the O'reenian military, the Magnus is the 
ruler of a planet of combat-capable troops. Elected by a council of peers, 
the Magnus must have the political and tactical savvy to ensure that opera- 
tions on O'reen continue undisturbed and to stave off challenges to his or 
her authority. As a talented and shrewd leader, the Magnus is capable of 
personally taking on all but the most dangerous of adversaries, but even 
so is accompanied by at least four elite guards at all times. In addition, 
the citizens of O'reen are always ready to answer a call to arms from their 
supreme commanding officer. 


ADVENTURE IDEAS 

Even simple adventures on O'reen are tense and worrisome, since the heroes 
are not free to explore as they please. As visitors from offworld, unless the 
characters are members of another planet's military, they are branded as 
civilians and given few rights. 


O'reenian Hospitality 

A miscalculated trajectory causes the heroes’ ship to dump them suddenly 
out of hyperspace and results in enough system failures to require a bumpy 
landing on the nearest available world—O'reen. A basic long-range scan of 
the planet reveals that a large number of orbital emplacements are tracking 
the ship. Through a mix of luck and skill, the heroes manage to land away 
from the larger garrison-cities and avoid capture, but the local patrol takes 
away their damaged ship. The characters must break into Orbital Deploy- 
ment Center to steal back their vessel, along with the parts needed to make 
repairs, without being blasted into atoms. After they fix their ship and make 
the jump to lightspeed, they discover that a few unwelcome guests have 
snuck aboard and intend to bring the ship back to O'reen, even if they have 
to do so over the heroes’ dead bodies. 


A Crateful of Smoking Blasters 

The characters are hired by a near-Human to transport a large amount of 
"various sundries and luxury goods" to a contact on O’reen. If the heroes 
open the storage containers in transit, they find cutting-edge military-grade 
weapons and armor. They do not have the proper permits for such items and 
would be ina lot of trouble if caught with that much hardware. If the heroes 
attempt to deliver the cargo, they drop out of hyperspace near O'reen and are 
hailed by ground control, which demands that they identify themselves and 
transmit the proper identification codes or they will be blasted out of space. 
If the heroes convince ground control to let them land, their ship is boarded 
for inspection by people who look like members of the same near-Human 
species as their employer. The cargo is confiscated as "evidence of treason 
against the Magnus," but if the characters tell the truth convincingly, they 
are judged as dupes of the real traitors and allowed to leave O'reen—provided 
they lead the O'reenians to their contact. 


IA BSStdgvHo 


SLEONYIVE) 


IA BsiavHg 


SLINYVE) 


VEROLEEM 


Once, the planet Veroleem was the site of a group of colonists who sought 
to live free of outside influences. But the world's residents have changed, 
evolving into a cult that constantly seeks new members and harbors an 
ancient secret that would give even the stoutest mind pause. 


VEROLEEM 

Region: Unknown Regions 
Climate: Arid 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: None 

Length of Day: 20 standard hours 
Length of Year: 307 local days 
Sapient Species: 80% Human, 20% other species 
Government: Theocracy 

Capital: New Promise 

Major Exports: Lommite, narcotics 
Major Imports: Disciples 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

20 Veroleem is a remote desert planet that is the home of a small group 
of cultists who preach withdrawal from worldly temptations. 

25 Despite their tenets, the cultists send out a significant number of trav- 
eling priests to seek new initiates, although regardless of how many 
converts they find, the size of the cult never really fluctuates. 

30 Kryotin, one of the more addictive narcotics in the known galaxy, is 
produced on Veroleem. It provides the cult with a steady stream of 
revenue as well as a means to force new converts to abandon their old 
lives. 


Knowledge (Social Sciences) 

DC RESULT 

15 The Veroleemians have developed a cultlike mentality, sending priests 
out into the galaxy to recruit new followers. 

20 The original founders of Veroleem were members of a group that 
sought to live without Republic interference. 

25 The residents of Veroleem have always been governed by the Council 
of Enlightened Elders, a group located in the city of New Promise. 
The current elders are said to be direct descendents of the original 
colonists. 


VEROLEEM 


HisToRY 

Several decades before the Sith wars, a tiny band of interstellar wander- 
ers look for a world they can claim as their own. They seek a life without 
interference from a Republic they feel is more interested in controlling the 
lives of its citizens than in seeing to their well-being. They finally chance 
upon a planet that they name Veroleem after the leader of their group. Given 
the world's remote location and lack of readily exploitable resources, the 
isolationists have little trouble staking their claim. 

There is no record of when or how it occurs, but the denizens of Veroleem 
undergo a psychological change. Instead of trying to become self-sufficient, 
they start sending out proselytizers to recruit fresh converts and bring them 
to Veroleem. As is the case with many cults, these new converts sever all ties 
with their former lives, take on new names, and frequently vanish from the 
galaxy altogether. To further bolster their efforts and provide a steady source 
of income, the cultists began to manufacture a very potent narcotic called 
kryotin powder, supposedly named after the Veroleemian who devised the 
drug. The powder gives the cultists a powerful hook to draw new disciples 
away from their old lives, forcing many of them to become drug-addled and 
subservient to the whims of the cults’ high priests. Over the centuries, many 
criminal organizations attempt to add Veroleem's lucrative kryotin produc- 
tion to their own repertoires, but a series of "accidents" causes each group 
to invest in other lines of vice that are less worrisome. 

When the Mandalorians begin their raids into Republic space, Veroleem is 
one of several planets that goes overlooked, mostly because the Mandalore 
saw little of value in such a remote world. Some members of the Neo- 
Crusaders suggest using kryotin as a bioweapon to soften up targets prior 


to invasion, but this idea draws scorn from more traditional Mandalorians, 
so Veroleem weathers the Mandalorian Wars with minimal effects. Even the 
Jedi Civil War that follows has little impact on the planet. In fact, it proves 
beneficial—the chaos that the Sith war brings to the galaxy gives the cultists 
a better chance to operate without drawing undue attention from Republic 
judicials, Sector Rangers, or the Jedi Order. 

In the aftermath of Revan's insurrection, a great many Republic archive 
records are lost, among them the original claim to Veroleem made by the first 
settlers. This event drags the cultists into galactic affairs when a mining com- 
pany (actually a front for the criminal organization known as the Exchange) 
purchases the planet under the pretense of mining for untapped deposits 
of lommite. Veroleem's ruling Council of Enlightened Elders does not want 
outsiders interfering in their affairs and launches a protracted legal battle. 
The Veroleemians eventually prove their claim to the planet and force the 
Republic to remove the Exchange-backed mining interest. The cultists insist 
that the mining equipment be left behind, however, giving them another 
source of revenue. 

This chain of events brings the Cult of Veroleem to the attention of the 
Jedi Order. The Jedi can do little about the planet's intent to remain isolated 
from the Republic, but they make it clear that they strongly disapprove of 
the cult's recruitment tactics. The next few decades see several conflicts 
between groups of cultists and Jedi Knights. As a result, the Veroleemians 
change their methods of gaining new initiates and severely curtail their 
distribution of kryotin. 

But in the aftermath of Lord Kaan's thought bomb and the devastation 
wreaked upon the Jedi Order by the Battles of Ruusan, the Veroleemians 
slowly return to their old ways. They increase the sale of kryotin, and as the 
Jedi grow increasingly involved with the Galactic Senate, it becomes even 
easier for the cultists to avoid the Republic's notice. 

When Count Dooku begins rallying the outlying systems to join the Con- 
federation of Independent Systems, Veroleem publicly remains independent 
but secretly provides support to the Separatists. The Clone Wars never reach 
Veroleem, but Palpatine is not so quick to forget the small world. Several 
months after the formation of the First Galactic Empire, he sends one of his 
Inquisitors to the planet ona classified mission. Curiously, the cult scales back 
its recruiting drives around that time, and rumors emerge that the Emperor 
is not averse to banishing criminals and political prisoners to remote worlds 
such as Veroleem, where they disappear. 

In spite of its efforts to track down all the Empire's prison worlds, the 
Rebel Alliance never learns Veroleem's location. The planet remains a well- 
kept secret even after the defeat of the Empire and the birth of the Galactic 
Alliance. After the fall of the Alliance and the rise of a new Empire led by 
the Sith Lords, the cultists once again start recruiting more aggressively, 
secure in the knowledge that the location of their homeworld is a long- 
forgotten secret. 


KRYOTIN 

One of the oldest narcotic agents known to the galaxy, kryotin is outlawed 
by every major galactic government since the days of the Old Republic. 
Even the Galactic Empire seeks to keep the drug from becoming too 
prominent, especially among the military forces. 

Kryotin functions by causing the user's brain to release a sudden rush 
of chemicals that bring on a state of euphoria and that also make the 
victim greatly susceptible to suggestion. While some use it for recre- 
ational purposes, it can also be used in interrogation and brainwashing. 
The following hazard can be used to represent the effects of kryotin on 
a living creature. 


Kryotin CL 4 

This narcotic substance instills a strong sense of euphoria in the subject, 
making him or her susceptible to suggestion. 

Ingested, natural, poison. 

Trigger A living creature ingests a dose of kryotin 

Attack +6 vs. Fortitude Defense 

Damage No damage, and the target moves -1 step on the condition 
track and gains a persistent condition. Until the persistent 
condition is removed, the target doubles all condition track 
penalties to Will Defense. (Miss: No damage, and the target moves 
-1 step on the condition track) 

Recurrence Once each minute for 10 minutes 

Skills 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 31): The character identifes the 
chemical as the narcotic substance known as kryotin. 
Perception (DC 26): The character recognizes the signs that an 
individual creature is under the effects of kryotin. 
Treat Injury (DC 21; requires medical kit): The character treats 
the effects of kryotin. This process takes 8 hours and removes the 
persistent condition caused by kryotin. 

Special 
Each day that a creature with a persistent condition caused by 
kryotin goes without a dose of kryotin, the creature moves -1 
step on the condition track at the start of the day. After 10 days 
without ingesting kryotin, the persistent condition is removed. 


iA weStdVvHo 


v 
Lr 
> 
z 
YW 
J 
C) 


SLIOWV4e) U} IA BHStawHgo ) 


LOCATIONS 
Veroleem includes the following significant or interesting locations. 


New Promise 

The only major city on the planet and the location of Veroleem's main 
starport, New Promise is a disjointed blend of classic design aesthetics and 
modern practicality. Although it is a far cry from the bustling metropolis 
that most planetary capitals become, New Promise still shows a great deal 
of activity, since it is home to the vast majority of the world's inhabitants. 
The city also hosts the Council of Enlightened Elders, which has led the cult 
since Veroleem was colonized. Constable Girath is the surly, tight-lipped head 
of local law enforcement and has been for as long as can be remembered, 
even by members of species whose life spans extend into centuries. Most 
residents assume that the name and position are hereditary. 


Coreesh Mountains 

The Coreesh Mountains are an expansive range located several dozen kilo- 
meters to the east of New Promise. The only major structure is a temple of 
the Veroleem cult, which sees an unusually large amount of traffic given its 
remote location. However, the temple is the secret manufacturing site of the 
addictive narcotic kryotin. Entrances to the production areas are known to 
very few and heavily guarded at all times. Many of the newer cult initiates 
brought to Veroleem end up in the temple, and few seem to leave. 


Desperation's Refuge 

Not every initiate to the Cult of Veroleem is a willing convert. For some 
time, a small resistance has operated in the shadows, founded by slaves who 
managed to break their addiction to kryotin and escape into the wilderness. 
Poorly equipped and barely eking out an existence, the resistance establishes 
a small encampment called Desperation's Refuge, keeping the exact location 
hidden from the cult's enforcers and scouts. The reason for their success 
over the centuries is that Desperation's Refuge has no fixed location—it is 
a tent city, capable of being packed up and moved at a moment's notice. 
The current leaders of the resistance make the mobile township their main 
base of operations. 


VEROLEEM'S 

ANCIENT SECRET 

One of the many experiments that the ancient Sith conducted was an 
attempt to stave off death, keeping the body in its biological prime far 
longer than was natural and increasing the recipient's ability to recover 
from injury. Although they succeeded, the knowledge came too late to be 
of any use to the Sith. The problem they encountered (and were unable 
to overcome at the time) was that to stabilize the chemical formula that 
would keep death at bay, the brain chemicals of a genetically compat- 
ible species had to be included, and each dose would last only a limited 
period of time before the body resumed the aging process. The ethical 
issues were not a problem for the Sith, but in the vicious infighting of 
their Empire, the discovery was lost. 

Among the initial settlers of Veroleem was a Force adept named Kryo 
Tinwole, who during a scouting expedition stumbled upon the remains of 
the Sith laboratories, buried in the area that would come to be called the 
Coreesh Mountains. Using his Force abilities, Kryo was able to decipher 
the Sith texts and uncover their elixir of immortality. It was a simple 
matter for him to murder one of the other colonists so that he could use 
the elixir on himself. Between his powers and his newfound immortality, 
Kryo had little difficulty in eventually warping the views of the colony 
leaders, forging them into the Council of Enlightened Elders and drawing 
many other colonists into his burgeoning cult. 

Quite simply, the Cult of Veroleem is a sham, existing only to perpetu- 
ate the longevity of the world's oldest residents, some of whom can mea- 
sure their life spans in centuries. Further research led to the development 
of the drug kryotin from the by-product of the elixir creation, which the 
cult uses to lure more victims to Veroleem to be sacrificed. The drug has 
the added benefit of enhancing the brain chemicals of those about to 
be harvested. When the Jedi Order started paying more attention to the 
cult's activities, the Council feared that they might learn of the crimes 
committed to secure immortality, but the Jedi's attention shifted away 
from the cultists before their secret was revealed. 

Darth Sidious showed a brief interest in the cult and its elixir, con- 
sidering it as a means of prolonging his life. But he chose not to become 
dependent on a drug in his quest for immortality and pursued other paths. 

The Council of Enlightened Elders is terrified that the resistance 
movement will learn its secret and spread the truth. If an agency more 
interested in promoting justice than in seeking power, such as the Jedi 
Order or the Sector Rangers, discovers that the Cult of Veroleem has 
murdered an immeasurable number of victims, it will certainly try to end 
the cult once and for all. Worse yet, any criminal organizations that learn 
the cult's secret will not hesitate to torture, kill, and destroy to gain the 
dark knowledge for themselves. 


FACTIONS 
Besides the group of elders that rules over Veroleem, there is only one true 
other faction found on the planet. 


The Resistance 

The small underground resistance movement that takes root on Veroleem 
disrupts the cult's total control of the planet. Although chronically short of 
both numbers and resources, the movement manages to survive in one form 
or another for centuries. Not even the most violent purges by the Council of 
Enlightened Elders can wipe out the resistance cells completely, thanks to 
the insurgents’ traveling tent city and their skill at staying out of sight when 
necessary. The resistance also smuggles people offworld by various means, 
seeking to help those who still have a chance of returning to their old lives 
or of finding a new path free of the cult’s influence. 

The primary goal of the resistance, however, is to depose the council, 
having gained a sense that something is unnatural and sinister about the 
cult's rulers. The appearances of the elders never seem to change, even as 
decades and centuries pass, but so far, resistance efforts to discover the 
truth behind this phenomenon have been futile. Some resistance leaders 
press their comrades to focus more resources on liberating converts and 
breaking them of their addiction to kryotin, rather than on chasing rumors 
of the council members’ unnatural longevity. Initiates freed in this manner 
usually end up joining the resistance themselves. 


ADVENTURE IDEAS 
Veroleem is a very dangerous place to visit. Any hero would be well advised 
watch out for overly friendly strangers and not to go anywhere alone. 


Desperation's Call 

As the heroes are getting ready to board their ship for their next destination, 
a haggard-looking male Human runs toward them and collapses, a datacard 
tumbling from his fingers. The man appears to have died from recently 
inflicted injuries. A recording on his datacard contains astrogation data to 
reach Veroleem, the coordinates of a makeshift landing pad there, and a 
plea from the man (who calls himself Vorli) to help prevent a massacre on 
the planet. If the heroes travel to Veroleem, they are greeted by Joll Kohan, 
a grizzled man with a military bearing. Vorli's mission was to find spacers 
willing to help the resistance smuggle recently rescued victims of the cult 
offworld. However, the heroes’ arrival compromises the site's location, and 
Kohan learns that the cultists have mustered their forces and are en route 
to wipe out the resistance. 


The Word of the Elders 

During the heroes’ much-needed downtime, young human man arrives sud- 
denly and with great fanfare, accompanied by a number of other young and 
healthy followers. The human begins to preach about the drain that greed and 
ambition put on the body, and espouses a philosophy that eschews material 
wealth. To the amazement of those gathered, the man claims to be over 300 
years old, kept young via monastic practices. The man extends an invitation 
to those who have gathered to hear him speak, offering them berths on his 
spaceship and a new life on a world far from the pain and misfortunes of the 
galaxy. Before this young proselytizer can depart, the heroes learn that the 
others who accompanied him have been slipping away during his speeches 
and selling a powerful narcotic called kryotin to the local criminal organiza- 
tions (perhaps even meeting with the Hutts to arrange a larger delivery). 
The heroes have the chance to trace this dangerous narcotic to its mysteri- 
ous source by allowing themselves to be taken as new recruits, only to find 
themselves on the world of Veroleem in the Unknown Regions, scheduled 
to have their bodies harvested to prolong the lives of the planet's elders. 


Secret Harvest 

During a routine hyperspace jump, the heroes stop to change directions 
and discover a derelict spice freighter drifting nearby. A closer examination 
reveals that the ship recently traveled from coordinates deep in the Unknown 
Regions, well beyond where spice freighters normally ply their trade. A 
maintenance droid, which has dutifully kept the freighter in working order 
for some months now, explains to the heroes that the ship departed from 
Veroleem with a full crew complement and a cargo hold full of a new kind of 
spice found only in the Unknown Regions. Following a hyperspace miscalcula- 
tion, the crew was forced to abandon ship, leaving the ship to drift aimlessly. 
However, during this discussion, a beacon on the freighter activates, and the 
ship jumps to lightspeed, headed for Veroleem and carrying the heroes with 
it. When the freighter drops out of hyperspace above Veroleem, cult leaders 
welcome the heroes and thank them for returning their stolen property—the 
medicinal narcotic known as kryotin. The cultists offer to reward the heroes 
lavishly in order to keep them on the planet, fearing that the heroes might 
reveal their operation to the known galaxy. The harder the heroes try to leave 
Veroleem, the more effort the cultists put into keeping them there, resort- 
ing to violence (possibly driving them into Veroleem's desert). The heroes 
must find a way to get off-world before the cultists make them permanent 
residents of the Unknown Regions. 


iA YaLavHo 


SLEONVWe) 


HSsaltdagvHa 


IA 


SLINVWVE) 


VOLIK 


Initially intended as a resort colony for the wealthy, the planet Volik is aban- 
doned to pirates and smugglers when the resort's owners fall on hard times. 

The world is dominated by rocky terrain. The main continent is made up 
of sweeping grasslands separated by small mountain ranges. The runoff from 
the mountains has created numerous canyon systems, which have been used 
by smugglers for ages. The rivers often empty into the sea from the tops of 
tall bluffs in impressive waterfalls. 

Smugglers use the waterfalls to their advantage to evade pursuit. The 
falls make handy entry and exit points for a network of caverns underneath 
the bluffs, and skilled pilots fly underneath the arcs of the waterfalls. Akriva 
Falls gets its name from a notorious Mon Calamari pirate who would fly up 
the side of a cliff under the falls to avoid pursuit. 


VOLIK 

Region: Unknown Regions 

Climate: Temperate 

Gravity: Standard 

Moons: 2 

Length of Day: 26 standard hours 
Length of Year: 410 local days 

Sapient Species: 95% Human, 5% other species 
Government: Anarchy 

Capital: The Colony 

Major Exports: None 

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, luxury goods 


Knowledge (Galactic Lore) 

DC RESULT 

15 The planet Volik was colonized during the height of the Old Republic. 
The colony faltered, but the planet remains hospitable. 

20 Volik is often used by smugglers and pirates as a base of operations. 

25 Volik is one of the rumored resting places of Count Czazizs's fortune, 
a treasure beyond imagination. 

30 Both the Jedi and the Sith have had small outposts on Volik. 


HisTOoORY 

Volik is first discovered by a Czerka Mining Corporation survey team, but 
the planet has no mineral resources to interest Czerka. However, the world's 
atmosphere and temperate conditions are attractive to Humans, so the rights 
to colonize the planet are sold to Vekanda Leisure Colonies. Vekanda begins 
construction of a resort colony where the idle rich can spend their days (and 
their credits) hunting the local creatures and dining on exotic foods. When 
Vekanda runs into financial troubles soon after the colony begins operation, 
the company folds, and the construction materials are left to the elements. 

It is not long before pirates move into the abandoned resort. The build- 
ings offer comfort that is not provided by bases in asteroid fields and other 
typical pirate locations, and Volik's rocky canyons are perfect for storing 
fighters and pillaged gains. Multiple gangs use the world as a safe harbor, 
occasionally going to war with one another over the right to be the sole 
smugglers on Volik. Occasionally, these turf wars grow so brutal that the 
gangs wipe each other out, leaving the planet uninhabited for decades until 
new parties arrive to stake their claims. 

Shortly after the Clone Wars, a Jedi Master named Dorin Se'ol comes to 
Volik and begins to rebuild the colony. Master Se'ol disagrees with many of the 
teachings of the Jedi Council. He even takes a wife, feeling that the Council 
is becoming more of a political body than a spiritual one. Se’ol starts taking 
in Force-sensitive beings who are looking for a fresh start, and eventually 
the growing community chases the smugglers off Volik. The death of his 
wife pushes the Jedi Master toward the dark side, but he soon realizes that 
confronting the darkness is part of the process of truly knowing the Force. 


VOLIK 


Se'ol stays below the notice of Darth Vader for a time, but the Dark Lord 
of the Sith eventually learns of the Jedi Master, and Se'ol perishes during the 
Empire's assault on Volik. Still, he distracts Vader long enough for a small 
band of his students to escape. 

Volik remains uninhabited until the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, when a small 
group of Force-sensitive pacifists—some of whom trained at the Jedi Acad- 
emy—discover a holocron with the teachings of Dorin Se’ol. These pacifists 
learn of Volik and journey to the planet, where they remain until the end of 
the conflict between the Yuuzhan Vong and the New Jedi Order. 

In the era of the last Skywalker, Volik once again lies uninhabited. Even 
the smugglers stay away, considering the planet to be bad luck. Pilots who do 
not otherwise believe in superstitions still steer clear of Mount Vorena. Those 
strong in the Force say the mountain is surrounded by a strange presence. 
Perhaps one of the many Jedi that called Volik home has returned in spirit. 


LOCATIONS 
Volik includes the following significant or interesting locations. 


The Colony 

The original resort colony was built in the shadow of Mount Vorena. The 
buildings still stand, despite being repurposed by smugglers and other 
inhabitants of Volik. No company has attempted to purchase the rights to 
the colony to reestablish it. 

Rooms in the main resort building range from small, economy dorms on 
the lower floors to sprawling penthouses near the roof. At any given time, 
the most successful smuggler band on Volik usually occupies the building, 
although gangs have also used it as a warehouse, a prison, and more. The 
penthouses are reserved for the smuggler leaders—or are set up to seem 
that way to mislead enemies. Some gangs refuse to take up residence in the 
building even when given the opportunity, since many groups break up after 
moving in, torn apart by infighting. 

A starport was under construction, but the colony was abandoned before 
it could be completed. Quite a few landing bays are merely sandpits sur- 
rounded by construction materials. The central concourse has been stripped 
of everything valuable. One feature that harkens back to the planned splendor 
of the colony is a giant crystal sculpture, meant to be the centerpiece of 
a massive fountain that would have welcomed visitors in grand style. The 
sculpture has been stolen from time to time, but such thievery incurs the 
wrath of the smugglers on the planet. The pirates set aside their differences 
long enough to retrieve the sculpture and punish the thieves. The gangs use 
the sculpture's location as a neutral site where they can come to negotiate. 


Other colony buildings are scattered across Volik. Most of them are vacant, 
since many smugglers prefer setting up camp in the easily defended canyons. 
Jedi Master Dorin Se'ol uses a few cabins near Mount Vorena for himself 
and his students; the cabins originally were meant for visitors looking for a 
rugged climbing experience. Rumors abound of lightsabers, holocrons, and 
other Jedi artifacts hidden in or near these buildings. 


Mount Vorena 
The highest peak on Volik, this mountain is named after the wife of Dorin 
Se'ol. The Jedi Master climbs to the top of the mountain after her death to 
meditate, since the arduous ascent leads to a magnificent view. The mountain 
has since become a destination for Jedi, who climb Mount Vorena to make 
contact with the Force spirits of their mentors and comrades. 

One of the mountain's distinguishing features is a river made of the 
melting ice caps. It cascades down the rockface and ends in a spectacular 
waterfall known as Jolee Falls, named for the only child of Dorin and Vorena. 


FLORA AND FAUNA 

Volik is a temperate world with a four-season climate. The temperature 
does not drop far enough to cause snow, although the tops of the mountain 
ranges and the deeper canyons freeze over during the colder seasons. The 
rainy season is moderate. Flooding can occur in the canyons, and more than 
one smuggler band has watched its ill-gotten gains wash out to sea after 
a few days of rainfall. 

Volik hosts a varied ecosystem. Large bannak trees grow in the foothills 
surrounding the mountains. Their wood is used for buildings as well as for 
the wheeled skiffs that cruise across the landscape. The light blue grass of 
the plains can grow up to a meter in height. Wildlife is common on Volik. 
Predators stalk the plains using speed and ambush tactics to take down 
prey. Birds and other aerial creatures nest in the trees near the mountains. 

One of the big draws for the original resort colony was the wide range of 
delicious fruits and game available on the planet. Tanna trees grow well in 
the soil, bearing large, purple fruit that is a staple for the world's residents. 
Another exotic plant is the mumau root, which grows in the higher elevations 
of the mountain ranges and is most commonly found in small pockets along 
the side of Mount Vorena. Jedi Master Dorin Se’ol claims that tea brewed from 
mumau root helps meditation. Whether the plant truly aids in meditation is 
still open to debate, but it is certain that slipping into a relaxing trance is a 
lot easier after a hard climb up and back down Mount Vorena. 


0 
z 
> 
v 
| 
0 
2 
< 


SLAINVYTVE) 


IA BSidgvHo 


SLINYVe) 


HAZARD 


Flash Flood of Volik CL 7 
Water begins to trickle across the ground slowly, then grows into a rush as 

flood waters push their way across the ground at breakneck pace. 
Natural 


Trigger The encounter begins, or a predetermined round number begins 
(Gamemaster’s choice) 
Attack +7 vs. Reflex Defense 
Damage 1d6 damage and the target is knocked prone 
Recurrence On initiative (Initiative +8) each round for ten rounds 
Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 22): As a reaction to being hit by this hazard's attack, 
the character can make an Acrobatics check to keep from being 
knocked prone. 
Knowledge (physical sciences) (DC 17): The character recognizes the 
area as one susceptible to flash flooding. 
Swim (DC 17): The character makes this check as a part of a move 
action, and if successful can swim as normal in the flooded area (this 
skill can only be used after five rounds of flooding). 
Special : 
Each round that it attacks after the first round, the hazard gains a 
cumulative +1 bonus to its attack rolls. After three rounds, the water 
is rushing into the area at knee height to a human; after five rounds, 
the water is at waist height; and after ten rounds the water is higher 
than an average human's head. After ten rounds, the area is effectively 
flooded, and Gamemasters can either allow heroes to swim as normal 
or use the Flooded River hazard (see page 110). 


The nature of the landscape on Volik lends itself to flash floods. While most 
of the time this does no more harm than washing away some hidden cache of 
weapon and contraband, in the right spot a flash flood can turn a once-dry 
plain into a quick-flowing river in a matter of seconds. Gamemasters can 
use the hazard to represent flash floods that spring up when the heroes are 
engaged in a combat encounter. The area of the flash flood can start small 
and grow over time, or the entire area of the battlefield could be subjected 
to the flash flood hazard. 


REYKO 

The most common beast on the planet is the reyko, a docile herd animal 
similar to the bantha. Reykos are covered with hard, chitinous skin that, to 
the untrained eye, makes the creatures look like the many large boulders 
that cover the Volik landscape. They feed on the plentiful grass of the plains 
and use their camouflage to hide from predators. The smuggler havens that 
crop up on Volik often harness reykos as beasts of burden. The animals are 
slow but powerful, and a team of them can haul a wrecked starfighter back 
to base for salvage. Reykos can also withstand blaster fire, so smugglers 
sometimes use them to ram skiffs and speeders piloted by rivals. 


Reyko CL5 

Large beast 6 

Init +2 ; Senses scent; Perception +4 

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 13 

hp 69; DR 15; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee gore +11 (1d8+7) or 

Melee gore +13 (1d8+10) when charging or 

Melee gore +13 (1d8+10x2) when charging a vehicle 

Base Atk +4; Grp +16 

Atk Options battering bantha rush, charge 

Abilities Str 24, Dex 10, Con 22, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Special Qualities battering bantha rush 

Feats Improved Defenses, Powerful Charge, Toughness 

Skills Endurance +13, Perception +4 

Battering Bantha Rush-Whenever a reyko makes a charge attack against 
a vehicle of Large size or larger, the attack, if it hits, deals x2 damage 
against that vehicle and the reyko can push the vehicle 1 square. 


WIND SKIFFS 

Volik is covered in extensive plains dominated by tall grass and fast animals. 
The plains make excellent landing areas. The original resort colony offered 
wind skiffs for guests to use to sail above the grassy seas. The wind skiffs 
have been claimed by smuggling gangs over the years and stripped for parts 
or ruined in raids. However, a few gangs have reworked the wind skiff design 
for use with wheeled vehicles. The winds that blow across Volik are strong 
enough to propel these craft across the grasslands. Because these vehicles 
are not powered by a typical power cell, they can often escape detection 
by planetary scanners and are silent enough to be used in ambushes and 
surprise attacks. 


Wind Skiff CL6 

Huge ground vehicle (speeder*) 

Init +7; Senses Perception +5 

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 10), Fort 20; +2 armor 

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 30 

Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 300 km/h) 

Ranged debris clearing laser cannon +0 (see below) 

Fighting Space 3x3; Cover none 

Base Atk +0; Grp +20 

Abilities Str 31, Dex 18, Con —, Int 10 

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +7, 

Use Computer +5 

Crew 1; Passengers 4 

Cargo 900 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none 

Availability Licensed; Cost 13,000 credits (3,500 used) 

*Modified versions of the wind skiff that use wheels in the place of 
repulsorlifts are mechanically identical, save for being considered 
wheeled vehicles and using a ground movement speed instead of a fly 
speed. 


Debris Clearing Laser Cannon (pilot) 
Atk +0, Dmg 3d10 


FACTIONS 

Two of the most prominent factions found on Volik are the Crimson Stars 
pirate gang and the Ebon Strikers pirate gang. Their feuds have been so far 
relatively contained but could quickly to expand to a more severe conflict. 


The Crimson Stars 

The Crimson Stars, led by a human named Vallkos, are pirates who came to the 
Unknown Regions a long time ago as a part of a different, larger gang. Cur- 
rently, the Crimson Stars are one of the few groups in the Unknown Regions 
to still travel frequently to the Outer Rim of the galaxy. The Crimson Stars 
prey mostly upon ships in the Unknown Regions, but once every few months 
they send a caravan of starships back to the Outer Rim to resupply and sell 
exotic trade goods captured from other civilizations in the Unknown Regions. 


The Ebon Strikers 

The other half of the pirate group that spawned the Crimson Stars, the Ebon 
Strikers are led by the brother of Vallkos, Mallikhan. Whereas the Crimson 
Stars still do trade in the Outer Rim, the Ebon Strikers tend to focus on action 
on and around Volik. The Ebon Strikers also sometimes raid Crimson Star 
flotillas returning from the Outer Rim, causing brief skirmishes to break out 
in the space above Volik. The Ebon Strikers have been secretly negotiating 
with another Unknown Regions power, the Vagaari, but Mallikhan has no 
idea that his newfound allies are planning on betraying him before too long. 


ADVENTURE IDEAS 

Volik can support many types of adventures, including clashes with smug- 
glers, pirates, Sith, native creatures, and more. The following examples should 
give you a few ideas. 


Brothers 

Two gangs of pirates have settled on Volik, looking to make their reputa- 
tions. The Crimson Stars are led by Vallkos, and the Ebon Strikers are led by 
Mallikhan. The two leaders are brothers who were part of a larger gang but 
split apart over a female. The rivalry between the groups is ready to boil over 
into a war that could result in carnage across Volik as the pirates battle each 
other and any ship that appears out of hyperspace. The heroes must find 
the female that came between the brothers and recruit her to help prevent 
the imminent conflict. 


The Trial of the Sky 

Jedi heroes are sent to climb Mount Vorena as part of their training. During 
the ascent, the heroes are allowed nothing but their lightsabers—no climbing 
gear, food, or medpacs. They must complete the climb within seven days. If 
they do not return in that time, a rescue party will be sent, and the climbers 
will have to wait a year before making another attempt. In addition to the 
perils of mountain climbing, the Jedi must fend off wild animals, hunt for 
food, and find shelter from the harsh winds. The climb also tests their mental 
resilience. When the Jedi reach the peak, they find their master waiting, ready 
to confer the rank of Jedi Knight upon them. 


Rescuing Jolee 

Master Se’ol is willing to take on new students, but he does not teach in 
a manner that a traditional Jedi would find familiar. He believes that the 
Force is evident in many things, and that the hard work required to build 
and maintain the new settlement of Force-sensitives is an allegory for the 
discipline required to become a Jedi. But now he has a problem. His young 
daughter Jolee boarded a merchant vessel that stopped briefly on Volik, and 
Se’ol sends a trusted group of students to retrieve her. It is an inconvenient 
task, but when the heroes drop out of hyperspace in the middle of a pirate 
attack on the merchant vessel, it becomes downright dangerous. 


The Fix Is In 

The canyons of Volik hold an allure for swoop racers. They are natural routes 
with fast straightaways, deadly turns, and sudden bottlenecks. A profitable 
and illegal swoop race is going to be held on Volik, and if the heroes win, 
they could pay off a large debt they owe to a crime lord. However, the crime 
lord would rather keep the heroes on the hook, so he secretly bribes several 
other swoop racers to make sure the characters lose. The real trouble begins 
when one of the crime lord's hirelings scares a herd of reykos onto the course. 


IA BeSeLavHoS 


SLINVIWE) 


ti. —————_ 
Cc 


HAPTER VII 
DEEP SPACE ica cemllcrea 


Ri 
a 
ce : 
eH es de 
, CRS 
ee 
a= sf 


This chapter is intended for Gamemasters and contains several mini- 
__ adventures best used with heroes in the Unknown Regions. If you're a player, 
you probably should skip this chapter and wait for your GM to spring these 
_ adventures on you and the other players in your group. 


USING THE MINI-ADVENTURES 
Occasionally, heroes take a tangent that their Gamemaster had not planned 
for, or the GM needs to fill a few hours’ play with an entertaining diversion 
from the main plot. The GM can improvise something, but, when he or she 
., ,is at a loss for a scenario (or is just pressed for time), a mini-adventure 
ae fit the bill. 
The deep space encounters presented here take place on or around the 
planets presented in Chapter 6. Exploration of the Unknown Regions is an 
~ “integral part of the mini-adventures. The encounters available in this chapter 
“es ‘cover a wide range of Challenge Levels and plots, including exploring an 
“abandoned space station, rescuing a stranded pilot, freeing a victim from 
the clutches of a cult, and tracking down an ancient and dangerous Sith 
artifact. Each adventure includes an outline of the events and challenges in 
the adventure, which the GM can use to create a few "off-the-cuff" situa- 
tions—or use as a jumping-off point for future encounters. 
addition, each mini-adventure comes with a fully developed tactical 
unter that serves as the climax for the scenario. The GM can use the 
unter as written, adjust certain elements to play to the heroes’ strengths, 
completely redesign it to fit the needs of the campaign. The GM can also 
ference these encounters when designing his or her own mini-adventures 
nd scenarios. 
Each mini-adventure opens with a two-page spread that outlines the 
plot and various encounters. This is followed by another two-page spread 
detailing the adventure's climactic encounter. 

Although these deep space encounters are designed to be independent of 
ne another, common threads run through all of them, allowing them to be 
trung together and run as a minor campaign within the primary Canales 
ow they are used is purely up to the GM's discretion. 


HatavHo 


IA 


SYSLNNOONSGE 3S90vdSsS asasq 


IA SS4cgvHg 


SHaLNnecsowNe) Feves gaesIe) 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#1: Guitty 
UNTIL PROVEN 
INNOCENT 


"Guilty Until Proven Innocent" is a mini-adventure designed for 4th-level 
heroes that involves the planet called Altiria or Anarris (see Chapter 6). In 
this scenario, an Anarrian child from the planet stows away on the heroes’ 
ship, and the characters must decide what to do with the unexpected pas- 
senger before the Anarrians take action against them. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

The heroes prepare to depart from the starport at Rastar on the contested 
planet known both as Altiria and Anarris when an Anarrian child sneaks 
aboard the ship. Shortly after the characters leave the world, they find the 
child, Dilta, in the cargo bay, digging through their stores to find something 
to eat. The heroes realize that they must go back to the planet and return 
the young boy. 

After they land on Altiria/Anarris, Dilta quickly departs their company. 
However, the heroes discover that they are wanted by Anarrian forces for 
abducting the child. While being pursued by the authorities, the heroes must 
find Dilta again so he can testify that they are not guilty—that he stowed 
away and was not kidnapped. Their search takes them to a nearby island, 
where a small community of Anarrians live in a largely undeveloped area. 
The heroes find the child just as the authorities find them, and they must 
resolve their situation quickly before they become victims of Anarrian justice. 


DEPARTURE FROM ANARRIS 
For whatever reason they choose, the heroes journey to the planet called 
Anarris by the natives living in the city of Rastar. After the characters com- 
plete their tasks and restock their supplies, they prepare to leave. 

A small contingent of Anarrian security officers approaches a hero who 
is standing outside the ship as the last supplies are being loaded. If the hero 
succeeds at a DC 20 Perception check, he or she notices that a few other 
groups of security officers are roaming the area as well. The officers pres- 
ent a hologram of a young child—the equivalent of a seven-year-old Human 
male in age, covered with chocolate-brown fur and wearing a dark blue 
jumpsuit—and ask if the hero has seen him. In fact, the child sneaks into one 
of the cargo containers being moved onto the heroes’ ship, shutting the lid 
after him to avoid detection. The rest of the cargo is loaded, and the heroes 
leave the planet without further incident. 


THE DISCOVERY 

Within minutes after entering hyperspace, the heroes hear a loud ruckus in 
the cargo bay. Anyone investigating finds that one of the cargo containers 
has tumbled over, scattering food supplies across the floor, and the Anar- 
rian child from the hologram is eating some of the spilled goods. Caught 
red-handed, the boy surrenders without resistance. 

He explains that he was wandering around the starport, taking in the 
sights, when he became hungry. He did not want to go home just yet, but 
he had no way to buy lunch. So he decided to take a small amount of food 
from one of the cargo containers being moved onto the heroes’ ship, figuring 
that he could grab a quick handful and run. As he stretched for the closest 
box within the container, he heard Anarrian security officers approaching, 
so he ducked inside the crate and waited for them to pass. Before he knew 
what was happening, his container was loaded onto the ship. Dilta remained 
in the crate, knowing that he would be caught (and, he assumed, punished) 
if anyone saw him, so he waited until it was quiet, then tried to sneak out of 
the container. Unfortunately, he tripped and stumbled to the floor, knocking 
over the crate in the process. 

Dilta seems in no hurry to return to Anarris. However, if the heroes do 
not take him back to his planet right away, they will face consequences. 
Anyone making a DC 15 Knowledge (bureaucracy) check, a DC 15 Knowledge 
(galactic lore) check, or a DC 20 Knowledge (social sciences) check knows 
that although Anarrians are not spacefaring, they interact with races from 
other worlds on a regular basis. Thus, if the planet's authorities believe that 


PROTECTING DILTA 


the heroes abducted Dilta, they will spread word throughout the system, and 
the characters will be wanted for a crime they did not commit. Realizing this 
should convince the heroes to turn around and take the child home. 


Dilta 

Unlike most Anarrian children, Dilta likes to break away from groups to ven- 
ture out on his own, mainly to explore Rastar and see what the city holds. 
More often than not, the boy's curiosity gets the better of him, and listen- 
ing to his inner voice lands him into a lot of trouble. His skills at hiding and 
sneaking make it easy for him to get into situations that are over his head, 
much to the chagrin of his parents and teachers. 


Dilta CLO 

Small Anarrian nonheroic 1 

Init +2; Senses Perception +1 

Languages Anarrese, Basic 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 10, Will 11; Dodge 

hp 4; Threshold 10 

Speed 4 squares 

Melee unarmed +0 (1d3) 

Base Atk +0; Grp -3 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 12 

Special Qualities strength surge 

Feats Dodge, Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Persuasion, Stealth), 
Toughness 

Skills Endurance +5, Perception +1, Persuasion +6, Stealth +17 

Possessions jumpsuit, assorted trinkets 


RETURN TO ANARRIS 

When the heroes return to Anarris, they have two options for landing. They 
can land at the starport in Rastar, or they can land illegally outside the city 
and try to sneak in. Landing at the Altiri starport in Cerdana is out of the 
question because it would mean almost certain death for Dilta (and he tells 
them so, if necessary). 


Landing in Rastar 

If the heroes decide to land at the starport in Rastar, their approach is easy 
and smooth. Once they touch down, however, the retractable roof over their 
landing bay begins to close, and a tractor beam catches the ship (unless 
the heroes manage to change their vessel's transponder code). Looking at a 
nearby monitor, the heroes see a display of their faces along with a bulletin 
that they are wanted by Anarrian authorities for kidnapping. At this point, 
they have four choices: surrender to the authorities, hide from their attack- 
ers, try to blast off, or fight the security forces. 

If they surrender, they are taken to the local police station, where they 
lose their weapons and equipment and are imprisoned for a crime they did 
not commit. 

If they hide from their attackers, they can hole up inside their ship, per- 
haps in smugglers’ compartments that are big enough to conceal them while 


the security officers search the vessel. Alternatively, the heroes could leave 
the ship and hide somewhere in the docking bay while the officers search 
and impound their ship. Both of these options require the heroes to make 
opposed Stealth checks. 

If they try to blast off and leave the starport, they discover that the 
docking bay has been locked down until the security forces arrive. To disable 
the locks, the heroes must slice into the starport's computer system. At the 
same time, the slicer can attempt to open the retractable roof so the ship 
can take off, provided that it can break free of the tractor beam. 

If the heroes choose to stay and fight, they face six Anarrian security 
officers. Treat the officers as scout troopers (see page 279 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). The officers seek to disable the ship and take the 
heroes into custody. 

If the heroes win the battle or successfully avoid the security forces, they 
discover that Dilta has slipped away during the commotion. He is nowhere 
to be found. 


Landing Outside the City 
If the heroes decide to sneak onto the planet and land outside Rastar, they 
can make a DC 15 Use Computer check to use the ship's sensors to see if the 
authorities are heading in their direction. Regardless of whether they succeed 
or fail at the check, no Anarrian security forces are after them yet. The heroes 
might choose to stay in their ship or to escort Dilta into the city. Either way, 
the boy slips away at his first opportunity and heads into Rastar on his own. 
Soon after they lose Dilta, they receive the news that they are wanted by 
the Anarrian authorities for kidnapping. (If they are on their ship, they pick 
up a transmission through the vessel's communication system. If they are in 
the city, they see a video broadcast in a public square.) 


FIND THE CHILD! 

Once the heroes realize that they have been accused of abducting Dilta, they 
must race to find the boy again, since he is their only means of proving that 
it was all a mistake. They cannot simply leave the planet, or they will be in 
the same position as before—targeted for capture (or worse) by other races 
that picked up the same transmissions from the Anarrians. 

Unfortunately, since the heroes have no leads, they must search for Dilta 
throughout the city of Rastar. Each character must make a DC 20 Gather 
Information check to be pointed in the right direction. During their search, 
any heroes who declare that they are watching for security officers can 
also make DC 15 Perception checks to spot 1d4 officers patrolling the area. 
Success gives the group a chance to make opposed Stealth checks to avoid 
being spotted. Failure means they have to fight or flee. 

After 1d6 minutes of succeeding on the Gather Information check, the 
heroes locate Dilta in the middle of Lunaara Square, a public place where 
only a few other citizens are milling about. If they approach the boy and 
ask him to help straighten out the mess with Anarrian security, he agrees. 
Before they can do anything, however, a group of security officers enters 
the square, spots the heroes, and engages them. 


UA SBSLdgVvVHo 


Q 
W 
W 
U 
2 
> 
Q 
W 
C) 
2 
@ 
@ 
c 
zZ 
| 
w 
7) 
) 


IA BaidgvHo 


SUSLNAGENE BOVIS JAagG | 


ENCOUNTER: 
SHOOTOUT AT 
LUNAARA SQUARE 


Challenge Level 4 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "Guilty Until Proven Innocent,” 
the mini-adventure introduced on the previous pages. 

The Anarrian security team appears after the heroes find Dilta and 
convince him to accompany them to the local security center to clear their 
names. This encounter includes five security officers and one security 
sergeant. Treat the security officers as scout troopers (see page 279 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook) and the security sergeant as an Imperial officer 
(see page 280 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). All the security officers 
are on foot and have no vehicles. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
After Dilta agrees to help the heroes, read the following text aloud: 


Before you can ask Dilta for directions to the nearest security building, a group 
of Anarrian officers enters the square. One of them spots you with the boy 
and cries out, “You there! Stop where you are!" He and his cohorts draw their 
weapons, and the crowd between you and the officers immediately scatters 
in all directions, creating chaos as the firefight begins. 


Not wanting to get hurt, Dilta ducks behind the statue in the middle of the 
square, covering his ears and looking worried. After the third round of combat, 
he decides to hide inside one of the buildings instead, and he runs across the 
square for the nearest door. Read the following text aloud: 


As you defend yourselves, a stray blaster shot from one of the security officers 
strikes Dilta in the leg, sending the young Anarrian stumbling until he falls 
down on the pavement. The boy does not move, but you can hear his cries of 
pain through the sounds of blaster fire. 


If at least one of the heroes moves to treat the child, read the following 
text aloud: 


The leader of the security officers barks something to one of his team, who 
moves out from behind cover and rushes toward the child. 


If the heroes fire at the approaching officer, the rest of the security team 
returns fire, and combat continues. If they let the trooper approach the boy, 
read the following text aloud: 


The security officer kneels down next to Dilta, who has passed out, and lays his 
weapon on the street. He glances at you briefly before pulling what looks like 
a medpac from his belt. Nervously, he opens the medpac and begins treating 
the child's wound. 


SECURITY TEAM'S TACTICS 

The security team is patrolling the area as normal, but the recent announce- 
ment that the heroes are wanted for kidnapping has the officers and sergeant 
actively looking for the characters. As a result, the security team members 
are not caught flat-footed at the beginning of the battle. They use their move 
actions to find cover in front of one of the nearby buildings. If possible, they 
remain behind cover until the heroes surrender or are incapacitated. 

After finding cover, the security sergeant uses the Born Leader talent to 
grant his officers a bonus to their attack rolls, and he fires at the heroes over 
the next 2 rounds. If combat continues after that, he uses the Coordinate 
talent and orders his troops to concentrate their fire on the hero nearest to 
Dilta. The sergeant thinks the characters are criminals and wants to keep 
them away from the child at all costs. 

If the security officer sent to treat the child is not fired upon by the heroes, 
he either treats Dilta’s wound or offers to assist if one of the heroes is already 
treating the boy. While first aid is being administered, Dilta wakes up, sees the 
security officer, and begins explaining how he got aboard the heroes’ ship. 

During this time, the security sergeant demands that the heroes surrender 
so the situation can be resolved. He asks them twice to do so, and if they do 
not comply, combat begins again. 


CONCLUSION 

If the heroes defeat the security team, they can take Dilta to visit one of 
the local security offices or contact it via comlink. In either case, the boy 
explains what happened. Security camera footage of the docking bay around 
the time the heroes first left the planet shows Dilta sneaking into a cargo 
container, confirming his story. The heroes are cleared of the kidnapping 
charge, but they might have to justify their combat with the security team in 
the square. Self-defense is one thing, but the aggressive refusal to surrender 
to authorities is quite another. 

If Dilta was injured during the fight and treated by the heroes or the 
officer, the security sergeant puts the characters in touch with his superior 
at headquarters. While Dilta is being transported to the nearest medical 
facility for professional treatment, he relates his story to the supervisor, and 
the kidnapping charges are dropped. 

Regardless of the circumstances, once the heroes are cleared, the child 
is reunited with his parents. They thank the heroes for finding Dilta and 
returning him. The parents explain that they were going to offer a reward 
of 1,000 credits to anyone who could help them find their son, and they now 
offer that amount to the heroes. 

On the other hand, it is possible for things to go badly for the heroes 
and for Dilta. If the boy was injured during the fight in Lunaara Square and 
not treated by the heroes or the officer, he dies 6 rounds after combat ends 
unless the heroes take action to save him. If Dilta dies, the heroes lose their 
only chance for vindication. Worse, the Anarrians add murder to the heroes’ 
list of crimes, since the security forces will not take responsibility for the 
boy's death under any circumstances. 


Features of the Area 
Lunaara Square has the following features. 

Illumination: The square is brightly lit by daylight. 

Statue: The center of the square is decorated with a large statue of 
an ancient Anarrian hero named Lunaara, which can provide a +5 cover 
bonus for up to four creatures at the same time. 

Decorative Blocks: Positioned around the perimeter of the square 
are decorative permacrete blocks, many of which also serve as flower 
beds. Each block fills an entire square and can provide a +5 cover bonus. 

Doors: Each of the buildings that create the outer edge of the square 
has at least one door that leads inside. Once combat begins, each door 
is locked by the building's occupants. To get through a locked door, a 
hero must override the lock (DC 25 Mechanics check) or break open the 
door (DR 5, 30 hit points). 

Windows: Many of the buildings surrounding the square have a large 
bay window near the door that is made of very thin transparisteel and 
easy to break (1 hit point). 


One square = 1.5 meters 


ENTER 
HERE 


LUNAARA SQUARE 


J 


IA HAaLaAaAvHo 


SHPLNASGSONE FdeavHs AIsysIe 


IN SBatodgvHoa 


g) 
W 
W 
iD 
@ 
v 
> 
W 
W 
z 
® 
9 
Gc 
g 
W 
2) 
0 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#2: DANGER IN 
THE DARK 


“Danger in the Dark" is a mini-adventure designed for 6th-level heroes that 
involves the planet lol (see Chapter 6). In this scenario, the heroes are trapped 
aboard a space station while their ship is being repaired and must deal with 
a mysterious creature that is stalking them. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 
Either just before the heroes arrive at lol or just after they depart, their 
ship sustains minor damage, forcing them to stop for emergency repairs. 
The nearest facility, at the edge of the star system, is a space station that is 
mainly used as a customs port for inspecting ships and cargo destined for 
lol. The heroes dock their ship without incident. They discover that the sta- 
tion is abandoned, but they find all the parts they need to make the repairs. 
While the characters explore the station, they find evidence that another 
being is on board with them. At first, they briefly encounter a large creature 
that moves in the shadows but does not directly confront them. Eventually, 
the heroes face the creature in combat. If they defeat it, they can contact 
lol with the news that the station has been secured. 


ARRIVAL AT IOL STATION 

As the heroes approach lol Station, which is owned and operated by Tangan 
Industries, communications frequencies are oddly silent, and sensor scans 
detect no lifeforms. This strikes the heroes as odd, especially if they are 
leaving the system and they previously stopped at the station on their way 
in—at that time, it was bustling with activity. 

The automated tractor beam activates as they approach one of the dock- 
ing ports, and it assists them in connecting with the station. The ship docks 
with no problems, and the heroes disembark after a couple of minutes. The 
area of the station near the docking port seems to be in good condition but 
is eerily quiet. The only sounds in the corridor are the low hum of the lights 
and the heroes’ footsteps. Curious adventurers might be inclined to look 
around the station to try to learn what happened to everyone. 

When the hero tasked with repairing the ship assesses the damage, he or 
she finds that some key systems have been damaged. It will take about four 
hours to complete repairs, and although the heroes probably have some parts 
on hand, they do not have everything they need. Thus, they must explore the 
station in search of the right parts before they can begin repairs. 


Cargo Bays 

The station has four major cargo bays, all of which contain a fair amount 
of cargo that has been either dropped off as supplies or confiscated from 
incoming ships as contraband. 


Most of the containers in the bays hold items commonly found throughout 
the galaxy that cost less than 1,000 credits each. A few containers in each 
bay are sealed shut and can be opened only by entering the proper access 
code on the built-in keypad. Slicing into a keypad to get the code requires a 
successful DC 25 Use Computer check. Breaking into a keypad and hot-wiring 
the container requires a successful DC 25 Mechanics check. If the heroes 
open a sealed container, they find items that are more restricted, such as 
weapons, armor, and expensive equipment. 

As the heroes search through Cargo Bay 2, anyone succeeding on a DC 10 
Perception check notices a pungent odor in the air. Success on a follow-up 
DC 20 Perception check leads them to a damaged container at the far end 
of the bay that was originally obscured by a tall row of stacked crates. The 
2-meter-tall metal container is damaged, as if something had burst through 
the hatch from the inside. Within the container is the bloody corpse of a 
near-Human wearing a Tangan Industries security uniform. Multiple long, 
deep gashes run across his head and chest. His blaster pistol, still in his 
holster, has not been fired. 


Crew and Passenger Quarters 

With over 100 rooms to accommodate the station's crew and visitors, search- 
ing through each one can take a long time. For each room that the heroes 
check, they must make a DC 15 Perception check to find anything of value 
(determined by the GM). All quarters are unoccupied, although several rooms 
look like someone or something has torn them apart. 


Command Center 

Located at the top of the station, the command center is easy to reach, but 
entering through its only egress might be a different story. The center is 
secured by a magnetically sealed door and can be opened only by entering 
the correct access code on the numeric keypad embedded into the wall next 
to the door. Bypassing the security measures requires a DC 25 Mechanics 
check to hot-wire the keypad or a DC 30 Use Computer check to slice into 
it and retrieve the code. 

Once inside the command center, the heroes can access the security 
camera system to watch virtually any part of the station. If they previously 
looted the cargo bays or the crew and passenger quarters, they can access 
the security files and erase the footage of their deeds with a DC 30 Use 
Computer check. 

Anyone searching through the camera footage might find a recording of 
an event that transpired about seven hours before the heroes arrived. With 
a DC 15 Use Computer check or a DC 20 Perception check, the heroes locate 
the recording of an attack in Engineering in which two members of the crew 
are whisked out of sight near the edge of the camera's view. Their cries alert 
others, who engage an intruder that remains offscreen. Near the end of the 
recording, a creature appears for a brief second before throwing a dead body 
that hits and disables the camera. No other camera angles are available. A 
DC 15 Use Computer check allows the heroes to freeze on the image of the 
creature, but they cannot zoom in on it. The fuzzy details show only that 


THE EYES OF THE WAITING VINDINAX GLOW IN THE DARK. 


the entity is a humanoid of Medium size with a long tail. (The creature is a 
vindinax, described in the encounter for this scenario.) 

The heroes can also access the captain's log and review the last few 
entries. According to the log, members of the crew started disappearing 
about two days ago. A few visitors reported seeing something moving in the 
shadows in the lower areas of the station, but nothing could be confirmed. 
The last entry, recorded six hours before the heroes arrived, shows the captain 
acting extremely nervous as he reports that several crew members were 
attacked in Engineering by a strange creature that could not be stopped by 
the station's security force. The captain closes the log by stating that he 
has ordered all hands to abandon the station, board shuttles, and depart for 
lol as quickly as possible. 


Engineering 

The turbolift running through the station's central axis opens directly into 
Engineering near the bottom of the facility. Upon entering the area, the 
heroes witness a ghastly scene. The bodies of several dead and mutilated 
crewmen are strewn about. Blood stains the walls and machinery, and 
several panels have been damaged. If the heroes investigate the panels and 
succeed on a DC 15 Mechanics check, they determine that the damage was 
caused by strong impacts, and the panels will not function again without 
extensive repairs. 


Any hero who makes a DC 20 Perception check detects movement in the 
shadows near the far corner of Engineering, about 6 squares away. A hero 
who approaches that corner or draws a weapon must avoid a piece of broken 
machinery that is hurled from the darkness. The characters then hear the 
sounds of scurrying along the wall, and shining a light into the corner reveals 
the creature from the security footage perched on a large pipe. It is visible 
for only a second, then it quickly raises its arm to shield its eyes, hurls a 
piece of broken machinery at the hero shining the light, and flees through 
an open duct about a meter away on the wall. 


Infirmary 

The infirmary appears to have been abandoned in haste, with little equip- 
ment left behind. Three of the four gurneys are missing, along with all of 
the medical scanners and computers. However, most of the medical supplies, 
such as bandages and minor medications, are still present and can provide 
the equivalent of 1d4 medpacs if the heroes make a successful DC 20 Treat 
Injury check. In the back corner is a fully functioning bacta tank, but the 
tank is empty, and the infirmary has no bacta. If the heroes search the cargo 
bays for bacta and make a successful DC 30 Perception check, they find 
enough to fill the tank. 


Docking Bays 

Searching through the docking bays reveals that no other ships are currently 
at the station. Even the shuttles that serve as transportation to and from lol 
are missing. Nothing else of value is found here. 


Repair Bay 
The station's repair bay is located near the docking bays and is the center 
for all manner of repairs, including those for starships and droids. When 
the heroes arrive, the space is cluttered with tools and parts from at least 
a dozen computers and droids. It looks as if many repairs were abandoned 
midway through. A droid of unknown design is sprawled on the workbench 
on the opposite side of the room; a number of its compartments are open, 
and wires and circuitry dangle from its shell. 

Directly across from the repair bay entrance is the doorway to the parts 
storage room. If the heroes search the storage room and make a successful 
DC 15 Perception check, they find the parts they need to repair their ship. 


RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

While the heroes explore the station, they run the risk of being attacked by 
the vindinax. Whenever a single hero becomes separated from the group for 
a period of time, that character makes a DC 20 Perception check. Success 
means that the hero hears something nearby that is slowly approaching his 
or her location. If the hero does not flee within 1d4 rounds, the creature 
appears and attacks. If at least one more hero arrives before combat begins, 
or if the vindinax loses at least half its hit points, it retreats and goes into 
hiding once more. 


WA SBStAavwHoa 


[| 


SHVgLNMnoeooNse FBeves eaasaaq@ 


1A SStoaevHoa 


SeqgLWwnesons 2oveSs AaGVgG 


ENCOUNTER: FACING 
THE UNKNOWN 


Challenge Level 6 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “Danger in the Dark,” the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous pages. 

While the heroes repair their ship using the parts they found in the stor- 
age room, they discover that they need one more piece of equipment to fix 
a key system. The heroes will have to return to the storage room to locate 
this part. Although the room is not a great distance from the heroes’ ship, 
with the creature loose, it is dangerous for any hero to make the trip alone. 
A group (or all) of the heroes travel to the storage room together. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
When the heroes arrive at the storage room, read the following text aloud: 


As you approach the storage room, you realize that something strange is going 
on. The room is dark. Light from behind you illuminates a small area just inside 
the repair bay's entrance. To one side of the bay, a red glow shines weakly out 
of the open doorway into the adjoining droid repair shop, where dull emer- 
gency lights flicker. But those two sources of light are not enough—most of 
the storage room remains in shadow. As you step into the room, a low growl 
rumbles from somewhere inside. 


Because the storage room is full of shelving, shapes and shadows appear 
to loom everywhere. If the heroes try to turn on the lights, the lights do 
not function. 

After at least two characters enter the storage room, the vindinax attacks. 


VINDINAX 
Originating from a mysterious planet in the Unknown Regions, the vindinax 
is a dangerous predator that reached the top of its food chain long ago. Sci- 
entists who have studied the creature believe its native habitat to be either 
the jungle or the forest, since it favors hiding in high places and pouncing 
on prey from above. 

The vindinax has a dark green, chitinous carapace, leading many to believe 
that it is insectoid in nature. However, the creature also has forward-facing 
eyes and sharp teeth and claws that appear to be mammalian in origin. 


The creature aboard lol Station was brought in by a merchant hoping 
to sell it to a zoo on another world in the Unknown Regions. However, the 
customs officers aboard the station determined that the merchant did not 
have the proper paperwork to ship the vindinax. Despite the merchant's 
protests, the officers retained the creature and forced the merchant to pay 
a hefty fine to Tangan Industries for the potential threat he had brought 
to the station. The customs officers left the vindinax in Cargo Bay 2, not 
suspecting that it could break out of its shipping container. 
Vindinax CL6 
Medium beast 6 
Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 12 
hp 53; Threshold 13 
Speed 6 squares 
Melee claw +7/+7* (1d4+8) or 
Melee bite +7* (1d6+8) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +8 

Atk Options Power Attack, rend +2d6 

Abilities Str 18, Dex 15, Con 16, Int 6, Wis 14, Cha 8 

Feats Power Attack, Skill Focus (Stealth), Skill Training (Stealth) 

Skills Perception +10, Stealth +15 

Rend—If a vindinax hits with both of its claw attacks in the same turn, it 
rends its opponent for an additional 2d6 points of damage. 

*Includes 1 point of Power Attack 


Vindinax's Tactics 

The primary motive for the vindinax's actions is survival. It hunts for food 
and fights to protect itself from what it views as threats. Ever since it broke 
out of the container that was used as its holding cell and found itself in an 
unfamiliar environment, the creature has felt threatened and has acted out 
of desperation. 

At this point, the vindinax has not had a full meal for several days due to 
lack of proper care from the customs officers, and what it has managed to 
eat from the few victims it has claimed has barely sustained the creature. 
With the station's crew gone and the heroes as the only possible targets, its 
assault in the storage room is its last attempt to get sustenance. 


The vindinax attacks under cover of darkness whenever possible, taking 
advantage of its low-light vision. It rakes with its claws to take down a target 
before moving to the next adversary, trying to stay in the dark as much as it 
can. Since the vindinax is desperate for food, it fights to the death. 


CONCLUSION 


If the heroes kill the vindinax, they are free to finish their repairs without 
hindrance. After fixing the ship, they can leave the station and continue to 
their next destination. If they manage to keep the creature alive, they can 
bind it with syntherope from the storage room or fashion a new, stronger 
container in which to restrain it. 

The heroes might decide to contact lol with an update on the current 
situation aboard the station. The planet's authorities had just received word 
about the creature from the station's captain, and they were readying a 
contingent of soldiers to deal with the problem. They express their gratitude 
and offer the heroes a reward, provided that the heroes bring them the 
vindinax, alive or dead. 

If the heroes deliver the creature to lol, they are directed to the starport 
at Haven, where the colony's administrator waives their docking fees and 
gives them enough fuel to cover the round trip between the planet and the 
station. A security team meets them at the docking bay to take the vindinax 
to secure facilities in Haven. 

The heroes are asked to remain on the planet for debriefing. They wait for 
a day and answer questions while the colony's security forces retrieve and 
review the footage of recent events aboard the station. Once the heroes’ 
story has been validated, they are given a reward according to the condition 
of the vindinax. If the heroes killed the creature, they receive a total of 1,500 
credits for their trouble. If they captured the vindinax alive, they receive a 
total of 2,500 credits. 


THE REPAIR BAY AND STORAGE ROOMS 


Onejsquare = 
1:5)meters)) | 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 
The repair bay has the following features: 

Illumination: Some light filters into the storage room from beyond 
the outer door, and red emergency lighting spills into the bay from the 
doorway of the adjoining droid repair shop. But except for those two 
areas, the storage room is in shadowy illumination. 

Storage Clutter: Since the heroes’ last visit to the storage room, the 
place has been trashed. Many of the boxes and bins that sat on the shelves 
were knocked off by the vindinax in its search for food. Coupled with the 
low-light conditions, movement on the floor of this area is reduced by 
half. The metal shelves that run the length of the room provide a +5 cover 
bonus if a hero puts a shelf between him- or herself and the creature. 

Repair Room: The droid repair shop is cluttered with parts and tools 
that make it hard to walk around, reducing all movement rates by half. 
The workbenches and the small tables along the sides of the shop each 
provide a +5 cover bonus. 


1A HSLavHo 


Q 
W 
W 
U 
. 
> 
9) 
tn) 
W 
4 
Q) 
@ 
c 
Z 
| 
w) 
0 
o 


U 


WA SS4toavHa 


SvaLwNneone FgeVves d99eq 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
F#3:THE FINDING 
OF LOST SOULS 


“The Finding of Lost Souls" is a mini-adventure designed for 6th-level heroes 
that involves the planet Veroleem (see Chapter 6). In this scenario, the heroes 
need to track down a missing relative, and, in the process, they discover an 
ancient and disturbing secret. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

As the heroes are recovering from their most recent adventure, one of them 
is contacted by a relative that he or she has not spoken with for some time. 
The relative explains that the hero's distant cousin, an impressionable young 
female named Sibyl, has gone missing after an argument they had about the 
girl's future and how she was wasting her life on foolish pursuits. Knowing 
of the hero's skill as an explorer, the relative hopes that the hero will be 
able to find Sibyl. 


THE TORCH-LIT TEMPLE OF THE VEROLEEM CULTISTS 


After asking around, the heroes pick up the trail, learning that Sybil was 
recruited by a pair of traveling priests who had been seen around the local 
starport for a few weeks and left with a group of new converts. Eventually, 
the heroes learn that the priests are from the remote and nearly forgotten 
world of Veroleem. Upon arrival there, the characters get a cold reception 
and, within hours, are arrested by the authorities on trumped-up charges. 
While languishing in cells, they meet another prisoner who identifies him- 
self as part of the local resistance. When informed of why the heroes are 
present, the prisoner helps them escape and explains that the latest group 
of converts was sent to the cult’s mountain temple. The heroes will need to 
hurry if they want to save Sibyl. 

Racing to the temple, the heroes find that it contains a processing factory 
with a ghoulish purpose and cultists that are about to send a dozen captives, 
including Sibyl, to be “processed.” After defeating the master adept and his 
acolytes, the heroes must flee with as many prisoners as they can rescue 
before the cultists focus their full attention on capturing or killing them all. 


SEEKING SiBYt (CL 2) 

When beginning their search for Sibyl, the heroes probably make Gather 
Information checks. A result that beats DC 25 leads them to one of Sibyl's 
friends, who tells them that the girl had been spending a lot of time with 
a pair of traveling priests prior to her disappearance. The friend adds that 
the priests left her very unnerved. Further inquires about the priests reveal 
that they had been seeking new converts to their cult, focusing primarily 
on young adults. 

If a hero with the farseeing power attempts to use it to get a better sense 
of Sibyl's location, the character receives a vision that shows the girl and 
several other youths of various species being held in cells. A robed figure 
matching the description of one of the traveling priests steps into view. The 
figure stops, acting as though he heard something, then turns to look directly 
at the hero. For a moment, the priest's face appears perfectly normal, then 
suddenly shifts into a frightening skeletal visage, which startles the hero 
enough to snap him or her out of the vision. 

If the heroes can convince the starport control officer to let them view the 
flight plan logs, they can begin to backtrack the route taken by the priests’ 
ship, which requires a DC 20 Knowledge (galactic lore) check. If successful, 
the heroes determine the priests’ most likely destination—an area of space 
in the Unknown Regions. If any of them think to reference the astrogation 
archives, a DC 20 Use Computer check reveals the presence and location of 
an old colony planet named Veroleem. 


MEETING THE LOCALS (CL 5S) 
When the heroes arrive at Veroleem, there is no message to spacers to greet 
them, so they must find the only prominent population center on their own—a 
city called New Promise. They are greeted with stony silence from the locals 
and quickly discover that nobody wants to talk to them; in fact, people all 
but flee when they approach. After several fruitless attempts at conversa- 
tion, the heroes spot someone wearing robes that are an exact match for 
those of the priests seen with Sibyl (and for those worn by the figure in the 
farseeing vision, if a hero used that power). If the heroes talk to the priest, 
he responds by insulting the heroes in a variety of petty ways, making it 
condescendingly clear that he considers himself their superior in all things. 

Before the heroes can try alternative methods of persuasion, Constable 
Girath shows up with a number of assistant deputies equal to the number 
of heroes in the party, all armed with slugthrowers and stun batons. Girath 
places the heroes under arrest for “disturbing the peace and intent to assault 
upstanding members of the citizenry." If the heroes fight, Girath and the 
deputies use any and all means to subdue them, quickly calling for as much 
backup as needed. The best option for the heroes, at least for the moment, 
is to surrender without a fight. Once they have surrendered or been rendered 
unconscious, Girath has them taken to the local jail and confiscates any 
obvious weapons. 


JAILBREAK (CL 3) 

After the heroes are interred in the cells of the local jail, they are greeted 
by a grungy, haggard man of indeterminate age who sarcastically welcomes 
them to Veroleem. He introduces himself as Bale, a local resident who was 
locked up due to “coming to cross views with the local crackpot community 
chieftains.” Unlike the other Veroleem natives, Bale is friendly and talkative, 
answering what questions he can. If the heroes explain why they came to 
the planet and succeed on a DC 18 Persuasion check, Bale reveals that he 
is a member of a local resistance cell and had the bad luck to be caught 
during a supply run. If the heroes agree to help him escape during the night, 
he promises to tell them where the newest batch of converts would most 
likely be taken. However, he will reveal that information only when he is far 
away from the jail. 

Bale has managed to improvise a set of tools for picking the locks on their 
cells, but he is not quite good enough to do it himself. One of the heroes must 
pick the locks, which requires a DC 20 Mechanics check with an unfavorable 
circumstance penalty of -2 due to the crude nature of the tools. 


Once they are free, everyone must make Stealth checks to avoid being 
caught. Bale is familiar with the building's layout and knows exactly where 
any confiscated weapons would be held. Girath and two of his assistant 
deputies are on watch during the escape, so the heroes must either fight 
past them to the exit or find a creative way to sneak past them. Catching 
the guards by surprise is easy, since they were not expecting anyone to be 
able to get out of the cells. Unless the heroes have done something to create 
a loud disturbance, they gain a favorable bonus to their Initiative checks at 
the start of combat. 

After Bale and the heroes are outside the jail, he suggests that they make 
themselves scarce as soon as possible, especially if they fought their way 
past the guards. Bale knows the nooks and crannies of New Promise and 
leads the heroes to a safe house that is sometimes used by the resistance 
(but which is currently empty). 


GETTING DIRECTIONS 

Once Bale is sure that they have not been followed, he makes good on his 
deal, explaining that the Veroleem cultists take all the new converts to the 
main temple in the Coreesh Mountains. From what his friends in the resis- 
tance can tell, though, at least half of the converts that go into the temple 
never come out again. 

This should suggest to the heroes that time is of the essence. Assuming 
that Sibyl and the other converts were taken to the temple, the heroes have 
no way of knowing when they arrived there. 

Unless the characters caused an extraordinary ruckus while escaping from 
jail, they have an easy time of sneaking back to their ship. Bale can provide 
them with fairly basic directions to the mountain temple, adding that the 
building is easy to spot from the air. He refuses to accompany the heroes, 
insisting that he must stay in New Promise and regroup with other resistance 
members. Before leaving, Bale asks the heroes to return sometime, if they 
can, to lend their aid to the resistance. 


WA SBS4tdvHo 


SeeLNwneows Fseves ags@q@ 


IA BesarLavHnyD 


SuaLNASCONE Fseves gdsI9Iq 


ENCOUNTER: RAIDING 


THE TEMPLE 


Challenge Level 6 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "The Finding of Lost Souls,” 
the mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

Finding the temple is fairly simple, since it is the only major structure in 
the Coreesh Mountains, and if the heroes take their ship, the journey is a 
quick one. A cursory scan shows no immediate guards outside the temple, 
and a suitable space to land their ship is a short distance away. After land- 
ing, the heroes reach the temple easily, still seeing no guards along the way, 
and they can walk right into the building. Everything seems easy—too easy. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
When the heroes enter the temple, read the following text aloud: 


As you enter the temple, you feel a distinct sense of unease settle across your 
minds. The dim lighting of flickering torches is dim, barely enough for you to 
see by, and it gives the place a foreboding atmosphere. Several archways lead 
deeper into the temple, but nothing draws your attention to any particular 
path. Still, you can't escape the feeling that you need to hurry, not just to find 
Sibyl and the other captives, but also to get out of this place and put the entire 
planet behind you as soon as possible. 


Have each of the heroes make a Perception check. The character who gets 
the highest result catches the sounds of a male voice barking orders from a 
passageway on their left. From what little the hero can make out, the speaker 
is instructing someone to hurry. 

If the heroes take the passageway on the left, read the following text 
aloud: 


Following the sounds of voices, you are drawn farther into the temple, the 
flickering torches in wall sconces providing the only light. As you round a 
corner, you find yourself facing what looks to be a giant processing apparatus 
of incredibly archaic design. A quick glance at the oddly shaped machine shows 
that it is made of various sinister instruments and is covered in bloodstains. 
Several bound and gagged captives stand in line in front of an opening in the 
clanking contraption, and another group sits in a clear holding pen nearby. 


Here, an adept of the Cult of Veroleem is overseeing the work of six acolytes 
as they prepare the ancient machine to process eight prisoners (P); it was his 
voice that the heroes heard. The restrained captives, locked in a transparisteel 
corral along one side of the room, are suffering from the effects of the drug 
kryotin (see page 183). Unless the heroes take precautions to be sneaky, 
they are quickly noticed by one of the acolytes, who immediately shouts to 
alert the other cultists. 


CuLttists 

The man in charge of processing the latest group of prisoners is dressed 
in robes similar to those worn by the traveling priests who recruited Sibyl, 
except the adept's robes are spattered with blood. If one of the heroes 
previously had a farseeing vision, that character recognizes the adept as 
the figure in the vision. 


A tall Human male with unforgiving features wears a robe covered in dark 
splotches that form a variety of patterns. He stands on a raised platform, 
barking orders to other robed figures to get the converts loaded into the 
machinery so that they can be processed accordingly. 


Master Cult Adept (M) CL5 

Medium Human nonheroic 3/noble 4 

Force 4; Dark Side 10 

Init +9; Senses Perception +8 

Languages Basic, Bocce 

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 17 

hp 35; Threshold 17 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee knife +5 (1d4+2) 

Ranged heavy slugthrower pistol +6 (2d8+2) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +6 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Special Actions Inspire Confidence, Presence 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 14 

Talents Inspire Confidence, Presence 

Feats Improved Defenses, Instinctive Attack, Intimidator, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Deception), 
Skill Training (Initiative), Weapon Group Proficiency (pistols, simple 
weapons) 

Skills Deception +10, Initiative +9, Knowledge (galactic lore) +9, 
Perception +8, Persuasion +15 

Possessions heavy slugthrower pistol, knife, blood-spattered robes 


Master Cult Adept's Tactics 

The adept remains on his observation platform, using his first available move 
action to draw his slugthrower pistol; he has enough ammunition clips to 
last until the end of the encounter. He spends his first available standard 
action to activate his Inspire Confidence talent. Afterward, he alternates 
between shooting at any hero not benefiting from soft cover and attempting 
to intimidate one or more heroes using his Intimidator feat (see page 27). 


6 Cult Acolytes (C) 

Medium Human nonheroic 8 

Dark Side 1 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 
Languages Basic 


CL.2 


Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 13, Will 10 

hp 20; Threshold 13 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee vibroblade +9 (2d6+2) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Abilities Str 15, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 9, Cha 9 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved Defenses, Rapid Strike, Weapon 
Focus (advanced melee weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced 
melee weapons, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +9, Mechanics +10, Perception +10 

Possessions comlink, vibroblade, light acolyte ceremonial armor (+6 
armor, +2 equipment) 


Acolytes’ Tactics 

The acolytes immediately draw their swords and move into melee range of 
the heroes, positioning themselves so they can flank the intruders if pos- 
sible. However, the acolytes avoid ending their turns next to the processing 
machinery, even if that means forsaking a chance to flank a hero. If the fight 
begins to go badly for them, either because the adept is slain or because 
more than half of them are defeated, they withdraw from melee and grab 
the closest available prisoners to use as living shields. 


CONCLUSION 
After defeating the cultists, the heroes have little difficulty in convincing the 
prisoners (who are susceptible to suggestions, thanks to their recent inges- 
tion of kryotin) to come with them. Sibyl in particular is surprised, since she 
did not know that anyone was coming to rescue her. If the heroes dawdle in 
the temple, or if the previous encounter was too easy for them, a group of 
six more acolytes intercepts them in the main hall. Otherwise, the heroes 
(with freed converts in tow) manage to leave the building and board their 
ship just as a wave of cultists races out of the temple, ineffectively shoot- 
ing at the vessel with slugthrowers. The heroes should be able to reach the 
safety of hyperspace before the cult can mobilize any ships to cut them off. 
After making the jump to lightspeed, one of the group's first stops should 
be Sibyl's home planet so she can be reunited with her family. Each hero 
receives 2,000 credits as a reward, along with the knowledge that they 
helped bring a family back together. (If the GM desires, returning the other 
rescued converts to their homes can involve a series of small adventures.) 
During their journeys home, several freed prisoners talk about having seen 
other captives who were forced into the machine but never emerged, as well 
as others who were marched deeper into the temple to meet unknown fates. 
Although they are glad to have been rescued, they fear that the cultists will 
continue to recruit susceptible youths on many worlds. After seeing all the 
converts safely home, the heroes might decide to return to Veroleem, look 
up Bale, and offer their help to the resistance, as he requested. 


THE TEMPLE INTERIOR 


To Main 
Hall 


Features of the Area 
The processing area has the following features: 

Illumination: The entire room is well lit by an overhead glow panel 
(DR 5; 5 hit points; damage threshold 8). Heroes who try to shoot the 
glow panel must hit a Reflex Defense of 8. If the glow panel is disabled, all 
occupants in the room gain concealment. If the glow panel is destroyed, 
the room goes dark, and all occupants gain total concealment unless 
another source of light is activated. 

Platform: An observation platform sits roughly 3 meters above the 
ground. Anyone standing on the platform has cover against ranged 
attacks made by those on the floor. A short ladder sits at one end of the 
raised area; characters can climb up to the platform as a move action. 

Machinery: The large, clanking machinery occasionally emits spurts 
of hot steam, scalding anyone who is standing in a square marked with 
an "S." When a creature begins its turn next to any part of the machinery, 
make an attack roll (with a +2 bonus) against its Reflex Defense. If the 
attack hits, the creature takes 1d6 points of damage as a burst of scalding 
hot steam erupts from the machinery. 


HA SSitdvHga 


SveLwneeNe Fgdeves dgsIq 


HA BSi.cavHo 


SeELNnNE@oneg) savas gss@G | 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#4: A FOOL's 
CHARGE 


"A Fool's Charge" is a mini-adventure designed for 9th-level heroes that 
involves the planet O'reen (see Chapter 6). In this scenario, the heroes need 
to recover cutting-edge technology that could give the world’s military a 
substantial advantage. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

The heroes are contacted by a junior officer, Lieutenant Amalia, who is an 
attendant of a high-ranking officer in a galactic-scale naval force. She 
explains that her superior needs the heroes’ expertise in tracking down 
a stolen piece of military hardware and returning it as quickly as possible 
without drawing undue attention. She offers a reward of 5,000 credits per 
hero, plus a bonus if the cargo is returned undamaged. 

The transport ship that was carrying the undisclosed hardware was 
attacked in the Outer Rim Territories near the border of the Unknown Regions. 
With a little research, the heroes learn of an allegedly abandoned garrison 
put in place by the Old Republic as an early warning outpost. 

Traveling to that region, the heroes’ ship is attacked by enemy vessels 
resembling the ones that hit the cargo transport. The heroes are able to 
defeat their attackers, and following the trail brings the characters into 
sight of a small assault group orbiting O'reen, with a refurbished battle 
cruiser as the flagship. 

After the heroes manage to slip past the ships in orbit and land on the 
planet, they sneak into a well-guarded military research post to retrieve the 
stolen hardware, a prototype tactical computer. Unfortunately, the heroes 
are caught in the act of stealing back the computer and must fight their way 
out of the starport and past the ships waiting in orbit. 


LOOKING FOR TROUBLE (CL 8) 
Lieutenant Amalia provides the coordinates of the location where the trans- 
port was attacked, so the heroes should have an easy time of reaching that 
spot. However, they might want to create a cover story to explain why they 
are headed to such a remote area of space (if they tell anyone about the trip 
in the first place, that is). 

If the heroes do not think of it on their own, Amalia suggests that they 
check the recent and archived astrogation charts for that area to see if there 
is any history of pirate bases in the neighboring systems. A DC 20 Knowledge 
(galactic lore) check reveals that not long after the Great Sith War, the Old 
Republic set up an early warning outpost in that sector, although the outpost 
was abandoned and its exact coordinates have been lost. 


When the heroes arrive at the site of the attack, a DC 20 Use Computer 
check allows a character operating the ship's sensors to pick up an old trans- 
mission broadcast that originates from a short distance away. A result that 
beats DC 30 also reveals the source to be an archaic early warning satellite. 
Several minutes after the heroes detect the signal, a pair of aging fighters 
arrive and order them to shut down and prepare to be boarded. The two ves- 
sels (use the Archaic Ship template from page 62 of Starships of the Galaxy 
for each) do not retreat, fighting until disabled or destroyed. 

Once the fighters have been dealt with, the heroes must determine where 
they came from. 

One method is to confer with their astrogation charts and try to reverse- 
calculate the fighters’ hyperspace trajectory. With a DC 30 Use Computer 
check, the heroes can use this method to find the ships’ point of origin. 

Asecond option is to salvage the flight computer from the remains of one 
of the enemy ships. A DC 20 Mechanics check is needed to jury-rig a con- 
nection to a datapad or the on-board computer of the heroes' ship. Success 
leads the heroes directly to the fighters’ point of origin, and it also provides 
clearance codes and advance warning that O'reen has an active orbital patrol. 


EVEN O'REEN'S RESEARCHERS ARE ARMED AT ALL TIMES. 


A third option is to rescue one of the enemy fighter pilots (assuming that 
his ship was disabled instead of destroyed) and convince him to reveal what 
he knows. The pilot starts out with an initial attitude of unfriendly toward the 
heroes. If his attitude is shifted to friendly, he reveals that he is a member of 
the O'reen Star Corps. If his attitude is shifted to helpful, he tells the heroes 
about the planet's orbital patrols and explains that a clearance code is needed 
to reach O'reen. He has no information about any stolen equipment, since 
that operation was likely carried out by a fighter unit other than his own. 


AVOIDING UNDUE 

ATTENTION (CL 8) 

Once the heroes determine that the fighters came from O'reen, they can plot 
a course for that planet. Unless they drop out of hyperspace right next to 
the world, they remain undetected by the orbital patrols. Any heroes who 
are trained in Knowledge (tactics) can make a DC 15 check to deduce that 
their best option would be to drop out of hyperspace near the edge of the 
system and slowly cruise toward O'reen, allowing them get a better look at 
their destination and reducing their chances of being detected by the enemy. 

After the heroes approach within sensor range of the planet, they can 
see that O'reen is not as deserted as Old Republic records had suggested—in 
fact, a fearsome-looking battle cruiser orbits the world. Further investigation 
shows that the cruiser is in the process of being refurbished; surrounding it 
are dozens of smaller battle frigates and repair barges. These other vessels 
are of much older designs than the galactic standard, but they vastly out- 
number and outgun the heroes. In addition, several patrol ships are skirting 
the planet, ostensibly to keep anyone from getting too close. All in all, it looks 
like a small assault force is being assembled, although for what purpose, the 
heroes can only guess. 

Depending on how much information the characters have gained, they 
have several options for getting by the patrol ships. First, they might simply 
attempt to slip past the ships using a mix of speed and deft maneuvering, 
but that will be difficult, and if they fail, the entire planet is alerted to their 
presence. Another option is to find a blind spot in the patrol ships' flight 
patterns and sensor equipment, then fly through that hole without drawing 
attention. If the heroes previously salvaged a flight computer or shifted an 
enemy pilot's attitude to helpful, they can transmit the clearance code they 
acquired and slip past in plain sight. Using the code identifies their ship as 
friendly, an added benefit that might prove helpful later. 


| FeSLT THE BLEMENT OF 
SURPRISE WOULD BE WISER... 
It is possible that the heroes decide to pop out of hyperspace as close to 
O'reen as possible. Although doing so can provide a military advantage, 
it also carries a much greater degree of risk, since the ship has to skirt 
dangerously close to the planet's mass shadow. Plotting a hyperspace 
jump to exit within orbit of a planet increases the DC of the Use Computer 
check by 10, but if successful, the ship gains the benefit of a surprise 
round. If the Use Computer check is failed by 10 or more, the ship suf- 
fers from minor structural stress and power feedback, which causes no 
damage but provides the enemy with a surprise round. 


FINDING PAYDIRT (CL 6) 

Once the heroes reach the surface of O'reen, they must track down the cargo 
that was stolen from the transport ship. Given that the natives are fairly 
xenophobic, the heroes suffer an unfavorable circumstance penalty to social 
interactions unless they take the time to alter their appearance so they look 
like the natives—a simple deception, since the O'reenians are near-Humans. 
Even then, any heroes who are not well versed in military procedures might 
have difficulty, since most O'reenians treat them with the same disdain and 
scorn usually heaped on civilians. 

Eventually, the heroes learn that the contents from the most recent 
acquisition by the Star Corps’ supply raids are held in an analysis station 
just inside the outermost perimeter of Orbital Deployment Center. Because 
the garrison-city is heavily guarded and has greatly restricted access, the 
heroes must come up with an inventive way to get past the guards. Once 
they are within the perimeter, they can find the analysis station more easily. 
It is not heavily guarded, and Orbital Deployment Center residents tend to 
assume that anyone walking around with an armed escort belongs on the site. 


IA BeStdovHo 


) 
W 
Ww 
v 
> 
Q 
W 
W 
2 
Q) 
©) 
C 
Z 
4] 
W 
20 
o) 


IA BHSatdavHo 


SYPILNNEONE) GaVvSs AgIsq 


ENCOUNTER: ARMED 


WITHDRAWAL 


Challenge Level 10 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "A Fool's Charge,” the mini- 
adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 

Once the heroes find the analysis station, they must figure out a way 
to get past the guards posted at the entrance, hopefully without raising an 
alarm. The GM should provide plenty of clues and reminders that almost every 
adult resident they have encountered has the air of a professional soldier, 
suggesting that starting a blatant fight will only get the heroes captured 
or killed. Grant them a fair amount of leeway in their plans. The guards are 
fairly new recruits, and if the heroes can give them a suitably convincing 
story, they might be able to bluff their way inside the building. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
When the heroes enter the analysis station, read the following text aloud: 


The inside of the station looks more like a giant storeroom. Eleven workers are 
clustered into small groups and studying different items, the majority of which 
are starship-scale components such as turbolasers and ion drives. However, 
most of the activity is centered on a seemingly innocuous computer terminal, to 
which several other smaller consoles are connected. The research staff seems 
too engrossed in their work to pay you much attention. 


Have the heroes make DC 20 Knowledge (technology) checks. Heroes who are 
trained in Pilot or who have a sufficient background with naval military can 
attempt the check even if they are not trained in Knowledge (technology). 
Success means that the heroes identify the main terminal as the tactical 
data core of a capital-scale command ship. Any hero trained in Knowledge 
(tactics) realizes that the core is a critical part of any naval force, since it 
often contains key communication and identification codes that give one 
side a significant advantage over opponents. 

The heroes might deduce that the data core is meant for the capital-class 
warship being revamped in orbit. Also, they were hired for the mission by 
Lieutenant Amalia, a member of another galactic naval force. The heroes 
can put two and two together and realize that Amalia's side does not want 
to lose the data core to the O'reenians—that's why she hired the heroes to 
steal it back. 

Any hero who does a quick scan of the room can make a DC 15 Percep- 
tion check. Success reveals that a heavy cargo speeder positioned next to 
a loading ramp looks big enough to carry the tactical data core and has 
enough armor to fend off anything smaller than a turbolaser. In addition, 
the data core is mounted on a cargo lifter, making the task of loading it into 
the speeder a great deal easier. 


Before the heroes can put a plan into action, however, they are spotted 
by a military supervisor. Read the following text aloud: 


As you begin to formulate how you are going to pull off the heist of the tactical 
data core, an O'reenian in military fatigues enters the room. His gaze focuses 
on you, and as he reaches for his sidearm, you get a bad feeling that this job 
just got a lot more difficult. 


Although the station's research staff is distracted by various projects, the 
military supervisor immediately suspects that the heroes are unwelcome 
intruders. (If they previously created false appearances, some minor, over- 
looked nuance gives them away.) 


O'reenian Military Supervisor 

As the leader of the analysis station, the supervisor's primary concern is 

ensuring that the researchers under his command are able to investigate 

the workings of foreign technology captured during acquisition missions. 

He wears a standard-issue officer's uniform and has all the hallmarks of a 

career soldier, moving with exacting precision and keeping a crisp, profes- 

sional appearance. 

O'reenian Military Supervisor (M) CL8 

Medium O'reenian soldier 4/noble 3/officer 1 

Force 5; Dark Side 2 

Init +11; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Minnisiat 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 22, Will 23 

hp 75; Threshold 22 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee combat gloves +9 (1d6+6) 

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+4) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +9 

Atk Options Cover Fire, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot 

Special Actions Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Distant Command, Quick 
Draw, Warrior's Awareness 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 11 

Talents Battle Analysis, Born Leader, Cover Fire, Distant Command, 
Warrior's Awareness 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Intimidator, Martial Arts |, 

Point Blank Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Skill Training (Knowledge 
[technology]), Weapon Focus (simple weapons), Weapon Proficiency 
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Endurance +6 (can reroll, must take second result), Initiative +11, 
Knowledge (tactics) +10, Knowledge (technology) +10, Perception +10 
(can reroll, must take second result), Persuasion +9 

Possessions blaster pistol, combat gloves, code cylinder, comlink 
(encrypted), officer's uniform 


THE RESEARCH LAB ON O'REEN 


i) 


Military Supervisor's Tactics 

In the first round, the supervisor draws his blaster pistol and shoots at the 
nearest hero, then moves to the nearest source of cover. On the following 
turn, he activates his Born Leader talent and continues shooting at the 
heroes from behind cover. He also uses his Warrior's Awareness talent on 
any hero who appears to be especially skilled in combat or who is wielding 
a distinctive or a military weapon. 


11 Researchers (R) 

As would be expected by their military training, the researchers cease working 
on their projects once their commanding officer deems the heroes a threat. 
They draw their own blaster pistols and move to the nearest available cover 
during the first round of combat. The researchers delay their actions until 
after the supervisor activates his Born Leader talent to take advantage of 
the bonus to their attack rolls. They operate in groups of three, with two 
using the aid another action to provide the third a further bonus to his or 
her attack roll. There are twelve researchers, and each one is statistically 
identical to a dipomat (see Threats of the Galaxy, page 35). 


CONCLUSION 

After the heroes defeat the military supervisor and the researchers, they have 
to think quickly. A search of the supervisor's uniform turns up a datapad that 
contains instructions to load the tactical data core onto the cargo speeder 


and bring it to Fort Maximus. The heroes can pretend that they are carrying 
out these orders, which will give them a convenient excuse to move the 
computer through the city. As long as they do not raise suspicions in any 
guards or citizens they encounter, the heroes can exit Orbital Deployment 
Center and take the computer back to their ship. 

When leaving O'reen, they should take care to avoid drawing the atten- 
tion of any patrol ships, although on the way out, they need only outrun 
the vessels, not sneak past them. Once they make the jump to hyperspace, 
they are free and clear. 

Lieutenant Amalia is ecstatic about the heroes’ success. She gives them 
the coordinates of a rendezvous point—a military base—along with clearance 
codes to land there so that she can reclaim the tactical computer and pay the 
heroes the promised reward. If the data core is undamaged, she also offers 
to have an upgrade worth up to 25,000 credits installed in the heroes’ ship, 
provided that the upgrade is legal. 

If the data core is damaged or destroyed, Amalia still gives the heroes 
the reward, since her primary concern was keeping it out of O'reenian hands. 
In this case, however, she does not throw in an upgrade to the heroes' ship. 
Instead, she lets them use the repair services on the military base to fix any 
damages incurred by their ship during the mission. 


Features of the Area 
The analysis station has the following features: 

Illumination: The entire room is well lit. 

Workstations: Numerous workstations can provide cover to anyone 
in the room. 

Improvised Weapons: If necessary, the heroes can use a plethora of 
loose tools as improvised weapons. 

Turbolaser: The room contains a turbolaser with a power generator 
(see below) located 2 squares away. Due to the immense energy needs of 
the weapon, the turbolaser can be fired only twice. With each successful 
hit, it deals 3d10x5 points of damage in an area attack (see page 155 of 
the Saga Edition core rulebook) with a 2-square burst radius. However, 
the lack of a proper targeting computer means that the turbolaser is 
treated as an improvised weapon. 

Power Generator: The power generator is located 2 squares away 
from the turbolaser. If the generator is moved to an adjacent square, a 
hero can make a DC 15 Mechanics check to hook it up to the turbolaser. 
However, much of the generator's protective plating has been removed. 
Any attack that deals more than 10 points of damage to the generator 
causes it to explode (see page 139 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). If 
the turbolaser is fired twice during this encounter, the power generator 
is drained of energy and will no longer explode if damaged. 


WA SS4tdvHo 


0) 
Ww 
W) 
0 
v 
Dd 
) 
C) 
z 
@ 
@ 
Cc 
z 
J 
w 
20 
@ 


C 


LWA eBLdvHoa 


Q 
Wy 
W 
U 
> 
W 
W 
2 
} 
GC 
Zz 
] 
W 
2») 
0) 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#5: PURSUING 
VERINOS 


“Pursuing Verinos” is a mini-adventure designed for 8th-level heroes that 
involves the planet Giaca (see Chapter 6). In this scenario, the heroes, seeking 
to capture a scoundrel named Verinos, chase their quarry through Giaca's 
twisting canyons to his well-defended hideout. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

Verinos is a wanted individual—wanted by the heroes, at least, if by no one 
else. Their search for him might begin in known space, but it takes them into 
the Unknown Regions as they follow his trail to the isolated world of Giaca. 
Once they close in, the heroes chase Verinos through the planet's canyons 
and groves, battling the environment and native creatures along the way. 
They pursue him to a hideout, where they face Verinos and several allies. 
Isolated and with no hope of help, the heroes must fight to capture their 
quarry, or admit defeat and escape if they can. 

If desired, you can replace Verinos with another character of your own 
design that better fits your campaign. Regardless, the heroes might be after 
their target for any number of reasons. Perhaps they are chasing a bounty, 
tracking an escaped criminal, or bringing a traitor to justice. An even better 
reason, however, is that Verinos has taken something important from the 
heroes. The stolen item might be as simple as a large number of credits, 
but something more personal, especially an item difficult to replace in the 
Unknown Regions, provides better motivation for the heroes to chase after it. 
For example, Verinos might have taken a lightsaber, a datacard with special 
information, and so on. 


THE CHASE 

The heroes, or an ally, previously attached a homing beacon to Verinos's ship. 
Although the beacon is useless in the wilds of the Unknown Regions (lack- 
ing the tracking technology available in known space), it works well when 
both parties are in the same star system. After surviving the challenging 
hyperspace approach to Giaca, the heroes discover that they are closing in 
on Verinos and pursue him to the planet's surface. 

They chase their quarry through the sheer, angular canyons created by the 
planet's basaltic columns, dodging and weaving through the massive stone 
labyrinth. Along the way, they must make DC 30 Use Computer checks to 
keep a sensor lock on him, as well as numerous Pilot checks to avoid collid- 
ing with the canyon walls and columns. It turns out that although Verinos 
is desperate to escape the heroes, his piloting skills are not up to the task. 
While out of sight of his pursuers, he scrapes the sheer canyon wall and 
crashes to the floor below. 


By the time the heroes catch up with Verinos, they see a dense column 
of smoke rising from the burning wreckage of his ship. Read the following 
aloud when the heroes approach the wreck: 


As you round one of the canyon's abrupt, angular turns, you're momentarily 
blinded by a column of dense, black smoke rising from the canyon floor. Before 
you can react, your ship punches through the smoky column, then swerves 
to avoid crashing into the canyon wall on the other side. It doesn’t take you 
long to realize that your target apparently missed the last turn, hit the wall, 
and crashed into the wide, churning river on the canyon floor. The ship's hull 
appears to be crushed, and what isn’t on fire looks flooded or is completely 
underwater. Debris litters the area. You see no immediate signs of survivors. 


Verinos has escaped via jetpack into a nearby canyon, which should keep him 
well ahead of the heroes. They must land and search the area to discover 
his absence, since the tracking beacon was destroyed in the crash. To make 
matters worse, Verinos crashed in an awkward location. His ship is half 
underwater at a spot where a small but violent stream meets the river in 
the main canyon. There are no banks on that side of the river, so the heroes 
must land on the opposite bank and swim or find another way across. The 
bank has just enough space for the ship, whose landing gear sinks about a 
meter into the soft mud. All land in this area is considered difficult terrain, 
and the water is considered rough, requiring DC 15 Swim checks. 

The heroes should make several Perception checks to search the wreck 
and determine if Verinos is still aboard, although the blazing and flooded ship 
makes this task difficult. However, the search is rewarded when the heroes 
discover discarded fuel canisters that Verinos used to refuel his jetpack. 

From the crashed ship, the heroes can see the sheer crevice from which 
the second, smaller stream is flowing. By making DC 35 Perception checks 
or DC 25 Survival checks, they can track the path and landing areas that 
Verinos used as he flew through the narrow canyon, which is typically 5 to 
8 squares wide and taken up mostly by the river. Verinos did not use the 
jetpack continuously—just enough to stay ahead of the heroes and traverse 
major obstacles. 

As the characters pursue their quarry, they meet with many physical 
obstacles that they must climb over, swim under, or move out of the way. The 
twisting canyon is littered with shattered basaltic rock from the 30-meter- 
high canyon wall columns above. After 10 minutes, the heroes turn a corner 
and see a tall waterfall blocking their path. It fills most of the canyon's width, 
but along the right side of the falls is a narrow strip somewhat suitable for 
climbing to the top, a distance of 9 squares. Although the rock is wet and 
slippery, the heroes can scale it by making DC 30 Climb checks. 

After passing the waterfall, the heroes enter a large area some 50 meters 
across, from which there are at least four possible exits besides the one they 
came through. The basaltic cliffs surrounding them are shorter (around 20 
meters tall) but still inhibit travel. Verinos used his jetpack to traverse this 
area, So at first, the heroes can pick up no signs of the direction he took. 


Flying over the vicinity reveals only that each path has multiple exits that 
head in different directions. As the heroes search the area, a DC 25 Perception 
check allows them to find a jetpack that was hidden hastily behind some large 
rocks, and a subsequent DC 25 Survival check shows that Verinos continued 
on foot through this narrow crevice. ADC 10 Mechanics check reveals that 
the jetpack is damaged, although it could be repaired with the proper parts 
(which are most likely unavailable on Giaca). 


BRINTAK ATTACK 

The heroes climb steadily through the crevice and emerge at least 10 minutes 

later next to a vast causeway of short basaltic columns of varying height. 

The path ahead is barren, but a large grove of enormous toroc trees flanks 

the cave's exit. When Verinos passed through, he attracted the attention of a 

brintak (see page 173), which attacks the heroes as they step out of the cave. 
When the heroes emerge from the crevice, read the following text aloud: 


From somewhere above you in one of the great toroc trees, you hear the low 
rumble of a large and hostile creature. As the rumble builds to a disturbing 
roar, a massive, four-legged beast with mottled black skin leaps down from a 
huge branch. The vicious creature gnashes at you with rows of razorlike teeth. 
Its jaws are flanked by a pair of slender tentacles that lash out toward you, 
eager to pull you into the gaping mouth. 


If necessary, you can lower the creature's Challenge Level by reducing its hit 
points, under the assumption that Verinos injured the brintak during a brief 
scuffle before fleeing down the path. 

After dealing with the brintak, the heroes must make a DC 15 Survival 
check to track Verinos to a cul-de-sac created by basaltic columns that 
angle inward above the path. If they fail the check, they eventually find the 
cul-de-sac anyway, but it takes 30 minutes of searching. The cul-de-sac is 
camouflaged from above and difficult to spot from the air, requiring a DC 
30 Perception check. 


THE HIDEOUT 

The heroes first catch a glimpse of the entrance to a hideout from a tall basal- 
tic column along the little-used trail they are following. As they approach, 
read the following text aloud: 


Ahead, you see a short ridge of taller, hexagonal basaltic columns undulating 
across the landscape. Near the center, you spot an irregularly shaped circle of 
towering rock columns, angling generally inward and providing a partial roof 
to a mostly enclosed area below. Filling three gaps between the columns are 
walls that appear to be patched together from the metal plating of various 
starships. A single small, armored gate appears to be the only way through, 
aside from scaling the wall or the columns themselves. 


The area is being watched by at least two guards hiding along the top of the 
wall and by a camera above the gate that sweeps back and forth, surveying 
the landscape. Allow the heroes to make Perception checks (opposed by the 
guards’ Stealth checks) to realize that, unless they are particularly cautious, 
they will be spotted by the guards or the camera. If the heroes’ Perception 
checks beat DC 30, they also detect two panels near the top of the wall that 
might be covering a pair of additional openings. 

Allow the heroes to devise a plan to enter the compound. They might try 
to deceive the guards into letting them in, but the guards know that Verinos 
is being pursued and are likely to open fire at the first hint of trouble. Their 
attitude starts as unfriendly. 

When the inevitable battle begins, the compound has a few surprises for 
the heroes. The two panels at the top of the wall slide aside, revealing a pair 
of mounted repeating blasters equivalent to E-Webs (see page 125 of the 
Saga Edition core rulebook). Other combatants hurl grenades down on the 
intruders. If the heroes attack with one or more vehicles or starships, a missile 
launcher concealed in the floor of the compound fires concussion missiles 
that shoot out between the angled columns or over the walls. 


THE BASALT TOWERS OF GIACA 


HWA BStdovHo 


SHEaLNNAOONE FBaVeS gs9Iaq 


NA SeStadgvHo 


SHvuSaLNNEeN,E) GeVves gdsseq) 


ENCOUNTER: SIEGE OF 
THE COMPOUND 


Challenge Level 10 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “Pursuing Verinos," the mini- 
adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 


Verinos 

The statistics block below purposefully omits any species reference for Veri- 
nos, So you can choose one that best fits your campaign. If his species is not 
important, consider making him Human or near-Human. (The read-aloud text 
assumes that Verinos is humanoid, so alter that if necessary.) Additionally, his 
specific background is left open for you to fill in. Regardless, Verinos is not 
about to give up to the heroes. Well armed and among allies, he is ready for 
battle and fully intends to win, or at least live to fight another day. Verinos 
is arrogant and threatening in any conversation he has with the heroes. 


Verinos is clad ina green and black jumpsuit that is torn and singed. His par- 
tially enclosed, heavily dented helmet shields his eyes from view. He openly 
carries a heavy blaster pistol, a heavy blaster rifle, and what appear to be 
several grenadelike objects in a bandolier across his chest. 


Verinos CL8 

Medium noble 4/scoundrel 4 

Force 4; Dark Side 2 

Init +11; Senses Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Minnisiat, Rammocate, Sy Bisti, 1 unassigned 

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 19, Will 21 

hp 51; Threshold 19 

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares (jetpack) 

Melee knife +6 (1d4+4) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (3d8+4) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +9 (3d10+4) or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +7 (4d10+4) with Rapid Shot or 

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +4 (3d10+4) with autofire or 

Ranged thermal detonator +8 (8d6+4) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skirmisher 

Special Actions Born Leader, Fool's Luck, Inspire Confidence 

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 15, Wis 13, Cha 14 

Talents Born Leader, Fool's Luck, Inspire Confidence, Skirmisher 

Feats Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus 
(Persuasion), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (heavy 
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons), Vehicular Combat 

Skills Deception +11, Gather Information +11, Initiative +11, Perception 
+10, Persuasion +16, Pilot +11, Treat Injury +10, Use Computer +11 

Possessions knife, heavy blaster pistol, heavy blaster rifle, 3 thermal 
detonators, comlink, datapad, portable computer, jetpack 


Verinos's Tactics 

During the first round or two of combat, Verinos lets his allies fire the first 
volleys while he uses Born Leader and Inspire Confidence. If the heroes make 
particularly devastating attacks, Verinos dives into the fray, hurling thermal 
detonators and blasting at them with his heavy blaster rifle, always from a 
position of cover. 


Thugs 

As with Verinos, the thugs protecting the compound can be of any species 
you require. The statistics block omits any reference to species, but the 
read-aloud text assumes a humanoid appearance. 


The guards don't wear proper uniforms, although all have patched-up battle 
armor that is covered in the dust and dirt of the surrounding landscape. You 
can tell from their demeanor that they are experienced combatants. They are 
loud and crude, hurling insults as they open fire. 


5 Thugs CL6 

Medium soldier 6 

Force 5; Dark Side 3 

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 19), Fort 21, Will 16 

hp 64; Threshold 21 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+4) 

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +8 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +4 (3d10+3) or 

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +4 (5d10+3) with Burst Fire or 

Ranged grenade launcher +9 (frag grenade 4d6+3) or 

Ranged mounted heavy repeating blaster +9* (3d10+3) or 

Ranged mounted heavy repeating blaster +9* (5d10+3) with Burst Fire 

Base Atk +6; Grp +8 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Devastating Attack, Point Blank Shot, Precise 
Shot 

Special Actions Indomitable 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 8 

Talents Armored Defense, Devastating Attack, Indomitable 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Careful Shot, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +9, Mechanics +8, Perception +10 

Possessions battle armor (+8 armor) with helmet package, heavy blaster 
pistol, heavy repeating blaster with mounted grenade launcher (4 frag 
grenades) 

*Includes +2 Intelligence bonus to attack rolls due to targeting system 


Thugs’ Tactics 

Two of the thugs initially cut loose with the mounted repeating blasters, 
firing from a pair of protected gunnery stations behind the wall. Because 
each station is separate from its associated blaster, destroying a blaster does 
not necessarily deal damage to the thug firing it. One thug stands ready 
with the concussion missile launcher in case there are vehicle targets in the 
area. The remaining two thugs guard the walls and fire as needed, or they 
conceal themselves within the compound to surprise any heroes who make 
it over or through the wall. 


CONCLUSION 

Verinos and his thugs must be subdued to be captured. If any thugs survive, 
they might be persuaded to tell all they know about their boss and his doings 
(the details of which depend on the needs of your campaign). If captured, 
Verinos takes every opportunity to try to escape. He refuses to talk at first, 
although he can be successfully threatened or bribed into cooperating, 
especially if given the opportunity to survive the encounter. 

The compound has enough supplies to sustain its inhabitants for several 
months. A garage contains two disassembled speeder bikes and an unarmed 
civilian airspeeder that was damaged in the recent past. With a DC 25 
Mechanics check and several hours of work, it is possible to salvage one 
speeder bike by using parts from both. The airspeeder requires repulsorlift 
generator parts that are unlikely to be available on Giaca, but if the heroes 
obtain the parts elsewhere, they can repair the vehicle with a DC 15 Mechan- 
ics check. In the quarters used by Verinos is a portable computer that contains 
notes about his activities, but they are encrypted and can be accessed only 
with a DC 25 Use Computer check. 


Features of the Area 
The compound and its surrounding area have the following features: 

Basaltic Columns: Sheer basaltic columns surround the compound on 
a little more than three sides. The columns range from 8 to 12 meters tall 
and are immediately adjacent to one another, with few usable gaps between 
them. Although a heavy laser cannon from a starship might blast holes in 
the rocky walls, smaller weaponry has little effect on them. 

Landing Zone: Outside the compound's entrance, a wide, flat area has 
been cleared as a landing zone. Aside from it being open ground, there are 
no markings or indicators to draw the attention of outsiders searching for 
the compound. 

Metal Walls: The compound's walls stand at a height of 6 meters 
between the taller basaltic columns. The walls are made of salvaged plates 
of heavy metal (DR 10, 150 hit points, damage threshold 35, Strength 
60). Within the structure are two gunnery stations, as well as catwalks to 
access the stations and the top of the walls. Characters at the top of the 
wall have improved cover. 


VERINOS'S CAMP ON GIACA 


Metal Buildings: Several metal prefabricated buildings stand inside 
the compound, serving as living quarters, a garage, storage facilities, and 
a power generator. The buildings are easily damaged (DR 5, 50 hit points, 
damage threshold 30). 

Concealed Heavy Repeating Blasters: The concealed heavy repeating 
blasters and their targeting system were salvaged from a derelict vehicle. 
Each blaster has DR 10, 20 hit points, damage threshold 30, Intelligence 12, 
Reflex Defense 16 (+4 armor), and Fortitude Defense 20, and each deals 
3d10 points of damage. 

Concussion Missile Launcher: The concussion missile launcher and 
targeting system are not proper emplacements but were salvaged from a 
derelict ship. It has DR 5, 80 hit points, damage threshold 30, Intelligence 
12, Reflex Defense 12, and Fortitude Defense 20. Firing a missile at a target 
smaller than Huge size incurs a -10 penalty. The compound has five mis- 
siles. Each must be fired separately and deals 7d10x2 points of damage 
in a 4-square splash. 


HWA BStagvHo 


SYSLNASGONE geves dsasaq@ 


A eatavna 


SyaLNNOoNe) gGeves gas@q 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#6: IMMINENT 
IMPACT 


“Imminent Impact" is a mini-adventure designed for 7th-level heroes that 
involves the planet 244Core (see Chapter 6). In this scenario, the heroes take 
a quick smuggling job for the Tor-Ro-Bo Corporation and find themselves 
racing to fend off attackers and evacuate before a meteor storm pummels 
their landing platform. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

The heroes find themselves deep in the Unknown Regions when they suddenly 
require local currency or credits for survival. Working with a local contact, 
they are put in touch with a corporation in need of smuggling services. The 
heroes soon find themselves on 244Core, picking up a shipment of raw ore 
that the Tor-Ro-Bo Corporation wants smuggled offworld to avoid sharing 
the profits with other companies on the planet. 

While the ship is being loaded, word comes that an unexpected asteroid 
collision is sending a meteor storm toward 244Core. To make matters worse, 
because the world is in a volatile phase of its development, the corporations 
jockeying for control are more likely to engage in open warfare. Thus, Eeook 
security forces attack the facility to deter To-Ro-Bo's smuggling efforts. 
The heroes help fight off the attackers, but the hangar holding their ship is 
damaged. With their vessel trapped in the structure and the imminent arrival 
of the meteor storm, the heroes must work quickly to free the ship, load the 
remaining ore, and evacuate their employers. 


THE JOB 

In need of credits, the heroes follow a lead to meet a protocol droid called 
TT4, an “irregular transport specialist" for the Tor-Ro-Bo Corporation. The 
heroes can meet with the droid on 244Core, on a nearby world, or via com- 
link. Although T14 freely tells the heroes who it works for, the droid makes it 
clear that the involvement of Tor-Ro-Bo must remain secret. If the corpora- 
tion is publicly linked with the mission, the heroes will forfeit a significant 
percentage of their pay. 

T14 is straightforward about the operation and negotiates in good faith 
(Will Defense 15, Perception +9, Persuasion +9). The droid also has the 
authority to haggle with the heroes. It initially offers them 10,000 local 
credits up front and 50,000 more upon delivery of semiprocessed TOL-type 
ore to a cargo ship waiting at specific coordinates, a short hyperspace jump 
away from 244Core. 


THROUGH THE CLUSTER 

Because 244Core is orbited by a series of Skyscan stations, TT4 gives the 
heroes an approach vector through one of the denser asteroid clusters around 
the planet. The Skyscan network is operated by several corporations, and 
the stations nearest that cluster are run by Tor-Ro-Bo, so the path should 
be safe. However, a few other stations are close enough to have a chance of 
detecting the heroes’ ship. 

The heroes must make a series of DC 20 Pilot checks as their ship traverses 
the cluster. Failure indicates that a Skyscan station might detect the ship 
with a successful DC 25 Use Computer check (Skyscan operators have Use 
Computer +11). If a station detects the ship, rival corporations mobilize to 
intercept the heroes on the planet's surface; for the time being, however, the 
heroes have no way to tell whether they have been detected. 

In addition, while in the asteroid cluster, a Pilot check failure by 5 or 
more results in a collision with an asteroid of Colossal or smaller size. Such 
collisions can be avoided per the standard rules (see page 173 of the Saga 
Edition core rulebook). 


PROCESSING CENTER 879 
Once the heroes land on 244Core, their first step is to reach Tor-Ro-Bo 
Processing Center 879 in Zone 54g undetected. The center is located on an 
island 15 kilometers long, 10 kilometers wide, and about 30 kilometers from 
the nearest continent. As the heroes approach the facility, they are contacted 
by 879's traffic control. They are expected and treated like any of the other 
half-dozen starships on approach or departure vectors. 

When the heroes are within sight of the facility, read the following text 
aloud: 


Through a cloudless, sunny sky, you approach Processing Center 879 over the 
calm water of a vast ocean. Ahead, you see a large island on which six tall 
mountain peaks form a spine along its length. With the exception of a few 
antenna and sensor arrays, the peaks are the only undeveloped land on the 
island. Below them, Processing Center 879 features sprawling machinery, 
industrial buildings of every size, massive power generators, automated plants, 
and dozens of landing platforms on which rest small airspeeders, large bulk 
freighters, and everything in between. There is a staggering amount of activ- 
ity as speeders and ships descend and depart. The center seems to be running 
at or near capacity. 

You are directed to Landing Platform 9, near the middle of the island, 
in a valley created by two of the larger mountains. The platform is wedged 
between rows of monstrous storage bins and a tangle of enormous pipes and 
machinery, which includes a mixture of aging equipment patched up with 
newly repaired parts and pieces. 


As the heroes’ ship descends, traffic control orders it into a hangar connected 
to the platform. The hangar, concealed by the giant pipes and machinery, is 
not obvious until the ship is just above the platform. 

When the heroes land, they start to feel the effects of the planet's heavy 
gravity, which affects their actions while on 244Core unless they are used 
to such environments (see page 257 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). As 
they exit the ship, they are greeted by a very small, wheeled, bright orange 
droid (similar to a mouse droid) called 514. In a slightly grating monotone 
voice, 514 welcomes them to the center and arranges to begin loading their 
ship. Nearby, dozens of massive metal crates (of sizes Large to Huge) hold 
raw TOL-type metallic ore, and a pair of hulking labor droids stands ready to 
begin loading. It is obvious that some crates will need both droids to move 
them. The droids are almost entirely painted pale green, and their many dents 
and scratches attest to their heavy use over the years. 

Due to the labor droids’ slow speed and the heavy gravity, loading takes a 
minimum of 1 hour. About 45 minutes into the job, one of the droids makes a 
loud popping sound and breaks down while loading a crate. As hydraulic fluid 
from its broken heavy claw sprays everywhere, it drops the crate, knocking 
off the lid. The sandy mixture of semiprocessed ore spills into the heroes’ 
ship and down the lift ramp. The mixture is not hazardous, but an industrial 
cleaning droid appears and begins vacuuming up the sand and depositing 
it in an empty container brought by the other labor droid. The broken droid 
collapses where it malfunctioned, preventing the ship's hatch from closing. 


INCOMING 
If the Skyscan stations did not detect the heroes during their approach, 
proceed with the following events in the order presented below. If Skyscan 
detected the heroes, skip to the “Contract Enforcement" encounter on the 
next page, then return to this section after half of the attackers have been 
destroyed or routed. 

While the heroes deal with the spilled ore, read the following text aloud: 


A loud, hornlike alarm blares a continuous staccato pattern over the island's 
loudspeakers. A moment later, an automated voice interrupts. “Alert! Meteor 
storm warning! Impact time estimate: 30 minutes. Facility damage estimate: 
light to moderate. Starships and speeders are advised to leave the impact area 
at their earliest convenience." 


The alarm continues and cannot be turned off. Impact time is updated every 
5 minutes, with additional warnings as needed. 

514 calls the heroes over to a holographic display at one side of the hangar. 
It switches on the projector, and a representation of the incoming meteor 
storm appears, showing its estimated descent through the atmosphere 
toward Processing Center 879. The droid explains that an unexpected asteroid 
collision has sent a shower of small meteors into the planet's atmosphere. 
(If the heroes collided with an asteroid during their descent, they started a 


SMUGGLING UNDER COVER OF METEOR SHOWERS 


domino effect. Otherwise, the shower is just part of the system's natural envi- 
ronmental effects.) If the heroes hurry, there should be just enough time to 
finish loading their ship and blast off before the meteors pummel the center. 

If the heroes do nothing, the functioning labor droid takes 45 minutes 
to remove its broken counterpart and finish loading the crates on its own, 
which means the heroes will not escape before impact. If the heroes help by 
moving the damaged droid out of the way, the other labor droid can finish 
loading in about 30 minutes—still not good enough. If the heroes jury-rig 
or otherwise repair the damaged droid, they reduce the loading time to 15 
minutes. However, they must spend a minimum of 10 minutes repairing the 
droid. Up to two heroes can aid in a DC 25 Mechanics check to complete the 
repairs. In addition, a DC 20 Perception check is required to locate suitable 
replacement hydraulic fluid from a nearby piece of machinery. 

The cleaning droid also takes 10 minutes vacuuming up the spilled ore 
and depositing it into the replacement container. The droid occasionally gets 
in the way while loading continues. If anyone walks on the spilled ore, the 
droid tries to vacuum the bottom of their shoes, citing the importance of 
protecting Tor-Ro-Bo's valuable product. 


SHEL,NneoNe) gevss gsgsIq 


WA SSltavHoa 


SHPaLNNOONE FEVvsSs gsVsIeq) 


ENCOUNTER: 
CONTRACT 
ENFORCEMENT 


Challenge Level 8 

SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "Imminent Impact," the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. If a Skyscan sta- 
tion detected the heroes during their approach to 244Core, this encounter 
begins before the meteor storm announcement. Otherwise, it begins about 
15 minutes before impact. 


THE JIG is UP 

In response to Tor-Ro-Bo's violation of profit-sharing contracts, security 
forces from Eeook and other corporations attack the processing center. 
Despite the imminent meteor shower, the attack is not called off. Eeook badly 
wants to catch Tor-Ro-Bo with smugglers at its facility and hopes to be in 
and out before the meteors strike the area. Read the following text aloud: 


A screeching siren suddenly wails throughout the center, followed by an 
automated alarm: “Alert! Incoming attack. Protocol! 514 initiated. Stand by 
to repel—" The message is cut off, replaced by a few seconds of static, then a 
living voice cuts in: “Attention 879. Once again, you are in violation of Profit- 
Sharing Agreement Relaali 374.5.2. Your smugglers will not get away from us 
this time." As the center's automated announcements return, you hear the 
squeal of airspeeders and the impact of missile strikes nearby. Next to your 
landing platform, an enormous storage bin unfolds to reveal a pair of basic 
laser cannons, although no gunner seems to be nearby. 


The attack catches 879 completely by surprise. Tor-Ro-Bo uses protocol 514 
to cover up the existence of smugglers by mind-wiping all droids that have 
made contact with the heroes. (This explains why the heroes have interacted 
only with droids, not living beings, during their visit to the center.) After the 
announcement of protocol 514, the heroes notice that any droids near them 
stop dead for a few seconds, then appear to have forgotten who the heroes 
are. Most worker droids still respond to their commands, but 514 ignores 
their orders and questions and refuses to help them further, although it does 
not hinder them. If threatened, 514 calls security, but nobody comes to help. 

Shortly after the attack begins, six missiles (Reflex Defense 22, 20 hit 
points, damage threshold 10, speed 16) scream toward the hangar. The heroes 
can try to shoot them down, but at least one strikes above the heroes' landing 
platform. The impact drops a pile of pipes and structural chunks down on the 
platform, partially blocking the hangar entrance. Creatures within 5 squares 
of the hangar door are subject to a 1d20+10 attack against Reflex Defense 
from falling debris (treat as an area attack). They take 3d6 points of damage, 
and on a critical hit, they are also trapped in the debris. 


Next, a large Eeook speeder attempts to land on the heroes' platform. 
If it succeeds, four Eeook security agents bound out and try to subdue the 
heroes. If the speeder is damaged, it crashes onto the platform, and the 
agents take 4d6 points of crash damage. 


Eeook Patrol Speeder 
The speeder is Eeook's general purpose security patrol speeder, in widespread 
use on 244Core. 


You see a patrol and observation speeder, with a long, bubblelike canopy cov- 
ering the top two-thirds. The speeder is cylindrical, with a pointed nose and 
a flat rear hatch. Each stubby wing ends in an irregularly shaped repulsorlift 
engine, and a spread of six missiles is mounted beneath the wings between 
the engine and the fuselage. 
Eeook Protector VI Patrol Speeder CL7 
Huge air vehicle (airspeeder) 
Init +9; Senses Perception +6 
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 11), Fort 23; +3 armor 
hp 75; DR 5; Threshold 33 
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 3 squares 
(starship scale) 
Ranged light laser cannon +6 (see below) or 
Ranged rocket launcher +6 (see below) 
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total 
Base Atk +2; Grp +25 
Atk Options autofire (light laser cannon) 
Abilities Str 36, Dex 20, Con —, Int 14 
Skills Initiative +9, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +9, 
Use Computer +6 
Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers 6 
Cargo .5 tons; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none 
Availability Military; Cost 50,000 credits (40,000 used) 


Light laser cannon (pilot) 

Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2 
Rocket launcher (pilot) 

Atk +6, Dmg 5d10x2 (2-square burst) 


Eeook Speeder Tactics 

The patrol speeder fires its missiles from medium range, then uses its blasters 
to defend itself as it nears the platform. The pilot does not leave the vehicle 
unless it is damaged beyond repair. 


Eeook Security Agent 
Eeook's security forces are well trained, well paid, and motivated to succeed 
and advance. 


The tall near-Human wears a dark green uniform with patches identifying 
rank, unit, and division. He carries a blaster carbine and has several grenades 
in a black utility belt. 


4 Eeook Security Agent CL6 

Medium near-Human scout 6 

Force 5 

Init +10; Senses low-light vision (near-Human attribute); Perception +10 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 19), Fort 19, Will 19 

hp 53; Threshold 24 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d8+3) 

Ranged blaster carbine (folded stock) +7 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged blaster carbine (extended stock) +6 (3d8+3) or 

Ranged blaster carbine (extended stock) +1 (3d8+3) with autofire or 

Ranged stun grenade +6 (4d6+3 stun) 

Base Atk +4; Grp +6 

Atk Options Careful Shot, Keen Shot, Point Blank Shot 

Special Actions Acute Sense, Evasion, Running Attack, Shake It Off 

Abilities Str 11, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 12 

Talents Acute Senses, Evasion, Keen Shot 

Feats Careful Shot, Improved Damage Threshold, Martial Arts |, Martial 
Arts Il, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Shake It Off, Weapon Focus 
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons) 

Skills Climb +8, Endurance +9, Initiative +10, Perception +10 (can reroll), 
Pilot +10 

Possessions blaster carbine, 2 stun grenades, Eeook security uniform, 
comlink, utility belt (with binders, datapad, and medpac) 


CONCLUSION 

Once the heroes have cleared the hangar opening and readied their ship to 
depart, they can blast off at any time. If the attack is still ongoing, they are 
pursued by Eeook speeders until they reach the upper atmosphere. 

If the heroes are captured by Eeook agents, they are held until Tor-Ro- 
Bo negotiates for their release, which takes many days and some political 
wrangling. In the meantime, Eeook security questions the heroes, but the 
interrogation is mostly a formality. 

If the heroes leave 244Core and make the jump to hyperspace, they meet 
the Tor-Ro-Bo bulk freighter Tor 7863 a day later. They transfer the cargo with 
no problems and receive the promised payment. Depending on the results of 
the adventure, the heroes might be hired again by Tor-Ro-Bo in the future. 


THE HANGAR 


One square = 1.5 meters 


Features of the Area 
The area has the following features: 

High Gravity: High gravity applies to all combat and skill checks, 
except for heroes who are used to high-gravity environments (see page 
257 of the Saga Edition core rulebook). The Gamemaster characters are 
not subject to these effects, since they have been on 244Core for an 
extended period of time. 

Landing Platform 9: The small landing platform is surrounded and 
essentially walled in by equipment, machinery, and massive storage bins. 
It is large enough to accommodate a light freighter. Crates and equip- 
ment are scattered around the perimeter, providing cover. Characters 
can climb the equipment and take up higher positions among the pipes 
and machinery. 

Hangar: The hangar building is a relatively light structure, with walls 
of thin metal plates on a metal skeleton. It is large enough to accom- 
modate a light freighter, as well as temporary storage for cargo awaiting 
transport. A small holographic projector enables the hangar to commu- 
nicate with other parts of the processing center. A giant set of double 
doors opens on a corridor that winds down into the valleys, allowing 
access to machinery and other elements. The next inhabited space is a 
residential and administration zone 5 kilometers away. 

The hangar is filled with discarded crates and packaging, along with 
a basic set of tools for starship maintenance. A ladder in one corner 
leads to a roof hatch, giving access to the pipes and machinery on the 
hangar's roof. 


WA SBStavHyoa 


SHSALNAGONE G9VIS dgSaGC | = 


1A HalavAg 


SHeaLNneoneg gseves gssq 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#7: ROGUE 
SEVEN Is DOWN 


“Rogue Seven Is Down" is a mini-adventure designed for 9th-level heroes that 
involves the planet Durace (see Chapter 6). In this scenario, the heroes must 
rescue a pilot who has crashed on the merciless world, facing environmental 
hazards, misfit droids, and deadly predators. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

The heroes are sent to recover Rogue Seven, who has crashed on Durace. They 
arrive on the world in the middle of a planetwide storm. The heroes discover 
the Rogue Seven crash site but find it to be empty—both the pilot and the 
astromech droid are missing. The heroes track the astromech’s distress signal 
to a cavern that has been torn about by creatures native to the planet. Soon 
after, Rogue Seven contacts the heroes over a short-range comlink, and they 
rescue the pilot from a giant nest on the side of a mountain. But they are 
not safe yet—the creature that made the nest pursues the heroes’ ship out 
of the atmosphere. 

The adventure begins when the heroes receive word that Rogue Seven has 
gone missing somewhere near the Unknown Regions. The last communica- 
tions received from Rogue Seven indicate a general location in the galaxy, 
but it is not until the heroes arrive at those coordinates that they realize 
that Rogue Seven was near the planet Durace. 


WHO IS ROGUE SEVEN? 

Rogue Seven is a stand-in for an important Gamemaster character in your 
campaign. Using a person who means something to the heroes makes the 
rescue more dramatic and rewarding. Give them a reason to find Rogue 
Seven other than a mission briefing. Options include: 

A valued friend. Whether a plucky sidekick or the commander of a 
Rebel cell, rescuing someone who has helped the heroes in the past will 
have more meaning. 

A missing hero. Sometimes, real life intrudes on a campaign, and 
a player has to miss a game session. You can decide that Rogue Seven 
is the hero run by that player, allowing you to involve the character in 
the adventure. 

A famous cameo. Players who like rubbing elbows with characters 
from the movies might enjoy rescuing a well-known hero. 


ROGUE SEVEN'S CRASH SITE ON DURACE 


FINDING THE WRECK 

As soon as the heroes hit the atmosphere of Durace, they are in for a bumpy 
ride. A storm suddenly rolls over the planet's surface, and lightning strikes 
at the ship multiple times, threatening to overload ship systems and make 
the landing dangerous. You can use the following hazard to represent the 
dangers of approaching the planet's surface. 


Storm Over Durace CL9 

Purple lightning flashes out of the dark clouds as you descend toward the 
planet's surface. 

Atmospheric, energy, natural 


Trigger A vehicle begins its turn in a storm over Durace 
Attack +11 vs. Reflex Defense 
Damage 2d10+3x2 energy (Miss: Half damage) 
Recurrence On trigger; descending through a storm takes three rounds 
Skills 
Pilot (DC 23): The character reduces the number of rounds it takes to 
pass through the storm by 1 round. 


Rogue Seven came down on the shores of the Alkaline Sea, a few hundred 
meters off shore. The heroes can easily detect the ship using their sensors, 
and can see that it is still in one piece. A quick search of the wreck reveals 
that both Rogue Seven and the ship's astromech droid are missing. It looks 
like both made it out of the ship under their own power. 


Right after the heroes realize that the wreck is uninhabited, the surface of 
the Alkaline Sea breaks violently as the tendrils belonging to a sea creature 
burst forth and try and grab the heroes. The sea creature hungers for the flesh 
of land-dwelling creatures, and the heroes could be a delicious morsel for 
this massive beast. Since the creature is under the surface of the water, only 
the tendrils are visible to the heroes. Use the following hazard to represent 
the danger presented by the tentacles, which act as a hazard covering the 
entire area around the crashed vessel. 


Sea Monster Tentacle CL 10 

The long, undulating tentacles of a sea creature reach out to grab you, 
threatening to crush you and drag you down beneath the surface of the 
Alkaline Sea. 

Contact, natural 

Trigger Each round, on initiative (Initiative +11); one attack per creature 
in the area of the hazard 

Attack +12 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 4d6+1 

Recurrence On trigger 

Skills 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 19): The character identifies the 
telltale signs of a sea predator nearby and can tell that the area is 
hazardous. 


Special 
Creatures hit and damaged by this hazard are grabbed by a tentacle 
and can attempt to escape as normal. Any creature that is both 
grabbed and either reduced to 0 hit points or rendered unconscious is 
consumed by the sea monster. 


HAZARDOUS JOURNEY 

After exploring the crash site and fending off the sea creature, the heroes 
see signs that Rogue Seven survived and fled the downed ship. The heroes 
can attempt to lock onto a distress beacon—Rogue Seven's astromech droid 
is transmitting its location—with a Use Computer check (DC 18). The signal 
fades in and out as the heroes track the transmission, because the droid is 
having power fluctuations. Alternately, the characters could make Survival 
checks to try and track the pilot and his droid (DC 23), or simply engage in a 
thorough search of the area (Perception DC 23). During their journey to find 
the droid, the heroes might have a few brushes with danger and disaster. For 
example, Durace is covered in rocky terrain, so they might face rock slides 
(page 108), a cave-in (page 116), or pits and sinkholes (page 118). 


THE AVKA CAVES 

After some time, the heroes track the distress signal to a mountain and find 
a cave that leads inside. The cavern is filled with rusted metal and twisted 
scrap. A closer inspection finds a variety of droid parts scattered about— 
something has collected the wreckage and dragged it into the cave. Near 
the back corner is a large pile of droid parts. 

The astromech droid assigned to Rogue Seven lies on the stone floor. 
Something has torn the droid open, and as the heroes approach, it uses its 
last bit of power to chirp feebly at them. From the looks of it, something living 
in this cave system has shredded the droid and other pieces of techology, 
keeping the remaining parts here as trophies. 

Any hero who makes a Knowledge (life sciences) check (DC 18) can 
identify the damage done to the droid as being caused by some kind of large 
avian creature. If that character succeeds on the check by 5 or more, he or 
she identifies the creature that destroyed the droid as an avka, a large avian 
creature found on many Outer Rim worlds but believed to be native to the 
Unknown Regions. The hero also knows that avka are greedy creatures that 
love to hoard metal (particularly colorful pieces of metal), and that avka 
make their nests in the mountains. The hero knows that avka keep their 
young close until they reach almost their full size, and that they are very 
protective of their offspring. 


UP THROUGH THE MOUNTAINS 
Following the droid's demise, one of the heroes’ comlinks crackles to life. 
Rogue Seven is alive. The crash and a narrow escape from the sea creature 
have taken their toll, and Rogue Seven has climbed out onto the edge of a 
cliff. To rescue the pilot, the heroes must make their way up through the 
caverns, which run all the way through the mountains. 

The comlink offers a direct line to Rogue Seven, but the caverns twist 
and turn, leading the heroes into danger after danger. The path is beset by 
rockslides, rivers of magma, and other natural hazards (see Chapter 4 for more 
information on these hazards). This part of the mini-adventure highlights 
more environmental dangers of Durace, and the heroes should be able to 
overcome the hazards with wits and stamina. 

When the heroes make their way up through the interior of the mountain, 
eventually they emerge near the nest of a large avka where Rogue Seven 
awaits them. See the encounter on the following page, “The Nest,” for the 
climactic encounter of the mini-adventure. 


SUSELNAGBSINE savas gaae | 


WA HStavHo 


HA SStagvHoa 


SHaLNnNe@eWNe) gdeves dasaq 


ENCOUNTER: 
THE NEST 


Challenge Level 9 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of "Rogue Seven Is Down,” the 
mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. 


HATCHLING ATTACK 

Rogue Seven has crawled out to the edge of a small crater on the side of the 
mountain. All around and within the crater, a series of small outcroppings, 
each 2 meters tall, stabs upward from the rock. The winds whip through the 
outcroppings and make a strange moaning sound. In addition, this part of 
the mountain seems unstable and shakes with small tremors. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 
When the heroes come out onto the outcropping where Rogue Seven awaits 
them, read the following text aloud: 


As the wind blows across the outcropping, you see several stony protrusions 
jutting up from the ground, separating you from the prone form of Rogue 
Seven. Purple lightning flashes overhead, as though a storm is threatening 
to pour down upon you. Though there are no other visible creatures here, you 
can see the telltale signs that this outcropping has been used as a nest by 
some large creature. 


If the heroes approach the 2-meter-tall rocks, the outcroppings tremble as 
chunks fall away—something is inside each one. The columns are actually 
eggs containing the hungry young of the avka, a large aerial predator native 
to Durace. (Fortunately for the heroes, the mother is away searching for food, 
although she will make an appearance later.) The crater is a nest, kept warm 
by a nearby spring. The hatchlings are blind but can sense food through 
tremors in the rock, and they are very hungry, lashing out at anything that 
moves nearby. The heroes might be able to sneak through the crater with 
a series of Stealth checks, but most likely, the hatchlings detect the heroes 
and emerge from the stone columns, ready for a meal. 


AVKA YOUNG 

The young avka in their rocky eggs emerge whenever anyone draws too near. 
These particular avka young were on the verge of hatching anyway when 
Rogue Seven showed up. These young avian creatures are ravenously hungry 
upon their violent emergence from their eggs, and anyone who finds them- 
selves adjacent to one of the creatures may be the young beast's next meal. 


12 Avka Young CL6 
Medium airborne beast 7 

Init +9; Senses Perception +4 

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 13, Will 12 

hp 53; Threshold 18 


Speed 4 squares, fly 6 squares 

Melee claw +7 (1d4+2) or 

Melee claw +7/+7 (1d4+2) 

Base Atk +5; Grp +7 

Atk Options swarm attack 

Special Actions hunger-driven frenzy 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 12, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 6 

Special Qualities hunger-driven frenzy, swarm attack 

Feats Improved Defenses, Improved Damage Threshold, Toughness 

Skills Initiative +9, Perception +4 

Hunger-Driven Frenzy—Whenever an avka young hits the same target 
with two claw attacks during a full attack action, the avka can move 
three squares. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Swarm Attack—When at least one other avka is adjacent to a target, an 
avka deals +2d6 damage to that target with a successful attack. 


Avka Young Tactics 

Due to their blindness, the young avka attack whatever target has just moved. 
They stay engaged in combat with their chosen targets, but if something 
else nearby moves past them, they usually pursue the new target instead. 
If the heroes notice this behavior, they can try to get a hatchling to chase 
a decoy target (such as a thrown rock or an explosive device) by making a 
Bluff check against the creature's Will Defense. 


ESCAPE FROM DURACE 
The return trip to the heroes’ ship is as uneventful as it needs to be. The 
heroes should reach their vessel exhausted but satisfied; Rogue Seven will 
survive as long as they can reach civilization and seek medical treatment. 
However, the rescue is not over yet—Durace does not let visitors leave 
easily. A giant avka, the mother of the hatchlings in the nest, swoops in to 
attack the heroes’ ship. The heroes must outrun or outfight the creature, or 
their rescue of Rogue Seven will be for naught. You can use the following 
statistics block for an escape sequence with the mother avka. 


Avka Mother CL9 
Huge airborne beast 10 

Init +9; Senses Perception +6 

Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 21, Will 12 
hp 155; Threshold 36 

Speed 4 squares, fly 10 squares 

Melee claw +17 (1d8+10x2) or 

Melee claw +17/+17 (1d8+10x2) 

Base Atk +7; Grp +27 

Atk Options swarm attack 

Special Actions hunger-driven frenzy 


Abilities Str 30, Dex 8, Con 31, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 6 

Special Qualities incredible strength 

Feats Improved Defenses, Improved Damage Threshold, Toughness 

Skills Initiative +9, Perception +6 

Incredible Strength—The avka mother multiplies all claw damage by x2. 


12 Shattering Avka Eggs (E) CL7 

The stony structure jutting up from the floor of the cliff quivers before 
shattering, spraying hard fragments of shell and revealing the avka 
young inside. 

Area, natural 

Trigger A hero enters a square adjacent to an avka egg 

Attack +9 vs. Reflex Defense 

Damage 2d6+6 (Miss: Half damage) 

Recurrence On trigger; once per egg 

Skills 
Acrobatics (DC 23): Until the end of this movement, the character 
can enter squares adjacent to unexploded avka eggs without triggering 
the hazard. 
Knowledge (life sciences) (DC 18): The character recognizes the 
rocky outcroppings as avka eggs, and knows that the young inside can 
break out violently. 
Perception (DC 23): The character notices that there are creatures 
within the stone outcroppings waiting to emerge. 

Special 
Each time an avka egg is triggered, place an avka young in the space 
the egg once occupied. 


CONCLUSION 

The creatures continue to break out of the columns until the heroes have 
picked up Rogue Seven, who is slumped near the edge of the crater, barely 
conscious. Carrying the pilot is a standard action requiring a DC 15 Strength 
check. Success by 10 or more means that the hero bearing Rogue Seven 
spends a swift action instead of a standard action; failure means that he or 
she must spend an additional swift action to carry the pilot away. 

Rogue Seven is at the helpless end of the condition track and unable to 
fight the hatchlings. However, if combat goes poorly for the heroes, the GM 
can decide that Rogue Seven spends swift actions to move +1 or more steps 
on the condition track until the pilot can participate in the battle. The rescued 
pilot will not be able to do much, but it might be enough to help win the day. 


THE CLIPFFSIDE NEST 


One square = 1.5 meters 


Features of the Area 
This area has the following features: 

Illumination: Assuming the heroes arrive on the cliffside during the 
day, there is plenty of light to see by in this area. At night, the area is 
considered to be under low-light conditions, though every other round 
a flash of purple lightning illuminates the area fully. 

Cover: The avka eggs provide cover while they are still intact, though 
approaching close enough to one to hide behind it likely triggers the avka 
young's emergence. 

Avka Eggs: Each of the rocky protrusions on the cliffside is an avka 
egg. When heroes approach them, they burst open violently, revealing 
the avka inside. 


IA SSicvHa 


Sea LNneons 9geVves dsV9Gq 


HWA SBLagvHo 


SHeeLNneons FsevsSs dessa : 


MINI-ADVENTURE 
#8: THE Mask 
OF DARTH 
NIHILUS 


"The Mask of Darth Nihilus" is a mini-adventure designed for 11th-level 
heroes that involves the planet Volik (see Chapter 6). In this scenario, the 
heroes follow leads to recover an ancient Sith artifact from the wreckage 
of a ship that crashed on Volik, battling Sith cultists and smugglers who 
also want the prize. 


ADVENTURE OUTLINE 

The heroes have tracked the mask of Darth Nihilus to Volik. However, two 
other groups are searching for the mask at the same time. The first is a Sith 
cult led by Collan Eislo, a devotee who has studied the lore of the mask and 
knows its power. The other group is a band of smugglers led by Sando, a 
Rodian who does not believe the legends but simply wants to sell the mask 
to a collector of ancient artifacts. The heroes must deal with the Sith cult 
high atop Mount Vorena and must face the smugglers in a hidden, half- 
submerged cove. 


THE MASK OF 
DARTH NIHILUS 
This Sith artifact encourages the wearer to slowly destroy him- or herself 
for greater power. Anyone who does not possess Force-related feats gains 
Force Sensitivity and Force Training while wearing the mask. A Jedi or 
Sith wearing the mask gains two Force Training feats. At least half of 
the powers gained in this manner must have the [dark side] descriptor. 
The mask extracts a heavy toll from its wearer. Each time the wearer 
uses a Force power or spends a Force point, he or she gains a Dark Side 
Point. Each time the wearer uses a number of Force powers equal to his 
or her Constitution modifier in a single encounter, the wearer moves -1 
step on the condition track and gains a persistent condition. The per- 
sistent condition is removed only when the wearer takes off the mask. 


THE TRAIL OF THE MASK 
Tales of the lost mask of Darth Nihilus reach the heroes. The ghost-white 
mask is said to be imbued with dark side energy, and anyone who wears it 
can wield the energy as if he or she were a Sith apprentice. The latest rumors 
say that the mask is hidden somewhere on the distant planet of Volik. 

The Gamemaster can give the heroes a motivation to find the mask that 
fits with the campaign. Jedi characters most likely want to acquire and 


destroy the sinister object. Heroes on the fringe might be interested only 
in the price such an item will fetch. Indeed, many art collectors would pay 
dearly to own the mask, especially due to its infamous history. If the heroes 
are reluctant to go after the mask, they might be persuaded by a noble, a 
crime lord, or another powerful figure to whom they owe a debt—find the 
artifact in exchange for leniency regarding the terms of their arrangement. 

Locating the mask will not be easy; a planet is a very big place. The heroes 
must figure out where to start their search. Volik has long been a haven for 
smugglers, and the characters can learn that the main smuggler band active 
during the time of Darth Nihilus was the Wavelength Gale. The Gale installed 
a small landing beacon at the top of Mount Vorena, the tallest peak on the 
world. Tracking this beacon back to the group's abandoned base is the first 
step in finding the mask. (Gaining knowledge of the Gale and the beacon 
can be an encounter in itself.) 


APEX SOCIETY 

Mount Vorena is a challenging climb. High winds around the peak make 
landing there nearly impossible, forcing the heroes to ascend the mountain 
the old-fashioned way. During the climb, they should encounter hazards such 
as rockslides and mountain predators. 

Once the heroes reach the top, locating the transmitter is relatively easy 
(a DC 24 Perception check to search, or a DC 19 Use Computer check to use 
sensors to find the transmitter). The heroes can reactivate the beacon, then 
use it to determing the location of the Wavelength Gale's hidden cove by 
tracking sensor emissions back there. But before they can begin their descent, 
another group joins them atop Mount Vorena—the Apex Society, led by a 
would-be Sith apprentice named Collan Eislo. 

Eislo was born to a life of idle nobility. He never wanted for anything, 
and his youth was wasted in bored pursuits. This decadence spawned darker 
desires. Eislo turned his sharp mind and hunger for power toward the forbid- 
den knowledge of the Sith. The lavish celebrations thrown by his family held 
no thrill like digging into ancient Sith holocrons or using his family's wealth to 
sponsor archaeological digs from which he could smuggle out useful artifacts. 

Eislo believes that the Force is the true power in the galaxy and that 
the Sith are the only ones unafraid to use that power. However, his study of 
Sith teachings did nothing to tune him to the Force. No matter how many 
artifacts in his collection, he could not make the leap from Sith scholar to 
Sith apprentice. 

The legend of Darth Nihilus and his all-consuming hunger came up 
frequently in Eislo's research. Even if the stories of the mask's power were 
exaggerated, he knew he had to have it. Eislo abandoned his other projects 
and devoted his efforts to tracking the artifact across the galaxy. Recently, 
he pieced together enough threads to track the mask to Volik, and he and 
his allies made the journey to that world. 

Eislo's allies in the Apex Society consist of others like him who seek the 
power of the dark side, and he promised to become their master once he 
possesses the mask. Most of them are bored nobles of similar backgrounds 


who see Sith knowledge as a forbidden fruit that will enhance their notoriety. 
A few believe that Eislo is guided by the spirits of famous Sith Lords, such as 
Revan or Plagueis. They all try to curry favor with Eislo in anticipation of the 
day when he will become a Sith Lord and take an apprentice. 

Few members of the Apex Society are true combatants. Eislo has trained 
extensively in melee combat and wields an ancient Sith sword. You can 
use the statistics for a Sith bladeborn assassin (Knights of the Old Republic 
Campaign Guide, page 151) for Eislo. His followers use their noble abilities 
to enhance Eislo's attacks on the heroes and contribute blaster fire to keep 
everyone moving. 

Eislo has no problems with letting his underlings die—he can always 
find more once he claims the mask. The two main targets of his assault are 
any obvious Jedi or whichever hero has the data leading to the Wavelength 
Gale's hidden cove. Eislo breaks off once he gets the information or if the 
fight goes against him. If he loses at least half of his hit points, he flees, 
ordering his followers to delay the heroes long enough for him to escape 
down the mountain. 


SMUGGLERS' HIDEOUT 

The abandoned base of the Wavelength Gale is located in a cove that can be 
reached only by traveling on foot through winding caverns that begin near 
the base of Mount Vorena. The Gale's leader picked that site for a reason. The 
cove is not accessible from the air, and the tunnels that lead to the base are 
narrow and perilous, making it easy for the smugglers to defend against a raid. 

If Collan Eislo learned the location of the cove in the last encounter, he 
races there as fast as he can, most likely with the heroes in pursuit. If he did 
not gain that information, he hides somewhere on the mountainside, waits 
for the heroes to pass him on their way down, and follows them stealthily. 
Regardless, the heroes have to travel through the dark, dangerous tunnels 
to reach the hidden cove, with Eislo either running ahead of them or creep- 
ing along behind them. (Even if the heroes killed or captured Eislo during 
the fight atop Mount Vorena, they still must navigate the caverns to find 
the smuggler base.) 

When the characters reach the end of the tunnels, they find that another 
group has beaten them to the secret cove. Apparently, many factions are 
interested in obtaining the mask of Darth Nihilus. Fortunately for the heroes, 
the group—a small band of smugglers known as Sando's Boys—is too busy 
tearing up the place to notice anyone coming in the front door. 


SANDO'S Bors 

The Rodian criminal, Sando, leads a band of pirates and thugs that ply their 
trade near the fringes of the Unknown Regions. Lately, Sando has been loot- 
ing the old smuggler bases in the caverns of Volik, which is more profitable 
than making raids on the Outer Rim. When smuggler groups come to blows, 
they tend to wipe each other out, leaving stashes of ill-gotten gains on the 
planet. Sando has a herd of reykos that can haul out the bigger prizes, such 
as abandoned starships. She knows that many of the smugglers made their 


EIstLo OF THE APEX SOCIETY WIELDS HIS SITH SWORD. 


bases in the canyons, so she has created a detailed map of the area. Her 
map is not perfect, since cave-ins and other natural phenomena occur, but 
it is the most up-to-date. 

Ina recent cavern expedition, Sando discovered the cargo manifest of an 
old freighter that mentioned the mask of Darth Nihilus, stating that it was 
transferred to the captain's secret stash for safekeeping. She thinks that if 
she can find the mask, she can make a big score by putting it on the market 
for bidding. Sando is aware of the legend of the mask, but she thinks it is just 
a story. She does not believe in the Force or other such nonsense. 


Salvage Operation 
The cove is fairly large and partially submerged. Hundreds of crates are strewn 
across the cavern in various states of repair. Sando's Boys have access to a 
pair of speeder trucks, which are being loaded with salvage and recoverable 
cargo from the Nashuaga, an old freighter that crashed on Volik and now lies 
half sunken in the waters of the cove. In part of the ship that is underwater 
lies a crate that contains the cargo manifest, which lists an “old white mask" 
among the vessel's contents. 

The final tactical encounter begins when Sando's Boys notice the heroes. 
The smugglers mistake the characters for rivals and attack, intent on defend- 
ing their claim to the Nashuaga. 


0 
iE 
> 
v 
4 
0 
2 
< 


SHaLNNOONSE FGaVaS JdgIsIaqG 


WA SBS4gvHo 


SHEaLNNEONE) GevaSs essa 


ENCOUNTER: 
HIDDEN COVE 


Challenge Level 13 
SETUP: This encounter serves as the climax of “The Mask of Darth Nihilus,” 
the mini-adventure introduced on the previous two pages. The encounter 
begins when the heroes stumble across the main cavern, where the wrecked 
remains of a Dynamic-class freighter rest half-submerged underwater. The 
Rodian's thugs are already ripping the ship apart while searching for the mask. 
Sando's Boys do not listen to any arguments or offers made by the heroes. 
The Rodian assumes that the characters are enemy smugglers out to steal her 
plunder and orders her gang to drive them off at all costs. If Collan Eislo is 
also present in the cove, he tries to use the chaos of battle to search through 
the crates for the mask of Darth Nihilus, attacking any smugglers or heroes 
who get in his way. At this point, no one has discovered the cargo manifest 
that confirms the presence of the mask. If anyone finds the manifest and 
learns the truth, the stakes are raised considerably. 


READ-ALOUD TEXT 


When the heroes make their way into the cavern, they discover that Sando 
and her boys have already begun exploring the wrecked ship searching for 
the mask. Read the following aloud when the heroes enter the cavern: 


The tunnel opens up into larger cavern, which looks to have been created by 
an avalanche sometime in the past. Half-buried in mud and rock is the rusted 
metal frame of a space transport, its rear turret and engines jutting out into the 
open canyon. Several Humans, under the watchful eye of their Rodian leader, 
are dragging scrap metal and what looks to be ancient cargo containers out 
of the ship through a tunnel dug into the side of the rock. 


Sando 

Sando is a Rodian in charge of a small smuggler gang that operates in the 
Unknown Regions near Volik. They also engage in a little piracy on ships that 
venture too close to the planet. Even then, she tends to go after the easy 
targets. Her smugglers like to set upon damaged ships, repair them, and take 
all their cargo as payment. 


This Rodian criminal looks to have seen her fair share of battles, as scars and 
signs of old wounds dot her green flesh. 


Sando (S) CL 13 
Medium Rodian soldier 9/scoundrel 4 

Force 3; Dark Side 6 

Init +15; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10 

Languages Basic, Huttese, Rodese 

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 26), Fort 28, Will 24 

hp 126; Threshold 33 

Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+8) 


Ranged blaster carbine +17 (3d8+8) or 

Ranged blaster carbine +15 (4d8+8) with Rapid Shot 

Ranged blaster carbine +18 (4d8+8) when aiming or 

Ranged blaster carbine +16 (5d8+8) when aiming with Rapid Shot 

Ranged blaster carbine +12 (3d8+8) with autofire 

Base Atk +12; Grp +16 

Atk Options autofire (blaster carbine), Bantha Herder, Careful Shot, 
Dastardly Strike, Deadeye, Devastating Attack (rifles), Focused Warrior, 
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Running Attack, Ruthless, 
Triple Crit (rifles) 

Special Actions Fool's Luck, Indomitable 

Abilities Str 14, Dex 18, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 9, Cha 9 

Special Qualities heightened awareness 

Talents Dastardly Strike, Devastating Attack (rifles), Focused Warrior, 
Fool's Luck, Indomitable, Ruthless, Weapon Specialization (rifles) 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Bantha Herder, Careful Shot, 
Deadeye, Improved Damage Threshold, Improved Defenses, Point Blank 
Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Running Attack, Toughness, Triple Crit 
(rifles), Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, 
simple weapons) 

Skills Initiative +15, Perception +10 (can reroll, must use second result), 
Treat Injury +10, Use Computer +12 

Possessions blaster carbine, comlink, datapad, 3 medpacs 


Bantha Herder—When Sando successfully damages a target with a 
ranged attack, compare the attack roll to the target's Will Defense. If 
the result equals or exceed’s the target's Will Defense, Sando can move 
the target 1 square in any direction as a free action. 

Focused Warrior—When Sando successfully damages an opponent, she 
gains a +5 morale bonus to Will Defense until the start of her next turn. 

Ruthless—When Sando deals damage to a target with a melee or ranged 
attack that equals or exceeds the target's damage threshold, Sando 
gains a +2 bonus on damage rolls against that target for the remainder 
of the encounter. 


Sando's Boys 

Most of Sando's Boys, the long-term members of the band, are Humans 
from Outer Rim worlds who have joined up with the Rodian for the promise 
of plunder and violence. Sando makes sure her men train in hand-to-hand 
combat as well as ranged combat, and most of her crew carry vibroblades 
and know how to use them. 


4 Sando's Boys (B) CL8 
Medium Human nonheroic 9/noble 5 

Force 1; Dark Side 4 

Init +15; Senses Perception +7 

Languages Basic 

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 20, Will 18; Dodge 

hp 68; Threshold 20 

Speed 6 squares 


Melee vibroblade +13 (2d6+3) 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6+2) 

Base Atk +9; Grp +12 

Atk Options Leading Feint, Personal Affront 


Abilities Str 12, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 16 

Talents Leading Feint, Noble Fencing Style, Personal Affront 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Dodge, Improved Defenses, Martial Arts 
|, Martial Arts II, Martial Arts III, Skill Focus (Deception), Skill Training 
(Initiative), Weapon Focus (advanced melee weapons), Weapon 
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, simple weapons, pistols) 

Skills Deception +20, Initiative +15, Persuasion +15 

Possessions vibroblade, blaster pistol, armored flight suit, comlink 

Leading Feint—Whenever one of Sando's Boys damages an opponent with 
a melee attack, he may make a Deception check to feint against that 
target as a swift action. If successful, he designates an ally within 12 
squares. The target of the attack is treated as flat-footed against the 
first attack that ally makes against the target before the beginning of 
Sando's Boy's next turn. 

Personal Affront—Once per encounter as a reaction each of Sando’s Boys 
can make a single melee attack against an adjacent enemy who just 
damaged him. 


2 Sando’s Hired Blasters (H) CL6 
Large Human (squad) nonheroic 9/scout 1 

Force 1; Dark Side 6 

Init +12; Senses Perception +12 

Languages Basic 


Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 17, Will 14 
hp 94; Threshold 32 


Speed 6 squares 

Melee unarmed +11 (1d6+1) 

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6) 

Ranged blaster carbine +13 (3d8) 

Base Atk +6; Grp +13 

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot 

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 9, Wis 14, Cha 11 

Talents Evasion 

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Defenses, Point 
Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Toughness, Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon 
Proficiency (pistols, rifles) 

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +12 

Possessions blaster carbine, blaster pistol, battle armor, comlink 


Squad Traits—The melee attack of a squad is an area attack that affects 
all squares within reach. The ranged attacks of a squad are considered 
to have a 1-square splash. Area attacks deal an extra 2 dice of damage 
against a squad (though this squad takes half damage from area attacks 
due to the Evasion talent). A squad cannot be grabbed or grappled. 


CONCLUSION 


Once Sando's men have been defeated, the heroes can enter the Dynamic- 
class freighter's remains and search for their prize. Inside, they find the crate 
containing the mask, and they can do with it as they please. 


FEATURES OF THE AREA 


The cavern where the ship is buried consists of a long, open strip of cave 
with walls to either side. The cave has the following terrain features: 

Illumination: Sando and her men have set up a perimeter of glow 
lamps, filling the area with normal illumination. 

Tunnel: Sando's men have carved out a tunnel, marked "B,” that leads 
to the central corridor of the Dynamic-class freighter. The tunnel is only 
1 square wide and 1 square tall, making for cramped quarters. 

Ship: The interior of the ship is remarkably well preserved, except 
for some areas where water and mud rushed into the ship when it was 
crashed. The area marked “A” on the map is an open turret that hangs 
four squares above the floor of the cavern. The area marked "C" on the 
map is where the mask can be found. 


One square = 1.5 meters 


NA SBSstagvHo 


Q 
Wy 
W 
U 
2 
> 
0) 
) 
0) 
a 
Q) 
Gy 
GC 
& 
J 
W 
2 
0) 


WITH STAR WARS MINIATURES, # 
ANYTHING’S POSSIBLE! 


MIX IT UP WITH JEDI MASTER YODA AND NAGA SADOW, A SITH 
LORD FROM THE ERA OF THE OLD REPUBLIC! WILL YODA’S SPEED 
AND AGILITY TRIUMPH, OR WILL NAGA’S FORCE STORM AND 
SORCERY SKILL PREVAIL? BUT WHY STOP THERE? JEDI ACADEMY 
LETS YOU CREATE COUNTLESS BATTLES WITH CHARACTERS FROM rol 


ACROSS THE STAR WARS UNIVERSE! AND WITH 40 CHARACTERS 005TtR Pa 
IN THIS SET, IT’S EASIER THAN EVER TO COLLECT THEM ALL! 


4 


eg 
JED! 4 *. 
\CADEMY si 
a a Be 


BOOSTER PAC 


ae «=9.]™WWWWIZARDS.COM/STARWARS Sema 


Ww ©) 2010 LUCASFILM LTD. & ™, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, WIZARDS OF THE GOAST AND ITS LOGO ARE TRADEMARKS DF WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC IN THE U.S.A. AND OTHER COUNTRIES 


BATTLE 
AGROSS ALL 


MINIATUR 


“Go BEYOND THE OUTER RIM” 


There are places in the galaxy full of danger and mystery, places where the light fram the Core Worlds simply does not shine. 

These are the planets of the Unknown Regions, a sector of unexplored space far beyond the Quter Rim. In this vast expanse, 

rich worlds wait to be discovered and alien landscapes wait to be explored. However, the Unknown Regions are far from uninhabited. 
Many frightening creatures prowl the expanse, and alien species bent on conquest and plunder lurk at the fringes of known space. 
The galaxy needs heroes who will risk everything to explore these worlds and stop these threats from advancing. 


ss 
BONZALO 
LORES 


Visit our website at +www.starwars.com 
www.wizards.com/starwars 


THE UNKNOWN REGIONS PRESENTS VARIOUS OPTIONS 
FOR PLAYERS AND GAMEMASTERS, INCLUDING: 


@® New talents, feats, weapons, and equipment for scouts and explorers. 


@ New and expanded rules for hazards. 


@ Advice and guidelines for running exploration-heavy campaigns. RKFards d20 
Soe 


@ Information on eight never-before-seen planets in the Unknown Regions. SYSTEM.. 


@ Details on the threats lurking in the Unknown Regions. ©2010 Lucasfilm Ltd. & ™. All rights reserved. Used under 
authorization. Wizards of the Coast, d20 System and their 
respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC 
in the USA and other countries. 


